MIDSEASON REPORT REMEMBERING FLEMING
The Daily hockey writers Former University President James
breakdownthe team's Duderstadt reflets on the life and
performance so far. legacy o Robben Fleming.
SEE SPORTS, PAGE 7 SEE OPINION, PAGE 4

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, January 12, 2010

michigandaily.com

U. OF VIRGINIA PICKS SULLIVAN

'U' Provost will be the
first female president
in school's history

COURTESY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
The University of Virginia's Board of Visitors named University Provost Teresa Sullivan the school's first female president yesterday.
As Sullivan exits, a search begins

In new role, Sullivan
will grapple with similar
budget problems to
those she faced at 'U'
By JACOB SMILOVITZ
Editor in Chief
University Provost Teresa Sullivan was
selected yesterday to become the Univer-
sity of Virginia's eighth president and the
first female president
in the school's his- First reported on
tory.
Sullivan, the pro- MichiganDaily.com
vost and executive
vice president for academic affairs here
at Michigan, will take over the top seat in
Charlottesville on Aug.1.
The University of Virginia's Board of
Visitors elected Sullivan at a special meet-
ing yesterday afternoon. The motion to
appoint Sullivan to the post outlined some
specifics of her employment, though more
details are expected tobe announced once
Sullivan officially signs a contract.
In a press conference yesterday after-
noon, Sullivan said she's excited to take
her new position.
"I look forward to learning from and
working collaboratively with an adminis-
trative team of vice presidents and deans,
with the faculty and staff and with the

students,""Sullivan said. "I bring you my
dedication, extensive experience and,
above all, my passion for the tasks ahead
of us."
She added: "I am also bringing to you
one of my own greatest treasurers. My
husband Doug Laycock, the Yale Kamisar
Collegiate Professor of Constitutional Law
at the University of Michigan."
In Sullivan, UVA has tapped one of the
leading academics in the country who
both knows the importance of offering a
world-class education to students and has
experience grappling with the size and
complexity of a modern major higher edu-
cation institution.
Among the top priorities awaiting Sul-
livan in Charlottesville will be a budgetary
quandary similar to the one she has battled
in Michigan since she first came here in
2006. Officials at UVA have been decrying
the decline in state funding for the school
much as administrators here - Sullivan
included - have done in recent years.
In a speech last February, outgoing
UVA President John T. Casteen III said
there was no short-term funding fix that
"compensates for the systematic under-
funding of Virginia's colleges and univer-
sities since 1990."
In his 20 years at the helm of UVA before
announcing his retirement, Casteen kept
the school near the top of most national
rankings year after year - and almost
always at the very top for rankings of
See SULLIVAN, Page 8

'U' administrators,
regents discuss
qualities needed
for successor
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
When University Provost Teresa
Sullivan was announced as the next
president of the University of Virgin-

ia yesterday, it left many on campus
wondering who would fill the shoes
she will leave behind.
Sullivan is set to assume her new
role at UVA on Aug. 1, having been
offered a 5-year contract with the
school. In a series of interviews fol-
lowing yesterday's announcement,
University officials described Sulli-
van as having an innate understand-
ing of both budgetary and academic
affairs - skills administrators and
regents alike described as necessary
for her successor.

And while officials say they're
confident that a qualified replace-
ment will be found, uncertainty
remains as to who, specifically, will
take over the position of provost and
executive vice president of academic
affairs when Sullivan leaves Ann
Arbor on July 31.
And it begs the question of wheth-
er history will repeat itself.
When University President Mary
Sue Coleman hired Sullivan in 2006,
it was the first time the top two spots
See SEARCH, Page 8

MICHIGAN MEN S ASKETBALL 4,w.w r tm
Beilein signs contract
extension through
2015-16 seasonA

Deal suggests coach years. Michigan is the place that
I want to coach and bring back to
intends to make Ann the top of the Big Ten. It's the only
place I want to coach at, so I'm real-
Arbor the last stop of ly pleased at this opportunity."
Michigan is Beilein's seventh
his coaching career stop in a career that spans 32 sea-
sons as a college head coach. His
r By GJON JUNCAJ overall record is 590-361, including
Daily Sports Editor a 39-43 record in two-plus seasons
in Ann Arbor.
Michiganmen'sbasketball coach Beilein said talks of an exten-
John Beilein signed a three-year sion between he and Martin began
contract extension through the at the end of last season, when
2015-16 sea- the Wolverines finished 21-14 and
son, University advancedto the second roundofthe
Athletic Direc- NCAA Tournament. It was Michi-
tor Bill Martin gan's first tournament appearance
announced yes- in11 years and was the culmination
terday. Beilein of a season that tied the mark for
had three years the biggest turnaround in program
remaining on a history. Last year's Wolverine team
six-year deal he - won 11 more games that the 2007-
signed in April BEILEIN 08 team.
2007. "We all know the direction we
According to the new contract, wanted to go into (after last sea-
Beilein - who is in his third sea- son)," Beilein said.
son as the men's basketball coach The extension is one of the final
- will earn $1.7 million in 2010-11, major decisions made by Martin,
$1.8 million in 2012-13 and $1.9 mil- who is scheduled to step down
lion in 2013-14. from his position as Athletic Direc-
The extension is a firm indicator tor on Sept. 4, the same day the
that Beilein, who will turn 58 next Michigan football team opens its
month, intends to make Michigan season inside the newly-renovated
his last coaching job. stadium. Martin will be replaced
"I'm so pleased that Michigan by David Brandon, who is currently
has given me this opportunity to the chairman and CEO of Domino's
coach and extend my contract," Pizza company.
Beilein said in a teleconference "John Beilein has been a won-
Monday. "At the age of 57, hope- derful addition to our staff here at
fully I've found the place. I've been Michigan," Martin said in a state-
a coaching nomad for quite a few See BEILEIN, Page 3

LEFT Former University President Robben Fleming walks with demonstrators on April 15,1988. LEFT Fleming looks out at a student demonstration on June 181969.
Fleming, who died yesterday at age 93, was known for his ability to listen to students even duringtense negotiations.
Formnert 'U' President Flemingi dies
Robben Fleming led the University through the tumult of the
Vietnam era with an open ear and a knack for negotiation

By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Daily News Editor
Robben Wright Fleming, the
University's ninth president,
passed away yesterday morning at
The Care and Rehabilitation Cen-
ter at Glacier Hills in Ann Arbor at
the age of 93.
Fleming served as University
president for 11 years from 1968 to
1979 and as interim president in
1988 between the Harold Shapiro
and James Duderstadt presiden-
cies. During his first tenure in the
post, Fleming had the difficult job
of maintaining peace on campus
amidst Vietnam War protests and
the civil rights movement - stok-
ing turmoil on campus among stu-
dents and faculty alike.
While many have drummed up
the tumult that surrounded his

years in the presidency, Fleming
wrote in his autobiography that
students remained unharmed and
the period did not damage the Uni-
versity's reputation.
"I am proud of the fact that we
never had anyone hurt badly dur-
ing the course of an incident, we
had no residue of hate and bitter-
ness arising out of our conflicts
and the University remained the
great institution that it had always
been," he wrote.
Fleming's tenure at the Uni-
versity also saw major academic
advancements with the formation
of the Residential College and the
expansion of the University's Flint
and Dearborn campuses to four-
year universities.
The son of a storekeeper and a
teacher, Fleming was born on Dec.
18, 1916 in Paw Paw, Illinois - a

small rural town with about 500
residents at the time.
In his autobiography "Tempests
Into Rainbows," Fleming recalled
that the population of Paw Paw
included mostly merchants and
retired farmers. The community
was so safe that there was no need
for a police force or a fire depart-
ment, he wrote.
During his youth, Fleming, his
brothers Teddy and Jack and the
kids in his neighborhood enjoyed
tinkering with cars in their neigh-
bor's garage.
"We could devote endless hours
to playing in them and in tak-
ing various parts off and putting
them back on," Fleming wrote in
the book. "Even the grease that
we accumulated on our clothes
was a satisfactory price to our par-
ents for the hours of diversion we

enjoyed."
However, Fleming's childhood
was not always so carefree. Teddy,
who was 13 months older than
Robben, died from spinal men-
ingitis weeks before his eleventh
birthday.
As a way of remembering his
brother, Fleming took up Teddy's
middle name, Wheeler. Fleming
never legally changed his name,
but he used the middle name
Wheeler until he entered World
War II when he was forced to use,
See FLEMING, Page 8
CAMPUS REFLECTS
ON FLEMING
University officials discuss
the life of Robben Fleming.
See News, Page 3


WEATHER H1:33
TOMORROW 021

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigardaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Check out the best online videos of the week.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEW S ...................................2 CLASSIFIEDS .........................6
Vol. CXX, No.71 OPINION.............. ...4 SPORTS ..............................7
0201UThe Michigan Daily ARTS .....S MORE NEWS. ..8
michigandoily.com

I1


2 - Tuesday, January 12, 2010ThMihgnDly-icgaaico

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MONDAY: TUSDY:WEDNESDAY:
In. Other Ivory Towers PrfesorPrfie Before You Were Here


THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

SHALL WE DANCE?

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWAAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-n55a
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbosisrss@gmait.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: Suon.= tt.1a.m. - 2a.m,

Candy-throwing in Chem

Often regarded as a
weed-out class for medical
school, organic chemistry
causes distress for many
students each semester.
But Chemistry Lecturer
Kathleen Nolta has a repu-
tation for putting organic
chemistry students at
Nolta, aUniversity alum-
nus, is known for going out
of her way to reward stu-
dents, throwing out candy
during her lectures as priz-
es for answering questions
correctly and, at times,
starting the wave.
A lecturer for 16 years,
Nolta said she believes
that organic chemistry has
a reputation as a weed out
course because many of
her students appear to be
more interested in "check-

log the box" to apply for
medical school, rather
than becoming organic
chemists.
She says that this dis-
tinction does not affect
her teaching style.
Nolta said she has no
idea why she is so energet-
ic in class. She added that
teaching is a way of having
a conversation with her
students and if one meth-
od doesn't work, she then
opts for another.
"uf you see in their
faces that whatever you
used as an example didn't
work then you have to try
another one," she said.
Though never formally
trained as a teacher, Nolta
began teaching because
raising her children pre-
vented her from being in

a lab.
"I took an odd job doing
teaching in Chicago and
loved it and just fell into
it," she said.
A native of Livonia
Mich. who prefers no keep
s low profile outside of the
chemistry building, Nolta
actually lives closer to
East Lansing and Michi-
gan State University than
Ann Arbor.
"Most people don't
know anything about me
personally, and I would
doubt that most people
knew that I'm married
with children," Nolta said.
She considers teaching
her only bobby and states
that she's never planned a
lecture.
- CHRISTOPHER
PHOTIA DES

n.

News Tips
torrections
Letersto the Editor
Phooraphy Departmnt
Arts Section
Editorial Pate
Sports Section
Display Sales
tlassified tales
Onine Sales

news@michigandaiy.com
corrections@michigandaity.com
tothedaily@michigandaiy.con
photo@:nichigandaily.com
artsage@mitigandailyecom
opirio@michigandaily.com
sports@oichigardaity.conr
disptay@xichigaodaity.com
classiied@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigndaity.com

6

TOREHANS HARMAN/Daily
Law student Matt Dosenberry ard Public Policy senior Lydia McMullen-Laird lead tree
ballroom dancing lessors in the Michigan Union Ballroom yesterday.

CRIME NOTES
Marijuana
possession
WHERE: East Quadrangle
WHEN: Sunday at about 4:00
WHAT: Two subjectsare
being investigated for pos-
sessing marijuana, University
Police reported. A report of the
incident has been filed.

Lights out
WHERE: East Quad
WHEN: Saturday between
3:30 am. and 4:30 am.
WHAT: Two fluorescent light
bulbs and a light fixture cover
were stolen from a hallway in
East Quad. There are no sus-
pects.
MIP issued,

C A P SEEx h ib it o n
economy

TENTS & NOTES


(VnIimvm hi-

II, student treated
car damaged

WHERE: Thompson Carport
WHEN: Saturday at about 5:45
pm.
WHAT: A caller told police
she had damaged her vehicle
after striking a column in the
carport, University Police
reported. There were no inju-

WHERE: 600 block of East
Madison
WHEN: Saturday between
3:30 am. and 4:30 am.
WHAT: A subject was issued a
ticket for possession of alcohol
and was taken to the Universi-
ty Hospital for treatment after
falling due to intoxication,
University Police reported.

WHAT: An exhibit that
focuses on how President
Pord addressed the troubling
economic times of the '70s.
WHO: The Gerald K. Ford
Poundation
WHEN: Ongoing
WHERE: Gerald Ford
Library
Book tour
WHAT: Lecture by Mary
Ellen Geist, former radio
personality and author of
Measure of the Heart, a book
about Alzheimer's disease.
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHEN: Today from 12:00
pm. to 1:30 pm.
WHERE: 2025S. Thayer,
Room 2022

Symposium on
race issues
WHAT: Lecture by Carmen
Van Kerckhove, on issues sur-
rounding race and racism.
WHO: MLK Symposium Plan-
ning Comsmittee
WHEN: Today at 5:00 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
Vandenberg Room
CORRECTIONS
" An article in yesterday's
edition of The Michigan
Daily ("' U' prof. who used
numbers to fight against
war dies") incorrectly iden-
tified the chair of Wayne
State University's Political.
Science Department as
David Gellar. His name is
Daniel Geller.
. Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandailycom.

1Hundreds of Hew York City
subway riders stripped
down to their skivvies
Sunday for the 9th annual
Ho Pants Subway Kide, The
Associated Press reported.
Participants were members
of the group Smprov Every-
where, whose mission is to
create "scenes of chaos and
joy in public places."
2The McCarran-Pergu-
son Act of 1945 allows for
health insurance compa-
nies to receive exemptions for
the federal anti-trust laws that
apply to most businesses.
>>FORtMORt, SttOPINION, PAGE14
3 New York City Mayor
Michael Bloomberg is
launching a nationwide ini-
tiative that will require restau-
rants and food manufactures to
reduce salt contentcby 25 percent
over the next five years, The Hew
York Times reported.

inance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managion ditoe aaronso@michigandaiy.com
'Lllian Berman ManagigtNewsEditor Bermn@michigandailyccom
SENOsE sWnSosTORS ioleAber, Maliory Jones, StehanieStinberg, Kl
Ssnsn swsoohirnnokkssuo~~onoooo,~oohiheo
RacbelVar Slider EdioriaPage Editr vngitder@michigaodaily.com
S0E0NI snO OeL oAGE EDITO 0S:.rianFlherty, Erika Myr, EmnireyLaur
ASSISTANEDITORIALPE EDoITORS:Michelleoooi,uioSchiff,MaohewShutier
Ryar tarlie ManagingortsEditor bortje@michigandaitycomn
ASITN PS En OcepsS: ichael Floeok, Alx.Herma,Ryn o odg, Zak
Jamiellock ManagingArtditor bock@michigandailycom
SEsNOAnSooDITORS: CaronKlrekiAndrewoLai, JffSaord,
ASSISTNARTuoSEO S: Leh Buri, ShonJacobs,,igid ioi, Mikeunt,
Maxotollinsard photo@michiandailycom
Sam Wolsorr Managing PbotoEditors
SENI O eoPHOT OeO nnnOR UTMEICanVoin Hbsbug-ohigen
SarahbSquire and deign@michiandailycom
Anna Leir-Ziiki MonogingDg~n E ditors
SEsNORoD :SINEO: AnsgelaChii
Treoor talern Magazine Editore calro@michigandailycom
Melanie Pried andcoepydek@michlgaedaity.coam
Rachel Phillips Copy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
KtielJozwiak SaesoManager
Ryan Businoki Clifiled Maager
Ben tnglish Prodoctioo Mooager
Allison Santacreu Layout Manager
Viiar LeeFnanoe Manager
Brittany MoralesCculton ~oManager
Brad WilePeroject oornaor
The MichiganrDil~y ISS0745-967lis publihdMonrday tr~oghSFrdayduingeall alnd
winr emsy studentsate iersityeofyMichig.e copy svilanbhlefree cage o lL
rade.Aditional copie ay bepicked up atteDaly'sdofice yo.Sbcipinsfofall r,
satng ,inepemero, va eU.S. maji ae $515. Ointerem January tro~ugh sprill is $ll5, yerlong
(Septerr trouxghApril)ios $19.Universityaffiites rnesubjectto aeducdusritionrae.
O-ampus ubscripions for allteme 35.sripionmst e prpaid: e Mhigan Dly
isanmerof hAsociaed ressoadTherAociatd Collegat resso.

14


PM

MORE ONLINE
Looe Crime Notes? Get morenonline at michigandaily.csm/h os/She wire


II

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

WHAT DO
IHODESIMARSHALLIMITCHELL
SCHOLARS,
DO. AFTER TH EIR STU DI ES
Well, this guy became
president.
F What will you do?
JrAnything you want.
You'ye written your own game
i plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
- a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?
William Jefferson Clinton, President of
the United Slates of America, 1992-2000
Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Tuesday, January 19, 2010.* 5:00-6:O0pm
Kalamazoo Room, Michigan League, 2nd Floor
Wednesday, February 10, 2010.* 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons, Center Room
Monday, February 22. 2010.* 5:00-6:O0pm
Pendleton Room, Michigan Union
To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on 5tudent Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/

Earn your law degree in a balanced
environment with the nation's #1-ranked
advocacy program, outstanding professors
and a friendly atmosphere.
Through its full-time and part-time
programs, Stetson prepares lawyers
through practical experience, leadership
training and public service.

A

M


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 12, 2010 -- 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January12, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Pelosi defends auto
bailout at Detroit
Auto Show
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
and top Obama administration
officials yesterday defended last
year's federal bailout of the auto
industry, citing optimism that
General Motors and Chrysler had
made strides only months after
exiting bankruptcy.
"What we see here today is a
renaissance,"Pelosisaid. "Arenais-
sance, a phoenix - a rebirth."
Pelosi, D-Calif., and more than
a dozen lawmakers traveled to the
auto industry's annual showcase.
They inspected General Motors'
Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in electric
vehicle, as well as engine technolo-
gies under developmentby Chrysler
LLC and its Italian partner, Fiat
Group SpA, and fuel-sipping small
cars from Ford Motor Co.
Transportation Secretary Ray
LaHood also toured the show. He
said the administration made the
right decision to save GM, Chrysler
and auto lender GMAC Financial
Services with about $80 billion in
aid, along with a separate $3 bil-
lion Cash for Clunkers program
that boosted auto sales during last
summer's doldrums.
NEW YORK
Scientist accused of
having al-Qaida ties
fires attorneys
A U.S.-trained scientist accused
of shooting at FBI agents and
helping al-Qaida continued her
pattern of courtroom theatrics
yesterday as her attempted mur-
der case neared trial.
AafiaSiddiquihadvowed at pre-
vious pretrial hearings to ignore
her legal team and demanded a
meeting with President Barack
Obama about bringing peace to
Pakistan and Afghanistan.
"They are not my attorneys,"
Siddiqui blurted out to spectators
moments after being escorted
into a Manhattan courtroom yes-
terday. "I have fired them many
times."
She later said: "There's too
many injustices in this court." "
Siddiqui, 37, described by the
government as an al-Qaida sym-
pathizer, is accused of grabbing
a U.S. Army officer's rifle during
an interrogation in Afghanistan
in July 2008 and exchanging gun-
fire with U.S. soldiers and FBI
agents.
BEIJING
China announces
successful missile
interception
China announced that its
military intercepted a missile in
mid-flight yesterday in a test of
new technology that comes amid
heightened tensions over Tai-
wan and increased willingness
by the Asian giant to show off its
advanced military capabilities.
The official Xinhua News

Agency reported late Monday that
"ground-based midcourse mis-
sile interception technology" was
tested within Chinese territory.
"The test has achieved the
expected objective," the three-
sentence report said. "The test is
defensive in nature and is not tar-
geted at any country."
Yesterday's report follows
repeated complaints in recent
days by Beijing over the sale by
the U.S. of weaponry to Taiwan,
including PAC-3 air defense mis-
siles.
PARIS
Mitchell asks for
French, European
help in establishing
Middle East peace
U.S. envoy George Mitchell is
asking for French and European
Union support for a renewed push
for peace in the Middle East.
Mitchell, on a visit to Paris,
said Monday that "no one coun-
try, no one person can accomplish
this objective alone."
After meeting with French For-
eign Minister Bernard Kouchner,
he urged "a combined and con-
certed effort and partnership"
with U.S. allies, including France,
toward resuming peace negotia-
tions that broke down in Decem-
ber 2008.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

First to move to
NCRC named

COURTESY OF Bt5TLtY HISTORICAL LIBRFARY
Former University President Robben Fleming (FAR RIGHT) with former United States President Gerald Ford (SEtCND FROM
LEFT) look at plans for the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library on Nov. 4, 1977. Fleming died yesterday at the age of 93.
'U'officials: Fleming a calm
voice during tense period

Groups chosen
through campus
wide assessment
By SUZANNE JACOBS
For the Daily
University officials announced
yesterday that they've identified
the first group of researchers and
administrators who will move into
the North Campus Research Com-
plex.
According to an article published
yesterday in the University Record,
some of the first employees expected
to move into the 30-building proper-
ty will be from the Michigan Insti-
tute for Clinical & Health Research,
the Office of Medical Development
and Alumni Relations, the develop-
ment and clinical trials offices for
the Comprehensive Cancer Center
and the Clinical Research Billing.
Senior Public Relations Repre-
sentative Mary Masson said these
groups were chosen because they
are involved in supporting the Uni-
versity's researchcommunity.
The complex - which was pur-
chased from Pfizer in December
2008 - spans 1.97 million square
feet, with 1.3 million square feet
designated for research space and
420,000 square feet for administra-
tive offices.
These groups were chosen
through a campus-wide assessment
of leased space. As reported in the
University Record, moving research
administrators from leased space to
campus-owned propertywaspartof
an effort to create a more consolidat-
ed support system for the research
community.
Ora Pescovitz, executive vice

president for medical affairs, told
the University Record that the new
members are partof a"broad goalof
creating a distinct new University
community at NCRC."
"As part of our extensive planning
process," Pescovitz said, "we expect
these first employees will over time
be joined by thousands of current
and new faculty, staff and students
who together will pursue ground-
breakingresearch initiatives involv-
ing disciplines across campus and
industry partnerships."
Though the first to move in were
chosen through the assessment, in
the future, faculty researchers who
want to move into the complex will
need to go through an open applica-
tion process, Masson said.
As of right now, there are no pre-
requisites for facultyhopingto apply,
Masson said. Applications will be
reviewed by a number of commit-
tees, which will look for benefits
of locating certain research teams
close to one another.
Masson said the committees are
consideringmanygeneraltopics that
could become themes of the NCRC,
like healthcare reform. She added
that there is a long-term strategic
planning effort in place focused on
identifyingsuch themes.
Minor renovations are necessary
before some of the NCRC buildings
- especially laboratories - will be
ready for research use, Masson said.
It is anticipated that over the next
10 years, the NCRC will create more
than 2,000 faculty and staff posi-
tions. The complex is expected to be
fully occupied by 2018.
On Dec. 17, the Board of Regents
approved a $1.8 million budget for
renovations including new carpet
and paint jobs, according to the Uni-
versity Record.

Campus community
reflects on the life
of the University's
ninth president
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Members of the University
community fondly remembered
yesterday former University
President Robben Wright Flem-
ing, who died at the age of 93.
They reminisced about his abil-
ity to handle controversy and his
love for the University to which
he devoted a substantial part of
his life.
Fleming served as president
from 1968 to 1979 and then again
for one year as interim president
in 1981. His 11-year tenure is
remembered as one of the most
volatile periods in the University's
histiry as protests over American
involvement in the Vietnam War
and civil rights consumed cam-
pus.
After hearing of Fleming's
death, University President Mary
Sue Coleman released a statement
describing him as a terrific leader
who will be held in high esteem
by all who were involved with
the University during his time as
president, and all those who came
after.
"Robben Fleming will be
remembered in the same breath as
Henry Tappan and James Angell
as one of the truly great presi-
dents of the University of Michi-
gan," Coleman said. "In an era of
friction and fighting, he provided
a voice of reason and respect."
University Regent Andrea Fis-
cher Newman (R-Ann Arbor) was
a student at the University when
Fleming was president. She said
he was always soft-spoken and
friendly when she would inter-
act with him during her time as a
regent.
BEILEIN
From Page 1
ment. "What he has done on and
off the court with our men's bas-
ketball team has been tremen-
dous, and he has made it clear he
wants to coach at Michigan until
he retires. This contract exten-
sion is a win-win situation for
the men's basketball program at
Michigan and for coach Beilein."
By most accounts, Beilein
appears to have already estab-
lished a significant presence
within the University's athletic
department. Martin had Bei-
lein on his short list of candi-
dates when the head coaching
position was left open after the
2006-07 season with the firing
of Tommy Amaker. Beilein was
hired just 17 days later.
Come to the
Daily's next
mass meeting.
WEDNESDAY

NIGHT 8 PM AT
420 MAYNARD

"He was the right person at the
right time in the president's job,"
she said.
Former University President
James Duderstadt said Flem-
ing wan instrumental in keeping
the University on track during a
tumultuous period in its history.
"He was deeply engaged with
the campus community, with the
students and faculty on issues that
really mattered to them during a
time of great turbulence for Ameri-
can higher education," Duderstadt
said in an interviewyesterday. "We
all had a sense of confidence that
his wisdom and integrity would
keep the campus from blowing up
in a waythat many other campuses
could not avoid."
Duderstadt added that the
level of political protest during
the Fleming administration was
unprecedented.
"It's a level of activity on cam-
puses that you don't see today;
something, quite frankly, I think
we miss. In a very real sense dui-'
ing the late 1960's and early 1970's
the universities became the social
consciences of the nation and
Michigan was one of the most
prominent of those and I think its
impact on our society has a lot to
do with the wise, passionate, lead-
ership of Robben Fleming."
Duderstadt went on to say that
Fleming's history in labor negoti-
ations - he studied the field at the
University of Wisconsin - and
his ability to get opposing par-
ties to engage in discussions and
compromise, ultimately allowed
agreements tobe reached, even in
tense situations.
"Michigan was a hotbed -
along with several other institu-
tions - on these concerns," he
said. "President Fleming had this
rare ability to listen to people, to
share their concerns. He spoke
out very forcefully at the national
level about the concerns for the
war and about racial equity. And
I think while he handled con-
frontation, he did it in a way that
Beilein took the Michigan job
without having ever stepped foot
in Ann Arbor, telling ESPN.com at
the time that he was "taking a leap
of faith."
More than two years later, Bei-
lein's instincts have guided him to
the good graces of the University's
highest authorities. After Mar-
tin announced his plans to retire
in this past November, Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
named Beilein one of five officials

both sides developed a very deep
respect for him."
Duderstadt added that Fleming
helped ease his transition when he
assumed the presidency in 1988.
Fleming was serving as president
on an interim basis immediately
before Duderstadt took the post.
"That was a rare experience
to see just how skillful he was,"
Duderstadt said. "He used this
Midwestern charm. (He had)
very strong empathy with people
in order to provide outstanding
leadership, even during that brief
period when he came back."
Even after Fleming retired,
Dean of Libraries Paul Courant,
who served as the University's
provost and executive vice presi-
dent for academic affairs from
2002 until 2005, said Fleming
was still very involved with the
University.
A Michigan Man through and
through, Fleming was an avid
Wolverines fan, accordingto Cou-
rant.
"Long after he had retired and
was president emeritus, he would
occasionally come by when I was
provost and associate provost and
just talk about the University,"
Courant said. "He was a terrific
football fan and obviously took
great pleasure in the place and
what it did."
Duderstadt echoed Courant,
adding that though Fleming was
a fan of the Wolverines, he wasn't
shy about criticizing the team.
"Later in his life, my wife and I
had the opportunity, for a number
of years, to take him to Michigan
football games because he was
very passionate about the Wol-
verines," Duderstadt said. "You
have to remember that Bo Schem-
bechler was his football coach. So,
he really enjoyed the games and
was very supportive when they
did something right and very out-
spoken when they didn't."
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.
selected to sit on the advisory
committee to choose Martin's
successor.
Beilein was the only Michigan
coach asked to serve on the com-
mittee.
Though Michigan is the fourth
Division 1 program Beilein has led
to the tournament, the Wolverines
have stumbled to a disappointing
8-7 (2-2 Big Ten) record this year,
and are in danger of missing this
March's NCAA Tournament.

Arson suspect
pleads no contest

Justin Arens, 21,
is charged with
setting South U. blaze
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Justin Arens, one of the defen-
dants charged with setting fire to
an abandoned building on South
University Avenue in October plead
no contest yesterday at his pretrial
conference at Washtenaw County
Circuit Court.
Arens, 21, voluntarily plead no
contest after making a plea agree-
ment with the prosecutor, Karen
Field. At his sentencing, which will
take place on Feb. 22., he could face
up to 10 years in prison for the felony
charge of arson of real property, a
decrease from the original 20 years
for arson of personal property.
Arens was arrested in December
in connection with the fire that gut-
ted the former Pinball Pete's loca-
tion and caused minor damage to
the nearby University Towers apart-
ment complex and Momo Tea.
Arens was initially charged with
arson of personal property but when
he appeared in court for his prelimi-
nary exam last month Field asked
the charge be changed to arson of

real property exceeding $20,000.
Field argued that because the build-
ing was abandoned at the time of
the fire, the case was betfter overed
under arson of real property.
At the same court appearance last
month, Field said Arens often slept
in the building and knew others
often slept there as well, but he dis-
regarded the danger to others when
setting the fire, which began at 11
p.m. on Oct. 24.
Arenss' lawyer Raymond Mull-
ins, asked Judge J. Simpson to lower
Arens's bond from $100,000 at the
December court appearance, but
the request was denied after Field
objected, noting Arens's past crimi-
nal history.
Arens has been previously con-
victed of home invasion, retail fraud
and a juvenile conviction of assault
with intention to commit criminal
sexual conduct.
Though Arens's mother said at
the time that she was willing to post
a lower bond and keep him in her
home, Simpson denied the request
saying that Arens could be "detri-
mental to the safety of the commu-
nity."
Ian MacKenzie, Arens' co-defen-
dant, plead not guilty tothree counts
of arson when he appeared in court
on Jan. 4 for his pretrial conference,
which was rescheduled for Jan. 25.


W in $10,000...

Resources may be limited.
Ideas are NOT.
So if you have a breakthrough idea for helping
planet earth to be a more sustainable place, then
enter the Dow Sustainability Innovation
Student Challenge.
Concepts, which should be interdisciplinary in
naturecan be related to chemistryclimate change,
energy conservation, product safety, public policy,

or other critical ideas. Students with the top three
ideas will receive $10,000, courtesy of the Dow
Chemical Company.
The Dow Challenge is exclusively for U-M graduate
students. Individual and team submissions will be
accepted. The entry deadline is Jan. iS, 2010.
So don't delay. If you think you have a winning idea
go ahead.
Apply online at www.graham.umich.edu.

GRAHAM 0
INSTITUTE



6

4 - Tuesday, January 12, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


C iid ligan BaI*IV
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

A university is also a place for the
dreaming of great dreams.'
- Former University President Robben Fleming, from his March 12,1968 inaugural speech,
as recorded in his book, "Tempests into Rainbows."
JAMES DUDERSTADT |
The legacy of Robben Fleming

Unsigned editorials reflect the officialposition ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Picking a provost
New provost should involve students in policymaking
new face will soon be occupying one of the University's
most important positions. As announced in an e-mail
yesterday from University President Mary Sue Cole-
man, University Provost Teresa Sullivan will soon be leaving to
become the president at the University of Virginia. On the heels
of her departure, the University has an opportunity to bring a
new addition to the University's management team. Sullivan's
successor should reflect a commitment to diversity and possess
financial prowess. At the same time, this opening should be used
to right a past shortcoming: the University's failure to meaning-
fully engage students in its policy-making decisions.

With the passing of former University President Rob-
ben Fleming yesterday, we have lost a Michigan leader
of great integrity, distinction and compassion. President
Fleming led the University during tumultuous years
when Ann Arbor was a center of student activism. His
great patience, negotiating skills and genuine sympa-
thy for the concerns of students and faculty helped the
University weather the decade without the destructive
confrontations that struck many other universities. His
calm, reassuring approach to difficult issues, tempered at
times with a disarming sense of humor, served him well
in providing leadership throughout these difficult times.
During this period of protest and disruption, he had a
remarkable ability to build compromise and cooperation
out of confrontation. At a time when University students
and faculty served as the conscience of the nation on
major issues such as the war in Vietnam and racial jus-
tice, President Fleming spoke out courageously on many
of these issues to provide national leadership in support
of the concerns of students and the faculty.
President Fleming once observed: "If you start out as
president by appointing superb people, you are about
three-quarters of the way down the path of success." The
leadership team he assembled at the University included
faculty members like Frank Rhodes and Harold Shapiro,
who would goontobecome two of the most distinguished
university leaders of their era (at Cornell, Princeton and,
of course, Michigan).
During the transitional period following President
Harold Shapiro in 1988, while I was serving as the Uni-
versity's provost, President Fleming returned for a brief
period in an interim leadership role. This provided me
with a remarkable opportunity to observe, work with
and learn from one of the most able presidents in the Uni-
versity's history as he skillfully navigated through the
complexities of university activities, state politics, and
student concerns with wisdom and understanding.

At my own inauguration as University president in
1988, he pulled me aside to caution that a public univer-
sity president should never regard the slings and arrows
launched by others as personal attacks. Rather, most crit-
ics were simply angry at the institution, not the presi-
dent. Buthe also acknowledged thatuniversitypresidents
made a most convenienttarget for taking out frustrations,
which he characterized as "the price of a society in which
we place so high a value on freedom of expression." His
courage was illustrated by a second comment: "A univer-
sity president must develop the capacity to tolerate risk
as a necessary characteristic of the position. If you do not
occasionally face critical moments when you must put
your job on the line in defending or advancingthe institu-
tion, then you are likely not doing your job well."
President Fleming was always a great fan of Michigan
football (after all, he hired Bo Schembechier!), and dur-
ing his later years my wife and I were privileged to take
him to the home football games. It was clear that people
enjoyed seeing President Fleming in attendance at the
game as much as he enjoyed the game itself!
It is ironic that today many members of the Universi-
ty community probably know the name Fleming by the
building that bears his name, a formidable blockhouse
containing the University administration. Yet, in reality,
President Robben Fleming was a Michigan leader who
was deeply engaged and supportive of the students and
faculty of the University during his tenure, reaching out
to listen to and share their concerns and speak out force-
fully and courageously on behalf of the University. He
will be greatly missed, fondly remembered and always
honored for his leadership of the University of Michigan.
James Duderstadt is currently a University
professor of science and engineering and president
emeritus at the University. He served as the
University's president from 1988 to 1996.

Coleman announced yesterday that Sul-
livan will begin serving as the president of
UVA on Aug. 1. Coleman intends to select
a new provost before that time. UVA chose
Sullivan partly because of her success in
managing the University's budget amid
financial turbulence - and with UVA facing
cuts in its own state funding, Sullivan's bud-
getary acumen could be beneficial.
Sullivan's savvy in managing the Univer-
sity's budget was one of her strong points.
Among other actions, Sullivan played a key
role in the Space Utilization Initiative. Last
November, project manager Frances Mueller
estimated that the initiative saved the Uni-
versity $185 million in construction costs by
managing space efficiently and reducing the
need for new construction projects.
Like Sullivan, the new provost should
possess experience in managing a large and
complex budget. More than that, the Uni-
versity's new hire should possess a stronger
commitment to maintaining affordability
for students. As many students face serious
financial burdens from tuition costs, avoid-
ing tuition hikes like last year's 5.6 percent
increase should be a top priority. The Uni-
versity's new hire should do everything
possible to curtail costs, including halting
the University's custom to routinely give
pay raises and hire expensive new faculty at
students' expense.
In making its pick for the position, the
University should also demonstrate a com-

mitment to diversity. While administrators
have expressed a desire to maintain diver-
sity among faculty members and the student
body, the representation of diverse groups in
its leadership ranks doesn't reflect the Uni-
versity's supposed commitment. The Uni-
versity should aim to improve representation
of minority groups at all levels - and that
means choosing a provost who will increase
the administration's diversity.
And the new provost should put the
school's diverse student body to good use.
Sullivan's successor should show a com-
mitment to involving students in decisions
that affect them. In the past, Sullivan pur-
ported to include students in decision-
making by creating student committees
like the Student Budget Advisory Commit-
tee, which was started in 2008. But these
closed-door committees seemed more like
an effort to pacify students than to actu-
ally gain their insight on policies -that
affect them. The provost Coleman chooses
should be willing to take earnest action
to hear students' ideas, and put them into
practice.
Sullivan's replacement should possess a
balanced set of qualifications that reflects
the University's needs. And what the Uni-
versity - and the student body - needs is
a provost who increases the diversity of
University administration and possesses
financial and managerial experience to
improve conditions for students.

WANT TO BE AN OPINION CARTOONIST?
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
My top five maize pains

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
WILL BUTLER
Grinches who stole health care

love the University of Michigan.
I thank God everyday that I had
the opportunity and the incred-
ibly good fortune
to spend four years
of my life here.
Like many of my
peers, my ticket to
this school is paid
by loving, gener-I
ous, hard-working
parents. And I try
not to forget that -
fortune as I eat my CHRIS
daily bowl of Cap'n KOSLOWSKI
Crunch with the
shiniest of silver
spoons. But some-
times - as good as I have it - the
small stuff gets under my skin. I have
little reason to complain, but there are
certain things about this place that
drive me up a wall. In fact, they are
so irritating that I thought I'd share
five of them with the hope that maybe
a few of you can laugh at our mutual
frustration.
1. The Diagsnow-removal carts
I like a cleared path on my way to
class, but I don't like it when these
Satanic sweepers brush a blizzard of
snow in my face when I already feel
like I'm trekking across Siberia. I
understand that constant plowing of
the Diag would necessitate even more
inconvenient repair work, but perhaps
that would be a small price to pay to
end the plague of irreversible psycho-
logical damage caused by face-to-face
encounters with these snow-flinging
monsters on narrow sidewalks.
2. The Museum ofArt addition
I often hear complaints about the
big, red-orange Orion sculpture, but I
love it because it draws my attention
away from much worse eyesore: the
new art museum addition. The new

addition sports the most perplexingly
awkward architecture on campus.
Wedged in between the classical col-
umns and ornate stonework of Angell
Hall and the original art museum, the
boring, out of place UMMA looks like
something my four-year-old cousin
could have built with a cardboard box.
But on the bright side, the fiber-ugly
LSA Building now looks like a master-
piece in comparison.
3. Washtenaw between South U. and
Cambridge
If you ever feel like needlessly risk-
ing your life, find a friend and two
SUVs and drive side-by-side down this
narrow, obstacle-ridden thoroughfare.
Even in my little sedan, I feel like I'm
being forced into playing chicken with
opposing traffic. Between the over-
flow parking from the First Presby-
terian Church that blocks the entire
southbound right lane on Sundays and
drunken Greek system freshman wan-
dering in search of "The Rock," this
stretch of Washtenaw becomes the
most infuriating street in Ann Arbor.
And I didn't even mention, the perpet-
ually manned speed trap between Hill
and South U.
4.Spicy ChickenPasta is too delicious
I don't remember much from my
freshman year in Couzens Residence
Hall, but I do remember Spicy Chicken
Pasta. More delicious than manna,
more scrumptious than ambrosia
and even better than your grandma's
famous apple pie, Spicy Chicken Pasta
puts all other entrees in all other din-
ing options in Ann Arbor to shame.
Why is this bad? Because when I'm
eating a steak at the Chop House, I
don't want to be thinking about why
I'm not eating Spicy Chicken Pasta
instead. I've taken a bite of heaven and
now everything else tastes like soggy
kitchen sponge. Oh, and those who

think Chicken Broccoli Bake is supe-
rior are fools.
Couzens's Spicy
Chicken Pasta is
just too good.

In the early morning of Christmas Eve, the
United States Senate passed its version of the
health care reform bill. Despite being tout-
ed as the Senate's early Christmas gift to the
American people, progressives like me stand
incredibly disappointed and frustrated with
the watered-down bill. While I recognize that
there is an inherent struggle between idealism
and reality in any political battle, this bill fails
in any sort of substantive and comprehensive
reform. So here is my basic progressive primer
on the Senate's health care bill, including what
to hate and who to blame.
While many debate the actual number of.
people it would affect, progressives should
make no mistake - the public option is vital.
While Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi
(D-Cali.) and the House Democrats were able
to secure a public option in their version of the
bill, Senate Democrats were not. The public
option provision would create a government
alternative health care plan to private insur-
ance companies, allowing the government to
negotiate payments with doctors and hospitals.
The health care system cannot be fixed if
Congress allows it to stay in the private sector
alone. In order to make health care actually
affordable, a public option is necessary to break
the monopoly insurance companies have, force
competition and finally make insurance com-
panies responsible to the people. Some con-
tend that private companies cannot compete
with public institutions. This is simply not
true - they coexist and compete in multiple
sectors. The Post Office must compete against
FedEx and public schools exist with private
ones. Many other countries have private-pub-
lic health systems as well, including France,
which was ranked first for its health care sys-
tem by the World Health Organization.
Though it hasn't received the amount
of attention the public option has, there is
another key element to health care reform:
the anti-trust exemption for health insurance
companies. The McCarran-Ferguson Act of.
1945 allows for health insurance companies to
receive exemptions from the federal anti-trust
laws that apply to most businesses. This allows
for the insurance companies to collaborate and
essentially set prices at any rate they see fit.
Because of this exemption, insurance compa-
nies indulge in practices like bid rigging and
market allocation, all of which reduce com-
petition and increase prices for the consumer.

4

While the repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson
Act may seem like a simple no-brainer, it was
evidently overlooked by the Senate, which was
not able to fit it into the bill.
We can thank the Republican Party for not
allowing the public option or the repeal of the
anti-trust exemption in the Senate health care
bill. Not a single member of the Grand Oppo-
sition Party supported the Senate bill and few
made genuine attempts at reform. It is quite
clear that the Republican Party stands firmly
against the general welfare of the American
people's health care. While standing in stub-
born opposition to almost every idea proposed
by Democratic Party leadership, they must
have lacked the time to be able to propose any
ideas of their own. Despite American health
care being ranked 37th by the World Health
Organization, Republicans held ignorantly
that America "had the best health care in the
world." I cannot stress enough how at fault this
party is. The only people it truly represents
are corporate insurance companies, insurance
lobbyists and the radical fringe right that now
controls the party.
But the Grinches who really stole health
care reform were Senators Joe Lieberman (ID-
Conn.) and Ben Nelson (D-Neb.). While stand-
ing as the last holdouts for their votes on health
care reform, these two senators were effec-
tively able to hold health care hostage and ruin
Christmas in Grinch-like fashion. Lieberman
said that he wouldn't support a public option or
an expansion of Medicare - despite support-
ing the idea previously - and even threatened
to filibuster with the Senate Republicans. Ben
Nelson expressed similar concerns but got
even more bang for his buck with his "Corn-
husker Kickback," a deal that gives the entire
state of Nebraska a permanent exemption from
its share of Medicaid taxes.
The public option and the repeal of the McCar-
ran-Ferguson Act are necessary for real health
care reform in America. These provisions were
not able to make it into the bill because of Joe
Lieberman, Ben Nelson and the entirety of the
Republican Party. As the conference committee
approaches, progressives need to remain strong
in their convictions. While lawmaking is a pro-
fession of compromise, diluting a bill until it isn't
strong enough to make the changes necessary is a
mark of bad government.
Will Butler is an LSA freshman.

5. The Haven Hall Bazaar
So, I've made it through the beggars
by the Engineering Arch, the flyer dis-
tributors, protestors and preachers in
the Diag, and I walk into Haven Hall
and somebody shoves free cookies in
my face. I blame my freshman fifteen,
my sophomore twenty and so forth on
these peddlers of all things fatty. Do I
want a SO-cent donut? No. Can I resist
when I walk in and seea four-foot pile
of Krispy Kreme boxes just waiting for
me? No! Plus, the tables restrict traffic
flow. I'm trying to get to the stairwell,
but I'm stuck in the bottleneck, and
the Dance Marathon folks just opened
a new package of brownies. Damn you
and your tasty treats!
Luckily, the list of stuff I love is
much, much longer. From snowball
fights in the Law Quad to Double
Stacks in the Michigan Union Wen-
dy's, it's great to be a Michigan Wol-
verine. So after the Diag preacher
guy pins you to the glass wall of the
art museum and a brush cart merci-
lessly flings snow in your face, smile,
spin the Cube, order one up at Blimpy
Burger, and remember how fortunate
you are. No silver spoons required.
- Chris Koslowski can be
reached at cskoslow@umich.edu.

ANGELA CHIH

E-MAIL ANGELAAT AHCHIH@UMICH.EDU

... wav-er.--...-_ .,_.--.-
coIk_
GI :
L _ N

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 12, 2010 - 5

Opera in the now

Fun fact: Queen Victoria hid from attackers by disguising herself as a pointy tree.
'Young'and restless

Jean-Marc Vallee can't
make Queen Victoria
relevant in latest film
By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
People tend to view Queen Victo-
ria as a stately and prim old woman.
But, at least at one
point in her life, she
resembled anything
but this comnionly The Young
held stereotype. .
"The Young
Victoria" focuses At the
primarily on the Michigan
beginnings of Vic- GK
toria's life. Emily
Blunt ("Sunshine
Cleaning") performs capably in her
role as the young queen, but doesn't
quite achieve the commanding pres-
ence of a monarch. The Queen does
not reach maturity in "Young Victo-
ria;" she still displays some naivete
and self-doubt. It would have made
Blunt's character more complete had
she developed Victoria's regal side.

"Young Victoria" explores the
romantic relationship between Vic-
toria and her mousy husband Prince
Albert (Rupert Friend, "The Liber-
tine"). Lord Melbourne (Paul Betta-
ny, "The Da Vinci Code"), the queen's
ambitious advisor and Albert's
romantic rival, is far more enter-
taining than the bland Albert. While
the relationship between Victoria
and Albert is historically intriguing
(she was the first queen to marry for
love rather than politics), the sur-
rounding story collapses into scenes
depicting the pair romping around
as newlyweds. Actually, the political
relationship between Victoria, Lord
Melbourne and the English people
seems to have the greatest depth in
"Young Victoria."
While the love story between
Victoria and Albert is a sweet one,
there are many more aspects of Vic-
toria's younger days worth explor-
ing. Director Jean-Marc Vallee
("C.R.A.Z.Y") tries to incorporate
some of these ideas. For example,
Victoria was so closely guarded that
she was required to hold someone's
hand as she walked down stairs, and
she had to protect her claim to the

throne for the larger part of her life.
In these respects, "The Young
Victoria" is not a dry historical nar-
rative. Vallee puts character and
personality behind these figures. At
times, it's easy to get caught up in the
story and forget it's actually nonfic-
tion. The movie is well focused, inte-
grating both politics and romance.
But there's a lack of social context.
The audience has no way of know-
ing the social turmoil Britain faced
in the wake of the Industrial Revo-
lution and Queen Victoria's role in
these events. The story isolates itself
within the walls of the Queen's pal-
ace - it's not made clear why her
story matters today.
But just because "The Young
Victoria" doesn't explain the sig-
nificance of the young Queen's life
doesn't mean it's not enjoyable. Val-
lee makes an effort to preserve his-
torical accuracy, and it's obvious a
lot of work went into small details
like Victoria's bonnets and the ban-
quet chairs. But despite the heavy
attention paid to historical detail,
"The Young Victoria" is nothing
more than a classic romantic comedy
about a prince and a princess.'

saw my first opera, "Hansel and Gretel," a
few weeks ago at New York City's Metro-
politan Opera House. Instead of ladies with
Viking hats and voices shrill enough to shatter
glassware, there were trees wearingsuits, an
evil witch played by a man
dressed up like a deranged,
flour-spattered Julia Child,
and a gigantic cherry-red
tongue holding a 30-pound
chocolate cake.
Certainly, creative liberties
had been taken with the old -
Grimm fairy tale. The brightly 'WHITNEY
colored stale gingerbread POW
house we remember, heavily
laden with peppermint sticks and gumdrops,
had been replaced with the garish, industrial-
oven-equipped concrete home of the witch.
The scene was littered with lifelike gingerbread
mannequins, all in the forms of children, their
bodies paralyzed in various pantomimes of hor-
ror.
The whole affair was straight out of a night-
mare, but when the actors opened their mouths,
out rushed perfectly honed voices loud enough'
to fill the 3,995-seat theater. This opera was, in
more than one way, surreal, with odd contem-
porary German expressionist imagery placed
alongside music composed more than 100 years
ago. This was before Thomas Edison first pub-
licly displayed the Kinetoscope, the precursor to
the film camera - a time that seems incredibly
distant from now.
Opera goes under the radar as a sort of impen-
etrable genre stuck in a mire of outdated-ness. It
can be assumed in operatic performances that
words, often in another language, are incoher-
ently spilled out in convulsing vibrato, costumes
are of the horned variety and convention is
expected - we enter the theaters thinking we've
known most of these stories since we were chil-
dren, and we dare the story to make itself neces-
sary, wonderinghow exactlysomethingso old
and irrelevant can become relevant once again.
But, as with any type of performance art,
there is potential for adaptation and interpreta-
tion. There are the written words of the script
- the skeleton for the material, which, in "Han-
sel and Gretel," had been written between 1891
and 1892. And then there's the contemporary
performance of the words themselves, or what
breathes life into the bones. With performance,
actors and directors born 100 years or so after
the opera's debut try to engage with a product of
the past and re-interpret it, shape it. It's their job
to take something dated and make it contempo-
rary and immediate, perhaps even uncomfort-
ably so.
In "Hansel and Gretel," the dark fairy tale
had been twisted and contorted, making the
reality of the tale more urgent - "Hansel and
Gretel" is not so much about gluttonous children
and their insatiable desire for refined sugars (a la
"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory") but about
insufficiency and hunger itself.
Every momentspeaks to hunger and need
in this opera. The children traipse through the
"forest," a dark room with leaf-print wallpaper,
and they stealthily empty the pockets of trees
wearing suits to gather the "berries" that will

satiate their empty stomachs, and these corpo-
rate trees later attempt to chase and capture the
children.
Later, when the children enter the witch's
lair, the witch feeds the children and desperately
repeats, "I want you to like me," which speaks
to a sort of loneliness and isolation. When her
needs are spurned by the children, she becomes
angry and forlorn. She forces a tied-up Hansel
onto a steel plate, grinding up Aclairs, cakes,
puddings and pink liquids in a blender and force
feeds Hansel the puree of the food he desires -
now a brown clumpy mess - through a funnel
and a tube.
And all of these new interpretations just
make the traditionally saccharine story more
affecting. When the Sandman comes to put the
children to sleep, Hansel and Gretel dream of,
of all things, food - a 20-foot-long table piled
with dishes served by an inhumanly rotund
rank of chefs wearing bleached-white clothes,
eyes sunk deep into theirskulls. The chefs, the
embodiment of gluttony, serve the children. The
insatiable appetites of those who over-indulge
in food in turn serve the children's similarly
bottomless stomachs, perpetuating this cycle of
need feeding need.
We connect with this composition of the
story. Taking themes that were relevant a cen-
tury ago and making them contemporary is not
a matter of altering the substance of the themes
themselves (hunger, after all, is still hunger,
even years later), butre-packaging these ideas
in ways that are relatable, not in just making
places recognizable - the sugary walls of a gin-
gerbread house turned steel and mortar - but in
presenting desires as relevant and motivations
as contemporary.
Opera is affecting because of simple themes
'Hansel and Gretel'
with corporate trees.
that are twisted and contorted into visuals and
stage sets that pull one's mind to dusty areas
- what if the unfairness of the economy were
pulled into this production by the suit-wearing
trees? What if the need for human affirmation
and the constancy of rejection were pulled into
the grotesque, yet oddly relatable, witch? What
if the ominousness of industry and impersonal
production are criticized in the bleak concrete
house?
Opera and other performance art reflect
life in the past (from decades to centuries ago)
alongside life as we know it. The thread that
binds the past to the present is, in some ways,
tightened during performance, engaging themes
that are, if not timeless, then relevant to us from
decade to decade. Performance twists and turns
old concepts in the light, presenting them in
ways that have never been seen before.
Pow is trying to shatter glass with her
voice. To tell her a hammer would be more
effective, e-mail her at poww@umich.edu.

Nutrition meets derision

By BRIGID KILCOIN
Daily TV/New Media Editor
Having finally wrung every pos-
sible dollar out of the Gosselin clan,
TLC has moved on to exploiting
people with more
pressing problems
than an overabun-
dance of sickening- One Big
ly sweet toddlers.
The six-episode Happy Family
reality show "One Tuesdays
Big Happy Pam- at 9 p.m.
ily" follows the TL
morbidly obese
Cole family (father
Norris, mother Tameka and children
Shayne and Amber) through their
weight-loss journey and the resulting
struggles. After an alarming doctor's
visit during which Norris discov-
ers that his obesity causes his health
problems, Tameka decides to develop
a more healthy and balanced lifestyle
for her brood with the help of doctors
and other medical professionals.
"One Big Happy Family" could be
a relevant and important program
for TLC: a truthful, unflinching look
at the struggle to develop healthier
habits could provide inspiration to

millions of Americans and elevate the
network from the reality-show dredg-
es into which it has sunk.
However, "One Big Happy Fam-
ily" is an utterly typical reality show;
the manufactured conflict of each
episode always neatly resolves by
the episode's end, creating a wholly
artificial experience that doesn't
resemble reality at all. In the sec-
ond episode, for instance, the Coles
lock horns over attempts to make
a healthy dinner after Amber and
Norris refused to eat Tameka's mneal.
After a two-minute chat with a doc-
tor, however, the family somehow
develops an iron-clad will, then pow-
er-walks as a team down the street
while performing an inspirational
rap about their ability to persevere.
While the show's predictability
simply makes it boring, its offensive-
ness makes it downright uncomfort-
able to watch. Members of the Cole
family are presented as caricatures:
Wacky music plays as Norris sits lost
in thought in a doctor's office waiting
to discover the extent of his medical
problems. It's implied that his dis-
tracted nature stems from the appeal-
ing aroma of fast food. Lascivious
close-ups of a funnel cake the family

devours are prominently featured, as
are shots of Norris pouring grease
onto his turkey burger.
While the show will undoubtedly
prominently feature . food and the
family's struggles with it, these issues
are presented in an almost joking
way, turning the Coles' problem into a
source of humor. Even the name "One
Big Happy Family" seems designed to
poke fun at the group.
A healthy lifestyle is central to
Mocking obesity,
sort of on purpose.
the plot of "One Big Happy Family,"
but the program's obsessive focus on
activity dedicated to weight loss and
healthy eating presents a skewed and
uninteresting portrayal of the Coles.
They seem like they would actually
be an engaging bunch if allowed to
discuss or participate in any activity
not directly tied to healthy eating. As
it stands, the program veers between
boringly clinical and bafflingly offen-
sive, making it a chore to watch.

Editors releases a lazy,
outdated '80s throwback

KID CUDI CRASHES THE MICHIGAN THEATER

By KRISTYN ACHO
DailyArts Writer
With an experimental sound,
brooding vocals and a "fuck the
masses" demeanor,JoyDivision
pioneered the
post-punk
movement.
Tragic vocal- Eio
ist Ian Cur-
tis's disregard In This Light
for stereotyp- and On This
ical, superfi- Evening
cial emotions Kitchenware
shifted punk's
emphasis
toward morose and haunting
themes of isolation and depres-
sion. For the first time, a musi-
cian's raw emotion was exposed
through tortured vocals. Sur-
prisingly enough, these sorrows
resonated with listeners. Can
today's punk rock bands claim
to have a remotely comparable
effect on listeners?
Perhaps, but British punk-
rockers Editors cannot.
Though Editors's lead singer
Tom Smith's gruff voice has
invited countless comparisons
to Curtis, the similarities stop
there. Unlike Joy Division's
innovative themes and sounds,
Editors's latest album, In This
Light and On This Evening, is a
lazy, cliche-riddled venture. Its
use of outdated '80s synthesiz-
ers and generic themes of God
and war comes off as a clunky,
overworked experiment in for-

eign new-wave territory.
The band's third effort, In
This Light, marks a new chap-
ter for the group: With its latest
album, Editors loses the main-
stream,hook-heavy approachof
tracks like "Munich" and "Bul-
lets" that propelled the group
to indie-punk stardom. The
album's reliance on pass6 elec-
tro-guitar riffs serves as a back-
drop for the running theme of
chaos and loneliness prevalent
in London, but it comes off as a
mediocre o-fi endeavor.
While bands like Bloc Party
and Interpol have channeled
Joy Division to create a more
admirable dark tension and
moodiness in their records via
electronic synths and a modern
flair, In This Light feels stuck in
a past life that's almost certain-
ly dead on arrival.
Beginning with the title
track, an eerie backdrop of
synths is subdued by Smith's
overpowering, wallowing
vocals. His voice creeps up
through waves of pulsing syn-
thesized sound, creating a tone
so overly dramatic it's almost
laughable. Smith's continu-
ous chants of "I swear to God"
meander as he discusses the
beauty of London over a fuzzy
base of guitars and grating code
beeps. The track, coarsely mud-
dling along for four minutes,
sounds like something on a bad
'80s mixtape. Now would be the
time to start forgetting those

Joy Division similarities.
Single release "Papillion" is
the one shining beacon of light
found on the album - that
is, if you're into self-pitying,
throwback'80s pop outfits. The
track's dark disco vibe comes
with a hefty dance beat. The
trendy, drum machine-infused
sound is in stark contrast to
the rawer, stripped-down noise
found on previous albums The
Back Door and An End has a
Start.
With In This Light and On
This Evening, Editors gives in
to the Io-fi culture dominat-
ing today's indie-punk scene.
On tracks like "Eat Raw Meat
= Blood Drool," Editors tries
to reinvent its sound through
experimental riffs and an
infectious chorus, but it ulti-
mately falls flat with its generic
electro-vibe. If Editors's new
album has taught us anything,
it's that Joy Division's beauti-
fully brooding vocals cannot be
duplicated.

L I
SAM wOLSON/Dail
Renowned rapper Kid Cudi performed to a packed house at the Michigan Theater last night. To read the Daily [7 More Kid Cudi photos
Arts account of the show, check outithe Daily Arts blog, The Filter, at michigandaily.com. at MichiganDaily.com

WANT TO WRITE FOR DAILY ARTS?
Come to our next mass meeting.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13TH AT 8 PM, 420 MAYNARD ST


6-Tuesday, January 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
! 7 BDRM House-334 Catherine !
Large bedrooms, some hardwood, lots
of common space. Free parking.
'May to May $3745--special discount
Fall to Fall $4095
www.oldtownrealty.net 734-663 8989
FALL 2010: 5 bdrm, 2 bth house.
Between Central Campus & Stadium.
833 Brown St: $2400/mo. Beautiful
House. Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010!!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.ciurchstreetentals.com
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
MAY 2010
COPT PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
*** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madisou
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 . University
Need short term?? May to August
1 bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Cult today 761-8000!
Prime Sttudeut Housing
primesh.com
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

*o
'4,ed and
20 Locations to Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furmished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
2-BEDROOMS*: 2 minute walk to
the Business or Law Schools, unique
layouts in spacious apts, new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, heat, water, under-
ground parking included.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*2-BEDROOMS*: GREAT 2-bd 2
bath bi-levels for 3-4 people, new
kitchens, baths, and furniture, rooftop
balconies, large bedrooms.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100
*3-BEDROOMS*: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing rooms w/ new furmiture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100.
*543 CHURCH ST.*: Humongous 2-
bds for 3-4 people and a spacious 4-
bd. This is the perfect location, right
across the st. from East Hall! Heat, wa-
ter, fursishings included.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
hdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
POST REALTY PROPERTIES
For more info Call 734-761-8220 or
info postrealtyproperties.com

Up to
ONE MONTH
FREE!
Lease anyApartment from now
until 1-11-10 and you'llhave a
chance to winup to one month free,
1/2 month free, $500 off, $300 off,
$100 off, Flat Screen TVs, Kindles
and more!!!
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Callus for more information.
734-761-2680
info(tu-towers.com
536 South Forest
AnnArbor,M48104
Universitytowers-mi.com
0"To w
*AVAILABLE MAY*: 1001 S. For-
est; spacious 2-bds new kitchens &
baths, heat, water, Internet, & parking
incl. 917 Packard; @ East U, large 2-
bds w/ balconies/patios, heat, water,
parking incl. September available at
both locations also!
www.varsitymanagement.com
*LARGE THREE STORY furn. 5
bdrm for 6 people, 3 kitch, 3 full bth,
prkg & Indry. 921 Packard. Avail. Fall
Call Emilia 734-272-1320.
I122 S. Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*HUGE 4-BEDROOMS*: hardwood
floors, O1f ceilings, & fireplaces in a
eautiful convented mansiou in quiet
Burns Park. Heat, water, parking & fur-
nishings icluded.Call
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
*UP TO ONE MONTH FREE for a
Limited time only! Call us for more
details. Were Much Better than the
Dorms! Check us out and get a FREE
Bubble Island drink with any new tour!
We have Rooms, Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bed-
room furnished apartments available
for Spring / Fall. Call us at 734-761-
2680 for an appointment.
UniversityTowers-mi.com
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.snileyproperties.comss
(734) 761-4469
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 418
N. State St. 6 bdrms total. 2 bath, 3
prkg spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util.
4 bdrm-$2500, 5 bdrm-$3000, 6
bdnn-$3450. Call 734-996-1991.
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm

apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjaminrentals.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bedrms total. 3 bath, 4
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
5 bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007 State. Furn. Newly
renovated 1st Floor and Bthrms. Free
Prkng and Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
I' II II 111

OnlineCl7assifiem
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandally.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991..
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St hetween 1H111 & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8.3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrt with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
issg included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!

-. .- 6 6
# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400-
5 420S. Division #2 $2700
3 1222 Washtenaw Ct. $1800
3 1123 Church St. $1700
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3299/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/lndry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrisllcacomcast.net
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
x$575/Month Includes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilities)
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.

wwvarstymanagement.com
Varsity
Management
625 Church St
(734) 668 - 1100
Studios - 4 bedroom
All are Central Campus Locations
Heat, water, & fumnishings ncluded
Most incl parking, some inclinternet
New kitchens w/ dishwashers, new
bathroom vanities and nice furn
Great prices and great locations
Call to schedule an appointment
*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furimshed apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
*Free heat und water
(* At most locations)
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
*Large one edroom apartment, 2
blocks est ofdthe business school.
Heat, water and parking included
703 . Forest .
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in 08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, Indry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level and 2 Bdm aps.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonreManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrs. aps (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248935.2159 or email
815SouthStteManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1,2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com

Classifieds
continued on
the next page

6
I

I
i

4

5,
HOMES FOR RENTI
3 Bedrooms Available
From $799
Call Sun Homes at 888-993-6851
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
1 2" www.sciofarms.com Offer Expires
11/30/09
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 66 Simultaneous 37 Greek _ Church 48 Corrida
1 Rating for many equation variables 38 City east of San competitor
HBO shows 67_ Kong Diego 52 Stiller's partner
5 Capital of Morocco 39 Liquid-in-liquid 54 Value
10 Vise parts DOWN suspension 56 Washington
14 Twice the radius: 1 100-plus-yd. 40 Cries convulsively team, familiarly
Abbr. kickoff retums, e.g. 43 Table linen 57 It can be
15 Funds for online 2 Director De Sica material changed or made
buys 3 Tomato-based 44 Forgive up
16 Make spelling sauce 45 Pastors and 60 Sportscaster
correctionslto, e.g. 4 Pedro's girlfriend priests Scully
17 Burlesque act 5 Call it a night 4 Udu Scul ly
18 Camper river, 6OTop pitchers 47 Undulpluormal 01 Tamn ukarply
r shut 7 Sheep's tt'/ ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Baghdad'u rier 8 Pitcher's pinpoint
21'"Tobacco Road" control, say T M E N K I 1 0 S A C M E
novelist 9 Cold relief brand R A R E A Z U R E C H E X
Caldwell 10 Dolt A F E W N O M D E H E W S
23 Pioneer in pistol- 11 Recommend P I C K L E D P E P P E R
griphairdryers 12Hotdsog P A T I O R YE R A N
24 Lang. of 13 Spreads, as seed DORII
Lombardy 18 _-dieu: kneeler 0 0 8 I A R H Y M E
25 Repair,asatear 22Narrow apertures P O S P O S T E R P A P E R
26"... boy _ girl?" 23 Search high and A S T I M A N S E M I N D
27 Anti-discrimination low PARTY P OOP E R E D Y
agcy. 24 Summer coolers A G A T E S Y K E S
29 Forensic 28 Slays, mob-style S E W L I T P E S T O
evidence threads 30 Computer P O P C O R N P O P P E R
31Surrealist Joan memory unit S N O W B L O O D T O N E
33 Allegiance 32 Marine predator H E L L M E N S A EST O
35 Univeity 34 Maial E E L S S T A Y S T E S S
goerninghbody 36OBlood drive E LS TA S E S
41 Tummy-tightening participant xwordeditor@aol.com 01/11/10
garment 1 2 3 4 s6 7s a9 10 11 12 1s
42 Sailor's patron
saint 14 15 16
43 Pour into a carafe
46 _ prof.
49 Newbie reporter 20 21 22
50 Rose ofuGuns N'
Roses 23 2a 25
51 Resistance units
53 Bathroom 26 27 28 20 u
hangers 31 32 5 3 34
55 "You cannot be
serious!"tenniu as so s37o s 40
great
57 Dolts 41 42
58 Pre-migraine a43a44 as5an a7 4s 49
headache
phenomenon so 51 sa s s4
59 Baseball's Big
Papi 65 56 57
62 Certain NCO
63 Hoop-shaped 56 50 00 0
gasket 62436
64 Picards counselor
65 South Florida us s 6n
vacation
} destination By Allan E. Parish
(c)2010 Tribune Mediaservices, Inc.

AVAILABLE FALL
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
FALL 2010 6 Bedroom, laundry. 502
Catherine St $3600/mo. 734-207-3520.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! EFFI-
CIENCY I & 2 bdrm apts. Near Ctral
Campus. $500-750. Includes H&W.
Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2700
SEPT 2010
COP! PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, ou site
parking. For score inforsation call
Laura at Csrech Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet. Rent from $440,
Call 734-276-0886.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com

AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6or more cars..
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 ath
dishwasker, osite laundry and parking
included.
535 S.5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.-3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
Studio & 1
a drm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
734-663-1530
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT

4

4

4

at


Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C iB 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 12, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 12, 2010 - 7

It's been far from an ideal season for the Wol- *
verinesthus far. At 12-10, Michigan is tied
for severin t fr he CCHA. With a slew of i c h c key
problems from the power play to the goaltending
plaguing the team from day one, the Wolverinesten din g
have dug themselves a deep hole as far as NCAA MI
Tournament hopes go. With an 18-year Tourna-
ment streak on the line, the Daily Hockey Beat R
evaluates Michigan's performance so far in 09-10. e P

Duo of Caporusso
and Hagelin help
ignite Blue offense

MAX COLL NS/Daily

A a mB
Michigan's power play has been suspect all year, failing at times to
generate any quality scoring opportunities or traffic in front opposing
net minders with the man-advantage. As of late, though, the unit is
improving, as the Wolverines scored five power play goals this past
weekend in their sweep of Western Michigan. It currently sits in
fourth in the CCHA at just over a 20 percent success rate.
On the other hand, the Wolverines' penalty kill is one of the best in
the country - third place tobe exact - at 90 percent. Junior forwards
Matt Rust and Carl Hagelin lead the aggressive unit on the front end
while senior Chris Summers spearheads the defense. And because
Michigan is shorthanded about 17 minutes every game - something
Berenson has voiced his disappointment in all season - having a stel-
lar penalty kill unit will be key for the second half of the season.

The offense has seen its share of ups and downs this season. Juniors Louie Caporusso,
Carl Hagelin and Matt Rust have provided somewhat of a scoring punch. And freshman
Chris Brown has been a solid contributor since day one. But the group as a whole has
been inconsistent all season. In Michigan's 12 wins, it scored 4.5 goals per game, and in
the Wolverines 10 losses they scored just 1.4 goals per game. The success that they have
had has come in large part against lesser teams. Michigan coach Red Berenson called
his team "average" in five-on-five hockey and that's what the offense has been. At times,
the unit has looked great, and against ranked teams it has struggled to score. This group
has improved lately, and if it can continue its recent success in the next few important
CCHA series, then this grade will be higher at the end of the season.
Junior Bryan Hogan has been the man between the pipes all season
for Michigan - for better and for worse. At times he has dazzled and
stood on his head for the Wolverines. But there have also been games
that got away because Hogan couldn't make the big saves. And even
though he isn't completely to blame, it will fall on him. Hogan's 2.31
goals against average is good enough for 19th in the country and, to his Defense. I
credit, faces only about 20 shots per game. So his 90 percent save per- teams coach
centage may not be anything to write home about, but he hasn't been allowed an
the whole reason Michigan is floating around .500. The Wolverines Michigan de
don't have an experienced option behind Hogan. And Berenson has Kampfer, Br
stuck with him throughout the season wilithe fily exception being W8s suppose
in Michigan's Great lakes Invitational loss to RPI. That should be the first half of t
trend for the rest of the season. From its tur:
the puck up t
to say the lea
ing weeks, it

MAAxCOL LINS/Daiy
Defense. Defense. It's been a hallmark of past Michigan
ed by Berenson, but this season the Wolverines have
average of 2.36 ~goals per game, which is too high for a
fense with four NHL draftees in Chris Summers, Steve
andon Burlon and Greg Pateryn. And to think, this corps
d to be Michig'af's best in recent his'to'ry.'Thrdugh6ut the
he season, different parts of the defense have been weak.
nover-prone play leading to odd-man rushes to throwing
he middle of the defensive zone, the defense has struggled
at. For the Wolverines to have any success in the uprom-
will need to elevate its defenisive play in front of Hogan.

P
SI:
sin
pas
Twc
and Cl
points
the M
Wolve
rience
tations
But
punch
lemsf
that se
first pl
zen F
first si
The
omore
Capor
the tw
ers (b
Coyote
verine
Tourn
years.
the A:
play fc
Capor
Hobey
hocke:
Thi
a gapi:
The
mary
verine
combi
maybe
junior
"We
team,I
one ca
Red B
ticulai
might
the ga
It mig
Tho
signifi
were
first-a
Michi
all), re
Wit
left in
night,
the V
betwe

'air could serve wrist shot 10 feet inside the attack-
ing zone, catching goaltender Riley
nllar purpose to Gill off-guard on his glove side.
Later in the third period, Capo-
russo drove around the net and fed
a pass to wide-open senior defen-
By MARK BURNS seman Steve Kampfer. Kampfer
Daily Sports Editor deposited the puck in the far side
of the net. Caporusso received
o years ago, Kevin Porter FirstStar Honors for his two-point
had Kolarik combined for 119 performance in Kalamazoo.
in a surprising season for "He's a scorer, an All-Ameri-
:ichigan hockey team. The can," assistant coach Mel Pearson
rines played with 12 inexpe- said. "He hasn't quite played up
d freshmen, minimal expec- to that level but the last five or six
s and a steep learning curve. games we've seen an improvement
Porter and Kolarik - the 1-2 in his work ethic."
that posed matchup prob- It is certainly that type of hard
for nearly every opponent work and commitment on the ice
ason - led the Wolverines to that the Wolverines lacked ear-
lace in the CCHA and a Fro- lier in season, so it was definitely
our appearance, the team's a positive when the two quality
nce 2003. players puton good shows this past
following year, then-soph- weekend.
s Aaron Palushaj and Louie The following night against
usso filled the void left by Western Michigan, Hagelin stole
vo standout Michigan play- the spotlight, registering a career-
oth now play in the Phoenix high four points. According to
e system). Despite the Wol- Pearson, his strengths lie in his
s' early exit from the NCAA footwork and ability to beat oppos-
ament, both had breakout ing players to the net.
Palushaj soon departed for On Saturday against the Bron-
merican Hockey League to cos, his quickness was apparent to
or the Peoria Rivermen and everyone at Yost Ice Arena.
usso was a finalist for the Hagelin, this week's CCHA
Baker Award, for college Offensive Player of the Week,
y's best player. credited Porter and Kolarik with
s year, so far, there has been teaching him the importance of
ng vacancy. being a player that brought his 'A'
re have been no prolific pri- game, day-in and day-out.
scorers on this year's Wol- "There's no easy games, there's
s. Michigan hasn't seen that no easy team that you're going to
nation this season - until score against just because they're
now with Caporusso and not a Miami (Ohio)," Hagelin
forward Carl Hagelin. said. "Every team plays good
e don't want to be a one-line defense. That's the bottom line
but on any given night, any- in the CCHA. ... Everyone prides
n explode," Michigan coach themselves on playing good 'D,' so
lerenson said. "That's par- definitely showing up every night
rly what Michigan does. It helps out."
be one shift, one minute of And Michigan's future success
me that can decide the game. could depend on the dynamic play-
ht be one player." ing styles between Caporusso and
)se players that exploded for Hagelin - this year's 1-2 combo.
cant points on the stat sheet The duo has the ability to put
Hagelin and Caporusso, the this team on its shoulders, at least
nd third-leading scorers for offensively, in hopes of leap-frog-
gan (7-7 CCHA, 12-10 over- ging a few teams in the conference
espectively. standings.
h just over five minutes "I like them both," Pearson said.
a the middle stanza Friday "Because when they get around
Caporusso weaved through the net, they like to score. Some
Western Michigan defense guys shoot, but those guys shoot to
en the blue lines and rifled a score."

B As hard as it is to evaluate coaching in college hockey,
it's even harder to discredit a coach as accomplished as
Red Berenson. Berenson has two national championships under his belt and has reached the Frozen Four
10 times. But this season isn't shaping up to be the 11th. The Wolverines take ill-advised penalties every
game and, at times, seem to lack a strong leadership presence. Berenson's team hasn't missed the 20-win
mark since the 1986-87 season, and though Michigan probably won't miss that mark this year, they might
inch the line. The coach has made a lot of adjustments, starting with line changes aplenty, all season long.
It's clearly a rough year so far for Berenson, so cut him some slack. But remember, this 12-10 team is still
his responsibility.
FINAL GRADE: B- C+
This year's team won't be
victim to a Big Ten collapse


ike the worst of night-
mares, last season's col-
lapse continues to haunt
the Wolverines.
The 2008-09 ALEX
Wolverines,
with four of HERMANN
their senior On Women'
starters com- Basketball
ing off the
program's first
postseason action in six years, had
high expectations.
The team went 7-4 in noncon-
ference play, including wins over
two top-15 opponents.
But upon entering Big Ten play,
the Wolverines teetered, tallying a
respectable 2-2 record early in the
conference season before crashing.
They lost 14 of their last 15 games.
This year, with a host of fresh
faces and a new attitude, Michigan
(2-4 Big Ten, 10-6 overall) is trying
to avoid following that same script.
The Wolverines won nine of
their first 11 games, including a
signature victory at then No. 8
Xavier. And now, after starting 2-3
in the Big Ten, Michigan hopes its
20-point loss on the road to the
Badgers won't serve as the catalyst
for another disastrous conference
campaign.
But this year is nothing like last
year. And the numbers support
that. Well, sort of.

Even after Sunday's 48-point
effort in Madison, the Wolverines
are averaging about 5 points per
game more in the Big Ten than
they did a year ago. It was the
first time this season Michigan
scored fewer than 50 points. Last
season, Michigan scored 50 points
or fewer ten times, including four
times through the first 16 games.
The scoring output has
increased significantly largely due
to the continued development of
junior guard Veronica Hicks and
the on-court energy of freshman
guard Dayeesha Hollins.
"I think Hollins makes them a
lot better," Northwestern coach
Joe McKeown said after a win
against the Wildcats at Crisler
Arena. "Her and Hicks really cre-
ate some havoc, both defensively
and offensively. They can both
penetrate and attack ... They're a
lot more solid as a team. They seem
to play better together this year."
This team certainly has the
ability to score points. But as one
might expect with a young squad,
the Wolverines consistency could
be better.
These inconsistencies, inexcus-
able for last year's veteran team,
are simply part of the learning pro-
cess for ateam that won at then-
ranked No. 8 Xavier one week, but
got pounded by Wisconsin and

Northwestern soon after.
Perhaps the biggest indicator
of change is how the Wolverines
have managed against the best in
the conference, even in defeat.
A year ago, Michigan aver-
aged fewer than 40 points a game
against Ohio State and Michigan
State, including a 27-point game
at the Breslin Center. This year,
the Wolverines scored 71 against
the Spartans and 56 against the
Buckeyes and lost by just three
points in Columbus.
Michigan's name won't be
flaunted regularly as a conference
contender until the team prove
itself regularly against top-tier
Big Ten competition.
That said, the team is certainly
making strides.
But even with an improved
offensive attack, the influx of new
talent and the maturation of some
established players, the Wolver-
ines still face the challenge of
overcoming a treacherous past.
And results will always speak
louder than excuses, however
plausible or relevant they are.
"We want to think about last
year because it's something we
don't want to repeat," Hicks said
after Michigan's loss to the Wild-
cats. "Saying that it didn't happen
would be a lie, and we don't want
to lie to ourselves."

WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out allsofethe available proper-
ties for sale is the ares.
www.tSellA2.com 734-476-9768
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SERVICES
SIX WK YOGA I, 6-7:30pm & Yoga
II, 6:30-8pm start Tues. Jan. 11 or Yoga
tt, 6:30-8pm starts Thurs. Jan 13. Zen
Buddhist Temple, 1214 Packard (734)
761-6520 or annarbor@ZenBuddhist-
Temple.org
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!!r$300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW!-FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
INSIDE SALES CONSULTANT
Part time (32 hours per week)
Responsibilities include making out-
bound calls to prospective clients to
support and build the business as well
as developing an existing account base.
Must be able to meet goals and objec-
tives.
Requirements include previous sales
ex-
perience and comfort working on the
ternet. Must be highly organized with
exceptional attention to
detail. $15/hour.
Please submit resume to:
barbaramontgomery@annarbor.com
YOU MAY ELIGIBLE FOR A
STUDY
Right handed, healthy women, ages 18-
37 needed for a study on how our body
and brain react to stress. Study in-
volves 2 fMRI scans and I Pet Scan.
Compensation up to $650.00
Call 734-763-3580
TUTOR WANTED: SAT/CALCU-
LUS, $25hr. 34 hrs/wk, flexible, 5
miles to campus. 734-763-5463.

JANITOR/CUSTODIAN: PART
TIME dayvpositions available in Ann
Arbor. A valid Michigas driver's li-
cense and social security card are re-
quired to apply. Please5call today for
additional information. 586-759-3700.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.

For Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2010'
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
A romantic relationship with someone
older, richer or more established might
begin today. People in authority will sur-
prise you today.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Today you are genuinely curious about
sodden opportunities to travel some-
where orto explore farther education or
training somehow. Romance with some-
one from a different background is
likely.
GEMINI
(My2tNto June 20)
Gifts, goodies and favors from others
will continue to come your way today.
This is also an excellent day for
fundraising or for getting others to help a
third party in need.
CANCER
(June 21to July 22)
An entirely new way of relating to
someone close to you might occur today.
Or perhaps your tantner or close friend
decides to take anew approach with you.
Just go with the flow.
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Nrw technology might he introduced
at work toduy. Alternatively, you might
feel so independent that you're tempted
to quit your day job. Think twice about
this.
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
You feel playful and prankish today.
Because of this, you spontaneously want
to do things that you might not normally
do. You feel like a child again!
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
New technology might be introduced
to where you live. A family member
might surprise you in some way.
Something unexpected definitely will

occur in your private life.
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 toNov. 21)
Today's full of surprises. Most likely,
you will encounter new groups or new
friends. Things will not go as expected
today, bat it wilt be fun!
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
Keep an eye on your money today.
Yost might find money; you might lose
money. Spontaneous purchases, espe-
cially of electronics and tehnalogical
equipment, will please you.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
You feel playful, restless and highly
independent today! In fact, you're in a
teasing mood. Anything might happen,
especially if you get your way!
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 2010o Feb. 18)
You might discover a way to have a
few moments of privacy today, possibly
in a hidden little place, in an unexpected
way. One of life's brief little joys.
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Your involvement with others, espe-
cially groups, will be exciting today.
People are interested in your input, and
you're interested in theirs! New friends
will make you feel younger and more
knowledgeable.
YOU BORN TODAY Not only do you
like the good things in life, but you also
want the respect of others. Therefore,
status pleases you, which is not to say
you're superficial; it's just what it is. You
are proud of your achievements, and
you're goal-oriented! You're also popu-
lar and fun-loving. People love your
company. Your year ahead could be one
of the best years of your life! Enjoy.
Birthdate of: Orlando Bloom, actor;
Frances Sternhagen, actress; Patrick
Dempsey, actor.

2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


8 - Tuesday, January 12, 2010
SEARCH
From Page 1
in the University's administration
were both held by women and the
first time that neither the University
president nor the provost was hired
from within the University.
The latter fact caused some in
the University community to raise
objections, claiming that Coleman
had applied pressure on the search
advisory committee to give prefer-
ence to candidates from outside the
University.
Reports by The Michigan Daily at
the time outlined allegations from
sources familiar with the process
who claimed Coleman had leaned
on committee members to only
recommend outside candidates for
the position. Coleman denied such
action in several interviews after
the allegations were raised.
Criticism of the nine-month,
national search that resulted in
Sullivan's hiring also came from
a member of the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs at
the time. In response to claims that
she was neglecting to consult fac-
ulty on the decision, Coleman told
SACUA members that the decision
was hers alone, the Daily reported.
In response to a request from the
Daily yesterday, University spokes-
woman Kelly Cunningham said
in an e-mail that it was too soon to
comment on how Sullivan's succes-
sor would be chosen.
"We're fortunate that the provost
has giventhe University time to con-
sider the next steps in the process,"
Cunningham wrote. "I don't have
anything to report right now."
And while details of who will
serve on the advisory search com-
mittee for the next provost have yet
to be released, many administrators
and regents are hoping Sullivan's
replacement will be someone who
exemplifies some of the same quali-
ties Sullivanbrought to the table.
Dean of Libraries Paul Courant,
who served as the University's pro-
vost from 2002 to 2005, said in an
interview yesterday the two main
tasks of the provost - controlling
the budget and academics at the
University - will require a unique
set of qualifications from Sullivan's
successor.
"The provost is the chief aca-
demic officer and the chief budget
officer at the institution," Courant
said. "The budget times are going
to be tough over the next while and
the provost has to be able to ensure
that the academic missions of the
university - learning, teaching,

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

research - are always in the fore-
ground as choices are made, espe-
cially in tough times.
However, Courant said he is con-
fident a candidate with the right set
of skills will emerge to take over as
provost.
"We've always had provosts who
are willing and able to do that and I
have every confidence that the next
one will as well," he said.
Despite his confidence that a
suitable candidate will be found to
replace Sullivan,
Courant said it was too early to
speculate whether the next provost
would be chosen from within the
University or from the outside.
"I just wouldn't want to specu-
late," Courant said. "The president
will make the choice;she will choose
the best person for the job."
"It's often the case that provosts
come from inside because it's useful
to know how the University works.
I think that's why it's been that
way in the past," Courant contin-
ued. "Yet, Terry was an extremely
effective and successful provost
here so it's clear that one can come
from outside do very, very well in
the job."
James Duderstadt, who served
as University President from 1988
to 1996 and also served as a Univer-
sity provost after rising through the
University's internal ranks, said an
innate knowledge of how to provide
a quality education will be essential
for Sullivan's replacement.
"(The Provost has) to have a deep
understanding of academic priori-
ties, what makes a great university
function and appreciation for fac-
ulty roles," Duderstadt said;
However, Duderstadt said that,
all things considered, having a suc-
cessful replacement will come down
to the quality of the relationship the
next provost will have with Coleman.
"In the end I think it's very much
a relationship between the provost
and president which makes univer-
sities work well," Duderstadt said.
Duderstadt said that, based on
her selection of Sullivan, he believes
Coleman will choose a quality indi-
vidual to fill the position.
And though he didn't mention
the names of potential replace-
ments, Duderstadt did say the Uni-
versity traditionally hires provosts
who have great leadership poten-
tial, including the ability to go on to
become presidents of universities,
like Sullivan and himself.
"The provost position at Michi-
gan has produced some of the great
presidents in this country. That's
what people look to it for," Duder-
stadt said. "That's what Michigan

Sullivan to face
similar budget
hurdles at helm
of U. of Virginia

Provost Teresa Sullivan greets guests at the Michigan League during a welcomeV
reception during her first couple days as a University provost in September 2006.

presidents look for. We look for
provosts who have the capability to
provide that kind of leadership at
the national level."
Duderstadt said he believes the
search for the next provost will
include looking for both internal
and external candidates and that it's
possible a dean from within the Uni-
versity could rise to the position.
"We have some very capable
deans right now and that's the first
pool you look at," he said. "There's a
lot of talent inside, but there's a lot of
talent as you look across the country
right now."
Vice President and General
Counsel Suellyn Scarnecchia told
the Daily yesterday that in addition
to being able to balance academic
and budgetary concerns, she thinks
it will be very important for Sulli-
van's successor to engage the cam-
pus community if he or she hopes to
be successful.
"I think is very important that
a successor is someone who - like
Provost Sullivan - will listen to all
the different constituencies, which
she did quite religiously," Scarnec-
chia said. "I think that has helped
us get through some of these more
difficult times."
In an interview yesterday, Regent
Andrew Richner (R-Grosse Pointe
Park), who currently serves as

chairman of the University Board
of Regents, outlined key character-
istics he said he believed Sullivan's
successor musthave.
"We'll need someone that has
skills like those that Terry Sullivan
demonstrated, which is the ability
to deal with (budget) challenges in
an effective way," Richner said.
Regent Julia Darlow (D-Ann
Arbor) echoed Richner in an inter-
view yesterday, saying Sullivan's
successor will need to be able to bal-
ance budgeting and academics.
"The person who succeeds her
will have big shoes to fill," Darlow
said. "I understand even bigger than
most provost shoes, because ours
handles financial responsibilities as
well as the academic responsibility."
Despite the high expectations,
Regent Andrea Fisher-Newman
(R-Ann Arbor) said she remains
confident that Coleman will be able
to finda suitable replacement.
"They're going to be big shoes to
fill and we have the same president
charged with the responsibility of
finding someone to fill those shoes,"
Newman said. "I have every confi-
dence that President Coleman will
be able to do it again."
- Daily Staff Reporters Joseph
Lichterman and Annie Gordon
Thomas contributed to this report.


FLEMING
From Page 1
Wright, his legal middle name.
Fleming graduated from high
school as valedictorian of his class.
Fleming's father had died from
tuberculosis in 1933, and Fleming's
mother could not afford to send
him to an expensive university. As
a result, he decided to attend Beloit
College in 1938, a small liberal arts
college, where he received a scholar-
ship and worked jobs mopping floors
and waiting tables in the dining hall
on campus.
As a sophomore Fleming met Sally
Quixley, who also worked in the din-
ing hall. Soon after, the two started
dating.
"She was a beautiful, dark-haired,
slender girl of five feet six and was
in many ways everything I was not,"
Fleming wrote in his book. "She
played the violin beautifully, she
sang in the choir, she loved music,
she won the poetry reading contest
her freshman year, and she was a
very good swimmer while I had all
the buoyancy of a rock."
After graduating with a bacca-
laureate. degree, Fleming decided
to attend law school. He enrolled at
the University of Wisconsin, where
he paid the tuition by working long
hours at the Law Library.
While at Wisconsin, he studied
industrial relations and labor law
and ultimately received his degree
in 1941.
He then went to work as a junior
attorney in the Corporate Reorgani-
zation Division of the Securities and
Exchange Commission in Washing-
ton. Sally soon joined him and took
a job as a secretary for an insurance
company in Washington. During
the holiday season in 1941, Fleming
proposed to Sally, who immediately
accepted.
The two were married in April
1942, a few months before Fleming
was drafted in the army.
Fleming served in the army for six
years. After finishing his services he
returned to the University of Wis-
consin where he became an assis-
tant professor and the director of
the Industrial Relations Center - an
institute that combined teaching and
research with the goal of to contrib-
uting to industrial peace.
In 1964, Fleming was named the
first chancellor of the University
of Wisconsin. Through the newly-
created position, Fleming traveled
outside the country to work on uni-
versityprojects inplaceslike Nigeria,

France, Germany and Japan.
Besides working on developments
in foreign nations, Fleming dealt
with many controversies centered
around the Vietnam War on cam-
pus. In his book, Fleming cited one
incident when student protesters
took over the administrative offices
where he worked and threatened to
hold him hostage unless he agreed to
their demands.
After serving three years as chan-
cellor, Fleming received a phone call
from University of Michigan Regent
Robert Briggs, who asked to discuss
the position of University President.
Around the same time, the Uni-
versity of Minnesota also contacted
Fleming about considering becoming
the president of their university.
After visiting both universities,
Fleming wrote in his autobiogra-
phy that he decided to take the job
at Michigan, though it was no easy
choice.
"It was a very hard decision to
make, but some of the factors that
went into the decisionwere the fact
that we preferred a small city (Ann
Arbor) over a big city (Minneapolis-
St. Paul), we shivered a little at the
thought of going still further north,
and we knew that Michigan was one
of the two or three best public uni-
versities in the country."
Fleming officially took office on
Jan. 1, 1968.
In his autobiography, Fleming
discussed his experience leading
the campus at the height of the Viet-
nam War. Fleming found the days
after President Lyndon Johnson
announced he would not run for a
second term especially noteworthy.
In the book, he recalls that a large
crowd of students formed outside
the President's House, demanding
answers to the University's involve-
ment in war research.
Fleming wrote the raucous was
so loud that his attempts to answer
the students' questions could not be
heard.
"So I suggested they sit down in
the yard and quiet down so I could
reply," he wrote. "They did, and the
crowd grew bigger until the entire
street was closed off. Draftcards and
flags were being burned, antiwar
signs were all over the place, and, to
my horror, a Confederate flag sud-
denly floated out of a third floor win-
dow of our house."
While the crowd was restless,
Fleming wrote no violence occurred
that night and students left to gather
at the Union after he spent an hour
answering their questions.
Besides dealing with Vietnam

protests, Fleming handled conten-
tious civil rights issues on campus.
On March 20, 1970, the Black
Action Movement - a group of
University activists - declared a
University-wide strike to protest the
University's goal of achieving10-per-
cent African-American enrollment
in the next three years. BAM wanted
the University to turn the goal into a
commitment.
After more than a week of disrupt-
ed classes and faculty unrest, Flem-
ing met with BAM and Secretary
of Regents Herbert Hildebrandt to
negotiate the University's stance on
the issue.
In his autobiography, Fleming
wrote he stood by his decision to
make the enrollment policy a goal.
"We were not prepared to take
just any high school graduate in
order to achieve a 10 percent figure,"
he wrote, "and all of the data we had
gathered convinced us that we could
reach the goal without doing that."
The parties debated the issue
until 4 a.m. on March 30 when they
agreed to let the University establish
a goal of reaching 10 percent African
American enrollment as long as the
University provided financial aide to
make the goal realistic.
Fleming wrote he believed he
handled the situation well and that
he wouldn't change his decisions if
he had the chance.
"The bottom line was that we
avoided serious violence, we estab-
lished much-needed programs for
the advancement of black people,
and no one would argue today that
the image of the University of Michi-
gan as one of the great universities of
the world was diminished by what
happened then," he wrote.
In an obituary released by the
University yesterday, Hildebrandt
said though Fleming held the post of
University president in tense times
he was always open to listening to
students' concerns.
He recalled the incident when
Flemingmet with BAM student lead-
ers to resolve the enrollnent conflict
withoutviolence.
"Under extreme oral provoca-
tion," Hildebrandt said, "he consis-
tently responded with: 'I hear you;
please tell me your position."'
Sally followed her husband's lead
and became an active member of the
University community. Throughout
her husband's presidency, Sally host-
ed numerous dinners, luncheons and
teas for University groups.
As part of her musical interests,
Sally played the piano and violin.
In 1997, the Sally Fleming Master

Classes - aimed at providing School
of Music, Theatre and Dance stu-
dents the opportunity to work with
renowned artists - were named in
her honor.
The Fleming Administration
Building - built in the 1960s - was
also named in honor of the Flemings.
After Fleming left the University
in 1979 he became the president of
the Corporation for Public Broad-
casting. While he worked with the
CPBthroughoutthenexttwoyears to
achieve funding for educational tele-
vision programming, he remained an
advisor to the University.
Fleming returned to the University
in 1981 as a full-time law professor.
At the University Board of
Regents meeting in December 1985
the regents named Fleming profes-
sor emeritus of law and president
emeritus.
In the memoir, the Regents wrote,
"Fleming has been a dedicated teach-
er of the law and leader of national
stature in the field of arbitration. He
has been a versatile and compassion-
ate administrator."
When former President Harold
Shapiro resigned from presidency
in 1988, Fleming became the inter-
im president for eight months until
James Duderstadt was selected as
the new president.
During this time, Fleming once
again acted as a mediator when
groups of students alleged they were
experiencing racial, sexual and gay-
lesbian discrimination.
Fleming tried to devise an adjudi-
cation system to address discrimina-
tion concerns, but the effort failed
when a federal district judge ruled
that it violated the First Amend-
ment.
After completing his time at the
University, Fleming served in mul-
tiple positions. From 1985 to 1990, he
served as a representative to Michi-
gan Governor James Blanchard by
findingsolutions to medical malprac-
tices that would appease lawyers,
doctors, hospitals and insurance
companies.
In the 1990's Fleming worked on
various legal issues, serving as an
expert witness in cases involving
higher education.
Fleming is preceded in death by
Sally, who passed away on April 15,
2005 in Naples, Florida at age 87, and
is survivedby the couple's three chil-
dren - Nancy Jo, James Edmund
and Carolyn Elizabeth - as well as
several grandchildren.
- Daily News Editor Kyle Swanson
contributed to this report.

From Page 1
public universities. Casteen
maintained that level of excel-
lence throughout a period dur-
ing which the proportion of the
school's budget covered by state
funding fell from 26 percent to 7
percent, according to The Wash-
ington Post.
Similarly, Sullivan spent much
of her time in Ann Arbor dealing
with the fallout from declines in
higher education appropriations
from the state. Facing Michigan's
worsening economic crisis, Sulli-
van made a name for herself as a
consummate cost cutter - trim-
ming excess at the University by
reducing energy costs, revamp-
ing office supply purchases and
launching an initiative to make
more efficient use of classrooms
and other space on campus,
among other efforts.
Sullivan currently oversees
$1.5 billion of the University's
$5.4 billion budget, according to
a UVA press release from yester-
day.
In an e-mail to the Ann Arbor
campus community, University
President Mary Sue Coleman
wrote that the University has
greatly benefited from Sullivan's
leadership.
"Since joining U-M in 2006,
Provost Sullivan has provided a
level of academic and budgetary
acumen that has solidified and
advanced the University at all
levels," Coleman wrote.
State funding has remained
relatively stagnant during Sul-
livan's time at the University,
after it experienced a free fall in
2003, plummeting by about 10
percent. In the fiscal year 2010
budget, state funding constitutes
about 22 percent of revenues in
the University's General Fund,
while tuition and fees account for
slightly more than 65 percent. For
comparison, in 2000, state fund-
ing composed a little more than
35 percent of General Fund, while
tuition and fees made up just over
50 percent.
That trend is nothing new for
the University, though, as data
during the 1960s show that nearly
80 percent of the General Fund
was made up by state funding, and
tuition and fees only accounted
for about 20 percent of the fund.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily in December,
Sullivan discussed a potential
"historic" drop in state funding at
Michigan - as much as a 20-per-
cent reduction - that she would
have to consider when formulat-
ing next year's budget.
"It doesn't mean the state
legislature doesn't like higher
education, it just means they're
not getting enough revenue, and
they've got to find something that
can be cut because the constitu-
tion requires a balanced budget,"
she told the Daily at the time. "It's
a very difficult place to be."
According to UVA's press
release, Sullivan is "looking for-
ward" to the challenges that the
Board of Visitors have identified
for the next president. Among
them is the task of "focusing on a
financial model that will ensure
the long-term health of the Uni-
versity."
Sullivan - who has extensive
experience working at public
universities - began her career
at the University of Texas at Aus-
tin. Through her 27 years at the

University of Texas, Sullivan rose
through the leadership ranks,
eventually becoming executive
vice chancellor for academic
affairs for the university's system
in 2002.
According to UVA's press
release, Sullivan chose to take the
position at UVA because of the
school's strong academic reputa-
tion and the university's commit-
ment to public higher education.
"It is one of the truly great pub-
lic universities in the country,"
she wrote in the release. "In fact,
it is one of the great universities
in the world."
According to the Chronicle of
Higher Education, Sullivan will
operate under a five-year contract
with a base salary of $485,000,
$180,000 in deferred compensa-
tion and $15,000 in an automo-
bile allowance - resulting in an
overall compensation package of
$680,000.
University of Michigan Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman makes
$553,000 in base pay and about

$800,000 when deferred com-
pensation, bonuses and other
benefits are included.
Coleman wrote in the campus-
wide e-mail that Sullivan will
continue working at the Universi-
ty until July 31 and that she plans
to name Sullivan's successor prior
to that date.
She added that the news comes
with "deep pride and a tinge of
sadness."
In a statement released to the
Daily, Coleman praised Sullivan's
people skills and "sparkling intel-
lect."
"Working with her has been
one of the highlights of my career,
and although we will all miss her,
we take pride in knowing that
she will preside over one of the
nation's great public universi-
ties," Coleman said.
James Duderstadt, who served
as University president from 1988
to 1996, told the Daily yesterday
that though Sullivan was a smart
choice for Virginia, the move will
be a big loss for Michigan.
"She's made superb appoint-
ments as deans - which is one of
the most important things a pro-
vost can do - and she's been very
skillful, along with the president
and chief financial officer, at nav-
igating Michigan through one of
the most difficult economic peri-
ods in its history," Duderstadt
said. "She is a very important
addition to this university, but
she will simply be an outstanding
leader for the University of Vir-
ginia.
Dean ofLibraries PaulCourant,
who served as University provost
from 2002 to 2005, said he heard
Sullivan would be named UVA's
next president yesterday morning
and that he was excited for her.
"My reaction was that she's
been a terrific provost hereand
she's clearly ready to be a presi-
dent," Courant said. "Virginia's
a great place and it looks like a
match made in heaven."
In an interview yesterday,
Regent Andrea Fisher-Newman
(R-Ann Arbor) said she was
happy for Sullivan.
"I'm so excited for Terry, and
UVA is so lucky," Newman said.
"It's hard not to be really happy
and really proud of someone you
havea lot of respect for."
"She is a very matter-of-fact,
down-to-earth individual who
when telling you good news or
bad news did it in a very mea-
sured, factual manner without
glossing over any of the details,"
Newman said of Sullivan.
"She was a great delegator and
also someone who regularly gave
credit to others. She did every-
thing in a quiet, yet substantive,
manner."
Regent Andrew Richner
(R-Grosse Pointe Park) told
the Daily that, in some ways, he
wasn't surprised by yesterday's
announcement.
"It was clear to me early on that
Terry Sullivan is made of presi-
dential material," Richner said.
"She is a respected academic -
smart, capable, adept in handling
a very challenging budget situa-
tion in her position as provost."
"From that standpoint, it didn't
come as a surprise that she might
be a highly sought-after candidate
for the presidency of the Universi-
ty of Virginia," he continued. "We
will miss her, but I think Provost
Sullivan's hiring at the Univer-
sity of Virginia is indicative of the

strength and depth of leadership
that we have at the University of
Michigan starting at the top with
our president, Mary Sue Cole-
man."
Regent Julia Darlow (D-Ann
Arbor) said yesterday that she
admires UVA for selecting some-
one as qualified as Sullivan as its
next president.
"All of us are overjoyed for her,"
Darlow said. "She's been invalu-
able at the University of Michigan
and we will miss hergreatly."
In an interview with the Daily
yesterday, Vice President and
General Counsel Suellyn Scar-
necchia expressed mixed emo-
tions about Sullivan's move to the
University of Virginia.
"I feel extremely happy for
the University of Virginia and
extremely happy for Provost Sul-
livan," she said. "ButI do feel sad
that we're losing her."
- Daily News Editors Jillian
Berman and Kyle Swanson
contributed to this report.


