SUPER REGIONAL SHOCKER: The No.2 Mi


'U' racecar posts
runner-up finish
Student group competes in
race against 120 other teams
from around the globe.
>>SEE PAGE 2
Ex-Medical faculty
calls out the 'U'
Dr. Douglas Smith cites a
pattern of abuse by 'U'
administrators.
SEE PAGE5
Behind the 'Myth'
with Claire Sloma
The Daily meets the LSA
senior starring in Cannes
entry "The Myth of the Amer-
ican Sleepover."
-'SEE PAGE 10
'M' baseball season
ends in Columbus
The Wolverines failed to sus-
tain two leads against Iowa
and Minnesota at Big Tens.
SEE PAGE 12
Vol CXX, No. 139 } C @2010 The Michigan Laity
michigandaily.com h
NEWS................ 2
SUDOKU ........................ 3
OPINION .............4
CLASSIFIEDS........... 6
CROSSW ORD.........................6
A R TS .....................................9
SPO RTS ................................11

SALAM RIDA/Daily
University Athletic Director David Brandon and head football coach Rich Rodriguez announce self-imposed sanctions for NCAA viola-
tions during a press conference at the Ross Academic Center.
'U imposes sanctions,
awaits NCAA verdict

CSA meals
use local
ingredients
Program prepares fooc
for members, supports
Ann Arbor produce
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
Mary Wessel Walker grew up eat-
ing local produce from the Commu-
nity Farm of Ann Arbor. As part of a
Community Supported Agriculture
program, her family received fresh
produce every week from the farm in
exchange for a membership fee. Now
hack in Ann Arbor after studying phi-
losophy at Bryn Mawr College, Wessel
Walker is taking the CSA concept one
step further.
Harvest Kitchen is kicking off its
fourth summer assa CSA program that
offering weekly supply of prepared
meals made from local ingredients.
Wessel Walker said she came up with
the idea one day while working at the
Community Farm and thinking about
how to make local dining more wide-
spread and accessible to the general
public.
"I thought ... if there was a farm
that could somehow help you with the
cooking, maybe that would help peo-
ple because some families find it really
overwhelming to deal with all these
fresh vegetables," she said.
CSA programs have been growing
in popularity across the United States
over the past two decades. Brought
over from Germany and Switzerland,
the concept involves people paying
local farmers for shares of the harvest.
A typical share consists of a weekly
supply of fresh produce, but there are
See CSA, Page 7

Lawyer with NCAA
case experience calls
penalties typical
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
University officials admitted to
the allegations raised in the NCAA's
investigation into Michigan's foot-
ball program last week, announcing
that the program would submit to
voluntary sanctions as a result of the
investigation into allegations of mis-
conduct.
The University filed a 79-page
response with the NCAA last Tues-

day, which detailed steps the Athletic
Department will voluntarily take,
including cuts to the number of qual-
ity control staff
and the number
of hours players-
will be required
to practice.
One specific
measure being ~g
taken by Uni- KYLE SWANSON
versity and Ath- -
letic Department
officials will be
a 40-percent
reduction in quality control staff,
which represents an elimination of
two positions.
University officials announced
they will also prohibit quality control

staff from attending practices, games
and coach's meetings for the rest
of the year, despite a revised NCAA
bylaw that now permits such behav-
ior. The response says they will allow
the football program to take advan-
tage of the new rule in 2011.
According to the University's
response letter, practice time will
also be cut for players over the next
two years. The program is commit-
ting itself to voluntarily cut practice
times by approximately 130 hours.
The figure is twice the number of
hours University officials say the
program exceeded NCAA rules on
practice times.
The two-year probation is the
minimum term allowed by NCAA
See SANCTIONS, Page 3


21

Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MRacing sets
acceleration
record ..
University students many.
"It's a very tight cycle, and we have
design new racecar, a very limited budget in comparison
. to the European teams. Some of the
post best result in teams have million-Euro budgets,"
16-year history said Lapham, the 2010 driver and
project manager. "Our monetary
budget is around $75,000, and with
By HILLARY BOK (material) donations we have almost
For the Daily $200,000 total."
She added that the team forms
When Engineering senior Kath- close relationships with its sponsors,
erine Lapham got behind the wheel which has helped members of MRac-
of a formula racecar and accelerated ing succeed in the competitions and
from zero to 75 miles in 3.766 sec- professionally. Lapham, who already
onds, she achieved the fastest accel- has a job at Chrysler as an engine cal-
eration time in the MRacing team's ibration engineer, said MRacing has
16-year history. a 100-percent employment rate for
Finishing second overall at the graduating members.
Michigan International Speedway in "The biggest thing that we offer
a race which took place hetween May our sponsors is the opportunity to
12 and May 15, MRacing competed recruit from our team," Lapham
against 120 other teams from col- said. "Our sponsors love what we do.
leges and universities from around They are very, very enthusiastic. It's
the world. The team took first place nice being able to talk to people who
in a number of categories, including are just as excited about this as you
those evaluating acceleration, inno- are."
vation and development. Ford, Bosch Motorsport and Borg-
The team's achievement is the Warner are a few of the companies
product of 25 students' efforts, in the that help fuel the team's success
past year, to design and produce a through sponsorship. Lapham added
racecar to compete in the Society of that without that outside support, it
Automotive Engineers International would be very difficult for the team
Collegiate Design Series. Since its to continue competing.
inception as a student organization In addition to the private compa-
in 1986, MRacing has produced a new nies, the University has also started
car design each year. to provide financial sponsorship.
Engineering senior and 2010 team Engineeringjunior Nathan Husk, the
leader Chai Pocknett said the MRac- 2011 team leader, said the aid from
ing program can be addicting for the University has been particularly
those who choose to join the team. helpful for the team.
"To put it in perspective, I'm from "They've given us money at the
Massachusetts, I joined the team as a beginning of the year, which has
freshman in fall 2006 and I've been allowed us to start manufacturing a
home probably a month total since lot earlier than years previous," Husk
then," he said. "Once people join the said. "I think this has contributed to
team, they get hooked on it. They get the success of the team a lot."
internships in the area, so they are MRacing, Lapham said, provides
here for the summer. We meet every students with hands-on experience
week just to stay up to date and stay in working through the design pro-
on schedule." cess from concept to completion
While there are a number of For- along with putting the team's final
mula SAE events that take place product to the test against interna-
around the world, the MRacing team tional competition.
only competes in two of the interna- And the team faces stiff competi-
tional events due to time constraints tion, according to Lapham. Many of
and a limited budget. The team is the European teams have students at
scheduled to participate in its next the graduate level with more expe-
race between August 3 and 6, which rience in the field. FSAE guidelines
will be held in Hockenheim, Ger- permit participation from students

iTh Sidigan Daily
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW LAPIN BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
atapin@umich.edu tmdbusiness@gmaitcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours:
Sun-Thurs. 11 a.m. 2 a.m.
734-763-2459
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
corrections crrections@michigandai .com
LetterstothetEditor tohedairy@michigandaily.com
PhotoDepartment photo@michigandail.com
734-764-0563
Arts Section artspageemichigandaily.com
734.763-0379
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sportsemichigandailyc
734-764-8585
Sales dailydispy@gaiicoin
classifiedsales dailyclassfiedgrnaelea
734-764-0557
Finance emdfinanceOgnzaH.com
734-763-3246
EDITORIAL STAFF
Ryan Kartje Managing Etoe
rkartje@umich.edu
EshwarThirunavukkarasU ManagingNews Editor
ethir@uiiich.edu
SENIOR NEWS EDI'TOR: Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Caitlin
""ston" Su"a ""e acobs
Alex Schiff Editorial Page Editor
aschiff@umich.edu
SENIOR ED1TORIAL.PAGE EDITOR: Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL.PAGE EDITOR: Nick Clift
Mark Burns Managing Sports Editor
hurnmark@umnich-edu
ASSIS'TANTSPORTSEDITORS: Ben Estes

TOREHAN SHARMAN/DAILY
The Formula SAE MRacing team recently came in second place at the SAE Colgiate
Design Series at the Michigan International Speedway.

up to the post doctorate level.
"We're a bunch of undergrads who
are constantly re-inventing what
we're doing," Lapham said. "We're
competing against people who are
almost 10 years older than us, and
we're still able to create a competi-
tive car and beat them."
The team will soon begin practice
runs with their 2010 car to prepare

for their next competition in Ger-
many. These runs will take place in
the Yellow lot on North Campus each
weekend.
The weekend before their event in
Hockenheim, the MRacing is sched-
uled to put on a demonstration for
United States troops and their fami-
lies stationed at the air base near
Ramstein, Germany.

First seen on
Police investigate death
at Packard Street house

Sharon Jacobs and
EmmaJeszke
shacahs aumichedu and ea

ManagingArts Editor
s2ne(,+umich.edu

Wilgus appointment
ends five-month search
for new director
By DEVON THORSBY
Daily News Editor
An official from the Ann Arbor
Police Department confirmed on Sun-
day that a case involving a deceased
body found at 816 Packard St. is still
under investigation.
The official added that the AAPD
has ruled out foul play in their inves-
tigation but could not offer additional
details at this time.
The cause of death has yet to be
confirmed.

Amelie Sparrow, a next-door
neighbor, said she did not know
anyone living there personally, but
believed the deceased to be female
and to have lived in the attic apart-
ment of the house.
Sparrow said when she arrived
at her house on Friday, she noticed
a police car and several fire trucks
which arrived at the scene later.
The AAPD confirmed the presence
of authorities in protective chemical
suits enteringthe house on Friday.
Sparrow added that the deceased
was removed from the house in a
body bag by crane through the attic
window before being removed from
the scene.
"Her apartment was so high up
(authorities) couldn't go by stairs,"
Sparrow said.

Jake Fromm ManagingPhotoEditor
KatherineAxesen ManagingDesignEditor
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Doreen DeFever
Torehan Sharman enagingutimediaEditor
tsharnrua*miched"
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna crim SalesManager
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
Meghan Rooney LayoutManager
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
The Michigan Daly (fSSN 0745-967) is published
Monday through Friday during the fall and winter
terms by students at the University of Michigan.
One copy is available free of charge to all readers.
Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's
afire for $2. Subscrtons for flll term starting
iSeptember, ta UAS. mail are $110. Wrrter
term anuary through April) is $115 yearlong
(September through April) is $195. University
allites are sub nct to a reduced subscription
rate. Sr-campos sbscriptioos for fall teem are
$35. Subscriptions must be prepaid. The Michigan
Daily is a member of TheAssociated Press and The
Associated Collegiate Press.

0


Tuesday, June 1 ,2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

3

SANCTIONS
From Page 1
bylaws.
The University's letter also says that
several corrective measures have been
implemented to prevent further vio-
lations from occurring in the future,
which include changes to the process
by which practice hours are tracked.
The response letter additionally
states that Alex Herron, a graduate
assistant football coach who was
accused of giving misleading and false
testimony to the NCAA, was termi-
nated after the University received the
NCAA's notice of allegations.
University officials also reported
that they will issue letters of repri-
mand to seven individuals in the Ath-
letic Department who were found to be
partially responsible for the violations.
"After thorough joint investigation
with the Enforcement Staff, the Uni-
versity has concluded that violations
occurred for an extended period due
to inattention by the football staff, the
Compliance Services Office's failure
to contact Rodriguez directly about
these issues, ineffective communica-
tion between the Compliance Services
Office and the strength and condition-
ing staff, and the failure of athletic
administrators to perform tasks the
Compliance Services Office request-
ed," the letter said.
However, University officials say
they don't agree with the allegations
that Rodriguez "failed to promote an
atmosphere of compliance within the
football program."
"The University disagrees that Rich
Rodriguez failed to promote an atmo-
sphere of compliance within the foot-
ball program," the response states.
"The record reflects that Rodriguez.
has been committed to rules compli-
ance in the football program and the
academic success of football student-
athletes at the University."
In a separate 89-page response to
the NCAA, Rodriguez's attorneys
wrote that Rodriguez was "surprised"
and "disappointed" that the violations
were true.
"Rodriguez recognizes that as
a head coach, he has a heightened
responsibility to monitor his pro-
gram and promote an atmosphere
of compliance. Rodriguez embraces
that responsibility," the response
said. "He regrets that he did not ade-
quately monitor certain aspects of his
program in this case. Rodriguez has
learned from his mistakes and will be
a better coach and compliance leader
going forward."
Michael Buckner, a lawyer with
Florida-based Michael L. Buckner
Law Firm who provides consulting to
universities on NCAA cases, told The
Michigan Daily in an interview last
week that he believed the University's
self-imposed penalties seemed in line

with the allegations set forth by the
NCAA.
"I think Michigan is doing what
most schools are doing," Buckner said.
"Some schools penalize themselves a
little more than Michigan is doing, but
I thought it was smart that Michigan
only imposed a two-year probationary
period on itself."
In determining what sanctions to
impose voluntarily, Buckner said he
advises his clients to consider past
NCAA cases and mitigating factors of
the allegations.
"You analyze all that, and based on
that analysis, that will determine what
kind of self-imposed penalties as well
as self-corrective measures you'll need
in order to get the program back where
it should be under NCAA legislation,"
Buckner said, adding that it is one of
the toughest decisions an institution
must make during an NCAA investiga-
tion.
Buckner also said the tone of the
University's response is something
else that will likely be considered by
the committee to some degree.
"I think the tone that the University
set in its response is one (that) they
are trying to demonstrate that they
are cooperating with the NCAA, that
the violations they did admit to were
serious, that several people shared
responsibility for the violations, that
the University failed to monitor itself
and that they were going to take self-
corrective measures," he said.
But despite these positive notes,
Buckner said he wouldn't be surprised
if the Committee on Infractions added
additional penalties.
"It wouldn't surprise me if the com-
mittee came back and added an addi-
tional year (tothe probation)," Buckner
said, noting that additional penalties
may be possible, but that it is too early
to tell what those may be.
At a press conference held last week,
Athletic Director David Brandon
said he was glad that the University's
response was finished.
"This is a day of relief," Brandon
said. "We've been working on these
responses for many, many weeks.
There's been a lot of issues and con-
cerns of what our response is going to
be, and now it's out there."
Asked at the press conference who
was responsible for the NCAA viola-
tions, Brandon told reporters that he
was.
"I am," Brandon responded to the
question. "The reality is that we had
failures across the athletic depart-
ment, and I take full responsibility for
what happened because I'm the direc-
tor of this program."
Brandon continued: "If there was
a single person to be blamed for this,
we'd be doing that, but the reality is
the blame for this complex set of issues
spans a number of different areas and
entities within both the football pro-
gram and the athletic department

overall."
At the press conference, Rodriguez
said he was grateful that nothing sug-
gested any harm to student-athletes
took place, adding that student-athlete
welfare was his highest priority as a
head coach.
"The thing that bothered me the
most when this whole thing initially
started was some insinuations about
student-athlete welfare," Rodriguez
said. "There are issues and mistakes
were made, but there were no student
athlete welfare issues. At least I can
take some relief in that."
In a statement released last week,
University President Mary Sue Cole-
man said she believes the voluntary
sanctions are appropriate given the
violations.
"As we have said all along, we take
full responsibility for knowing and
following NCAA rules, and we will
address concerns, quickly and head
on," Coleman said. "We believe the
sanctions we have imposed fit the
nature of the violations."
In the same statement, Brandon said
he is "eager" to move beyond the rules
violations.
The University must first appear
before the NCAA Committee on
Infractions for a final ruling on the
alleged violations and to possibly
receive additional sanctions. The
meeting is currently scheduled for
August 13-14.
Buckner told the Daily he thinks the
Committee on Infractions is likely to
focus in on a few specific points about
the University's response - including
the lack of communication between
the Compliance Office and coaching
staff and what he classified as a delay
in action by University officials in fol-
lowing up on the incidents.
"A lot of these violations could have
been prevented if (Rodriguez) had
been asking the right questions to his
staff," Buckner said.
Because of a May 8, 2003 case
involving the men's basketball team,
the University could be subject to the
NCAA's repeat violator clause, though
University officials say they don't
think it would be warranted. A deter-
mination will be made by the Commit-
tee on Infractions, which is expected
to release its decision in the fall.
However, Buckner said he felt the
University effectively argued against
the NCAA's repeat violator clause.
"Michigan did a very good job, I
think, of trying to distinguish itself
from the first case and to tell the Com-
mittee on Infractions, 'We do not think
the repeatviolator statue should apply,
because of the unique circumstances
of that first case,"' he said.
However, Buckner said he doesn't
necessarily agree with the University's
strong defense of Rodriguez and its
decision to oppose the allegation that
Rodriguez failed to adequately moni-
tor the football program.

"Michigan admitted that the Uni-
versity failed to monitor the football
program, which essentially means
President Coleman failed to monitor
the program, because the president is
responsible for everything that hap-
pens at the University. But she dele-
gates that responsibility to the Athletic
Director, who delegates that responsi-
bility to the compliance office, to make
sure that the University complies with
all NCAA legislation," Buckner said.
"Well, if the University is going to
admitthatthe University, i.e. President
Coleman, failed to monitor the football
program, then it stands to reason that
Coach Rodriguez should also share the
blame."
Buckner added that he thought the
Committee on Infractions will likely
focus many of its questions on that
specific allegation, since the Univer-
sity denied it.
"That's probably going to be a lot
of the questions from the committee
as to how, if he's supposed to be han-
dlingthe program, why didn'the know
about a lot of things that did not hap-

pen or weren't happening regarding
his program," Buckner said.
However, the University's current
stance gives it more room to make a
more definitive decision about Rodri-
guez's employment in the future when
more from the NCAA is known.
"They've been shielding Coach
Rodriguez from this," Buckner said.
"I think Michigan is playing a very
smart game of not showing its hand
and supporting its coach so that Coach
Rodriguez can'tsaythat Michigan was
undermining him."
Buckner added: "If the NCAA comes
back and says, 'Look, we believe coach
Rodriguez is guilty of failure to moni-
tor,' ... Michigan can dismiss him for
cause under his contract."
Rodriguez's contract gives the Uni-
versity the option to terminate his
employment without penalty if he
is found to have committed a major
NCAA violation.
Daily Sports Editors
Ryan Kartje and Joe Stapleton
contributed to this report.

o100 "Mention This AD
And Receive $100 Off. Now is the
+LSAT perfect time to prep with one ofthe
nation's leaders in test preparation
-Small Classes
GMAT - Expert Instructors
-Free Extra Help
+M CAT The
Princeton
Review
H,-,,0


4

Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
C 4e Mid4 .-n 4Bailp

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

We always have to remember the guys
who didn't come home. This is the
legacy they carried for us. It is the same
legacy we carry on for them."

ANDREW LAPIN
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RYAN KARTJE
MANAGING EDITO

ALEX SCHIFF

0

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. - 21 -year-old Marine Corpor
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors. as reported by the Kalamazoo
Blowing the whistle on 'U' misconduct
Those who reveal wrongdoing should be rewarded, not punished

al Paul Dragicevich,
Gazette on Sunday.

T he University has set a new standard for public embarrassments. After blowing the whistle on alleged misconduct by fellow
University faculty, an assistant research professor in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Dr. Andrei
Borisov, was forced to resign following a string of inappropriate actions and outright bullying by other faculty members and
University administrators. But Borisov's case is just one symptom of a more systemic problem at the University - an atmosphere
that discourages and often punishes openness and transparency. The University must purge itself of an environment that forces
faculty members to choose between academic integrity and their career.

Last month, separate reports by the Faculty Hearing Com-
mittee ofthe Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs
and the University of Michigan Chapter of the American Asso-
ciation of University Professors were released detailing faculty
and staff misconduct in the case involving Dr. Andrei Borisov.
According to both reports, on September 4, 2008, Borisov went
to the office of the chair of his department, Dr. Valerie Castle
in order to resign effective September 12, when he planned to
start a new job in the Department of Internal Medicine. Upon
arrival, he was met by both Castle and two Department of Pub-
lic Safety officers. Castle told Borisov that he had to either sign
a resignation letter effective that day or his employment would
be terminated. After convincing Castle to change the effective
date to September 12, Borisov signed the letter.
Nonetheless, when Borisov was escorted by DPS to his office
to gather his belongings, he was read a trespass order, arrested
for assaulting a police officer and disturbing the peace - the
latter two were both later dismissed - and ordered to have no
contact with anyone within the medical school. He was later
taken to the St. Joseph Mercy Hospital emergency room for
injuries to his wrist, where he told doctors that the damage
was done by DPS officers. This incident followed complaints
from Borisov to his superiors of plagiarism and misconduct
starting as early as 2006. Borisov filed a lawsuit against the
University in 2009, which is currently pending in Washtenaw
County Circuit Court.
On the surface of this episode are clearly inappropriate
actions by DPS. According to a recording of the September 4
meeting, one officer told Borisov, "Whether you want to sign it
or not, we're going to remove your stuff, you're going to be read
the trespass statute." Not only did DPS read a trespass order
to a clearly non-threatening, employed member of the Univer-

sity faculty (his resignation wasn't effective until September
12), but the recording also shows that Borisov was going tobe
accused of trespassing regardless of his actions. DPS never
investigated Castle's complaint that Borisov was "physically
threatening" - neither before nor after the incident. Instead,
the officers acted as Castle's personal henchmen and blindly
took her word as truth. DPS's involvement in this internal
dispute was not only inappropriate, but also a fundamental
betrayal of its primary objective to protect the entire campus
community, not solely administrators.
But, atits heart, the problem isn't with DPS. It's with the
treatment of Borisov by his superiors - in particular, Dr. Val-
erie Castle. In June, Castle began forwarding negative reviews
of Borisov to his would-be employers in Internal Medicine,
who would have almost certainly revoked their employment
offer then had Borisov not successfully convinced them of his
innocence. A few months later, rather than acceptingPBorisov's
resignation effective September 12, she insisted his resigna-
tion be effective immediately, which would allow DPS officers
to read him a trespass warning as an unemployed, ex-faculty
member. When Borisov refused, Castle allowed him to resign
effective September 12, yet DPS officers read him a trespass
warning and arrested him anyway. She facilitated a situation
in which the only possible outcome was a trespass order and
altercation. Since an arrest by DPS can bar a faculty member
from being rehired by another department at the University,
Castle's actions effectively destroyed both Borisov's reputa-
tion and career. This episode disturbingly suggests a delib-
erate effort to tarnish Borisov's standing in the academic
community.
In light of all of the mistakes and misconduct involved in
this incident, it's clear that the broader environment at the

University is one that discourages openness and chokes aca-
demic freedom. Starting in 2006, Borisov complained to at
least seven different administrators at the department, school
and University level, and a letter was even sent to President
Mary Sue Coleman by Dr. Douglas Smith (a former faculty
member of the Medical School) regardingthe case. University
policy SPG 303.03 stipulates that "it is the shared responsibil-
ity of all members of our academic community to assure that
misconduct in academic endeavors is dealt with in a timely and
effective manner," and it irrefutably commands that an inqui-
ry be started whenever allegations arise.
And yet not a single serious effort was made to investigate.
Each administrator deferred responsibility to another, and
some even took deliberate action to retaliate against Borisov.
.Moreover, the fact that Borisov felt the need to tape record
his conversations with faculty and administrators further
implies that his concerns were being ignored, or, at least, not
being taken earnestly. Even worse, when the Faculty Hearing
Committee did the University's job for them by conducting an
investigation, the administrators involved blatantly refused
to testify. In a letter to SACUA, Provost Teresa Sullivan hypo-
critically argued that the report produced was one-sided and
successfully pressured the body to reject the report. Not only
was University policy ignored, but an atmosphere of secrecy,
mistrust and ethical bankruptcy was cultivated on the backs
of faculty members that dared to speak up.
Whether or not Borisov's allegations of plagiarism and
misconduct against his colleagues are true, the University
mishandled his case at every step. Administrators must treat
this issue with the grave seriousness it deserves and make the
sweeping reforms necessary to ensure that a career is not the
price to pay for having the courage to report wrongdoing.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, passionate student writers to join the Editorial Board. E-mail aschiff@umich.edu for details.


Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

15

DOUGLAS SMITH I
A corrupt institution

BELLA SHAH

E-MAIL BELLA AT BELLZ@ UMICH.EDU.

All universities must take pru-
dent steps to prevent campus vio-
lence,asevidencedbytheshootings
at Virginia Tech University and
University of Alabama-Huntsville.
But the University of Michigan is
exploiting the tense and fearful
environment that arose from these
incidents. The administration has
repeatedly used false allegations
of threatening behavior to justify
the actions they have taken to pun-
ish and discredit faculty, students
and staff. This has brought true
shame upon a great university, and
the recently published case of the
treatment of Dr. Andrei Borisov is
one such example. Unfortunately,
it is but one of many similar cases
at the University.
Dr. Borisov accused a fellow
faculty member of claiming credit
for his work and violating federal
rules regarding research grants.
His department, the Department
of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, retaliated against him,
accusing him of being "threaten-
ing" because he continued a con-
versation with a fellow faculty
member all the way to his car. The
fellow faculty member has said
that he did not feel threatened, but
the department chair called the
campus police to read Dr. Borisov
a trespass warning and bar him
from campus anyway. The officers
arrested him for trespassing and
resisting arrest, but he was acquit-
ted of all charges. Yet the Univer-
sity still refuses to lift the trespass
warning and maintains the fic-
tion that Dr. Borisov is guilty of
"threatening behavior."
Linda Martinson was a student
in the College of Nursing when she
was accused of threatening behav-
ior and the campus police were
called to read her a trespass warn-
ing, effectively expelling her since
she couldn't attend class. After the
trespass warning, the administra-
tion found no grounds for emergen-
cyexpulsionbased onpsychological
illness or violation of the student
code. Still, the College of Nursing
and the campus police refused to
lift the trespass warning. The Col-
lege did not follow the Office of Stu-
dent Conflict Resolution process,
instead inventing a new process
within the College. The result was
that Martinson was expelled in
less than a week after a hearing at
which she was not present because
she was not notified that it was tak-
ing place. She appealed for a new
hearing and won, but the appeals
board's findings were ignored by
the College.
I was a tenured professor in
the College of Medicine, and I

was threatened by a University
attorney after I filed a grievance
against my chairman. I was told
that I was scaring people and that
if I did not stop talking to people
about my grievances, I would be
declared dangerous, fired and
would have to make the next call
to my attorney from Kipke Avenue
(the office of campus police).
The former University Gen-
eral Counsel, Elsa Cole, testified
in a deposition that she spoke at a
national meetingofuniversitygen-
eral counsels about how the admin-
istration handles whistleblowers
at the University of Michigan, thus
spreading the administration's tac-
tics to other universities.
Every time the administration
strips away rightsto a fair grievance
hearing or to investigate wrongdo-
ing, they increase their power to
intimidate faculty, students and
staff. The Administration tried to
trick the Michigan Student Assem-
bly into proposing the reduction of
proof required for violations of the
student code of rights and respon-
sibilities from" clear and convinc-
ing evidence" to "a preponderance
of the evidence" in order to make it
easier to expel students.
The administration has fought
tooth and nail against having a
properly elected and function-
ing Department of Public Safety
Oversight Committee. There were
no elections for student or faculty
members of the committee for
more than 10 years and the admin-
istration recently rewrote rules
for the committee that allow the
police chief and president of the
University to block any grievance
hearing they object to. This codi-
fies the president's power to cover
up police misconduct.
I have lobbied the University',
including at the Board of Regents
meeting three times and in a letter
to President Coleman, for changes
to policies and procedures that will
protect faculty, staff and students
from such false allegations and for
true civilian oversight of campus
police. The campus police should
be responsive to the rights of all
members of the University com-
munity, not just the wishes of the
administration. The administra-
tion has responded by "circling the
wagons" to protect its members
and preserve their power to treat
faculty, staff and students as they
wish. It is time for the University
community to stand up and tell the
Board of Regents that their rights
must be protected.
Douglas Smith is a former
Medical professor.

Otto
0
f Q
a °
f;
r
z J
lv' ' S"ta

Donating life

've heard of people using Face-
book to find apartments or
roommates or to sell or buy
furniture. But _
Melissa Foster of
Pontiac is taking.
the commodity
search to a whole
new level. She's
using Facebook to
find a new kidney.
Foster's kidney RACHEL
started failing VANGLLDER
when she was 16
years old, accord-
ing to a May 26
article in the Detroit News. She
waited nine years for a replacement,
which her body is now rejecting.
So she started the Facebook group
"Mel Needs a Kidney" to search for
individuals who would be willing to
donate a kidney to her. To date, Fos-
ter has received about 100 replies
from possible donors willing to be
tested to see if their kidney would be
compatible to hers.
I hope that Foster's search for
a compatible donor is successful,
and that her body doesn't reject a
replacement kidney a second time.
I admire her determination and ini-
tiative to work around a notoriously
long process. But individual use of
social networking sites to search
for organs doesn't solve a much
larger problem: Michigan needs
more organ donors. When you think
about it, it's a scientific miracle that
organ donation is even possible. But
the miracle is being stifled by a lack
of donors.
The specifics of Foster's case allow
her to look for a donor privately. A
donor can give her the organ she
needs without suffering serious inju-
ry because humans only need one
kidney to survive, even though we
are born with two. Similarly, living

donors can provide a liver to anoth-
er person since the human liver has
remarkable regenerative proper-
ties. But many organs aren't redun-
dant. Human beings can't offer up
their heart, pancreas or stomach to
another person via Facebook. More
Michigan residents should register
to be organ donors so that Facebook
doesn't have to become the go-to
option for finding an organ.
Michigan has among the low-
est percentage of donors in the
nation. According to the Detroit
News report, the state ranks 42nd.
That kind of sucks, especially since
the process is so easy to become a
donor. All Michiganders need to do
is go online to add their name to the
registry of organ donors. Michigan
law requires that organ donors vol-
unteer, so unless residents add their
name to the registry, they aren't
donors by default.
College students should lead the
way to increase Michigan's number
of registered organ donors. Stu-
dents don't tend to give death much
serious consideration. We're at a
time in our lives when we feel invin-
cible. And for the most part, I think
that's okay. That confidence helps
us prepare for the rest of our lives.
But there is always the chance that
something could happen, despite
our Superman-like mentality, so it's
good to be prepared. College stu-
dents are typically in good physical
condition, making us prime donors.
And, though no one likes to consider
the possibility, an accident or illness
could make almost anyone in need
of a new organ. Students should be
aware that they can - and should -
be donors.
I signed up to be an organ donor
last year after, coincidentally, I
noticed an ad on Facebook that
encouraged users to become donors.

It only took me a few minutes to
provide the required informa-
tion online. After I signed up, I was
mailed a small sticker shaped like a
heart to attach to my driver's license
so that emergency personnel will
know that I am a donor in the event
of a serious accident. The back of
Michigan licenses also have spaces
for residents to indicate if they'd be
willing to donate organs in the event
of sudden death.
College students
should lead in
organ donation.
To make sure that, should the cir-
cumstances ever arise, my wishes
would be fulfilled, I had to have a
very uncomfortable conversation
with my mother about which organs
I would want to donate. It was a
pretty morbid conversation, but I
encourage everyone to have that talk
with their parents or significant oth-
ers. It's bleak to think about, but the
reality is that it could matter a lot to
someone in need of a new pancreas
or skin grafts.
To become an organ donor, go to
the Michigan Secretary of State's
website and click on the "Organ
Donation" tab, then fill out the online
application to join the donor regis-
try. It only takes a few minutes. And
signing up makes college students
a lot more like Superman than just
feeling invincible: It could actually
save someone's life.
- Rachel Van Gilder is the Daily's
2010 editorial page editor. She can be
reached at rachelvg@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nicholas Clift, Emma Jeszke, Harsha Panduranga,
Joe Stapleton, Rachel Van Gilder


PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

2007 BUDDY 125 scooter. 70 mpg
Only 1,095 miles driven. $1999 OBO FOR RENT
bce@umich.edu or 269-370-7779
**ALL JUNE APARTMENT
RENTALS RECEIVE 1 MONTH
FREE IF YOU RENT BY 6-30-10!!!
GRADS, FRESHMAN & PROFES-
SOR'S ARE ALSO WELCOME.
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
PARKING 734-761-2680.
RELEASE DATE- Monday, May 31, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 63 Prepares 32 Pound sounds 48 Actress
1 Buck in the forest 60-Across 33 "Nutty" individual Zellweger
5 Mil. three-stripers 64 Low man on the 34 Taboo for Mrs. 49 Westem movie
9 Big name in feudal totem pole Sprat 50 Henry, Peter or
insurance 65 Ultimate 35 Prince _ Khan Jane
14 Wahine'sdance 36Blousesandshirts 51 ForensicTV
15 In._ of: replacing DOWN 39IQtest name drama
16 Sink outlet 1 SeaWorld star 41 Rhett's last word 52 That is, in Latin
17 Slightly 2 Oompah brass 42 Swipes 54 Beat-up boats
18 Slightly open 3 More than similar 44 Prepares for a 55 Cry like a banshee
19 Fictional 4 Garden portal winter takeoff, as 56 Police broadcast,
chocolatier 5 Goof-off plane wings briefly
Wonka 6 Military action 47 Jab with a bone 57 Rev.'s speech
20 Rise from the doll
ashes, so to 7 Sides in a game ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
speak 8 Certain K E G S P G T H I R T E E N
23Employ 9 Online pop-up E N R Y O N E A N D O N L Y
24 Laboriously surce ETES TASKM# A
earnswih"out" 10Soap vamp E T E 5 T A S K M A S T E N
25 Getstheflead out? Kane P O E H O T T E A T E N O
28 Two sizes above 11 Discusses S U N D O G T I A R A
sin. business ARROYO F I E N D
29When the Kol 12nZeo TAO YS L I ES T A D A S
Nidre is recited, 13 Oneor another I 0 0 D A L A I EIF T
vis--vis Yom 21 Protection P 11DNAL N D AFTA
Kippur 22 Quail group TE RP AN S TNODL T A
30 1970s radical gp. 26 Really delight 0 R G A N S T 0 L E N
31 "Pygmalion"on 27 Lecherous P A R K A O N W A R D
Broadway woodland deity B R U T R A V E L S M D1I
36 Not this 28 Tardy R O D E O D R I V E S E A N
37 Breath mint brand 29 Blue-pencil I M I N H E A V E N S A R G
38 Yalie 31 "Me and C O T T O N B E L T E L K S
39 Pirate's spoils Bobby
401Sticky stufona Bxwordeditor@aol.com 05131/10
5tik6 7 84 s 9 e 10 11 12 13
41 Tourist who
doesn't stay 14 151
ovemight 17 1 ,1
43 Prefix with center
44 "Blues Brother" 20 22
Aykroyd
45 Connections that 23 24 25 26 27
help you get
ahead 2n an
46 Think highly of 31 32 an 34 a 33
48 Clue weapon
50 "The Silence of 37 a an
the Lambs"org.
53 Born 5/31/1930, 40 41 a
entertainer
associated with 43 msba5
thephrase an a7 4 a9 so 51 52
formed by the
starts of 20-, 31- s3 a 5s
and 41-Across
56 Easy _ an n as
58 Golden rule word
59 Green Gables girl an n6
60Teagrade
61 Complaint
62October 15th, e.g. ty DonnanS. Levin
(c)2010 Tribune MediaServices, Inc. I1/I

9 MONTH LEASES, EXCELLENT
CHURCH STREET LOCATION! 5-9
Bedroom homes available for Fall. 1
Block from the B-School. New
leather furniture, 50" HDTVs, Free
Cable & Internet. New kitchens with
granite or marble counters, brand new
bathrooms and hardwood floors being
installed right now! Parking is in-
cluded, call for details 734-994-0644
or visit www.ChurchStreetApts.com.
!!ROOMS HILL & State. May or Fall.
Male. Prkg. $325/mo 845-399-9904.
*****AVAIL. SEPT 1. 119 E. Lib-
crty. Erg 3 bdrma pt. 1605 sq. ft. 5 min
walk to Campus. 734-769-8555.
! ! 4 BDRM. CONDO ! !
Aug 2010. North campus. FREE utils.,
A/C, ldry. & free garage prkg. Cable
TV, FREE Internet. $598/person/mo.
Call 313-838-2629.
**AVAILABLE FOR FALL: 514
Lawrence- 6 bdrm house. Rooms start-
ing at $375/month plus $50.00 for utili-
ties. 2 bath, free high speed internet,
easy access to central campus, nursing,
medical and dental schools. D/W and
laundry. Parking available. Call Cam-
pus Mgt. 734-663-4101.
DEALS, REDUCED RATES All June
apartment leases receive I month
FREE. RENTYOUR OWN APART-
MENT AND YOU WON'T HAVE
TO SHARE or LIVE ON NORTH
CAMPUS THIS YEAR...University
Towers has all your housing needs ON
CentralCampus at Greatly reduced rates.
Don't miss out on the Best ON Central
Campus Deals! Call the Best at 734-
761-2680. universitytowers-mi.com
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $1495.00
www.issaproperties.com 734-662-4446.
THE
COURTYARDS'91
7780 Broadway
734.994.6007
ww.th eco urtva rd sa nna ror.co r
LOOK & LEASE!
LOCATIONS
START
AT A 7
$599I
ACADEMIC LEASES!
V.FREE WiFi'
,PAID utilities!
FREE HDTV!
,FULLY furnished!
...and much more...

WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.lSellA2.com 734-476-9768.
EFF, 1 & 2 Bdrms Fall '10-'1
Rents Range $675 to $950.
Most include Heat & Water.
Limited Parking Avail. www.cappo-
management.com 734-996-1991.
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., I bdrn., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
**INDIVIDUAL 9 MONTH Leases
Starting at $600** Great Church Street
Location, 1 Block from the B-School.
Newly Remodeled, New Furniture,
Free Internet, Free Cable, Free Parking.
Visit www.ChurchStreetApts.com or
call Laura at 734-994-0644.
AVAIL MAY & Sept. 2010 1 & 2
Bdrm. furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313
S. State. Ldry, free prkg. 734-904-6735.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$1799/mo. 734-665-8825.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 1,2,3
bdrm apts at 1600 packard. 734-222-
9033. www.jmsprop.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., Idry.,
bath., internet. summer from $300, fall
from $440. Call 734-276-0886.
!2 BEDROOMS : CENTAL CAM-
PUS! S. Forest, free WiFi, heat, water,
fully furnished! Varsity Management
(734) 668-1100.
!4 BEDROOM: BURNS PARK!
Hardwood floors, 10 ft ceilings
screened in porch, enormous! Heat, wa-
ter, fully furnished, 2 parkivg spaces.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
3 BEDROOM : CCRB Only 1 left!
Great location, balcony, large liviog
room, heat, water, parking incl. Var-
sity Management www.varsitymanage-
ment.com
SERVICES
ASTROLOGICAL & LIFE COACH-
ING CONSULTATIONS. Need guid-
ance? Jilliankerry gmail.com, 734-
395-4999, www.jilliankerry.com
BOOKS, SPECIES, ARTICLES, re-
sumes. Writing, editing, and layout.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @c,
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
VACANCY OPEN TODAY ::::::5000
Monthly.
Looking for an individual with a bright
energetic personality and
great communication skills to promote
sale of products DUTIES/RESPONSI-
BILITIES:
1. Mustrbe enthusiastic and have great
phone presence!
2. Assist Sales Reps in promoting and
selling of products
3. Increase revenue by communicating
the benefits of all products to
new and existing customers.
5. Selling is the primary function of
this position, but delivering
superb customer service/relations is a
critical component
Experience:
1. Experience in call center, inside
sales, or customer service
2. Previous Job
Qualifications
-High School Graduate or GED Equiva-
lent/Other
* Computer experience
" Professional speaking voice
" Critical thinking/problem solving
skills
Please email us now if interested!
Email: william_ones@yahoo.com
WORKING CONDITIONS:
Mnd-avmhr Fiav 1 -0n n - -0nm

0


Tuesday, June 1,2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7

Visiting artist criticizes
bureaucracy in public art

William Dennisuk
looks to expedite art
installation process
By TOREHAN SHARMAN
For the Daily
Though Ann Arbor is adorned
with sculptures and other art install-
ments, one artist said the process of
displaying sculptures is complicated
by the red tape put up by the Univer-
sity, the City of Ann Arbor and the
State of Michigan.
William Dennisuk, a visiting art-
ist at the School of Art & Design,
installed a public sculpture last week
for display in Gallup Park but said he
has had to contend with the bureau-
cracy of local regulatory committees
for the past few months to keep his
40
CSA
From Page 1
also meat and dairy CSA programs,
according to a CSA affiliated web-
site.
Wessel Walker praised the CSA sys-
tem for offering people quality food at
their convenience.
"(Produce from CSA) is healthy, it
comes from local sources, it's grown
and made by people who cared and put
a lot of love and excitement into their
work, and it's super convenient," she
said. "It's really easy, you don't have to
scrub the dirt off the carrots because
we do that for you."
Members of Harvest Kitchen auto-
matically become members of the
Community Farm and receive a CSA-
style supply of fresh fruits and vegeta-
bles in addition to weekly meals from
Wessel Walker and her eight-person
staff.
Last winter, Wessel Walker part-
nered up with Rena Basch of Loca-
vorious, a frozen food CSA that now
provides Harvest Kitchen with fresh
produce year-round, and Kris Hirth
of the Old Pine Farm meat CSA. The
new omnivore option made possible
through Old Pine Farm was very suc-
cessful in its first season, according to
Wessel Walker.
Wessel Walker said she gets most of
her recipe ideas from her large collec-
tion of cookbooks and over the years
has developed a sense for what types
of recipes will be successful.

art intact.
He said Ann Arbor's strict laws
and regulations make it very difficult
for artists to create and introduce
their works to the public.
"It took some time to figure out
who the people were that I was sup-
posed to talk to," Dennisuk "Even
when you get all your ducks in a row
you would still have to have a three-
to-four-month period before you got
something like this off the ground."
The External Elements Design
Review Committee for the City of
Ann Arbor and the University's
Presidential Advisory Committee
for Public Art are two organizations,
Dennisuk said, that have stymied the
progress of artists looking to display
their work publicly.
The Presidential Advisory Com-
mittee for Public Art was created to
monitor and regulate public works of
"This is (Harvest Kitchen's) fourth
summer, (and) I feel like I've gotten
more and more of a sense what's going
to be good and what's not going to be
good and what people are going to
like," she said.
The amount of food Harvest Kitch-
en provides its members varies over
the course of the season, Wessel Walk-
er said. Meals become progressively
larger over the course of the summer,
starting in June. She added that it is
difficult to estimate the longevity of
a share, which depends on how mem-
bers ration food.
CSA food is most plentiful in August
and September, Wessel Walker said.
During a normal week last Sep-
tember, members received two
quarts of vegetable chili, one cup
of basil pesto, one quart of eggplant
dumplings, two quarts of coleslaw
with apples, one quart of greens in
peanut sauce, one gallon of salad and
their choice of either a watermelon
or a cantaloupe.
Last week, members who signed up
early for the June-November summer
season received a special preview of
this year's provisions - a seven-inch
quiche, one quart of spinach salad
with dressing and one cup of sour
cream and onion dip.
"It's only a good deal if you eat
everything," she said. "If you are
paying this money up front and then
letting the vegetables rot in your
refrigerator, it's a waste of money."
In 2007, Harvest Kitchen sold
seven shares. This summer, there are

art by presenting a piece of work to
the public, according to its website.
The Presidential Advisory Commit-
tee works in conjunction with the
EEDRC to provide long-term solu-
tions for public art displays.
Dennisuk added he has been in
talks with the EEDRC and the Presi-
dential Advisory Committee for Pub-
lic Art committees to help streamline
the process for giving artists and
sculptors clearance to continue with
their installations.
"I heard of artists who have come
and tried to do short term things here
and they just haven't because of all
the red tape and bureaucracy," Den-
nisuk said.
In Finland - where he currently
lives - Dennisuk said there are fewer
restrictions on putting up public art
installments. He said he would only
need to get clearance from the town
35 shares available with 12 still up for
grabs.
The price of a whole six month
share, including the price of the farm
share, is 2,400 dollars for the vegetar-
ian option and 2,700 dollars for the
omnivore option. Members can also
opt for a half share, which Wessel
Walker said she recommends for indi-
vidual customers or couples.
Last Friday, Mark Schrupp stopped
by the Harvest Kitchen location on
Geddes Avenue near Oxford Housing
to pick up his share. He said he and his
family had already been members of
the Community Farm, but they decid-
ed to try Harvest Kitchen a couple of
years ago because it offered a conve-
nient way to enjoy local ingredients.
Wessel Walker admitted that Har-
vest Kitchen isn't for everyone, but
after Shrupp left the kitchen with his
food, she said "that's one family that it
really works for."
A membership to Harvest Kitchen
might be too expensive for a student
or someone with a tight budget, but
according to Wessel Walker, if the
other option is either eating out or at
a hot food bar like the one at the Peo-
ple's Food Co-op in Kerrytown, Har-
vest Kitchen is "at least comparable, if
not less expensive in the end."
Wessel Walker said one gradu-
ate student at the University, who
debated joining Harvest Kitchen for a
long time, recently decided to go for it
because she was workingso much that
she simply didn't have the energy to
cook for herself.

Dennisuk has installed three sculptures for public display in Ann Arbor.

architect and the town gardener, and
by that evening, his sculpture would
be up for display.
Dennisuk added that he hopes to
take what he learned about regula-
tory committees in displaying pub-

lic wart in Ann Arbor and pass it on
to students in the School of Art &
Design.
"(The visiting artist) would take
people through the process, and they
See SCULPTURE, Page 8

MARISSA MCC
Mary Wessel Walker gives food to Harvest Kitchen member Mark Schrupp.

"I did have the impression that it
was going to be a budget stretch for
her, but hopefully (it was) worth it,"
she said.
Looking towards the future of Har-
vest Kitchen, Wessel Walker said that
she's not interested in providing food
to institutions like the University din-
ing halls or the University hospital,

but she hopes to reach more individu-
als and families.
Wessel Walker added that she is
considering creating a retail line simi-
lar to the hot food bar at the People's
Food Co-op to allow people to enjoy
meals made with local food without
having to take the "leap of faith" that
comes with a six-month membership.


Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

SCULPTURE
From Page 7

would learn how to present
ideas and how to go through the
bureaucracy,"he said. "By the time
(the students) would graduate, they
would be able to step in as a profes-
sional artist and be able to function
in the realm of public art."
As part of the Witt Residency
Program, a program hosted by the
School of Art & Design, Dennisuk
said he has worked with students to
construct sculptures but feels that
there is a lack of commitment since
they cannot earn credit for the proj-
ect.
Dennisuk's current project will
be displayed in-various water-based
locations around the campus and
Ann Arbor. His first sculpture was
installed in the reflecting pool just
outside the industrial Operations
Engineering building on North
Campus. The second sculpture was
placed in Gallup Park while the final
sculpture was installed in Nichols
Arboretum last week.
Dennisuk said his public sculp-
ture project was originally con-
ceived as a way to help bridge the
gap between the natural scenery
and the man-made scenery of Ann
Arbor using water as a dynamic
medium to represent the cohesive-
ness of both environments.
WANT TO WRITE
FOR THE DAILY?
E-mail alapinoaumich.edu for details.

Coming this week to
MichiganDaily.com
OPINION
Paying the price:
Eric Stulberg makes
the case for better
compensation for
those in the military.
A unique nuance:
Lexi Zimmerman and
Courtney Fletcher
explain how Ann
Arbor is unlike most
other cities.
SPORTS
NCAA curtains
close: Men's and
women's tennis and
rowing all took their
act to NCAAs, but 'M'
came up just short.
ARTS
A beast of an
album: Janelle Monie
goes big on 'The Arch-
Android'.
A flurry of festi-
vals: From Detroit
(Movement) to Quin-
cy, Washington (Sas-
quatch), The Filter has
all the music festival
coverage you need.

0i

Check in online for daily updates
Please report any error in
Pro tNhails eDaily tocorrections@
l michigandaily.com.
871 West Eisenhower P arkwoay
Ann Arbor, 1M48103
(734)222-18513
S eC1ia 1tUdt 1ices {734).222-0200 r
As Lniersiryrll ihian A ianni
Ne've been supprting th e
C omI( ~xmunlity since 1939,.

WWW.DASCOLKA-ARE SS.COM
WA LK-INS W ELCOME!


Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
SUmmer Music Festival Preview

While visions of beachcombing, blockbusters and gene
to be on your mind this season, it's the national music fes
Pitchfork and Lollapalooza that have really been capti
planning -and for good reason.
But with any multi-day extravaganza comes an outs
and passes can exceed $200. On the plus side, you don't
the large festivals selling out - as much as your wallet 
And if picking up a ticket of your own is too daunting gi
nomic times, you'll just have to get a little creative.
By Mike Knit

rral sunshine are sure
stivals like Bonnaroo,
ivating your summer
rageous ticket price,
have to worry about
tmight hate you for it.

Pitchfork Music

Ie LIVaI

July6 i-18
Chicago, IL
$40/day plus fees

Bonnaroo Music &
Arts Festival

Manchester, Tennessee has
become a Mecca for music enthu-
siasts over the past few years - it's
hard to beat kicking off the sum-
mer at a gathering of some of the
top names in music, comedy and
hallucinogenic drugs. For four
days, this small farming town
becomes overrun by hundreds of
thousands of hipsters, hippies,
vagabonds and wandering souls
old and young.
This year's festival features
heavy hitters like Jay-Z, LCD
Soundsystem and Stevie Won-
der; festival regulars Dave Mat-
thews Band, Kings of Leon and
Umphrey's McGee; and sets by

comedians liket
Aziz Ansari. F
suggest bringir
plenty of water
to identify your
course, "good vi
Be sure to
Flaming Lips
Floyd's legenda
Moon and com
tin's foray into'
Steep Canyon R
How to get 1
to Manchester,
hippie and trad
for his wristba
'shrooms - yo
pointed.

iven these tough eco- The snobby reviews and hipper-
than-thou demeanor associated
tz, Daily Music Editor with the Pitchfork name seem to
melt away when you're standing
front-ron for Modest Mouse or the
June 10-13 newly reunited Pavement, Which, if
Manchester, TN you're smart, is exactly shat you'll
$23450 plus fees be doing this July, besides seeing
Panda Bear and Wolf Parade per-
form tracks off their upcoming
Conan O'Brien and albums, Broken Social Scene pack
estival organizers a dozen people on the stage and
ng camping gear, Sleigh Bells tear a few eardrums to
,a "flag or balloon shreds.
'campsite" and, of Over the past few years, the
ibes and a smile." top Internet tastemaker's foray
check out: The into outdoor festivals has quickly
performing Pink become one of the most anticipated
ry Dark Side of the music events of the summer. So just
edian Steve Mar- knock back a few pints of Goose
bluegrass with the Island 312 to brave the hipster
angers. parade and brace yourself for some
n: Hitchhike a ride of today's most exciting newcomers
find a wandering and indie standbys.
Ie your gas money Be sure to check out: Titus
and and a bag of Andronicus, New Jersey garage-
u won't be disap- rockers with a killer live show and
a wry sense of humor a la Art Brut.
Shit, I sound like a Pitchforker
already.
How to get in: Get into a furious
debate about the new LCD Sound-
system record or Brian Eno's effect
on modern pop with a passerby, all
the while discretely unraveling the
wristband around his or her care-
fully tattooed wrist.

Beirut wowed the crowd at Pitchfork Music Festival last summ

Lollapalooza
Boasting headliners like Lady
Gaga, the Arcade Fire and a newly
reunited Strokes (not to mention
'90s powerhouses Soundgarden
and Green Day), Chicago's three-
day festival in scenic Grant Park
takes the crown. Effortlessly fus-
ing mainstream acts with more
buzzworthy newcomers, Lolla-
palooza is sure to appeal to music
snobs and Top 40 radio junkies
alike. In addition to celebrated
acts like Spoon and The National,
this year also features blog-throbs
Yeasayer, the xx and Frightened
Rabbit.
Newly expanded to include the
parks across Columbus Drive, this

August 6-8
Chicago, IL
$215 plus fees
year's festival will be less claustro-
phobic (despite an anticipated rise
in attendance) and easier to navi-
gate. Still, festival-goers would be
wise to camp out in front of their
favorite headliner's stage around
noon to reserve a spot.
Be sure to check out: The Soft
Pack, Harlem and Warpaint, some
heavily buzzed-about names along
the bottom of the bill that live up to
all the hype.
How to get in: Find a friend to
pass back their wristband around
the unguarded gates along Lake
Shore Drive, or just pull a Perry
Farrell and drop in from a helicop-

Jay-Z is one of the headliners for this year's Bonnaroo Music & Art

www.paulengstromweddingphotography~com


Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

An American in Cannes 'Sands' makes rocky

Buzz
filn
LSA s
way torm
Two s
shooting
Myth o:
Sloma p
free-spir
freshman
This 1
make wa
picking u
Ensembli
The Holl
day Moll
pixie whc
and by C
ensemble
formanct
"I like
and 'Sixt
it was re:
Reporter
wald), be
love Moll
Just t
to Franc
ics' Wee
where "
tional pre
to screen
July's "M
Know," fi
Despit
Sloma r:
complete

worthy Michigan experience in a recent interview with
the Daily. -
a stars 'U' senior "I got to meet James Franco," Sloma
laughed.
By JENNIFER XU Directed by Wayne State Univer-
Daily Arts Writer sity graduate David Robert Mitchell,
"Sleepover" tracks the intersecting
enior Claire Sloma is on her lives of four Metro Detroit adolescents
aking it big. for one dreamy summer night, mapping
ummers ago, she wrapped up out the experiences, insecurities and
on her first feature film "The anxieties of growing up.
f the American Sleepover." "It's usually compared to 'Ameri-
layed 14-year-old Maggie, a can Graffiti' and a modern-day John
ited teenager entering her Hughes with more dialogue," Sloma
n year of high school. said. "The film isn't plot-driven and
larch, "Sleepover" went on to focuses more on the real teenage expe-
ves at the SXSW Film Festival, rience."
p a Special Jury Prize for Best "It's not something you would see in
e. There, Sloma was lauded by a huge party movie," she added. "The
ywood Reporter as a modern- director wanted to focus on that inno-
y Ringwald - "an enchanting cence of being a teenager thatgets over-
o dazzles in all the right places" looked a lot. When you're a teenager,
NN as "the standout in a large you get so angsty - you just want to
cast" in a "star-making per- grow up and you want to kind of skip
e." that part of your life. The film reminds
things like 'Pretty in Pink' you of what it is to be like at that age."
een Candles,' which was why One of the film's leads, Sloma's char-
ally cool when The Hollywood acter wants to experience a little more
said that (comparison to Ring- of life before entering school. Another
ecause I was like, awesome. I part of the storyline, filmed on location,
ly Ringwald," Sloma said. follows two twins attending freshman
en days ago, Sloma flew over orientation at the University of Michi-
e for the International Crit- gan and features shots of Angell Hall
k at the Cannes Film Festival, and the IM Building.
Sleepover" made its interna- "Maggie is what some people would
emiere. The last American film call a 'layered character,' " Sloma said.
at Critics' Week was Miranda "She wants to embark on an adventure,
Ie and You and Everyone We but just like any teenage girl there's sit-
ve years prior. uations that she's very insecure about.
e all the press she has gotten, She wants to break away from being a
emained down-to-earth and kid and hang out with older kids and
ly ecstatic about her Cannes ditch a sleepover to go to a party, that
kind of thing."
Sloma found out about the audition
the summer after her freshman year at
H AVE the University, after reading about it in
YOU the Royal Oak community newspaper.
HEARD Prior to "Sleepover," she had only had
THE experience in theater, participating in

several RC Players productions.
"Going into high school ... I definitely
had a lot of upperclassmen friends," she
said. "I identified with (Maggie) on that
level of wanting to be accepted. Having
to relive that moment through a char-
acter in a film was kind of interesting.
Even challenging."
The film was shot completely in the
Metro Detroit area, with several scenes
taking place in the cities of Clawson,
Madison Heights, Ann Arbor, Tay-
lor, Farmington Hills and downtown
Detroit.
Sloma describes several incidents
where cars would stop and watch the
cast while they were filming.
"We filmed this right before Michi-
gan did the whole tax break thing, so
this was before it became normal for
films to be filmed in Michigan," Sloma
said.
"There are just scenes where we're
just riding our bikes around the neigh-
borhood and David (Mitchell) really
gave that feeling of riding your bike in
the summer when you're a kid - you
know, before it got all uncool to ride
your bike. He brought the essence of
Metro Detroit into it completely."
The producers of this Detroit-cen-
tric film are currently trying to set up
a screening in Michigan this summer.
"Sleepover" already has a French dis-
tributor, but it is still under negotiations
to find one in the U.S.
Though a Michigan native, Sloma has
been studying German at the University
of Freiburg for the past year and plans
to graduate from the University this
December.
"I want my degree," she said. "I've
worked really hard to get into U of M
and being at U of M, and I don't want to
throw it all away just because this film
is doing well. But once I get my degree
and have a backup plan, once the oppor-
tunity to act presents itself, I'm going to
take it."

transition to film

From
with a
pened
like "Cl
the clas
a Wo
Life,"
have a
conventi
disclaim
that
know
they're
when th
"Prin
of Time
incorpor
but first
age old
actors c
non-whi
Theo
sion in t
Kingsley

By BEN VERDI Gemma Arterton ("Quantum of
Daily Arts Writer Solace"). Ironically, Gyllenhaal
seems appropriately castfor some of
now on, movies that end these scenes toward the beginning,
none-of-this-really-hap- because his character is supposed to
twist, start out completely uninterested in
ick" or * k the attractive princess with whom
sic "It's he has been banished from the
nderful PfllCe Of kingdom. Frankly, it seems harder
should Pers. fThe for him to play a video-game level
"plot action stud than a man resisting the
ion" Sands of Tile sexual advances of a captured, basi-
er so At Quality16 and Rave cally naked princess.
people The dialogue and plot structure
what Disney are not that bad. They just seem
getting themselves into like they'd fit better in another
ey decide to watch. medium - and they actually do, as
ce of Persia: The Sands the "Prince of Persia" video game
finds yet another way to on which the movie is based is
rate this kind of ending, regarded very highly by players and
, it attempts to answer the critics alike. But what probably look
question: How many white like awesome effects and epic battle
an you cast in a movie about scenes in the video game turn into
ite people? little more than poorly-edited Par-
nly intelligent casting deci- kour videos of Gyllenhaal and com-
he film seems to be Sir Ben pany prancing through the streets
y ("Shutter Island") as a of a fictional Arab city.

corrupted member of the Persian
nobility and brother to the King
(who dies, ridiculously, from put-
ting on a poisoned cloak that causes
him to spontaneously combust). All
of the other actors look like they're
in this movie ironically, and speak
in nonsensical English accents that
make about as much sense as the
casting of Jake Gyllenhaal ("Broke-
back Mountain") as an intimidating,
overly masculine warlord.
As awkward as it is to see Gyl-
lenhaal try to play any kind of elite
warrior, swinging from rooftop to
rooftop, it is ten times more excru-
ciating to see his attempts at love
scenes with Tamina, the gorgeous
princess of Alamut, played by

01

N EW S?
LOCATIONS
STARTING AT
$599
The Courtyards is
Pre-leasing for Fall 2010!
:°NO service fees!
°ACADEMIC LEASES!
'PAID utilities!
...and much more...
* COURTYARDS *
1780 Broadway
734 994.6007
1cwwwthcyrtyardsannarborcom

FREE Junior Size
I0 OSandwichI
No Purchase Necessary I
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Not valid with any other offers. Valid at the Ann Arbor Location ONLY
I I
Barry Bagels
2515 J acnAn Arbs MI 48103
(734) 662 2435 www.barrybagels.corn Expires: June 7, 2010
L. _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- --- -- _ - -- -i

Disclaimer:
plot conventions.
The crux of the plot is the search
for a mystical dagger that can turn
back time - which Gyllenhaal has in
his possession - thatthe evil Kings-
ley wants sothathe can alter history
to make himself king and Tamina
wants because, well, it belongs to
her. Thus, throughout the whole
movie viewers never stop asking:
"Why don't they justgo back in time
and kill Kingsley so that none of this
awful stuff has to happen?"
Spoiler: Be careful what you wish
for, because by the end of the film,
the writers must have realized that
glaring hole. Gyllenhaal uses the
dagger to travel back in time, kills
the bad guy and undoes every bit of
"plot" up to that point.
That said, it's probably the only
creative way they could have ended
this movie about destiny and lives
connected across "The Sands of
Time." And for what it's worth, the
point of this movie is the special
effects and fight scenes, and both are
awesome when they're explained
and you can actually tell what's
going on. It just seems that no mat-
ter how great or epic a video game is,
the movie version of the story always
feels more like sand inyour shorts.

01


Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
'M' upset by Lady Vols in Super Regional


* Blue suffers two losses
to Tennessee in
Ann Arbor, fail to
advance to WCWS
By LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Writer
With the bases loaded and two
outs in the top of the seventh inning
on Friday night, a record-setting
crowd of 2,479 at Alumni Field rose
to its feet.
Michigan softball senior catcher
Roya St. Clair stepped to the plate
against Tennessee's freshman pitch-
er Ivy Ren-
froe, who TENNESSEE 5
had tossed MICHIGAN 0
a complete-
game two- MICHIGAN 3
hitter on TENNESSEE 4
Thursday
night.
The Wolverines were down 4-3,
and a base hit would possibly give
them a lead heading into the bottom
of the seventh and forcing a game
three.
St. Clair made solid contact on
the 0-2 pitch, smashing a screaming
liner to the left side of the infield.
But Lady Vol shortstop Ashley
Andrews didn't need to move her
feet to make the grab.
The Wolverines' season was over,
and Tennessee promptly formed a
mosh-pit celebration in the infield.
The Lady Vols advanced to the eight-
team Women's College World Series
by winning the first two games in
the best-of-three series.
"You have to really tip your hat to
Tennessee," Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins said. "They came into our
house and took it in two. I thought
we battled, but unfortunately it
wasn't soon enough and it wasn't
quite enough."
Michigan came into Friday's
matchup forced to deal with a short-
handed lineup. In the fourth inning
0 of Thursday's game, junior first
baseman Dorian Shaw ripped a line
drive into her own dugout, frac-
turing the right arm of sophomore
leftfielder and leadoff hitter Bree
Evans.
Senior centerfielder Molly Baush-
0 er moved up to the leadoff spot Fri-
day, and a combination of freshman
utility player Amy Knapp and junior
outfielder Marley Powers filled the
vacated nine-hole for the Wolver-
ines.
Tennessee pitching picked up

Kirkpatr
Hutchins
et arm
Kelly Gri
"That
"p
int
a
said. "An
afford an
Senior
Viefhaus
set the s
which w
On th
Nikki Ne

ick was held at third, as for the Wolverines, as she hit her first
was well aware of the rock- batter on the hand. She would hit
of Tennessee centerfielder another batter later in the first inning
eve. with the bases loaded, allowing the
kid's got a gun," Hutchins Lady Vols to seize the first lead.
After giving up a leadoff solo shot
in the second, junior pitcher Jor-
dan Taylor replaced Nemitz, who
They came promptly gave up a first-pitch home
run to Erinn Webb for back-to-back
:o our house Tennessee long balls.
Webb would hit another solo shot
ind took it in the fourth frame.
With the loss, Michigan said good-
in tw O." bye to what was once a promising bid
for a spot in the WCWS.
Six seniors will be leaving Ann
Arbor this offseason, five of whom
d at that point, we couldn't played in the Wolverines' everyday
y outs at the plate." lineup.
third baseman Maggie "It hasn't set in that I won't be
struck out on a 1-2 pitch to packing my bags for Oklahoma City
tagefor St. Clair's line-out, this week," Shaw said. "But when
ould end Michigan's season. I go home (and) think about it and
1e mound, senior pitcher watch the rest of the games, it's going
mitz got off to a rough start to hurt."

TOREHAN SHARMAN/Daily
her last game at Alumni Field this weekend.

Senior third baseman Maggie Viefhaus played

right where it left off Thursday,
as sophomore hurler Cat Hosfield
didn't allow a run until senior right-
fielder Angela Findlay cracked a
two-out home run to left center.
Hosfield was promptly replaced
by Renfroe, who gave up a two-run
shot off the bat of Shaw in the fol-

lowing inning.
In the seventh, sophomore short-
stop Stephanie Kirkpatrick drew a
leadoff walk.
Bausher singled to left after
Knapp struck out, and Findlay
blooped one into center to load the
bases with her third hit of the day.

I


4

Tuesday, June 1, 2010
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Blue's season ends at Big Tens

By BEN ESTES
Daily Sports Writer
COLUMBUS - The senior first,
Mike Dufek, baseman slowly trudged
into the postgame press conference
on Saturday at Bill Davis Stadium in
Columbus, with an expression filled
with pain and disappointment.
And who could blame him? He had
just watched his team blow a seven-run
lead, losing to Iowa 11-8 in the confer-
ence's loser's bracket and getting elimi-
nated from the Big Ten Tournament.
Michigan's only hope of returning to
the national tournament was to receive
an at-large bid by winning the con-
ference tournament. But instead, the
Hawkeyes knocked the Wolverines out
of contention, ending their season.
"We were right in it today," Dufek
said. "(I) thought we were going to win
it when we had that big lead, (but) they
came back."
Just two days before, Michigan
steamrolled the Hawkeyes 18-4 in the
second round of the tournament, set-
ting up a meeting with Minnesota in
the semifinals.
And after Michigan took an early
3-0 lead, Minnesota cut the deficit to
3-1 with a run in the seventh, causing
coach Rich Maloney to bring in closer
and junior right-hander Tyler Burgoon.
With the bases loaded, the Gophers'

Trip Schultz singled and Troy Larson
walked, tyingthe game at three. And in
the 11th frame, Minnesota completed
the comeback, as junior right-hander
Matt Miller could not retire a batter
before Kyle Knudson singled, sending
home the winning run.
The Wolverines had no time to dwell
on the heartbreaking loss, though, as
they had a rematch with Iowa the next
day. Atfirst,the Hawkeyes appeared as if
they would hand over another easy win
for Michigan. After a scoreless first three
innings, the Wolverines scored eight
over the next three and led 8-1going into
the bottom of the sixth. But that's when
the pitching meltdown began.
Starting pitcher and sophomore
right-hander Brandon Sinnery was
pulled in the sixth after allowing five
runs (four earned). Redshirt junior
right-hander Matt Gerbe then allowed
two, and it quickly became a one-run
lead for Michigan. Iowa came right
back to score four more times in the
bottom of the eighth, taking the defini-
tive 11-8 lead.
With three straight outs in its last
at-bat in the top of the ninth, the 2010
season ended quietly for the Michigan
baseball team. For the second straight
game (and continuing a theme that had
been prevalent all season), the Wolver-
ines experienced a crushing defeat,
one that could have gone either way.

4
6

0

0

r,

+


