* OPINION AT
From the Daily: Why
President Obama was the W B H d
right pick for graduation y e r -rs
speaker. PAGE 4 b a m g m

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, February 12,2010

michigandailycom

OBAMA TO DELIVER
COM \MENCEMENT ADDRESS

University President
Mary Sue Coleman made
announcement last night
By JACOB SMILOVITZ and
KYLE SWANSON
Editor in Chief and Daily News Editor
President Barack Obama will be the
keynote speaker at this year's spring com-
mencement, University President Mary
Sue Coleman said in an announcement
yesterday evening.
"President Obama has captured the
imagination and enthusiasm of many stu-
dents with his inspir-
ing words of hope and First reported on
change," Coleman MI-gn[)arlcom
said in a statement.
"We are honored to welcome a leader of
his distinction and look forward to his
message.
"We could not be happier for the gradu-
ates who will celebrate their academic
SAM WOLSON/Daily achievements with the president of the
United States."

President Barack Obama speaks.at Michigan State University's Adams Field during a campaign rally on Oct. 2, 2008.
For U.S. presidents,
'U' a stage for talk of
- s
tomonrrow pl tICs

Obama will receive an honorary Doctor
of Laws degree during the ceremony.
This spring's commencement, which
will award degrees to approximately 3,500
undergraduates, will beheld on May l at 10
a.m. in Michigan Stadium. Officials expect
more than 40,000 family members and
friends of students to be in attendance for
the ceremony.
Obama's first year in the country's high-
est office has been plagued by the ongo-
ing financial crisis that has crippled many
industries throughout the country - like
the financial sector and the housing mar-
ket.
However, the Great Recession has fallen
especially hard on Michigan's auto indus-
try, causing the state's unemployment rate
- which is now the highest in the country
- to skyrocket. And while unemployment
nationally has begun to decrease recently,
the fiscal picture for the state continues
to be grim as legislators in Lansing face a
$1.5 billion budget deficit in the next fiscal
year.
Amid that economic uncertainty, Com-
munications and Political Science Prof.
See OBAMA, Page 7
Campus
reacts to
the news of
Obama visit
By NICOLE ABER and
MALLORY JONES
Daily News Editors
When it was announced that Barack
Obama would become the next president
of the United States in November 2008,
students ran through the streets of Ann
Arbor and congregated on the Diag in cele-
bration of his victory. And after yesterday's
announcement that he will deliver the
keynote address at commencement this
spring, the president is once again evoking
excitement in Ann Arbor.
In interviews following the announce-
ment last night, students across campus
students expressed their enthusiasm.
LSA junior Carly Grob said after a year
defined by disappointments for Univer-
sity students - including the elimination
of the Michigan Promise Scholarship in
the state's fiscal year 2010 budget and the
See REACTION, Page 7

Experts say Obama may
follow predecessors,
make major policy
announcement in speech
By JILLIAN BERMAN, KYLE
SWANSON and JACOB SMILOVITZ
Daily News Editors and Editor in Chief
Over the course of the last century,
current and former presidents of the
United States have used the University
of Michigan - and all it stands for - as
a grand stage to launch the policies of
tomorrow.
From the Peace Corps to the Great
Society to Gerald Ford's re-election cam-
paign, many of the landmark storylines
of 20th-century American history have
roots tracing back to speeches in Ann.
Arbor. The appearances, like almost any
remarks given by a president, follow a

careful calculus oSlocation, content and
tone - even those portrayed as non-
political send-offs for graduates.
In the last 50 years, three sitting presi-
dents have visited campus to deliver the
University's annual spring commence-
ment address. It was announced yester-
day that
President Barack Obama would
become the fourth name on this list as
this spring's commencement speaker.
And over the course of its existence, the
University has played host to 13 different
United States presidents - many on mul-
tiple occasions.
But presidential visits to Ann Arbor
haven't been run-of-the-mill campaign
stops during which candidates simply
shake hands or kiss babies. Many of these
presidential visits have involved major
national policy announcements with far-
reaching implications.
Political Science Prof. Kenneth Koll-
man said the state of Michigan - and its
See PRESIDENTS, Page 7

CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT: FILE PHOTO/Daily, COURTESY OF MICHIGANENSIAN, COURTESY OF BENTLEY LIBRARY
(LEFT) Former President Bill Clinton delivers the spring commencement address in 2007. (TOP RIGHT)
President George H.W. Bush delivers the 1991 spring commencement address. (BOTTOM RIGHT) Presi-
dent Lyndon B. Johnson delivers the 1964 University commencement address.


STATE GOVERNMENT
In Granholm's budget proposal, a
restored but altered Promise grant

HITTING ALL THE RIGHT NOTES

Program would be a
$4,000 tax credit for
students who stay in the
state after graduating
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
Though Democratic Gov. Jennifer Gra-
nholm's proposed budget for the 2011 fis-
cal year includes funding for the Michigan
Promise Scholarship, the reinstated pro-
gram will now take on a new form.
Granholm's proposed new version of the
Promise Scholarship is a $4,000 tax credit
to any student who gets a college degree at
__ a state university and works for one year in

Michigan.
The original Michigan Promise Scholar-
ship, which was eliminated in the 2010 fis-
cal year budget despite Granholm's vocal
opposition, was a merit-based scholarship
that provided between $500-$4,000 over
the course of four years to about 96,000 stu-
dents across the state.
University spokesman Rick Fitzgerald
told The Michigan Daily in October that
6,096 students were eligible for the scholar-
ship for the 2009-2010 academic year.
With the state of Michigan facing about
a $1.5 billion deficit for the next fiscal year,
Granholm's $47.1billion budget proposal for
the 2011 fiscal year represents an increase
from the current fiscal year's budget of $45.2
billion. It also includes a freeze on higher
education appropriations, keeping funding
for state universities at the same level as pro-

vided by the 2010 budget.
Liz Boyd, press secretary for Granholm,
said higher education has always been a
priority for Granholm and reinstating the
Michigan Promise Scholarship has been
a major goal for the governor, especially in
light of the economic downturn.
"Everyone has to pursue their education
after high school and the Michigan Promise
Scholarship was a way for us to say to stu-
dents, 'not only do we want you to go to col-
lege, we want you to be prepared for college.
We feel so strongly about it, we're going to
help you pay for it,"' Boyd said. "That's the
whole promise behind the Promise, that we
would help students fund their education."
Granholm's budget also proposes ti allo-
cate about $325 million in state appropria-
tions to the University - the same amount
See BUDGET, Page 7


SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
School of Music, Theatre & Dance sophomore Brene' Jackson won the Michigan Idol talent com-
petition last night. Jackson won the competition's $500 prize.
INDEX NEWS... . . . 2 ARTS...............S.,.. 5
Vol CXX, No. 93 SUDOKU..... .......... ...........3 CLASSIFIE S.. ...... ...... 6
©2OlTheMrhoianyoy OPINION.............................4 SPORTS...... ...

WEATHER HI: 27
TOMORROW LO:16

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Photo Slideshow: Presidential commencements.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

,,


0

2 - Friday, February 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers
LEFT Ellen Myers participates in
a candlelieht nigil en the Diag tnr
students massacred in the Ciudad
Juarez Drug Warons Thursday.
As et the beginning ef February,
230 people have heen killed in
Juamaz ths year. (SAMANTHA
TRAUBEN/Daily) TOP RIGHT
Michigan State President Lee
Anna K. Simen, lett, Univeersity
President Mary Sue Cleman,
center, and Wayne State Presi-
dent Jay Noren, right, speak at
the University tesearch Cerider
in Lansing last Friday. (AEIEL
BOND/Daily) BOTTOM RIGHT
Charlie White and Meryl'Duels,
an Olympic-bound ice dancing
pair, bane been skating tegether
since they were eight. White and
Meryl will be cempetiting ten the
United States' irst geld metal in
ice dancing. In 2009 White and
Davis wee the National title in ice
dancing. (JED MOCH/Daily)
NEED MORE PHOTOS?
See more Photos of the Week
on our WebSite,
michigandailycom.
CRIME NOTES
Stolen narcotics
WHERE: 15oo block of East
Medical Center
WHEN: Wednesdayatuabout
10:45 am.
WHAT: Narcotics were stolen
from the EEG lab, including
oxycodone, Percocet, Lyrica
und Altrium, University Polite
reported. There are no sue-
pects.
Threatening text
messages
WHERE: Northwood 5
WHEN: Wednesday atuabout
10:30 am.
WHAT: A student reported
recieving threatening text
messages from an ex-boy-
friend, which is a violation of
a personal protection order,
University police reported.

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

WEDNESDAY:
Before You Were Here

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs


420 Maynard St
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SAMOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558,
emitevire~michigandaitycom rmdbaeineue@ginail.cam
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsomnofficeknho urs u.-Thurs. la.m. - 2a.
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
torrectins eerrciona@michigandaiy.com
Leters tolthe Editor tothedaiy@miehigandaityaaom
Photography Department phtor@michigandail.coam
Ars ection arspeamichiganrdaityncom
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportstSection sports@michigandaity.com
DisplaytSales t display@michigandaity.com
ClassifiedtSales claaified@michigandaily.com
OnlietSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance fiance@miehfgandaiy.earn
EDITORIAL STAFF
Malt Aaronson Managing Editr aaranaen@nrichigasdaity.aae
Jillian Berman ManagingNewsatditrnbarman@mithigandailycom
nSrEN sEWn EDInTORS icole AberMal,larasJoneehaeSineragsaKyen
Sane, Esehwar hirunavukkarasu
uSITNToNES EITORe: DylaCinti, Drn Fitgex ra, Jaseph Liheran,
Vnicaealdui,AnienThoma,nen TrhrsbEyannraTwiggs
Rachel Var Gilder EdioriatePagrEditrneagitder@mnchigandaily.ecom
uSE RETRuALPEEDITrnRS:Bian Fuhenerty raaeEilynOrly, Lara
ASSISTANEDITORIALPAEuEDIRn S:Michele DaWit,AleaSchiffMateweShuttrn
RyantKartje ManagineSportditrn karjr@rnicigandaiy.eenr
SNIO RSE DITOense RS: Nicoleuera, Mark Bn, Gj u aj , his
Meszars,uJoenSapleton
uSSISTN SPOeRTS ETRSe:,Mihael Fe,eHrnannr, Ry angs Zak
Pyzik,imRoha, AuySca'ran
Jamieluck ManagiArts Eaditor block@michiandailycom
SENIRuRnS EDIRS: Caroan Klaarki,uAndrew apJeff rSanfrad
ArrnSSI N AREIOSLreaur, Sharonaacb, riid ilci, Mie Kunt,
KaviShakhnaran
Ma tolins and photo@michigandaiycm
SamWolson ManagingeebsruEditrs
SENIRPHTO E DITRFR MULTIMEDIAu Chanelnasbaurg-atrinugen
Sarah Squire ard design@michigandaily.cm
Anna Lein-Zielirski ManagntsignanEditors
SrEOnRESNEDIO ngeueela Chih
Treortalero MagaineEdtr aterannirhigandaihnreor
Melanie Fried and copydek@mihiandailycome
Rachel Phillips copy chirf
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie Jozwiak SatesMnaer
Ryan Busirski tlassified Manager
CLASSIIEDeeASSISTNTuNAGEsR:uealaLaeata
Jason MahakiarnPrduction Manaer
Allison Sartatree Layout Manaer
Viviar Lee FinancesManager
Brittany MoralesCiculautaion Manager
Brad WileyPerojecCoorinatru
nh ichilgarta liSSNat74-9ini is publiheMnday thrughFriday duringethetfalfand
inter tense by studentsatth nve rsityof Michigan. Oercopy i availabletfree hret arll
radars. Addiinal copies may bepicked upat the Dailysic frr $2tubscriptionsrfortfall term,
starting inSetember, viaU.S. mailare$11.ieter (Jnel uay through Apilis $115yearlong
(Septemberdthrugh April)lis $195niverity af eareuehenoareduceieubsriptione.
Oncmu usrpin o altr e$5 u srpin utb rpi.TeMcia al
ia meerofthrAsociated Pesead Te Asociated Coleie aPress

0

Broken
bathroom door
WHERE: Couzens Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at about
2:15 p.m.
WHAT: A stall door in the
men's bathroom was damaged
and removed from its hinges,
University police reported.
Cash stolen from
unlocked desk
WHERE: North tngalls Building
WHEN: Wednesday at about
12:30 p.m.
WHAT: A University faculty
member reported $105 in cash
stolen from an unlocked desk
drawer, University police
reported.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Minorities in Philharmonia
higher ed. Orchestra

WHAT: Panelists from
Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities
will discuss work experi-
ences and hiring advice.
WHO: Center for Research
on Learning and Teach-
ing and Rackham
WHEN: Today from 3:30 p.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Assembly Hall,
Rackham Auditorium
Challah for
Hunger
WHAT: Challah sale fea-
turing plain, chocolate
chip, and apple cirnna-
moo, $4.00 per challah.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: Today from
11 a.m. to 2p.m.
WHERE: Mandell L.
Berman Center, Hillel

WHAT: First UPO con-
cert of the semester.
WHO: University Phil-
harmonia Orchestra
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
" The article "Michigan
Vision Party announces
candidates for MSA
president, vice president"
misidentified MSA Presi-
dent Abhishek Mahanti
and MSA Vice President
Mike Rorro's relationship
with MVP. They were the
party's first presidential
and vice presidential can-
didates, but are no longer
affiliated with the party.
1 Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

1The New York Times
reported that 95,900
jobs are to be added every
month this year, according to
a White House report released
Thursday. Officials in the
White House report also said
that unemployment is still like-
ly to linger around 10 percent
and not fall below 6 percent
until 2015.
2The University received
an 'A' for its practices in
recycling and composting
from the Sustainable Endow-
ments tnstitute's 2010 College
Sustainability Report Card.
FOR MORE, SEEROPINION, PAGE 4
3According to the Lexing-
ton Herald-Leader, o man
in Lexington was charged
for trafficking marijuana after
reporting his. drugs stolen.
Police searched his residence
and found $225 in cash, a digi-
tal scale, rolling papers and 140
grams of hidden marijuana.

MORE ONLINE -
Lune Crime Notes? Gel mere onirne at micigaedailycem/blegs/the wire


Write for the Daily's food blog, The Table.

Two suicide bombers kill 15,
wound 30 in N.W. Pakistan0

E-mail ertgreen@gmail.com for details

Attacks came during
U. S. national
security advisor visit
PESHAWAR, Pakistan (AP) -
Two suicide bombers struck outside
a police complex in northwestern
Pakistan, killing 15 people and
underscoring the relentless militant
threat despite army operations and
U.S. missile strikes against al-Qaida
and the Taliban.
The second blast Thursday

went off as rescuers responded
to the first - a militant tactic
seen before in Pakistan, but not
often. Of the 15 dead, at leasot
nine were police, while the 30
people wounded included the
city's police chief, hospital official
Abdul Hafeez said.
The attacks in the city of Banno
coincided with a visit to tslamabad
by White House National Security
Adviser Jim Jones.
Militants have carried out
numerous attacks on security
forces over the past several years

to undermine the public's confi-
dence in the already-weak state.
On Wednesday, a suicide bomber
killed t0 police officers and seven
civilians in the Khyber tribal region
near the Afghanoborder.
No group immediately claimed
responsibility for Thursday's blasts,
which were carried out by attackers
on foot outside a gate to the police
complex, but suspicion is .likely
to fall on the Pakistani Taliban.
The city of Bannu lies just outside
North Waziristan, a major militant
stronghold.

Boartifor Stdent
Publications
seeks New Members
The University of Michigan Board for Student Publications
is recruiting two members for three-year terms beginning in April.
The Board is responsible for three publications:
The Michigan Daily, the Michiganensian Yearbook, and the Gargoyle.
Because the Board is committed to realizing diversity's benefits
for itself and for the publications it oversees, the Board
is particularly interested in recruiting members of the
University Community (faculty, staff and students) or the general public
who are members of underrepresented groups and who have
experience and expertise in journalism, law, finance, or development.
Interested persons are encouraged to apply.
For more information and application forms, please visit
our website: www.pub.umich.edu
or contact Mark Bealafeld, Student Publications General Manager
at (734) 936-7883 or mbealafe@umich.edu
The deadline for receipt of applications is
February 12, 2010.

0

0

0


* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 12, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
. DETROIT
Mayor plans to
demolish 10,000
blighted buildings
Detroit Mayor Dave Bing says
he wants to demolish about 10,000
vacant buildings as part of a broader
short-term effort to clean up blight
and improve quality of life for city
residents.
Bing discussed his vision for the
city's future yesterday at a panel
discussion hosted by Time maga-
zine and the Brookings Institution.
Afterward, he said he would like to
complete the demolitions in two to
three years.
Bing was one of the panelists
for the event titled "Reimagin-
ing Detroit: Making Washington a
Partner in Detroit's Next Economy."
Bing said it will be "very difficult"
for Detroit to rebound without fed-
eral money.
Detroit faces a budget deficit
estimated at $300 million. Eroding
population and tax bases have con-
tributed to the city's struggles.
PALM BEACH GARDENS, Fla.
Reebok founder
claims accountant
stole $25 million
Reebok founder Paul Fireman
is suing his longtime accountant,
claiming he stole $25 million from
him sod a charity.
The accountant, Arnold Mullen,
has been charged with five counts
of grand theft. A phone message
was left yesterday by The Associ-
ated Press for Mullen and his attor-
ney.
Mullen was released on his own
recognizance, but has been placed
on house arrest with a monitoring
device.
The Florida Department of Law
Enforcement said the 62-year-old
Mullen stole money from the Ree-
bok chairman and his charitable
foundation for the homeless.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico
Volcanic activity
forces village to
evacuate
AvolcanoonMontserratshot ash
some nine miles (15 kilometers) into
the sky Thursday, one of its most
dramatic events since a devastating
1997 eruption that drove away half
the Caribbean island's population.
The partial collapse of the
dome in the volcano's crater also
unleashed flows of hot gas and
0 rocks, triggering sirens for the
evacuation of about 20 people from
a nearby village.
Paul Cole, director of the
Montserrat Volcano Observatory,
said it appeared to be the most
material ejected by the volcano in
about four years. He estimated 10
percent to 15 percent of the hard-
ened lava dome had collapsed.
"When we're looking at the lava
dome now, there's a large scoop out
of it that's missing," Cole said.
The dome has crumbled several

times since the volcano became
active in 1995, and Cole said it is
possible activity will settle down as
the dome builds itself up again.
NEW YORK
No injuries after
underground NYC
explosion
Anexposion in a transformer
underneath a Manhattan sidewalk
sent flames up the front of a land-
mark building yesterday, shattering
windows and blackening the front
of several stories. No injuries were
reported.
Consolidated Edison spokesman
Christopher Olert said the trans-
former was in a vault below the
front of the seven-story building.
An investigation was under way
into the cause.
Deputy Fire Chief James Daly
said firefighters were initially
called out for a report of smoke
coming out of a manhole.
He said firefighters had been out
all night to deal with manhole fires
because of runoff from snow and
salt coming into contact with elec-
trical grids below ground.
Carol Paplin, who works for an
office furniture dealership on the
sixth floor of the building on Sixth
Avenue in the Chelsea district,
said she detected a sulfur odor as
she approached the building at
10:30 am., but as she got to the
entrance the smell faded and she
went inside.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Former Pres. Clinton in hospital,
undergoes surgery for chest pains

Clinton in recovery
after surgery for
clogged artery
NEW YORK (AP) - Former
President Bill Clinton had two
stents inserted yesterday to prop
open a clogged heart artery after
being hospitalized with chest
pains, an adviser said.
Clinton, 63,"is ingood spirits and
will continue to focus on the work
of his foundation and Haiti's relief
and long-term recovery efforts,"
said adviser Douglas Band.
SecretaryofState HillaryRodham
Clinton left Washington and headed
to New York to be with her husband,
who underwent the procedure at
New York Presbyterian Hospital.
Stents are tiny mesh scaffolds
used to keep an artery open after
it is unclogged in an angioplasty
procedure. Doctors thread a tube
through a blood vessel in the groin
to a blocked artery, inflate a bal-
loon to flatten the clog, and slide
the stent into place.
That is a different treatment
from what Clinton had in 2004,
when clogged arteries first landed
him in the hospital. He underwent
quadruple bypass surgery because

of four blocked arteries, some of
which had squeezed almost com-
pletely shut.
Angioplasty, which usually
includes placingstents, isone of the
most common medical procedures
done worldwide. More than half a
million stents are placed each year
in the United States.
With bypass or angioplasty,
patients often need another proce-
dure years down the road because
arteries often reclog.
"It's not unexpected" for Clinton
to need another procedure now,
said Dr. Clyde Yancy, cardiologist
at Baylor University Medical Cen-
ter in Dallas and president of the
American Heart Association.
The sections of arteries and veins
used to create detours around the
original blockages tend to develop
clogs five to 10 years after a bypass,
he explained. New blockages also
can develop in new areas.
"This kind of disease is progres-
sive. It's not a one-time event, so it
really points out the need for con-
stant surveillance" and treating
risk factors such as high cholesterol
and high blood pressure, he said.
Doctors willhave to watch Clinton
closely for signs of excessive bleed-
ing from the spot in the leg where
doctors inserted a catheter, said Dr.

Spencer King, a cardiologist at St.
Joseph's Heart and Vascular Insti-
tute in Atlanta and past president of
the American College of Cardiology.
Complications are rare. The
death rate from non-emergency
angioplasty is well under 1 per-
cent, King said.
The former president has been
working in recent weeks to help
relief efforts in Haiti. Since leav-
ing office, he has maintained a
busy schedule working on human-
itarian projects through his foun-
dation.
Clinton'slegendas anunhealthy
eater was sealed in 1992, when the
newly minted presidential can-
didate took reporters on jogs to
McDonald's. He liked hamburg-
ers, steaks, french fries - lots of
them - and Was a voracious eater
who could gobble an apple (core
and all) in two bites and ask for
more.
Two of his favorite Arkansas
restaurants were known for their
large portions - a hamburger the
size of a hubcap andsteaks as thick
as fists.
He was famously spoofed on
"Saturday Night Live" as a glutton-
ous McDonald's customer.
Friends and family say Clinton
changed his eating habits for the

Former President Bill Clinton attends the Clinton Global Initiative Asia Meeting in
Hong Kong. Clinton experienced chest pain yesterday and was admitted to the New
York Presbyterian Hospital.
better after his bypass surgery. In 1996, he had a precancerous
Other than his heart ailments, lesion removed from his nose, and
Clinton has suffered only typical a year before a benign cyst was
problems that come with aging. taken off his chest.

China urges Obama to cancel meeting with Dalai Lama

Chinese officials
warn meeting could
hurt ties with U.S.
BEIJING (AP) - China urged
the United States today to imme-
diately cancel plans for President
Barack Obama to meet with the
Dalai Lama next week, warning
the move could further hurt ties.
The meeting is likely to enflame
tensions between China and the
United States, already strained
over disputes over trade issues
and U.S. weapons sales to Taiwan.
Foreign Ministry spokes-
man Ma Zhaoxu issued the
remarks hours after Washington
announced Obama would meet
with the Tibetan spiritual leader
at the White House on Feb. 18.
China accuses the Dalai Lama
of pushing for Tibetan indepen-
dence, which the Dalai Lama
denies, and believes that shunning
the exiled Tibetan monk should
be a basic principle of interna-

tional relations. Obama has been
under intense pressure to meet
with the Dalai Lama after putting
off a meeting in October.
"We urge the U.S. side to fully
understand the high sensitivity
of Tibet-related issues, honor its
commitment to recognizing Tibet
as part of China and opposing
'Tibet independence,"' Ma said.
The U.S. should cancel the
meeting "so as not to cause fur-
ther damage to Sino-U.S. rela-
tions," Ma said in a statement.
Ma did not specify what conse-
quences would arise from such
a meeting. Chinese President
Hu Jintao may possibly visit
Washington in April.
White House spokesman
Robert Gibbs said Obama
looked forward to an "engag-
ing and constructive dialogue"
with the Dalai Lama.
Gibbs said the United States
and China had a mature rela-
tionship that could withstand
differences on some issues.
"We know that two coun-

tries on this planet are not always
going to agree on everything and
we'll have those disagreements,"
Gibbs said.
China-U.S. relations have been
strained in recent weeks over sev-
eral issues: Washington announc-
ing a $6.4 billion arms sale to
Taiwan, the self-governing island
Beijing claims as its own; U.S. Sec-
retary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton urging Beijing to inves-
tigate hacking attacks that led

to Google's threat to pull out of
China; and Obama vowing to get
tough with China on a currency
dispute.
At the same time, U.S. officials
welcomed Beijing's approval of a
visit by the USS Nimitz carrier to
Hong Kong.
"We think it's important -
an important part of our ... not
only outreach and engagement
with the Chinese people but an
important dimension of our mil-

itary-to-military relationship,"
State Department spokesman P.J.
Crowley said.
Hong Kong media have report-
ed that the visit could take place
next week.
Tibet and Taiwan are China's
most sensitive issues. China has
already threatened to punish U.S.
companies involved in any arms
sales to Taiwan and has suspend-
ed military exchanges with Wash-
ington.

r



at the Original Cottage Inn

Jl

All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
b14t - 8+ 77 (ie / 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Maynard St-Food To Go734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure

and enjoy the performance by UM's Co-ed A Cappela,
AMAZIN' BLUE
From 6-9pm

v 'y~ For reservations call:
(734) 663-3379
512 E. William, Ann Arbor, MI
2010 1mYutj/Suseer Hut4#tcal Aid AppcaM:
PLANNING TO REGISTER FOR
SPRING/SUMMER CLASSES
..now is the time to
U ~ , U RE

OTE Entergy
THZe KREscGr FOUNDAT O
Award Ceremony. M ( '0
Keynote by Gey Adson, Pros dent & COS, U5 t bIorgy
Blatp r xnrrytSPISt; x,,'
Stlephen s xl.t.Posrchool of mres ')
University of ixshlign, Ann Arbor N 'ro s
Recepton to ollow lirp Vdeo give away.
Formorexmf.rmrxrx,,reas vrsr . r cao yrrom

To be considered I
* you register at le
appointed enrc
" the Office of Finn
Spring/Summer a
by:
Friday,

SPRING/SUMMER AID APPLICATION
AND INSTRUCTIONS ARE ON THE WEB:
www.finaid.umich.edu/forms/ssrff 10


4 - Friday, February 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

V A L E N T I 1 I & S D M j : 1 0 O P N E S_ , G i 5 T \ O N ~t U e
tAD/ Ao~ (ie .chjas ± ? $lL a'nlacc
f u1 s AS
i r b coll
VIVCKS p t~l'
0219C5-0 t3Y \LdD$E100?J

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR INCHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position ofthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Big man at the Big House
Why Obama is the right choice for commencement speaker
The list of recent University commencement speakers
includes the likes of award-winning journalists Bob
Woodruff in spring 2008 and Christiane Amanpour in
spring 2006, Human Genome Project Director Francis Collins
in winter 2007 and who could forget former President Bill Clin-
ton in spring 2007. But this year's spring commencement speaker
probably couldn't be topped. This year, the field of Michigan Sta-
dium will play host to President Barack Obama as he delivers the
keynote address at spring commencement ceremonies. Obama is
the perfect figure to send University graduates off as they depart
from the University to pursue their careers. Obama's history in
academia and ability to demonstrate the ideals that an institution
of higher learning should embody make him the ideal candidate
to speak at the University's spring commencement.

Bronzed dangers

*I

There are few times I love Ann
Arbor more than when it is
covered with a fresh blanket
of snow. While this
idyllic winter won-
derland entices me
to crawl into bed
with a cup of hot P
chocolate and mini
marshmallows,
others find comfort
in different types
of beds, blanketed
with UV rays: tan- LEAH
ning beds. With
gray skies and a POTKIN
forecast akin to the
arctic, there seems
to be little reprieve
for the so-called "tanorexics" endur-
ing a long Michigan winter.
A good tan makes anyone look a few
pounds thinner and gives that much-
desired glowing appearance (and with
spring break fast approaching, who
wouldn't want that?) But students
should be aware of the risks associated
with tanning beds before seeking one
for warmth and color on a cold Ann
Arbor day and educate themselves on
the pros and cons of indoor tanning.
I understand that college students
regularly engage in other larger-scale
risky activities such as binge drinking,
but this issue should be taken just as
seriously, because its effects can be
just as deadly.
Let's start on a positive note -
everyone looks good with a tan, and
at 20 years old, many of us are more
concerned with physical appearance
than health matters. A little bit of
color makes teeth look whiter, skin
clearer and, let's face it, bodies hotter.
Not toimenftion, tle UV and UVB rays'
simulated by tanning beds trigger the
synthesis of vitamin D in the skin (the
new rage inoanyhealth publications).
But don't be fooled: Many salons

cheat by making use of UVA rays
which, while producing a desirable
color, reduce the potential production
of vitamin D. And let's not forget a tan-
ner's most coveted fallacy - the claim
that the beds provide a valuable base
tan. The logic goes something like
this: I'm going to be in the sun and I
burn easily, so I should get a base tan
so I don't burn, because burning is
worse for me than a tanning bed. That
sounds logical enough, right? Wrong.
According to some studies, the risk
of melanoma, a dangerous skin can-
cer, can increase by about 75 percent
for indoor tanners younger than 30
years old. Most students here fall into
that age group, and with two tanning
salons within a one-mile radius of the
Diag(and manymore in theAnnArbor
area), there's certainly reason for con-
cern. And with papers to review and
contracts to sign before entering the
tanning contraption (bed), newly-
legal college students are prime-aged
candidates. Not to mention that the
salons know how to target students
- we're all suckers for a good deal.
Salons like Big House Tanning offer
free tanning to customers who bring
a guest and money off to students in
the Greek community. Tanners, you
may love how you look now, but when
you're wrinkly and sun-spotted by age
30, you'll be longing to take back those
12- to 15-minute sessions that seemed
so harmless at the time.
The concern surrounding indoor
tanning has even caught the atten-
tion of the political world. It has been
proposed that an indoor-tanning tax
be enacted to discourage the use of
beds and ultimately reduce the num-
ber of cases of skin cancer. Though it's
unlikely this would have much'of an
effect, it's certainly a promising first
step, because a tight budget is always
a concern for students,_ ,
For now, I encourage students to

consider some alternatives to fake
baking, as it is doubtful mere warn-
ings will convince people to forgo
post-class pit stops at Campus Tan.
Yes, that's right - I'm talking spray
tans. While I know everyone fears
the orange palms that are the tell-
tale sign of a bad fake tan, I assure
you not every sunless tanning expe-
rience rivals Ross's spray tan disaster
in "Friends" (though it would be quite
Fake tanning can
have dangerous
health risks.
funny). Salons like Tanfastic even offer
sunless tanning deals during football
season (because if the University can't
beat any other team, we might as well
look better than they do), and the cou-
pon books passed out occasionally on
the Diag (the ones with the dollar-bill
covers) have special Mystic Tan offers.
Airbrush tans are another, though
sometimes pricey, alternative, with
perks such as hand-painted abs and
custom color choice. While these alter-
natives may not provide the so-called
base tan arguably achieved by tanning
beds, they do provide the confidence
associated with a tan body.
So for all the loyal Wolverine tan-
ners out there, the winter will soon be
over, the snow will soon melt and tan-
ning the less-harmful, old-fashioned
way will soon be possible. As for me,
I'll safely enjoy the sun while I can
until then, but once I'm back in Ann
Arbor' afterspring break it's batk'to
my real bed and hot chocolate.
- Leah Potkin can bere chd
at lpotkin@umich.edu.

As reported in the Daily's article yester-
day evening, University President Mary
Sue Coleman announced yesterday that
the keynote speaker at this year's spring
commencement will be President Barack
Obama. Obama is the third sitting U.S.
president to speak at a University com-.
mencement ceremony, following George
H.W. Bush in 1991 and Lyndon B. John-
ston in 1963. On May 1, Obama is slated to
address roughly 3,500 graduating students
and 40,000 family members and friends
in the Big House, according to the Daily
report. Campus response to Coleman's
announcement has been instantaneous
and uproarious.
It's difficult to think of a more appropriate
keynote speaker for the University's com-
mencement ceremony, even if one considers
only Obama's unrivaled ability to encourage
students. Most students will never forget
the rally on the Diag that ensued after the
announcement that Obama had been elect-
ed as the president of the United States in
November 2008. During Obama's campaign
for the White House, his message of hope
and change, along with his infectious cha-
risma, resonated with voters nationwide,
and especially with students. Regardless
of one's political opinions, it's undeniable
that Obama generated more enthusiasm
and excitement among students than any
other political figure in recent memory.
And Obama motivated many students to not
only think, but to act - successfully mobi-
lizing students in an unheard-of movement
and getting them to the polls in force. It's
unlikely that anyone could be better quali-
fied to inspire University graduates to take
action to respond to the problems they see
in society.
Obama's charisma aside, he also demon-
strates a strong commitment to the values
that the University shares. Intellectually
tenacious, committed to public service and
a beacon of multiculturalism, Obama pos-
sesses leadership qualities that graduates
should emulate.
Obama's biography and life experienc-
es allow him to speak with authority to a
wide range of people as diverse as the Uni-
versity's 2010 graduating class. Obama,
who made history when he was elected the
nation's first black president, has lived a

life that provides him with the perspective
and experience to speak with authority to
students from traditionally marginalized
groups and less privileged backgrounds.
His multiracial heritage and childhood in
a single-parent family are perhaps more
relevant to many students than the privi-
leged backgrounds that often accompany
distinguished leaders.
And though the prestige of being a sit-
ting president is overwhelming, it's impor-
tant to remember that Obama is also a
distinguished academic. He graduated
from Columbia University with a bach-
elor's degree in political science before
attending Harvard Law School, where he
served as president of the Harvard Law
"Review. He later held positions at the Uni-
versity of Chicago Law School, one of the
most intellectually rigorous law schools in
the country, first as a fellow and then as.a
professor. His demonstrated commitment
to knowledge and intellectual courage
make him uniquely qualified to address the
University's graduating class.
Obama is the right person to speak to
students who intend to lead in thought
and action. The University has a history
of producing leaders in a wide range of
fields, from former President Gerald Ford
to great American playwright Arthur Mill-
er to the entire crew of astronauts of the
Apollo 15 mission. This kind of leadership
could hardly be better exemplified than
in Obama. As a community organizer in
Chicago's South Side, Obama applied his
mind to the challenges facing the area. He
carried his commitment to his values into
the Illinois legislature and the U.S. Senate.
Now, he represents the United States in
confronting major global conflicts. There
is no leader better qualified to provide stu-
dents with advice on leadership.
The University's 2010 graduates face
daunting challenges as they enter the job
market, considering the crippling economic
climate. But Obama's career success makes
him the perfect speaker for this group
of students. As an academic, community
activist and successful politician, he can
provide University graduates with valuable
insight on leadership in the real world. The
University could have faired no better in
the commencement speaker.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be
fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Letters are edited for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
ALEX HARTLEY|
Makingedc n costs fair for all

*I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, Emad Ansari, Jordan Birnholtz, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt,
Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex
Schiff, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Robert Soave, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

There have been many suggestions for what the Uni-
versity should do to counter shrinking state support.
The University must strike a delicate balance between
remaining competitive with its peers and making sure
it serves the people it is supposed to serve. I believe that.
Michigan should take as its financial model... itself. More
specifically, it should look at its graduate and professional
schools. It should adopt the tuition model of the gradu-
ate school for the undergraduate program, in which the
difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition is not
nearly as disparate as the undergraduate tuition model.
If tuition for in-state students were increased to $23,000
from the current $11,659 (for lower division students) and
out-of-state tuition were decreased from $34,937 (for lower
division students) to $29,000, tuition revenue would actu-
ally increase dramatically. Out-of-state students pay one
and a half times the actual cost of their education, thus sub-
sidizing in-state students, who underpay their costs. But
there are more in-state than out-of-state students attending
the University, so out-of state-students don't pay enough to
offset the cost difference.
The idea of lower in-state tuition comes fromthe state's
assumption that residents pay enough taxes to cover the
difference in cost. But if this was ever true, it certainly
isn't any longer. If both sets of students were roughly cov-
ering the costs of their education, tuition revenue would
increase dramatically.
An argument that could be made against this proposal
is that it would price out in-state students, who tend to
not be as wealthy as their out-of-state counterparts, or
.give the wealthier in-state students incentive to go else-
where. However, the University recently adopted a plan
to meet the full demonstrated need of in-state students,
so no matter what the tuition is, in-state students will pay
only what they can afford. The in-state tuition increase
would affect only those who can afford to pay more. And
tuition for in-state students would still be much less than
what it is at any comparable private school. For example,
Northwestern charges approximately $38,000 a year in
tuition, and Stanford charges approximately $37,000.
Currently, the University receives about two-thirds
of its operating costs from tuition, so if it could increase
its tuition revenue, it could also increase the amount of
money it has to give out in aid. Right now, lower division
LSA out-of-state undergrads pay about $34,000 a year,

and in-state pay lower division undergrads pay about
$11,000 a year. Taking that as the average tuition, with
about 9,000 out-of-state students and 17,000 in-state stu-
dents max., tuition money is roughly $493 million. Under
this new plan, all other things being equal, tuition rev-
enue would jump to $598 million. To put that into per-
spective, with the money the school would make from
implementing this plan, it would have enough money to
pay the entire tuition of over 6,000 in-state students and
still break even. While only some of this money would be
used for financial aid, the rest could be used to make up
the money that the state is thinking of cutting from our
budget.
If both sets of students paid roughly the full cost of
their education, there also wouldn't be tension between
in-state students and out-of-state students. Many out-
of-state students feel uncomfortable about paying three
times the amount for the same education. And they have
much less prospect of financial aid, because most aid
goes to in-state students. In-state students feel that out-
of-state students are much wealthier than them and also
feel odd about paying so much less for the same educa-
tion, knowing that other students are paying much more.
Also, with the state giving less support, the University
may have a tendency to accept higher paying out-of-state
students, which would be bad for in-state students and
could hurt them in terms of acceptance. The University
is trying to cope with falling state support, and one of the
most effective ways it can do that is by accepting higher
paying out-of-state students. However, this isn't fair to
qualified in-state students, who might deserve a spot here
but might not get it because their spot can be filled with a
high-paying out-of-state student. Achieving rough parity
in tuition will largely nullify that issue.
While this proposal may seem radical, and on the sur-
face it might seem to hurt in-state students, in fact it will
help them. While some who can afford to pay more will
pay more, those who can't afford to pay more will receive
more aid. The school will have much more money to give
out in aid and use for operating costs, and any bias toward
accepting high-paying out-of-state students will be miti-
gated, while out-of-state students will actually be paying
less. This is a fair solution for everyone.
Alex Hartley is an LSA freshman.

U.S. Supreme Court ruling
is about freedom of speech

force. Additionally,s
played a role in the fi
misguided governme
consumer greed. A 19
by Steven Holmes poi

TO THE DAILY: of Housing and Urba
Some of the recent letters to the editor regard- Fannie Mae and Frs
ing the Supreme Court ruling on Citizens United number of loans give
v. Federal Election Commission could have used hoping to help low- a:
a bit more thought. buy homes. Many cor
One letter did well in outlining the deleterious of purchasing a house
effect that both unrestricted corporate or union The author goes o
campaign financing and Senatorial dithering can Court's ruling on C
have on the nation (Republicans will likely stall Election Committee,
action on Citizens United v. Federal Election Com- speech can be limit'
mission case, 02/10/2010). However, the author it induces a violent:
failed to connect these phenomena to the core provides is an acut
issue in the case - free speech. The Supreme there is a direct chaf
Court didn't rule on whether or not the effects of ing "fire" to people g
corporate political actions are good or bad; they Additionally, no one
ruled that free speech is a right extended to cor- the trampling. On th
porations, with the implication that campaign corporate campaign
contributions are a form of free speech, a direct manner wou
Another letter starts by portraying corpora- more, unlike his exa
tions as evil entities that attack "our" financial is likely to be benefi
markets (Supreme Court gives special interest ety or the economy,
groups undue power, 02/11/2010). For the most financing unequivoc:
part, corporations created and sustained the
financial markets that fund our economy, so it's Matthew Brunner
dishonest to portray them solely as a destructive Staff

although corporate greed
nancial collapse, so too did
mtal altruism and mundane
999 New York Times article
nts out that the Department
an Development pressured
eddie Mac to increase the
en to subprime borrowers,
nd moderate-income people
nsumers made the mistake
above their means.
an to critique the Supreme
itizens United v. Federal
citing precedent that free
ed, like in cases in which
situation. The example he
te instance of limitation:
in of causality from shout-
getting trampled to death.
derives any benefit from
e other hand, proving that
financing harms society in
ld be impossible. Further-
ample, corporate financing
cial to some parts of soci-
so one cannot label such
ally bad.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of passionate, strong
student writers to join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members
are responsible for discussing and writing the editorials
that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

,*


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday; February 12, 2010 -- 5

Jazz festival
educates 'U'

Ben Huh is the CEO of the Cheezburger Network, which includes FAIL Blog, I Can Has Cheezburger and wany other huwor sites.

The Ce ezurger king

Ben Huh, the man behind
the LOLs, explains the
business of captioned cats.
By ROBERT SOAVE
Daily Arts Writer
Ben Huh never wanted to be a comedian.
"I certainly don't find myself that funny," he
said in an interview with The Michigan Daily.
And yet, because of Huh, millions of peo-
ple around the world LOL at their computer
screens every day.
Huh, who came to the Ann Arbor Public
Library last week to talk about his company, is
the CEO of the Cheezburger Network, which
includes more than two dozen popular Internet
humor blogs, including I Can Has Cheezburg-
er? and FAIL Blog. But the key to the compa-
ny's success is that neither Huh nor his staff
members actually supply the humor. That's the
users' job.
"For us, the cost of creating content is vir-
tually negligible because our users do it," Huh
said. "We provide the tools and the framework,
things like that. That's what's made the busi-
ness viable."
Of course, there was little evidence that such

a business would really work when Huh left a
well-paying management job in 2007 to launch
a career in Internet humor. But the widespread
popularity of captioned photos online - as well
as the extremely low cost of generating content
- has helped the Cheezburger Network thrive.
Users can upload already captioned pho-
tos or add captions to other users' photos. It's
Huh's job to make sure this content reaches the
computer screens of the millions of people who
visit the blogs.
"We really focus on building a community of
people who love what they do," he said. "(We)
use their creativity to continue to produce
interesting stuff."
It was in fact e-mails fromusers that inspired
the Cheezburger Network to adopt the mission
of making the Internet laugh for five minutes a
day.
"They would e-mail us and say, 'You know,
you're the highlight of my work day,' "Huh said.
"They're looking for kind of an escape from
their everyday work. You may love your job, but
still you need a break every once in awhile."
For fans of the Cheezburger Network, that
break is all about the cats. I Can Has Cheez-
burger, one of Huh's most visited blogs, depicts
cats in various pictures surrounded by funny
captions.
According to Huh, it's no accident that cats

became the gold standard of online photo cap-
tioning.
"They show more emotion in their facial
expressions (and) their body language than
dogs do," he said. "With cats you kind of live in
their world, so they ignore this camera some-
times and you get to catch a lot of really fun
stuff that they do."
Putting funny captions on pictures of cats
goes back quite a long time. Huh mentioned
that he once came across a black-and-white
postcard from 1905 featuring a dressed-up kit-
ten with the words MOMMY WHERE'S MY
DINNER in all caps.
"A decade after popular photography came
into being, somebody was putting all-caps cap-
tions on cat pictures," Huh said.
Today, funny cat pictures are still injecting
much-needed laughter into the stressful lives
of working people. For Huh, that's the thrill of
running his company.
"It's not (like) selling insurance to people,"
he said. "There's something fundamentally
good about what we do."
And of course, Huh loves to laugh at lolcats.
He even has a favorite.
"This kitten, it's got ear hair coming out of its
ears," he said. "It's in a wine glass and it's, like,
chilling ... and it says 'send me with the compli-
ments to the ladies.' It's such a cool cat."

By JOSHUA BAYER
Daily Arts Writer
The University of Michigan Jazz
Festival just may be the biggest
musical extrava-
ganza you've 2010UM
never heard of.,
And, ironically, z FestValI
the reason this Tomorrow,
on-campusmusic all day
festival has Various locations
slipped so far off
the radar is that
it's so huge in scale, the organiz-
ers couldn't afford to use money on
advertising.
According to Dennis Wilson,
executive director of the festival
and director of both the Univer-
sity Jazz Ensemble and the Detroit
Jazz Festival Orchestra (both of
which will be performing on Sat-
urday night), it is truly a monster
of an event.
"Our jazz festival has reached
more people than all of the con-
certs put on by the School of Music
combined, over a 10 year period,"
he said.
But this event isn't just a concert.
When it comes to the University
of Michigan Jazz Festival, the key
word is "outreach." The festival
unites musicians from all talent lev-
els, encompassing everyone from
middle school students to legend-
ary jazz bassist Christian McBride.
Groups from 22 different middle
schools, high schools and colleges
will converge in Ann Arbor on Sat-
urday to learn from the best."
Unlike blockbuster music festi-
vals like Lollapalooza, the jazz fes-
tival isn't geared primarily toward
the stars. As Wilson asserts vehe-
mently, this isa festival for the stu-
dents - an "educational festival."
All day, musicians will flock in
and out of workshops and clin-
ics across North Campus to be
critiqued by some of the nation's
most acclaimed jazz virtuosos,
including pianist Matt Harris,
bassist Robert Hurst, saxophon-
ist Andrew Bishop and trumpeter
Terell Stafford.
Unlike most jazz festivals,
the adjudication process is not
designed to separate the champs
from the chumps. The focus is
staunchly on education and indi-
vidual growth. Wilson stresses
that this a non-competitive festi-
val, designed to foster positive atti-
tudes and "help (students) go from
where they are to the next step up,"
rather than to leave the stronger
students feeling victorious and the
weaker students feeling trampled.
In fact, the workshops aren't
even restricted to official partici-
pants or even to music students in
general. Essentially anybody can
sign up for these clinics - registra-
tion starts at 8:15 a.m. in the main
lobby of the E.V. Moore Building,
operating on a 'first-come first-
served basis. And even those who
have never picked up an instru-
ment in their lives can simply drop
by and observe jazz education at its
absolute finest.
Stafford hopes students of all
ages come together, so that they
can become the headliners of
tomorrow.
"I'm hoping ... some of the
college students there will be
extremely, extremely encouraging
to some of the younger students,
and I'm hoping that the younger
students will find the college bands
so inspiring it will inspire them
to continue on with what they're

doing," he said. "It'll give them an
incentive to keep going to see that
that could be them in the next five
to six years."
Student performances will be
going on all day. The "Big Ten Jam
Session" kicks off at 2:15 p.m. in the
Britton Recital Hall, forcing the
Wolverines, Spartans and Buck-
eyes to set aside their rivalries as
they engage in a' fully improvisa-
tional jam. And at 4:45 p.m. in the
Stamps Auditorium, students in
the University's Jazz Lab Ensem-
ble will have the invaluable oppor-
tunity to play alongside guest
soloists Terell Stafford and Matt
Harris.
But the real centerpiece will be in
the Power Center at 8 p.m. - a sonic
epic so massive it's being record-
ed live by Mack Avenue Records.
The piece, titled "THE MOVE-
MENT Revisited" and composed
by McBride, unites the Detroit Jazz
Festival Orchestra, McBride's quar-
tet, the Second Ebenezer Majes-
tic Voices (a Detroit-based gospel
choir) and a handful of hyper-tal-
ented University students for a
genre-bending tour de force.
Nearly 100 musicians will pack
the stage as they present what
workshop co-director Andrew
Bishop likened to "a 19th-century
epic performance." And since the
piece is a tribute to the American
Civil Rights Movement, it will be
accompanied by dramatic read-
ings of speeches written by Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr., Rosa Parks,
Muhammad Ali and Malcolm X.
Legends of jazz
come to campus.
Just as impressive as the grand
finale itself is the fact that Univer-
sity students are playing a hefty
role in the organization of the
spectacle, highlighting the festi-
val's emphasis on education and
growth. In additionto the students
actually performing in the event,
students in the Performing Arts
Technologyprogramwill be assist-
ing in the recording process. And
some of Wilson's students have
collaborated to compose a piece
that will run before "THE MOVE-
MENT," featuring outstanding
high school students selected to
solo with the Jazz Ensemble.
Wilson stressed the value of
exposing students to the tremen-
dous pressures that go along with
working on a professional, "real-
world" timeline.
"This is how you put the Gram-
mys together. This is how you put
the Oscars together. It's not a class
project. If you make a mistake, it's
gonna hurt," he said. "If the Power
Center runs out of power, we can't
do it after next class, you know?
This is it."
But really this is a festival for all
the students at the University. In
fact, those who don't even know
the difference between Mingus
and McBride would probably learn
the most from attending this event.
Gabe Steiner, lead trumpet in the
University's Jazz Ensemble and
sophomore in the School of Music,
Theater & Dance, put it simply:
"I think people shold definitely
take advantage of who's coming,
even if they haven't heard of these
people. It's a great way to open
your ears to something new."

Braun's 'Birthday' celebration

By ANU ARUMUGAM
Daily Arts Writer
The black and white keys of the
piano sound beautiful when played
with love, and
few people truly Mr. B's
love the piano
as much as jazz, d
blues and boogie- Bome
woogie pianist
Mark Lincoln Tomorrow
Braun, who will at 8 p.m-
be performing his Kerrytown
annual "Mr. B's Concert Hall
Birthday Bounce" Tickets from $15
Saturday at the
Kerrytown Concert House.
A Michigan native, Braun grew
up in Flint, attended the University
and started playing professionally
here in Ann Arbor before he hit 20.
"I started playinglater than most
people. I started when I was about
15 years old. It wasn't for the rea-
sons that you hear some rock musi-
cians say where (they) wanted to
meet a girl," Braun said. "I wanted
to express myself somehow, and the
piano felt just right to me from the

time that I started to play it."
Braun's admiration of the piano
led him to seek guidance and study
directly from blues and boogie-
woogie legends.
"In terms of the traditional blues
and boogie-woogie pianists, the
ones that I knew well and stud-
ied directly from were people like
Sunnyland Slim, Blind John Davis,
Little Brother Montgomery and
Boogie Woogie Red. No jazz pia-
nist could be unaffected by Duke
Ellington, McCoy Tyner, Horace
Silver - (I have) many, many, many
favorites," Braun said.
These were the men who taught
Braun to appreciate the raw
strength and beauty of the piano.
They were also the men who taught
him to appreciate the blues.
"The blues is the foundation of
all good jazz. The blues is also at
the root of all forms of American
popular music, all kinds of rock 'n'
roll, folk music, rap, hip hop," Braun
said. "The blues is the basis for all
that. It is a feeling. It is a story that's
told through song.
"You can hear echoes in it of any

other kind of music that you like," became what we call boogie woo-
he added. "Usually people (who) gie," Braun added.
have not heard it before are amazed As the performance approach-
at the aggressive nature of the es, Braun is excited to bring his
music and what an athletic piano extraordinary energy and talent
style it is. Very outgoing, very ambi- to the Kerrytown Concert House
tious pianistically, very rhythmi- stage.
cally intense and fun." "My birthday falls in mid-Feb-
ruary. It's just a way for me to cel-
ebrate. It's a chance for me to play at
one of my favorite venues locally. I
Boogie-woogie don't have to be halfway around the
*n t e world."
piaIIOJ tunes. As he prepares for his "Birthday
Bounce" performance, Braun hopes
more people will want to experi-
So what exactly is boogie woogie? ence the musical styles he holds so
"(Boogie woogie) came from the close to his heart.
Deep South. As it relates to pianists "It's just a reality that there
and piano-playing, therewas a huge are not many people left who play
movement of pianists in the late this style of music anymore. Even
1920s and 1930s that took the blues, around the whole world, there
and took elements that they liked aren't a lot of people," Braun said.
of it," Braun explained. "They were "I would say if you've never heard
influenced by the way they traveled it before, it's a chance to hear
from job to job in the deep South, something that is a little rare and
(which) was on freight trains, unusual from someone who's been
"It became a very effervescent, doing it their whole life, loves
outgoing, extroverted and happy doing it and loves showing that I
way of playing the blues, and it love it when I play."

Malhas brings cross-cultural influence to 'U' Museum of Art

By EMMA GASE
For the Daily
Hana Malhas knows what it'slike to travel
in the name of music. The Jordanian-born,

Ann Arbor-based singer-
songwriter underwent a
painstakingyear-longpro-
duction process between
her two home bases to
record her debut album
Shapeshift, which she is
self-releasing in March.
Malhas graduated
from the University of

Hana
Malhas
Tonight at
8 p.m.
UMMA commons
Free

Marketa Irglova of The Swell Season.
Unlike the spontaneous feel of her EP,
Shapeshift's evokes the labor involved in
thousands of miles of travel between Jor-
dan and Ann Arbor.
"I like the idea of bridging that gap
between the two worlds," Malhas said.
"Musically, I like connecting with artists
from both regions."
Though Malhas feels a strong bond to
her native country and its musicians, she is
staying true to her own musical direction
and instincts.
"(Shapeshift) is not a mix of Arabic music
and Western music," Malhas explained.
"It's not a fusion in that sense; it's my own
style. It's just bringing contributions from
other artists onto it."
Malhas's musical ties run deep. Clas-
sically trained in music as a young child
- despite what she described as limited
practice -she has been composingsongs on
piano and guitar for years. Last year she felt
ready to take things to the next level.
"I think that at every point in a musi-

cian's life, the music evolves," she said.
"And I just felt that my music was at a
point of growth that I was ready to cap-
ture it in an album."
Malhas had a very specific vision for her
album, and wanted to ensure it reflected her
growth as an artist.
"I like connecting
with artists from
both regions."
"My goal was to just put out an album
that was full of songs that I felt truly repre-
sented where I'm at musically... and I did,"
Malhas said.
With the help of Ann Arbor-based pro-
ducer Jim Roll, Malhas is finally satisfied
with Shapeshift a year after its conception.
With the album completed, Malhas has

been hard at work on the local music circuit.
After her 2009 spring and summer tour
around the Midwest, she now plays venues
like the Blind Pig, where she has opened for
artists like Maria Taylor. Malhas finds the
Ann Arbor music scene to be a welcoming
one for burgeoning artists, in contrast to her
hometown in Jordan.
"There are a lotof underground indepen-
dent artists in Jordan who don't get recog-
nition or have enough venues to showcase
their music," she explained. "In Ann Arbor
there are quite a few places ... and in Jordan
the scene is pretty small."
Despite what she says is a lack of expo-
sure for indie artists in the Middle East,
Malhas is set on bringing the two scenes
closer together by featuring cross-conti-
nental collaboration in her own music. Her
two home bases allow for a unique group
effort involving Middle Eastern and Ameri-
can musicians, as she recorded parts of the
album in Jordan with Jordanian musicians,
before returning to America to continue
production with American musicians. Mal-

Michigan, and is currently working toward
an MBA in the Ross School of Business
with a focus on nonprofit management. She
describes her music as "indie-folk pop" and
counts Ray LaMontagne and Feist among
her primary influences.
Malhas's 2008 EP Olive Tree is filled
with emotive, barebones acoustic songs
with spare piano accompaniment that
evokes comparison to Glen Hansard and

Malhas is a student in the Ross School of Business.
has has also played shows in each country.
Though Shapeshzft is Malhas's first full-
length album, it's the beginning in what is
hopefully a long career.
"I would love to do music for the rest of
my life," Malhas said.
Hana Malhas will be performing at
the University of Michigan Museum of
Art tonight. Shapeshift will be officially
released at the Blind Pig on March 12.


6- Friday, February 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailv.com

0i

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for 2010, May or Aug start. 2
blocks from campus, single bedrooms
through 5-person lofts. Per-person con-
tracts, rates from $655, all utilities in-
ecluded at fiat rate. Alt-inclusive per-
semester rates from $4450. Call or stop
by for details. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
! 6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one.
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
! AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully furn, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
Laum4 at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
321 E. Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. 1, 2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 9964992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurmished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!!!!MAY TO MAY!!!!
AND
SHORT TERM LEASES
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
$$$ SWEET DEALS $$$
At
Prime Student Housing
Eff., 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Make us an offer we can't refuse!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1 & 2 bdrms. Mod-
els open weekdays noon-5pm, Sat &
Sun noon-4pm. 734-741-9300.
www.annarborapartments.net

eenethe t Dfe
meet andm
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!!VALENTINES DAY offer!! Sign
before Feb. 14th, 2010, get a gener-
ous signing bonus! 715 Church- 1 &
2 bdrm apartments. Fall 2010,
Across from East Quad. Beautiful, ex-
pansive spaces, closets galore, fur-
nished/unfurnished., Indry, free prkg,
free heat & water. Call Ann 734-320
1244 or cimgttc@yahoo.com
www.chrchstreetrentals.com
**DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 storyn*.
Wshr/dyr in unit. Half a mile to UM
Medical Center. $880/mo, inc. water
Call 734-395-5288 or 248-855-3143.
*3.BEDROOMS-CAMPUS*
1506 Geddes
Great location
Great price
Heat, water, parking,
& furniture incl.
www.varsitymanagement.com
*4 BEDROOMS*
Hardwood floors
10'ceilings
Heat, water, parking,
fumished
(734) 668-1100
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876-
Studio & 1
Sbdm Units
Tower Plaza Condomnium
Quiet & S <um Hese-C... ne re.ck mGm
Ca Brn om,
734-663-1530
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, First
months rent free! Fall 2010! 1007
State, Fum. Newly renovated st
Floor and Bthrms. Free Prkng and
lndry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE MAY 2010*
tool BS.Forest
2 Bedrooms
Nice, new kitchens
& furniture
(734) 668-1100
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286.

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
UT-niv rsity
*BUSINESS OR LAW Students*
1&2 Bedrooms
848 Tappan
New kitchens, balconies
Heat, water, furnished
Covered parking
www.varsitymanagement.com
*FALL2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1699/mo. 734-665-8825.
1221 S.State#2
6 BDRM
$2000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
FALL 2010 HUGE 3 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 5.
$2099/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomreaty.com r
734-662-5500 for appointment.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacut North Cam pus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
2 BDRM ACROSS from West &
South Quad. Furnished, FREE heat, wa-
ter & garage parking. 734-741-9300.
www.annarboapartments.net
3 STORY HOUSE for 6. Walk to cam-
pus. Furnished, parking, laundry. Re-
duced price $3400. 734-272-1320.
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modem IKEA furniture. 734-945-
6380. www.benjaminrentas.com
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, tdry, tenns pay alt util. 5
bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
^^^^YOUR MOM CALLED^^^
She wants you to live with
Prime!!!
Reduced Rates.... at Great Locations!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directs
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hil apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm. fam.
apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
AVAILABLE FALL

Beautiful 1 hdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mi. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
'I

Online Classfied
Renita ap , .M
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandailycom/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient mapl
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and Idry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct, 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962 - 9014.
HOUSE MAKE OFFER for Fall. 6
bedroom, 2 showers, furnished, laun-
dry, parking. 734-260-4003.
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2200
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-199t.
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water

and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
LARGE 1 BDRMS Perfect for two.
Also studios and 2 bdrms. Heat & Wa-
ter incl. 1215 Hill St. 734-260-4003
TOUGH ECONOMY DISCOUNT!!!
7 large bdrm 3 bath house $4500/month
2 blocks to Diag. 734-260-4003.
wwew.varsitymanagement.com
6i25Chnrch St. 1_ 7341)6.1100
1039 Bafdwrn
Studtoe223/cdtoons, 4 Beldroossn
llnbe'/evafy spacious apartments
lcardwvood/l fors, high ceilings, bay
wnmdws, andfireplaces in a
beautiu con verted mansion.
fuge backlyardi:n a quiet
neighborhood . at,ewater
furnishings, & parking inluded?
CLaljc r ycar-perscsuftzsdtorcsr

I lie 9 i[iian ailj

September 201 0
Apartments

# BDRMS Location
6 1221 S. State #2

5
3

420 S. Division #2
1123 Church St.

Price
$2000
$2200
$1500
$500

SERVICES
ADOPT: A LOVING couple tongs to
provide your newborn with a happy
home, love, security & opportunities.
We are committed to being the best par-
ents possih. Expenses paid. Tom &
Marie 1-888-473-8836.

eff. 1117Church#2

Copi Properties
734.663.5690
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandailycom/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 drms.
avail, on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
CORNERHOUSE
APARTMENTS
205S. State St.
on corner of State and
Washington
2 & 3 bdrm. Apt. Homes
Beautifully Furnished
Outstanding views
Garage parking
Central air
9 foot high ceilings
Premier campus location
Models open daily
734-741-9300
www.annarboraartments.net
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@u nich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2,3 Bdrm apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
WOULD YOU BE OUR
VALENTINE?
Enjoy A Move & Dinner On Prime
Check out our reduced rates...
We have some sweet deals!
Sign by Valentines Day!
734-761-8000
Primesh.com
REDUCED RATES
"PRIME" LOCATIONS
ON CENTRAL CAMPUS!
FREE Internet
FREE Heat
FREE Water
FREE Parking
FREE Maintenance
Fully Furnished
On Site Laundry
Eff, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms .
Stop by our office at 610 Church
or call us at 734-761-8000
primesh.com
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk
to central & athletic campus, Law &
Business schools. Groups or individual.
SINGLE LEASES. $600/bdrm & up.
734-418 2050
www.828greeneapts.com
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768

HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund; $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.teleefund.umich.edu or 763-8773.
MYSTERY SHOPPERS
Earn up to $150 per day. Exp. not Re-
quired. Undercover Shoppers Needed
to Judge Retail d Dining Estabish-
ments. Call 800-722-4791.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
VETERINARY ASST./RECEP-
TIONIST. Part-time. No experience
necessary. Will train. Arbor Hills Ani-
mal Clinic. Call 734-668-1466.
SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
NEED A SUMMER job? Come to the
Summer Engmeering Academy/Insti-
tute Staff Information Session. Learn
more about staff positions, selection
process, and program specifics. Thurs-
day, February 18, 2010 at 5:30 PM in
165 Chrysler Center. For questions
please email Miesha White at
whitemn@umich.edu.
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
sleep-away camp, Northeast Pennsylva-
nia 6/19-8/15. If you love children and
want a caring, fun environment we
need Counselors, Instructors and other
staff for our summer camp. On cam-
pus Interviews February 25th. Select
The Camp That Selects The Best Staff!
Call 1.215.944.3069 or apply on-ine
at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Isn'ddthif
summer - Make. lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas:- Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
avaiahle. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com
the students
Summer
Employment
Page
By advertising on this year's Summer
Employment Page you can reach over
4o,ooo+ highly qualified Wolverines!
'Ilsisi a greatopprtunity for
internships or summer positionsto
reach the eyes of many eligible students.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Feb.18 ats:30 am
Published Feb. 5
dailyclassified@gmail.com
(734) 764-0557

0

0

0
0

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS . DOWN 35 Whence the wise 51 He was inducted
1 Big theme park 1 Droop men? into the
star 2 Bierce defines it 37 Some crop Intemational
6 Fancy dance "His" dusters Tennis Hall of
10 Cookiefruit 3 stands 39 Sign before Virgo Famethe maie
suFbuos nw..." 40 ltd pearas Blle Jean
14 Fanlous 4 Inlaid work 43 Eitheroftwo 52 Music player
story5eller ' 8 Market filmmaking 53 Strike._: model
15 Reed instrument advances brothers 56 Funny Bombeck
16 Katz of "Hocus 6 Get a spare, 45 Grandly 57 Leave in a hurry,
Pons" perhaps ettertains slanily
17 Mill input 7nsh Rose's guy 48 FlynuerAfrica? 58Actress Petty
18 Twn-tiwe198 8 Plenty 49 Go after with 59 Hydroxyl
skatieg lol s 5 Doesn't bother vigor compound
with 50 Hun king 63 Method: Abbr.
19 dawiut 10 Suspense movie ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Getan wheels sontd
20 Theft with a clean 11 Rock and Roll H A D J C A M P A W M A N
getaway? Hall of Fame E L I E U H O H C H I C O
23 Bruise treatment architect LOO K A L I VE C A C T I
24 Corpulence 12 Epithet for many M E R Y L E NT T FtI S
25 Filling the shelves leaders, with
with no leftover "the"_LONESOME D O V E
merchandise or 1Frivolous S W E L T E R M!i M 1
iehtier 2! iamondtd at. A NH A B MX I D L E
space? 22 Minestratum A
30 Manx, for one 25 Line crosser of a L O V E I S A L L A R 0 11 N D
31 Insult sort S E AM S A G K I A
32 Attractive locale 26"Later' SAISS DRAM E D Y
Sorange 27 Plais ves L O W E X P LOSI V E
38 Playuor tiwe 28 Enthusias AC S YAZ ITSOK
41 [It's gone!] 29 Plant connection A C A Z I T K
42 No-frills 33 Prepare to strike, L A B O R L O N G D R I V E
44 Word repeatedin 34 n e ALEUT O N M E I R A N
a famous FDR understood until WARTS MC I R CCL T
quote it's broken xwordeditor@aol.com 02/11/10
46 St. whose 1 2 3 4 5ia 0s a a 1121 3
northemmost
division is 14 15 18
Boundary County1
47 Loud signal when
the fries are 20 21 22
done?
51 Without means of 23 24
suppert?
54Mil.ratk 26 27 28 29
15 Yoko? 30 132 3 34 5
00 Taket amuch of,
briefly 3 37 3 in s41
01 Fiional
plantati n 42 44 45 46
62 They have their 007 434s
ptide
64 Ascend 51 52 53 54
65 - Valley:
Reagan Librar 55 se 57 58 6
661940s-'50s NFLer 60461 06
Hirsch
67 Turndowns as 6 64
68 Carrier since
1948 By Kurt Mengel & Jan-Michele Gianette 0211710
69 Heads to sea (c)2010 Tribune Media services,tInc.

0

P CBEACH SPIN GB reak2010
Gulf-front Condos; 1,2,3 BRs
Walk to Clubs & Concerts
www.whisperingseas.com


Experience te urerence
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
* Built in rhicrowap,
dishwashe, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
0 Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C BH 741-9300
PROPER" rpMA" e rttNeT
www.annarborapartments.net

0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, February 12, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, February 12, 2010 - 7

PRESIDENTS
From Page 1
flagship University - could be the
perfectplace for such an announce-
ment from President Obama.
"I'm sure he'll use it as an occa-
sion to make a policy statement and
Michigan is certainly a place to talk
about transitions from an old econ-
omy to a new economy," he said.
When John F. Kennedy stopped
in Ann Arbor to spend the night
while on the presidential campaign
trail, he stood on the steps of the
Michigan Union at 2 a.m. on Oct.
14,1960 to address a crowd of near-
ly 5,000 students.
Addressingthe assembled group,
Kennedy encouraged students
to give themselves to service in a
way that would benefit developing
countries - a concept that would
lay the foundation for the Peace
Corps.
President Lyndon B. John-
son made a similar major policy
announcement when he spoke
at the University's 1964 spring
commencement. The first sitting
United States president to visit the
University of Michigan, Johnson's
arrival in Ann Arbor was greeted
with much fanfare.
When he arrived on campus on
May22,1964,he disembarked from
one of four identical Marine heli-
copters outside of Michigan Stadi-
um and was personally welcomed
by University President Harlan
Hatcher.
Inside the Big House, John-
son was met with the thunderous
applause of 80,000 spectators in
attendance.
While Johnson came to Ann
Arbor for the supposedly non-
political affair of delivering the
commencement address, according
to an article in The Michigan Daily
at the time, "his appearance was
never free of political overtones
and the peculiar mystique which
always surround the president of
the United States."
The address would become a
seminal moment in 20th-century
United States history. From inside
Michigan Stadium, Johnson laid
out his vision for the Great Society
- a series of social programs that
the president would push over the
course of his years in office that
sought to eliminate poverty and
reduce social injustice.
"Your imagination and your ini-
tiative, and your indignation will
dgtermine whether we build a soci-
ety where progress is the servant
of our needs, or a society where old
values and new visions are buried
under unbridled growth," Johnson
told the crowd. "For in your time
we have the opportunity to move
notonlytoward the richsociety and
the powerful society, but upward to
the Great Society."
Before the speech, Johnson had
occasionally used the phrase "the
Great Society" but it wasn't until
that graduation ceremony that he
made it the linchpin of his presi-
dency.
He concluded as most com-
mencement speeches do, with a
call to action for the graduates in
attendance.
"Those who came to this land
sought to build more than just a
new country. They sought a new
world," Johnson said. "So I have
come here today toyour campus to
say that you can make their vision
our reality. So let us from this
moment begin our work so that in
the future men will look back and

say, 'It was then, after a long and
weary way, that man turned the
exploits of his genius to the full
enrichment of his life."'
Communications and Political
Science Prof. Michael Traugott
REACTION
From Page 1
Michigan football and basketball
teams' lackluster records - the
announcement came as a much-
needed turn of events.
"It's uplifting almost," she said.
"It's exciting that it's a change of
luck."
"I think it's an extreme honor
for our school," LSA sophomore
Luke Chowaniec said. "I'm proud
to be at Michigan and be a part of
the place he chose to come to."
LSA senior Sandra Forlemu
agreed, saying that whatever the
President chooses to address in
his speech will be noteworthy.
"Whatever he decides to talk
about will be inspirational," she
said.
Sam Marvin, chair of the Uni-
versity's chapter of College Dem-
ocrats, said the announcement
was especially exciting in light of
the work the group had done for
obama leading up to and follow-
ing his election.
"It's great whenever you can
have a sitting president come and
speak,"- Marvin said. "It's great
especially in this case because we
are a very liberal campus; even
more so for (College Democrats)
because we have spent so much

President Lyndon B. Johnson delivers the 1964 University commencement address.

said in an interview last night that
he wouldn't be surprised if Obama
used his commencement speech
to make a policy announcement
similar to those of Johnson or Ken-
nedy.
"I think that there's a possibility
and I think (the policy) would be
related to the economy," Traugott
said.
Given that 2010 is going to be an
"economy and jobs year" for the
administration, Traugott said it
seems logical that the University
would be one of the few places to
have the "honor" of hosting the
president for commencement. He
added that the White House has
been supportive of the Michigan
economy, noting Obama's close
relationship with U.S. Senators
Carl Levin (D-Mich.) and Debbie
Stabenow (D-Mich.) and Demo-
cratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm.
Prof. Charles Shipan, chair of the
Political Science department, said
it's still too early to tell whether
Obama will use the event to make
a major policy announcement simi-
lar to those made during Johnson's
commencement speech and Ken-
nedy's visit to the University, but
he said Obama's visit to Ann Arbor
does afford the president such an
opportunity.
Shipan said that with major poli-
cy initiatives like those of Kennedy
and Johnson, presidents have the
option of working with Congress
to try and get the legislation passed
or they can make a major address
regarding the initiative and let
Congress handle the rest.
Shipan also Msphaized that
though they are often dubbed as
non-political events, when a sit-
ting or former president gives a
commencement address it almost
always has political implications.
"What the president tries to do
is to balance the fact that he's giv-
ing a talk to the graduates but at the
same time he knows that it's going
to be covered as a political speech
too," Shipan said.
President George H.W. Bush
delivered the spring commence-
ment address for the graduating
class of 1991. In doing so, Bush was
the third sitting president to ever
visit the University and was the
second sitting president to deliver
a commencement address to a class
of graduates in the Big House.
In his speech to graduates, Bush
criticized what he classified as a
growing need for "political cor-
rectness" that he said was being
fostered at universities across the
country.
"The notion of political cor-
rectness has ignited controversy
across the land. And although the
movement arises from the laudable
desire to sweep away the debris of
racism and sexism and hatred, it
replaces old prejudices with new
ones," Bush told graduates at the

time. "It declares certain topics
off-limits, certain expression off-
limits, even certain gestures off-
limits."
Bush also talked about how the
spirit of freedom could help to bet-
ter shape the country in the future.
"We must build a society in
which people can join in common
cause without having to surren-
der their identities," Bush said.
"You can lead the way. Share your
thoughts and your experiences and
your hopes and your frustrations.
Defend others' rights to speak. And
ifharmonybe our goal, let's pursue
harmony, not inquisition."
Bush called on the graduates to
help carry the country to a more
prosperous future.
"My vision for America depends
heavily on you. You must protect
the freedoms of enterprise, speech
and spirit. You must strengthen the
family. You must build a peaceful
and prosperous future," he said.
"We don't need another Great
Society with huge and ambitious
programs administered by the
incumbent few. We need a Good
Society built upon the deeds of the
many, a society that promotes ser-
vice, selflessness., action."
However, Bush's remarks -
many of which were meant to
directly conflict with the initia-
tives set out by Johnson - were
overshadowed by an emergency
visit to the hospital just hours after
he finished his address. After expe-
riencing an irregular heartbeat and
shortness of breath during a jog in
Camp David after his keynote at the
University, Bush spent the night in
a hospital, where he was diagnosed
with the thyroid disorder Graves'
disease.
Regardless of what Obama
chooses to talk about at Michigan
Stadium, Prof. Kolman said the
president will use the appearance
as an opportunity to campaign for
Democrats running in the midterm
elections. -
"He's going to be in a big mode to
do as well as he can for the Demo-
crats and use the occasion to try
to influence a lot of election races
around the country including in
Michigan," he said.
Doing so wouldn't make him
the first president to use political
undertones in a commencement
speech at the University, since
Bush was gearing up for reelection
during his commencement visit.
And President Gerald R. Ford,
a University alum, made numer-
ous visits to Ann Arbor during and
after his presidency. In one of his
most notable visits, the then-vice
president deliveredlthe spring com-
mencement address. Three months
later, Ford rose to the presidency
when President Richard Nixon
resigned.
He returned to the University
in 1976 to launch his presidential

campaign at Crisler Arena in front
of a crowd that filled the entire
venue. And though unsuccessful in
his re-election bid, Ford would con-
tinue to return to the University for
guest lectures, sporting events and,
in 1976,to look on as his wife Betty
delivered the winter commence-
ment address.
Though he wasn't running for
office in 2007, former President
Bill Clinton spoke to the graduat-
ing class as his wife, then-Senator
Hillary Clinton, was locked in the
midst of a heated primary battle
with then-Senator Obama.
In his speech, Clinton empha-
sized the great period of opportu-
nity that graduates were entering
both for themselves and for soci-
ety.
"You are livingin one ofthe most
exciting times in human history,"
Clinton told the crowd of 59,000
alumni, parents and friends, as
well as the 6,500 members of the
class of 2007. "It is exploding with
opportunity. It is bursting with
knowledge."
But, Clinton said, with that
opportunity comes a great deal
of civic duty in a world that is
"unequal, unstable, and unsustain-
able."
"Every time you do anything to
give a poor village a clean water
well, help children get basic health
care, or offer an education ina poor
country where just one year of
schooling is worth another 10 per-
cent of income per year for lifeyou
help to make more partners and
fewer adversaries," he said.
While seriousin content, Clin-
ton's speech had its light moments
as well. After receiving his honor-
ary degree from President Cole-
man, Clintonwas readytohighlight
his wife's presidential campaign.
"I am delighted to be given this
degree by the University of Michi-
gan's first female president. Has
a great ring, don't you think?" he
said.
While presidential visits to the
University have taken both seri-
ous and, at times, humorous tones,
Prof. Shipan said Obama's choice to
deliver a commencement address
in Michigan was a calculated one.
Coming to the state with one of
the worst economies in the coun-
try is a strategic move because the
presidentcan talk aboutthe success
of programs that were beneficial to
Michigan like the auto bailout and
the stimulus package, Shipan said.
On the other hand, he noted that
making such a public speech in the
state could be a big risk for Obama.
"It's a kind of risky thing for
him to do because he's going to a
state with one of the lowest, if not
the lowest, joblessness rates in the
country," he said. "It's a reminder
that many of the problemsahe inher-
ited when he stepped into office are
there."

OBAMA
From Page 1
Michael Traugott and Political
Science Prof. Kenneth Kollman
said they wouldn't be surprised if
Obama uses his commencement
address at the University to launch
a new initiative or make a strong
policy statement.
Kollman stressed the unique
example Michigan represents as
a state mired in the troubles of its
old manufacturing economy but
also one where a transition to a
new economy could yield limitless
possibilities.
Obama will be the fourth United
States president to deliver the com-
mencement address in Ann Arbor.
In 2007, former President Bill
Clinton gave the address and
President George H.W. Bush
spoke at commencement in May
1991. Lyndon B. Johnson was the
first sitting president to address
the University's graduating class
when he spoke in 1964.
Presidents John F. Kennedy and
Gerald R. Ford also gave notable
speeches in Ann Arbor, though
they did not speak at commence-
ment ceremonies.
Kennedy announced the forma-
tion of the Peace Corps from the
steps of the Michigan Union on
Oct.14, 1960, and Ford launched his
presidential campaign at a packed
Crisler Arena on Sept. 15,1976.
Obama, the 44th president of
the United States and the nation's
first black president, is a graduate
of Columbia University where he
earned a bachelor's degree in polit-
ical science and is also an alum of
Harvard Law School, where he
was the first black president of the
Harvard Law Review.
Last year, Obama was awarded
the Nobel Peace Prize for"extraor-
dinary efforts to strengthen
internationadiplomacy and coop-
eration between peoples."
In an interview lastnight follow-
ing the announcement, University
Regent Denise Ilitch (D-Bingham
Farms) said she was incredibly
excited to hear that Obama had
accepted the invitation to speak at
commencement.
"I think it is an amazing oppor-
tunity for the University and very,
very exciting that he will be speak-
ing at the Big House for all of us,"
Ilitch said.
"I think it just goes to show
how special the University is, that
we've had many 1residents visit to
give commencement addresses,"
Ilitch said. "I think this just con-
tinues the wonderful reputation
and stature and high regard that
our university has held by presi-
dents and what better president
than President Obama."
Ilitch said she had been aware
of the University's request for
BUDGET
From Page 1
as the current fiscal year.
Cynthia Wilbanks, vice presi-
dent for governmental relations at
the University, wrote in an e-mail
interview that she is glad to see
Granholm's budget has no cuts
to higher education funding, but
noted that the amount of money
allocated to higher education could
change when the House and Senate
review the proposal.
"So at the very start, there is

some good news in that the recom-
mendation doesn't call for a reduc-
tion to higher education,"Wilbanks
wrote. "And I'm optimistic that the
outcome will be positive. But, as
you know, the legislators will soon
begin their work on the state bud-
get and their input is critical to the
final outcome."
State appropriations are a large
factor in planning the University's
budget for next year, including the
status of tuition, Wilbanks wrote.
"The University will work
through the next few months to
construct a budget that meets the
University's needs and the recom-
mendation of the governor will
be* considered," Wilbanks wrote.
"State support is one of many piec-
es of the University's budget."
Wilbanks wrote that she thinks
Granholm's idea for the reinstate-
ment of the Promise Scholarship
- as a tax credit for students who
work in the state for one year after
graduating - will have positive
effects on retaining Michigan's col-
lege graduates and in turn, helping
the state's economy.
"I think there are a number of
features of the plan that focus on
helping the state's economy, includ-
ing the goal of helping to reverse the
brain drain that a lot of people are
worried about," Wilbanks wrote.
State Rep. Joan Bauer (D-Lan-
sing), chair of the House's Appro-

some time, noting that she even
brought it up when she met with
White House officials last month
about her potential bid to become
Michigan's next governor.
"It was kind of interesting
because I was at the White House a
couple weeks ago to meet withsome
ofthepresident's aides and I brought
it up," Ilitch said. "I knew that we
had a request in for the president
to come and speak at the University
and many people around the Uni-
versity were working on obtaining
the president's attendance. When I
had asked them, they said, 'Yes, we
are aware of the request and we've
taken it under advisement"'
The suspense over whether
Obama would accept the invita-
tion made today's announcement
even more special, Ilitch said.
"And so I was especially excited
to hear when it went from 'under
advisement' to a big yes," she said.
"It was very heartening to hear
they had said yes."
Ilitch said she felt the visit
would not only be significant for
the students graduating and those
in attendance, but also for the state
of Michigan as a whole.
"I think it's terrific that he's
coming to Michigan, to our state,"
Ilitch said. "I think the state was
so supportive of him during the
election and so I'm just especially
pleased that he's visiting our state
as well as our university."
In addition to delivering the
commencement address at the
University, The Associated Press
is also reporting that Obama will
speak at Hampton University in
Virginia and one of the nation's
military academies.
Hampton University President
William R. Harvey told the AP
that Obama will speak to Hamp-
ton graduates on May 9.
The Obama administration offi-
cial who told the AP that Obama
would speak at a military academy
spoke on the condition of anonym-
ity and did not say which academy
Obama would speak at.Obamaspoke
at the U.S. Naval Academy last year.
In addition to speaking at the
Naval Academy in 2009, Obama
delivered the commencement
address at Arizona State Universi-
ty and Notre Dame University last
year. Obama's invitation to speak
at ASU's graduation ceremony
drew criticism from some when
the university refused to award
him an honorary degree.
His address to Notre Dame
also turned controversial when a
former Vatican ambassador who
was slated to receive an honor-
ary degree refused to accept the
degree alongside Obama because
of Obama's pro-choice stance on
the issue of abortion.
- Managing News Editor Jillian
Berman contributed to this report.
priations Subcommittee on Higher
Education, said in an interview yes-
terday that Granholm's proposal to
keep higher education spending
at last year's level is a good first
step. But Bauer also said she is
disappointed that the state hasn't
increased funding for students over
the years.
"Even though next year the good
news is University of Michigan will
not receive a cut in state funding,
the bad news is that we continue
to not be increasing our funding
at all, which, with inflation, means
that students are picking up more

and more, and tuition is increas-
ing, which is unfortunate when
we're trying to make college more
affordable and accessible for young
people," Bauer said.
Bauer said the proposed new
Promise Scholarship is importantin
making college more affordable, but
said she is also concerned about how
the state will pay for it in the future
since it's in the form of a tax credit.
"I applaud the governor for rec-
ommending the restoration of the
fundingfor the Michigan Promise,"
Bauer said. "The biggest concern is
that we will have to take a look, and
as a tax credit, we'll have to take
a look down the road when it will
start impacting the budget."
State Sen. Liz Brater (D-Ann
Arbor) said though Granholm's
budget includes some positive pro-
posals, including the new Promise
Scholarship, it's going to take time
for her plans to come to fruition,
given the state's continuing eco-
nomic hardships.
"The governor's budget was
delivered in the context of an ongo-
ing fiscal crisis here in the state and
she's got some interesting ideas in
there, and it's going to take time to
study it and see," Brater said.
Granholm's budget plan will
now go to the House and Senate
where its contents will be negoti-
ated, and later this year, given back
to the governor for approval.


time working for him."
Marvin added that having
Obama speak to the graduating
class during one of its final mile-
stones at the University will be an
especially powerful moment.
"It's an amazing feeling just
to know that after four years of a
wonderful experience, and then
Barack Obama's going to be the
one to say, 'now you take your
next step into the real world,"'
Marvin said.
Marvin, an LSA senior, said
having Obama be his commence-
ment speaker is especially poi-
gnant for him, as he is working for
Teach for America next year, and
will be doing work in line with the
president's efforts to reform edu-
cation.
Marvin said he believes
Obama's commencement address
will be a historical moment simi-
lar to when past presidents visited
the University. He cited President
John F. Kennedy's announcement
of the Peace Corps on the steps of
the Michigan Union in 1960 and
President Lyndon B. Johnson's
1964 commencement address in
which he announced the Great
Society program.
Obama's commencement
speech will be a "rekindling" of
his campaign's "messages of hope
and change," Marvin said. He

added that he predicts Obama will
address health care, funding for
K-12 education and higher educa-
tion, and financial regulation.
Charles Bogren, co-chair of
the University's chapter of Col-
lege Republicans, said despite the
fact that he disagrees with Obama
politically, having the sitting
president speak at commence-
ment will still be exciting.
"I don't necessarily agree with
the majority of his policies, but
it really is cool that the Univer-
sity got him to come to our com-
mencement," Bogren said.
Bogren added that he antici-
pates Obama will address Michi-
gan's "brain drain."
"Because there are a lot of top
people who get degrees from our
state and leave, it will be interest-
ing to see what he has to say about
that," Bogren said.
Nathaniel Eli Coats Styer, the
chair of College Democrats last
year, said he expects Obama to
speak about "bringing back a
sense of pride to America."
Styer, a Public Policy senior,
said he also predicts Obama will
discuss his plan to reduce student
loans for post-graduates as well as
the importance of innovations in
engineering and science.
Styer added that Obama's deci-
sion to deliver the commencement

address is indicative of the Uni-
versity's prestige.
"I think this speaks to our clout
as an educational institution, ath-
letic powerhouse (and an) insti-
tution that is on the forefront of
progressive change in this coun-
try," Styer said.
Engineering sophomore Doug-
lass Johnson echoed Styer's sen-
timents, adding that he would be
interested in purchasing a ticket
to the ceremony from a graduat-
ing senior.
"I think it's an honor," he said.
"I wish I were graduating so I
could witness it."
LSA freshman Daniel Hast said
though he's excited that Obama
will be giving the commencement
address, it's for a different rea-
son than most. Hast said he sees
the appearance as an opportunity
to express his discontent with
Obama's policy decisions, noting
that his dissatisfaction with the
president comes "from the left,
not the right."
"I hope there's a good protest
organized," Hast said.
Officials expect about 40,000
people to attend the ceremony,
which will be held in Michigan
Stadium on May 1at 10 a.m.
- Daily Staff Reporter Devon
Thorsby contributed to this report.

JOIN DAILY NEWS.
Send an e-mail to
berman@michigandaily.com.


8 - Friday, February 12, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Blue rolls past Gophers on the road

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
It seemed so familiar - the
Michigan men's basketball
team held a precarious lead late
in the sec-
ond half, MICHIGAN 71
and if this MINNESOTA 63
season's
pattern persisted, the team
would collapse.
But under the leadership
of senior forwardDeShawn
Sims, the Wolverines pulled
away from Minnesota and won
their second true road win of
the season at Williams Arena,
71-63.
After going into the half up
by just two, Sims and the Wol-
verines took over.
The senior scored 21 of his
27 points in the second stan-
za, shooting 12-of-18 from the
floor. He was also dominant
in the paint and scored eight
straight at one point for the
Wolverines (5-7 Big Ten, 12-12
overall).
"A good win, we needed it,"
junior guard Manny Harris
said. "We played a great team
in Minnesota, we just came out
ready to play. DeShawn made
big finishes, and everybody
made shots, so we needed it."
Freshman guard Darius
Morris showed poise in the
backcourt, and even though he
scored just five points in the
contest, he eluded the Minne-
sota (5-6,14-9) pressure on sev-
eral occasions and found the
open man, finishing the game
with five assists.
It was a drastic change from
most of this season, when the
Wolverines' often lacked vet-

eran leadership at point guard,
starting either Morris or soph-
omore Stu Douglass after both
C.J. Lee and David Merritt
graduated last year.
"I think both teams are the
same in the regards in that
they don't have their experi-
enced point guards," Beilein
said. "Don't underestimate the
power of the floor general out
there. Our two young guards,
both of them ... grew up tonight
in Douglass and Morris."
After the Golden Gophers
kept it close for the opening
minutes of the second half,
Michigan blew the game open.
The Wolverines went on a 7-0
run off of two layups from Sims
and a 3-pointer from senior
forward Zack Gibson, who
chipped in eight points off the
bench.
After taking an 11-point lead
with three minutes to play,
the Golden Gophers started to
apply heavy pressure to Michi-
gan.
Minnesota's Lawrence
Westbrook hit a three to make
it an eight-point game and
Devoe Joseph hit a layup and
free throw to make it even
closer.
But unlike earlier this sea-
son when the Wolverines blew
big leads against Northwestern
and lost close games at Wiscon-
sin and against Michigan State,
Michigan kept its composure to
close out the win.
"Our team has been waiting
to play that way for awhile,"
Beilein said. "We just haven't
shot the ball well, we haven't
executed like we did tonight.
Northwestern, we got down
early in the second half, Wis-

consin, we got down early in
the first half. Today we could
stay in it, I only think they took
one or two leads."
In the final six minutes, Sims
hit three key layups to keep
Michigan in a comfortable
position and on all three bas-
kets, he was assisted by junior
Fuard Manny Harris, who con-
tributed 20.
Michigan found from behind
the arc. The Wolverines, who
have struggled all season from
deep, hit 7-of-15 yesterday,
their highest percentage of the
season.
Michigan was particularly
effective early in the contest
from three-point land as Gib-
son, Sims, Harris and sopho-
more forward Zack Novak each
made threes in the opening
eight minutes to help the Wol-
verines grab a fast start and a
19-13 lead.
"I think we maybe weren't
rushing some things," Beilein
said. "We've really worked at
seeing the floor better. Not run-
ning plays but being a player."
Michigan's other road victo-
ry came when the Wolverines
came back from a 16-point half-
time deficit at Penn State. This
win also halts Michigan's two-
game losing streak. And with
10th-place Iowa and 11th-place
Penn State on the docket next
week, the Wolverines could
even start a winning streak of
their own.
"We treasure ourselves in
having small victories every
day even if we don't win,"
Beilein said. "It's always hard
when you're coaching a team
to stay resilient through a hard
season."

'M'9makes new
hire on defense
By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
With the pressuresofNationalSigningDaybehind
him, Michigan football coach Rich Rodriguez said
his next big decision would be to hire a replacement
for Jay Hopson - the Wolverines' former lineback-
ers coach who took the defensive coordinator job at
Memphis.
Rodriguez ended the search after just eight days,
hiring staff assistant Adam Braithwaite to fill the
void on the defensive coaching staff and coach the
outside linebackers and safeties.
"We are excited to promote Adam to be our safe-
ties/outside linebackers coach," Rodriguez said in
an Athletic Department press release. "He has been
a loyal hard-working member of our staff for several
years and knows our system. I believe he will bring a
lot of energy both in coaching and recruiting."
Added Braithwaite: "I am grateful for the oppor-
tunity that Coach Rodriguez has provided me. It is
very flattering that he and the staff think enough of
my work ethic and abilities as a coach to elevate me
into a full-time position."
Rodriguez promised that the assistant coaching
position would be "more of a safeties coach than a
linebackers coach."
As was previously announced, defensive coor-
dinator Greg Robinson will coach the linebackers
while assistant head coach Tony Gibson will con-
tinue to coach the secondary. Gibson will also take
on duties as Michigan's special teams' coordinator.
Before coming to Michigan with Rodriguez in
2008, Braithwaite spent time as the defensive coor-
dinator at Hampden-Sydney College (Va.), a defen-
sive graduate assistant at West Virginia and the
safeties coach at William & Mary, his alma mater,
Braithwaite takes over a position group that
struggled mightily last year and could haveahis
hands full with outside linebackers who often
underachieved and a very unsure group at strong
safety.
Rodriguez interviewed several other higher pro.
file candidates for the job, including former Mar-
shall head coach Mark Snyder.

0

TOM OLMSCEItD/E
Senior DeShawn Sims accounted for 27 of the Wolverines' points in their
71-63 victory over Minnesota yesterday. Sims scored 21 of his 27 points in
the second half as Michigan pulled away from the Golden Gophers.


'M' heads West for
keyseries against
balanced Mavericks
In Close CCHA ers said. "If you're not plus,
race, Michigan and they outplay you, there's
a chance that we could lose
needs solid road this game. Essentially, when

Spartans beat Michigan in emoti
Crisler matchup to sweepvseasolr

effi

ort to keep pace
BY TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer

In the Michigan hockey
team's locker room, a large
board tracks the CCHA stand-
ings.
In years past, the Wolver-
ines have hovered close to
the top of the board, but this
season Michigan has kept the
person responsible for chang-
ing the standings very busy.
The team was as low as
10th place after a 5-3 loss to
Ohio State early in December.
But now the Wolverines find
themselves in sole possession
of fourth place in the confer-
ence. And with a measly six
points (two wins) separating
the Wolverines and the 10th-
ranked Buckeyes, Michigan
has little breathing room.
"We're not out of it at all,"
junior forward Louie Capo-
russo said. "We're a good
team, and we're going to be
fine if we play up to our poten-
tial."
This weekend, the Wolver-
ines travel to Omaha to take on
Nebraska-Omaha in a pivotal
late season series.
If Michigan (12-9-1-0
CCHA, 17-13- overall) sweeps
the Mavericks, it could jump
into a third-place tie with
Michigan State, which is idle
in conference play this week-
end. But, if the Wolverines get
swept, they could potentially
fall right back down to 10th
place.
To make the task a bit more
challenging for Michigan,
Nebraska-Omaha is 11-2-2
at home this season, averag-
ing 4.5 goals in its last seven
games.
The Mavericks (10-11-3-2,
14-12-6) boast one of the more
balanced offensive attacks in
the CCHA. Nebraska-Omaha
may not have a single individ-
ual player among the top 20 in
scoring in the conference, but
it boasts nine guys with 17 or
more points.
"What it comes down to is
the line that you're playing
against, you have to be plus,"
assistant coach Billy Pow-

you look at the matchups there
won't be much separatingguys
on paper. It's going to come
down to the performance on
the ice."
In Ferris State and Miami
(Ohio), Michigan has faced
elite teams with singular tal-
ented scoring lines. The fifth-
place Mavericks, on the other
hand, have three solid scoring
lines that have tobe accounted
for.
But the Wolverines have
surged back into the top of
the conference scene thanks
in part to improved defensive
play. Michigan is 7-2-1 in con-
ference play since the turn
of the calendar year and has
three shutouts during that
span, including a 4-0 shutout
of Bowling Green last Tuesday.
Powers credited the
improved defense to a total
team effort.
"There's no question that
when our forwards are com-
ing back as hard as they were
last night and with purpose, it
makes our .game a lot easier,"
Powers said. "Because we can
stand up, we know we have
support and we're not feel-
ing like we're isolated and we
have to back in. When we start
backing in and giving teams
room to get to the hash marks
that's when you can get into
trouble."
The Wolverines have made
it clear that one of their goals
is to finish in the top-four
in the CCHA to gain a first-
round bye in the conference
tournament. This, weekend
could determine that, espe-
cially since there are only four
games left after this week-
end's series, two against Notre
Dame and two against North-
ern Michigan.
For now, Michigan is glad to
be in the driver's seat.
"If we get ahead of our-
selves we're going go right
back to where we were," Pow-
ers said. "We realize what
these points mean. So, we just
want to keep moving forward.
We know that if we win, and
take care of what we're capa-
ble of, then we have a great
chance of finishing in the top
two, three or four. ... Destiny is
in our hands."

ByZAKPYZIK
Daily Sports Writer
Krista Phillips couldn't help but
tear up at the press conference after
the Michigan women's basketball
team's 50-45 loss to Michigan State
last night at Crisler Arena.
It's no wonder Phillips was upset
after the
game. In an MICHIGAN STATE 50
anticipated MICHIGAN 45
immense
struggle between Phillips and Spar-
tancenter AllyssaDeHaan, the senior
finished with zero points. DeHaan
had just four.
"I need (Phillips) to defend,"
Borseth said. "She's a big kid in
the game. She didn't have her best
offensive night. We had good looks
for her. We had to drive around two
people, around our own men and
Dehaan at the end. I hate to tell a kid
not to shoot when she's wide open,
wide open."
It was a key loss as the Wolverines'
season begins to wind down, consid-
ering they needed a win to boost their
tournament hopes.
The Spartans (7-6 Big Ten, 16-8
overall) have now won six straight
against Michigan.
The contest'started with Phillips
getting three passes down low in
the first five minutes. All three were
attempted layups that she put up
above DeHaan and all three rolled off
of the rim. The missed layups were a
clear sign of the Wolverines struggle
to get somethingstarted.
But Phillips wasn't the only one
who struggled, as the Wolverines
(6-8, 14-10) couldn't put it together

in the first half. They shot just 30
percent from the field, compared to
the Spartans' 42 percent. Besides
freshman guard Dayeesha Hollins
and junior guard Veronica Hicks, no
other player scored more than three
points.
"We had good looks, and we
didn't make them," Borseth said.
"We had really good looks, but
we didn't make them. Really good
looks. And we didn't make them.
Why? We were wide open, wide-
wide-wide open wide open. We
didn't make them."
In the second half, it looked like
Michigan's offensive woes might
have been outweighed by the conser-
vative play of the Spartans.
Early in the second stanza, Michi-
gan tied it up at 25 the Spartans went
on a 13-1 run to go up 38-26, just min-
utes after.
The Wolverines got back in it when
Phillips snatched a pass then tossed it
all the way downcourt to a wide-open
Hicks who finished the layup to bring
Michigan within five with less than
two minutes remaining.
"We were just playing basketball,
we were just trying to make plays,"
Hicks said. "You're not looking at the
scoreboard, your looking who's the
next to score. (Phillips) then made a
great pass down the court to me. And
that play opened it up for me."
Then, with less than 30 seconds
left and Michigan down by five, Hol-
lins drove in the lane, finished, and
was fouled on the way up. But she
missed the freethrow, leavingMichi-
gan down three.
"We missed the free throw, and
then got the rebound," Borseth said.

0

Sophomore Carmen Reynolds drives through the lane in Michigan's loss last night,

"We threw that one away."
But Michigan State knew all it had
to do was inbound it. And the Spar-
tans did just that, ending the game
from the charity stripe.
It wasn't the lack of desire and
motivation that paralyzed the Wol-

verine offense, it was a lack of execu-
tion.
"Somebody wanted to make some-
thing happen," Borseth said. "And
they really wanted. I just looked at
the tape of our second half offense
pssh, psshhh... It was awful."

0

Green-clad crowd plays big part in defeat

By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's basket-
ball team trailed for most of its game
against Michigan State yesterday
after giving up its two-point lead
on the Spartans just two minutes
into the game. That's when the "Go
Green, Go White" cheer resonat-
ing from the stands at Crisler Arena
became a hazard for the Wolverines.
Despite the home-court advan-
tage, Michigan State's contingent
was large, almost outnumbering the
Wolverines.
When Michigan fans shouted the
customary chant "air ball," Spartan
fans were sure to follow suit, and
much louder when the Wolverines
missed. And what serves as the stu-

dent section during the men's bas-
ketball games at Crisler was nearly
three-quarters green last night. The
green-clad fans even remembered
pom-poms.
"We had a huge green support in
the crowd," Michigan State senior
Allyssa DeHaan said. "It's always
ruthless downhere. We love our sup-
port and get it wherever we go."
While the pace of the game and
the effort put forth by the Wolver-
ines can't be compared to the lack-
luster crowd spirit, that's not to say
the atmosphere inside Crisler last
night wasn't a factor in the Spartan's
five-point victory.
In fact, halfway into the second
half when Michigan State had obvi-
ously stolen the momentum and was
up by 14, a gutsy Spartan fan took it

upon himself to stand front and cen-
ter in the student section that looked
like a sea of green to unify fans all
sround him.
"One thing I'll tell you is I felt
like when we would get loud, it did
force the Michigan fans to try to get
louder," Michigan State coach Suzy
Merchant said. "They were compet-
ing against each other too, so it made
for a pretty good atmosphere here."
And then with a little more than
one minute remaining, the Spartans
turned over the ball and senior cen-
ter Krista Phillips threw a half-court
pass to junior guard Veronica Hicks
who made the layup despite the
Spartan-led commotion.
"Ijust want to win and nobody in
the crowd can jump on the court and
stop me," Hicks said.

When Hicks was preparing to
shoot a free throw, the only noise in
Crisler came from the hecklers from
East Lansing. But she didn't lose
focus despite the distractions in her
home arena.
But then Hollins made a shot and
was fouled.
If she had made the foul shot,
Hollins would have brought the Wol-
verines within two points with 15
seconds remaining. Every Michigan
fan was in their seat. Every Michi-
gan State fan on their feet yelling and
screaming to distract Hollins - and
she missed the shot.
When all was set and done, the
missed shot didn't mean anything
but the 'impact from the opposing
crowd was felt throughout every
inch of Crisler Arena.


