Ube ~') idqn0iIlj

*Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, January 29, 2010

michigandaily.com

At town ball,
'U' officials
talk campus
sustainability

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Engineering senior Jerome Singleton prepares to run in the indoor track and field building on Tuesday. Singleton was born with fibular hemimelia, a serious bone disorder.
One-le sprinter Si eon
always keeps his ye o tepri ze

Students, faculty
and administrators
gather to discuss
new initiative
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
University leaders and admin-
istrators held a town hall meeting
yesterday to discuss environmental
sustainability on campus.
The meeting - hosted by the
University's Graham Environmen-
tal Sustainability Institute and the
newly formed Office of Campus
Sustainability - aimed to intro-
duce and invite discussion on a new
initiative on campus, which Uni-
versity administrators have dubbed
an "integrated assessment" by the
two organizations.
Members involved in the project
are examining ways to increase the
University's commitment to the
environment through initiatives
in research, academics and opera-
tions.
A group of panelists took the
stage at the meeting and discussed.
the project's goals from both opera-
tional and academic perspectives.
Faculty leaders from each com-

mittee spoke of possible objectives
for the initiative and University
administrators discussed the orga-
nizational components of the proj-
ect.
Addressing a crowd composed
of about 200 students, faculty and
staff members and Ann Arbor resi-
dents,.Timothy Slottow, executive
vice president and chief financial
officer, said it's necessary for the
University to take a multifaceted
approach to increasing the Univer-
sity's commitment to the environ-
ment because there are so many
important parts of the issue.
"In a complex system with mul-
tiple components you rarely will
achieve best results by looking at
one component in isolation," he
said at the meeting.
Slottow said integrated assess-
ment is a new concept that rep-
resents an opportunity for the
University to act as a global agent
for change in the national environ-
mental sustainability movement.
"It is a unique time for the Uni-
versity of Michigan to really seek
out a position of leadership nation-
ally, in higher education and hope-
fully beyond," he said.
Don Scavia, the director of the
University's Graham Environmen-
tal Sustainability Institute, said he
See SUSTAINABILITY, Page 7

Engineering senior exists.
He isn't a football player. He
is a world class isn't one of the many past Olym-
pians who attended school here,
Paralympic athlete back to relive his college days. He
doesn't even don a varsity jacket.
By BEN ESTES No, this athlete hasn't been -
For the Daily nor will he ever be - on a Wolver-
ine varsity team. Officially, he's
Every day, a world-class, medal- just one of many bright students in
winning athlete walks across this the College of Engineering.
campus amongst a sea of 40,000 of But he also managed to win two
his peers. But you have no idea he medals in Beijing in the summer of

2008.
Oh, and he happens to have just
one leg.
The first thing that strikes you
about Jerome Singleton when he
walks (yes, walks) over to meet
you is how normal he appears.
Sporting a pair of glasses, with a
mild demeanor, he looks like any
other undergraduate. But Single-
ton is anything but normal. He
is the world's top sprinter in his
class, having outperformed just

about every feasible competitor.
Singleton was born in Green-
wood, S.C. with fibular hemimelia,
a serious bone disorder. His fibula
bone never grew in, essentially
leaving him without an ankle. As
a result, his right leg had to be
amputated below the knee when
he was one and a half years old. He
now uses a prosthetic leg.
So at an early age, Singleton
learned that the best way to han-
See SINGLETON, Page 8

AFTER THE QUAI
'U' officials advise students
to avoid traveling to Haiti

Only experienced
aid workers should
go to country,
e-mail says
By CHELSEA LANGE
Daily StaffReporter
In the aftermath of the cata-
strophic earthquake that devas-
tated Haiti on Jan. 12, many in the
University community are look-
ing to participate in relief efforts.
But with the country still in ruins,
many students and faculty may
have to waitchefore they can travel

to the country to help.
Before the earthquake hit,
members of Ann Arbor's New Life
Church had been planning to trav-
el to Haiti for an alternative spring
break trip.
University alum Karl Jansen
was to co-lead the group of 16, in
conjunction with Rain Catchers -
a non-profit organization based in
Howell, Mich. that builds gutters
on Haitian homes in order to col-
lect rainwater.
The group was planning to
go to the village of Seguin in the
mountains of southeastern Haiti,
according to Jansen.
Butnowthatthe earthquake has
left the nation in chaos with many

devastating problems, Jansen said
the trip must be postponed.
"After the earthquake, we were
hoping to go down there and do
earthquake relief, but there is just
too many logistical challenges and
safety challenges right now," he
said. "They just need emergency
responders and professionals to
get things under control before
volunteers like our group would be
able to go down there and help."
Sara Gibbs, director of the Gins-
berg Center's SERVE program - a
University group that organizes
various community .service proj-
ects including alternative spring
break trips - said it hopes to plan
See HAITI, Page 7

,;,

ARIEL BOND/Daily
Wolverine State Brewing Co. brewmaster Oliver Roberts, left, and co-owner E.T. Crowe, right, work on plans for their new tap room.
With new space, brewery to add
local lagers to area's beer scene

CONNECTING TE COUNTY
Wireless Washtenaw faces money woes

Program to bring be in jeopardy if necessary federal
funding doesn't come through.
wireless Internet to Initiated in 2004, Wireless
Washtenaw has begun the process
rural areas of providing broadband coverage
to areas that traditionally haven't
By MICHELE NAROV had access to wireless Internet
Daily StaffReporter services. But without federal fund-
ing, the undertaking may soon col-
Wireless Washtenaw, a project lapse.
that aims to bring wireless Inter- In addition to providing free
net access to sparsely populated web access within Washtenaw
areas of Washtenaw County, could County, the project offers high-

speed private access to residents
for a monthly fee in order to cover
the costs absorbed by 20/20 Com-
munications - an Ann Arbor-
based Internet provider that
helped to privately fund the proj-
ect.
Project Manager James McFar-
lane said much of Washtenaw
County currently lacks a reliable
option for residential high-speed
Internet access.
See WIRELESS, Page 7

Wolverine State
Brewing will open
a new tap room
south of campus
By LINDSAY KRAMER
DailyStaffReporter
Though Ann Arbor is already
known for its many ale breweries,
a new business is planning to make
its mark in townwith its homemade

lagers. Wolverine State Brewing
Company, which will be the city's
first tap room and specialize in
premium American lagers, is set to
open this spring.
Ann Arbor residents and Univer-
sity graduates Matt Roy and Trev-
or Thrall began Wolverine State
Brewing Company three years ago
in Ann Arbor. Since entering the
beer business, the company has
been contracting its production
with Michigan Brewing Company
- a brewery in Webberville near
East Lansing.

But it is through the upcoming
bar that the two entrepreneurs
plan to market their production on
a different and larger scale.
"We want to be a household
name around the state of Michigan
so that people know who we are
and what we are,"Roysaid. "We are
distinguishing ourselves from all
the other microbreweries because
they are all primarily making ales,
and we are a lager company."
This distinction could be signifi-
cant in Ann Arbor because the city
See BREWERY, Page 7

WEATHER HI: 23
TOMORROW LO:16

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
newsComichigandailv.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
U.S. Rep.John Dingell is now @johndingell.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS... . . . 2 ARTS .................................S..5
Vol. CXX, No.83 SUDO KU......... ..............3 CLASSIFIEDS........................6
i The MihiganDaily POPINION ...............................4 SPO RTS.............. ............. 8



2 - Friday, January 29, 2010
MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

TUESDAY:
Professor Profiles

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmaif.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs.11a.m. -2a.m.
734-763-2459
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com

Sports Section
Display Sales
Classified Sales

sports@michigandaily.com
display@mzichiganidaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com

NEED MORE PHOTOS?
See so many more photos of the week
on our website, michigandailycom.

LEFT Cadence Dance Company performs at the Mendelson Theatre on Saturday. The modern dance group performed pieces set to MGMT and The Beatles. (MIA MARINO/Daily) TOP
MIDDLE Jeremy Raiford, a campus DPS officer, on a recent patrol. (SAM WOLSON/Daily) TOP RIGHT Engineering senior Jerome Singleton prepares to run in the indoor track and field
building on Tuesday. (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily). BOTTOM RIGHT In Stamps Auditorium on Monday, School of Music sophomore Charles Mann takes instruction from Carol Jants,
who teaches a tuba class in the school. (ANNA SCHULTE/Daily).

CRIME NOTES
Cash, cologne Money taken

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Folk festival Master's piano

taken from room
WHEN: Wednesday around 7
p.m.
WHERE: East Quad
WHAT: A, student reported
$300 and expensive cologne
stolen from his suitcase, which
was in his locked dorm room,
University police reported.
There are no suspects.
Drunk on 'U' bus
cited for an MIP
WHEN: Yesterday around 1
a.m.
WHERE: Aboard a University
bus
WHAT: An t8-year-old male
student was intoxicated on the
bus and taken to the emergen-
cy room by an ambulance, Uni-
versity police reported. He was
cited for an MIP.

from purse
WHEN: Wednesday around
4:30 p.m.
WHERE: University Hospital
WHAT: $50 was stolen from
an unattended purse at an
unknown date or time, Univer-
sity police reported.
Van hits flashing
sign crosswalk
signal
WHEN: Wednesday around
1:30 p.m.
WHERE: University Hospital
WHAT: A van struck a flash-
ing road crosswalk signal,
University police reported.
The Ann Arbor Police Depart-
ment was notified to make the
repairs, estimated to be about
$1,000.

WHAT: The 33rd annual recital
folk festival will kick off its
first night with performanc- WHAT: Smit
es by Iron and Wine, Jay Far- pieces by B
rar and Benjamin Gibbard, Liszt in this m
Band of Heathens, Hoots WHO: Cahill
& Hellmouth, Po' Girl, Jer WHEN: 8 p.m
Coons, Nervous But Excited WHERE: E.V
and Patty Larkin, MC. ing
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office, The Ark
WHEN: 6:30 p.m. CORRECTIONS
WHERE: Hill Auditorium A

h will perform
eethoven and
aster's recital.
Smith
.
1. Moore Build-
invenro'

An man in Austrailia was
pulled over for blowing his
nose while driving, news.
com.au reported. The police
officer told him that he did
not have control of the vehicle.
He refused to pay the fine and
plans on taking the ticket to
court.
In 2008, Michigan spent
22 percent of its budget
on the corrections sys-
tem, according to the National
Institute of Corrections, mak-
ing it one of five states that
spends more money on correc-
tions than higher education.
>FOR MORE,SEE OPINION, PAGE4.
A city in Russia is sell-
ing a bronze statue of
Vladimir Lenin beause it -
has become too expensive to
keep up the maintenance on
it, Yahoo! reported. The buyer
must be able to pay for repairs
to the statue.

Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@nichigandaily.com
Lillian Berman Managing News Editor bermah@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swanson, EshwaroThirunavukkarasu
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Dylan Cinti, Darryn Fitzgerald, Joseph Lichterman,
VeronicaeMenaldi,AnnieThomas,DevonThorsby,ElyannaTwiggs
RacheliVan Gilder Editorial PageEditor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Brian Flaherty, ErikaMayer,EmilyOrley, Laura
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeW itt,Alex Schiff, MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartje Managing sports Editor kartje@mnichigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Nicole Auerbach, Mark Burns, Gjon Juncaj, Chris
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak
laBietlock Mang rtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
oSENOR ARSoEDIORS:aol~yrnKlrcki,ndr~e ai,Jef nford
ASITANT RTEITORS:ah Bgnha Ar on J acosBiidKloin, Mike Kuntz,
KavishekharPandey
MaxCollinsand photo@michigandaily.com
SanWulson ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIR PHOTOEDTOR FRMULTIMEDIA: Chanel Von Habsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:AaronAugsburger,JakeFromm, JedMuch
SarahSquireand design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Angela Chih
TrevorCalero Magazine Editor calero@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Allie White
MelanieyFrieda ndcopydesk@michigandaily.com
Rcbel Phillips CopyoChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katie lowiak SalesManaer
SAE FRE MANAGER: Moly Twigg
MARKETINGMANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFI ED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben English Production Manager
Allison Santacreu LayoutManager
Vivian Lee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Fridayduring the fall and
winterterms bystudentsttheUniversity of Michigan.on copyis availablefreeocharge toall
readers. Additionalcopiesmaybe pickedup at the Dailyslofficefor$2.Subscriptions forfal term,
sta'ting in SeptemberviaU.S. malare $110.Winter term(January through Aprillis$11syearong
(September throughApril)is$195.Universityaoffiates are subject toareduceosubscripioranrte
On-ampssubscriptionsforfalltermare035. subscriptionsmustbe prepaid.TheMichigantoaily
isa e berote Ass ciated Press and The Asc iatedolleistePress.

0,

Student's choice
UMix
WHAT: Students voted and
UMix will show the win-
ing movie, provide students
with Hip-Hop and Salsa les-
sons and a free pasta bar.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

An artcen yesteraay s
edition of The Daily titled
"'U officials, students
gatherto honor victims
of earthquake in Haiti"
incorrectly identified the
LSA junior who reached
out to MESA. Her name is
Ghida Dagher.
* Please report any errors
printed in the Daily to
corrections@michigan-
daily.com.

9

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

No manslaughter defense in abortion doctor's murder

0

After hearing from
defendant, Judge
said premeditation
was obvious
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) - The
judge in the trial of a man accused
of murdering an abortion doctor
dealt the defense a major setback
Thursday, ruling that the jury can-
not consider a lesser charge of man-
slaughter.
The ruling came hours after
Scott Roeder took the stand in his

own defense and admitted killing
Dr. George Tiller, saying he acted
to save the lives of unborn children.
Roeder's attorneys had hoped to
win a lesser conviction of voluntary
manslaughter, which requires them
to show their client had an unrea-
sonable but honest belief that dead-
ly force was justified. The charge
carries a considerably lighter sen-
tence than murder.
Roeder testified that he consid-
ered elaborate schemes to stop the
doctor, including chopping off his
hands, crashing a car into him or
sneaking into his home to kill him.
But in the end, Roeder told

jurors, the easiest way was to walk
into Tiller's church, put aguntothe
man's forehead and pull the trigger.
. Testifying as the lone defense
witness, Roeder calmly explained
what he admitted publicly months
ago - that he killed Tiller to save
unborn children.
"Those children were in imme-
diate danger if someone did not
stop George Tiller," Roeder said
as the jury watched attentively but
without a hint of surprise.
"They were going to continue
to die," he said. "The babies were
going to continue to die."
Roeder has pleaded not guilty to

murder in the attack at the Wichita
church where Tiller was an usher.
Witnesses have described how
Roeder walked into the building's
foyer on May 31 shortly after the
service started, approached Tiller
and fired asingle shot before fleeing.
After Roeder's testimony, Dis-
trict Judge Warren Wilbert ruled
that the jury would not be permit-
ted to consider the manslaughter
charge because abortion, including
late-term abortion, is legal in Kan-
sas and because Tiller did not pose
an imminent threat.
"There is no immediate dan-
ger in the back of a church," the
judge said. He also ruled out a
second-degree murder conviction,
which does not involve premedita-
tion, because it was clear Roeder
planned the killing.
"It would be hard for a reason-
able fact-finder to find anything
other than the defendant formulat-
ing his belief and then planning on
multiple occasions ... to carry out
his intention to (kill) Dr. Tiller."
In a November interview with
The Associated Press, Roeder pub-
licly confessed to shooting Tiller,

who was one of the few doctors in
the country who performed late-
term abortions.
Roeder, 51, of Kansas City, Mo.,
said he considered other ways of
killing Tiller, including driving his
car into Tiller's or shooting him
with a shotgun. But he said he was
concerned those approaches could
hurt others.
"I did what I thought was needed
to be done to protect the children,"
Roeder said. "I shot him."
He testified that he wrapped the
.22-caliber handgun in a piece of
cloth and buried it in a rural area.
The weapon has not been recovered.
Prosecutors were careful during
the first few days of testimony to
avoid the subject of abortion and to
focus on the specifics of the shoot-
ing. The judge said he did not want
the trial to become a debate on
abortion, but he said he would give
Roeder a great deal of "latitude"
when discussinghis beliefs because
they were integral to his defense.
Throughout his questioning,
Roeder appeared calm and col-
lected, waiting quietly each time
prosecutors objected to something

he said about medical procedures
or late-term abortions, which the
judge forbade him from testifying
about.
When asked, for example, to
detail the types of abortion proce-
dures he was familiar with, Roeder
answered "four or five" and then
listed them. In one instance, he
described a procedure as the fetus
being "torn limb from limb" - a
characterization that prompted a
quick objection from prosecutor
Nola Foulston.
During a lengthy cross examina-
tion, Foulston tried to keep Roeder's
responses to "yes" or "no." At one
point, Roeder acknowledged that
he had been thinking about killing
abortion providers since the 1990s,
and had considered using a sword
to chop off Tiller's hands or killing
him at his home.
Roeder testified though that he
thought chopping off Tiller's hands
was not a good solution because
Tiller would still be able to train
people. He said Tiller's home was
not a good location because it was
in a gated community and difficult
to access.

.boardfor Student
Publications
seeks New Members
The University of Michigan Board for Student Publications
is recruiting two members for three-year terms beginning in April.
The Board is responsible for three publications:
The Michigan Daily, the Michiganensian Yearbook, and the Gargoyle.
Because the Board is committed to realizing diversity's benefits
for itself and for the publications it oversees, the Board
is particularly interested in recruiting members of the
University Community (faculty, staff and students) or the general public
who are members of underrepresented groups and who have
experience and expertise in journalism, law, finance, or development.
Interested persons are encouraged to apply.
For more information and application forms, please visit
our website: www.pub.umich.edu
or contact Mark Bealafeld, Student Publications General Manager
at (734) 936-7883 or mbealafe@umich.edu
The deadline for receipt of applications is
February 12, 2010.

0 7:30 p
p y 30AY gN
STUDENT ST x OFFC
AVAILABLE ONLY 'AT TAlE JOP U S ARO E. X O F C C M
TI ET RICS'$32 $2, L OUSING JS$aRE WARE A RTEJO L ENA OXCOFFICE
T12 ICKEAT I4RONl~
LCTOSYA B 3OE A13LuE3CE CKyTHEO-OM H
. $32g E5r $ A L IN tAB G ALL1 80 031ASK FOR THE COLEGEt H F A R TE
ALTICKET MSR 352
ticETMASTE LOATEOS IC AL m
TICK E ALuSOerurAVAILrneLaEoBt
s Ean s an R
tOs

a

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 29, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 29, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
ANN ARBOR, Mich.
Borders to cut 164
jobs in Ann Arbor
Bookseller Borders Group Inc. is
laying off 164 staffers in an effortto
cut costs amid slumping sales.
The company has cut 124 cor-
porate jobs, including 88 at its Ann
Arbor, Mich., headquarters and 36
corporate staffers in other loca-
tions. The company also cut 40
from distribution centers in Ten-
nessee and California.
In total the cuts are less than 1
percent of Border's 22,500 workers.
The moves come the same week
CEO Ron Marshall left to become
head of the Great Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Co. supermarket chain, forcing
Borders to seek its fourth CEO in
five years. It also follows a disap-
pointing holiday season and three
straight quarterly losses.
Borders is facing increased com-
petition from online rivals and dis-
counters, declining music sales and
consumers curtailing their spend-
ing during the recession. Borders
reported last week that sales at its
namesake superstores open at least
a year were down 14.6 percent for
the crucial holiday period.
DETROIT
Detroit schools to
resume city-wide
marching band
Cash-poor Detroit Public
Schools is reviving a citywide
marching band that ceased per-
forming when the district ran into
a financial jam.
Financial manager Rohert Bohh
said yesterday that he pushed to
resurrect the band after learn-
ing that 325 uniforms were being
0 stored in a district warehouse.
He said the district will match a
$25,000 donation as startup funds.
Bobb also is asking the community
to raise another $250,000 to help
pay band travel expenses and for
some instruments.
The uniforms cost the district
more than $300,000 before the All-
City High School Marching Band
held its final performance in 2004.
The band was launched in 2001 and
performed in the 2002 Rose Bowl
Parade in Pasadena, Calif.
WASHINGTON
Dept. of Defense
moving forward on
lifting Don't ask,
Don't tell policy
The Defense Department next
week will for the first time pro-
pose a "way forward" on lifting
the military's ban on gays from
serving openly, Pentagon Press
Secretary Geoff Morrell said
Thursday.
President Barack Obama has
vowed to work with Congress this
year to repeal the. law, but Demo-
crats have been waiting to hear
from the military on how it could
be done.
In special hourlong testimony
next Tuesday, Defense Secretary

Robert Gates and Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff Adm. Mike
Mullen are expected to identify
specific steps the military will take
before the law is changed to lessen
the impact on a force fighting two
wars.
The plan also is aimed at help-
ing to determine how Congress can
write a new law.
"The secretary and the chairman
have and will continue to work on
an implementation plan, and we'll
be able to share it with you early
next week," Morrell said.
MORELIA, Mexico
Police officers
killed as drug war
intensifies
Gunmen killed a police chief and
two officers yesterday in the same
western town where a human head
was dumped a day earlier.
Antonio Bravo, police chief of
Quiroga, and two officers were
attacked while they drove in a
patrol car, Michoacan state pros-
ecutors said in a statement.
Quiroga authorities found the
severed head Wednesday in the
town's tree-lined plaza near city
hall. It was accompanied by a
threatening message referring to a
drug cartel.
Also yesterday, police in the
S Michoacan town of Zitacuaro
found several plastic bags contain-
ing body parts near the city govern-
ment offices, prosecutors said.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

As student protests in Venezuela turn
violent, police respond with tear gas

Chavez orders end
to five-day-long
protests against
increased censorship
CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) -
Police fired tear gas to chase off
thousands of students demon-
strating in the capital yesterday, a
fifth day of protests against Presi-
dent Hugo Chavez for pressuring
cable and satellite TV providers to
drop an opposition channel.
Some of the protesters threw
rocks at police in riot gear when
officers moved to break up the
rally outside the offices of the
state-run electricity company.
While charging that the gov-
ernment is trying to curb criti-
cism, the students also used their
demonstration to call attention
to electricity shortages plagu-
ing much of Venezuela and other
pressing domestic problems like
double-digit inflation.
University students have taken
to the streets daily since Sunday,
after government pressure led
cable TV services to drop Radio
Caracas Television International,
which has long been a critic of

Chavez's socialist policies.
"We are not going to allow
continued shutdowns of media
outlets that tell the truth, and we
are not going to allow ineptitude
and inefficiency to continue,"
said Nizar El Sakih, a student
leader.
Critics of the government say
Chavez is responsible for domes-
tic problems ranging from double-
digit inflation to violent crime to
rolling power blackouts.
The government says RCTV
was removed for refusing to com-
ply with a new rule requiring
media outlets to televise man-
datory programming, including
Chavez's speeches.
Chavez accused students of try-
ing to stir up violence as a means
of destabilizing his government.
"There are some attempting to
set fire to the country," Chavez
said in a televised address Thurs-
day. "What are they seeking?
Death."
He said unidentified assailants
armed with assault rifles shot at
National Guard troops Wednes-
day in the city of Merida, where
two soldiers suffered gunshot
wounds. A military barracks in
the city of Barquisimeto was also
attacked, he said.

University students shout slogans against Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez during a protest in Caracas, yesterday.

Chavez vowed to crack down
on street demonstrations that
turn violent.
"We cannot permit this," he
said. "The state and the govern-
ment must impose authority."
Ten students were accused
of fomenting public disorder
Thursday in the eastern city of

Barcelona - a day after they led
protests that ended in clashes
with police, Fortunato Herrera,
a lawyer representing the stu-
dents, told the local Globovision
TV channel.
Student leader Jonathan Zam-
brano told Globovision that 22
protesters were arrested in the

city of Barinas. The students were
released, Zambrano said, after
university groups agreed to call
off street demonstrations.
Two youths were killed in Mer-
ida on Monday - a day after the
protests began. Dozens of people
have been injured during the
week's demonstrations.

Calif. to vote on
pot legalization

Democrats muscle through
bill to increase nation's debt

Organizers gather
enough signatures
to get petition on
November ballot
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -
Backers of a California initiative to
legalize marijuana said they would
submit far more signatures Thurs-
day than needed to qualify the
measure for the November ballot.
Volunteers intended to submit
about 700,000 signatures collect-
ed across all 58 California coun-
ties, campaign spokesman Dan
Newman said.
The initiative needs about
434,000 signatures from regis-
tered voters to make the ballot.
The Regulate, Control and Tax
Cannabis Act of 2010 would legal-
ize possession of small amounts
of marijuana for adults. It also
would allow limited growing on
private property and permit local
governments to decide whether
to legalize and tax pot sales.

"Our current laws aren't work-
ing. We should have learned from
alcohol prohibition," said Oak-
land medical marijuana entrepre-
neur Richard Lee, the measure's
main backer.
The signature were filed as a
15,000-square-foot store stocked
with marijuana growing supplies
prepared to open in Oakland -
anothersignofthe mainstreaming
of pot in some parts of California.
Members of the Oakland
City Council were scheduled to
attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony
Thursday.
No pot is sold at the store, but
it has an onsite doctor to provide
medical marijuana recommenda-
tions to customers and techni-
cians who will install growing
equipment such as lights and fans
in the homes of customers.
Customers can see "Ikea-style
grow room demonstrations with
live plants," according to the store.
Owner Dhar Mann, 25, said he was
"thrilled to see the strong support
that the city of Oakland and the
community has shown us."

Experts meet at UN
to discuss fighting
piracy near Somalia

Group says ships
can take greater
precautions to
avoid pirate attacks
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -
Piracy experts said yesterday
thatmost ofthe hijacked ships off
the coast of Somalia had ignored
safety precautions, and at least
25 percent of the commercial
ships that pass through the Gulf
of Aden continue to do so.
An informal band of nations
and organizations fighting piracy
along Somalia's vast and lawless
coastline vowed to try to per-
suade more merchant vessels to
follow precautions adopted by the
world's leading shipping, cargo
and insurance organizations.
These self-protective mea-
sures, ranging from increased
lookouts to zigzag maneuvers
to the use of razor wire and fire
pumps, are based on recommen-
dations by the European Union's
maritime security center for the
Horn of Africa. The pirates usu-
ally seize the ships or the crews
without harming them, and they
often receive what they want -
tens of millions of dollars in ran-
som, paid in cash.
Diplomats told the anti-piracy
group that both industry and the
U.N. Security Council had helped
the effort - the 15-nation council
by giving countries authoriza-
tion to enter Somalia's territorial
waters, with advance notice, and
use "all necessary means" to stop
piracy and armed robbery at sea.

"We are seeing the effects of
the preventive measures taken
by the industry," said Carl Sali-
cath, a senior adviser at Norway's
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
which chaired a daylong meet-
ing at U.N. headquarters. It was
the fifth such meeting of the so-
called Contact Group on Piracy
off the Coast of Somalia since its
formation last year.
"The successful hijacks are
almost exclusively on ships not
complying with the best manage-
ment practices adopted by this
group. This is by far the most
important measure against pira-
cy," Salicath said. "But still, only
70 to 75 percent of the ships pass-
ing through the Gulf of Aden fol-
low the preventive measures. Our
challenge is to achieve a much
higher level of compliance."
Salicath said another big fac-
tor is the military's protective
naval escorts, and other counter-
piracy measures, in the region.
The group also has agreed to set
up international funds to help
pay the cost of prosecutions and
beefed-up security.
Charles Petrie, a U.N. deputy
special representative for Soma-
lia, said U.N.-sponsored anti-
drug efforts also are playing a
role.
Somali pirates now hold nine
major vessels hostage and about
200 crew members, plus about
six to seven Arab sailing dhows
with an undetermined number
of crew members, said Captain
Paul Chivers, chief of staff for
the EU's naval operation off the
coast of Somalia, known as Oper-
ation Atalanta.

Legislation allows
the government to go
$1.9B deeper in debt
WASHINGTON (AP) - Senate
Democrats needed all the 60 votes
at their disposal yesterday to mus-
cle through legislation allowing
the government to go $1.9 trillion
deeper in debt.
Democratic leaders were able to
prevail on the politically volatile
60-39 vote only because Repub-
lican Sen.-elect Scott Brown of
Massachusetts has yet to be seat-
ed. Republicans had insisted on a
60-vote, super-majority 'thresh-
hold to pass the measure. An ear-
lier test vote succeeded on a 60-40
vote.
The measure would would put
the government on track for a
national debt of $14.3 trillion -
about $45,000 for every American
- and it served as a vivid remind-
er of the United States' dire fiscal
straits.
The massive increase in the
debt limit would allow majority
Democrats to avoid another vote
until after the midterm elections
this fall. New estimates released
by the Congressional Budget
Office on Tuesday show that the
U.S. this year could run a deficit
matching last year's record $1.4
trillion shortfall.
To win the votes of moder-
ate Democrats, President Barack
Obama promised to appoint a spe-
cial task force to come up with a
plan for dealing with the spiraling
debt.
And to get the support of mod-
erate "Blue Dog" Democrats in a
House vote next week, the mea-
sure includes tough new "pay-as-
you-go" budget rules to make it
harder to run up the deficit with
new tax cuts or federal benefit
programs. Senate Democrats had
been reluctant to approve the
new deficit curbs but relented and
approved them by a 60-40 vote.
Several Republicans who had
earlier voted for the new rules,
which would make it more diffi-
cult to permanently extend some
tax cuts that expire at the end of
this year, switched their positions
and opposed it.
They include John McCain or
Arizona, who's facing a primary
battle with former Rep. J.D. Hay-
worth, who's winning support
from conservative "tea party"
activists.
To make raising the debt ceil-
ing easier for moderates and polit-
ically endangered Democrats to
swallow amid a populist uprising
against government borrowing
and spending, Obama promised
in his State of the Union address
night to appoint a bipartisan task
force to come up with a plan .
"I will issue an executive order
that will allow us to go forward,
because I refuse to pass this prob-
lem on to another generation of
Americans," he said.
The 60 votes Democrats need
from their own caucus include
those of incumbents facing dif-
ficult re-election battles this year
as well as longtime opponents of

raising the debt limit, such as Sen.
Evan Bayh, D-Ind.
The task was made more dif-
ficult last week when Brown won
the late Edward M. Kennedy's Sen-
ate seat. On Feb. 11, when Brown
plans to take office, the Democrats'
majority shrinks to59 and the GOP
will have the 41 votes it needs to
filibuster what it doesn't like in
the agendas pushed by Obama and
Democratic leaders.
"It took 200 years to build the

federal debt to a total of $1.9 tril-
lion," Seri. Judd Gregg, R-N.H.,
said. "Now the majority wants to
increase the current limit ... by $1.9
trillion so that we can finance the
government's borrowing binge long
enoughto getus pastthe November
2010 elections."
Democrats and Republicans
alike share responsibility for run-
ning up the debt, but it falls upon
Democrats to pass the measure
since they control the government.

II
All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
- &g 7e 6?loi 10-CL
Domestic Bottles Start At $1
310 Maynard St-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Maynard Parkin Structure

THRIFT SHOP
A2PTOThrifiShoporg
734.996.9155
2280 $. Industrial Hwy
#6 AATA Bus Line
Hours
Mon - Fri 9am 7pm
Sat 9am -6pm
San 11am - 5pm
Donations Accepted
Hex -Fri l0am -6pm
Sat l0am - 5pm
FREE furniture
22pick-up


4 - Friday, January 29, 2010

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
xeAnn Arbor, MI48109
.m, Y'"..SitY ..x-'tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Education balancing act
State must increase funding to public schools to stop cuts
T he Ann Arbor Public School District is treading a fine
line in its promise to keep budget cuts out of the class-
room. Superintendent Todd Roberts's Jan. 7 proposal to
manage the district's budget shortfall goes far, but doesn't fix the
greater problem. As manufacturing jobs flee the state, the most
important resource for future workers is a high quality educa-
tion to prepare them for a changing economy. This starts with a
strong K-12 system. Though the district must find a way to ensure
these funding cuts don't reach the classroom, the real solution to
funding problems must come from the state.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
The percentage by which
Harvard's endowment fell in
the 2008-2009 fiscal year.
- According to the National Association of College and University Business Officers
and Commonfund, as reported by the Associated Press yesterday.
DANIEL GOLD E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU
Time for a new
hairstyle.
Any idea Yeah Pretty Bay,
where r can get take a shawer and
frasted tips? walk autside.
Behind the screens

In October, the Michigan legislature cut
funding to public schools across the state
by $165 per pupil. A month later, a pro-
posed Washtenaw County millage failed
at the November ballot. Had it passed,
the millage would have funneled $11 mil-
lion into Ann Arbor's schools. The budget
shortfall for Ann Arbor Public Schools now
stands at nearly $20 million aggregated
.over this school year and the next. Earlier
this month, Roberts proposed about $16.2
million in budget cuts. The plan calls for
privatizing the custodial and maintenance
'staff, restructuring elementary school spe-
cials, eliminating 34 teaching positions,
introducing an athletic "pay-to-play" fee
and cutting transportation costs, among
other things.
Faced with a daunting deficit, the Ann
Arbor school district has been forced to
cut costs. District officials have identified
several areas where cuts are possible, but
they must be certain that the cuts they
make won't affect the quality of education.
Cutting programs and teachers limits stu-
dents' learning opportunities. But there
are other areas of the budget that could
take atrim. For example, Ann Arbor spends .
nearly double on its sports programs as
districts of comparable sizes, according to
an AnnArbor.com report this week. And
while athletics offer students valuable
experiences, this may be one department
that could handle a funding decrease.
It's disturbing that districts across the
state are being left with no choice but to

slash programs since the funding decrease
last fall - especially since education is the
wrong place for the state to make cuts.
The future of Michigan's economy will be
based in science and technology industries,
which will require more highly-skilled
workers with a comprehensive education.
And already-strained schools can't afford
to stretch their budgets further and main-
tain the quality of education. To invest in
Michigan's future economy, the state must
step in and increase its funding to public
education.
To balance the budget, the state should
cut from systems that can handle the
decrease in funding, instead of cutting
from the vital education system. The
state should look to cut from other inef-
ficient programs, like the bloated correc-
tions system. According to a 2008 report
by the National Institute of Corrections,
Michigan spends 22 percent of its budget
on corrections - three times the nation-
al average - and is one of five states that
spend more on corrections than higher
education, according to the Pew Research
Center. Michigan schools can't take anoth-
er cut. The state should turn its attention
to programs that could.
As long as funding for public education
continues to decrease, districts like Ann
Arbor Public Schools must balance con-
straints and the necessity of quality educa-
tion. But to solve the problem completely, the
state must adequately support Michigan's
most valuable resource: its students.

Sitting in my psych class this
past week, I noticed that I held
the lone pen in a sea of screens
and keyboards. To
my right, two girls
browsed through
an online shop-
ping website. A few
rows down, a girl
checked her Face-
book profile. And to
my left, I watched
a boy and girl scan
through pictures of LEAH
the previous week- POTKIN
end's events. As my
eyes darted from
screen to screen,
my professor continued to lecture,
oblivious to the buzz of activity going
on around him.
Well, "oblivious" might be a bit
extreme. The professor joked on the
first day of class that while he does
allow computers in class, he was sure
that at that moment most of the class
was on Facebook (he was, of course,.
correct). He addressed this in hopes
it would deter students from continu-
ing this habit, but at each lecture I
find increasingly more screens that
draw my attention. Exactly what
benefit do these devices have in the
classroom if they serve more to dis-
tract from rather than facilitate an
academic environment?
It's only fair that I first mention a
few of the countless capabilities of
what I like to call a college student's
best friend (or Mactops, as my pro-
fessor joked). The Internet allows
students to stay in constant contact
with professors, offers many Univer-
sity resources such as MIRLYN and
CTools and enables students to follow
along with slides posted online. Not to
mention the notebook layout on Word,
which allows students to carry notes

for every class in the convenience of a
13" to 15" contraption, eliminating the
need for the antiquated notebooks of
earlier generations'- and the ability to
decipher one's own scribbles.
Technology is incredible, yet it is so
incredible that when it is at students'
fingertips, it's simply irresistible.
Don't all attack me at once, but I pro-
pose that Internet access be limited in
classrooms to give professors at least a
chance at holding students' attention..
I don't necessarily mean the Internet
should be inaccessible, as it certainly
has learning advantages when utilized
correctly. Simply blocking a few popu-
lar distraction sites would make a huge
difference. Some students may argue
that they have the right to decide how
they spend their class time, or that it
is not the University's responsibility
to monitor their classroom etiquette.
But the University should want to pro-
mote positive work habits, and block-
ing certain websites would accomplish
exactly that.
Some professors don't allow laptops
at all in class, and while this is defi-
nitely a solution, it prevents the poten-
tial advantages of having a computer in
class. Some students keep up with tak-
ing notes much betteron a computer,
and computers also givestudents . the
freedom to Google what they don't
understand. This freedom is unfairly
revoked by the complete elimination
of computers from the classroom, as
there are more logical and reasonable
ways to go about remedying this tech-
nological epidemic.
I understand that we are adults
who pay for our education and that
we should have the willpower to avoid
such distractions for a mere hour or
two - but that is wishful thinking. I
will say that I usually opt out of bring-
ing my computer to class, but it is by no
means an attempt to abstain from dis-

tracting myself. In fact, it is primarily
because I have yet to master the for-
matting of Word documents to fit my
note taking style, and I admittedly do
choose to bring my computer to class
when I know there is a chance I'll be
bored.
Computers in class
distract more than
aid learning.
So for all you strong-willed students
judging my occasional lack of willpow-
er, I truly envy you. But if you can hon-
estly saythat a person mouthing words
awkwardly at his or her screen (video
chatting) or frantically beating his
or her arrow keys in an intense game
of Tetris doesn't distract you; then
you truly deserve a round of applause
(though I doubt that would distract you
either).
To put it quite simply, we're all still
students and a little discipline.wouldn't
hurt. I even find that classes tend to go
by much faster when I engage myself
in the material. To some extent it is the
professor's job to do this, but when my
owndesiretolistenandlearnisskewed
by another's surrender to distractions,
something must be done.
This article could return to stab me
in the back when I get stuck in a nev-
er-ending lecture and have no outlet
for my boredom. But it's interesting to
think that many of the column ideas
I play around with come from things
I learn and discuss in class, and not
whatever distraction is on my screen.
- Leah Potkin can be reached
at lpotkin@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
NICHOLAS CLIFT |
CSI: Bursleyville

COLLEGE REPUBLICANS|I
The real state of the union

Bursley Hall is a crime scene. Just° weeks
after Bursley's dining hall received a large
shipment of delightfully colored mugs, nearly
all of them had been ruthlessly mug-knapped.
As a resident of Bursleyville, I'm embarrassed.
So, I decided to investigate, and with some
help, I have determined that the Bursley caf-
eteria theft is not an isolated issue but part of a
larger, nastier problem.
Last week, I spoke on the phone with Sandy
Lowry, Associate Director of Residential Dining
Services, who told me just how serious and cost-
ly dining hall theft has become. Over a 15-month
period ending in November, dining halls across
campus had to pay to replace 20,400 blue plastic
cups, 21,600 pieces of flatware and 17,000 pieces
of china at a cost of over $50,000. Lowry told
me that the dining halls budget for a roughly
15-percent loss of tableware each year, but the
mugs seem to have left that estimate in the dust.
As if that wasn't bad enough, Communications
Director for University Housing Peter Logan
pointed out to me last Friday that these num-
bers are especially depressing since very few of
the cup and flatware losses are due to breakage.
That means that almost all of those items had
to be replaced because they were stolen; that
should bother all of us.
A friend of mine, though, didn't agree. Board
costs a lot of money, she said, so her theft is jus-
tified. In her view, theft is just a means of get-
ting what she paid for.
It's what I call the Robin Hood complex, and
it's delusional. Students like my friend seem
to feel they are acting in pursuit of justice and
equality. Just like Robin Hood stealing from
the rich to help the poor, they're combating
high prices by stealing whatever they consider
their piece of the pie from the community.
Not surprisingly, Logan told. me, "The
impression that they're going to get some of
this back" - i.e., that stealing will help them
get their money's worth - is a flawed one. The
cost of replacing those stolen items isn't small,
and "It's a cost ultimately borne by the stu-
dents." My friend is really stealing from me and

all of us in Bursleyville.
I don't like the price of board either. But to
those Robin Hoods among us who feel their
board money is being spent overpaying wealthy
housing employees, I invite you to spend some
time with The Michigan Daily Salary Supple-
ment, available on the paper's website, which
lists the salaries of every employee from cus-
todians to directors. Take a moment to scroll
through the literally hundreds of names of
custodians and cooks making $30,000 or less
each year. Decide for yourself whether or not
we're payingtoo high a price for your meals and
whether your theft is really so just.
There are also those who are simply apa-
thetic. They steal because, to them, it's incon-
sequential. Somehow, when donating $5 to help
Haitians, we're told every dollar counts. Yet
apparently the same isn't true for stealing a few
dollars worth of plates. Seemingly inconsequen-
tial things, like the greenhouse gases leaving
our tailpipes, can add up to issues of enormous
importance. As with global warming, if enough
of us act irresponsibly at once, the disappear-
ance of a few delightfully colored mugs can
bring the world to its knees.
But, in all seriousness, maybe mug theft is no
international crisis. What bothers me isn't so
much the cost, which I know is still relatively
small, it's the disappointment. I am so proud to
be a part of this community, and I expected our
ambitious student body to care as much for social
responsibility as for academics and sports. In
danger of sounding too philosophical, as young
people, we're supposed to be the progressives.
We're supposed to look with disgust at the world
as it is now and feverishly seek a better society.
To me, our growing tendency to rob one another
seems a symptom of something far worse than an
affinity for spoons: apathy. And students are the
ones who are supposed to care.
The dining halls belong to us all. Unless you
truly cannot afford your own fork, don't steal
mine.
Nicholas Clift is an Engineering freshrman.

The United States has reached the one-year milestone in
President Barack Obama's first term in office. The U.S. has
changed rapidly in the past year, weathering the ill effects
of the economic crisis. Our nation has been polarized by the
bitter partisan struggles over health care reform, cap-and-
trade energy proposals and massive stimulus spending - all
initiatives long-awaited and hoped for by liberals and gen-
erally disdained by conservatives. We have faced tragedy at
Fort Hood and threats on Christmas from those who seek
to destroy us and we continue the long fight in Afghanistan.
Yet, we remain intact asa nation.
In his State of the Union address on Wednesday, Obama
spoke of a "new direction" for our nation. While the College
Republicans agree that a new direction is needed, there is a
fundamental difference in the direction that we believe the
nation should take.
Obama outlined numerous proposals for an increased
role for the federal government in virtually every sector of
American life in his address. We, on the other hand, believe
that the best thing the government can do to restore the
economy and end excessive unemployment is to get out of
the way. Limited government and greater personal freedom
will lead to new initiatives from small business owners, and
a greater ability for people to decide how to spend their own
money instead of the government spending it for them. The
free market has been the greatest engine for opportunity in
human history and has built this country into the beacon we
see today. And in America,'anyone who applies him or her-
self and works hard can fulfill his or her dream.
Unfortunately, Obama chose to coat his true intentions
in the language of fiscal responsibility. Nothing could
be further from the truth. If actions speak louder than
words, then the massive and reckless spending of Wash-
ington duringthe past year put this president on record as
the most fiscally irresponsible president that this nation
has ever had, surpassing even George W. Bush in deficit
spending. This blatant misleading of the American people
cannot be tolerated. As young Americans, we must under-
stand the impact such massive debts will have on our

generation and our standard of living. We deserve better
from our president.
The radical Left and its agenda was dealt a decisive blow
with the election of Scott Brown (R-Mass.) to the U.S. Sen-
ate and the loss of the Democrat supermajority. America
was angry, and we expressed our anger in Massachusetts
last week. Now it's time for the Democrats to listen. If that
means going back to the drawing board on health care
reform, then so be it.
The Obama administration must also show itself to be
a formidable force when dealing with matters of nation-
al security. The attempted Christmas Day bombing on a
Detroit-bound flight chillingly highlighted this. It's time for
the administration to stop using our tax dollars to defend
terrorists in our court system and instead use it to fightthem
abroad. There should be no greater interest than the safety
and security of American citizens, and our efforts to gath-
er information from enemy combatants and use it to save
American lives mustreflect that.
We are less than enthusiastic about some of Obama's mis-
steps in his firstyear. And voters feel the same way. On three
separate occasions - in Virginia, New Jersey and Massa-
chusetts - they have sent a clear message to the president
that our nation cannot and will not be governed from the
far Left. We may not have voted for him, but Obama is our
president.We hopethat the president will correct his course
and become the moderate leader that inspired so many on
the campaign trail.
Nevertheless, we should be proud of our nation and the
historic days in which we live. As Obama stated on Wednes-
day, we can't settle for second place. We are the greatest
country on Earth thanks to the hard work and sacrifices of
those who came before us. In spite of threats from abroad,
economic hardship and government corruption, we stand
strong as a union. America's best days are ahead of us.
This viewpoint was written by Brian Koziara
and Charles Bogren on behalf of the University's
chapter oftthe College Republicans.

0


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 29, 2010 -

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 29, 2010 -

'U' alum standing strong at Sundance

Remembering
"Jew ish'Vo ice s'

Sultan Sharrief shares his
low-budget Detroit tale with
the cinephiles at Sundance
By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
"Bilal's Stand" features neither big name
celebrities nor the special effects of "Avatar."
What it does have, according to writer and
director Sultan Sharrief
(who is also director and "Birla's Stand"
creator of the EFEX Proj-
ect at the University), is At the
honesty. Michigan,
"The actors aren't pro- Sundayat 6p.m.
fessionals," Sharrief said. Tickets from $12
"They're just kind of play-
ing themselves. ... The film
is not perfect, but it has perfect imperfections."
It's the film's earnestness and fresh per-
spective that qualified it for the Sundance
Film Festival as part of the NEXT category, a
set of low-budget films the Sundance website
describes as "proudly modest."
The film tells the story of Bilal, a teenager
from Detroit who balances working at his fam-
ily's taxi stand with his dream of going to col-
lege. What makes "Bilal's Stand" so resonant is
that it's firmly based in reality.
As part of the EFEX Project (Encouraging
the Filmmaking Experience), one of the film's
goals was to provide students in the Detroit
area with "a real experience," Sharrief said.
"EFEX made (the story) real. High school
students are brutal. They'll tell you if some-
thing's stupid and you'll take it out and rewrite
it. It definitely made the story realistic because
of that element," he added.
In addition to promoting grounded real-

ism, "Bilal's Stand" seeks to provoke dialogue
on controversial topics such as affirmative
action.
"I went to the University of Michigan in the
fall of 2001, which was during the whole affir-
mative action period," Sharrief said. "There
were lots of people protesting on the Diag and
stuff. People would say 'Oh, (getting in) was
easy for you because you're black.' They really
just didn't understand how hard it was to get
to this point. I think the film makes it all more
accessible for non-blacks. It's a story that's
very human, so everybody can relate."
Through "Bilal's Stand," Sharrief hopes to
illuminate the Muslim experience in Detroit,
make it less foreign and bring people together
rather than divide them on issues of belief.
In addition to tackling religious tensions and
racial issues, Sharrief's film is also relevant in
light of today's economic uncertainty.
"It's a timely story," he said, "It's about
going to college and having financial prob-
lems. College enrollment was down this year
because of the bad economy. It's also about
education - there's about like an 80 percent
drop-out rate now."
Sharriefsees his movie as a chanceto change
these problems. He hoped to use Detroit as the
setting for a more touching and inspiringstory
that would uplift the city's image.
"It's a way to give back," he said. "There
tends to be a pattern in areas like Detroit
where the creative people leave. That's not the
way I wanted to do things. They're filming a
lot of things in Detroit now. Post-apocalyptic
movies like 'Red Dawn' that use the bad part
of the city."
Overall, Sharrief feels that Sundance has
provided him with an amazing opportunity to
get his message out.
"It's been crazy. It's an emotional maze," he
said. "Most of the time you don't even know

what you're feeling. I'm just amazed to be
here, like, the other day, I met Robert Redford.
At the same time, it's a competition and you're
here to sell your movie so you always have to
be working in the back of your mind."
But getting to this point wasn't easy.
"The hardest thing was the lack of resourc-
es," Sharrief said. "We found ways around it,
but at the same time, it's hard when your artis-
tic vision can't be realized all the time. You
don't want to compromise it but you have to.
There was one scene, we had to use unpaid
extras, and because they were unpaid, it was
hard to get people to show up. We had to
reshoot because there wasn't enough people."
In the end, though, Sharrief feels that he
took alot away from the whole process.
"You have to keep moving forward and
know that you will make mistakes," he said.
"There's this Thomas Edison quote that says,
'I am not discouraged because every wrong
attempt discarded is another step forward.' I
think that sums it all up the best."
"Bilal's Stand" will be playing at the Michi-
gan Theater Sunday at 6 p.m. Sharrief will be
Skyping in live from Sundance for a question
and answer session after the movie.

By SHARON JACOBS
AssistantArts Editor
At a glance, it may seem like
the gravity of the Holocaust has
been diluted
by the ubiq- V o
uity of a hand-t
ful of works Holocaust"
in the main- Saturday
stream media. aturday
Curricula at 8p.m.
everywhere UMMA-he
now include Apse Roan
Elie Wiesel's Free
"Night" as
required reading; box-office smash
"Schindler's List" won seven
Oscars in 1993, and "Valkyrie,"
"The Boy in the Striped Pajamas"
and "Defiance" were all recently
released; and the band Neutral
Milk Hotel even fixated on the
story of Anne Frank for its album
In The Aeroplane Over The Sea. All
the attention given to these few
accounts of the atrocity can soften
its impact.
Caroline Helton, clinical assis-
tantprofessorofmusic inthe School
of Music, Theatre & Dance, wants
to look past the mainstream explo-
rations and explore the more per-
sonal, intimate music that came out
of the Holocaust era. Her program,
"Voices of the Holocaust," will take
place this Saturday, free of charge,
in the Apse Room at the Univer-
sity of Michigan Museum of Art at
8p.m. She will be accompanied on
the piano by Kathryn Goodson, a
collaborative pianist and teacher.
All of the music on Helton's
program was composed by Jews
whose lives were affected by the
Holocaust. None of the music has
been digitally recorded before and
scores were difficult to find, Hel-
ton said in an interview with The
Michigan Daily.
Helton said that when the Nazis
came to power in Germany, "there
was an active effort to destroy
books and music and art that were
created by Jews."
"So that's where so many of the
pieces (by Jewish composers) got
lost - they were simply destroyed.
And the archives are still in a mess
in Germany," she added. "We don't
know what was created there
oftentimes."
After sifting through historical
and musical records, Helton has
crafted a program that features the
rare works of three European Jew-
ish composers: Robert Kahn, Erich
Korngold and Darius Milhaud.
Born in Mannheim, Germany,
Kahn was a famous and prolific
composer, conductor and pianist
before the rise of Adolf Hitler.
His lyrical, conservative style was
heavily influenced by the Romantic
great Johannes Brahms, a friend of
Kahn's.
But in 1933, his reputation was
compromised when laws were
enacted prohibiting Jews from
performing in public or publishing
their works. Kahn escaped Germa-
ny in the late '30s and fled to Eng-
land, where he "lived in obscurity
(and) relative poverty," according
to Helton.
Korngold is "the pioneer of what
we think of as movie music," Hel-
ton continued. A musical prodigy
whose first opera was published
when he was 11, Korngold left his
native country of Austria to com-
pose the score for the Warner Bros.
movie "The Adventures of Robin
Hood."
That was in 1938, six weeks

before the Anschluss - the annex-
ation of Austria by Nazi Germany.
Therestofhis familyleftonthe last
train to Switzerland. The Korngold
works that Helton will be perform-
ing premiered at the last public
concert he held in Austria.
Ending the first half of "Voices"
is a song cycle focused on Jewish
identity. Called "Poemes Juifs," the
music was written by celebrated
avant-garde French composer Mil-
haud. The lyrics, however, can be
traced back to a set of anonymous
Hebrew texts describing the Jew-
ish experience in Europe.

The poems present "a story of
how to deal with life as a Jew in
persecuted times," Helton said.
The poems express yearning for
a world where Jews would "be able
to work the land and breathe fresh
air and live where (they) want to
live ... so those themes pervade the
'Poemes Juifs,' the five songs by
Milhaud," she added.
Milhaud's song cycle was writ-
ten in the early 1900s, document-
ing a pre-Holocaust era of Jewish
persecution.
In the first half of the con-
cert, only the Milhaud songs deal
directly with Jewish identity. The
more identity-focused second half
is comprised of a series of pieces
by Professor of Composition Paul
Schoenfield, from the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, called
"Ghetto Songs."
Schoenfield, who speaks fluent
Hebrew and has dual citizenship in
the US. and Israel, infuses hiwork
with an eastern European Jewish
folk music style called "klezmer."
"('Ghetto Songs' is) taking
klezmer, which is normally for
joyous occasions, and expressing
horror with this sound and (these)
rhythms," Helton explained.
"The voice is like the door you go
through to get to the experience."
Finding identity
in lost songs.
"Ghetto Songs" sets to music six
poems by the Polish writer Morde-
chai Gebirtig. When the Holocaust
began, Gebirtig was interred in the
Krakow ghetto with the rest of the
city's Jews. He was murdered by
the Nazis two years later. The six
poems were written between 1939
and 1942,and they dealwith themes
offamily, God and oppression.
Alternately mournful and frenet-
ic, Schoenfield's collection captures
the feelings of panic, misery and
uncertainty that pervaded eastern
Europe at this time. He said that
as the composer in such a work, he
feels "like a reporter who has to do
a story" on the chaos and anguish of
the Holocaust.
On "Ghetto Songs," Helton's
soprano will be joined by bass-
baritone Stephen West, professor of
voice in the School of Music, The-
atre & Dance, and accompanied by
University-affiliated musicians on
the clarinet, violin, double-bass and
cello.
Linking all the pieces on the
"Voices" program is an attempt to
draw out individual personalities
rather than the collective voice of
European Jewry in time of perse-
cution.
"The reason I call it 'Voices of
the Holocaust' is that there were
so many (Jewish) voices present
musically in Europe before the
Holocaust," Helton explained.
"They were assimilated into
society, but what happened with
the Nazi regime and with the
Holocaust is that all Jews were
lumped into one ... all these indi-
vidual voices were lumped into
one mass identity, she added.
"This is in essence an effort to get
to know some of the individual
voices musically that were pretty
much silenced by the Nazis."
The "Voices" program has a
deep connection to its source
material, bringing to light the lost

works ofcomposers who were each
uniquely affected by the Holo-
caust. By highlighting individual
artists whose lives were affected
by the Holocaust, "Voices" draws
us away from racial or ethnic
groupings.
"We are so lucky here in the
University to be able to get to
know artists, composers, poets,
to hear their words as individu-
als," said Helton. "So I guess
('Voices of the Holocaust' is) just
another way to remind us not to
lump people into faceless groups,
not to dehumanize."

Bilal attempts to balance work with his college career.

'Caprica' isn't a galactic success just yet

By NICK YRIBAR carefully crafted, computer-gen-
For the Daily erated graphics can be. But trouble
is brewing beneath the austere
Sci-fi nerds rejoice. "Battle- surface - a terrorist attack per-
star Galactica" has returned. petrated by those pesky monothe-
It's been nearly 10, tortuous, ists leaves the two central families
robot-free months since the re- mired in tragedy and sets off a
imagined series spiral of events that may lead to
finally reached Caprica's ruin.
its conclusion, **You'll notice the absence of the
and there has- words "spaceship" or "pan-galac-
been painfully "'" tic struggle" in the above synop-
little to fill the Fridaysat sis. There's good reason for that.
void. "Heroes" 9P.M "Caprica" seems to be attempting
has sucked, and Syfy to take the "sci" out of "sci-fi,"
nobody watches or at least to turn the traditional
"Doctor Who," science-fiction elements down to
so what is a geek to do? For almost a dull roar. The first 15 minutes of
a year, desperate, confused "BSG" "Caprica" are more like a coming-
fans have been roaming the of-age drama than "Star Trek," as
streets in a daze, muttering "so teenagers argue with their par-
say we all" to anyone who will ents and find futuristic ways to
listen, making spaceship engine rebel. Thankfully, the angst gives
sounds and accusing their loved way (mostly) to the more interest-
ones of sympathizing with the ing tension between the majority
Cylon menace. polytheists and the new, cultish,
But what's this? Is there rea- "One True God" movement. But
son for hope? "Caprica," the new even here, there's not a starfight-
series from Syfy, is based in the er to be found. Perhaps the new
same fictional universe as "BSG," focus in "Caprica" on the human
so the problem should be solved. drama behind the "BSG" world
Fans should feel the welcome will attract more varied viewers
embrace of the familiar - that than its predecessor. Whether
special, tingly sensation that this direction will alienate the
comes with hearing the name faithful is yet to be seen.
"Adama." But something doesn't What we're left with, then, is a
seem right. Where are the space- sci-fi show with little to no sci-fi,
ships? The space-insubordina- set in a far-off world amid cul-
tion? The space-intrigue? What in tural and religious conflict, and
the frak is going on here? surrounded by a strange amount
Set 58 years before the events of wealth and beauty that seems
of "BSG," "Caprica" takes place on to be on the verge of something.
a planet of the same name and is So how does it all stack up?
focused on the patriarchs of two The answer is a firm "me."
families (the Graystones and the The acting alternates between
Adamas). Caprica is a meticulously over the top and stilted -
kept metropolis where everything with the exception of the
is beautiful in the way that only nuanced performance by Esai
T1-i E 0 R I C 1 N A L
512 E. William (734) 663-3379
LIMITED TIME OFFER
For Our Friends at The U
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION
Lunch Buffet
M-F 11-2pm
$2 OFF our Lunch Buffet
With Beverage Included
Just Present Your U of M I.D.
Offer Expires: 2/26/10

Morales ("Fast Food Nation"), us to buy "Caprica" as something
playing Joseph Adama - and approaching reality, or at least
the heavy focus on the teenag- something that can see reality off
ers in the pilot only accentuates in the distance, then the dialogue
the problem. While the big ideas needs to sound like it wasn't writ-
behind the series are intriguing ten by hack Cylons.
(artificial intelligence, human- However, the seeds have been
ity spread across multiple plan- sown for some exciting prospects
in "Caprica." Despite the acting
and ridiculous dialogue, the ideas
Aless sc ji are too big to dismiss completely.
Time will tell if "Caprica" will
prequel t 'BSG.' gain the following that "BSG"
toenjoyed - that special kind of
fandom that is reserved for sci-
ence fiction and fantasy. Even
ets in a solar system, etc.), the if it doesn't, it's possible that
writing is borderline atrocious. "Caprica" might just be able to
This has always been the case in carve out a niche of its own with
the world of "BSG," but we for- a new kind of genre that walks
gave it because the series is, after the line between science fiction
all, a space opera. These people and traditional drama, taking the
are fighting robots in space, so best tricks from both. If it works,
why should they talk like actual it works. It may not be "BSG," but
human beings? But if Svfv wants who gives a frak?

"Shut up! I'm watching the 'Lost' season six premiere."
Think you know where to
find the Best Dessert?
Do you have the Best Pick-up Line?
Is your landlord the Best?
Cast your vote in the Michigan Daily's -
Annual Readership Survey Poll'
Vetefor the
B3est of
Ann Arbor
Voting extended to January 29th!
Go to: http://wwwmichigandailycom/best-2010
to cast your vote today.


6- Fridav, Januarv 29, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
TECHNOLOGY
XBOX 360 REPAIR $35
Call 734-829-8969
FOR RENT
AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, Indy, water incl. 734.223.7777.
! 2 BEDROOM, completely remod-
eled, large kitchen with modern appli-
ances. Full size washer & dryer, on site
parking. Pet friendly. Call Laura for
your private tour at Church Street
Apartments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks. from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select spaces
left for 2010, single bedrooms through
5 people. Open house event Thur-Sat
Jan. 28-30, 12-7p, free catered food, ap-
plication fee waived. $50 iTunes cert.
on signing. Beautiful new building,
per-person contracts, 2 blocks from
campus. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
Studio & 1
I 4 Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominiumn,
734-663-1530
6 BEDROOM, 3, bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
! 8 BDRM House. Walk to Campus.
Frnshd. Prkg & Ldry. Rdcd to $3800.
umcampushousing.com. 810-231-0229.
! AVAILABLE FALL. Studios, one
and two bedroom apartments located
on U/M Campus. Heat, water, and
prkg incl. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.mniclcomrealty.com
for more info,
AWESOME LOCATION 9 Bed-
room, 3 bathrooms, fully furn, 2 large
fridges, full size washer & dryer, on
site parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm.
fain. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735.
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled. $500/m. 248-910-2286.

M
%ed and 04
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
!A CORNER HOUSE AP'S !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, fOat screen
tvs, modern furniture & muhsnre!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!MAY STUDIO and I bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.posrealyproperties.com
!!$ SAVE $, Sign before Jan. 31,
201, get a generous signing bens!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fal 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!AVAILABLE NOW 2 bedroom apart-
ment in historical house near EMU.
$800/tao includes heat. 734-878-1463.
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartnents.net
1221 S. State#2
6 BDRM
$2300
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
1 edroom at great rate
Freebheat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.comi
**1 & 2 Bedrooms** near CCRB and
CC Little Choose your new living
room furniture! new kitchens w/ dish-
washers, fully furnished, heat, water,
parking incl.
www.varsitymaagement.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734)769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$57$.00 per month.

# BDRMS Location
6 1221 S. State #2
5 420 S. Division #2
3 1123 Church St.
1 721 Catherine #4
1 721 Catherine #5
fl. 1117 Church #2

Price
$2300
$2400
$1600
$900
$750
$550

Copi Properties
734.663.5690
**2 & 4 Bdrms** Perfect for Grad Stu-
dents! Huge apts w/ 10 ft ceilings, hard-
wood floors, fireplaces in peaceful
Burns Park.
Varsity Mgmt. (734)668-1100
**2 BDRM -2 Bath Bi-levels** Huge
campus apts perfect for 4, large rooftop
balconies, spacious kitchens w/ dish-
washers, fully furnished, heat, water,
parking incl.
Varsity Management (734)1668-1100
**2-BEDROOMS - Fall** 911 and
1001 S. Forest new kitchens & baths,
wireless Internet incl along w/ heat, wa-
ter, furnishings, and parking!
www.varsitymanagement.com
**3-BEDROOMS** NEAR CCRB
and CC Little, balconies or patio, large
living rooms w/ new furniture. Heat,
water, parking inl.
Varsity Managememt 734) 668-1100.
**331CATHERINE** FOR THE so-
phisticate! 3-bdrms w/ in-unit wash-
er/dryers, hardwood Drs, new carpet,
stainless steel appliances, remodeled
kitchens, and briliant colors; all w/
parking incl. Go to
www.varsitymanagement.com
for virtual tours!
**CHURCH @ S. University**
ONLY I LEFT! Large 2-bdrm for 4,
heat, water, furnishings incl.
Varsity Mgmt (734)1668-1100
**DELUXE 2 BDRM 2 story**.
Wshr/dyr in unit. Half a mile to UM
Medical Center. $880/mo, iuclding
water Call 734-395-5288 or 248-855-
3143.
*6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007 State. Furn. Newly
renovated 1st Floor and Bthrns. Free
Prkng and lndry. Call 734-717-9288.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt l1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michconrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
*LARGE 3 STORY furn. 5 bdrm for 6
people, 3 kitch, 3 bath, prkg, Indry. 921
Packard. Avail '10. Call 734-272-1320.
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.63.8463.
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeeapts.comn
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdr
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern KEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjaminrentals.coms
5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util. 5
bdrn-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrn-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, teants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
ner of South U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.

FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
F hjivemity
weTowe
*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726 S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 . Lawrence
721 . Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5ih Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Hea included. 734-260-4003
321 E.Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. 1,2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE intemet, HD direct
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new.
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrentalcom
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and ldry. Call Michigan Realty, 734-
662-5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
for more info.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
www.tSellA2.com 734-476-9768

PsENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and ldry
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 hd ouse, 2 ah,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close, to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2400
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
AVAILABLE NOW!!! VERY spa-
cious 2 bedroom house. Hardwood
floors. Fireplace. Sun room. Clean, dry
basement. FOOTBALL PARKING!
$800/month. 1515 S. State St., off of
Stadium. Call (941) 962- 9014.
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm aps. Near
Cet Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
-forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR
APARTMENT
at
michigandaily.com/lassifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
f0MoureoManagers@ umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & ill
Lg. 2 Bdnn. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStatManagers@umich.edu

711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1,2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270

FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Fun,. disposal,
dwshr, lndry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hilt, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com

ANN ARBOR MEDICAL MARI-
JUANNA CLINIC. email
attourny@annarbormedicalmarijuana-
clinic.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexible hrs, great pay.
Must be 18. For interview call:
734-678-4181.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M ep.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

WORK ON MACKINAC Island, this
summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for seasonal help in
all areas: Front Desk, Bell Staff, Sales
Clerks, Baristas, and Kitchen Staff.
Housing, bonus, and discounted meals
available. Call Ryan 1 (906)847-7196.
www.theislandhouse.com
the studelnts
comp do!

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 67 Dull 30 Org. for 25-Across 48 Parimutuel bet
1 Poet Edward and 68 Where gobs go 32 Bearded butter 50 Mishandling
a king 69 Wine industry 35 Nevadacityon 51 Shugge's
6 Like Mike" rfernce poins F-80 comment
actress 70 Tough test 37 Health Net rival 52 Show up
11 Make on thejob metaphor 38 Like some 54 Respected
15When Polonius 71 Promise 39otball jerseys ne
saps 'breitp is 38 Iran are 5e Arab potentate
the soul of wit" DOWN 40 DorianGray's flaw 59 Tightening
16 Outdoor seating 1 Shoe co. 41 Like exes target
area founded in 42 Bambi relative 60 Jazz sessions
17 Old knife Venice Beach 47 _ Paradise, "On 63 "Today" rival,
18 Equatorial 2 French card the Road" briefly
African country game similar to narrator 65 Haul
18 tindsa's "Bionic whist
W man" mole 3 Csey'sturns ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Thompson in the 4 panema's city T'
Theater Hall of 5 Do a number TREK V I AL NT ES T
Fame 6 College choice H E L I I N F O A B A S E
21 Notable period 7Undid E M I T R A T S N O R S E
22 Scrooge's visitors 8 Adequate, and S A X E D U C A T I O N
24 "Ta-tar" then same
n25"LA.aw"extras 9 CD :computer 5 0 I E S C I R I D I BUM
27 City neurProvo inserts S E R I F OT T 0 0 P A
28 Chaos 10 "You__ whatyou N E U R O N I C E S T
29 Swipe again? eat" SOX A N D T HE C I TY
31 Found,as tabloid 11 Blue book entry F I E S T A E I D
fodder 12 Object of loathing
33 Rec. label across 13 Mahdi, in Islam A R I B E S T A C L E F
the pond 14Closeone T E L L A L L L A G E D O
34 The duck, in 23 Frequent Pro T H E F A I R E R S I X
"Peter and the Bowl site A P A C- E M U S E A M B 1
Wolf' 24 Sitter's offer to a
36 Liveroilsource tot S A M O A A R T S V I L E
37 Homeoflthe Big 26 Garbage haulers S C A L D N A S T E Z E R
12's Cyclones 28 Casey's team xwordeditor@aol.com 01/2810
38 "Be careful what
youusay,"and a 1 2 3 4 57 0 0 10 11 12 13 14
hitto afeature
shuredhbythis 15 16 t7
puzzle's
perimeter 18 1a m0
answers 21 2 23a
43 Thought patterns,
brief(y 5 2 00
44 Gitarcousin 2 2 6 2z728
45 Shade 29 30 1 32 3
46 Latin I word
47 It's not on the 34 n n3 37
level
49 Oceanic u8 n9 40 01 00
phenomenon that
affects weather 40 44 4s
53 Baroque
composer Jean- 40 47 4 4 50 1 52
Philippe
55 Jumpin a rink 53 54 5 s 5 60 sr
57 Unbalanced
58 Ever l58 5snI sn o iI61
59 Lens holders 62 63 64 s
61 Back talk m i i m i m
62 Erosive force 6s 1 371s
63 Like candied
fruits 06970 71
64 Revolutionary
Chopin piece?
66 Playto B iote m am 01/29/10
 (c)2010 TribuMne Media Services, Inc.

Summer
EUmployment
page
Byadvertisingonthisyear'snSummer
Employment Page you can reach over
40,000+ highly qualified Wolverines!
Thisisagreatoppurtunityfor
internships or summer positions to
reach the eyes ofmany eligible students.
Presented by The Michigan Daily Classifieds.
Deadline Feb.18 at 11:30 am
Published Feb. 25
dailyclassified@gmaIl.com
(734) 764-0557

a

PC BEACH SPRING Break 2010

Experience the Difference
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
hue entertaining
" Fre High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Boom, Bet. Baum
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
741-9300
wwwe annrbapnna r n
www.annarborapartments.net

Gulf-front Condos; 1,2,3 BRs
Call above numbers or email for Walk to Clubs & Concerts
showings or please stop by! www.whisperingseas.com

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 29, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 29, 2010 - 7

COOKING IN THE COLD

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Students in the Michigan Outdoor Leadership Semester clinic practice cooking on backcountry stoves yesterday. The program, which is offered by the University's
Department of Recreational Sports gives students the opportunity to learn wilderness skills.

WIRELESS
From'Page 1
"In a lot of the rural areas there
are satellite and cable options, but
they are expensive and their cov-
erage is spotty," he said. "In those
areas, this (Wireless Washtenaw) is
the primary choice of users."
In order to complete the initia-
tive, 20/20 Communications has
begun seeking federal grant money
in the first round of the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
"This particular funding propos-
al is for $4.2 million," McFarlane
said. "But it's estimated that it will
cost about $10 million to build out
the remainder of the county."
20/20 Communications, McFar-
lane said, plans on applying for sub-
sequent rounds of funding for the
project in the future.
Currently, the project only reach-
es 100 square miles out of the 720
miles it aims to serve. As a result,
the initiative has only attracted 550
BREWERY
From Page 1
is already saturated with breweries
like Grizzly Peak Brewing Compa-
ny and Arbor Brewing Company.
E.T. Crowe, Wolverine State's
director of sales and marketing, said
Wolverine State Brewing Company
will place its tap room on West Sta-
dium Boulevard, in hopes of attract-
ing a local demographic that doesn't
want to head downtown and also
targets University students.
"There's really no bar out there,"
Crowe said. "It's going to be a hang
out place. What I want to attract
is anyone willing to try something
a little different, whether they are
students or locals. We've gotten a
lot of feedback from local people
who want to be able to walk and
have a few beers and walk home in
the summer."
Roy agreed with Crowe, saying,
"there is really no place to just go sit
down and have a beer" in town.
SUSTAINABILITY
From Page 1
believes the University's collab-
orative approach will yield greater
results than simply focusing on one
aspect of environmental sustain-
ability.
"Other universities set carbon
reduction goals," he said. "We
believe we can leap frog our com-
petitors."
Philip Hanlon, vice provost for
academic and budgetary affairs,
said the entire University com-
munity's involvement in the move-
ment is vital to its success.
"A lot of the urgency behind
(this) actually came from students,
faculty, alum, friends of the Uni-
versity, and so it's entirely appro-
priate you're all here today," said
Hanlon - who will take over as
the University provost when Tere-
sa Sullivan steps down in June.
"We want to really have every-
one's ideas in this process," he
continued. "What we're trying to
do is draw on the key expertise we
have on this campus."
Terry Alexander, executive
director of the Office of Campus
Sustainability, emphasized that

users - a number too low to yield
a positive return on the investment
or to sustain the project.
McFarlane said, since the ini-
tiative began in 2004, the project
has adapted to advancements in
technology and product avail-
ability. The efforts, he added, still
remain hinged on acquiring fed-
eral aid.
"They're using technology now
that will penetrate further and
have stronger signals," he said.
"Also, the circumference areas of
the signal are larger, but again it all
boils down to acquiring the funding
to provide the technology."
David Behen, vice president of
Ann Arbor-based information inte-
gration company GDI Infotech, -
and who has been involved with
the Wireless Washtenaw project -
said he believes the project stands a
chance at gaining the federal fund-
ing needed for completion.
"I'm optimistic that the project
will be chosen in one of the rounds
for funding, and I think it can be
Like many other brewers, Roy
and Thrall entered the micro-
brewing business by creating their
own recipes and home brewing.
The company now sells its beer
through more than 100 vendors. In
Ann Arbor, it can be found at sev-
eral bars like Scorekeepers Bar &
Grille and the Blue Leprechaun..
Roy and Thrall said they are
hoping to have the tap room open
by the Michigan Football team's
annual spring football game. But
because they are four to six weeks
behind schedule, they think it's
more realistic that they will be fully
operational by mid-May.
Because the tap room will be
more of a brewery than a restau-
rant, Chris Carrington, Grizzly
Peak's general manager, said he
doesn't think the company will
create much competition because
Grizzly Peak is a restaurant in addi-
tion to a brewery.
"I'm sure there will be a few
people going out there to try it, but
most of our regulars are very loyal,

a success," he said. "We'll have to
wait and see though."
If the project does not receive
federal funding, the company will
have to reconsider its involvement,
McFarlane said.
"I think 20/20 will have to sit
down and re-examine their invest-
ment and their technology and see
where else they wantto go," he said.
"At this point, until other funding
sources are identified and solidi-
fied, the project is on hold."
Behen, also a former deputy
administrator for Washtenaw
County, said 20/20 Communica-
tions decided to take part in the
project though most other Internet
providers didn't think they would
profit from building infrastructure
in the county.
"They want to have better service
available, when others were just not
willing to go into those poor rural
areas yet," Behen said.
The success of Wireless Ypsi-
lanti - a competing wireless Inter-
net project in the county - has also
and I don't think we'll take a big
hit," Carrington said.
But, Grizzly Peak will lose its
assistant brewer Oliver Roberts,
who is leaving the restaurant to
become the head brewer at Wolver-
ine State Brewing Company.
Roberts said he chose to take
this position after meeting Thrall
and Roy, adding that he has plans
already in the works to enrich Wol-
verine State's product and entice
locals to try it.
"We're definitely going to have
dark lager and Wolverine Beer,"
Roberts said. "We're going to be
doing a lot of experimental lagers
as well as some wheat beers."
In addition,. Roberts will be
working with local home brewers
on a tap called Liquid Soundtrack.
"We are going to have eight or
nine taps and going to showcase
what people in the state are brew-
ing," Roberts said.
. He added that he aims to have
Wolverine State's beers encapsu-
late the "craft brew spirit."

caused some to question the need
for Wireless Washtenaw. McFar-
lane said, despite their similarities,
the projects pursue separate goals.
"Though they're both technolo-
gies that complement the area,
WirelessYpsi focuseson downtown
Ypsi and downtown Ann Arbor," he
said. "Wireless Washtenaw focuses
on the rural areas and outlying
areas."
Ed Shaffran, a member of the
Wireless Washtenaw advisory
board, said despite the availability
of Wireless Ypsilanti, the project is
definitely stilla necessity.
Wireless Washtenaw's advisory
board is composed of represen-
tatives from various companies,
public schools, colleges like the
University of Michigan and Eastern
Michigan University and members
of the Washtenaw County Board of
Commissioners.
"I don't think there's a question
that there is still a need because of,
the remoteness of the area," Shaf-
fran said.
Medical School student Paul
Marinec wrote in an e-mail inter-
view that he would be interested
in going to the tap room because
the idea of a brewery specializing
in lagers could be "fantastic" if the
lagers are good.
"I have tried their beer, and it's
pretty good," he added.
LSA senior Ross Smith wrote inan
e-mail interview, that the tap room
would be appealing to graduate stu-
dents and beer aficionados, but might
be less attractive to mostundergradu-
ates because many students "simply
have the mindset that beer is beer."
"Graduate students can typi-
cally coincide with professionals or
families in a brewpub type setting
where a group of undergraduates
would not," he wrote in the e-mail.
"I am also a craft beer enthusiast,
which means trying new beer and
in general well-made beer is very
attractive to me. Also an 'ordinary'
undergraduate really doesn't care
what exactly they're being served
as long asit is cheap."

In Tampa speech,
Obama calls to
end polarization
Following up State each other."
Party divisions arise less over
of the Union, pres. goals - the main one for both par-
ties is jobs - then how to achieve
tells partisans to them. Those policy discussions
are even more difficult in this
settle differences midterm election year, when lead-
ers weigh what's better: working
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - Trying together or targeting the other for
to bury a year of polarization, defeat.
President Barack Obama yester- Obama's challenge is to pull
day escalated his appeal for poli- together enough unity to get
ticians and voters alike to settle results this year on weighty
differences without tearing each items - economic growth, Wall
other apart. His plea: "Let's start Street regulation, energy and the
thinking of each other as Ameri- embattled health care. A Gallup
cans first." Poll has found him to be the most
Obama made sure to weave that politically polarizing president in
message throughout his stop in recent history.
Florida, one otherwise intended He has also acknowledged
to promote his economic agenda a problem in connecting with
by announcing $8 billion in high- people, one that left them with a
speed rail awards. "remoteness and detachment" as
Coming one day after his State he pursued a policy agenda meant
of the Union address, and one to help the middle class. In turn,
day before meeting with House Obama has focused his rhetoric
Republican leaders with whom lately on making clear he is out
he continues to battle, Obama's fighting for people.
emphasis on civility was a nod to Followingup on his State of the
political reality. He needs Repub- Union pledge to work with the
licans more than ever to get his GOP, Obama will address House
agenda passed, and he is getting Republicans today in Baltimore,
saddled with more public blame where lawmakers are holding
for the partisanship he promised their annual retreat. He'll also
to change. tour a small business in the same
"Nothing that human beings do city and announce a new job-cre-
will be perfect," Obama, accompa- ation proposal.
nied by Vice President Joe Biden, The proposal would give com-
said as he capped a town hall at panies a $5,000 tax credit for each
the University of Tampa, where net new worker they hire in 2010.
he was received with boisterous Businesses that increase wages or
support, hours for their existingworkers in
"But we shouldn't sort of 2010 would be reimbursed for the
assume that the otherside is either extra Social Security payroll taxes
heartless or doesn't care about they would pay.
sick people or is some socialist/ No company could reap more
communist who's trying to take than $500,000 from the combined
over the health care system," the benefits, one of several features
president said. "We start getting meant to tailor the program more
into these caricatures. They're so to small businesses than to large
damaging." corporations. Startup companies
Just how far to go in working could receive half that amount.
with Republicans has been an Existing companies could not
evolving calculation for the White close down and then reopen under
House. Obama ended up muscling a new name and receive any ben-
through a giant economic stimu- efits, White House officials said
lus plan with little help from the yesterday.
opposition party and was poised The program, which needsacon-
to do the same on major health gressional approval, would end on
care legislation until Democrats Dec. 31, and carries an estimated
lost the super-majority they need cost of $33 billion. Administration
- 60 votes - to overcome delays officials proposed funding it with
in the Senate. money repaid to the government
Obama takes responsibility, but from the 2008-09 bank bailout
not blame. program.
He still casts Republicans as a The Social Security, system
party of "no" and calls that their would not lose any revenue under
political strategy. the plan, administration officials
"I want the Republicans off said.
the sidelines. I want them to The House rejected a similar
work with us to solve prob- proposal last month, although
lems," Obama said. And then he Senate Democrats have warmed
added: "I don't want an attitude to the idea lately. House Repub-
'If Obama loses, then we win.' I licans, meanwhile, hinted they
mean, that can't be a platform. would have questions about the
All of us should be rooting for effectiveness of Obama's plan.
In e-mail, officials
tell students that

they should wait
before going to Haiti
From Page 1 ditions inHaiti, and in accordance
with the University's internation-
a trip to Haiti sometime soon, al travel policy, no undergraduate
though not in the immediate student may travel to Haiti with
future due to safety concerns. University resources or under
"We are confident that there University auspices until condi-
will be a time in the next few tions improve," they wrote in the
years when we can organize a ser- e-mail.
vice trip to Haiti," she said. Student organizations involved
And as the death toll in Haiti in raising money for the relief
reaches 200,000, according to effort like the Michigan Haiti
The Associated Press, University Earthquake Action Relief Team -
administrators are cautioning a group formed by Multi-Ethnic
students from traveling to the Student Affairs to unite campus
country. relief efforts - have also advised
In an e-mail sent to the Univer- against traveling to the nation in
sity community yesterday, Uni- crisis.
versity Provost Teresa Sullivan "Though intentions are good,
and Vice President for Student and M-HEART is not recom
Affairs E. Royster Harper cau- mending anyone to turn your
tioned students against going to back on the country at this time,
Haiti right now. M-HEART recommends people
Undergraduate students are to really re-think plans to go to
prohibited from traveling to the Haiti at this time," Felix Lopez,
country through University pro- LSA junior and a member of
gramming, though graduate and M-HEART, wrote in an e-mail
professional students may do so interview.
if they have "specific professional The School of Public Health
experience and qualifications," also recently issued anews release
Sullivan and Harper wrote in the citing the dangers of traveling to
e-mail. Haiti as well, and recommended
The administrators cited insuf- onlytravelingto Haiti with a larg-
ficient modes of communication er organization.
and travel and a limited amountof "Volunteers need food, water,
resources as the primary reasons shelter, and orientation to aid
why students should avoid travel facilities, and this hinders relief
to the country. efforts already underway," the
"Because of the severity of con- news release states.

SAMANTvHA TRAUBE/aily
Panelists discuss a new sustainability initiative at a town hall meeting yesterday. The program aims to increase the University's
commitment to the environment through research, academics and operations.

in setting goals for the initiative,
moderation is key.
"Ifweput asimple goal outthere,
that's not goingto do it," he said. "If
we put something out there that's
so outrageous, it's never goingto be
achieved; that won't work either.
What we really need is something
that will move us forward."

In her October State of the Uni-
versity address, University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman said one
of the University's main priorities
for the year would be spearhead-
ing programs and research in
environmental sustainability.
After yesterday's meeting, Drew
Horning, GESI deputy director,

continued to stress the importance
of involvement from members of
the University community and the
general public, and said anyone
can submit his or her idea for the
endeavor on the intiative's website.
- Jennifer Domingue
contributed to this report.

FAN THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


0

8 - Friday, January 29, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

Singleton sprints past life's obstacles

From Page 1
die his disability was simply to live like
he didn't have one.
"I grew up in a loving family," Single-
ton said. "They treated me like everyone
else. I was in a community that let me
play sports since I was a kid. I was play-
ing basketball, football, track."
In fact, he was a skilled enough athlete
to be ranked one of the top 100 football
prospects in the state of South Caro-
lina as a high school senior. But Single-
ton decided against pursuing any sports
dream he may have had, accepting an
academic scholarship to Morehouse Col-
lege in Atlanta to study math, physics and
engineering.
It was there, while doing academic
research about prosthetics in 2006; that
he learned about the Paralympics. He
read an article about Marlon Shirley, an
American two-time Paralympic cham-
pion.
"I approached the coach at Morehouse
and told him I was going to try and be
a Paralympian," Singleton said. "That's
"Hopefully, by the
time my career
is over, I'll be
remembered."
what got me back into track. It made me
want to see if I could compete at that
high level."
Singleton joined Morehouse's team
and eventually made his first U.S. Para-
lympic squad, participating at the Para-
lympic Pan-American Games in Rio de
Janeiro in 2007. His success in the T-44
amputee category led to his selection to
the U.S. team for the 2008 Beijing Para-
lympic games, where he won gold as part
of the 4x100 relay and captured silver in
the 100-meter dash.
Singleton came to Ann Arbor in 2008
to finish his education through a special
dual-degree transfer program. Before he
even arrived, Michigan men's track and
field coach Fred LaPlante took notice.
"We had a fella on our team, Dominic
Smith, who had been in that (dual-degree
program)," LaPlante said. "I asked Domi-
nic, 'Hey, do you know this Jerome Sin-
gleton?' He said, 'Yeah, he's coming to
school.' And I said, 'I'd like to meet him,
just to welcome him being here' ... He
came by and we just started chatting and
I think maybe by the second or third time
he came by, he said, 'I'm here, would you
coach me?' And that's how it started."
So began a relationship both parties
acknowledge as nothing short of spe-
cial. Because of his past participation at
Morehouse and NCAA transfer rules, the
sprinter had no eligibility left. He could
never be a Wolverine. Nonetheless, the
coaching staff took him under its wing.
Singleton experienced some early inju-
ry problems, but after Bo Sandoval, the
strength coach for the team, arrived this
past fall, his development took off. For
his part, Sandoval, who has experience
working at the U.S. Olympic Training
Center and with other Para-athletes, said
that it has not been difficult at all to work

with someone with Singleton's condition,
especially because of his attitude.
"We just have to tailor techniques
and get things to fit him," said Sandoval.
"With (Jerome), he's always wanting to
favor the side that he doesn't have the
prosthetic on, so it's a matter of keep-
ing some balance ... It's just easier with
him because, again, he has that high-
level experience, so there's no hesitation.
There's no confidence issues or anything
like that. He's an extremely confident
person."
The trio of strength trainer, track
coach and athlete, in general, has high
confidence in its propensity for success.
They all operate under the idea that there
are no limits to Singleton's development.
"With (LaPlante) ... I've never had a
coach take the time to try to make me
be as good as possible," Singleton said.
"I want to at least let him know that his
efforts are showing results. I know that
if I tune in to what they have to say, we're
going to take it to a-whole-nother level,
and it's going to be very exciting."
The relationship between the young
sprinter and his 59-year-old coach is an
intriguing one. They may have their gen-
erational differences (when told his coach
compared him to Mick Jagger, Singleton
could only laugh as he had no idea who
the singer was), but their bond is strong.
And despite all the praise Singleton heaps
upon him, LaPlante is quick to downplay
his role in his pupil's success, saying to
this day he does not really understand
everything surrounding Para-athletics.
"I just happen to be the guy that's
here," LaPlante said. "I really enjoy it
because when anybody's got a passion for
what they do, no matter what it is, that's
exciting. Here's a guy who really embrac-
es the sport, embraces his academics,
and life in general. He's really a joy to
be around. Guys like that, you're always
pulling for."
Last Saturday, Singleton competed
at the Simmons-Harvey Invitational in
Ann Arbor, a non-scoring meet open to
participation from non-team athletes.
The crowd was abuzz with excitement
as he lined up for the 60-meter dash,
erupting with cheers when he broke the
T-44 amputee world record for the event,
posting a blazing time of 7.34 seconds
and shattering the old mark by 44 hun-
dredths of a second - an astonishing
margin. Singleton said that, though he
has set records before, this one was "spe-
cial" because he did it in front of people
who care about him.
Despite his incredible feats on the
track, there has been one athlete Single-
ton has been unable to top: Oscar Pisto-
rius, the South African double-amputee
who made global headlines in 2008 when
he won a legal battle making him eli-
gible to compete with able-bodied ath-
letes. Pistorius missed out on his goal,
however, failing to qualify for the Bei-
jing Olympics. (For the record, Singleton
agrees that Para-athletes should be able
to compete with able-bodied performers
and would be running for Michigan if not
for his lack of eligibility.)
"I just hate to lose," Singleton said.
"After I win, I'm thankful. But after I
lose, it sticks with me for a long period of
time. You have to go for the win, you have
to at least test your boundaries. I've been
blessed to beat most of the Paralympic
athletes out there."
It was Pistorius who defeated Single-

Jerome Singleton, a student in the School of Engineering, won two medals at the Paralympic Games in Beijing in 2008. Singleton originally enrolled at
Morehouse College, but through a dual-degree program, cameto Michigan and met men's track and field coach Fred LaPlante.

ton in the 2008 Paralympics by a mere
three hundredths of a second. Though
they have had several good battles, Sin-
gleton has yet to pull away and take vic-
tory. They are the two best Para-athlete
sprinters in the world, and share a rival-
ry that, in typical Singleton fashion, is
friendly off the track but vicious on it.
"We talk off the track, but when you
come to the track, it's about business,"
Singleton said. "Until I beat Oscar, (los-
ing) is going to stick with me for a long
period of time."
Despite what has been put in front
of him, Singleton has fought diligently
through it with a grin.
"Him being around the guys on our

team is terrific," said LaPlante. "They see
a guy who's very dedicated to what he's
doing and works hard. He's one of the
guys. We give him crap like everybody
else. That's the fun part of it all."
Above all his tangible athletic ambi-
tions (besting Pistorius, winning gold
at the World Championships in 2011 and
then in London at the Paralympics in
2012), Singleton said his main goal is to
change the perception of the disabled
through his sprinting.
"If I can come out and run for a short
period of time and make people feel a lit-
tle bit better about themselves, or make
them want to take that next step and
just walk a little bit more, get a little bit

more healthy, that's what I would like to
do," Singleton said. "Everyone out there
wants to see something special and I'm
going to provide that for them."
Singleton will graduate with an engi-
neering degree this December. What
happens beyond that is anyone's guess,
but there doesn't appear to be any goal
out of reach.
"I have faith," Singleton said. "I pray
at night, and I have a lot of faith. If I stay
humble and really believe ... I would like
to become a legend in terms of Paralym-
pics, one of the best to ever come through
the sport. I'm going to work for it, and
hopefully by the time my career's over,
I'll be remembered."

Michigan and MSU will meet
in 'Big Chill at the Big House'

'M' tallies first back-to-back
conference victories after
dominant win at Illinois

0

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
Chris Brown didn't have the best expe-
rience the first time he skated outside, on
a pond. The 11-year-old Texas native was
up north for a hockey tournament when
he and a few friends made their way to an
outdoor rink.
With his friends, Brown, now a fresh-
man forward at Michigan, chose an
unsafe neighborhood to go skating in -
and inadvertently upset the local kids.
So, as Brown recalls, a peace offering of a
hockey stick was exchanged as they left.
"It was really different," Brown said.
"It's not as smooth as skating on regular
ice. But it was fun. You get a whole bunch
of kids from Texas, 10 to 11 years old, not
really knowing what's going on."
Growing up in the Southwest, he didn't
get many chances to play on outdoor
rinks. But next season, Michigan hockey
fans, players and coaches alike are in for
a memorable outdoor hockey experience
of their own.
On Thursday, Michigan and Michigan
State announced finalized plans of an
outdoor game tobe played Saturday, Dec.
11, 2010 in Michigan Stadium. The two
teams started the recent trend of outdoor
hockey with the "Cold War" in 2001 - a
3-3 tie at Spartan Stadium.
The event has already been officially
dubbed "The Big Chill at the Big House,"
and with about 30,000 more seats than
Spartan Stadium, it could potentially

break the world record for attendance for
a hockey game, set at 74,544 in the origi-
nal "Cold War."
"It's going to be so much fun," Brown
said. "Hopefully that place will sell out. I
have no doubts that it probably will. It's
going to be fun. To play a team like Mich-
igan State outdoors, not only will it be a
great game, but a great rivalry."
Michigan coach Red Berenson grew up
playing on outdoor rinks, and he knows
how exciting outdoor hockey can be.
"This will be an unforgettable event
whether it is Chris Brown or a kid that
grew up in Canada living in Ontario that
played some outdoor hockey," Beren-
son said. "They'll never forget this. And
they'll like the hockey. The puck will
move quick. You'll feel quicker on your
feet if we have a cold day. ... You move
quick. And things happen quick. And the
game is played quick, and if it's cold out,
it's even better."
Michigan will play in an outdoor game
this season against Wisconsin in the
Camp Randall Hockey Classic on Feb. 6.
But the added factor of the rivalry with
Michigan State and the location has both
teams already buzzing about the game.
"MichiganState-Michigan is one ofcol-
lege hockey's great rivalries, and this will
be a grand stage on which to showcase it,"
Michigan State coach Rick Comley said in
a press release from the Athletic Depart-
ment. "This is an exciting event for the
student-athletes, coaches and staff, and
the fanbases of both schools. When these

teams face off, it is a game that people pay
attention to nationally - and having one
of our games outdoors in Michigan Sta-
dium will create even more excitement
and energy."
According to the press release, the
playing surface will be placed at the cen-
ter of Michigan Stadium on the 50-yard
line and the end boards will extend to the
17-yard lines at each end.
With the plans set, the big question
now is whether Berenson will be coach-
ing the Wolverines in the Big House. He
is currently on a one-year rolling con-
tract and is expected to sit down with
the administration sometime in May to
decide whether he will return.
"I'd love to be either coaching that
game or be part of it," Berenson said. "I'll
be at the game even if I'm not coaching it.
But I'm hoping to be coaching it."
Since the "Cold War," the NHL and
other college hockey teams have taken
the game back to its roots. There will be
a total of ten outdoor games played at the
end of this winter.
"The game was always anoutdoorgame
and now it's played indoors," Berenson
said. "It seems special. There's something
throwback (about it). The players love it.
Because a lot of them, especially the older
ones, played a little bit outside. And a lot
of the fans remember hockey being out-
side. But still, it's amazing its embraced as
much as it is. And I think everyone who
has gone to these games and these events
have come away really glad they went."

By ALEX HERMANN
Daily Sports Writer
After finding its shot, adjusting to the
physicality of the Big Ten and nabbing a
few wins, it's
apparent that MICHIGAN 64
the Michigan ILLINOIS 48
women's bas-
ketball team may have finally turned the
corner.
With the Wolverines' 64-48 victory over
Illinois last night, the team has won back-
to-back Big Ten games for the first time in
almost two years. The 16-point rout also
represents Michigan's first double-digit
conferencevictory away from Crisler Arena
since a win at Northwestern in 2004.
The Wolverines stormed out of the gate
with a quick 10-0 lead and never looked
back.
With a five-game losing streak and
three senior starters benched, the Illini
(3-7 Big Ten, 11-9 overall) never took a lead
and couldn't muster a serious run to tie.
"It's obviously a very big win," Michi-
gan coach Kevin Borseth said after the
game. "Anytime you can win on the road
convincingly, that's good stuff."
Sophomore forward Carmen Reynolds
led Michigan with a career-high 21 points.
She went 5-of-7 from downtown, extend-
ing her hot shooting. The Hillard, Ohio
native has hit 56 percent of her 3-pointers
the last five games.

"I was just feeling it offensively," Reyn-
olds said. "My shot was falling. I kind of
laughed a couple of times because it looked
like wasn't going in, and somehow it ended
up going in, I didn't know how."
It was a career night for freshman for-
ward Nya Jordan as well, scoring a season-
high nine points, and continuing to show
that, as her role expands, her statistical
contributions will as well.
Overall, the Wolverines dominated the
stat sheet. Michigan outrebounded the
Illini 37-28, shot 18 more free throws and
scored 19 points off 18 Illinois turnovers.
But things won't be as easy for the
Wolverines (4-6, 12-8) when they return
to home next Sunday to host No. 23 Penn
State. The Nittany Lions have won 10 of
their last 12 games.
"Penn State, in my mind, has the most
talent of anybody in the conference,"
Borseth said. "They can pull up right in
your face, and right now,,on a dime, they
can just come right at you. They are load-
ed."

A win against the Nittany Lions, cou-
pled with the team's early-season success,
might set the Wolverines up nicely to make
a run at the NCAA Tournament.
"They are one of the teams at the
top of the Big Ten right now," Reynolds
said. "Hopefully we are. able to carry the
momentum over and keep getting these
wins. Because we can, I know. We're on
the verge of something great"

0


