In 'The Town,' Ben WOMEN'S SOCCER PREVIEW
Affleck shines more
as a director than as After years of disappointment,
an actor. Nonetheless, coach Greg Ryan has his talent in
the film delivers. place and his eyes on the prize.
PAGE 5 PAGE 8


michigandaily.com

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 21, 2010

* MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
'' to stores:
Shirts about
players break
N CAA rules

SPTNNTN ON STAGw

Cease-and-desist
letters sent after
Denard Robinson
clothing popped up
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Local apparel vendors look-
ing to make some big money off
Denard Robinson's meteoric rise
this season got some bad news
in the mail last week. To address
NCAA compliance issues brought
to the attention of the University's
Athletic Department, letters were
sent to a handful of vendors selling
Michigan apparel.
The letters, sent last Thurs-
day by the Athletic Department's
Director of Compliance Judy Van
Horn, called on vendors to dis-
continue production and sales of
apparel that featured references
to current Michigan student-ath-
letes. Producing and selling goods
that feature the names, pictures or
likenesses of student-athletes is a
violation of NCAA regulations.
Specifically, NCAA regulations
stipulate that "items that include
an individual student-athlete's
name, picture or likeness, other
than information items, may not

be sold."
The regulation calls out jerseys
and bobblehead dolls as examples
of items that are banned from
being sold in the likeness of a stu-
dent-athlete. However, the NCAA
regulations also specifically call
out media
guides, sched-
ule cards and
institutional
publications
as examples
of items that
may contain
student-athlete KYLE SWANSON
names, pic- Covcreng he
tures and like- Aclmin ttra )io
nesses.
In an inter-
view yesterday, Athletic Depart-
ment spokesman David Ablauf
outlined the circumstances sur-
roundingtherecentbatch of letters
sent to athletic apparel vendors.
"You're not allowed to produce
apparel with a student-athlete's
name or any of his likenesses,"
Ablaufexplained. "A writtennotice
(was sent) to all licensees who
were producing apparel of any stu-
dent-athlete."
And while vendors were using the
likeness of several student-athletes
on apparel, Ablauf said the viola-
tions largelyfocusedon apparel that
See APPAREL, Page 7

LSA sophomore Andy Lin (left), Engineering junior David Yang (center), and Engineering graduate student Yuly Wung practice Chinese yo-yo technique in Auditorium B
of Angell Hall yesterday. The group, which meets weekly, has about ten core members and was founded two years ago.
A NN A RBO R CII Y COUN CI L
Council unanimously votes
tapprove prhcouc hban

F
stu(
of
ap
Sta
Arbor
head

amily of EMU resolute, 15-year-old Alex Semi-
faro recalled the last time she
dent killed in fire saw her step-brother Renden
LeMasters.
ffers emotional It was Easter Sunday, but
instead of sitting down to the
)peal at meeting usual family dinner, Semifaro
said she sat in a hospital room
By DYLAN CINTI watching LeMasters fight for
Daily StaffReporter his life.
"If I could take away that
nding before the Ann memory ... I would do it in a
City Council with her heartbeat," Semifaro said.
bowed and voice soft but LeMasters - a 22-year-old

student at Eastern Michigan
University - was killed in an
on-campus house fire on Apr. 3,
2010 that authorities say started
with a porch couch catching
fire.
At its meeting last night, City
Council unanimously passed an
ordinance banning upholstered
furniture on porches citywide.
The ordinance - which could
fine violators up to,$1,000 -
dates back to 2004, when the
council indefinitely postponed

voting on a similar measure.
The council revisited the ordi-
nance in the wake of LeMas-
ters's death.
Though the ordinance passed
with complete support from the
Council, students expressed
opposition to the ban. Rackham
student government officials
at the meeting complained that
the ban required more research
before being passed and in a
statement issued late last night,
See COUCH BAN, Page 7

1 SHAING ACADEMIA
'U' joins partnership with aim
to promote information access

Open-Access pact
means 'U' will pay
faculty publishing
fees for articles
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
As part of an initiative to pro-
mote scholarship and open access
to information, the University is

joining the Compact for Open-
Access Publishing Equity, accord-
ing to a press release distributed
yesterday.
The Compact for Open-Access
Publishing Equity is a group of
universities and research centers
committed to providing more
effective and economical meth-
ods of publishing journals.
By joining the effort, the Uni-
versity makes a commitment to
pay the publishing fees for arti-
cles written by its faculty to be

published on open-access jour-
nals - free online journals that
can be accessed by all users. The
new program will be run and
funded by the University Library.
The COPE solution - a result
of ongoing discussions within
the academic community - was
developed by Stuart Schieber,
professor and faculty director for
the office of Scholarly Communi-
cation at Harvard University.
Other university members of
See OPEN-ACCESS, Page 6

tAKE FROMM/Da iy
Obstetrics and Gynecology Prof. Ed Goldman discusses the impact of last month's federal ruling on stem cell research atthe
University during a Senate Assembly meeting yesterday.
Before Senate Assembly, prof. talks
impact of stem cell ruling on the 'U'

UNIVERSITY HOUSING
Stakeholders vote to change name
of gender-neutral housing initiative

Faculty body also
establishes health
plan advisory group
By CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter
obstetrics and Gynecology Prof.
Ed Goldman discussed the impact
of federal rulings on the Univer-
WEATHER H1: 71
TOMORROW L: 65

sity's stem cell research at yester-
day's Senate Assembly meeting.
Goldman spoke about Federal
Judge Royce Lamberth's August
2010 preliminary injunction,
which if it stays, will prohibit fed-
eral funding for the creation of
new stem cell lines and for contin-
ued research on existing stem cell
lines.
Though a 2008 proposal allows
the creation of stem cell lines in

Michigan, Goldman said that
without federal funding, many
University researchers will leave
the state to go to California, where
in 2004, voters passed a measure
that allows billions of dollars of
state funds to be used for embry-
onic stem cell research. Goldman
said University researchers are cur-
rently involved in developing stem
cell lines and have recently cre-
See SENATE ASSEMBLY, Page 6

With 'Open Housing'
title, proponents
hope to make plan
more accessible
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
Members of various student
organizations met last night to
discuss the future of a proposal to
offer gender-neutral housing in
residence halls and in the process

voted to change the name of the
policryto "open-housing."
In April, the University's Resi-
dence Halls Association passed a
resolution in favor of establishing
gender-neutral housing options at
the University. The Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly also passed a resolu-
tion in support of a gender-neutral
housing option in Dec. 2009.
Brendan Campbell, chair of the
University's chapter of the College
Democrats, said the stakeholders
in attendance - including repre-
sentatives from MSA, the Spec-
trum Center, the American Civil

Liberties Union, College Demo-
crats and RHA - voted to change
the name because it sounds more
accessible.
"I think if we change the name
now to 'Open Housing,' it gives us
more opportunity to really begin
the educationcampaign in advance
and re-establish what this means
on campus," Campbell said.
Social Work student Allison
Horky, co-chair of the Spectrum
Center Student Advisory Board,
and other students present at last
night's meeting are working on a
See HOUSING, Page 6

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Ann Arbor voted second best college town.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS.. . . ..2 ARTS.. . . ...........5
Vol. CXXI, No.11 AP NEWS .............................3 CLASSIFIEDS ..................... 6
020t TheMihiganDaily OPINION ............ ....4 SPORTS ............ ..................8
michigandorilycorn"" ""

I


2 - Tuesday, September 21, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

FILMING HARRY POTTER IN THE LAiW QA
He -who -was -never-here

While the Law Quadran-
gle might seem like the ideal
setting for students tn mix
potions, enjoysa mug of butter-.
beer, or practice a spell, they
shouldn't don their house-
specific robes or grab their
wands just yet.
The myth that Harry Put-
ter originally considered the
University as a setting for
the famed school of wizardry
might provide an intriguing
tale for freshmen on campus,
but the myth is just that, a
myth..
Lee Doyle, the chief of staff
in the office of Vice President
for Communications and the
director of the University's
film office, said though she
wasn't previously aware of the
myth that Harry Potter origi-
nally considered filming on
campus, she knows it's false.

"I'm going to have to say
that's a myth," Doyle said.
"They never contacted us
about (filming here)."
But while the wonderful
world of wizardry may not
have considered filming at the
University, there are several
movies that have filmed on
campus.
To date, Doyle said a total
of nine movies have used
parts of the University as a
backdrop, and several have
filmed scenes in the Law
Quadrangle.
"Although Harry Potter
never filmed there, we have
filmed three movies at the
Law School," Doyle said.
The law school in one of the
three movies, "Answer This!"
was actually the University's
own Law School, while the
other two - "Salvation Boule-

yard" and "Trust" - used the
Law Quad as s more generic
backdrop.
Another movie, "Convic-
tion," originally looked into
filming at the Law School,
but found it to be too large G
and historic to fit the movie, 'hc, sarn ilr
Swank, tells the story of Betty
Anne Waters, a law school stu- dn h okdt vrun n
her brother's murder convic-
tion. -i
"They needed a smaller,
more modern school," Doyleu
said of the movie. "We wound
up filming at Pierpont Coin-
mona on North Campusr
instead."
"Conviction" premieres
next month and will be they
first of those filmed at the Uni- MARISSA MCCLAIN/oaily
versity to reach theaters. The Law Quadrangle was not aware the backdrops considered tor the filming of
- KYLE SWANSON the Harry Patter motion pictures.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbnr, MI 48109-1327
www.mnichigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor is Chief Business Manager
734-418-415 aeat 252 734-418-4115 ext. 241
smitovire@michigandailycom rndbusinesa@gmnaitcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsrooamofficehoxrs S.-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2a.
734-41e-4115 spt.3
News Tips neews~ichdgandaity.cex
torrections correons@michigandaily.cox
Letters tothe tditor stotedaitypmichigandaily.com
Phttography Department photogmichigandaily.com
AtaSection artspag@xich~igandaity.com
Ediltial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@xichigandaity.com
Display Sales disptay@michigandaity.com
tlassified tales - ecasified@michigandaity.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandailyecom
Finatce finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MatAarnson ManagingtEditor aaronson@michigandaiy.com,
Jillian Berman Managing NexwstEditor erman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR saWSEDTaNio le,: Aber , Stehaie Stinbrg, Krle Swano, Eshwr
Thiunavukkasu,DevnTorsby
sSITN EWS EDITORS: eny ronHi,,Dyla Cini', CaitinHuson, ,Lndsay
K a, oseh Liheman,eoica Menldi, Eyna Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder tditorialtPagetEditor vangilder@mnichigandailycome
SENeOR DITORIAL rAGs cannOnS: Michelle DeWit, ,EmilyOrne, Lar
AnaanSroSnNTEIORIALPAGEEDIOnnoeWill Butrs n, Warnd,Harsehandaa
Ryan Kanlie MooagiogaSportsEditor kaortje@xichigandilyccomn
SENOROTSE DTORSMarkBn, Michalel Flrk, Tim Rohn,oeapton
ASISANSPOS E DIORS:Alex Hermnn,ChaelJnnns,Spea n Nesbni,Zak
Pyzik,oyScn, NickiSar
Jamie Block ManagingAntditon ocktx@micthgndaitseom
S0EN05R ARTSoITORCarolyn mrneki, Anew Lapin, Jeff anford
ASSIN AS EDsoITORS:Kistya~nh, LehBugin, Shan aob,aiShehrk
Pande
Maxtollins and phto@xichigandaitycxx
Sam Walsen ManagingPhototEditors
SEIROOE DInaoooTOR:Aia)n,MaisaMcilain
Ana Lein-Zielinski and desig@michigandailyc om
Sanah ie Mnagig DsignOditos
SEaNO DESGNEDITOR: MayaFedan,
Teatetalena Magazine Edinor caalexo@michigandailycomn
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michnigandailycome
AdiWallsteit topytChief
BUSINESS STAFF
lalianna Crim Sales Manager
SALaE ORCE MANAGERStehanieBowkr
MARKETING MANAGER on Jaj~
Hlillary Snawala Classiied Manager
Jason Mahakian PnoduonManuger
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin FnanceMnanger
Chrissy WinklernCircultion Mnager
Zalch Yaner webrojectCoordiento
The Mian Dail SSN 0745-6isipublihe Monday throughFriday dcringhetfall and
wintsr te~rm suents at heOniersit of Michign.Oncspyis availalefree nf charge to all
reaer. dtonalopie a bepikedup at the Daily's c or $2.Subsciptiosfr fallter,
starting intSeptembe,nia UOS.nail sar $11.iertrm(Jnary though pril i$15,yealong
(Sepember thrugh pril is$15. nivritafiliates arsuuiinttnsareddsiu scitin rate.
On-ampu~sbscriptionsfortall trmare $35cSubscritins must benreaid.The icigantDily
isa member ofThe AssocatedPressandThe oiaited CllegiatePess.

0
S

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Wallet grabbed Parked car taken Aimee Mann Meditation

WHERE: 1114 State St.
WHEN: Sunday at about 6:45
WHAT: A University staff
member had his wallet stolen
after leaving it in s parked car,
University police reported. The
car's window was shattered.
Police have no suspects.
Pair too noisy in
graduate library
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher Grad-
uate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about 3:45
p.m.
WHAT: Two male subjects,
both intoxicated, created a dis-
turbance in the library by danc-
ing and playing loud music,
University police reported.
Both individualswere escorted
from the building.

WHERE: 600 Thompson
WHEN: Monday at about1 am.
WHAT: A black Moods Civic
was stolen from a parking lot,
University police reported. The
owner of the stolen car alleged
that nothing valuable was
inside the vehicle. Police have
no suspects.
Man drives with
drugs, no license
WHERE: 100 ifth St.
WHEN: Sunday at about 5p.m.
WHAT: A male subject inhisalate
20s was in possession ofdrugs
and driving withaasuspended
license, University Police reported.
Theasubject wasastopped for a
traffic violation andpromptly
arrested, processed and released
pendingwan-ant authorization.

WHAT: A performance by
rock artist Aimee Mann,
accompanied by an acous-
tic trio. Mann will per-
form songs from her new
CD as well as hits from
her previous albums.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
Ethnicity
discussion
WHAT: A lecture about
what it means tu besa man of
color at Michigan -entitled
"My Brothers"- will be held,
followed by a small group
discussion and lunch.
WHO: Multi-Ethnic
Students Affairs
WHEN: Today at 11:30 am.
WHERE: The Michigan
Student Alliance chambers
at the Michigan Union

workshop
WHAT: A class on medi-
tation will be held, with
techniques proven to
manage sleep disorders
and high blood pres-
sure and reduce stress.
WHO: UMHS Car-
diovascular Medicine
at Domino Farms
WHEN: Today at 6:00 p.m.
WHERE: Lobby A, UMHS
Cardiovacular Medi-
cine at Domino Farms
Multicultural
mass meeting
WHAT: A mass meet-
ing for MuJew, the
Muslim and Jewish on-
campus collaboration.
WHO: Hillel
WHEN: This evening from
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
WHERE: The Anderson
Room, The Michigan Union

1Newark, New Jersey has
stopped purchasing Christ-
mas decorations and toilet
paper as a result of budget cuts,
The Wall Stree Journal report-
ed. Just Toilet Paper owner
Marc Polish said he would
donate thousands of rolls, with
an additional roll sent each time
he recieves an order for holiday
themed paper until Dec. 15.
2Applications to the Uni-
versity have increased
every year since the
2007-2008 school year and are
expected to increase this cycle.
sFOR MORE,.SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3 Two high schools, in
Cinncinnati, OH and in
Syracuse, NY, are trying
to market vegetables like junk
food by selling them in vend-
ing machines, The Consumer-
ist reported. Currently, the new
vending machines only offer
three ounce bags of carrots.

MORE ONLINEL
Love Crime N'otes? Get moreeonline at michigandaily.om/lolgs/the wire P


University of Michigan students,
it's the best four years of your life.
Make sure you never miss a thing.
perfet. p oris lulciege. -hy )i mrite a~pps, I~ l~ucr

For a store near you visit:
attLcom/storelocator/



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.
! Great Lakes nuke
shipment plan stirs
environmental fear
Environmentalists and some
local government officials are pro-
testing a Canadian power compa-
ny's proposal to haul 16 scrapped
generators with radioactive com-
ponents across three of the Great
Lakes on their way to a recycling
plant in Sweden.
Bruce Power Inc., based in
Kincardine, Ontario, is seeking a
license from the Canadian Nuclear
Safety Commission for the ship-
ment. It would depart from a port
on Lake Huron's Owen Sound
and also traverse Lakes Erie and
Ontario and the St. Lawrence
River before reaching the Atlantic
Ocean.
Commission staffers have rec-
ommended approval, saying the
shipment would pose little if any
threat to human health or the envi-
ronment. But complaints and ques-
tions from the public led the panel
to schedule a hearing for Sept.
28-29 in Ottawa.
WASHINGTON
Obama says gov't
remains committed
to Gulf recovery
President Barack Obama is call-
ing the successful "kill" for the
blown-out well in the Gulf of Mex-
ico a milestone in his administra-
tion's response to the disaster that
leaked hundreds of millions of gal-
lons of oil.
The federal government's point
man on the response, retired Coast
Guard Adm. Thad Allen, said Sun-
day that tests show BP's well "is
effectively dead" and poses no fur-
ther threat.
Obama said in a statement that
his administration remains com-
mitted to doing everything possible
to ensure that the Gulf Coast recov-
ers fully from the disaster.
Obama pledged that his adminis-
tration will continue to work close-
ly with people who live in the Gulf
region as they rebuild their liveli-
hoods andrestore the environment.
UNITED NATIONS
France calls on UN
to return to pledge
to fight poverty
The 10-year-old promise to lift
the world's poorest is unfulfilled
and with world economies claw-
ing back from the worst recession
since World War II, the French
president and others implored
leaders yesterday not to return to
their "old bad habits" of ignoring
global poverty.
Nicolas Sarkozy, the French
leader, was the first to accept U.N.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's
challenge for nations to deliver
more resources to combat global
poverty, ignorance and misery.
He pledged to boost France's
annual $10 billion contribution

to the world's poorest people by
20 percent over the next three
years. He urged other leaders to
join him.
"We have no right to do less than
what we have decided to do," Sar-
kozy told more than 140 presidents,
premiers, princes and a king at the
opening of the three-day U.N. Mil-
lennium Development Goals sum-
mit. "Let us not fall back into our
old bad habits."
WASHINGTON
* Conservative wins
not expected to alter
Clinton's agenda
Secretary of State Hillary Rod-
ham Clinton says election wins
by supporters of the conserva-
tive tea party movement probably
wouldn't have much impact on
her diplomatic agenda.
In an interview for broadcast
Sunday on ABC's "This Week,"
Clinton says that regardless of the
outcome of this year's midterm
elections, she'll continue to make
the case that the international
efforts of the White House are in
"furtherance of America's inter-
est."
Clinton says she finds support
for national security, defense and
diplomatic efforts is bipartisan.
Regardless of what someone
may say when they're running for
office, Clinton says, they "become
very sobered, very quickly" about
the challenges facing the country,
both internationally and domesti-
cally, once they take office.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Promise of Fed. to help .
economy boosts stocks

Dow Jones average
jumps 146 points
to its highest close
since May 13
NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks
rose to their highest level in four
months yesterday as hopes grew
for more action by the Federal
Reserve to prop up the economy.
The gains extended the market's
rally into a fourth consecutive
week.
Buying accelerated after the
Standard & Poor's 500 index, the
market measure most often used
by professional traders, . broke
through the high end of its recent
range. Technical analysts see
that as a bullish sign.
The Dow Jones industrial
average jumped 146 points to its
highest close since May 13. An
announcement from a group of
economists declaring that the
recession ended in June 2009
was a mild positive, but that
assessment was in line with what
many analysts already believed.
Deal news also helped lift
shares. IBM Corp. said it would
buy data storage provider Netez-
za Corp. for about $1.7 billion in
cash. Investors see acquisitions
as a sign companies are more
comfortable spending cash to
expand, and suggests that other
stocks may also become targets

rate-setting committee could
relaunch programs to buy Trea-
surys and mortgage bonds in an
effort to stimulate the economy.
At the very least, it might hint at
future plans.
"The Fed will hint at it, put it
on the table, but not do anything,"
predicted Brian Gendreau, a
market strategist at Financial
Network Investment Corp.
A number of economic indi-
cators have topped forecasts in
recent weeks, propelling stocks
higher, but the economy is far
from strong. If the Fed starts
buying bonds again it could drive
interest rates lower, enabling
companies and consumers to get
cheaper loans. The Fed had a
similar bond-buying program in
place earlier this year.
The Dow Jones industrial
average rose 145.77 points, or 1.4
percent, to close at 10,753.62. The
Dow has now risen in 12 of the
last 14 days.
The Standard & Poor's 500
index rose 17.12, or 1.5 percent,
to 1,142.71. The Nasdaq compos-
ite rose 40.22, or 1.7 percent, to
2,355.83.
The S&P 500 climbed solidly
above the key technical level of
1,131, the high end of its recent
trading range. The S&P briefly
crossed that barrier on Friday
for the first time since June 21,
but not for long enough to con-
vince analysts that the market
had enough momentum to surge

Five stocks rose for every one
that fell on the New York Stock
Exchange, where consolidated
volume came to 3.9 billion shares.
Investors have been encour-
aged by better economic reports
this month, especially on jobs
and manufacturing, to send
stocks steadily higher in Septem-
ber. The Dow is up 7.4 percent in
the month to date, the S&P 8.9
percent. The gains have defied
predictions that September
would follow a historical pattern
of being dismal for stocks.
Investors also see hope in a
softer stance in recent weeks
by President Barack Obama's
administration about tax and
business-related programs.
Keith Goddard, co-manager of
the Capital Advisors Growth
Fund, said a shift in policy could
mean the Bush-era tax cuts will
be extended. That would help
dividend-paying stocks, which
have been in "no man's land"
recently because investors are
uncertain the tax rate they'll
have to pay on the dividends,
Goddard said.
Extending the tax cuts and
announcing other policies like
a payroll tax holiday could be
"worth a 10 percent move in the
stock market," Goddard said.
Deal news sent IBM shares up
$1.60, or 1.2 percent, to $131.79.
Its acquisition target, Netezza,
rose $3.67, or 14.9 percent, to
$28.27.

Ronnie Jamil, owner of Bella Vino Fine Wine and Spirits in Farmington Hills, Mich.,
holds up a can of Four Loko Cranberry Lemonade alcohol energy drink, left, and
Arizona Iced Tea and Mango drink.
Alcoholic energy.1
drinks under
reviewerby Mi'ch.

Labels of stimulant
alcoholic drinks
scrutinized by state

longer - it was something they
needed to start to address," said
Steven Schmidt, spokesman for
the National Alcohol and Bever-
age Control Association.
Last year the FDA notified


for buyers. higher. Bond edged higher as inves- DETROIT (AP) - Got caf- about two dozen alcohol-energy
The Fed meets today to discuss Many automatic buy and sell tors await word from the Fed. feine? Got alcohol? drink makers that the agency has
interest rates, and investors are orders are set around market The yield on the benchmark If they're blended in the same never specifically approved the
hoping for a sign that the central milestones such as these, and 10-year Treasury note, which beverage and sold in stores, then addition of caffeine to alcoholic
bank might make more moves to investors watch those levels moves opposite its price, fell to Michigan's Liquor Control Com- drinks. Officials noted a Wake
keep rates low. There is a grow- closely for clues about which way 2.70 percent from 2.74 percent mission is looking at the label. Forest University study that stu-
ing expectation that the Fed's the market may go next. late Friday. The state regulatory agency dents who combine those ingre-
unanimously passed a motion dients are more likely to suffer
this month to examine the pack- alcohol-related injuries than
aging of flavored alcoholic drinks those drinking alcohol without
with caffeine and other stimu- caffeine.
U .S . u rg e s I lants. Michigan is among the first Democratic U.S. Sen. Charles
states to independently target the Schumer of New York recently
" " drinks, which are also under fed- sent a letter to the Federal Trade
itt I 131 \.reg 1 tio lseral scrutiny over concerns about Commission urging it to investi-
health effects and whether they gate the marketing of the drinks.
are marketed to minors. He said the colorful cans are
US plans to keep its intentions," U.S. Energy Sec- ing the latest round of Security "We have directed our staff to designed to confuse parents and
retary Steven Chu told delegates Council sanctions "unjustified bring to us these alcohol-energy police with labels that resemble
pressuring Iran over in Vienna for the IAEA'S General and illegal." drinks that have a stimulant. nonalcoholic energy drinks and
Conference. IAEA chief Amano also said We're goingto look at their labels other beverages.
nuclear program While Washington remains North Korea's nuclear program and see if they are in any way The Associated Press left mes-
committed to pursuing a diplo- remains "a matter of serious con- confusing or misleading," said sages seeking comment from
VIENNA (AP) - The United matic solution, Chu said it was cern" and efforts should be made commission chairwoman Nida Chicago-based Phusion Projects
States will continue to pressure clear there was a "broad and to resume talks on it. Samona. Inc., maker of Four Loko, and
Iran to meet its international growing international consensus The autocratic Asian state "We believe that these prod- La Mesa, Calif.-based United
commitments and come clean that will hold Iran accountable if has not permitted the Vienna- ucts sometimes are misleading Brands Co., which makes Joose.
about its nuclear program, a it continues its defiance. based watchdog to implement people. ... You've got an upper United Brands Chief Execu-
senior U.S. official said Monday "We will continue to pressure safeguards in the country since and a downer all in one package." tive Michael Mikhail has said
as diplomats gathered for the the Iranian government to fulfill December 2002 and no inspec- Under the mule, the Liquor the company markets nation-
U.N. nuclear agency's annual its international commitments," tors have been allowed in since Control Commission can inform ally through beer distributors
meeting. Chu said. April, making it impgsible for a manufacturer if regulators find and targets consumers who can
Iran is under four sets of U.N. Washington's strong words inspectors to report > about its labels or packages do not clearly legally drink alcohol.
Security Council sanctions for followed similar comments by atomic activities, Amano said. show the presence and percent- Ronny Jamil, who co-owns
refusing to stop its uranium the European Union. North Korea walked out of age of alcohol and other stimu- Bella Vino Fine Wine and Spirits
enrichment and ignoring other Paul Magnette of Belgium, international talks onrestarting lants. The beverage maker then in the Detroit suburb of Farm-
U.N. demands meant to ease whose country currently holds negotiations on its nuclear disar- has 90 days to make changes and ington Hills and three other area
global concerns that it is seeking the bloc's rotating presidency, mament last year to protest inter- submit it for approval. stores that sell alcoholic bever-
to make atomic weapons. said the EU has urged Iran to national criticism of a long-range "If they don't comply, it comes ages, offers several different vari-
Last week, Yukiya Amano, the address the IAEA's concerns rocket launch. off the shelves," Samona said. eties of the alcohol-energy drinks
head of the International Atomic and to meet with members of the "I again call on all parties con- Michigan joins such states as and said they can be confusing.
Energy Agency, said he cannot international community "with cerned to make concerted efforts California, Montana and Utah "Even when you stand at the
confirm that all of Iran's nuclear the ultimate goal of establishing for a resumption of the six-party that have instituted rules or counter, first you think they're
activities are peaceful, as Teh- a comprehensive relationship." talks," Amano said. limited access to the category of juice cans - you wouldn't even
ran claims, because the country Meanwhile, the head of Iran's Amano also mentioned the drinks often sold in single cans look at them as liquor," Jamil
has only selectively cooperated nuclear program, Ali Akbar failure of Iran and Syria to fully containing hip, colorful designs. said.
with the U.N. watchdog and has Salehi, said the IAEA was suffer- comply with his agency. Many other sittes have called Jamil said he considers the
rejected several nuclear inspec- ing from a "moral authority and "My basic approach has been on the federal government to alcohol content to be appropri-
tors. credibility crisis." that all safeguards agreements investigate and are waiting for ately clear and big on the label.
"Iran must do what it has thus "Certainly, the uncivilized between member states and the the results of a'health and safety Still, he stocks the alcoholic
far failed to do - meet its obliga- double-track approach of threat agency and other relevant obli- study by theV.S. Food and Drug energy drink cans with beer and
tions and ensure the rest of the and dialogue ... cannot be condu- gations should be implemented Adminiistration. believes it would lower risks if
world of the peaceful nature of cive and fruitful," he added, call- fully," he said. IM)icl sga' couldn't wait any they resembled each other.
Thousands flee as Yemeni forces clash with al-Qaida


United States aids
Yemeni forces in
anti-terrorist fight
SAN'A, Yemen (AP) - Thou-
sands of people have fled a village
in southern Yemen where security
forces are laying siege to al-Qaida
militants, a security official said
yesterday, signaling an escalation
in the government's U.S.-backed
campaign to uproot the terror net-
work's local offshoot.
Government forces have moved
into the village of Hawta with
tanks and armored vehicles and 90
percent of its residents have fled,
said Abdullah Baouda, police chief
for the surrounding district.
One family fleeing Hawta said
forces have shelled the village
indiscriminately for the past two
days to flush out the militants.
Troops also fired on vehicles of
residents fleeing the village and
another nearby trouble spot, the
city of Lawder, killing two civil-
ians and wounding three others,
according local government and
medical officials.
Hawta is in Yemen's moun-
tainous Shabwa province, one the

areas where al-Qaida in the Ara-
bian Peninsula has taken rootover
the past year and a half beyond the
reach of a weak central govern-
ment that has little control beyond
the capital.
The United States is deeply
concerned about the threat from
Yemen's al-Qaida branch. The
group claimed responsibility for
the December attempt to blow up
a Detroit-bound airliner, linking
the plot to Yemen's cooperation
with the U.S. military in strikes on
al-Qaida targets.
The U.S. has shared intelligence
and provided financial aid and
training to Yemeni forces, generat-
ing backlash among Yemenis who
feel their government is too closely
allied with America.
Around 120 al-Qaida militants
are believed to be taking refuge
in Hawta, the police chief said.
Three militants were killed and
four were wounded in the fighting,
said the provincial governor, Ali
Hassan al-Ahmadi. One anti-ter-
rorism officer was injured, he said.
"The siege will remain until
those elements hand themselves
in and we manage to uproot ter-
rorist groups from the region," al-
Ahmadi said.

Soldiers from the anti-terrorism force of the Yemeni Defense Ministry take part in an exercise in a training camp at the Sarif
district, north of the capital San'a.

For months, al-Qaida in the
Arabian Peninsula has hammered
Yemen's security forces in attacks
on checkpoints and other security
outposts.
The group said in an Internet
statement yesterday thatitabduct-
ed a senior security official and
demanded the release of two of

its imprisoned members within
48 hours. Brig. Ali Hossam disap-
peared Aug. 26. The group did not
say what it would do if its demand
was not met.
Yemen's government has had
trouble gaining control of areas
in the south that are under the
control of powerful tribes, some

sympathetic to al-Qaida and other
Islamic militants roaming the
area.
Yemen is the poorest nation
in the Arab world and is beset
by other major internal security
threats - an on-and-off rebellion
on the north and a separate seces-
sionist movement in the south.


4 - Tuesday, September 21, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

C 14 Nlct i an 4 at&IM
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Quality over quantity
'U' enrollment growth must benefit its students
W hen it comes to the University's student population, the
clichd that bigger is better isn't necessarily true. Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Coleman agrees. As campus
application and enrollment numbers increase, Coleman thinks that
the University should decrease the number of students it accepts.
Though the state economy will increasingly require workers with
advanced degrees, the University shouldn't make sacrifices to aca-
demic quality. Increases in the size of the student body have adverse
effects that the University should take into consideration. Though
growth will probably be necessary in the long term, the University
must maintain the quality of the education it provides.

vC
JQ J~ V l l clss, oufr nde odl
1 tn
pd Anr<+ show. Ca~n I get ~
It's a sober world after all...

0

According to a Jul. 5 report in the Uni-
versity Record, the University has seen
record-high application numbers every
year since the 2007-2008 academic year.
Another increase in applications is expect-
ed during this application cycle because the
University recently switched to the Com-
mon Application. The University expects
that the 2010 freshman class will number
6,300 - 300 more students than last year.
As reported by the Daily last week, Cole-
man said that the increase in students
wasn't planned and that the University has
been attempting to decrease enrollment
numbers in recent years, though it hasn't
always been successful. One of Coleman's
major concerns is maintaining the quality
of the education that students receive.
Higher education is becoming requi-
site in today's economic climate. The state
must create an economy based in science
and advanced technology like medical
research and solar technology. As Michi-
gan's economy shifts, more people are
going to need a bachelor's degree - or
higher - to find employment. And the Uni-
versity will have to step in to fill the need.
But growing too quickly would only
water down the quality of the education
that University students receive - and
that isn't worth it. Academic resources,
including a reasonable student-to-profes-
sor ratio, adequate space in residence halls

and appropriate technological resources
are important factors in determining the
quality of a university education. Present-
ly, these resources are being stretched thin
over too large a number of students. This
year, the University had to rush to convert
space in Oxford Residence Hall to accom-
modate students and has offered a North-
wood housing option to freshman.
The goal isn't simply to churn out more
graduates - it's to produce the very best
professional possible. Students can't excel
in their studies if they aren't able to access
classes that they are interested in or need
to fulfill requirements, their professors
and University resources. University offi-
cials need to focus on maintaining this
quality as they consider enrollment num-
bers. Inevitably, the University will have
to educate more people. But if it grows
too fast, it won't be able to compensate
the student increase with elite professors,
adequate living facilities and access to
appropriate, high quality classes. Growth
should be gradual and deliberate.
The University shouldn't sacrifice the
caliber of the experience it provides to give
more students a higher education. Gradu-
al growth will probably be necessary in
Michigan's shifting economy, but the Uni-
versity must provide adequate resources
to accompany any increase - and that
takes time.

it'sgame day. The Michigan foot-
ball team is about to take on
that school down south and I'm
walking down an
eerily quiet State
Street. The bros
are depressingly
situated on their
porches playing an
exhilarating game,
of chess and pray-
ing for the end of
this forsaken day.
Down near Hoover JOE
Street is no bet-
ter. The familiar SUGIYAMA
body-shaking bass
has become a thing
of the past, as the usually jubilant
houses seem vacant. The tenants peer
suspiciously out their windows, eyes
darting left to right, seeking rem-
nants of the jovial parties that no lon-
ger exist here at the University.
Seeing that nothing on campus is
worth my time, I head back to Green-
wood to check on my roommates,
wondering if they had somehow
found a way to make light of our cur-
rent situation. The street no longer
glistens in the sun with broken beer
bottles and the emblematic shoes on
the telephone lines hang without new
company because of a seeming lack
of motivation by the residents of the
street. As I approach my house I see
that one of my roommates is standing
out on our porch. His face is expres-
sionless and a solitary tear trickles
down his cheek.
This is the world that Daily colum-
nist Tyler Jones wantsus tolive in(The
battle for State Street, 9/17/2010). In
his column, he applauded the Univer-
sity police for their increased efforts
to issue tickets for underage drinking
during Welcome Week. He even went
as far as to call underage drinking on
campus an "epidemic" and seemed
almost smitten at the prospect of his
fellow classmates receiving Minor In

Possession charges.
I fully acknowledge that underage
drinking is against the law in order
to protect young adults from mak-
ing foolish decisions. I also acknowl-
edge that not everything on campus
revolves around drinking - in fact I
think that sober or not the campus
would be every bit as excited to see
Michigan quarterback Denard Rob-
inson take on Ohio State quarterback
Terrelle Pryor in late November - but
drinking is stilla major staple in cam-
pus lifestyle. You can't tell me that
going out on a Friday night doesn't
make that calc exam you just took a
little easier to swallow. And whether
this mindset is - as Jones put it - a
"crutch" or not, that's how many stu-
dents cope with the overwhelming
stress that comes with a "world-class
education."
This past Welcome Week, the
police saw it fit to have undercover
cops roam campus and stop naive
freshman who don't know not to
walk in the street with a cup full of
beer. I even heard of one case where
a student was lured off the safety
of his porch only to be immediately
asked for identification and promptly
MIP-ed. I wonder if this is the best
use of Michigan taxpayers' money.
Shouldn't the police be more con-
cerned with protectingstudents from
real dangers instead of slapping them
on the wrists with meaningless fines?
Now Jones laid out a couple of
statistics in his article, arguing that
"850 college students between the
ages of 18 and 21 died in 2009 as a
result of alcohol-related injuries."
But consider this: according to the
United States Census, 6,800 drivers
between the ages of 18 and 21 died as
in car accidents in 2007. With this in
mind, do you think it's a fair assump-
tion that Jones also thinks we should
stop driving under the age of 21? Of
course not, because that'd be both
inconvenient and idiotic.

I'mnotsayingthatdrinking-related
deaths are something to be sneered at,
but I am saying that the University
should consider educating its students
(imagine that...) about the dangers of
drinking instead of punishing them
for this inevitable act. They should
take their "Stay in the Blue" campaign
to another level by not only stress-
ing the life-threatening dangers of
binge drinking during orientation, but
offering safe methods of getting home
to all students. They could also use
RA's as agents of their cause. If resi-
dential advisors mentored their halls
about how to drink safely, instead of
threatening them with consequences,
students would feel less of a need to
slam those five shots of Five 'O in their
dorm rooms as quickly as possible;
because in my experience, a nervous.
drinker is a fast one.
'U' should educate
students about
drinking safely.
To say there is no college without
underage drinking is shallow and
ignorant, but to not acknowledge
that drinking is an important facet of
campus life echoes much of the same.
And if you can't appreciate the "rau-
cous" fraternityvolleyball or the "bit-
ter" aroma of beer, you don't have to,
but don't ruin it for the other 21,000
students who can. The University
shouldn't vainly attempt to stop this
overwhelming majority from drink-
ing. Instead, it should aid students
in making the right choices, even if
those choices aren't strictly legal.
- Joe Sugiyama can be reached
atjmsugi@umich.edu.

tihe
podium

The Daily's opinion blog wants you to weigh in.
Roger Suerhaft points out that a GOP divided by the
Tea Party could give Dems an edge in November.
Go to michigandaily.com and click on 'Blogs'.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

ALEX BERINGER |

BLASE KEARNEY I

Don't overlook student groups Right-to-work isn't the right choice

It's a little shocking to hear anyone at an
elite university - especially someone writ-
ing for one of the nation's best student news-
papers - extol the value of sitting back and
waiting for things to happen. In her column,
Vanessa Rychlinski tells freshmen to avoid
student activity organizations because "you
have spent four years [in high school] trying to
get here...putting together the right GPA, test
scores, the ideal blend of activities" and that
you should "save yourself during your fresh-
men year" (The first year of freedom, 9/17/10).
She writes that freshmen should "beware" of
groups who "voraciously" subject you to "over-
achiever-esque bullying" in order prey upon
your valuable free time "in this mythical land
of college." This all strikes me as distressing
for a couple of reasons:
First, there is Rychlinksi's not-so-subtle
implication that the only reason for joining
a campus organization is to pad your resume
for whatever high-powered, high-end type of
career or graduate school that your parents
expect you to pursue. This idea that every
activity in college is simply a means to a job is
exactly the kind of thinking that leads people
into careers in which they have little genuine
interest and thus into lives of quiet desperation
where one's true passions are laid on the back-
burner.
How about this as an alternative: You've
worked so hard in high school, studying, pur-
suing your passions and interests in the hope
that you might continue pursuing things you're
really passionate about.
Rychlinski's second reason, perhaps even
more distressing than the first, is the sugges-

tion that student groups are somehow schem-
ing to exploit you and distract you from the
truly important parts of your experience at the
University. It's true that campus organizations
desperately need people. They want to make
things happen, they have budgets to spend;
they want new perspectives on how they can
enrich our campus. But if they're so desperate
for leadership, why can't you lead them? Why
not get in on the ground floor and make some-
thing spectacular happen on campus? Why
not you? You - especially freshmen - have an
incredibly valuable window of opportunity to
pursue whatever you wish.
Want to be on the radio or bring concerts to
campus? Promote (or fight) socialized health-
care? Dust off fossils at the Natural History
Museum? Manage a small business? Hone your
journalistic skills by writing for the sports
page or the opinion column? Each of these
things is in your reach and each can be the
foundation for a fulfilling college experience
and ultimately a career where you pursue your
true interests and passions.
While you shouldn't join all of these groups
at once, it might lead to something really
extraordinary if you pick one and devote your
very best energies to it. So yes, you should
beware, but not of the campus activity groups.
Instead, beware of those who tell you "my
advice is to do absolutely nothing." The cov-
ered workshop you have here only lasts four
(maybe five) years and it is, without exaggera-
tion, a once-in-a-lifetime chance. Don't let it
slip away.
Alex Beringer a Rackham student.

In the Daily last week, Rachel Van Gilder wrote a col-
umn that urges the Republican gubernatorial candidate,
Rick Snyder, to push for a right-to-work law if elected (An
unholy union policy, 09/14/2010). In her column, Van Gild-
er describes right-to-work as a law that makes it "illegal
to force people to join unions," but the reality is a little
more complex than that.
Right-to-work allows workers to choose whether or not
,to pay for their union representation. Under the current
regime, workers are never compelled to join unions. How-
ever, businesses can reach agreements with the workers
that representation fees are a condition of employment.
Because employees will make more back in higher wages
negotiated through the union than they pay in dues or
fees, few workers have a problem with paying representa-
tion fees.
However, in right-to-work states, workers in a union-
ized workplace get the benefits of the union-negotiated
contract, regardless of whether or not they pay dues. Pre-
dictably, if workers can get the union benefits without
paying for them, many will choose to do so, and unions
will then beunder-funded.
The design of the right-to-work laws is to create this free-
rider problem and destroy unions. In this sense, the law is
hypocritical. Anti-union critics characterize union workers
as expecting something for nothing, but right-to-work laws
allow just that: workers can reap the benefits of a collective
bargaining agreement without paying their share.
Van Gilder's column then begins a separate economic
argument: Michigan would be better off under a right-
to-work law because it would weaken unions. She cites
a study claiming Michigan would have 60,000 more jobs
without union security. However, the author concedes
that the jobs would pay less, $14,000 per year less. That's
the price of in-state college tuition, health care or perhaps
the difference between foreclosure and a family staying
in their home.
This underscores a larger point about right-to-worklaws.
Generally, the purported jobs that result from having a
right-to-work regime are lower paid. According to Bureau
of Labor Statistics from 2001, workers in states that have
adopted right-to-work laws make about $5,000 less a year
than workers in other states, including Michigan. This is a
stark contrast considering Michigan is widely regarded to
have one of the worst economies in the nation.

Furthermore, the internal logic of the "right-to-work
increases jobs" argument doesn't make sense. Why would
less unions and lower wages incentivize companies like
GM or Chrysler to add new hires to their plants? Their
lines are already staffed - they don't need any more
workers, regardless of wage. Lower wages would only
translate into increased profits to shareholders, just like
it did when these same car companies shipped many jobs
to Latin America in the 1990s.
Finally, Van Gilder says that unions are no longer need-
ed in an era with Occupational Safety and Health Admin-
istration - more commonly known as OSHA - and
where the steel mills don't have a "14 hour work day" and
"unsafe conditions." Clearly, Van Gilder has never been
to a steel mill, but I have. Over the summer I visited mills
in Pennsylvania. It is 130 degrees with poor ventilation.
The company had received a large rush order, and many
workers were in their 76th hour of work for the week. The
day after I was there, a coke oven exploded killing two
workers and maiming twenty others, giving horrid third
degree chemical burns that will make their faces unrec-
ognizable to their families and charring their esophagus
so that they must take food intravenously. They will also
never speak words again.
The truth is actually the converse of what Van Gilder
claims, as anyone who heard of the mine explosion in
West Virginia over the summer that killed 29 workers
would know. In an era when safety regulators are being
captured by the industries they regulate, unions that
close the unregulated industry are in the best position to
enforce those laws the government will not.
The reality is that nothing material has changed about
the employee-employer relationship since the National
Labor Relations Act was passed in the 1930s. The employ-
er still holds all the power. A potential employee only has
their labor to withhold, which is meaningless unless it is
collectivized.
All right-to-work has to offer is less effective unions,
lower wages and more profits for shareholders. But most
importantly, it hurts the workers'voice in their employment.
What little democracy there is in a workplace ought not be
ceded for an illogical promise of a small amount of jobs.
Blase Kearney is law student and a member of
Michigan Immigration and Labor Law Association.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Laura Veith


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 -- 5

TV needs pilot lessons

Ben Affleck runs this'Town'

This week is one of the
best weeks of the fall. We
are currently amid the
releases of new fall TV lineups.
Our favorites
like "Glee," "30
Rock," "Com-
munity" and
recent Emmy-
gold mine
"Modern Fam-
ily" are back
this week along
with a whole CAROLYN
crop of new KLARECKI
television. This
is the welcome
week of TV, and I'm pumped.
Sixteen new shows are premier-
ing this week on NBC, ABC, CBS
and FOX. Most likely, 80 percent
of them will not be renewed for a
second season. That means maybe
three of these shows have staying
power. And this week, TV fans
will be judging each pilot to decide
what's worth tuning back in for.
That's a lot of pressure to put on a
pilot episode, but everyone already
knows what weight it holds. The
writers, directors and producers
understand this first episode must
be outstanding - otherwise they'll
be canceled mid-season.
So what makes a pilot success-
ful? I'm no Hollywood big shot.
I don't know the formula for hit
television - nor do I claim there
is such a formula -but there are a
few things I look for when watch-
ing new TV.
First and foremost, new TV
shows must have a captivating
premise. If you look at the lineup
of shows this fall, you will see
that some people have definitely
forgotten this. I keep getting
"Lone Star," "The Defenders,"
"Outlaw," "The Whole Truth"
and "Blue Bloods" confused. Why
is that? Because they're pretty
much the same, at least in terms
of promotions. Their commercials
are all incredibly similar, making
it nearly impossible to tell them
apart. After racking my brain, all
I can remember without turning
to Google is that the guy in "Out-

law" pl
WestV
about t
person
vaguel
Worst.
tian Sh
Last
to rem
new id
for "Gl
you kn
worth,
you ha
case of
Truth,
suck or
I can't;
shows
pilots I
somet
for.
The
new T
Maybe
a uniqi
inspire
all, but
inspire
online
Says w
actersi

layed Matt Santos on "The In all actuality, most of the
fing," "The Defenders" is shows this fall seem so unorigi-
:wo lawyers with opposing nal there shouldn't be much
alities and "Lone Star" is problem keeping them moving
y reminiscent of "My Own with recycled ideas from past
Enemy," a show with Chris- sitcoms, crime cases pulled from
ater that flopped in '08. the headlines and tons of love tri-
fall's biggest hits were easy angles. If one of these seemingly
ember because they had a standard shows surprises me, and
ea. You saw one commercial it seems like they know where
ee" or "Community" and they're going, I'll consider sticking
ew that it was going to be around for the end of the season,
watching, if only because but there's one more thingI need
dn't seen it before. So in the before I'm on board with a show
"Lone Star," "The Whole and will watch it loyally.
" etc., either their premises I need characters. I need fas-
r their advertisingsucks. If cinating characters with real
see the difference in these problems. I need to know them
now - and I can't - the or even just want to know them,
better convince me there's but the characters are what make
hing worth sticking around or break TV. We felt for the kids
on "Glee," we fell in love with
second thingI need in a Troy and Abed's antics on "Com-
V show is sustainability. munity" and we wish our family
"S#*! My Dad Says" has was as adorable as the one on
ue premise. It's a show "Modern Family." I doubt we'll
ad by a Twitter feed after fall in love with all of the new cop
come on, it's a show characters to hit TV this week.
ad by a Twitter feed. The Though "White Collar" was a
version of Shit My Dad surprise last year, so let's stay
orks when it's 140 char- open-minded. Perhaps "Mike and
every few days, but can Molly" will prove a loveable pair,
or maybe Will Arnett ("Arrested
Development") and Keri Rus-
sell ("Felicity") will have enough
i's time for a chemistry to keep me glued to the
screen for "Running Wilde."
ietwork TV Of course, there are many more
factors that can make a show
taste test. hit or miss. Sometimes the best
shows have lackluster pilots. It
really isn't completely fair for me
retch that into a whole to judge an entire season on one
? William Shatner will episode, but with the hustle and
gry and offensive and the bustle of college life, who has the
Nill struggle to move past time (or patience) to sit through
sitcom plots. While this an entire season of "Chase" just
speculation, last fall's to make sure it's as crappy as it
Forward" proved the looks? This is our week of sam-
ance of sustainability. The pling. I'll taste as many shows as
et itself up to depict only a Ican, and if they're unique, have
nth span of time based on potential for development and
r into the future everyone have appealing characters, I'll sit
d." So as soon as it became down for a meal.

Boston-based drama features
strong ensemble cast
ByANKUR SOHONI
Daily Arts Writer
The fine people over at the Warner Brothers market-
ing department proved their cunning while promot-
ing crime drama "The Town." Forgoing the obvious,
they branded their trailers with the
cryptic message "from the acclaimed * *'
director of 'Gone Baby Gone."'
Now, if' you're familiar with The Town
"Gone Baby Gone," you might be
wondering why the studio didn'tuse and Rave
the household name of said director. an
The answer is: that director isn't Warner Bros.
known specifically for his directing,
at least not yet. Because that director is none other
than Ben Affleck.
It's somewhat surprising - but completely appro-
priate - that the studio would let the mega-actor and
inexperienced director rest on his credits and not his
name recognition. No matter how much Affleck's act-
ing has been criticized, even vilified, he has yet to make
similar missteps in his directing career. And while his
name may bring up scarring images of "Paycheck" and
"Pearl Harbor," his modesty as a filmmaker is incred-
ibly endearing and made commendable by the quality
of his work in "The Town."
The setting of "The Town" is Boston's Charlestown,
which apparently produces more bank robbers than
any other neighborhood in the country. The film fol-
lows a team of bank/armored car robbers, led by the
kind-hearted Doug MacRay (Affleck) and-the trigger-
happy James Coughlin (Jeremy Renner, "The Hurt
Locker"), while an FBI agent (Jon Hamm, TV's "Mad
Men") is hot on their tail.
After a successful robbery, the team takes hostage
bank manager Claire Keesey (Rebecca Hall, "Vicky
Cristina Barcelona") to fend off the cops. Once the
coast is clear, they drop the hostage and let her live -
but there starts the problem. Fearing she could help
the FBI, the robbers agree to intimidate her into sub-
mission.
MacRay can't resist though, and is so charmed by
Keesey's vulnerability that he falls for her. At that
point, even though MacRay denies it, the story's unrav-
eling is all but inevitable.
The marvelhere is the ensemble cast.It's full of famil-
iar faces, and every actor from Blake Lively (TV's "Gos-
sip Girl") to Pete Postlethwaite ("Inception") exhibits
his or her respective character's tragic flaw with a natu-
ral ease and a (usually) believable Boston accent. Even
Chris Cooper ("Adaptation") puts in a terrific one-scene

It
r

In Boston, that "Superbad" shit would never go down.
performance as MacRay's imprisoned father.
The film establishes a high standard for itself and at
times its male leads seem like a mixed bag. Ben Affleck
is still the actor Ben Affleck, and it's become under-
standably difficult to distance his personality from
his character's. His Boston accent and token Red Sox
attire hearken back to his "Good Will Hunting" days,
but don't make up for his simplistic approach to a com-
plex character. He shows a fierce effort, without which
the film would likely fall flat, but doesn't considerably
change up his acting formula.
Jon Hamm suffers from a similar problem in his role
- he doesn't quite fill out his character, allowing his
FBI agent to fall victim to a campy script construction.
He isn't developed quite as well as his criminal coun-
terparts and isn't given as much freedom to show off
his acting chops.
Rebecca Hall, on the other hand, is perfectly cast as
the fragile Keesey, and her abilityto make the audience
quiver along with her is astounding. Likewise, Jeremy
Renner is nothing shortof awesome. He expands on his
performance in "S.W.A.T." with a new troubled inten-
sity and wows with a bloodthirsty rage.
While "The Town" isn't as tightly paced as its
Scorsesian cousin "The Departed," it's a crime drama
that succeeds on both the "crime" and "drama" counts.
The film is a gritty, riveting display and avoids the
cheesy pitfalls of its genre-mates. That each and every
character, no matter how flawed he or she is, inspires
an emotional investment is just as much a testament to
the cast's ability as it is a sign of Affleck's talent as a
director. No matter how dark "The Town" is, it signals
a bright future for Affleck's filmmaking career - one in
which his name mightbecome a mark of brilliance and
no longer a blot upon a film poster.

they st
season
act ang
show
typical
is pure
"Flash
import
show s
six-mo
how fa
"flashe

clear what was going to happen at
that climactic moment, there was
no longer any reason to follow the
series.

Klarecki is making a show based off
Friendster. To question that decision,
e-mail her at cklareckiumich.edu.


- I

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
Monday 9/20 - Friday 9/24
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sitting fee is just $10!
This price includes your portraitfeatured in
- the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK


6 - Tuesday, September 21, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'U' offiecials hope
consortimwill
increase readers
of faculty papers

From Page 1
COPE include Cornell University,
Dartmouth College, Harvard Uni-
versity, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, University of Califor-
nia at Berkeley, University of Otta-
wa and Columbia University.
In the press release, University
Provost Phillip Hanlon said the
new approach aims to improve both
how the University attains and
releases information.
"Ultimately, it can both reduce
our own costs for journal acquisi-
tion and can help ensure that the
work of our faculty is disseminated
as broadly as possible," he said.
All University faculty, post-
doctoral researchers, graduate
and professional students, staff
members and students are eligible
to apply for funding, with up to
$3,000 in subsidies available.
The University is specifically
interested in funding authors who
retain publishing rights for their
work. Authors who do not retain
their copyrights are subject to a
decrease in the funding they are
awarded.
The program has been implant-
ed on a trial basis, and it will be
evaluated after a two-year period,
according to the press release.
According to the University
Library website, open-access pub-

lishing increases how often stu-
dents visit electronic sources. It is
estimated that open-access articles
are twice as likely to be download-
ed than non-open-access articles.
Maria Bonn, associate librarian
for University Publishing, said the
initiative would also help sustain
electronic sources by making sure
they remain secure and intact.
"If it's publicly owned and if it's
broadly used, it's more likely to be
maintained," she said. "The worst
thing for an electronic resource is
for nobody to ever look at it."
In the press release, Dean of
Libraries Paul Courant said the
program will be effective if it suc-
cessfully shifts the economics of
scholarship and attracts users.
"Our goal is to provide the broad-
est possible access to the scholarly
record and join our colleagues in an
important effort to examine new
economic models for scholarly pub-
lishing," he said.
Bonn said that signing on to
COPE is one part of a larger effort
to promote open access to resourc-
es.
"The library is hoping to sup-
port open access in many forms,"
she said. "We have a lot of other
programs and initiatives to help
our scholars learn about and take
advantage of open access, but this is
an important part of our strategy."

SENATE ASSEMBLY
From Page 1
ated three new lines. They are also
involved in nine different projects
concerning stem cells, including a
study on severed spinal cords.
SENATE ASSEMBLY FORMS
HEALTH PLAN ADVISORY
TASK FORCE
Senate Assembly members also
voted to form an advisory task force
to create faculty involvement in
health plan incentives at yesterday's
meeting.
According to the University
Record, Associate Vice President
for Human Resources Laurita
Thomas created a Member Engage-
ment Health Plan Design Commit-
tee to develop a healthplan inwhich
healthy behaviors are rewarded,
with possible monetary incentives.
The new health plan could be put in
place as early as 2012.
Statistics Prof. Ed Rothman,
chair of Senate Advisory Com-
mittee on University Affairs - the
University's leading faculty gover-
nance body - said the committee
was concerned that the health plan
incentives will be based on out-
comes rather than participation. He
said he feels this could discourage
faculty who have a genetic disposi-
tion to health problems from par-
ticipating.
Biology Prof. John Lehman, who
is also a SACUA member, said he
was concerned about the secrecy
of the Member Engagement Health
Design Committee, which he said
withheld the minutes and docu-
mentation of the meetings from
interested parties.
"We've got to articulate the prin-
ciples that we feel should be in place
as faculty," Lehman said.
HOUSING
From Page 1
gender-neutral housing report to be
presented to the University's Board
of Regents in November. Horky said
gender-neutral housing would be
an option for students applying to
live in residence halls next fall if the
report is approved. %
"If you look at where we started,
which is no awareness, no one on
campus knowing what it was, what
the issue would be, then we've come
a longway," Horky, who has worked
on the issue for more than two years,
said in an interview.
Jacqueline Simpson works with
Horky in the Division of Student

Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Prof. John Lehman addresses the.Senate Assembly yesterday.

Associate Voice Prof. Steve
Lusmann, who is also a member
of SACUA and is on the Mem-
ber Engagement Committee, said,
though he feels the committee is
more open compared to others in
the past, he supports the forma-
tion of a faculty committee that
could contribute ideas to the health
design committee.
Lusmann added that he feels
the new health plan will not be a
problem for those with pre-existing
health concerns.
"If you are engaging in a healthy
behavior, if you do have a problem
with weight...we want you to eat in a
healthier way, we want you to exer-
cise. All of these things need to be
addressed," Lusmann said. "If you
are addressing obesity, if you are
addressing your health concerns,
you do not get penalized."
Under the passed motion, Lehm-
Affairs in the Spectrum Center.
Simpson said in an interview that
the gender-neutral housing option
has received widespread support.
"It's not a Spectrum Center thing;
it's not a gay student thing," Simp-
son said. "There's lots of groups, lots
of organizations, lots of different
identities that are interested in this
particular policy change."
At the meeting, Trevor Grieb,
Business sophomore and RHA
president, compared the current
aversion to gender-neutral housing
with the aversion to making resi-
dence halls co-educational during
the 1960s. He said that many people
believed at the time that the preg-
nancy rate would increase after the
residence halls became co-ed.

an stated that the Senate Assem-
bly reserves the right to issue its
own report in early 2011, with the
complete disclosure of all of the
administration's sub-committee
materials. It also asked the admin-
istration to halt policy decisions
until the Senate Assembly report is
completed.
OFFICIALS DISCUSS
HOUSING LARGEST
FRESHMEN CLASS
Linda Newman, director of
University Housing, spoke at yes-
terday's meeting about the Univer-
sity's efforts to house this year's
freshman class, which is the largest
in University history.
Joined by E. Royster Harper,
vice president for Student Affairs,
and Loren Rullman, associate vice
president for Student Affairs, New-
A survey conducted in March by
the Gender Neutral Housing Coali-
tion yielded supportive results from
University students. According to
an April 1 article in The Michigan
Daily, 67 percent of students who
responded to a survey sent by the
Gender Neutral Housing Coalition,
would welcome a gender-neutral
housing option for University resi-
dence halls.
Nineteen percent of respondents
said they wouldn't support the
option.
LSA senior Syed Muhammad
Raza, a resident advisor in South
Quadrangle, said in an interview
that the majority of people he has
spoke to about gender-neutral hous-
ing are against the option because

man said officials were able to suc-
cessfully house all freshmen who
applied for University Housing.
Newman said to accommodate
the large number of students, Uni-
versity Housing repurposed offices
in Oxford Housing, which added 60
beds, used student lounges to create
120 additional beds and established
a first-year experience program in
Northwood Housing.
Newman added that the Univer-
sity has also been "de-densifying"
student living space in the past few
years by ensuring students have
adequate space to live and learn.
Newman said though the Uni-
versity is currently housing the
largest number of freshman resi-
dents in its history, she doesn't see
the number increasing.
"We see that number staying
somewhat constant for the next 10
to 20 years," Newman said.
they want personal space.
"There's people for it and there's
people against it," Raza said.
He said he feels opting for
gender-neutral housing is an indi-
vidual choice that would not affect
his decision to live in the residence
halls.
LSA senior Sandhya Simhan,
who also lives in South Quad, said
she can understand other people's
apprehension, but gender-neutral
housing would have been some-
thing she would have chosen if it
was offered when she lived in the
residence halls.
"It's high time," Simhan said.
-- Anthea Mitchell and Sarah
Alsaden contributed to this report.

WANT TO JOIN THE
MICHIGAN DAILY?
Come to our LAST mass meeting at
420 Maynard Street:
THURSDAY SEPT. 30 @ 7 P.M.

FOR SALE PARKING
RECENTLY REMODELED DOU- PARKING AVAIL- 408 Hill & 930S.
BLE ROOM sharing loft as a common Forest & 1026 Vaughn. 734-222-9033.
area with other tenants. 2 full baths, JMSprop@sbcglobal.net
kitchen, air, downtown location. Phone
days: 662-7888, evenings: 995-2433. PARKING AVAILABLE
665-1125

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, September 21,2010
Los Angeles Times Daily C
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce
ACROSS 4 '60s "trip" drug 33 Tarzar
1 Briquettes 5 Early gas 34 Awful
6 Zip company based 35 Letter.
10 Country music in Cleveland 36 Geneti
pioneer Ernest 6 Districts carrier
14 "As a result ... 7Roast host 38"Miser
15 Countryon the 8 Bleachers cry James
tip oftthe Arabian 9John __Lennon 39 Easy t
Peninsula 10 Kid's make- 43 Swingl
16 Spot in the ocean believe phone 45 Touch
17 Top bnana 11 Carrier thaI 46 Accuue
11 Depilatrybrand added "ways" to 47 Choir
20 '60s-'70s war its name in 1997 48 Likene
site, briefly 12Duck hunter's
21 "Now it makes cover ANSWE
sense!" 13 Cold-water D U B
22 Cakefinish hazardsA
23 Unstable situation, 18 Itstflagship sch. is S R A
metaphorically in Stillwater, west A N I 7
26 Workplace of Tulsa L I
inspection org. 22 Freezes over C L O
29 Comportment 23 Oates's musical L O U
30 Louise's gal pal partner A C T
33 Buzzing swarmers 24 Divine sign M t S
34 Performed 25 Feudal domains
37 Huge mess 26 Gambling!
40 "Danny and the parlors, briefly T i PT
Dinosaur" author 27 One-horse O R E
Hoff carriage G O NE
41 Court 28 Had in one's G N P
postponement hands LOA
42 Ancient Greek 31 Strolls (along)
military power 32 Performers' E N
43 Blood fluids union: Abbr. xwordeditc
44 Veggiesstudied 1 2 3a 4 4 5 7
by Mendel
45 Gregarious fun 14 1s
lovers
52 Assumed name 17 1a
53 Defensive spray
54 Mamx's "_..Kapt al" 22 21
7Thin curofsmoke as
58 Valuable shore
property, and a 26 27 2
hint to what the
firstwords of 17-, 30 31 30 53
23-, 37- and 45-
Across have in 3730
common 30 31
61 Third man
62 High-strung4
63 Sacher treat
64 Goodyear product 45 46 47 4
65 Member's
obligation 52 5
66 What matzo lacks a
57 ss 39
DOWN 61 02
1 "High Hopes"
lyricist Sammy 4 0s6
2 Top draft status
3 Father of 61- yRobed A.tDoll
Across r()2010 Tribune Media Services, Inv.

rossword Puzzle
Nichols Lewis
n's son 49 "Miracle on 34th
Street" setting
after theta 50 Rhine whine?
c info 51 Sandy Koufax or
s CC Sabathia
ry" actor 54 The first Mrs.
Copperfield
argets 55 Insects on farms
ine fastener 56 Editor's "leave it in"
, cat-style 58 B&B pat
ied's excuse 59 College URL
plattorm ending
sso 60F utuefish
ER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
A I R E A D E T A B
U N E A T O N H R E
T A F R 1 T Z E T A
O S Tt I N T H O U GH T
S E R P A R I
C A I N D E S P O T
I I N AIR U S H
S I N G T H E P O I N T
I D E A T E D T M A N
T O E Y E A H B T U
M T U M U L T
E FOR T H E D A Y
O M A H A D R I V E
KNIS H E AG L
tor@aol.com 09/20/10
a 0 11 12 13
16
19
124 2s5
029
3334 35 38
42
18 49 50 i35455J 6
09/21/10

FOR RENT
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. t
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3850 (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
AVAILABLE FALL201
945 GREENWOOD 5 bdrm/2 new
bath, new kitchen, 5 prkg, lndry,

Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
WoE N Discounts!
1 BDRM., UTILS. incl. $775/mo.
Near U-M Law School. 734-323-5021.
2-9 BR Renovated Houses/Apts for
May '11. New furniture! 248-804-
0774 www.ChurchStreetApts.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail. at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest. Call for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
WELCOME BACK!!! CHECK us
out on October 12th when we start tak-
ing Reservations. Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus! We have Stu-
dies, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom furnished apart-
ments available for Spring/Full. Call us
at 734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at:
www.UniversityTowers-Ml.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SERVICES
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
FOR FUN YOGA and meditation
classes call 734 665 7801 or go to
www.YogaAndMeditation.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520x 125.
2 AFTER SCHOOL nanny positions
open. Must have supervised childcare
experience. Reliable car. Non-smoker.
Ok w/ animals. Contact Sandra Tracey
at Nanny-On-The-Go! (734)417-1167
or email Nannyonthegoannarbor@ya-
hoo.com
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chetical syn-
thesis, chromatography and micrpbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical experimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed to a
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks!Call 877-450-0722.
NEED SOMEONE TO pick up daugh-
ter at Tappan & take to home near
school in Burns Park. M-F at 3 & tutor
until 6. Available to take to various ac-
tivities. Please contact Jill Hunsberger
(734) 478-0628 for more information.
PART TIME HORSE barn help.
Strong fix-it type and horse experiecne
preferred. 734-995-0092.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REP CUSTOMER SERVICE ORI-
ENTED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WORK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
bartt0t@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.

ARGIEROS RESTAURANT.
SERVERS. Flexible Hours. Good Pay.
300 Detriot Street. Apply In Person.
BARTENDERS NEEDED EARN
$250/day no experience required will
train full time/part time call now! 877-
405-1078 ex. 999
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com

ADOPT: A LOVING & financially
stable couple longs to provide your
baby w/ unconditional love & security.
Expenses pd. Tom/ Marie 1-888-473-
8836. www.adopt4tomandmarie.com
CHILD CARE HELP for Teenage
Girl- Driving aftr school; lmtd house-
hold help. Must have car and ref.
NEast AA. 5-10 hrs/wk. 734-418-4260.
NEED AFTERSCHOOL CARE for
two girls, 9 and 12, starting Sept. 7. Ap-
prox. 10 hrs/wk. No smokers. Close to
central campus. Rcaston@umich.edu.

Reservations
Start
October 12th
Spring & Fall
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1,2 & 3 ,EDROOMS
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
JUniversity
-'owe
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-268o
UNIvERSITYTOwERS-MI.CoM
INFO@ U-ToWERS.COM

HAN7vADITALIAN VIULIN
by Eraldo Usuelli in 1951. Played in U-
M orchestras, Great sound and condi-
tion.Shar Appraised $4,000. With bow
k..rae 7 f) 'n al 74-73771

WI'

0 *

0

HELP WANTED



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 - 7

IRW

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 21, 2010 - 7

Detroit official
requests federal
funding to aid in
emergency plans

Fire that ravaged
streets underscores
city's need for
federal help
DETROIT (AP) - Blazes
that gutted more than two
dozen homes across Detroit
and pushed firefighters to their
limits underscore the cash-
strapped city's need for outside
help, a state lawmaker running
for Congress said yesterday.
Sen. Hansen Clarke,
D-Detroit, met with Federal
Emergency Management Agen-
cy officials in Washington and
asked them to award the city a
grant to hire 72 more firefight-
ers. He also requested funding
for equipment to make the city
prepared in case of another
emergency, such as the fire
storm that raged city streets on
Sept. 7.
"Many firefighters are older
and set to retire, and we've got
this large land mass and burned
out buildings ... and FEMA
understands that," Clarke said.
"They understand that we have
acres of burned out, blighted
buildings that pose a greater fire
hazard."
Clarke's Republican oppo-
nent, businessman John Hauler,
said Clarke's request amounts
to a "Band-Aid aid on a bullet
wound" and ignores Detroit's
need for a strong economic
stimulus.
More than 230 Detroit fire-
fighters responded to the Sept.
7 blazes, but they had difficulty
stopping the spread of the wind-
fed fires. The fires destroyed 29
occupied homes and damaged 71
vacant homes and garages.
APPAREL
From Page 1
featured the likeness of Michigan
quarterback Denard Robinson.
"That's abigpiece of it," Ablauf
said when asked whether the like-
ness of Robinson's was the reason
for sending the letters. "This isn't
like the professional ranks where
they can produce jerseys of stu-
dent-athletes with their names
on the back and stuff like that...
it's against NCAA rules."
Though this specific incident
might generate more attention
than most, Ablauf said taking
such action is routine.
"Anytime we see apparel out
in the market that involves a
student-athlete...we would send
a cease and desist letter to them,"
he said.
Ablauf added that he couldn't
definitively answer how fre-
quently the Athletic Depart-
ment sends out letters of this
nature, since every year is dif-
ferent and varies with regard to
what licensed apparel producers
choose to do.
And though it's not classi-
fied as a cease-and-desist order,
Ablauf said failure to comply with
the University's request to stop
producing and selling apparel
with the likeness of student-ath-
letes could lead to further conse-
quences.
"You could go as far as tak-
ing someone's license away from

them," Ablauf said, referenc-
ing that the University licenses
which commercial ventures may
print its logo. "If it was some-
thing where they didn't abide by
that regulation, then you could
just take away their license."
Among the more than half
dozen businesses to receive
notices was Underground Print-
ing, a local prominent Michigan
apparel retailer.
In the letter from the Athletic
Department to Underground
Printing, released to The Michi-
gan Daily last night by the Athlet-
ic Department, Van Horn wrote
that 11 t-shirts sold at Under-
ground Printing did not comply
with the NCAA regulation.
Among the shirts, were four
that focused on the likeness of
Robinson - one named "Nard
Dog," one named "Shoelace," one
named "The Five Hundred Yard
Man" and one named "We Don't
Need No Stinkin' Shoelaces."
Additionally, shirts with the
likenesses of Michigan Foot-

As fire crews responded to
one blaze, others popped up
blocks or miles away.
Some of the fires were start-
ed when 50 mph winds caused
trees and branches to fall onto
power lines. Sparking wires are
believed to have set dry roof-
tops and foliage ablaze. Two of
the fires were being blamed on
arson.
No injuries were reported.
The city already has applied
for FEMA grants. Clarke said
he wants to make sure those
requests get the agency's full
attention.
The grant for the extra fire-
fighters is for about $11 million,
Clarke said.
Detroit has little cash of its
own to improve fire services or
hire more manpower. The city's
is facing a budget deficit of at
least $85 million.
The city is using federal stim-
ulus dollars to tear down 3,000
of its 33,000 empty houses this
year and another 3,000 next
year.
Hauler, a Grosse Pointe
Woods businessman running
against Clarke in the heavily
Democratic 13th Congressional
District, said Detroit residents
"want real, actionable solutions
that are homegrown and self-
sustaining."
He said his proposal to turn
Detroit into a 10-year federal
income tax free zone would
stimulate economic recovery
and help the city pay for its own
municipal services.
"The taxpayer base will
allow us to address the blighted
homes, fix the hazardous utility
environment, and provide our
first responders with the tools
and personnel they need to pro-
tect our city," Hauler said.
ball players Will Campbell, Tate
Forcier, Mike Martin, Martavi-
ous Odoms, Craig Roh and Renal-
do Sagesse were also listed as
violating NCAA regulations.
"All of these t-shirts represent
current student-athletes on the
University of Michigan Foot-
ball team," Van Horn wrote in
her letter. "Neither the Univer-
sity of Michigan nor any of these
student-athletes have provided
consent to use these names for
commercial purposes."
Van Horn wrote that such
sales jeopardize the eligibility of
student-athletes.
"Please be aware that NCAA
rules do not permit any cur-
rently enrolled student-athlete's
name or likeness to be utilized
in conjunction with the sale of
a commercial product when the
student-athlete in question has
eligibility remaining," Van Horn
wrote. "Such use is classified by
the NCAA as non-permissible
promotional activity, and it can
jeopardize the eligibility of the
involved student-athlete."
Van Horn continued, "In order
to protect the continuing eligi-
bility of these student-athletes,
NCAA rules require the Univer-
sity to take appropriate steps to
prevent this non-permissible pro-
motional activity. For this rea-
son, the University requests that
you immediately cease and desist
from selling these items."
In an interview with the Daily
yesterday, Underground Print-

ing co-owner Ryan Gregg said he
greatly values his organization's
relationship with the University
Athletic Department.
"Whatever they ask us to do,
we try to help," he said.
Asked during the interview
why Underground Printing had
received a letter from the Athlet-
ic Department, Gregg declined to
discuss the reasons.
"I really don't want to get into
any of that," Gregg said. "I'm not
trying to be shady or anything...
yea or nay on anything I could
possibly say, no good could come
of it."
However, Gregg said Under-
ground Printing would continue
to abide by the requests of the
Athletic Department.
"I would hope that anybody
that actually supports the Uni-
versity, so pretty much anyone in
Ann Arbor, would do the same,"
he said. "Whatever the reason or
cause, you know, if you work with
the University all you can do is
help support them."

Students celebrate Constitution Day at a panel hosted by the Law School yesterday in Hutchins Hall. Panelists discussed a wide range of topics including same-sex war-
riage, campaign finance and the Second Amendment.
To celebrate Constitution Day,
panel talks document'simpc

Law School profs.
discuss same-sex
marriage, campaign
finance laws
By SABIRA KHAN
DailyStaffReporter
The University Law School
held its annual Constitution Day
Commemoration yesterday, quiet-
ly celebrating the 223rd anniver-
sary of the signing of the United
States Constitution.
The ceremony, held in a packed
Hutchins Hall in the Law Quad-
rangle, included a panel dis-
cussion mediated by Law Prof.
Richard Friedman. The panel
made up of five University law
professors examined recent
developments in constitutional
law in the context of decisions
made by the Supreme Court.
Second-year law student Phil-
lip Hurst, who attended the event,
said the University's participation

in the federal observance was a
wonderful opportunity to learn
about different facets of law as
they are practiced today.
"It was great that they brought
in several different perspectives
and four different areas of case
law that evolved in the last year,"
he said.
Law Prof. Richard Primus
examined the Second Amend-
ment with the audience, which
included approximately 160 Law
students and members of the larg-
er Ann Arbor community.
Primus told his audience that
the Second Amendment was
originally intended to give states
the right to protect themselves
against the federal government,
and only in recent years has it
been used to give individuals the
right to bear arms.
Primus said the contempo-
rary interpretation reflects the
"changing and stable" nature of
constitutional law.
"If the text doesn't say exactly
what you want it to say, you have
to do a lot more heavy lifting to

convince people that it's funda-
mental," Primus said. "You have
to tell heroic tales from American
history. You don't build it out of
nothing; you build it out of what
people want."
Another member of the panel
discussion, Law Prof. Nicholas
Bagley offered his thoughts on the
tenure of former Supreme Court
Justice John Paul Stevens.
"The court has lost the only
justice who knew how to tie a
bowtie without a mirror," Bagley
said jokingly in reference to a
New York Times article about the
former justice.
Bagley, who previously worked
for Stevens and knew him person-
ally, said Stevens focused on com-
mon law and did not allow the
legislature or the text of the Con-
stitution to limit his decisions.
"At the end of the day, it was a
lot harder to fool Justice Stevens;
he was a lot more nimble on his
feet...he distrusted consensus for
the sake of consensus," Bagley
said.
Transitioning from Supreme

Court politics, Law Prof. Mad-
eline Kochen, another panel
member, discussed the issue of
same-sex marriage.
"Legislature creates classifica-
tions all the time, and the courts
aren't supposed to challenge
this," Kochen said. "People need-
ed to amend the state constitution
again to say that it (was violatr
ing personal freedoms), so now
we end up in the federal courts
again."
"Every presidential election
from now on will be determined
by this issue," Friedman added at
the end of Kochen's discussion.
Law Prof. Don Herzog conclud-
ed the event with a discussion of
free speech laws in regard to the
Citizens United case, a recent
court decision that loosened the
rules on campaign financing by
corporations.
"There are oceans of controver-
sial regulations to free speech...
the First Amendment doctrine is
extremely hostile to (statements
that attack) people based on who
they are," Herzog said.

MSA officials: 'Proposal will do little to
address comprehensive fire safety reform'

From Page 1
Michigan Student Assembly offi-
cials wrote that the ban does not
adequately address fire safety.
Before the meeting, about 25 of
LeMasters' family, friends, and sup-
porters gathered outside City Hall
holding signs reading "VOTE YES"
with a large picture of LeMasters
underneath.
Among those present was
LeMasters' father, Bob LeMasters,
who said in an interview that the
passage of the ordinance would
provide some sense of closure for
his family.
"When someone loses their life,
we need to take whatever steps we
can," Bob LeMasters said. "We're
just trying to do what we can."
LeMasters's brother, Ryan
LeMasters, added that the passage
of the ordinance would be the sole
positive outcome of Renden's death.
"We need to do something about
why he died," Ryan LeMasters said
in an interview.
During the public hearings sec-
tion of City Council's meeting,
several other members of LeMas-
ters' family spoke in favor of the
ordinance and harshly criticized
City Council's postponement of the
2004 proposed ban.
"One of the single most amaz-
ing people I have ever met is gone
now because this law wasn't passed
before," Semifaro told the council.
In a separate address, LeMasters'
stepmother Dianna said she wished
it hadn't taken Renden's death for
City Council to seriously consider
the ordinance.
"One death is too many, espe-
cially if it can be solved very easily,"
Dianna LeMasters said.
However, the public hearings

''
4

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Ann Arbor residents hold signs in support of the porch couch ban passed by City Council last night. Renden LeMasters, pictured
on the sign, died in April in a house fire that was believed to be fueled by a couch onra porch.

section concluded with two strong
voices of opposition from the Uni-
versity community.
In their addresses to the coun-
cil, University graduate students
Michael Benson and Cherisse
Loucks - the president and trea-
surer of the Rackham Student Gov-
ernment respectively - said that at
a recent RSG meeting, group mem-
bers were largely opposed to the
ordinance.
"I don't understand the justifi-
cation of this fine amount," Loucks
said. "I think it just needs a lot more
thought and research before it can
be passed."
Nevertheless, the ordinance
passed amidst loud applause and
cheers.
Afterward, LeMasters's family
and supporters spilled out into the

lobby for a bittersweet celebration.
In an interview, LeMasters's
brother Ryan called the passage of
the ordinance a "relief."
"I'm glad ... he'll be remembered
through this community," Ryan
LeMasters said.
In supporting the ordinance,
Council member Christopher Tay-
lor (D-Ward 2) said he hopes the
ban will be viewed by the commu-
nity-at-large as a safety measure
rather than a penalty.
"It is my hope and expectation
that this (ordinance) will rarely,
if ever, result in a nickel being
assessed to anyone," Taylor said.
In an interview after the meet-
ing, Ann Arbor Fire Marshall Kath-
leen Chamberlain echoed Taylor's
wish, saying the Fire Department
will issue ample warning before

actually handing out a fine.
According to Chamberlain,
those in violation of the ordinance
will first be issued a "pre-citation"
which will offer a "reasonable"
period of time during which to
remove the furniture.
Nevertheless, MSA officials
spoke out strongly against the pas-
sage of the ordinance in their press
release.
"The City Council failed to gen-
uinely consult students and the
proposal will do little to address
comprehensive fire safety reform,"
the press release states.
Despite the assembly's opposi-
tion to the ordinance, MSA vowed
in the release to "build a strong
working relationship with the City
Council over fire safety reform and
other issues."

WANT TO GET CAMPUS HEADLINES ON
YOUR MOBILE DEVICE?
Check out our mobile site:
M.MICHIGANDAILY.COM


W

8 - Tuesday, September 21, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Rodriguez speaks on 'D' problems*

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
In previous years, when his team's
defense has struggled, the mostly offensive-
minded Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez
has tended to get more
involved on the other side NOTEBOOK
of theball.
After the defense gave up 439 total yards
and 35 points to Massachusetts on Satur-
day, it's looking like the Michigan defense is
going to be seeing a little bit more of Rodri-
guez this week.
"I'll probably spend a little bit of time
with them today," Rodriguez said in a press
conference on Monday. "Our defensive staff
knows what we got to do to get it fixed."
According to Rodriguez, part of what
needs fixing is simply the fundamentals:
wrapping up, taking the right angles, etc.
"The biggest disappointment was that we
took a step back fundamentally," Rodriguez
said. "We missed some open-field tackles
and I don't think we did a good job of get-
ting off blocks, which our guys have been
pretty good at."
For Michigan fans, the defensive letdown
against the Minutemen was very familiar.
Defensive struggles plagued the Wolverines
throughout Rodriguez's first two years as
the head coach.
While Rodriguez said there were some
issues on the defense that are similar to last
year, he prefers to think about them on a
game-by-game basis.
"Last year was last year, last week was
last week," Rodriguez said. "What's impor-
tant now is to fix the issues we had on Sat-
urday and play a lot better going forward or
we'll be in trouble again."
A possible explanation for some of the

guys on the team and if he gets a hold of you
he's not letting go."
STRAIN OF THE JOB: After the last
football season, the college football world
was shocked when Florida coach Urban
Meyer declared he was retiring because
of health reasons. He came back to the job
soon after.
Following his team's overtime victory
over Notre Dame, Michigan State coach
Mark Dantonio was hospitalized after suf-
fering a heart attack.
According to Rodriguez, those health
risks are something you take when enter-
ing the business of big-time college football
coaching.
"Most coaches have probably known this
for years," Rodriguez said. "It's a different
lifestyle, and you have to take care of your-
self."
Rodriguez acknowledged that it may
be a more stressful job now than it was in
the past, but that it's a very public position,
regardless.
"When you're in certain professions, and
coaching is one of them," Rodriguez said,
"you don't just work your job, you live your
job. So you're never really away from it."
The only thing you can do, Rodriguez
said, is take care of yourself as bestyou can.
The coach has a Stairmaster and has been
working out with Michigan strength and
conditioning coach Mike Barwis for a while
now.
However, sleep has still been scarce for
the third-year coach.
"I'd like to say five (hours)," Rodriguez
said when asked how much sleep he gets.
"But I haven't slept probably three hours
straight in years.
"The last three years, I probably haven't
even slept that much."

0

Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez looks on during the Wolverines' 42-37 win over Massachusetts on Saturday, in which his defense underperforred.

troubles the defense experienced on Satur-
day was the fact that the Wolverines were
coming off two straight weeks of important,
emotional victories.
Rodriguez said he wasn't expecting a let-
down, given the team's preparation during
the previous week.
"You worry about that, a letdown after a
good win when you have an FCS opponent,"
Rodriguez said. "I worry about it more in
preparation than in the game. Is the focus
going to be there during the week? I really
thought it was and that's why I was sur-

prised when, defensively we didn'tplay very
well."
TACKLE COMPETITION: Redshirt fresh-
man offensive tackle Taylor Lewan saw
his first extended game action on Satur-
day against Massachusetts and said after
the game that after the first drive, "Things
started going really well."
Judging by Monday's depth chart, things
went really well, indeed.
Lewan was listed Monday as the backup
at left tackle behind redshirt junior Mark
Huyge, but the depth chart now has an

"or" next to his name, meaning the two are
locked in an ongoing competition.
"He played really well," Rodriguez said.
"For the last 20 snaps, he was physical,
knew what he was doing and he's jumped
right ahead. That's a definite 'or."'
Lewan is known as one of the most
aggressive guys on the O-line - maybe, at
times, a little too much so.
"He's finding a happy medium between
being aggressive and holding a lot," sopho-
more linebacker and good friend Craig Roh
joked. "He's just one of the most aggressive


W 0ENS
Withyoun talnt, M' opesfor urnaoun

t

:~
' F

By MATT RUDNITSKY
and JOHN EPPLER
Daily Sports Writers
The Michigan women's soc-
cer team doesn't exactly have the
resume of many of the Wolverine
sports teams on campus.
The 'squad is just 17 years
young, with just two Big Ten
Championships and no first-place
finishes in the conference regular
season. '
Not to mention Michigan (6-1-
3) is coming off a one-win season
in Big Ten play, and its most suc-
cessful season in recent memory
was a mere third-place finish in
2004.
But a 180-degree turnaround
isn't out of the question. Former
U.S. Women's National Team
coach and current Wolverine
head coach Greg Ryan thinks he
might have the young, talented
Wolverines ready to compete for
their first Big Ten title since 1999.
Ryan, entering his third year
as head of the program, could
finally have enough of his players
in place to challenge the confer-
ence's elite.
"It's going to be very interest-
ing because this is the first time
that I've had a Michigan team
that really has the same level, or
even more talent, than very good

Big Ten teams," Ryan said last
week. "So talent-wise, we should
be fine. It will just come down to
seeing whether we have what it
takes in terms of the experience
to go in and really compete for a
Big Ten title.
"I think that it's going to be
very, very tight."
The Wolverines are relying
heavily on their skilled diaper
dandies, with four freshmen earn-
ing starts in the last game against
Massachusetts. Of the nine-mem-
ber freshman class, eight have
seen playing time. Michigan is
also led in scoring by two fresh-
men, forward Nkem Ezurike with
five goals and one assist, and mid-
fielder Tori McCombs with three
goals.
In years past, the Wolverines
have had to get by with a patient
defensive strategy, trying to hang
with the more skilled and athletic
opposition.
It has taken three years to
get to this point, but it seems as
though Ryan's system is finally in
full swing.
"We're so much faster and
more skilled than we've ever been
as a team," Ryan said. "We're defi-
nitely one of the fastest teams in
the Big Ten."
"It's really more enjoyable for
me, because I'm coaching a style

of soccer that I enjoy, I love see-
ing the girls attack, and giving
them the freedom to attack. It's
just been a pleasure coaching this
group. I'm still pushing them very
hard, like I did to the last two
teams, so that they reach their
potential.
"But the potential this year
is much higher than in the past,
because of the level of players
throughout our squad."
The team is strong at every
position, with its anchor being
redshirt sophomore goalkeeper
Haley Kopmeyer, who led the Big
Ten in saves last year. Kopmeyer
has already recorded four shut-
outs this season.
"Haley's been very, very good
for us," Ryan said. "Not only in
her role as a goalkeeper but as
a very vocal leader on the field,
organizing our defense.
"She's really showing that she's
a fighter. Each game she gets
stronger."
Despite the fact that they are
led by so much youth, don't be
fooled into thinking that Michi-
gan is lacking at all in veteran
leadership.
When asked about the team's
leaders, Ryan didn't hesitate to
single out three players, who
unsurprisingly, are the team's
captains.

"Jackie Carron has been one
of our top players for a few years
now, as a senior defender. She's
a great leader by example." Ryan
said. "(Redshirt senior) Kylie
Neschke has been a great vocal
leader for us.(
"Redshirt sophomore) Clare
Stachel has become a great lead-
er for us. So in terms of veteran
leadership, it's going really well
so far."
With this blend of talented
youngsters and stable leadership,
the Wolverines seem to have all
the ingredients of a successful
team.
So it shouldn't surprise any-
one that they have racked up a
remarkable 131 shots in just seven
contests.
Compare that to the measly 61
shots they have allowed, and one
can see how dominant they have
been.
If the Wolverines can finish
a little bit more efficiently (they
only have 13 goals on those 131
shots), they will be tough to beat
in Big Ten play.
Michigan fans won't have to
wait long to see the legitimacy
of the team tested,'as last year's
second-place finisher, Ohio State,
comes to Ann Arbor to play in the
brand new stadium on Sunday,
September 26.

QUESTIONS FOR 2010

I

BYTOM CLOS11FOR THE DAILY
CAN THE WOLVERINES PROTECT THEIR NEW HOME FIELD?
Since 2007, in 28 home games, the Wolverines have won
only 10. A win percentage of 36 percent at home is hardly
good enough to be relevant let alone an elite soccer program.
There is an old saying in sports: "Good teams go .700 at home
and .500 on the road." If the Wolverines can come anywhere
near those numbers their win total will be much improved in
2010. Michigan must win most of its home games this season
or there is little chance of the team even finishing with a win-
ning record.

1919011L,
wpm
I

r

-1 Ai bb
A fA t
r4kti

I CAN THE GOALKEEPING DUPLICATE LAST YEAR'S
SUCCESS?
Michigan will need Kopmeyer to perform at somewhere
near the record-setting season she had last year to have a
chance at contending in the Big Ten. How she will handle that
pressure remains to be seen. Keane is a nice backup to have as
3 veteran insurance between the posts in case something goes
wrong with Kopmeyer.
l
CAN THIS TEAM WIN GAMES IN THE BIG TEN?
The Wolverines have won a grand total of three Big Ten
games since 2007. Definitely not enough. If the Wolverines
want to be taken seriously at all, they will have to post more
chance to get off to a fast start in Big Ten play with three of the
first four conference matches at U-M Soccer Complex.
U
WHO WILL STEP UP AND CARRY THE SCORING LOAD?
The parts of the offense not returning include last season's
leading goal scorer Alex Jendrusch and consistent point pro-
ducer Amy Klippert. That leaves a major void in the scoring
department, forcing the team to count on the younger players
to have breakout seasons. Last year's freshman sensation for-
ward Holly Hein and sophomore swing player Kristen.Gon-
calves each tallied three goals, but after them the numbers
drop off dramatically. No other player scored more than one
5 goal last season, so there is a definite need for someone to step
up and make a difference.
CAN THIS TEAM CHANGE THE CULTURE OF THE
PROGRAM?
The last time Michigan had a winning season, no current
player was on the roster. When you have a team full of play-
ers who are used to losing for three straighte years, changing
the mentality and culture of a program from one of disappoint-
ment and irrelevance to one of success and competitiveness is
difficult. It is imperative this team gets off to a fast start and
avoids some early losses because a rough start could implode
the season and reinforce that losing atmosphere the Wolver-
ines have endured the past three seasons.

01



