How the outcome of tomorrow's gubernatorial election will determine the future of Michigan's film tax incenti%

iC iga1T 4:)atlg

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 1, 2010

michigandailycom

S MICHIGAN STID NT A f3BLY
Armstrong
" seeks possible
disbarment of
assistant AG

MSA pres., attorney
allege Shirvell
violated professional
conduct code
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
Michigan Student Assembly
President Chris Armstrong and
his attorney filed a pair of com-
plaints Friday against Andrew
Shirvell, a Michigan assistant
attorney general, seeking an
investigation and possible dis-
barment for attacks Shirvell
made against Armstrong.
The complaints, filed with the
Michigan Attorney Grievance
Commission, allege Shirvell vio-
lated multiple rules and guide-
lines in the Michigan Rules of
Professional Conduct - a set of
ehics standarcds th at everv attor-
ney in Michigan agrees to abide
by as part of becoming licensed
to practice in the state.
Armstrong and his attorney
Deborah Gordon each filed sepa-
tate complaints with the board.
"I felt that I could not stand
by and let Mr. Shirvell continue
his reckless, bullying behavior,"
Armstrong said in a statement.
The allegations stem from

an ongoing controversy sur-
rounding a blog, Chris Arm-
strong Watch, on which Shirvell
accused Armstrong of promoting
a "radical homosexual agenda"
and being an "elitist." Shirvell
also showed up at several events
on campus where Armstrong was
in attendance, including an MSA
meeting at which he called for
Armstrong to resign.
When contacted for comment
on the complaints, Shirvell's
attorney, Philip Thomas, said
he had not been notified about
them being filed, but said he was
"shocked" by the news.
"I don't understand it, I don't
understand what they're trying
to accomplish. I think they fear
that they're striking out because
they think that they're losing
ground," Thomas said, citing the
recent resolution of a personal
protection order against his cli-
ent and denial of a stalking com-
plaint against Shirvell.
"My client is the victim in all'
of this," Thomas said. "The only
thing this poor guy everdid, the
only thing Andrew ever did was
exercise his Constitutional right
to protest. And he did that. And
I just think this smells to high
heaven, I really do."
Gordon told The Michigan
Daily in an interview Friday that
See ARMSTRONG, Page SA

ARICL BOND/Daily
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez at Beaver Stadium during Michigan's 41-31 lass to Penn State Saturday night.
Rodriguez'1notshowing
any progress this Season

STATE COLLEGE -
ack in August, when talk
surroumding the Michigan
football
season was
merely spccu-
lation upon
speculation
upon more
speculation,
brand new ath-
letic director RYAN
David Brandon KARTJE
was bombard- _
ed with ques-
tions about his football coach's job
security.

Rich Rodriguez, after all, had
won just eight games in two years,
including a measly three Big Ten
games.
So Brandon did his best to
deflect these questions - each
reporter wondering the same
thing: How many wins would it
take for Rodriguez to keep his job?
In an interview with long-time
radio host Jim Brandstatter at the
Detroit Economic Club, Brandon
said that "progress" will ultimate-
ly be what measures Rodriguez
or any other coach's job security,
according to the Detroit Free
Press.

"This crap about what's the
record got to be, it reduces those
decisions to something so simplis-
tic, it's almost insulting," Brandon
said.
"You get a variety of inputs
to measure the health of that
program and the leadership that
program is receiving and, based
on a variety of inputs, you make
decisions. That's what I do and
anybody in my job does. But it
isn't this, 'If you're 7-5 ....'That's
nonsense."
But watching the offense con-
stantly reeling was painful as its
defense probably couldn't shut

down a single Division-I team,
let alone a Big Ten one. Then, as
I watched Rodriguez push his
maligned defensive coordina-
tor out of the way to chastise his
defense per-.snally, it became
increasingly clear that there has
been very little semblance of any
so-called progress.
Sure, Rodriguez uncovered a
diamond in the rough in quarter-
back Denard Robinson, a super-
star who should be the face of the
Michigan football program for
his remaining years in Ann Arbor.
With Robinson at the center of
See KARTJE, Page 2A


Takin' it to the streets: Local
candidates hear riders' take

Ra
Im

andidate Yousef County Board of Commissioners,
this was no ordinary bus ride - it
bhi to bus riders: was a stop on the last leg of his cam-
paign.
What issues are Standing in the middle of an
, Ann Arbor Transportation Author-
iportant to youT ity bus, Rabhi introduced himself to
the surprised-looking passengers as
By DYLAN CINTI a political candidate eager to engage
Daily StaffReporter the community.
"I want to know what issues are
d in a smart blazer and crisp important to you," Rabhi told the
-down shirt, LSA senior passengers.
f Rabbi looked out of place on Rabbi's unconventional pre-
illed with otherwise casually- sentation was part of a week-long
d commuters heading home series of on-board "office hours"
day afternoon. in which local political candidates
for the 22-year-old Demo- rode AATA buses to raise awareness
candidate for the Washtenaw about a long-term, city-sponsored

planto improvebusingcountywide.
The plan - which is still in its
development phase - is an attempt
to gain community feedback in
order to implement concrete chang-
es to public transit, according to
Mary Stasiak, manager of com-
munity relations for the Ann Arbor
Transit Authority.
"We're not in this business just to
run buses," Stasiak said in an inter-
view on an AATA bus Thursday.
"We're really in the business to try
to enhance the quality of life in the
community."
According to Stasiak, short-term
changes could include adding stops,
extending routes and increasing
See AATA, Page SA

Read more at k University Police temporarily closed Hill Street between East University and Tappan early this morning
V MiChigan iDa after a suspicious package was found outside the Business School at 12:45 a.m. The police called in the
' Michigan State Police Bomb Squad to handle the situation. Forthe full story, see MichiganDaily.com.
ELECTION 2010
Schauer to supporters: 'We
understand what's at stake'

Cia
button
Yousef
a bus f
dresse
on Fri
But
cratic

Groups unite to fight Islamaphobia

In
elf


ref
V

final push before gressional district, rallied a small
group of Sierra Club supporters
ection day, U.S. on campus yesterday afternoon.
introduced by Sierra Club
. stresses youth President Robin Mann as a "prin-
cipled and great leader," Schauer
ote on campus took to the podium in the Michi-
gan Union Pond Room amidst
By MIKE MERAR applause from the Sierra Club
Daily StaffReporter members.
Schauer, who is running to
th Tuesday's election fast represent parts of Washtenaw
aching, Rep. Mark Schauer County as well as other areas in
ich.) of Michigan's 7th Con- southeast Michigan, immediately

told the crowd there is still time
to convince voters, and that the
last 48 hours are the most impor-
tant in determining the outcome
of the election.
"We understand what's at
stake," Schauer said.
Starting as a canvasser for a
citizen action group in college,
Schauer said his whole life has
been devoted to politics, and that
the problems of today cannot he
solved by the agenda of his oppo-
See SCHAUER, Page SA

Organizations from
across campus host
events aimed at
facilitating dialogue
By SARA BOBOLTZ
Daily StaffReporter
In light of recent anti-Islamic
sentiment around the country,
some student groups are working
in Ann Arbor to promote under-
standing and appreciation for one

another - with the ultimate goal
of eliminating "Islamaphobia" on
campus.
The groups have been organiz-
ing events - like I Love Muslims
Day and Pink Hijab Day - to help
facilitate a dialogue between stu-
dents of all religions at the Univer-
sity.
Last Monday, the Harvest Mis-
sion Community Church's Cam-
pus Ministry organized I Love
Muslims Day, which took place in
North Quad. About 60 members
of the Muslim Students' Associa-
tion attended, along with about 60

Christian students from12 campus
Christian organizations, like New
Life Church and Campus Crusade
for Christ.
After breaking into groups of
six - each with three Muslim stu-
dents and three Christian students
- the students participated in an
icebreaker and watched a presen-
tation called "Top 10 Reasons Why
We Love Muslims." A Halal din-
ner followed, along with a group
discussion.
Mark Vanderput, a former
pastor for HMCC who regularly
See ISLAMAPHOBIA, Page SA

Wit
appro
(D-M

WEATHER HI: 52 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW news@myichigatidaily.comand let us know.

Nw WON MICHIGANDAILY.coM
Daily scavenger gets candy from 'U president.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLoGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS...........
Vol. CXXI, No. 38 SUDOKU.......
c010TheMichiganDaily OPINION.......
michigondoily.com

.2A ARTS..............
.3A CLASSIFIEDS.......
.4A SPORTSMONDAY,

.6A
h.6A
. 1B

4


2A - Monday, November 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 9I

2A - Monday, November 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0
FRIDAY:

TUESDAY:
Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY
.Campus Club

:FRIDAY:
)s Photos of the Week
EXTREME CARVING

CJhIf1cdi9an Dai1m
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMwOVITZgnATIEJOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4110 ext. 1202 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilss'iez@michigandaity.com nndbusiness@gmnail.csm


Student refuses to give class gift



A student at Dartmouth College was
chastised for choosing not to donate
to her school's senior class gift fund,
according to an Oct. 28 Chronicle of
Higher Education article.
Laura DeLorenzo was the only
member of the 2010 graduating class
who chose not to donate to the fund.
DeLorenzo's decision put a prom-
ise from the class of 1960 to donate
$100,000 to the school if each gradu-
ating senior donated to the fund at
risk.
DeLorenzo was the subject of a
scathing column in the school's news-
paper, but her name was never men-
tioned. The next day, an anonymous
author posted an entry on a blog that
included her name and attacked her
decision.
According to the article, DeLoren-
zo said her decision not to donate was
personal and reflects her view that
"the negative aspects of Dartmouth
outweigh the positives, and nothing
more."

STUDENT FALLS TO DEATH the film tower in such harsh weather
AFTER TOWER COLLAPSES conditions.
A 20-year-old student who fell to PROF. LEAKS INFORMATION
his death on Wednesday from a col- ABOUT 40,000 STUDENTS
lapsed tower at the University of
Notre Dame tweeted about danger- More than 40,000 University of
ous winds less than an hour before the Hawaii students accidentally had
accident, accordingto an Oct. 27 Huff- their personal information leaked on
ington Post article. the Internet by a professor who was
Junior Declan Sullivan was filming conducting research, according to
Notre Dame's football practice when The Associated Press.
the tower collapsed. According to an The unnamed professor released
Oct. 28Associated Pressarticlewinds personal information - such as stu-
were gusting up to 51 miles per hour at dents' social security numbers and
the time and caused the camera tower grades - onto the Internet via an unen-
to topple. At3:22p.m. Sullivantweeted: crypted server, according to the Oct.
"Gust of wind up to 60 mph well today 29 report. The professor believed the
will be fun at work ... I guess I've lived information was private, but officials
longenough:-/." Sullivan tweeted again said the information was public for
at 4:06 p.m.: "Holy f*** holy f*** this is nearly a year before it was discovered
terrifying," the Huffington Post report- and taken down on Thursday.
ed.Thefilmtowercollapsedat4:50p.m. The information leak affected all
According to the article, the Notre students who attended the Manoa
Dame community is confused as to campus from 1990 to 1998 and in2001.
why anyone was allowed to enter -JORDANSTEIGER


CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom
News Tips
Corrections
Letterstothe Editor
Photography Department
Arts Section
Editorial Page
SportsSection
Display Sales
Classified Sales
Online Sales
Finance

Offie housSuns.-Thurs. 11a.m. - 2a.m.
735-ass-uses ups. 3
nesmicigandaily.com
correcios@msichigandaily.coms
tothedaily@,sichigandaily.com
photo@,sichigandaily.com
artpage@michigandaily.com
opinion@m~ichigandaily.com,
sposmsichigandaily.com
display@michigandaily.com
classified@michigandaily.com
onlineads@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES
A shock to the Banana pukes on
system circulation desk

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: Harrison Randall
Laboratory
WHEN: Friday at 3:30 p.m.
WHAT: A laser and other
computer equipment were
damaged due to a brief power
outage, University Police
reported. The damage was
estimated to be about $10,000.

WHERE: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library
WHEN: Yesterday at 3 a.m.
WHAT: A male subject dressed
as a banana was issued a ticket
for Minor in Possession at the
library after vomiting on the
circulation desk, University
Police reported.

Foot fault: Tennis When a stranger
Center hit by car calls... the dorm

Musical pond
performance
WHAT: A multimedia
show directed by School of
Music Prof. Stephen Rush
will include electronic
music, light/movement
sensors and sculptures.
WHO: Digital Music
Ensemble
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: E.V. Moore
Building, outside pond
Law workshop
WHAT: Judge Bruno
Simma of the International
Court of Justice and Law
School Prof. William W.
Cook will talk about cur-
rent issues in international
and comparative law.
WHO: Center for Interna-
tional & Comparative Law
WHEN: Today from
4 p.m. to 5:15 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins
Hall, Room 138

Parenting talk
WHAT: A lecture about
developing post-divorce
parenting relationships.
WHO: Institute for
Human Adjustment
WHEN: Tonight from
7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall,
Room 1465
Country music
concert
WHAT: A performance by
country singer-songwriter
Shawn Mullins who will
perform from his new
album. Tickets are $20.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Jon Stewart and Stephen
Colbert's rally held Sat-
urday in Washington,
D.C. had more than 215,000
attendees, CBS News reported.
That was double the number
of people who attended Glenn
Beck's Restoring Honor rally in
August.
2The men's soccer team
beat Michigan State 3-2
in overtime on Saturday,
winning the Big Bear Trophy
for the first time in the last
seven years.
>> FOR MORE, SPORTSMONDAY, INSIDE
Researchers may soon
be able to grow livers for
human transplants and
laboratory experimentation,
Telegraph.co.uk reported. The
organs are created from a mix
of human and animal liver
cells.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson MesagistEditos, ssnses@xichigandaity.cox
lillian Reman Masagisg NewsEditor Seas@xichigandaily.cex
SENI E WSu EDTSNsiole Ab,Sehaise Steineg, Kyle Sson, Esshw.,
Thirunsavkkars,Devon,,,horsby
ASSSTATNEWSssEDTOSs:Behay iron yla Cieti, Caitln stonLinsy
Krame,AJoseph Liahxermn,Veroica Menldi, Elyana TwgsM
Rachel Van Slider Editorial Page Edits, sangilder@xichigasdaily.sss,
SEsNIOREDITORIAL. rAGE aEIOS Michelle D s,Emilny Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISTANT ECITORIALPAGE EDITORS: Will Butler,WSGundls,,n,sheanduranga
Ryan Kante ManaginggSportsEtorsss 5stjepxichigasdaily.cox
SENIORSPORT EDITRS:5,,MarBun, aMihel rk, Chtel Jennings, Tim Rohe,,
Nick Spa, JoeStpeton
ASSISANTAPTS ED155TRS:Ben ste,StephensNesbit,Luke Pasch,Zakryik, Ay
larniellack MsnagisgeArssEditor lck@michigasdaily.csn
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS:Carlyn515,,,ki,Andew Lpi, effSar
Pandey, David 7Tao
Maxutollins and photo@mihigasdaily.com
Samn Woman ManagisgPto Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Ariem5, Bond,suMcClain
ASSISTAT PHOTO EDITORS: Jke Fo,Jed Moh
Anna Lein-Zelinski and deis@michigasdaily.ssn
Sarah Squine Managing Design Editors
SENIOR5DESIGN sEITO:Maya Friedmn,
Trevorntalen MagzinetEdisor ,slero@michigandaily.cox
Melanie Fried and csmdeskgxisisssszsay.cox
Adi Wallstein Copy Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Jlasna tninSles Manager
SALES FORCE'.MAAGR: Sphni Bowker
MOAKETINGMANAAEGon ucj
HillaylSzawaia Classified Manaer
Jason Mahakian PeoductionsMasager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick MeshkineFisance Manager
thrissy WinkleniculssationManaer
Zach Yancen Web Pojectsoodinator
The Michigan Dajiy (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday throughFrida durig te falland
winter ters bystdntst theUsnivesityf iciga.Oe cpysavilablfree f haget all
readers.Addtionalscpies ybe pikedup atthe Daiy'soffiefol, 2Subsciptios fo fliter,x
startngin September,sAia US alae $110. Witer ter nueae thogh pi) is $115,yearlog
(Septmbe thoughsApr)s $15. Uniestafiits re sbjct toarduced subscriptionrte.
On-campus subsriptions for falteirm are $35. Sbscriptios muxst be prepaid. The Cishiga, Daily
is a member of The Asscated Pss, and The Assoiated Cllegiate Press.

0

WHERE: Varsity Tennis
Center
WHEN: Saturday at about
10:45 a.m.
WHAT: A caller reported that
a vehicle backed into the ten-
nis center, University Police
reported. No one was injured
in the accident.

WHERE: West Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Friday at about 9:15
p.m.
WHAT: A resident received
a threatening telephone mes-
sage, University Police report-
ed. The incident is under
investigation.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime NotesGetmore online at michigandaily.com/bogs/The Wire


Areas with worst economy
may give lawmakers a pass

Few close Republican
House races in cities
with bad economies
(AP) - In a year when voters are
angry about the economy and ready
to oust incumbents, Democratic
Rep. Shelley Berkley would seem to
be in big trouble - her Las Vegas-
area district is the most economi-
cally stressed in the country, with
soaring unemployment, bankruptcy
and foreclosure rates.
But she and most other House
members who represent areas with
huge numbers of lost jobs appear
to be in little danger of losing their
own during this election cycle. Just
the opposite: Incumbents from the
nation's most economically resilient
regions are the ones in trouble.
An Associated Press analysis
of foreclosures, bankruptcies and
unemployment figures shows that
of the more than 100 races that will
determine whether Republicans
gain control of the House, only a few
are in areas with the most extreme
levels of economic stress.
In New Hampshire, for instance,
polls show Republican challenger
Frank Guinta ahead of Democratic

Rep. Carol Shea-Porter even though
the state's unemployment is 5.5 per-
cent, well below the national rate of
9.6 percent. The state's other House
race is tight despite New Hamp-
shire's relative prosperity.
Susan Terzakis, 45, of Bedford,
N.H., said she has voted for both
parties in the past but feels having
a Republican in the seat will help
mend the economy. She has been
frustrated by what she calls an exo-
dus of jobs from the state and said
Shea-Porter has been unrespon-
sive to local and national economic
problems.
"I don't think it's fair to lay it at
any one person's feet," Terzakis
said. "But I do think it's fair to say,
'Where have you been? What have
you been doing to stem that tide?'
All we get is crickets."
Across the country, California
has a bankruptcy rate twice as high
as New Hampshire's, along with
much higher unemployment. But
only a few of its 53 congressional
races are competitive.
Rep. Bob Filner, a Democrat who
has been in office since 1993 and
represents a California district that
runs Mexico's border from subur-
ban San Diego to the Arizona state
line, is heavily favored for re-elec-

tion, drawing much of his support
from hard-hit Imperial County,
which is saddled with the nation's
highest unemployment rate - 30.4
percent in August.
Democrats have a 52-to-27-per-
cent edge over the GOP in voter
registration in the county, a farm
region known for growing lettuce,
spinach and broccoli.
Many of the places where eco-
nomic stress is worst are urban or
other areas that are heavily Demo-
cratic to begin with. As downtrod-
den as those voters are, they are
unlikely to vote for Republican chal-
lengers.
Richard Flowers, a retired power
plant operator who was born and
raised in Imperial County, remem-
bers voting only once for a Republi-
can - Richard Nixon for president
in 1968. Filner hasn't impressed him
much, but Flowers voted absentee to
give the congressman a loth term,
arguing that Republicans may make
the economy worse.
"Obama's been in office two years
and he's being blamed for not say-
ing, 'Abracadabra, everything's
perfect,"' Flowers said at Burgers &
Beer in El Centro, the county seat.
"Sometimes the devil you don't
know is worse."

KARTJE
From Page 1A
the offense, the change has been
noticeable - when you have the
NCAA's leading rusher, there's
no reason why your offense
shouldn't be racking up ridicu-
lous amounts of points.
That's all fine and dandy. Is
Robinson a once-in-a-decade tal-
ent? Yeah, probably. But can you
really argue that the rest of the
offense has been better around
him?
The run game, outside of Rob-
inson, has stalled in almost every
game, including a 43-yard effort
against Penn State - a team that
was absolutely decimated by
injuries in the front seven and
ranks 68th in the nation in rush
defense. Oh, and sophomore Vin-
cent Smith and junior Mike Shaw,
Michigan's two main backs, are
averaging just 79 yards combined
per game.
Receivers have dropped balls
on several occasions, and even
the offensive line isn't opening up

holes for Robinson like they did
in the Wolverines' five-game win
streak to open the season.
There seems to be plenty of
capable pieces on the field, they
just can't by any means find their
place in the puzzle - and simply
said, that's Rodriguez's fault.
Ha! And I almost forgot the
defense! ButI don't need to reit-
erate how bad they are, doI?
Because the sheer embarrassment
of seeing Michigan's secondary
out of position or Michigan's
linebackers missing tackles or
Michigan's defensive line not get-
ting any penetration or holding
contain on a walk-on quarterback
had to have been enough.
Greg Robinson and his defense
have clearly regressed this season.
And as much as that may not be
Rodriguez's fault, someone has
to be held accountable for the
defense and for Robinson's poor
coaching - that guy is the head
coach.
Brandon said himself that this
team's progress or Rodriguez's
job security won't be defined by a
specific number of wins and loss-

es. But it's hard to imagine;with
Robinson (the quarterback) being
the only visible improvement on
this team, that Rodriguez will
keep his job without at least two
wins the rest of the season. He
needs to show something that
Michigan fans, alumni, boosters
and Brandon haven't seen since
he came over from Morgantown
- a reason, aside from Robinson,
to feel optimistic.
Because it's hard to ignore the
epic, seven-game Big Ten slide
last year as it repeats itself in
2010.
Wins and losses for the rest of
the season should probably have
something to do with Brandon's
choice on Rodriguez's future
because he sure hasn't given me
a reason to believe things are on
the upswing.
And if that doesn't happen,
Brandon's goingto be answer-
ing a lot more questions from the
media. This time though, it will
be about a new coach.
-Kartje can be reached
at rkartje@umich.edu

01

BREW YOUR OWN BEER? WE
HAVE A CONTEST FOR THAT.
E-mail calero@michigandaily.com to enter the Daily's second
annual home brew contest.

-------------
If- 21 1 1

C
C
I-
C
4.-
C
C
-
W
C
t!3

Interested in Global Health? Curious about what's happening?
The Center for Global Health, the MHIRT Program, and
Global REACH invite you to join us at the
Second Annual Student Global Health Day
November 5, 2010; Events from 9am-7pm
- th
Palmer Commons 4 level
More info
http://www.globalhealthumich.edu/
S~ ~ ~ D....:at..

Village Corner
Last Week
on S. University
20% off Everythinr
except Liquor
d Cigarettes
October 31 to
November 5

v
..
r

g easier
an gelay@umich.ed u

Know the latest UM insurance and travel requirements?

ti


* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 1, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
bETROIT
City reports 58 fires
during Halloween
Detroit reports 58 fires during
the first two days of the three-day
Halloween anti-arson watch period
officials call Angels' Night.
Mayor Dave Bing's office said
yesterday that the 58 fires as of
midnight Saturday are eight more
than at that point in 2009.
Volunteers are working with city
officials on a "Watch Your Block"
anti-arson campaign.
The city says 119 fires were
reported last year over the three-
day period, down from 136 in 2008.
More than 800 fires were started in
1984, the height of what then was
known as Devil's Night.
Flint firefighters handled eight
fires on the night before Hallow-
een, compared with five in the same
period lastyear.
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.
Lawyers dispute
suicide allegations
in Rutgers case
Lawyers for two former Rutgers
University freshmen accused of
webtasting a male classmate hav-
ing sex with another man are dis-
puting allegations against them.
, Dharun Ravi and Molly Wei
were charged with invasion of
privacy after prosecutors say Ravi
used a webtam Sept. 19 to capture
his roommate, Tyler Clementi,
having a gay sexual encounter.
Clementi jumped to his death off
the George Washington Bridge
days later.
But Steven Altman and Rubin
Sinins, who represent Ravi and
Wei respectively, told The Star-
Ledger of Newark that the web-
cam stream was only viewed on a
single computer and did not show
the men having sex.
Law enforcement officials
wouldn't discuss the lawyers'
claims, citing the ongoing investi-
gation.
Ravi and Wei recently with-
drew from Rutgers. Prosecutors
are considering whether to charge
them with a hate crime.
ISTANBUL
32 wounded in
Istanbul bombing
A suicide bomber blew himself
up yesterday beside a police vehi-
cle in a major Istanbul square near
tourist hotels and a bus terminal,
wounding 32 people, including 15
policemen.
The attack in Taksim Square,
which was followed by police
gunfire and sent hundreds of
panicked people racing for cover,
coincided with the possible
end of a unilateral cease-fire by
Kurdish rebels, but there was no
immediate claim of responsibil-
ity. Turkey, a NATO ally that has
deployed troops in a noncombat
role in Afghanistan, is also home
to cells of radical leftists and
Islamic militants.
Istanbul police chief Huseyin
Capkin said the bomber tried but

failed to get into a parked police
van and detonated the bomb
just outside the vehicle, blowing
himself to pieces. Riot police are
routinely stationed at Taksim, a
popular spot for street demonstra-
tions that abuts a major pedestrian
walkway whose shops and restau-
rants are usually packed.
At least 32 people, including 15
police officers, were injured, at
least two of them seriously, Istan-
bul Gov. Huseyin Avni Mutlu said.
SAO PAOLO
Brazil elects first
female president
A former Marxist guerrilla who
vas tortured and imprisoned dur-
ing Brazil's long dictatorship was
elected yesterday as president of
Latin America's biggest nation,
a country in the midst of an eco-
Oomic and political rise.
A statement from the Supreme
Electoral Court, which oversees
elections, said governing party
candidate Dilma Rousseff won the
rlection. When she takes office
Jan. 1, she will be Brazil's first
female leader.
With nearly 95 percent of the
* allots counted, Rousseff had 55.6
percent compared to 44.4 percent
for her centrist rival, Jose Serra,
the electoral court said.
Rousseff, the hand-chosen can-
didate of wildly popular President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, won by
cementing her image to Silva's,
whose policies she promised to
Continue.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Hasan Jamali/AP
Ao unidentified Yemeni man walks past the UPS office on Saturday in San'a, Yemen. Yemeni authorities are checking dozens
more packages in the search for those who tried to mail bombs to Chicago-area synagogues in a brazen plot that heightened
fears of a new al Qaida terror attack.
Pol ce continue hunt for
Yemen bomb suspects

Police arrest young
medical student,
detain mother
SAN'A, Yemen (AP) - Their
first suspect in custody, Yemeni
police continued to search for
the terrorists believed respon-
sible for mailinga pair of power-
ful bombs to attack the United
States. U.S. and Yemeni officials
were increasingly seeing al-Qai-
da's hand in the failed plot.
Yemeni police arrested a young
woman who was a medical stu-
dent on suspicion of mailing a
pair of bombs powerful enough to
take down airplanes, officials said
Sunday. They also detained her
mother.
Investigators were hunting the
impoverished Mideast country for
more conspirators. U.S. officials
included in that group the same
bombmaker suspected of design-
ing the explosive for a failed bomb-
ing on a Detroit-bound airliner last
Christmas.
Authorities were also looking
at two language institutions the
plotters may have been associated
with.
The explosives, addressed to

Chicago-area synagogues, were
pulled off airplanes in England
and the United Arab Emirates
early Friday morning, touching off
a tense search for other devices.
More details emerged Saturday
about the plot that exploited secu-
rity gaps in the worldwide ship-
ping system.
British Prime Minister David
Cameron said he believes the
explosive device found in central
England was intended to detonate
on the plane, while British Home
Secretary Theresa May said the
bomb was powerful enough to
take down the aircraft. A U.S. offi-
cial said the second device found
in Dubai was thought to be simi-
larly potent.
But it still wasn't clear whether
the bombs, which officials said
were wired to cell phones, timers
and power supplies, could have
been detonated remotely while
the planes were in the air, or when
the packages were halfway around
the world in the U.S. Still, the fact
that they made it onto airplanes
showed that nearly a decade since
the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, terror-
ists continue to probe and find
security vulnerabilities.
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah
Saleh told reporters that the Unit-

ed States and United Arab Emir-
ates had provided intelligence that
helped identify the woman sus-
pected of mailing the packages.
A Yemeni security official said
the young woman was a medical
student and that her mother also
was detained, but officials pointed
to additional suspects believed to
have used forged documents and
ID cards. One member of Yemen's
anti-terrorism unit said the other
suspects hadbeen tied to al-Qaida.
Yemeni and U.S. officials spoke
on condition of anonymity to dis-
cuss the ongoing investigation
unfolding on three continents.
Al-Qaida's Yemen branch,
known as al-Qaida in the Ara-
bian Peninsula, took credit for
the failed bomb last Christmas
that used PETN, an industrial
explosive that was also in the mail
bombs found Friday.
The suspected bombmaker
behind the Christmas Day attack,
Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, is also
the prime suspect in the mail bomb
plot, several U.S. officials said. Al-
Asiri also helped make another
PETN device for a failed suicide
attempt against a top Saudi coun-
terterrorism official last year. The
official survived, but his attacker
died in the blast.

Obama's toxin proposal may
enforce more site cleanups

Officials to examine
areas contaminated
by dioxin
MIDLAND, Mich. (AP) - The
government has spent many mil-
lions of dollars in recent decades
cleaning up sites contaminated
with dioxin and, in extreme
cases, relocating residents of
entire neighborhoods tainted by
the toxin.
But tough new pollution stan-
dards proposed by the Obama
administration could require
additional dioxin cleanups at
scores of abandoned factories,
military bases, landfills and
other locations declared safe
years ago, officials say.
If the guidelines receive final
approval, federal and state offi-
cials will examine sites with
known dioxin contamination
to identify those needing work
and what the work will cost.
Among those expected to be
reviewed are notorious places
such as the former village of
Times Beach, Mo., where about
2,000 people were relocated
in the 1980s after dioxin-laced
waste oil was sprayed on roads
to control dust.
The Environmental Protec-
tion Agency plan has escalated
a decades-long debate over
the danger of dioxin, a family
of chemical byproducts from
industries such as pesticide and
herbicide production, waste
incineration and smelting. One
form of dioxin was in Agent
Orange, the defoliant used by
U.S. forces during the Vietnam
War.
The EPA is expected to make
a final decision this fall on the
new standards. But congressio-
nal critics and chemical com-
panies say the agency is acting
hastily and should wait until
it completes a reassessment of
dioxin's health effects in the
coming months.
"They're proposing these
sweeping changes to regula-
tions without giving us an
idea of how many sites will be
affected, how many homes will

be affected, what the economic
impact would be," said Rep. Dave
Camp, a Republican whose Mich-
igan district includes a SO-mile-
long watershed polluted with
dioxin from a Dow Chemical Co.
plant.
EPA officials say they want
to move ahead because they are
convinced dioxin is hazardous at
lower concentrations than previ-
ously thought. If necessary, they
say, the standards can be adjusted
later.
"We're driven by the need
to protect against excessive

risk of both cancer and non-
cancer health concerns," said
Mathy Stanislaus, EPA assistant
administrator for solid waste
and emergency response. "We
believe (the current standards)
are not sufficiently protective
and more stringent numbers are
needed."
The Associated Press obtained
an EPA list of 92 current and:
former Superfund locations
where records show that dioxin
is among the soil contaminants,
making them candidates for a
review under the new standards.

Color & Design Group
208 E. Washington St. Ann Arbor, MI 48104
(734) 997-7030 www.salonxi.com
Featuring Products by
KERASTASE
H,-,.,


4A - Monday, November1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAILSIMONAT SIMKAL U UMICH.EDU

C IC ian :aI*
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

SIMON BORST

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
We're voting Virg
Bernero has experience that Snyder can't boast
n some ways, this gubernatorial election isn't dissimilar from
the last. A classic Democrat faces off against a businessman on
the Republican ticket. In other ways, it's quite different. Gov.
Jennifer Granholm has been term-limited out of office and a previ-
ously unknown Democrat is vying to take her place. The Republican
candidate for the governor's office, on the other hand, has a surpris-
ingly moderate stance on social issues. With this election, the ques-
tion before Michigan voters is clear: Who has the economic savvy
and social vision to lead Michigan out of the rut it's in?

TV POWER
FEAR-MONGERING
POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENTS
MORE FEAR-MONGERING
--POLTICALADVETISEMENTS
Brown, Stephens for regent

Republican Rick Snyder, an Ann Arbor
businessman, is the proud recipient of three
degrees from the University of Michigan -
which probably earns him a few brownie
points from University students and alumni.
In his campaign, he has branded himself as
"One Tough Nerd." He managed to beat out
traditional conservatives in the Republican
primary by appealing to the center. And by
keeping the election focused completely on
the economy and remaining moderate on
social issues, Snyder has managed to hold a
solid 20-point lead in the polls for months in
a state that typically votes Democratic.
Before Democratic candidate Virg Ber-
nero was the mayor of Lansing, he served
as a representative and senator in the state
legislature. This experience in the legisla-
ture - with which he would have to work
as governor - and as an executive leader in
Lansing gives Bernero governmental quali-
fications that Snyder can't boast. Bernero's
campaign has been playing catch-up since
the end of the primaries. As a result, he
hasn't had much of a chance to talk about the
success he's had in Lansing, where he bal-
anced the budget for five years and brought
new business into the city.
It's appealing that Snyder has managed
to fund his campaign without taking money
from special interest groups, which means
he isn't beholden to anyone. Snyder also
made a point to avoid discussing divisive
social issues that would alienate voters. He
hasn't been subversive about his conserva-
tive stances on abortion and same-sex mar-
riage - though, progressively, he supports
stem cell research - and he has made it clear
that he doesn't intend to address these issues
if he's elected. Considering the stagnant
nature of these issues, he would probably
be unable to affect any change even if he did
make thema priority. But voters should still
be wary of giving a powerful office to a man
who hasn't shown support for all of their
personal liberties.
In this economic climate, Snyder's focus
on the economy is justified. Snyder is com-
ing in with a plan - a detailed plan. On his
website, voters can find his 10-Point Plan to
"Reinvent Michigan," which includes pages
and pages of outlines to reform the ethics
of government officials, help the environ-
ment, create jobs, fix the education system
and overhaul the state's tax system. Like any
good businessman, Snyder is coming in with
a business plan and a mission statement. And
that preparation is encouraging.
But the plan has some serious flaws. Sny-
der plans to replace the infamously bad
Michigan Business Tax with a flat 6-per-
cent corporate income tax, which, when
all is said and done, would equal out to a
$1.5-billion decrease in state revenue. And
there's no indication of where Snyder plans
to make up that money. In this respect, his
stance is fairly traditionally Republican -
cut taxes and the businesses will come. But
as it is, the state isn't getting by with the
revenue it has. Snyder has said he'll care-
fully consider all of Michigan's services
to determine where cuts can be made, but

that still may not be enough to balance the
multi-million-dollar budget deficit.
While Bernero hasn't provided as compre-
hensive plans, he has a strong political back-
ground that will be to his advantage. Voters
often forget that Bernero has managed Lan-
sing fairly well during his tenure there. He
balanced Lansing's budget without laying
off city employees and created a friendly
environment for new businesses to move to
the city. But the state's budget is in a much
bigger mess and deals with significantly
more money and employees than Lansing's.
Bernero may not be able to cut government
spending enough to balance the state budget.
According to his website, Bernero also
encouraged $500 million of new private
business in Lansing during his time as
mayor. And he does have several ideas and
principles laid out to resuscitate the econo-
my, like making Michigan more appealing to
green industries and research and develop-
ment companies.
Bernero also has problems with the Mich-
igan Business Tax. He plans to cut the Mich-
igan Business Tax surcharge, according to
his website. Bernero has said he'll work with
businesses to keep finding reforms to the tax.
This would create a more comprehensive,
sensible tax plan that probably wouldn't lead
to a huge decrease in state revenue. Though
he doesn't have as clear a plan as Snyder, Ber-
nero should be able to accomplish revamping
business taxes before his four years run out.
Bernero's more moderate approach to slash-
ing taxes and incorporation of public input
are promising.
Bernero also hopes to maintain some of
Michigan's manufacturing jobs by encourag-
ing more manufacturing of green products
like wind turbines and solar panels. While it
may be unrealistic for Bernero to think that
it's possible to maintain the manufacturing
economy, environmentally-friendly technol-
ogy is incredibly important and Michigan
should be a leader in going green. Bernero
understands the importance of using the
resources Michigan has - both in terms of
jobs and the environment.
Most favorable about Bernero's plat-
form is his plan to create a state bank -
modeled after North Dakota's successful
program - to keep Michigan money and
investments in the Michigan. The concept
would encourage in-state investment. It's
an ambitious plan, but it could have a more
effective and long-lasting impact than Sny-
der's tax cuts. The plan has a clear model
and proven results, and shows that Ber-
nero is considering new, unconventional
plans to bring money back to Michigan.
Though Snyder may seem like a change
from the status quo, his plan to cut taxes
without making up the money in the bud-
get doesn't make much sense. Bernero has
encouraging experience in managing gov-
ernment money and bringing in new busi-
ness. He could do it for the state. Though
Bernero's plans aren't as clearly laid-out as
Snyder's, his ideas are visionary and could
seriously benefit the state. The Daily endors-
es VIRG BERNERO for governor.

very two years, Michigan residents have the
opportunity to elect two members to the
University's governing body. The Univer-
sity Board of Regents, the members of which serve
eight-year terms, is charged with managingthe Uni-
versity's budget and hiring members of its adminis-
tration. This year, the board's only two Republican
members are up for re-election - and they face
strong Democratic challengers.
Andrea Fischer Newman (R-Ann Arbor) has
served on the University Board of Regents since
1994. She has also served on Oakland University's
Board of Regents. As a University graduate with
a long record of public service and an impressive
career in the private sector, Newman understands
how to manage the large amounts of money that the
University deals with each year.
But Newman's view on tuition increases doesn't pri-
oritize students'needs. Since becoming a regent, New-
man has only once voted against a tuition increase;
and that vote was based on the belief that a one-per-
cent increase was too small to be warranted. This sort
of disregard shows that Newman doesn't truly under-
stand the needs of students.
Incumbent Andrew Richner (R-Grosse Pointe
Park) holds BBA and JD degrees from the Uni-
versity. Richner has a lot of experience with how
state funding works - prior to his service as a
regent, Richner served three terms in the state
House of Representatives. Currently, Richner is the
only member of the Board of Regents with a child
enrolled at the University.
Richner plans to focus on implementing multi-year
budgeting and has worked to expand the University's
share of government research money through efforts
like the University Research Corridor. Research is
incredibly important, but the primary focus of the
University must be education - and Richner hasn't
come up with any creative measures to keep costs for
students under control.
It seems that Richner is just as disconnected from
the student body as the rest of the board. He has voiced
opposition to adding a non-voting student representa-
tive to the Board of Regents. Additionally, since his
election in 2002, Richner has voted to raise tuition
every year. After so many increases, more and more
students are being priced out of an education. Though
Richner has a child at the University, he seems to lack
an understanding of the hardships many families face
in paying for their child's education.
Paul Brown (D-Ann Arbor) is the vice president
of the Michigan Economic Development Corpora-
tions Capital Markets Group. In 2009, Brown and
his team created the Michigan Supplier Diversifica-
tion Fund and its proposed federal counterpart, the

State Small Business Credit Initiative, to facilitate
business lending.
The Democratic challenger would like to make
University tuition more affordable and increase the
accessibility of a University education for all stu-
dents. He plans to design a budget that will bring
down tuition costs and reduce the burden of loans
for students. He also wouldn't be opposed to lob-
bying Lansing to ensure that the legislature under-
stands the University's financial needs and the
importance of affordable education.
Brown also stresses the University's role in creat-
ing jobs in the state. Brown would like to increase
focus on technology transfer out of the University
and for the University to be a core economic engine
for the state. He believes commercializing Universi-
ty research and helping small businesses will create
well paying jobs in Ann Arbor.
Brown has said that he'd like to make the Board
of Regents a more visible entity. He's interested in
pushing more against the regents' typical accep-
tance of the administration's decisions and would
like to challenge them to make decisions more
transparent for the public. To increase student
involvement, he would also favor having a non-vot-
ing student representative on the Board of Regents.,
Challenger Greg Stephens (D-Saline) is the busi-
ness manager and financial secretary of the Inter-
national Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and
Secretary-Treasurer of the Washtenaw County
Skilled Building Trades Council.
As a member of the University Board of Regents,
Stephens would like to represent middle class work-
ing families and make tuition affordable for as many
people as possible. He has promised to never vote for
a tuition increase larger than the increase in the cost
of living and would like to tap into the University's
endowment to control tuition and increase financial
aid for students. He has also said that he will not seek
re-election after one term.
Stephens has been active in building and construc-
tion at the University for 16 years and thus has a good
working relationship with the Ann Arbor City Coun-
cil. He would like to use his knowledge of construction
to push for more environmentally-friendly building
options, like encouraging University buildings to have
LEED certification, which would also prove fiscally
beneficial. Stephens would also like to utilize empty
University facilities during the summer for more pro-
fessional training, which would aid Michigan busi-
nesses and bring in money to the University.
Because of their strong commitment to prevent
tuition increases and desire to advance Universityproj-
ects, the Daily endorses PAUL BROWN and GREG
STEPHENS for the University Board of Regents.

0I

Send Dingell back to Congress

t would be quite a feat to oust incumbent Rep.
John Dingell (D-Mich.) from office. Currently,
he is the longest-serving member of the U.S. Con-
gress with an amazing 55 years in office. His tenure
has taught him how to get bills pushed through the
House. His expansive experience and strong rela-
tionships in Washington D.C. are assurances that his
promises will become legislation.
Dr. Rob Steele, Dingell's opponent in the upcom-
ing election, doesn't bring any of the same expertise
or potential to the position - and his policy plans
are even less impressive. He opposes the new federal
health care legislation and favors scrapping the whole
plan. He claims to want to create a new health care
program, but as someone who favors cutting govern-
ment spending,it's hard to imagine that he will be able
to enact a plan with adequate coverage.
Education funding is necessary for Michigan to
create a vital economic climate. Steele has scarcely
addressed the issue of education and how he plans
on funding it in light of his proposed decreases in
government spending.
Dingell, however, has made education a prior-
ity in his campaign and supports increased fund-

ing for it. He wants to increase the affordability of
higher education and has helped pass legislation
that increases the maximum award for Pell Grants
- a need-based initiative to help underprivileged
Americans pay for college.
Dingell also supports initiatives that would
directly help people in southeastern Michigan.
According to a report in The Michigan Daily, he was
recently part of a plan that put $161 million in feder-
al funds toward repairing the line between Detroit
and Dearborn, and the beginnings of a high-speed
line from Detroit to Chicago. Not only is this push
for public transportation good for the environment
and local economies, but it will also add between
1,500 and 1,800 new jobs to the area.
For years, Dingell has served this region with
distinction. And his years of experience and abil-
ity to push through legislation with tangible effects
- like high-speed rail and funding to fix the Blake
Transit Center - show that he can get things done
for Michigan.
In order to ensure that the state stays on the right
path to recovery, the Daily endorses JOHN DINGELL
for the House of Representatives.

Irwin for state Rep.

Warren for Michigan Senate

wo candidates are squaring off this
Tuesday for Rebekah Warren's
vacant seat to represent the 53rd
District in the state House - Democrat
Jeff Irwin and Republican Chase Ingersoll.
And though the election hasn't taken place
yet, Ingersoll has already said that the only
chance he has of winning would be if Irwin
found himself embroiled in a scandal.
Ingersoll's social platforms are starkly at
odds with the values held by many residents
of the 53rd District -,an area known for its
large liberal population. Especially troubling
are Ingersoll's negative views on higher edu-
cation. He's not only against further fund-
ing of higher education - he's also against
the idea of higher education, stating on a
questionnaire from AnnArborcom that he's
"embarrassed how I naively participated in
the 'higher education racket'."
Irwin has extensive experience in office

after serving as a member of the Washtenaw
County Board of Commissioners for the past
eleven years. His track record of advocacy
for the preservation of the environment and
the Great Lakes highlights his progressive
views on a very important issue. This stance
also shows some potential in the effort to
create green jobs and green energy - anoth-
er issue in which Irwin earns praise for his
record. The LGBT community also counts
Irwin as both a friend and an ally. He says he
will work extensively with LGBT groups in
the future to move the cause forward.
Irwin's stances on most issues and ini-
tiatives are favorable and coupled with his
many years of experience, there's no doubt
he'll do a good job taking over for outgoing
Rep. Rebekah Warren and serving in the
53rd District seat of the Michigan House.
The Daily endorses JEFF IRWIN for the
53rd District.

emocrat Rebekah Warren and Republican
John Hochstetler are facing to represent the
18th District in the state Senate. And since
Warren - the current representative for the 53rd
District in the state House - is favored to win the
District's Democratic population, Hochstetler has
been forced to mainstream his stance on several
issues. But despite his acquiescence to the area's lib-
eral streak, Hochstetler still lacks Warren's experi-
ence and an understanding of what Michigan needs.
One of the main differences between the two
candidates centers around social issues. Warren
has a history of pushing for important causes like
women's rights, pro-choice legislation, marriage
equality and stem cell research, which has earned
her the Daily's endorsement in her campaigns for
the state House of Representatives. And Warren is
also a strong supporter of the state's film incentive
program - which has boosted the film industry and
created a large number of jobs in the private film
sector. In contrast, Hochstetler has criticized the
program, stating that the state isn't making back the
money it's spending. And though Hochstetler hasn't
run his campaign on the basis of social conserva-
tism, he doesn't have Warren's track record of push-
ing for more progressive legislation.
The state's troubling budget deficit and continu-
ally decreasing services have been on the many vot-
ers' minds this election season, and both Warren and

Hochstetler have specific ideas of how to get the state's
budget back on track. Warren favors implementing a
reformed tax system that would introduce a gradu-
ated state income tax to bring in necessary revenue to
public schools and infrastructure.
On the other hand, Hochstetler favors a tax abate-
ment that could potentially stimulate the economy.
And Hochstetler has also expressed dissatisfaction
over the six-figure salaries of many public school offi-
cials. While cutting taxes could be beneficial, Hoch-
stetler hasn't made clear what he's going to cut to
account for resulting decreased revenues - an espe-
cially troubling fact when the state is already running
a massive deficit. Cutting public school official salaries
could also draw more qualified candidates away from
the public education system or to other states.
Both candidates also have ideas to reform the state's
sentencing system to save money on corrections. But
Hochstetler's proposed work program probably isn't
viable, whereas Warren's idea to decrease the amount
of time that mustbe served before aprisoner is eligible
for parole could save the state a lot.
Hochstetler may mean well, but his lack of
enthusiasm for social progressivism and proposed
economic policies aren't in keeping with what
Michigan needs. Because of her progressive history
on social issues and her sound fiscal policy propos-
als, the Daily endorses REBEKAH WARREN for
the 18th District state Senate seat.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin, Asa Smith, Laura Veith


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 1, 2010 - 5A

SThe Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 1, 2010 - 5A

'U' honors veterans as part
of investing in abilities week

Events held last
week aimed to
raise awareness
of disabilities
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffR eporter
Students and other members of
the University community came
together last week to celebrate
veterans and the armed forces as
they observed "Investing in Ability
Week," organized by the Council for
Disability Concerns.
The series of events - called
"HonorABLE: Celebrating all Vet-
erans, Those With and Without
Disabilities" - began last Monday.
Tlie events ranged from film screen-
ings to lectures by veterans that
addressed a wide range of topics,
like the role of service dogs in dis-
ability aid and the obstacles faced
by disabled persons in the classroom
setting.
After hearing about the numer-
ous issues faced by Army veterans,
Anna Ercoli-Schnitzer, disabilities
librarian and member of the CFDC,
said she was moved to propose the
military theme.
"I was inspired by someone in
the military who opened my eyes
to some of the problems," she said.
"And so I suggested that we honor
the military this week."
During the week, the dedication
of the James Edward Knox Adap-
tive Technology Computing Cen-
ter was held. Knox - who worked
at the University for more than 30
years developing computer tech-
nology helpful to disabled students
- passed away on July 4, 2010,
prompting officials to rename the
center in his honor.
The Council also hosted speak-
ers with disabilities and panels
of medical specialists to promote
awareness about conditions like
traumatic brain injury and cerebral
palsy.
Schnitzer said Investing in Abil-
ity week is an important tradition
because people often fail to recog-
nize the high rates of disability.
"People with disabilities are part
of the largest minority in the world,"
Schnitzer said. "They say one out of
five people in Ann Arbor has a dis-
ability."
She added that people with dis-
abilities are a huge part of the Uni-

versity community and, contrary to
what some may believe, they play
a major role in contributing to its
vibrancy.
"Disabilities - I prefer the word
differences but you have to say dis-
abilities so people know what you're
talking about - are a big part of
diversity," Schnitzer said.
The week culminated on Friday
in an intimate 10 a.m. breakfast
presentation of the James T. Neu-
bacher Award, which took place in
the fourth-floor assembly hall of the
Rackham building with an audience
of nearlyl100 people.
The ceremony also included the
presentation of the Wesley Smith
Scholarship and Saul and Shirley
Lederer Scholarship to LSA junior
Brooke Suskin.
In addition, 19 University com-
munity members were awarded
CFDCcertificatesofappreciationfor
activism in disability. Their activism
ranged from disabilities in sports to
making ATMs more accessible for
disabled people.
During the presentation, CDFC
Chair Jack Bernard - who's also an
assistant general counsel and a pro-
fessor at the University - said it was
important to present these awards
because people often lose sight of
what is moral and correct in terms
of disabled people.
"At times we succumb to the story
we see in movies and television that
might make it right," he said. "And
that's not necessarily a good story."
Bernard told the audience, which
included the parents and sister of
James Neubacher, that the award
is a good way to celebrate activism,
because it is named for a University
alum who fought for equal rights for
people with disabilities in his col-
umn in the Detroit Free Press.
The award is presented each year
to an individual who demonstrates
extreme effort to improve the lives
of disabled people.
"Each year we celebrate James
Neubacher because of his willing-
ness to speak," Bernard said.
Prof. Barbara Kornblau, dean of
the School of Health Professions
and Studies at the University's Flint
campus, received the Neubacher
Award this year for her work as a
consultant to Congress to include
and improve health benefits for dis-
abled people in the new government
health care overhaul.
in acceptingthe award, Kornblau
attributed her activism in the field
to the values she learned from her

parents.
"I'm here today because I was
raised by parents who instilled in
me a profound sense of ethics, mor-
als and social justice," she said.
She explained that she went
to an unusual elementary school
populated by some disabled people,
and when some parents protested
the presence of those students, her
mother led a protest against them.
Kornblau said when she trans-
ferred to junior high school, those
students, and the friends she had
made, were no longer present.
"The junior high school had steps
and the students in wheelchairs
couldn't get in to that school," she
said. "Those steps might as well
have been mountains."
Throughout her presentation,
she detailed her triumphant actions
against disability prejudice, such as
Rosa's Law, which took language
offensive to disabled people out of
Maryland's state statutes.
"I hope to go back to Washington
to focus on more advocacy,"she said.
The ceremony was followed by
a 7:30 p.m. wheelchair basketball
game held at Saline High School
and featuring a pre-game national
anthem performance by the 338th
Army Band and the Army Color
Guard. There was also a dance team
performance at halftime.
In addition to the award pre-
sented to Kornblau, LSA junior
Samantha Hamroff received a
CFDC certificate of appreciation
for her work to raise awareness
about celiac disease by hosting glu-
ten-free benefit dinners at various
restaurants to raise money for the
Celiac Disease Center at Columbia
University.
Hamroff said the most important
factor in addressing her disease is
making people more aware of it.
"The more people know about it,
the more they understand it and the
more respectful they are of it," she
said.
She added that a similar message
can be conveyed by other people
with anytype of disability.
"If people know more about dis-
abilities they can accommodate
(disabled persons) and make sure
they're comfortable," she said.
Schnitzer agreed, addingthat she
hoped the week would offer a mes-
sage to students about increased
awareness of disability and the
necessityof social action.
"Raising consciousness about dis-
abilities is important," she said.

ARMSTRONG
From Page 1A
the complaints allege violations of
rules 8.3 and 8.4 of the Michigan
Rules of Professional Conduct.
"We've filed formal com-
plaints," Gordon said in the inter-
view. "I feel very strongly that
Shirvell has violated these rules
and if you do you can lose your
license to practice law."
Armstrong's complaint centers
around rule 8.4, which defines "mis-
conduct" under the Michigan Rules
of Professional Conduct, according
to a press release issued by Gordon.
"The Rule states, in part, that
'it is professional misconduct for
a lawyer to ... engage in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
misrepresentation, or violation of
the criminal law, where such con-
duct reflects adversely on the law-
yer's honesty, trustworthiness or
fitness as a lawyer,'"Gordon wrote
in the release.
In addition to rule 8.4, the com-
plaint filed by Gordon also focuses
on rule 8.3, which requires that a
SCHAUER
From Page 1A
nent and former Republican Con-
gressman Tim Walberg.
"I do not want my grandchil-
dren to grow up in Tim Walberg's
world," Schauer said.
Schauer also emphasized the
importance of focusing on clean
and alternative forms of energy in
the future.
"We need to break our depen-
dence on foreign oil," he said. "It is
a national security issue."
Schauer, a first-term congress-
man, has had a strong emphasis on
clean energy during his congres-
sional career, something many
members of the Sierra Club say
they admire about him.
Mann said the Sierra Club
strongly supports Schauer as their
candidate of choice in Michigan's
7th Congressional District. Mann
said Schauer's emphasis on clean
ISLAMAPHOBIA
From Page 1A
attends Muslim Students' Associa-
tion events put on for non-Muslims
with his wife, said a friend gave
him the idea for the I Love Mus-
lims Day, prompting Vanderput to
contact the association's president,
Nader Hakim.
"I said, 'I'd love to do it on 9/11
because in fact, this crazy guy in
Florida wants to burn a Quran that
day, and we just want to show you
guys that the Jesus we love and
worship is not like that,"' Vander-
put said.
The date was later changed to
Oct. 25 due to schedule conflict
with the end of Ramadan.
Hakim said he enjoyed the
event and thought it encouraged
dialogue between the students
who attended.
"It was really amazing. Over-
all it was a really sincere effort
on (Campus Ministry's) part, and
that's what I think made it really
great," Hakim said.
Joiningthe fight againstIslama-
phobia is the University's chapter
of JStreetU, a nationwide student
organization that aims to promote
peace in the Middle East.

According to a Sept. 14 view-
point in The Michigan Daily, the
University's chapter of JStreetU
is petitioning students to voice
opposition toward anti-Muslim
sentiments. The organization's
members want to present the
petition to the Michigan Student
Assembly in an effort to pass a
resolution about fostering a safe
campus environment for Muslim
students.
So far, JStreetU has gained
nearly 700 signatures. The orga-
nization has reached out to oth-
ers for support as well, including'
the University's chapter of Col-

lawyer must report another attor-
ney to the Attorney Grievance
Commission if they have knowl-
edge of a "significant violation of
the Rules of Professional Conduct
that raises a substantial question
as to that lawyer's honesty, trust-
worthiness or fitness as a lawyer."
on top of the complaints, Gor-
don told the Daily she is also send-
ing a letter to Shirvell's attorney.
"(We're) asking for retractions
of all the lies'and defamation, ask-
ing him to ensure that he does
not tamper with evidence, that he
maintain his hard drive, computer
and so on."
Gordon, who was an assistant
attorney general in Michigan early
in her career, said there's been no
decision on whether to pursue
further legal action at this time,
but made it clear that litigation
hasn't been ruled out.
"The request for the retraction
is the first step in the process. We
have not made a final decision on
(litigation)," Gordon said. "I've
been retained now. I'm a lawyer
that brings litigation typically."
Gordon continued: "It's unfor-
energy made the choice easy for
the Sierra Club.
"Mark Schauer has been a very
strong supporter of clean energy,
clean energy jobs, and our envi-
ronmental objectives in general,"
Mann said. "He justis very princi-
pled and in favor of the issues that
we care about."
Mannsaid she thinks an empha-
sis on clean energy is important in
strengthening the economy and
she believes Schauer is the best
candidate to get that done.
In an interview after the event,
Schauer said the student vote is
essential in Tuesday's election.
"Part ofour get outthe vote effort
has been to identify those student
voters throughtheir home, tryingto
contact them directly, urging their
parents to contact them, help them
make arrangements to vote," he
said. "It'svery important"
Schauer added, "College stu-
dents were instrumental in Presi-
dent Obama's election two years
lege Democrats and University of
Michigan Hillel, in order to pro-
mote the petition and resolution.
LSA sophomore Yonah Lieber-
man, the outreach chair of the
University's chapter of JtreetU,
explained the importance of col-
laborating with outside organi-
zations on campus to promote
awareness of Islamaphobia.
"It's really important to show
that students from all backgrounds
and all walks of life are against
Islamaphobia," he said. "Thank-
fully, it hasn't really hit Ann Arbor
so much."
Like Campus Ministry, JStree-
tU also collaborated with the
Muslim Students' Association last
month to discuss what could be
done about anti-Islamic sentiment.
Because there is a strong pres-
ence of Muslims and Arabs in the
state, JStreetU and the Muslim
Students' Association hosted an
event on Oct. 6 to hold a conversa-
tion about Islamaphobia in Michi-
gan. About 35 students gathered
in a Mason Hall classroom for the
talk.
Though the recent events are
helping to increase dialogue, Mus-
lim Students' Association officials
say they want to do more to con-

nect with other students on cam-
pus. In the past, Hakim said, the
association has kept to itself and
has not done "enough reaching
out."
In an effort to promote a good
cause and expand their reach on
campus, the group hosted the sec-
ond annual Pink Hijab Day last
Wednesday. The group's male and
female members were asked to don
either a pink hijab - a head cover-
ing worn by some Muslim women
- or another article of pink cloth-
ing to raise awareness for breast
cancer.
Association members also set
up a table by the Mason Hall post-

tunate that is has to come to this,
and maybe it won't, but at this
point something has to be done to
stop this person."
A call to Armstrong was not
immediately returned.
An official at the Michigan
Attorney Grievance Commission
said she could not confirm whether
or not the complaints had been filed
because all filings are confidential.
Shirvell was banned from the
University's Ann Arbor campus on
Sept.14 by the Department of Pub-
lic Safety. Shirvell and his attorney
requested a hearing to appeal the
trespass order, which was heard
today, according to DPS spokes-
woman Diane Brown.
Brown said a decision on the
appeal is expected in the next
several days. She said possible
outcomes could include denying
the appeal, revoking the trespass
order all together or modifyingthe
scope of the order to allow Shirvell
on certain parts of campus.
- Daily News Editors Stephanie
Steinberg and Devon Thorsby
contributed to this report.
ago, and they will be a deciding
factor in the elections around the
country this year."
Schauer said his record on edu-
cation has been clear and that he
remains committed to focusing on
the affordability of higher educa-
tion.
"I think this is when we need
to double-down on education and
it should be number one as part
of our economic strategy in this
country," he said. "The smartest
countries are going to win, the
smartest states, the smartest com-
munities are goingto win, and you
don't win by cutting education.
Schauer said he wakes up every
day "fighting for jobs and fighting
for economic opportunity," and
that he doesn't plan to stop if re-
elected.
"I'm very practical and prag-
matic, and very hard working
about that," he said. "That will be
my passion again in my second
term."
ing wall to sell cupcakes and rib-
bons and ask for donations to the
cause.
LSA senior Romeissa Selmane,
Islamic Relations Chair for the
Muslim Students'Association, said
the event proved how "important
the issue is to Muslim women."
The Muslim Students' Associa-
tion is also reaching out to Univer-
sity residence halls to create an
event called Fast-a-Thon, which
would take place during the month
of Ramadan next year. The event
would consist ofa day offastingfor
Muslims and non-Muslims alike
and commence in a celebratory
dinner in residence halls.
Hakim said the association
has already partnered with local
Muslim-owned businesses, which
would donate money on behalf of
each participant in the event.
Hakim said the Muslim Stu-
dents' Association also wishes
to organize an event that would
facilitate discussion between stu-
dents of the three Abrahamic reli-
gions: Christianity, Judaism and
Islam. Vanderput agreed an event
is needed to increase "interfaith
dialogue."
"Maybe we talk about who is
God? How do we as Muslims or

how do we as Christians view the
character of God?" Vanderput
said.
He added that he and Campus
Ministry are not trying to "blur the
distinction" between the religions
but rather promote understand-
ing of the "very common ground"
between them.
Hakim expressed a similar sen-
timent, saying that the religions
need to do more than tolerate each
other.
"I think tolerance isn't a strong
enough word because we don't
want to just tolerate each other, we
want to understand and respect
everyone," Hakim said.


AATA
From Page 1A
coveragetoheavily-traffickedareas.
Stasiak added that the plan would
also address more ambitious, long-
term projects like extending AATA
service to other areas countywide.
"There will be short-term, imme-
diate things we can do ... and then
we'll be looking at things we can
accomplish within 30 years," Sta-
siak said.
Stasiak said the AATA is using
this initial phase to gather as much
feedback as possible so it can pro-
pose a plan that will be widely sup-
ported by the community at large.
"Now is the time that we're really
trying to get people's input," Stasiak
said.
To do that, the AATA has been
holding a series of public meetings
to gather feedback that it can use in
developing the plan.
At one such meeting on Oct. 6,
AATA officials echoed Stasiak's
comment and said the main goal of
the plan is to accommodate public
transportation concerns.
"At the center of all of this is the
people who are benefiting from
the system," AATA Strategic Plan-
ner Michael Benem told the crowd
gathered at the meeting at the
Ann Arbor District Library's main
branch.
Though no concrete plans cur-
rently exist, Benem said he hopes
city officials will have plans to
implement in the near future.
"We don't want plans that just
sit on the shelf We want plans
that ... have a life," Benem said at
the meeting.
But Stasiak said the public meet-
ings haven't been well-attended by
the AATA's most important demo-
graphic - people who actually
ride the buses.
According to Stasiak, only 40
percent of the feedback the AATA
has received so far has come from
riders.
in order to reach the riders, offi-
cials decided to take AATA pub-
lic meetings straight to the buses
- and that's how Rabhi ended up
crammed in a bus headed to Ypsi-
* lanti several days before the elec-
tion that will decide his political
future.
Far from being distracted by
pre-election anxiety, Rabhi said
he felt immediately engaged in his

conversations with passengers.
"People really want to ... share
what's important to them," Rabhi
said in an interview after the bus
ride Friday. "It's areallygreat expe-
rience."
During his AATA "office hours"
Rabhi spoke with a number of riders
who voiced concerns about bus ser-
vice as well as proposed transporta-
tion changes.
Max Bonilla, a sophomore at
Ann Arbor's Community High
School, told Rabhi that though she
enjoys talking to fellow passen-
gers on her daily ride home from
school, she wishes the bus was less
crowded.
As Bonilla spoke, the bus was
almost completely packed, with
Rabbi estimating upwards of So rid-
ers.
According to Bonilla, the high
number of passengers "makes it
harder to get to school on time"
because of the amount of times the
bus stops for passengers.
Charles Morey, an Ypsilanti resi-
dent who works at Pizza House on
Church Street, told Rabhi that he
wishes the AATA would extend its
weekend hours so he doesn't have to
catch a bus four hours before his job
begins at 10 p.m.
Despite their criticisms, though,
both Bonilla and Morey said they
enjoy AATA's service.

After the ride, Rabhi said he
appreciated the opportunity to talk
to passengers far more than he'd
expected.
"My first impression was that it
might be kind of awkward," Rabhi
said of the event. "But today I expe-
rienced that people really want to
talk."
Thinking about the future, Rabhi
added that, if elected, he plans to
help the AATA in its long-term
vision for county-wide transporta-
tion.
"My role (is) asking people ... if
they want the AATA bus to go a
little further," Rabhi said, adding,
"Transportation is a regional issue.
It's about how the city connects ... to
the rest of Michigan."
Among the events' other par-
ticipants was Newcombe Clark, a
29-year-old graduate student in the
Ross School of Business who's run-
ning as a Democrat for Ann Arbor
City Council in the fifth ward.
Clark - who rode an AATA bus
on Thursday - also said he left the
event feeling inspired about the
future of busing in Ann Arbor.
Clark added that he has a bold
vision for the AATA's future.
"In five years there will be a
new Blake Transit Center, WiFi on
all the buses and we'll have most
of the fleet converted to hybrids,"
Clark said.


SPRING BR EAK
. JAMFEST
" Live Concerts
" VIP Parties
" Beautiful Beaches
" Cliff Jumping
. Spectacular Sunsets
1804844
---SERVICES
1.800.648.4849
www.STSTRAVEL.com

atraves
work across borders
IMPACT"'DA NC ,
Thursday November 4th'
8 PM Angell Hall
Auditorium D


6A - Monday, November 1, 2010
Uncertain future
for film incentives

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.corm
Bugs survive in'Fallout'

Bernero supports
state's film tax credits,
Snyder in opposition
By TIMOTHY RABB
DailyArts Writer
The fate of Michigan's substan-
tial film production incentives
could ride on the outcome of tomor-
row's midterm elections, and with
Republican gubernatorial candi-
date Rick Snyder leading Democrat
Virg Bernero by double digits in the
polls, things don't look good for the
program's supporters.
Since being enacted by the Mich-
igan legislature in April 2008, the
program has offered a 40-percent
tax rebate on in-state expenses to
eligible production entities and an
extra two percent for those filming
in commercialized areas like Ann
Arbor. The rate is lower - 30 per-
cent - for productions using crews
and talent from outside the state.
More than 100 films have been
produced in Michigan since the
incentives were passed, according
to the Michigan Film Office. And
after spending only $2 million on
film production in 2007, film pro-
ducers have now spent almost $350
million, and that number is expect-
ed to reach a possible $650 million
by the end of this year.
Speaking recently to Detroit

radio station WJR-AM 760, Snyder
criticized the incentives.
"I think it's something that
needs to be adjusted," he said. "It
is creating jobs, but at what cost to
other alternatives?"
On the same program, Bernero
voiced his continued support of the
incentives.
Several state legislators share
Snyder's concerns as to whether or
not Michigan is receiving a signifi-
cant return on its investments.
"The Michigan film credits are
an open-ended promise that could
cost us $50 million next year or
$250 million next year. There's
no limit," said state Sen. Mickey
Switalski (D-Roseville) in an inter-
view with the Daily.
"The first thing we need to do
is decide how much we can invest
in film credits, and put a cap on it.
The second thing we need to do is
establish a permanent industry, by
gearing the credits toward facilities
that produce television shows, com-
mercials and video games," he said,
instead of awarding taxpayer-sup-
ported benefits to people who will
likely return to their home states.
Switalski's sentiment is shared
by his senate colleague Nancy Cas-
sis (R-Novi), whose September
op-ed in the Detroit Free Press
criticized what she called financial
inefficiency in the program, citing a
Senate Fiscal Agency report to sup-
port her stance.

"According to the data, the film
credits are less effective than pre-
viously thought, bringing the state
only 11 cents back for each dollar
given away in credits," Cassis said.
"In 2008, according to the report,
47.4 percent of the expenditures
that qualified for the Media Produc-
tion Credit did not affect the Michi-
gan economy - primarily because
they were made to individuals and
firms outside of Michigan."
Donald Grimes, senior research
associate at the Institute for
Research on Labor, Employment
and the Economy at the Univer-
sity, agrees that the incentives don't
present a long-term benefit for the
state.
"It costs more money than it's
worth in terms of the state bud-
get - they give off more incentives
than what they get back in tax rev-
enue," Grimes told the Daily.
"When they give the film sub-
sidy, what they're basically hoping
is that on one level that they can
somehow create an industry that
doesn't depend on that subsidy, or
secondly that we get some good
publicity for the state. And so those
are the two arguments for it," he
added. "But it is a direct subsidy, it
doesn't pay for itself, and any argu-
ment that would say it pays for itself
is sortof crazy."
The Senate Fiscal Agency report
also describes how the additional
See FILM TAX, Page 8B

By TEDDY PAPES through situations undetected.
DailyArts Writer Subsequent playthroughs are
enhanced through the different
"Fallout: New Vegas" opens approaches available. A tactical
with a bang, literally, as the pro- mode called VATS is central to
tagonist gets shot by a smug bas- the game's action and original
tard, content to to "Fallout 3" and "New Vegas."
deliver a semi- It lets you freeze the game and
badass one-liner Fallout: make a limited number of calcu-
before he puts lated moves, which can turn the
you down. And New VegaS tide of a firefight.
though this The story has a very promising
seems to promise Xbox 360, lead, but what begins as an excit-
an exciting chap- P'3, PC ing and complex set of events turn
ter in the main Bethesda out to be a simple plug for your
character's life, he may never character to join the overplayed
know - the game freezes during "good" and "bad" factions. This
the next loading screen. After a dichotomy - present in almost all
reboot, the game might just make modern RPGs - just isn't interest-
it past the same screen, and the ing anymore. Their idiosyncrasies
hero is finally unleashed in the seem to promise original develop-
Nevada wasteland. ments, but they both fall into their
Once past the glitches, play- banal roles: save this village for
ers will find that gameplay in the good guys or destroy it for the
"New Vegas" remains largely bad guys.
unchanged from "Fallout 3." The real strength of this game
While presented like a shooter, is the environment of post-war
the game is an RPG at heart. With Nevada, which has an almost
a variety of skill allocations to unlimited amount of content to
choose as your character lev- offer. Long overland journeys are
els up, the game can be full of encounters with strug-
played with a wide array gling settlers looking for help
of styles and strategies. and gunfights between rival
With a high Science factions. There is no short-
skill, you might ' age of quests or buildings to
hack into a comput- explore, with only a few scraps
er to turn automat- of evidence describing the
ed turrets ndemise of the departed
against the or mutated inhabit-
guards of ants. A survivor
a fortress, of the nuclear
while a 0 holocaust,
high Sneak>, New Vegas is
skill might booming with
let you slip 8 lights, people

and casinos in full swing with a
variety of gambling minigames
to play; it's a bright speck in the
middle of the chaos. Simply exist-
ing in this nuanced world is satis-
fying enough, and that alone is a
remarkable achievement.
What happens in
post-apocalyptic
Vegas ...
Unfortunately, the nuclear
wasteland of Nevada shares a
similarity with its software: mas-
sive bugs. The game often drops
to extremely low frame rates and
eventually freezes. This usually
requires a full reboot, causing a
loss of large chunks of playtime
that must be gruelingly repeat-
ed. With the variety of options
available for quest completion,
the game sometimes fails to rec-
ognize when quests have been
completed. It's very frustrating to
get to the bottom of a crime only
to have nobody recognize the
results.
Apparently these bugs are a
widespread problem that Bethes-
da is working to fix, but their
most recent patch fixes nothing.
The game has a lot to offer, and
the good definitely outweighs the
bad. So for a totally immersive and
lengthy RPG experience, check
out this game. Just wait a few
weeks for Bethesda to extermi-
nate the bugs.

FOR SALE
2003 GOLD TOYOTA Hylander.
94,000 miles. $9,800. 734-789-7183
(corrected number).
PARKING
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
FOR RENT
!!!!!!2011/12 LEASING Has
Started!!!!!dAppointments to view be-
ginning Friday October 29th! Great to-
cali-ns thraaghoutcentral campus!
Call 761-8000tI primeshcom

the
Wned and Oo
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms
LetOra nils Iak'(ar ours
734.741.9300
www.amr=wborapartments..et
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 2011-
12 Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms!
* Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet! Call today
for an appointment to see! Prime Stu-
dent Housing 761-8000 primesh.com
*Amenities varies by location

RELEASE DATE- Monday, November 1,2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 35 In good health 52 Socially active
1 Flies high 1 Second-stringers 37 O.K. Corral sort
6 Taking things 2 Fall birthstone brothers 53 Ranchero's rope
wrong? 3 Woodstock hair 39 Yoga class need 57 San -, Italy
11 murk an Sems style 40 Respiratorycavity 58 Notthe least bit
14 Enthusiastic 4 Burglar 42 Cowboys'org. nice
about 5 Majorca Mrs. 44 Coke alternatives 60 Prefix with
15 Espionage 6 Mtge. fraud 46 Used a rocker dynamic
double agents investigator 49 Rap genre 61 Ballroom blunder
16 "Double Fantasy' 7 Bit of seasonal 50 Couch potato's 62 IRS data
artist Yoko laughter lack, evidently 64QB's scores
17 TV's Della Street 8 "Seinfeld" woman 51 Lyndon's 1964 65 Fresh from the
for nearly 40 9 Chap running mate oven
years 10"The Waste ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE.
19 G morale.- Land" poet's AV
booster monogram C C E LIL M O N E Y SNH O T
20 Disorderly sort 11 TV settingfor X I E I N AM I N U T E
21 How fries are "M'A'SH AH CIOIA D'E P N TS
tried 12 Happen next AL O DE N NT
22 asicearring 3Links selecions B L I NID S I E G E TA T
23 Space-saving 18 Wealth C A T SUP S EWE
abbr. 22Twistedtfastener AGE PROW PA I DAD
25 V-shaped slits 24 Follow (along), K E N I I N P A C T
27School like a little brother E N S N A R L U T T E N E D
assignmentthat 26 CommonCAIXII
may elicit groans Christmas gift S T E A K E K S
32 Old Frizw 27 Sel-esteem
automaker TVprincesswith COM E C CO E R S
33 Trait transmitter asidekick named A T ON E T H E F F I C E
34 "That stings!" Gabrielle M E T ERMAI D AT T I C
36 Tab-grabber's 29 Silly P R E M I ERED TWIST
words 30OHaftand hal I M S1 0 50NS 10N S
38 Alabama march 3! Pinochle combos
city xwordeditor@aol.com 10/30/10
41 Smallsongbird 1 2 3 4 5 6 _ 8 91101 11 12 13
43 Quite adistance ,
off 1, i
45 Honored guests' t18
plaform
47 Seasonal sprite to1
48 Symphonyvenue
52 Visits 23 24 25 26
unexpectedly- 30 1
54 RVmnnetion? 26 29 30 31
55 Isn't up to snuff 32 4
56 _-press
59 Home run hitters' 3 8o n 39 ao 41 2
hitters
63 chi:martial art 43 4 45 46 47
64 Theme oftthis
puzzle hidden in 48 49 50 51
17-, 27- and 48- 254
Across
66 Sci-fi creatures 6 s6 52 8 59 6 61 62
67 Church doctrine
68 Senator Hatch 63
69 One oftthe 64- "- 6"A
Across 3
70 Secretly watch W9- 70
71 Trans Am roof
options fi ~iln,,,k taoi
otos BY Gail Grabowski 11/01/10
(e)2010 rribune Media Services, Inc

Rates Now Available
for Fall 2011-2012
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
* Central Campus locations
* *Fully Furnished
"* Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
* Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!t
*Varis by loaoi
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
co, the best local website for a wide
selection of apaments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-Ms best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. I to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. I
Incl. Heat/Wter/arking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!Beauiful Large Homes!!
7, 16 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
!**FALL 2011**! 5 to 9 bdrm
houses. Keysmanagement.net
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011
WWw.COpiprOpertieS.COm
734-663-5609

For Best
Selection,
Reserve
TODAY!
Sprinig & Fall
O NCAslpuo, FURNisD
STUDO, a,a & 3 BcDOcOSt
Don't miss out on the
Best of Central Campus
for 2011/2012
LUnivers't
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-76t-z6Bo
UNIVFRS'1ITYTOWERS-MI.COM
INFO( U-TOWERS.COM
921 PACKARD FALL '11 3 story 5
bdrm house for 6 furnished 3 full baths
3 kitchens laundry parking 7342721320
305 PACKARD - Very cute 3-bd
house close to campus aod downtown!
Bonus den w/a private bathroom and
formal dining room. Large kitchen,
hardwood floors, and basement w/
washer & dryer. Fully furnished and
parking mcl. Perfect for 3-6 people!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE. Furnished, 2
baths, free laundry, large porch, free
parking w/garage, great location. 702
Arch St. May 2011. $3350. 734-426-
4772, Jim at Spring Valley Farm.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1007 S. State. Furnished,
free laundry, free parking.
$4300/month. Call 734-678-6122
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber, 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished $3500 248-798-4755
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3800 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1bath,
parkinig, laundry, $2166/month. Avail
Full 2611. dklemptmer@comcasl.oel
920 DEWEY - A Large 5-bd house
inel a finished antic and a full base-
ment! A short bike ride to central cam-
pus. Large living room w/fireplace and
a 42" flatscreen TV! Huge yard and
plenty of parking!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.' 11l&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkgheat,&H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL 2011. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. For more information-
Call 610-952-5269 or Email
louisbreskman@yahoo.com.

FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour. We are now taking
Reservations. For best selection come
in today, we sold out early last year.
Don't miss out on the Best of Central
Campus! We have Rooms, Studios, 1,
2 & 3 bedroom furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2011. Call us Today at
734-761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit us at: www.UniversityTowers-MI.-
com
MAY 2011 HOUSES available 8 bed.
720 Arbor $4800, 6 bed. 417 N. Thayer
$3600, 4 bed. 505 Sauer Court $2340,
enanis pay all utilities call Cappo
Deimco 734-996-1991
MAY AVAILABILITY 6 bedroom
$3275 rooms $66. 71 Catherine
(near kerryown) 734-777-3687
NEWER 6 BD RMS FURNISHED
Aps AVAILABLE, walk to CEN-
TRAL CAMPUS. For VIRTUAL
TOUR and INFO call 734-418-2050 or
log on www.828greeneapts.com
NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR FALL 2011
Studio apartments to large houses,
all in prime locations.
Check out our full list at
Campusrealy.com
734-665-8825
!NOW RESERVING FOR FALL
2011! 1 & 2 bedroom apartments. 3
bedroom house on Church. C & I Man-
agement, LLC. Call Patty 734-320-1245
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail
May. Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerryown avail July. Large modem
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.aarborapartments.net
1109 S. STATE St.- 5-bedroom house
across from IM building. Very large
bedrooms can be used as doubles. Fully
furnished, 2 N baths, and a basement
w/free washer & dryer! Hardwood
floors & a large kitchen w/dishwasher,
Huge backyard w/lots of parking!
734-668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
FALL 2011 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 So. Fourth Ave, furn, dwshr, dis-
posal, launrdy, parking, central A/C,
high speed internet, hardwood floors,
alarm system, heat and water included.
734-662-7121 or gpniiles@aol.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
166% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
FALL 2011
Huge house in prime locations!
6 Bdrms, 3 studies, 3 1/2 baths
$4899/mtonh
7346658825
www.campusrealty.com
PERSONALASSISTANT NEEDED.
Iw currently looking to employ a Part
time assistant whom would work
for me from home. You would be re-
quired to do some bookkeeping for me.
I'll have my mail diverted to your home
as some would need immediate
attention. Its attract good pay $500 per
week. Interested should EMAIL
cdcrossOl2@gmai.com
SCOREKEEPER'S SPORTS
GRILL & PUB now hiring individuals
for our kitchen staff and office staff.
Apply in person at 310 Maynard, Ann
Arbor. 734-995-0100.

FALL 2011 RENTAL home located
on State StJAthletic Campus. First
time available in three years! 6 bed., I
study, 2 full baths, furnished, ample
parking. Contact Matt (248)535-1070.
FALL 2011. 5-8 bdrm. houses. Walk
to campus. Also 3 bdrm. apts. on East
U. Peppers Properties. 810-231-0229.
www.umcampushousing.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SERVICES s
EDITING: Language, Organization
Format, Pre-Press Packaging. 734-996- '
0566 or writeon@iserv.net
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDINGM $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
15 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS for 2-3
month temporary work for persons
bilingual in Spanish and English for
customer service call center. $10/hr.
Send resume to jeanw@mastersonper-
sonnel.com
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
CHILDCARE
ANN ARBOR FAMILY, 1 mi. from
UM campus, looking for kind, fun,
compassionate female stud. to drive 13
yr. old daughter to Tappan M.S. in am.
Must have good references & a car.
Please Call 734-665-1651.

1


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 1, 2010 - 7A

Credit Suisse Summer Analyst Presentation
Wednesday, November 3, 2010
6:30pm at Ross Colloquium
All majors and class years are invited to attend.

credit-suisse.com/careers



8A - Monday, November 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MUSIC COLUMN
Someone to sing for

ne of the last things I did with my
mother was enjoy some music. Sitting
next to her whirring, plastic hospital
bed, I picked up her iPod and some portable
speakers borrowed from
my uncle and decided to
play a little game. I asked
her if she would play and
she nodded in agreement. I
played "God Only Knows"
and waited for a few sec-
onds, asking her, "Who
is this?" After a pause, J
she looked at me and over JOE
me, and her face slowly DIMUZIO
hosted a smile. "The Beach
Boys," she whispered.
From there I continued, from Reba McEntire
to The Beatles, strolling through her music,
the music she had given me. A few times she
couldn't remember the artist or repeated the
previous answer. Sometimes she didn't listen.
I played less than a minute of each song, hop-
ing she would answer, but in the end I didn't
care whether she got it right. Ijust wanted to
listen to all of those songs with her, all the way
through, all night.
A little over a year ago, Andrea was diag-
nosed with colon cancer. She underwent two
waves of chemo, afalse "all-clear" fromthe
doctors and months of stress. After learning
the chemo was ineffective and the that cancer
had metastasized into her chest and lymph
nodes, she stopped working and had to be
hospitalized. She passed away late last week
in Providence Hospital in Southfield, the same
hospital at which she spent most of her work-
ing life.
In her last week, all my family could do was
keep things comfortable. She had undergone
weeks of pain, medication and optimistic
return-home dates. She lost her voice, her
appetite and much of her ability to communi-
cate with us. Every day was different and every
day was tough.
During the month I spent visiting her, it
hurt seeing her change drastically from week
to week. Each visit seemed years apart. Last
night, I was clearing out my phone's voice mail,
and the last message left was from her, with an
upbeat voice, wondering where I was, what I
was up to, when I was coming to see her again.
When I realized the worst thingI could do
was visit her and sob, I focused on celebrat-
ing what she's done for me and all of the great
many things she was. She gave me big things:
time, money, love, life ... and little things, too.
Of all those things, the one I think of most
often is music.
I have both blurry and pristine memories
of dancing to The Immaculate Collection on
Sundays, as she cleaned windows, sang along,
dancing with my sister and me as we turned

Madonna's "Material Girl" into "Cheerio Girl."
I remember beingstrapped in a car seat on long
drives set to Les Misdrables and Phantom Of
the Opera cassettes. Jazz on WDET. The occa-
sional classical. Motown. Being terrified and
aroused by the red nails and lips on the ecstatic
chick on the cover of The Cars' first album.
Watching her stumble through old Oscar &
Hammerstein sheets, Christmas standards and
songs I have forgotten on the piano. Learning
to live with Reba and Andrea Bocelli.
Looking back, she gave me more than just a
variety of music - she gave me her love for it.
Music has always been a part of our house, and
all different kinds of it. My father keeps pretty
close to the rock realms of the late '60s and
'70s, but my mom was schizophrenic in com-
parison. Even better, she was unashamed of her
tastes. There were no obstacles when it came to
music. It was simple. She enjoyed it, she loved it
and she lived, breathed and gave it all to me and
everyone she ever met.
A musical note
to my mother.
One of the last times I could talk to my
mother, she asked me to sing a song for her.
I sing now and have since high school, but
this was the hardest request I had ever been
faced with. My sister and I were definitely
too fragile to carry a tune at the time, and
we had no idea what to sing. In minutes, she
drifted off the subject and into sleep. Inside I
felt terrible, torn apart, and I wanted desper-
ately to do what I have done for her so many
times before. There were so many songs I
could have sung and so many memories that
raced through my head. I could have chosen
anything ... but no song would have been good
enough.
In her last week, my mother said many
things that didn't make sense. They were
observations, questions, indecipherable repeat-
ed phrases. Once, she repeatedly whispered,
"Will you write me a letter?" I crumbled. Years
ago, I wrote her a letter I had planned to deliver
to her in that last week, when we knew she
wouldn't leave that whirring, plastic bed. By
that time, it wastoo late. She could never read
it, and I never got the chance to read it to her.
But I've come to realize I still have plenty of
time to write and send her letters. I consider
this the first of many. And that song? All those
songs? Every one I sing now is for her. Why else
would I be singing?
Dimuzio can be reached
at shonenjoaumich.edu.

FILM TAX
From Page 6A
revenue brought to the private sector
through film crews coming to Michigan
presents financial drawbacks for the
state.
"While the private sector receives a
positive net benefit, the State faces a neg-
ative net benefit in that the 'feedback' in
additional tax revenue from all of those
hotels, rental cars, lumber yards, florists,
etc. does not exceed the cost of the tax
credits," the report states. "The loss to
the State exceeds the gain to the private
sector. Using the figures from the 2008
Annual Report, the State spent $43.6
million to generate $25.3 million in pri-
vate sector benefit."
The report acknowledges the diffi-
culty of accurately assessing the merits
of film programs like Michigan's. It lists
some of the specific obstacles in analyz-
ing such incentive programs, pointing
out both the "confounding circumstanc-
es" that can come up in observations
outside of a laboratory setting, and that
some effects of the incentives, includ-
ing prestige for the state, are not always
observable or measurable.
Switalski and Cassis are co-sponsor-
ing a bill that would limit the expendi-
tures of the program. As an alternative
to the production of blockbuster films
like Clint Eastwood's "Gran Torino,"
Switalski expressed a desire to see more
emphasis placed on small-scale films
that he believes will establish in-state
independent production houses and,
with them, the more permanent jobs
that Michigan needs.
"The only reason people are coming
here is the incentives; it's not building
a permanent industry here. Clint East-
wood comes in for a big movie, and it
makes everybody feel good, but in terms
of economics it doesn't really do any
good," Switalski said. "Those are exactly
the types of films that bring in their own
crews from outside the state. If you've
got a small film production, you're far
more likely to hire locally."
But the incentive program also has
some compelling support. Those with a
vested interest in the survival of the pro-
gram have become increasingly vocal
in opposing any interference with its
operation. Jim Burnstein, screenwriting
coordinator in the University's Screen
Arts & Cultures department, believes
that critics of the tax rebates simply
aren't seeing the whole picture when it
comes to the financial benefits the pro-
gram offers and the auxiliary industries
it pays into.
"We can go right down the line: trash-
hauling companies, security guards,
caterers, travel agencies. In 2009 alone,

there were 20,000 hotel room nights
booked by filmmakers," Burnstein said.
"Peoples' imaginations are too limited."
Burnstein faults the by-the-num-
hers approach adopted by critics of the
incentive program for only counting the
full-time jobs as viable. Even in the film
industry, he argues, part-time jobs exist
for Michigan residents with payouts
that render full-time work unnecessary.
"How is film-related employment
any different than construction work?
After a guy finishes building your
house, he's going to move on to the next
available job. The only difference here
is that the film jobs pay much more
highly," Burnstein said.
University alum Chris Farah, direc-
tor of the locally made film "Answer
This!" - which recently held its Ann
Arbor premiere on campus accompa-
nied by widespread grassroots pub-
licity - is a prime example of a local
resident who has reaped the benefits
offered by the incentives. An adamant
supporter of the incentive program, he
said many of its benefits are not neces-
sarily economic.
"Anybody that thinks that the incen-
tive program should be generating
more tax revenue than what it's paying
out never understood the program in
the first place," Farah said. "The pro-
gram exists on one hand to stimulate
the economy in the short-term, but
also to create a long-term, sustainable
industry with a strong infrastructure
that won't require a 43-cent on-the-
dollar return to entice out-of-state pro-
duction companies."
Burnstein echoed Farah's sentiment
by explaining how the incentive works
to keep young talent in the state.
"Movies, television production and
video games are 'cool,' and they attract
other young people to stick around in
Michigan, even if they aren't directly

related with the entertainment indus-
try," Burnstein said. "This state is not
going to stop producing talent, and the
most important infrastructure we can
build to forge a better reputation for the
state is an infrastructure of talent."
Many of the biggest names in enter-
tainment grew up in Michigan before
fleeing for greener pastures.
"Robert Shaye (founder of New Line
Cinema), Sam Raimi (director of the
"Spider Man" series), Bobby Kotick
(CEO/founder of Activision Blizzard,
Inc.), Jerry Bruckheimer (prolific TV
and movie producer), all these people
are from Michigan," Bernstein said.
"What if they'd stayed? As a state, you
simply can't afford to lose your creative
class, and there's never been a better
idea for keeping those brilliant minds
in the state than the Michigan film
incentives."
Many financial analysts and media
pundits, including Detroit Free Press
columnist Mitch Albom, have proph-
esied that the incentive program is
doomed if Republican gubernatorial
candidate Snyder is elected tomorrow.
Much of Snyder's argument centers
around his belief that the tax incentives
do not provide for a sustainable indus-
try, but an environment in which out-
of-state production crews exploit our
incentives and proceed to cut-and-run
from the state.
Snyder supports "phasing out" the
incentives well before the end of the
five-year period that Burnstein and
Farah believe to be most crucial to
the state film industry's survival. And
with a likely win by Snyder tomorrow,
the Michigan film tax incentives may
be in jeopardy only three years after
their arrival.
- Daily'Arts Editor Sharon Jacobs
contributed to this report.

"Answer This!" is one of more than!??0 movies produced in Michigan with aid from the incentives.

I

GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN
Wednesday 11/10 - Friday 11/12
& Monday 11/15 - Friday 11/19
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
The sittingfee is just $15!
This price includes your portraitfratured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
, C L Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
YEARBOOK

LOVE THE
MICHIGAN DAILY?
INTERESTED IN
ADVERTISING &
MARKETING?


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com j November 1, 2010

RAPPY

Penn State, 41
Michigan, 31

0

wV

Slide continues as
'M' falls to Lions

Blue struggles with
third-down stops

ByJOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Editor
STATE COLLEGE - On Michigan's
first possession of its 41-31 loss to Penn
State in Happy Valley, the Wolverine
offense went three-and-out.
And with the way Michigan's defense
has played this year, that may as well
have been the game. The defense allowed
435 total yards to the Nittany Lions (2-2
Big Ten, 5-3 overall), paving the way for
senior running back Evan Royster to run
for 150 yards and two touchdowns. Mat-
thew McGloin, Penn State's third-string
quarterback who was playing because
of injuries to starting quarterback Rob-
ert Bolden and backup Kevin Newsome,
passed for 250 yards and a touchdown.
McGloin kept it simple, completing
mostly screen passes and short crossing
routes that went for big yardage because
players in Michigan's secondary were
caught out of position.
"I know they executed well," Michi-
gan coach Rich Rodriguez said after the
game. "It didn't seem like we did a real
good job of getting off blocks, we missed
some tackles."
The coaching staff made some chang-
es in the secondary, including playing
freshman Ray Vinopal at safety and
moving redshirt freshman Cam Gordon
to the spur position.

But whatever changes were made
didn't make much difference in the end
result. Michigan's defense was just too
young and too inexperienced.
"We've got a few upperclassmen that
are really trying as hard as they can
defensively, and sometimes our youth
gets picked on somewhat, but our young
guys gotta grow up in a hurry," Rodri-
guez said.
Penn State scored on its first posses-
sion, running Royster straight to the
end zone for the game's first touchdown.
Michigan (1-3, 5-3) answered, capping
a nine-play drive with a 32-yard touch-
down run from sophomore quarterback
Denard Robinson. Robinson looked to
be the healthiest he's been in weeks run-
ning the ball, but the coaches said his
shoulder was still bothering him a bit.
Near the end of the first quarter, Rob-
inson was knocked out of the game brief-
ly when he hurt his hip getting tackled
out-of-bounds. Sophomore quarterback
Tate Forcier entered the game for the
remainder of the drive, which ended in
a pooch punt.
The Nittany Lions made some big
plays and Royster finished with a one-
yard touchdown run to put Penn State up
14-7 at the end of the first quarter. Michi-
gan's defense forced its first punt in the
second quarter and the Wolverines came
See HAPPY VALLEY, Page 3B

By TIM ROHAN
Daily SportsEditor
STATE COLLEGE - On the eve
of Halloween, the Michigan defense
looked like it was cursed on third down.
Penn State, led by a former walk-on at
quarterback in Matt McGloin, convert-
ed 10-of-16 chances on the all-important
down. But the Wolverines had a chance
to jump out to a strong start after forcing
a quick 3rd-and-10 on the Nittany Lions'
first drive.
McGloin dropped back, saw an open-
ing to the left and scrambled away from
sophomore linebacker Kenny Demens
and redshirt junior defensive lineman
Ryan Van Bergen for an 11-yard gain and
a first down.
Penn State converted two more third
downs on that drive before taking a 7-0
lead.
"Obviously as a defense you want to
get stops and get three-and-outs and get
off the field," senior linebacker Jonas
Mouton said after the game. "It's just
mistakes, man. You've got to clean up
the little things, keep working."
The Wolverines' defense ranks 95th
nationally on third-down conversions,
and Michigan is No. 106 in total defense.
Penn State's success on third down
was no fluke, though. Iowa moved the
chains at a 54-percent rate on third
down and Indiana was even higher at 58

percent. But, in contrast, Michigan State
converted just four of its 13 chances
against the Wolverines
Michigan stopped the Nittany Lions
just once in the first half and allowed
28 points, which tied with Youngstown
State for the most allowed to Penn State
in a half all season.
The Wolverines could be kicking
themselves for allowing three third-
down conversions of seven yards of
more on drives that resulted in 17 Penn
State points. And Michigan allowed
a total of 71 yards combined on those
three long plays.
The backbreaker was the touchdown
the Wolverines allowed on the Nittany
Lions' last possession before the half. A
booted kickoff started Michigan inside
its own five-yard line and the Wolver-
ines' ensuing three-and-out gave Penn
State great field position,
At the time, Michigan trailed just
21-10 and needed a stop in the worst
way. After a 17-yard screen pass, the
Wolverines defense answered the call
once again on first and second downs.
But McGloin continued his third-
down heroics and hit senior wide receiv-
er Graham Zug for a 20-yard touchdown
in front of newly minted starting safety
Ray
"We just have to play harder some-
times," Vinopal said. "We can't slip up
See DEFENSE, Page 3B

ICE HOCKEY
Icers rebound after shootout defeat

By CASANDRA PAGNI
DailySports Writer
In a home-and-home series
with CCHA opponent Ferris
State, Michigan continued its
trend of
getting MICHIGAN 2
out-hus- FERRIS STATE 2
tled in
the first FERRIS STATE 2
game MICHIGAN 3
of the
series before tightening up its
mechanics, cranking up its inten-
sity, and flat-out finding ways to
score in game two.
The Wolverines' past four
games have been a rollercoaster
- and thanks to junior forward

David Wohlberg, they didn't
spare any dramatics this week-
end.
Michigan earned a 2-2 tie with
a shootout loss in Big Rapids Fri-
day before returning to Yost to
win Saturday, 3-2. But through-
out the Wolverines' recent iden-
tity crisis, Wohlberg has emerged
as a consistent, end-to-end player
this season.
He followed up his goal just
eight seconds into the first period
last weekend - the fastest goal in
recorded Michigan history - by
this time scoring the tying goal
with just 13 seconds left in regu-
lation against Ferris State to force
overtime.
The Bulldogs were ready to

defend their home ice Friday
night and dominated the Wol-
verines from the get-go. While
Ferris State didn't score its first
goal until eight minutes into the
second period, Michigan (3-0-1-
0 CCHA, 4-1-3 overall) couldn't
get anything going offensively
and was out-shot 11-3 in the first
period.
Ferris State led by two half-
way through the third period
due to the Wolverines' comsbina-
tion of sloppy passing and dif-
ficulty keeping the puck in the
Ferris State zone. After seven
unsuccessful power plays, during
which Michigan managed to get
just five shots, the pressure was
on for senior netminder Shawn

Hunwick.
But when freshman forward
Jacob Fallon netted the firstlamp-
lighter of his career to get Michi-
gan on the board, the Wolverines
woke up. The goal wasn't pretty
by any means - his shot from the
left side barely slid underneath
Ferris State's senior netminder
Pat Nagle - but it went in, cutting
the Bulldog lead in half.
With Hunwick pulled from
the net, Wohlberg's goal with 13
seconds left in the third period
forced overtime -- and finally
gave the Wolverines a pulse.
"(The puck) was bouncing
around a ton," Wohlberg said
after Friday's game. "I went in
See SHOOTOUT, Page 3B

MEN'S SOCCER
Michigan beats Spartans,
takes back Big Bear Trophy
By JAMES BLUM Big Ten, 11-5-0 overall) is just Mich-
Daily Sports Writer igan's second win in the trophy's
10-year history (2-7-1) and the first
The Big Bear Trophy, which has in seven years.
gone to the winner of the Michigan- The Wolverines (3-2-0 Big Ten,
Michigan 10-4-3 overall) entered Senior Day
State rival- MICHIGAN STATE 2 after coming off an offensive explo-
ry in men's MICHIGAN 3 sion against the Falcons, which
soccer carried into their final home game
since Michigan coach Steve Burns against Michigan State on Satur-
introduced it 10 years ago, epito- day. With their NCAA Tournament
mizes the physical play between hopes on the bubble, the Wolverines
these two in-state foes. But it was a needed a win against the Spartans,
little finesse that led the Wolverines who rank fifth in RPL The Wolver-
to claim the honor on Saturday in ines came into this contest at 42nd,
Ann Arbor. and the top-48 teams get into the
The 3-2 overtime victory against tournament, making the game a
the 23rd-ranked Spartans (2-4-0 See BIG BEAR, Page 3B


THIRD-STRING HERO
There were plenty of doubts about Penn
State walk-on quarterback Matt McGloin,
who promptly destroyed the Michigan
defense in Happy Valley. Page 3B

GLASS HALF FULL
In his SportsMonday Column, Daily Sports
Editor Ryan Kartje looks at the rest of the
Michigan sports year and tells fans to keep
their heads up. Kind of. Page 2B

A


2B- November ,2010
Keep a smile on and your glass
halffull, Michigan fans


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Pair of top-10 runs*
puts Wolverines in
eighth at Big Tens

or the last few years, I've
watched my predecessors
write this colunii and
gripe at some time or another
about how bad Michigan sports
were during their time as the
Daily's Sports-
Monday col-
umnist.
And in some
ways, I sym-
pathize with
them. Sports at
the University,
especially the
three major RYAN
revenue sports KARTJE
- football,
basketball
and hockey - haven't lived up
to many expectations in my four
years in Ann Arbor.
But I'm here to provide a shin-
ing ray of hope, a reason to be
optimistic, a reason Michigan's
cup is half full. Because nobody
likes a downer, right?
So you aren't happy with the
football team's recent loss at
Penn State, I'm guessing. So let's
talk about something else. in
case you didn't know, basketball
season starts back up again this
weekend!
And I may be going out on a
limb here, but I'm going to say
tht Michigan has a winning
record after this weekend.
But you never know, those
Cardinals from Saginaw Valley
State really know how to play
ball. If they win, they'll be the
first of the three major sports
to finish a week above .500 in
three weeks, so that's good news,
right?
That is, ofcourse, only if you
count exhibitions as real games.
But hey, why not?,
The Wolverines should really
be able to score this year, now
that DeSbawn Sims and Manny
Harris are gone. Clearly, they
just hogged the ball away from
the Wolverines' real scorers,

Michigan basketball coach John Beilein g
team opens its season this Friday with anE
especially in the paint, where the
team is loaded with experience
in Jordan Morgan, Blake McLi-
mans and Evan Smotrycz - com-
bining for zero starts.
But hey, you hear zero starts, I
hear fresh legs.
See! Glass half

rimaces from the bench during a game agair
exhibition matchup against Saginaw Valley S
guaranteed to win half of the
games every weekend, so that's
better than watching the football
team lately.
Neither of those teams will
replace your beloved football
team though, will they? Well, I
can't blame

st Penn State last year.
:ate at home.

eOND/Daly
:etball I

full!
And that's not
even counting I have a sweet spot
Tim Hardaway,.
who might be for watching high-
little ruste since --1
his time in the scoring games with
NBA but... o defense
Oh, it's Tim too.
Hardaway
Junior you say?
Well ... LIInMm ... like
father, like son, right? friend Coop in Nt
Anyway, if you want a little pay for student tii
more certainty in your life, I Big House. Trust
suggest you head down to Yost wicked on a QB1 S
for a weekend matchup to watch Denard.
goaltender Bryan Hogan...errr... But I still have
Shawn Hunwick...errr...someone Wolverines. After
anchor the Wolverines from their best playerg
between the pipes. Plus, they're in every single ga

you. I have
a sweet spot
in my heart
for watching
high-scoring
games with no
defense, too. It
just happens
to be a whole
lot cheaper to
watch myself
dominate my
CAA 2011 than
ckets at the
me, I'm pretty
weep with

ing long stretches where Michi-
gan fans are forced to hold their
breath and pray.
It's not like Rodriguez basi-
cally admitted his secondary's
incompetence after the Penn
State game and justified it
because six months ago, half of
them were in high school.
And it's not like the team is
looking at a bowl as embarrass-
ing as the Little Caesars Pizza,
Pizza Bowl where Marshall beat
Ohio in a barnburner last year.
Either way, they'll probably play
a MAC team if they make it to
Detroit, and that's always gone
well, right? So no need to worry.
See! Put a smile on! All will
be well! The grass is always
greener!
You know, I don't know why
the guys before me were such
downers. This glass half full
thing is a piece of cake.

By EMILY BONCHI
Daily Sports Writer
After two Michigan men's
cross country team members
finished in the top 10, it looked
like the Wolverines would repeat
history and take a high position
at this year's Big Ten Champion-
ships. In the past 20 years, Mich-
igan has placed outside of the top
two just six times.
The youth of Michigan's
three-to-five slot runners proved
too much, however, as the next
Wolverine to cross the finish line
came more than a minute later -
in 53rd place.
The Wolverines took eighth
place on Sunday at the Big Ten
Championships in Madison, fin-
ishing with a score of 185. Wis-
consin took the number-one spot
for the 12th consecutive year.
"The execution on race day is
really where our big improve-
ment is going to have to come,"
Michigan coach Alex Gibby said
after the race. "We've got some
guys running hard, certainly, but
they're not racing and there's a
little bit of a difference there."
Junior Bobby Aprill set the
pace for the Wolverines for the
second time this season, previ-
ously crossing the line first for
Michigan at the NCAA Pre-.
Nationals on Oct. 16. Aprill fin-
ished with a time of 23:50.9,
earning him seventh place in
Madison. It was a personal best
in the 8,000-meter event, shav-
ing 32 seconds off his previous
time.
"Over the past few weeks you
could see him taking a step for-
ward physically," Gibby said of
Aprill. "And now he's starting to
form mentally at the level he's
been training at, in a competitive
sense."
Redshirt junior Craig Forys
crossed the finish line just seven
seconds after Aprill, captur-
ing the final slot in the top 10

with a time of 23:57.6. It was the
12th time that Forys finished in
the top 15 during his collegiate
career at Michigan.
"Bobby and Craig were tre-
mendous; they really did a very
good job," Gibby said. "Bobby
earned his first All-Big Ten hon-
ors, and Craig, after a layoff last
year due to -injury, was able to
return to form."
The Wolverines could not
keep up their fast pace as several
other schools pulled ahead with
numerous finishes over the next
minute.
The next two Michigan run-
ners to finish took 53rd and 55th
place. Freshman Sean Bone fin-
ished with a time of 25:02, and
freshman Morsi Rayyan fol-
lowed him in shortly thereafter,
finishing in 25:07.
"We had good races out of Sean
Bone and Morsi Rayyan, who
are two walk-on freshmen, but
they're just not ready yet to be at
that Big Ten level," Gibby said,
"We just need to get a lot better
production out of our sophomore
class right now. They're not com-
peting at a level that will help us
move forward."
Michigan boasts a young team,
and Gibby said that though the
freshmen will be much better in
the future, the Wolverines are
currently going through some
growing pains.
"What I see as the key to our
success at the regional level are
the performances by sophomores
like Derek Henning, Zach Orne-
las and Dallas Bowden," Gibby
said. "In practice, they're run-
ning respectably close to what
Craig has been doing and pretty
close to what Bobby's been doing.
The racing results just haven't
reflected it yet."
The Wolverines will take next
weekend off as they prepare for
the NCAA Great Lakes Regional
in Rochester, Michigan on Nov.
13.


hope for the
all, it's not like -Kartje drank his half-full glass
gets banged up this weekend in State College. He
me, often miss- can be reached rkartje@umich.edu.

Blue impresses
in Madison as Big
Ten runner-up

Led by Tauro, five
Michigan runners
finish in top 30
By EMILY BONCHI
Daily Sports Writer
Prior to Sunday's 6,000-meter
race in Madison, senior Dani-
elle Tauro had set the pace for
the Wolverines in all five of her
appearances this season.
The Big. Ten Championships
proved to be no different, as
Tauro was the first Michigan
women's cross country team
member to cross the finish line,
clinching fourth place with a
personal-best time of 20:20.1.
"This was her highest perfor-
mance ever in a Big Ten cham-
pionship," Michigan coach Mike
McGuire said after the race. "Our
goal going in was that we felt she
could be in the top five, so she
achieved that goal. She's led the
team across the line, but she's
also led the team in a lot of other
things.
" I think her best running is
still ahead of her."
No. 21 Michigan had five
runners finish in the top-30,
capturing second place in the
conference. The Wolverines
earned a season-best 88 points -
just 14 shy of Big Ten champion
Michigan State.
"We're back knocking on the
door," McGuire said. "Obviously
there's a degree of disappoint-
ment in not winning the cham-
pionship, but there's not any
disappointment in the effort we
put forth."
Tauro was not the only one
responsible for the Wolverines'
runner-up finish, as Michigan's
next four runners finished with-
in 43 seconds of her time.
Sophomore Jillian Smith
clinched 12th place with a time
of 20:44.0, just three seconds shy
of her personal-best time in the
6,000-meter event.
"I also felt we got a really good
race from Jill and (sophomore)

Becca (Addison)," McGuire said.
"Jill was 38th last year as a fresh-
man and 12th this year as a soph-
omore, and Becca moved up a few
spots as well. I actually think the
depth of the field is better this
year, looking at the quality of the
athletes in the field. We're going
in the right direction."
Smith joined Tauro in earning
All-Big Ten Second Team honors.
Addison was the third Wol-
verine to cross the finish line,
securing 18th place with a time
of 20:52.5.
Redshirt junior Kaitlyn Peale,
a former All-Big Ten performer
from last season, captured 26th
place with a time of 21:00.1. This
was Peale's first race since Oct. 2,
as she missed the past two meets
due to injury.
"I think her
best running
is still ahead
of her."
"That's about what I thought
we were going to get from Kait-
lyn," McGuire said of her return..
"She's been running, but she's
been doing a different type
of running on an anti-gravity
treadmill, and it's just not the
same. She competed hard and
we wouldn't have gotten second
without her.
"If we can merge her back into
the group a little bit more over
the last two championship races,
I think we'll continue to get bet-
ter."
Sophomore Kaitlyn Patterson
rounded out Michigan's scoring
for the race, coming in 28th place
with a time of 21:03.3.
Michigan will take a two-
week hiatus before carrying on
with postseason competition on
Nov. 13 at the NCAA Great Lakes
Regional in Rochester, Michigan.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 1, 2010 - 3B

GAME STATISTICS

Walk-on McGloin dismantles 'M' defense

Team Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
Offensive Plays
Total Offense
Kk retrns/ Yds
Punt returns/Yds
Comp/Att/Int
Putts/Ag
rumbles/Lost
Penalties/Yards
Time of Poss
PASSING
Player
Robinson, D.
Forcier, T.
Total
RUSHING
Player
Hopkins
Shaw
Totals
RECEIVING
Player
Roundtree
Grady
Koger
Hemngway
stonum
Totals
PUNTING
Player
Playt
Totas I
Broekhuizen
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player
Robinson, T.
Gadon
Totalsd
PUNT RETURNS
Paer
Totalsg
TAKLES
Dermens
Mouton
Van Bergen
Vinopal
sagesse
Gordon, C.
Roh
Gordon, T.
Rogers
Avery
Simmeons
Pomarco
Herro
Ezeh
Totas

MICH
19
42/233
190
67
423
6/147
2/12
11/25/0
3/390
3/A
5/55
22:31
M I C H I G A N
C-A Yds
11-23 190
0-2 0
112s 190

PSU
27
46/185
250
74
435
5/115
2/29
17/28/0
2/49.0
1/A
1/15
37:29

TD
1
0
1

Att
5
1
42
No.
3
2
12
1
11

Yds
191
24
14
4
233
Yds
15
36
36
60
21
15
7
190

Avg
2.8
4.0
5.5
Avg
50
18.0
60.0
70
17.2

Lg
5
4
32
Lg
6,9
19
60
60

Int
0
0
0
TD
3
0
0
0
3
TD
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1

By NICOLE AUERBACH we're not going to be able to move
Daily Sports Writer the ball today? I think we moved it
pretty good."
STATE COLLEGE - ESPN Pretty good may be an under-
analyst Kirk Herbstreit was just statement.
one of many. The Nittany Lions posted 435
Doubters predicted that Penn yards of total offense, making it
State, led by the fifth time this season the Wol-
former walk-on NOTEBOOK verine defense has given up more
Matt McGloin, than 400 total yards.
would have trouble moving the "As a quarterback, you have
ball against Michigan. to take what the defense gives
Herbstreit emphasized that you, and I think I did that well
point Saturday morning on tonight," McGloin said.
ESPN's College Gameday, which McGloin said Michigan did a
must have irritated the redshirt few things differently from what
sophomore. he had seen on film last week, but
His response? McGloin com- he felt prepared for the Wolverine
pleted 17 of 28 pass attempts for defense overall.
250 yards and a touchdown. He The quarterback started Sat-
ran for a touchdown, too. urday's game because the Nittany
On the field immediately fol- Lions'regularstarterRob Bolden,
lowing the game, McGloin called was knocked out of last weekend's
out Herbstreit, saying he was game with a concussion. McGloin
"gunning for him," trying to prove is Penn State's third-string quar-
the analyst wrong. terback, but he performed above
"I was a little upset this morn- expectations on Saturday.
lng (when) I watched it," McGloin "When you're playing someone
said after the game. "He says like Michigan, who has someone
Caporusso missed their oppor-
SHOOTOUT tunities, the Wolverines left Big
From Page 1I B Rapids with mixed emotions after
droppingthe shootout, 2-0.
and I stopped and I thought I was "It was a victory in a sense for
going to kick it in. I know the rule us in the third period," Michigan
is you can stop as long as you don't coach Red Berenson said after
do a kicking motion. ButI guess it Friday's game. "We got down two
ended up hitting the goalie, com- goals and we really needed a goal
ing back out and I hit it with my and we got it. That goal gave us
stick (for the goal). It was too fast, a life and I don't even know how
I didn't even realize it." that goal went in. And then the
Riding Wolhberg's fifth goal of last-minute goal with the goalie
the season, Michigan outshot Fer- out that doesn't always work, but
ris State 4-1 in overtime but still it worked .. This is a tough build-
couldn't find a way past Nagle, ing to win in. We have a winning
forcing the Wolverines' first record in here, but when you
shootout of the season. think about the last few games
Ferris State took a 1-0 lead in we've played in here we've been
the shootout and when senior on our heels and again we were
forwards Carl Hagelin and Louie tonight."

like Denard Robinson, the object
of the game is to keep him off the
field," McGloin said.
ROYSTER'S RECORD DAY: On
the second play of Penn State's
first possession Saturday night,
Nittany Lion senior running back
Evan Royster dashed for 20 yards.
On that play, Royster became
Penn State's all-time leadingrush-
er. He ended the night with 3,518
yards, breaking Curt Warner's
mark of 3,398 yards, which had
stood since1982.
Royster's 150 yards and two
touchdowns on the ground com-
plemented McGloin's passing
attack well, making it easy for the
Nittany Lions to build up an early
lead against the Wolverines.
"Evan had a great night, con-
gratulations to him," McGloin
said. "He really had a breakout
game. That really set up the pass-
es downfield. We went play action
a lot tonight. Because of Evan's
running, we were able to do that."
Even longtime Penn State
coach Joe Paterno, who has seen
Just like last weekend against
Nebraska-Omaha, the Wolver-
ines showed up with a heightened
sense of urgency on Saturday
night. In the series finale, Michi-
gan jumped out to an early two-
goal lead in the first period at
home with goals by senior for-
ward Scooter Vaughan and soph-
omore forward Kevin Lynch.
Vaughan's goal was his fifth
of the season and ties him for
the team-lead with Wohlberg.
Lynch's tally was his third and
was the only power play goal for
the Wolverines this weekend, as
the Michigan power play went
1-for-17 on the weekend.
But unlike last Saturday's
commanding 6-1 victory over
Nebraska-Omaha, the Wolverines

plenty of running backs in blue
and white over the years, had
praise for Royster.
"That's the best he's played,"
Paterno said. "He's a good back,
a good solid back. But he's like all
of them - he needs some running
room. I think he got some today,
and he took advantage of it." -
HAGERUP KICKING?: Redshirt
freshman kicker Seth Broekhui-
zen kicked off to Penn State after
Michigan's first touchdown of the
game, but the rest of the game,
true freshman punter Will Hag-
erup assumed all Wolverine kick-
off duties.
"Seth is struggling with that a
little bit, and we practiced.(Hag-
erup) quite a bit this week and he
was doing pretty good," Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez said after
the game. "He kicked pretty well
today."
Hagerup said he was told prior
to Michigan's second kickoff that
the responsibility would be his.
He said though he practiced dur-
ing the week, he had "no idea"

whether he'd actually handle a
kickoff.
"I think I did alright," Hagerup
said. "It's like anything. I've been
practicing a lot this year, You're
going to be rusty, but I can defi-
nitely get better at it."
Hagerup said he expects to
compete for the job this week in
practice,
INJURY NOTES: Nose tackle
Mike Martin injured his right
ankle two weeks ago against
Iowa, and in the first half Satur-
day, lie hurt his left one.
"That's a blow because Mike
makes a difference when he's in
there," Rodriguez said.
Martin told the Daily he would
"be okay."
Cornerback J.T. Floyd, whom
Rodriguez said suffered a stinger,
left and re-entered the game.
Rodriguez also said Robinson's
shoulder, which has been banged
up in recent weeks, is still not
100 percent healthy. When asked
about it, Robinson said he felt
good.

No. Yds Avg Pg
3 117 39.0 55
FG Pdt. L XP
1-1 100.0 37 4
1.1 100.0 37 4

Pts

No. Yds
1 23
5 124
11 127
No. Yds
2 12
2 12

Avg Lg TD
23.0 23 0
24.8 47 0
23.9 47 0
120 9 0

let Fei
Bulldc
of the
S
ii
three
perio
center
Tht
two-g

rris State hang around. The ward Carl Hagelin tipped a shot
ogs scored their first goal on the net that hit a Ferris State
game on a power play just defender's leg and bounced in.
Hagelin's score was his third
of the season and proved to be the
game-winner. Michigan finished
"It was a the weekend with four points, but
as the Wolverines look ahead to
victory in a their upcoming road trip to take
on Alaska-Fairbanks, Berenson
iense for us knows that his team needs to
th r." strive for a more consistent effort
n the third." night in and night out.
"Even when we had it 3-1,
sure enough, they got back in the
game," Berenson said. "It was a
minutes into the second close-checking game. We were
I on a point-blank shot from just talking about it in the locker
-Travis Ouellette. room. This is what we have to
e Wolverines regained their expect every night this year, in
Pal lead when senior for- this league, and with this team."

Solo Asst T<
5 7 1
4 2 1
2 9
4 3
2 4
1 5
3 0
2 1
1 2
.1 2
0 3
2 0
2 0
1 1
1 1
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
0 1
0 1
35 42 7
P E N N S T A T E

Tot
12
12
6
6
3
3
3
3
23
2
1
1
1
1a


PASSING
Playet C-A Ydg Ta n
Totals 19-26 287 1 0
RUSHING
Player Att Yds Avg Lg TO
Royster 29 151 5.2 20 2
Redd 6 24 4.0 12 0
McGloin 4 17 1.8 11 1
Smith 1 3 3.0 3 0
Suhey 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 46 208 4.0 20 4
Playet No. Yds Avg Lg TD
Moye 3 72 24.0 40 0
Brackett 3 37 12.3 21 0
Zag 3 32 P06 20 1
Sohsy 3 00 106 17 0
Smith 2 so 25.0 34 0
Brown ' 15 15 0 15 0
Royster 1 7 7.0 7 0
Redd 1 5 5.0 5 0
Totals 17 250 14.7 40 1
PlaNet No. Yds Avg Lg
Fera 2 98 49.0 so
Totals 2 98 49.0 50
KICKING
Player FG Pct. Lg XP Pts
Wagner 2-2 100.0 42 5 11
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player No. Yds Avg Lg TT
Powell 2 51 25.5 30 0
Totals 4 115 21.5 30 0
Playes Solo Asst Tot
Mauti 3 '7 10
Astorino 6 2 8
stil 2 4 6
Lynn 4 1 5
Gbadyo P A S
Agbu 0 0 4
Stupar 3 0 3
Day 3 0 3
Hodgen P 2 3
Rohrbaugh 1 2 3
Massaro 0 2 2
Powell 1 0 1
Terry 0 1 1
Fagano 0 1 1
Totals 36 37 73
. SMARTER
THAN US?
Come to a sports
meeting to prove it.
EMAIL RKARTJE@UMICH.
EDU FOR MORE INFO

DEFENSE
From Page lB
when the game's on the line.
"We get teams in a lot of third
downs and we let them off. If
we make a couple of third-down
plays, then all of a sudden, we're
not such a bad defense."
That defense allowed 250
yards through the air to
McGloin in his first career start
and 150 yards rushing by senior
running back Evan Royster,
who also became Penn State's
all-time leading rusher in the
game.
He had been having some-
what of a down year consider-
ing his success the past two
seasons. Michigan allowed just
his second 100-yard game of the
season - the other was against
Temple.
"I thought that's the best
he's played," Penn State coach
Joe Paterno said of Royster. "I
thought he had a little more
running room. He had a chance
to make some decisions and he
had time to make some deci-
sions because we stayed on
BIG BEAR
From Page 1B
must-win for a Michigan team
that has not made the NCAAs
since 2008.
"It's such a great rivalry,"
Burns said after the game. "We
have the traveling trophy which
.. I don't think there's too many
traveling trophies at the D-I
level, but that's the tip of the ice-
berg. We know each other, we
recruit against each other, we
compete in the Big Ten."
Michigan got off to a hot start
riding the momentum of red-
shirt junior goalkeeper Chris
Blais's first career penalty-kick
save. Shortly after Blais pre-
served the scoreless tie, senior
forward Justin Meram worked
off of a defensive miscue by the
Spartans, chipping it past the

some blocks."
For a defense that was consid-
ered inexperienced and young
at the beginning of the season,
there aren't a lot of choices for
Michigan coach Rich Rodri-
guez to bring in as substitutes
on long drives.
In the second half, the Wol-
verines rebounded to force
Penn State to kick two field
goals and score just 13 points.
But Michigan had dug itself a
hole too big to climb out of. The
Nittany Lions controlled the
clock all game and held the ball
for nearly 15 more minutes than
the Wolverines.
Michigan's defense couldn't
get a stop when it mattered
most.
"It's very frustrating, espe-
cially because we've had trouble
with that all season," Demens
said. "That's just something we
practice in practice and we just
come out during game time and
for some reason we just can't
get off the field.
"We've just got to home in
on our assignments. Just really
focus in. Third and long - get
those receivers. Third and short
- stop the runs."
Spartan goalkeeper inside the
left post to put the Wolverines
up 1-0 late in the first half.
In the second half, the Wol-
verines dominated offensively,
led by the strong play of sopho-
more midfielder Latif Alashe.
Despite starting every game of
his two-year career, Alashe had
yet to net a goal. But after sev-
eral good offensive possessions
for the Northville native, Alashe
fought his way through a Michi-
gan State defender to redirect
senior-midfielder Alex Wood's
cross to the right side of the net.
"It was unbelievable," Alashe
said. "I've been waiting for my
first goal for so long ... Before
every game some of the guys tell
me, 'I think you're going to get
the goal today.' Every day, I go in
with the mentality that today is
goingto be the day."
After Alashe's goal put the

HAPPY VALLEY
From Page lB
back with a 37-yard field goal
from redshirt freshman Seth
Broekhuizen to come within
four.
Penn State widened the gap
considerably when it scored 14
unanswered points to end the
half.
The Wolverines were look-
ing at a 28-10 deficit entering
the break.
"In the seem, Shoe started
to scramble and everyone came
up to defend the run," Koger
said. "Arid he saw me at the last
second and gathered himself
and threw me a perfect pass."
Unfortunately for the Wol-
verines, despite the offense
coming alive, the defense
couldn't get the key stop they
needed to get back in the game.
After being helped by a defen-
sive holding penalty on Michi-
gan, the Nittany Lions scored
on a five-yard run by sopho-
more Michael Zordich.
The offense answered once
again on a sneak by Robinson
after a sustained drive to bring
Wolverines up two, Michigan
couldn't hold off a fierce Spartan
attack, which controlled the ball
and tempo for the rest of regula-
tion.
After missing a penalty kick
earlier in the game, junior Spar-
tan forward Domenic Barone
redeemed himself with a pair of
second-half goals, the second of
which sent the game into over-
time.
With the momentum on
Michigan State's side, the Wol-
verines looked to make a state-
ment early in overtime.
"I was thinking we just need-
ed to settle it down and play our
game," sophomore midfielder
Hamoody Saad said. "They came
up with two goals and changed
the whole game and it seemed
like we were on our back feet, soI
after that, I wanted the team to
settle down."

the Wolverines to within two
touchdowns.
Rodriguez got in the face of
his defense before they went
back on the field after Robin-
son's score.
He knew if the unit got a
stop there, the offense had a
good chance of making it a
one-touchdown gAme.
"We were at the point where
we had a little momentum in
the game and needed a key
stop," Rodriguez said. "And I
was talking to the guys a little
bit."
Whatever he said, it worked.
The defense forced a punt for
the first time since the begin-
ning of the second quarter.
Robinson held up his end of
the bargain, leading the Wol-
verine offense on an 11-play
drive, culminating in a four-
yard touchdown run, the
sophomore's third rushing
touchdown of the game.
"That Robinson kid is a heck
of a football player," Penn State
coach Joe Paterno said after
the game.
Robinson's score brought
the game to within a touch-
down, the Wolverines' smallest

deficit since the first quarter.
But the Nittany Lions took the
field on their next drive and
kicked a field goal, making it a
two-score game once again.
With one last chance to
bring it to within a score,
Michigan went three-and-out
and Penn State ran the clock
out to end the game.
The struggles on defense
overshadowed another impres-
sive performance from Robin-
son, who ended the game with
381 total yards and four touch-
downs.
The loss leaves Michi-
gan with an uphill battle in
the Big Ten and still looking
for answers on defense. But
with most of the mistakes on
defense being attributed to
youth, it appears the unit can
do little but try to grow up in
a hurry.
Either way, Robinson said
the loss won't make the Wol-
verines panic.
"We're a team, we're a fam-
ily," Robinson said. 'You can't
break a family even though
there's going to be some downs
and outs. You don't break a
family."

Michigan seemed to settle more than 35 yards out found
down nicely as solid defense its way between the goalie's
sparked the Wolverine offense. outstretched arms and the top
Three promising breakaways crossbar.
from Meram, early in overtime, "This means that we're grow-
were thwarted by the Spartan ing, and I think we're finally
getting to get our self our own
name," Hamoody said about the
win.
"I've been "It used to be always Michi-
gan State, Michigan State. Mich-
waiting for my igan was never really heard of.
Finally, I felt like this year we
first goal for SO had it ... we really needed to win
these last games, and I think
long. we came together and finally
answered."
The Michigan senior class
could not have been sent off in
defense. better fashion.
With overtime winding down "I think this might have been
Hamoody took the game into the greatest game in terms of
his own left foot, despite being drama and importance in the
a natural righty. The 35-yard history of this program," Burns
plus game-winning lob from said.

PHOBIC? ii**a

Afraid of Snakes or Spiders?
Looking for medication-free volunteers, ages 18-45, with an
excessive fear of snakes or spiders to participate in a phobia
research study involving visits to the Rachel Upjohn Bldg. and
blood draws.
Compensation up to $320

Do Sports Impact World Affairs?
Join U of M's Andy Markovits (Golden Apple Winning,
Prof. of Political Science & German) and
Lars Rensmann (DAAD Visiting Prof. of Political Sci.)
as they discuss their new book: Gaming the World;
How Sports are Reshaping Global Politics & Culture
7:30 pm Tue., Nov. 2nd
JCC of Greater Ann Arbor (734) 971-0990
2935 Birch Hollow Drive, Ann Arbor
Free - Students, Faculty, & Community Welcome

phobiastudy@umich.edu
or call: 734-647-8354

UAiesityy ofm~iisal
Health Systot

IRB#:2004-1006



0

4B - November 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN

0

MAIZE GAUGE The Michig
SPREAD-O-METER

an Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Spread-o-Meter measures the success of quarterbacks, the Rod-o-Meter
emotional (positive or negative) Rich Rodriguez was following the game and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.
vW"v

0

3/4
Denards

Think about Michigan football games like a tennis
match: the Wolverine offense has to hold serve and
assume the defense will allow a touchdown or a field
goal on every drive. The offense played well (31 points,
423 yards), but its serve was broken too many times.

ROD-O-METER
1/ At the press conference after the game on Saturday,
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez acted like you'd expect
4 after a loss like the one his team suffered: disappointed,
Rich Rods sad, but mostly frustrated. In fact, the coach said the
word "frustrated" six separate times in eight minutes.

HYPE-0-METER

The Happy Valley crowd was early and loud Saturday,
4with students outside the gates six hours before the eight
Big Houses o'clock game. Deemed a "white-out," the only time the
sea of white was remotely quiet was during Michigan's
brief comeback at the beginning of the fourth quarter.

0


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

PLAY OF THE GAME

ARIEL BoND/Daily ARI L BOND aily
SOPHOMORE QUARTERBACK DENARD ROBINSON DEFENSIVE COORDINATOR GREG ROBINSON
Robinson returned to his usual stellar self on You know, the bad one. Despite the luxury of the
Saturday, accounting for 381 total yards and | bye week, Robinson's defense never gave the team a
four touchdowns, with a notable absence of | chance to win. The unit gave up 435 yards to Penn
interceptions. The quarterback led a Michigan State, which was starting third-string walk-on
comeback in the fourth quarter that brought the quarterback Matthew McGloin. McGloin threw for
Wolverines to within a touchdown after being 250 yards and a touchdown with no interceptions
down 38-17 in the third quarter. It wasn't enough, against Michigan's revamped but very young
but the big day for Robinson may at least keep secondary. To make matters worse for Robinson,
him in the conversation for the Heisman Trophy. the only meaningful stop the Michigan defense
Robinson's 191 rushing yards were enough to made was after Rich Rodriguez practically shoved
preserve his spot as the top rusher in the nation. him aside and addressed the defense himself.

NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
"When you're
playing
someone like
Michigan, who
has someone
like Denard
Robinson, the
object of the
game is to keep
him off the
field."
- Penn State sophomore quarterback
Matthew McGloin after the game

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP 10 POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10
points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on.

On 3rd and 10, with under two minutes remaining in the first half and
the ball on the 20-yard line, Michigan blitzed its front seven on a Penn
State pass play. Senior wide receiver Graham Zug lined up in the slot
and ran a route to the front of the endzone in front of Michigan safety
Ray Vinopal, who was making his first career start. Nittany Lions quar-
terback Matt McGloin hit Zug for the touchdown to put Penn State up
28-10 with 1:02 remaining in the first half. The Nittany Lions converted
10-of-16 third downs.

1. OREGON: The Ducks beat
USC and LaMichael James
rushed for 239 yards to creep
ever closer to Denard.
2. AUBURN: The Tigers
throttled the Ole Miss D,
racking up 51 points on the
Rebels.
3. ALABAMA: Bye week for
Alabama and some much-
needed rest for the weary
Crimson Tide.

6. NEBRASKA: Missouri
joined the ranks of the one-
loss teams as the Huskers
prevailed.
7. UTAH: Air Force gave the
Utes a good game but Utah
beatthe Falcons on their
home turf.
8. LSU: The Tigers had a
bye week, and a loss to the
L number two team inthe poll
is nothing to be ashamed of.

0I

:1

4. BOISE STATE: The
Broncos obliterated Louisiana
Tech on Tuesday bythe score
of 49-20.

Nx-
A

9. WISCONSIN: Another
team with a bye, another
team stays where they are.
The Badgers rest.

5. TCU: UNLV never had a
chance against the Horned
Frogs, who blew out the
Runnin' Rebels 48-6.

10. OHIO STATE: The Bucks
trounced the Gophers 52-10.
, Pryor had 222 yards passing
and three total TD's.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what Nicole
happens in the 2010 football season. Auerbach
Michigan (-3) at Penn State Michigan
No.1 Auburn (-7.5) at Mississippi Auburn
No. 2 Oregon t-7) at USC Oregon
No. 4 TCU (-35) at UNLV TCU
No. 5 Michigan State (+4.5) vs. No.18 Iowa Michigan State
No. 6 Missouri (+6) at No.14 Nebraska Nebraska
No. 8 Utah (-5) at Air Force Utah
No. 9 Oklahoma (-24) at Colorado Oklahoma
No.11 Ohio State (-26) at Minnesota Ohio State
No.13 Stanford (-7) at Washington Stanford
No.15 Arizona (-8.5) at UCLA UCLA
No. 16 Florida State (-4) at NC State Florida State
No.17 Oklahoma State (-4) at Kansas State Kansas State
No.19 Arkansas (-21.5) vs. Vanderbilt Arkansas
No. 20 South Carolina (-17) vs. Tennessee South Carolina
No. 21 Mississippi State (-7) vs. Kentucky Kentucky
No. 22 Miami (Fla.) (-14) at Virginia Miami (Fla.)
No. 24 Nevada (-24) vs. Utah State Nevada
No. 25 Baylor (+9) vs. Texas Texas
Purdue (+14) at Illinois Illinois
Northwestern (-3) at Indiana Northwestern
Last week 11-5-3
Overall 101-66-7

- r

Ryan
Kartje

Tim
Rohan

Joe
Stapleton

Michigan Michigan Michigan

Michigan
Auburn
Oregon
UNLV
Iowa
Missouri
Utah
Oklahoma
Ohio State
Stanford
Arizona
Florida State
Oklahoma State
Arkansas
South Carolina
Kentucky
Miami (Fla.)
Nevada
Baylor
Illinois
Northwestern
9-7-3
89-78-7

Michigan
Auburn
Oregon
TCU
IaIowa
Nebraska
Air Force
Oklahoma
Ohio State
Washington
Arizona
Florida State
Oklahoma State
Arkansas
South Carolina Carolina
Kentucky
Miami (Fla.)
Nevada
Baylor
Purdue
Indiana
8-8-3
88-79-7

Michigan
Auburn
USC
TCU
Michigan State
Nebraska
Utah
Oklahoma
Ohio State
Stanford
Arizona
Florida State
Kansas State
Arkansas
South Carolina
Mississippi State
Miami (Fla.)
Nevada
Texas
Illinois
Northwestern
9-7-3
95-72-7

Lee Quakenbush
Men's Glee Club
President
Michigan
Auburn
Oregon
TCU
Michigan State
Nebraska
Utah
Colorado
Ohio State
Stanford
Arizona
Florida State
Oklahoma State
Arkansas
South Carolina
Kentucky
Miami (Fla.)
Nevada
Texas
Illinois
Northwestern
10-6-3
46-31-5

I I I

'

4


