Collegiate coffee: Ann
Arbor baristas share their
thoughts on the art of the
brew and the role of a cup of
Joe on and around campus.
PAGE3B

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, December 9, 2010

michigandaily.com

PETA floods
'U' president's
office phones
to decry class
Animal rights group But despite the criticisms,
which were so numerous on
a staunch critic of Tuesday that a separate touch-
tone phone menu was set up to
use of pigs and cats screen calls in Coleman's office,
in UMHS cUniversity officials say they do
course not plan to change the curricu-

By KYLE SV
Daily New
The Office
President Mary
was bombarded
phone calls
and e-mails
on Tuesday as
hundreds of
people took
time to voice
their con-
cerns about
the University
of Michigan
Health Sys-
tem's use of
live animals
in a Survival Fli
nurses. .
Animal rights
been criticizing t
use of pigs and ca
for several mont
teaches students
saving procedures
Ethical Treatmen
the world's larges
group - is leading

lum any time soon.
WANSON In an interview yesterday,
s Editor University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the University
of University would continue to use live ani-
Sue Coleman mals as part of their Survival
with a flood of Flight course because the medi-
cal experts teaching the class
believe it is necessary.
"The Medical School staff
that teaches the classhfeels very
strongly that this is an impor-
tant part of this very specialized
training" Fitzgerald said. "The
training is critical and the Uni-
KYLE SWANSON versity supports that continued
training."
However, Fitzgerald empha-
sized the University is complying
will all applicable regulations in
ght course for its care and treatment of animals
used in the course.
activists have Fitzgerald's comments echo
he University's those made by University leaders,
ts in the course like Coleman, who responded to
ths. The class a question on the issue after her
advanced, life- annual State of the University
. People for the address in October by saying the
t of Animals - University would continue the
t animal rights practice as long as those teaching
the campaign. See PETA, Page SA

SALAM RIDA/Daily
LSA junior Alyssa Steinway talks to a panel of state representatives at the Michigan Student Caucus at the Capitol Building in Lansing yesterday. Steinway's proposal dis-
cussed the relationship between improved education and an improved economy.
In program, seno policy
proposals, directly tolaw-makers

Michigan Student
Caucus participants
also get to observe
process in Lansing
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily StaffReporter
LANSING - In a meeting
at the Capitol Building in Lan-
sing, students got the chance
to influence lawmakers when
they presented policy propos-
als to a panel of state officials in
the House Commission on Civic

Engagement yesterday.
The students are part of the
Michigan Student Caucus, a
group created by the House
Commission on Civic Engage-
ment in 2001 to give students the
opportunity to discuss issues
and draft legislation to help
solve the state's problems. Par-
ticipants receive feedback from
legislators about the strengths
and weaknesses of their propos-
als and about how to turn their
suggested legislation into real-
ity.
The caucus members are
mostly students in an educa-
tion course offered at the Uni-

versity's Ann Arbor and Flint
campuses, but all college and
high school students in the state
are welcome to participate. Par-
ticipants present ideas in several
categories: economic develop-
ment and community revitaliza-
tion, arts and culture, human
development and welfare, envi-
ronment and health, justice and
equity and community service.
Gary Weisserman, MSC co-
facilitator and head of the five-
year college preparatory school
Oakland Early College, said the
caucus is a way for students to
address issues that they think
are important in the state.

"In the broadest sense, it is a
program that is designed to give
students at Michigan a voice in
what happens in Michigan,"
Weisserman said.
Jay McDowell, president of
the Howell Education Associa-
tion and co-facilitator of MSC,
said the program provides "a
sense of empowerment" for stu-
dents who often feel restricted
in their university environments
when discussing topics like gov-
ernment policy.
"The ability that you can look
at a problem, you can analyze it,
you can research it, you can put
See LANSING, Page 5A

Experts: WikiLeaks highlights
security, journalistic concerns

Editors scrutinize
cables before they're
released, University
professors say
By HALEY GLATTHORN
DailyStaffReporter
Since WikiLeaks released more
than 250,000 classified U.S. gov-
ernment cables on Nov. 28, con-
troversy over the documents and
the decision to release them has
continued to grow.

The exposure of private cables
detailing the thoughts and activi-
ties of U.S. officials stationed
internationally has created what
some consider to be a serious
security threat and others simply
an embarrassing roadblock in for-
eign affairs. Since the cables were
released, pundits and experts
have also raised questions about
the extent to which journalis-
tic freedom is protected amid
national security concerns.
Communication Studies Prof.
Anthony Collings - who worked
as a reporter or editor for The
Wall Street Journal, The Associ-

ated Press, Newsweek and CNN -
said he has mixed feelings about
the release of the documents.
"On one hand, it's good that the
public learns more information
about our relations with other
countries ... (for) countries where
there are problems in our rela-
tionships, we get a more truth-
ful picture of where things are
going badly," Collings said. "On
the other hand, I'm not quite sure
what (WikiLeaks founder Julian
Assange's) intention is. I'm a little
concerned that his intentions may
be harmful."
See OFFICE HOURS, Page SA

Construction near the Ann Arbor District Library on South Fifth Avenue yesterday.
A2Officials mull building hotel,
ci.
convention1 center in librar lot

'U' partnership revamps two local
public schools' academic calendars

HiE
con
bes

eftje says he's not yet to determine what exactly
will sit on top of it.
vinced plans are The city of Ann Arbor is cur-
rently considering two devel-
t use of the space opment proposals for the space
- one by New York-based Val-
By CLAIRE HALL iant Partners LLC and the other
Daily StaffReporter by Acquest Realty Advisors Inc.
of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Both
e large hole in the ground schemes offer plans for a hotel
to the Ann Arbor Public and associated conference cen-
ry will be filled with an ter. But Ann Arbor Mayor John
ground parking structure Hieftje says he would like to see
xt year, but officials have a proposal that centers around

something other than a hotel and
conference center.
The three objectives for the
Library Lot, as stated in the
request for proposals for the
site, are beneficial use of the
site, environmental benefits and
financial return. Hieftje, who
said part of the development
area would be put aside to build
a park, said he wasn't convinced
a hotel or conference center
would constitute the best use of
See LOT, Page 5A

Schools would
shorten summer
break, substitute
with intersessions
By SARA BOBOLTZ
Daily StaffReporter
A partnership between the Uni-
versity's School of Education and

Ann Arbor Public Schools may
soon give students at Mitchell Ele-
mentary School and Scarlett Mid-
dle School the option to spend less
time on summer vacation and more
time in the classroom.
Formerly known as the lab
school program, the partnership
aims to create an experimental K-8
campus between the two schools.
The schools would adopt a "bal-
anced" school year model that
would shorten summer break from

ten weeks to six, but extend other
breaks into "intersessions."
Though leaders and experts say
the program would help prevent
students from losing the knowl-
edge they've gained during the
school year in the summer, some
AAPS parents criticized the plan
at a meeting last night, saying it
would cut into already limited
family time. Parents' hesitation
prompted school officials to move
See SCHOOLS, Page 5A

Thi
next
Librar
under
by ne


WEATHER HI:34 GOTANEWSTIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMOR ROW LO 27 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANIDAILYCOM
Keeping warm on Saturday with some Big Chili.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE

INDEX NEWS................2A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
Vol. CXXI, No.64 AP NEW S .............. .........3A SPORTS.............................7A
ic2tThe MichiganDaily OPINION.............4A TH EB-SIDE.......................1B



2A - Thursday, December 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles CampusCubs Photos of the Week

From knowing how to slip on the ice
safely to protecting oneself from amug-
ger,understandingthe artofself-defense
can come in handy on a daily basis and
Godai Ninpo - a martial arts club on
campus - aims to arm its members with
the abilityto protect themselves.
With a membership of about 60 Uni-
versity students, Godai Ninpo stresses
learning martial arts for practical day-
to-day use rather than offense. The
group meets for two hours each Sunday,
and some members also practice during
the week either on campus or at their
off-campus training facility - the Ann
Arbor College of Martial Arts, which is
run by University alumni Ross Winkler
and Rob B'yas.
"We don't do thingsalike matches and
tournaments," intergroup liaison and
LSA senior Andrew Gomes said. "We're
much more focused on how you defend
yourself against a mugger or against
someone who's legitimately trying to

1odai Ninpi
At practices, members of the group
learn various skills including how to
roll properly if one trips and falls on the
sidewalk and methods for defending
against an attacker. The club also offers
seminars for other groups on campus
throughout the year to teach some mar-
tial arts fundamentals.
Business junior Jonathan Ham-
mond, the club's recruitment director,
said that though the practices are rig-
orous, the group is very friendly and
emphasizes social skills like teamwork.
Gomes echoed Hammond's senti-
ments, saying members of Godai Ninpo
want everyone who interacts with the
group to gain some practical knowl-
edge.
"We want everyone who practices
with us to walk away with something
useful even if they're only there for one
or two sessions," he said. "We want
them to come out knowing that they are
equipped to defend themselves."
Gomes said he joined the team early

in his freshman year and has been a
member since, adding that he practices
both with his team and on his owntime.
Hammond said the benefits of mar-
tial arts extend beyond achieving physi-
cal prowess.
"There's many internal benefits,"
Hammond said. "Members learn what
fears they have, what strengths they
have ... and ultimately increase their
confidence."
Considering his own experience in
Godai Ninpo, Gomes said he and other
members have learned humility too.
"It's really easy to take what you're
learning and get in the mindset of 'Oh,
now I have this amazing skill (and) I
can do so many things,' " Gomes said.
"You really have to tone that back and
realize that what you're learning is for
practical purposes and is, ultimately, to
make you a better person, and I think
being humble is a key aspect of that."
- CLAIRE GOSCICKI
AND PAIGE PEARCY

participate in Godai Ninpo weapons training. hurt you."
CRIME NOTES
Safety light not Graffiti covers
safe from harm unisex bathroom

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMLOVITZ KATIE JOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext.1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmait.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:sun.-Thurs.lxa.m. -2 a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
lettersto the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
ClassifiedSales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thirunavukkarasu, Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph Lichterman, Veronica Menaldi, Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIoR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeWitt, Emily Orley, Laura Veith
ASSISsANTEDITORIALPAGE EDITORS:WillButleriWiiGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje Managing Sports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Bohan,
Nick Spar,JoeStapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Stephen Nesbitt, Luke Pasch, Zak Pyzik, Amy
JamieBlock ManagingArts Editor block@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlarecki,AndrewLapin,JeffSanford
ASSiSTANTiARS EDITORS:KristynAcho, LeahBurgin,Sharon Jacobs,Ravi Shekhar
Pande, Davd Taon
Max ollins and E photo@michigandaily.com
SamnWolson Manoging PhotoEnditeo
SENIORPHOTO EDITOR:Ariel Bond,Marissa McClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch
Anna tein-Zielinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah SquireManagingesnditors
SENIODESIGNEDITOR: Maya Fiedman
Trevor Calero Magazine Editor calero@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Jenna Skoller
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Adi Wollstein CopyChiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannatCrim sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETINGMANAGER: GjonJuncaj
Hillary Szawala Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason MahakiannProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancernweb ProjecteCoordinator
The Michigan Dailyl(ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge to all
readers. Additiona copies maybe picked upat the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for fall term,
startinginSeptembervia U.S.mailare$110.Winter term(onuarythrough April)is$115yearlong
(September through Apriliis$19.University affiliatesaesesubject toareduced subscriptionrate.
On campus subiptionsofalltermare$35. Subscriptonsmustbeprepaid.TheMichiganDaily
isanember:o The Assoated Pes ad The Asoilad Colegiate Pess.

WHERE: Lot NC-33, 1400
Hubbard
WHEN: Tuesday at about
10:45 a.m.
WHAT: A pedestrian safety
light was damaged, University
Police reported. No one was
injured. The cost of damage is
unknown.

WHERE: South Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 10:15
a.m.
WHAT: Graffiti was found in
a unisex bathroom, University
.Police reported. There are no
suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Anxiety Shakespeare A bottle of 64-year-old sin-
gle-malt whiskey was sold
support group performancea nfora record-
WHAT: Participants will WHAT: Students will per- breaking $460,000, MSNBC.
learn how to cope with form in "Much Ado About corm reported. All proceeds
their anxiety and receive Nothing," a play featuring from the auction will benefit a
methods to help face their comedy, wit and romance. charity committed to provid-
fears. Participants are WHO: School of Music, ing clean water to developing
not required to speak. Theatre & Dance nations.
WHO: Institute for WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
Human Adjustment WHERE: Harlan Hatcher Student baristas share
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m. Graduate Library their love for the cre-
WHERE: East Hall, ativity of coffee serving.
room 2463 l Dampeteams1X i tvt ocfesr.

Backpackjacked
Car accident on fo d
from dorm room
State Street

Relationship dance off

WHERE: State Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about 4:40
p.m.
WHAT: Two vehicles were
involved in a traffic accident,
University Police reported.
There was minimal damage
to the cars, and no one was
injured.

WHERE: West Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about 2:45
p.m.
WHAT: A female student's
backpack was stolen from an
unlocked room, University
Police reported. It contained
a laptop and other belongings
valued at $1,700.

seminar
WHAT: Participants will
learn how to meet new
people, as well as skills
to help strengthen cur-
rent relationships.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today from
4:15 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, room 3100

WHAT: Audience members
will vote on Michigan's top
dance teams after they per-
form their best routines.
WHO: University Unions
Arts and Programs
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error inthe Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Whether brewing at a local
cafe or a national chain, these
baristas are dedicated to mak-
ing the best latte to start your
day.
>> FOR MORESEETHE B-SIDE, INSIDE
According to a Program
for International Student
Assessment study, China
has surpassed the United
States in reading, math and
science, TIME.com reported.
The study measured academic
performance of 15 year olds
around the world.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online atmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

After narrow victory in the House, Dream
Act could face uphill struggle in the Senate

0

In 216-198 vote,
House approves bill
to revamp citizenship
process for youth
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
House passed legislation yesterday
to give hundreds of thousands of
foreign-born youngsters brought to
the country illegally a shot at legal
status, a fleeting victory for an effort
that appears doomed in the Senate.
The so-called Dream Act, which
passed the House 216-198, has
been viewed by Hispanic activ-
ists and immigrant advocates as a
downpayment on what they had
hoped would be broader action by
President Barack Obama and the
Democratic-controlled Congress
to give the nation's 10 million to 12
million undocumented immigrants
a chance to gain legal status.
Critics railed against the mea-
sure, calling it a backdoor grant
of amnesty that would encourage
more foreigners to sneak into the
United States in hopes of being
legalized eventually.
The Senate is expected to vote
today on whether to advance similar
legislation, but it's unlikely Demo-
crats can muster the 60 votes need-
ed to advance it past opposition by
Republicans and a handful of their
own members.
"It's an uphill struggle," Sen. Dick
Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Demo-
crat, acknowledged.

Debate on the measure was
fraught with politics. Obama has
made an intense public push in
recent days in favor of the measure,
eager to demonstrate his commit-
ment to Hispanic voters, a key vot-
ing bloc that's been alienated by his
failure to push broader immigration
legislation.
With the GOP taking control of
the House and representing a stron-
ger minority in the Senate next year,
failure to enact the legislation by
year's end dims the prospects for
action by Congress to grant a path
toward legalization for the nation's
millions of undocumented immi-
grants.
Tamar Jacoby of Immigra-
tionWorks USA, a pro-immigration
employers coalition, said the defeat
won't end Congress' attempts to
address the issue but predicted that
future legislation will look far dif-
ferent. "Anything that they're going
to do is going to disappoint compre-
hensive immigration reform advo-
cates," Jacoby said. "It's going to be
a tough haul" to tackle the subject in
the new Congress.
After the House vote, Obama
issued a statement pledging to move
forward on immigration reform and
casting the Dream Act as a way of
correcting what he called "one of
the most egregious flaws of a badly
broken immigration system."
"This vote is not only the right
thing to do for a group of talented
young people who seek to serve a
country they know as their own by
continuing their education or serv-

ing in the military, but it is the right
thing for the United States of Amer-
ica," Obama said. "We are enriched
by their talents and the success of
their efforts will contribute to our
nation's success and security."
Obama's drive to enact the leg-
islation and congressional Demo-
crats' determination to vote on it
before year's end reflect the party's
efforts to satisfy Hispanic groups
whose backing has been critical in
elections and will be again in 2012.
The legislation would give hun-
dreds of thousands of young illegal
immigrants brought to the United
States before the age of 16, and
who have been here for five years
and graduated from high school
or gained an equivalency degree, a
chance to gain legal status if they
joined the military or attended col-
lege.
Hispanic activists have described
the Dream Act as the least Congress
can do on the issue. It targets the
,most sympathetic of the millions
of undocumented people - those
brought to the United States as chil-
dren, who in many cases consider
themselves American, speak Eng-
lish and have no ties toor family liv-
ing in their native countries.
Students who would be eligible
for legalization under the bill have
fanned out across Capitol Hill in
recent days to personally lobby law-
makers to back it. A group of them
was seated in the House gallery to
watch the vote, and they broke out
in cheers, some embracing each
other as the vote on passage was

Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.), center, accompanied by Senate Majority Whip Richard Durbin of Ill., left, and Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, gestures during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C. to discuss the Dream Act.

0

announced.
Earlier, Democrats took to the
House floor to paint the measure as
a matter of basic decency.
"Have a little compassion," Rep.
Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., said, directing
his remarks at the GOP. "These chil-
dren came here, they didn't decide
to come here. They know no other
country. Some of them don't even
know the language of the coun-
try in which they were born, and
they deserve to have a right as free
Americans."
Their pleas did little to move firm
Republican opposition.

"It is not being cold-hearted
to acknowledge that every dollar
spent on illegal immigrants is one
dollar less that's spent on our own
children, our own senior citizens
and for all those who entered this
society who played by the rules,
who paid their taxes and expect
their government to watch out for
their needs before it bestows privi-
leges and scarce resources on ille-
gals," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher,
R-Calif.
Just eight Republicans joined
Democrats to back the bill, while
more than three dozen Demo-

crats broke with their party to vote
againstit.torememberthathewona
Purple Heart after he was wounded
in combat in Korea, to focus on his
efforts for the underprivileged and *
to understand that he has great
respect for the institution he has
served for so long. He's tied for
fourth in House seniority.
The House ethics committee
painted Rangel as a congressman
who ignored rules of conduct and
became a tax scofflaw despite his
knowledge of tax law from his long
service on the tax-writing Ways and
Means Committee.

U.S. military criticizes China for North Korea violence

United States military
chief tells Beijing it
has failed to decrease
tensions in the region
TOKYO (AP) - Turning up the
pressure on China over the military
crisis on the Korean peninsula, the
top U.S. military chief said today
that Beijing has failed to live up
to its role as a global power by not

doingenough to defuse tensions.
Adm. Mike Mullen, on a brief
stopover in Tokyo after visiting
Seoul, said it is imperative China
do more to lead North Korea away
from escalating the threat of an all-
out war, which he said would be
calamitous.
North Korea launched a recent
artillery attack on an island near
a disputed border area that killed
four South Koreans and is blamed
for the deadly sinking of a South
Korean warship in March.

"China must lead and guide
North Korea to a better future,"
said Mullen, who is chairman
of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff.
"There is too much at stake for this
sort of myopia.
"There is no country in the world
that has more influence in Pyong-
yang than China," he said. "That's
part of responsible leadership.
That's part of being a global power.
And I would hope they heed this
call and do that."
North Korea, which has few

other allies, depends heavily on
China for economic assistance and
diplomatic support. China fought
on North Korea's side during the
1950-53 Korean war.
Beijing has been cautious in
placing blame or deciding punish-
ments for the skirmish and war-
ship sinking, and has instead called
for all sides to exercise restraint.
China has suggested more mul-
tilateral talks to deal with North
Korea's actions and concerns over
its ongoing effort to develop nucle-

ar weapons.
China has also been critical of
U.S. military exercises in the Yel-
low Sea that were conducted after
the artillery attack, in part to send
Pyongyang a message of U.S-South
Korean cooperation and resolve
not to be cowed by North Korean
belligerency.
Beijing was wary of the exercises
because they took place relatively
close to Chinese shores.
Mullen defended the exercises
as "transparent," said they were

planned well in advance of the
increased tensions, and added that
the U.S. has the right to operate in 0
open seas.
He also said he believed that U.S.
allies in the region should carry
out more multilateral maneuvers.
In particular, he said he supports
Japan joining in drills with the U.S.
and South Korea.
Mullen said the lack of military-
to-military ties between Beijing
and Washington is another source
of insecurity.

4..


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 9, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, December 9, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Vote delayed on
health benefits for
same-sex couples
The Michigan Civil Service
Commission is postponing action
on a proposal that could allow
same-sex partners or other adults
living with state employees to be
covered by state-paid health insur-
ance.
The proposal was tabled yester-
day because commission members
had questions about it. The propos-
al could be revisited early next year.
The proposal could cover boy-
friends, girlfriends or other adults
who have lived with a state employ-
ee for at least 12 months. Children
of the adults who aren't state work-
ers also would be covered by the
insurance.
The state had agreed in 2004
to begin covering same-sex ben-
efits but implementation has been
delayed because of legal issues.
The extension could cost about
$6 million in 2011. Opponents
worry a state government already
facing a projected deficit can't
afford it.
"When it comes to creating jobs,
government hasn't gotten the job
done," he said.
NEW YORK
NYC mayor: White
House, state leaders
fail to create jobs
New York Mayor Michael
Bloomberg lashed out at the White
House, Congress and state leaders
yesterday for what he called failed
attempts to create jobs, accusing
both parties of being too distract-
ed by partisan politics to address
unemployment.
The billionaire mayor, who has
been mentioned as a long-shot pres-
idential candidate but has repeat-
edly said he doesn't plan to run in
2012, delivered a campaign-style
speech in Brooklyn. He spent half
his time reiterating familiar com-
plaints about partisan gridlock and
the other half outliningvague ideas
to get more Americans working.
Bloomberg, who has been a
member of both parties and is now
unregistered, also carefully bur-
nished his bipartisan credentials
- equally praising and criticizing
the beliefs and approaches of Dem-
ocrats and Republicans.
He blamed both parties for
unfairly vilifying the concept of
success and for too quickly dis-
missing the idea of cooperating
within government and across
party lines.
PARIS
14 former Chilean
officials charged
with kidnapping
A French court put 14 former
Chilean officials on trial in absen-
tia yesterday over the disappear-
ance of French citizens under the
regime of Chilean dictator Augus-
to Pinochet.

The 14, mostly former high-
ranking military officials, face
charges including kidnapping and
torture and are the subject of inter-
national arrest warrants. They face
up to life in prison, if convicted.
While the defendants did not
appear in court yesterday, fami-
lies of the victims hope the trial
offers some justice more than 30
years after the four Frenchmen
disappeared - and four years after
Pinochet himself died following
failed efforts in Chile and abroad
to prosecute him for human rights
abuses.
The 14 are being tried in connec-
tion with the disappearances of the
four men between 1973 and 1975.
BAGHDAD
Bombs and gunfire
kill 5, wound 24
Scattered bombings and gunfire
killed five people and wounded 24
yesterday in attacks around the
Iraqi capital, including one on a
bus of Iranian pilgrims headed to a
Shiite religious ceremony.
The violence came as a Defense
Ministry spokesman announced
the arrest in the killing last month
of a journalist as proof that Iraqi
security forces are making head-
way in curbing insurgents.
In the deadliest attack, a car
bomb outside a restaurant killed
three people in the town of Taji,
some 12 miles (20 kilometers) north
of Baghdad. The explosives-packed
car also wounded 16 people, police
and hospital officials said.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

In the face of debt
crisis, Irish premier
seeks re-election

An area of the San Miguel prison is burned after a fire killed at least 81 prisoners in Santiago, Chile yesterday. A fire that started
during a prison riot killed at least 81 inmates at the Chilean prison and seriously injured at least 14 others, officials said.
Chile prison fire kills
at least 81 injures 14

Irish leader's
remarks come day
after $8-billion
proposed budget cut
DUBLIN (AP) - A defi-
ant Irish Prime Minister Brian
Cowen vowed yesterday to
push through Europe's tough-
est slash-and-tax budget in the
face of voter fury, then defy the
odds to win re-election despite a
debt disaster that has shaken the
entire eurozone.
Cowen mounted a vigorous
defense of his embattled lead-
ership a day after lawmakers
narrowly backed a 2011 budget
containing 66 billion ($8 billion)
in cuts and tax hikes that will take
an estimated 63,000 ($4,000) per
year out of average Irish house-
holds.
The unprecedented scale of the
budget-tightening was a key con-
dition for Ireland's recent agree-
mentofa 67. Sbillion ($90billion)
EU-IMF rescue fund to help Ire-
land cover its European-leading
deficit and revive its debt-struck
banks. The Irish were forced to
take aid after its two-year strug-
gle to prevent the collapse of Dub-
lin banks proved impossible to
finance on their own.
Cowen - whose public approv-
al ratings have recently fallen to
a record-low 8 percent - insist-
ed he wouldn't resign, as many
lawmakers have expected, and
instead would lead his party into

an early springelection. All recent
polls suggest Cowen's long-ruling
Fianna Fail party faces decima-
tion in any national test.
Tuesday night's initial pas-
sage of the Irish budget package
offered temporary relief for the
16-nation eurozone, where Por-
tugal, Spain and Italy have faced
mounting questions about their
own capacity to keep financing
their own debt mountains. Euro-
pean and IMF chiefs sought a
bailout for Dublin, in part, to stem
investor fears of a debt-default
domino effect.
Yesterday's yields on 10-year
bonds were little changed for the
eurozone members rated most at
risk of an eventual default, par-
ticularly Greece, which in May
became the first eurozone mem-
ber to be saved from bankruptcy.
The most significant mover
was Germany, whose benchmark
bonds suffered a moderate selloff,
driving their 10-year yields above
3 percent for the first time since
May's Greek crisis. Traders said
the selling reflected investors'
increased appetite for higher-risk
bonds versus the Germans' top-
rated and consequently low-yield-
ing debt securities.
The euro common currency
also held its ground, rebounding
from a day low of $1.3189 to rest at
$1.3250 in late trade.
In Geneva, the International
Monetary Fund's managing direc-
tor Dominique Strauss-Kahn said
the euro would not break up but
that its rules and governance need
improvement.

In'
fir

SAN
started
swept
prison
people
whata
disaste
penite
A pr
phone.
ing for
inmate
The
Migue
fightin
Wedne
its mt
three
Rodrib
gator A
nary re
set int
by who
Poli
Jaime'
quickly
inmate
The fir
in thre
"Th
inside
inhum
Sebasti
emerge
were b
and sm
Sant
Echeve
toll wt
ning, o

vestigators says the victims with many of the bod-
ies unrecognizable. Officials said
e may have been most will have to be identified by
DNA.
intentional Health Minister Jaime Mana-
lich called it an "enormous calam-
ITIAGO, Chile (AP) - A fire ity" and the worst in the history
I during an inmate brawl of Chile's prison system. A fire in
through an overcrowded a northern prison killed 26 people
yesterday, killing at least 81 in 2001.
and seriously injuring 14 in Firefighters said they were
an official called the worst alerted to the fire by a call from a
r in the history of Chile's cell phone inside the prison, a col-
ntiary system. lection of cement towers that rises
risoner using an illegal cell above a middle class neighborhood
called state television plead- in the capital.
r help and the screams of A fire department commu-
's briefly aired across Chile. nique said the first firefighters
fire in Santiago's San arrived on the scene nine min-
1 prison began during utes after the initial alarm at
g between inmates early 5:48 a.m., and found a violent fire
rsday morning and reached spread over a large part of the
aximum intensity in just fourth floor of Tower 5. They cut
minutes, Interior Minister through several locks, allowing
o Hinzpeter said. Investi- them to save 60 inmates, it said.
klejandro Pena said prelimi- Hundreds of anxious and
eports indicated the fire was angry relatives of inmates gath-
entionally, but he didn't say ered in a chaotic scene outside
am. the prison gates. Some waited six
ce operations director hours before officials read out the
Concha insisted police acted names of survivors - which peo-
y despite coping with 1,900 ple mistook for those of the dead.
s at the prison built for 700. There had been warnings of
e was brought under control problems at the prison.
e hours, officials said. In October, Judge Ana Maria
e conditions that existed Arratia Valdebenito said that
this prison are absolutely Tower 5, where the fire began,
ane," said Chilean President held 484 prisoners - more than
ian Pinera, who visited an 100 per floor.
ency center where inmates After visiting survivors of
eing treated for severe burns the prison blaze, the director of
oke inhalation. Chile's National Human Rights
iago region Gov. Fernando Institute, Lorena Fries, said
rria said the official death the overcrowding in the South
as 81. By Wednesday eve- American country's prison is a
'fficials had identified 31 of problem that has been noted by

the United Nations.
Chile has "55,722 people in its
prisons, which have a capacity to
hold 31,576 inmates," she said.
Pedro Hernandez, who
directs Chile's prison guards
union, said there were only five
guards to watch over the prison-
ers. Pinera, however, said there
were six guards in the prison
towers where the inmates are
held, and 26 others stationed at
the perimeter.
Many inmates died on the
third floor of Tower 5. Firefight-
ers had to work with police to
avoid more problems with pris-
oners all around them.
Some relatives of inmates told
state TV that prison police ini-
tially closed the gates to firefight-
ers, impeding efforts by 10 units
to control the blaze.
"They wouldn't let the fire-
fighters come in. The riot police
came in first and began to beat
us, and later the firefighters came
in," an unidentified prisoner said
in a call that was played on state
TV. He didn't give his name, say-
ing he feared retribution.
He said the guards "laughed
and took photos with the cell
phones of the inmates who were
vomiting (from smoke) ... and
didn't do anything." Officials
evacuated prisoners from lower
floors instead of those inmates
who were dying, the prisoner
said.
But Fire Department Cmdr.
Jose Sanchez said it took 10
minutes for firefighters to enter
the prison, blaming any delay on
"the intense heat" they encoun-
tered, not on the guards.

Serbia refuses to
honor recipient of
Nobel Peace Prize

Obama's plan for peace
in Israel faces setback

Nomination
criticized as radical
political move
BELGRADE, Serbia (AP) - Ser-
bia's decision to boycott the Nobel
Peace Prize ceremony honoring
imprisoned Chinese dissident Liu
Xiaobo triggered criticism yester-
day from human rights activists
and the European Union - which
expressed shock that the can-
didate for EU entry would meet
China's demands.
Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk
Jeremic said Serbia "pays extreme
attention to the violations of
human rights," but that its bilat-
eral relations with China have
priority.
China has vilified the 54-year-
old democracy advocate Liu,
called the Nobel prize choice an
effort by the West to contain its
rise, disparaged his supporters
as "clowns," and launched a cam-
paign to persuade countries not to
attend Friday's ceremony in Oslo.

Eighteen countries, including
Serbia, Russia and Pakistan, have
turned down the Nobel commit-
tee's invitation to send represen-
tatives to the ceremony.
Serbia fears its attendance
could anger China, which has
supported Belgrade in opposing
the 2008 independence decla-
ration of its former province of
Kosovo. Some 70 nations, includ-
ing the U.S. and most EU states,
have recognized Kosovo's state-
hood, but Russia and China have
stood firm in supporting Serbia in
its claim over the territory.
Jelko Kacin, in charge of the
European Parliament's evaluation
reports on Serbia's bid to join the
EU, said he was "shocked" by Bel-
grade's decision not to attend the
ceremony.
"There is no candidate country,
or potential candidate country,
that in this way manifests its obe-
dience" to China, Kacin said.
The EU said on yesterday it will
seek talks with the Serbian gov-
ernment to persuade it to change
its mind.

U.S. had been trying
to convince Israel to
freeze settlements
JERUSALEM (AP) - The U.S.
decision to abandon its efforts to
coax a settlement freeze out of
Israel marks the biggest failure
yet in the Obama administration's
much-trumpeted Mideast peace
push, casting serious doubts over
whether the president can broker
a deal by his September target.
Israelis and Palestinians said
yesterday that a scramble was
on for a magic formula out of the
impasse. But neither side showed
any flexibility, and the Palestin-
ians voiced new signals about
trying to establish a state without
Israel's agreement.
The U.S. announced late Tues-
day that after weeks of efforts, it
had given up its attempts to per-
suade Israel into renewing a lim-
ited freeze on Jewish settlement
construction in the West Bank
and east Jerusalem - an issue that
has emerged as the key sticking
point in Mideast peace talks.
Some 500,000 Israeli settlers
now live in these areas, which
were captured in the 1967 Mideast
War and are claimed by the Pales-
tinians.
With a freeze needed to draw
the Palestinians back to the
negotiating table, Tuesday's U.S.
announcement was in effect an
admission of failure.
"There is no doubt that there is
a crisis, a difficult crisis," Pales-
tinian President Mahmoud Abbas
told a news conference in Greece.
A top aide to the Palestinian
president, Yasser Abed Rabbo,
went so far as to question Wash-
ington's ability to broker a deal,

asking how the Americans could
possibly "make Israel accept a
fair solution" when they couldn't
even make it limit its settlement
activities. "This is thebig question
now," he said.
The current round of nego-
tiations collapsed in late Septem-
ber, just weeks after they were
launched, when a previous Israe-
li settlement slowdown expired.
The Americans had hoped a
new, 90-day freeze would allow
the sides to work out a deal on
their future borders. Such an
arrangement could make the
settlement issue irrelevant, since
Israel could resume construction
in territories it expects to keep
while halting building in areas
given to the Palestinians.
The latest setback drew state-
ments of concern from Europe.
Abbas' rival, the Hamas militant
group, which controls the Gaza
Strip, called on the Palestinian
leader to stop the "futile" nego-
tiations.
But international Mideast
envoy Tony Blair said the U.S.
move was a "sensible decision
in light of the impasse that we
reached," adding that all sides
remain determined to negotiate
a peace deal.
Ron Dermer, a top aide to
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu, said Wednesday that
the American efforts had failed
because of fears of what would
happen after another freeze
ends.
"The Americans probably real-
ized that the proposal of 90 days
to get a border agreement - a
Palestinian expectation - could
lead to a dead end and failure of
the talks," he told Army Radio.
Netanyahu, who heads a coali-
tion dominated by hard-line and

religious parties sympathetic to
Jewish settlers, appears unlikely
to bend.
"The whole idea of the settle-
ment freeze for negotiations was a
mistake," said Israeli analystYossi
Alpher.

-



4A - Thursday, December 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL CAMERONAT CNEVEUaU)UMICH.EDU

4Cl fidli~gan i atllJ
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

CAMERON NEVEU

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
More bang for your bucks
Expanding Blue Bucks could offer more variety
panda Express is certainly delicious, but when dinner
options are limited and you're down to Blue Bucks to pay
for meals, orange chicken gets old quickly - and goes
straight to your hips. Currently, students can only use the Blue
Bucks that come with meal plans at on-campus establishments
like U-go's and vendors in the Michigan Unions. But recently, the
LSA Student Goverment has started to work to expand the use
of Blue Bucks to off-campus eateries. The idea is to improve stu-
dents' options and increase local restaurants' business. LSA-SG
should continue to work with the University and approach local
businesses to expand the Blue Bucks program.

Bring activism back
L ove it or hate it, our dear Uni- A month ago, I referenced the find- ing sentence of the Port Huron State-
versity resides in a famously ing that the wealthiest 1 percent of ment, SDS's manifesto written in part
liberal city. We've got a vibrant Americans now controls 24 percent by Tom Hayden, a former editor-in-
gay community, of all income in the nation (OurAmer- chief of this very newspaper: "We are
scads of hippie gift- ican contradiction, 11/10/2010). In a people of this generation, bred in at
shops and a yearly recent interview with "60 Minutes," least modest comfort, housed now in
carnival paying C Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Ber- universities, looking uncomfortablyto
homage to mari- nanke went so far as declaring that the world we inherit."
juana. But the for- -'this inequality "is creating two soci- ItmayseemasthoughI'mgivingin
ward-thinking Ann eties." Nevertheless, it's now almost to my own obsessive paranoia about
Arbor we know certain that the Bush-era tax cuts for the state of the world. It might also
today is a far cry the wealthiest Americans will con- appear as if I'm surrendering to an
from what it was tinue for the next two years. Thanks activist nostalgia that I've only read
in the 1960s. Those MATTHEW to Republicans in Congress, the rich about in books. But I refuse to believe
were the years that GREEN will get richer and the poor will stay that changing the world is the busi-
saw the impetus poor for two more years. ness of other, more qualified people.
for the creation of And speaking of things we can't As students, unbridled by careers and
the Peace Corps afford, let's talk for a moment about families, we have a unique opportu-
on the steps of the Union and the the war we're still fighting in the nityto devote the necessary energy to
unveiling of the Great Society pro- Middle East. Pardon me, I meant researching, questioning, organizing
gram during President Lyndon John- wars. We've spent over a trillion dol- and bettering our society. Indeed, we
son's commencement address at the lars fighting them since 2001. The must do all those things.
Big House. Yet, more significant was toll on American lives has been in
Ann Arbor's spirit of student activ- the thousands - not to mention the
ism in those years. Protests gained exponentially higher casualty rates
enough steam to close South Universi- among innocent Afghans and Iraqis. A nn Arbor iS a far
ty Avenue for days. One organization, Yet, the argument that the U.S. is
Students for a Democratic Society, safer because of our military efforts cry from what it
formed here and quickly became a fix- in Iraq and Afghanistan is uncon-
ture at colleges across the nation. vincing. Even when we leave - if we was in the 1960s.
Radical leftism was Ann Arbor's leave? - the threats of terrorism and
answer to a period in history that fundamentalism will likely remain
asked the American people difficult omnipresent in our national psyche.
questions. Even a cursory glance at Though we may not know how the I'm not calling for a renaissance
the '60s illustrates the overwhelming War on Terror will pan out, it's now of radicalism on our campus. I'm not
uncertainty and complexity of that obvious - thanks to WikiLeaks - that imploring you to forgo your finals as a
era. Society was rife with inequality, American credibility around the world protest of education inequality in this
the nation was fighting an increas- has suffered myriad blows in the past country or anythingof the sort. I only
ingly brutal war and abstract -isms decade. The leaked documents, while ask that as you read the news, and as
threatened to undermine the Ameri- fascinaingand even darkly hilarious at you look ahead toward the life you'll
can way of life. times, only confirmed the increasingly soon build, you find ways to make a
Now stop. Go back to the preced- obvious truth that the U.S. no longer change in the circles you inhabit - be
ing sentence and conjugate all verbs commands the respect of the interna- it in your family, classroom, relation-
in the present tense. Eerie, isn't it? tional community. ships, campus, nation or world. And
We may have Starbucks and iPods The world around us has grown in the words of the Port Huron State-
and Facebook to divert our attention remarkably unsettled. So what are we ment, "If we appear to seek the unat-
from this reality, but our society is in to do? As the next generation of politi- tainable, it has been said, then let it
an equally precarious spot today. cians, educators, lawyers, doctors and be known that we do so to avoid the
By now you've likely heard the more, we not only have a responsibil- unimaginable."
news - from partisan news sources, ity to try to change our society, but we
no doubt - that income inequal- also have no other choice. Musing on - Matthew Green can be reached
ity has skyrocketed out of control. this reality, I'm reminded of the open- at greenmat@umich.edu.
The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing. If you
are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

According to a Dec. 6 Daily article, a
recent poll taken by LSA-SG showed that
66 percent of student respondents said
that they would eat at an off-campus res-
taurant at least one more time each week if
they could use Blue Bucks. Currently, only
University-affiliated eateries - like res-
taurants in the basements of the Michigan
League and Union, U-go's and residence
hall convenience stores like South Quad's
Chow Town - accept Blue Bucks.
Members of LSA-SG got the idea to
expand the Blue Bucks program after
visiting other universities with simi-
lar programs. Ohio State University and
Cleveland State University have food pay-
ment options like Blue Bucks, but students
there are allowed to use them as dollars
in local restaurants. LSA-SG President
Steven Benson told the Daily that he feels
confident moving forward with the change
because so many students provided posi-
tive feedback. He hopes to organize meet-
ings with officials from University Housing
to discuss the issue further.
This is a somewhat ambitious task for
LSA-SG - but the progress seen so far is
encouraging, and leaders of the project
seem to have a clear plan. When LSA-SG
takes on ventures like this, it's directly
responding to students' wants and needs,
which is exactly what a student govern-

ment should do.
Expanding the Blue Bucks program to
off-campus eateries would give students
more easy and healthy options. Blue Bucks
is money that students and their families
have already set aside for food. But right
now, students are limited to fast food that
is for the most part unhealthy. If more off-
campus establishments like Seva, Jerusa-
lem Garden and Sava's accepted Blue Bucks,
students could use their money for a health-
ier option than a Wendy's Baconator.
And local eateries would benefit, too.
Businesses that currently participate in
the program (like the Wendy's and Sub-
way in the Union) are required to return
3.5 percent of all sales to University din-
ing. But while this rate may seem high,
the benefits the businesses would receive
from increased sales outweigh the costs.
Restaurants that accept Blue Bucks would
see increased revenue and student patron-
age. They would simultaneously establish a
solid client base. Students would return to
their favorite eateries after they no longer
use Blue Bucks.
Students would have more options and
businesses could see an increase in sales if
Blue Bucks were good for more than Mrs.
Fields cookies. LSA-SG should continue its
efforts to better Blue Bucks and local busi-
nesses should sign on to the program.

Rod
befo
TO T
Imr
mark c
versity
er (Th
this, h
Coa
Depar
to teac
38 yea
nus, I
footba
teach
ing. Fi
receivi
like re
expect
that th
Rod
bechle
Man. I
makes
that th
which
put in
experi
when
Big Te
Michi
menta
terbac

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Tommaso Pavone, Leah Potkin,
Roger Sauerhaft, Julian Toles, Laura Veith, Andrew Weiner
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU
'riguez must be a teacher star quarterback Terrelle Pyror.
The players have not been taught the funda-
re he can be a good coach mentals, as we saw in the Iowa game. A blocked
field goal remains a live ball, but our players
stood around as the Iowa player picked the ball
PHE DAILY: up at the 7-yard line and ran it back to the 50-yard
ad Syed's column on Monday was on the line when this happened. There are hundreds of
oncerning how the coach must be a Uni- examples, especially on defense, where the play-
'of Michigan and state of Michigan lead- ers are simply not coached or taught.
e next Michigan Man, 12/06/2010). But to Woody Hayes, Bear Bryant and Bobby Knight
e must first be a teacher. were all great teachers. In a recent TV appear-
ches are the faculty in the Athletic ance, Bobby Knight gave three different scenar-
tment. Faculty members are expected ios for a game-ending play. While the scenarios
h. As a retired professor - I taught for were complicated, he taught the TV audience
rs - and a University of Michigan alum- what situations to anticipate within 30 seconds.
have been very disturbed by Michigan That's coaching and that's teaching. Rodriguez
A1 head coach Rich Rodriguez's failure to has not been able to teach his students how to
and to take responsibility for his teach- line up on defense or play any phase of the kick-
ring the coach is the equivalent of not ing game in three years, let alone in 30 seconds.
ing tenure. While wins and losses are In over 45 years of watching Michigan foot-
ceiving grants of publishing, there is an ball teams, these past three years have been the
ation in all schools within universities firsttimewhen I havebeenembarrassedtoadmit
e faculty must teach effectively. that I am a Michigan fan because the players
riguez fails as a teacher. Bo Schem- looked lost on the field. Win or lose, Bo's teams
r was a great teacher and a Michigan neverlooked stupid. Theynever beat themselves.
Bo never blamed his players. Rodriguez This coach shouldn't get tenure because he has
excuses that his players are too young, failed miserably as a teacher.
se cupboard was bare when he came - A Michigan Man would realize first and
is not true - and that he needs time to foremost that he is a teacher of his men. He must
his system. Of course, many of the more take responsibility for the performance on the
enced players left within a month of field rather than make excuses and blame the
he came and they are excelling on other players. You can't be a Michigan Man when you
n and BCS bowl-bound teams. If the fail to do your primary job. Fire the coach - he
gan defensive players don't know funda- would never receive tenure within any of the
Is of where to line up, as Penn State quar- schools at the University of Michigan due to his
k Matt McGloin laughed about after the failure as a teacher.

Gender studies 101

ofcterribly long ago, in a place
not far away, only men were
allowed to attend college.
This was due, in
part, to the fact
that men needed
to be providers
for their families.
Usually, they were
the sole breadwin-
ners. Meanwhile,
women stayed at
home and gave
birth to and raised ERIC
children. It was a
system that worked SZKARLAT
then, but now it's
just outdated. At
this point, any per-
son has the freedom to get an educa-
tion as he or she pleases - provided,
of course, that the person has the
means to pay for it.
At some point between then and
now, universities began admitting
women. It was the way of the future
- the pinnacle of social equality
as we could conceive it. Slowly, the
opportunitiesfor women in education
caught up to the opportunities for
men. Finally, at last, we got the result
we had been waiting for: Between
2005 and 2006, women earned the
majority of post-secondary education
degrees, ranging from associates to
doctorates. Equality at last. (I'll let
you find the flaw in this logic.)
Along the road, the feminist move-
ment grew. Issues of gender became
more apparent and important. This
cultivated the need to study gender.
Out of this need grew women's stud-
ies departments. They began popping
up all over the country. To this day, the
women's studies department here at the
University is alive and well. But what I
fail to understand is what precisely it is
that makes these studies of feminism
and gender the studies of women.
There are a couple of different
ways that we could understand stud-
ies possessed by women. One such
way is that women's studies concen-
trations or courses are open only to

women. But that's simply not true.
I've taken a women's studies course
before. (Well, it was cross-listed as
an English course, but men weren't
barred from taking it.) And my Span-
ish GSI from the spring term is work-
ing toward his graduate degree in
French literature and women's stud-
ies. In any case, if the major or the
courses were open only to women, it
would be a blatant act of sexism and
the University probably would have
seen a lawsuit by now.
Another interpretation might sug-
gest that the studies are exclusively
the studies of women. But this too
doesn't seem accurate when you
consider that past women's studies
courses have discussed men's health.
Then there is another suggestion that
women's studies really means "femi-
nist studies," which really means
"We want to study gender in society."
The influence of gender in soci-
ety is a thoroughly intriguing topic.
And frankly, I'm shocked that it didn't
become a formal topic of study until
recently. But why do we consider gen-
der so exclusively female? Even the
word "feminism," purported to mean
"equality between genders," is rooted
in the feminine. I don't get that. I don't
think the study of gender is inherently
feminine any more than pencils are
inherently masculine because they are
masculine nouns in Spanish grammar.
Not only does this cultural mindset
that only women should be concerned
with issues of gender alienate men,
but it also limits the scope of gender
studies. In a general sense, academia
should be characterized by the idea
of "throw everything at the wall and
see what sticks." That's not to say that
we should take everything at face-
value, but we should at least be open
to new ideas and new perspectives. I
see women's studies as a field that is
closed to that.
In fact, the whole nature of femi-
nism seems closed to it. Sure, on paper,
feminism is defined as an ideology in
support of gender and sex equality, but
in practice, what shapes it? It's shaped

by the National Organization for
Women and women's studies depart-
ments. It's shaped by Meryl Streep's
commencement speech at Barnard
College in which she seemed to insin-
uate that all men are guilty of sexism
but are slowly adapting, and it's "about
time (laughter)." Another example is
Hanna Rosin's article in The Atlan-
tic entitled "The End of Men," which
suggests that women are simply more
adapted to a post-industrial society
and thus are subsequently thriving,
and that's hardly a problem.
What's women
about women's
studies anyway?
Very rarely do you see an organi-
zation that cries foul that men must
conscript to the draft or face fines,
or is outraged by the portrayal of
husbands on sitcoms as idiotic. You
don't hear many people outraged that
girls are consistently outperforming
boys in all levels of education. Fewer
recognize that men work the jobs
that are among the most dangerous.
Instead, they complain of a wage gap
whereby women are earning less than
men per year on average. They con-
tinue to attack the media for the stan-
dards of beauty that are unreasonably
high and impressed upon girls. And
they continue to allow women's stud-
ies, and the idea that an entire demo-
graphic has rights over another to
permeate the fabric of society.
Perhaps in the not too far future in
a not so far away place, we can realize
true equality of the sexes. Of course,
that will never happen if we don't do
something right now. And from the
look of it, no one is going to.
- Eric Szkarlat can be reached
at eszkarla@umich.edu.

0

game, it's the coaches' fault. If the offense is
too complicated for the young players, then the Richard Proctor
coach should teach a less complicated offense The letter-writer is a University alum and pro-
until the players mature, as head coach Jim fessor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin
Tressel of Ohio State University did with his School ofMedicine.
Around Campus: Jeremy Levy would have at least
- I he liked an e-mail from University administration regarding
pod ium its response to Saturday's near-campus shooting.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/ The Podium.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A MOMENT OF REMEMBERANCE

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily

LSA freshman Omar Fares participates in a group moment of silence on the Diag yesterday to remember those who have died in the Iraq War.

LOT
From Page 1A
the space.
"I would really like to see a
large employer come in, a busi-
ness that wanted to use that as a
headquarters or an office facility,"
he said in an interview.
The prime location of the
Library Lot, between the Main
Street and State Street areas,
makes it "vital to downtown's
future as it knits together the two
primary activity areas," according
to Susan Pollay, executive direc-
tor of the Ann Arbor Downtown
Development Authority.
A committee appointed by the
Ann Arbor City Council hired The
Roxbury Group LLC, an external
consulting firm, to review the two
hotel-conference center proposals
and draft a recommendation.
According to a report prepared
by The Roxbury Group, Valiant
LANSING
From Page 1A
together a proposal and people will
listen to you, that's really what the
platform allows," McDowell said.
McDowell said MSC also pro-
vides an opportunity for out-of-
state students to gain a better grasp
of issues plaguing the state as a
whole, rather than just the college
towns of Ann Arbor and Flint.
"I think we're also hoping for a
better understanding of what the
issues are in Michigan," McDowell
said. "Not everybody who's in the
caucus grew up in Michigan. They
may have come here for college, and
they don't really know what's going
on outside their own college experi-
ence."
Many students' presentations
yesterday focused on how to incor-
porate economic stability and job
creation in a state facing budget and
economic woes. Business senior
Michael Averbook and LSA senior
Sam Hartman proposed a new
method of public transportation in
the city of Detroit that establishes
a separate lane for busing, with
sophisticated traffic lights that
would allow for quicker and more
efficient transportation.
Averbook and Hartman also pro-
posed an incentive in the form of
a tax break for those who abstain
from owning a car in order to
encourage residents to use public
transportation. They also hope that
development of the program would
help create more jobs in the Detroit
area.
"We think this will decrease
the purchasing of new cars some-
what and will encourage the use of
public transportation," Averbook
said. "This will also increase jobs
through running more bus routes
and constructing new bus lanes on
the roads."
SCHOOLS
From Page 1A
implementation of the program,
which was scheduled to start in
Fall 2011, back to allow more time
for planning and increased com-
munity input.
"Given more time to look at vari-
ous options, we can come up with a
plan that will be more satisfying,"

AAPS administrator LeeAnn Dick-
inson-Kelley said at last night's
meeting.
Despite the criticisms, Cathy
Reishel, a clinical associate pro-
fessor at the School of Education
who is helping to lead the project,
said that if adopted, the plan would
allow for students to choose to par-
ticipate in academic enrichment
activities at the school during the
one- to two-week intersessions.
Intersessions would provide
students an "extra opportunity
to dig into interesting academic
work," Reishel said, adding that
lessons taught during the breaks
would expand on material taught

proposed 178,000 square feet of
new development, which includes
a conference center, a four-star
hotel, six high-end condomini-
ums, extensive office space, a res-
taurant and a public plaza.
The report states that Acquest
has plans for a 148,000-square-
foot development, with space for
an eight-story boutique hotel,
ground-level retail space and a
public plaza. This proposal would
eventually place a conference cen-
ter across the street at the former
YMCA site on South Fifth Avenue,
but Acquest doesn't plan to con-
struct that facility immediately.
Acquest Vice President Doug-
las Smith said in an interview that
having a separate conference facil-
ity provides the city more flexibil-
ity in terms of future expansion.
"Because (our proposal) de-
coupled the hotel and the con-
ference facility, it provided a
longer-term opportunity to grow
that conference-convention busi-

ness in order to support the down-
town," Smith said.
However, the Roxbury report,
which is available on the city's
website, found that Acquest's
proposal did not provide enough
details about the financing of the
project.
"The Acquest team chose not to
provide a specific proposal outlin-
ing how it would finance its proj-
ect, relying instead on its track
record of financing other similar
projects as evidence of its capac-
ity," the report's executive sum-
mary states.
Valiant's more comprehensive
financial strategy led the Rox-
bury Group to decisively recom-
mend the Valiant proposal for the
Library Lot site. According to the
report, Valiant offered voluntary
revisions to its original proposal,
making it a more attractive offer.
The modified scheme reduced
the size of the conference center,
added one floor of office space and

guaranteed against any financial
shortfall, eliminating debt liabil-
ity for the city.
Smith said Acquest had no
plans to revise its proposal.
According to Pollay, the city
of Ann Arbor hasn't officially
reviewed Roxbury's conclusions.
"A City Council-appointed
committee reviewed the Roxbury
report and is recommending that
the developer recommended by
Roxbury be put forward to City
Council for approval," she wrote
in an e-mail interview.
However, Hieftje says he's in
no hurry to accept a proposal
because construction isn't sup-
posed to be completed on the site
until December 2011.
"The real estate we're talking
about won't even be available for
another year and a half because
it's a big hole in the ground,"
Hieftje said in. "There's just no
rush to do anything about it given
that particular circumstance."

PETA
From Page lA
the class felt it was necessary.
In an e-mail interview yester-
day, a public relations official at
the University of Michigan Health
System reaffirmed UMHS's sup-
port for the course's practices.
"While nearly every aspect of
the Survival Flight course uses
simulators, for very specific
procedures, using anesthetized
animals is the only way we can
ensure our Survival Flight nurs-
es are capable and competent
enough to perform those pro-
cedures in the field on humans,
including babies," the e-mail said.
The official requested anonym-
ity because several individuals
associated with the course have
received threatening messages.
Asked why the Survival Flight
class requires live animals when
the University recently switched
to using simulator in its Advanced
Trauma Life Support class, the
same UMHS official said the
two classes were designed for
different circumstances. UMHS
stopped using live animals in its
Advanced Trauma Life Support
class, after Physician's Council for
Responsible Medicine - a non-
profit organization that advocates
for ethical methods of research -
criticized the technique.
"While physicians do perform
the same procedures, they do
so in a controlled environment
where ample back-up and support
is at hand in emergency or oper-
ating rooms," the UMHS official
wrote.
"Survival Flight nurses must
know how to do these proce-
dures correctly the first time they
are called upon to do so under
extraordinary circumstances,"
the official continued. "Nurses
in Survival Flight are called upon
to do things that even physicians
with ATLS training are not asked
to given the unique circumstanc-
es under which they are required
perform."
But Justin Goodman, associate
director of laboratory investiga-
tions for PETA, said yesterday
that the University's use of ani-
mals in the Survival Flight course
is a "relic" among peer programs.
"The University of Michigan's
Survival Flight Training course
continues to mutilate and kill
OFFICE HOURS
From Page 1A
Many of those who believe
Assange is anti-American cite
as evidence the recent release of
cables specifying sites around
the world that officials believe
are critical to U.S. security. How-
ever, in a recent New York Times
article, Assange said the goal of
WikiLeaks isn't to purport an
anti-American agenda, but rather
to push institutions to change in
order to see progress.
Communication Studies Prof.
Graham Griffith, who was at the
British newspaper The Guardian
when WikiLeaks released an ear-
lier set of confidential documents
about the war in Afghanistan in
July, said editors use a thorough
process to decide which docu-
ments to release to the public.
The Guardian was one of the
four European newspapers that

recently received the U.S. cables
from WikiLeaks.
"I left (in July) feeling very
positive about the process that
The Guardian editors and jour-
nalists went through in weigh-
ing what they should release to
the public," Griffith said. "This
is one of those things that I think
has been misrepresented. What I
can see the process being is that
WikiLeaks is releasing docu-
ments on its website after the edi-
tors at some of these papers have
looked at (them)."
"I've seen a quote from the Le
Monde editor about how (editors
and journalists) are seeing their
work up on the website, so what
editors have deemed to redact
is also carrying through to (the)
WikiLeaks site in many cases," he
said.
Though reporters and editors
are taking precautions with the
documents, government officials
have been critical of Assange
and hackers have been attacking
WikiLeaks since the site started
releasing the documents.
Collings said officials might
start becoming more cautious
about future communication
methods and protection of infor-
mation. The cables that were
released were considered "clas-
sified" - a relatively low level of
confidentiality that may prompt

Thursday, December 9, 2010 - 5A
cats and pigs despite the fact that
human-like simulators are avail-
able to replace the use of animals
in this course and that they've
been shown to better prepare
trainees to treat human patients
and that they're endorsed by lead-
ing medical organizations across
the country," Goodman said.
Goodman said the Air and Sur-
face Transport Nurses Associa-
tion - an organization that seeks
to advance the work of transport
nurses by enhancing the level
of patient care they provide -
recently confirmed that of the 30
institutions offering its transport
trauma courses in the country,
only the University uses live ani-
mals.
"On all counts, the use of ani-
mals in this course is- indefen-
sible," Goodman said. "It's just a
matter of time before it's going to
stop. But we're hoping that we're
able to give them a gentle nudge
and see that it's ended sooner
rather than later."
And, Goodman said, PETA's
campaign of phone calls, e-mails
and other events at the University
will not stop until the University
changes its policy.
"The campaign will continue
until the school commits to end-
ing the use of animals in the
course," Goodman said, explain-
ing that activity would likely slow
down over the holiday break. "But
when the next semester starts,
the campaign will be in full force
on campus again."
Asked about Tuesday's phone
and e-mail drive aimed at grab-
bing Coleman's attention, Good-
man said he thinks the volume of
calls would be difficult for Cole-
man to ignore.
"The inconvenience that Cole-
man's office may have had to
deal with (Tuesday) is nothing
compared to the lives of pain and
suffering that the animals in Sur-
vival Flight are forced to endure,"
he said. "If we can cause them just
a little bit of the discomfort that
animals in labs are caused, then
we're doing a good job."
PETA is not alone in its calls for
the University to end its practice
of using animals in the Survival
Flight course. The Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly passed a resolution
last month urging the University
to switch from using live animals
in the course to the simulators
used by other programs.
the government to alter the system
in the coming months.
Although Assange has suggest-
ed that the documents show U.S.
embassy officials engaged in espi-
onage for their country, there has
also been talk of trying Assange
for espionage against the U.S.
Griffith said the possibility
that Assange will be punished for
his decision to release the cables
threatens journalistic freedom.
"I'm not going to defend Julian
Assange, but the bluster about try-
ing him for espionage is something
that journalists have to find some-
what chilling," Graham said. "I
think if that's the case, then what
would stop administrations from
trying New York Times report-
ers? (Journalists) should be a little
more concerned about it than I
think a lot of them are."

Currently, WikiLeaks has
released only about 1,000 of the
250,000 cables Assange has access
to, and news sources around the
world continue to report the con-
tent of the cables.
Arbor Networks, an Ann Arbor-
based company, was able to track
the WikiLeaks site's movement as
it bounced to different domains to
resist efforts to shut down the site.
"We have a system that moni-
tors Internet traffic on a global
basis," said Kevin Whalen, Arbor's
director of corporate communica-
tions. "What WikiLeaks has been
doing is just changing the (site's)
hosting providers to more robust
providers capable of handling
(the) attacks."
In addition to garnering nation-
al attention, the leaks have also hit
closer to home at some colleges
across the country. The career ser-
vices office at Columbia Univer-
sity's School of International and
Public Affairs advised students
last week not to discuss the leak
on social networking sites because
it could lower their chances of
future government employment,
according to an article in The
Huffington Post. The career office
later backtracked and reiterated
the school's commitment to stu-
dent free speech.
Promoting open discussion on
the issue, University spokesman
Rick Fitzgerald said the Universi-
ty "believe(s) a vigorous, informed
discussion of important, current
topics is good for all of us."

SALAM RIDA/Daly
Samanatha Hawkins, Michigan Municipal League staff member, talks possible improvements to students' proposals yesterday.

Samantha Harkins, staff mem-
ber of the Michigan Municipal
League and member of the House
Commission on Civic Engagement,
said the pair's proposal is crucial to
economic development in Detroit,
especially since it is one of the few
cities in the country without a pub-
lic rail-system.
"At municipal, we love pub-
lic transportation" Harkins said.
"Detroit is the largest metropolitan
region in the country without some
sort of public rail transit and that
hurts us."
Harkins advised that the pair
focus especially on job development
because it is a major issue among
state legislators that transcends
party lines and could lead to poten-
tial widespread support in the state
legislature.
"The word jobs is like crack in
Lansing," Harkins said. "Everybody
is talking about jobs on both sides of
the aisle and everyone wants more
jobs."
According to McDowell, another
in class and would focus on read-
ing and math.
The partnership with AAPS
would offer student-teachers from
the University the opportunity to
work in a collaborative environ-
ment with University faculty and
teachers at Scarlett and Mitchell.
It would also allow teachers and
students from different grades to
interact, particularly when sub-
ject matter overlaps in the cur-
riculum.
"We could imagine, for example,
8th graders participating with 5th
graders in some kind of explora-
tion of the First Continental Con-
gress," Reishel said.
But not everyone is as excited as
Reishel about the partnership. Par-
ents and members of the commu-
nity raised several concerns about
the program at the AAPS Board of
Education meeting last night.
One main point of concern was
the change to a blIanced calendar,
which one parent said was incon-
siderate.
"Our family time is precious to

important aspect of MSC is that it
gives students like Averbrook and
Hartman firsthand exposure to the
processes and logistics involved in
the legislative process at the state
level.
"It's easy to say that everyone
should do x and y, that everyone
should eat healthier, but to actu-
ally make a proposal that takes
into account what exactly you want
the legislation to do is not as easy,"
McDowell said.
Jeff Kupperman, associ-
ate professor of education at the
University's Flint campus and co-
facilitator of MSC, said the program
gives legislators the opportunity to
hear from a group of youth constitu-
ents - a voting group that is often
underrepresented.
"Legislators often tell us (the
program) is really special because
the proposals are really well-
researched, and they're not just
somebody saying it ought to be a
law," Kupperman said. "The caucus
has spent weeks and months work-
us," said Elizabeth Baker, whose
child attends Ann Arbor Public
Schools. "Summertime allows my
son to be happy, well-rounded and
relaxed."
Parents were concerned with
the logistical challenges they may
face when one child attends Mitch-
ell or Scarlett and another attends
any of the other district schools
operating under a traditional cal-
endar. As the plan stands now, the
balanced school year would not
apply to Scarlett's feeder schools:
Pittsfield, Carpenter or Allen ele-
mentary schools.
Reishel acknowledged the con-
cern.
"There is no question that it
would be difficult for families to
have kids on two different sched-
ules - not impossible, but it would
be different," she said.
Reishel added that while a bal-
anced school year may be new to
the Ann Arbor school district, it is
not a new concept. There are over
3,000 schools across the country
using such a schedule, she said,

ing on these proposals and deliber-
ating on them."
McDowell echoed his senti-
ments, saying that the caucus allows
state representatives to learn about
the problems that affect students,
a perspective they don't normally
hear on the House and Senate floors.
"It provides a steady stream of
ideas and concepts," McDowellsaid.
"It's another constituency that's not
lobbyists, not corporations and not
representatives that are giving ideas
of what should be passed." .
In the past, MSC representa-
tives submitted proposals that have
influenced state law. Successful
proposals include the designation of
texting while driving as a primary
offense rather than a secondary
offense - a bill that was passed into
law this March.
"We have had resolutions that
have become law; some have started
here and some have dovetailed with
initiatives that were brought up by
other constituencies," Weisserman
said.
including schools in Grand Rapids,
Mich.
But some parents at the meeting
voiced their support of the part-
nership.
"I believe that the balanced cal-
endar does not shut out the whole
summer," said Gloria Yamas,
whose children attend Scarlett. "I
know that it may be uncomfortable
as most change is uncomfortable to
people, but the benefits to our chil-
dren, to me, are unending."
At the meeting, Scarlett Princi-
pal Gerald Vazquez cited research
published in the "Review of Edu-
cation Research" that suggests
students lose much of what they've
learned during the academic year
over the summer months - partic-
ularly in the areas of reading and
math - in a phenomenon termed
the "summer slide."
officials chose Mitchell and
Scarlett as sites for the project,
Mitchell Principal Kathy Scarnec-
chia said, due to a discrepancy in
students' performance and their
diverse ethnic backgrounds.

FAN THE DAILY ON
FACEBOOK.



6A - Thursday, December 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com J

Tuition tangle tests mettle of British coalition


0

Lawmakers will
vote today on
proposed tripling of
university tuition fees
LONDON (AP) - Britain's coali-
tion government faces a reality
check today when lawmakers vote
on an unpopular proposal to triple
university tuition fees, a plan that
has brought students into the streets
protesting about a broken campaign

promised.
The vote poses a crucial test of
the viability of the Conservative-led
partnership with the Liberal Demo-
crats and casts an uncomfortable
spotlight on Deputy Prime Minister
Nick Clegg, who like other Liberal
Democrat candidates signed a pre-
election pledge to oppose any such
hike.
In the coalition agreement,
the Liberal Democrats reserved
the right to abstain in any vote to
raise tuition fees. That created an
awkward position for Business

Secretary Vince Cable, a Liberal
Democrat, who at one point sug-
gested he might abstain from voting
for the proposal eventhough itcame
from his office.
While Some Liberal Democrats
in the House of Commons have
declared their opposition, but that is
unlikelyto blockthe hike.
"The real danger for the govern-
ment is not that they won't pass it
through, but that it will be a policy
fiasco," said Patrick Dunleavy, pro-
fessor of political science at the Lon-
don School of Economics.

"By picking this fight with the
student body ... the government
seems to have gotten itself into
choppy water," he said.
All of this has made Clegg one of
the least popular politicians on uni-
versity campuses.
Prime Minister David Cameron's
government defends the move as
a painful necessity to deal with a
record budget deficit and a sputter-
ing economy. To balance its books,
the U.K. passed a four-year package
of spending cuts worth 81 billion
pounds ($128 billion), which will

lead to the loss of hundreds of thou-
sands of public sector jobs and cut
or curtail hundreds of government
programs.
The government proposed rais-
ing the maximum university tuition
fees in England from 3,000 pounds
(about $4,700) a year to 9,000
pounds (about $14,000). Students
reacted with mass protests that
have been marred by violence and
have paralyzed some campuses.
Reacting to the protests, the gov-
ernment modified its plan by raising

ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Your New Home!
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
prinesh.com

4 ELEV EN LO F is now leastng
for 2011 - rates from $660.U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today.I to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!
2 & 3 bdrms, lots of closet space, flat
screen tvs, modern furniture & much
more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
HURRY, these are going fast!
Amazing deal! 1100 sqft bi-level fits
up to 5, flat screen tv, HD directs, inter-
net, heat and much more. On-site fit-
ness, recreation and PEE laundry.
741-9300
annarborapartments~net

the
PROPERTV MANA xMNT
Owned ant
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
:entral Campus owntown
North Camxpas YWest Side
Let Our Family lake Care of Yours
6ite Resident sile caatemr->rary Funl re
011sat; ktuarr K- weicome!
kxkrc e w i is Stud) RX nv,
734.741 9300
www~auamn qw~rptmenWt.net
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. fain.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$3000 + utilities, Jim at 734-426-4772.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3450/mo. Call 248-798-4755
6, 7, AND 9 BDRM houses available
Fall. Central Campus and Kerrytown.
Call Deinco 734-996-1991 or visit
cappomanagement.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
7 BDRM HOUSE! Great Location,
Huge Rms, 3 Full Bths, 2 Ktchns, Prkg
& Ldry. Call 734-260-4003 or visit
HillStreetProperties.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
ACROSS FROM WEST & SOUTH
QUAD. 1 & 2 bdrms, modern
furnittre, garnge parking and
PREE beat & laundry. 741-9300
annarborapartmentsnet

2011 /2012
Beds Location Rent Lease
Houses

6 1103 Church
5 1020 East U.
Apartments
2 721 Catherine #1
1 721 Catherine #2
1 721 Catherine #
E 423 Hamilton #4
E 306 E. Madison #2

$3400 May
$3200 Sept.

.. . . .

$1250
$850
$800
$500
$500

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.


Affordable Student Co-Op Housing
Now Signing Room & Board Contracts for
Winter 2010 & Fall-Winter 2011-2012
=$575/Month Includes full meal plan, Internet, parking, utilities,
Leadership Opportunities, & Much More.
Inter-Coaperative Council
S0www ee-oop ( 734-662.4414
SiodentOawnedandOperatedsince 1932

www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM FOR Sept., furn., private
deck, excellent security, parking, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking. 537 Elizabeth
St, $1479, includes heat. 734-996-8506
4 BEDROOM BI-LEVEL apt in
house. Fits up to 6 people, lots of closet
space, bay windows and 2 covered
parking spots. 741-9300
5 BDRM, 2 bath, laundry, parking,
heat included, May-May, 815 Arch,
call 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
540 WALNUT, 6 bedrooms, 3 bath,
Just 3 blocks from the CCRB, this
house has a large porch, parking and is
partially furnisbed. Laundry on site is
included. $4,695.00
Call Pat at Campus Management
734-663-4101
6 BEDROOM HOUSE available
September! 1608 Geddes. Furnished,
A/C, free laundry, free parking.
$4700/month. Call 734-678-0122
MY NEW YEARS Resolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Pind my apartment
forthe fall...Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS! AVAIL-
ABLE FALL 2011! 1 & 2 bdrm apts.,
Just one block from S. University, near
the B-School and Ed. School. Large
bdrms/ living rooms. Tile baths w/ dou-
ble sinks. Lots of built-ins. Study
spaces for students. Huge Closets! Big
Windows! Free Parking! Free Heat/Wa-
ter! I bdrms starting at $825. 2 bdrms
starting at $1,200. Please contact our
leasing agent Patty White 734-320-
1245 or pattycimgtllc@yahoo.com
wwwchurchstreetrentals.com
FALL 2011
Amazing 4 Bedroom Apartment.
Right on South University Ave.
2 Full Luxury Baths, Huge Living
Space, Heat and Water Included
$3299/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Great 2 Bedroom Apartment with
Balcony. Located across from the
CCRB. Modern Kitchen and Bath with
Granite Floors and Bar Top.
Heat and Water Included.
$1499/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
FALL 2011
Large 6 Bedroom House with Huge
Bedrooms! 2 Full Baths. Located near
South Univeristy and South Forest.
3 Floors of living space, and
newly carpeted for coming year!
$3699/month
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty com
FALL 2011 HOUSES

-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2011-12!
18 great locations
Efficiencies, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location
SPACIOUS 4 BEDROOM APTS!
1039 Baldwin
Two 4 Bdr. Apts. available in a
gorgeous converted house.
High ceilings, bay windows, fireplace,
hardwood floors, & screened in porch!!
Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
!!AWESOME 4 bdrm near the rock.
Free prkg. indry. Avail. Fall '11.
734.223.7777.
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 6 & 7 Bdrm/3 BA Homes.
great floor plan/location! fireplace/cool
kitch/prkg. $3600/$3950 313-215-8115
!*NOW LEASING FOR 2011*!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
***4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail July. Large modern
kitchen, 1.5 baths, fully furnished and
much more! 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*.
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were AFFORDABLE
and MUCH Better than the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments. www.UniversityTowers-
ML.com
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com

Check us out and get
FREE Bubble Island
Drink with
any new tour!
Voted Best
Apartments in
2009 by
Michigan Daily!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
AFFORDABLE AND MUCH
BETTER TI N THER DOWS!
YOU DESERVE TO STEP P
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSrt1TOWERS-M ICOM
MAY LEASES ! Studio - 3 Bdrms
avail on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAILABLE FALL, STUDIOS to 6
bedroom houses located near U/M cam-
pus. Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-
5500 or www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!

the income level at which graduates
start repaying student loans, and by
making more part-time students eli-
gible for loans.
"The concessions are not
enough," said 19-year old City Uni-
versity student Carter Rothgard. "It
still doesn't make it any easier for us
to go to school."
Students plan another round of
nationwide protests and sit-ins for
today, saying they would not stop
until tuition increases are aban-
doned and full university subsidies
are restored.
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATION!!!
543 Church! Best location in town! 4
Right across from East Hall. Spacious
4br bi-level apts. Updated kitchens
w/dishwashers, heat & water included,
and all apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
PACKARD 5BDRM
Completely remodeled & very spacious
5 bdrm apt. Two of the bedrooms are
very large and can easily be doubles!
Eat-in kitchen, hardwood firs, & 2 full
baths. Washer & dryer on-site and just
one block from the union!
734-668-1100
SPACIOUS 2 BEDROOM APTS!
911 & 1001 S. Forest
Great location w/heat, water, wi-fi,
& parking included. Fully furnished &
very spacious! Updated kitchens &
bthrms, leather or suede furniture, A/C,
laundry, and intercom entrance.
5 minutes to Central Campus!
www.varsitymagement.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
GREAT 7 BDRM. 7-8 person house
near campus. 2.5 bath. Large rooms,
free prkg., laundry. $3900/mo. Avail.
Sept. 2011. Call 734-761-9210
SERVICES
734.709.3222
www.scienceworddoctor.com
For your scientific writing needs.
Services include grants, clinical
reports, abstracts and manuscripts.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 onLSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed antorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
RESUMES, APPLICATION ES-
SAYS, Thesis Editing, Book Layouts.

6

MBARENDINGMt$300/day poses-
s+s.1N ~xpv. r ine ruex rnosems

B
L
E

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, December 9, 2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 7 Cartridgefiler 42 Gold meas. 54 Early mode of
1 Magic 8 Coolers, briefly 45 Second-century transportation
5 Time insa 9One may be date 58 Powerful
classified ad choked back 46 Barrelworker 1966
8 Syrian president 10 Stylish 47 Thing hurricane
13 Surrounded by 11 They may be 48 Hercule's creator 60 Yak
14 Bud liquid orfrozen 50 Uniformed 61 Word on a
15 Little wood 12 Original "Star campus gp. biblical wall
16 M Trek" studio 52 Little rascal 63 Cock's
19 So-so connection? 17 Wise one 53 Chance to see mate
20 _ forces 18 Driler's deg. what you missed 64 Jr. and sr.
21 Senate majority 22 Bank acct. entry the first time 65 Type
leader Harry 24 Morrow and
23 Baseball stat. Damone ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
25 Ma 26 One who lifts a M P G S A I L D R 0 0 P Y
28 More clownish lot? O R O A L D A EAR N E D
31 Doesn't try to 27 '50s-'60s chief P A O T O Y S O L D I E R S
reach the green, justice Warren P Y G M Y E L E P H A N T
in golf 28 Microwave E E L E R A I R 0 B S
32 Current letters 29 Cologne cry
33 Lesstaxing 30 Boil over? 0 0 E0 F U L L S TO P
37 Max 34__Jordan: Nike R A I S E S N E E Z Y
43 Most tender brand B A B Y G R A N D P I A N O S
44 Pace 35 Vane dir. U B O A T S I N E P T
45 Low-quality 36 Part of TGIF S O O N GNAW I B A R
49 Sumatran 38 AOL et al. Y U K U D O S N I P E
swingers 39 Culture medium MI N I A T U R E G O L F
51 Maxi 40 Lover of Yum- D W A R F P L A N E T L 0 U
55 Site of a 1981 Yum in "The D E R A I L D I E T A M E
sitcom Mikado" T A K E T O S T L 0 B B L
honeymoon 41 Little butt? --dtr ~- 120/

" hl.No xp ne.,tra ingprovided
test Rates Around!!! AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
easing Now... BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Utilities Included* Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Even comes Furnished!! Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
(And HAIL to the Victors!) ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
Prime Student Housing MICHIGAN
761-8000 primesh.com STUDENTS
*Varies by location Good Pay, flexible schedules,
Customer sales/service, conditions
apply,
all ages 17+ call 734-975-7299
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
Rent with the Best!
Fal 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for TICKETS & TRAVEL
showing or more information: WANTED 1 TICKET Dilbert McClin-
734-761-8220 Of ton. The Ark. Dec. 15th. Leave mes-
info@postrealtyproperties.com sage for Kendall. 734-475-3447

i
D

0

6

56 Minute amount
87 badge
19 'Big Blue"
62 Maxim
66 Old number?
67 Inumtrmenton
which Jake
Shimabukuro can

xworaeanorwaoi.com
1 2 3 4 5 8 7 8 8 1a 11 12
13 14 15
18 17 18
19 20 21 22
L 23 24 25 25 27

play "Bohemian
Rhapsody"
68 Kind of officer or
shark
66 Meg and Robert
70....Permetb
71 Asian beef
source
DOWN
1 Goya subect
2 Yemen neighbor
3 Crackerjack
4 Poetic tribute
5 Common
crossword clue
leters
6 'The Art of
Loving" author

II

26 29 30
32 33 34 35 3
37 36
43
45 46 47 48
61 52 53 5
66 57
62 63 84
66 67
69 70
By Kurt Mueller
(02010'rribune Media Services, Inc.

# Beds Location
9 606 Catherine
7 510 Catherine

Rent
$4700
$3700

7 1129 White St $3950
6 418 N. State $3500
6 605 E. Hoover $3720
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2240
Tenants pay all utilities.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

625 Church St. (734) 668-1100
515 Walnut
South U. & Geddes
2br 2 bth bi-level opts w/
rooftop patios perfect for 4
people! Large living rooms,
tons of closet space, and
updated kitchens. Fully
furnished w/ heat, water,
& parking included!
wwwe.varsiymnogement.com

6

12/09/10




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 9, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, Decemher 9, 2010 - 7A

Back in his old position,
Novak making strides

At
Nov
rel
b(

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Redshirt junior goalkeeper Chris Blais will play a huge part if the Wolverines want to upset No. 2 seed Akron on Friday.
Breakdown: Akron
hashevadatg

Zacl
a speci
men's1
victory
son.
Tied
half, H
erly lof
the top
Novak
But th
the wi
jump1
cut co
ball as
the hai
Morris
In t
up to
Laval
shot fr
missed
ingly<
ing No
paint f
made
Conne
down I
Tha
off the
but N
game t
alley-o
trying
for the
Sucl
forwar
omore,
agains
miere
Kansas

two-guard spot, igan State's Draymond Green
- and he struggled mightily at
rak leads team in times playing in the post.
.And though the occasional hus-
bounds with 7.6 tle plays and highlight-reel blocks
rds - along with his ability to dunk
)ards per game with more authority than any of
his teammates - have made him a
By LUKE PASCH fan favorite in Ann Arbor, he was
Daily Sports Writer still wholly undersized as a for-
-- -- ward in Division-I hoops.
k Novak vividly remembers Luckily for the Chesterton,
ific play from the Michigan Ind. native, Michigan coach John
basketball team's signature Beilein had something different
y over Connecticut last sea- in store for the 2010-11 season.
With the addition of freshman
d at 47 well into the second forwards Evan Smotrycz, Tim
tusky guard Donnell Bev- Hardaway Jr. and Colton Chris-
fted an alley-oop pass from tian, he told Novak over the
of the key, trying to set up summer that he'd finally get his
's man with a flashy finish. chance to play at his natural posi-
e Wolverine forward saw it tion - shooting guard.
hole way. Novak timed his "We can always put the small-
better than his Connecti- est four-man in Division-I back
unterpart and slapped the there - Zack Novak - because he
ray from the rim and into battls, and he gets some things
nds Michigan guard Darius done," Beilein said at Michigan
s. media day last month. "But he's
transition, Morris passed been playing out of position for
former Wolverine guard two years, so we pretty much
Lucas-Perry, who took a said, 'Colton and Evan, you go
om behind the arc that just after that position, and may the
I off the front rim. Seem- best man win.'"
out of nowhere, a streak- Now, eight games into the sea-
vak came rushing into the son, that change has become a
or the offensive board and blessing for the Wolverines (6-2).
the put-back with three Matched up against men his
cticut defenders breathing own size, Novak has cleaned up
his neck. the glass like never before, and he
tsequencemayhave topped leads the Wolverines in rebound-
matchup's highlight reel, ing with 61 boards --7.6 per game.
ovak admitted after the He's now on pace to finish this
:hat when he thwarted the season with over 100 rebounds
op attempt, he was simply more than he had last year.
to avoid being dunked on And in his last two games,
third time that game. Novak registered the first and
h was life for the 6-foot-4 second double-doubles of his
d last season. Then a soph- career.
Novak was matched up "I was thinking the whole time
t some of the nation's pre- going into this year it was goingto
frontcourt talent - from be easier to get rebounds," Novak
s's Marcus Morris to Mich- said after his 14-rebound perfor-

mance against Concordia last Fri-
day. "I'm not having to go against
guys that are waybigger than me.
But my teammates are doing a
great job blocking out - I'm just
getting easy rebounds."
Easy rebounds or not, his
increased output as the two-man
has helped in more ways than
one.
Now that Novak has replaced
junior guard Stu Douglass play-
ing at the top of the key with
Morris, Douglass has seemingly
found his niche coming off the
bench. His new role as the sixth
man has added depth to the
young Wolverine roster, provid-
ing a much-needed spark from
that spot late in a number of
games this season.
Against Harvard last Thursday,
the sharpshooter single-hand-
edly kept the stalling Michigan
offense in the game with his 16
second-half points, en route to a
65-62 victory. And to top it off,
Novak had a double-double in
that game as well - 12 points and
11 rebounds.
"This young man right now - I
think he scored 18 or 20 against
Ohio State as a starter - and
now he's coming off the bench,"
Beilein said. "That's the team-
work; that's the unity that we're
looking for. With Stu being able to
do that, now other people believe
(in our depth)."
And even with Novak and Dou-
glass thriving from their respec-
tive position changes, the switch
hasn't been perfect.
So far this season, Novak has
shot at a woeful 31-percent clip
from the field, which is signifi-
cantly less successful than in
each of his previous two sea-
sons. But if he can turn it on
from 3-point range like he has in
the past, expect more good from
these changes to come.

By BRIAN MECHANICK
Daily Sports Writer
If you were standing on the side-
lines ofAkron's Lee R. Jackson Field
on Oct. 19, you would have laughed
at the idea that the visiting team
would eventually earn a College
Cup berth six weeks later. The Zips
trounced Michigan 7-1 that night -
Akron's biggest margin of victory
all season - as the visitors traveled
back home with their confidence
and direction in doubt.
But Friday, the Wolverines will
stand across the field from the Zips
in Santa Barbara, Calif., with a trip
to the NCAA final on the line. Mich-
igan is the clear underdog.
But with a nine-game winning
streak since the loss to Akron,
which includes road upsets of
No. 10 South Carolina and No.
2 Maryland, the Wolverines are
undoubtedly a stronger team than
they were in Akron. But how much
stronger?
MICHIGAN'S FORWARDS VS.
AKRON'S CENTER BACKS
Akron has been buoyed all year
by one of the nation's best defens-
es, boasting the nation's sixth best
goals-against-average. The defense
is organized around its two U-20
U.S. National Team center backs,
sophomores Zarek Valentin and
Chad Barson. Both players are
quick, have great composure and
positioning and have a special talent
for distributing balls forward to the
Zips' forwards.
Michigan freshman Soony Saad
and senior Justin Meram are the
attacking force for the Wolverines.
They have combined for 35 goals
this season and have accounted for
75 percent of Michigan's scoring
prodcution.Merampossesses afear-
lessness in beating defenders and a
poacher's mindset while Saad has
garnered attention as the nation's
second-leading goal scorer with his
howitzer shot from anywhere in the
attacking half.
Akron's pair both stand at under
six feet, which could open up
the aerial game for 6-foot-i-inch
Meram. Michigan's forwards will
have to get the better of the match-
up in order to win.
EDGE: Push
MICHIGAN'S WINGERS VS.
AKRON'S FULLBACKS
Perhaps the best player on
Akron's team, star junior right back
Kofi Sarkodie, is a dynamic force
attacking down the wing, as his
hat trick against the Wolverines
in October showed. Akron's whole
formation is based around Sar-
kodie's bombing runs, so the Wol-
verine left winger (likely senior
Alex Wood or freshman Fabio Per-
reria) will have to double down in
tracking back on defense.
The Michigan right wingers
matched up against Akron left back
Chad Korb should be a much more
quiet affair. The more defensive
left back should swallow up red-
shirt junior Adam Shaw's attacks
down the wing.
Michigan will likely try to play
 the ball in the middle of the park
to avoid the intimidating Zip full-
backs, but expect Sarkodie to
wreak havoc again.
EDGE: Akron

MICHIGAN'S CENT
VS. AKRON'S CENTE
TThis matchup w
by Michigan sophom
midfielder Hamoody
freshman Akron de
fielder Perry Kitchen.
the USyouthnational
is an expert ball wir
tributor - the lynchp
defense and devasta
attack.
Saad is the quartr
Michigan attack, dist
to the forwards and
great precision. If I
him down and disrup
expect the Michiganc
ter.
Not to be outdone,
Anthony Ampaipit
Kitchen's dynamic pa
quickness and passi
be difficult for theN
handle. Michigan sop
Alashe will have to m
he avoids turnovers in
the park lest he unle
the counter-attack.
In Alashe and Sa
verines have two tale
helped lead the offens
not ready for the two p
round MLS players th
goingup against.
MICHIGAN'S FUL
AKRON'S WIN
Akron sports an
out in redshirt junio
Michael Nanchoff. I
scorer who provides
and electrifies with
runs down the field.
partnered with soph
Caldwell who has be
son dynamo for Akro
four of his career goa
son games.
Chase Tennant ar
jano are the two sen
for the Wolverines. S
the Akron wings is a t
veterans have steppec
ing improve the Wolv
during the winning st
are facing a major cha
with the quicknessc
wide midfielders.

ER MIDFIELD
ER MIDFIELD
ill be defined
ore attacking
Saad against
fensive mid-
A standout of
team, Kitchen
nner and dis-
rin of Akron's
ting counter-
erback of the
ributing balls

MICHIGAN'S CENTER BACKS
VS. AKRON'S FORWARDS
TThis is where it gets rough for
the Wolverines. Leading the line
for the Zips are two of the nation's
best college players, junior Darling-
ton Nagbe and freshman Darren
Mattocks. Mattocks has been the
phenom to replace recently called-
up U.S. national team member Teal
Bunbury, (now of MLS's Sporting
Kansas City), while Nagbe has the
speed and skill that have experts
projecting him to be the first MLS

I

wings with draft pick this January.
Kitchen shuts Michigan sophomores Kofi
ts his passing, Opare and Brian Klemczak will
offense to fal- have to do better than they did in
the last meeting with the Zips. A
Akron senior failure to close down the attackers
akwong is and clear effectively helped lead to
rtner. He has theWolverines' demise.
ng that will Experience from the first
Wolverines to matchup should benefit Michigan
rhomore Latif more than Akron on this area of the
lake sure that field. But there is no bigger dispar-
the center of ity in talent than there is between
ash Akron on the Michigan defenders and the
Akron attack.
ad, the Wol- EDGE: Akron
nts who have
e. But they're GOALKEEPING
'rojected first- Redshirt junior goalkeeper
at they will be Chris Blais has been an unques-
tioned leader of the Michigan
EDGE: Akron defense, making seven saves in the
quarterfinals to outplay the Terra-
LBACKS VS. pins' top-prospect goalkeeper Zac
IGERS MacMath.
other stand- Akron has a strong goalie itself
r left-winger in sophomore David Meves, but his
He is a goal errors in the quarterfinals almost
great crosses knocked Akron out of the tourna-
his darting ment. Meves might be the flashier
Nanchoff is name in soccer circles, but Blais is
romore Scott definitely the steadier goalkeeper.
en a postsea- EDGE: Michigan
n, tallying all
ils in postsea- INTANGIBLES
Both teams enter the game riding
nd Jeff Qui- long winning streaks and are full of
nior fullbacks confidence. Akron has the intimi-
hutting down dation factor after its destruction
all order. The of the Wolverines, but Michigan's
d up in help- resiliency and comeback-kid men-
erine defense tality should keep it in the game
reak, but they closer than the teams' 7-1. Still,
llenge to deal expect talent to win out in the end.
of the Akron EDGE: Push
EDGE:Akron FINAL SCORE: Akron 3, Michigan2
ANCH U R ESTAURANT n
Cuisine o eiey
include free bubble tea
off!
any entree or purchase
$15 and above
50o*off!
tuy 1 enitron and hobo teo
at regul rce eta2 dot
equa or lesser value 50% ot
tslue.cor & campusspecia .com



LAST CHANCE
TO GET YOUR
SENIOR PORTRAIT
TAKEN!
December 6"_10h
in the Sophia B. Jones room
of the Michigan Union
h7e sitting fee is just $1S!
This price includes your portrait featured in
the 2011 Michignensian Yearbook
Sign up online by visiting www.OurYear.com
and entering School Code: 87156
Phone 734.418.4115 ext. 1247
E-mail ensian.um@umich.edu
IS E Bring in this ad and receive $2 off the sitting fee.
Michiganensian
Y E A R B O O K


4


8A - Thursday, December 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
D' will be key
against Kansas

Big Chill a week-long event
for Ann Arbor, M' hockey

E
4

Undefeated Jayhawks
will give Wolverines
yet another tough
pre-Big Ten challenge
By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's basket-
ball team plays in one of the tough-
est conferences in the nation.
Throughout its
Big Ten schedule,
it will face solid Kansas at
opponents on a Michigan
nightly basis.
So one might Kansas 8-0;
presume that Michigan 4-4
Michigan would
play an easy When: Today
non-conference PM
schedule lined Where:
with foreseeable Crisler Arena
victories. This Radio: WTKA
might be the case
for some pro-
grams, but it is definitely not the
case for the Wolverines.
Even though the Wolverines are
only .500 right now, that can be
in part attributed to their brutal
schedule so far. Besides Marquette,
Michigan has only lost to ranked
teams, including No. 5 Xavier, No. 8
Texas A&M and, most recently, No.
19 Iowa State on Dec. 5.
"Our kids have to know what it
takes to be a good program," Michi-
gan coach Kevin Borseth said after
beating Wake Forest on Dec. 1. "You
have to be able to play good teams."
Staying true to that sentiment,
Michigan (4-4) will take on another
tenacious opponent when undefeat-
ed Kansas (8-0) comes to Ann Arbor
on Thursday night.
The Jayhawks feature a high-
octane offense that averages 85.3
points per game, good for ninth in
the NCAA. They are led by two for-
wards, 6-foot-3 sophomore Carolyn
Davis and 6-foot-2 junior Aishah
Sutherland. Davis averages 19 points
per game and Sutherland averages
close to a double-double with 12.9

points and nearly 10 rebounds per
game.
Kansas may have a size advan-
tage and two scoring threats in the
post, but size mightnotplay as big of
a role as it could in Thursday's game.
The Wolverines' biggest defensive
issue all year has been stopping the
opposition's outside shooting, not
its inside scoring, which is surpris-
ing for ateam whose starting center
stands at 6-foot-1.
Michigan held the Cyclones to
18-percent shooting from beyond
the arc in last week's contest and
only trailed by two points entering
the second half. But the Wolverines
surrendered seven 3-pointers in the
second frame and went on to lose,
60-47.
In Michigan's most impressive
win this season, it held a vaunted
Wake Forest team to 15 percent
from beyond the arc in the second
half en route to a 91-58 victory. The
key to that victory was defense
against the deep ball, and Thursday
night's game will most likely depend
on defense once again.
The Wolverines play a high-risk,
high-reward defense that creates a
lot of turnovers but also gives up a
lot of points.
"We are going to really have to
get after them defensively and force
them to make turnovers," senior
guard Veronica Hicks said before
the season. "So our pressure is going
to have to be great."
The Wolverines have been incon-
sistent on offense this year, espe-
cially in their last two games. After
scoring 91 points against the Demon
Deacons, Michigan was held to just
47 points against Iowa State.
Granted, the Cyclones feature
the 13th-ranked defense in the
country.
In Borseth's last three years as
Michigan's head coach, the Wol-
verines are 40-13 whentheir oppo-
nent scores fewer than 60 points.
When their opponents do score
more than 60 points, Michigan is
11-35. That means Michigan will
have to play some great defense
if it wants to hand the Jayhawks
their first loss of the season.

By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
Technically speaking, The Big
Chill at the Big House will be an
outdoor hockey game between
Michigan and Michigan State on
Saturday in Michigan Stadium.
But while the Dec. 11 game is
the main event,
the Big Chill has NOTEBOOK
become a week-
long hockey spectacle involving
more than just the 40-or so roster
members of the CCHA opponents.
Even Michigan coach Red
Berenson, who insists on staying
focused on preparing his team for
Saturday's game, couldn't help but
appreciate how the University has
used the Big Chill to create "a whole
hockey community event."
"It has really grown into ... not a
monster, but a big event," Berenson
said last Thursday.
From the three Ann Arbor pub-
lic high schools, to Michigan's and
Michigan State's club teams, to for-
mer 1998 Wolverine captain Matt
Herr's prep team from Connecticut,
the University has been made the
Big Chill rink accessible to local and
special programs.
More than 25 teams will have
played on the ice before Saturday's
game. Students and fans will then
have the opportunity to participate
in an open skate on Sunday.
Michigan alum Mike Hagen is
the head coach of Ann Arbor's Sky-
line High School prep team, and
although his team was defeated
4-1 on Sunday by Ann Arbor pri-
vate school Gabriel-Richard, Hagen
knows the opportunity to play
hockey in Michigan Stadium was
unforgettable for his young team.
"The University opened the place
up to the public," Hagen said. "It's
really gracious of them to do that.
It's just big for hockey, its big for the
community. It just brought a lot of
attention to hockey in general, and
it generated a lot of excitement for
all these teams. These guys came,
walked out of the tunnel (Sunday),
looked up there in the stadium and
their eyes were as big as saucers."
PULLING OUT ALL THE STOPS:

4

4

ARIEL BOND/Daily
The Michigan club hockey team plays against Michigan State's club hockey team on Tuesday night in "The Little Chill."

While the University made a point
of incorporating the local hockey
community into the week leading
up to the Big Chill, Saturday will be
all about entertaining the 113,000
people expected to be in atten-
dance.
In addition to pre-and post-game
fireworks shows, there will be fire-
works launched from each endzone
each time the 12th-ranked Wolver-
ines score. The post-game fireworks
display will even be set to music
from the movie The Big Chill. Both
teams will remain on the benches
after the end of the game to see the
post-game show. And the writers of
the 1983 movie - one of whom is a
Michigan alum - will drop a cer-
emonial puck at center ice before
the game.

When asked 'Why fireworks?,'
Assistant Athletic Director for Mar-
keting and Promotions Mark Rior-
dan didn't hesitate.
"It's an event," Riordan said.
"(Fireworks) just make it even bet-
ter. You think about it being in sec-
tion 29, row 98, you're not going to
see all the action. But the fireworks
are partof the event. You're going to
leave here thinking, 'That was awe-
some."'
When Riordan called the Big
Chill an event, he wasn't kidding.
Michigan contacted the Guinness
World Records last year to make
sure there would be representatives
in attendance for Saturday's game,
as it is projected to be the most
attended hockey game in history.
"One of the best things the last

three weeks (has been) dealing
with the Guinness records people,"
Riordan said. "We had to talk to
people in London to make sure 4
they're comingoverto get this thing
justified and make sure it's a Guin-
ness record. We can only go for one
record, and it's the largest hockey
game record. The 77,000 that was
in Germany this summer is the one
that we're goingto beat." 4
NOTES: Michigan's and Michi-
gan State's club hockey teams faced
off in a gamed dubbed "the Little
Chill" on Tuesday Night. The W61-
verines club team lost to the Spar-
tans club team, 3-2.... After practice
on Wednesday, Berenson said there
is still no decision on which senior
netminder will start in goal for
Michigan on Saturday.


4

4

4

4

4

4


r
j

,
.'
i
ti, C
s' #
, ! k
a ^r
_ -,+i
'"+;

The Michigan Daily [ michigandaily.com I Thursday, December 9, 2010

weekend
essentials
Dec. 9 to Dec. 12
IN THE
sSPOTLIGHT
This Saturday from 11
a.m. to 8 p.m., the Tiny
Expo Indie Holiday
Arts & Craft Fair will
feature a gathering of
Ann Arbor area art-
ists and offer a unique
local shopping experi-
ence. Wares include
everything from license
plate belt buckles
to specialty coffee
blends. The Fair will be
at 325 and 327 Braun
Court, across from
Kerrytown Market.
AT THE MIC
Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m.,
the a cappella group
Compulsive Lyres will
r present their winter
concert, "Saturday
Night Lyres." The co-ed
a cappella group will
be performing popular
music - everything
from Bruno Mars
FARCE TO FAME to Neil Diamond -
o men behind "The and "Saturday Night
ther wildly popular Live"-like skits at the
Silbert and Sullivan's East Hall Auditorium.
begins in late 19th- Tickets from $5.

i .
N{

L

By Joe Cadagin // Daily Arts Writer

odgers and Hammerstein. Lerner
and Loewe. Gershwin and Ger-
shwin. Lloyd Webber and Rice.
Since drama was first set to music
in ancient times, the relationship between
composer and librettist has been a sacred
partnership, resulting in some of the greatest
works of opera and musical theater. Without
.the dynamic duo of Richard Rodgers and
Oscar Hammerstein II, we would not have
"The Sound of Music." Without the incompa-
rable pair of Lorenzo da Ponte and Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart, there would be no "Mar-
riage of Figaro."
There is something unique about the joint
enterprise of two artists. What makes this
I relationship so special is the common mind-
set of the two parties involved - the com-
poser must highlight the beauty of language
in the librettist's text, and the librettist must
challenge the composer and bring out the
best in his music. When two artists "click,"
the works they generate are unparalleled.
While time has produced hundreds of
such partnerships, one pair seems to stand
above the rest - librettist W.S. Gilbert and
composer Sir Arthur Sullivan. For 25 years,
these comedic gods of the late 19th century
had British theater-goers in stitches with
their zany, madcap operettas.
To this day, Gilbert and Sullivan's works
are cherished by music lovers worldwide.
Societies across the globe - from Spain to
Israel to South Africa to New Zealand - are
devoted to performing the operettas of Gil-
bert and Sullivan. Ann Arbor happens to
boast the oldest of North American societies:
the University of Michigan Gilbert & Sulli-
van Society.
When it was founded in 1947, UMGASS
made its mission clear: its first-ever program

reads, "In time we hope to get through all
their works, the less well-known ones as well
as the ones to which everyone comes already
humming the tunes."
Since its founding year, the society has
reached its goal of performing the entire
13-work canon of Gilbert and Sullivan oper-
ettas. UMGASS puts on at least two shows a
year, and sometimes even a third during the
summer. Starting this Thursday, UMGASS
will present an earlier G&S operetta, the 1877
hit "The Sorcerer."
'LOVE LEVELS ALL'
For newbies unfamiliar with Gilbert and
Sullivan, UMGASS's upcoming performance
is a perfect starting point.
"The Sorcerer" takes place in the small
English town of Ploverleigh, where lead
characters Alexis Pointdextre and Aline
Sangazure have been engaged to be married.
Alexis, enthralled with the matrimonial bliss
his engagement has brought him, wants all of
the villagers to share in his joy.
"So (Alexis), who has more money than
sense, hires a sorcerer to give a love por-
tion to the entire village so they can enjoy
the same happiness they have," said "Sor-
cerer" director Mitchell Gillett, an electron
microscopist in the ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences department of the medical
school. "After the potion is given, hilarity
ensues, as it were. Everything is all con-
fused - old men are with young ladies, rich
with poor, lower class with upper class, etc.
People who were in love with other people
are now in love with different people, and
some of them are not too happy about it."
When the situation becomes serious,
Alexis realizes the potion must be reversed

and the village returned to normal. How-
ever, this requires a sacrifice from the sor-
cerer, resulting in a hilariously dark ending.
Gillett pointed to an important theme of
the work that appears in several other G&S
operettas - that love levels all ranks. In
class-conscious Victorian England, society
was governed by the laws and etiquette of
social status. Gilbert and Sullivan, however,
radically challenged these social norms by
G&S have got this
witty humor that
still appeals to modern
audiences.
-Ali Kahn
pairing rich characters with poor characters.
Gillett explained that this is especially true
in "The Sorcerer," in which social distinc-
tions are totally obliterated when the villag-
ers are given the love potion.
"Even though Gilbert returns everything
back to the status quo, he's kind of shown
that the status quo isn't necessarily always
the very best thing," Gillett said.
Gillett made the decision to update the
production to the 1920s, mentioning that
this was one of the last time periods in Eng-
land when social status was still important.
"Within a few years we were going to
have the Depression and world war, and
by the end of all that there was no problem
with a duke marrying a chorus girl in a West
End show," he said.

FROM FAILURE TO E
But who are the tw
Sorcerer" and the 12 o
operettas? The story offG
legendary partnership 1
cepntlrv E~nvand_

ceRIy Zlgl .
Before joining forces with Sullivan in 1871,
Gilbert had made a name for himself collabo-
rating with another composer for a series of
comic operas. Likewise, Sullivan had had at
least one experience in operetta, in addition
to composing oratorios, a symphony and a
cello concerto.
Yet when these two relatively successful
artists came together in 1871, their alliance
resulted in an operatic flop called "Thes-
pis," whose score has been lost to time. But
what seemed an unpromising partnership
blossomed into a viable one when, four
years later, theatrical agent and impresario
Richard D'Oyly Carte brought the two men
together to pen the one-act opera "Trial by
Jury."
"The Sorcerer" followed "Trial by Jury" in
1877. By this time, Gilbert and Sullivan had
developed a model that would serve as a tem-
plate for their later works.
"It's really just a little gem," Gillett said of
"The Sorcerer." "It was their first full-length
show that was going to be in the style (of
their later works). They're kind of working
out some of their style at that point."
This style largely consists of musical and
social satire. G&S operettas take a tongue-in-
cheek look at British society, spoofing poli-
tics, social norms and current events.
"Every single one of their shows is a huge
farce," said School of Music, Theatre &
Dance junior Matt Peckham, who plays one
See UMGASS, Page 4B

FILM
With a stressful week
of final exams ahead,
it can be hard to get
into the holiday spirit.
Remind yourself what
Christmas is all about
by coming to the Mich-
igan Theater on Sunday
at 4 p.m. for a free
screening of "Miracle
on 34th Street." The
Oscar-winning 1947
film, the latest in the
Holiday Classic Film
Series, tells the heart-
warming tale of Kris
Kringle, a department
store Santa who brings
a family together.
CONCERT
Need a distraction
from the 20+ pages
worth of papers you
still need to write
for the end of the
semester? Then head
down to the Blind Pig
on Sunday to hear
underground hip-
hop gem Mac Miller
spit verses that will
have you instantly
chilled out. Since
2009, the 18-year-
old wunderkind has
released six mixtapes,
each showcasing his
refreshingly unique
adolescent perspec-
tive. Doors open at 8
p.m. Tickets from $13.

i


2B - Thursday, December 9, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, December 9, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom ~

-I

Im

Judging A Book
By Its Cover
Why read a single page when the cover
tells the whole story?

SINGLE REVIEW

The first single released from
Adele's anticipated 21 starts just
the way it should, with the young
British sing-
er-songwriter
showcasing her
best asset: that Ade
soulful voice over
light, rhythmic "Rolingin
guitar strum- the Deep"
ming. Before
the power of her pipes is allowed
to sink in, a steady bass drum
interrupts, keeping the song from
settling into a folksy ballad and set-
ting up a steady foundation for the
Motown vibe that pervades the rest
of "Rolling in the Deep."
When combined with a rhythmic
piano and '60s girl-group backup

vocals of "You're gonna wish you,
never had met me / Tears are gonna
fall, rolling in the deep," that bass
drum is a solid accompaniment
for Adele's strong, inspired vocals.
"Rolling in the Deep" breaks down
the heavy instrumentals for brief
moments of Adele singing "Turned
my sorrow into treasured gold /
You pay me back in kind and reap
just what you sow," showing more
of her savory vocals.
"Rolling in the Deep" success-
fully and seamlessly crosses genres
by moving from folk to blues to soul
and back again - a testament to
Adele's talent. If this is any indica-
tion of what we'll get from 21, we'll
be in for a treat on Jan. 24.
-CAROLYNKLARECKI

"The Walking Dead" is one of the
most inconsistent shows on televi-
sion. The writers deliver a mixed
masterpiece of
horror, drama _
and social com-
mentary one The Walking
week, and return
a week later Dead
with far-fetched, ,TS-19"
phoned-in crap. AMC
Example: Last
week, our merry
band of survivors reached the CDC
and its lonesurvivingscientist(Noah
Emmerich, "Pride and Glory"). How
would the writers develop this?
Would real progress be made toward
a zombie cure? Would the scientist
kidnap them all and experiment on
them? Would zombies find their way

into the facility and eat everybody?
The possibilities were endless.
What we got was unimaginative
drivel. Our characters enjoy the hot
water and the powdered eggs and the
booze (why does the CDC havebooze
again?). The kids play board games.
The drunken love triangle chan-
nels "Days of Our Lives." And then
(spoiler warning) we find out thatthe
entire facility is conveniently about
to self-destruct the day after our sur-
vivors arrive. A few minutes of shoe-
horned environmental commentary
about the foolishness of fossil fuels,
another few minutes about whether
life in the time of zombies is worth
living and then BOOM. Our survi-
vors ride off into the sunset, hoping
for some better scripts next season.
-DAVID TAO

EPISODE REVIEW

Born with the ability to only look
backward, Miss Purple Headband
has lived her life a little differently
from her peers. She puts on her
hideous, floral-patterned flocks
backward. She drives backward.
She reads and writes backward.
Needless to say, this "backward"
mindset has caused some hard-
ships in Miss Headband's life.
Inspired by her physical anom-
aly, Miss Headband also developed
a reflective, introverted mindset.
"Rescue," the exciting novel that
takes place entirely in Miss Head-
band's stream of consciousness
while she sits pensively in her ugly
yellow car, follows this troubled
woman's interweaving thoughts
as she ponders her life thus far, her
romantic entanglements (or lack
thereof) and whether she should
buy a new car that isn't so god-

URTESY OLHI ITLE, soRWN AND COMPANY
damn hideous.
Of course, Miss Headband
comes to some very shocking and
emotional conclusions which she
shares to herself, alone. In her car.
In the middle of nowhere. Miss
Headband is saved, ironically, by
her own perceived defect - her
ability to onlylookbackward saves
her so that she can move forward.
The touching story of Miss
Headband is brought to avid read-
ers by Anita Shreve, who wants to
make sure her byline can be seen
from Mars. This is Shreve's second
novel, following "A Change in Alti-
tude," which imagined the person-
al reverie of a grumpy plane taking
off into the sky and, in the process,
reaching a life-changing conclu-
sion that gave our winged friend a
positive outlook on life.
-LEAHBURGIN

TRAILER REVIEW

Oh Mel, does the state of your
public image really depend on a
stuffed beaver? Featuring two-
time Academy
Award Winners
(as the title cards
so proudly adver- The Beaver
tise) Jodie Foster .m
("The Brave One") Summit.
and Mel Gibson
("Edge of Darkness"), "The Beaver"
is Foster's latest, greatest directorial
effort, a long-awaited 16 years after
her last, "Home for the Holidays."
And no, it's not a porno movie.
Picture this: Gibson plays the
sad-sack protagonist, hated by his
wife and kids for his angry and
abusive ways. Sound familiar? His
remedy comes in the form of a rag-
gedy beaver puppet. Said beaver

becomes fodder for therapeutic ven-
triloquism in a strange Irish accent.
Flash forward a few trailer seconds,
and the bucktoothed friend man-
ages to make its way into the work-
place, on a sweaty run and even into
the shower.
"The Beaver" is probably sup-
posed to be some beautifully elegiac
tale of redemption about a man try-
ing to communicate better with his
family. The screenplay landed on the
2008 Black List and was lauded as
one of the best unproduced scripts
of its time, so the movie might actu-
ally end up becoming a hit. But the
world just can't handle Gibson as he
heaves and hoes with the heavy lift-
ing of a big deal actor. It's just hits
too close to life.
-JENNIFER XU

Seven seniors a-choreographing

4

T
dan
The
versity
ready
and th
ing an
do to
From
ing a
in New
to
for dan
nies a
globe
ing
ties in
yoga
ing, thi
tight-ki
challen

)epartment of during their time at the University
- with the poise and grace of, well,
ice BFA students dancers.
Some have already caught a
hit the stage glimpse of the seniors' talent in
the first BFA concert, which took
By ERIN STEELE place on Nov. 18-20. Called "How
DailyArts Writer Things Stand," the show featured
works by Derek Crescenti, Logan
seven seniors in the Uni- McClendon, Francesca Nieves and
's dance department are Allegra Romita. On Dec. 9-11, Tara
to take the world by storm, Sheena, Emily Wanserski and Sadie
ere's noth- Yarrington will display their chore-
ybody can ography in a second concert, called
stop them. E-mails, "E-mails, Females and Coattails."
produc- Females and The seniors held an audition dur-
showcase n ing the first week of classes to select
vYork City their casts - a refreshing change
auditioning Dec. 9-11 of pace for dancers accustomed
ice compa- at8 p.m, to auditioning themselves. Each
round the choreographer looked for differ-
to pursu- Betty Pease ent qualities in his or her dancers,
opportuni- Studio Theatre whether technical virtuosity or a
teaching, $$ strong personality.
and sing- "For me, I created a piece using
e members of this unusually dancers that were all individuals,
nit class have tackled every that all had something special, that
Ige that has come their way all had a group dynamic as well as

an individual dynamic," Crescenti
explained. "It was really exciting
to see (the choreography) on their
bodies because they have such
technical prowess, so everything I
wanted looked really cool on them."
Yarrington decided to go in a
slightly different direction, cast-
ing males who had never formally
danced before - one of whom
she found dancing on the Diag -
alongside females from the Dance
Department.
"All of my dancers are complete-
ly different from each other. I have
dancers who are every size," she
said. "I wanted every kind of body
type and every kind of dancer that
I could get and see how they moved
together."
For most of the seniors, the most
challenging part of the audition
process was casting a limited num-
ber of dancers. Romita felt that the
audition was the perfect way to get
to know the department's freshmen
and was very impressed with the
underclassmen in general.
"These aren't just dancers,
they're brilliant dancers - they're
people who got into the University
of Michigan," she said. "They're
smart people, and to see them
apply that is so great. They're not
just mindlessly dancing for us, but
they're thoughtful in their move-
ment."
Armed with talented casts for
their group pieces, the seniors
embarked on their creative jour-
neys and had to cope with dif-
ferent challenges along the way.
Some of the larger difficulties for
them, whether they had to do with
choreography or emotional ties
to the piece, were faced in their
solos, which they choreographed
on themselves. Each senior was
required to choreograph one group

4

The seniors held auditions for their dances during the first week of school.

1r6tLmsi, :nto
4~do
4bot
Noth Ing
A comedy by William Shakespeare
Directed by John Neville-Andrews
Dept. of Theatre & Drama
Dec. 9 at 7:30 PM * Dec. 10 & 11 at 8 PM
Dec. 12 at 2 PM * Power Center
Reserved seating $24 & $18 * Students $10 w/ID
League Ticket Office * 734-764-2538 * music.umich.edu

piece and one solo for the group
concert.
"I especially found (the solo)
challenging," McClendon said. "I
just had to be honest with myself.
It's really easy for me to come up
with movement for my cast to learn.
It kind of keeps me on my p's and q's
because I can't waste these people's
time, so I have to have something
for them to do. With myself, there
isn't that added pressure of some-
one else's time."
Titled "Minus One," McClen-
don's solo dance addresses his
relationship with his brother, who
recently joined the Navy.
In order to get an outside per-
spective, each choreographer chose
a faculty adviser who attended
rehearsals for both pieces and gave
advice along the way.
Sheena's adviser, Dance Lecturer

Amy West, helped her open up to
unexpected possibilities that often
arise in the creative process.
"I think the best advice she gave
me was to trust myself and have
the understanding that my danc-
ers knew the commitment they
were making when they agreed to
do my work," Sheena said. "I have a
tendency to - in my choreographic
process - to just want to get to an
objective, and it's hard to see pos-
sibilities along the way, so she was
trying to encourage me to be open
to changes and adapting. I didn't
have to be so perfect withmyvision;
I could play around with things."
In addition to the help of their
advisers, the students also received
feedback from the entire depart-
ment at a works-in-progress
showing a few weeks before the
performance. The anticipation of

COURTESY OF BRIAN ROSEN
having to present their work to
their peers and mentors adds what
McClendon and Romita call a "good
pressure" that keeps their creative
momentumgoing.
"At the works-in-progress show-
ing, watching other people watch
your choreography is so nerve-
wracking," Romita explained. "It
actually reveals a lot of things in
your dance and in your music that
you don't notice when you're so
involved in it, but then when you're
removed and you're watching other
people watch it ... I'm kind of glad
that we're in the show and I don't
have to sit in the audience, because
I think if I had to sit in the audi-
ence and be with the other people
watching my piece, I'd freak out."
Romita isn't alone in her appre-
hension about displaying her work
See DANCE, Page 4B

WANT TO GO TO INFINITY?
JOIN THE DAILY.
WANT TO GO BEYOND?
JOIN DAILY FILM.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.

I
I


The Michigan Daily - michignalco

Thursday, December 9, 2010 - 3B

-

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Thursday, December 9, 2010 - 3B

aw

AllIwant for Xmas
is a book ofpoems
ot that you need more reading seeming trendy. "Not what you see, but
right now, but let's suppose what you perceive: / that's poetry," he
you've got a favorite poetry col- writes. "I'll eat you to live: that's poetry."
umnist, and that you have no clue what In Hayes's poems, poetry is the one, the
to get him (or her) for the upcoming other and more.
holidays. You can't
rely on The New York Seamus Heaney, "Human
Times Notable Books Chain: Poems" (Farrar,
of 2010 list because, Straus and Giroux, $24)
even though one of
its categories is alleg- A fountain pen takes up a "snorkel"
edly "Fiction and of ink and becomes "guttery, snottery."
Poetry," you'll find The "clunk" of a mechanical baler is
only three poetry "cardiac-dull." There's a reason Sea-
listings among the DAVID mus Heaney's poems are as popular as
48 books included LUCAS they are admired. He reminds us that
there. Fortunately, the English language is spoken just as
you have a somewhat zealously in the peat fields of County
more respectable newspaper available to Derry as in the lecture halls of Oxford.
you in Ann Arbor, and it has seen fit to Heaney's English has drunk deeply of
allow me to suggest some of the notable both and still speaks with clarity, sym-
poetry books of 2010: pathy and wisdom.
Sarah Barber, "The Kissing Party" Kay Ryan, "The Best of It: New and
(National Poetry Review Press, $17.95) Selected Poems" (Grove, $24)

SAL AM RIDA/Daily
Baristas demonstrate their creativity through "latte art" and other self-expressive brews.
A caffeinated craft

Local baristas get
creative in fueling
campus through finals
ByANKUR SOHONI
DailyArts Writer
In this December exam season, stu-
dents inevitably make a habit of bundling
up and studying late into the night. And
as a comprehensive solution to the stress
of the month, there's nothing better than
coffee.
Ann Arbor and the University campus
area offer a variety of options for coffee
lovers looking for a fix or students look-
ing for a study pick-me-up. There are the
chains - Starbucks, Biggby, Espresso
Royale. And then there are the locally
owned Ann Arbor coffee shops that stu-
dents, professors and city natives fre-
quent.
The baristas in each shop are vital in
creating shop loyalty and establishing a
warm environment. They stand between
customers and their coffee and represent,
for many, a valuable part of any coffee
shop experience.
"Barista" is Italian for bartender, and in
a similar vein to their pub counterparts,
baristas often invest significant energy
in perfecting their skills to be ready for
whatever the customer may order. While
the idea of the barista may conjure images
of a blank-faced, rote assembly-line job,
a look around Ann Arbor coffee shops -
where students are often the faces behind
the counter - reveals a different picture.
"Being a barista definitely has a lot of
personality, because there's such an inter-
action with the customer," said LSA junior
and Espresso Royale barista Kristopher
Gutowski. "It's a very high-energy job."
Gutowski used to work in The Coffee
House, a small shop in his hometown of
Muskegon, Mich. While the job proper
remains the same, Gutowski said the
extraneous elements of working in each
shop are very different.
"(The Coffee House) was a lot less busy,
because it wasn't right on the corner of a
college campus," he said. "But there are

also a lot of different business practices.
At home ... I worked directly with the
owner, I talked to him, I knew him really
well. Now, there's sort of a distance."
Baristas at smaller coffee shops here
on campus echo Gutowski's feelings con-
cerning the difference between working
with the owner of a local shop or as part
of a chain.
"I haven't worked in any shops that
weren't specialty shops," said Ben Sagi-
naw, a barista at Comet Coffee in Nick-
els Arcade. "This is by far my favorite,
because ... the owner of this shop has a set
of values I can stand behind, and that's a
rarity in business. It is a requirement for
(the employees) to appreciate everything
that goes from the farm to the grocer to
the cup, which I don't think is apparent in
all coffee shops."
A concern for many baristas as they
look to advance their skills is the opportu-
nity to be creative in their jobs and infuse
their own styles into the different drinks
they make. While in larger coffee shop
chains, consistency is paramount, baris-
tas in smaller shops try to do things their
way.
"Starbucks is all about making every-
thing the same," said Jason Bies, an LSA
senior and barista at Caf6 Ambrosia on
Maynard Street. "If you get a French
Vanilla cappuccino at that Starbucks and
you go get a French Vanilla cappuccino at
another Starbucks, they're all supposed to
be the same, and that's just not what (cof-
fee is) about. It's about going places and
having your own individual thing."
Matt Roney, a 2009 graduate and for-
mer Michigan Daily staffer, is a barista at
Lab Cafi on East Liberty Street and was
the lead barista upon the shop's open-
ing in January. Having worked in coffee
shops since he was 17, Roney had the basic
barista skills. But in order to gain experi-
ence with the advanced equipment he was
going to employ at Lab, he traveled to Chi-
cago to train for the job.
Roney highlighted the specific technol-
ogy as a unique characteristic of smaller,
more personally involved coffee shops.
While using Lab's espresso machine,
he talked about the "superautomatic"
machinery that a shop like Starbucks uses.

"I'm not deriding them," he said, "but
they can push a button and out comes the
espresso shot. There are a lot more steps
that go on with a semi-automatic or a
manual espresso machine."
The more complicated techniques
associated with coffee-making in those
smaller shops, as Roney explained, allow
for more personal creativity in the final
product.
"We get to experiment a little bit with
the methods that we use, because the
owners are entrepreneurs and not baris-
tas," he said. "Those of us who have a lot
of experience and a lot of training and
have been doing this for a long time, we're
allowed to try things and work on keeping
our coffee as high quality as we can."
But even in a shop as large as Espresso
Royale, Gutowski finds the opportunity to
express himself through his work.
"It can be a creative job," he said.
"There are definitely instances where,
when it's really busy, it just seems like
the rough-and-tumble of getting custom-
ers their drink as quickly as possible. But
when there's room for creativity, you can
get creative."
One way baristas choose to be origi-
nal is through latte art, which allows the
coffee-maker to "draw" a pattern into
the layer of foam atop a shot of espresso
by pouring in steamed milk. One of these
shapes is a heart, which many baristas
strive to perfect.
At Cafd Ambrosia, Bies and other baris-
tas often experiment with new ingre-
dients and drinks, even beyond coffee.
Among these is "Purple Drink" - what
Bies described as a blueberry, raspberry
and white chocolate steamer. Another
is "Quicksand," which involves putting
cherry flavor in a bottle of Coca-Cola and
then adding cinnamon on top.
"When you're in a place like (Ambrosia),
it's not like, 'You have to make it this way,'
" Bies said. "I know what a bad cappuccino
is, and I know what a really good cappuc-
cino is, and I'm always trying to strive to
make my cappuccino really good."
No matter which shop they work in,
each barista values the same parts of his
or her job. Each shop appears to have its
See COFFEE, Page 4B

Full disclosure: Barber was a classmate
of mine some years ago. Fuller disclosure:
I'm still jealous of her. She makes the lan-
guage I thought I spoke seem unfamiliar,
disconcerting and miraculous. So that
in one poem, "the women's college girls
pass / pert and jodhpured by;" in another,
the "parks of our childhood" are "endless
afternoon" where the "sun (is) as hot asa
mouth." Like those childhood kissing par-
ties, these poems are mysterious, sexy and
memorable.
Anne Carson, "Nox"
(New Directions, $35)
I don't always understand Anne Car-
son, but I don't always understand Ein-
stein either. "Nox" is poetry, but it's also
translation, collage, photography, a time
capsule and - most important- an elegy
to a dead brother. I often don't know
what to make of it, butI am thankful it
has been made. As we enter an age when
readers read readers instead of books,
"Nox" demonstrates that the book itself
can still be a poetic text, an art object, an
offering, a shrine.
Deborah Digges, "The Wind Blows
Openthe Doors ofMyHeart: Poems"
(Knopf, $25)
Much poetry of our age is about as
self-consciously cool and unaffected
as a vodka martini. What a thrill it is,
then, to read poems so linguistically and
emotionally risky. When you read a poet
willing to say "Call out the names in the
procession of the loved," you know you
are in the presence of one who cares
deeply about sound and not at all about
sounding cool. Digges's poems remind
us that poetry fulfills a need; these are
poems we need now.
Terrance Hayes, "Lighthead"
(Penguin, $18)
OK, OK, I haven't actually read this
yet. But poets and readers everywhere
celebrated last week when Hayes won
the National Book Award, because he's
been writing so daringly and so freshly
for so long. Hayes is playful without ever
sounding precious, current without ever

I'm astonished, first, when I read Kay
Ryan's poems - then I'm envious. Her
rhymes are so subtle and inventive, her
patterns of thought so surprising, that I
wish I had written them myself. "Insult
is injury/ taken personally," she writes.
Donate to the Make
A Poet Happy fund.
I think, "of course it is," then realize it's
her thought, her lines, not mine. Her
poems outsmart me, line by line and
thought by thought, and all Ican be,
finally, is grateful.
Richard Wilbur, "Anterooms:
New Poems and Translations"
(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $20)
Poetry is supposed to be a young per-
son's game, and Wilbur will turn 90 years
old on March 1. I'm not goingto suggest
that he's sold his soul for poetic youth, but
here is Wilbur's description of dreams:
"a cobwebbed pane.
Where, before our eyes,
All the living and the dead
Meet without surprise."
Too often overlooked because he
failed to be one of the dramatic early
deaths of his generation, Wilbur deserves
the sort of attention he has so long given
the world.
Of course, I've overlooked a shameful
number ofgood books and poets in order
to focus on those I've mentioned here. I
hope, though, that any one of these books
will lead you to those books, and those to
others still. The volume of what's good
should compensate for my own biases.
And if you find the good or the great, I
would accept that as an adequate end-of-
semester gift.
I would also accept cash.
Lucas wants you to stuff his
stocking ... with poems. To do so,
e-mail him at dwlucas@umich.edu.

Pudi gets animated about 'Community'

By PROMA KHOSLA
DailyArts Writer
'Twas two weeks before Christmas,
and "Community" was new; but everyone
was animated, and Abed confused.
Tonight's "Com-
munity" will join the ~ ,
tried-and-true holi-
day tradition of stop- "Abed's
motion claymation in Uncontrollable
"Abed's Uncontrol- Christmas"
lable Christmas." NBC
The episode, writ-
ten by series creator
Dan Harmon and Dino Stamatopoulos
(who plays "Star-Burns"), follows Abed
Nadir (Danny Pudi) as he searches for
the meaning of this special, claymated
Christmas.
"Every day is so different and unique,
and once they presented this script to us
about this episode and said that we were
going to be in stop motion, I was - I mean,
we were all so excited," Pudi said in a con-
ference call last week.
S It's a claymated
Christmas, and as
expected, only
Abed knows it.
The episode begins like a normal
"Community" episode, with the only dif-
ference being the stop-motion style. As

fans would expect, Abed is the first and
only character to notice and decide the
new medium is what makes this Christ-
mas special.
"And then we go on this magical jour-
ney through a winter wonderland," Pudi
explained, "including a trip down Gum-
drop Road - which I have always wanted
to go down - and a number of other plac-
es, and I think we all learned a little bit
about the meaning of Christmas to us as a
study group."
Since the beginning of NBC's under-
stated comedy about Greendale Com-
munity College, Abed has been a clear
scene-stealer with his deadpan dialogue
and slick pop culture references. And
it's no secret that the other characters -
and most of the audience - find him a bit
eccentric.
Pudi said that before his character was
cast, Abed was supposed to be Palestin-
ian. When Pudi, who is half-Indian and
half-Polish, got the part, Abed became
half-Polish as well. Pudi grew up with
traditional Polish Catholic Christmas
celebrations, while his fictional alter-ego
grew up Muslim with Catholic and Chris-
tian influences.
"(Abed) is probably a big fan of Chevy
Chase's 'National Lampoon's Christmas
Vacation,' " Pudi said. Ironically, Chase
plays Pierce Hawthorne, the elderly
Greendale student who makes Creed from
"The Office" seem normal.
For Pudi, being an animated character
in tonight's episode is just one of many
dreams that "Community" is helping him
realize.
"You know, it's very bizarre," Pudi
explained. "One day, you're working with

Pudi hopes that tonight's episode wil be the "'Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer' for our generation."

Chevy Chase and the next day you're
going to visit a claymation studio where
they have a doll of you.
"I met one of the ladies who was mak-
ing the doll. Actually, I saw her away from
set ... someplace in Los Angeles. She's like,
'I recognize you because I've been work-
ing on your doll.' I was like, 'That's defi-
nitely another first.'"
Stop-motion interests Pudi, who has
a dual degree in communications and
theatre from Marquette University and
previously worked in improvisational

comedy. But, he had never done voiceover
work before and found it to be a challeng-
ing way to convey emotions.
"We're all sort of kids in a sandbox in
preschool - except that we're all adults at
Greendale," he said of the new medium.
"But we're essentially doing the same
thing. We're all learning from each other
and being like, 'Well, this is how I've done
it. How do you guys do it?' And I think
that's largely the reason why we like to
celebrate holidays. Plus, they're just fun -
and there's a dance.

"And the script is really, really funny
and really sharp, but also kind of goes to
these places where, I think, with the stop-
motion, we're able to go a little bit further
in terms of, you know, even more emo-
tional depth and some of the sadness of
the characters, too," he added.
Pudi hopes that the Christmas episode
will help bring characters together in a
way that traditional episodes cannot.
"Yes, I think it's going to rival 'Rudolph
the Red-Nosed Reindeer' for our genera-
tion," he said. "At least that's our hope."


4B - Thursday, December 9, 2010
UMGASS
From Page 1B
of the principal characters in "The Sor-
cerer." "It's all basically ridiculous satire
of aspects of English life at the time ... You
get to kind of look back through that."
Surprisingly, one of the most satirical
of Gilbert and Sullivan's works is set in a
land far away from jolly old England. "The
Mikado," which premiered in 1885, paints
an exaggerated portrait of British law
and rank under the disguise of imperial
Japan. The work, which ran for 672 per-
formances, is arguably the most popular
and best known G&S operetta. It will also
be UMGASS's spring production, slated
for April 2011.
Propelling the political and social sat-
ire of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas is
W.S. Gilbert's witty dialogue and hilari-
ously impossible storylines.
"Theplots areso ludicrous,butsomehow
you believe it, and it works," said UMGASS
president Ali Kahn, a senior in the Ross
School of Business. "At the end they always
throw in this giant twist that somehow is
logical but just doesn't seem practical, and
it solves every single problem."
As an example, Kahn cited the duo's
1879 sensation "The Pirates of Penzance."
The operetta's leading man, who believes
he will be free to leave the band of pirates
he serves once he turns 21, realizes that
he was born on February 29 of a leap year.
He must therefore remain a pirate until
his actual 21st birthday, which will occur
sometime in his eighties.
"(G&S have) got this witty humor that
still appeals to modern audiences even
though (the shows) are from the late
1800s," Kahn said.
Sullivan's music also has elements of
satire, as it parodies grand opera of the
period. G&S operettas are packed with
musical jokes that reference the operas of
Wagner and Verdi. Kahn, who has stud-
ied these references, noted that Sullivan
lifted a passage from Verdi's "La Traviata"
and jokingly recycled it in a soprano aria
in "The Pirates of Penzance."
"Sullivan took (music) out of the opera
of the time or the opera right before that
and just placed it right in the score," Kahn
said. "So people in the audience would
have gotten those jokes. Now people don't
necessarily get it. But I think the music is
just so beautiful because it's a nice mix-
ture of the high opera of that period and

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4

the way music was going into operetta."
Interestingly enough, Sullivan's ambi-
tion was to write a serious operatic work
that would rank among the operas of
the composers whom he parodied. Even
Queen Victoria herself once remarked
to the composer, "You ought to write a
grand opera, Sir Arthur, you would do it
so well." Although Sullivan did compose
an opera - without the help of Gilbert - it
never gained the same recognition as the
operettas he produced with his longtime
partner.
Despite Sullivan's unfulfilled dream,
even the composer himself could not deny
the tremendous success of his joint ven-
tures with Gilbert. The partnership of
Sullivan's playful melodies and Gilbert's
incomparable wit helped the entire canon
of G&S operettas to stand the test of time.
One hundred fourteen years after their
final collaboration, Gilbert and Sulli-
van still remain household names. Their
operettas continue to be performed inter-
nationally by societies dedicated to pre-
serving the topsy-turvy world of G&S.
G&S AT THE 'U'
Founded in the late '40s, the University
of Michigan Gilbert and Sullivan Society
is one of the most esteemed and respected
of its kind. Since its first performance, the
society has offered top-notch amateur
performances of G&S, while at the same
time educating modern audiences of this
all-too-neglected artform.
"I think it's necessary to keep Gilbert
and Sullivan going," Kahn said. "It's a
very important genre and time in history
to present to audiences. I think that if
societies like us didn't do it, (Gilbert and
Sullivan) would have a hard time finding a
home in other theater companies."
Gillett believes UMGASS is especially
important because it provides local audi-
ences a chance to see quality Gilbert and
Sullivan performances without leaving
Ann Arbor.
"This is the only company, unless you
go to Toronto or New York or Chicago or
San Francisco, that you're going to see
this level of quality of production," he
said. "For a student organization, they
produce about the most professional
production of G&S that you probably are
going to see."
At its most basic level, UMGASS is a
community of members joined by their
love for G&S, whether they are University
students, faculty or Ann Arbor residents.

4

4

4

SAM WOLSON/Daily

The University of Michigan Gilbert and Sullivan Society was founded in 1947 and puts on two to three shows every year.

The society offers a special niche for oper-
etta lovers who continue to participate
even after they graduate.
"It's got a ton of alumni," Kahn said.
"Over time people come up to us and say,
'I was in UMGASS in the '70s when I was
a Law student here.' And then they come
back later and they can still participate."
Kahn went on to explain that members of
UMGASS often form a supportive and close-
knit family - both figuratively and literally.
"We've got second-generation
UMGASS-ers, believe it or not," Kahn
said. "I guess at some point, there have
been one or two marriages that have
resulted. It's very much a family.
"I feel like I'm a part of the Ann Arbor
community, not just the University," Kahn
added. "I feel like the relationships I've
made are so lasting and will definitely
carry into the future after I graduate."
While UMGASS makes an effort to
pull in longtime G&S fans, the society
also tries to make the works accessible to
first-time operetta-goers. Gillett pointed
out that while they may focus on a time

and place far from our own, the univer-
sal themes and intellectual humor of G&S
will appeal to modern-day audiences and,
in particular, students.
"It's kind of lucky that Gilbert chose,
most of the time, universal subjects," Gil-
lett said. "So these aren't stories about
gods and kings - like in opera where
nobody can really relate to it."
Though the universality of G&S oper-
ettas attracts a wide audience, first-time
G&S attendees are often intimidated by
the outdated and antiquated language
that can make it difficult to follow the
story. Archaic British expressions like "at
sixes and sevens" and "yam for toko" can
throw even the most experienced audi-
ence member for a loop. UMGASS tries
to get around this barrier by providing
definitions of old-fashioned idioms and
vocabulary in the program. In addition,
supertitles are projected above the stage
during musical numbers.
"We usually try to get the singers
to enunciate really clearly, but I think
(supertitles are) an advantage for those

who are brand new to it." Gillett said.
Kahn pointed out that Gilbert and Sulli-
van may not be as foreign to college students
as one might think. In fact, pop culture is
filled with references to G&S operettas.
"I was watching a 'Family Guy' episode
the other day, and one of the songs from
'The Sorcerer' came on," Kahn said. "It's
one of those references that just appear,
and if you know what it is, it's one of those
great moments."
Kahn's run-in with G&S on primetime
television shows just how widespread and
well known Gilbert and Sullivan's works
are. While these two artists would have
most likely made names for themselves
had they worked independently, it is for- 4
tunate that they worked together to pro-
duce the some of the best-loved works of
musical theater in the English-speaking
world and beyond. When a student begins
to experience for himself or herself the
pair's perfect balance of theater and
music, it becomes evident why societies 4
like UMGASS continue to perform the
works of G&S to this day.

4

4

SAM WOLSON/Daily

When founded, the goal of UMGASS was to perform all 13 of Gilbert and Sullivan's operettas. This weekend, the group will put on "The Sorcerer," composed in 1877.

DANCE
From Page 2B
for everyone to see.
"As artists, we create something mean-
ingful to us, present it and we hope for the
best," McClendon said. "The scary part
is, people are going have opinions about
what you created and they may not be the
opinions you wanted them to have, but I
wouldn't want to create something that
someone was indifferent about. I actually
want you to hate it or I want you to love it;
that's the way I would prefer that it would
be."
The seven seniors will get plenty more
reactions to their work when they show-
case their pieces for choreographers,
directors, University alumni, friends
and family at the Baryshnikov Arts Cen-
ter in New York City on May 6 and 7 in a
self-produced show, a first for the Dance
Department. The brainchild of the Class
of 2011, the show has been facilitated by
the students' hard work as well as the

help of the dance faculty and Dean of the
School of Music, Theatre & Dance Chris-
topher Kendall.
"We're kind of challenging the Dance
Department to keep up with us," Nieves
said. "Even if none of us get jobs from
there, our goals are to showcase the Uni-
versity on the East Coast, to show what
we can do. That's something you can put
on your resume, that you just got out of
college and you produced a show in New
York. How many 21-year-olds can say
that?"
Each of the seniors will carry that same
ambition with them as they graduate and
face the fickle dance world. When asked
what most of them refer to as "the ques-
tion," the seniors all seem surprisingly
assured about their futures. Nieves, Romi-
ta and Yarrington hope to move to New
York City and begin performance careers,
Crescenti is applying to a contemporary
dance school in London and auditioning
in New York and Chicago, Sheena and
Wanserski will go abroad and McClendon
will pursue his second passion, singing.
"It's a little scary because a lot of our

friends who are not in the dance world
are already getting interviews; half of my
friends already have jobs," Romita said.
"You can't apply for a job in the same way
as, say, a business major does."
"(A career in dance) takes building a
community basis. You get jobs on your
own with your tech ability and with your
presence but also with who you know,"
Crescenti said. "You go into those audi-
tions with hundreds and hundreds of
people all wanting one spot, and people
who are your age, people who are younger
than you, people who have been living in
the city for years and years and are hun-
gry and tired and want this job a thousand
times more than anyone else in the room."
No matter what happens, each BFA is
optimistic about what's in store for the
future.
"I know that it'll be fine, and I love to
dance, so in some way or another some-
thing will work out," Yarrington said.
McClendon summed up the feelings of
the closely bonded class quite succinctly:
"We're going somewhere great, and we
can feel it."

4

4

SALAM RIDA/Dai

"Barista" is Italian for "bartender."

COFFEE
From Page 3B
own community, but every barista also
has the opportunity to connect with his
or her customers.
"The best part of my job is all the peo-
ple I get to meet and talk to. straight up,"
Roney said. "Coffee's very interesting.
I've been very interested in it for a long
time. But I think what makes me like
it more than other jobs I've had is that
face-to-face interaction with hundreds
of people every day. It's ail extrovert's
job."
In a place as unique as Cafi Ambrosia,
Bies enjoys the diversity of people that
come through the shop.
"You start learning a lot about people
who are really interesting," Bies said. "It
kind of gives you a microcosm of a com-
munity."
For Bies, that community represents a
reprieve from his academic life. Gutows-
ki also finds his job to be a healthy relief

from school, especially duringthe stress-
ful time of exams.
"It's not school, so it's also a distrac-
tion," Gutowski said. "Even when it
becomes time-consuming ... I would say
it's a fun job."
Bies, who once worked at Beanster's
in Pierpont Commons on North Campus,
finds Ambrosia to be a relaxing place to
work, with its own customer commu-
nity.
"It's totally an escape," he said. "Pro-
fessors come here, and GSIs hold office
hours here all the time. It's also where
people come to break up - two people
come in together, have a serious conver-
sation and then leave separately. It's like,
'I'm really glad we can facilitate your
breakup.'"
The ubiquity of coffee is so embodied
in campus culture that it even becomes a
part of the rise and fall of relationships.
Coffee is an integral part of many stu-
dents' daily lives, and in appreciating the
drink that runs our late-night study ses-
sions, it's best to not overlook the baris-
tas who form the lifeblood of the coffee
exchange.

The Dance BFA seniors wil take their pieces to New York City this May for a two-day showcase.


