0

0

0 0 0

8B The Statement // Wednesday, February 3, 2010
PERSONALSTATEMENT

HAITI RELIEF
BY BETSY HEUBNER
F riday morning I woke to a text
from my friend Brian that read,
"Call me now!" A friend of his
runs an adoption agency in Colo-
rado and had sent an e-mail asking
for people to go to Fort Lauderdale
to help with children coming in from
Haiti. The agency had been promised
visas for about 500 Haitian orphans
and they needed volunteers in Flor-
ida to take care of the children until
their adoptive parents could pick
them up. Brian and I left for the air-
port later that day.
Shortly after we arrived in Florida,
we found that the kids wouldn't be
allowed out of Haiti without escorts,
so we booked a flight for Port-au-
Prince and left the next morning.
We landed in Haiti at noon on Sun-
day and arrived at the U.S. Embassy
at 5 p.m. We were taken to where the
kids were staying and met the social
worker there. The only thing she said
to me after I introduced myself was,
"OK, take these kids and do what-
ANTONIO BASS
From Page 5B
and watch with his mother because
he couldn't watch it alone. Hobbling
through the living room, trying to
pace back-and-forth, Tami kept
yelling at her son to calm down. He
wasn't supposed to be on his feet yet,
but he couldn't help it.
"Just everything about that game
was so overwhelming," Bass says.
As much as he missed football,
Bass was able to put his post-injury
life in perspective pretty easily. He
never thought about dropping out or
transferring; he knew that a degree
from the University of Michigan was
too good an opportunity to pass up.
"When I first came here, I knew
that football was necessary for me as
a tool," he said. "I was blessed with
the ability to play football, but it got
me to college, a great university. If
football never worked out, I knew
I would always have a degree. Even
at that time, I knew that if one door
closed, another would open."
A Communication Studies major,
Bass graduated in December and will
be walking in May. Currently, he's

ever it takes to get them out of here
tonight." Then the Marines shuttled
all of us back to the airport and we
prepared to leave the country.
To me, the saddest part about the
trip was that of the 50 or so kids on
our flight, not a single one cried at
takeoff, and only one cried during
the entire trip. They've learned that
nobody responds when they cry - to
them, it's just not worth the effort.
We got to Orlando at around 1:30
a.m. and headed to customs. That
was the only point during the trip
that was really hard for me - heavy
backpack, baby on each hip, running
on little sleep. The customs officials
didn't know where to put us, so we
stood around before they ushered us
to a holding area where we waited for
21 hours.
The only kids who were allowed
out of Haiti were those who were
already matched with adoptive fami-
lies - some had been matched for
one and a half to two years and their
working as a sales representative at a
local steel manufacturer, applying for
jobs across the country and enjoying
the time he has left in Ann Arbor.
Football is done, but his life is just
beginning.
The Return: On May 1, 2010,
Bass will walk through the tunnel at
Michigan Stadium for the last time.
He won't have a winged helmet or
slap the "Go Blue" banner. He won't
walk arm-in-arm with his mother
over the block 'M,' the rite of passage
for every Michigan football senior
before his last home game.
The grandstands won't be nearly
as full as they were on Nov. 19, 2005,
the last time he stepped onto that
field in his uniform, when 111,591
fans packed the Big House against
Ohio State.
Instead, he'll walk out in his cap
and gown, with his family in atten-
dance and take his seat among the
rest of the class of 2010, knowing
that without football - and without
the agony of his horrific injury - he
would not be where he is right now.
"I'm loving it," Tami said. "Don't
quit school. There's something more
out there for you. He didn't let it get

was done. So much was just starting
for the parents; so much had abruptly
ended forus.
The next day I left for the airport
and returned to my regular life in
Ann Arbor.
This story is brief - there's so
much more I could talk about, like
the dangers of child trafficking and
how a more efficient way of helping
adoptive parents had already vis- these children get connected with
ited multiple times, but hadn't been their adoptive parents has to exist.
allowed out until now. I could talk about how the media
Watching the looks on the adop- sensationalizes everything and how
tive parents' faces as we brought ridiculous it is that people are using
their kids to them and the tears in this disaster for PR. I could talk about
their eyes as we put the children in how aid workers have come together
their arms will remain one of the best to help in so many ways when they
don't have to.
"T e I could talk about
The only thing she said to me our military and its
w t e ahumanitarian work
was, OK, take these kids and do and how crazy it was
whatever it takes to get them out that I felt very safe
while in Haiti. I could
of (Haiti) tonight.'" talk about a little boy
I met with chunks of
flesh missing from his
moments of my life. head and nerve damage in his right
It was weird walking away after arm who hadn't seen his mother
handing the last of the children to since the earthquake. I could talk
their parents. Another volunteer and about an adoptive mother who had
I were the only adults left, and walk- two little girls matched with her only
ing outside I thought, "It's over?" We to find that one had died.
had been working on little sleep for I could talk about how awful it
days and then, within ten minutes, it was for the adoptive mothers who

had to wait and wait and wait with
no news, knowing there was nothing
they could do to help. How they had
no guarantees they'd get totake their
child home even though they were
standing in the same airport.
I could tell you about the heartbro-
ken parents who had already waited
for years, only to find out that their
kids might not come home for weeks.
I could talk about the mother who,
while waiting for her adoptive child,
found out her father had suffered
a heart attack and had to take her
new daughter straight to the hospital
from customs.
I could talk about how children
in orphanages are sick all the time
because there's no way to keep them
from sharing cups or food, but that
there is no way to remedy that -
especially with more kids outside
the orphanage door every day. I
could talk about the peeling skin of
the children, their itchy heads, their
runny noses, their diarrhea and their
parasites.
I could talk about a lot of things I
witnessed. But what I will talk about
is how, no matter the sacrifice, the
best thing for any orphan is a family
that will love him and value him and
teach him and raise him and prepare
him for life in this world.
- Betsy Heubner is a University alum.

him down. Sports isn't everything.
You need to get your degree. You're
not guaranteed to get in the League,
and if you do, you're not guaranteed
that you won't get injured when you
get there. But you always have your
degree."
Bass is grateful to be here. He
thanks God, coach Carr, his mom
and his teammates. He admits that
sometimes, he daydreams about get-
ting back on the football field - and
it has crossed his mind that his skill-
set would have made him the perfect
quarterback for Rich Rodriguez's
offense in 2008, what would have
been his senior year, had he never
gotten injured.
But those thoughts are fleeting and
fewer nowadays.
And on May 1, in the building in
which he once showcased his promis-
ing potential, surrounded by the mem-
ories of football - the block 'M' and
the fight song, walking through the
tunnel and seeingthe expansive stands
of Michigan Stadium - he won't be
thinking about football much.
His thought will be occupied by his
new college degree - what he really
came to the University to achieve -
and his future. E

THINK YOU'RE
SWASHBUCKLING
ENOUGH TO WRITE
FOR THE STATEMENT?
SEND A MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE TO
CALERO@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
TO GET STARRRRTED.


" " " " " 0

0

10Fbuay 21 - h - - .. . S.Wedesay

Wednesday, February 3, 2010 The Statement 7
ABOUTCAMPUS-

the
statement
Magazine Editor:.
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor
Allie White
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
Cover photo:
Jake Fromm
The Statement is The Michigan
vily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday dsring the
academic year. To contact The State-
met e-mail calero@michigandaily.
com

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview

Hi. Is this Natalie?
No. This is ... she's not here
right now. This is her room-
mate, Genevieve. Want me to tell her
you called?
No. Actually, maybe you can help
me out. My name is Trevor Calero.
I'm calling from the Daily. Do you
mind if I interview you?
Yeah, sure.
So, do you have a boyfriend?
No. [Laughs]
Did you have one in high school?
Um, yeah, I guess you could say that.
Well, I mean ...
[Laughs] What does that mean?
Well ... I don't know.
OK. You don't want to talk about
it?
No ... it's just. [Laughs]
[Pause] I don't know.
I know a lot of people come to
Michigan and they want to look for
that 'one person,' or whatever. Do
you think about that at all?
Not really. It's my freshman year.
Yeah. Freshman year I wasn't
looking for anybody either. But

I've found it's hard to meet people
here, I think. Agree? Disagree?
I mean, I don't know. I go out rela-
tively alot and, I don't know.
Do you date?
I haven't dated anyone since I'vebeen
here.
Would you date? Are you a dating
type?
If I met someone and really liked
them.
Uh huh. What do you look for in
a guy? Cause I've been having
problems getting dates, so can you
maybe give me some advice?
Are you kidding?
Maybe.
[Laughs] Do you really want me to
answer that?
Yeah. What do you look for in a
man?
Um, OK, um, someone who is kind ...
OK. I think I've got that one.
Funny...
I think sometimes I'm funny.
Um ... just easy going, laid back, fun
to be with ...
That's pretty broad. I think that's

a lot of people. Tall? Short? Bru-
nette? Blond? Come on, give me
some specifics.
I guess tall.
Do they have to be taller than you?
Um, no, but I guess that's preferable.
Have you ever heard of the pro-
gram This American Life?
Yeah.
I don't know if it was two weeks
ago but they had some thing, the
show was about these physicists
or statisticians and they wanted
to calculate the odds of them find-
ing a date. And it was surprisingly
depressing, the chances of finding a
compatible person. So they're from
Boston and they took the amount
of people in the city and divided
that by two,'cause half of them are
women ...
Right.
... and if you, like, once you factor
in all of the characteristics you're
looking for - height, intelligence,
age - it's very slim. It's kind of dis-
sapointing.
Yeah. I guess that would be, especially

if you break it down statistically like
that.
Exactly. So what's your favorite
Ann Arbor dining establishment?
Actually, this past weekend I went to
Sava's.
Oh, Ijusthad Sava'sfor dinner.
Really?
Oh it's great. What did you get?
I got the tomato bisque soup.
You gotta try the pecan chicken
sandwich.
My friend was gonna order that but
they were out of it.
Oh that's disappointing. Where
would you go on a date? I know you
don't date, not the dating type, but
where would you...
I never said I'm not the dating type. I
just said I'm not dating right now.
Oh, OK. If you did go on a date with
someone where would you go?
Maybe I'd ask him to take me to Sava's.
That's probably a good choice. It's a
good first date venue, I think.
- Genevieve is an LSA freshman.
Last we heard, she's still single.

LEAVE NO STONE UNTURNED
BY SAM WAINWRIGHT

in the mid-50s, a group of wayward
Michigan State hooligans defaced
the surface of the stoictmonument
with three hig green letters. Ohvi-
ously, this could not stand.
The "M.S.U." insignia was quickly
covered with a coat of paint, and a
tradition was born.
While the city initially attempted
to keep the rock clean - and have
continued to try at the behest of graf-
fiti-averse neighbors - their efforts
have failed in the face of the over-
whelming popularity of the pastime.
So we're only talking about SO
years of paint here, right?
Wrong.
According to Ann Arbor native

THE STATEMENT IS CURRENTLY TAKING SUBMISSIONS FOR ITS ANNUAL LITERATURE ISSUE.
If you would like to submit original works of poetry or fiction, please e-mail calero@michigandaily.com.

Spin the Cube. Sled in the Arb.
Get steamy in the stacks.
These are the things your
campus tour guide told your starry-
eyed high school self had to be done
before graduating. After all, what is
being a Michigan Wolverine without
some tried and true collegiate tradi-
tions?
In your quest to complete this list
of must do's, you've probably painted
The Rock on the corner of Hill and
Washtenaw. If you haven't, you will
before you graduate. And if you don't,
you will be seen as a college failure.
While you were out in the cold at
3 am. pouring buckets of industrial-
grade paint onto the wet surface,
trying to convince yourself that you
could successfully cover the old
coats with your gallon, you probably
had the following conversation with
your friends/sorority sisters/campus
group-mates:
You: "Hm, I wonder how big the
actual rock is?"
Friend: "I bet it's tiny!"
As I've asked myself this question
before, I thought it appropriate that
as my final act of required collegiate
pride, I'd answer it for everyone out
there who's ever wondered just how
deep the years of paint on the campus
landmark actually are. What follows
is my quest to - literally - uncover a
piece of campus legend.
To start at the beginning, I'll admit
I've always assumed The Rock had
been slathered in paint since time
immemorial. I imagined a basket-
ball-sized stone somehow accumu-
lating paint over hundreds of years to
grow to its present day girth.
Not so much.
When I realized my error - start-
ing with the fact that the University
was founded in 1817, not the begin-
ning of time - I headed to the Bent-
ley Historical Library to see if their
records could steer me in the right

tiA
_; t _ .
k .
- < - a
ti <

direction. ington's birth - February 22, 1732 -
Here's what I found: the rock was and convinced the city to foot the $15
initially placed on the little triangle bill to transport the stone to its cur-
of grass at the intersection of Hill rent location.
and Washtenaw in the winter of 1932. There it has sat, atop a time cap-
Ann Arbor Parks Superintendent, Eli sule and cement slab, unchanged

this memorial erected in celebration
of the two hundredth anniversary of
his hirth, 1932."
I was starting to doubt the idea
that paint was adding any kind of sig-
nificant size to The Rock, so I looked
for concrete, photo evidence.
A 1991 article in the Ann Arbor
observer featured a photo of the
planting of the stone at its current
location. Though its surface was
paint-free, the boulder appeared fair-
ly sizable even from the beginning.
Further sleuthing in the Bentley
revealed a number of photos featur-
ing sororities from the 1950s through"
the 80s happily painting a rather
consistently-sized boulder. Yet, I
still wasn't convinced. Old myths die
hard, and I wasn't going to let this
one go without some first-hand evi-
dence.
If it took Brian Durrance two days
in the '80s, surely advances in pow-
er-tools over the last 20 years could
facilitate my investigation.
- Under the cover of darkness, I took
to the streets, ready to prove once
and for all how big The Rock truly is
under all of those layers.
I fired up my drill and started in on
the side, still hoping I'd end up arm-
deep in fossilized paint.
My core sample? One and a half
inches.
I stared incredulously at the small
cylinder of dried paint I had extract-
ed. I could see hundreds of thin
layers of different colors, like multi-
colored tree-rings, and looking into
the hole I had just created, I could
see the chalky grey rock just over an
inch inside.
Guessing that the paint had to be
deeper than one and a half inches
somewhere on the surface, I drilled
into a large bump on the opposite
side and got down three inches
before hitting limestone. Better, but
not by much.
I took a final stab near the bottom
just above the acrylic stalactites at
what looked like the deepest point of
paint. I only got five inches in before
the limestone snapped my drill bit.
Certainly not the endless depth of
paint I had imagined.
So there it is: the facts. The Rock
is actually not much bigger than the
original limestone Eli Gallup hauled
out of the landfill 78 years ago.
Myth busted.E

W EdNEdAyS 17Opr
$OO WELL DtiNks
3'/$_IZJ A~QEERt 3oM bs

WANT TO
INTERVIEW
A RANDOM
STUDENT?
Come write for
The Statement.
E-MAIL CALERO@
MICHIGANDAILY.COM

3

Gallup, found a large limestone boul-
der in a county landfill and became
quite smitten with it. He decided the
rock would make an ideal monument
for the bicentennial of George Wash-

barring the addition of a commemo-
rative copper plaque in 1939 - and
the paint.
So, why do we paint the rock?
The story continues: sometime

ILLUSTRATION BY LAURA GARAVOGUA
Brian Durrance, he himself chipped
away the layers of paint over the span
of two days in the 1980s to reveal the
commemorative plaque's original
message: "To George Washington

GRADUATING THIS YEAR? WHAT'S THE ONE THING YOU'D LIKE TO DO
WITH THE TIME YOU HAVE LEFT?
The Statement is taking suggestions for its first ever Bucket List issue.
Tell us what you'd put on your bucket list. Send your suggestions to calero@michigandaily.com.


0

0

Wednesday, Februai-y 3, 2010 / The Sta tement 3B

IM TheStteen- / 'enedaFerur 3 21

.e
Real IC
A University c
students use wh
and even ma
off of it
By Daniel S
let's s.
Pasch ha:
Engineering seniors Mat
need that the two first noticed
tion available to students, and the
When the application is finished
dining hall menus, connect to campus
Yang said they are still working with
Design by Sara Boboltz

news in review

Apple products are all over campus these
days - iPods in the CCRB, MacBooks in
the Grad and iPhones, well, everywhere.
With this ever-increasing ubiquity in products
beginning with "i" or "mac" comes an abundance
of downloadable applications. And though the
majority of these applications come from techies
in Silicon Valley, a small number of them were
designed and created by students here at the
[®]University.
Last year, during both the fall and winter se-
mesters, the College of Engineering offered a
class that was one of the first of its kind in the
nation - EECS 498: Mobile and Web App Pro-
gramming. During the term, students enrolled
in the class worked to envision their own smart
phone applications, and then make those visions
a reality.
According to Engineering Prof. Elliot Soloway,
who taught the course both semesters, the ulti-
mate goal was to direct students to generate ap-
plications that would solve a problem or make a
io n specific task easier.
Soloway said the ability to fulfill this intent
- to create a phone application that addressed a
problem - is what "separates the successful folks
from the unsuccessful folks."
While EECS 498 is not being offered this term,
students from the class have continued to collab-
orate with one another on their phone applica-
tions.
Though not all of the applications from the
class were workable, a few did end up receiving
approval to be featured in the App Store.
Here's a look at a few of the best applications
designed by students in the class.
lass wheree
iat they learn D ~ o
Perhaps the most successful application to
ke a buck come from EECS 498 was DoGood, the brain-
child of recent University graduates Kunal Jham,
t ayank Garg and Jason Bornhorst. According to
Bornhorst, the app, modeled after the movie "Pay
It Forward," encourages users to perform random
trauss acts of kindness that then motivate others to do
the same.
"It's since been downloaded 70,000 times,"
Bornhorst said. "And most interesting is that over
300,000 good deeds have been done on behalf of
the application. Basically you're encouraged to
launch the app once a day and upon launching
it, you're presented with a single good deed to do
that day which can be, like, 'give someone a hug,'
or 'buy someone a coffee.'"
Bornhorst said there's a built-in counter in the
DoGood application that tracks the number of good
deeds each user has performed. The application has
even been featured on Gadgetwise, The New York Times'
technology blog.
Podlink
While most of the phone applications were devised from scratch, Pod-
link, created by Engineering senior Tyler Pasch, focused on improving an existing
app. Pasch said his intent behind the application was to improve on the Apple Remote app.
"What Podlink allows you to do is it allows multiple people with (an iPhone or an iPod touch) to con-
nect to another device that's playing music and wirelessly control it either by Wi-Fi or Bluetooth," Pasch said. "So
ay my housemates and I are having a party. All three of us at the same time can control the music."
s even made a small profit from his application, earning about $300 from sales of the $2.99 app.
iWolverine
rk Yang and Kevin Chan are still working on their application, tentatively called iWolverine. The application fills a
when they came to the University. Yang and Chan said they were overwhelmed by the different strands of informa-
eir application pools all this information into one controlled location.
, Yang and Chan hope the final product will be a definitive resource for University students, allowing them to read
S bus locator websites and look up contact information through the student directory, among other things.
Apple to make the application available, but that they hope to have it ready by the end of the academic year.

Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
'N -m x

Six members of the Sigma (
Rho sorority at Rutgers Uni
were arrested after allegati
hazing were brought agains
by pledges. One of the victi
sought medical attention fo
alleged event.

Gamma Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveiled
versity the iPad, saying it's "so much more
ons of than a laptop and so much more
st them capable than a smart phone." De-
ms spite the hype, reviews have been
)r the less than stellar. Are you going to
drop $500 for a glorified iPhone?
'---------------'- -- -

"Lost" returned for its sixth and
final season after a nine month
hiatus. The premiere was so anx-
iously awaited that Pres. Obama
had to confirm the State of the
Union wouldn't coincide with, and
consequently bump the episode.
----------

Reclusive American author J.D. The Obama administration
Salinger died at the age of 91. dropped its plans to try the al-
Despite publishing only one novel leged terrorists responsible for the
and three collections of short sto- 9/11 attacks in Manhattan. Citing
ries, Salinger is considered one of cost, disruption and security, N.Y.
the most influential writers of the officials and business leaders
20th century. spoke out against the plan.

0 1 3 4 5 6 17 - 8 9 17
FTT |TTTTTTT1TT, TTTTTFTT, T 4 ,,,l ,,, I | ,jf, , , I ,' Ei T 1
quotes of the week on the cheap
"I hated it. I hated it. I hated it. You hated it. It was about as How to be thriftfully artsy
popular as a root canal."
PRESIDENT OBAMA on the unpopularity of the bank bailout during last week's
State of the Union address. J
"I don't think you ever get everything you want but you get
what you need and I think we're getting that."
Michigan football coach, RICH RODRIGUEZ, on the recruiting class for next season's
team roster.
"Presidents get swollen heads."
SAYED HABIB SADAT, Afghan hatmaker, on the increse in the size of Afghan
president Hamid Karzai's karakul hat. Karzai has worn the style of hat since taking
office in 2002 in an attempt to portray his wardrobe as Afghan rather than ethnic ILLUSTRATION BY KATiE EBERTS
or regional. e may havefree access to the University's Museum of Art, but delving a little
deeper into the Ann Arbor arts scene is fun, especially when the delving is free.
The most efficient way to begin your arts education is to befriend kids in the art
the rules school. Look for paint-splattered students with giant portfolios on the North Campus buses.
Now that you're friends with artists, check out their work - gratis - at Work Gallery on
State Street, or the black box theater in the Walgreen Drama Center.
No. 248: No. 249: No. 250: This town is full of free public art - the graffiti mural on East Liberty, questionable
sthe Any more than three Hovering by an oc- sculptures outside the art museum, adorably painted fire hydrants, spinning cube in Re-
Sitting acrossAnyby gents Plaza. Embrace it!
room is a completely bottles of cologne is cupied cardio ma- Take advantage of student tickets to University hosted performances. Even if you've
legitimate way to pushing it - you can't chine at the gym will never heard of the band (Buckwheat Zydeco, anyone?), chances are pretty high no one else
knows them either, making you seem even cooler than you actually are.
avoid an awkward possibly have enough not make your wait Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know E-mail onthecheap@umich.edu.
'friend' in class. time to wear them all. time any shorter.
- ALLIE WHITE
by the numbers COURTESY OFTH E UNIVERSITY OF MicHIGAN INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH
Percent of college football play- Percent of college football players who The chance a 30-to-49-year-old NFL retiree will receive
ers who suffered concussions as reported concussion-like symptoms a diagnosis of dementia, Alzheimer's or another memory-
observed by athletic trainers anonymously in surveys after the season related disease - 5 times more likely than the average male






0

0

0

'0

0

0

hrough the blur of heavy sedation, Antonio Bass opened his
eyes to find the entire Michigan football coaching staff peer-
ing down at him. Bass was lying in a bed at the University of
Michigan Hospital, his right leg throbbing with what felt like a
very distant pain. 91 Bass had been a natural athlete his entire
life and up until this point, the worst injury he had ever sustained was a slight
ankle roll in a high school football game. But now in April 2006, his first Spring
Practice session with the Michigan football team, Bass, a quarterback/receiver
and one of the most promising sophomores on the team, was facing what would
soon become a career-ending - and life-altering - injury. 91

He was startled at the procession of maize-
and-blue-clad coaches, filtering through his
room all hours of the day. They had sat there
long after his initial knee surgery. Bass says
it must have been hours - though, after going
under the knife, he admits he had no idea how
long it had actually lasted.
To this day, Bass maintains that Michigan
was the right choice for him, especially after
witnessing just how much the football staff had
cared for him and worried over him during his
years-long rehabilitation process, just as any
family member would have.
After he woke, his wits slowly coming back to
him, Bass began to joke with the coaches, same
as always. But the coaches didn't feel much like
bantering. They knew something he didn't.
Before Bass had woken from anesthesia, his
doctor had said that, in his 30-plus years in the
medical field, he had never seen a worse, more
freak-accident injury. It was baffling, the doc-
tor said, especially since it happened during a

normal, non-contact football practice.
"The doctor said it was like I had fallen off a
three-story building and landed straight on my
leg," Bass remembers.
Although a return to the football field, where
Bass was expected to contribute that fall, was
the ultimate goal, his immediate concern was
simply to walk again.
Five years later, the possibility of ever play-
ing football competitively again, let alone rec-
reationally, has been completely ruled out.
The risk of re-injury to the tender knee is just
too great. The doctors say Bass could jog if he
wanted, but only short distances before his leg
gets stiff. And he could probably play a game of
pickup basketball, that is, if he could take it easy
- though he hasn't tried, because he knows his
fierce competitive nature would force him to
test the restrictions of his newly. limited ath-
leticism.
"He was probably going to go places," his
mother, Tami, said in a phone interview.

"He might have even been able to get to the
(National Football) League. But you can't let
things like that get you down. You've got to be
able to let it go."
The Potential National SigningDay, 2005
- the year before Scouts, Inc. first ranked its
top 150 and the buzz around college football
recruiting became an Internet obsession -
was quickly approaching, and Lloyd Carr sat
at home, looking through his strong incoming
class.
There was one player, though, who was still
holding out. Widely considered one of the best
recruits in the 2005 class, Bass, the Jackson,
Mich. native, was playing his cards very close
to his chest. Carr says he could normally get
a pretty good feel one way or another about a
potential recruit, but with Bass, he had no idea.
Bass' final list included some of college foot-
ball's biggestnames: Michigan, Louisiana State,
Florida, Virginia Tech and Michigan State.
Late that night, Carr's phone rang.
"Coach, I just wanted to tell you," Bass said in
a slow, deliberate voice. "I've made my decision.
I'm going to Michigan State."
Bass today says he could feel Carr's normally
warm, welcoming personality, the one Carr
reserved for all his players, stiffening up. His
voice became cold, formal.
"Well, Antonio, I wish you luck up there,"
Carr said.
Silence. Bass held in a chuckle as long as he
could before blurting out, "Nah, coach, I'm just
playing. I'm ready tobe a Wolverine." t
There was a brief moment of panic, as Carr
set down the receiver to collect himself. Bass
thought the coach had hung up the phone and
thought he had made a huge mistake.

"It was about a good minute before he said
anything," Bass says, laughing.
"Don't ever do something like that again,"
Carr said. "I will get even with you for that.
When you get here, I will get even with you for
that."
Any anger - playful or not - that Carr held
for Bass coming into his freshman season was
immediately erased as soon as the ultra-talent-
ed player arrived on campus. Although most
schools had recruited him to play quarterback,
Bass' athletic, run-first style didn't fit in with
Carr's system, which featured strong passing
quarterbacks who were often not the quickest
out of the pocket.
The coaches told him, honestly, thathe would
be moved to receiver. But that wasn't complete-
ly true - Bass was just too good to keep off the
field. On the cusp of the evolution of quarter-
backs like Pat White and Terrelle Pryor, Carr,
not necessarily known for his offensive innova-
tions, developed a formation for Bass to get the
ball in his hands.
"With him, we wanted to develop what is
really what they now call the Wildcat," Carr
said. "We had some success with that, and our
plans were to expand that package going into
the next year."
His freshman season, Bass ran for almost 100
yards and threw one pass - a 13-yard comple-
tion, which Carr called "one of the biggest pass-
es of the season," in an overtime win over Iowa
- from the quarterback position. Bass was also
an immediate impact asa receiver. He became a
fan favorite for plays like his one-handed catch
against Nebraska in the 2005 Alamo Bowl.
"Everyone in the program knew his potential
was just off the charts," Carr said.
"My vibe going into sophomore year was

extremely positive," Bass says. "I worked hard-
er than I ever had before, and everything was
coming together for me ... playing receiver, I
was finally getting the hang of it and showing
the coaches what I could do, as well as playing
quarterback. Sophomore year, it looked really,
really good."
But, unfortunately, that game against
Nebraska would be the last one Bass ever
played.
The Injury: Think back to any quarter-
back that saw significant playing time under
Lloyd Carr. Chad Henne, John Navarre, Brian
Griese, Tom Brady - there was a pretty pro-
totypical mold for the position while Carr
reigned in Schembechler Hall.
Antonio Bass - a 6-foot-2, 200-pound
"The doctorsaidit ws liheIhad
story building and landed sireigh
quarterback with a penchant for using his 4.4
40-yard-dash time to its fullest capabilities -
was a completely different type of athlete, the
type that Michigan football wasn't used to. But
heading into Spring Practice after a successful
freshman campaign, Bass, who was fully pre-
pared to bea wide receiver when he first came
to Ann Arbor, was listed as No. 2 quarterback
on the depth chart behind Henne.
It was a Tuesday afternoon, and Bass was
running a bootleg to the right, part of his
extended Wildcat package. His feet got tan-
gled with one of the running backs. He stum-
bled, and planted his right foot - something

football players do almost every play.
When asked about the play, Bass sighs,
taking a few moments to think. "It's hard to
explain," he says, "because it all happened so
fast."
His foot stuck in the turf at an odd angle and
he fell. At first, he didn't realize anything was
wrong.
"Then I tried to stand up and pain just shot
through my whole body," Bass said. "I looked
down and my thigh was going that way and
my calf was pointing that way," with extended
fingers, his hands point in opposite directions
over his leg. "That's when I kind of freaked a
little bit. I went into shock and was, like, 'What
the hell is going on?"'
Every ligament in his leg tore upon impact.
His knee completely dismembered, his ham-
string pulled, the
pain shot through
i/len offaG thTee- his whole body as
, the coaches and
t on m. 'leg. trainers tried to
calm him down.
"I can remem-
ber our trainer, Paul Schmitt - I
worked with him for 20 years - I could tell
by the look on his face that it was pretty bad,"
Carr said.
The trainers worked to stabilize the leg
and keep Bass from going into shock - there
wasn't much they could do for such a serious
injury there on the field.
"It was probably only 10, 20 minutes until
the ambulance got there, but it felt like an eter-
nity to me," Bass says.
His leg was immediately cast in ahard shell
from the hip to the foot and he was bedridden
for almost two months - and that's before he

could start the grueling rehabilitation process
with Michigan athletic trainer and clinical
specialist Vahan Agbabian.
As much damage as there was to his liga-
ments, Bass still had hope of rehabbing and an
eventual return to football. But when they got
him to the hospital and performed the first of
many surgeries he would have to endure, the
doctors discovered significant damage to the
nerve that runs from the knee to the foot.
When he finally got the enormous cast off,
his foot hung from his ankle, limp, useless.
The doctors told him he would likely never get
feeling back in it. With rehab and practice, he
could learn to walk on it - maybe not much
else.
"You know, you take the tiniest things your
body can do for granted," Bass says, moving
his left ankle up and down, up and down. "You
see that? You can never imagine not being able
to do that until you can't anymore."
The Impact: Bass and the Michigan train-
ing staff basically had to work from scratch.
He started by simply sitting up and lifting his
thigh up and down, and even that was excru-
ciating.
And while his thigh and knee were gaining
strength, there was nothing to do about his
drop foot, other than to hope and pray the sur-
geries would eventually help.
"What I marvel at is the positive attitude
he had through the whole thing," Carr says. "I
can't say there weren't times when he got a lit-
tle down, but if you know him at all, you know
he's such a positive guy."
All the waiting and wishing finally paid
off. More than two years after the injury and
months after his last surgery, Bass felt a twitch

in his foot.
He may never play football again - he may
not even be able to run without feeling that
stiffness in his leg - but none of that mattered
when he saw his foot move.
"I honestly never thought I was going to get
it back," Bass said. "I was just so happy to be
able to move that foot."
It was well after the 2007 season, after Carr
had retired, which, to Bass, was a wake-up
call to him that football was really done for-
ever. Rich Rodriguez came in, replaced all the
coaches Bass had gotten to know so well, and
began a new regime.
Bass still rooms with Michigan running
back Carlos Brown, and he still hangs out with
guys on the team, but he stopped showing up
to practice and being around the program as
much.
But that doesn't mean he doesn't still care.
Although the rehab process was excruciat-
ing, Bass says, hands down, the hardest part of
the injury is watching Michigan games, most
of which he views alone in his room because
it's too much to stand on the sidelines and
observe, rather than compete. ,
"The rehab stuff, that's all physical. I can
handle that," Bass said. "But watching the
games and missing the sport, that's mental. It's
all up here. That's a lot harder to deal with."
That mental agony was never worse than
Nov. 18, 2006, the first Michigan-Ohio State
game since his injury - the classic No.1 vs. No.
2 matchup the day after legendary coach Bo
Schembechler passed away. It was one of the
most dramatic Michigan games ever, and for
Bass, it was almost torture.
He said he had to go back home to Jackson
See ANTONIO BASS, Page 8B


