'U' officials E. Royster Harper and Laura Blake Jones:
Campus should stand up for Armstrong. v PAGE 4
With Denard back and ready to go, the Wolverines
take on Indiana in Bloomington tomorrow.- PAGE 5

Daily Arts likes this.
The Michigan Daily reviews 'The Social Network.'
Plus: Interviews with the film's stars and its
award-winning writer, Aaron Sorkin.
PAGES 7&8

Friday, October 1,2010

michigandaily.com

GREENING THE UNIVERSITY
More students
choosing to go
'green' when
picking amajor

'U' officials: Spike
in majors due to
increased focus
on environment
By JOSFPH LICHTERMAN
Daily Staff Reporter
Green is the new blue at the
University as more students are
pursuing undergraduate majors
and graduate degrees in sustain-
ability.
Since 2005, the Program in
the Environment has increased
from 128 students to 291 stu-
dents and the School of Natural
Resources and the Environment
has seen an 83-percent increase
in enrollment - from 123 to 225
students - during the same time
period, according to a University
press release. University officials
attribute the drastic rise in inter-
estinboth programs inlarge part
to the increased media attention
surrounding the issue of global
warming.
Bill Currie, an associate pro-
fessor in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment, said
in an interview yesterday that he
thought more students became
aware of and interested in envi-
ronmental issues from films like
former Vice President Al Gore's
Oscar-winning documentary

"An Inconvenient Truth."
Currie added that college stu-
dents grew up in homes that were
more environmentally conscious
and attentive to the changes that
society needs to make-to combat
climate change than their par-
ents' or grandparents' childhood
homes.
"Young people are a ripe
audience for that impact," Cur-
rie said. "Their parents grew up
'interested in-the environment. If,
you're in your early or mid-20s
today, you grew up with parents
who were more likely to have
environmental understanding
and sensibility than generations
ago."
The interest in environmen-
tal programs and degrees isn't
limited to the University of
Michigan, as enrollment in these
programs has spiked nationwide.
Ronald Hendrick, director of the
School of Environment & Natural
Resources at Ohio State Univer-
sity, wrote in an e-mail inter-
view that nearly 500 students are
enrolled in OSU's program.
"(There has been) some
increase in freshman/first-year
students," he wrote. "But even
more so in transfers from other
institutions, both two and four
year and from both in-state and
out-of-state institutions."
PitE Director Paul Webb said
the interest in the environment
See GREEN, Page 2

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Jason Jones, a correspondent from The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, interviews LSA junior Lauren Blanchard for a future segment on the show about Andrew Shirvell's deri-
sive blog and criticisms of Chris Armstrong. The University community has rallied around Armstrong amidst heightened media attention on the issue.
Cox: Shirvell suspended

Move comes after
outcry intensified
from national media,
campus community
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan Attorney General
Mike Cox suspended Andrew
Shirvell, an assistant attorney gen-
eral, yesterday, capping what had
become a national news story after
The Michigan Daily first reported
in early September on Shirvell's
controversial blog that targeted
Michigan Student Assembly Presi-

dent Chris Armstrong.
Cox told The Detroit News that
he was wrong to stand by Shirvell
and support his behavior toward
Armstrong.
"I'm at fault here," Cox said in
the article. "I've been saying for
weeks that (Shirvell's) been act-
ing like a bully, that his behavior
is immature, but it's after-hours
and protected by the First Amend-
ment."
Cox told the News that he hadn't
read all of Shirvell's blog when he
made those comments.
Earlier in the day yesterday,
the University administration and
community rushed to stand by
Armstrong amidst the growing
controversy.

In a statement released to The
Michigan Daily on Thursday, Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man wrote that the administration
supports Armstrong and opposes
.anyone who compromises the
rights and safety of students.
"A high-profile situation involv-
ing one of our students is high-
lighting the importance of values
that our institution holds dear,"
Coleman wrote. "An individual has
chosen to target the elected presi-
dent of the U-M student body in a
reprehensible manner."
Shirvell started a blog called
Chris Armstrong Watch short-
ly after Armstrong was elected
in March. The blog - which he
closed to all but "invited readers"

on Thursday - accuses Armstrong
of promoting a "radical homosex-
ual agenda" on campus and makes
contemptuous comments about
Armstrong's family and friends.
Last month, Shirvell also spoke
during the public comments
portion of a Michigan Student
Assembly meeting, calling Arm-
strong a racist and demanding his
resignation.
At the meeting and during
another confrontation on cam-
pus earlier in the year, Shirvell
criticized Armstrong for joining
the senior honor society Order
of Angell. The organization has
weathered criticism for allegedly
using Native American artifacts
See ARMSTRONG, Page 3


HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
At campus event, Mexican
journalist talks human rights

Lydia Cacho also
runs a shelter for
battered women
in Cancun
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
In honor of Hispanic Heritage
Month, the University's Division of
Student Affairs hosted an intimate
conversation at the Trotter Mul-
ticultural Center yesterday after-
noon with journalist Lydia Cacho.

Cacho, who is from Mexico,
discussed her career, specifically;
how she's launched battles against.
Mexican officials through her
journalism in an effort to contrib-
ute to the human rights push in the
country.
Cacho is the founder of Ciam
Cancan, a shelter in Cancun for
battered women and children. She
has dedicated her life to speaking
out for the abused and putting an
end to sex trafficking and child
prostitution and pornography
through hundreds of articles and
several books.
Engineering sophomore Nicole

Bettes, public relations chair for
the University's Hispanic Heritage
Month Planning Committee, asked
questions while Cacho explained,
- partly in Spanish - that while
Cancun has a reputation of being
a tourist city, sex trafficking and
other human rights crime aren't
uncommon.
"I enjoy the nice side of Cancan
and I believe it's beautiful," Cacho
told the audience of about 20 stu-
dents and faculty. "But I deal with
the dark side too."
It's not easy to protect women
from violence in a country where
See CACHO, Page 3

MA RISSA
Students wait in line last night to get into Rick's American Cafe. Five students started a website with a live-strear
The story behind
Ricksline.corn

UNnERSITY RESEARCH
'U' nets NIH grant to study diabetes

Rick's owner says University students came up
with something to make their
website started by favorite Ann Arbor bar even
more appealing.
'U' students is bad It was on this night that
Kinesiology senior Will
for business O'Leary, LSA senior Scott Rob-
bins, Engineering senior Greg
By NICOLE ABER Anderson, Brian LaFrence,
and VERONICA MENALDI University alum and a current
Daily News Editor visiting research investigator at
and Daily StaffReporter the College of Engineering, and
Eli Orlofsky, University alum
Shooting the breeze one and Business School graduate
Thursday night in August student, thought of the idea that
before going out, a group of would become Ricksline.com

- a website that allows users
to view the line outside Rick's
American Cafe.
And while the group of stu-
dents said the website is a help-
ful tool for people to plan their
nights out, Chris Hesse, man-
ager of Rick's American Cafe
located at 611 Church St., said
he thinks Ricksline.com will
actually be "detrimental" to the
bar.
Excluding Anderson, the
group of friends lives on Church
Street diagonally across the
See RICKSLINE, Page 3

$3.3 million grant to
be used to investigate
drug treatments
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
DailyStaffReporter
Researchers at the Brehm Cen-
ter for Diabetes Research - a
division of the University's Com-
prehensive Diabetes Center -
received a $3.3 million grant from
the National Institutes of Health
to fund research for early inter-
ventional drug treatments for type

1 diabetes, according to a press
release issued by the center last
month.
The grant will support Massimo
Pietropaolo, professor of internal
medicine at the Medical School
and director of the immunogenet-
ics laboratory at the Brehm Cen-
ter, and his team, which includes
two University researchers and
a researcher from the National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive
and Kidney Diseases.
By combining laboratory find-
ings with mathematical models,
the team hopes to gain a better
understanding of how immune

responses in the body lead to dam-
aged pancreas cells in those con-
sidered at risk for developing type
1 diabetes, the release stated.
This knowledge will spur prog-
ress toward discovering new drugs
that can halt the progression of the
disease. In addition, researchers
hope the study will help doctorsbe
able to better predict the onset of
juvenile diabetes, the press release
stated.
According to the National Insti-
tutes of Health website, type 1
diabetes - sometimes referred to
as juvenile or insulin-dependent
See DIABETES, Page 3



WEATHER HI: 55 GOTANEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO:39 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Robinson listed as probable in injury report.
MIcHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX NEWS ..................
Vol. CXINo.19 OPINION .............
J0 tSThe MichiganDaily SPORTS...............
michigondoily.com

.2 CLASSIF IEDS.......................6
.4 CROSSW ORD.........................6
. 5 A R TS ....................................7

4


-Friday, October 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths
LEFT eTB Cantina held a burrito
eating contest last Friday. The
first-place winner received a $100
gift card to BTB and the second-
place winner received a $50 gift
card. (ANNA SCHULTE/Daily)
TOP RIGHT LSA senior Sam Billet-
deaux DJs in his home on Wednes-
day as a dog listens to his jams.
(MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily) BOT-
TOM RIGHT: Denard Robinson
celebrates by knealing in the end
zone after a touch down during last
weekend's game against Bowling 
Green. The game was held in thei
Big House, and the Wolverines
won 65-21. (ARIEL BOND/Daily)
WANT MORE PHOTOS?7
See more Photos of the Week
on our websiteX
michigandailycom.
CRIME NOTES

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ KATIEJOZWIAK
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
smilovitz@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hoursoSun.-Thurs11am. - 2 a.m.
734-418-4115 opt.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaity.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
Jillian Berman Managing News Editor berman@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Nicole Aber, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle Swanson, Eshwar
Thirunavukkarasu, Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Ciri, Caitlin Huston, Lindsay
Kramer, Joseph LichtermanVeronica Menaldi,Elyana Twiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS:MichelleDeWitt, Emily Orley,LauraVeith
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:WiiButler,WillGrundler,HarshaPanduranga
Ryan Kartje ManagingSports Editor kartje@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Tim Rohan,
Nick Spar, Joe Stapleton
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes,Alex Hermann, Stephen Nesbitt, Luke Pasch,
ZakPyzik, Am Srno
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:CarolynKlareckiAndrewLapinJeffSanford
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:KristynAcho,LeahBurgin,SharonJacobs,KaviShekhar
Pandey
Maolloirs and photo@mikhigandtyone
Sa Woson ManagingPhoto Editors
SENIORPHOTO EDITOR: Ariel Bond, MarissaMcClain
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Jake Fromm, Jed Moch'
Anna Lein-Zelinskiand design@michigandaily.com
Sarah Squire ManagigsignEditors
00EN O EotSI TOR:nsMaya Friedmn
TreAortEalero Magaiorekditor calero@michigandaiy.com
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
AdiWollstein copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER:Gjon Juncaj
Hillary Szawalaclassified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER:Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Chrissy Winkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan DailyISS ON 0745-967) is pubished Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms bystudentsat theUniversityofMichigan.Onecopyisavailablefreeof chargetoail
readers.Additionalnopiesmaybe pickedupnat theOaiy'sofficefor $2.Subscriptionsforfalterm,
startinginSeptembervitU.S.mail are$110. Winterterm(anuarythroughApriisis$15,yearlon
(september throughApri)is$195s.Universityaffiliatesaresubject toarededesubscriptionrate.
On-campussubsriptionsforalltermae$5.subsripionsmbeprepaid.TheMicigan Daily
it a nmerofTheAsocinated Prett and TheAssociated CollegiattePrett.

*I

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES


Leaky laboratory Shades, shoulder Human rights Japanese film Scientists have discovered
1a new planelt coiled Gliese
soaks laser bag swiped lecture screening a ne cha is 20 light-yes
581g that is 20 light-years
WHERE: 2200 Bonisteel WHERE: Smith Law Library WHAT: Human rights WHAT: A Japanese movie away, Discovery Newstreported.
WHEN: Wednesday at about WHEN: Wednesday at about expert Josd Zalaquett will about a dying man who The planet is the right size and
2:40 p.m. 6:40 p.m. discuss accountability for learns how "to live," or ikiru. in the right location to sustain
WHAT: A water leak in a roof WHAT: A shoulder bag and human rights abuses. WHO: Center for life. Scientists do not currently
damaged a laboratory laser, sunglasses worth $200 were WHO: International Japanese Studies have the technology to study the
University Police reported. It stolen from the office of a Uni- Policy Center WHEN: Tonight from atmosphere for signs of life.
is unknown how much it will versity staff member, Univer- WHEN: Today from 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
cost to repair the laser. sity Police reported. 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Lorch Hall

Thief steals
hospital food
WHERE: University Cancer
Center
WHEN: Wednesday at about
6:40 p.m.
WHAT: $100 worth of patient
food was stolen from the Can-
cer Center, University Police
reported. There are currently
no suspects.

Windshield
whacked
WHERE: South Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Thursday at about
2:10 a.m.
WHAT: The windshield of a
vehicle parked in the loading
dock was damaged, University
Police reported. The vehicle
also had scratches on its side.

WHERE: Wetil10011 Indiana University's foot-
. ball team has the best pass
Big House, Big offense in the Big Ten,
Symphony Heawhile Michigan has the worst
Se rpass defense.
band concert vs FOR MORE, SEESPORTS, PAGE SA

WHAT: The University
Symphony Band will per-
form pieces that explore
human connections and
mythological characters.
There will be a pre-concert
discussion at 7:15 p.m.
with composers Ricardo
Lorenz and John Mackey.
WHO: 'U' Symphony Band
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

WHAT: A SK race that
runs through campus
and will start and fin-
ish at the Big House.
WHO: Recreation Sports
WHEN: Sunday at 8 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Stadium
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

In a study performed off
the coast of Costa Rica,
scientists found that Bot-
tlenose and Guyana dolphins,
two distantly-related species,
change the way they commu-
nicate and use a common lan-
guage when they are together,
the BBC reported.

MORE ONLINE-
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire

Cox: Charges will not be filed against FBI agents.

Agents shot an imam
20 times, killing him
in a raid last year
DETROIT (AP) - Michigan's
attorney general said yesterday
that he won't file criminal charg-
es against FBI agents who shot a
Detroit mosque leader 20 times,
killing him during a raid last year
on a suburban warehouse.
It is "undisputed" that Luq-
man Ameen Abdullah fired at
agents, resisted arrest and rejected
demands to surrender, Attorney
General Mike Cox said.
"Under Michigan law, law
enforcement agents are justified in
using deadly force in these types of
situations, and therefore we found
no crimes," Cox said in a written
statement.

Some leaders in the local Mus-
lim community have questioned
whether the agents used excessive
force. Besides being shot 20 times,
Abdullah had wounds that an inde-
pendent forensic pathologist said
were caused by an FBI dog killed
during the raid last October.
Some have speculated that
Abdullah may have fired his gun
whiletryingto defend himself from
the dog. Indeed, Cox's report said
agents deployed the dog after the
suspect failed to show his hands
while on his stomach onthe ground.
The dog began biting Abdullah,
who rolled over, revealed a gun and
fired at the dog and at agents, the
report said.
Four agents returned fire and
Abdullah was killed, the report
said.
"It is clear that the agents acted
in self-defense and/or in defense of

others," the report said. "The facts
show Abdullah making a series of
decisions that resulted in the use of
deadly force againsthipn - and ulti-
mately his death.
"None of Abdullah's followers
who complied with the ... com-
mands were injured in any way,"the
report said, referring to four others
detained after the raid.
The head of the FBI in Detroit,
Andrew Arena, said the report
"accurately reflects what happened
that day."
"There were five people in the
warehouse. Four people came out
without a scratch on them," Arena
said in an interview. "I would
encourage people to read the
report."
Abdullah's widow, Amina Abdul-
lah, said she was saddened to hear
that no state charges will be filed.
"That's for real? Wow," she said.

"I can'teventalk. I can't evenwalk."
I The FBI has described her hus-
band as a leader of a radical Sunni
groupthatwants to create antIslam-
ic state within the U.S. Authorities
say Abdullah preached hate for the
government and encouraged his
followers to commit violence, espe-
cially against police and federal
agents.
He told an FBI informant that if
the government messed with him,
"it will be straight up war," accord-
ing to a court document. Abdullah's
family, however, has denied that he
was anti-government.
There were 66 agents involved
in the stolen-goods sting opera-
tion, including 29 secretly inside
the warehouse before Abdullah
and allies arrived that day, accord-
ing to the attorney general's report.
Agents rehearsed the bust three
times.

MUSLIM ALLIANCE OF NORTH AMER ICA/AP
Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox said yesterday that he won't file criminal charges
against FBI agents who shot Detroit Imam Luqman Ameen Abdullah 20 times.


Calif. GOP gov. candidate
called out for illegal maid

Whitman accused
of employing illegal
immigrant
SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP)
- Meg Whitman's campaign for
governor was thrown into turmoil
yesterday as the Republican sought
to fend off new evidence that she
knowingly had an illegal immigrant
housekeeper on her payroll for
nearly a decade.
Whitman denounced the allega-
tions as a "baseless smear attack"by
Democratic challenger Jerry Brown
in what has become a dead-heat
race five weeks before the election.
She says she fired the $23-an-hour
housekeeper last year immediately
after learning she was illegal.
The immigration dispute has
upended a contest that until now
been focused on serious issues such
as job creation, state spending and
education in a state with a $19 bil-
lion deficit and 12.4 percent unem-
ployment.
Now, the focus is on whether
the billionaire GOP nominee for
governor will take a polygraph tet

to respond to allegations brought
by a celebrity-seeking attorney
and her mysterious housekeeper
client.
Revelations about the illegal.
housekeeper have also thrown
Whitman's carefully managed
campaign completely off track and
opened the door for Democrats to
accuse her of hypocrisy.
The former eBay chief execu-
tive has called for tougher sanc-
tions against employers who hire
illegal workers, and the fact that
she employed an illegal immigrant
maid from Mexico for nine years
could undermine her credibility.
She has also spent millions courting
Latino voters, who could play a key
role in determining the outcome of
the race.
A letter sent to Whitman from
the Social Security Administration
in 2003 has emerged as a crucial
element in the dispute. The letter
warned Whitman that there were
discrepancies in housekeeper Nicky
Diaz Santillan's payroll documents,
a possible tip-off that she could be
illegal.
Whitman said she never got the
letter and suggeste(V the former

maid mighthave intercepted it since
she was in charge of the mail at the
family's Silicon Valley mansion.
The housekeeper and lawyer
Gloria Allred later produced a copy
of the letter that they say shows
Whitman's husband, Dr. Griffith
Harsh III, partially filled it out and
told the housekeeper to "check on
this."
Allred said the housekeeper rec-
ognized the writing as belonging
to Whitman's husband, and a hand-
writing specialist may be brought in
to analyze her husband's penman-
ship. She claims it could prove that
Whitman and her husband knew
years earlier that Diaz Santillan
might be illegal.
In a statement released by the
campaign, Harsh said he did not
recall receiving the letter, although
it's possible he scratched out the
note asking Diaz Santillan to fol-
low-up. He noted, however, that the
letter does not say Diaz Santillan is
illegal, it merely asks for more infor-
mation.
"The essential fact remains the
same, neither Meg nor I believed
there was a problem with Nicky's
legal status," the husband said.

GREEN
From Page1
and the University's programs is
the result of activism surrounding
the issue.
"This seems to be a much stron-
ger grassroots concern, especially
amongst young people, for what
the future holds for them and the
globe they live in," Webb said. "It's
very good to see. We're not entire-
ly sure of the causes, but it seems
to be that it's something that's
bubbling up from the bottom."
He added that undergraduates
are attracted to the cross-disci-
plinary nature of the PitE program
- explaining that courses range
from environmental literature to
marine ecology - and that PitE
faculty come from a wide array of
backgrounds.
"We're beginning to spread to
an even larger area - Southeast
Michigan and hopefully Ontar-
io - to bring in a diverse group
of people to really prepare the
students for the kinds of things
they're going to be dealing with
for the rest of their lives," Webb
said.
While Webb said most students
who graduate from the University
with a degree from PitE tend to go
to some form of graduate school,
Currie said students who earn
master's degrees from the SNR&E
usually staff their careers right

away.
Currie added that joint pro-
grams between SNR&E and the
Ross School of Business and Law
School, among others, have helped
prepare students for the emerging
"green economy," which Currie
said is going to grow rapidly in the
next decade.
"I think corporations that are
more traditional are seeing the
value in things like carbon offsets
or saving energy or reducing their
environmental footprints," Currie
said. "They want to hire people,
who not only have the business
training but also who can sort of
tell them from the inside how to be
better citizens."
Several PitE students said they
liked the interdisciplinary nature
of the program because it allowed
them to pursue a variety of sub-
jects that are of interest to them
and relate to the environment.
LSA sophomore and PitE major
Stephanie Chen said she chose
PiE because it allowed her to pur-
sue her differentpassions. She said
she's debating between concen-
trating in conservation biology or
environmental law.
"It's very interdisf iplinary,"
Chen said. "It combines the hard-
core sciences with more inter-
disciplinary applications to the
world."
LSA junior Gillian Wener,
another PitE major who is taking
thf LSAT on Oct. 9 said 1VIE is

helping her prepare for law school
and her eventual career as an envi-
ronmental attorney.
"It's an area of the economy
that's growing because there's a
lot of increase in awareness about
environmental issues and a lot
more litigation," Wener said. "So,
I think my degree has given me a
really solid foundation for the kind
of things I want to go into and has
prepared me for law school."
Though PitE helps prepare stu-
dents for their futures, it's also
helpingthe University community
become more "environmentally
friendly," PitE sophomore Maggie
Oliver said. Last semester, Oliver
took Environment 391: Sustainable
Campus - a PitE class that allows
students to create and implement
various sustainability programs
across campus.
"We created the 'How to be a
Green Wolverine' guide, which
was given to all freshmen this
year," Oliver said. "It's just differ-
ent ways of how to be environmen-
tally friendly in Ann Arbor."
The University's Graham Envi-
ronmental Sustainability Insti-
tute and Planet Blue sponsored
the implementation of the project
idea.
"We did all this work for it, and
it was actually a tangible object
that we added to the University,"
Oliver said. "I'm really big into not
just talking about something but
actually doing som#thing."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 1, 2010 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 1, 2010 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
MSU football
player pleads guilty
in DPS laptop theft
A Michigan. State University
football player has pleaded guilty
to receiving and concealing stolen
property in the theft of laptop com-
puters from several Detroit Public
Schools.
Dion Sims entered his plea yes-
terday in Wayne County Circuit
Court and will be sentenced Dec. 6,
the county prosecutor's office said
in a statement.
The 19-year-old sophomore
from Detroit was one of 10 men
charged following an investiga-
tion into the theft of 104 laptops
valued at $158,000 from several
Detroit schools. Sims was charged
with handling between $1,000 and
$10,000 worth of stolen goods.
Michigan State has suspended
Sims indefinitely fromteam-related
activities. He has not played in the
first four games this season.
SAN ANTONIO
American tourist
shot on jet ski ride
An American tourist was shot
in the back of the head in Mexican
waters on yesterday after being
ambushed by armed boaters, a
Texas sheriff said. It happened on a
lake where run-ins with pirates had
already put fishermen and Texas
officials on alert.
Zapata County Sheriff Sigifredo
Gonzalez said a 30-year-old man
and his wife were riding jet skis
back from Mexico when about six
gunmen approached in two boats.
Gonzalez said the man was shot as
the couple sped away.
What happened to the man was
unclear. Gonzalez said the man's
wife tried circling back to get him,
but retreated back to U.S. waters
after being fired upon again.
"They saw them approaching
and started revving it up back to the
U.S. side," Gonzalez said. "The guys
just started shooting at them from
behind."
MONTERREY, Mexico
Small-town mayor
killed in $6,000 hit
Two men were arrested for kill-
ing a small-town Mexican mayor for
$6,000 in a land dispute, prosecutors
said Thursday.
Nuevo Leonstate Attorney Gener-
al Alejandro Garza y Garza ruled out
the involvement of drug gangs that
have been blamed for the assassina-
tion of many other mayors in Mexico.
Prisciliano Rodriguez, mayor of
Doctor Gonzalez, was gunned down
Sept. 23 along with an aide. He was
the fourth mayor killed in northeast-
ern Mexico in a month.
Garza y Garza said the two
detained men confessed to the con-
tract killing of the mayor in a land
dispute. He said an uncle of one of
the two suspects hired them a week
before the assassination, asking
themifthey"wanted alittlejob." The
uncle remains at large.

The men were paid an initial
$3,000 and given an R-15 rifle, an
Uzi and a revolver, Garza y Garza
said. On the day of the assassina-
tiontheuncle called his nephew and
demandedthemoneybackiftheydid
not carry out the killing, the prosecu-
tor said.
The suspects told police they
traveled later that day to Doctor
Gonzalez, where the mayor was
coordinating a program to provide
metal roofing to residents, Garza y
Garzasaid.
CARACAS, Venezuela
16 inmates killed in
Venezuelan prison
A Venezuelan official says a
riot involving rival gangs inside
a prison has killed 16 inmates and
injured 35.
Chief prisons official Consuelo
Cerrada says authorities peace-
fully retook control of the prison
after the violence.
Cerrada told the TV channel
Globovision 'yesterday that fight-
ing erupted the previous day
between inmates feuding over
control. She says six of the injured
remain hospitalized and the rest
are back in Tocoron prison in
north-central Aragua state.
officials have said three other
inmates were killed and four
guards injured in violence at the
same prison Monday.
Violence is common in Venezu-
ela's crowded prisons, where rival
gangs often fight for control of
cellblocks or the sale of drugs.
- Compiled from
 Daily wire reports.

Rick's owner says. he's
'not a big fan' of the site

From Page 1 viewers per day, with almost 400
Facebook members "liking" the
street from Rick's. Orlofsky said website, according to Anderson.
their proximity to the bar is ideal The website's peak traffic days
since they can monitor the line are Thursdays, Fridays and Sat-
from about 60 feet away without urdays, Robbins said, though they
having to venture outside. This have also found that a large num-
thinking became the basis for the her of people check out the web-
concept of Ricksline.com. site Monday afternoons as well.
"There was always that sort of "If you are trying to beat the
mindset," Orlofsky said. "Once we line, (the website) allows .you to
moved in there we were going to get there quicker and make sure
able to observe the line ourselves. you are there before a big line
I guess once we were actually forms," Orlofsky said. "But also
there somehow the camera idea some nights if you are not sure
popped up, the website idea cange if you should go you can tell if
up and the name Ricksline.com there's a line, which means there's
had a good buzz to it so we rolled a lot of people there and that real-
with it." ly excites people when they go to
Ricksline.com was fully func- bars."
tional and complete with adver- Hesse said Rick's patrons said
tisements on Sept. 14. The camera they like the website. But he said
linked to the website is located this technology isn't ideal for the
inside the students' house facing bar since people will be deterred
Rick's and streams 24-hour live from coming if they see a line
footage. Since the website went forming. Hesse said some Rick's
live, it has received over 14,000 regulars told him they decided to
hits according to Google metrics, come to the cafe later than usual
O'Leary said. after checking out Ricksline.com.
But before launching the "I feel that if it's 11 o'clock,
site, the five friends didn't con- instead of rushing to Rick's to
sult Rick's, according to Hesse. make sure you get in line, you can
He said he wasn't aware of the get online and find out there's not
website until one of the bar's a line and either stay home (or)
employees pointed it out about stay home longer than you would
two-and-a-half weeks ago. normally," he said.
Hesse said he's "not a big fan" Everyone who already knows
of the website because he thinks about Ricksline.com found out
the creators are taking advantage through either word of mouth or
of the popularity of Rick's in order online advertising, Anderson said,
to make a few bucks. but very few people know who's
"I believe that in this situation behind the website's creation.
somebody else is profiting off our "It's kind of cool that, at the
hard work and success that we've moment, we're very mysterious,"
had over the last 31 years, which Anderson said.
is fine," Hesse said. "You know it's Orlofsky said one night he
the American way." went to Rick's and his friend
The five University students announced that Orlofsky was one
created the website with the goal of the creators of the website and
of making the going-out experi- a girl said, "'No, Pizza House runs
ence more convenient, O'Leary that."'
said. But Hesse said many bar-goers
"The point was really to create think the bar is responsible for the
a method for people to have this site, which is problematic because
view of the line and get in faster there have been "really inappro-
without the hassle of waiting in priate comments" on the website
the cold," he said. under the user comment sectifn.
But Hesse said he thinks Rick- Hesse said he doesn't want Rick's
sline.com can be "misleading," to be associated with these "vul-
because the camera doesn't show gar" comments.
how many people are actually "I don't like that type of image
inside the bar. So if there's no line being portrayed on a website pro-
outside the bar, people who arrive jecting my name," Hesse said. " ...
still may not be able to getin if the You know anytime that anybody
bar is at capacity. Hesse said this reads anything on there, they're
happened last weekend. assuming that it's coming from us
"The line moves until we hit and we're filtering it and that's not
capacity and once we hit capac- the case."
ity, the line basically stops and Hesse said he's also concerned
we can't let people in until people that having a camerauon the estab-
leave," Hesse said. lishment 24/7 could taint the bar's
The website has about 1,000 image if people see some sort of
ries of her work in the shelters -
CACHO where women and children have
From Page 1 been held at gunpoint - several
audience members seemed taken
many officials and civil servants aback by the extent of the corrup-
are corrupt, Cacho said. tion, while others nodded along,
"In Mexico, when we call the obviously familiar with similar
police they will go to protect the tales.
batterer," she said. Despite these issues, Cacho
The idea for Ciam Cancun was said she has faith that Mexico
an extension of Cacho's work in will overcome these challenges
radio, through which she often and move forward.
spoke out against domestic abuse. "We are a huge country with
"All of these women started many good things to give to the
coming to the radio station and world and ourselves," she said.
saying to me, 'What you're say- Marilyn Williams, a Univer-
ing is true, but where can we go?' sity alum and adjunct lecturer
Cacho said. in the University's Undergradu-
Cacho explained how she ate Comprehensive Studies Pro-
stayed in a battered shelter to gram, said it was moving to hear

understand an abuse victim's from an activist who puts her life
experience. Helping people on the line every day, especially
through first-hand experience since people in the United States
is necessary to fight Mexico's appear somewhat unaware of the
human rights problems, she said. extent of the danger in Mexico.
"We cannot eradicate violence "People go there to party and
if we do not work within our- to enjoy their spring break but
selves as individuals," she said. they don't know what truly goes
Despite her efforts, Cacho on in that area when they leave,"
said her actions are rarely well
received, especially because she
is a woman working to eradicate
political corruption.
"The government in Mexico 1
thinks of me as a public enemy,"
she said. "We have a macho soci-
ety in Mexico. And the fact that S IARTI V N
I am a women and a journalist,
that I have a sense of humor G E T
about this and I am not a victim
- the government doesn't know
what to do."
But Cacho's work has paid
off. By exposing some of these
human rights crimes through
her journalism, the Mexican
government has passed sev-
eral laws against the violence
of women and child pornogra-
phy. She said the criminal jus-
tice system is a mess and she
believes it will take a long time
to see it corrected, but that
change has to start somewhere.
"We are, I believe, in the
seeds," she said. "Eventually we
will see a change."
As Cacho told several to-

problem like a fight happening
outside the cafe while viewing
Ricksline.com.
"They kind of see a negative
picture of Rick's, and even though
those probleins may not necessar-
ily come from Rick's, it's hard to
tell what's going on if all of a sud-
den you log on, you see something
going on outside," Hesse said.
The creators of Ricksline.com
and Hesse met on Wednesday,
Hesse said, during which time he
expressed some of his opinions of
the website.
"They were very open to my
comments," Hesse said. "I think
the last thing that they want todo
is upset us. They are loyal Rick's
goers. However, I don't know if
they're going to be able to satisfy
Rick's by the issues that I raised
about the website."
Though they didn't want to
comment on the details of the
website's further development,
Orlofsky said they're working on
expanding the website including
getting more advertisers. O'Leary
also said they plan to encourage
user interactivity by having more
than just a comment board on the
website.
"One thing that we are work-
ing on that we are really excited
about is a photo contest," O'Leary
said. "That's all I'll say about it for
now but that's a project we hope
to unveil soon."
The website's developers and
Hesse have plans to meet again
"in the near future," Hesse said.
Though Hesse has mixed views
on the sight, students have been
raving about it.
LSA senior Kyle Tenenbaum
called it the "best website ever."
"I think it's great. It saves me
so much time. I can sit here and
know the line and walk over when
I'm ready," he said.
Engineering senior Connor
Moelmann said he's used it every
time be's gone to Rick's since
finding out about the site from a
friend.
"It's definitely helpful espe-
cially because I have one of those
phones where I can check the
Internet so I can check it at anoth-
er bar," he said.
LSA senior Jamie Keith said he
found out about the site through
Facebook, adding that he thinks
it will be more helpful during the
winter months.
"Right now you can assume
Rick's will be busy Thursday, Fri-
day and Saturday, but if there's a
way to get it at multiple bars that'd
be even better to compare lines
and such," he said.
Williams said.
Rackham engineering student
Paul Arias, chair of the Univer-
sity's Hispanic Heritage Planning
Committee, said it's important to
draw attention to the Latino com-
munity on campus.
"We want to bring big speak-
ers to give the Latino commu-
nity here a visibility that perhaps
has been lacking in the past few
years," Arias said.
In an interview after her
speech, Cacho said.she has high
expectations for University stu-
dents to initiate change.
"I think the world is pretty
much a mess because of what my
generation did," she said. "And
I just truly expect a revolution

from the younger generation."
Students shouldn't be afraid of
the obstacles ahead of them, but
rather rise to the challenge and
embrace them, Cacho said.
"You have to take the world in
your hands because otherwise it
will destroy you," she said. "This
is your chance."

ARMSTRONG
From Page 1
during rituals in the past. In2007
the group - formerly known as
Michigamua - changed its name
and began releasing its members'
names in an effort to be more
transparent, though its meetings
and activities are still secretive.
Armstrong filed a personal pro-
tection order against Shirvell on
Sept. 13, according to a represen=
tative at Washtenaw County Trial
Court. The hearing will be held on
Monday at 1:30 p.m. in Ann Arbor
As long as all parties appear, the
judge will make a decision regard-
ing the personal protection order
on Monday, according to the rep-
resentative.
Messages and e-mails to Arm-
strong seeking comment went
unreturned last night. But atTues-
day night's MSA meeting Arm-
strong said he "wouldn't succumb
to any unwarranted attacks."
"I, along with the rest of this
assembly, (was) elected to this
body to represent the University,"
he told the assembly on Tuesday.
"And nothing said about us, or
regarding our personal merits,
will waive our commitment to
serve the student body."
On Sept. 14, the University's
Department of Public Safety
issued a trespass warning - ban-
ning Shirvell from University
grounds - after receiving com-
plaints of Shirvell stalking and
harassing Armstrong outside his
house in Ann Arbor, according to
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown.
DPS is still investigating the
complaints, Brown said, and
Shirvell is in the process of appeal-
ing the order with DPS Executive
Director Ken Magee.
In her press release, Coleman
wrote that the University is work-
ing to ensure appropriate mea-
sures are taken.
"In addition to its internal
action, the University also has
called upon others in positions of
authority to take all appropriate
action to address this situation,"
Coleman wrote.
The incidents began gaining
national attention after CNN's
Anderson Cooper interviewed
Shirvell on Sept. 28 and Michigan
Attorney General Michael Cox -
Shirvell's employer - on Sept. 29.
During the broadcasts, Cooper
discussed Shirvell's blog and ques-
tioned Cox about his thoughts on
Shirvell's behavior.
In his interview on Anderson
Cooper 360, Cox said that while he
deems Shirvell's behavior inappro-
priate, it would be against the law
to fire him for First Amendment-
p'rotected speech that Shirvell
produced off the clock. However,
Cox did say that he would consider
sending Shirvell to an "employee
assistance program" if Armstrong
was granted a personal protec-
tion order or if a lawsuit was filed
against Shirvell.
While Shirvell said he was not
a cyber bully and defended the
claims stated on his blog in the
interview with Cooper, Cox called
DIABETES
From page 1
diabetes - is an endocrine disease
often diagnosed in children, adoles-
cents and young adults.

"(The) pancreas can no lon-
ger manufacture any insulin for
the body," said Dan Diepenhorst,
manager of the diabetes and kid-
ney disease unit at the Michigan
Department of Community Health.
This lack of insulin production
affects blood sugar levels and
causes glucose to build up in the
bloodstream.
According to the press release,
more and more children and
adults are getting diagnosed with
type 1 diabetes and the disease is
"approaching epidemic levels."
"It's a public health problem,"
Pietropaolo said. "One can treat
these patients, but unfortunately

Shirvell's actions "offensive" and
"unbecoming of civil discourse."
In response to the CNN broad-
cast, viewers throughout the
country have contacted Cox and
urged him to fire Shirvell. There is
also an online petition created by
the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund,
which enables the public to send
messages directly to Cox.
The University community is
also responding to the incidents by
rallying around Armstrong.
In an e-mail from the Spectrum
Center that was sent to the MSA
e-mail listserv yesterday, the cen-
ter presented several ways stu-
dents can support Armstrong.
According to the e-mail, the
center sponsored an "informal
community gathering" in its office
last night where students could
talk about the incident. The Spec-
trum Center also urged students,
faculty and staff who support
Armstrong to change their Face-
book statuses to "Elected By Us,
Respected By Us.
Today, the center is hosting a
"Brown Bag" lunch where stu-
dents can learn how to be an ally to
the LGBT community and how to
take action when incidents of bias
occur on campus.
Armstrong supporters, not lim-
ited to University students, are
also adamantly voicing opinions
on Facebook pages, such as "We
Support Chris Armstrong," which
has 5,610 members, and "Fire
Andrew Shirvell," which has 5,976
members - both as of 8:54 p.m.
Thursday night.
On the "We Support Chris Arm-
strong" discussion page, a post
titled "An Open Letter to Attor-
ney General Cox," includes adults
from the University and other col-
leges sharing their opinions on the
issue and calling on Cox to remove
Shirvell.
In the release, Coleman reiter-
ated the solidarity of the Univer-
sity community and wrote that the
campus will maintain unwavering
support of the student body leader.
"As a community, we must not
and will not accept displays of
intolerance," Coleman wrote. "We
are heartened, but not surprised,
by the response of the campus
community in supporting Chris.
We are impressed with his resil-
iency and stand by him and the
important work he is doing on
behalf of all of our students."
Those outside the University
have also been voicing support
for Armstrong. Michigan Demo-
cratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm
also voiced her opposition to Cox's
decision not to fire Shirvell in a
Tweet posted at 3:12 p.m. yesterday.
"If I was still Attorney General
and Andrew Shirvell worked for
me, he would have already been
fired," the Tweet stated.
In The Detroit News article, Cox
called out Granholm's Tweet - say-
ing that the move was unprofes-
sional.
"I don't know why she's so freak-
ing irresponsible. ... she went to
Harvard Law School," Cox said.
"The civil service rules are a huge
shield for free speech and she
knows that.
they will have to be treated for their
whole lives."
To treat type 1 diabetes, patients
monitor their blood sugar levels
and take insulin - administered
in a variety of ways - to maintain
healthy blood sugar levels. They're

also usually advised to exercise and
eat healthy.
Diepenhorst said Michigan cur-
rently has the 15th highest num-
ber of diabetes cases in the United
States, and the number of statewide
cases has increased about 15 per-
cent over the past five years.
By gaining a greater compre-
hension of the mechanisms of the
disease, Pietropaolo said, he and
his team can create better diabetes
treatments and perhaps eventually
a cure.
"Once we understand the basis of
what leads to type 1 diabetes ... we
can translate this knowledge into
healing disease," he said.


4 - Friday, October 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

b iChiiigan 4allJ
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu .

E. ROYSTER HARPER AND LAURA BLAKE JONES I
'U' supports Chris Armstrong

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Tracks to the future
Midwest high-speed rail would benefit economy
Train travel is by no means a bustling industry in Michigan.
But plans for a new railway system promise more attrac-
tive transportation by track. The Public Research Interest
Group in Michigan recently published a report that analyzed the
specific benefits of creating a high-speed rail that runs through the
Midwest. The present railway system in Michigan is built more
appropriately for freight trains than for human travelers. But fast-
er and more convenient passenger trains could greatly benefit the
economies of many Midwestern cities and create a more environ-
mentally friendly travel option. State leaders in the Midwest should
continue to cooperate to build the high-speed railway.

Activity over the last few months has brought into
sharp focus the unwavering commitment of the Univer-
sity community to social justice and human rights for
all. Students, staff and faculty have rallied to support the
elected president of the University student body, who has
been viciously targeted by an individual because of his
sexual orientation.
The reaction by the University community has been
exactly what we would expect from the "leaders and
best": overwhelmingly supportive of Chris Armstrong,
president of the Michigan Student Assembly.
Likewise, Armstrong and his fellow MSA members
have reacted to this unwanted attention by holding their
heads high, ignoring the blogger's taunts and carrying on
with their ambitious MSA agenda for the coming year.
We commend them.for their responsible .approach. An
important value of this campus is the free flow of ideas
and opinions. As a community of scholars we simultane-
ously preserve and create knowledge. 4
We ask difficult questions, challenge each others' best
thinking, sometimes change our minds and other times
agree to respectfully disagree. While living and working
together we also strive to create a campus environment
where civility, respect and inclusivity are of paramount
importance. This is a place where individuals' rights to
have their personal identities respected and understood

is as sacred as other constitutionally protected ideals.
As Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. noted in 1963, "Injus-
tice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are
caught in an inescapable network of mutuality... What-
ever affects one directly, affects all indirectly."
Freedom of speech and expression do not include
behaviors that target, harass, threaten or defame oth-
ers. As a campus community we must continue to "Stand
Up, Step In and Speak Out" against the repeated vitriolic
attacks on any one of us. Hateful speech can only be effec-
tively countered by different speech.
We applaud those individuals and student organiza-
tions - on our campus and elsewhere - that have taken
the opportunity to counter hateful speech with different
speech and express support for Chris. A unified show of
support demonstrating that acts of bigotry cannot take
root here is an important part of our community response.
We stand united to support all members of the Univer-
sity community, in many different ways, seen and unseen.
As the University's elected Board of Regents said so clear-
ly at its Sept. 16 meeting, "When one member of our com-
munity is targeted, we are all attacked."
E. Royster Harper is the Vice President for
Student Affairs. Laura Blake Jones is the Associate
Vice President and Dean of Students.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for clarity, length and factual accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.
Don't submit to sexism

The addition of this railway would cre-
ate 58,000 permanent jobs in operation
and maintenance of the new railway and
15,200 temporary jobs for its construction
and renovation of current railway systems,
according to the report, which was pub-
lished in mid-September. Unlike normal
trains, high-speed railways cater to carry-
ing passengers and operate at much higher
speeds. Its implementation would create
faster travel between eight states in the
Midwest and would include new rail sta-
tions and track improvements throughout
southern Michigan. The American Recov-
ery and Reinvestment Act - more com-
monly referred to as the stimulus package
- provides a $2.7 million grant toward
railway projects in the Midwest.
As a cheaper alternative to flying, high-
speed railways promote financially viable
mass transit. More mass transit advances
environmentally sustainability. More peo-
ple would choose travel by train if they had
a reliable option because of its convenience
and speed. This would greatly reduce the
impact on the environment caused by trav-
el by car. Advancements in public trans-
portation are important in creating a more
sustainable world. Building the planned
accessible high-speed rail would promote
that goal.
The new system would also stimulate
long-lasting economic benefits through-
out the Midwest. Stronger connections
between centers of commerce and across

state lines would promote increased tour-
ism and business. There will be greater
opportunities for business growth and
networking. And increased travel is help-
ful to local businesses - restaurants,
hotels and other local stores benefit from
an larger customer base. The high-speed
rail will give the Midwest the chance to
show united trade and industry growth
and will push the region into becoming a
more powerful economic entity.
The railway project can remedy the Mid-
west's current lack of economic strength -
which has been particularly damaging in
Michigan - by replacing thousands ofjobs
that have been lost. Thousands of work-
ers are necessary to build and renovate
railways and a significantly larger num-
ber of employees are needed in its long-
term operation and maintenance. This
new industry will aid in Michigan's effort
to diversify its economy. And the benefits
should come at alow cost since the federal
government has already allocated funds
for the high-speed rail system in the stim-
ulus package.-
More efficient railways will improve
the environment and economies through-
out the Midwest, especially in Michigan.
The railway will bring jobs to Michigan
and comes at a reasonable cost backed by
federal resources. Organizations and state
leaders involved in planning the railway
should take advantage of federal funding
and make this railway a reality.

Last week, well-known mega-
church leader Bishop Eddie
Long was accused of sexu-
ally abusing four
young male con- :.
gregants. The
muscle-bound,
gold chain-wear-
ing Long is marked
by his homopho-
bia, opulence and '
maybe his less
well-known ideas
regarding mod- VANESSA
ern relationships
between men and RYCHLINSI
women.
I was recently
trolling through a gossip rag site
which pointed out that the pastor has
written an insightful book on this
last topic, called "What Men Want,
What Women Need." To share sev-
eral gems from the first few pages,
what the "animalistic" man actually
wants is "sex and control" in addition
to a woman who is "the world's best
lover" and "the best cook in town."
This mythical creature ought to be
subservient and bent on "[caring] for
the little boy lingering in the hulking
shell" of her man and supplement his
life by allowing him to continue on
his "destiny."
I really hopeI don't have to spell out
all the things that are wrong with this.
Unfortunately, views like this one
seem to be getting increasing face-
time in American popular culture and
society. In our world, women pursue
higher education and have prospects
of forming careers in any field they
choose. They have access to birth con-
trol and the morning-after pill and
abortion is legal. Due to these areas of
economic and sexual freedom, there is
a definite backlash and a cry for more
"traditional" roles for women.
TLC has two reality television
shows that depict extreme versions of

such roles. One is "19 Kids and Count-
ing," the other is "Sister Wives," which
just aired on Sunday. It's difficult to
decide which is more abhorrent. The
first follows Jim Bob and Michelle
Duggar, who have nineteen children
because they believe in leaving their
fertility in "God's hands." However
earnest these beliefs may be, the facts
are damning for Jim Bob - every sin-
gle child has a name that starts with J
and almost every pregnancy is spaced
by only a year or so. It's pretty gross
that this man has achieved notoriety
and is making a living off the fact that
he can't leave his wife alone.
If at all possible, "Sister Wives,"
starring polygamist Kody Brown and
his three wives, is worse. The show
asks America to "Rethink Marriage"
and follows Brown, the wives and
their thirteen children as they deal
with everyday life and Kody's deci-
sion to "marry" a fourth (younger and
slimmer) woman. After watching an
interview on the Today show as well
as clips of the first episode, it's nothard
to imagine that Brown, with his shoul-
der-length blonde hair and quasi-good
looks, probably manipulated these
wide-eyed women by promising a com-
munity, family and, let's not forget the
biggest prize of all, one quarter of him-
self. It's also clear that Brown is enjoy-
ing his proverbial cake just because he
can - and that these women sacrifice
for him to do so. The fact that either
of these situations is portrayed by a
major network at all is disgusting and
its completely degrading that they are
thought of as entertainment.
There's a lot of trash TVthese days,
but anyone who supports the con-
tinuation of female equality should
take particular offense to these two
patriarchal caveman dramas. TLC
markets its reality programs by
exploiting the obvious differences
of a group before saying, "Look at
their lives, they're just like you." This

pseudo-heartwarming approach may
work for "Little People, Big World,"
but frankly for "19 Kids" and espe-
cially for "Sister Wives," it's an unac-
ceptable, tacky lie and the network
knows it. Depicting an American
man and his modern-day harem as a
nice, happy family is vomit-inducing.
These people are not normal, this is
not okay and most of us will hopefully
never be able to relate.
There is nothing wrong with big
Women shouldn't
be put down in the
name of tradition.
families or even traditional marriage
roles. Many young women today elect
to become housewives and home-
makers rather than having a career.
However, it's toxic when these roles
are expected - or even demanded
- and couched in terms of duty to
or inferiority. In a country in which
women have the opportunities to
have just as fast-paced careers as men
and in which they can and do bring
home the main paycheck, it's sicken-
ing that there is still this attempt to
keep women deferential and obedi-
ent in the name of tradition or ethics.
Women's proper place is wherever we
discover it and our aspirations aren't
limited to talent in the kitchen or in
the bedroom. Long, Duggar, Brown
and men like them cannot handle
these facts and so twist the lives of
others to satisfy a pathetic need to
feel superior. Guess what, boys: Real
women don't bow down to your ego.
-Vanessa Rychlinski can be
reached at vanrych@umich.edu.

-the
podium

Erika Mayer warns that it's probably not such a good
idea to hook up with your foxy neighbor in the dorms.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium.

MICHELLE DEWITT I
Mich. should prize creativity

It's notvery often that I'm proud of my home-
town. That may sound harsh, but announcing
that I was born and raised in Grand Rapids,
Michigan isn't the kind of thing that draws a lot
of excitement. But this sleepy, conservative city
in western Michigan has recently drawn excite-
ment for something other than being sleepy and
conservative. ArtPrize - a two and a half week
art competition in Grand Rapids - has returned
to downtown for its second year.
For those who may be unfamiliar, Grand
Rapids is about 150 miles west of Ann Arbor,
has a population of just over 190,000 people
and is where I grew up - not that you probably
care about that last part. I'm specifically from
a small, affluent suburb called Ada, but if you
went to my high school you probably referred
to it as "the bubble." It's the kind of place that's
out of touch with the rest of the world and soci-
ety at large. It's neither fashionable nor trendy,
neither edgy nor exciting. But ArtPrize is seek-
ing to change all that - at least as far as the art
world is concerned.
ArtPrize is a unique competition in the sense
that it's open to any artist in the world that can
find a physical space. Anyone in downtown
Grand Rapids can create a venue to display the
art. And anyone who attends the event is able to
vote for his or her favorite piece. This event is a
model of what Michigan should strive to be.
The inspiringthoughtbehind ArtPrize is that
"art is important," as quoted by Art Showcase
magazine in its September/October 2010 issue.
This is the basic premise that drove Rick DeVos,
a Grand Rapids social entrepreneur, to start
ArtPrize in 2009. The goal is to create a dia-
logue about something important and relevant
to society, and that is what is going on between
September 22 and October 10 in downtown
Grand Rapids.

Arguably, Michigan has been in a well-recog-
nized slump for decades. Events and trends like
ArtPrize are what will help to get us out of it.
The state should pursue similar ideas to bring
innovative and progressive minds to Michigan.
This event has brought thousands of people into
Grand Rapids. They're talking to local people,
eating at local restaurants and taking in a side of
Michigan that hasn't been seen lately. Instead of
headlines about job losses and a failing automo-
tive industry, the news is only positive because
of the constructive impact ArtPrize is having on
the area.
The influx of people into the area is a huge
boost for the economy. A USA Today article
about the event highlights the ability of Art-
Prize and similar events to revitalize urban
economies. Grand Rapids, and the state as a
whole, needs to capitalize on this positive con-
tribution and allow other sectors of our econo-
my to benefit.
It must be noted that ArtPrize wouldn't be
possible without the generosity and philanthro-
py of Grand Rapids families and leaders. These
are the types of things that Michigan philan-
thropic organizations need to be contributing to
- events that will help to revitalize our state's
economy and the livelihood of our citizens. If
nothing else, ArtPrize has brought so much of
the city together in enormous support of the
event, because aside from all of its societal ben-
efits, ArtPrize is actually a lot of fun.
I would encourage anyone looking to head
out of Ann Arbor for a little bit (The football
game is in Indiana this weekend. Just saying.) to
venture over to Grand Rapids and support this
local event. An emphasis on the strength of our
communities is important now more than ever.
Michelle DeWitt is a senior editorial page editor.


JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAIL JEFF AT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU *


JESUS
WILL 1 I
SAVE US

t.
Er
K
1
.:.. ,..

Ok, maybe this
"Shoelace" craze
has gotten a little
out of hand.
W 1
DENARD
WILL
SAVE US

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Jordan Birnholtz, Adrianna Bojrab, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Will Grundler, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Tnmaso Pavone, Leah Potkgn, Asa Smith, Laura Veith

--III


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 1, 2010 - 5

Breakdown: Blue should
expect shootout at Indiana

JAKE FROMM/Dai
Michigan coach Red Berenson begins his 27th season as the Wolverines coach on Saturday.
Berenson to go for 700th
win in M season opener

Se
ha
Cha
w

Mic
Beren
season
years:.
non-se
may s
a rath
and
esting
tic, b
senior
Hagel
Capor
and M
on th
bodes
Beren
is one
of No.
For
that h
perfor
and b
indivi
hopes
title si
"We
an NC
Capor

nior-heavy team capable of doing that. We don't
want to throw that away. We
s eyes on NCAA want to maximize that oppor-
tunity, and we have talked as a
mpionship, starts senior class about how powerful
this team can actually be."
ith Mercyhurst Berenson will have the chance
to become the sixth member of
By MARK BURNS collegiate hockey's 700-win club
Daily SportsEditor tomorrow night. Michigan faces
Mercyhurst in the Wolverines'
higan hockey coach Red regular-season home opener, fol-
son will enjoy a luxury this lowed by an exhibition contest on
n that he hasn't had in 13 Sunday against Western Ontario.
he returns all of last year's While the Wolverines cer-
eniors. It tainly possess a deep senior class
eem like with nine returnees, Michigan
er simple Mercyhurst has a slew of underclassmen to
uninter- at Michigan complement the experienced
statis- crop of players, with defenseman
Macup:
ut having Indiana 17 7 Jon Merrill headlining the new
s Carl Michigant7-9 Wolverines.
in, Louie "Merrill has the chance to play
usso When: Salon- in our top four," Berenson said of
Matt Rust day at 4 p.m. the 6-foot-3 freshman, who was
he roster Where: selected in the second round of
well for Crisler Arena the 2010 NHL Entry Draft by the
son, who Live Blog: New Jersey Devils.
win shy michigandaily. Caporusso added that it's fairly
700. com reassuring to know the coach-
a team ing staff can call on any number
as under- of players - even those who are
med in the past three years younger and less experienced,
roasts a talented trio of like Merrill.
duals as leaders, Michigan The coachingstaff is restricted
to claim its first national to two hours of practice per week
nce 1998. until Oct. 2, so Berenson said he
e understand that we're would know a lot more about the
AA-Championship team," makeup of his team after this
usso said this week. "We're weekend when his younger play-

ers could showcase their talent in
an actual game setting.
He also said that he expects
everyone to receive playing time
in the first two games of the sea-
son, including both netminders.
After practice on Wednesday,
it was announced that senior
Shawn Hunwick will receive the
starting nod over senior Bryan
Hogan against Mercyhurst.
Based on Hunwick's finish last
season, when he led the Wolver-
ines to a CCHA Tournament title
and a trip to the NCAA regional
final before losing to Miami
(Ohio), the tenured coach said he
thought Hunwick "deserved" the
start.
"I wouldn't say week-to-week,
but month-to-month, we'll keep
reviewing (the goalie situation)
and see where we are," Berenson
said. "We're trying to win games,
and it's not about being fair, it's
about what's best for the team."
NOTES: Senior forward Ben
Winnettt was hit in the head
with a puck last Thursday and
hasn't been practicing ... Beren-
son said he "probably won't play
Saturday, but maybe Sunday"...
Freshman defenseman Jacob
Fallon suffered concussion-like
symptoms last week after taking
a hit in practice. Fallon was taken
to the hospital for precautionary
measures, and Berenson said he
"could play one of the games this
weekend."

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Editor
Everyone is predicting that Sat-
urday's game between Michigan
and Indiana will be a shootout.
The Wolverines have sopho-
more quarterback Denard Rob-
inson and an offense that has
produced on average more than
560 yards per game and more than
330 yards of rushing - both of
which rank second in the country.
And the Hoosiers have seasoned
veteran Ben Chappell back at
quarterback, who threw for nearly
3,000 yards in 2009. But Chap-
pell hasn't really had a tough test
just yet this season. Do Towson,
Western Kentucky or Akron scare
anyone?
Well, that's what Michigan fans
thought of Massachusetts, too.
Indiana has an offense that
might be able to keep up with
Michigan. In a battle of two poor
defensive units, the game could
come down to who lasts.
MICHIGAN PASS OFFENSE VS.
INDIANA PASS DEFENSE
Robinson only played for about
10 minutes against Bowling Green,
before bowing out with a minor
injury. But he has been cleared to
start Saturday, and he'll play as
long as it's not a blowout in Michi-
gan's favor.
Robinson has developed con-
nections with several Wolverine
receivers through the first four
games; junior Darryl Stonum, red-
shirt sophomore Roy Roundtree
and junior Martavious Odoms
each have had the hot hand in dif-
ferent weeks. The threat of Robin-
son and the other running backs
has opened up the opportunities
for the receivers on the outside.
And Indiana's rush defense hasn't
held up against lowly competition
to start the season. Expect them to
emphasize stopping the Wolverine
ground attack - this could be a big
day through the air for Michigan.
EDGE: Michigan
MICHIGAN RUSH OFFENSE VS.
INDIANA RUSH DEFENSE
Any time an aspect of your
game ranks second in the coun-
try, it has to be a strength against
any opponent. Michigan has an
experienced offensive line and
plenty of weapons to carry the ball
- starting with Robinson.
He ripped off runs of 46-and
47-yard runs against the Falcons
last week and has topped 100
yards in each of the Wolverines'
first four games.
And while jun'ior Mike Shaw
and redshirt freshman Fitzgerald
Toussaint are doubtful against
the Hoosiers, the Wolverines still
have sophomore Vincent Smith,
who has started two games this
season, redshirt sophomore Mike
Cox and freshman Stephen Hop-
kins.
Indiana has allowed an aver-

age of 177 yards rushing per game.
Robinson could have a field day,
even without Shaw and Toussaint
to hand the ball off to.
EDGE: Michigan
INDIANA PASS OFFENSE VS.
MICHIGAN PASS DEFENSE
The statistics are impressive:
Indiana averages more than 300
yards per game. Chappell has
thrown nine touchdown with-
out any interceptions, and he has
completed 72 percent of his passes
- but once again, that was against
Towson, Western Kentucky and
Akron.
Chappell had allof2009 tocome
into his own and the Hoosiers have
three quality receivers returning
in 2010 in Damarlo Belcher, Tan-
don Doss and Terrance Turner.
The good times for Indiana
could continue to roll. After all,
Michigan sports the worst pass
defense in the Big Ten.
EDGE: Indiana
INDIANA RUSH OFFENSE VS.
MICHIGAN RUSH DEFENSE
If this game goes as expected,
Indiana might not have time to
run the football. The Hoosiers'
run game isn't as big of a threat
as Michigan's, and in a shootout,
Indiana might have to rely on its
passing game to catch up.
Darius Willis is Indiana's lead
back, but he has taken a backseat
to Chappell and the passing game
so far this season. The Wolverines'
rush defense has been shaky, but
not as much as their pass defense.
Michigan's front seven could con-
trol the line of scrimmage and
make things hard on Willis.
The defensive line play was one
of the many bright spots in the

Wolverines' big win over Bowl-
ing Green last week and it's been
somewhat of a constant on an
overall porous unit.
EDGE: Michigan
SPECIAL TEAMS
Indiana has a significantly bet-
ter situation on special teams
than Michigan as Big Ten season
begins. The Wolverines are still
trying to find a placekicker. The
Hoosiers have one.
Nick Freeland is a perfect five-
for-five this season for Indiana,
but he hasn't attempted a kick lon-
ger than 36 yards. Michigan has
missed four of its five attempts,
and true freshman punter Will
Hagerup is going through some
growing pains. We'll see how he
matches up this weekend with his
brother, Chris, who punts for the
Hoosiers.
EDGE: Indiana
INTANGIBLES
Last year, Tate Forcier threw a
late touchdown pass to top Indi-
ana in the Big House. And Bill
Lynch famously threw his gum
after a call didn't go his way on a
ruling related to a Donovan War-
ren interception. Indiana probably
has had this game circled since
summer camp started.
It's the first game of the Big Ten
season. Michigan's offense looks
good and its defense doesn't. Dur-
ing Rodriguez's first two years,
this might have been a letdown
game. But with Robinson under
center, his explosive potential is
enough to keep it even.
EDGE: Push
FINAL SCORE:
Michigan 56, Indiana 38

SARAH SQUiRE/Daiy
Junior wide receiver Martavious Odoms has played a signiticant role in the Wol-
verines' pass attack this season, along with Darryl Stonorm and Roy Roundtree.



WHAT'S YOUR
CUP OF TEA?

The antioxidants in tea help
keep your brain younga nd healthy.
Iced tea was invented in America when
a lea merchant wanted to make his

Lym

OOLON(
Sit
Back
RPeix

product more appealing during a very
hoot first World's Fair in St. Louis.
WHITE
GREEN ran i.HERBAL
Oxidant
Packted
All
Arounwrd Timneto
Winer Unwind
GI ROOIBOS
3 Seet
G as
Candy
BLACK MATE
Rise & C EnI rerg~y
ShineB otost
Spice
Up Your-

Y

npose 20%
nday on DISCOUNT
with the
alIv.com code football'

1 4ie E B lrA HE M u jo


6 - Friday, October 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Michigan defense to face prolific passing attack .1

By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
Through four weeks, the Michigan
offense has been nothing short of extraor-
dinary. Sophomore quarterback Denard
Robinson and the rest of the Michigan
offense has put up
almost 563 yards per a
game, good enough to Indiafa at
be the No. 2 offense in Michigan
the country. Mat
But Indiana, the hdianap-0
Wolverines' opponent Michigan 4-0
this week, has been no
slouch on offense this When: Satar
season, either - the ay 3:30p.m.
Hoosiers boast the No. Where:
11 pass attack in the Memorial
nation and best by far Stadium
in the Big Ten. TV/Radio:
And with that tal- ESPNU
ented offense, headed
by experienced senior
quarterback Ben Chappell, Michigan may
have its hands full on defense. The Wol-
verines have given up, on average, 400
yards per game so far.
"We've got to do a good job defensively
limiting the big plays, which we've strug-
gled with at times and know that they can
pitch and catch it at anytime," Michigan
coach Rich Rodriguez said in a teleconfer-
ence Wednesday.
Chappell also has two of the league's

standout receivers in Damarlo Belcher -
statistically the top receiver in the Big Ten
- and Tandon Doss, an explosive player
who's used all over the field.
"They're big guys," Rodriguez said.
"They're very athletic, they can run.
We've got a lot of young DBs ... soit's a con-
cern, especially because they're throwing
the ball so well."
And with the Wolverines still strug-
gling in the secondary, they may find
themselves locked in a shootout.
In a high-powered offensive game like
Saturday's matchup is expected to be, the
winner may just be the team that has the
ball last. The Wolverines' spread option
run attack is known for consistently run-
ning the clock down, as they've only lost
the time-of-possession battle in one game
so far. Winning that battle could mean
having the ultimate advantage over a team
that's reliant on getting down the field
through the air.
For now though, stopping Chappell's
aerial attack out of Indiana's pistol offense
is at the forefront. Chappell's skills have
forced Michigan to make several changes
to their game plan to adapt.
"If you blitz all the time and expose
yourself to one-on-ones ... that's a dan-
gerous combination," Rodriguez said. "I
don't know if you can confuse (Chappell)
because he is a veteran guy and they have
a veteran staff ... They have ways of really
protecting him in their offense."

As for the pistol offense the Hoosiers
employ - one-of-a-kind in the Big Ten
- Rodriguez isn't concerned with its
uniqueness.
"It's a system, it's the same as any
offense," Rodriguez said. "If they execute
it well, they're goingto get their moments.
They're goingto have plays where they get
you."
Robinson, who was deemed OK to play
after suffering a minor injury last week,
could play an even more prominent role
in the run game as Michigan will play
without running backs Michael Shaw
and Fitzgerald Toussaint, leaving Robin-
son, Vincent Smith, Stephen Hopkins and
Mike Cox to carry the load in the team's
running-by-committee system.
Regardless of the matchups, the Wolver-
ines are eager to move one step closer to
proving that this year's 4-0 start is differ-
ent than last year's, when they closed out
the season losing seven out of eight games.
And in a Big Ten opener, Rodriguez
said that his team knows the importance
of this week's matchup in terms of the rest
of the season. Of course, the team's 3-13
record in-conference - with just a single
Big Ten road win - should be motivation
enough as the Wolverines head to Bloom-
ington on Saturday.
"It needs to crank up even another
notch, going into Big Ten play," Rodriguez
said. "They understand how important all
of these Big Ten games are."

Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson leads the NCAA in rushing yards
season. The Hoosiers have the second-worst rush defense in the Big Ten.


STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their
best to predict what happens
in the 2010 football season.

Nicole
Auerbach

ArM sr

Ryan M.
Kartje

'f,

Guest Picker:
Chris Armstrong
MSA President

Tim
Rohan

Joe
Stapleton

.:



No.19 Michigan (-10.5) at Indiana
No.1 Alabama (-7) vs. Florida
No. 2 Ohio State (-20) at Illinois
No. 3 Boise State (-37) at New Mexico St.
No. 4 Oregon (-4) vs. No.9 Stanford
No. 5 TCU (-30) at Colorado St.
No.8 Oklahoma (-4) vs. No. 21 Texas
No.10 Auburn (-30) vs. LA Monroe
No.11 Wisconsin at No. 24 Michigan State
No.12 Louisiana St. (-16) vs. Tennessee
No.16 Miami (Fla.) (-3) at Clemson
No.17 Iowa (-7) vs. No. 22 Penn St.
No.18 USC (-11.5) vs. Washington
No. 23 North Carolina St. (+3) vs. Virginia Tech
No, 25 Nevada (-21) at UNLV
Northwestern (-4) at Minnesota
Overall record (through Week Four)

Indiana
Alabama
Ohio State
Boise State
Oregon
Colorado St.
Texas
Auburn
Michigan State
Louisiana St.
Miami (Fla.)
Iowa
USC
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Minnesota
45-29-2

Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
New Mexico St.
Oregon
TCU
Oklahoma
Auburn
Wisconsin
Tennessee
Miami (Fla.)
Iowa
USC
North Carolina St.
Nevada
Northwestern
45-29-2

Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
Boise State
Oregon
Colorado St.
Oklahoma
Auburn
Wisconsin
Tennessee
Miami (Fla.)
Iowa
USC
Virginia Tech
UNLV
Northwestern
40-34-2

Indiana
Alabama
Ohio State
Boise State
Stanford
Colorado St.
Oklahoma
Auburn
Michigan State
Louisiana St.
Miami (Fla.)
Iowa
USC
North Carolina St.
UNLV
Northwestern
46-28-2

Michigan
Alabama
Ohio State
Boise State
Stanford
TCU
Texas
Auburn
Wisconsin
Louisiana St.
Miami (Fla.)
Iowa
USC
Virginia Tech
Nevada
Northwestern
16-7-2


RECENTLY REMODELED DOU-
BLE ROOM sharing lonas a common
area with other tenants. 2 full baths,
kitchen, air, downtown location. Phone
days: 662-7888, evenings: 995-2433.

PARKING
PARKING @ 930 S. Forest and 408
Hill. 734-222-9033. JMSprop.com
PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

RELEASE DATE- Friday, October 1,2010
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Old-fashioned 39 Reached across 46 Clopper
1 Aloe target "Way to go!" 40 Powwow 48 Former RFK
5Indian roal 05lWheel parts communication Stadtium NLer
9Treat meanly 6 Paul's"Exodus" snure 49 Mill inputs
141990s Capes rml 42 Dismissal, awl a 5x Ballet rail
manager 7 With 56-Down, hint to how the 51 Fire indicator,
15 Approach shot eponymous answers to perhaps
club bacteriologist starred clues 52 Green shade
16 "Platoon" co-star 8 Saxon opening were derived 56 See 7-Down
17 Bubbles 9 Star Wars letters 43 Traveled from 58 Old cryof
18 *Ancient Chinese 10 Witchy woman point A to point A? disgust
ote occupant? 11 Lackn gumption 44 Analysts' 59 Ruse to ic
20 Tasselec totppems 12 Under-the-table concerns 80 Prez, taols
22 Happy houraorder diversion
23 Panhurto 13 Article of faith ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
24 Bit of dental work 19 Keystone State
25*Observation after founder B R O T H B A C H A G A S
a Bush walk? 21 It maybe evil R E T R O A D U E C O L A
28 "Holdonr 25"The Optimist's A S H E R R 0 I N H 0 0D
30 Japanese- Daughter'writer S N E E R S L I N A D U N
American321OGnerix Dpnh A R D IN A L SEA E
31tif -o.nly 27"uthourieaen O P S F EN TEASET S
lisened!" athrDiee
32Shade sources 29 Good name, M I A T A O A T S
35 Florida's City 33 He aid Le C H I C K E N N O O D LE
38*Nickname for a ram the mass S H E L N A D I A
s3-so Navy endthenteaeh T E R E N C E M I L P S A
officer? them" I S E E A G L E SCOUT S
39 Lead player 34 Commonnsense? C H I E L O I T OR E A T
41 Even Napoleon 36 Atkinsdiet no-no K I T E T A I L S L A N 0 E
haedhis 37Gasbrandseen E R I N I S L A O T T E R
Wateg ee tampm stores R ES T S TIEP R E E DS7
speaker 38 Peeples of
42 followers? "Fame" xwordeditor@aol.com 9/30/10
45Stoop 1 2 3 4 5 6 6 7 9 10 11 1213
47 Dry cleaner's
50 Habitually drunk
panda? 17 1s 13
53 Sheikdom of song
54 Carpenter_ 20 21 22 z
55 Exxon Valdez 2 w 27
cargo
56"All in the 23 39 so
Family" family
name 31 42 33 34 33
57*K enyan health
care worker? 37 38
81MGenesis brother 4 41 42aas
82 Manyea dunce
clubtune 4 4 47 48 49
63 Fiendish
64The old you s3 51 52 53
65 'H0stflop
88Outer's 54 s
fingerboard ,,7 ,,6,,9 6 ,,6
67 Repairs, as a
green 6263 64
DOWN 3 666 37
1 Picaresque
2 Prnpertyrecipient BsyScottoAtkinso" 10/01/10
3 Drunk, in slang (c)2010tribune Media Services,I nc.

FOR RENT
** AVAILABLE FALL 2011**
945 GREENWOOD 5 bdrm/2 new
bath, new kitchen, 5 prkg, lndry,
hardwd floors, 734-834-4010.
AARDVARKS AND WOLVER-
INES! Your attention please!
Campus Management, Inc. invites you
to visit www.CampusMgt.com, the best
local website for the best selection of
apartments and hoases. We specialize
in houses and apartments very close to
central campus. Lots of 2 bedroom
apts. and smaller available too! All are
atractively priced, most include park-
ing, many are furnished and same in-
clude utilities. Contact us by phone to
schedule a personal showing with our
rental agent. Ask for Pat. 663-4101.
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS - Reserve now
for 2011 (Spring or Fall). U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space for 2011 today with no
lease obligation. 2 blocks from Central
Campus and downtown. 1 to 4 bed-
room, private baths avail. Rates from
$660. 734-9984400 www.-
4elevenlofts.com
1 NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!* NOW LEASING FOR 2011 *!
www.carlsonproperties.com
734-332-6000.
Lots of Amenities!
Choose from a quiet setting
with outdoor recreation areas, a
naturally wooded green space, or
a sparkling river view.
Spacious I & 2 bdrm apts. with
balconies or patios.
Walk-in closets. Free storage.
On-site laundry. Swimming pool.
Pet friendly!
VofM Diseounts!
0 0 S S

5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2011
WWW.COpiprOperties.COm
734-663-5609
!!Beautiful Large Homes!!
7, 10 and 12 bedroom homes near
campus, free parking, free laundry,
central air, 734 663-1370, May leases
nancylat@umich.edu
www.nancylat.com
!!CLASSY 7-BR/3-BA HOME Great
Location! Remodeled! Fireplace/cool
kitch. Must see! $3950 (313) 215-8115.
!**FALL 2011**! 5 to 9 bdrm.
houses. Keysmanagement.net
2-9 BR Renovated Houses/Apts for
May '11. New furniture! 248-804-
0774 www.ChurchStreetApts.com
APTS, SUBLETS, & RMS. List and
Browse FREE! All Cities & Areas.877-
367-7368 http://www.sublet.com
AVAILABLE FALL '11 5 bedroom
2 bath houses call 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@y ahoo.com,
www.joycea2.com
MAY TO MAY NO-MONEY-
DOWN-LEASES. Luxury 3, 4, 5
bdrm. apts. avail at the corner of Hill
& S. Forest.aCall for details: 734-665-
8825. http://www.campusrealty.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
SERVICES
EDITING SERVICES - All disci-
plines and formats. Reasonable rates.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
TUTOR NEEDED FOR high school
student. 1 or 2 nights/week. $20/hr.
Must have car. Subjects: Algebra II,
Chemistry; Spanish would be desirable.
Contact P. Yaeger at 734 663 2799.
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
CARSON'S AMERICAN BISTRO is
now hiring experienced serven. Must
have lanch availability. Pleene apply
daily after 2:00pm at 2000 Common-
wealth Blvd.

ATTRACTIVE GIRLS FOR semi-
nude, Victoria's S type lingerie photog-
raphy. Flex hrs, great pay starting at
$40/hr + oultfis. Must he 18. For inter-
view call: 734-671-4181 or email photo
to: georgedl@provide.net
BARTENDERS NEEDED EARN
$250/day no experience required will
train full time/part time call now! 877-
405-1078 ex. 999
BE A STUDENT FUNDRAISER.
Start your career now - $9.25+/hr @
Michigan Telefund. On campus, flexi-
ble hrs. Students, apply @
telefund.umich.edu or 763.4400.
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads placed on
them. www.AdCarDriver.com
EXTRAS NEEDED TO stand in back-
ground for a major film production.
Earn up to $200/day. Experience not re-
quired. All Looks! Call 877-450-0722.
WE ARE SEEKING DYNAMIC
REP CUSTOMER SERVICE ORI-
ENTED INDIVIDUALS WITH
GREAT COMMUNICATIONS AND
TYPING SKILLS NEEDED TO
WQRK ON BEHALF OF COMPANY
THIS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
WILL EARN UP TO $2000
MONTHLY ANY JOB EXPERIENCE
NEEDED.EMAIL AT ivan-
bartl01@hotmail.com IF INTER-
ESTED.
MANAGEMENT OF LABORA-
TORY operations, including the super-
vision, training and mentoring of under-
graduate students and lab members. As-
sist in the management of research
project(s) directed at lipid biochem-
istry. Provide expertise in biophysical
chemistry with preferred expertise us-
ing mass spectrometry, chemical syn-
thesis, chromatography and microbiol-
ogy techniques. Bachelor's degree in
biochemistry or related field, plus four
years of related experience in a bio-
chemistry laboratory setting required.
In-depth biochemical expenimentation
laboratory knowledge essential. Prefer
(1) Master's degree in biochemistry or
related field; (2) extensive lab manage-
ment skills; (3) experience with mam-
malian cell culture techniques; and (4)
experience using mnass spectrometry,
chemical synthesis, chromatography,
and microbiology techniques. View
requisition 100472 at https://employ-
ment.unl.edu for qualifications, details
and to apply. Review of applicants be-
gins Aug 11. UNL is committed toa
pluralistic campus community through
affirmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
NEED TALENTED WRITER for
true story email kentk6l@yahoo.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

ANN ARBOR COUPLE seeks respon-
sible, non-smoking student for driving
and after school child care. Two chil-
dren, 8 year old daughter and 11 year
old son. Must have own car and excel-
lent driving record. Flexible times, but
specifically Tuesday and Friday after-
noons. $13/hour plus mileage.
Stephanie - hailsteph@aol.com or
248.910.0951
NANNY NEEDED M,W and F for 9
month old girl. Non-smoker, reliable
transportation and references required.
Must be fun, caring, creative and mature,
grad student preferred. Contact zim-
mere@sultne k12.mt us
AD
VE
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

1*I

0
"


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 1, 2010 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 1, 2010 - 7

A 'Social' sensation

An examination of e-love

While controversal,
this storytelling risk
pays off for Sorkin
By ANKUR SOHONI
Daily Arts Writer
If you considered a movie about
the creators of Facebook an awk-
ward and likely
unsuccessful
prospect, you
weren't alone. The Social
The controver-
sies surrounding Netwk
the inception At Quality 16
of Facebook are and Rave
well docu- a
mented, and it's Columbia
rare that such a
contemporary character profile
works as both a bold, true portrait
and as an entertaining film.
"The Social Network" is that
rarity. Inherently - and legally -
the film must be a careful depic-
tion of recent and true events, and
it succeeds brilliantly. While based
on a true story, artistic liberties
were taken when necessary.
The center of the film is Mark
Zuckerberg (Jesse Eisenberg,
"Zombieland"), the now well
known billionaire founder of
Facebook. The story starts back
in his college days at Harvard,
where he's dumped by his girl-
friend and retaliates by blogging
about it. Then, in a single night,
he programs a Harvard "hot or
not" imitation site called "Face-
Mash," generating 22,000 hits
in two hours and singlehandedly
taking down the internet access
on campus.
Early on, it's clear how brilliant
and yet relationally inept Zuck-
erberg is. The more ambitious he
becomes with his social network-
ing plans, and the more successful
he is, the more the audience must
sit painfully through his fail-
ures in friendship and watch him

By ANDREW LAPIN
Senior Arts Editor
"Catfish" is ostensibly a movie
about a New York photographer
who tries to
uncover the truth
behind a girl he
meets over the Wish
Internet, but
the film is really At the State
about the nature Universal
of imitation.
There's a Google
Earth-inspired riff on the classic
Universal logo at the movie's out-
set, and from there nearly every
element of the documentary feels
like it was artificially constructed
from loose blueprints of real human
experience. But here, that's a com-
pliment. "Catfish" is a movie of our
times precisely because it shows us
how fake many aspects of our lives
really are.
The film'sprotagonist Nev Schul-
man gets roped into the world of
an Ishpeming, Michigan family
when an immensely talented eight-

year-old artist named Abby sends
him her own painted depictions of
photographs he's published. over
a montage of their correspondence
we hear a cover version of the Beach
Boys' "Good Vibrations" sung by a
children's choir - like the paintings
themselves, it's a clever and skilled
replication of an already-existing
work of art. Nev also begins talk-
ing to Abby's family, including her
half-sister Megan, who quickly falls
in online lust with him. Megan is a
self-professed musician too, though
the "original" songs she sends Nev
should tell you all you need to know
about the deceptive role she's play-
ing in all of this.
It used to be common knowledge
that online impersonators were
trying to elicit something illegiti-
mate out of their efforts: a financial
scheme, say, or underage sex like
everyone on "To Catch a Predator."
In "Catfish," the means are also the
ends: The thrill of communicating
vicariouslythrough invented perso-
nas is in itself a reward.
In the second half of the film,

Nev, along with co-directors Henry
Joost and brother Ariel Schul-
man, heads out on a road trip with
the goal of showing up on Megan's
doorstep unannounced and finally
getting to the bottom of who she
is. Both the structure of "Catfish"
and its marketing materials high-
light a secretive twist ending, but
Real or fake,
'Catfish' says a
lot about us.
in doing so the people behind the
film have wrongly constructed a
selling point based around trickery
and deception. Twists are meant for
audience-goosing stories that place
all their stakes on a big reveal, and
that's simply not what the narrative
of "Catfish" demands. Rather, the
true nature of the movie lies in what
See CATFISH, Page 8

"I would totally poke that."
quickly gather enemies, both legal
and personal.
All the while, we witness the
ironic creation of The Facebook
and the beginning of the social
revolution every college student
in the world has experienced in
some capacity. We watch its rapid
expansion across the world, and
its subsequent evolution from net-
working site to social institution.
"The Social Network" hits a
current college environment full
of Facebook veterans accustomed
to the complex, app-filled Face-
book with "Like" buttons and
news feeds. Watching Zuckerberg
discover the idea for "the Rela-
tionship Status" and discuss the
idea for "the Wall" is made surre-
al by a palpable sense of dramatic
irony in the theater. The chorus
of viewers snicker collectively at
how real this movie-going experi-
ence truly is.
Aaron Sorkin, one of the most
revered writers in the business,
puts on an absolute clinic. "The
Social Network" is just as much
proof of his brilliance as "A Few
Good Men" and TV's "The West

Wing." With his ample research,
he handles Zuckerberg's technical
terminology with ease. Maintain-
ing his characteristically rapid
and sharp dialogue, he conquers
the greatest challenge of the film
with tact and yet dares to fully
explore controversy.
Jesse Eisenberg is the ben-
eficiary of a well written main
character, but his performance
adds a boyish, sensitive charm
to the role. His character is more
Eisenberg than it is the real Mark
Zuckerberg, but he executes
his script with fine attention to
detail.
David Fincher ("Fight Club")
uses appropriate stylistic ele-
ments - montage and tightly
bound editing - to keep the mise-
en-scene young, fresh and far
livelier than the average based-
on-true-events movie, appealing
to the generation most familiar
with Facebook.
He and Sorkin together handle
the film's flashback/flash-forward
structure in expert fashion. The
film depicts a pivotal meeting
See SOCIAL NETWORK, Page 8

Despite going gray,
BSS still rocks on

ByKRISTYN ACHO
Daily Music Editor
Broken Social Scene drummer
Justin Peroff has some explaining
to do.
Last April, Bwkn
eager fans of the
15-plus Toronto Social SCee
pack were left Tonight at
dissatisfied and 730 p.m.
understandably
a bit bitter when Michigan Theater
the BSS show at Ticketsfrom $24
The Michigan
Theater was abruptly canceled.
Fans became even more frustrat-
ed when rumors circulated that
the cancelation was due to the
vague excuse of "illness."
Inlight of the recentlyresched-
uled show presented by Universi-
ty Union Arts and Programs, The
Michigan Daily spoke with Per-
off about the reasons behind the
bail and where the band stands
eight years after their critically
acclaimed release You Forget It In
People.
"I was actually sick. So that's
a legitimate thing. In our entire
career, standing close to ten years
now, we've only ever canceled
two shows and they were both
due to actual legitimate illness-
es," Peroff said.
There was speculation that
2006's Ann Arbor show would be
BSS's last show ever. But again,
Peroff set the record straight.
"I think perhaps what might
have happened through the clas-
sic game of broken telephone is
that we wanted to take some time
off. It was our last show before
taking a one-year hiatus essen-
tially where we just wanted to
recharge.
"I guess we finally decided to
grow up and get our shit together,
and it's working out OK." Peroff
said.
Peroff elaborates, explaining
that the band needed time to just
be nornial.
"We didn't want to end up hat-
ing each other or what we do ...
so we decided to stay home for a

while,"
marries
has kid
cally s
those b
have tc
ship w
decided
with fa
in thei
your w
ing."
With
it In P
the mo
the dec
he feels
such at
"It c
person
wrecki
was be
people
air. It w
lot of p.
the ban
Think3
an aud
An
the
C
story of
This
to do v
Social1
made u
"We
who fo
decided
not ant
pen aft:
Altha
is a col
membe
stayed
band to
"Asf
a tourii
refined
bandsli
have cl

he said. "Some of us are bands and we're proud of watch-
d and Charlie (Spearin) ing their successes grow ... so
is, so we wanted to basi- really there's a core membership."
ave various relationships, This core membership includes
eing the relationship we Kevin Drew, Brendan Canning,
ogether and the relation- Sam Goldberg, Lisa Lobsinger,
e have at home. So we Andrew Whiteman and Charles
Ito take 2007 to reconnect Spearin, and while Peroff can't
mily life and, to wake up confirm any new members of the
morning at home and hug band, he did have some light to
ife. It's kind of a nice feel- shed regarding recording another
album.
the 2002 release of Forget "As far as BSS making music
eople, BSS became one of until we're old and gray - some
st celebrated indie bands of of us are already getting there.
ade. Peroff explains why I mean I've got some gray goin'
the record resonates with on in my head. But if it all ends
wide audience. tomorrow I would be satisfied. I
ame at a time that we never anticipated making music
ally felt that there was a this good for this long. So I'm
in the type of music that already satisfied. In 10 years I'll
ing created. And a lot of be ecstatic."
saw it as a breath of fresh Broken Social Scene has been
was something unique to a busy touring since September to
eople and the story behind promote their latest album For-
d was strange and cool. I giveness Rock Recordreleased last
You Forget It In People was May.
ible version of what the "We got to play some shows
with The Wooden Birds and now
we've got The Sea and Cake with
us. We've all had some good times
apology for and we're all in good company."
And it seems as though their
April concert latest tracks are being well
-ancelation. received, including the latest
hauntingly trippy track, "Chase
Scene."
"People are really taking a
f Broken Social Scene is." shining to the new songs both
strange coolness may have on record and in a live setting.
with the fact that Broken We've most recently been playing
Scene is essentially a band 'Chase Scene' live which has been
p of other bands. a bit challenging, but the payoff
were a music community has been really satisfying - just
und each other and just getting through it and getting a
Ito make music as a whole, response. That's been a blast."
icipating what would hap- Peroff is to still nostalgic for
:erwards," Peroff said. tracks on widely adored album
ough Broken Social Scene Forget it In People and he plans to
lection of artists, the core continue playing them before he's
rship of the band has over-the-hill.
together, allowing the "We try to keep it to a 50-50
play exciting live shows. split. I can't even believe You For-
far as keeping it alive as get It In People is going to be eight
ng thing, we sort of have years old this year. It'll be nice to
it because our friends in play the album before we're old
ike Metric and Lesley Fiest and gray and our kids are all in
early established their own high school."

LET'S SPLIT UP, GANG! YOU TWO JOIN DAILY ARTS!
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for information on applying.
It 4-


8 - Friday, October 1, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Friday, October 1, 2010 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

FROM LEFT: Jesse Eisenberg (Marissa McClain/Daily); Jesse Eisenberg and Andrew Garfield in "The Social Network" (Courtesy of Columbia); Aaron Sorkin (Marissa McClain/Daily)
FACEBOOK IN FILM

SOCIAL NETWORK
From Page 7
between Facebook co-creators
Zuckerberg and Eduardo Saverin
(Andrew Garfield, "The Imagi-
narium of Doctor Parnassus")
and Napster creator Sean Parker
(Justin Timberlake). At the same
time it intercuts with a scene a few
years later, in which Zuckerberg
and Saverin sit across the table in
court, opposite sides in a civil suit.
While not a revolutionary film-
making style, it's cleaner and more
fruitful study than any similarly
structured contemporary film.
Fincher and Sorkin dare to chal-
lenge your attention, and as a
result, they score the big reward.
Narratively, though, the film
suffers slightly from a sense of
self-importance. When all is said
and done, the film never brings
to full light the true weight of its
own story, but rests on the viewing
experience as evidence enough.
Beneath the filmmakers' narra-

tive tools lies a somewhat unful-
filling message. Comparisons to a
similar hurt-by-his-own-ambition
protagonist in "Citizen Kane" only
partially work: Mark Zuckerberg
is still alive, but also still among
the most successful people of his
generation and the youngest bil-
lionaire in the world. His failures,
while personally unfortunate,
didn't lead to his downfall. The
film leaves creating an inconclu-
sive, bitter opinion of Facebook's
true creation.
"The Social Network" will
undoubtedly stimulate debate
for months to come. Those who
use Facebook to laud or criti-
cize the film should realize their
analyses of "The Social Network"
indirectly continues its story.
But given the conflicted nature
surrounding audiences as they
step through the film and out of
the theater, it seems that Sorkin,
Fincher and company have pulled
off an impressive feat - showing
a contentious set of circumstanc-
es in a fair light, while still enter-
taining from start to finish.

Networking with the stars

Sorkin, Eisenberg
and Hammer discuss
the Facebook film
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Senior Arts Editor
"I wasn't on Facebook. I had
heard of Facebook the way I had
heard of a carburetor," playwright
and screenwriter Aaron Sorkin said
in an interview in the Daily's offices
last month. "I can't pop open the
hood of my car and point to it and
tell you what it does."
Despite his lack of familiarity
with the popular social networking
site, Sorkin - whose works include
"A Few Good Men" and the Emmy-
winning TV series "The West
Wing" - never hesitated in signing
on to write "The Social Network,"
a film about Facebook's improbable


Ford
School

and tumultuous beginnings, out in
theaters today in tandem with Ben
Mezrich's book "The Accidental
Billionaires."
"Here's what happened: I got
sent a 14-page book proposal that
Ben Mezrich had written for his
publisher. And the publisher was
trying to shop it around for a film
sale and so that's how it got into my
hands. I think I was on page three
when I said yes to this. It was the
fastest that I've ever said yes to any-
thing," Sorkin explained.
Actor Jesse Eisenberg, who plays
Facebook founder Mark Zucker-
berg, was just as new to the online
craze as Sorkin.
"Prior to shooting, I had a cyni-
cal attitude toward it," Eisenberg
explained. "I think also, as an actor,
I value my privacy a little more ...
maybe I have a greater sensitivity
toward putting information about
myself online, because sometimes
people write stuff about me online
and it's so mean-spirited and I don't
want to be involved in that."
Once Sorkin had accepted the
project, which would become "The
Social Network," and landed David
Fincher ("Fight Club") as director,
he and Mezrich began figuring out
what exactly the whole Facebook
phenomenon is about. And he had a
lot to learn, since the site wasn't his
motivation to take on the project.
"What attracted me to itwas that
the themes in this story are as old as
storytelling itself," Sorkin said. "of
friendship, and loyalty, and betray-
al, jealousy, power, class - these
are things that Aeschylus was writ-
ing about, that Shakespeare was
writing about. Paddy Chayefsky
would've written this story. Luck-
ily for me, none of those guys were
available soI got to write it."
Sorkin was captivated by the
lawsuits brought against Face-
book founder Mark Zuckerberg
and decided to center "The Social
Network" on the company's legal
struggles. Zuckerberg was being
sued by his co-founder Eduardo
Saverin for allegedly cheating him
out of company ownership and
by Divya Narendra, Cameron and
Tyler Winklevoss at roughly the
same time for allegedly stealing
their idea. From these lawsuits,
three different stories of Face-
book's founding emerged.
"I decided that I was goingto tell
the story of how there are three dif-
ferent versions of the truth and get
a 'Rashomon' effect," Sorkin said.
"In other words, embrace the fact
that no two people are telling the
same story here."
However, when stories of loyalty,
betrayal, jealousy, power and class
are based off true events and real
people, they're typically met with
some degree of controversy. Sorkin
is aware some might not appreciate
the film.
"I don't think anyone would like
a movie made about the things they
did when they were 19 years old,"
he said.

"I'm sure that Mark and Face-
book would prefer that I only tell
the story from Mark's point of view,
but I'm telling it from Mark's point
of view and the point of view of
the people who were suing Mark,"
Sorkin said. "Facebook's beef isn't
with the movie, it's with the testi-
mony given from the people who
sued him. I hope controversy isn't
the reason why people buy a ticket.
I hope it's because they heard it was
good."
Some would argue that after see-
ing the movie, they got a glimpse of
a more compassionate Zuckerberg.
"My job for the six-month shoot,
every day, was to defend Mark
Zuckerberg and my character,
because you can't act in a scene if
you can't defend the character's
behavior," Eisenberg said. "So I
don't feel like he's acting in a way
that's mean-spirited or malicious.
I think he's coming from a place of
loneliness and feeling threatened."
The fact that Zuckerberg isn't
always portrayed in the most posi-
tive light was actually a relief for
Eisenberg. Despite his history of
playing well-meaning nice guys
(including lead roles in "Adventure-
land" and "Zombieland"), he said he
welcomed the change, as he found
it easier to play a rougher character.
"It's much, much, much less dif-
ficult," Eisenberg said of his role
in the film. "Because everything
in a movie is really contrived, and
so to act like myself in all those
other movies ... It's more difficult
because the characters are similar
to me, my gauge for authenticity
is so high. Like, I'm so much more
critical of myself because I know if
something's off. It's so much more
obvious to me."
To prepare for the role, Eisen-
berg watched videos of Zuckerberg,
took fencing lessons (even though
Zuckerberg - a known fencer - is
never seen fencing in the film) and
even attempted to learn some basic
programming. However, despite
all the research, neither Sorkin
nor Eisenberg has ever met the
Facebook founder. In fact, if Eisen-
berg eventually does meet the man
whose life he studied, it's likely to
be through a mutual acquaintance.
"When I read the script, I asked
my cousin for some help, because
my cousin is a computer program-
mer," Eisenberg said. "Then a
month before the movie ended,
he told me he had an interview at
Facebook and eventually got agreat
job at Facebook. And the first week
he was there, Mark Zuckerberg
came up to him at a party and said,
'I think your cousin is playing me in
a movie.' My cousin was a little ner-
vous, but then Mark said 'I think
that's really cool.'"
In remaining distant from their
real-life counterparts, the cast was
able to stay true to Sorkin's char-
acters and avoid impression-based
acting. Still, Armie Hammer, who
plays both Cameron and Tyler Win-
klevoss with the aid of body double

Josh Pence, did enjoy the fortune of
meeting the real Winklevoss twins,
the Olympic rowers who sued Zuck-
erberg for stealing their idea of an
exclusive social network.
"It was weird. It was really
weird," Hammer said. "We had
a totally different reaction than
they had. When I met them I was
like, 'Guys! It's so good to see you!
When you were 15, you remember
when your dad told you that and
your mom was like, 'No,' and then
you started rowing?' And they were
like, 'We just met you and you're
freakingus out."'
Both Eisenberg and Hammer
credit Sorkin for writing great dia-
logue that made it easy to perform,
even though Sorkin is known for
his incredibly fast pace.
"If you were given bad dialogue,
and you had to make it move at that
speed, it'd bethehardest thinginthe
world to do," Hammer explained.
"But because the dialogue is so well
written and so thought-out, it just
flows. It would be just like you and
I having a normal conversation. You
do the scene three or four times and
then all of a sudden, you don't have
to think about your lines, it just
flows. It's really cool."
For Sorkin, knowing his cast
would be so young made sitting
down to write the first scene a little
daunting.
"It is the youngest group of char-
acters I've ever written about,"
Sorkin explained. "And when I was
ready to write after months and
months of research and months
and months of just kind of pacing
around, climbing the walls, trying
to think of what it was I was going
to write, the day came when I knew
what the opening scene was and it
was time to write it, to actually type
it. And I thought, well, I'm going to
have to make them sound 19, and
what are sort of hip 2003 words?
And it was a disaster. I just stopped
doing that and I said, to hell with
them being 19, you're just going to
have to write in your own voice -
just write the way you write and it
all went smoothly from there."
With "The Social Network"
opening today, the movie will likely
leave audiences wondering how
much and which parts of the story
were real, while Facebook insiders
scrutinize the film for inaccura-
cies and imperfections. Still, Sorkin
emphasizes the right to creative
license when adapting real-life
events to the big-screen and hopes
the public will enjoy the film as a
workof art, not a documentary.
"If you take facts - facts that
aren't in dispute about Mark - and
you kind of use them as dots and
start connecting the dots, what's
in here, what's between the dots,
is character," Sorkin said. "I would
encourage people when they go
into a movie and it begins with
the words, 'the following is based
on a true story,' (to) look at it the
way you look at a painting and not
a photograph."

INFORMATION SESSION
Ford School B.A. Program
Tuesday, October 5TH
6pm-7pm, Weill Hall
Betty Ford Classroom, 1110
We invite you to attend our upcoming
information session about the Ford B.A.
If you are interested in learning more
about the undergraduate program at
the Ford School, we encourage you to
attend this information session. Light
refreshments will be provided.
.................. .......................... . .....................
www.fordschool. umich.edu/undergrad


CATFISH
From Page 7
Joost and Schulman uncover after
the twist: a strange, sad and com-
plex meditation on the loneliness of
the modern human condition.
"Catfish" is being released as
a documentary. Joost and Schul-
man have insisted many times that
everything in the movie is real. And
yet anyone paying attention will
have several unanswered questions
by the film's en, which serve to cast

doubt on its authenticity (a recur-
ring theme at the movies these days,
thanks to the likes of "Exit Through
the Gift Shop" and "I'm Still Here").
Is "Catfish" a true documentary
about people who construct imita-
tions of lives on their computers,
or is it a constructed imitation of a
documentary that only shows cer-
tain information to its audience
while withholding other things, like
a Facebook profile page?
Maybe the movie actually says
more about our times. If it is fake,
"Catfish" already serves as a docu-
menj of construction, deception

and acceptance of that deception.
Taking away the last "true" thing
about it makes the film even more
indicative of these themes.
Visitors to the movie's official
website have the opportunity to
simulate Nev as he chats with
Megan online, meaning that they
can pretend to be an imitation of
someone who is simulating a con-
versation with a fake person. "Cat-
fish" detractors might view the
experience as completely inane and
devoid of real-world meaning. To
others, it's just the next logical step
in our lives.

' __ _


