Why the federal government needs to step in and stop the migration of Asian carp into the Great Lakes. )) PAGE 4A

L '''D I fL C D The everyday struggles of
1 I those with invisible disab ities.- SEE THE
~be fiidiian 0i~

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, January 20, 2010

TIP-CUP FOR A CAUSE

michigandaily.com
THE FUTURE OF HIGHER EDUCATION
'U' official
surprised'
by study's
results

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Evan Doering, a trainee at Comet Coffee in Nickels Arcade, hands coffee to a customer yesterday. The coffee shop was collecting money on Monday and Tuesday to send to
Doctors Without Borders to aid the relief efforts in Haiti. The country was ravaged by a 7.0-magnitude earthquake last week.

CITY SERVICES
Firefighters take o

Contract passed
at last night's City
Council meeting
postpones layoffs
By DEBJANI MUKHERJEE
For the Daily
In an effort to cope with the city's
mounting budget deficit, Ann Arbor
* firefighters will take a four percent
wage reduction, according to their
new contract, which was passed at
last night's Ann Arbor City Council

meeting.
City Council and the Ann Arbor
firefighter station - Firefighters
Local 693 - came to an agreement
on the contract last Wednesday,
after weeks of negotiations. The
new contract, which had previously
been ratified bythe Ann Arbor Fire-
fighters Union, is effective through
June 30, 2010.
Though the contract guarantees
that there won't be any layoffs dur-
ing the period covered by the con-
tract, the pay cuts didn't escape
criticism from the union.
"We cannot take any more pay
cuts," Matt Schroeder, president of

the Ann Arbor Firefighters Union
told The MichiganDailyin aninter-
view last week, after the agreement
was reached.
The contract also includes a
1-percent increase in employee pen-
sion contributions and a)50 percent
reduction in the city's contribution
to employee health care reimburse-
ment accounts.
The union membership has
asked the City Council to also take a
pay cut, and in response, Ann Arbor
Mayor John Hieftje wrote a check
to the city for 3 percent of his sal-
ary of $42,432. Many City Council
members followed his lead, offer-

P aycut
ing to write checks for the same
amount or less. Three percent of
each City Council member's salary
amounts to about $450.
"I think we need to respect what
the fire department has done,"
Hieftje said at last night's meeting.
Though the city's firefighters
received a cut in their salaries, they
were able to maintain their current
health benefits.
City Administrator Roger Fraser
said he was disappointed the fire-
fighters union wasn't willing to
accept reductions in its health
insurance packages,as other unions
See CONTRACT, Page 7A

Findings showed
that the University
was failing in
its public mission
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Lester Monts, senior vice pro-
vost for academic affairs, said he
was "surprised" to see the Uni-
versity ranked near the bottom of
a recent report assessing the level
of access public universities offer
to underrepresented minority
students.
Monts, said he was taken aback
by the results of a study released
late last week by The Education
Trust. The report, called "Oppor-
tunity Adrift," rated one public
school in each of the 50 states in
terms of access for underrepre-
sented minority and low-income
students, and compared changes
in the figures from the 2004-2005
to 2007-2008 school years. The
study also reported on the suc-
cess of those students in attaining
their diplomas throughout these
time periods.
The study found that flagship
universities have, for the most
part, recently given more finan-

cial aid to more affluent students
while neglecting to give aid to
students in need. The report
explicitly mentioned that the
University of Michigan ranked
near the bottom in all categories.
Monts said he was surprised by
the results of the report, especial-
ly given the University's typically
high ranking in similar studies.
Monts added that the College
Board - the Board of Trustees of
which Monts was the chair from
2006-2008 - gave the University
a relatively high ranking ina sim-
ilar survey.
"The University of Michigan is
usually at the top of these nation-
al surveys and assessments," he
said. "I was frankly surprised to
see that we were characterized in
that manner. I think we can put
forth evidence to say we actually
do go to great lengths to recruit
and retain underrepresented
minorities."
"The University of Michigan
stands tall in terms of its commit-
ment to diversity, not only racial
and ethnic diversity, but socio-
economic diversity as well," he
continued.
According to the study, the
University is one of six flagship
public schools nationwide whose
composite rating of low-income
See REPORT, Page 7A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY t
MSA, WOLV-TV scratch plan e
tttk Tyvek
to broadcast weekly meetings~,g

Station says it
doesn't have enough
manpower to
film, edit footage
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
After more than a dozen hours
of editing film from last week's
Michigan Student Assembly meet-
ing, WOLV-TV staffers realized the

broadcast would never appear on
television.
At the beginning of this semes-
ter, WOLV-TV agreed to broadcast
MSA's weekly meetings. As part of
the agreement LSA junior Matthew
Dupree and LSA senior Angela Sul-
tani - students who work for the
television station - filmed each
MSA representative that spoke at
the meeting.
But after 15 arduous hours of
editing the footage, Dupree said
WOLV-TV realized it didn't have
enough cameras or manpower to

participate in the project.
"We want to put outa public ser-
vice, but we have limited resources
and personnel, and it was really
getting difficult," Dupree said.
Ifthe projecthadgone as planned,
MSA Chambers would have been
equipped with two cameras and
two cameramen that would film
each meeting. Immediately follow-
ing the meetings, WOLV-TV would
have broadcast the meetings online
and played the broadcast on Chan-
nel 55 every day of the week after
See MSA, Page 7A

CAMPUS RADIO
Student-run radio station looks to expand

JAKE FROMM/Daly
The entrance of the Delta Upsilon fratnerity house. The house is undergoing renovations after it was gutted by a fire last summer.
Delta U.house gutted
by fire to be restored

WCBN needs more
funding before it can
take advantage of
FCC permission
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Tucked away in the basement
of the Student Activities Building,
WCBN - the University's student-
run radio station - is hoping to
bring its programming to a wider
range of listeners.

The Federal Communications
Commission gave the station per-
mission last month to increase
its wavelength from 200 watts to
3,000 watts. But in order to take
advantage of the expansion, WCBN
has to raise enough money to buy a
new transmitter antenna.
Kristin Sumrall, University alum
and WCBN program director, said
the station, which was founded in
1971, has been at 200 watts since
1981 and has been interested in
expanding for the past several
years. But that wasn't possible until
recently when television waves
went digital, making more wave

space available.
"There was a lot of scrambling
from low-power radio stations to
acquire space right after TV went
digital," she said.
Sumrall said the station is
"exploring options" for how to raise
enough money for the new antenna,
including its annual fundraiser in
March and listener donations.
"It's only permission," Sumrall
said. "Until we can actually get the
transmitter, it doesn't mean much."
The FCC permission to increase
WCBN's coverage has a three-
year expiration date. If the station
See WCBN, Page 7A

Renovations to
historic landmark to
match original plans
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Brothers of the Delta Upsilon
fraternity, whose house caught
fire about a year and a half ago,
will finally have the opportunity
to move back into the restored

abode come fall.
Built in 1903, the Delta Upsilon
house - the first fraternity house
built on campus - was ravaged by
flames in late May 2008 but is now
being reconstructed to meet the
exact specifications of its original
fagade.
John Markiewicz, president
of Delta Upsilon's alumni board,
said the fraternity house will look
the same as it did before on the
outside, as the construction team
is using the original blueprints

renowned architect Albert Kahn
used to build the house.
Kahn also designed Hill Audi-
torium, the Fisher Building, the
Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
and the Phi Delta Theta fraternity
house on campus.
While the outside of the house
- which is located on 1331 Hill
St. - is being refurbished, parts
of the building's interior are also
being revamped, like making the
first-floor bathroom handicap
See FRATERNITY, Page 7A


WEATHER HI: 32
TOMORROW LO:28

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ...............................2A CLASSIFIEDS.. ..A.........6A
The story behind the Daily's new top tease. Vol CXX, No.76 OPI NION ............................4A SPORTS...............A....8A
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE EDITORS c2010 The MichiganDaly ARTS....................NA THE STATEMENT.................1B
michigondaily.comw" " "



0

2A - Wednesday, January 20, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY: TUESDAY: WENSDY THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Professor Profiles Bfr eeHr Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

Call ing all critters

Though students often com-
plain of not being able to make
phone calls from their residence
hall rooms due to a lark of service,
before the age of Blackberrys and
iWhones, students were limited no
making calls within the confines of
their dormitories.
But, when University admin-
istrators revamped the residence
halls' phone system during the 1eee
spring semester, it wasn't without
its share of problems.
The new phone system cost $38
nmillion and was said to increase
efficiency by switching from
an AT&T-controlled system to
complete University autonomy,
according to a Sept. 4, aea6 article
published in The Michigan Daily.
The purpose of the new installa-
tion was to remove the need to dial
the AT&T operator to make long-
distance calls and to provide "high

tech" features like call-waiting and
call-hold for University adminis-
trators.
Roxano Block, then-director of
the University's telecommunica-
tions systems, told the Daily at the
time that the system would pay for
itself within 10 years of installa-
tion, as the University would save
money that was formerly needed to
pay AT&T's Michigan Bell.
But not all members of the Uni-
versity community were satisfied
with the changes. Students living
in West Quad complained that the
workers installing the new phones
were "rude, incompetent, and
lazy," according to the Daily article.
Students at the time also said
they were woken up by workers who
barged into their rooms to install
the phones and were also concerned
with the lack of safety precautions
that ensued as a result of the phone

system's installation. In May 1986, a
drunken moan repeatedly knocked
on a female student's door in West
Quad, and because her new phone
wasn't yet installed, she was unable
to call for help, as reported in the
Daily article.
The installation of the new
phone system was also thought to
be a catalyst for a widespread cock-
roach problem in West Quad. The
insects began appearing in large
quantities in the residence hall at
the start of the transition, though a
Centel employee who was working
on the installation said connecting
the two was "far-fetched," accord-
ing to the article.
"There were so many dead cock-
roaches lying around that we had a
party for them one night," an anon-
ymous West Quad resident told the
Daily at the time.
- PETER NOORANI

FILE PHOTO/Dailp
LSA sophomore Goardan Young uses a hall phase is West Quad
because his phase was remaved hy Canael Business Systems.

~T he tIhdp0an laiI
42(0 Maynard Sn.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michiganidaily.cam
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Basiness Macages
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz~ypjyhigandailyao ___itdbusisess@amailcoam
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroum officehours:Sue-Thors. 11 or..- 2a.m..
News Tipscrewsugraicihigaadaiy.cora
turrections correctionsh~michigaedaiip.coa
Leters to the Editorn oiirdaily@ntichigaadaiiy.coa
Photugraphy Department pheoo'michig'andaiiN.com
Ails Sectius artipage@aichioaa'iiy.core
Editorial Paee opinion@michigandaily.com
Spurts Sectiun sportsprrichigandaiy.cam
Displap Sales display@michigandaily.com
Clnssified Sales clasified~richigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineadsy~rnichigandaily.con
Finance fiance@emichigandaiip.coe
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aarunsun Managing Ediior aaronion@michigandaily.aoe
lilliar Berman Managies E diior irra@reicigaadaiiy.coe
SENIORNaEmS EruTORS. NicoleAe, Maor~y Jo~n, StephaOnie Seibr, Kyle
Swason, Eshwar, Thiruavukkuarasu
criASIST~ANNEDITOrR S: ylan Cintias,arrynFitzera, sep ictrm
Rachel Van Gilder EdiiorialPagecEditor vangilder@aichigaadaiiy.coe
SENIOREDSITORIALsorPAGEEITORSer 5ianFlaherty rika,,Mayr,,Eml ruleyLaura
Rpan Kartle Managing Sports Editor. kartje@michigandaily.com
SNIORSPsORTSrEDITORS:Nioleo Aurc,Mrkurs, Gj ~o Jnca, Chris
Meszrorus, JeSapleton
oSSISTuNTSPuORS IT rosORS ihaelFlore,A lex aHerman, R yanr eoage,aka
Pyzsik, Tim oash, Am O ran
Jamie Bluck Maaging~rtditor block@rniciiigandaiy.om
SENIOReAeTS EIOSCarolynrahrki,Adre Lan, JeffiSanfrd
ASSISTANToA'RTSEInORLai Burgi,SharonJacb,riidrKiloi,Mikesuntz,,
MaxnCullins and photo@eiciadaily.coa
Sam Wulsun Maaging Photo Editoru
uERnHTOsEDsaITORaFORsMULTIMEDIAo Chanel onrabsurg-Lothringen,
SarahlSquire and d ,esinmichigandaily.com
Anna Zielinski MaagingaDesignEditors
TrevortCaleru MaainerEditor calero@michigandaily.com
Melanie Fried and copydeskr@micigiandaily.com
Rachel Phillips Copp Chiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Kaieluozwiak SalesrManger
SALS0FRCEMANGEsiMlly Twigg
Rpan Businski Classified Maager'
CLoSSIF~IEoSSISANTsMANGER:aylaiLa~ata
Ben English Production aager
Allison Santacea LayoutnManager
Plvan LeeFinance Macafar
Bittanp Mrles CircuaioManager
Bind Wile rljecCooiaor
as, Michgna nlISN05-967) ipublishedodaythrugh Fida drg thnfalland
wintertrmsibysudeantsuat th Uiverosio Mchigar.Oercopy israviale re hnarngetall
reaer. AditioaIcop~is myepikdupahDail'sicefo~nr $. Sbc,riion olr,
sanign pemeranU.eS.alael$110.einerter anuatronsughpil)p'is$11, yearlong
(Septmber thrugh April i$15. Uniriy aiisair jcnardcedsciionrate.i
On-cmpuohsubscriptosfor fallemare$35. Suscriptiosu euppid.Thenic~hgannDaily
insameberofTh sociatenPreisandlhe ociatd Cllgiate Pnrs

0
0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES


Phantom Laptop damaged Preserving Summer With New Jersey becom-
skateboarders WHERE: Thomas Francis Jr diversity panel orientation1 ing the 14th state to legalize
Building la e marijuana for miedical pur-
WHERE: University Lot C-5 WE:Modyataota:0 WHTdanlssrics meeting poses, abcnews.com reported
WHEN: Monday at about 4 p.m. the role of information pro- ta ih u fe mrcn
p.m. WHAT: A University staff fessionals in maintaining WHAT: A mass meeting for Fsupport t enrug'sgliztn
WHAT: A concerned citizen member's lpo was left unat- an rsrigifra tdnsitrse nwr- Ffy-sixperetfsppot
calle policevito report skate-ts tendedseinilaptop- era think doctors should have
cale olc t eprtsat- tedd nan office when an tionfor diverse populations, logoas leaders for summer free reign to prescribe the drug
boader o th Dag ea th unnon prsn dmaed he Lunch will be provided, orientation at the University. rather than limit it to people
libraries, University Police keyboard, University Police WHO: Multi-Ethnic Applications are due by Mon- with severe illnesses.
reported. The suspects had left reported. There are no sos- Information Exchange day, Jan. 25.
the scene by the time the offi- pects. WHEN: Today from noon to WHO: Office of New .

0

Plow Hart stolenm Stolen needles

1:30 p.m.
WHERE: 411 West Hal

i
f
1
t

WHERE Trasporttion WHERE: U Hospital Emer- R lto s i
Were: rnsotain gency Room
SEices a aou81 WHEN: Monday at about 2:50 w r s o
WHEN:Mondy at bout8:10 p.m. w rs o
a~m. WHAT: Twenty-five hypoder- WHAT: "Yu Never Listen
WHAT: A hydraulic cylinder mic needles were stolen from to Me," an instructional
of unknown value was stolen the Cardiovascular Center workshop about rum-
from a snow plow parked in a between Jan 15 and Jan 18, municating with one's
lot, University Police reported. University Police reported. intimate partner and
Thee re o usect. he The needles were valued at "intentional" talking, with
thef occrre beweDe. $2.50 in total. There are no time to practice privately.
2anJa3.suspects. WHO: Institute for
- ~Human Adjustment
MORE ONLINE >, WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
Looe CrmeNotes? Getlmoreonine at michigandaiy.cm/blogs/the wire \..WIHERE: East Hall, Suite

Student Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, Anderson ABC
CORRECTIONS
. A news brief in ycster-
days edition of The Daily,
"Plane crash kills students
in Mich." incorrectly stated
that charges nsf murder and
weapon possession were
involved. They were nor.
. Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

ZTheta are 1,240 students
registered with Services
for Students with Disabili-
ties, a University organization
that assists disabled students.
The majority of those regis-
cared, however, have disabili-
ties that can't be seen.
osFOB MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
3According to Reuters.
com, 390 tons of ground
beef produced by Hun-
tington Meat Packing Inc. in
Montebello, California, is being
recalled because of potential
traces of E. Coli bacteria found
in it. Some of the meat was pro-
duced nearly two years ago.


0i

0I


. The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Wednesday, January 20, 2010 - 3A

,w

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 20, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
" Lawmakers mull
changes to Mich.
medical pot law
Patients authorized to use
marijuana for medical purposes
in Michigan would no longer be
allowed to grow their own supply
under legislation discussed Tues-
day in a state Senate committee.
The proposal could develop into
the first move to change a state
law approved by voters in Novem-
ber 2008. Republicans who back
the new legislation say it's not an
attempt to undo the law, but their
measures would tighten control
" over how the drug is distributed.
Under the new proposal, the
state would license up to 10 mar-
ijuana-growing facilities rather
than letting thousands of autho-
rized patients or caregivers grow
their own. Marijuana would then
" be distributed through pharma-
cists after patients get a prescrip-
tion from a doctor.
Critics say that's an unwork-
able proposal that would make
getting marijuana more difficult
for patients who use it to relieve
pain and other symptoms.
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.
Asian carp DNA
found in Lake
Michigan
A federal official says DNA from
Asian carp has been detected in
Lake Michigan for the first time
- but it's still not certain whether
the fish themselves have entered
the lake.
Gen. John Peabody of the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers says one
sample of genetic material from
the invasive carp has been found
in Calumet Harbor, which is part
of Lake Michigan.
He says the Army Corps of
Engineers still doesn't intend to
close the locks and gates that form
the final barrier between water-
ways near Chicago and the lake.
The Supreme Court had refused
yesterday to order their immedi-
ate closure.
Asian carp have been migrat-
ing up the Mississippi and Illinois
rivers. Scientists fear if they reach
the Great Lakes, they could dis-
rupt the food chain and endanger
the $7 billion fishery.
ATLANTA
* Man found guilty
for slapping a child
in Ga. Walmart
A Georgia man has been found
guilty of second degree child cru-
elty for slapping a crying 2-year-
old at a Walmart.
Roger Stephens of Stone Moun-
tain was convicted yesterday in
a Gwinnett County bench trial,
which is held without a jury.
Stephens, who was 61 when
arrested, will spend six months
in jail followed by six months of
home confinement.
Authorities say the girl and her

mother were shopping on Aug. 31,
when the toddler began crying.
The police report says Stephens
approached the mother and said,
"If you don't shut that baby up, I
will shut her up for you."
Authorities say Stephens then
slapped her four or five times.
Accordingto police,Stephens said:
"See, I told you I would shut her up."
A call to Stephens' court-
appointed lawyer was not immedi-
ately returned.
CAIRO
Death toll rises to 7
in Egyptian storms
A second day of heavy rains and
flooding in Egypt's Sinai Desert
killed a woman and destroyed
hundreds of homes, raising the
toll for two days of storms to seven
dead, the government said.
Spokesman Magdy Rady said
yesterday a woman died and 12
people injured in southern Sinai
and 250 homes were damaged.
Six people, including a Brit-
ish tourist, were killed Monday
in Egypt during the storms. One
person died in Israel when her car
was trapped in a flash flood.
Egypt's state news agency said
all 75 patients at the El-Arish gen-
eral hospital in the Sinai had to
be evacuated when the first floor
was flooded. Some 300 families
were also displaced.
In the southern city of Aswan,
floods and strong winds disrupted
power in several neighborhoods.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

San Diego Mayor
Sanders defends
gay marriage

Massachusetts State Sen. Scott Brown (R-Wrentham) celebrates in Boston on Tuesday night after winning a special election
held to fill the U.S. Senate seat left vacant by the death of Sen. Edward Kennedy. Brown defeated Democratic Massachusetts
Attorney General Martha Coakley and independent Joseph L Kennedy.
GOP's, Brown wins
Sen. Kenn11edys s eat

Victory eliminates
Dems' filibuster-
proof majority
in the Senate
BOSTON (AP) - In an epic
upset in liberal Massachusetts,
Republican Scott Brown rode a
wave of voter anger to win the
U.S. Senate seat held by the late
Edward M. Kennedy for nearly
half a century, leaving Presi-
dent Barack Obama's health
care overhaul in doubt and mar-
ring the end of his first year in
office.
Addressing an exuberant
victory celebration last night,
Brown declared he was "ready
to go to Washington without
delay" as the crowd chanted,
"Seat him now." Democrats
indicated they would, deflat-
ing a budding controversy over
whether they would try to block
Brown long enough to complete
congressional passage of the
health care plan he has prom-
ised to oppose.
"The people of Massachu-
setts have spoken. We welcome
Scott Brown to the Senate and
will move to seat him as soon as
the proper paperwork has been
received," said Majority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev. Massachu-
setts Secretary of State Wil-
liam Galvin said he would notify
the Senate on Wednesday that
Brown had been elected.
The loss by the once-favored
Democrat Martha Coakley in
the Democratic stronghold was
a stunning embarrassment for
the White House after Obama
rushed to Boston on Sunday to
try to save the foundering can-
didate. Her defeat yesterday sig-
naled big political problems for
The
Pr nceton
MCAT
10 Point -Avg Score increase
12 Point -Top Quarter Increase
105 hours live instruction
5 expert instructors
MCAT COURSES START AS
EARLY AS JAN 17!
0MwR ie lPrinoetonReview.corm
Corner of S. University& S. Forest

the president's party this fall
when House, Senate and guber-
natorial candidates are on the
ballot nationwide.
Brown's victory was the third
major loss for Democrats in
statewide elections since Obama
became president. Republicans
won governors' seats in Virginia
and New Jersey in November.
"I have no interest in sugar-
coating what happened in Mas-
sachusetts," said Sen. Robert
Menendez, the head of the Sen-
ate Democrats' campaign com-
mittee. "There is a lot of anxiety
in the country right now. Ameri-
cans are understandably impa-
tient."
Brown will become the 41st
Republican in the 100-member
Senate, which could allow the
GOP to block the president's
health care legislation. Demo-
crats needed Coakley to win for
a 60th vote to thwart Republi-
can filibusters. The trouble may
go deeper: Democratic lawmak-
ers could read the results as a
vote against Obama's broader
agenda, weakening their sup-
port for the president. And the
results could scare some Demo-
crats from seeking office this
fall.
The Republican will finish
Kennedy's unexpired term, fac-
ing re-election in 2012.
Brown led by 52 per cent to 47
percent with all but 3 percent of
precincts counted. Turnout was
exceptional for a special elec-
tion in January, with light snow
reported in parts of the state.
More voters showed up at the
polls yesterday than in any non-
presidential general election in
Massachusetts since 1990.
One day shy of the first anni-
versary of Obama's swearing-
in, the election played out amid
a backdrop of animosity and

resentment from voters over
persistently high unemploy-
ment, Wall Street bailouts,
exploding federal budget defi-
cits and partisan wrangling over
health care.
"I voted for Obama because I
wanted change.... I thought he'd
bring it to us, but I just don't like
the direction that he's heading,"
said John Triolo, 38, a regis-
tered independent who voted in
Fitchburg.
He said his frustrations,
including what he considered
the too-quick pace of health
care legislation, led him to vote
for Brown.
For weeks considered a long
shot, Brown seized on voter
discontent to overtake Coakley
in the campaign's final stretch.
His candidacy energized Repub-
licans, including backers of the
"tea party" protest movement,
while attracting disappointed
Democrats and independents
uneasy with where they felt the
nation was heading.
A cornerstone of Brown's cam-
paign was his promise to vote
against the health care plan.
Though the president wasn't
on the ballot, he was on many
voters' minds.
Coakley called Brown conced-
ing the race, and Obama talked
to both Brown and Coakley, con-
gratulating them on the race.

California trial
to overturn
Prop. 8 continues
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -
San Diego Mayor Jerry Sanders
opposed gay marriage - until he
learned his daughter was a lesbian
in a committed relationship.
He testified yesterday during
a trial on California's same-sex
marriage ban that the change was
a defining moment in his personal
life and his political career.
The mayor of California's sec-
ond-largest city took the witness
stand on behalf of two same-sex
couples suing to overturn Propo-
sition 8, the state's voter-approved
ban.
Sanders, a Republican, said
he lost support within his party
and had to work harder to be re-
elected after he opposed the 2008
ballot measure. GOP leaders in
San Diego were even thinking of
withdrawing their endorsement,
he said.
"The kickoff forthe campaign, a
lot of people weren't there," Sand-
ers testified.
The trial, in its sixth day, is the
first in a federal court to examine
whether denying gays and lesbi-
ans the right to wed violates their
constitutional rights.
Throughout the trial, backers
of the ban have tried to show the
ballot measure was not motivated
by deep-seated bias toward gays.
Such "animus" would make it
more difficult for the measure to
pass constitutional muster.
Brian Raum, a lawyer for Prop-
osition 8 sponsors, cross-exam-
ined the mayor about his one-time
opposition to gay marriage.
"You don't believe that you
communicated hatred to the gay
and lesbian community, did you?"
Raum asked.
"I feel like my thoughts were
grounded in prejudice, but I don't
feel like I communicated hatred,"
Sanders said.
Raum also played a commer-
cial produced by the Proposition
8 campaign claiming supporters
were subjected to vandalism, slurs
and physical violence during the
2008 election.
"You would agree that it's
wrong for people to suffer violence
as a result of their political views,
would you not?" Raum asked.
"I would," Sanders agreed, add-
ing he could not verify that sup-
porters of the ban in San Diego
experienced widespread harass-
ment or if the ad was a campaign

tactic.
Raum also pressed Sand-
ers to acknowledge that people
could oppose same-sex marriage
because they think it's in the best
interests of children to be raised
by their biological parents.
Sanders replied that such an
ideal vision of heterosexual mar-
riage is misinformed.
"I was a cop for 26 years, and I
know there were a lot of children
who did not benefit from child
abuse and they were being raise by
their biological parents," he said.
In other testimony, Univer-
sity of Massachusetts at Amherst
economist Lee Badgett, who also
directs research for a gay-related
think tank at the University of Cal-
ifornia, Los Angeles, said research
showed gay couples preferred
marriage to taking advantage of
domestic partnership laws.
"Marriage is an institution
that is recognized by many other
people outside the couple, so it has
that social validation," Badgett
said.
Charles Cooper, another law-
yer for Proposition 8 backers,
countered that the same number
of couples registered as domes-
tic partners in 2009 as 2008,
even though same-sex marriage
was legal in California during a,
four-month window before vot-
ers approved Proposition 8 in
2008.
"Do youbelievethese California
same-sex couples chose domestic
partnership over marriage because
they felt these California domestic
partnerships were second-rate?"
Cooper asked Badgett.
"I don't know that these same-
sex couples who got married also
registered as domestic partners to
hedge their bets against the elec-
tion," Badgett replied.
Cooperspent several hours with
Badgetttryingto demonstrate that
traditional male-female marriages
suffered after same-sex marriages
became legal in the Netherlands
in 2001. He introduced a number
of charts showing divorce and
single parenthood rates increased
while marriage rates fell in the
that country.
Badgett rejected the compari-
son, however, noting those trends-
were firmlyestablishedlongbefore
gay couples won the right to wed.
in the Netherlands and were unre-
lated to same-sex marriage.
"I don't think we need to wait-
any longer to see what the impact.
will be. I think we know," Badgett 7:
said. "Everything I've looked at
leads me to the conclusion that2
there is no impact."

Are You Considering a Career in Health?
Consider the advantages of earning a
Master of Public Health (MPH) degree at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is offering
an exciting opportunity to become a public health prpfessional
specializing in the prevention and control of disease,
particularly chronic disease.
Health and health-related industries are among the fastest-
growing in the nation, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, a.nd those holding Master of Public Health degrees are
needed in a wide variety of health careers.
Our MPH degree provides intensive education and training in
public health approaches to prevention. Applications are now
being accepted for the MPH program's Fall 2010 semester. For
more information, visit our website:

H,.-,U


4A - Wednesday, January 20, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

ELAINE MORTON I

.

losm~a. t e NVe+
Some k.e'c5 of

's.. ou'nt. s tr ssc4 sddic'le
-I-is se'yis5

Gai q ty, Mour+Oeia s aie W,
ci.e bask, ?ILIA, VeAAL.OVs
Vark yis-lt, -lces, -1Sail kslscq

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Halt Asian carp invasion
Federal government must intervene to stop invasive fish
Unexplainably, the U.S. Supreme Court denied discussion
of a motion regarding a pertinent, multi-state environ-
mental issue yesterday, without any justification for the
ruling. The appeal, filed by Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox,
petitioned for an injunction against the state of Illinois, request-
ing that it be ordered to close the locks that separate the Chicago
Sanitary and Ship Canal from Lake Michigan. Cox's argument
stems from a long battle over stopping Asian carp - currently
located in Illinois waterways - from invading the Great Lakes.
The Supreme Court needs to address this time-sensitive issue
and ensure that the state of Illinois is protecting the environment

Common ground with Haiti

instead of its own interests.
Asian carp is an invasive species that
eats well beyond its fair share of food and,
as a result, disrupts local ecosystems. Carp
are currently located in parts of the Mis-
sissippi and Illinois rivers, which connect
to the Great Lakes. On Jan. 12, the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers reported that it
had discovered carp DNA past the electric
barriers intended to keep the fish out of the
Lakes. The state of Michigan called for an
injunction along with Ohio, Indiana, Min-
nesota, Wisconsin, New York and Penn-
sylvania, arguing that the carp's entrance
would endanger fishing industries. The
Supreme Court dismissed the injunction,
and didn't state when it would rule again
on the issue.
For Michigan, specifically, the invasion
would be detrimental to the tourism indus-
try. And the Great Lakes thrive off of a $7
billion fishing industry, which the carp
would decimate as they consume resources
other species, like trout and salmon, need
to survive. The states that depend upon the
Great Lakes are in danger of losing their
greatest resource. If the federal govern-
ment doesn't intervene and force Illinois to
close its waterways, the damage will range
beyond just one state.
Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) hosted Illinois
officials on Thursday to discuss the issue,
and assured the Huffington Post that the
state is "not in denial" of the threat. But it

o me, blacks across the world
who were displaced by the
African Slave Trade, along
with Africans
of West African
descent, have a
responsibility to
our Haitian breth-
ren. We have a
duty to not only -.
care, but also to be
directly involved
in helping"the
Haitian people to BRITTANY
repair what was
broken by the mag- SMITH
nitude 7 earth-_
quake that left
Haiti in ruins on
Jan. 12. Black Americans must unite
under a common cause during Haiti's
time of desperate need.
As a black person who is a descen-
dant of the West African slave trade, I
feel that there is a common black cul-
tural experience ofenslavement among
those displaced by the slave trade. This
has resulted in the random separa-
tion of our ancestral families across all
seven continents and various islands in
the Caribbean, where more slaveswere
recorded to have been sent than to
the American South. Therefore, many
black Americans and Africans who
descend from western Africa may have
familial ties in the Haitian region but
are left unaware.
As was true with Hurricane
Katrina, the destruction Haiti expe-
rienced resonated with me in a par-
ticular way. The connection I feel for
the Caribbean is driven by a shared
experience of enslavement, coloni-
zation and forced separation from
a past of our own that was brought
about by the slave trade that removed
our ancestors from western Africa.
Consequently, blacks who have been
displaced from Africa are connected
by a spirit so strong that it would be a
disgrace to Haitians if ignored.
"The only thing that is killing me
right now is that under the rubble...

you can still hear voices of people
like... 'Save me, save me, save me."'
When I heard Wyclef Jean, a hip
hop record producer and artist with
Haitian roots, make this remark on a
recent YouTube video, I instantly felt
a pull on my heartstrings and a sud-
den yearning to have a greater invest-
ment in the rehabilitation of Haiti. I
experienced a human connection to
the devastation of Haiti.
As close my eyes and envision this
image of Haitian people stuck under
concrete buildings, I am reminded
of how African slaves were packed
under grated hatchways en route to
an unknown fate. As I listen to Jean
tell of how Port-au-Prince "is starting
to smell like death," I recall slaves'
accounts of the smell during the ships
on the journey to the New World that
was unbearable because of bodies left
to expire on the ship - ifthey weren't
tossed into the ocean by the ship's
crew first.
Though I acknowledge that there
is a distinct difference between the
human cruelty of the slave trade and
a natural disaster, I feel a common
cultural thread between them. When
I hear that cries for help heard under
the Haitian rubble often go unad-
dressed because of the lack of neces-
sary rescue equipment, I have mixed
emotions of despair, sorrow and fury.
As opposed to the colonial era, where
my position to potentially help my
fellow African brethren would have-
been limited; I am now in a position
to help to resolve the Haitian crisis.
But because the devastation to Haiti
is so expansive, I hardly know where
to begin.
The number of relief programs that
offer aid to Haiti can be a bit over-
whelming. Because of the concern
displayed by students, faculty, staff
and various departments within the
Division of Student Affairs, the Office
of Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs
introduced a groundbreaking initia-
tive. MESA created an all-inclusive
organization comprised of various

initiatives, student groups and Uni-
versity officials and affiliates work-
ing together to formulate efficient aid
solutions to the Haitian crisis. It has *
been appropriately named the Michi-
gan Haiti Earthquake Action Relief
Team, or M-HEART.
Blacks have the
responsibility to
help Haitians.
I joined M-HEART because of my
previous affiliation with MESA, and
am pleased by MESA's investment
to make community building funda-
mental in the Haitian relief effort.
MESA's interest in repairing commu-
nities in Haiti directly involves Afri-
can American, black Caribbean and
African students to bridge the cultur-
al gap between blacks who have been
separated by a past that has stripped
African Americans and Caribbean
people of their African roots. This
lost African heritage that connects
members of the Black race can only
be understood when acknowledging
that families were separated across
the American South, the Caribbean
and Africa. When I see the pictures of
Haitians striving to survive, I think of
how there is a strong possibility that
I may be ancestrally related to them.
Years from now when I look back on
this crisis, I wouldn't feel right with
knowing that the potential for kin-
dred existed and I acted selfishly and
was silent when the Haitian cry for
help was so resoundingly clear.
M-HEART offered me a chance to
connect with the Haitians I feel for.
And other blacks should find similar
ways to reach out to the Haitians that
share our cultural heritage.
- Brittany Smith can be reached
at smitbrit@umich.edu.

seems unlikely that Illinois will take proper
action to prevent the carp's migration into
the Great Lakes. Illinois has argued that
closingthe waterways willbe costly for Chi-
cago's commercial shipping industry, even
though this would help protect the largest
chain of freshwater lakes in the country.
Illinois is ignoring the pressing and realis-
tic concerns of other Great Lakes' states in
favor of its own.
In order to resolve competing state
interests, the federal government needs to
defend the Great Lakes states - but it hasn't
been impartial. U.S. Solicitor General Elena
Kagan asked the Supreme Court to reject
the lawsuit, in defense of Illinois, argu-
ing that the DNA found was the product of
experimental testing. This makes it seem
that President Barack Obama's administra-
tion is simply siding with his home state in
the battle, rather than giving the issue the
serious consideration it demands. This is
exactly the circumstance that calls for fed-
eral intervention. And it is the responsibil-
ity of the Supreme Court to hear the case
fairly. A ruling by the Supreme Court is the
best way to certify that the waterways will
be closed. The Court needs to address the
issue immediately.
The treat of the carp is real, and Illinois
is in no place to make decisions that will
ultimately be detrimental to the other Great
Lakes states.

WANT TO BE AN OPINION CARTOONIST?
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, William Butler, Nicholas Clift,
Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty, Jeremy Levy, Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee,
Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff, Asa Smith,
Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith

Decriminalize freedom

EMILY ORLEY

Bleeding love

As a self-diagnosed trypanophobiac (a person
who fears needles), needles are something that
I try to avoid. But in an economy where people
have enough problems with health care and in
a world where earthquakes can shake one third
of a country to the ground, I think I am going to
have to start facing my fear. Yesterday, the Amer-
ican Red Cross Big Ten Blood Challenge began.
The competition, which lasts one month, is inclu-
sive to every person affiliated with the Univer-
sity. And on a campus comprised of over 41,000
students and more than 6,000 faculty members,
there is no reason that everyone shouldn't be
walking around with at least an "I tried" sticker.
Every two seconds, a person somewhere in the
world needs blood. But blood is something that
can only come from a viable, willing donor. There
is no alternative or substitute. Every time a donor
gives blood, one simple pint, he or she potentially
saves three lives. That means that if every person
on campus gave one pint of blood, our campus
alone could help approximately 141,000 people.
For college students, it is often difficult to find
ways to be involved or do something substan-
tial for global problems. Giving money is often
an option that many of us don't have due to the
financial burdens of housing and tuition. Provid-
ing aid, in terms of manual labor, is something
that isn't realistic because of our location and the
time demanded by school commitments. This
opportunity is a way for students to contribute
somethingthat is beneficial to any cause.
Giving blood is a form of aid that can be valu-
able to any race, demographic or country. The
donation can help someone in a hospital down
the street who is having surgery or someone
who is being treated with chemotherapy. Or the
blood can be stored and used in the event of a
catastrophic situation, like Hurricane Katrina.
Blood shortages also occur frequently across the

country, especially in blood types O negative and
AB positive, the rarer blood types. The American
Red Cross is unable to foresee an emergency or a
shortage, so having as many people donate blood
whenever they can provides the organization
with a comfortable cushion.
Unfortunately,there are people who are unable
to donate blood. Certain people are not allowed
to give because of personal medical problems or
personal choices. Donors also must be 17 years
old and weigh at least 110 lbs. But if everyone at
least went down to a blood bank and attempted to
donate, the community would have a better over-
all performance. The blood drive relies on a rip-
ple effect. If someone is sitting with two friends
and decides he or she is goingto go give blood and
is able to encourage his or her friends to tag along,
the blood drive has been further advertised and
hopefully has gained a few more pints.
This year, more than ever, people on campus
should take advantage of the blood battle. There
are stations set up around campus almost every
day from Jan. 19 to Feb. 19, providing ample
opportunities to fit an hour into your day over
the next four weeks. This chance is very rarely
so convenient. You can make an appointment in
advance atwww.givelife.org.
There are many things on this campus that
divide our society. Religious beliefs, political
views and opinions about lifestyle all factor into
how the melting pot of this University remains
segregated. But, this is one topic that no one can
argue over. Giving blood is solely a beneficial act.
There is no other side tothe argument. And if you
too suffer from trypanophobia, just remember
that afterward you get a free cookie and perhaps
a feeling of accomplishment that you did some-
thing selfless and rewarding.
Emily Orley is a senior editorial page editor.

n my time atthe University, many
of my friends and classmates and
I have expressed support for
legalizing marijua-
na - the use, sale
and possession of
which is currently
prohibited under 4
federal law. We're
not alone. Last w
year marked the
first time that the
majority of Ameri-
cans favored end- ALEX
ing prohibition of
pot when a May BILES
2009 Zogby poll
discovered that 52
percent of respon-
dents advocated its legalization.
Legalization advocates often base
their case in a call for personal free-
dom. They (and I) argue that it isn't
justifiable for governments to tell
individuals what they can and cannot
put into their own bodies - especial-
ly since marijuana use is generally
considered a victimless crime. The
marijuana ban is also preposterous
because extensive research has dem-
onstrated that pot is less harmful
than legal substances like alcohol and
cigarettes. In many states, patients
suffering from terminal illnesses
can't obtain medical marijuana, a
proven pain reliever. These patients
often forsake acquisition of cannabis
in fear of retribution by the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration.
There are also economic disadvan-
tages brought about through the crim-
inalization of marijuana. Economic
regulations or favoritism typically
discriminate in favor of one group at
the expense of another, and cannabis
prohibition is no exception. For exam-
ple, African Americans are 10 times
more likely to become convicted of a
drug-related offense than whites, as
found by a 2007 Justice Policy Insti-
tute study. Since 1980, the number of
Americans in prison has increased by
a factor of five, and many have been
imprisoned for non-violent offenses,
according to U.S. Department of Jus-
tice statistics dating back to 1910..

Since the implementation of the
war on drugs, which includes the
marijuana crackdown, nearly one
trillion dollars of taxpayer money
have been wasted. The money could
have instead been invested in edu-
cation and health programs. In fact,
legalizing marijuana and imposing
modest taxation could earn signifi-
cant revenue for governments facing
budget shortfalls.
And prohibition on consumption
breeds crime because it results in the
creation of a black market in which
consumers and suppliers can't settle
conflicts with conventional, legal
methods, like lawsuits or advertising,
so they often resort to violence. This
is evident in data detailing the spike
in crime during the Prohibition Era.
With this knowledge available, how
do Americans find it permissible to
allow our elected officials to prohibit
individuals from trading or consum-
ing the cannabis crop?
On top of concerns about personal
choice and the dangers of black mar-
ket trade, cannabis is also a valuable
resource because it yields hemp. But
the U.S. government prohibits the
cultivation of the hemp fiber, even
though it is extremely useful in the
production of fuel, paper, textiles,
and biodegradable plastic.
In fact, the cultivation of hemp was
the catalyst for criminalizing canna-
bis in the country. Marijuana became
illegal as a result of government inter-
vention in the 1930s that did not allow
the free market to work. Newspaper
tycoon William Randolph Hearst -
heavily invested in the timber indus-
try - colluded with members of the
federal government to destroy com-
petition from the rapidly expanding
hemp paper industry. What perplexes
me most is that many advocates of
marijuana legalization who rightfully
put forward many of the free-market
arguments I have championed here are
among the first to decry laissez-faire
capitalism and call for stringent regu-
lations on other industries.
It's wrong to restrict the use of
cannabis, they argue, but okay to
regulate the automotive industry

with strict emissions standards and 4
encouragement of subsidized hybrid
vehicles. The fundamentals remain
the same, whether the issue at hand is
the prohibition of marijuana or ludi-
crous taxes and emission restrictions
placed on the gas-guzzling monstros-
ity known as the Hummer.
The crackdown
on the cannabis
trade is ridiculous.
Even if some people can't swallow
the proverbial pill that economic reg-
ulation is morally unjustifiable and
economically destructive, they must
acknowledge the lack of consistency
in interventionist policies that sel-
dom achieve the goals of their well-
intentioned sponsors and instead
exacerbate problems.
The systematic destruction of
the free-market principles that this
country was founded on, as well as
the erosion of our civil liberties, can
be directly attributed to the ever-
increasing growth and power of the
federal government. Besides being
antithetical to the notion of a free
society, we must understand that
governments are ultimately as self-
interested as the businessmen who
we love to hate.
It's time for individuals to embrace
the idea of personal responsibility
and ultimately decide what's best for
them - not big businesses or a mono-
lithic government. It's time I should
be able to decide whether to purchase
an efficient and environmentally
friendly Toyota Prius over a Hummer,
without a federal subsidy involved.
It's time I should decide whether
to damage my lungs via marijuana
smoke or cigarettes - or if I want to
abstain from consumption of either.
It's time to legalize freedom.
- Alex Biles can be reached
at jabiles@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers to
join the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for discussing and
writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 20, 2010 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomWednesday, January 20, 2010 - 5A

An exploration of
South African music

The bad taste offood TV

'U' jazz student
discusses the shift
in musical themes at
apartheid's end
ByJAMIE BLOCK
ManagingArts Editor
In times of political and social
turmoil, the arts have the power
to express dissent, unite people
under a com-
mon goal and Nate My
sometimes ~Instrument
even bring
about change. of Change:
One student
well versed
in this spe- Music in
cial quality par Me
of the arts is
Nathaniel POSt-Aparthed
May, a Music, out bAftja"
Theatre &
Dance senior Thursday, Jan.
who spent a 21 at 7 p.m.
year in South Michigan Union,
Africa explor- Anderson Room
ing the role Free
of jazz and
improvisational music during
" apartheid and the political recov-
ery thereafter. May will be giving
a lecture Thursday night in the
Anderson room of the Michigan
Union as part of the Examining
Ubuntu conference taking place
this week.
May explained how the tone
behind much of local South African
music shifted drastically with the
end of apartheid.
"Often, it was an attitude of
aggression and anger during apart-
heid, during the struggle, because
you have a specific goal in mind,
which is freedom," May said.
"After that it's a process of heal-
ing," he added, "and that word
'healing' was brought up a lot as a
way of coming to terms with one's
past and one's identity, and how it
has changed."
But May emphasized that this
healing process has come 'with
several questions, not the least of
which is the extent to which free-
dom has actually been attained.
"Basically, people had this long
history of oppression, and then all
of a sudden it was said that they
now have freedom," May said. "But
to a lot of people, it was little more
than words. It was some political
changes, but then a lot of promises
that were never kept. People are
still coming to terms with 'This is
what freedom looks like."'
"They're re-investigating their
past, which had been sort of cre-
ated or dictated for them by the
government."
Part of this government-cre-.
ated history, May said, was an
emphasis on tribalism. And using
this idea, government rhetoric
was widespread, declaring which
kinds of art were appropriate for
the black South African popula-
tion to experience.
"One of the primary tenets of
apartheid was this tribalism where
all black people are tribal," May
said. "So even city-dwellers, they
should be listening to tribal music,
traditional music, because you
know, that's their nature."
While this view of black South
Africans is obviously degrading,
the appropriate artistic response
was not so clear. May explained
that there was some disagreement
among black musicians at the time

regarding what sorts of music they
ought to be making.
"(There was an) interesting
dialogue and struggle at the
time between black South Afri-
cans wanting to make Western
music to prove their worth, ver-
sus people who want to include
their traditional music, but at
the risk of seeming that they're
pandering to the apartheid's
perspective of what they should
be doing," May said.
And now that the rhetoric of
apartheid is dissipated, musicians
are facing the artistic choices they
made and seeing the identities
they've established.
"Now that the government
doesn't say 'This is what you
should be listening to,' they've got
to come to terms with 'OK, this
is the music that we've made, for
these reasons, and who are we
because of it?"' May said.
Nowadays South African iden-
tity in music is much harder to
come by, May said. American and
European music has taken over
the airwaves, and local music is
struggling for survival.

don't really like Food Net-
work. In fact, I pretty much
hate it. This seems to be a
very unpopular opinion as food-
centered shows
like "Top Chef,"
"Iron Chef" and
"Hell's Kitchen"
are incredibly
fashionable,
with similar
new ones pop-
ping up all the CAROLYN
time.
I've given I.ECK
Food Network
plenty of chances
to win me over, but through it all
I've maintained my general indig-
nation toward the channel. And I'm
not just grumpy; Ihave my reasons.
I love interactive television. I
enjoy bidding along with the con-
testants on "The Price is Right,"
answering the questions on "Cash
Cab" and most of all, formulating
my own opinions about the contes-
tants on shows like "Project Run-
way" and "Dancing with the Stars."
When I see crazy outfits on
"Project Runway," I can comment
on the movement of the fabric or
color choice and decide whether
it's wearable, artistic or just plain
bad. I can admire the routines
contestants perform on dancing
shows, knowing I could never be
so graceful. And before "American
Idol" became tiresome, I enjoyed
debating who had the best voice.
The best part of these shows is
watching and enjoying the result
of the contestants' hard work.
And that's where food shows
fail. I can admire the appearance
of the final product, but I can't
taste it. Food is meant to be eaten,
and without savoring the taste of
the dish, I can't fully appreciate
all the pain and suffering the con-
testants go through. Hell, I can't'

even sm
Food, in
is not. T
to depe
commej
another
tition ft
Whe:
judges,
more li
be a rea
someda
agree, I
still thi:
have we
Runway
ugly ou
won mo
other cc
Takii
makesr
cially w
opinion

sell the meal. TV is visual. one another and thinking they're
n its most essential sense, hot shit.
This dilemma forces me I understand there are lots of
nd on the judges' snarky shows about food that aren't com-
nts, which eliminates petitions. While they don't grind
r element of reality compe- my gears nearly as much, the same
un. lack of sensory enjoyment keeps
n my opinion matches the me from truly appreciating these
I feel validated and a little programs. How-to shows are an
ke an expert. Maybe I could easy fix to that problem, but they
lity competition judge aren't forgiving to those who lack
y. But even when I dis- talent. I can't cook - at all - so I
can back up my opinion. I can't follow along with Rachael
nk Daniel Vosovic should Ray or Emeril Lagasse unless
on season two of "Project they're making Ramen, and even
y." He didn't make a single then the finished product would be
tfit the entire season and disgusting.
ire challenges than any Still, there's one Food Network
ontestant to date. program that makes my heart
ng the judges' word as fact melt like butter. I really enjoy "Ace
me uncomfortable, espe- of Cakes," and that's probably
'hen there are dissenting because it has everything most
Ls. To root for a competitor food shows don't.
Chef Duff Goldman is less of a
prick than most other hosts, no
3obby Flay- "oneis making qualitative state-
J ments about the outcome and
Vhat a dick. his cakes are so extravagant and
pretty that I don't really care
what they taste like. No one is
trying to instruct me. No one is
d show, you have to base it trying to out-cook someone else.
onality. And in my experi- And most importantly, no one is
se most tolerable people making me feel like I'm missing
worst at cooking, which something because I can't taste
me to another grievance through the TV.
od programming: Chefs My friends and family can't
holes. get enough of Food Network and
y Flay, Gordon Ramsey, similar programs on Bravo. They
y Bourdain and other huddle around the television in
are simply dicks. Now, excitement while Ipout and try
ecret that most people on to explain my scorn. However, my
these days, but that can infallible logic cannot penetrate
looked if they're talented. the happy-go-lucky shield Food
mes the most abrasive per- Network creates. Whatever, I just
y leads to the most creative don't get it. Food Network hates
e. But, again, because I me and I hate itback.

B
V

"In the places where really
ancient music still exists, it's either
because it's specifically trying to be
preserved, or it's in a place that's
remote enough that western music
hasn't entirely taken over," May
said. "I think those places are very
rare these days."
While he found traditional music
to be rare, May found an opportu-
nity to work closely with it for the
duration of his time in South Afri-
ca. He spent the year with a group
called Khoi Khonnexion, helping
the band record its first album.
The Khoisan people are the
true indigenous South African
population, who were in South
Africa before the Bantu-speaking
majority.
"They come from that per-
spective specifically of 'We're
the first nation indigenous peo-
ple, and we're left with the least
history because ... the colonizers
have most imposed their culture
onus,'"May said.
Khoi Khonnexion's goal is to
apply the idea of healing in post-
apartheid South African music to
the Khoisan identity.
"It's all about their healing not
only for themselves, but for other
Khoisan people," May said.
And Garth, a memher- of the
group with whom May is still in
correspondence, doesn't think the
healing should stop there.
"Garth says that everyone in
South Africa is equally impover-
ishedbecause of Apartheid, which
I think is a pretty bold statement
coming from someone who was
definitely on the more oppressed
end of that," May explained. "But
he says that their music is about
healing for everyone."
While working with Khoi
Khonnexion was culturally and
historically enlightening, May
said much of what he learned
from working with the group per-
tained more to a day-to-day, laid-
back perspective on life.
May described the concept of
"African Time," which he said is a
common term across much of the
continent. It stresses the impor-
tance of taking the time to enjoy
life, punctuality be damned.
"Your life is not ruled by your
clock," May said, "and there's
something really refreshing about
that."
But this concept was not an
easy one to grasp right off the bat
for May, as evidenced by a record-
ing trip he went on with Khoi
Khonnexion.
"Very early on, we went to this
Khoi farm that was out in this
rural area. We went for the whole
weekend and, as I understood it,
the goal for the weekend was to
record in ... an ancient (Khoisan)

cave with actual rock paint-
ings that were anything from
hundreds to thousands to tens
of thousands of years old," May
said. "I was really excited about
recording in this cave."
But it seemed that Khoi Khon-
nexion did not share May's feeling
of eager urgency.
"We get there and I'm like
'Let's go record in the cave' and
they're like 'Yeah, no, we're just
gonna smoke and drink coffee and
talk for a while.'"
This lasted nearly the entire
weekend, and the waiting was not
without its costs.
"Just before we were about to
leave, we went and recorded in
the cave," May said, "and then
as a result they had to miss their
gig that they had planned for that
evening."
May explained how, while he
was initially discouraged by the
attitude and some of its conse-
quences, he gradually came to
accept it and even assimilate to it.
And stopping to shoot the breeze
with these South African musi-
cians was anything but a waste of
time.
"Just being around them, I
also picked up on other aspects
of their personal philosophies,
which have a lot to do with artis-
tic authenticity," he said.
May said Khoi Khonnexion put
an emphasis on "trueness to your-
self over originality of the product."
In a sense, this redefines what
originality means in art.
"With Khoi Khonnexion ... it's
more important to them that what
they produce has origin in them-
selves, in that sense of 'original-
ity,' " May said.
May looks forward to sharing
his insights into the cultural and
societal effects of South African
music with an American audi-
ence, and these pursuits don't end
with Thursday's lecture. Work-
ing with another American musi-
cian he met in South Africa, May
is now part of a group seeking
to educate the United States on
South African jazz and improvi-
sational music.
"We're going to try to arrange a
series of concerts in Detroit, and
maybe at the Kerrytown Concert
House," May said. "And it was
also brought up to maybe talk
about South African jazz at the
Detroit Jazz Festival."
May hopes to one day bring the
members of Khoi Khonnexion
to the United States so they can
tell their story firsthand and play
their music live for an American
audience.

in a foo
on pers
ence, th
are the
bringsr
with fo
are asst
Bobb
Anthon
foodies
it's no s
TV are1
be over
Someis
sonality
outcom
can't ap
ing, I'm
arrogan
ing spic

preciate what they're mak-
just watching abunch of
It jerks in a kitchen, throw-
es into pots, arguing with

Klarecki is making ramen. To
remind her the number for 911,
e-mail cklareck@umich.edu.

FX does sophisticated satire, with boob jobs

By CHRISTINA ANGER
Daily Arts Writer
There's a reason FX's "Archer"
has a10 p.m. time slot. The little chil-
dren of the world
are asleep, and its
target audience,
teens to imma- Archer
ture adults, are
ready for another Wednesdays
dose of cartoon at10 p.m.
absurdity. Unex- FX
pectedly, "Archer"
suppresses the toilet humor and
homes in on truly adult material.
The plot of "Archer" centers on a
spy agency. While the show may look
like just another derivative animated
series, it's actually a semi-sophisti-
cated satire. Its spies are neurotic,
clumsy and oedipal. Archer (H. Jon
Benjamin, "Family Guy") is your
main spy, the James Bond of the
agency (although he doesn't "like to
use that comparison - but yes").
His mother is his boss, voiced by
Jessica Walter ("Arrested Develop-
ment"). Nobody could say "These
antihistamines are insane" with
more couth. In almost every scene,
the new FX show makes some kind
of taboo sex joke, starting with
Archer in bed with his girlfriend

and on the phone with his mother,
whisperingnthat he "can do both."
Everything about- "Archer"
seems like a slightly tweaked ver-
sion of "South Park" or "Futurama."
"South Park" makes most girls
cringe (check) and "Futurama"
is heavy on plot with a side of sit-
com humor (check). But "Archer"
embraces another common form
of humor as well - the kind of nar-
cissism that asks "Why don't they
make a reality show out of my life?"
"Archer" is for everyone who
laughs at a fat joke, boob-job joke or
racist joke, yet is able to catch some
subtle cultural references - like
when Archer finds himself in an
ironic situation and huffs: "This is
like 0. Henry and Alanis Morissette
had a baby and named it this exact
situation!"
That quote goes far beyond the
spy humor, people. Sure, Archer's
special pen with the faulty cap
that kills a prostitute during a mole
training session is amusing, but it
doesn't top the warm, fuzzy feeling
you get when you catch a line that
flies over the heads of much of the
general public.
A gorgeous spy is nothing with-
out a nerdy sidekick, and a comedy
show is nothing without relation-

ship drama. Luckily, the writers of
"Archer" are well aware of these
necessities and drew up an all-in-
one character: accountant-turned-
sidekick Cyril (Chris Parnell,
"Saturday 'Night Live"), Archer's
ex's new boyfriend. Oh, the drama.
"Archer" is brimming with lit-
eral LOL moments and its fair share
of farce. What company hasn't had
a secretary that hacked into the
insurance to cover her boob job?
Needless to say, there are no stale
moments in the episode. Archer
begins to fill the void left by "Arrest-
ed Development," a show that cre-
James Bond
goes oedipal.
ated a cult-like, quote-heavy bond
between friends and fans.
Pencil in "Archer," and relish
the fact that it's not necessary to
stifle the intelligent part of your
sense of humor for an entire half
hour. Is it possible to laugh guilt-
free at a cartoon after the age of 6?
"Archer" doesn't like to use com-
parisons - but yes.

READ ANOTHER TV REVIEW ONLINE!

Check out our 'Project Runway'
review at michigandaily.com.

- H, 0U

Winter Career Expo
Wednesday, January 20th
2:00-6:00pm / The Michigan Union
Discuss full-time job and internship opportunities
with organizations from across the country
Connect with organizations interviewing at
The Career Center
Dress professionally and bring your resume
Visit our website for a list of participating
organizations (www.careercenter.umich.edu)
Cosponsoredby
TheCareerfeter
'V Iat 4oiila" l~"*'" la '" "r


6A-Wednesday, January 20, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

AA r7
W-1

0

PAKKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 7 BDRM House-334 Catherine !
Large bedrooms, some hardwood, lots
of common space. Free parking.
May to May $3745--special discount
Fall to Fall $4095
www.oldtownrealty.net 734-663-8989
! 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
.NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer laaadry balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
1 122 S. Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
r!! CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tas, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!MAY STUDIO and 1 bedroom apts
on UM Campus: 734-761-8220 or visit
www.postrealtyproperties.com
!!$ SAVE $, Sign before Jan. 31,
2010, get a generous signing bonus!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments.
Fall 2010, Across from East Quad.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
IMMEDIATE . OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomreal t.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.

1'V4 the bilve
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net
***** MAY LEASES *****
1 Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
I bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.com
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
:www, Studio & 1
1 Bdrm Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Qu :t&Soe1 f- h se - One c m n mrpis
Cali Brian Tomnsi:
734-663-1530
**I & 2 Bedrooms** near CCRB and
CC Little Choose your new living
room furniture! new kitchens w/ dish-
washers, fully furnished, heat, water,
parking incl.
www.varsitymanagement.com
**2 & 4 Bdrms** Perfect for Grad Stu-
dents! Huge apts w/ 10 ft ceilings, hard-
wood floors, fireplaces in peaceful
Varsity Mgmt. (734) 668-1100

S

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call us for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-micom
UnivCrvity
Tw&

4 SEiNi TanEaili
SPRESENTS THE

HOMESFOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor." (888) 883-7083 . www.sciofarms.com
evooYpsilanti.- (888) 310-6850 - www.4lakeview.com (2
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Noris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 It's based on 36 D.C.-to-Albany 44 Holiday Inn rival
1 Caesar's purchase price dir. 45 Muscat residents
reproach 3 Scooter kin 37 Just fine 46 Ranch roamers
5 Plays a trump 4 "Do _ others..." 38 '50s TV scandal 47 More slime-like
card, in bridge 5 Get back in genre 48 Leveling wedges
10 #2 business 39 Title beekeeper 52 Jr.'s exam
14 Caution 6 Like heroes who played by Peter 53 First name in
15 1946 high-tech deserve more Fonda gossip
unveiling at the credit 40 Part of PGA: 54 Fraternal group
Univ. of 7 Italian Abbr. 55 Room at the top
Pennsylvania automaker 41 Mattress size 59 46-Down call
16 On Hollywood 8 Counterfeit 42 Step on it 60 Gridiron gains:
Blvd., say 9 Fight memento 43 Dribble Abbr.
17 Way out 10Hindugod
18 Mizuno incarnated as ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Corporation Krishna T E P I D S A L K R I M S
headquarters 11 Join theArmy
19 Sty resident? 12 Runs oft to wed P R I M E I D E O ETA T
20 Microprocessors 13 Beer with a blue KAP PA M E E K D I K E
23 Poet Lowell ribbon logo E A R V I N J O H N S O N
25 Tennyson's 21 Subject of the A S S 1I I M A O I 5 TS
twilight play 'Goldas E L D R I C K W O O D S
26 Beginning . Balcony" TIO RAYON JETTA
27 Shipping thingies 22 Ice cream
 used afiller holder NEWS R O M E S D R E W
32 Persian Gulflship 23 Per unit A R N I E *T A L E S U T A
33RolIcall 24 E orG follower D E I O N S A N D E R S
response 28 Mauna SAT E E N LOO F A H
34 Court response 29 "Why Can'tI?" L A W R E N C E B E R R A
35 With 63-Across, singeo Market OK I 0 I L I E K I L L S
theme Iers MENA NERD ETS EQ
37 Water color 31 Biblical refuge O D E D G O E S L O E W S
41 Grammy winner 35 "Mayday!" xwordeditor@aol.com 01/19/10
Braxton
42 Subjects for 1 0 0 0 5 5 7 8 9 101112 13
searching or to 16
saving
43 Bits of user 17 18 19
information
created by Web 20 21 22
sites
48"Me,too! 01 24 252
49 Buddy Listco.
50 Eastern 7 a 09 00 a1
discipline a2 33
51 Contoionists
56 "Back _ hour": 34 as s6 3703 ao 40
Ctore sign
57 Budapest-born442
conductor
58 "Good heavens'" 4a 3 4 s 47
01 15th cntar date 5
62 Place for a
bracelet 5s025sa4 ss
63 See 35-Across
6 Wet expanses s1 s7 s8 59so
6h Shockng
66 Rare bills
64 s s
DOWN
1 Farm mom By Barry .c. silk120/10
(c)2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

**2 BDRM-2 Bath Bi-levels** Huge 5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
campus apts perfect for 4, large rooftop Catherine. 7 bdrms total. 3 bath, 4 prkg
balconies, spacious kitchens w/ dish- spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util. 5
washers, fully furnished, heat, water, bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
parking incl. bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
**2-BEDROOMS - Fall** 911 and 2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
1001 S. Forest new kitchens & baths, bath, 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
wireless Internet incl along w/ heat, wa- all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
ter, furnishings, and parking! 7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
www.varsitynanagement.com
6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
**3-BEDROOMS** NEAR CCRB 2010! 1007 State. Fur. Newly
and CC Little, balconies or patio, large renovated st Floor and Bthrns. Free
living rooms w/ new furniture. Heat, Prkng and lndry. Call 734-717-9288.
water, parking incl.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100. 7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8. 3 Bath,
2 Kitchen, Parking and Laundry. Cor-
**331CATHERINE** FOR THE so- ner of Sout U ad Elt. $5000/mo.
phisticate! 3-bdrms w/ in-unit wash- Pins utilities. 734-260-4003.
er/dryers, hardwood firs, new carpet,
stainless steel appliances, remodeled
kitchens, and brilliant colors; all w/ wwvwsiimnnagementcom
parking ocl. Go tos
www.varsitymanagement.com rsityt
for virtual tours! M aae et
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010 s65casht
www.smileyproperties.com 46681100
(734) 761-4469 *Campus Locations
@Reasonable Prices*
Famished, dishwashers, AC, arhkin
1221 S. State #2 1039Baldwin-Studio,2&4Bedrooms
331 Catherine - Remde d 3 Bedrooms
6 BDRM 543Churcas5t.-2tedroom
911&1001S. Forest - 2 Bedrooms (FREE WrRELSS
1346 & 1506 Geddes - 3 &4 ,edrns
FALL 2010 1015W"Huro"-2Bedrooms
801 W. Madison - 1& 2 Bedrooms
331 Packard - Studios & 1 Bedroos
COPI PROPERTIES 917 Packard - Large 2 edroms
(734) 663-5609 OFSTappan-2hNdm
515& 521 Walnut -1,2drms &2 Bedroom Oi-evels
418E. Washington-studios & 1 Bedrooms
*-CHURCH Gr) S. Universiy a Clo1sr poavd dhvigd
ONLY 1 LEFT! Large 2-bdrm for 4,
heat, water, furnishings inc. _________________
Varsity Mgmt (734) 668-1100 6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3 wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
bdrm. house. Walking distance from On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
at 734-276-3876. ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
Bi-Level Apt. 1 1/2 Baths, lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
Prime Location, Easily fits 4. baths. Add FREE internet, HD directa
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825. with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fal. 741-
54 I S. DIVISION 9300 www.annarborapartments.net
WWW800FULLER.COM
6 BDRM + STUDY (734) 769-7520
$3000 I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES 420S. Division #2
(734) 663-5609
5 BDRM
*LARGE 3 STORY furn. 5 bdrm for 6 $2500
people, 3 kitch, 3 bath, prkg, lndry. 921 SEPT 20 10
Packard. Avail '10. Call 734-272-1320.
1 OR 2 bdrm aps avail. U of M COP PROPERTIES
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463. (734) 663-5609
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 418
N. State St. 6 bdrms total. 2 bath, 3
prkg spaces, lndry, tenants pay all util. GREAT CAMPUS APTS!
4 bdrm-$2500, 5 bdrm-$3000, 6
bdrm-$3450. Call 734-996-1991. 608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re- Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286. 608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm 815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
apt. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons. Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Modern IKEA furniture. 734-945-6380 Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
www.benjaminrentals.com 815SothStateManagers@umich.edu
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms. 711 Arch- Between State & Packard
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300 1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts.
www.annarborapartments.net Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
FALL 2010 HUGE luxury 6 bedrooms
plus study bi-level apt. 2 full luxury
marble baths. Prime Location.
$3999/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
9 X,
Experience the Difference Apte s
" 1100 Sq. Ft. Apts.
Great for 2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
fr entertaining ti BRMS Loto Pre

" Free High-Speed Internet . 1221 S. State #2 $2400
SHD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built io microwave,
dishwasher, disposal 5 420 S. Division #2 $2700
* Contemporary Furniture
* Close to CCRB 3 1222 Washtenaw Ct. $1800
* Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers 3 1123 Church St. $1700
Models open Daily
C B 741-9300 Copi Properties
734.663.5690
www.annarborapartments.net

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TOLIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
APTS AT 1215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful 1 bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, hay window, new kitchen. 2
blocksbto campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other loca-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs-
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.
Furnished, high speed internet and park-
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
FALL 2010 6 Bedroom, laundry. 502
Catherine St $3600/mo. 734-207-3520.

AWESOME NEWER PROPERTY
tst 3 mths $585 or Ist mo FREE. 8 min
N. or Ann Arbor on US-23. 2 & 3
Bdrm for $748-$900. 970-1279 sq. ft.
Lots of amenities. 734-449-4213.
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available
Prime Location! Free parking!
$3699/mo. 734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
321 E. Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. 1,2010
2 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Fun, disposal,
dwshr, lndry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.Jmsprop.com

# BDRMS Location Price
Fall
6 1122 S. Forest $3000
May
6 541 S. Division $3000
Copi Properties
734.663.5690

0
0
0
0

AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walkiog dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
*Large one bedroom apartment, 2
blocks east of the business school.
Heat, water and parking included
703 S. Forest .
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
n$575/Month Includesameals,
Internet, parking, and utilities)
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 wwwicc.coop
AVAILABLE NOW-AUGUST '10!!!
EFFICIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near
Ctral Campus. $500-750. Includes
H&W. Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.

*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
3260.Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726S. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Church
1330 N. University Ct.
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 S. University

0I

*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
lsifieds
continued on
the next page
i us: dawlyclassified gmaWcon
us: Mon-Fri, 9am-5pm
miiness day prior to publication
ro V 1,n rln rn c rikaicic


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 20, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday. January 20, 2010 - 7A

REPORT
0 From Page IA
and minority student access and
success dropped from the 2004-
2005 to 2007-2008 school years.
Monts said the decrease in
minority student access to the
University is due in large part to
the passage of a statewide civil
rights initiative in 2006 known
as Proposal 2 that banned the use
of affirmative action in admis-
sions at public universities in the
state of Michigan.
"Proposal 2 put a real chilly
environment around the Uni-
versity of Michigan and many
underrepresented minority
students can gather the wrong
. perception about Michigan's
commitment (to diversity)," he
said. "I think all the public uni-
versities are dealing with that
issue in the state of Michigan,
and in those states where there
are these...anti-affirmative
action policies, I think you see
the same thing."
University President Mary
Sue Coleman told The Michigan
Daily in an interview last fall
that before the passage of the
statewide civil rights initiative,
the University was able to set
aside specific scholarships for
minority students. But after the
initiative passed, these schol-
arships became available to a
wider applicant pool, making
it more difficult for underrep-
resented minorities to obtain
WCBN
From Page 1A
doesn't manage to install the new
transmitter in time, the opportu-
nity will be lost, though Sumrall
said she believes three years is
enoughtime for the stationto raise
the money.
"To be frank, I'm pretty con-
fident that we will make it," she
said. "It's just a question of how we
pay for it."
In addition to the fundraiser and
listener donations, WCBN staff are
also planning to make the commu-
nity more aware of the station in
hopes of acquiring more support.
One of the main reasons the sta-
tion wants to expand its coverage
is because it has somethingunique
to offer, said Bryan Dulaney, Uni-
ve'sity alum and WCBN produc-
tion director.
Dulaney added that the station
is a "vital resource" for the com-
munity because of its autonomy in
decidingwhat to air.
FRATERNITY
From Page IA
accessible, creating a wider stair-
way leading to the basement and
modifying room designs on the
second floor.
According to a May 26, 2008
Michigan Daily article, the fire
that devastated the house started
shortly before 6 a.m. that morn-
ing, drawing firefighters from the
city of Ann Arbor and surround-
ing cities. The fire was extin-
guished at around 9:30 a.m. that
morning.
No fraternity members were liv-
ing in the house at the time of the
fire, as the house was undergoing

bathroom repairs. The cause of the
fire was never determined, though
there was speculation that it could
have been electrical, Markiewicz
said.
Since the time of the fire, the
Delta Upsilon brothers have been
residing in several different rental
houses over the past year and a
half. The fraternity brothers are
currently living in a rented house
at 1012 Hill Street.
0 Cody Stevens, LSA junior and
president of Delta Upsilon, said
he and the other brothers are very
excited for the reconstruction
of the fraternity house - which
started on Nov. 1, 2009.
"Most of our guys haven't
even lived in the house," he said.

financial aid.
Underrepresented minority
enrollment at the University has
decreased every year since the
statewide civil rights initiative
passed. The class that entered the
University in Fall 2009 includes
535 underrepresented minority
students, an 11.4 percent drop
from the year before.
Though Monts acknowledged
the drop in underrepresent-
ed minority students, he said
Coleman and other University
administrators are dedicated to
increasing the diversity of the
student body through outreach
programs to areas in the state,
especially Detroit, in order to
recruit students from a wide
range of ethnic and socio-eco-
nomic backgrounds.
"We have a programmatic
structure at the University that
reaches out to (high) schools,"
Monts said. "We just started The
Center for Educational Outreach
that is outreaching to schools all
over the state of Michigan. We
have an admissions office that
is committed to reaching out to
schools with underrepresented
populations."
In an effort to recruit more
underrepresented minority stu-
dents, Coleman has recently
traveled to Detroit public high
schools, and spoke to the city's
students and educators - like
at the 2009 Wolverine Outreach
Workshop reception in October
of last year - about the Univer-
sity's commitment to diversity.
"We're very invested in hav-
ing members of the community
and members of the University be
able to express themselves freely
and be able to tap into subjects
that may not get covered in main-
stream broadcast radio," Dulaney
said.
WCBN is commercial-free and
plays more alternative and inter-
national music than typical radio
stations, Sumrall said.
The station also has several
specialty programs, including an
"infotainment" talk show called
"It's Hot in Here," which discusses
topics related to the environment.
Sumrall said the station also
has programming that is unique
to Ann Arbor, like "Living Waters"
- a program featuring different
writers every week - and a food
satire show called, "Pandora's
Lunchbox."
Editor's Note: Last semester
The Michigan Daily had a radio
show on WCBN, which ceased
production in December.
"My class is the last class that
saw the house as it was before
the fire."
The fire and the subsequent
relocation of the fraternity mem-
bers have affected the chapter's
recruitment numbers, Markie-
wicz said, though he is hopeful the
newly refurbished home will have
a positive influence in attracting
future members.
Stevens also said the house's
renovations will be important in
drawing more prospective mem-
bers during winter rush this
semester and fall rush later in the
year.
"We had a little trouble getting
guys before because we've been
living in different locations, but

this fall (recruitment season) will
be great for us," he said.
Markiewicz said they've been
fortunate the weather has cooper-
ated thus far, making the renova-
tions easier.
"Think about the winters before
which were horrendous in Ann
Arbor," he said. "We've had almost
no snow by comparison."
The renovations are expected
to be completed by the end of
August so the fraternity broth-
ers can move in for the fall 2010
semester. If the renovations
aren't completed by that time, the
fraternity has back-up plans to
continue renting at their current
location on a month-to-month
basis, Markiewicz said.

SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
Brandon Straub, assistant conductor of the Arts Chorale, plays the piano while LSA sophowore Joey Creery sings. The Chorale held audtions yesterday.

CONTRACT
From Page 1A
in the city have done.
"Some of our folks have been
contributing in ways others
haven't," Fraser said at the meeting
last night.
Negotiations for the contract
that will succeed the current con-
tract when it expires at the end of
June will start in a few weeks. The

Ann Arbor fire station faces the
possibility of steep budget reduc-
tions.
Schroeder said that Tom Craw-
ford, chief financial officer of the
city of Ann Arbor, said 11 percent
of the station's budget - anywhere
from $1.4 to $2.4 million - needs to
be cut by July 1, 2010, which could
result in the station being forced to
layoff 14 firefighters.
"We've put a bandage on the
problem until July," Schroeder

said. "We face a daunting task as to
how to overcome this."
The firefighters union is also
worried about complying with
federal standards, as Local 693 is
already currently operating below
the minimum number of firefight-
ers mandated by the National Fire
Protection Association.
The union hopes to involve the
University in looking for ways to
find a solution to its financial prob-
lems, as the school inhabits a large

area of the city, Schroeder said.
Hieftje said the ratification and
approval of the contract doesn't
completely solve the budget deficit
problem the city is currently fac-
ing, though it is a step in the right
direction. Other ways to finance
the public safety budget are cur-
rently being evaluated.
"This is a time of shared sacri-
fice," City Councilmember Marcia
Higgins (D-Ward 4), said at last
night's meeting.


MSA
From Page 1A
the meeting occurred.
According to MSA President
Abhishek Mahanti, WOLV-TV did
not have the capacity to film meet-
ings that can last a few hours and
have a number of speakers.
"Filming Michigan Student
Assembly meetings with 40 people
around the room, as quickly as we
go, is very hard," Mahanti said. "I
think the two cameras they brought
were insufficient to just have two
full screens and edit accordingly."
Sultani worked for C-SPAN last
year and volunteered her time to
help with the public service broad-
cast of the meeting last week. Sul-

tani said she is unsure why the
broadcasts were cancelled.
"I was thinking we were going
to try a different way to record and
to just set up the whole thing, but I
guess (WOLV-TV) decided against
that," Sultani said.
While WOLV-TV has decided not
to broadcast the meetings, Mahanti
said he will meetwith students from
the station, along with MSA Vice
President Michael Rorro, later this
week to discuss whether the station
could broadcast the meetings to
residence halls in the future.
Though the station has decided
to drop the project, before they
made the decision WOLV-TV pro-
posed a different method of filming,
but decided against it.
Mahanti said the plan involved

using three cameras centered
around a control center in a sepa-
rate room inwhich a manager could
edit the shots as the meeting pro-
gressed.
According to Sultani, WOLV-
TV said it would still be "too much
work" if the station pursued the
alternate plan with three cameras.
Mahanti said in an interview last
month that the project was intend-
ed to create a more transparent stu-
dent government.
"This is an idea we kind of had
in the middle of the semester for
transparency and getting people
involved," Mahanti said in the
interview. "It would be better to
have (meetings) televised. Maybe if
(students) happen to stumble across
it on television, they'd watch it."

In exchange for the volunteer
work of the videographers and the
free price of filming, MSA would
have featured advertisements on
their website for the station.
Though it maynothappen during
his term as president, Mahanti said
last night that the project should
still be a priority.
"I'd like to see it come back,
whether it's in my term or not,"
Mahanti said. "I think it would be
something that would really benefit
both of our bodies."
Dupree said he would like to
have WOLV-TV film MSA meetings
this semester, but there are "pretty
significant hurdles" to overcome.
- Robin Veeck contributed
to this report.

I

!!!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm.
furn. apts. 402 Hill St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735. S COOP U
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to- e e
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universitytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:;
514 Lawrence- 6 bd hosse, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and Indry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking iu1m m "
included.
535 S.e5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry EM I
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have Pa ye
newly refinished hardwood floors on
move in day. Furnished, washer & By advertising on this y
dryer Parking for 2 cars. SaoSmoeuy
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard- Employment Pageyouc
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun- 40,000+ highlyqualified
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from Thisis a great oppurtuni
the stadium. Rent now or for all internships orsummerp
2010. reach the eyes ofmany e
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials! Presented by The Michigan
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR Deadline Feb. i8 at,,
APARTMENT
Published Feb. 25
dailyclassified@g
at (734) 764-0557
michigandaily.com/classifieds
SUMMER
See great places on an interactive map E M PLOYM E N
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices WORK ON MACKIP
summer - Make lifelo
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy? Island House Hotel ar
Check out all of the available proper- Shops are looking for
ties for sale in the area. all areas: Front Desk,.
www.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768 Clerks, Baristas, and
Housing, bonus, and d
available. Call Ryan I
www.theislandhouse.cs
HELP WANTED
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten- CHILDCARE
tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125. AFTERNOON HELP
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the days/wk. Responsihle
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW and good driver. lonara
campus locution! Students apply @ EARLY MORNING
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773 Older child, Respon&
_______________________ and Own Transporlatie;
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude Victoria's S type lingerie
photography. Flexihle hrs, great pay.
Mann he 18. For interview call:
734-678-4181.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM TIK S&T
Paid survey takers needed in A2. TIK S&T
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SPRING BREAK
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE, Thomas USVI Marri
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp. 2bd/2bath sleeps
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net susanjdixon@yz

ment -
ear's Summer
can reach over
dWolverines?
ity for
positions to
ligible students.
Daily Classifieds.
1:30 am
mailcom
4T
NAC Island, this
ong friends. The
id Ryha's Fudge
seasonal help in
Bell Staff; Sales
Kitchen Staff.
iscounted meals
1 (906)847-7196.

SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
t
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifieds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!'o
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.

For Thursday, Jan. 21, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
You might make a new friend today,
especially someone older, more mature,
more experienced or richer. Possibly,
somebody like this will offer you advice.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
Romance with someone older - espe-
cially your boss, a teacher or somebody
in a position of power or wealth - could
begin today. Alternatively, others might
ask for your artistic input on something.
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Long-range travel plans are promis-
ing. You might enjoy religious art today.
Someone older might give you advice or
you'll get an opportunity related to
higher education.
CANCER
(June 211o July 22)
This is an excellent day to benefit
from inheritances, legal discussions,
insurance matters, money back from the
government or anything relatedto a legal
document. It looks like you're the win-
ner!
LEO
(July23 to Aug. 22)
Romance with someone older might
hegin today. An ongoing relutionship
could move to a committed level.
(Weddioghells?) This is a gruet day to
muke long-range plans.
Vp RGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Bosses and authority figures are
impressed with your efforts at work
today. You're making things run more
smoothly for a long time in the future.
LIBRA
(Sept. 23 to Oct. 22)
Artists and musicians con he purticu-
larly productive today. You have the
patience to do your homework, no prac-
tice aind to line your docks up in a row.

SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You'll enjoy purchases for home and
family that are practical and long-
lasting. This is a great day to do anything
related to real estate deals or redecorat-
ing.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22 to Dec. 21)
New relationships that begin today
will be stable and conservative. Your
discussions with others will be objective,
realistic and concerned with practical
matters.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22 to Jan. 19)
This is a good day for business and
commerce. You're in a sensible, practi-
cal frame of mind. You won't take risks,
because you want long-term security.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20 to Feh. 18)
This is perfect day to discuss prob-
lems. You have an objective frame of
mind, and you easily see all sides of a
argument. You might encounter some-
body from a different class or educa-
tional background
PISCES
(Feh. 19 to March 20)
This is a wondeful day for research.
You'll he happy working alone or work-
ing ehind the scenes gertiog data that
will he helpful and practicaloforyour
futare.
YOU BORN TODAY You're very
amhitioos. Most of you are in touch with
your capahilities, and you intend to
smake the most of them. You have a col-
orful personaulity and are comfortahly
down to earth and open with others.
Something about you has a sort of star
quality that attracts others. In the year
ahead, you will study or learn something
vauahle. Lucky you.
Birthdate of Geena Davis, actress;
Richie Hnvens, masician; Izahella Miko,
actress.


0 WANT TO JOIN
THE NEWS SECTION?
" Send an e-mail to
berman@michigandaily.com

P FROM 4-7, 4
ref, own trans.
jen@yahoo.com
2-3 days a week.
sihile references
n. 734-769-1462
RAVEL
(2/28-3/7)5St
iott beachfront
8. $2000,
ahoo.com

C 2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8A - Wednesday, January 20, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Michigan's comeback effort against
Alaska shows late-game promise

Wolverines are 0-8-1
when trailing after
the second period
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Writer
There are times in sporting
events when players just have to
reach deep down and pull out a lit-
tle something extra. That determi-
nation to refuse to relinquish their
grip on the game is what sparks
comebacks.
It's what movies are made of,
what Gatorade commercials try to
capture and what every competitor
relishes.
The Michigan hockey team
hadn't had one of those comeback
moments this season until Satur-
day's shootout loss against Alaska.
The Wolverines found themselves
with their backs against the wall
after seniorBrian Lebler and junior
Tristin Llewellyn took penalties
within seven seconds of each other
early in the second period.
The Nanooks proceeded to take
full advantage, scoring two power-
play goals and creating a seemingly
insurmountable 3-1 lead. To make
matters worse, Alaska is notorious
for its tough defense, especially
when it takes a lead.
When Michigan traveled to
Alaska at the beginning of the sea-
son to play the Nanooks in Anchor-
age, the Wolverines gave up the
first goal and struggled to beat
Alaska's suffocating defense. Frus-
trated offensively, Michigan suf-
fered a 2-0 shutout loss.
"The first goal of the game was
really important," Berenson said
after the Oct. 9 loss. "And (Alas-
ka), when they got it, they milked
it pretty good. They played good
(defense). And when they got the

second one, that's all they needed." them.
Saturday's 3-1 lead could eas- Junior forward Matt Rust start-
ily have been the same recipe for ed the comeback when he carried
disaster for the Wolverines, but the puck behind Alaska's net and
this time it felt different. laid it off to freshman Kevin Lynch.
The Wolverines held a players- The freshman forward was able to
only meeting before the start of get enough of his stick on the puck,
the second half of the season. with a defenseman in front of him,
They talked about staying positive to beat Alaska's goalie Scott Green-
when they fall behind and how the ham for the goal.
team has the ability to come from Rust was at it again when he won
behind. a faceoff late in the third period
"No offense to the coaches, butI and sent the puck over to an open
think when the players do it them- Chad Langlais. The junior sent the
selves, on their own accord, I think puck through a crowd of players to
we come together, come closer - cap off Michigan's comeback.
we understand," junior forward "We proved to everyone, espe-
Louie Caporusso said. "Because at cially to ourselves and our team-
the end of the day, you're playing mates, that we are a good team,"
for the guy next to you, and when junior forward Carl Hagelin said.
you can all get on the same page, "We just need to believe in our-
that helps aton." selves - even though we're down,
After the team meeting, the we can come back. We're a strong
results were immediately appar- team, good skaters. If we have a
ent with a comeback win on Jan. 8 good game, no one should be able
against Western Michigan. Michi- to skate with us."
gan was down 2-1 in the middle The rest of the game didn't go
of the second period against the quite the way Michigan wanted
Broncos, and the Wolverines fired - the Wolverines lost 1-0 in a
off three unanswered goals to take shootout. Michigan couldn't quite
the lead, winningthe game 4-3. put Alaska away, bu seen as a tie
Alaska was a whole different outside the CCHA, the game could
test for them though, since the mean a lot more for the team.
Nanooks rely on clogging the neu- The Wolverines improved to
tral zone and sitting back in the 0-8-1 when trailing after the sec-
defensive zone. That is, quality ond period. That one tie will be a
scoring chances are just not as easy memorable one for the Wolver-
to come by. ines and not because it was the
Michigan stressed how few scor- first overtime game Michigan has
ing chances it would get against played since the 2007-08 season,
Alaska in practice leading up to and not because it was the Wolver-
the weekend series. And Michigan ines' first-ever shootout. It could be
coach Red Berenson thought his remembered as the turning pointof
team's improvement in finishing their season.
scoring opportunities could be one "It's just another glimpse of
of the main differences between confidence, another experience,"
the teams' first and second meet- Berenson said. "They can talk in
ings. the locker room that they can come
The Wolverines weren't going back. We can come back. We've
to have the game handed to them been behind before, and against
by the Nanooks - Michigan would good defensive teams. So that was a
have to go out and take it from good statement for our team."

0

SAID ALSALAH/Daily
Sophomore Zack Novak and redshirt senior Zack Gibson execute a double team in the Wolverines' loss to Boston College early
this season. Michigan's defense held Connecticut to just 23 points the first half of Sunday's 68-63 upset victory.
Wisconsin will showcase
frustrating Big Ten defense

Wanna join Daily Sports?
Come to our last mass meeting.
Sunday, Jan. 24th, 6 p.m. @ 420 Maynard St.

By CHRIS MESZAROS
Daily Sports Editor
In their upset win over then-No.
15 Connecticut on Sunday, the Wol-
verines learned that they can win
games on defense.
"Even if you
shoot 10 percentM
you can hold the Michigan at
opponent to nine *
percent," sopho-
more forward Matchup:
Zack Novak said Michigan 10-7;
after the game. Wisconsin 14-4
Tonight, the When: Tonight
recharded Michi- at 8:30 P.M.
gan squad faces a
Wisconsin team Where: Kohl
that learned the Center
same thing long TV: Big Ten
ago. Network
There's no
question Michi-
gan's effort on
defense has been improving, and the
Wolverines had their best defensive
gamethis weekend. They shut down
a much larger Connecticut team in
the post for mostof the first half and
in the second, they continued to play
well despite foul trouble.
"It's just what we're hanging our
hat on," Novak said. "Especially
with our offensive woes that we've
had. Defense is a constant. You can
always play defense."
While Connecticut shot better
than the Wolverines from the floor

- 42 percent to just 37 percent for
Michigan on the game - the Wol-
verines held the Huskies to 1-of-11
from beyond the arc and forced 17
turnovers.
Thursday's defensive effort
against Indiana was equally impres-
sive. Michigan limited the Hoosiers
to just 45 points, the lowest total the
Wolverines have allowed from any
opponent this season.
But Michigan is up against a team
with a more established defense
than its own tonight.
The Wolverines (3-2 Big Ten, 10-7
overall) head to the Kohl Center in
Madison, one of college basketball's
toughest venues, to face Wisconsin,
a team predicated on slow, half-
court play and a tremendous defen-
sive effort.
That defense has brought the
Badgers (4-2, 14-4) from a team
pegged to finish somewhere in the
middle of the conference before the
season to a No. 18 national ranking,
the third-highest among Big Ten
teams behind just Michigan State
and Purdue, Michigan's next two
opponents after Wisconsin.
"People doubted them coming in
this year, but they play outstand-
ing defense, and that's why they're
ranked where they're at," sopho-
more gaurd Stu Douglass said. "We
have to match that. We can't just
come out and overpower them
offensively, we have to play our part
on defense."

"Defense is a
constant. You
can always
play defense. "

0

It will be difficult to beat the
Badgers at their own game, but the
task is even more daunting given
that Michigan hasn't beaten Wis-
consin at the Kohl Center in more
than a decade, and that the Badgers *
are riding a 15-game home winning
streak.

The last time Michigan beat the
Badgers, Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan
was notyet inthe picture.Inhis nine
years in Madison, Ryan has built the
Badgers into a fundamentally sound
defensive team that maintains a
slow tempo, consistently frusterat-
ing Michigan in years past.
"They just do not beat them-
selves," Michigan coach John
Beilein said at Monday's Big Ten
teleconference. "They play tremen-
dous fundamental basketball, and
when you're on the road, just like
any other time you are on the road,
you need to be a lot better than the
other team to win."

0

0

0"


0

0

0

0

9

8B The Statement / Wednesday January 20, 2010
PERSONALSTATEM ENT

COPENHAGEN CONUNDRUM
BYAUBREYANN PARKER

Ileft Copenhagen the day before
President Barack Obama arrived on
his white horse to save the United
Nations climate talks - or so the Amer-
itan media would paint the scene. As I
boarded my flight, however, I couldn't
help feeling disenchanted by what I'd
experienced over the last nine days.
Unlike many of the reporters
reworking the "Yes We Can" slogan
to fit the climate mantra, I had stood
alongside more than 200 NGO mem-
bers denied access to the Bella Center,
home of the two-week-long COP15
U.N. Climate Change Conference, as
those with press badges slid through
security.
I marched through the city streets
with 50,000 peaceful climate protest-
ers as Western journalists skewed our
positive message by playing up police
arrests to sell sensational headlines.
I saw no arrests during my five-hour,
stx-kilometer walk.
I saw the pallid looks on the faces
of those who had come from the far
reaches of the world - from small
island nations in the South Pacific to
the Andean peaks to the sub-Saharan
plains - as the African nations walked
DISABILITIES, From Page 5B
than $100 out of her own pocket each
month for medication.
- But what helps her get through her
illness is her support group, started
by her University Hospital doctor
several years ago.
"They are so wonderful," Felder
said. "We meet once a month and
it's professors and students and grad
students and my doctor from the Uni-
versity. It's a great way to say, 'Hey
I'm having these issues with sleep, is
anybody else having these issues? Is
it normal?"'
The stigma that so often accompa-
nies a disability is a major reason
why so many students with invis-
ible disabilities make the decision not
to disclose their limitations to the
majority of their peers, believing that
as soon as people are aware that they
suffer from something out of the ordi-
nary, they will be treated differently
or judged.

out of the negotiations during the sec-
ond week.
The energy of more than 35,000
global citizens who had descended
upon the Bella Center reached its cli-
max in the last few days and was mak-
ing a sharp descent into anguish and
despair. The buzz from the conference
center had changed from the glossy-
eyed hope of the week before as reality
sank in.
Though there were still two days
of negotiations left, as I flew out of
Copenhagen I knew the talks had
failed.
The governments would come up
with something, but nothing that
would actually hold anyone liable if
they were to continue emitting vast
amounts of greenhouse gases into the
atmosphere -especially not big pow-
erhouse carbon producing countries
like the United States or China.
I had little time to ponder the past
week's events before I noticed that
the man placing his luggage in the
compartment above my head was still
wearing his COP15 pass. I reached
inside my coat for the lanyard still
draped around my neck and flashed it
Though many of these students
aren't visibly different from the
people they pass on the street, their
disabilities may require actions or
behaviors that seem strange when
unexplained, which often leads other
students to judge them unfairly.
Lembryk, for example, must carry
an umbrella and wear sunglasses and
a scarf when it's sunny due to the
severe photosensitivity she has as a
result of her lupus.
"It's annoying. I wish I could just
tell people, 'Hey, you know, there's
a reason that I do this. Do you think
that a sane person would be carrying
an umbrella when it's 70 degrees out-
side and beautiful?'" she said.
Felder, who is fairly upfront about
her Crohn's disease, says that despite
her attempts to inform her classmates
about her disability, she has received
less-then-ideal reactions as some-
times, students "literally scoot their
chairs away" when she talks about
the disease in class.
There is also, at times, the issue
of other students thinking accom-

wordlessly at Mr. Charles T. O. King
III, a Liberian delegate, who returned
my gesture with a smile.
"You must be proud of what your
country has done here," he said to me.
Thinking he was being sarcastic, I
laughed. Confused at my gesture, he
prodded me again.
"I left Copenhagen the dc
before Obama arrived on
white horse to save the U
climate talks."
"No, actually," I responded, frown-
ing once I realized he was serious. "I'm
not pleased."
King was relentless in his pursuit of
the reason for my discontent. I turned
my attention to the flight attendant
demonstrating oxygen masks in a
failed attempt to avoid King's incredu-
lous gaze.
I told King how disheartened I had
become when I heard that his country-
men had walked out of the negotiating
modations means disabled students
are getting "special treatment." For
example, LSA sophomore Sara Rabi-
nowe, who was diagnosed with two
learning disabilities in the begin-
ning of elementary school, said her
classmates often judge her for getting
accommodations because they don't
understand how difficult it is to live
with her disability.
"I've had a little bit here of'she gets
special treatment, she gets this,' the
sort of jealousy, almost, because they
don'tunderstand how hard it is to live
with this," Rabinowe said.
"Just from them not understand-
ing that with every accommodation
comes a million other things I do on
my own in order to make that accom-
modation so minor actually when you
look at the way my life works."
Though some members of the dis-
abled community would like the
University to take a larger role in
advocating for and raising awareness
of disabilities on campus, SSWD "acts
under a philosophy of self-advocacy,"

talks. I explainedthat I didn't think the
United States had come in with a pro-
gressive enough plan. I was angered
that the European Union and other
developed nations had only offered $10
billion dollars to be split between all of
the developingnations of the world.
As I helped him change the SIM
card in his cell phone back to his Libe-
rian carrier, King told me of a Dutch
girl he had met who reminded him of
his own daughter. While he was lost
in the city center, she had bought him
a coffee and patiently given him direc-
tions.
"Young people today are so helpful,"
he said, smiling at meas I handed back
his phone. "They are so knowledge-
able about these kinds
of things - things that
ay do not come so natu-
. hs rally to my generation,
his sometimes stuck in our
N old-fashioned ways."
King explained
that he was not pres-
ent when the African
nations walked out of
the talks, although he wishes he had
been. He would have liked to know
what, exactly, was said to warrant such
decisive, drastic action that could only
hinder further progress.
When I scoffed at the idea of any-
thing concrete being signed within the
next two days, he told me that he was
absolutely certain something would be
signed, and even if it weren't as pro-
gressive as it should be, it would be a
step in the right direction.
Segal said.
"In other words, part of what we're
trying to do is turn people into young,
responsible, independent adults, and
part of the way of doing that is mak-
ing people advocate for themselves,"
Segal said.
Part of this notion of self-advocacy
includes changing the campus's per-
ception of the disabled community
without the University's help. For
example, if individuals want peer
mentors or support groups, it's their
responsibility to make that hap-
pen. Likewise, if individuals sense a
stigma associated with disabilities
on campus, the disabled community
must find a voice within itself to raise
awareness of disability issues rather
than rely on the University to make
this change for them.
"There's a lot of people who have
very mixed feelings about that,"
Segal said. "Some are really eager to
take that on and thrive on the respon-
sibility and independence, and they
really grow. Others are really sort of
resistant to it and really wish that we

He assured me that because of the
networking he and other delegates
were able to do at COP15, techno-
logical advances in the pursuit of cut-
ting carbon emissions would soon be
implemented in many Liberian homes,
thanks in part to the $10 billion that
was promised.
This man from one of the countries
that had walked out of negotiations
days before was able to reflect posi-
tively on the conference as he returned
home.
As I listened to King stress the
importance of the education of his
countrymen in the fight against cli-
mate change, I began to feel ashamed
of myself. What was my pessimism
contributing to the argument? Abso-
lutely nothing.
If I and the other 11 University stu-
dents who attended the conference
- or for that matter the 35,000 from
around the world - returned home
skeptical, cynical and bitter, what good
would that do for those who looked to
us for insight into what had taken place
and where to go with future endeav-
ors?
I felt my spirits lifta little as we flew
above the gray clouds and gloom that
had hung over Copenhagen.
"I do not worry," King went on,
"because I am confident that you
young people will come up with a solu-
tion. Because you must, and you know
you must." U
- Aubrey Ann Parker is
an Engineering senior.
would do more for them."
Dembo would be an example of the
former. He has already taken steps to
catalyze a more open discussion of
disabilities on campus through Inter-
group Relations, which he says helps
"create a dialogue of people with dif-
ferent ability identities."
"Because even in academia, a dis-
ability is considered a minority or a
group that is oppressed, but there is
not a lot done to discuss the issue,"
Dembo said. "On this campus, there's
a lot done discussing race; there's a
lot done discussing sexual orienta-
tion and attractionality, religion. But
there's not a lot discussing ability.
And that's something I'm trying to
bring some discussion.
"This is an issue that affects every-
body, no matter your disability status,
and I think everybody needs to get
involved in first, recognizing what
problems exist," Dembo said. "But
there needs tobe something that gets
everybody together, not to unify peo-
ple for support, but to make this orga-
nized."

SILENTLY DISABLED
THE EVERYDAY STRUGGLES OF THOSE WITH INVISIBLE DISABILITIES
SEE PAGE 4B
hfle Midtigan 4&)itu




0

0

2B- The Statement // Wednesday, January 20, 2010

A Ury 20, 2010 The Statement
ABOUTCAMPUS

statement
Magazine Editor:
Trevor Calero
Editor in Chief:
Jacob Smilovitz
Managing Editor:
Matt Aaronson
Deputy Editor:
Allie White
Designers:
Sara Boboltz
Corey DeFever
Photo Editor:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Erin Flannery
Danqing Tang
Cover photo:
Jed Moch
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year. To contact The State-
met e-mail calero@michigandaily.
cam

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview

Hello?
Hi, is this Demetrius?
No.
Oh, who's this?
His father.
Who?
His father.
Oh, OK. We're calling from The
Michigan Daily. It's the student
newspaper at U of M and we're
conducting a Random Student
Interview and we were gonna
interview Demetrius but we're
wondering if we could interview
you instead?
[Pause]
Is that ok?
Yeah.
My name's Trevor Calero and I
normally conduct the interview.
But one of my co-workers wants to
do it. His name is Jake Fromm.
Jake: So whats your name?
Du-Juan.
We just kind of wanted to ask you
about robots. And we just wanted
to know your feelings on robots.
[Click]

Jake: I think he hungup.
Trevor: Yeah, he definitely hung
up. Let's call someone else.
[Ring, ring, ring]
Hello?
Hi, is this Elizabeth?
Yes it is.
Hi Elizabeth, my name is Jake
Fromm. I'm from The Michigan
Daily and I'm conducting this
week's Random Student Interview.
Do you mind taking a couple min-
utes to answer some questions?
Sure, yeah.
Ok,great. First ofall, what year are
you?
I'm an MBA 2.
Where did you get your undergrad-
uate degree?
At the Naval Academy.
Oh, the Naval Academy, I have a
friend there. He's a sophomore. I
don't know what the term is but...
Yeah, he'd be a'youngster.'
How was your experience at the
Naval Academy?
It was tough but definitely worth the
experience and I actually cross-corn-,

missioned to the Coast Guard and I'm
still there, they're sending me to get
my MBA. I love it.
So let me ask you, were you a Nick-
elodeon fan as akid?
Yeah, definitely.
What would you say your favorite
showwas?
I used towatch 'HeyDude' with Mela-
nie and Brad and all the others.
'Hey Dude,' I don't know, I think
that was before my time. Maybe I'll
check it out online.
Yeah, it's pretty old school, but it's
really lame. I would call it really lame
if I had to see it again.
That's fair. OK, so what about any
special skills that you learned at
the Naval Academy. Judging from
the sound of my voice do you think
you could beat me up?
I thinkI'd havea pretty good shot at it.
Yeah, I would probably have to
agree with that.
I learned how to kill people silently, so
that might be a useful skill.
I'm sorry, did youjust say you know
how to killpeople silently?

Yes.
And if I asked you to elaborate
on that, would you have to kill me
silently after telling me?
Yes.
So, as an MBA student, what do you
do on campus?
Well, I pretend like I study a lot, so
that's good.
You pretend like you're studying,
but really you're killing people
silently.
Actually, that's exactly what happens.
I didn't want to spell that out explic-
itly, but you guessed it.
I'm becoming more and more
frightened during the course of
this phone call.
Well, fortunatelyfor me, Ihave friends
that can find out where you live.
And how do I know you're not out-
side the window watching me right
now?
Actually, you don't.
- Elizabeth is an MBA 2 in the Ross
School of Business. Demetrius wishes
his father never answered the phone.

GOODBYE FACEBOOK
BY LIDIA JEAN KOTT

I noticed agirl frommy class walking
my way and decided I could talk to her
instead. It turned out she lives near my
dorm in a church that was converted
into an apartmentbuilding. She invited
me over for dinner sometime. With-
out technology, I was forced to talk to
someone right there, in the flesh and
blood, rather than spend the walk home
chatting into an electronic box.
I didn't set an alarm for Sunday
morning, planning to wake up when
the sun hit my face. But without the
familiar wake up call of my cell phone,
I woke sometime in the late afternoon.
My roommate, Cassie, and I decided to
go to the cafeteriatogether to eat.
"Wait, let me get my cell phone,"
Cassie said as I began to closed the door.
Looking at me with realization on her
face, she said in solidarity, "Nevermind,
I don't think I need it."
As we walked down the hall, both

THE STATEMENT IS CURRENTLY TAKING SUBMISSIONS FOR ITS ANNUAL LITERATURE ISSUE.
If you would like to submit original works of poetry or fiction, please e-mail calero@michigandaily.com.

college student devoid of mod-
ern technological advances,
things my peers and I believe to
beutternecessitiesofdailylife, is ascary
thought. So when I told my friends that
I'd been assigned to write a story that
required me to live without technol-
ogy for the weekend - no cell phone, no
computer, no iPod - their response was
predictable: "Oh, my God! Why would
you take that assignment?" With their
reactions in mind and apprehension
about the upcoming few days gnawing
at me, I spent Friday night in ResComp
trying to finish anything I might need
the Internet for over the weekend.
Descartes once said, "I think there-
fore Iam." But does it count as thinking
if you don't text it to someone or post
it as a status update on Facebook? As I
literally logged out for the entire week-
end, I thought to myself, "Without the
Internet, do I really even exist?"
As I walked to an all-day retreat for
my theater and social change class the
next morning sans iPod, I noticed the
sound oftcrows for the first time outside
of East Quad. I told myself I was con-
necting to nature, but really the dispa-
rate "ca-caws" created an atmosphere
even more ominous than the mourn-
ful songs of Elliot Smith I'm usually
plugged into every morning.
For the first time in my life, I was on
time. Without my cell phone, I had no
idea what time it was and just assumed
I'd be late. Thanks to my lack of a digi-
tal clock, I had half an hour to sit and
wistfully think oftironic text messages I
could send my friends about how miser-
able I was and howI wished I was back
in my dorm room.
But it ended up being a good thing
that I didn't have my phone as a dis-
traction. The retreat turned out to be
an incredibly moving experience as
everyone explained their reasons for
taking the course, and the stories they
shared about aboutwhythey were com-
mitted to social change were unforget-

table. When I wasn't distracted by a
constantly blinking phone, I was able to
learn how to look at people differently
through a clear, unadulterated lens.
Still, my fingers itched for a phone
out of habit. I discovered that while
10-minute breaks don't exist solely for
flipping through cell phone contacts,
I missed sliding my phone open and
closed and its obedient vibrations in my
hand when I pressed certain buttons.

Without that, I was forced to linger by
the food table and eat barbeque potato
chips.
The retreat ended at 5 p.m., and,
thrust out into the cold street corner of
South State and Huron, I yearned to call
someone and deconstruct my experi-
ence. I felt shaken up bythe day's events
and wanted to talk to one oftmy friends
from home to sort out what I was feel-
ing.


Global Policy Perspectives Symposia
Key Issues in Southeast Asian Development

Friday, January 22, 2010
4:00 - 5:30 p.m.
Reception to follow.

free oftechnological constraints, Cassie
said, "that was liberating."
Sitting across from Cassie in the
cafeteria, I felt liberated too. But I also
felt a little anxious. Worries kept flying
through my head. What if I had work
today? Did my boss e-mail me? How
could she call me? What if I'm fired?
When was my French essay due again?
After breakfast, Cassie and I parted
ways to study in different places with
different people, but planned to meet
again at 7 p.m. for dinner.
"How are we going to do that,
though?" Iasked with genuine concern.
"I guess like in the olden days, with
a time and a place," Cassie said after a
moment of quiet reflection. And so we
decided to meet at a coffee shop in Ker-
rytown later that day.
I walked to the library where I was
planning to study in the interim with an
extra bounce in my step. My backpack
was lighter without my laptop and I felt
good about our plan. It seemed moie
concrete than our usual "call me" vari-

Emmanuel Jimenez, Panelist
Sector Director for Human Development in the East Asia Region, World Bank
Linda Lim, Panelist
Professor of Strategy Ross School of Business. Univest oMihgn

0
LLi
z
0
z
L1

It e
<'N'
'rI'- r
( N

Jll
-rh 5 wM , :
} vT v 7- "ft
,c Tgt,
o5S tzC"SO !

ety.
But at 6:45 p.m., the friend I was
studying with received a call. It was
Cassie. She wanted me to know that
the place we had planned to meet was
closed, and that she'd meet me back in
our room instead. Even though I hadn't
used the phone directly, I still felt the
guilt of cheating.It served as a reminder
of the undeniable conveniences oftmod-
ern communication.
When I woke up Monday morning,
the first thing I did was turn on my cell
phone. It was not overflowing with
vital information and desperate "where
are you?" questions like I'd expected.
Though I admit I was slightly disap-
pointed my phone didn't explode with
an overflowing inbox, I realized, more
importantly, that while I was removed
from technology for the weekend, I did
not cease to exist.
I went on with my life. It may not
have been "normal" as I've always
known it, with immediate access to
a phone, music and computer, but it
allowed me to be where I actually was
for once.
Like that I'd noticed the sound of
the birds outside my dorm on the first
morning, my lack ofmodern inventions
gave me a chance to really look at tiR-
world around me and take it in without
distraction. And, best of all, I inadver-
tently trained myselfnot to jump every
time I hear something vibrate.

Ford School of Public Policy------------"" - ' ---',I--
Annenberg Auditorium John D. Ciorciari, Panelist
1120 Weill Hall Assistant Professor, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, University oftMichigan
Info: www.ipc.umich.edu Kristine Chong, Moderator
MPP '10 Candidate, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, University of Michigan
The International Policy Center's Global Policy Perspectives Symposia (GPPS) series, itiated in 2008, brings together
distinguished visitors and U-M faculty for a discussion of current issues in international policy.
eansnalPOl(er Sponsored by: International Policy Center, International Policy Students Association (IPSA), and the Center for
atxadRPd&~fVIPY Southeast Asian Studies.

earn more about tne Peace Corps.
Attend an information session.

.,
,..
; .. ,.
.
F.
: s

Wednesday, January 20th
6:30 p.m.
U-M International Center, Room 9

GRADUATING THIS YEAR? WHAT'S THE ONE THING YOU'D LIKE TO DO
WITH THE TIME YOU HAVE LEFT?
The Statement is taking suggestions for its first ever Bucket List issue.
Tell us what you'd put on your bucket list. Send your suggestions to calero@michigandaily.com.

800.424.8580 j www.peacecorps.gov
Life is calling. How far will you go?


0

0

Wednesday, 3B

news in review

News Feed ii Michigan Athletics Suggestions
 - Gdn joined the Michigan network.

QCa 4, y=e, 4 r -n V^ fnrc-

Status Updates
J Photos
Michigan
Groups

zlikes this.

:,...
:
;

and

are now friends with

29red are fans.
' Reconnect with him.
Connect With Friends
Invite friends to join Facebook


Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
Tess Chapin, a high school stu- Mikey Hicks, an 8-year-old cub Republican Scott Brown beat Google announced that it will stop On Tue
dent from Queens, NY, started a scout from N.J., has been on TSA's Democrat Martha Coakley in Mas- censoring its Chinese search engine, pledged
Facebook petition to convince her "selectee" list since birth. He shares sachusetts' election for the Senate google.cn, and may completely diers frc
parents to shorten the five-week a name with someone deemed sus- seat formerly held by Ted Kennedy. withdraw its presence in China in the in hope
grounding they gave her after she picious by the Dept. of Homeland Brown's victory denies Democrats near future. The move would deprive forts tal
missed her 11:30 p.m. curfew. Ado- Security, leading to intense security the 60-seat Senate majority needed about 300 million users from having week's*
lescent rebellion for the 21st century. screenings when he travels. to override potential filibusters. access to the site. the dev
- -- - -

sday, the United Nations
dto send more police and sol-
om around the world to Haiti
s of speeding up the relief ef-
king place in the wake of last
7.0 magnitude earthquake
astated the island nation.

is considering bringing free pizza to all sporting events

next year.

like this.

Use our contactit r to find
friends you didn't know were on
Facebook.
Sjoined i Use Facebook on your
phcne to connect with friends on
the go.

and

the group;

left the group
likes this.

and 1 others are attending

T3

joined the group

and

L~i1 2 3 4 5 i 6i 7 8 19101
quotes of the week on the cheap
"Basically this is the first time in the economy of the United How to get around on the cheap
States that a male has actually stood up and said,'I want to
do this for a living.'
'MARCUS,'the first legal male prostitute in the United States, on how his decision
to become a 'gigolo' is actually about his desire to change social norms rather than
just sell his body.
"They got together and swore a pact to the devil."
Televangelist PAT ROBERTSON on a demonic pact he believes was made between
the Haitians and the Devil to gain independence, which ultimately caused the earth-
quake.
"Sarah, I want to read to you what I wrote last night in my
journal, because it's about you."
GLENN BECK, conservative political television show host, to Sarah Palin upon
meeting her for the first time during an interview for The Glenn Beck Program. ILLUSTRATION-BY KATIE EBERTS
Getting from point A to point B should be the least of our worries. But as college students
with limited financial funds, $8 is a hefty sum for a cab ride from the Hill to Studio on
Thursday night. So why not learn to get around on the cheap?
the r ulelsWhile they're neither practical at night nor comfortable in the cold, bikes are cheap, environ-
mentally friendly and body-conscious modes of transportation. Just remember to wear a helmet!
Though it's probably true that no one actually enjoys the University buses, they're free and
No. 242: No. 243: No. 244: relatively convenient when you're on campus. Just don't expect one to pick you up at the bar
S Foods that are either It's still winter.Yeah, it's annoying when your roommate who doesn't have a car asks you to drive him some-
Stormingthcourt Fwhere, but just turn it back on him and hint that he owes you a ride. Even though it's your car he'll
after the basketball crunchy, smelly or Please wear a jacket. be driving, you still get a relatively free ride out of the "pay-it-forward" mentality.
game on Sunday was both do not belong in And closed-toe Um, walk.
Have advice for life on the cheap? Let us know. E-mail onthecheup@umich.edu
a perfectly appropriate the Reference Room shoes when you re
response. of the Grad. Ever. outside. - ALLIE WHITE
by the num bers cOURTESY OF THE NEW YORK TIMES
The current estimated body count inflated price of a small water bottle in Tons of food the UN's World Food Pro-
in Haiti the main market in downtown Port-au- gram planned to distribute on Monday
Prince to the affected areas of Haiti

r'

Malty
3 days

Harris became a fan of The Ns
ago . Comment -"Like ."Become a Fan

William Martin bought a 48-foot catamaran on Facebook
Marketplace.
4 days ago - Comment - Like " See Wall-to-Wall
Denard Robinsen looks like I'm pretty good at this whole track and
field thing...
4 ays ago .Comment'- Lile

Applications l

Compiled by Daily Staff
Chat (47)




0 0

0

0

1

IBy Jenna SkollerPhoto illustration by Jed Moch

There are1,240 students on campus with disabilities - the majority of which are unseen. For these students, among life's struggles is making do while few oth

ers know you're sick.

L SA junior Claire Abraham has been in a wheelchair since she
was four. At 18 months, Abraham was diagnosed with spinal
muscular atrophy - a neuromuscular disease that essential-
ly breaks down her motor neurons and weakens her muscles,
severely limiting her ability to move on her own. Despite these limita-
tions, Abraham is now in her third year at the University, living in a
residence hall on Central Campus.

Though Abraham is quite capable of living on
her own, it hasn't always been that way. For her
first two years at the University,
Abraham com- muted to Ann
Arbor each day with her
mother, Stacy Abraham, who
helped her adjust to life as
a college student with a disability.
The Abrahams said that, in her three years on
campus, Claire hasn't encountered
much adversity, and that stu-
dents have generally been glad
to help - they will assist Claire
by pushing buttons she can't
reach or isn't strong enough to
push and will open doors for her.
Some students will, however, when in
a hurry, leta door slam into Claire or only open
one door, leaving her in a vestibule unable to get
through the second door. "But for the most part,
a lot of people are very aware of her chair and
they'll try to go out of their way or (apologize) if,
they didn't notice to get the door for her," Stacey"
Abraham said.
Though Abraham's experience is often
what people think of when it comes to
those with disabilities, there is a larger
group of disabled students on campus
who deal with similar struggles but of
a completely different nature. For these
individuals, whose disabilities are considered
invisible' - those that aren't first apparent
to the general observer - the
struggle lies not only in cop-
ing with their disabilities,
but doing so in a world that
doesn't . know they're
sick.
Stuart Segal, ;
interim director
of Services for

Students with Disabilities - a University orga-
nization that offers assistance to students with
various types of disabilities - said there are 1,240
students currently registered with SSWD. The
majority of these students, however, aren't vis-
ibly disabled. They have invisible disabilities -
mental and chronic health conditions, traumatic
brain injuries, pervasive development disabilities
like Asperger's syndrome and visual and hearing
impairments. And though the majority of students
registered with SSWD have invisible disabilities,
to the University community these may appear
less common simply because they are unseen.
Though Abraham says she has been well
received and accommodated while at the Universi-
ty, many students registered with SSWD who have
invisible disabilities shared different opinions.
Many expressed feelings of isolation and stressed
that further efforts need to be taken - like peer
support groups or mentorships - to improve the
experience of students on campus with
invisible disabilities. Others said, how-
ever, that what truly needs to be done
is to increase awareness for stu-
dents with all types of disabilities,
not just visible ones.
LSA sophomore
Candyce Hill
suffers from
albinism, a
disease that
results from a
lack of melanin
pigment in the
eyes, skin and
hair. For some,
albinism

can be a visible disability, but for Hill, the disease
is invisible. The albinism significantly affects
Hill's eyesight and her ability to read small print,
but to the University, Hill simply looks like she has
blonde hair and fair skin.
"I think the problem is that when (someone)
looks at a disability that you can see - someone
walking on crutches or someone who's completely
blind - then it's almost as if they know that they
have to be sensitive and they really don't have a
choice," Hill said. "Butwhenit's notsomethingyou
can notice right away - and in fact if they never
told you, you might never know - it's almost like
they get the sense that it can't be that bad."
When Beth Becker began her masters pro-
gram at the University in 2006, her pri-
mary concern was, like most, academic
success. But less than a year after moving to Ann
Arbor, Becker was diagnosed with an uncommon,
yet severe, disorder called Wegener's granuloma-
tosis - an autoimmune disease that damages the
lungs, kidneys and other internal organs. Since the
disease only affects internal organs, the condition
is not visible to the public. But the symptoms of the
disease and the results of Becker's treatment are
significant.
Because of her illness, Becker sometimes loses
her voice and suffers from sporadic memory loss,
making it difficult for her to participate in class.
And while she was rarely absent beforethe diagno-
ses, Becker is now forced to miss class for extended
periods of time to receive treatments that often
require days of recuperation.
Throughout her time at the University, Becker
has struggled to deal with limitations from her
disease that negatively affect her academic per-
formance. For example, though she would like to
avoid taking narcotics to stay active in class - the
pain medication she takes makes her lethargic and
unresponsive - the effects of doing so are often
debilitating.
"It could be finals week. It could be the first day
of class," Becker said of when her symptoms flare
up. "It's really completely unpredictable, which is,
I think, one of the hardest things about having a
chronic disease at school."
Because ofher disability, Becker has been forced
to redefine her metrics for success. Getting an 'A'
on an exam or a paper is no longer a top priority
for her. "One day it might be getting out of bed, the
other it'might be submitting a paper for
publication," she said. "I think when
you're dealing with a chronic illness
or a disability, your definition of

success can change from day-to-day."
Though Becker has attempted to restructure
her life, and expectations, with consideration of
her disability, she has found it difficult to do so in
a setting as competitive and academically rigorous
as the University.
"(It)'s hard to (redefine success) when you're in
an environment that has a very strict definition of
success," Becker said. "And that (definition) is pro-
ductivity. So, when you can't be productive, you
feel unsuccessful. And that's hard."
Like Becker, many of the students registered
with SSWD are only recently disabled. Some were
diagnosed with the disability shortly before com-
ing to the University; others were diagnosed well
into their time at college. For those with new dis-
abilities like Becker, learning to accept new limita-
tions is often difficult and unwelcome.
"It was a huge adjustment going from a high-
achieving, healthy student who could do what she
wanted to being limited by this disease and its
effects and its medications," Becker said.
To help with this adjustment, the University
does encourage professors to allow certain aca-
demic accommodations for students registered
with SSWD, like extra time for exams, exten-
sions for class assignments and additional excused
absences. However, many students feel uncom-
fortable asking for these accommodations.
Rackham graduate student Leslie Rott said that
during her first year at the University, she seemed
to wake up every day with a new and unfamiliar
symptom. But despite undergoing multiple diag-
nostic tests, no one could initially pinpoint the
cause. It wasn't until a week before the end of the
academic year that she was diagnosed with rheu-
matoid arthritis and lupus - a chronic inflam-
matory disease
that attacks
the
body's
tissues "
and
organs.
Rott
said
she was
unsure of
what accom-
modations she would be entitled to going
into her second year.Unlike those whohavelived most
of their lives with disabilities, she had no previous
experience as a disabled individual and
didn't even know how to go about
asking for accommo- dations.

"A part of it, too, is that, at least in my case, I'm
asking for help and accommodations that I. don't
want to be asking for, that I never thought I would
have to be asking for," she said. "So it's really dif-
ficult to actively try and do this yourself."
R ecentUniversitygraduate AnnaLembrykwas
diagnosed with lupus during her junior year
of college. In addition to academic accommo-
dations, Lembryk has had to deal with the social
aspects of her disability. Her condition requires
her to sleep more than the typical college student.
She goes to bed around 10:30 p.m. every night and
takes a half-hour nap every day - a sleep schedule
that often places a burden on her social life.
LSA sophomore Anna Clements has to deal
with similar issues. Clements was in a car accident
at the end of high school that resulted in a trau-
matic brain injury, which caused memory loss and
depression. And while most students can procras-
tinate and pull all-nighters to catch up with work,
Clements can't stay up late to study or write papers
because her "brain just doesn't function" if she is
exhausted.
"I have to be really good with not only time
management, but also energy management. And
so I have to gauge the number of the hours in the,
day that I have energy, and I have to get everything
important into those hours," she said. "When I use
my energy on socializing or going to the gym -
things that are completely fine for most people -
for me, it's now that my energy
isagone."
LSA junior Robbie
Dembo first began expe-
riencing chronic back pain
during his freshman year
at the University. The pain
severely impedes his ability to
walk even short distances, forcing him to drive
everywhere he goes. Dembo said this not only
affects his studies, but like Lembryk and Clements,
his social life as well. In addition to taking a lighter
course load, which means he might notgraduate in
four years, Dembo said he must cope with having
to say "no" to his friends when they invite him to
do something he
can't do because
of his physical
limitations.
"I want to
be able to tell

(that) 'I can't walk far because I have limita- fact tl
tions,' " Dembo said. "I want to be able to say Demb
that, and I want them to turn around and be able fortal
to say, 'OK, I understand that. Let's find some- who i
thing to do closer by.' "whee
Despite the difficulties of the disability itself, To
Dembo said one of the hardest things he has to stude
deal with is coming to terms with his disability in supp<
a community that, he says, is not always tolerant torsh
of those with limitations. He said because his dis- "I
ability isn't immediately visible, people judge him ful, es
when, for example, he has to take the elevator up if the
only one floor because he can't walk up stairs. work
Becker echoed this sentiment, stressingthe dif- rienc
ficulty of having an invisible disability in an envi- with
ronment that often fails to recognize the disabled relati
community as a whole. acros
"I think one of the biggest challenges for stu-
dents with disabilities or illnesses, is when
they're invisible,"she said."Youknow, when I get
on a commuter bus, it's hard for me to say, 'Can I
have your seat?' just small things."
Unlike issues that are widely discussed, like
race, religion and sexuality, a discussion about
disabilities is often ignored., Students like Dembo
and Becker say the support that exists for students
with disabilities is simply not adequate.
Rn+t, n+ti- nriinly thA iifr111ipof nio

niche at the1
are unaware
"It's not
said. "So it's
like Im part
ment when 9
what's going
Rott said
at the Unive
way issues t
cussed. Rot1
studentswit
communicat
ible illnesses

n1so M;C
n.


