ANIMANIACS
An exploration of the role
anime culture plays in A2.
SEE THE B-SIDE, INSIDE

(1ieC ff1iI a aImj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, January 14,2010

michigandaily.com

ONE PERSON'S TRASH IS ANOTHER'S ART

PROVOST PICKED AS PRESIDENT
Sullivan
'surprised'
by UVA
pres. offer

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Art & Design freshman Paris Glickman peruses the shelves at The Scrap Box for recycled materials for an art project yesterday. The Scrap Box sells materials that local
businesses would have otherwise discarded. "The old junk is sometimes more interesting than new stuff because it has more character and personality," Glickman said.
THE 2010 GOVERNORS RACE
Source: Regent litch could
enter gubernatorial race

'U' provost said she
wasn't interested in
the job to start
By KYLE SWANSON
Daily News Editor
It was a surprising announce-
ment to many on campus when
University Provost Teresa Sullivan
was named the University of Vir-
ginia's next president on Monday,
one that even Sullivan said she was
surprised by.
":t's a little surprising to me
too," Sullivan said.
In an interview with The Michi-
gan Daily yesterday, Sullivan out-
lined the circumstances thatled up
to her being chosen as the Univer-
sity of Virginia's eighth president,
what she needs to finish before
leaving Ann Arbor and the tasks
she will face when she arrives in
Charlottesville.,
Sullivan is set to take the helm
at the University of Virginia on
August 1, something she said she's
excited for. But despite the excite-
ment that was obvious in her voice,
Sullivan said this wasn't a job she
originally sought out or was overly
interested in.
Sullivan said she was first con-

tacted by an executive search firm,
something she said wasn't out of
the ordinary.
"To tell you the truth, whoever
is the provost at the University of
Michigan gets contacted by head-
hunters three or four times a
week," she said. "It's just because
of the product of Michigan. It
actually doesn't matter who the
provost is."
Because the occurrence is so
common for Sullivan, she said she
didn't have any particular interest
when she was first contacted.
"A headhunter contacted me
for the first time in the middle
of 'August," she said. "I basically
didn't respond."
Sullivan said her initial apathy
about the job was driven, in part,
by the fact that she didn't know
whether the search firm was actu-
ally interested in her or just con-
tacting her because of her position
at the University of Michigan.
Once the search firm continued
to contact her, Sullivan said she
decided to talk with them about
the position.
"They kept coming back to me
over and over again," she said.
"Finally, somewhere toward the
end of October, they said 'Well
look, you don't have to apply. You
See SULLIVAN, Page SA

Dems looking for
frontrunner after
Lt. Gov. left field
By ELYANA TWIGGS
Daily StaffReporter
A source close to University
Regent Denise Ilitch (D-Bingham
Farms) with knowledge of the

situation told The Michigan Daily
in an interview yesterday that
though she hasn't made up her
mind yet, Ilitch is considering a
run for governor.
With the announcement last
week that Lt. Gov. John Cherry
will not be entering the 2010 race
for Michigan governor, many
are speculating as to who the
Democratic front-runner for the
position will be - and one of the

University's own may be stepping
in to fill the void.
According to the source,
Regent Ilitch, who has served on
the University's Board of Regents
since 2008, has not yet formed an
exploratory committee --the first
formal step toward candidacy.
The source said that though
Ilitch is unsure whether she'll
pursue the candidacy, Ilitch is
"very humbled" by the many peo-

ple reaching out and encouraging.
her to run.
Those supporting a possible
run by Ilitch say the state of Mich-
igan is in dire need of a fresh per-
spective, the source said. Because
Ilitch is not from Lansing, many
believe she would appeal to vot-
ers.
Ilitch's supporters believe that
her past and present business
See ILITCH, Page SA


FORMING A GREEK GUILD
New council to
unite campus
prof. fraternities

HEELS OVER HEAD

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
'U' study finds lack of
diversity in stem cells

Eight professional
fraternities work
on new group to
combine resources
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily StaffReporter
Students interested in get-
ting involved in Greek life will
now have one more council to
choose from.
Eight business, law and other
professional fraternities are
uniting to form the Professional
Fraternity Council in an effort
to collaborate on a more regular
basis.
The councils that represent
social fraternities and sororities
on campus currently act as gov-
erning bodies above the individ-
uals houses. But officials from
professional fraternities said
it's unclear if the new council
would fulfill a similar oversight
role or whether the body would
simply be an organization to
unite the groups.
The idea of forming the coun-
cil has been floating around
since December 2008 when
a few professional fraternity

members contacted each other
and suggestedthey work togeth-
er on a more regular basis, said
Samantha Greenberg, an LSA
junior and the rush advisor for
Phi Sigma Pi National Honor
Fraternity.
"At that point we were really
decentralized and only met
together for one week a year,"
she said. "Why not just continue
it?"
Danielle Wong, an LSA senior
and former secretary of Phi Chi
Theta, a business and econom-
ics fraternity, said all the profes-
sional fraternity members had
always thought a council was a
good idea because the fraterni-
ties have had limited interaction
with one another in the past.
"We thought a council will
give every fraternity an equal
say," she said. "It's the next step
in helping all the fraternities
grow and it allows all members
to unite under one roof"
Business senior and for-
mer president of Phi Chi Theta
Cory Rosenfield, who has been
heading up the effort to cre-
ate the council, said forming
the organization will indicate
the importance of professional
fraternities to the campus com-
See COUNCIL, Page 5A

Research finds most
stem cells used for
research are of
European origin
By LILLIAN XIAO
Daily StaffReporter
The much-heralded potential
benefits of stem cell research
could be limited to certain ethnic
groups, according to a recent Uni-
versity study.
In a recent University study
of 47 commonly used stem cell
lines, most were found to be of
European origin, with only two of
East Asian origin, a few of Middle
Eastern origin and none of recent
African origin.
Several hundred embryonic
stein cell lines exist worldwide,
but only a small group of those
are readily available to research-
ers and are widely disseminat-
ed to the research community,
said Jack Mosher, an assistant
research scientist at the Univer-
sity's Life Sciences Institute.
Mosher, who worked on the
study, said it's important to study
stem cells from different origins
because genetic background
leaves individuals more suscepti-
ble to certain diseases. He added
that it is important to evalu-
ate how cells of distinct origins

respond to medications as well.
Associate Prof. of Human
Genetics Noah Rosenberg worked
alongside Mosher on the study.
Rosenberg said the lack of diver-
sity they found in the lines could
result in some groups benefiting
more than others from stem cell
research.
"There's the potential that the
work currently being done will
lead to benefits only for subsets
of the human population," Rosen-
berg said.
Mosher said their research
began in 2008, when voters in
Michigan passed a ballot initia-
tive that allows researchers to
derive stem cell lines from donat-
ed embryos.
"As far as we know, there
wasn't much diversity in the exist-
ing lines," Mosher said. "Many of
the lines originate from a specific
clinic, but no one had really test-
ed what the diversity of the lines
'actually was."
The embryos from which stem
cells lines are derived are mostly
discarded from fertility clin-
ics, according to Sean Morrison,
director of the Center for Stem
Cell Biology at the Life Sciences
Institute, who also worked on the
study. He said a big reason for the
disparity in ancestral roots is the
disproportionate number of cli-
ents of European descent who use
fertility clinic services.
See STEM CELLS, Page SA

TOREHAs SHARMAN/Daiy
Members of Element 1, the hip-hop freestyling group, practice neot to thesposting mall
in Angell Hall yesterday. The group regularly practices on Mondays and Wednesdays
offering workshops for new members and anyone who is interested. They are involved
in competitions and charity events throughout the year.

WEATHER HI:36
TOMORROW LO 27

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 orce-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MicMIGANDAILY.COM
Official: No 'U' students, faculty studying in Haiti.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS...... 2A CLASSIFIEDS......................6A
Vol CXX, No.73 SUDOKU ..............,..............3A SPORTS................. .... ....7A
0201The MichiganDaily OPINION... .....4A THE B-Sl ...
michiondaiiycom O I I N..,4 H - I E.............1

p

I


2A - Thursday, January 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.corn

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Professor Profiles Before You Were Here
NOT FROM CONCENTRATE I

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

Secrets from the U'

Sharing secrets means
something different for LSA
senior Kara LaPlante than
for most students.
LaPlante created a stu-
dent group last fall called
Secrets from the U, which
is dedicated to allowing stu-
dents, faculty and staff to
share their personal secrets
anonymously through paint-
ing, sculpture or other forms
of art.
LaPlante said she hopes to
coordinate an exhibition in
April solely for artists who,
wish to remain anonymous.
"I have noticed that a lot
of my friends have expressed
they feel like no one else
could possibly be going
through the difficulties
and challenges they are,"
LaPlante said. "I believed

differently."
LaPlante said Secrets
from the U accepts anyone
on campus who wants to
express something about
themselves, and that they
would feel comfortable
doing so only in an anony-
mous forum.
Inspired by a similar con-
cept she had seen online,
LaPlante said a display of
anonymous art submissions
could highlight common
ground and connect the
often overwhelmingly large
campus community.
"My goal is to create a
more personal environment
and sense of belonging in
the campus community,"
she said.
Secrets from the U is
currently in the process of

compiling art pieces for its
first display and is hoping
for about 250 submissions.
LaPlante said the group
plans to set up a table with
information and resources
to address issues concerning
mental health and sexual
assault, among others, to
supplement the display.
With hopes of hosting an
exhibition each semester,
the club also has plans for
a website to showcase the
submitted artwork and a
fundraiser to allow Univer-
sity faculty, students and
staff to purchase the art.
LaPlante said the collected
proceeds would be given to
the National Hopeline Net-
work - a suicide prevention
hotline.
--SCOTTSUH

Ice covers a grove of young orange trees after an evening freeze at Showcase Cit-
rus Groves in Clermont, Fla. on Monday.
CRIME NOTES C

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB SMILOVITZ DAN NEWMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-647-3336 734-764-0558
smilovitz@michigandaily.com trmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom officehours:Sun.-Thurs.1a.m.-2a.m.
. 734-763-24s9
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigaiidaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaySales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classified@michigandaily.com
onlineSales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matt Aaronson Managing Editor aaronson@michigandaily.com
JillianBermanManagingNewsEditor berman@michigandaily.com
SENOREWS EDITORS: kicle Aber, Mallory Jones, Stephanie Steinberg, Kyle
Swno, sswr hrn v iars ,,si~ o,5p~rnib 0
SSSTAsNEWs EDIT W ORSy lan Cinti, Darryn Fitzgad, Joseph Lichterman,
Veroicaeali., AneToas, Dervn horbyaElyanna'wiggs
Rachel Van Gilder Editorial Page Editor vangilder@michigandaily.com
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:BrianFlaherty,ErikaMayer,EmilyOrley,Laura
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michelle DeW itt,AlexSchiff, MatthewShutler
Ryan Kartje ManagingsportsEditor kartje@mihigandaily.nom
SEIRSPOTS ED0100:Nicoe5Aurbc, MarkBrns, Go j h'oncars, .
Meszaros, Joe Stapleton v, t
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS:' Michael Florek, Alex Hermann, Ryan Podges, Zak'
Pyzik,Tim Rohan,AmyScarano
JamieBlock ManagingArtsEditor block@michigandaily.com
SERAsRS EDTORS:var~olyn Klareki, Adrew Lpin,fSord
AS SSN EDTORo: Lehugin harAn JacobsBrgidKlcon,MikeKuntz,
KaviShekharPandey
Max Colinsand photo@michigandailycom
Sam Wlsor ManagingPhoto Editors
SIORIPHOTOEDITOR FO MULTIMEDIA:ChanelVonHabsburg-Lothringen
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS: Aaron Augsburger,JakeFromm,JedMoch
Sarah Squire and design@michigandaily.com
Anna Lein-Zielinski ManagingDesignEditors
SNIOR DSIGNEDIOR: Angela Chih55,
TrevortCalero MagazinetEditor catero@michigandaily.eomx
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Atie White
Melanie Fried and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Rachel Phillips copychiefs
BUSINESS STAFF
Katieozwiaksales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER:MollyTwigg
MARKETING MANAGER: Michael Schrotenboer
Ryan Businski Classified Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Kayla LaFata
Ben EnglishnProductionManaer
Allison SantacreU Lavout Manaer
VivianL ee Finance Manager
Brittany Morales Circulation Manager
Brad Wiley Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (IssN 0745-967) is published Mondaysthrough Friday during thefall and
winter terms by studensat the University of Michigan.One copy isavailablefree ocharge to all
readers.Additionacopiesmay berpickedupattheDaly'sofficefor$2.Subscriptions for falterm,
startininSeptember, viaU.S. mal are$110. Winter termJanuary through April)is $115,yearlong
(September through Apri) is$195. University affiliates are subject to areduced subscription rate.
On-campussubscriptionsforfal termareS3s.Subscriptionsmust beprepaidTheichiganDaly
isamemberof The Associated PressandThe AssociatedCollegiate Press.

4

6

AMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Children's DVDs Employee's
taken at Mott money stolen

WHERE: Mott Children's
Hospital
WHEN: Tuesday at about 3:30
p.m.
WHAT: Ten to fifteen chil-
dren's DVDs were stolen from
the Pediatric Cardiology unit,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects or wit-
nesses.
Wallet swiped
WHERE: Bursley Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 10:45
p.m.
WHAT: A wallet was stolen
from the community center of
Bursley Hall, University Police
reported. The wallet was left
unattended for 30 minutes
before it was discovered tobe
missing.

WHERE: Angell Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 10:15
a.m.
WHAT: Ten to fifteen dollars
were stolen from a female staff
member's office between Jan.
6 and Jan. 8, University Police
reported.
Extinguisher
discharged
WHERE: West Quadrangle
WHEN: Tuesday at about 10:15
a.m.
WHAT: A fire extinguisher
was discharged from a dorm
room into the hallway, Uni-
versity Police reported. A staff
member discovered the mali-
cious destruction in Adams
House.

Film screening
WHAT: Carol Jacobsen will
screen and discuss her short
film "Time Like Zeros" which
is narrated by eight women
recently released from prison.
Admission is free.
WHO: Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Lane Hall

Presentation Since the 7.0 magnitude
about gender earthquake in Haition Tues-
day, officials fear there are
WHAT: Gender-themed art, more than 100,000 people dead.
music and spoken word show. Additionally, hospitals are gone
Admission is $5 at the door. and the country is in desperate
WHO: The F-word need for medical supplies, CNN
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30 reported.
p.m. to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League,
Michigan Room

4

Performance
1 tournaments

and open jam
WHAT: A jazz quartet of
student musicians will host
a performance. An open jam
session will also be open to
anyone who wishes to play an
instrument or sing.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 8:30
p.m. to 10:30 p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Commons

WHAT: Participants may
begin practicing ath6:30 p.m. At
the start of the game at least six
players mustbe present or the
tournament willbe cancelled.
WHO: Union Billiards
WHEN: Tonight at 7:00 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
. Please report anyerror in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Last year, MichKnit
- a local, student-led
group that receives
free yarn from the Ginsberg
Center - knitted 80 hats,
scarves and gloves for Alter-
native Spring Break projects.
>>FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, PAGE 2B
The leader of an al-Qaida
cell in the Habban region
of Yemen, Abdullah al-
Mehdarhad, was recently killed
during an exchange of fire with
the country's security forces,
reported CNN.

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/the wire'

Navy faults leaders
.~ in gay hazing, probe-

4

Chief of Naval
Operations says more
should have been done
in investigation
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) -
Leaders should have done more
to investigate numerous hazing
allegations against a gay sailor
and others in a unit stationed in
Bahrain several years ago, the
Navy said yesterday.
The Chief of Naval Operations
has sent a letter of counseling
to retired Vice Adm. Robert T.
Conway, the former Commander,
Naval Installations Command,
who was the final endorser of a
June 2007 investigation that has
been criticized for failing to be
thorough.
The letter notes that "more
should have been done to deter-
mine what officers in the chain
of command knew about allega-
tions of hazing and what actions
they took to address those allega-
tions," said Navy spokeswoman
Cmdr. Elissa Smith.
In Octoberthe Navyannounced

that the former leader of the
bomb-sniffing dog unit would be
removed and forced to retire after
the Navy reviewed allegations of
hazing and sexual harassment
against the gay sailor and others.
One of the hazing victims,
Joseph Rocha, said he decided
to leave the Navy in 2007 by tell-
ing his commander he was gay, in
violation of the military's "don't
ask, don't tell" policy. He had
been attending the U.S. Naval
Academy Preparatory School in
Rhode Island in hopes of attend-
ing the academy.
Rocha said he was tied to a
chair and left in a dog kennel,
hosed down while in uniform
and forced to simulate oral sex on
another sailor while in Bahrain.
The Navy in September was
reviewing its investigation of
more than 90 hazings between
2004 and 2006 in the Military
Working Dog Division at Naval
Security Force, Bahrain.
The former unitleader, Michael
Toussaint, is scheduled to appear
before a retirement grade deter-
mination board in Norfolk, Va.,
on Feb. 4, Smith said.
A letter of counseling also was

issued to Capt. Gary Galloway;
one of the unit's former com,
manding officers.
"The letter of counseling rein:
forces that when senior officers
observe conduct that is quese
tionable, they must act quickly
and firmly to verify the nature
and purpose of the activity and
ensure Navy policies prohibit-
ing hazing are strictly enforced,"
Smith said.
The Chief of Naval Operations
also has directed counseling for
eight other personnel named in
the investigation and has sent a
message to all flag officers rein-
forcing their role in ensuring
probes are thorough.
Rep. Joe Sestak, a Pennsylvania
Democrat and retired three-star
admiral, has pressed the Navy to
explore lapses in accountabilityin
the case. Sestak, who demanded
to know why Toussaint was later
promoted to senior chief after the
reports, applauded the decision
to expand the investigation.
"Only with the display of real 4
accountability will the men and
women serving believe in their
leadership," Sestak said in a
statement.


4

4

A

A 4

A


M

Thursday, January 14, 2010 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January14, 2010 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
SDETROIT
Detroit Police call
on texting tipsters
to tackle crimes
Detroit Police officials are hop-
log a new campaign aimed at
generating anonymous tips will
inspire residents to think of a four-
letter word whenever they witness
crime: Text.
Authorities say the city's
"CRIME. See it. Text it." campaign
will be announced yeserday and
allow reluctant witnesses to use
their cell phones to anonymously
pass along license plates, suspect
information and other tips.
Officials say texts sent to
"847411" will be routed through
an independent third party, which
will not be forwarded to police.
Officers seeking further informa-
tion must request it through the
third party. Tipsters and officers
will not have direct contact.
Spokesman John Roach tells
the Detroit Free Press that the
$158,000 campaign is funded with
drug forfeiture money.
SANTA ANA, Calif.
Pastor indicted on
visa fraud charges
A California pastor has been
indicted on charges of helping for-
eigners fraudulently obtain stu-
dent visas for a university where
some say they never attended
class.
The U.S. attorney's office says a
federal grand jury indicted Samuel
Chai Cho Oh in Santa Ana yester-
day on 10 counts of visa fraud and
two counts of engaging in mone-
tary transactions with criminally
derived funds.
Authorities say Oh helped
obtain visas for students who
never took classes at Califor-
nia Union University in Fuller-
ton, which he owns. They say he
charged students $600 to $10,000
over the last decade to file paper-
work on their behalf.
Oh is to be arraigned Jan. 19.
His attorney says Oh client is not
guilty.
PHOENIX, Ariz.
Arizona woman
attempts to trade
child for gun
Authorities say they have
arrested an Arizona woman who
traded her 2-year-old daughter
for a gun.
Maricopa County sheriff's dep-
uties arrested 33-year-old Tanya
Nareau of Mesa on Tuesday after
 receiving a tip.
Deputies say they spoke with a
family friend who had the child
and confirmed Nai-eau gave the
girl to him for gun.
Deputies say Nareau felt the
friend would do a better job rais-
ing the child than she would.
Authorities say Nareau has
been charged with the unlawful
sale of a child and solicitation to
possess a weapon by a prohibited
person.
It was unclear if Nareau had

legal representation.
PLAVNICA, Montenegro
Escaped zoo hippo
M still roaming free
A 2-ton hippo who escaped
from a flooded private zoo in
Montenegro was roaming free
yesterday but returning to the zoo'
owner's restaurant to eat bread
I and hay.
Officials disagreed over wheth-
er to kill the hippo, considered
one of the world's most dangerous
species. Nikica, 11, escaped this
week as heavy rains sent water
flooding through the zoo, rais-
iig the water level in her pen and
allowing her to swim over the top
of the cage surrounding it.
A spokesman for Montenegro's
natural disasters commission,
which responds to floods, said
the law required animals that can
endanger human lives to be killed.
But state veterinary authorities
said they were not entitled to kill
animals.
Zoo owner Dragan Pejovic
insisted Nikica is not danger-
ous, "unless someone attacks and
kicks her."
He said her movements are
being tracked by the zoo's private
security and that she is "tame and
peaceful".
Pejovic added that Nikica now
had nowhere to return since the
zoo, on a small island in a lake
south of the capital, remains
flooded.
- Compiled from
Daily wire reports

HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
FEARED DEAD IN HAITI

Magnitude-7
earthquake leaves
capital in ruin
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP)
- Dazed survivors wandered past
dead bodies in rubble-strewn
streets yesterday, crying for loved
ones, and rescuers desperately
searched collapsed buildings as fear
rose that the death toll from Haiti's
devastatingearthquakecouldreach
into the tens of thousands.
The first cargo planes with food,
water, medical supplies, shelter and
sniffer dogs headed to the Western
Hemisphere's poorest nation a day
after the magnitude-7 quake flat-
tened much of the capital of 2 mil-
lion people.
Tuesday's earthquake brought
down buildings great and small
- from shacks in shantytowns to
President Rene Preval's gleam-
ing white National Palace, where
a dome tilted ominously above the
manicured grounds.
Hospitals, schools and the main
prison collapsed. The capital's
Roman Catholic archbishop was
killed when his office and the main
cathedral fell. The head of the U.N.
peacekeeping mission was missing
in the ruins of the organization's
multistory headquarters.
Police officers turned their
pickup trucks into ambulances to
carry the injured. Wisnel Occilus,
a 24-year-old student, was wedged
between two other survivors in a
truck bed headed to a police sta-
tion. He was in an English class
when the earth shook at 4:53 p.m.

and the building collapsed.
"The professor is dead. Some of
the students are dead, too," said
Occilus, who suspected he had
several broken bones. "Everything
hurts."
Other survivors carried injured
to hospitals in wheelbarrows and on
stretchers fashioned from doors.
In Petionville, next to the capi-
tal, people used sledgehammers
and their bare hands to dig through
a collapsed shopping center, toss-
ingaside mattresses and office sup-
plies. More than a dozen cars were
entombed, including a U.N. truck.
Nearby, about 200 survivors,
including many children, hud-
dled in a theater parking lot using
sheets to rig makeshift tents and
shield themselves from the sun in
90-degree heat.
At a triage center improvised
in a hotel parking lot, people with
cuts, broken bones and crushed
ribs moaned under tent-like covers
fashioned from bloody sheets.
"I can't take it anymore. My
back hurts too much," said Alex
Georges, 28, who was still waiting
for treatment a day after his school
collapsed and killed 11 classmates.
A body lay a few feet away.
"This is much worse than a hur-
ricane," said doctors' assistant Jim-
itre Coquillon. "There's no water.
There's nothing. Thirsty people are
goingto die."
If there were any organized
efforts to distribute food or water,
they were not visible.
The aid group Doctors Without
Borders treated wounded at two
hospitals that withstood the quake
and set up tent clinics elsewhere

Bodies of earthquake victims lay ona street in Port-au-Prince. The magnitude-7 quake devastated much c
leaving its 2 million inhabitants in chaos.

to replace its damaged facilities.
Cuba, which already had hundreds
of doctors in Haiti, treated injured
in field hospitals.
Bodies were everywhere in Port-
au-Prince: those of tiny children
adjacent to schools; women in the
rubble-strewn streets with stunned
expressions frozen on their faces;
men hidden beneath plastic tarps
and cotton sheets.
Haiti's leaders struggled to com-

prehend the extent of the catastro-
phe - the worst earthquake to hit
the country in 200 years - even as
aftershocks reverberated.
"It's incredible," Preval told CNN.
"A lot of houses destroyed, hospitals,
schools, personalhomes.Alotofpeo-
ple in the street dead.... I'm still look-
ing to understand the magnitude of
the event and how to manage."
Preval said thousands of people
were probably killed. Leading Sen.

Youri Latortue told The Associated
Press that 500,000 could be dead,
but conceded that nobody really
knows.
"Let's say that it's too early to
give a number," Preval said.
As dusk fell, thousands of peo-
ple gathered on blankets outside
the crumpled presidential palace,
including hundreds of women who
waved their hands and sang hymns
in a joyful, even defiant tone.


Scores thrown back in prison
after Illinois parole crackdown

Polite race to fill
Kennedy Senate
seat turns negative

Stringent parole
conditions lead to
failed compliance
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) -
Nearly 130 parolees released
from prison early are back behind
bars because of an extraordi-
nary crackdown led by Illinois
Gov. Pat Quinn's administration,
which has been stung by denun-
ciations of a secret program that
freed 1,700 inmates weeks ahead
of time.
The Corrections Department
confirmed it has begun "intensive
compliance checks" on parol-
ees released under the program
known as "MGT Push," begin-
ning with those who committed
violent crimes.
State records reviewed by
The Associated Press show the
department has picked up 129 of
the parolees in the last ten days,
most of them serving sentences
for unlawful weapons charges or
battery. They've likely gone back
to lockup for violating terms of
their discharge, but officials will
not comment on the reasons or
confirm how many have been
apprehended.
The rules they're forced to fol-
low are unprecedented in terms
of severity, according to law
enforcement officials.
The recent spate compares
with 57 MGT Push parolees
put back in prison cells from
the time the MGT Push release
started, in September, through
the end of the year.
By making the parolees
walk a straight line, the Quinn
administration simultaneously
improves public safety and
reduces the chance of a public
relations debacle that would
erupt after a horrendous crime
by one of the released prison-
ers.
Quinn is fending off vicious
attacks from political oppo-
nents over the program, partic-
ularly from state Comptroller
Dan Hynes, his challenger in
the Feb. 2 Democratic guberna-
torial primary.
All parolees still on the street
are being required to follow
stringent new regulations -
far stricter than anything seen
before by law enforcement offi-
cials familiar with the Illinois'
parole system. The officials
spoke on condition of anonym-
ity because they aren't autho-
rized to discuss the regulations
publicly.
The new rules require
parolees to verify where they
are and what they're doing
through daily phone calls to
an automated statewide parole
system, according to a copy of
the form parolees must sign.
The form says they must visit

a parole office - in some cases,
hundreds of miles away - twice a
week, and refrain from drinking
liquor or having alcohol at their
homes.
One of the law enforcement
officials said parolees who have
committed more heinous crimes
routinely have fewer require-
ments to follow.
Corrections spokeswoman
Januari Smith said she isn't cer-
tain all the MGT Push parolees
have to adhere to the strictest of
the guidelines, but all face more
severe rules than typical.
Officials did not immediately
respond to a question about how
much the compliance checks are
costing.
Hynes, following Quinn's State
of the State address yesterday,
said the cost of intensified scru-
tiny probably negates any cost-
savings Corrections intended by
implementing MGT Push.
"The fact that there are 100
more of these criminals back in
jail proves that they shouldn't
have been let out in the first
place," Hynes said.
With MGT Push, Corrections
dropped a long-standing require-
ment that inmates serve at least
61 days before being eligible for
up to six months' of good-con-
duct credit, or "meritorious good

time."
The Associated Press revealed
the program's existence in mid-
December. Quinn's staff initially
defended the program. After the
AP report, the governor said he
knew about MGT Push in advance
but suspended it.
Later, he said he was unaware
of it and blamed the "big mistake"
on Corrections Director Michael
Randle. He appointed a team to
study the issue, then reinstated
the 61-day rule and announced
other reforms Dec. 31.
Legislation Quinn backs that
requires a 60-day minimum stay
and 14 days' advance notice to
local prosecutors that an offender
is getting out early went to the
governor yesterday for his signa-
ture after the Senate approved it
52-0.
Parole agents are visiting each
of the offenders, starting with
those convicted of violent crimes,
Smith said. Then they must check
on them, unannounced, twice per
month.
Some of the MGT Push parol-
ees are going back to prison for
testing positive for drug use
or even just smelling of alco-
hol, transgressions that rarely
land someone back behind bars,
according to the law enforce-
ment officials.

Democrats anxious
about losing pivotal
seat to pass Obama
health care overhaul
BOSTON (AP) - What for
weeks had been a polite - even
sleepy - race in Massachusetts to
fill the late Edward M. Kennedy's
Senate seat has turned negative as
the contest tightens, raising the
stakes for both parties and the
White House in next week's spe-
cial election.
In a 48-hour span:
-Democrat Martha Coakley,
who had been heavily favored,
unleashed a TV ad attacking her
GOP opponent, Scott Brown, as "in
lockstep with Washington Repub-
licans."
-The national committee
chargedwithelectingSenateDemo-
crats rolled out an ad claimingMas-

sachusetts voters know little about
Brown and imploring them not to
let him "take them for a ride."
-The Service Employees Inter-
national Union went on the air
with a spot that says Brown "calls
himself independent, but voted
with Republican leadership 96
percent of the time," opposes abor-
tion rights and is backed by some
of Sarah Palin's supporters.
The late-game strategy: use
Republicans as a foil in a Demo-
cratic state to undercut Brown,
who has cast himself as an inde-
pendent and downplayed his con-
servative credentials.
The onslaught of negative TV
ads and arrival of out-of-state
operatives underscore Democrats'
worry that their hold on the seat
in a solidly Democratic state is in
jeopardy - and that they could
lose the pivotal 60th Senate vote
needed to pass President Barack
Obama's health care overhaul and
other legislation.

Think you know where to
find the Best Dessert?
Do you have the Best Pick-up Line?
Is your landlord the Best?
Cast your vote in the Michigan Daily's
Annual Readership Survey Poll!
Votefor the
B3est of
Ann Arbor
Voting extended to January 29th!
Go to: http://www.michigandailycom/best-2010
to Cast your vote today.

Offd
rIN II].$105
rr
l hek-s


4A - Thursday, January 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


74fii g~an Bat4hj
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
t au 420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB SMILOVITZ
EDITOR IN CHIEF

RACHEL VAN GILDER
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

MATT AARONSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Allaboard
Officials should finalize Detroit to Ann Arbor rail line
Any new infrastructure that will help the environment,
students or the economy is an opportunity that should
be taken advantage of. And a new construction plan
developed by the federal government encompasses all three of
these categories. The new public transportation - a railroad
that will run between Ann Arbor and Detroit with stops in the
neighboring areas - will benefit students and residents as they
move between Ann Arbor and Detroit, for business and pleasure,
without excessive cost. This new route of transportation is easy,
cheap and environmentally-friendly, and officials from both cit-
ies should do everything possible to ensure that the plans comes
to fruition.

This is a time when we are reminded
of the common humanity that we all share:'
- President Barack Obama speaking about the earthquake that struck Haiti lat
Tuesday afternoon, as reported yesterday by the New York Times.
CHRIS KOSLOWSKI I E-MAIL CHRIS AT CSKOSLOW@UMICH.EDU
WhaelaProe, you set up a camera
, How do yoa ulmp from jw and stars recordin
From what i gather. ts j sending mass emails to being semester welcome ideos
u someone wo semds out the President of a major It's pretty simple, really.
mass emails aot swine flu unersiy
0 aand Stuff "" F... Cools a..r
* a
as
a 0 pA
In defense ofEnglish
o words like "blogosphere" umich.edu) and search "careers." about the English major were. Some,
and "truthiness" offend you? Loads of alumni careers will come however, will continue to insist on
When someone says to you, up - why, English majors secured the uselessness of the degree. These
"I'm gonna hit jobs with such fascinating titles as people are known as parents. And a
you up fo' sho'," do "Volunteer Organic Farmer," "Yoga handful of students will remain firip
you feel the need Instructor" and "Elementary School in their belief that declaring in Eng-
to hit THEM up Teacher." And how do you think they lish is a waste of time. I feel sorriy
(with your fist)? got them? That's right: the ability to for these people - who occasionally
In today's column quote Shakespeare. e-mail me - and their utter inability
we will explore Another argument in the non- to write well.
the intense debate English major's repertoire is: "Look,
over the future of I, and by I'I mean 'my parents,' don't
the English lan- want to spend $80,000 to graduate illustrious
guage - a topic WILL without any job prospects." The job
that our genera- GRUNDLER This seemingly insightful com-
tion finds, needless ment might make the layman nod prospects of an
to say, extremely his head in agreement, but the Eng-
boring. So let's not lish major knows, through extensive English degree.
explore it. Instead, I will attempt to reading, that the layman is usually
defend what many University stu- wrong in most stories, and ends up
dents love to hate: the English major. dying. What most people who employ
I will soon declare myself among the above argument fail to realize Consider this message I received
the ranks of the English majors, and is the abysmal state of the economy from "Alyssa": "Hey, why are you an
I'm surprised that many students scoff these days. Just what do you think English major? Your crazy!"
at the concentration. There are a lot goes through the head of an employer Did you catch her mistake? Yes, it's
of misconceptions that non-English when he or she sees a recent gradu- in the second sentence: "Your." One of
majors have about the English major, ate of the Michigan medical or law the hallmarks of good writing is suc-
such as confusing the word "miscon- school, or someone with a degree in cinctness. Brevity, especially on .the
ception" with "abortion." economics? "Oh, I'm going to hire Internet, is crucial. If Alyssa knew
One of the greatestcmisconceptions Mr. Fancy College Kid who's going to anything about prose, which of course
is: "I can't believe there aren't any pre- want a million bucks in stock options she doesn't, she would have known to
requisites to the English major!" alone? I don't think so!" But what shorten "Your" to "Ur." If you have
There are currently, in fact, three happens when that same employer any sort of eye for composition, you
prerequisites: English 297 (Intro- needs a janitor, or someone to feed see these mistakes all the time.
duction to Poetry), English 298 the office goldfish? That's when the Take a look at this e-mail I received
(Introduction to Literary Studies) English major will get hired, because from "Bryan": "Yo, why do you write
and English 299 (Coping With Your the employer knows that the Eng- for the Daily? There salary for coluni-
Future: Poverty and Loneliness). lish major knows that money is not nists is terrible!"
Another popular declaration, important in life. What's important Now, in this example one can see
especially among students of a scien- in life is experience - the experience - oh, nothing appears wrong. My
tific persuasion, is: "What can you DO that comes from reading and writing, mistake, Bryan. I'm out of examples,
with an English major?" thinking and traveling, philosophiz- but I hope you've developed a little
The same thing one can do with a ing and not doing too much study- more respect for the English major,
Biology major, or a Sociology major, ing. Hopefully this experience will and literature in general. Excuse me,
or a Chemistry major, or whatever: someday translate into a best-selling I'm going to fo' sho' go read some
try to get them drunk and then - no, novel or, better yet, a screenplay, and Hemingway.
sorry. What I meant to say was, you - ha-ha - who's rolling in it now?
can do a lot. Just go to the English At this point, most people should - Will Grundler can be
Department's website (weluv2read. realize how wrong their assumptions reached at wgru@umih.edu.

a

4

In December, the federal budget allocat-
ed $3.5 million dollars for the construction
of a rail system that will be built between
Ann Arbor and Detroit. The rail line plans
would stop along the way in Dearborn -
the site of a University satellite campus -
Ypsilanti and Detroit Metro Airport. The
cost of a round-trip ticket is projected at
about $6 or $7. Though some progress is
expected to be made by October, the bud-
get for the train has not yet been finalized.
The train is good news for the economies
of Ann Arbor and Detroit. With people able
to move easily and cheaply between the two
cities, there is the potential for an increase
of new consumers in both markets. Stu-
dents and area residents would be able to
go to Detroit more frequently, increasing
patronage to city businesses and entertain-
ment like sporting events and concerts. In
turn, residents from the Detroit area would
be able to travel to Ann Arbor for the exten-
sive art and dining scenes.
And the new rail line should decrease
the amount of highway commuter traf-
fic between the cities. According to Ann
Arbor City Councilman Carsten Hohnke
(D-Ward 5), roughly 60 to 70 thousand
commuters travel to Ann Arbor by car
every year. The planned rail system would
drastically cut that number. And fewer
cars on the road would mean lower carbon
emissions. The proposed railway would
offer a cheaper, more environmentally-
friendly option for commuters who work

in both cities.
The train will also help University stu-
dents making the trip to Detroit. Detroit
offers many learning experiences for stu-
dents. The many University-run outreach
courses and student volunteer programs
offered each semester would flourish under
this expansion, which would make travel
between the cities cheaper and hassle-free.
And, with greater access to new forms of
transportation, additional outreach classes
with greater student involvement could be
added and explored in each department.
And the University's large out-of-state
student population would have another
affordable transportation option to reach
Detroit Metro Airport. Out-of-state stu-
dents can't always be accommodated by
the Michigan StudentcAssembly-sponsored
AirBus, which only runs a limited number
of days surrounding University breaks. The
train would offer students another option
for about the same price. And though the
stops for Ann Arbor haven't yet been deter-
mined, the University and MSA should
work with city officials to ensure students
have easy access to the train.
The construction of a rail line between
Ann Arbor and Detroit should help encour-
age travel between the cities in an envi-
ronmentally-friendly way. The train would
also encourage economic ventures in both
cities, and Ann Arbor and Detroit officials
should make sure it happens for the ben-
efit of both cities.

0

4

4

4

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Nina Amilineni, William Butler, Nicholas Clift, Michelle DeWitt, Brian Flaherty,
Erika Mayer, Edward McPhee, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Alex Schiff,
Asa Smith, Brittany Smith, Radhika Upadhyaya, Laura Veith
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@UMICH.EDU

WANT TO BE AN OPINION CARTOONIST?
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU
ERIKA MAYER
The (de)faults of Wolverine Access

"Gay and Greek" raises
campus LGBT awareness,
but misses important point

nity pledge should feel obligated that they must
reveal their orientation to fellow brothers as a
contingent for initiation. However, if the Greek
system continues to raise awareness of these
issues, it will only help to raise the comfort level
for an individual to come out when they are pre-
pared to do so.

TO THE DAILY:
As a former member of the Greek commu- Jeremy Berkowitz
nity during my four years at Michigan, I was Alum
very pleased to read Nicole Aber's article in The
Statement (Gay and Greek, 01/13/2010). While Allowing smokina
I look back at my college years and realize thatatndor
I began to recognize then that I was gay, I didp
not come out until three years after I gradu- poses an unnecessary risk
ated. I am happy to see that the Interfraternity
Council and Pan-Hellenic Council have worked TO THE DAILY:
to make the system more aware of LGBT issues Robert Soave writes that "an important
and friendlier to the gay and lesbian community. principle is at stake" in the recent smoking
I would like to raise one point that I think ban in his recent column (Michigan's morality
the author failed to address. Individuals often police, 01/05/2010). He's right.
choose to stay in the closet not because they are Some jobs - firefighting, for example - are
afraid of telling other people, but because they unavoidably dangerous. People who take those
are still confused about who they are and are jobs have to face the risks. But ifa risk can be
simply not ready. Some individuals realize their eliminated, the employer is legally obligated to
orientation at a certain point in their lives and do so. An employer can't invoke "private prop-
quickly become comfortable with who they are. erty" or "freedom of choice" when deciding
However, for others (including myself), coming whether to expose his employees to unneces-
out is not a light-switch moment. It can entail a sary risks - any more than the owner of a pri-
thought and reflection process, and even some vate restaurant can bar health inspectors from
situational avoidance that might stretch over a his private kitchen.
period of months or even years. The owner is not the only stakeholder in an
I understand the concerns of individuals economic entity. Employees, customers and, for
who feel they may act disloyal to their frater- some purposes, even the general public, have
nity brothers by hiding their sexual orientation. legally protected rights which can impinge on
Membership in a fraternity involves a spe- the owner's freedom. Get used to it.
cial bond among its brothers. Yet, coming-out
involves very personal and complicated issues Eric Ebel
for an individual to grapple with. No frater- Alum
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be less than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. Letters are edited
for style, length, clarity and accuracy. All submissions become property of the Daily.
We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to fothedaily@umich.edu.

Over winter break, I realized that the University
doesn't always have valid justifications for its actions.
Don't get me wrong, I love this school. But I don't under-
stand how it can sometimes be so illogical. And as I sat at
my computer, it was becoming apparent to me that this
was one of those times, and that the Wolverine Access
defaults are all wrong.
All I was trying to do was check my grades. I'm an hon-
ors student, and I might be just the slightest bit obsessed.
But there are other people out there like me - I know it.
Yes, I click the "View My Grades" button about 20 times a
day, but you know you do, too.
After frantically clicking the button and awaiting
posted grades with baited breath, I noticed that when
the page loads, I had no grades. Then I realized that Wol-
verine Access was considerately displaying my grades for
Winter 2010, even though I had obviously yet to set foot
in a single Winter 2010 class. But there Wolverine Access
was, reminding me that I had no grades for next semester.
As amusing as it may be, it's actually really freak-
ing annoying. Every time I checked my grades, I had to
change the semester. There was an unnecessary scroll-
down menu and button click standing between my grades
and me. And I did not appreciate it. Honestly, who thought
it was a good idea to have the default be such a pain in the
you-know-what? Is there some IT guy sitting in a roomby
himself laughing at all the students? Probably not, I have
to remind myself The Wolverine Access man is not out
to get me.
But I thought to myself, "Calm down. If you start
freaking out before you even find your grades your par-
ents might take back all of your Christmas presents." But
maybe there is a reason for these incipient, frustrating
settings. Logically, all of the defaults on a website should

be the same.
Hypothetically, the textbooklist feature should display
textbooks for my Winter 2010 schedule. After all, they're
both under the Enrollment tab. And a textbook list for
the coming semester would actually be useful since I like
to order my books in advance. Alas, Wolverine Access
showed the book list for the semester that just finished.
Shockingly, I wasn't going to order books for classes I've
already taken. IfI didn't buy them while I was taking the
class, I'm sure as hell not going to read them after it is
over.
Luckily, I'm not quite as distraught checking my text-
book list as when I'm checking my grades. But by this
point my stubborn nature had kicked in, and it's really
just about the principle of the matter. Who sets these
defaults? Whoever it is should seriously reconsider their
career choice. Default settings are supposed to make your
life easier. And at the moment, they are set to the option
you would never choose. No one needs to view last semes-
ter's textbook list and next semester's grades.
In the long run, these issues aren't that important.
I will get a good education and I love being at the Uni-
versity. But they certainly don't advertise the Universi-
ty's lack of logic in the college brochures. On tours they
don't point out that checking your grades is going to be
more irritating than taking the classes themselves. Or
that the brightest minds at the University can't devise an
online textbook list that makes sense. And that's probably
because with all the things that the University hasto han- 4
dle, these little things fall through the cracks. But quite
frankly I'm tired of clicking the stupid Change Semester
button.
Erika Mayer is a senior editorial page editor.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate writers tojoin
the Editorial Board. Editorial Board members are responsible for formulating
and writing the editorials that appear on the left side of the opinion page.
E-MAIL RACHEL VAN GILDER AT RACHELVG@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 14, 2010 - 5A

With open field,
Ilitch may enter
Dem. primary

Former Michigan football player
reaches plea bargain on charges

From Page 1A
experiences would make her a
sufficient candidate, according to
the source.
litch is the daughter of Michael
Ilitch, the founder of Detroit-
based Little Caesars Pizza. She is
also the former CEO and presi-
dent of Ilitch Holdings, Inc. - a
company that manages Little Cae-
sars Enterprises, The Detroit Red
Wings, The Detroit Tigers and
Olympia Entertainment.
Ilitch is the owner of Ilitch
Enterprises, the owner and pub-
lisher of Ambassador Magazine
in Detroit and founder of Denise
Ilitch Designs, a handmade jewel-
ry company. She is also of counsel
at Clark Hill PLC - a law firm in
Detroit.
The newest member of the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents, Ilitch
was one of two regents to vote
against last years tuition hike,
which raised tuition by 5.6 per-
cent.
An alumni of the University,
Ilitch earned her bachelors degree
in 1977 from Michigan before
STEM CELLS
From Page 1A
With results showing that
European ancestry is vastly over-
represented, research on these
stem cells may neglect to address
minority groups, according to
Rosenberg.
"We know that in most areas of
medical research, it's important
to study individuals from diverse
populations in order to examine
whether different groups might
respond differently to therapies,"
Rosenberg said. "We hope that
same principle will be applied to
works based on embryonic stem
COUNCIL
From Page 1A
munity.
"We feel that we could put the
flagpole down and show the Uni-
versity that this is a worthwhile
communityandthatalltheprofes-
sional fraternities are worthwhile
to join since they give members
opportunities they might not have
anywhere else," he said.
Jeremy Gove, an LSA senior
and president of Kappa Alpha Pi
Pre-Law Fraternity, saidthe coun-
Scil will help each organization
and the community as a whole to
grow.
"Basically, it was formed
because many of us have very
separate interests that often times
coincide," he said. "We thought
that we could strengthen our indi-
vidual groups and the whole enti-
ty of the professional organization
by working together on campus."
Because some of the profes-
sional fraternities are larger, Gove
said they have a greater network
and will be able to help out some
of the smaller organizations.
"(Thecouncil) hasalotofpoten-
tial to do a lot of good because indi-
vidually our groups vary in size,"
he said. "We'll be able to pool all
our resources together."
Wongsaid she would have liked
to see the council formed earlier,
but it took a while to get all of the
executive members of the frater-

going on to earn her law degree
from the University of Detroit in
1980.
Illich reportedly ventured to
Washington earlier this week to
meet with White House officials.
The Associated Press reported
that President Barack Obama also
"stopped by the meeting."
After Democratic front-runner
Cherry - the Democratic front-
runner at the time - announced
he would not run for governor, an
increasing number of Democrats
entered the field.
If Ilitch does decide to enter
the race she'll face competition
from others, including state Rep.
Alma Wheeler Smith (D-Salem)
and Lansing Mayor Virg Berne-
ro. Though he hasn't officially
announced he will be running for
governor, state House Speaker
Andy Dillon (D-Redford) formed
an exploratory committee last
week. Dillon is currently pre-
sumed to be the Democratic front-
runner.
- Daily News Editor Kyle
Swanson contributed to this report.
cells."
Mosher said he expects that
the lines will become more rep-
resentative of various origins
when other ethnic groups start
to generate their own stem cell
lines.
The researchers said they hope
their work will highlight the need
for more diversity in the stem cell
lines that are used for research.
"Right now there has not been
focus on individual ancestry of
embryo donors," Rosenberg said.
"Our paper will hopefully draw
attention to this issue so that
labs currently deriving stem cell
lines will attempt to include more
diverse lines."
nities on the same page.
"All the fraternities are in the
right place and we have some
really great people on the com-
mittee committed to making this
happen," she said. "This is the
first time that it is really starting
to get going and everyone is really
invested in it."
The Professional Fraternity
Council will be a separate entity
from the four existing Greek
Councils, Wong said, since the
current four are social fraterni-
ties, not academic ones.
Rosenfield said if the Profes-
sional Fraternity Council were
to join under the same umbrella
organization as the four existing
Greek councils, it would be "a very
small fish in a big pond" because
they wouldn't feel their unique
goals were represented.
"We really feel that if eight
of us are coming together, our
goals are going to be a little more
aligned and we'd be able to be
more responsive to each other,"
he said.
Rosenfield said the Profes-
sional Fraternity Council will aim
to become an organization where
students can get involved and
work together to meet their goals.
"We all happen to be profes-
sional fraternities," he said. "But
we also could be considered orga-
nizations. We are just working
together to form a professional
community on campus where
everyone can benefit."

Feagin was charged
with cocaine
possession after fire
in West Quad
By NICOLE ABER
Daily News Editor
Former Michigan football quar-
terback Justin Feagin, has reached
a plea bargain on his charges for
three drug counts, according to a
report published by The Detroit
Free Press yesterday.
According to the article, Feagin
plead guilty to controlled sub-
stance delivery and will be sen-
tenced on March 10.
Feagin was also charged with
conspiracy to deliver less than 50
grams of cocaine, conspiracy to
posses 25-50 grams of cocaine and
a charge of possessing less than 25
grams of cocaine, according to a
Nov. 18 article in The Michigan
Daily.
According to the article in the
Free Press, whether he is guilty
of the additional charges will be
determined at his sentencing.
Feagin waived his right to a
preliminary exam in Washtenaw
County Court on Nov. 18, moving
his case directly to circuit court,
according to the Daily article.
Though Feagin plead guilty to

JAKE FROMM/Da

Former Michigan Football player Justin Feagin in Washtenaw County Court on Nov.18, 2009.

the controlled substance deliv-
ery charge in the plea bargain,
Feagin's lawyer told the court he
planned to plead not guilty to the
charges, according to the Daily
article.
The former Wolverine was first
charged in the Winter 2009 semes-
ter after a drug deal went awry
between him and University stu-

dent Timothy Burke, who set a fire
to a West Quad hallway after Feagin
failed to deliver cocaine to him.
Feagin was dismissed from
the football team in July 2009 by
Coach Rich Rodriguez for a "vio-
lation of team rules," and subse-
quently left the University.
The plea bargain was reached
at Feagin's pretrial hearing last

week, according to the Free Press
article.
The plea deal will be considered
in correspondence with the Hol-
mes Youthful Trainee Act, which
allows for more lenient sentencing
for people ages 17 through 21 who
have committed crimes during
those years, according to the Free
Press article.

ued. "Those are important things increasingly tight budget, will be "What I think I'm probably
SULLIVAN to do too." useful in Virginia. proudest of is the team of deans
From Page 1A Despite the amount of work she "There's just a lot that I have - how good they are, how well
needs to do by the time she begins to learn, because while I can see they work together, how well the
don't have to do anything, just her time as UVA's president, Sul- the external situations are the newly recruited deans have fit
send us your vitae and that'll be livan said she's confident she'll be same,,I don't know enough about in," Sullivan said. "It's really just
enough.'" ready to hit the ground running. the internal workings - how the an exceptional group of deans
"'Well, that'll be pretty easy to "I did it here at Michigan, so I organizational structure works that the University should really
do,' " Sullivan saidshe thought at know I can do it," she said. "And I and so on and what kind of flex- be proud of."
the time. "'In fact, it's online.'" actually look forward to it. I enjoy ibility deans have and all those Knowing the office and duties
Sullivan said she sent an elec- meeting new people." sorts of issues," Sullivan said. "I she will leave behind at the Uni-
tronic copy of her curriculum "I went to a class (Tuesday) at have a lot of studying to do, but versity, Sullivan said it is impor-
vitae, but was caught off guard UVA and it was really fun," Sul- fortunately I have six months." tant that her successor have an
when they called back asking livan said. "Then I went to a lab And in those six months, Sulli- ability to manage both academics
if she would be available for an in the afternoon. I got to meet van will still be highly engaged at and budgetary concerns.
interview. some of the graduate students the University of Michigan - hav- "This job is a little bit unusual
"I was somewhat surprised, and engineering faculty. I really ing agreed to continue to serve as compared with most provost jobs
but when they called me they said think I'm going to enjoy that part provost until July 31. because of the budgetary respon-
'Would you come in for an inter- of this an awful lot." In her remaining time with sibility and so I do think it's going
view,' " Sullivan recalled. "So I Upon assuming her role at the Michigan, Sullivan is slated to to be important to have someone
went for an interview." University of Virginia, Sullivan lead the annual promotion pro- who has either budgetary expe-
From there, things just seemed will also face many of the same cess for faculty and to oversee the rience or the ability to pick that
to fall into place for Sullivan. issues as those at the University preparation of next year's bud- up pretty quickly," Sullivan said.
"Then there was another inter- of Michigan - both states are in get. "But, I think it's also important
view after that and another one a recession with cuts expected to "The promotions are very that you have somebody in this
after that," Sullivan said. state appropriations next year. important and that process job who has a strong academic
Sullivan said once she was "Thetwocampuses aresurpris- begins in a couple of weeks," Sul- background and understands the
called back for the second inter- ingly similar, not just in terms of livan said. "And the budget will aspirations of faculty."
view, she knew things were get- their quality, but in terms of the be presented to the regents in Additionally, Sullivan said
ting serious and that she needed problems they face," Sullivan said June, but we have already started the issues the provost faces will
to inform University President of Michigan and Virginia. working on a budget and so we require her successor to be for-
Mary Sue Coleman of the situa- "I think that the financial will continue to do our budget ward-thinking and open-mind-
tion. issues at Virginia aren't actually preparation." ed.
"When you get called back for too different from those that we Sullivan told the Daily she "They need to be broad minded
an additional interview, then it's face here," Sullivan said. "It's a will also continue to work on enough and interested enough so
time to let your boss know what's situation in which there is a state cost containment efforts already that they can have conversations
going on," Sullivan said. "And so, deficit, there's going to be a very underway and hopes to wrap up with people from many fields,
I did that." likely decline in the state appro- searches for key positions. because in one day the provost
"One of the reasons you do it priation." "There's a lot of work to do," interacts with people from all
is because you know she's going When Sullivan assumes the she said. "In many ways that over the campus and it's impor-
to be called for a reference check presidency at the University of hasn't changed - the Provost's tant to be able to have important
and I don't want her to be sur- Virginia, she will also inherit a Office always has a lot of work to conversations with them no mat-
prised by something like that," $3 billion capital campaign. The do and we still do." ter where they come from," she
Sullivan said, explaining her campaign is similar to the Michi- And though the countless said. "That does take a kind of a
choice to inform Coleman of the gan Difference Campaign that hours she spends in her office at breadth of intellectual vision that
situation when she did. "I told her Sullivan worked on, which ended the University will draw to an not everyone finds congenial."
that I knew I was going to go back in 2008 and raised a national end in a few months, Sullivan Sullivan also emphasized the
for the second interview." record-setting $3.2 billion. said she's confident her staff is in importance of servant leadership,
Despite considerable experi- The similarities continue into a good position to help her suc- saying a person who understands
ence as provost at the University the role the two universities play cessor. what it means to be a team player
of Michigan and the University of in their communities, Sullivan "I have an exceptionally strong and a leader at the same time will
Texas system, Sullivan admitted said. staff and I'm not worried about be critical to success.
that she has a great deal to learn "Like Michigan, they are the discontinuity at all," she said. "I think there's also something
before she takes the reins at the major employer in their commu- "The people here are pros, they that we think of as the adminis-
University of Virginia. nity," Sullivan said of UVA. "Like know what they're doing, so I feel trative personality," she said. "It's
"I have a big learning curve," Michigan, they are a major health really good about the situation the ability to listen carefully and
Sullivan said. "I've got a busy care provider, so there's a lot of I'm leaving the office in." commute your own self-interests
year carved out ahead of me." interest in what's going to change In fact, Sullivan said her staff- in a conversation."
"I have to learn a lot about the in the health care system." ing of the University's deans has "When you're provost, what's
state of Virginia, not just the uni- But despite the similarities, been her greatest accomplish- important is the University. Every
versity, but also about how the Sullivan said she's not yet sure ment. conversation is not about you."
generalassemblyworks," Sullivan whether her highly successful
said. "I need to know some things strategies to deal with the pres-
about the regents and there are sures of the office, including an
two campuses beside the cam-
pus in Charlottesville, so I need
to learn that community too."
"There's also just the names
and faces and putting them
together with the positions 4 2 1
people hold," Sullivan contin-
ZARAGON PLACE 8 4 6
THE BEST APTS IN TOWN 5
1WWWZARAGONPLACECOM
_ w SECONDS FROM DIAG
..FULLY FURNISHED 27
T-SHIRT PRINTERY LUXURYAPARTMENTS
SCREENPRINTINGIEMBRODERY r247HIGHENDFITNESS 2 6 5 9
FULLCOORDIGTALPNS TCENTER
F C O L4 P M D6AN Y Q ' Y/ WIRELESS IN UNIT3 8
INSDAYS OR LESS8t
5 WUIUTS FRM AMPUS I__
1002 Pontiac T r,58c
TEL 734-994-1367 51
.S nce 19K3 E j

l
t
}
r
t
k
t
t
a
,-
}
T


WANT TO WORK
IN THIS REALLY
OLD BUILDING?
 JOIN DAILY NEWS
Send an e-mail to
berman@
michigandaily.com
for more information.


6A-Thursday, January 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

PARKING AVAILABLE
665-8825

! 7 BDRM House-334 Catherine !
Large bedrooms, some hardwood, lots
of common space. Free parking.
May to May $3745--special discount
Fall to Fall $4095
www.oldtownrealty.net 734-663-8989
AWESOME 3 bdrm house. Free
prkg, indry, water incl. 734.223.7777.
! FALL 2010: 5 bdrm, 2 bth house.
Between Central Campus & Stadium.
833 Brown St: $2400/mo. Beautiful
House. Call Louis at 610-952-5269 or
email louisbreskman@yahoo.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
321 E. Liberty
6 BDRM APT.
$2800
SEPT. 1,2010
2 BLOCKSTO CAMPUS,
2 BLOCKS TO DOWNTOWN
4 PARKING SPACES
WILLIAM COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 649-5549
1 4 ELEVEN LOFTS has select
spaces left for 2010, May or Aug start.
Single bedrooms through 5-person, 3
bath. Rates from $655. Per-person con-
tracts, all utilities included at flat rate.
New building, 2 blocks from campus.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
!! AVAILABLE FALL 2010 !!
715 Church- 1 & 2 bdrm apartments
Across from East Quad- near B School.
Beautiful, expansive spaces, closets ga-
lore, furnished/unfurnished., Indry, free
prkg, free heat & water. Call Ann 734-
320 1244 or cimgtllc@yahoo.com
www.churchstreetrentals.com
!! AVAILABLE FOR FALL!!
Spacious unfurnished two bedroom.
Close to U/M campus. A/C, dish-
washer, laundry, balcony, free parking.
Call 734-944-2405.
POST REALTY PROPERTIES
For more info Call 734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperties.com

NOW LEASING
FOR 2010!
GREAT
NORTH CAMPUS
LOCATION
TOUR TODAY!
1-4 bedroom apts.
starting at $699a
FREE satellite TV
FREE high speed Internet
All utilite nclued
n-Unlt Washer/Dryer
Ask how you can receive
$150 gift card and
FR EE LUNCH!
THE
SCOURTYARDS'*
L to O A iENT _.. A PARHT M EN TS
1780 Broadway (734) 994 - 6007
www thecourtyardsannarbor cor
!!' CORNER HOUSE APTS !!! 2 & 3
bdrms lots of closet space, flat screen
tvs, modern furniture & much more!
741-9300 annarborapartments.net
!!!AVAIL FALL 2010 1 & 2 Bdrm.
fain. apts. 402 Hilt St. & 1313 S. State.
Ldry, free util & prkg. 734-904-6735
***3 BDRM TRI-LEVEL*** avail.
May. $200 off rent from May-Aug.
Hardwood floors, fully furnished,
washer/dryer and carport. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
+ a ; m,,Studio & 1
Bdrrn. Units
Tower Plaza Condotintum
CQuu &, .x:hrse re Lk* l Camirps
}II Briain Toma ,i
734-663-1530
***** MAY LEASES *****
I Bed. Apt. 326 E. Madison
1, 2 & 3 Bed. Apt. 1320 S. University
Need short term?? May to August
I bedroom at great rate!
Free heat & water, furnished,
Parking and FREE Ethernet!
Call today 761-8000!
Prime Student Housing
primesh.com
1 OR 2 bdrm apts avail. U of M
discount! Spectacular North Campus
Location. Call 734.663.8463.
MAY LEASES STUDIO-3 bdrms.
avail. on Central Campus. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

i
1
c
i
L
L
L
C
G
L

HOMES FOR RENT
3 Bed/2 Bth from $699/mo.
Pay NO rent* until Mar 2010!
NO closing fee, NO application fee!
FORECLOSURES ARE ACCEPTED
Ann Arbor.- (888) 883-7083 - www.sciofarms.com
Ypsilanti -(888) 310-6850 -www.4lakeview.com
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 64 Posted 34 Patronizes, asan 44Todd of
1 Italian portonthe 65 Animal family inn Broadway
Adriatic hidden in 17-, 35 Hand over 46 Classic video
5 Los Alamos 35- and 57- 36 Canine anchor games
project, briefly Across 37 __occasion: never 47 "BroadwayJoe"
10 Newspaper 66 Buffoonish 38 Popular ski 50 Not yet sched.
family name country homes 52 City nearGibraltar
14 Yemen's main DOWN 39 Talking a blue 55 Brest friend
port 1 Commonwealth streak? 58 Western Ky.
15 Roofed patio off Florida 40 Sits atop clock setting
16 Guinness of "Star 2 Uncompromising 42 Hiker's snack 59 Santa Barbara-
Wars" 3 Rises up 43 Longtime to-Vegas dir.
17 Hackneyed line 4 Ata standstill Steinway rival 60 Slurp (up)
20 Love, in 1-Across 5 Tavern choice
21 Heros 6 Kapowcousin ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22tMaledeliver 7Singletons A R P N O J O K E A S P
23 Frothytfuantain 8 Come of ago yOO E E
drinks r 9Like many lobster 0 E E
26 Greenasoldier eaters N 0 T E T 0 5 0 L F I R A E
28 Unwanted 10Galoot T H I S I S I N S A N I T Y
kitchenvisitor 11Sense of P O O L DEL SCAT S
29 Killed, in a way completeness J U L E P S O T H E L L O
31 River in NW 12 Sandra Bullock S T E E R A L O H A S E N
France role, e.g.NOFLYZONE
32 MA and PA 13 Like some
33Bakeryworker candles I D I M E L E E T R A S H
with a gun 18Agricultural pests N E L S O N S C I N E M A
34 Spirited equine 19Corner PC key A F L A T N I L A R A L
35 Chowder base 24Numerical prefix H E S R E W N A T I 0 N A L
38'_ moi, le 25 Pipe part E N I D M O V I E T I T L E
deluge": Louis 27 Portnoy creator AST I D O E S N T E O N
XV Philip
41 New Rochelle, 30 Movein high P E E S P L I T S D J S
NY, college circles? xwordeditor@aol.com 011/13/10

Experience the Difference
"*1100Sq. Ft. Aps.
Great for2-5 people
" Balconies + Patios
for entertaining
" Free High-Speed Internet
" HD Direct TV w/ DVR Service
" Built in microwave,
dishwasher, disposal
" Contemporary Furniture
" Close to CCRB
" Exercise Room, Rec. Room
" Study Lounge w/ Computers
Models open Daily
C . 741-9300
www.annarboraprtments.net
*2-BEDROOMS*: 2 minute walk to
the Business or Law Schools, unique
layouts in spacious apts, new kitchens
w/ dishwashers, heat, water, under-
ground parking included.
www.varsityanagement.com
*2-BEDROOMS*: GREAT 2-bd 2
bath bi-levels for 3-4 people, new
kitchens, baths, and furniture, rooftop
balconies, large bedrooms.
Varsity Management (734)668-1100
Rent with the Best!
Fall 1 & 2 bed apts!
Now leasing
Contact Post Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
info@postrealtyproperies.com
*3-BEDROOMS*: NEAR CCRB and
CC Little, balconies or patio, large liv-
ing rooms w/ new furniture. Heat, wa-
ter, parking inct.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
*543 CHURCH ST.*: Humongous 2-
bds for 3-4 people and a spacious 4-
bd. This is the perfect location, right
across the s. from East Hall!I [eat, wa-
ter, furnishings included.
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100
*AVAILABLE FALL 2010, Large 3
bdrm. house. Walking distance from
campus. 945 Woodlawn. Contact Mike
at 734-276-3876.
*AVAILABLE MAY*: 1001 S. For-
est; spacious 2-bds new kitchens &
baths, heat, water, Internet, & parking
ncl. 917 Packard; @ East U, large 2-
bds w/ balconies/patios, heat, water,
parking incl. September available at
both locations also!
www.varsitymanagement.com
541 S. DIVISION
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
MAY 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
*FALL 2010* HUGE 2 Bdrm
Bi-Level Apt. PI 1/2 Baths,
Prime Location, Easily fits 4.
$1599/mo. 734-665-8825.
*HUGE 4-BEDROOMS*: hardwood
floors, 10ft ceilings, & fireplaces in a
beautiful converted mansion in quiet
Burns Park. Heat, water, parking & fur-
nishings included. Call
Varsity Management (734) 668-1100.
2 BDRM. APTS. AVAIL. FALL 2010
www.smileyproperties.com
(734) 761-4469
FALL 2010 6 Bedroom, laundry. 502
Catherine St $3600/mo. 734-207-3520.

Cfs
20 Locations to ServeYou
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Central Campus Downtown
North Campus West Side
Voted one of the
Best Landlords 2009
Private Resident Shuttle
24 hr Maintenance Staff
On-Site laundry
Exercise Facilities
Contemporary Furniture
High Speed Internet
Pets Welcome!
Study Rooms
734.741.9300
www.annarborapartments.net

Spring and Fall
Leases Available
Rent today for your Best
Selection and Best Rates
Prices starting at only
$573.00 per month.
FREE Bubble Tea drink coupon
with every new tour.
Call US for information.
734-761-2680
info@u-towers.com
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
UniversityTowers-mi.com
a Unjiv-raitY
*LARGE THREE STORY furn. 5
bdrm for 6 people, 3 kitch, 3 full bth,
prkg & Indry. 921 Packard. Avail. Fall
Call Emilia 734-272-1320.
4-6 BDRM house avail Fall 2010. 418
N. State St. 6 bdrms total. 2 bath, 3
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
4 bdrm-$2500, 5 bdrm-$3000, 6
bdrm-$3450. Call 734-996-1991.
4-7 ROOM hse. Kingsley & State. re-
modeled, $500/rm. 248-910-2286.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., moder, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

5-7 BDRM house avail. Fall 2010. 510
Catherine. 7 bedrms total. 3 bath, 4
prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay all util.
5 bdrm-$3000, 6 bdrm-$3400, 7
bdrm-$3700. Call 734-996-1991.
1 122 S.Forest
6 BDRM + STUDY
$3000
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
5-7 BDRM house avail. May/Fall
2010. 1129 White St. 7 bdrms total. 3
bath. 6 prkg spaces, Indry, tenants pay
all util. 5 bdrm-$3000, 6-bdrm-$3200,
7-bdrm-$3400. Call 734-996-1991.
6 BDRM HOUSE for lease, Fall
2010! 1007State. Furn.Newly
renovated 1st Floor and Bthrms. Free
Prkng and Indry. Call 734-717-9288.
1221 S. State #2
6 BDRM
$2400
FALL 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
6 BEDROOM, 3 bathrooms, large
kitchen w/modern appliances, full size
wshr/dryr included and on site parking.
On Church St. between Hill & Oak-
land. Call Laura at Church Street Apart-
ments LLC. 734-994-0644.
7 BEDROOM HOUSE for 8.3 Bath,
2 itches, Parking and Laundry. Car-
iser of Souths U and Elm. $5000/mo.
Plus utilities. 734-260-4003.
415 BENJAMIN BILEVEL 2 bdrm
ups. Avail May & Fall, 2-4 persons.
Modern LKEA furniture. 734-945-6380
www.benjaminrentals.com
NEWER FURN. 6-bdrm apts. Walk to
central & athletic campus, Law & Busi-
ness schools. Groups or individual.
$650/bdrm & up including water tv &
cleaning 2x a month. 734-418 2050.
www.828greeneapts.com

*NOW LEASING 2010-11*
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000
www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Efficiencies:
610 S. Forest
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. State
520 Packard
1000 Oakland
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
2 Bedrooms:
909 Church
726 5. State
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1333 Wilmot
515 E. Lawrence
721 5. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
3 Bedrooms:
909 Chsurch
1330 N. University CL
1021 Vaughn
1000 Oakland
1320 5. Universiry
a Fuky Fumnished apartments
s Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
*Free heat and water
(0 Al most locutions)
APTS AT 8215 Hill and 5th Ave and
Packard. Efficiencies 1,2 & 4 Bed-
rooms. Heat included. 734-260-4003
AVAIL. 9/1/10 WILLIAM & Divi-
sion. Eff., 1 bdrm., and 2 bdrm. apt. w/
security buzzer. Laundry facility & sep-
arate storage lockers. Gallatin Realty
Co. 734-368-0256.
AVAIL. FALL 2010, 3/4 bedroom,
free pkg/Indry by Yost Arena, $1550,
734-883-8140.
skyharrisllc 4comcast.net
AVAILABLE FALL.
Beautiful I bdrm. apt. Hardwood
floors, bay window, new kitchen. 2
blocks to campus. 734-944-2405.
AVAILABLE FALL 2010. 6 bdrms-
1020 Church $3300, 1213 Prospect
$3300, 121 Glen $3300. Other locu-
tions available at michiganrental.com
or call (734) 260-7215.
AVAILABLE NOW TIL 8/10.
934 Mary $1000, 4 bdrm hse. Call
(734) 260-7215.
CUTE HOUSE AT 1115 S. Forest. 6
rooms, 2 showers, new kitchen in '08,
furnished and parking for 6. $3200/mo.
+ utilities. 734-260-4003.

Q74C Midipan Dail!
PRESENTS THE
SICK OF THE DORMS?
CAN'T FIND A
PLACE TO LIVE?
Visit michigandaily.com/
classifleds to see all of the
great houses and apartments
Ann Arbor has to offer, all on
a convenient map!
Also be sure to check out
the Classified Pages for other
great properties.
AAAAHHH!!! START W/ an unbe-
lievable 2 bdrm with 1100 sqft & 1.5
baths. Add FREE internet, HD directv
with DVR, fitness room, study & tv
lounge & you have Geddes Hill apart-
ments! Call today to reserve your new
home available spring & fall. 741-
9300 www.annarborapartments.net
AMAZING SIX BEDROOM
HOUSE in prime location. Two full
baths, private porch, newly renovated
kitchen and living room with hard
wood floors. 6 free parking spots.
$3299/ month. Campus Reality 734-
766-8865 www.campusreality.com

. -
# BDRMS Location Price
6 1221 S. State #2 $2400
5 420 S. Division #2 $2700
3 1222 Washtenaw Ct. $1800
3 1123 Church St. $1700
Copi Properties
734.663.5690
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
514 Lawrence- 6 bd house, 2 bath,
free high speed internet, easy access to
central campus, nursing, medical and
dental schools. Dshwshr and lndry.
Prkg for 6 or more cars.
206 N. Thayer- 4 bd house, 2 bath,
dishwasher, onsite laundry and parking
included.
535 S. 5th- 4 bd house, onsite laundry
and a parking spot.
421 Blakely Ct.- 3 bd house, will have
newly refinished hardwood floors on,
move in day. Furnished, washer &
dryer Parking for 2 cars.
316 W. Stadium- 3 bd house, hard-
wood floors, dishwasher, onsite laun-.
dry. Parking included. 100 steps from
the stadium. Rent now or for Fall
2010.
Call Campus Mgt. @ 734-663-410
Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 2010:
2 bedroom apartments, close to nurs
ing, dental and medical schools, easy
access to central campus. Furnished,
onsite laundry and parking. 809 Cather-
ine, 101 N Ingalls, 1028 Fuller.
2 bedrooms located next to CCRB,
1335 Geddes and 410 Observatory.,
Furnished, high speed internet and park-.
ing included. Call Campus Mgt @ 734-
663-4101. Ask about our specials!
AVAILABLE NOW!!! EFFI-
CIENCY 1 & 2 bdrm apts. Near Cral
Campus. $500-750. Includes H&W.
Call Cappo (734) 996-1991.
Student Co-Op Housing!
Now Signing Contracts for
Fall/Winter 2010/11
e$57S/Month lcludes meals,
Internet, parking, and utilItiest
Inter-Cooperative Council (ICC)
734-662-4414 www.icc.coop
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
*2 bd apartment available in the
shadow of U of M hospital, furnished,
heat, water and parking included.
1028 Fuller, move in today.
*Studio apartment within walking dis-
tance of central campus, parking in-
cluded. 1116 White.
*Large one bedroom apartment, 2
blocks east of the business school.
Heat,kwatertand parkingincluded
703 . Forest .
Call Campus Management 734-663-
4101
AWESOME LOCATION 2 & 9 Bed-'
room, fully furn, large kitchens, full
size washer & dryer, on site
parking. For more information call
Laura at Church Street Apartments,
LLC. 734-994-0644.
WHY RENT WHEN you can Buy?
Check out all of the available proper-
ties for sale in the area.
ww.ISellA2.com 734-476-9768
DON'T WAIT UNTIL April 2010 for
your Dorm rates - Get low rates to-
day with University Towers. Rooms,
Studio's - 3 bedrooms - Heat, water
and furniture included - Contact us
at universiytowers-mi.com - Don't
forget your FREE Bubble Island
Drink with every new tour.

Classifi eds
continued on
the next page

42 "Pygmalion"
monogram
45 1975 A.L. MVP
and Rookie oy
the Year....Lyn
46"Theeitha
men du lives
after them"
speaker
48 Brutally harsh
49 stone
51 How architects
draw
53 Rear admiral's
54 Crimson Tide,
briefly
56 "Flip This House"
network
57 Summertime
cosmetic mishap
61 Hall o1 Famer
Slaughter
62 Bookfrom which
thetfl~m "What's
Love Got to Do
With It" was
adapted
63 Neman Nastase

5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
1s 1
18 18
21 5 2
24 26 26 27
129 30 31
41 27 42 43
S46 4 4
s0 61 52
54 - 55 S
6d 9 6

# BDRMS Location

Price

4

Fall
6 1122 S. Forest $3000
May
6 541 S. Division $3000
Copi Properties
734.663.5690

4

By F unA e ris.
(c)2010 Tribune MediSrcs, Inc,

01/14/10

J



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 14, 2010 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January14, 2010 - 7A

Michigan
to take on
Indiana
By AMY SCARANO
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's basket-
ball heads to Bloomington tonight
for its first matchup of the season
with Indiana. It won't be a walk in
the park, and the Wolverines know
that by now.
Six games into Big Ten season,
they have realized that every game
demands energy, rhythm, con-
fidence, concentration, defense,
baskets, communication and a lot
more. And even when Michigan
brings all of those things onto the
court, it still hasn't always come
out on top.
The Hoosiers (2-3 Big Ten,
9-7 overall) are coming off four
straight years of postseason action,
and last year, Indiana coach Feli-
sha Legette-Jack led her team to
a school-record 21 wins. But the
Hoosiers are just eighth in the
standings, one ahead of Northwest-
ern (2-4, 1-6). The Wolverines lost
to the same Wildcats at home last
month, breaking a five-game win-
ning streak after shoting a measly
30 percent and being outrebounded
by their opponents for the first time
in three games.
With a .500 record in confer-
ence, Michigan (2-4 Big Ten, 10-6
overall) hasn't even faced most
of the top contenders yet. They
did almost beat undefeated No. 1
Ohio State in Columbus - almost.
Despite a late-game breakdown
against the Buckeyes, the Wolver-
ines have come up huge in crucial
moments this season.
The squad came out victorious
in their conference opener in Iowa
City when they were up 52-51 with
two seconds remaining before
freshman guard Dayeesha Hollins
sealed the game with a layup for a
54-51 victory.
Down by one with 14 seconds
left against then No. 8 Xavier in
Cincinnati, Hollins made a layup
for a 72-71 victory.
But Xavier was exactly a month
ago and since then, Michigan hasn't
beaten any team they weren't sup-
posed to beat. Their lone wins are
against Detroit, who is 2-9 in non-
conference games this season, and
 Iowa, ranked dead last in the Big
Ten. Michigan hasn't won two con-
secutive games for nearly a month.
And the task of proving they wont
collapse after a solid start is a
daunting one.
Last season, Michigan started
out strong before losing 13 of their
last 14 games. But at that point
junior center Krista Phillips wasn't
putting up the numbers and soph-
omore Veronica Hicks was still
solidifying her starting spot in the
line-up. And the promising fresh-
men duo, starting guards Jenny
Ryan and Dayeesha Hollins, were
still in high school.
But this year is different. Phil-
lips registered a double-double
last month against Northwestern
and is a weapon down low for the
Wolverines. Hicks and Hollins are
tied with 13 points per game apiece,
leading the team. And Ryan plays

extremely aggressively for a fresh-
man, leading the team in rebounds,
averaging seven per game. Michi-
gan's scoring differential this sea-
son is plus-eight, and that number
was a Ion higher going into confer-
ence play.
Before beating Iowa on Jan. 7
and breaking their three-game los-
ing streak to solidify their first con-
ference sweep of the season, the
Wolverines insisted they had not
lost confidence, even though their
play was leaving a lot to be desired.
"Basically, our confidence is
still high," Hicks said at practice
last week. "We still feel like we
are good. We just went and played
Ohio State at their place, and I don't
know the last time they lost there,
but we were mighty close to beat-
ing them."
"They smashed every other team
that they've played in conference
so far and we really had a chance
to beat them at their home court,"
Hicks said. "Why wouldn't we be
confident right now?"
Borseth continues to emphasize
that every game is its own and that
one performance doesn't affect
the next - and that's no different
against the Hoosiers tonight.
But if Michigan plays at all like
they did in last week's 20-point
road loss to a mediocre Wiscon-
sin team, the Wolverines are in
trouble.
So when Michigan steps onto the
court tonight in Bloomington, they
better not leave anything behind
- that is, if they want to climb the
rungs of the conference ladder and
see postseason action any time
soon.

Blue's penalty
kill strategy
pays dividends

ARIEL BOND/Daly
Redshirt sophomore Laval Lucas-Perry has been inconsistent for the Wolverines this season. Lucas-Perry led the Wolverines'
victory against Penn State last Thursday with a 16-point effort in the comeback win. He hit four 3-pointers in the second half.
o overines desperate
for consistent play in
conference matchup

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily SportsEditor
As the Michigan men's bas-
ketball team prepares to take on
Indiana tonight,
the Wolverines Indiana at
without a doubt
have their last Michigan
game against Matchup:
the Hoosiers on Indiana 7-8;
their minds. Michigan 8-7
The loss in When: Tonight
Bloomington at9 P.M.
only 15 days-ago Where:
remains one of Crisler Arena
the team's worst TV/Radio:
performances ESPN
so far this sea-
son. Michigan
lost to a team playing its first
game without its leading scorer,
freshman Maurice Creek, who
will be out for the remainder of
the season.
Of course, Michigan (2-2 Big
Ten, 8-7 overall) came out the
very next game like gangbusters
at Crisler Arena and beat then-
No. 15 Ohio State in what was
perhaps their most impressive
win of the season.
So the question is, which
Michigan will show up for the
game tonight?
"I think our whole team has
been inconsistent," Michigan
coach John Beilein said. "That's
what's been the most frustrating.
You don't know what to expect
from each player right now."
He's right. The team's incon-
sistency from game to game

stems from every player not
named Manny struggling to per-
form at a high level every night.
Senior DeShawn Sims has
come on strong of late, earning
Big Ten Player of the Week hon-
ors while averaging 21 points
and seven rebounds per game in
that span. But he hasn't exactly
been a beacon of consistency
throughout the season, laying
eggs against Boston College and
at Utah.
Redshirt sophomore Laval
Lucas-Perry had trouble against
Kansas and in Michigan's first
game against Indiana (1-2, 7-8),
but exploded against Penn State,
tallying 16 points and leading the
comeback effort.
Sophomore Stu Douglass,
meanwhile, lit up Indiana in
Bloomington, notching 16 points.
But in Michigan's last two games
against Penn State and North-
western, he has scored just two
and six points, respectively.
And since the Wolverines'
defense usually mirrors their
offense, defensive effort has been
just as inconsistent as individual
offensive output.
"When things aren't going
well offensively, you got to play
even better defense," Beilein
said. "From an individual level,
that's the most important thing."
So what can Michigan do to
make sure it comes out with
equal effort, game in and game
out?
Sims said it's not a matter

of playing harder, but playing
smarter.
"I definitely think we're play-
ing hard," Sims said. "Smart? In
all aspects of the game? Not real-
ly throughout the 40 minutes of
the game, but I definitely think
this team plays hard."
Sims especially will need to
play hard on the defensive end if
he's going to stop Hoosier fresh-
man Christian Watford, a 6-foot-
8 forward who scored 19 points
in Bloomington, and most of his
production came from the post.
Another key to tonight's game
will be the ability of Michigan's
guards to box out. While junior
Manny Harris is probably the
best pure rebounder on the
team, Douglass, Lucas-Perry and
freshman Darius Morris all will
also need to make sure to get a
body on the Indiana guards,-
sophomore Verdell Jones III and
redshirt junior Jeremiah Rivers
racked up a total of 17 rebounds
in the two teams' last meeting.
The game tonight kicks off
a hellacious stretch of basket-
ball for the Wolverines. After
Indiana, the Wolverines play
Connecticut, at Wisconsin, at
Purdue, and Michigan State.
It would be nice for Michigan
to start off that stretch with a win.
"I know this stretch is very
important, probably the most
important stretch of the season
thus far," Sims said. "We're look-
ing down the road for any type of
hope."

Wolverines have the
third-best penalty
kill in the nation
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Writer
It's working.
Whether it is killing off two
and a half minutes of a five-on-
three to change the game against
Michigan Tech, scoring a short-
handed goal to put away Min-
nesota, scoring another one the
following night to take the lead
for good against No. 4 Wiscon-
sin, or taking a civil gathering of
6,921 people at Yost and turning
the place into a frenzy without
even lighting the lamp, Michi-
gan coach Red Berenson's system
seems to be working.
"It" is the penalty kill. The unit
kills off penalties at an 89 percent
success rate, just two tenths of a
pointoff of its all time mark set in
2002-2003 and good enough for
third in the country. Michigan's
penalty killers have been perfect
in 12 games this season, includ-
ing a streak of 25 straight during
which it won five of six games
during that stretch.
Much of that has to do with
the personnel. As Jed Ortmeyer
and Dwight Helminen paced the
record-setting unit seven years
ago, sophomore Luke Glenden-
ing and junior Carl Hagelin do
the same for the current bunch of
penalty killers.
"We've identified some play-
ers that have really embraced
the role," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said. "It's not a glamor-
ous role, it doesn't show up on the
stats. You might be our best pen-
alty killer but someone else is get-
ting all the attention because he's
our leading scorer. In the mean
time, you might be more impor-
tant than he is."
Also important to success is
practice, something the Wolver-
ines' penalty kill unit has had a
lot of this season. The Wolver-
ines are ninth in the country in
penalty minutes and have had to
kill off four major penalties so far
this season.
"Our goal at the start of the
year is to be the least penal-
ized team," Michigan coach Red
Berenson said. "We can play a
physical game but you don't be
penalized. ... Penalties are like
goals, they're important parts of
the game."
Despite being unhappy about
the penalties, it has provided

Michiganwithachancetochange
the momentum of the game.
The coaching staff teaches an
aggressive and unusual system:
players attack the opposing ath-
letes on the outskirts of the zone
even if they have strong posses-
sion.
The method leads to increased
turnovers and short-handed
opportunities, but increases the
chance that Michigan players
end up out of position in their
own zone. Still, because they
see the penalty kill as an oppor-
tunity to change the game, the
coaching staff is willing to take
that risk.
They see this gambling strat-
egy as a necessary risk, allowing
the penalty kill a chance to steal
momentum.
"It's hard to play a passive sys-
tem and we don't do that, fortu-
nately," Glendening said. "It's fun
to go out there and you're really
doing your best to work hard.
That's kind of our PK's theme, is
hard work is what is going to do
it for us."
That effort has changed the
tone of games all season, culmi-
nating with its performance in
the second period last Saturday
against Western Michigan.
The Yost crowd collectively
held its breath. With a 3-1 lead
Michigan faced a five-on-three
disadvantage. Of the thirteen
goals given up this season by the
penalty kill, six have come with
two men down. The Wolverines
needed to kill the penalties to
save the game.
Western Michigan set up the
power play and had a goal - but
senior Chris Summers made it
impossible for the Broncos to
come any closer. With goalten-
der Bryan Hogan on the other
side of the net, Summers broke
up a play in the slot and then
battled to chip the puck off the
glass and out of the zone as fans
exhaled.
Glendening found the puck
and drove to the net with a shot
that almost trickled past West-
ern's Riley Gill. During the
play, those exhales turned into
screams and a standing ovation
- the loudest Yost has been all
season.
"Penalties can kind of work
in your favor if you kill them,"
Summers said after the game.
"Especially when you have 7,000
people behind you screaming
and yelling, so that was a big
boost for our team. I think that
was a definite turning point in
the game."


www.varistymanagement.com
Varsity
625 Church St.
(734) 668 -1100
Studios - 4 bedroom
All are Central Campus Locations
Heat, water, & furnishings included
Most incl. parking, some ind Internet
New kitchens w/ dishwashers, new
bathroom vanities and nice furn
Great prices and great locations
Call to schedule an appointment
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Amanda at 231.633.7143 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call David at 248.935.2159 or email
815SouthStateManagers@umich.edu

420 S. Division #2
5 BDRM
$2700
SEPT 2010
COPI PROPERTIES
(734) 663-5609
FALL 2010 EXCELLENT 2 bdrm
apt. 528 S. Fifth Ave. Furn, disposal,
dwshr, Indry, prkg. Walkout balcony.
$1175 + elec. 734-662-7121 or email
gpmiles@aol.com
FOR MAY/SEPTEMBER 2010 lease.
1, 2, 3 bdrm apts at 408 Hill, 908 Sybil
910 Packard, 1026 Vaughn, etc. 734-
222-9033. jmsprop@sbcglobal.net or
visit www.jmsprop.com
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY.
LARGE one and two bedrooms apart-
ments on Central and North Campus,
www.michcomrealty.com or
734-662-5500 for appointment.
HELP WANTED

JANITOR/CUSTODIAN: PART
TIME day positions available in Ann
Arbor. A valid Michigan driver's li-
cense and social security card are re-
qaited to apply. Please call today for
additional information. 586-759-3700.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
CHILDCARE
EARLY MORNING 2-3 days a week.
Older child, Responsibile references'
and Own Transportation. 734-769-1462
Spring Break comes to life...
Live Concerts
Awesome VIP Parties
Beautiful Beaches
Scenic Cliff Jumping
Spectacular Sunsets
Book Your Trip Today! Contact:
sER1RCES
1.800.648.4849
www.ststravel.com
1.800.426.7710

For Friday, Jan.'15, 2010
ARIES
(March 21 to April 19)
The delays dealing with bosses, par-
ets, teachers and VIPs definitely will
begin to lessen as of today. Looks like
things are returning to normal.
TAURUS
(April 20 to May 20)
For several weeks now, delays and
interruptions regarding travel and higher
education have been frustrating. Finally,
all of this will diminish considerably.
Whew!,
GEMINI
(May 21 to June 20)
Mercury is your ruler, and it's been
retrograde for the past month, causing
havoc. Today this will start to reduce,
and things wilt begin to return to normal.
CANCEk
(June 21 toJuly 22)
Recently, ex-partners have been back
in your world. As of today, you can start
to move forward with a more positive
attitude. (Leave the past in the past.)
LEO
(July 23 to Aug. 22)
Everything having to do with your
work has been aggravated by silly errors,
lost items and delays. As of today, things
will start to return to normal!
VIRGO
(Aug. 23 to Sept. 22)
Old flames and es-lovers have been on
the scene lately. You'll have a stronger
sense of what to expect starting today.
LIBRA
(23 to Oct. 22)
Some of you have had relatives
camped on your doorstep. Starting today,
this energy will leave, and, hopefully, so
will they!
SCORPIO
(Oct. 23 to Nov. 21)
You have suffered from transportation

delays and communication mix-ups for
weeks now. It will be a relief to learn that
these delays will hugely diminish -
finally.
SAGITTARIUS
(Nov. 22to Dec. 21)
Confusion and mix-ups with cash-
flow situations, banking and even your
earnings have plagued you lately. As of
today, all of this will begin to disappear
into the past. Things will be back tonor-
mal soon.
CAPRICORN
(Dec. 22to Jan. 19)
Mercury has been retrograde in your
sign for weeks now. You might have
thought you were losing it. It makes you
forgetful and confused, and it's easier to
lose things as well as to make silly
errors. That's over as of today.
AQUARIUS
(Jan. 20to Feb. 18)
A general feeling of restlessness and
uncertainty might have plagued you in
the past month. You'll be glad to know
that the cause ofthis is now fading away.
Good!
PISCES
(Feb. 19 to March 20)
Although it's been interesting running
into old friends, dealing with past issues
and hearing old gossip, it's time to get
your show back on the road. Starting
today, it's all systems go.
YOU BORN TODAY You're amaz-
ingly persistent and dedicated to your
goals. You have high ideals, and are able
to inspire others to your own levels of
excellence.In this way, you are often a
teacher or guide for people. You enjoy
the company of others; you love a good
time. This year is the beginning of a new
cycle for you. Open any door!
Birthdate of: Martin Luther King Jr.,
Nobel laureate; Chad Lowe, actor; Gene
Krupa, drummer.

711 Arch - Between State & Packard !!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
1, 2, 3 Bdrm. apts. tial. No exp. nec., training provided.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270 AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
Call above numbers or email for INSIDE SALES CONSULTANT
showings or please stop by! Part time (32 hours per week)
CRAWFORD HOUSE
Luxury 5 bedroom 2 bath apt available Responsibilities include making out-
Prime Location! Free parking! bound calls to prospective clients to
$3699/mo, 734-665-8825 support and build the business as well
www.campusrealty.com as developing an existing account base.
Must be able to meet goals and objec-
FIND YOUR NEXT HOUSE OR tives.
APARTMENT

at
michigandaily.com/classifieds
See great places on an interactive map
or Classified listings with full descrip-
tions, features, and prices

Requirements include previous sales
ex-
perience and comfort working on the
In-
ternet. Must be highly organized with
exceptional attention to
detail. $15/hour.
Please submit resume to: _
barbaramontgomery@annarbor.com
APPLY NOW! FUNDRAISE for the
U: Michigan Telefund, $9.25/hr. NEW
campus location! Students apply @
www.telefund.umich.edu or 763-8773

2010 King Features Syndicate, Inc.


0

8A - Thursday, January 14, 2010

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Falling short hurts
most at Crisler

t
Y
3f
1
ih S 7
r fi
4 1 +
Y,'
!K+". _ _
i
r z
,.d - v _ p sue. , . fir~
. "^ , "Ta, - _ _ w' { ;: fix'
h. .
{
g '3' .
P ,.rte ... , b.

Honestly, I felt claustrophobic.
After the Michigan men's bas-
ketball team upset then-No. 15
Ohio State,
the Wolverine
Nation started
to come crawl-
ing back. That
was fine. It was
good to see
some enthusi-
But when NICOLE
Michigan AUERBACH
pulled off one
of the most
unexpected and exhilarating
comebacks against Penn State a
week ago, the rest of the fanbase
returned to the bandwagon. Or
rather, smushed into the band-
wagon.
{ The excitement reminded me,
well, of last year. Students wore
basketball jerseys to class, class-
mates tried to scalp tickets on
Facebook for upcoming games
and the buzz throughout campus
was getting louder and louder.
Wait. This couldn't be happen-


-11
l ,


on the tip of our tongues.
Are the Wolverines actually
good?
It took 40 minutes and a blown
17-point lead against a rather
mediocre Northwestern team to
answer that question once and for
all: No.
In the most soul-crushing,
stake-through-the-heart kind of
way, the answer was no.
And boy, does that suck.
This was supposed to be the
year of Michigan basketball.
Remember last season - the first
March Madness appearance in 11
years? Well, it wasn't supposed to
be a one-and-done deal.
For the first time in more than
a decade, fans on campus finally
let themselves believe in the pro-
gram. Fifteen games, 7 losses and
an RPI of 162 later, and we're basi-
cally back to square one.
But why? Michigan lost a pair
of walk-on guards this offseason.
That's it. The core of the team, and
most importantly Manny Harris
and DeShawn Sims, remained.
High expectations practically
oozed out of Ann Arbor. The
accolades poured in even before
the Wolverines began their sea-
son: A No. 15 ranking. Pre-season
All-Big Ten selections. Features
in national college basketball
magazines.
Student season ticket sales
increased 500 percent, balloon-
ing to nearly 2,500 tickets this
season. That's nearly 2,500 dis-
appointed students who planned
their winter classes around mid-
week games. That's nearly 2,500
people who expected the season
to extend deep into March with a
trip to the NCAA Tournament.
Now, that sentiment seems
almost ludicrous. In fact, this
season has felt more like a long,
drawn-out dream that none of
us can wake up from. Did I say
dream? I meant nightmare.
Bad losses, a pathetic 29 per-
cent 3-point field goal percentage,
poor interior defense ... the list

of Michigan's on-court problems
could go on for days. The trendy
excuse is that the team suffers
from a lack of leadership. Me? I
don't believe that, and I don't buy
the "maybe the players just don't
care" argument, either. They care,
and they're good guys. They're as
confused as the fans are, and it's
pretty apparent they don't know
how to fix things any more than
we do.
I'm hearing that it's a pretty
similar situation next door at Yost.
A talented team that - for some
reason or another - has fallen out
of the national spotlight.
Sure, the hockey team's 19-year
It was supposed
to be the year
of Michigan
basketball.
NCAA Tournament appearance
streak might snap this year. That's
rough.
Even though Hockeytown is
just 40 miles from Ann Arbor, the
fact is that college hockey isn't a
major sport here on campus, like
football and basketball are.
Even if Michigan hockey won 19
straight NCAA titles, it wouldn't
attract 2,500 student season tick-
et-holders.
If the hockey team's tourna-
ment appearance streak ends, half
the campus won't notice.
But when the basketball team
snaps its one-year tournament
appearance streak, it's going tobe
a long, quiet March.
And after DeShawn and, in all
likelihood, Manny leave this sum-
mer, it could be the first of many.
- Auerbach can be reached
at naauer@umich.edu

PPW61

ing.
And then Sunday came along
and brought us all back to reality.
Welcome to Michigan basketball
circa 2009-10.
This is the
team that
lost to Utah,
which
lost to a
school
called
Illinois State
(Who?). These are the Wolverines
who, in front of a hopeful Crisler
nfiUi. Arena crowd, were embarrassed
by Boston College, ateam that lost
to Maine ... at home (Seriously).
Those losses were head-
scratchers, but after a while, we
became numb to the pain. A few
false glimmers of hope later -
aka the Ohio State and Penn State
shockers - and we couldn't quite
figure out this bipolar team. That
question we didn't dare ask was

What do you think? Which season is more pair
Join Auerbach and Kartje and sound off in the
Duel of the Disappointments Live Chat
Today at 6 p.m. on michigandaily.com

f" r- 4 0'

Failure hits
hardestat Yost

4

Imagine that for 19 straight
years, your family has gathered to
celebrate your birthday.
I'm talking
balloons, choc-
olate birthday
cake with that
special frost-
ing your mom
knows you like .
and presents
just for you. RYAN
The whole she-
bang. KARTJE
Then, you -
wake up with
a smile on that fateful day, expec-
tations through the roof, because
nothing - by your judgment - is
out of the ordinary. Much to your
chagrin, there's no cake, no bal-
loons and no presents.
Your family has forgotten your
birthday, a la Sixteen Candles.
Except, in this case, the Michi-
gan hockey team is Molly Ring-
wald. And that birthday you have
marked on your calendar year
after year, because well, it's your
birthday, that's the NCAA Tour-
nament.
John Hughes couldn't have
written it any better.
At 12-10, the Wolverines are
enduring one of the worst seasons
of coach Red Berenson's 26-year
tenure.
And with each crushing loss
to teams increasingly inferior to
their own, hopes of extending the
longest streak of NCAA Tourna-
ment appearances in the nation to
20 are looking slimmer and slim-
mer.
With a returning group of 11
NHL draftees - four of those in
rounds one or two - and a Hobey
Baker finalist from the year
before, Michigan looked like the
Fab Five on Mark McGwire's ste-
roid regimen.
So in front of a crowd of loyal
Michigan hockey fans on Nov. 7, a
following that forgave the team's
near screw-up in the home opener
against Niagara and its two-goal
defeat at the hands of Miami
(Ohio) the night before, fans
expected a triumphant comeback,

a return to glory, a piece de resis-
tance of sorts.
Instead, they got 65 penalty
minutes - 51 in the third period.
For a frame of reference, that's
more than a third of the penalty
minutes upcoming CCHA oppo-
nent Alaska has tallied all season.
Berenson, a man of little visible
emotion, looked embarrassed.
He took nearly half an hour
to address his team in the locker
room, and when he finally left,
called them "spoiled brats" to the
media.
Four games and 14 goals later,
the star-studded defense was
underachieving, the offense
couldn't score and Michigan fans
were praying for an early arrival
from mega goaltending recruit
Jack Campbell to spell Bryan
Hogan's mediocrity and turn
around a five-game losing streak.
That is of course, before Camp-
bell decommitted, opting instead
for the OHL.
And to add insult to injury (lit-
erally and figuratively), Spartan
forward Corey Tropp, who was
kicked off the team for a cheap
shot on senior Wolverine Steve
Kampfer a year before, beat
Kampfer one-on-one tosecure the
series sweep.
It vas enough to stomp on
the grave of Michigan's 19-year
streak, but Enemy No. 1 of Michi-
gan hockeyfans did his best rendi-
tion of "Twist and Shout" on the
way out of Yost Ice Arena.
And much to the delight of
masochists everywhere, Tropp's
a shoe-in to be a Hobey Baker
Award finalist this year.
Pouring salt in their own
wounds became a hobby, one
capped off when Berenson
benched Hogan for the final
period of the Wolverines' open-
ing round loss to RPI in the Great
Lakes Invitational.
As two-time defending GLI
champions, Michigan's expecta-
tions were high. And though they
trailed early, they even scored two
quick goals in the third to tie it up
with backup Shawn Hunwick in
net.

But in a fit of bad luck that would
make Lemony Snicket blush, Hun-
wick's .5-foot, 7-inch frame was
about three inches from stopping
the game-winning goal.
This had to be a dream.
Sure, 2010 was supposed to be
the year of Michigan basketball.
Bandwagoners all around cam-
pus bought tickets in droves when
they saw the shiny number before
the Wolverines' name.
But what they don't understand
is that it's been the year of Michi-
gan hockey for nearly two decades
It's been the
year of Michigan
hockey for two
decades now.

I

now. And fans abandoned the
bandwagon long ago for a charter
bus.
Michigan wins are like a life-
style for dedicated hockey fans,
who have been coming to Yost
for years to get away from the
culture of disappointment fester-
ing a few miles down the street
at Crisler.
Nearly a quarter century of
lofty expectations in the Beren-
son era have been sent swirling
down the toilet as Michigan has
limped to splits with CCHA base-
ment dwellers like Bowling Green
(who has been as bad in the past 19
years as Michigan has been good)
and Ohio State.
So when the basketball team
misses the Tournament this year,
Michigan students will look to
the hockey team for postseason
comfort. Just like they have every
year, with the exception of last
season, since 1998.
But this time, there won't be
any birthday candles waitingto be
blown out.
- Kartje can be reached
at rkartje@umich.edu


thebx

com Thursday, January 14, 2010


D The Michigan Daily I

michigandaily.

THERE'S A
LOT OF
ANIME THAT
DELVES INTO
PHI LOSOPH ICAL
SU BJECTS,
LIKE WHAT
IT MEANS TO
BE HUMAN.
-KEN CHILDERS
LSA SENIOR,
ANIMANIA M

weekend
essentials
Jan. 14 to Jan.17
AT THE MIC
Artist Stephanie Row-
den will be speaking
tonight at 5 p.m. at
the Michigan The-
ater. Rowden's work
includes several instal-
lations and projects
exploring the medium
of radio. Recently, she
has assembled an
audio documentary
describing friendship
in old age. The lecture
is part of the Penny W.
Stamps Distinguished
Visitors Series and is
free to the. public.

Steven Heise is the president of Animania, the University anime student group with more than 800 members

AN MANIACS
By Emma Jeszke I Daily Arts Writer

CONCERT
Detroit alt-rockers The
Hard Lessons return
to one of their home
bases, the Blind Pig,
tomorrow. Expect
the Lessons' snappy
garage-rock to be
particularly charged:
Lines for their last
show wrapped around
the block.And as if
they needed any more
local cred, Ann Arbor
indie-poppers Light-
ning Love are opening
- a perfect pairing
of the playful and the
punk. Tickets are $10,
doors at 9:30 p.m.

As the semester kicks off and your free
time is taken up by whichever hobbies,
student groups or jobs you've committed
to, you may not be aware of a certain group
of fervent individuals quietly residing in all
areas of campus, trickling into the far-out
corners of Ann Arbor. This avid bunch,
often secluded though very aware of the
larger community it belongs to, has one
common love: anime.
Everyone has come face to face with this
Japanese-culture obsession at one point or
another. Maybe you were the bandwagon
"Pokemon" fan trying to make money off
a Charizard card, or the die-hard Saturday
morning "Sailor Moon" addict. You may
even have a personal obsession with
anime to this day, and if you do, you're not
alone. Even if you simply have an anime-
loving friend, you've been exposed to the
medium.
"I've pretty much grown up with anime,"
said Ariel Roberts, a School of Art & Design
freshman. "My mom is Japanese, and we
had Studio Ghibli films like 'My Neighbor
Totoro.' My middle name is Mei, after the
younger sister in the movie."
So where do those struck with this
passion find an outlet for their anime love?
At the University, there's Animania,
a student group that holds monthly
screenings of anime for students and
townies and holds Ann Arbor's anime
convention.
Animania: serving Ann Arbor anime
addicts for nearly 25 years
Animania is not only one of the largest
student groups on campus, with over 800
members on its e-mail list, but it's also one
of the most distinct. Embracing Japanese
culture, the officers and staff of Animania
get together and plan monthly screenings
of Japan's most underground anime for
the general public's viewing pleasure.
The group's goal is to show people the
multifaceted nature of anime as an art
form, hoping to expose audiences to films
they may not find among mainstream
releases.
The club, founded by a small group of
of Ann Arbor townies in the late 1980s,
has been affiliated with the University for
about 20 years.
Among Animania's founding fathers is
former Ann Arborite Tim Eldred, a comic
artist most notable for his graphic novel
"Grease Monkey," which was selected by
the American Library Association in 2007
as one of the best books for young adults.
Eldred began his anime addiction as a
tween in the 1970s with television shows

like "Speed Racer" and "Star Blazers."
"I didn't catch onto the fact that it was
from another country," Eldred wrote in an
e-mail interview. "I just loved the energy of
it. I could watch it every day after school
and the tone was more mature than the
usual Saturday morning fare.'
When Eldred stumbled upon the Ann
Arbor anime scene, there was only a
very small anime group present in the
city, consisting of fewer than ten regular
members. The group was struggling and on
the verge of losing its organizing member.
Eldred was corresponding with him at the
time, and both were mutual pen pals with
other anime fans across the country.
"I agreed to take over," Eldred wrote.
"This was the late 1980s, and I had built
up a big video library of anime via tape
trading on VHS, so I had plenty of stuff
to show. I started up a newsletter, came
up with the name Animania, and we had
monthly screenings in the house of one of
our members."
After Eldred took over the group,
membership soared. Eldred explained that
within just a few months there were too
many members to be accommodated in
the house where they had been holding the
screenings, so they moved to a community
building in an apartment complex.
"A few months later, we were outgrowing
that, so we booked a meeting room at the
Michigan Union," Eldred wrote.
The group continued to flourish through
the 1990s, regularly attracting 300 to 400
people to the monthly screenings and
organizing a trip to the Anime Expo in Los
Angeles. It was also asked by the staff of
U-Con, Ann Arbor's gaming convention, to
bring its following to the autumn event.
But the University wouldn't allow for a
proper convention with U-Con. University
policy dictated that there couldn't be any
private vendors in University buildings.
So Animania birthed its own type of
convention - or non-convention, rather.
Con Ja Nai - literally translated from
Japanese as "not a convention" - is an
event now held annually by Animania. It's
an all-day affair on the first floor of the
Modern Languages Building, including
four screening rooms for anime and other
activities including games, trivia and
discussion panels. The first Con Ja Nai in
1994 had an attendance of roughly 1,000
people.
But times are tougher for Animania
nowadays, and attendance at monthly
screenings and Con Ja Nai are at an all-time
low. Steven Heise, president of Animania,
thinks this has to do with the group's lack
See ANIMANIACS, Page 3B

FILM
The genius blaxploita-
tons 'poof "Black Dyna-
miiM/ hits Ann Arbor
for one night only,
a midnight showing.
Saturday at the State
Theater. The Sundance
hit is a throwback to
e genre's ultra-cool
extravagance, featuring
trademark elements of
gr ous sex, kung-fu
fightin and excessive
levels of badassitude as
,Michael Jai White fights
through hordes of her-
in peddlers. Movies
h ven't been this funk-
ta tic since the '70s.
sON STAGE
Associate Profes-
sor and Chair of the
Department of Jazz
and Contemporary
Improvisation Ellen
Rowe will be per-
for'ng Friday, Jan.
15wih her quartet
at the Kerrytown
Cofcert House. The
group will be playing
original pieces from
Rowe's new album
Wishing Well. The
performance starts
at 8 p.m. and tickets
are $5 for students.


2B - Thursday, January 14, 2010

i
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


F OOD WARS


RAY'S RED HOTS

The dog at Ray's Red Hots is neither
red nor hot, but it's certainly delicious.
The all-beef wiener itself is quite a bit
smaller in diameter than I'm used to,
but its length makes up for it (hi-ohh!).
There's also a subtle crunch to the meat
casing. The real story here is the sesame
seed bun: moist, flavorful and the icing on
the frankfurter cake.

:._

IlorbOG

WHIP'S DOG DAYS
For pure frank value, you can't beat
this CC Little hot dog stand. $1.50 gets
you a tasty dog plus a wide selection of
condiments: ketchup, mustard, relish,
onions and sauerkraut. Sure, the buns
may be of the Wonder variety, but you
can't expect much more from an out-
door cart. Plus: "10 cent" advice (actu-
ally free).
MR. GREEK's
At the somewhat tasty price of $1.99,
a hot dog from Mr. Greek's will provide
a satisfying, if slightly rubbery, experi-
ence. It's an invaluable advantage that
these all-beef dogs really do taste all-
beef. But despite the lack of strange
horse parts, the Greek dog still suffers
from some consistency imperfections.

LE DOG
If you happen to walk by during the
short windowof time it's open, Le Dog
boasts very thick and juicy hot dogs,
making it one of the top dog joints in Ann
Arbor. But the exciting heap of meat is
unfortunately sandwiched in the middle
of asubpar bun, keeping the dog experi-
ence from reaching stellar heights.


Daily Arts Writer Jasmine Zhu
kicks off our loud and shocking
new weekly show, "Accost'd."
To find out which celebrites
the people of the University want
to fight and see Jasmine fall
down, watch the video at
michigandaily.com/section/arts.

AND THE WINNER IS: RAY'S RED HOTS
CAMPUS CLASH
WELCOME TO THE ANN ARBOR ARENA
Come one, come all, to the see smackdowns of the century.
Daily Arts will be taking some time this year to answer the
age-old question, "Who would win in a fight?" But we're doing
it University style. Vote online every week, then read the b-side
for details on last week's fight and the next epic match-up.
THIS WEEKS FIGHT:
JOHN TERESA
BEILEIN SULLIVAN


Weekend Freebies
Because boredom doesn't end
when your cash flow does
Thursday, Jan.14
MOLS Winter Recreation
Tryout snowshoes -for free!
Elbel Building, 6:30 p.m.
Jazz Jam
Free coffee! (And jazz).
Pierpont Commons,8:30p.m.
Saturday, Jan.16
Joel Thomas Ayau: Piano Recital
Beautiful piano music, for fre!
E.. Moore Building, 2 p.m.,
Sunday, Jan.17
Paula Muldoon: Violin Recital
Beautiful violin music, for free!
EV Mot Building2pm
Monday, Jan.18
MLK Day Celebration:
Engaging in Creative Change
Free performances and dialogue!
Mendelssohn Theater 3p.m.

WHAT'S NEW
ON THE DAILY
ARTS BLOG
* Globular Predictions:
Daily Arts Editors Carolyn Klarecki
and Kavi Shekhar Pandey predict
the results of the upcoming Golden
Globes. They're probably wrong.
. Lady Gaga tells you to
"whip your cock out": Daily
designer Allie Ghaman describes
why the pop enigma's latest
Detroit gig ended in a peeved rush
for the door.
. M.I.A. tweets out the
New York Times: Daily
photographer Jed Moch praises
M.I.A.'s quest to spread awareness
of Sri Lanka's political turmoil.
michigandaily.com/blogs/the filter

4

4

ARMED WITH:
His new '15-'16 contract
and a steel spork

ARMED WITH:
Her new UVA contract
and sweet nunchucks

VOTE ONLINE AT
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/SECTION/ARTS

MichKnit makes college warm and cozy

CIO
h
neE

It'sI
and W
dredsc
barded
from
sororit
unsusp
politics
musica
cappell
tantali
chocolo
Tuc
bub lie
you ent
first th
It's th
industr
ver kni
clickin,
ing to

)se-knit 'U' club this small community of knitters
congregates quietly behind closed
elps clothe the doors, hard at work.
Club Co-President Erin Fogarty,
edy-and the cold a junior in the Ross School of Busi-
ness, is sitting cross-legged on a
By JENNIFER XU chair, diligently working on a red
DailyArts Writer scarf. Beside her is a large bag of
yarn, spilling out a whole spec-
Tuesday night at the Union trum of colors.
interfest is in the air. Hun- There are six other people
of students are being bom- circled around this small room
with sensory information working on blankets, scarves or
all directions - bouncy gloves. Some are carefully plaiting
y girls pushing flyers into fine, shimmery yarn one strand
'ecting students' faces, at a time, while others knit three
al clubs yelling over the strands all at once, the needles
l vocalizations of a nearby a methodically weaving in and out
a group. All the while, the without pause. One girl stops in to
zingly sweet whiff of hot change her needles and pick up a
ate saturates the hallways. cocoon of yarn. Another drops off
ked slightly behind the hub- a thick orange and green blanket
s another room, 2105B. As for the donation box.
er this quiet little room, the Co-president Crosby Modrows-
ing you notice is the sound. ki, an LSA junior, comes in later,
e unmistakable sound of bearing a McDonald's bag and
ial calm, the sound of sil- knitting needles.
itting needles meticulously "They don't let us have food in
g away. Rather than yell- here anymore, so we can't have
passersby to join its club, pizza today. Sorry, guys," she says.

Today, this room houses the
members of a little-known club
called MichKnit, a student-led
organization initiated just three
years ago by Fogarty, Modrowski
and Engineering junior Shannon
Power in a lounge at Bursley Hall.
The three were only freshmen at
the time.
"I think it was at our first Fes-
tifall was when the club started
getting more attention. So many
people came up to us and told us
they were interested in knitting.
We ended up having more than
100 people on the mailing list,"
Fogarty said.
"It's really grown from there,"
Modrowski added.
The Ginsberg Center provides
MichKnit with free yarn, which
the members knit into all sorts of
winterwear to donate to Alterna-
tive Spring Break projects. Last
year, MichKnit managed to donate
over 80 hats, scarves and gloves.
MichKnit features no hierarchy
beyond the three presidents.
"You just show up, hang out,
knit and chat. Mostly it's just real-
ly relaxed - people just hanging
out, with more experience and
less experience. They ask ques-
tions, look at projects and get

14

MichKnit has over 100 people on its mailing list, 30 of whom are active members.
ideas," said LSA junior Timothy semester's worth of work."
McMacken. Sometimes members work on
"Scarves are where you tradi- projects for themselves, in addi-
tionally begin, because it's essen- tion to the ones that are donated.
tially just back and forth, and it's "If you make something and
long too," McMacken explained, you really love it, you can keep
"so a lot of scarves come in. A few it, but we try to limit ourselves
people make gloves. Last year, one since we're getting free yarn," said
girl made a sweater. It was like a Engineering sophomore Jaimie

4

Brougham.
MichKnit traditionally has
two big events every year: Needle
Breakers, which it sponsors itself,
and the K-grams Kids Fair,,:where
the Michknit gang gathers with
other organizations to provide ele-
mentary school kids with a series
See MICHKNIT, Page 4B

s .


:Win $10,000...

'a
':
'


Grand enin
$20 c & $ 0 sP
$20.00 Haircuts & $25.00 Express Pedicure

Resources may be limited.
Ideas are NOT.
So if you have a breakthrough idea for helping
planet earth to be a more sustainable place, then
enter the Dow Sustainability Innovation
Student Challenge.
Concepts, which should be interdisciplinary in
nature, can be related to chemistry, climate change,
energy conservation, product safety, public policy,

or other critical ideas. Students with the top three
ideas will receive $10,000, courtesy of the Dow
Chemical Company.
The Dow Challenge is exclusively for U-M graduate
students. Individual and team submissions will be
accepted. The entry deadline is Jan. 15, 2010.
So don't delay. If you think you have a winning idea
.go ahead.
Apply online at www.graham.umich.edu.

4

4

GRAHAM
INSTITUTE



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 14, 2010 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 14, 2010 - 38

On the prowl for
winter fashions

The Collage Concert provides a series of challenges for the technical staff, as transitions between performances must be done swiftly as applause is held.
A collegiate, musical collage

When the five-minute
walk to class feels like
a trek up Mt. Ever-
est, and it becomes commonplace
not to feel your
fingers or toes
as you head
outside, you
know it's that
wonderful time/
of the year: It's 
winterwear
accessories JENNIER
shopping time! XU
It all started
for me when a friend and I
braved the frosty winds in search
of Christmas presents for our
respective boyfriends. As we
breathlessly stumbled into Mid-
dle Earth, we were greeted by the
familiar smell of incense, a wide
assortment of gag gifts and a nice
selection of animal winterwear.
As a joke, I jammed a knitted
leonine toque hat atop my head.
The striped ears waggled up and
down.
"It looks cute!" my friend
assured me through her giggles.
"You'd never wear it, though."
Remember that part in "Harry
Potter" when Luna Lovegood
dons a colossal lion's head in
support of Gryffindor in the
big Quidditch final against Sly-
therin? It has huge whiskers
and eyes that bug out and like
a gazillion brown and yellow
streamers coming out from
behind it. Yeah, the hat looked
kind of like that, except it had a
tail in the back, too.
Though neither of us was able
to find a suitable present that
afternoon, I walked out of the
store with a newfound resolve. I
would be the owner of that hat.
"I'm buying it," I told my
friend. "I'm telling you, I'm buy-
ing it."
Purchasing a winter hat
shouldn't be such a big deal, butI
am known to be obsessively picky
with little things like accessories.
I'll plunk down $25, $30 for a
new dress, no problem, but tell
me to buy a scarf and I'll spend
hours and hours picking through

the best and worst of Ann Arbor's
couture, preening at my dissatis-
fied reflection in the mirror. My
criteria for winterwear, in partic-
ular, are enormously stringent.
Things I try to avoid at all
costs: Ugg boots, or any sub-
par imitation of them (I'm sure
they're warm, but wearing them
over leggings kind of nullifies the
purpose, doesn't it?), The North
Face because it's out of my bud-
get, long johns and big woolly
scarves that look comfortable but
when you take them off decide to
fry your hair all over the place.
I'm also over pretty things
that secretly make you freeze
because I've already caught two
colds since October, and we're
not even halfway through win-
ter yet. Thanks, Forever 21, for
repeatedly damaging my immune
system while depleting my bank
account with your stupid "return
for store credit only" policy. I'm
really fond of those beret-type
hats that "Gossip Girl" has popu-
larized, but I've always wondered
what part of your head they actu-
Working up the
courage to buy a
not-so-cowardly
lion hat.
ally protect - the back of your
scalp? A few strands of your hair?
In a state where the windchill
impedes you from walking in a
straight line, I'd say form wins
over fashion, any time.
Not that it means that I con-
done waddling around in huge
swaths of cloth. I've found that if
I'm not completely comfortable
with what I'm wearing, I won't
wear it, no matter how many
colds I catch or classes I miss.
I had made a connection with
the lion hat. From the second I
laid eyes on my reflection, I fell
See XU, Page 4B

The Collage Concert never
rests, presenting a variety
of performance styles
By ERIN STEELE
Daily Arts Writer
At some point in their academic lives, almost
all students at the University have made a col-
lage with magazine clippings and various other
art supplies. On Saturday, Jan. 16, the School
of Music, Theatre & Dance
will present another type of
collage that the student body
may not find as familiar: a Collage
musical collage. The 33rd cet
annual Collage Concert will
be held in the Hill Audito- Saturday
rium at 8 p.m. at 8 p.m.
TI-e concertis described by Hill Auditorium
artistic coordinator Dr. Julie
Skadsem, associate professor
of Music Education and Choral Conducting in
the School of Music, Theatre & Dance, as "a
meshing of different musical pieces."

"In the concert you'll hear a wide variety of
music from classical to contemporary," said
Skadsem. "There's some world music, folk
music, and the concert will flow from piece to
piece seamlessly so that the end of one piece
runs into the beginning of the next."
The Collage Concert first found its place
here when the University hosted the State
Music Educators Conference in Ann Arbor,
which traditionally featured this kind of con-
cert. When the conference moved to Grand
Rapids a few years ago, the tradition of the Col-
lage Concert stayed at the University.
The concert is composed of two 35- to
40-minute sections, during which applause is
held, and swift shifts between different moods
and genres create an eclectic collage effect.
Each of the musical pieces is between two and
four minutes long, and among the performers
are the primary ensembles of the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, along with 15 other
students and groups who were selected to per-
form their original works.
The ensemble conductors and selected
groups collaborated to form a diverse and
kaleidoscopic program. The wide variety
of performance material and participating

groups should make the concert appealing to
an audience with diverse tastes and expose the
participants to new kinds of performance.
Music, Theatre & Dance freshman Tara
Sheena described watching the concert as "a
whirlwind experience and definitely unlike
any other show on campus."
"My favorite aspect of The Collage Concert
is being able to see all of the small groups from
all of the disciplines of the School of Music,
Theater and Dance," said Frederick McGirr,
a Music, Theatre & Dance senior who will be
playing in his fourth collage concert this year.
"We get to see groups play that we don't get to
see on a daily basis."
For example, McGirr will be playing the
repenique, a Brazilian drum, for Saturday's
performance.
"It's very well attended," Skadsem said. "It's
a very popular concert, I think because it has
such great variety. It showcases the entire
school of music."
Because of its broad scope and continually
flowing nature, rehearsing the concert pres-
ents a unique set of challenges. This includes
accommodating students who perform in
See COLLAGE, Page 4B


ANIM
From P
of resou
a lack o
Arbor.
"I do
support
MSA an
that the
rather p
"The
fans that

versity to promote," he added.
ANIACS Heise maintains that this stigma is a mis-
Page 1 B conception, which is evident if you take a
look at the club.
"We have a very diverse group of people,"
irces and advertisement rather than Heise said. "We have Engineers and LSA
f anime fans on campus or in Ann people and Art & Design people. We have
people who aren't what you expect to see
n't want to say theUniversity doesn't when you think anime fan."
us, because we do get money from "I think being open-minded and watch-
d LSA-SG," Heise said. "But I think ing some anime even if you don't think
University has other things they'd you're going to like it is important," Heise
romote than the anime club." said. "Sometimes you'll get a nice surprise
re is a stigma attached with anime from a source you never expected."
it would be undesirable for the Uni- Animania is attempting to overcome its
obstacles. Heise encourages showing anime
that is less mainstream, not what you
may typically think of when consid-
ering the genre's identity.
"The shows I promote are the
ones that aren't what people think
anime is," Heise said. "It's not all
Njust the magical girls and giant
robots, even though there are
shows like that out there."
Eldred is still proud of the Ann
Arbor anime legacy he has left
in Animania.
"Once in a while
I'll hear through the
grapevine that Anima-
nia is still going,
and it makes me
feel like a proud
father," he said."I
think what makes
Animania really
special is that it
was around before
anime went mainstream.
They're in a position to appreciate
the roots and the history."
"When I think of all the
friendships and cross-cultural
interest that must have resulted, I
think it can only be a good thing for
any community to have an anime
group."
\U)
k4
Ce S57

Anime: more than a cartoon?
The existence of such a large group with
so many avid fans demands the question:
What is it about anime that makes fans so
passionate they jump right into the sur-
rounding communal hype? The answer is
simple: Anime is more than just a cartoon.
"It's not just for kids," said Charlotte
Raines, Music, Theatre & Dance junior.
"Some people may only be familiar with the
'Pokdmon'- or'Dragon Ball Z'-type stuff and
might be skeptical, thinking that 30-year-
olds are watching kids' cartoons, but anime
is a lot more than those shows."
"They delve into many more topics than
your typical Bugs Bunny cartoon," said Ken
Childers, a fifth year LSA senior and mem-
ber of Animania. "It's not really some sort of
slapstick animation. There's a lot of anime
that delves into philosophical subjects, like
what it means to be human."
Raines explained how she takes issue
with most Americanized anime cartoons
because they have a tendency to be one-
dimensional, focusing on one aspect like
dirty comedy or action.
"Anime just has so many more layers that
people probably are not aware of," Raines
explained. "It's so much more meatier."
Alongside its philosophical components,
anime provides an entire fantasy realm in
which to escape. Raines explained how, for
some fans, this cultural aspect is anime's
main draw. For instance, there are viewers
who get really into the outfits the characters
wear and the worlds in which the characters
live. This is referred to as "cosplay" (mean-
ing "costume play") in the convention world.
Fans dress in clothes and accessories to
mimic characters from their favorite shows.
Others are drawn to the whimsical char-
acteristics of anime - the use of primary
colors and swirling images coupled with
gorgeous people and the trademark big eyes,
a beautiful, simplistic quality that creates a
magical feel often lost in realistic computer
animation.
Still other viewers, as Roberts explained,
are interested in the quality of the animation
- with special attention to detail regarding
anatomy, lighting and backgrounds.
Unfortunately, fully immersing oneself
in the world of anime can bring on societal
complications.
"I've found that it's hard to get into art
colleges by having an anime style, because
it's seemingly copying," Roberts said. "But
S know from myself, and other artists, that
the anime style can vary greatly."
Many "otaku"- the term coined for hard-
core anime fans - are fully aware of the stig-
mas that come with their chosen passion.
"When someone thinks 'anime fan,' they
probably think of someone who just sits in
his room and watches anime all day, doesn't
go out, is overweight, pimple-faced, looks
at pictures of little girls," Heise said. "You
know, all these really extreme stereotypes
- a nerd persona."
"Every stereotype is based on truth,"

Raines said. "Some of those people do
exist - I have seen them at conventions. So
whenever I tell people I like anime and they
don't know much about it, they snicker at
me and automatically place me in the geek/
outcast label."
"I feel that for alot of otakus and anime
fans in general, we are aware of that stig-
ma," she added. "Most of us just deal with it
by hatingthe 'normal' people."
Because of the stereotype, most outsid-
ers feel that anime is always perverted or
sexual in nature, but the genres, ideas, top-
ics and maturity levels explored in anime
are infinite.
And Heise feels anime is becoming
increasinglyaccepted by the general masses.
"I think we are definitely getting near to
the point where people aren't goingto say it
can't be serious if it's anime," Heise said.
An Anime-ducation
There are other ways for Ann Arbor anime
lovers to get their fix besides frequenting
screenings with Animania and perusing the
assortment of manga available at the local
bookstores. The anime scene here extends
past the point of hobby and into - believe
it or not - the educational realm. Here at
the University, many courses are offered
through departments such as History of Art,
Screen Arts & Cultures, Art & Design and
Japanese Studies that deal partially - and in
some cases exclusively -with anime.
Kevin Carr, assistant professor of His-
tory of Art and Asian Languages and Cul-
tures, has been teaching a course for the
past three years called History of Art 392:
Anime to Zen. The course attempts to pres-
ent a thematic analysis of Japanese art his-
tory, as seen through the contemporary lens
of pop culture with anime and manga serv-
ing as primary objects of study.
"One of my larger projects as a teacher
is to make the students more cognizant of
how images work and how they work on us
- what they make us do," Carr said. "Anime
and manga are two good objects with which
to consider those issues, because they are
very compelling for a lot of students, but at
the same time the messages they hold are
quite complex."
Because anime and manga express cul-
tural ideals through illustration, Carr
believes that they impact a viewer far dif-
ferently from the way live action can and,
like most mediums, there is room for exper-
imentation.
"I don't know if this is the 10-year-old
in me coming out or not, but I think there
is a certain magic to drawn animation,"
Carr said. "It creates a space of wonder that
allows one to sit back and enjoy the enter-
tainment without taking it so seriously,
while at the same time it can be very effec-
tive in communicating messages and trans-
formingthe way people think."
Carr believes that using pop-culture
elements like anime in class can be useful
for wooing students from other fields who

may not otherwise be interested in takinga
course dealing with art history or Japanese
studies.
"Sometimes we joke in Japanese Studies
that if you want to attract a lot of students
to the class, just put anime in the title," he
said. "I can usually assume that someone in
the audience knows a lot about (anime). So
there is kind of a familiarity and immediacy
to the students that in other classes is hard
to generate."
"It's really nice to draw on that passion
and enthusiasm, and general interest in the
material," he added.
Carr acknowledges that serious study
of art forms like anime in school can cer-
tainly kill the art form's magic, but for those
willing to take that risk, there are ample
opportunities right here at the University
for students interested ina critical study of
anime as art. And Carr is happy to see that
there are, indeed, more and more students
interested in the material.
"It's become more mainstream," Carr
said. "I mean, for goodness sake, profes-
sors like me are talking about it, so obvi-
ously it has fallen into the general mass of
humanity."
Anime friends in Ann Arbor: If you
build it, they will come
Although there's a prevalent anime pres-
ence on campus and plenty of resources to
seek out in Ann Arbor, it's not a scene that
goes out recruiting new people. If you're
interested in finding fellow anime lovers
around town, you'll need to smoke them out
of their caves.
"When I first got to this school, I actually
had trouble finding anime fans," Raines said.
"They are here and they definitely exist at
the University, butthey kind of keep to them-
selves.You have to actively go look forthem."
Raines said her experience with anime
at the University has been relatively inde-
pendent, watching most of her anime on
the Internet and with fellow otaku. But
she said that Ann Arbor is a great location
for getting active in the convention scene,
with some of the most popular Midwestern
conventions happening in Detroit, Dear-
born and Chicago.
of course, for anyone interested in seek-
ing out the Ann Arbor anime scene, Anima-
nia is very accessible and a great place to
start.
Anime is not a passive entertainment
experience. Although the preconceived
notions about anime may bring forth visions
of the ultimate sedentary nerd stereotype,
the cultural and societal involvement of the
artwork with its fan base has created an
entire world that is anything but stagnant.
It's a cultural phenomenon in Japan that
has made its way to the United States and
launched a living, breathing, vibrant sub-
cultural community. And that movement
has a unique, deeply rooted footing in Ann
Arbor. It's up to the students and locals to
keep it going.


LLSTATIOBY OLVAZN/r teDaily


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, January 14, 2010
COL LAGE
From Page 3B
more than one piece, addressing
songs that need special ampli-
fication or instrumentation and
organizing stage lighting.
Some of the dance pieces are
performed to recorded music,
keeping the tech workers on
their toes as the concert moves
rapidly between recordings and
live music. There will also be
some shortened plays, including
Shakespeare's "Macbeth," which
will be confined to small sections
of the stage, creating yet more
technical challenges.
Last week Skadsem met with
the lighting and sound crews,
which have the difficult task of
maintaining seamless transi-
tions from piece to piece.
"We tend to have the perfor-
mances flow from side to side
and across the stage and some-
times from within the audience,
so the lighting intricacies are
pretty complicated," Skadsem
explained.
Of course, the performers
must also be aware of their sur-
roundings in order to achieve a
seamless transition from piece
to piece. Though each group
rehearses its own pieces indi-
vidually, they do not get to
practice their transitions until
a dress rehearsal the day before
the concert.
"To practice this, each group
must know . exactly where the
group before them ends so they

can be ready right when they
need to begin," McGirr said.
"Rehearsing Collage is almost
like getting ready for a huge
audition, because the pieces are
played with no breaks between
them. You have to do a lot of
mental preparation before even
singing or playing the first note
to get focused and calm," said
School of Music, Theatre &
Dance senior and vocal soloist
Mary Martin.
Despite the challenges, all
those involved in the concert will
be more than ready on Saturday
night after about two months of
rehearsal.
"It's always kind of a surprise
how it turns out, because after
you resolve all the logistical and
personnel issues related to who's
performing, you end up with an
order, and to see how the transi-
tions flow is always a really excit-
ing time," said Skadsem.
Skadsem compared complet-
ing the concert to placingthe last
piece in a collage and finally see-
ing how everything ties together.
The performers clearly share
this passion and are incredibly
proud of what they're creating.
"I have participated in the
concert every year and can say
that they are among the most
unique and exciting concerts I
have been a part of," said School
of Music, Theatre & Dance junior
and string instrumentalist Mad-
eline Huberth.
"The amount of diversity and
talent in this concert makes me
very proud to be a Michigan stu-
dent."

MICHKNIT
From Page 2B
of arts activities.
"We provide free yarn, and
needles are only $2," Modrowski
said. "It's our first meeting of the
year and it's definitely the most
popular one."
At Kids Fair, the club gathers at
Crisler Arena to teach elementary
school kids how to knit.
"We started out trying to teach
them how to finger knit, which is
kind of like looping a long piece of
yarn around your hands," Fogarty
laughed, "but they were running
around like crazy ... we just ended
up making theis yarn bracelets."
The club's members are very
close. The three presidents all
share an apartment together and
have been good friends since
freshman year.
"We all lived in the same hall in
Bursley. When we decided to start
a club, we just wanted somewhere
to hang out and meet new people,"
Fogarty said. "It's very relaxed. I
remember when we first wrote
our club description it was like
literally, knit, hang out, eat and
that's it."
While the participants are pri-
marily female, men do come in
from time to time.
"Usually around the holi-
days they come in asking 'Will
you teach me how to knit?' "
Brougham said.
"We mostly get boys who want
to make something for their sig-
nificant other, which is cute - a

very cheap, easy, but heartfelt
gift to make your girlfriend," she
added.
That's just how McMacken got
started.
"I had just started dating my
girlfriend, abroke highschool stu-
dent," he said. "I decided I wanted
to make her something because
that would be more interesting
than just buying something. So I
ended up making her a really long,
nice scarf.
"And six years later, she mar-
ried me, so it ended up working
out," he added.
MichKnit started with only
10 members, but in these three
years the club has grown to more
than 100 people, 30 of whom
are active. Active members are
defined as those who regularly go
to the monthly meetings.
"I hope it'll get bigger. People
think it's weird and old-lady-
ish, but it's so cool - something
you can do in your free time,"
Brougham said. "You can pick up
your needles and just go."
"And you get more winter gear
in a winter state," McMacken
added. "Really, it's not a bad
deal."
Toward the end of the meet-
ing, McMacken finishes teach-
ing a girl how to knit. It's her
first meeting and the first time
she has ever picked up a pair of
needles. Staring at the misshapen
inch of orange and black wool she
has just knitted, she smiles with
pride as she leaves the industri-
ous little room.
"You can come back anytime,"
McMacken calls after her.

0

Most MichKnit members start with scarves, then work up to more ambitious projects.

4

I

4

4

4


