SOFTBALL PREVIEW 2011: The unsung heroes have helped seniors Jordan Taylor and Dorian Shaw get Michigan off to a hot start. 9 PAGE7A
A selection of our
favorite Michigan Daily
pictures from the past
S FT Eyear.
US OFTHE Y AR] THE STATEMENT, INSIDE.
(;be £idii~tan~ai1!j

* Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 30, 2011

michigandaily.com

CAMPUS CONSTRUCTION
East Quad
to close for
renovations
next spring

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Business School senior Sam Pessin, LSA freshman Sean Lemons, LSA sophomore Mariah O'Rourke, LSA senior Allison Freed and Engineering senior Patricia
Schuster - members of the high-energy percussion group Groove - play on trash cans on the Diag yesterday.
ST U -UI
Service program to remain
in ast Quad permanently

Construction plans
still need Board of
Regents approval
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
East Quad Residence Hall,
long-time home to the Residen-
tial College, will be temporar-
ily shutting its doors next year
while it undergoes a large-scale
construction project.
The renovations are expected
to start following the winter
2012 semester, with the resi-
dencehall reopening in time for
the fall 2013 semester, accord-
ing to LSA Associate Dean Phil
Deloria.
"It's going to be totally gutted
and taken apart, and it's going to
be beautiful when it's rebuilt,".
Deloria said.
During the construction, the
RC and the Michigan Communi-
ty Scholars Program, which will
be stationed in East Quad for the
second consecutive year, will be
moved to a different residence
hall. The exact location of the
move has yet to be determined,

Deloria said.
University Housing spokes-
man Peter Logan wrote in an
e-mail interview that the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents must
approve the construction plans
before it begins.
"We have talked about the
timing of the project, depend-
ing on the scope of the work,
but decisions about such major
projects have to be reviewed
and recommended through the
executive leadership of the Uni-
versity and ultimately approved
by the regents," Logan wrote.
The tentative plans have
not been officially announced,
but some students have been
informed of the future renova-
tions.
"For several months, Univer-
sity Housing has been engaged
in preliminary studies about
upgrading East Quad, includ-
ing discussions with students
and faculty there," Logan wrote.
"It's a heritage building in need
of infrastructure improvements,
and we hope that there will be a
plan for East Quad."
According to Deloria, the con-
struction is expected to take one
See RENOVATIONS, Page 3A

Students displeased
MCSP will not
return to Couzens
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
Participants of the Michigan
Community Scholars Program,
a University living and learning

community centered on com-
munity service, will continue to
live and learn in East Quad Resi-
dence Hall instead of returning
to the program's original home
in Couzens Residence Hall next
year.
MCSP was relocated to East
Quad this year. The program
was initially supposed to move
back to Couzens in the fall after
renovations to the buildings are

finished. But Phil Deloria, LSA
associate dean for undergradu-
ate education, said the decision
to keep MCSP in East Quad for
the long-term was made on Fri-
day after administrators from
the LSA Dean's Office deliber-
ated with University Housing
officials and MCSP leaders.
MCSP students were notified
that the program would remain
in East Quad via e-mail by MCSP

Director David Schoem on Sun-
day. Deloria said he and Schoem
agreed to keep the MCSP in East
Quad.
However, for the 2012-2013
school year, MCSP and the Resi-
dential College will be relocated
to another residence hall due
to future construction on East
Quad. The East Quad renova-
tions are scheduled to begin
See MCSP, Page6A


UN IVE R SITY ACA DE MICS
'U' Center for Ethics to
close due to budget cuts

'IF YOU CAN DODGE A WRENCH...'

Elimination of
center will reduce
classes, programs
on topic
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
University students who
applied for fellowship programs
and research grants sponsored

by the University's Center for
Ethics in Public Life this year
were expecting to be granted or
denied their request.
Instead, they received an
e-mail that said due to recent
state government budget cuts,
the University has decided to
close the center entirely.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said due to budget
constraints determined by state
funding, certain University pro-
grams including the Center for

Ethics in Public Life were elimi-
nated. He said the center is not
closing because it failed to pro-
mote its message, but because it
had already met its goals.
"The evaluation was that
its mission of ethics in public
life was now sort of embedded
in the community," Fitzgerald
said. "And the provost's office
believed that would be sus-
tained without having a specific
center focused on that."
See ETHICS, Page 3A

'U' offers students array of
mental health resources

Business fraternity Phi Chi Theta and pre-med fraternity Alpha Epsion Delta compete in a dodgeball tournament for Pro-
fessional Greek Week yesterday. Funds from events will be given to the American Red Cross to aid Japan.
David Lampe appointed 'U' executive
director of research communications

'U' researcher
conducting study
to analyze support
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
With a single click on the
University's gateway website,
a list of 25 mental health treat-
ment centers, student support

groups, student organizations
and web resources appear.
Though the list may look
complete, the University is still
trying to find the right bal-
ance of services to effectively
accommodate students' men-
tal health needs. Daniel Eisen-
berg, an associate professor in
the School of Public Health, is
leading a team on the Healthy
Minds Study that is working to
find that balance.

The HMS is an annual
national survey that explores
the prevalence of depression,
anxiety and eating disorders
among college students and
examines how many students
seek treatment for these condi-
See MENTAL HEALTH, Page 3A

Lampe to step down
in April as VP for
communications
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily News Editor
David Lampe, the University's
vice president for communica-
tions, will step down from his job

on April 4 to assume the newly
created position of executive
director of research communica-
tions.
As executive director of
research communications,
Lampe will work in the Univer-
sity's Office of the Vice President
for Research, which is headed by
Vice President for Research Ste-
phen Forrest. Kallie Bila Michels,
an associate vice president for

communications at the Univer-
sity, will become interim vice
president for communications
until a permanent replacement
for Lampe is found.
In an interview yesterday,
Lampe said in his new role he
hopes to bring greater recog-
nition to the different types of
research being done at the Uni-
versity.
See LAMPE, Page 6A



WEATHER HI: 46
TOMORROW LO 27

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
VIDEO: Stepping to the plate with Derek Dennis
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX AP NEWS ..................2A NEWS ..................6A
Vol. CXXt No.120 OPINION...................4A SPORTS .................7A
O2011 TheMichiganDaily ARTS.. . . . 5A THE STATEMENT......1 B
michigandoilycom


2A - Wednesday, March 30, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
iEhfiicoganDaHM 0
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief BusinessManager
734-41e-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
seeinberg@michigandaily.com rmdbusiness@gmailcom

Learning and loving Latin

Where are you from and when
did you come to Michigan?
I am from Naples, Italy. I came to
Michigan in 2006 and started teach-
ing in 2007. I came to the United
States for the first time, just for a visit,
in 1993. I had a scholarship from the
Italian government to pursue an Ital-
ian doctorate. I visited Princeton, and
I loved Princeton so much thatI decid-
ed to apply to earn an American Ph.D.
in classics.
What classes do you teach at the
University?
I am teaching Classical Studies 121,
called "Africa, Race and Ethnicity in
the Ancient Mediterranean." I teach
how to talk about each other in a world
that is increasingly diverse as well as
the academic writing style. I am also

teaching Latin 232, which is on Virgil's
Aeneid. It is taught in Latin.
What is your teaching style like?
If I was observed teaching from
someone else's perspective I would
think I am very traditional, but maybe
not. When you tell someone how to
write you're basically telling people
how to think, so it's a little uncomfort-
able. But it's a very important skill. In
my class we are going to talk about
uncomfortable topics because you are
going to be evaluated about how you
think about these controversial topics.
What do you like most and least
about teaching?
Let me just start by saying I love
teaching. My favorite thing is the
exposure to young people and see-
ing how the world is changing with

them. When Ican see an idea spark in
somebody's head it is one of my great-
est pleasures. Seeing their ideas grow
as they discuss what they are thinking
with one another, I love that. When I
see knowledge happening I take great
pleasure. It's the reason I Ao what I do.
My least favorite partpis the sched-
ule. It kills me. Everything,sto hap-
pen at a specific time. I malge a very
strict plan at the beginning of the
semester, but I change it to give more
time to appreciate what the students
are learning. Grading is another least
favorite thing because it displeases
students that I am reducing their
learning to these little numbers. You
can't reduce anybody to a number.
Everybody is so complex and so rich.
- LEE SOVA-CLAYPOOL

Newsroom
734-418-411s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sportsemichigandaily.com
display@eichigandadly.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
classified mchgandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

0
"

Current executives at their final N
gan Student Assembly meeting.

CRIME NOTES

Flaming flyers
WHERE: Kraus Building
WHEN: Yesterday at about
3:15 a.m.
WHAT: Flyers posted out-
side of the building were
found burning, University
Police reported. The papers
were extinguished. No
damage was reported, and
there are no suspects.
Urinating
Houdinis
WHERE: Thompson
Carport
WHEN: Monday at about
6:45 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
indivdiuals urinating in a
stairwell, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
nects.

Donut craving
WHERE: North Ingalls
Building
WHEN: Yesterday at about
1:45 a.m.
WHAT: A staff member
was observed stealing a
donut from an unattended
case near the cafeteria,
University Police reported.
She was interviewed and
released.
Money bag lost,
then found
WHERE: Brighton Health
Clinic
WHEN: Monday at about
12:45 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported a
deposit bag missing, Univer-
sity Police reported. Soon
after calling the police, the
bag was found hv staff.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Greek Week
finale show
CORRECTIONS

WHAT: The Greek commu-
nity will be holding a sing-
ing and dancing competion
to celebrate the finale of the
University's Greek Week
festivities. Tickets cost $7.
WHO: Office of Greek Life
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
Lecture by
Nobel Laureate
WHAT: Dr. William Phil-
lips will deliver the Ford
Motor Company Distin-
guishd Lecture in Physics.
He will give a multimedia
presentation that will focus
on time, theories of Albert
Einstein and the universe.
WHO: Department of
Physics
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Chemistry
Building

" An article in the March
29 edition of The Michi-
gan Daily ("Power out-
age causes State Street
area business to shut
down early")misiden-
tified Lee Tilloston-
Becker. He is a man.
" An article in the March
24 edition of The Michi-
gan Daily ("Uncontested
Larkin andLaverty take
LSA-SG seats') omitted
a new LSA Student Gov-
ernment representative.
She is Johanna Rothseid.
* Please rOt any
error in th tNiy to
corrections@mnichi-
gandaily.com.

A BP employee lost a lap-
top that contained infor-
mation about roughly
13,000 residents on the Gulf
Coast, WWL reported. The
data contained information
from people who filed com-
plaints with the company
after the oil spill last summer.
Check out the best pho-
tos taken by Michigan
Daily photographers
in the past school year. The
shots capture historic events
and unforgettable moments
on campus.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
3As of yesterday, at least
4,441 members of the
United States military
had died in the Iraq War
since March 2003, The Asso-
ciated Press reported. Since
2001 at least 1,408 U.S. mili-
tary personnel had died in
Afghanistan.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor swanson@michigandaily.com
NicoleAber ManagingNews Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:BethanyBironDylanCinti,CaitlinHuston,JosephLichterman,
Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANTNEWSEDITORS:RachelBrusstar,ClaireGoscicki,SuzanneJacobs,Mike
Merar, Michele Narov, Brienne Prusak, Kaitlin Williams
MithelleDewittrand opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editoeiat Pnge Editoes
SENIOREDITORIALPAGE EDITORS:AidaAli,AshleyGriesshammer,HarshaPandurangs
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Eaghan Davis, Harsha Nahata, Andrew Weiner
Tim Rohan and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
NickSpar ManagingSports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Ryan Karte,
Stephen J. Nesbitt, Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bouchi, Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
Keinaftry att Sovyik
Sharon Jacobs ManagingArts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
ASSISTANT ARTS0EDITORS:JoeCadagin, EmmaGase,Proma Khosla,DavidTao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed MOch Managing PhotoEditors
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:ErinKirkland,SalamRid,Anna Schulte, SamanthaTrauben
Zach Bergsonand design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich MananginDesigntEditors
SENI)R ESIGN EDITR ayaFriedmadn r
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS:Alex Bondy,nHermes Risien
Carolyn Klarecki MagazineEditor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:StephenOstrowskisElyana Twiggs
Josh Healy and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten Copy Chiefs
Sarah Squire webrevelopment Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Julianna Crim salesManager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
Hillary Szawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Trevor Grieb and Quy VOcirculation Managers
Zach Yancer web Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily (IssN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan Onecopy isavailablefree of charge
to all redes.Adiionlcpiesmay bepckedup atthe Dily's oficefor $. Subsriptinsfor
tall te, starting inSeptenber,eviaU.. mailr$1t0.OWintrterm(nuar~ythroughApilis
$15 yearong (September through Aprlis$195 Universityailiates are subecttto a reduced
subsripionratetO-camssubrptionstorslltrme$t.Sbscriptonsmtbepepad.
The MichganDaily i anemer ofaTtheAtsociated Pess and The Asoited ColegiatePess.

0

Obama: Standardized tests
cause kids to lose interest

0

President says
school evaluations
shouldn't be based
only on test scores
WASHINGTON (AP) - Pres-
ident Barack Obama said Mon-
day that students should take
fewer standardized tests and
school performance should be
measured in other ways than
just exam results. Too much
testing makes education boring
for kids, he said.
"Too often what we have
been doing is using these tests
to punish students or to, in
some cases, punish schools,"
the president told students and
parents at a town hall hosted by
the Univision Spanish-language
television network at Bell Mul-
ticultural High School in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Obama, who is pushing a
rewrite of the nation's educa-
tion law that would ease some
of its rigid measurement tools,
said policymakers should find
a test that "everybody agrees
makes sense" and administer it
in less pressure-packed atmo-
spheres, potentially every few
years instead of annually.
At the same time, Obama
said, schools should be judged
on criteria other than student
test performance, including
attendance rate.
"One thing I never want to
see happen is schools that are
just teaching the test because
then you're not learning about
the world, you're not learning
about different cultures, you're
not learning about science,
you're not learning about math,"
the president said. "All you're
learning about is how to fill out
a little bubble on an exam and
little tricks that you need to do

in order to take a test and that's
not going to make education
interesting."
"And young people do well in
stuff that they're interested in,"
Obama said. "They're not going
to do as well if it's boring."
The president endorsed the
occasional administering of
standardized tests to determine
a "baseline" of student ability.
He said his daughters Sasha,
9, and Malia, 12, recently took
a standardized test that didn't
require advance preparation.
Instead, he said, it was just
used as a tool to diagnose their
strengths and weaknesses. The
girls attend the private Sidwell
Friends School in Washington.
Obama, who has been push-
ing his education agenda all
month, has expressed concern
that too many schools will be
unable to meet annual profi-
ciency standards under the No
Child Left Behind law this year.

Israeli soldiers on patrol following clashes in the West Bank village of Beit Omar on Wednesday, March 23.
Israel threatens to annex
West Bank settlements

0

Ultraconservative Muslim
sect more assertive in Egypt

Salafis served as
counterweight
to Mubarak's
opposition
CAIRO (AP) - Members of an
ultraconservative Muslim sect
clashed with villagers south
of Cairo over demands that a
liquor store and coffee shops be
closed, officials said yesterday,
a sign of the increasing asser-
tiveness of the fundamentalist
Salafi movement.
nOne villager was killed and
eight others were injured in the
armed clashes, which erupted
late Monday in the village of
Kasr el-Bassil in Fayoum prov-
ince, a security official said.

The fighting broke out after
Salafi followers ordered the
owner to close the liquor store
and coffee shops as they try
to forcibly impose their strict
interpretation of Islam by ban-
ning the drinking of alcohol.
Salafis were tolerated as a
religious group under ex-Pres-
ident Hosni Mubarak to coun-
terweight Mubarak's top foe,
the Muslim Brotherhood group
but has gained power as it rises
to play a more political role as
followers now ponder nominate
a presidential candidate, fol-
lowing the 18-day uprising that
led to the ouster of the former
regime. That has alarmed many
of the secular and liberal forces
in Egypt because of the group's
extremist discourse and imposi-
tion of Islamic sharia law.

Dozens of Salafis also staged
a protest yesterday in Cairo,
accusing the church of abduct-
ing Camilla Shehata, a Coptic
priest's wife who some believe
converted to Islam and is being
held against her will. Salafis also
have accused the police of col-
laborating with the church by
handing Shehata over to Church
authorities to reconvert them.
The woman's whereabouts are
currently unknown.
Such protests were held
almost weekly by the Salaf-
is over the summer as they
accused the Coptic Church of
conspiring to "Christianize"
Egypt, but they largely stopped
after a suicide bombing on New
Year's Day outside a Coptic
church in the port city of Alex-
andria killed 21 people.

300,000 Israeli
settlers currently
live in West Bank
JERUSALEM (AP) - Israel is
considering annexing major West
Bank settlement blocs if the Pal-
estinians unilaterally seek world
recognition of a state, an Israeli
official said yesterday - moves
that would deal a grave blow to
prospects for negotiating a peace
deal between the two sides.
Israel has refrained from tak-
ing such a diplomatically explo-
sive step for four decades. The
fact that it is considering doing
so reflects how seriously it is
concerned by the Palestinian
campaign to win internation-
al recognition of a state in the
absence of peacemaking.
The Palestinians launched that
campaign after peace talks foun-
dered over Israeli construction in
West Bank settlements. Yester-
day, the Israeli Interior Ministry
said it would decide next month
whether to give final approval
to build 1,500 apartments in two
Jewish enclaves in east Jerusa-
lem. Israel captured both east

Jerusalem and the West Bank
from Jordan in 1967.
Israel annexed east Jerusa-
lem, home to shrines sacred to
Judaism, Islam and Christianity,
immediately after seizing it. But
it carefully avoided annexing the
West Bank, where 300,000 set-
tlers now live among 2.5 million
Palestinians.
Although it is widely assumed
that under any peace deal, Israel
would hold -nto major settle-
ments it has built in the past 44
years, any decision to formally
annex West Bank territory would
be a precedent-setting move that
could increase Israel's already
considerable international isola-
tion. The Palestinians claim all of
the West Bank and east Jerusa-
lem, in addition to the Gaza Strip,
for a future state.
The government official who
disclosed the possible annexation
said he did not know how seri-
ously authorities were considering
the option. He said that "adopting
unilateral measures is not a one-
way street" and added that other
options were also being consid-
ered.
These could include limiting
water supplies beyond agreed-
.

upon amounts and restricting
Palestinian use of Israeli ports for
business purposes, he said. Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netan-
yahu was aware of the moves
being discussed, he added, speak-
ing on condition of anonymity
because no final decisions have
been made.
Netanyahu's office had no com-
ment. Nimr Hamad, an aide to
Palestinian president Mahmoud
Abbas, said "these threats are not
new.... But we are continuing (our
campaign) and are convinced our
position is right."
In a related development, the
Israeli Transportation Min-
istry is working on a plan to
build an island off the coast of
Gaza, where an Palestinian-run
airport and seaport would be
located. Ministry spokesman
Ilan Leizerovich said this would
allow Israel to cut all ties with
Hamas-ruled Gaza.
At present most goods and peo-
ple enter and exit Gaza through
Israeli land crossings.
Leizerovich said the island
would be built about three miles
(4.5 kilometers) off the Gaza
coast and would be connected by
a bridge.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 30, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
PITTSBURGH
Detroit among
nine new Megabus
destinations
The Megabus.com transporta-
tion service is using Pittsburgh to
bring service to nine new cities.
Company officials say Pitts-
burgh will be the hub for service
to Erie; Detroit; Toronto; Buf-
falo, N.Y.; and Akron, Cincinnati,
Cleveland, Columbus and Toledo
in Ohio.
Pittsburgh already has service
to New York; Washington, D.C.;
and Philadelphia, Harrisburg and
State College.
Seats can be booked start-
ing yesterday. Service will begin
on May 11 with trips originat-
ing under the David L. Lawrence
Convention Center.
Travelers who book well in
advance can get one-way fares as
low as $1.
COLUMBUS, Ohio
Opponents to
abortion endorse
more restrictive bill
Backers of an Ohio bill that
could impose a restrictive abor-
tion limit are telling reticent state
lawmakers to embrace potential
legal challenges.
Linda Theis (TYS') is a past
president of the state Right to Life
chapter speaking in favor of the
bill. It would outlaw abortions at
the first detectable heartbeat.
Theis said at a news conference
yesterday that proponents are
offering the Supreme Court "an
engraved invitation to overturn
Roe." The 1973 ruling upheld a
woman's right to an abortion until
fetal viability.
A fetus is usually considered
viable at 22 to 24 weeks. Fetal
heartbeats can be detected as
early as six weeks into a preg-
nancy.
RICHMOND, Va.
Virginia Tech fined
$55K for response
to 2007 shooting
Virginia Tech will have to pay
the maximum $55,000 fine for
violating federal law by waiting
too long to notify students dur-
ing the 2007 shooting rampage,
the U.S. Department of Education
* announced yesterday.
Department officials said in a
letter to the school that the sanc-
tion should have been greater for
the school's slow response to the
deadliest mass shooting in mod-
ern U.S. history. The $55,000
fine was the most the department
could levy for Tech's two viola-
tions of the federal Clery Act,
which requires timely reporting
of crimes on campus.
"While Virginia Tech's viola-
tions warrant a fine far in excess
of what is currently permissible
under the statute, the Depart-

ment's fine authority is limited,"
wrote Mary Gust, director of a
department panel that dictated
what punishment the school
would receive for the violation.
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina
Hugo Chavez wins
journalism award
Hugo Chavez is getting a jour-
nalism award in Argentina.
The Venezuelan leader regu-
larly threatens opposition media,
but the University of La Plata is
giving him an award for what it
describes as his work giving peo-
ple without a voice access to the
airwaves and newspapers.
Chavez's government has
bankrolled the growth of the
Telesur network, providing a
state-funded alternative to pri-
vately financed broadcast stations
across Latin America.
He met yesterday with his ally
President Cristina Fernandez.
She is trying to transform Argen-
tina's communications industry
through a law that would break
up media monopolies and force
cable TV providers to include
channels run by unions, Indians
and activist groups.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

between University Hous-
RENOVATIONSing officials and the archi-
From Page lA tects working on the project
revolved around who would be
year, which will be possible housed in East Quad following
because of preemptive updates the renovations.
tentatively scheduled for May "Once we had decided that
2011. These include asbestos we were going to do a co-
remediation and other proj- location (of the MCSP and RC)
ects, which will allow the and look for some synergies
more extensive renovations to between these programs, then
take only about a year, he said. it seemed to make sense to us
Some students have to keep the programs togeth-
expressed dismay at MCSP's er," Deloria said.
location in East Quad next year LSA freshman JuHee Lee,
since the program was origi- who is in the RC, said she
nally scheduled to relocate to doesn't see how the two com-
Couzens Hall. However, Delo- munities interact and how they
via said the East Quad reno- will be related in the future. I
vations will create space for Also in the RC, LSA sopho-
community service programs more Tim Hall said he hasn't
on campus including the RC, noticed MCSP collaborating
the MCSP and the Ginsberg with anything in the RC. He
Center, which is located across added that he is concerned
the street from East Quad. about the two programs being
"There's a lot of synergy in the same space indefinitely.
possible there," Deloria said. "I think they deserve their
Many of the discussions own building," Hall said.
sage chairs, a Seasonal Affective
MENTAL H EALTH Disorder lamp, stress reduction
From Page 1A programs and yoga and medita-
tion instruction.
tions. The survey is a collabora- Todd Sevig, the director of
tion between researchers from CAPS, said having so many
the School of Public Health, the resources is inevitable at a large
University's Depression Cen- University like this, but it's
ter and the Department of Psy- important to make sure each
chiatry within the University of one plays a unique role on cam-
Michigan Health System. pus.
Eisenberg and other Wh'ile some mayfind it ineffi-
researchers working on the cient and overwhelming to have
study concluded that even when so many options available for
students have access to free mental health treatment, Vicky
psychotherapy and health ser- Hayes, an associate director
vices, they usually do not take of CAPS, said she thinks hav-
advantage of these resources. ing a diverse range of options is
Proposed explanations for the important.
findings include the lack of "I think the plus side of the
knowledge among students of decentralization is maybe get-
the services provided, skepti- tingto an option that feels like a
cism about the effectiveness of good fit," Hayes said.
treatment and cultural barriers. Though students may pursue
Eisenberg said while these any avenue of help they feel best
issues are not unique to college suits their needs, Sevig said he
students, the nature of a college hopes CAPS, which is free for
campus makes it an ideal place students, is the most accessible
to study political causes. student-friendly mental health
"That's exactly what got me organization on campus."
so interested in this area of Unlikeotheron-campusmen-
study," he said. "Not so much tal health sites like the Depres-0e
the idea that college students sion Center or the Departmen -
have a disproportionate amount of Psychiatry, CAPS is strictly
of mental health problems, but devoted to addressing the needs
it's more the opportunity that of University students.
seems to be there to have a posi- In order to make it easier for
tive influence on mental health students to relate to their coun-
and the fact that there are so selors, Sevig said CAPS has a
many channels to reach stu- staff that is diverse in age, race
dents and have positive effects." and gender, which he said is
Eisenberg distinguished especially important for stu-
two major strategies to reach dents who come from cultures
students struggling with these that don't traditionally deal
mental health issues - indi- with mental health issues.
vidual interventions and public Hayes, who directs a coun-
health interventions. selor training program for
More is known about the graduate students, said there
effectiveness of individual are currently 15 students from
interventions like medica- different parts of the country on
tion and psychotherapy, both this year's staff. Many of them
of which have proved to be are in their early 20s and can
effective treatment options for bettertrelate to students than
depression and anxiety, Eisen- the other staff members, she
berg said. He added that public said.
health interventions, which are Additionally, CAPS current-
aimed at a larger student popu- ly has five staff members who
lation and focus on preventa- were born and raised in dif-
tive treatment and screenings, ferent countries, according to
haven't been examined exten- Sevig.
sively within college settings. "Out of these 40 or so people
For University students, both doing counseling, we can offer a
options are readily accessible. wide diversity that doesn't exist
The University's Counsel- ... anywhere in Ann Arbor," he
ing and Psychological Services said.

office offers therapeutic sup- According to the CAPS 2009-
port, and the Department of 2010 annual report, the demo-
Psychiatry and the Depression graphic of students who use the
Center have clinical treatment office's services matches that of
available. Other support pro- the greater student population.
grams on campus exist through Last school year, 3,362-students
the Career Center, the Dean of sought services from CAPS, and
Students Office, the Spectrum the year before, 3,127 students
Center and University Housing received treatment from CAPS,
Residence Hall Programs and accordingto the report.
Services. And if none of these Eisenberg said his goal is
help students, there are more to make sure students who
than 15 other resources for stu- seek that support get the best
dents to choose from. help possible for their specific
Students will also have one needs.
more option starting next week "That's kind of my overall
when CAPS opens its new Well- agenda," Eisenberg said. "My
ness Zone. Located on the third research is to try to get more
floor of the Michigan Union, information to sort of help us
the new facility will feature say what is the optimal mix of
tools for relaxation like mas- interventions."
LIKE TO.WATCH VIDEOS?
HOW ABOUT EDIT THEM?
To join the Daily's multimedia staff
e-mail photo@michigandaily.com

ETHICS
From Page 1A
The center was founded on
July 1, 2008 in response to per-
ceived ethical lapses in public life
nationwide. Three years before it
became an official establishment,
it was a presidential initiative by
University President Mary Sue
Coleman.
At the time, Coleman cited vio-
lations of public ethics, such as
the mistreatment of prisoners in
Iraq, sexual abuse by priests and
government corruption, as impe-
tus for the creation of the center.
Coleman asked a University task
force to work toward a solution
that would promote ethics in aca-
demia and encourage a public dis-
course on ethics.
Once the center was founded, it
created a forum for applied ethics
by linking the specific schools and
areas of study at the University
that focus on ethics, according
to John Chamberlin, the center's
director and a professor in the
Ford School of Public Policy.
Though ethics-based programs
existed on campus before the cre-
ation of the center, the study of
ethics had not been directly con-
nected to the notion of applied
ethics, Chamberlin said. In addi-
tion to sponsoring courses on the
topic, the center also served indi-
vidual students, student groups
and administrative bodies inter-
ested in sponsoring events or
projects related to ethics through
program grants.
According to Chamberlin,
many other universities and aca-
demic institutions were motivat-
ed to establish centers as a result
of current events.
"They probably were spurred
by the headlines," he said, citing
centers that were founded after
historical crises such as Water-
gate and debates about World
War It.
Chamberlin said many eth-
ics centers focus on specific top-
ics like business, environmental
or military ethics or cater solely
e to graduate students and faculty
members. The University's center
was one of a few that extended its
0 reach to undergraduate students

and encompassed many disci-
plines, he said.
LSA Associate Dean Derek
Collins, a member of the center's
executive board, said he believes
the center has accomplished
much since its inception. Collins
added that he thinks the Univer-
sity's budget constraints have no
bearing on the success of the cen-
ter and that the center's closure
does not reflect its effectiveness
as a program.
"Chamberlin's leadership has
been exemplary," Collins said.
"We've done greatthings over the
last five years, and no one should
regret all the great work that
we've all done."
Though the center is closing,
Chamberlin said he doesn't think
the services it offers will disap-
pear. But without the center as
a guide, students will have to do
more personal work to discover
the resources and connections
to pursue projects and programs
concerning applied ethics, he
said.
Fitzgerald said many of the
programs that were started bythe
Center for Ethics in Public Life,
like the University's Ethics Bowl
Team - which debates topics per-
taining to ethics and participated
in a debate last week with the vice
president of the People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals -
will continue.
However, some programs will
not be sustained without the
center. Research and fellowship
programs that gave funding to
professors, undergraduate stu-
dents and pre- and post-disser-
tation graduate students will no
longer be available.
Nancy Baum, an analytic con-
sultant at the University's Cen-
ter for Healthcare Research and
Transformation, received a fel-
lowship grant from the center for
her work in public health and eth-
ics when she was as a Ph.D. candi-
date. Baum said it was important
for her to have the funding and
the opportunity to engage in a
series of meetings with other
fellows doing dissertation work
related to applied ethics.
"We had an opportunity to
share our work with each other,"
she said. "And we were able

to enrich our own work while
understanding other people's
work in applied ethics."
Baum added that while some
philosophy classes include the
discussion of theoretical ethics,
courses about its application are
absent in higher education.
"I think the Center for Ethics in
Public Life filled a very important
hole that's missing for an awful
lot of people around the Univer-
sity in various departments who
are interested in applied ethics,"
she said. "And I think that's going
to be quite a loss."
Additionally, funding avail-
able to professors who wanted
to supplement their curriculum
with speakers or events related to
ethics will no longer be available.
Henry Greenspan, a lecturer
in clinical psychology, said the
center helped him secure funding
to get important lecturers in his
classes, which included a Resi-
dential College class titled "Spe-
cial Topics: Pills, Politics and the
Public Good."
"These are not just folks drop-
ping in," he said. "They are
speakers who make an enormous
difference in the course."
Greenspan also said he was
upset to hear about the loss of the
center.
"It's sad, above all, for the stu-
dents who will have to work a
little harder to find the relevant
courses and create programs on
their own," he said.
But Collins said he believes the
center's closing is an invitation for
all University members to seek
new ways to promote the discus-
sion of ethics.
"Not every interdisciplinary
conversation is funneled through
a center," Collins said. "I think
maybe this is a call to arms to find
a new way to continue that inter-
disciplinary conversation."
Despite Chamberlin's unhappi-
ness with the center's closing, he
said he still wants to help facili-
tate discussion about applied eth-
ics on campus.
"tm disappointed," he said.
"But this year and last year we've
done a lot. The question is, does it
have momentum, and howcan we
diffuse this throughout the Uni-
versity so it can continue?"

Submit your photos to the
Michigan Yearbook to be
featured in a video played at
Spring Commencement.
Photos should befamilyfriendly
and showcase your greatest memories
ofyour time at Michigan.

Please visit the following link to
submit your photos:
www.michiganyearbook.com/seniors.php


4A - Wednesday, March 30, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, March 30, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


che Mihigan B4atilp
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
I 420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

I refused to wait for the images of slaughter and
mass graves before taking action."
- President Barack Obama commenting on United States involvement
in Libya, as reported by The New York Times on Monday.

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Rein i administrator pay
Public universities must keep spending realistic
t's no secret that Michigan has been facing serious economic
hardships lately and the University is no exception. With all the
changes that have been implemented to stabilize a struggling
state economy, Michigan has made many budget cuts, and higher edu-
cation is unfortunately one of them. But spending on administrator
positions at universities throughout the state has somehow escaped
the budget cuts. And with more and more students being priced out
of education because of less state funding and rising tuition rates, it
doesn't seem appropriate that the salaries of professors and adminis-
trative employees continue to climb so drastically. While it's impor-
tant to attract the best people with competitive salaries and account
for increased enrollment, it's also a priority to keep spending realistic.
Public universities need to cut back on their employee compensation
increases to help alleviate tuition costs for students.

0

Doing Birthright right

According to a March 27 Detroit Free Press
article, in the last five years spending on uni-
versity administrators has gone up almost 30
percent, and faculty compensation has risen
22 percent among the state's 15 public uni-
versities. The University has had a 27 percent
increase in spending, which includes new
hires as well as salary increases. Grand Val-
ley State University has increased spending
on administrators by 48 percent and Michigan
State University has increased its administra-
tive spending 41 percent. Amid claims of cut-
ting expenses and more frugal measures from
Michigan's public universities, this is a glaring
incongruity. Tuition continues to rise every
year, and when families are facing salary cut-
backs and losing jobs, it's going to be very dif-
ficult for themto digest the salary increases of
university employees.
University President Mary Sue Coleman
states in the Free Press article that the Uni-
versity needs the best employees to stay
competitive, yet administrative salaries are
increasing much more than faculty salaries
throughout the state. The backbone of any
university is the faculty. They're the people
who are directly responsible for a student's

education, and yet they're receiving less com-
pensation increases than administrators.
There is a clear lack of balance between what
it takes to recruit talented administrators
versus talented faculty.
With more budget cuts to come, the Univer-
sity has to be prepared for decreased funding
from the state. Even small cuts in financial
aid would be devastating to many students.
Compensation and tuition increases cannot
continue at the same pace without students
facing serious roadblocks to their education.
Reduced funding is the reality the University
is facing, and the compensation spending must
be reined in before the costs outmatch student
capacities to pay.
Obviously higher enrollments at universi-
ties require more administrators and faculty
members, but to keep education affordable
and accessible, the administration and teach-
ers at Michigan universities must share the
current economic burden with their students.
The future is going to be tough for Michigan
and the nation as a whole, and there needs to
be more awareness of this on the University's
part to avoid pricing Michigan's students out
of education.

ong Island, what the
fuck?" Had the video
emerged on the Inter-
net at the time,
that scene from
"Pursuit of Jap-
piness" - a video
produced by Uni-
versity students
that went viral
on the Internet
this semester
- would have ERIK
popped into TORENBERG
my mind at a
moment when I
couldn'timagine anything else at Yad
Vashem, Israel's Holocaust museum.
The reminder of self-aware hedo-
nism would have elicited a chuckle
when I was experiencing an inability
to empathize with my grandfather's
experiences. Not a chuckle symbol-
izing genuine laughter, but cynicism
as I compared the opportunities of
my grandfather's generation to mine.
Had I left the exhibit and boarded
that Birthright bus two years later,
I would have questioned: Are "Jap-
piness" and Jewishness mutually
exclusive? How much do I want to be
associated with either? Is it even fair
to make that dichotomy?
To realize something so raw and
humbling - that I'll never be able
to put myself in my grandfather's
shoes - and then to be on a bus
(unsuccessfully) living the lifestyle
that was portrayed in the video was
unsettling. That video brought my
Birthright trip back to life perhaps
because it wasn't really a parody.
That lifestyle seems so incongruent
with what I believe to be the Jewish
values I grew up with. I didn't share
my discomfort during the Birthright
circle discussions because it seemed
like the trip leaders wanted to hear
affirmations, not uncertainty. In the
future, I would tell others thatI loved
my Birthright experience, just not in
the way I was supposed to.
After Birthright finished, I stayed

in the country and visited family. I
told my cousin stories from college,
answering questions about nightlife
but qualifying that there is more to
college than what he's seen from
movies. He told me about his army
experience, recounting stories of
unimaginable training missions and
friends who lost limbs. Family mem-
bers offered (blunt) sentiments as
to what I should know about Israel.
With my cousin leading the way, I
experienced a less edited version of
the country my father grew up in.
They say a conversation with two
Israelis will lead to seven politi-
cal parties. Although I didn't know
much about the country's conflicts at
the time I was in Israel, I sure acted
as if I did, reiterating pocket argu-
ments I've heard from Israeli adults
all my life. In time, I would learn
about the White Papers, the rise of
the Palestine Liberation Organiza-
tion and the settlements. In doing so,
I realized that some young Israelis
- people undergoing rigorous army
training - knew little history or only
knew it from one side. Personally, the
more I learned aboutthe conflictthat
defines the everyday for some of my
family, the less I knew.When pressed
for a concrete opinion, I often said
some variation of "I don'tknow, man.
It's complex."
But I didn't experience ideologi-
cal diversity on Birthright. I partied
five nights and told others that I felt
"more Jewish." I didn't really feel
a genuine sense of belonging until
I explored Israel on my own terms.
But perhaps I'm expecting too much
from a free 10-day trip. Although I
believe the trip panders to spring
break getaway whims, I understand
that the organization's motives - to
connect American Jews with Israel
- are prudent. I'm grateful that it
exists. I just don't think the trip has
to be branded as a vacation in Cancun
with some spirituality.
When I go back to Israel, I'd like to
engage with people who have experi-

enced firsthand what we learn in our
history textbooks, as well as those
who have different perspectives on
those historical events. The end goal
of a trip like Birthright should be for
American Jews to have a multifacet-
ed understanding of the significance
of and complexityinherent in having
a Jewish nation. Participants should
have abetterunderstandingofIsraeli
culture and lifestyle and how certain
historical events have defined it.
They should also have an amazing
time in avariety of different settings.
Birthright gives ataste of all of these,
but it seems to focus on the latter.
My trip to
Israel could have I
meant more.

My cousin and I came up with a
generalized hypothesis to explain
some of the dissonance we noticed
between Americans and Israelis of
our generation: Israeli kids grew up
with the justified narrative that their
country was always under attack.
They serve their country out of duty,
as a measure of self-defense. Many
have responded to that narrative.
American kids grew up with the
narrative that life is short, post-col-
lege work life is boring and oppor-
tunities for experimenting at college
are limitless as well as numbered.
They've seen the movies;they've
seen their older brother's photos.
Their parents reminisce about care-
free college life, and they want to be
able to do the same. They, too, have
responded to their own narratives.
Erik Torenberg can be reached at
erikto@umich.edu.
-Erik Torenberg can be
reached at eriktogumich.edu.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Ellie Chessen, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Melanie Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Asa Smith, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
ASA SMITH I
The price is not right


0

NICHOLAS ZETTEL I
Care about apathy

In New York, as many of you know, there
is a certain political party that has one mes-
sage, and that message is encapsulated in the
party's name. The name of this party is "the
rent is too damn high" party. Its issue, as could
be perceived, is that the rent in New York is in
fact too damn high. The reason I bring this up
is I believe the Michigan Student Assembly
needs a new party to compete with Mforward.
This party will be called "The ticket prices are
too damn high" party.
I'm going to be honest right now. The real-
ity of the situation is that tickets to college
football games are not supposed to be cheap.
According to a March 24 Daily article, non-
students pay almost twice what we pay, we're
paying somethinglike 30 bucks a ticket, which
is really not that bad in the grand scheme of
things. Having said all that, I have some issues
with the University's Athletic Department
raising prices. The first is selfish, and the sec-
ond is more universal.
First things first - I'm broke. I'm a college
student. I'm not exactly depositing money in
a bank account every week, and the amount
of money that is lying around for extras like
watching Michigan play football (one of the
joys of a college experience) isn't exactly huge.
Our friends to the north in East Lansing pay
$10 per ticket. Other students in the Big Ten
are paying between five and 15 bucks. I'm not
goingto mention the fact that THE Ohio State
University's ticket prices are higher because it
both weakens my argument and involves men-

tioning Ohio State University...
I love football. I love the beauty of a pull-
ing guard, the wonder of a play action fake
that works just right, and the roar of the crowd
when sophomore quarterback Denard Robin-
son makes a linebacker look foolish. I also love
paying for the heat in my house and for tuition.
Overall, I'm going to restate the fact that I
believe prices are too damn high.
The second issue I have with the rise in
ticket prices comes from University Athletic
Department spokesman Dave Ablauf's inter-
view with The Michigan Daily. In an e-mail
interview, Ablauf wrote that even if some
people don't renew their tickets "the student
section as a whole will probably sell out" and
bragged that there is a "robust waiting list if
some decline to renew their season tickets."
I don't know about you, but I find these
comments very offensive. He is saying that
the Athletic Department doesn't care if you
can't stomach the thought of paying $240
for tickets, because someone else will, and
if it's not you watching the first night game
in Michigan Stadium history in the fall, it
doesn't matter because there will still be
more than 100,000 fans in the Big House. The
Athletic Department doesn't care if you're in
the seat because you love the game, just that
you're willing to pay more to sit there, and
that is the reason the season ticket prices are
too damn high.
Asa Smith is an LSA junior.

Michigan Daily columnist Jeremy Levy makes it
clear in a recent column (Don't compare 2011 to 1960
02/24/2011) that our generation should not attempt to
recreate the activism of 1960's because our problems
today are so drastically different. For this reason, Levy
believes that criticism of student apathy is unwarranted
and irrelevant. The problem is, there are still detrimen-
tal problems within every facet of our society. So where
does this apathy come from? How is it measured? The
choice by the majority of our generation not to vote is
hardly a qualifying factor indicative of our generation's
political apathy. Let us not forget that 2008 yielded the
highest youth voter turnout since 1972. Around two
years ago, it appeared as though our "generation" (give
or take a few years) was more motivated than ever. And
all for something as simple as "change," the harmonic
buzzword loaded with utopian undertones. Our voters
turn their backs on any political responsibility as soon
as they leave the voting booth. The fact that the 2010
midterm elections yielded a significantly lower num-
ber of voters under age 30 than the presidential election
underscores our youth's lazy assertion of political influ-
ence. It's disheartening to see so many youth get up in
arms for "change," while many only cared enough to try
and change the face of the man behind the curtain.
Activism is not solely a means of political expres-
sion or a symbol of bandwagon politics. Activism is a
crucial tool ingrained in our political system and is as
American as our right not to vote. The Boston Tea Party,
John Brown's rebellion, the March on Washington and
the Million Man March are just a few examples of red,
white and blue-blooded activism varying in extremity.
Though it may seem unjust to compare today's political
happenings with the American Revolution and the Civil
Rights Movement, America is not perfect, and we are in
dire need of improvement. What would any movement
matter if neither the standard of living nor quality of life
were improved and maintained afterward? We cannot
just give blacks the same rights as whites and expect our
issues of racism to diminish just as we cannot expect our
deficit and war issues to go away because we voted in a
Democrat two and a half years ago.
Furthermore, Levy claims that our political climate is
more stable than that of the 60s and thus does not neces-

sitate extreme activism. This is the mentality that breeds
apathy and inhibits understanding. Nobody should sit
idly by until some egregious event calls for immediate
action. Levy feels that the activism is glorified and over
simplified, and we should therefore not hold ourselves
to those standards. Though I agree our generation's lack
of concern and greater lack of action is undeserving of
the critical comparison it draws, I don't think anybody
ever thought it would be easyto make even the slightest
amount of change, and nobody today should expect any
different. The youth of the decade long gone shouldn't
be our only role models though. We see young people out
and about in Egypt and Wisconsin alike because they
feel they are being wronged. If we shouldn't compare
our student activism to that of the 60s, let's compare
our generational counterparts across the globe. People
who bemoan the 60s don't understand that those activ-
ists paved the way for LGBT, HIV/AIDS, feminist and
NAACP activists of the 80s and 90s, just to name a few.
Student apathy is not bemoaned because it doesn't live
up to the 60s; it is lamented because it doesn't live up to
its potential.
Levy also maintains that rallies like those seen in
Wisconsin "take place when most people involved have
something to lose." Aside from stating the obvious,
Levy is discrediting those unaffected, yet sympathetic
to the cause. Let's not forget or downplay the role the
white-middle class youth played in the activism of the
60s. People saw injustice all around them, and that moti-
vated them to protest, lobby, march and educate others
through art, music, literature and community. Many of
this day and age's disaffected youth are satisfied with
linking an article with some pictures to their status. Oth-
ers do take the time to stage protests, lobby and arrange
educational events, and then send out mass invites to
everybody within reach. Still, you'd be hard pressed to
wander into a University auditorium that has reached
full capacity. Although plenty are motivated, most are
apathetic, and that's the problem. So check your invites,
and don't just click 'attending.' Attend. Learn where you
stand and what surrounds you. Sometimes it even means
a free meal.
Nicholas Zettel is an LSA sophomore.

0
0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do
not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 30,2011 - 5A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 30, 2011 - 5A

Miller reimagined

Britney does it again

'Crucible' to show
at its playwright's
namesake theater
ByJACOB AXELRAD
Daily Arts Writer
Arthur Miller once wrote,
"Nothing is as visionary and as
blinding as moral indignation."
These words
from one of The Crucible
the world's
great dra- Tomorrowat7:30
matists echo p.m., Fri.and
the real-life Sat. at 8p.m.,
dilemmas Sun. at 2 p.m.
between through April10
right and Arthur Miller Theatre
wrong that Tickesfrsm $10
are perva-
sive through-
out his canon of work. Starting
tomorrow, the University's School
of Music, Theatre & Dance will
return to Miller's universal
themes with the premiere of "The
Crucible."
Written as an allegory to the
1950s McCarthy era, "The Cru-
cible" focuses on a community
enveloped by mass hysteria and
fear during the Salem Witch Tri-
* als of 1692. But the upcoming pro-
duction, while paying homage to
McCarthyism's original influence,
veers in a different direction from
traditional stereotypes.
"We're going away from witch-
craft and communism. It's about
the manipulation of power," assis-
tant director and MT&D junior
Doron Bloomfield said.
According to Bloomfield, the
timelessness of the play is appli-
cable to today's world, not only in a
broad scope, but also in the small-
er, intimate interactions that often
go overlooked due to its signifi-
cant stature in American dramatic
history. Scenes like the break-up
between Proctor and Abigail prove
relatable to a college audience.
In keaping with this viewthe
cast andltrewhave contemporized
this "Crucible" to present what
director and MT&D assistant
professor Jerry Schwiebert refers
to as "classic now," a distillation
of the play to its essential parts.
As opposed to a literal adherence
to the text, the show's look and
feel are set in three distinct time
zones: Puritan New England, the
McCarthy era and the present day.
"The set is here and now, but
it's not Ann Arbor, 2011," said
MT&D senior Adam McCarthy,
the show's scenic and lighting
designer. "It's relevant, but there's
no specific context."
McCarthy and MT&D senior
Marguerite Woodward,theshow's
costume designer, have worked to
design a "Crucible" where the set
and props aren't there for aesthet-
ic value, but rather serve a utili-

FLE PHOTO/Daily
Arthur Miller was an active alumnus of the University even after gaining tame.

tarian function for the actors. To
achieve this, clothing and lighting
were essential in creating an open
space for the actors to tell their
story, as opposed to placing them
in a true-to-life 1692 court case.
"The set itself is pretty bare,"
McCarthy said. "But each prop
adds meaning and theme. It was
importantto let the set be a canvas
for adding props, light and actors."
When Miller directed his own
version of the play, he too believed
in a simplistic structure. In his
autobiography, "Timebends,"
Miller states the influence on his
own writing of the Greek struc-
tural concept, wherein the past
and present intertwine - theater
is where we witness this conflict
play out on stage.
As a student at the University
from 1935 to 1939, Miller stud-
ied journalism while honing his
writing abilities. In 1936, he won
the first of two Hopwood Awards
for drama. Studying under the
laste professor Kenneth Rowe, a
renowned University playwriting
instructor, Miller developed his
belief in the underlying dramatic
structure inherentin alldrama,
from antiquityto the modern era.
Yet it was only when he left Ann
Arbor and encountered injustice
firsthand that Miller formed the
basis of his Tony Award-winning
play.
Miller and other notable mem-
bers of the New York-based
Group Theater were called to
testify before the House Un-
American Activities Committee.
Miller refused to "cooperate"
and was sentenced to jail for con-
tempt. He then traveled to Salem,
Mass. to research the seventeenth-
century Witch Trials for what
would become a scathing attack on
McCarthy's own witch hunt of sus-
pected communist sympathizers.
Today, University students con-
tinue to study and perform this
material written over 50 years
ago. More than history or politics,

what motivates the cast and crew
is a chance to discover new ele-
ments behind the text.
"When you start to strip away
the layers of politics and religion,
you find that as much as someone
may appearto be driven by an idea,
they're actually driven by very
human factors," Adam McCarthy
said of the play's development in
rehearsal. "At the end of the day,
everyone is in fact a sympathetic
character."
Nowhere could be more appro-
priate than Ann Arbor for a stag-
ing of what Miller referred to as
his "most theatrical piece." As
an active alumnus, Miller cared
deeply for the institution thatgave
him his start, and lent his name to
only one theater during his life-
time: The Arthur Miller Theatre
in the Walgreen Drama Center on
North Campus, where this pro-
duction will take place.
Specifically, Miller took an
active interest in the students of
the University, even after gaining
fame and recognition. In decid-
ing which play to choose for the
spring season, Schwiebert empha-
sized a desire to incorporate as
many students into the production
as possible. With a cast of 20, "The
Crucible" has provided ample
opportunities for student actors.
"This play offers the most parts,
especially female parts, out of any
of his other plays," Schwiebert
said.
Audiences can expect the story
they know, but shouldn't expect
an overarching socio-political
pretext. The production con-
cerns itself with the fundamental
nature of Miller's play: the little
moments and struggles that com-
prise a life. With political context
stripped away, the final product
should remind us of the power a
great Miller drama can bring to
the theater.
"I hope people come away say-
ing, 'Oh my god, Miller knows how
to write a play,' " Woodward said.

By JOE DIMUZIO
DailyArts Writer
Britney Spears's selling
point is sex - and the lack of it.
Whether tarted up as a school-
girl fantasy,
sweating slave *
or automaton,
she's unattain- Britney
able and all
yours. With $PeaS
a voice that's Femme Fatale
characteris-
tic but never live
obstructive,
she's whatever you like - she's
every woman.
It wasn't always this way.
Britney's anonymity has always
followed her, but it was a dis-
tinctly Amurrican one - the
slight Southern twang, blonde
and busty, the occasional
"mama." Britney was vacuous
and comfortably sexual, famil-
iar and charmingly empowered
by men behind the curtains.
One shaved head and two
kids later, Britney's rounding 30
and single, and not much other
than perception has changed.
2006's Blackout more or less
shrugged off her public melt-
downs, matching her slithering
come-ons to Timbaland protege
Danja's cerebral future funk
and Bloodshy & Avant's taut pop
on "Toxic." On "Gimme More,"
"It's Britney, bitch" felt absurd,
with or without the comma,
because stepping back, you had
to wonder if you ever knew who
she was to begin with.
It would be an exaggeration
to call Blackout a pop master-
piece, irony be damned, but the
album more or less deserves it.
The production and cohesion
of it was and still is stunning.

empow
or-less
ed me
Dr. Lu
mostly
doesn'
D
'Fe
anther
culatio
earnest
need g
ing pro
she's
for an
howev
Fatale<
Euro a
it loser
her pre
Luk
varied
much
stern-f
retaini
work

Best of all, the songs embraced
the vacuum of Britney, screw-
ing her whispers into hysterical
rhythmic acrobatics, taking the
heat of her effort and molding it
into some cold, steely club funk
crucible - ballads, emotion and
responsibility be damned.
After the lopsided Circus,
Femme Fatale returns to the
cohesion and icy lust of Black-
out, flirting with menace and
bedding mixed results. Where
Britney can play formless

COURSOfoAVE

vered female, she's more- but losing a lot of the spark.
a marionette to talent- Singles "Till the World Ends"
n, and chief producers and "Hold It Against Me" are
ke and Max Martin are mostly effective if not clunky
peerless puppeteers. She club exercises, the former doing
t bother with Hallmark the big-beat-in-Billboard vogue
and the latter wrapping a dou-
ble-entendre with wobbling,
i flirty razor keyboards topped with
a dub break that's comfortably
)ushin -30 threatening.
The best cuts confound and
Spears on endear. Bloodshy & Avant's
"How I Roll" is a spare, double-
m-ne Fatale.' dutch bon-bon that feels tense
but lets loose. "Trip To Your
Heart" is sugary rave roman-
ticism, ornate but spacious.
as (Katy Perry), emas- "Inside Out" stomps and the
n (Rihanna) or maudlin otherwise deadweight "Seal It
ty (P!nk). She doesn't With a Kiss" bites with Brit-
nest cameos. The excit- ney cooing, "Yeah I like you
ospect of Britney is that like that," as her voice echoes
a willing springboard in what sounds like the world's
y production adventure, smallest and emptiest club.
er avant-garde. Femme Forty minutes out she
dabbles in dubstep, goes remains impenetrable, unreach-
nd impresses even when able, pristine. Her voice is a sil-
s the range and thrills of ly-putty cliche, the mysterious
rvious bedfellows. allure of sex you always wanted.
e, Martin and a slew of The noir of nonexistent nights
producers streamline almost dangerous, the feminine
of Blackout's chilling, rendered in masculine robes,
aced midnight crawl, the glimpse of excitement -
ng the cut-'n-paste hack- Femme Fatale's title feels more
to Britney's come-ons than appropriate.


Has anyone seen my dog?"
'My Dog Tuli p is a treat

Goats are only as good as leader

By ELLIOT ALPERN
DailyArts Writer
For the purpose of being clear,
it must be said that the Mountain
Goats would be an afterthought
of a band with-
out lead singer *
John Darni-
elle. The man The Mountain
is more than Goats
the group's
centerpiece; All Eternals Deck
he is its entire
reason for Merge
being. On All
Eternals Deck, this point is driven
home consistently. There is very
little to appreciate aside from the
singer's sophisticated lyrics and
candid vocals, but when Darni-
elle is on his game, the Goats are
harmonious and evocative. Such
a disposition leaves the album in
a gray area of enjoyment - some-
times it's powerful, sometimes
it's awkward, but often it's just
flat and uninteresting.
All Eternals Deck begins with
tempting promise. The first
track, "Damn These Vampires,"
is undeniably uplifting, and is
emphasized by piano chords that
become progressively more bold
and resolute. However, even in
what is probably the album's best
song, it seems that Darnielle is

tryingt
to addt
some n
own m4
many c
that th
thing,
profour
like pa,
sleep li
dead m
lyrical,
sionally
sumptu
"Este
specim
band Ia
equipp:
be clos
Mo
ha
circum:
Darniel
ried an
instrun
er in t
soundit
Great C
like "I
dressed
ster jea

o bevague and mysterious time, the Goats could've easily
unnecessary depth. While cut it without consequence.
may try to impose their Darnielle's prowess at song-
eaning into his words, in writing is the only thing to make
ases the truth seems to be All Eternals Deck worth the
e lyrics don't mean any- effort. In "Birth of Serpents,"
but sound eloquent and his lines are clever and nuanced
ndly philosophic: "Feast (if a bit rambling), and give some
gans, never get enough / insight into his own personality:
ke dead men, wake up like "See that young man who dwells
en." The singer clearly has inside his body like an uninvited
talent, though he is occa- guest?" Two tracks later, "Age of
y inhibited by his own pre- Kings" is heavy and grand, show-
ousness. ing that while Darnielle can be
ate Sale Sign" is a fine creative under the right condi-
en of what occurs when a tions, he instead intentionally
ikes a stab at rock and isn't chooses to fill the record with
ed for it. The melody could mundane material.
e to catchy under other In 2005, New Yorker critic
Sasha Frere-Jones called John
Darnielle "America's best non-
untain Goats hip-hop lyricist." While this
may have been true on previous
ve gone flat. releases, there's no reason to
suggest that the claim still holds
water. The California native
would do well to strip down
stances, but much like his overly enigmatic wordplay
lie's own sound, it is hur- and go with lines more true to
d out of breath, while the heart. While he can clearly cre-
tents are mashed togeth- ate witty rhymes and references,
he unrewarded hopes of they seem to lack any connection
ng edgy. At times, "Prowl with the singer himself. All Eter-
ain" sounds suspiciously nals Deck contains glimmers of
Damn These Vampires" promise embedded in the general
I in a different pair of hip- tedium, but unfortunately it's not
ans. With a 13-track run enough to save it.

By BEN VERDI its duration.
Daily Arts Writer That said, it isn't boring. And
it's not simple. Basically, Tulip
"My Dog Tulip" is extremely functions as a pseudo-daughter
English. It's the kind of movie for an old Englishman called
that, for reasons unexplained, J.R. Ackerley (the name of
will cause original novel's writer, voiced
crusty by Christopher Plummer, "The
65-year-old Last Station") who lives a
men and My Dog Tulip charming but rather lonely life
women to in London. He adopts Tulip and
laugh uncon- At the Michigan spends almost 17 years raising,
trollably, leav- loving and trying to contain
ing everyone New Yorker the spirited German Shepherd.
too young Ackerley has no children, no
to remember the 1950s look- wife and no real friends, so the
ing stone-faced and confused. kind of companionship he seeks
It attempts to be a comedy, and in taking in Tulip is one he's not
succeeds at provoking the kind exactly prepared for - nor one
of tea-sipping, quirky and unpre- he is able to resist - as the dog
dictably cute laughter the Eng- is easily the most loving thing
lish have mastered and think he's ever come in contact with.
everyone else understands. While there is an immediate
"My Dog Tulip" is Paul and and lasting transformation that
SandraFierlinger's first attempt takes place within Ackerley as
at a full-length feature film, he learns to love Tulip, we're
though Paul was nominated for simultaneously shown Tulip's
an Academy Award for a short progression from a rambunc-
film he directed in 1980. This tious, young, athletic dog into
history is not surprising, con- an adult struggling to raise her
sideringthat "Tulip" feels like a own puppies and accepting the
short expanded into an 80-min- limitations of urban life. Tulip
ute feature. Were it a book, it takes on veryhuman qualities
could probably be read in one the more we watch her and lis-
sitting. It's a minimalistic, ani- ten to Ackerley describe their
mated story about a man and his relationship, but not in the way
dog, and, though there are a lot we've seen dogs become like
of nuances and humorously odd people in the past.
situations along the way, the Tulip is not Lassie, nor is she
film examines one plotline and Old Yeller, Shiloh or Marley.
one train of thought throughout Tulip doesn't finally save some-

one from dying at the end, nor
does she die in some tear-jerk-
ing manner as a somber violin
plays. Rather, Tulip is a more
worldly, multi-dimensional
kind of dog protagonist, a free
spirit who eventually grows to
see the world in a more com-
plete way.
In a way, she's actually a
more human dog than the clas-
sic dogs to whom we've learned
to attach personalities and
souls. She mirrors the trans-
formation of an uncontrollably
Contrary to
popular belief,
not a sequel to
'My Dog Skip.
optimistic teenager into a less
animated but more content-
ed grown-up better than any
didactically heroic or infinitely
wise canine we've seen before.
Tulip is used as an example of
how we accept the limits and
responsibilities of our lives, and
shows her owner the full range
of directions a single deep rela-
tionship - a perfect friendship,
for which Ackerley tells us he's
been searching his whole life -
can take us.


6A - Wednesday, March 30, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

LAMPE
From Page 1A
"I think we're under recog-
nized for the scope, the scale,
the impact and the value of what
we do in research," Lampe said.
"My role will be to help U of M
get the recognition it deserves
for the excellence of the research
it does do regionally, nationally
and internationally."
Lampe first came to the Uni-
versity to serve as the vice presi-
dent for communications in 2007.
His responsibilities included
overseeing the University News
Service, Office of Public Affairs,
Freedom of information Office,
MCSP
From Page 1A
sometime after the winter 2012
semester and end before the
beginning of the fall 2013 semes-
ter, accordingto Deloria.
He added that the two pro-
grams are set to continue operat-
ing side-by-side during the hiatus
from East Quad.
Marjorie Horton, LSA assistant
dean for undergraduate education,

University publications, speech-
writing for University executives
and the design and content of the
University's gateway website.
Lampe said his new position is
something he's had "in the back
of (his) mind" and will allow him
to devote more of his expertise to
communicating the University's
research.
"I've coordinated a lot of
communications and activities
surrounding the University's
stated goal to help catalyze the
transformation of the econo-
my," Lampe said. "It's relatively
recently that in conversations,
in particular with Steve For-
rest, that it'd be worth devoting
more resources to that particular
and Deloria met with the MCSP
students yesterday to address their
concerns about the future of the
program. At the meeting, Deloria
offered the students his apologies
for such late notice on the hous-
ing changes. Students expressed
disappointment that they'll be liv-
ing in East Quad again since they
were looking forward to residing
in Couzens next year.
LSA sophomore Andy Clark
said he had two main worries.
He said he's concerned the stu-

aspect of our mission."
University President Mary
Sue Coleman wrote in a Univer-
sity press release last week that
Lampe has excelled in his cur-
rent position and will succeed in
his new job.
"David has been a delightful
colleague and has led the Uni-
versity through many challeng-
ing issues while buildinga strong
foundation for continuing inno-
vation in communications and
marketing at Michigan," Cole-
man wrote. "I wish him well in
this new endeavor and know that
recognition for the importance
and impact of U-M's research
enterprise will be strengthened
under his guidance."
dents weren't involved in the deci-
sion and MCSP's identity will be
affected. Clark said he appreciates
the optimism from the adminis-
tration, but the current situation is
less than ideal.
Engineering sophomore Tony
Lucchesi, a future MCSP student
leader, also attended the meeting
held by Deloria and Horton. Luc-
chesi said the situation at East
Quad could be improved with the
addition of more lounges and bet-
ter access to wireless Internet, but

University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said Forrest created
the new position Lampe will
assume because the University's
research enterprise becomes
larger each year. University
research spending topped $1 bil-
lion for the second consecutive
year in 2010.
"(Forrest) saw a role for a
much more closer working rela-
tionship with someone to com-
municate that on a variety of
different levels and work closely
with him to get that message
out," Fitzgerald said.
With masters degrees in jour-
nalism and mechanical engi-
neering, Fitzgerald said the new
position fits all of Lampe's inter-
said he still has some concerns
about how the renovations will
impact the program.
"The worst-case scenario
would be that MCSP, you know,
kind of loses its identity, and it
loses interestbecause the facilities
we are in aren't conducive to the
program," Lucchesi said.
Deloria said he would share
student suggestions with Univer-
sity Housing and those in charge
of construction. He said MCSP
students should take advantage

ests.
"The more (Lampe and For-
rest) talked about it, the more
David realized that this was real-
ly his passion ..." Fitzgerald said.
"(Research) is an area that's very
close to his heart. He believes
in research and technology, and
it's an area that he knows a lot
about."
Lampe earned his masters
degree in mechanical engineer-
ing in 1976 from the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology and
his masters degree in journalism
in 1981 from Stanford University.
Prior to coming to the University
of Michigan, Lampe served as
executive director of marketing
and communications at the Har-
of this opportunity to shape East
Quad's forthcoming updates and
the future of the program.
"We know that we're asking
a lot of you guys," Deloria said.
"And so we want to do everything
we possibly can to ameliorate and
mitigate the situation."
Additionally, LSA will move the
Lloyd Hall Scholars Program to
Couzens while Alice Lloyd Resi-
dence Hall is being renovated next
year.
Deloria said LHSP, MCSP and

vard University Business School,
a position he assumed in 2002.
Fitzgerald said there is cur-
rently no time frame to find
a permanent replacement for
Lampe in the Office of the Vice
President of Communications.
"President Coleman asked
Kallie Michels to step into that
role temporarily," Fitzgerald
said. "As far as I know, there
hasn't been the conversation to
move that forward yet beyond
that point."
Before she became associate
vice president for communica-
tions in 2008, Michels had been
the director of public relations
for the University of Michigan
Health System since 2000.
the RC were supposed to be placed
together in East Quad, but after
meeting with architects and his
colleagues in University Housing,
officials realized this would make
the living situation too crowded.
He added that he thinks MCSP
and the RC are a strong fit given
their community-oriented goals,
which is what pushed the decision
to keep them under the same roof.
,"We think the possibilities and
payoffs here are great," Deloria
said.

FOLLOW THE MICHIGAN DAILY ON TWITTER @MICHIGANDAILY

0

"PKIME" PARKING 4 SALE
Now & 2011-12
primesh.com
761-8000

SFUK GRAD ST UDEN S ONLY !
Sterling 411 Lofts has limited spaces
left is grad-only apartments for 2011-
12. New building, 2 blocks from cama-
pus, walk to downtown. Ratesfho h
$660, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.coms
**FOR MAY & FALL 2011 LEASE.
1,2,3 Bdrm apt. on campus.
www.jmsprop.com (734) 222-9033.
2 BEDROOM FURNISHED Apart-
ments available for Fall 2011. Two
doors to CCRB. Great location for
Medical or Dental Students. Includes
Parking, Heat, Water, and Free Inter-
net. Starting at $1,529. Receive
$1,000
off your first month's rent. Call Cam-
pus Mgt. at 734-663-4101
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net

C B
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms
Centra Caus rDowntown
Let Our Family Take Careof Yours
Private Resident Shutle Contemnporry Furiture
24 hr aintenancc Staff High Sped Internet
Fwercisc acilitics Study Rxmns
734.274.6118
ww sn iaxboparimtents.net
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near.
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT,INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furmished and some include
utilities.sConact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
lug Consaltant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
FIVE BDRM DUPLEX. 1001 State
St. Available Sept. Reduced to $2390.
Incl. cable, pkng, indry on site. Men-
tion this ad & get $100 off first rent
payment!! Call PMSI 734-665-5552.

Quit neighborhood
next to Huron River.
1 and 2 bedroom
opts for fall,
U of M discount,
walk/bike to
hospital and
North Campus
Now leasing for fall
734-663-8541

Now Leasing for
May & Fall 2011
1 & 2 Bedroom Apis.
Contact Pest Realty for
showing or more information:
734-761-8220 or
iofo@postrealtyproperties.com
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, March 30, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

Univrsity g
TIME IS MONEY
48 HOUR SALE!
RENT YOUR APARTMENT
ON THE 1st VISIT
& GET $300 OFF
YOUR 1st MONTHS RENT
Contact us for a tour today!

ACROSS
1 Beginning for the
birds?
4 Shaq on the court
9 Beat to one's
door
14 Vietnam Veterans
Memorial
architect
15 Ramadi resident
16 Local cinemas,
colloquially
17 Whip-cracking
cowboy of old
films
19 Weight room
sound
20 Venetian arch
shape
21 Ethel, to Lucy
23 Canyon-crossing
transport
26 Fridge raider
28 Hong Kong
harbor craft
29 Field forthetfold
31 Remote power
sources?
32 Thing to blow off
34 Sign before
Scorpio
35 Skyhblue
30 Postgrad hurdle
40 "Cosmos"host
41 Lotto relative
42 Assure, with "up"
43 Titan is its largest
moon
48 Most loop
50 Landmass
encompassing
the lUrals j
51 Wax-flled
illumination
54 Bombast
55 Artist's topper
56 Victor's chuckle
59 Conductor Previn
60 Came up
61 Sargasso or Coral
62 Parks and others
63 Zellwegeroft
'Chicago"
64 Princ Valiant's
son0
DOWN
1 Doles out
2 Cialis competitor
3 Tailor's measure

4 Van Gogh work 37 Pitts ofl"The Gale 47 Revolutionary
5 Gun lobby org. Storm Show" Hale
6 Ahead ofltime 38 Signs off on 49 Fullyfills
7 Shade in the 39 Chile _: stuffed 50 Hewlett-Packard
Caribbean Mexican dish rival
8 Bank holding 42 N.L team 52 Banned orchard
9 Saxon start managed by spray
10 Chute above the Tony La Russa 53 Full-grown filly
11 Persian Gulf since 1996 55 Setting for many
emirate 44Scarlett's home ajoke
12 Like some 45 World Cup chant 57 Taoist Lao-_
mortgages 46 Horseshoesfeat 58 Majors in acting
13 DDE ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
predecessor
18 Ropefiber M O 0 A B M S S T I F F S
22 Paternity proof, C D S I N C A U R S U L A
briotty J E T L A CK TURNE D
24 Mudnestbuilders OLEO I C E B TE RAKE R
25 Naysayer B L OOP E A S E
27 It surroundsR
Lesotho: Abbr.
29'uus-'9os legal S H 0 R I G A T A 0
drama,andthis PEP RAT R A C E EMO
puzzle's title ERA EGA D ME N
30 TheDailyeast, W OL F W H I SIT L E S
e.g. I RAE NABOB
33 To be, to Brutus F A N N Y B R I C E G O R E
34 Like thelIslamic A P O G E E S I X P A C K S
calendar T E R E S A N A I R C 1 0
35 Res'nwhistle
holders STAR T S T O T O E N T
36 Natural burn balm xwordeditor@aol.com 03/29/11

!!DON'T MISS OUT!!
BEST APTS. & LOCATIONS GO-
ING FAST
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Apartments Going Fast!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State-I Left
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726S. State -1 Left
515 Lawrence-I Left
326E. Madison - 1 Left
1000 Oakland-1 Left
520 Packard-1 Left
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
411 High
*Fully Furnished Apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* Atlmost locations)
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today
for Best Selection, we SOLD OUT
early last year. NOW is the time to
secure your apartment home at Uni-
versity Towers 734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff & 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; Most
units include Heat and Water. Most
have Parking available for $25/m.
Showings Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AVAILABLE FALL! FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments
located on Central Campus. Large
enough to accomodate up to 4 people.
Lots of amenities. Call Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500 or for more info
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL! STUDIOS,
one, two, and three bedroom
apartments located on U/M Campus.
Heat, water, and parking included.
Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-5500 or
for more info visit
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL! THREE Bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large
kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and laundry. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or for more info visit
www.michiganrealty.com
- AW LW% Studio & 1
- Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quit& Segse ighrse - OnebUod rom Camnpus
Call Brian-fomsc
734-663-1530

608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad 734-761-2680
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email wwW.univerSitytowers-mi.Com
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu

815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815StateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
I & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
HUGE 4 BEDROOM Apt.
Unbelievably spacious 4bdrm/2bth
apartment in a gorgeous converted
house. 10 minute walk tothe undergrad
library. Beautiful bedrooms, hardwood
floors throughout, fireplace, large back-
yard, heat, water, & parking included!
New reduced rent price!
www.varsitymangement.com
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com
DOWNTOWN LIVING
543 Church across from East Hall
The best location on central campus!
Two fully furnished spacious 1 bed-
room apts available. Built-in computer
desks and shelving for your study
space! On-site laundry & parking
available. Heat & water included.
(734) 668-1100
FIVE MINUTE WALK to B.School!
Best deal per sq ft at 917 Packard!
Close to central campus, athletic
campus, and restaurants at State,
Packard, & Hill. All apartments have
balconies or patios and are fully
furnished. Heat, water, & parking in-
cluded. 1 & 2 bdrms available
Call for new rent specials!!
(734)668-1100
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the
Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2300
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BDRM HOUSE + Bonus Room!
1608 Geddes. $3500 Updated! 3 Baths.
Free prkg & dry. Dishwasher. A/C.
Call 734-678-0122.
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3540 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
**SEE WHY WE'RE STILL#1 IN
STUDENT HOUSING**UNIVER-
SITY TOWERS ON
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-Mi.COM
UNFURN 2 BDRM Aptnear UM Law
School & UM RSB. $1000/mo. Utils
incl. May-May lease. 734-323-5021.

ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
'INCLUDES HEAT, WATER AND
FURNITURE
SPRING APARTMENTS
ALMOST SOLD OUTI! j
FREE SUBLET APT FINDER!!!
Studio - 4 Bdrms. Call for a complete
list. 734-274-6118 or visit
annarborapartments.net
HUGE 6 BDRM house. 1028 Packard.
Reduced to $2590. hard wood floors.
Incl. cable & pkng on site. Mention this
ad & get $100 off first rent payment!!
Call PMSI 734-665-5552.
NEWER 6-BDRM furn. Units &
Rooms for Fall 11. Flex-Leases sublets
for May 1 - Aug 11. 734-418-2050 or
www.828greeneapts.com
STUDIO -4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail Spring & Fall 2011.18 locations
to choose from. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
THE 48 HOUR SALE IS NOW ON!!
Rent your apartment on your first visit
and get $300.00 off your 1st months
rent. This SALE can end at anytime.
Call us today at 734-761-2680 universi-
tytowers-mi.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300/day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
-AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
COLLEGE PRO IS now hiring
painters all across the state to work out-
doors with other students. Earn
$3k-$5k. Advancement opportunities.
1-888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
Housemate and cat caregiver! Mustbe
graduate, vegetarian student. Shared
utilities $300/month. Green & Ply-
mouth Rd. Email ujindal@hotmail.com
LOOKING FOR SOMEONE to help
with social networking for AA Stone
Bridge Golf Club. 10-20 hrs/wk. $8-12
per hr. Free golfl! Call Doug 734-323-
8782.
MICHIGAN
STUDENTS
Good Pay, flexible schedules,
Customer sales/service, conditions
apply,
all ages 17+ call 734-975-7299
NEED GROUNDS MAINTE-
NANCE STAFF on course at AA
Stone Bridge Golf Club. 734-323-8790.
NEED PRO SHOP staff cart atten-
dants at AA Stone Bridge Golf Club.
Call Doug 734-323-8782.
NEED SERVERS bar/grill & beer cart
banquets at AA Stone Bridge Golf
Club. Call Doug 734-323-8782.
OFFICE ASSISTANT NEEDED
part time for property mgmt. company
for summer. Roughly 20-25 hrs/wk +/-
Basic duties include phone, email, up-
dating websites, maintenance requests,
accounts receivable/payable and filing.
Pay based on experience. Email resume
to cappomanagement@gmail.com or
fax to 734-996-9929.
P-T SUMMER nanny for 2 girls. Pre-
fer Chinese speaker but we speak
mainly English. Must have child care
exp, reliable transportation, non-
smoker, ok w/ dog. Pay at least $10/hr,
commensurate w/ exp. (734) 929-4811.
POST FLIERS ON campus, 2-5
hrs/wk. $12-15/hour + comm.
editor@academicenglishediting.com.
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC justice
jobs. Turn your passion into action.
Working America Community Affiliate
of the AFLCIO is seeking motivated,
passionnate ppl w/ strong comm. skills
to educate voters to elect progressive
candidates who will fight for working
families.Hiringimmed.F/TMon-Fri 1:-
30pm - 10:30 pm. Prev. candidates w/
fundraising exp. a plus. Paid training
and valuable campaign exp. $11.22/hr.
Please contact 734-222-6496 or
Annarbor@workingamerica.org. 210
Collingwood Dr. Suite 200 AA, MI

SUBLET AT VARSITY
Studios, 1, 2, 3, & 4 bdrms available
May 1st! Call Varsity for a complete
tenant list.
(734)668-1100
www.varsitvmananementcnm

1 2 3
14
17
20
23
28
35
38 39
41
48
51
55
59
62
By James Saj

1 4 s 6 T 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 16 .
,, ,,9
21 22
24 25 26 27
29 30 31
32 33 34
15 36 37
40
42 43 4 4 4 46 47
52 53 64
56 57 58
ajdak 0 301
Jne Media Services, Inc. /311

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
My credentials: Paid survey takers needed in A2.
- perfect 188 on LSAT 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE, EMPLYENT
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
ADVER T SE House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
S c WITH Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
- ICHI DGA ANILY ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

c-1 ffre



0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 30,2011 - 7A

Softball Preview 2011
Unsung heroes will contribute to No. 3 Michigan's success

By EMILY BONCHI
Daily Sports Writer
When the No. 3 Michigan
softball team is mentioned,
there are typically two seniors
who come to mind: shutout
pitcher Jordan Taylor and slug-
ger Dorian Shaw.
The two captains have led the
Wolverines over their past four
years, both at the plate and on
the dirt.
But these two seniors are
not alone in leading this year's
squad. There are several unsung
heroes who have stepped up in
2011.
They range in position, age
and responsibility, but these
players all have one thing in
common - they have saved the
day more than once this season.
In May last season, the
Wolverines were matched
up against Tennessee for the
NCAA Super Regional game.
Shaw was up to bat and hit
a wicked line drive foul, right
into the Michigan dugout, mak-
ing contact with then-sopho-
more center fielder Bree Evans's
right arm.
Evans should be called the
"comeback kid."
The junior centerfielder has
had her fair share of obstacles
during her tenure at Michigan.
After being sidelined for the
winter by a collision at home
plate during an exhibition game
in Oct. 2009 against Michigan

State, Evans shocked everyone
by not only getting back to the
field by spring, but also by earn-
ing All-Big Ten, Conference first,
team honors.
She missed only one game her
entire sophomore stint - the
Tennessee game.

times this season in which
she has thrown runners out at
home, launching the ball from
center field into the glove of an
unlikely starter.

This
injury
traded
plays,
averag
"Yot
top of
get th
everyb
dence,
that."
"Y
top
to
Eva
sive sk
North'
a sure
over-ti
fifth t
locked
verine
It's,
stop E
game
it coun
The

s season, which has been Freshman Caitlin Blanchard
free so far, Evans has was not supposed to be a starter.
in her bad luck for big She wasn't supposed to be vying
as she holds a .398 batting for the same position as veteran
e and 17 RBI. junior Amanda Chidester.
u need that person at the And Blanchard wasn't sup-
the lineup to get on base, posed to earn the starting posi-
e inning going and give tion behind the plate for every
ody in the lineup confi- game this season.
Shaw said. "Bree does But she did.
"Caitlin Blanchard has been
the most pleasant surprise,"
Michigan coach Carol Hutchins
said.
ou need that "She has really come in and
been consistent and solid and
erson at the played like an upperclassmen.
She's cool, confident and gets
of the lineup better every week."
get on The Petersburg, Mich. native
gei on vase, has played catcher her entire
life - and it shows.
The rookie has made just
three errors in the first 33
ns showed her defen- games of her collegiate career,
ills last weekend against and has successfully adjusted
western, snatching away to the pitching by Taylor and
extra-base hit with an Stephanie Speierman, whose
he-shoulder grab in the pitches have a lot of movement
o keep the game dead- around the plate.
before the eventual Wol- With an inexperienced
win. infield in front of her - Shaw
obvious that nothing can and Taylor are the only return-
Evans from playing her ing infielders - Blanchard has
or making big plays when had to stand up, physically and
its. vocally, to an advanced level.
re have been multiple "She's a freshman and she's

young and sh
things to lear
nitely come a
said.
"She's going
ly good at the e
us."
The pitcher:
the coaches w
she's learning:
rience from all
Blanchard is
new to the hi1
the collegiate
Taylor can't p
so sophomore
man has had to
a spark on the I
Speierman h
stant successc
may seem like
lives in the sh
ognized pitch
but despite Tay
on the moun
currently 14-0
every batter sI
season.

e's got a lot of paraiso during Michigan's
n, but she's defi- spring-break trip at the
long way," Shaw beginning of March.
"I think she's
to be really, real- exceeding our expec-
nd of this year for tations, extremely," Tay-
lor said. "It's a huge
s work with her, transition from
ork with her, so just pitching
and getting expe- one or two°
angles." games to
not the only one split-
gh stress level of ting
softball game. time.
itch every game, I
Stephanie Speier- think
step up to create she's been doing
hill. really well."
She still has a
*** lot to learn, but for
a team that lost
as become a con- one of its all-time
on the mound. It greatest pitch
the sophomore ers in Nemitz,
adow of her rec- Speierman is
ing counterpart, definitely not a
lor's big presence disappointing Tay
.d, Speierman is replacement.
,battling against "She has
he has faced this got tre-
men-

man is no longer
standing in the
shadow of Taylor
and Nemitz, but
is building her
own legacy in the
Michigan softball
program.
With Shaw and
lor leading the way,
these three
unsung
heroes have
stepped up
immensely so
far this sea-
son.
Whether it's
plate, on the mound
utfield grass, Shaw
don't have to worry
g an off day - these
es can help lead this
eam to what could
successful season in
hind the scenes may
's biggest strength.

She made just 12 appearances
as a freshman, as All-Americans
Taylor and Nikki Nemitz secured
the mound for most of the 2010 dous velocity
season. But Speierman has cap- and tremendous
tained the mound for almost movement and the
half this season's games, key is being able to
tossing 75 strikeouts throw pitch to pitch,"
in 82 innings. She Hutchins said after prac-
also tossed tice on Tuesday.
two nine- "Her last game out was
strikeout against Notre Dame and she was
performances great."
against North Florida and Val- With consistency, Speier-

behind theI
or in the o
and Taylorc
about havin
unsung hero
Wolverine t
be its most:
years.
Those bet
be Michigan

Big Ten Preview: Who's a
legitimate threat to 'M'?

Senior pitcherJordan Taylor may be one of the best pitchers in the country.
Blue poised for a deep playoff run

By MATT RUDNITSKY
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 4 Michigan softball
team is off to a scorching start,
including recent triumphs over
No. 6 Arizona State and No. 7 Ari-
zona. .
And as the cold-weather, Big
Ten teams are finally returning
home for spring and the start of
conference play, Michigan (2-0
Big Ten, 31-2 overall) is the only
team with more than 19 wins.
The Wolverines have won the
Big Ten title in 13 of the past 19
years - including the past three -
and having lost only eight confer-
ence games inthe pastthree years,
are heavy favorites once again.
Here's the softball beat's Big
Ten preview, giving you the low-
down for each conference team.
THE CREAM OF THE CROP
No. 4 Michigan Wolverines
The Wolverines are the only
ranked team in the Big Ten and
started off the conference season
with a sweep of Northwestern last
weekend.
Led by two preseason, first-
team All-Americans in senior
pitcher Jordan Taylor and senior
first baseman Dorian Shaw, Mich-
igan is not only a threat to win the
conference, but a national title,
too.

sport that has seen just nine other
champions (and none east of Texas
A&M), that's quite an accomplish-
ment. And this team won't be sat-
isfied with anything less.
"Our expectations don't change
based on what year it is," Shaw
said before the season."We always
want to win the Big Ten Champi-
onship and go to the World Series.
"We want to play in the Nation-
al Championship game, and while
it will obviously take a little bit of
luck here and there, we have the
talent to get there."
THE LEGITIMATE THREATS
Illinois Fightinglllini
The Illini struggled early but
started off their Big Ten season by
sweepingaMichigan State.
Illinois is coming off of an
appearance in the NCAA tourna-
ment and was ranked No. 24 in the
preseason.
Player to watch: Junior first
baseman Meredith Hackett
Hackett (418 batting average,
16 home runs, 56 RBI) was a First
Team All-American lastyear.
Opponents have attempted to
pitch around herthis year (17 BB, 2
HBP), but that still hasn't stopped
her from smacking five home runs
and tallying 22 RBI.
If the rest of the Illini's lineup
can turn things around and give
her some protection, Illinois will

Penn State Nittany Lions
Boasting two pitchers with
sub-two ERAs, the Nittany Lions
are goingto be in just about every
game this year.
They've recorded impressive
wins over No. 9 Oklahoma and
Fresno State (which beat Michi-
gan), but a team that averages just
over two runs per game is going to
find it hard to stringtogether alot
of wins.
Players to watch: Junior pitcher
Lisa Akamine and redshirt senior
pitcher Jackie Hill
As long Akamine (6-5, 1.22
ERA) and Hill (9-6, 1.87 ERA) are
on the mound, Penn State will be
tough to score on.
Northwestern Wildcats
The Wildcats held leads in both
games against Michigan in their
season-opening series but were
edged 2-1 and 7-4.
Just hanging with Michigan
shows how dangerous Northwest-
ern can be tothe rest ofthe league.
Players to watch: Sophomore
shortstop Emily Allard, junior
first baseman Adrienne Monka
and sophomore pitcher Megan
Lamberth
The Wildcats have a solid
offense led by Allard (.500 avg, 23
SB) and Monka (.463 batting aver-
age, .667 on-base percentage, 7
home runs, 25 RBI).
Their pitchingstaff (2.98 team-
ERA) is highlighted by Lamberth
(7-0, 2.58 ERA).

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan softball team is
a perennial powerhouse - reload-
ing constantly with no such thing
as a rebuilding year. After all, the
program hasn't had a losing sea-
son in its 33-year existence.
This year is no different. The
tools are there for a postseason
run, but before that can happen,
Michigan must overcome a treach-
erous Big Ten schedule filled with
teams foaming at the mouth to get
a shot at the Wolverines.
"Just being Michigan, there is
always a target on your back no
matter where you go," senior hurl-
er Jordan Taylor said. "There's
definitely a target during Big
Tens."
Even with a very talented ros-
ter, a lot will need to go right
for Michigan (2-0 Big Ten, 31-2
overall) to win its fourth straight
conference crown. Here's a break-
down of Michigan's star hitters
and pitchers, both of which are
needed to be outstanding in order
to contend for a national title.
THE BATS: Michigan knows
how to manufacture runs. And
though Big Ten pitchers may not
allow the Wolverines to score at
will like they did against non-con-
ference foes, Michigan has the hit-
ting to keep up every game.
It starts with senior first base-
man Dorian Shaw. Shaw reaches

base roughly 60 percent of the
time, touching them all frequent-
ly. She also leads the team with 11
home runs and is in hot pursuit
of the all-time Michigan record,
a total held by Samantha Findlay.
She has enjoyed a tremendous
career as a Wolverine, winning
a Big Ten title in each of her sea-
sons. There have also been plenti-
ful individual accolades for Shaw
- she has been a member of all-
conference teams and was an All-
American last year.
With such a bigbat in the heart
of the Michigan order, the option
of issuing Shaw a free pass cer-
tainly weighs on the mind of
opposing coaches. But after seeing
who stands in the on-deck circle,
this thought is usually erased.
Junior utility player Amanda
Chidester slugs at a rate not far
from Shaw and is also a home-run
threat. Hitting in the cleanup spot,
Chidester has provided a spark for
the Wolverines at the most oppor-
tune times. Last weekend in Evan-
ston, her grand slam triggered a
comeback win over Northwest-
ern. This clutch hitting is exactly
the type of hitting that could lead
Michigan to some late-game hero-
ics and a magical season.
THE ARMS: The Michigan
pitching staff is anchored by Tay-
lor who is, arguably, the best in
the country. But the other half of
the starting pitchingtandem plays
just as crucial a role in the Wolver-

Ines' success.
When the season ends, Tay-
lor will be passing the ace title to
sophomore Stephanie Speierman
who, like her predecessor, has
been brilliant so far this season.
And it bodes well for Michigan
that Speierman has been there
to share the load. Keeping Tay-
lor in early-season form come the
postseason has been a priority for
coach Carol Hutchins.
"We want Taylor as fresh as she
can be when it's May," Hutchins
said. "(Speierman) continues to
get better."
But in last weekend's sweep of
the Wildcats, Speierman didn't
make an appearance. Rather, Tay-
lor shouldered the weight, setting
a perfect example for Speierman
who is expected to be called upon
frequently during Big Ten games.
"I chatted with Speierman
(Tuesday)," Hutchins said. "I said,
'That's not going to be the norm.
It's not goingto be Taylor pitching
every Big Ten game."'
Both hurlers seem extremely
confident, averaging slightly more
than one run surrendered per
game. Hits have been tough to
come by against the pair, but that
doesn't mean they feel triumphant
yet.
"We haven't quite dominated
like this before, so everybody's
gunning for us but we're always
ready for it," Taylor said. "We
don't take any opponent for grant-
ed."

The Wolverines have only one be tough to beat.
National Championship, but in a

STAFF PICKS
The Daily softball beat makes
its predictions for the season
These writers guess whether
Michigan can win it all
and who may step up this
season for the Wolverines.
Emily Matt Matt
Bonchi Rudnitsky Slovin
Michigan overal record st-4 s-s4 sos
Michganig Ten record 18-2 18-2 17-3
Michigan MVP Jordan Taylor Taylor Taylor
Michigan Offensive Player of the Year AmandaChidester Dorian Shaw Shaw
Michigan Freshman of the Year Caitlin Blanchard Nicole Sappingfield Sappingfield
BigTenRegularSeasonChampion Michigan Michigan Michigan
Big Ten Regular Season Runner-Up Illinois Northwestern Illinois
Big Ten MVP Taylor Taylor Taylor
sig Ten Surprise Team Indiana Iowa Penn State
Michigan's Season Ends Here NCAA Super Regional NCAA Super Regional WCWS Semifinals


8A -- Wednesday, March 30, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Muckalt comments on 15th anniversary of '96 NCAA title

0

By MARK BURNS of the Wolverines' success that Powers: "It was one of those
Daily Sports Editor year as he paired up with a for- plays that almost happened in
mer Hobey Baker winner and slow motion.
Former Michigan hockey current Calgary Flames forward That puck lied there for a cou-
standout Bill Muckalt sat with Brendan Morrison, and Jason ple seconds before Brendan had
his players, as their eyes were Botterill, the current Pittsburgh jumped off the wall. I think you
glued to ESPNU in their sleeper Penguins assistant general man- prematurely started to celebrate
bus. ager. as he was ready to put the puck
Muckalt - now the head coach The trio combined for 88 goals in. You saw the wide-open net,
of the inaugural New Mexico and 99 assists during the season. and Brendan. You figured this
Mustangs in the North American With the national title contest was over."
Hockey League - was on his way deadlocked at two in the first The victory against the Tigers
home with his team Friday night overtime period in Cincinnati, in 1996 was the one victory that
following the Mustangs' sweep Ohio, Muckalt corralled the puck had eluded the program for 32
of Corpus Christi. at the left face-off dot and threw seasons.
And with the luxury of having a wrist shot on net, trying to go The year before, the Wolver-
a satellite connection, his players five-hole once more on Colorado ines lost a- heartbreaking 4-3
unexpectedly caught a highlight College goaltender Ryan Fox. game to Maine in the NCAA
glimpse of what Muckalt called semifinals - the third time in
one of the two best moments in four years Michigan had lost in
his entire hockey career: Michi- the semifinals.
gan winning the 1996 NCAA "M ichigan was It had climbed the mountain
National Title in dramatic fash- year after year, so to speak, only
ion. really back to have its feet swiped out from
Today marks the 15th anni- , under it before reaching the
versary of the program claiming on the map in peak.
its eighth championship, with On March 30, 1996, the Wol-
Muckalt being fortunate enough college hockey" verines were finally No. 1.
to win not only one, but two "Red turned the program
national titles (the other com- around, and we were finally
ing in 1998) during his four-year knocking on the door of winning
career. But unlike earlier in the game a national title," Muckalt said.
"It really got the monkey off when Muckalt scored, he was "To win a national title and to be
our back," Michigan coach Red denied this time as Fox laid down the best that particular year was
Berenson said Monday. "We his stick to negate any chance of a pretty special thing."
couldn't seem to win. 1996 got Muckalt grabbing the game-win- And while the line of Muckalt-
that behind us. It was so good for ning tally. However, as the puck Morrison-Botterill played such a
our program because it had been rebounded off Fox and lay a few key component in the '96 cham-
a long time since a team won feet to the left of him, Morrison pionship run, Muckalt realized
a national championship even was all alone as he deposited the the importance of having a deep
though we had good teams. That puck into a wide-open net. supporting cast.
was huge. That was not only for "Michigan was really back on From then-sophomore net-
that team but for all the former the map in college hockey," Mor- minder Marty Turco to defen-
players." rison said last week. semen like Mark Sakala and
Muckalt was an integral part Added assistant coach Billy forwards like John Madden and

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Bill Muckalt (pictured here after winning the NCAA Championship in 1996) got the assist on the game-winning goal in
the National Championship game that year.

Mike Legg, the Michigan hockey
team was concerned about only
one thing - winning.
"I think the biggest thing
was camaraderie on that team,"

Muckalt said. "We really
believed, we were there together
and nobody cared who got the
credit as long as we won. Obvi-
ously, to win that for everybody

and to win that for Red was spe-
cial. I remember hugging him
after the game, and how proud
he was of us, and how proud we
were to win it for him."

WANT MORE DAILY SPORTS COVERAGE?
LOG ON TO WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM/SPORTS FOR
BASEBALL, MEN'S GYMNASTICS AND WOMEN'S GYMNASTICS NEWS

0

0

Make a fast break for the HTC
How do your favorites rank? Sh r; your pirks nini r
and quality service from AT&T. Ny miss a morrnt,
HTC Inspire " 4G
* 4G speedsn
* Android OS with Mobile Hotspot suppoW
" 8 MP camera with y20p HD Vier Rccordinr
" Phone finder - locate lost phon ,nd lock or wipe
the device remotely
" 4.3" WVGA super LCD display
Get into the savings gin
University of Michigan Stucents ave tody!
FAN Code 2899228
For a store near you visit: at t.com/storelca tor/
or go to att.com/wireless/umich

lends and colleagues with the new HTC device
Mhile you talk and surf the Web at the same time.
Ed ~Visit our web page to get your
FZL:discount. Download the FREE AT&T
ata from Code Scanner at http://scan.mobi
or appropriate handset app store.

d

Rethink Possible'
ongoin kbcktiaul deployment. Requires 4G device. Learn more at att.com/

14G speeds delivered by HSPA+ with onhancr
network. Mobile broadbandnotavlhi a in :
IMPORTANT INFORMATION:L itei'd -tim; -uric t
appt/y d s y
(dtas tss/latetoyTminnFn(r

.p 5,artphne Data Plan Requiremente:
"ided0:333i oi i33 .13o3oran ddtioiinliSl
For, mre etaiitsontaPtas, go



I




Weneda, arh 0,01//TeSttmn

the
MARCH 30, 2011
I


Knt

PHOTOSof
CO theVWA

c 4e Wlc4l*pan4,3ailV


.

0 0 0

2B Wednesday, March 30 2011 // The Statement

Wednesday March 30 2011 // The Statement 7B

the
statement
Magazine Editor:
Carolyn Klarecki
Editor in Chief"
Stephanie Steinberg
Managing Editor:
Kyle Swanson
Deputy Editors:
Stephen Ostrowski
Elyana Twiggs
Designers:
Maya Friedman
Hermes Risien
Photo Editor:
Jake Fromm
Copy Editors:
Aaron Guggenheim
Hannah Poindexter
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.
To contact The Statement e-mail
klarecki@michigandaily.com.

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student Interview bysarahsquire

elcome to the Ran-
dom Student Inter-
view, where the line
between journalistic integ-
rity and personal boundar-
ies becomes blurred. Who is
DeAndree Watson?
Uh, the new MSA president.
Who is Brendan Campbell?
The new vice president.
Can you name three things
MSA does?
No.
What is your take on JELL-O
shots?
I like them.
Are you going to get down on
Friday? Are you looking for-
ward to the weekend, week-
end? Friday, Friday?
Yes.
Do you like Backstreet Boys?
Yes. But *NSYNC's better.
Really? Why?
I don't know. They were just bet-
ter when I was akid.
Were they hotter?
Yes.
Did your mom buy you CDs for
them?
Yes, I went to the concert.
You went to the *NSYNC con-
cert?
Yes, in sixth grade.
Did you rip off your shirt?
Throw it around?
No.
Did anything exciting happen?
I was on the upstairs. I couldn't

jump on the stage. I made a sign
for Justin Timberlake though.
What did it say?
I don't know, like "I love you JT."
Something along that.
What is Twitter?
Social networking?
Do you tweet?
No.
Would you ever tweet?
Yeah.
Do you know why people
tweet?
No.
Why would you tweet then?
If I had anything important to
say.
You think it's for people with
important things to say?
It should be, but it's not.
Why should it be?
Cause if you have ideas you should
get them out there, but -
Shouldn't you hold them to
yourself as intellectual prop-
erty? You don't want someone
else to steal your idea. Imagine
if you tweeted about this like
great new idea, you know-
But not like revolutionary ideas
just like what you think, like
political -
Political - so all political
thoughts should be said?
No, not necessarily in that forum.
Well what types of political
shows do you watch or listen
to?
I watch News Nightly and Ste-

phen Colbert. John Stewart I
watch every night.
Would you call yourself a
Republican?
No.
Do you read The Michigan
Daily?
Yes.
Do you read The New York
Times?
Yes. I read it on my iPhone. Both
of them.
What's your favorite game on
your iPhone?
a just play Solitaire a lot. I have
Angry Birds, but I'm not that
great at it so...
Don't you think you should
practice? There is a big Angry
Birds tournament coming up.
Really?
No.
oh.
If there were, would you try
and practice?
No, I'm not good enough for it.
You could practice. You can
stop going to class for a week.
I don't have any class anyway.
You don't have any class?
Two classes.
How many credit hours is that?
Five.
Isn't that still a lot, isn't that
five hours of class?
Yeah.
So, I mean you could skip those
five hours of class and play
Angry Birds instead.

I could play in class.
So why don't you start doing
that?
Uh, I don't want to.
Can I come to your class and
coach you?
Sure.
Faygo or Big K?
I don't know what either or those
are. Oh the drink?
Yes.
I only know what Faygo is. I've
never heard of Big K.
It's the K-Mart brand soda.
Oh.
It's the really cheap ones the
RA buys you when you're in the
dorms.
Oh my RA sucked. We never got
anything.
Can you describe yourself
without using the letter S?
Caring. I thought you just meant
one word.
Well multiple words is fine.
I don't know. Um, thoughtful,
caring.
Do you want to make a com-
plete sentence?
No, not without the letter.
What is the best place on cam-
pus to bump uglies?
To bump uglies?
You know bump, grind, get
naked and do the horizontal
mambo?
Um, Skeeps?
Jillian is an Engineering senior

LIKE WHAT YOU SEE?
ALL OF THE PHOTOS FEATURED IN THIS
ISSUE AND MORE ARE AVAILABLE FOR
PURCHASE ONLINE.
Go to www.michigandaily.com/photostore-best20ll
to buy one of these memorable photos.
WANT TO HEAR MORE
ABOUT THE PHOTOS?
GO ONLINE TO LISTEN TO THE-PHOTOGRAPHERS'
STORIES FROM BEHIND THE LENS.


6B Wednesday, 30, 2011 // The Statement

WednesdayMrc 30, 2011 // The Statement $B

news in review

Obviously any time the
president is going to visit your
town, it's a huge production. We
got the opportunity to send two
photographers, and I was very
fortunate to be one of them. Just y
walking into the stadium and
seeing what's usually this football
Mecca turned into this huge,
elaborate media production8
with strategically placed lights
to highlight features of the '
president's face and gigantic,
newly constructed TV screens,k
and just how orchestrated
everything was, was a fascinating
experience.
-Sam Wolson
r{ R

Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
4 -
l*

L~1

Robert Gibbs, who left his post as
White House press secretary in
February, is reportedly deliberating
a communications position with
social networking giant Facebook.
His salary would likely be in the
million-dollar range.

Republican Gov. Rick Snyder
approved a bill on Monday that
reduces the length unemployed
workers are eligible for state ben-
efits from 26 to 20 weeks. Snyder
said the bill will allow the unem-
ployed to seek federal benefits.

Last weekend, Rolling Stone Officials in Japan reported on
published photos and an article Monday radioactive water leaking
on a U.S. Army "kill team" group from its Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear
of soldiers that allegedly killed Power Station, which was damaged
unarmed Afghan citizens for sport. from the March 11 earthquake and
The Army issued an apology on tsunami. Increased plutonium
Monday. levels in soil were also found.

In a speech on Monday, President
Barack Obama defended American
military intervention in Libya, citing
the prevention of civilian deaths
as an impetus for involvement.
Obama promised to reduce U.S.
involvement soon.

CLOCKWISE, FROM TOP LEFT: President Barack Obama delivers the commencement
address to the class of 2010. (SAM WOLSON/Daily); Members of the University's syn-
chronized swimming team practices their routine. (SALAM RIDA/Daily); Former Michi-
gan football coach Rich Rodriguez's Michigan apparel being auctioned offat the Salvation
Army. (JED MOCH/Daily); Michigan rowers Ashley Kroll and Felice Mueller won gold in
the 2,000 meter race at the World Championships in Belarus. (JAKE FROMM/Daily);
People dressed as Stormtroopers walk in the GatorBmowl parade in Jacksonville, Fla. on
New Year's Day. (JAKE FROMM/Daily); LSA sophomore Eric Olivero shaves his beard
after participating in No-Shave November. (ANNA SCHULTE/Daily); A member of the
University's parkour club practices his skills. (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily).

l 0 1 2 3 4i56 7 8 9A1,
quotes of the week from the archives
"I kind of thought the promotion was ajoke atfirst, Board game blasphemy
but as things picked up, I realized it was working."
FABIAN LEVY, HAMILTON, MONT. RADIO SHACK MANAGER, on the
store's ongoing promotion that guarantees a free gun with purchase of
Dish Network.
"I didn't think this was such a big deal, butI will tell
you, it's turning out to be a very big deal because
people now are calling mefrom all over saying
please don't give up on this issue."
Warning:g
DONALD TRUMP, BUSINESSMAN AND PROSPECTIVE PRESIDENTIALar
in an ABC interview during which he urged President couEsy uF D'iO cHANG
Barack Obama to release his birth certificate.
Board games can be straight-forward or they can be baffling. Shoots and Lad-
ders? Classic elementary fun. Cranium? Too damn difficult (what do you
the rules expect from a title like that?). Put "Ghettopoly" in the latter group - not
for its intellectual merits, but its polarizing premise. The logo on the box should
be a big enough hint: "a cartoon of a black man holding a gun and a 40 oz. bottle
No. 327: No. 328: No. 329: of malt liquor," as The Michigan Daily reported ("Game catches heat for content,"
Limit yourself There are only It's too late to start 10/16/2003).
State Street institution Urban Outfitters was one such retailer to carry the game.
to two vending three weeks left. a real relationship. Unsurprisingly, this did not go unnoticed - Erin Johnson, NAACP campus chapter
machine items per You probably Summer fling president, perhaps summed up the incongruence the best: "This is really disturb-
day. Candy is not should attend that season has ing that stores would sell stuff like this especially so close to a diverse campus like
this.' The game was later pulled nationally (no word if the store carried creator
dinner. 9 a.m. class. commenced! David Chang's other "-opoly" parodies like Thugopoly or Hoodopoly).
by the numberscoesvOTE50AD
SCOURTESY OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESC
Weeks unemployed workers in Michigan will Percent of unemployed Michigan workers Billions of dollars in federal loans
be eligible for federal benefits under Republican seeking a job for more than one year. This that Michigan has recieved to fund
Gov. Rick Snyder's recently signed legislation. is the third-highest number in the nation. employment benefits the past two years

:
Ipolwed Eric into the bathroom and snapped photos as
t No-Shave November beard slowly disappeared.
It wa'one of those fun photo opportunities where you get
a chance to be in on an event that you would otherwise
never witness yourself. Eric's beard was a part his:
identity, and I snapped it as he slowly shaved it away.'
-Anna Sc ulte


M e dnsaM rh3,211/ h ttrnn

fit + 0
Wednesday, 5B
Now

TOP ROW, FROM LEFT: Sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson during Michigan's 28-24 victory over Notre Dame. Robinson rushed for 258 yards and passed for 244 yards. (SAM WOLSON/Daily); The Daily's annual F
Johannes Vermeer's "Girl with the Pearl Earring." (ALLISON KRUSKE/Daily); Sophomore point guard Darius Morris reacts after missing a buzzer shot against Duke in the third round of the NCAA Tournament. Michigan lost

Fashion Issue combined art and clothing. This portrait was inspired by
73-71. (CHANTEL JENNINGS/Daily)

I

; 1J .'. '
t%
M
-T

G (

'."'
.._
; _.
. '"
3 Y k !
'zkS " ;
_::, '.

>';'.r
' ; ,

:,
.:.>..
S )
A
- '.

BOTTOM ROW, FROM LEFT: The DREAM Act, which would have granted citizenship to undocumented immigrants enrolled in college, passed through the U.S. House of Representatives but failed to become a bill in the Se
football coach on Jan. 11, 2011. (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily); Denard Robinson's father, Thomas Robinson Sr., watches the Michigan football team play Iowa - with his son on screen - in the Robinsons' hometown of Deerfi
President Chris Armstrong was the subject of national news after being targeted by Michigan Assistant Attorney General Andrew Shirvell who accused Armstrong of promoting a "radical homosexual agenda." (JED MOCH/

nate. (JED MOCH/Daily); Brady Hoke was announced Michigan's new
eld Beach, Fla. (MAX COLLINS/Daily); Michigan Student Assembly
'Daily)

I



--- --- OEM


