~Ije 1Iid0ian &tIj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, March 22, 2011

michigandaily.com

ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
* First reading of
* pot ordinance
approved by A2
City Council
Second reading to cation of personalized alpha-
numeric identification - which
occur after period encompasses numbers and letter
- for the recipient and the dis-
for public input pensary would have to be con-

By K.C. WASSMAN
Daily StaffReporter
After months of discus-
sions and revisions to the city's
proposed medical marijuana
ordinance, the Ann Arbor City
Council approved the first
reading of the ordinance last
night.
Included in the updated ordi-
nance - which was postponed
five times previously - were
two amendments proposed by
Council members Sabra Briere
(D-Ward 1) and Sandi Smith
(D-Ward 1). The changes con-
cerned medical marijuana
packaging and how the current
estimated 15 medical marijuana
dispensaries in the area would
be relicensed under the new
ordinance.
Democratic Mayor John
Hieftje said the council will
have a second reading on the
ordinance next month.
In regard to the packaging of
medical marijuana, the weight
of the medicine and the appli-

sidered. Briere said this method
of identification is intended for
record keeping and to provide
a substantial tie between the
patient and caregiver.
Chuck Ream, owner of Med-
MAR Pharmaceuticals Inc., a
medical marijuana dispensary
on Packard Road, spoke at the
meeting and said this method
of identification is better than
other alternatives.
"It's an improvement to use
an alphanumeric ID rather than
our state ID numbers," Ream
said.
Along with these identifica-
tions, the contact information
for the dispensary would be
provided on the package, Briere
said. This allows the patient to
contact the provider with any
questions.
"It's the link between the
patient and the caregiver that's
such a vital thing here," Briere
said.
In addition to the clause
on marijuana packaging, an
amendment was included that
See CITY COUNCIL, Page 7

University President Mary Sue Coleman and Michael Finney, president and CEO of the Michigan Economic Development Corporation, take part in a University
Research Corridor panel discussion in Novi, Mich. yesterday. The panel members talked about the URC's past and future roles in economic growth in the state.
Amid budget cutst URC
coalition fosters growth,

Coleman, university
presidents discuss
research milestones
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
NOVI, Mich. - University of
Michigan President Mary Sue
Coleman and Michigan State
University President Lou Anna

Simon joked yesterday about the
heated competition between the
two universities' sports teams.
Despite the athletic rivalry,
the presidents agreed the Uni-
versity Research Corridor - a
research partnership between
the University of Michigan,
Michigan State University and
Wayne State University - is one
way the universities succeed
together.
"... It's not about a final score

like a sporting event," Simon
said. "It is about us celebrating
the differences that we have and
the way they can collaborate."
Coleman added that healthy
competition between the two
schools and the ultimate collab-
oration they share through the
URC benefit both institutions.
"I think the competition
among us actually makes us
better individually," said Cole-
man to an audience of about 100

business leaders and other state
university officials at a panel
discussion in Novi, Mich. yes-
terday.
Coleman, Simon together and
WSU President Allan Gilmour
and Michael Finney, president
and CEO of the Michigan Eco-
nomic Development Corpora-
tion, came together to discuss
the collaboration of the three
universities through the URC
See URC, Page 3

UNIVERSITY MEPICAL SCHOOL
Medical School students
get top residency choices

'U' students have
99-percent match
rate for second year
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
Many of the University Medi-
cal School's fourth-year students
breathed a sigh of relief after

receiving their placement in resi-
dency programs last week.
Announced discreetly on a
single slip of paper in a plain
white envelope last Thursday on
what is called "Match Day", each
placement signifies the hospital
where a student will work and
complete medical training for
the next three to seven years of
his or her life.
For Medical School student

Lauren Ehrlichman, who plans
to specialize in orthopedic sur-
gery, moving home to Boston
to begin her residency at the
four hospitals associated with
the Harvard Medical School
couldn't be more thrilling.
"Opening my envelope was an
incredible rush of emotion," she
said. "In one day, your whole life
changes."
See RESIDENCY, Page 7

Defend Affirmative Action Party candidates LSA freshman Briana Hatcher (left) and LSA sophomore Lena Cintron,
who are running for Michigan Student Assembly president and vice president, pose for a portrait yesterday.
Defend Affirmative Action Party running
mates stress diversity and unity on campus

PANEL DISCUSSION
Experts reflect on impact of
natural disasters in Japan

MSA candidates
hope to up support
for immigrants,
assault victims
By RACHEL BRUSSTAR
Daily StaffReporter
LSA freshman Briana Hatch-
er and LSA sophomore Lena
Cintron hope to become the first
members of the Defend Affirma-
tive Action Party to hold execu-
tive positions on the Michigan

Student Assembly.
To achieve this goal, Hatcher
and Cintron, who are running as
MSA president and vice presi-
dent candidates, respectively,
are running on a platform of
increasing diversity on cam-
pus and making the University
a more inclusive environment.
Their campaign, which will cul-
minate tomorrow with the start
of MSA elections, has been cen-
tered on reaching out to minor-
ity students and individuals who
have felt voiceless at the Univer-
sity.
"Our platform is basically

centered around diversity
because we think that the Uni-
versity needs to become more
diverse, and it needs to pay
more attention to the minority
students and the problems that
are going on and we just feel
that we can help," Hatcher said.
"We can be more approachable
to students of minority descent,
and we can take on the issues for
minority students, as well as the
non-minority students."
Hatcher and Cintron will be
running against MForward's
presidential candidate DeAn-
See RUNNING MATES, Page 3

Prof
ear
e
Whil
afterma
the Mat
the scie
to ans
of how

Fs. talk science of of those magnitudes occurred and
how they will affect people in the
thquake, future future.
To address these concerns, Ken
ffects abroad Ito, director of the University's
Center for Japanese Studies, orga-
By NEHA GARG nized a presentation yesterday
For the Daily afternoon at the Michigan League
to inform members of the campus
e people are coping with the community on various aspects of
ath of the disaster caused by the tragedy.
rch it earthquake in Japan, The presentation consisted of
rntific community is trying five panelists from different aca-
wer the difficult questions demic disciplines who attempted
an earthquake and tsunami to explain the struggles involved in

the unfolding events.
Lester Monts, the University's
senior vice provost for academic
affairs, said the earthquake juxta-
poses human species and their abil-
ity to cope with nature.
"There is much to learn," Monts
said to a crowd of about 150 people.
Mahshid Abir, a research fellow
and clinical lecturer in emergency
medicine at the University Medi-
cal School, discussed the various
health aspects and some of the con-
sequences of the natural disasters.
See JAPAN, Page 3

WEATHER HI:39 GOTANEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX. NEWS.........................3 ARTS ......................5
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail What is our fascination with 'Friday'? Vol. CXXI, No.114 S U D OK U..................... 3 C LASS IF I E D S.................6
TOMORROW LO: 25 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER ©201t The Michigan Daily OPINION.... .......4 S P ORTS............ 8
michigondoilycon

_A


2A - Wednesday, March 22, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com #I

2A - Wednesday, March 22, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

(74C Ifichioall aill
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com

Naked Mile runs away

The last day of classes for University
students is typically a day of celebra-
tion. And, several decades ago, students
revealed their joy - through the naked
mile.
Starting in the mid-1980s, students
began the one-mile run at the intersec-
tion of South University Avenue and
Washtenaw Avenue, pass through the
Diag and end at the Fleming Adminis-
tration Building.
Initially, Ann Arbor police turned
the other way, thinking it was a frater-
nity prank, according to a Sept.19, 2006
article on the Ann Arbor Police Depart-
ment's website. While indecent expo-
sure is a punishable crime, the police
didn't receive any complaints by people
in the city.
Every year the group of runners
grew from the original 15 students

to hundreds, according to the article.
Every time the runners gathered, a
crowd of students lined the streets. In
1999, the number of spectators reached
close to 10,000.
As the number of participants grew,
so did the diversity of runners. When
the run started, only males partook
in the event, but over the years more
females joined, according to the article.
After a few years of the run, the
police began to give out citations for
indecent exposure and disorderly
conduct - mainly for alcohol-related
reasons - which led to dwindling par-
ticipation.
To combat the indecent exposure
citations and pressure from the Uni-
versity to refrain from participating,
students began to run while wearing
underwear, bras, plastic cups and other

articles to keep themselves "unex-
posed,"the article states.
But police continued to patrol the
run, and in 2002, the run was also mon-
itored by a police helicopter, according
to an April 19, 2002 article in The Mich-
igan Daily.
At the time, the University released
a statement to the campus community
dissuading participation in the run.
"Students were discouraged to run
because the event was unlawful, dan-
gerous and an embarrassment to the
University and participants," the Daily
article states.
After only a few dozen runners par-
ticipated in 2003, due to pressure from
police and the University, the event
failed to return the next year, according
to an April 15, 2003 Daily article.
- PAIGE PEARCY

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinio@michigandaily.com
PhotographySection
photo@micigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

FILt PHOTO/taily
A student sits on top ofthe cube otiler
running the Naked Mile on April14,
2003.

CRIME NOTES
Tennis meets
tumbling
WHERE: 2250 State Street
WHEN: Sunday at about
2:30 p.m.
WHAT: A 60-year-old
woman fell during a game
of tennis, University Police
reported. Medical assis-
tance was declined in lieu of
her husband's help.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Driving: You're
doing it wrong
WHERE: 2300 Hayward
St.
WHEN: Sunday at about
3 p.m.
WHAT: An accident
occurred between two
vehicles in the parking
structure, University Police
reported. There were no
injuries to the individuals

Healthy eating Student group
presentation leader meeting

WHAT: A presentation on
healthy eating and diabetes
management and preven-
tion. Topics include meal-
planning and nutrition.
WHO: U-M Comprehensive
Diabetes Center.
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: Arbor Farms
Market, 2103 West Stadium

ar gets involved.
Film on Penn
curb-stomped Greener grass
State athletes
WHERE: 1520 Fuller Road goes missing
WHNS d~tCn ntb ahlt W AA film bln~ ca

WHAT: A round table
meeting for the leaders of
student organizations that
create opportunities for net-
working on campus.
WHO: Student Activities
and Leadership
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 2105A
Jazz music
performance
WHAT: A performance by
jazz students.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building,
McIntosh Theatre
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

A study in the Washing-
ton Journal of Ornithol-
ogy determined that cats
are the number one predator
of birds in Washington sub-
urbs, The New Yorks Times
reported. The study found
that 47 percent of birds killed
by predators were killed by
cats.
This year, the Ann
Arbor Film Festi-
val will host the first
student-only portion of the
festivities to showcase the
filmmaking talent found at
regional universities.
Suicide rates among
Native Americans are
on the rise Yahoo!
News reported. Data from
the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention shows
Native Americans ages 10-24
committed suicide twice as
often as white children of
that age.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor swanson@michigandaily.com
NicoleAber Managing News Editor aber@mnchigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS0EDITORS:BethanyBiron,DylanCinti, Caitlin Huston, JosephLichterman,
Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWSEDITORS:RachelBrusstar,ClaireGoscicki, SuzanneJacobs,Mike
Merar, Michele Narov, Brienne Prusak, Kaitlin Williams
Michelle Dewitrand g opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
tally Orley Editorial PaerEditors
SENIOR EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:AidaAli,Ashley Griesshammer, HarshaPanduranga
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Andrew Weiner
Tim Rohan and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Nick Spar Managing Sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, MichaelFlorek, Chantel Jennings, Ryan Kartje,
Stephen J. Nesbitt, Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi, Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
KevinRaftery,MattSlovin
Sharon Jacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SEI RSE DITORS:0005Lahourgi, Kavi Pey, JennifersXu
ASEISTA 0ART EDITOR 000 JeCdgi, EmmaG,,, PnormaKhosla,David Tao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed MOch Managing Photo Editors
ASSiSnTT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Salam Rids, Chris Ryba, Anna Schulte,
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS: Alex Bondy, Herm6s Risien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: StephenOstrowski, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy and copydeskO@michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten copy Chiefs
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrimSalesManager
SALESFORCEMANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
Hillary SrawalaClassiieds Manager
HCLASIFIED ASSISTANTANAGER: Ardie Reed
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Zach Yancer Web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday duringthe fal and
ointersterms by sOdents st<theUivsityoMihga. Ocops ava ileb lfree of charge
toual eades.Additonal copes may b ickedsupat the Dily's ofie for2.Susripionsfsr
fal term, starting in September, viaU.s. mail are $110. Winetetrm (January through April is
$115 yearlong(SeptemberthroughAprilis$195. Universityaffiliatesaresubjecttoareduced
susriptionrate. On-ampus subs *,ipti"nsfor*allts e ,sare 1$35. Sscipionsm ussbeprepaid.
TheMichigan Daily isa emerof TheAsoitedPrs~sad The AssociatdCollegiate Press.

0~

:vn m unuay at a ou
11 a.m.
WHAT: A staff member's
car was kicked and beaten,
resulting in dents and other
damage to the vehicle,
University Police reported.
There were footprints
found around the vehicle.

WHERE: 2100 block of
Cram Place
WHEN: Saturday at about
6:30 p.m.
WHAT: A doormat made
of astro-turf was stolen,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

w nTi: A nm anout sexual
discrimination on the Penn-
sylvania State women's
basketball team and the
ongoing fight against
homophobia. The film cov-
ers the treatment of gay and
lesbian student-athletes.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight at 6:30
p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
League, Michigan Room

MORE ONLINE Love CrimeNotes?
Get more online at michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

,;,...

*I

I

o tUe next reac e.orps generaiUn.
Information Session:
Tuesday, March 22 at 6:30pm
International Center, Room 9
Become a Fan on Facebook!
www.facebook.comUMPeaceCorps

Iluzir

Life is calling. How far will you go? 800.424.85801 peacecorps.gov/50
[ for more information call 734/615-6449
The University of Michigan College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts presents a public lecture and reception

Eoan Bymkt
Susan Meredith Smith Professor of Actuarial Sciences

Tuesday, March 22, 2011
Alumni Center, Founders Room
4:10 PM

LSA


01

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
G GRAND RAPIDS
Synder introduces
new budget plans
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder
unveiled a plan yesterday to use
hundreds of millions of tax dol-
lars to reward local governments
that heed his call to cut spending
and consolidate public services at
the expense of those that don't.
Snyder's plan would replace
part of Michigan's tax revenue
sharing program that supports
local governments, which is
expected to have about $200 mil-
lion to give out when the new
budget year starts Oct. 1.
Communities that meet what
Snyder deems the "best practic-
es" standards would be eligible
for incentives, although all would
see cuts averaging 30 percent
or more under his proposal to
" reduce money for local govern-
ments by nearly $100 million to
balance the budget.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.
Calif. panel weighs
nuclear risks after
Japan earthquake
State lawmakers raised sharp
questions yesterday about wheth-
er California's nuclear power
plants can withstand a major
earthquake and tsunami like the
ones that have left Japan scram-
bling to control radiation coming
from some of its reactors.
Even before officials from the
state's nuclear plant operators
laid out their extensive prepara-
tions and safety plans to protect
the public in the event of a tem-
blor, Sen. Sam Blakeslee asked
why Pacific Gas and Electric Co.
located its Diablo Canyon plant
near not one but two fault lines,
including the recently identified
Shoreline fault off the coast.
"I'm a little concerned that
PG&E ... failed to notice a fault of
this size," said Blakeslee, a Repub-
lican from San Luis Obispo who
has previously pushed for new
seisamicc uies of the pB~nta,
RAS AJDIR, Tunisia
Libya releases NY
Times journalists
Four New York Times journal-
ists who were held captive in Libya
for six days were freed yesterday by
authorities and crossed the border
into Tunisia, the newspaper said.
Reporter Anthony Shadid,
photographers Tyler Hicks and
Lynsey Addario and videographer
Stephen Farrell left Libya at the
dusty border crossing into Tunisia
that has been used by tens of thou-
sands of people fleeing violence.
"We're overjoyed to report that
our four journalists missing in
Libya since this morning are free
and have arrived safely in Tuni-
sia," New York Times executive
editor Bill Keller wrote in a mes-

sage to staff.
Turkey, acting on a U.S.
request, played the pivotal role
in getting the journalists freed
and transferred to Tunisia, said
Namik Tan, Turkey's ambassador
to the United States.
UNITED NATIONS
Libyan request for
emergency meeting
rejected by U.N.
The U.N. Security Council yes-
terday rejected a Libyan request
for an emergency meeting to halt
what it called "military aggres-
sion" by France and the United
States, but the council will get a
briefing on Libya Thursday from
the secretary-general.
Council members held closed-
door discussions in response
to a letter dated Saturday from
Libyan Foreign Minister Musa
Kousa who claimed that "an
external conspiracy was target-
ing ... (Libya) and its unity and
territorial integrity."
According to the letter,
obtained by The Associated
Press, Kousa accused France
and the U.S. of bombing "several
civilian sites" in violation of the
U.N. Charter and called for "an
emergency meeting in order to
halt this aggression."
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

JAPAN
From Page 1
She said many health facilities in
Japan face challenges because of
the lack of food, water and elec-
tricity. And since a quarter of the
Japanese population consists of
the elderly, obtaining health care
has becomes increasing difficulty,
Abir said.
Additionally, Abir discussed
the economic implications and the
psychological impact the events
could have on people.
The death toll as a result of the
natural disasters is more than
8,900, and officials are project-
ing this number will rise to more
than 18,000, the Associated Press
reported yesterday.
Philip Brown, a history profes-
sor at The Ohio State University,
said Japan is historically resilient
and routinely faces natural haz-
RUNNING MATES
From Page 1
dree Watson and vice presiden-
tial candidateBrendan Campbell.
The LSA juniors' main campaign
platforms include making MSA
more transparent and to better
encompass the interests of the
majority of the studentbody.
Cintron said one of her main
goals if elected MSA vice presi-
dent will be to facilitate a sense
of unity on campus by bridging
gaps between student groups.
"You come to the University
to learn about other cultures and
learn about the world and see
things from other peoples' per-
spectives," Cintron said. "And
it seems as though the Univer-
sity is pretty segregated, and
people seem to stay in their own
groups."
To improve the campus cli-
mate at the University, Cintron
also said she hopes to address the
issue of minority retention.
"(It's) a very serious issue
at the University of Michigan
because even if you are lucky
enough to be accepted here, you
don't necessarily feel as though
you're welcome here," she said.
"I know a lot of minority stu-
dents who ... feel very isolated
wh=gjLrst getting to campus and,
throughout the whole college
experience."
This academic year, underrep-
resented minority students com-
prise 10.6 of freshmen students
- an increase from 9.1 percent
for the 2009-2010 academic year.
Though this rise may be attrib-
uted partly to a change in the
reporting of students' ethnici-
ties, this percentage increase is
the first since 2003.
To increase the number of
minority students at the Univer-
sity, Hatcher said, if elected, she
would work to expand outreach
efforts to high school students so
they can see the University as an
accepting place.
"I just want to be able to
change (the University climate)
so that when I talk to a high
school student, they can say, 'Oh
yeah, University of Michigan,

ards. Disasters like the Niigata
earthquake in 1964 and the Kobe
earthquake in 1995 prompted
Japan to make safety improve-
ments, but capital losses continue
to increase as a result of the events
the'64 and'95 earthquakes.
Rieko Kage, a Toyota Visiting
Professor of Japanese Studies at
the University and an associate
professor of political science at the
University of Tokyo, drew com-
parisons between the Kobe earth-
quake and this month's Tohoku
earthquake. She determined
three factors that are necessary
for recovery: economic resources,
state assistance and social net-
works.
In addition, William Martin, a
professor of nuclear engineering
and radiological sciences at the
University, and Jeroen Ritsema, a
Henry Pollack Endowed Profes-
sor of Geological Sciences at the
University, discussed the scientific

aspects of the earthquake.
Martin detailed the conse-
quences of the explosion at the
Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant
right after the tsunami hit. Japan
has 55 reactors in total, and six of
these were in the vicinity of the
quake, he said, adding that the
radiation levels have been small.
"(The) most likely outcome is
that the reactors will continue to
be cooled and the spent fuel pools
will be stabilized soon," Martin
said.
With a magnitude of 9.0,
Japan's earthquake is the fifth-
largest recorded earthquake in the
past hundred years, according to
the U.S. Geological Survey.
Because of various shifts intec-
tonic plates around the world, the
United States could also eventu-
ally experience a similar situation,
accordingto Ritsema.
"Seismic risk is high every-
where," Ritsema said.

they care about me. They want students on campus, many Uni-
me to come here. They want me versity students are unaware of
to succeed,"' Hatcher said. the entire scope of the party's
She added in a separate e-mail platform, Cintron said.
interview that as a freshman, "We don't want people to be
she feels her relative youth will afraid because our party says
make her more approachable for 'affirmative action,"' Cintron
underclassmen. said. "We don't just care about
"Many people think that minority students ... We're trying
because Iam afreshman, Iam not to stand for everyone who feels
capable of leading an entire stu- unrepresented, which includes
dent assembly, but I look at it as gay students, immigrant stu-
an opportunity, not a downfall," dents - not just black students
Hatcher wrote. "... I can only hope or minority students in general
that other students look at my age - but anyone who feels like their
difference in comparison to my voice isn't reallybeing heard."
opponent as being a way to start Cintron said she and Hatcher
off fresh, and help make MSA into will work to defend the rights of
the student government organi- immigrant students at the Uni-
zation it should be." versity, especially in respect to
She said that she hopes to the national Development, Relief
combat the University's increas- and Education for Alien Minors
ing tuition rate to amplify minor- Act. The DREAM Act, which
ity retention at the University. the U.S. Senate voted against in
"I know multiple students of December, would help undocu-
different races who are actu- mented college students to get on
ally planning to leave next year a path to citizenship.
because they can't afford the Another initiative of DAAP is
continuous increase in tuition, to be a voice for students who are
and they plan to go to maybe a victims of sexual assault, Cintron
community college or just differ- said.
ent schools (that) don't have such "We also want to change the
an increase in the price," Hatcher Student Code of Conduct, which
said. currently says that students that
While Hatcher and Cintron are victims of sexual assault can-
are relatively new to studentgov- not speak publicly about that
ernment at the University, the assault, and we think that that's
running mates have experience wrong," Cintron said. "(It) shows
in leadership positions through not enough support of students
their ongoing involvement in that have been sexually assault-
the Detroit chapter of By Any ed."
Means Necessary - a national To support students who have
organization that works to pro- been victims of sexual assault,
tect affirmative action policies. Hatcher and Cintron said they
Their involvement in the coali- plan to highlight resources avail-
tion sparked their interest to get able to students from the Sexual
involved with political activi- Assault Prevention and Aware-
ties on campus, especially with ness Center on campus. The run-
DAAP. ning mates also said they believe
In compliance with a 2006 there is room to improve the cur-
state ballot initiative outlawing rent system of reporting cases of
affirmative action at public insti- sexual assault.
tutions in Michigan, the Univer- "We just don't want (the Uni-
sity does not have any official versity) to be hostile for anyone
policies promoting affirmative who goes here because they're
action. The University's Cen- paying for quality education, and
ter for Educational Outreach, they're getting that, but they're
however, is one program that also paying for a comfortable,
organizes outreach efforts to dis- safe environment," Cintron said.
advantaged communities. "And that's really what we care
While DAAP is dedicated to about, everyone being in a com-
the empowerment of minority fortable, safe environment."

URC
From Page 1
and the corridor's 2010 annual
report.
In an interview before the
panel discussion, Coleman said
the economic impact of the URC
has grown significantly since
2006, generating a net economic
impact of more than $14 billion.
"I think it's been both inter-
nally important and externally
important for us to be able to
promote this strength, which is a
real asset to the state," Coleman
said.
Coleman commented on how
the current state budget cuts fac-
ing Michigan's public universi-
ties might affect the URC. With
the proposed 15-percent reduc-
tion to higher education funding
- as outlined in Republican Gov.
Rick Snyder's budget - Coleman
said innovation is needed now
more than ever.
"Clearly the economic times of
the state are such that we know
that there has to be new activ-
ity," Coleman said. "We have to
attract talent, we have to keep
talent, we have to provide ways
for the companies to interact
with the universities, we have to
provide the opportunity for stu-
dents to learn how to be entre-
preneurial, we've got to promote
innovation because that's going
to be the 21st century economy of
Michigan."
During the talk, Coleman dis-
cussed several important mile-
stones the URC has made in the
past year.
The URC partnered with
Business Leaders for Michigan
this fall to launch Accelerate
Michigan Innovation Competi-
tion, a competition which aimed
to make Michigan one of the
foremost states for economic
development. Additionally, the
corridor generated more than
$1.6 billion in research activity
in the past year, which brought
$917 million in federal funds to
Michigan. The URC also brings
in 93 percent of research and
development funding from out-

Tuesday, March 22, 2011 - 3
side the state.
Gilmour said the URC is
expanding what the universi-
ties develop in terms of research,
which he stressed isn't just high-
tech research.
Reaching out to students is
also an important aspect of the
URC, Coleman said, adding that
there has been a lot of student
interest in the entrepreneur-
ship programs. She also noted
her surprise that 15 percent of
incoming University students
last year had started their own
businesses in high school.
However, Coleman stressed
that the URC isn't just for busi-
ness students.
Simon said the three universi-
ties form a triangle of collective
resources that make it easier for
businesses to connect with stu-
dents and faculty. Coleman added
that the universities used to con-
duct the same work separately,
but the URC allows for a more
efficient collaboration today.
Gilmour said Michigan's
public universities currently
rank 42nd in the country in the
amount of state funding they
receive. Simon added that one
of the ways the universities can
seek to stay financially afloat is
by working together through
URC projects, for example.
State universities could tell
by the status of state revenue
in recent years that there was
going to be a "day of reckoning,"
Coleman said, adding that she
is proud of the way the Univer-
sity of Michigan community has
stepped up to shoulder the eco-
nomic burden.
Though the University will
continue to construct new
campus buildings and pioneer
research and entrepreneur-
ial projects, Coleman said this
might be at a slower pace than in
the past.
"We understand the reality,
but we also understand that (Sny-
der) believes deeply in higher
education," Coleman said. "And
we believe that when the state
revenues turn around, there will
be more investment in higher
education across the board."

SIGN UP TO RECEIVE
THE DAILY'S ONLINE
N EWSLETTERS
Go to michigandaily.coMn/subscribe

Tuesdays Are South Of The Border
'CruaSNoddlPacIhc pcas l th
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka Drinks
25zOff MaxiLcOa Fare All With NO COVER
S US I

4


9

4 -Tuesday, March 22, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


e t i an at
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard Sc.
Ann Arbos, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

ELAINE MORTON

E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

s ycder S lo go but I'm Feoiy MNi ,tn OL
ImY Ot 3oars n Le's 'VVH'W s\/s oIsome
I'm going L e-s +li(OWv ur pain-r#andS
'o grauto V%&- i u+w n
any mope
-- -

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Controlling
EPA must have power to limit carbon emissions
s it irony or just business as usual when a government
agency is prevented from performing the functions it
was established for? This is what might happen to the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. A new bill, the Ener-
gy Tax Prevention Act, moving through Congress would keep
the EPA from regulating carbon dioxide emissions of power
plants and oil refineries. While the bill addresses some eco-
nomic concerns, if passed it would render the EPA almost
completely unable to monitor dangerous greenhouse gases.

A U.S. House committee passed a bill last
Tuesday to prevent the EPA from regulating
the amount of C02 produced by power plants
and oil refineries. The bill will now move to
the House, where it will likely pass.
Scientific data offered by the Carbon Diox-
ide Information Analysis Center, indicates
that atmospheric CO2 concentrations haven't
increased significantly in the 850 years pre-
ceding the Industrial Revolution. But since the
onset of the Industrial Revolution in 1850, CO2
concentrations increased by about 40 percent,
accordingto a Jan. 12 New York Times article.
Since this increase has been directly linked to
the environmental threat of global warming,
it's highly irrational to limit the powers of the
federal agency that's responsible for prevent-
ing a potential catastrophe.
Even worse, coal power plants supply
almost half the consumed electricity in the
U.S., and coal emits the highest CO2 concen-
trations of any known fuel. Essentially, the
House committee has decided to stick with
the status quo by keeping gas and electricity
cheap and precluding the EPA from taking
measures that would encourage the search for
affordable, alternative fuels. Climate models
show that the Earth's temperature could rise
as much as 11 degrees Fahrenheit by the end
of the 21st century. Clearly, this isn't a problem
that can be ignored, but that's precisely what

this bill intends to do.
. It's true that the rapidly rising costs of fuel
represent a profound economic problem. But
in this case, the livelihood of our entire planet
trumps short-term financial comfort. Our
country is responsible for 30 percent of green-
house gas emissions, and Americans have
greater emissions per capita than almost any
other nation. So far, our government has taken
swift steps to reverse global warming, and
companies like BP have responded positively.
In spite of their huge environmental disaster
with last summer's massive oil spill, BP has
invested in wind power, solar power and car-
bon capture interests. If the government sets a
precedent by protecting companies that cause
global warming, they'll discourage the initia-
tives by the companies that seek alternative
fuel sources.
Congressman Fred Upton (R-Mich.)
claims that the Energy Tax Prevention Act
he's sponsoring will rein in the federal gov-
ernment and ensure that the EPA doesn't
inhibit "free enterprise and personal 'lib-
erty." That seems to be a rather forgiving
description of energy industries whose prac-
tices have traded our health and safety for
financial interests for over a century. This
bill should be rejected by the House to indi-
cate Congress's commitment to environmen-
tal responsibility.

Major
As the NBA season winds
down, sportswriters across
the country are trying to
figure out who
they want to
vote for as the
NBA's Most
Valuable Player.
If you ask any
knowledgeable
basketball fan
aboutthis year's
MVP race, you DAR WEI
will probably CHEN
get a top-four
list like this (in
alphabetical order): Dwight Howard,
LeBron James, Dirk Nowitzki and
Derrick Rose. The community is in
general agreement with the above
players. But once you ask people
about why they support a particular
MVP candidate, the question inevi-
tably comes up about what the mean-
ing of the award is. And there are as
many meanings as there are people
who want Republican Gov. Rick Sny-
der not to speak at commencement.
One of the common ways that peo-
ple like to define the MVP is by using
this question: "Which player, if sub-
tracted from his team, would cause
his team to suffer the most?" In other
words, who is the most valuable to
his team? This seems to be logical.
After all, the award has the phrase
"most valuable" in it. This year, if you
were to answer that question, the
player would probably be either Dirk
Nowitzki or Derrick Rose. For Now-
itzki,there is actually some empirical
data to base the answer off because
his Maneficks have stiribled to a 2-7
record )ngames where he is' Injured,
but are playing 47-14 (77 percent) ball
with him. His presence apparently
makes a huge difference. Rose is also
a possible answer, probably because

Voting Problem
he meets the proverbial "eye test." MVP voters. But statis
He creates countless open shots for offense-oriented beca
his teammates and scores at will - easier to quantify. LeB
especially with his improved three- is a very good defend
point shot. about Steve Nash - a t
But the above way of defining - who is not known fc
the MVP has a catch. If you take The NBA has an age-o
the phrase "most valuable" liter- "defensewins champio
ally, then the award should be avail- callythenshouldn'tth
able to players on teams with bad ers be the MVPs sine
records. A great player, if stuck with things that are most
bad teammates, will be assigned winning championshil
greater responsibilities every game ing to bet that if som
and therefore be more valuable to with anAll-OffensiveI
his team than a great player who has bear more resemblanc
good teammates and therefore less candidate list than the
responsibility. For example, Tracy Team does.
McGrady's Orlando Magic teams in
the early part of the decade would
have been atrocious without him.
However, an unwritten rule exists in MVP isn't,
the league that the MVP award must
go to a player on a 50-win team - it about bei
has never happened any other way.
The Magic never won 50 games and most valu
McGrady never got an MVP award,
even though he regularly performed
superhumanly for them.
Other people like to use a more If defense is weighed
basic question: "Who is the best play- in the voting, Dwight H
er this season?" This definition works run away with the MV
because the best player in the league sive Player of the Ye
should, theoretically, provide the been his for consecut
most "value" to any teamhe plays for. will be his for many ye
This year, and for many years past, he only seriously got in
the one player who could instantly cussion when his offen
make ateam into a contender is LeB- improved to elite status
ron James. And in the end, isn't this The MVP award
question the one people would rather vocative debate, and t
have answered, instead of the really debates make sports g:
abstract question posed earlier in the want to debate, we nee
column? LeBron is the NBA's best with comprehensive d
player, as evidenced by his all-around stick to them because t
statistical greatness and leagutelead- acies are at stake. Otb
ing Player Efficiency Rating. He also might mean Major Vot
aces the proverbial "eye test."
Well, LeBron certainly has the -Dar-Wei Chen
numbers to prove his case to the at chend

tics tend tobe
use offense is
ron, of course,
der, but think
wo-time MVP
or his defense.
Id mantra that
onships." Logi-
:e best defend-
e they do the
conducive to
ps? I am will-
eone came up
Team, itwould
e to the MVP
All-Defensive
always
ng the
cable.'
d more heavily
toward should
'P. The Defen-
ar award has
ive years and
ars. However,
the MVP dis-
sive game also
S.
sparks pro-
hese kinds of
reat. But if we
ed to come up
efinitions and
basketball leg-:
hersise, MVP
ing Problems.
can be reached
dw@umich.edu.

0l

0

TIMOTHY RABB I
The price of war

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Ellie Chessen, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Melanie Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Asa Smith, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
HARSHA PANDURANGA I
'Empower' ealth care innovation

With the impending year-end withdrawal
of our remaining troops from Iraq, it seems to
be an appropriate time to discuss the excessive
nature of the United States's defense spending.
As of now, the U.S. spends about 10 times more
on its military than other leading countries in
terms of raw dollars - about $664 billion last
year - and is second only to the United Arab
Emirates in per capita defense spending at
$2,141 per citizen in 2009.
There are several reasons why such exorbi-
tant spending is unnecessary. For starters, the
U.S. - with a stockpile of 8,500 nuclear war-
heads as of 2010 - is well equipped to manage
any conceivable global cataclysm. The prin-
ciple of mutual assured destruction asserts
that the incidence of a nuclear war is highly
unlikely between countries with extensive
nuclear proliferation, so it goes without say-
ing that these countries are also unlikely to be
severely provoked by countries without weap-
ons of mass destruction caches.
Even in the absence of a nuclear attack, war
on a smaller scale is still a prevalent threat, but
recent wars have been anything but money
well spent. Our country's most expensive
military efforts in the past 40 years - the
Vietnam, Korean, Afghanistan and Iraq wars
- have been wasteful, imperialistic attempts
to force democracy on nations that the U.S.
doesn't depend heavily upon for economic
stability. In addition to causing thousands of
needless deaths, these wars have added to a
national debt that will exceed a staggering $15
trillion by the year's end.
The public's disapproval of these recent
U.S. military efforts necessitates a reevalua-
tion of our defense budget. Currently, much of
the budget is dedicated to "Overseas Contin-
gency Operations" - a diversionary term for
the War on Terror. In other words, it's squan-
dered to provide us with the illusion of safety
against a nameless, faceless enemy while our
government pursues long-term foreign policy
objectives which we aren't given adequate
information about.
But there's at least enough information
to show us how damaging these "Contin-
gency Operations" have been to our econ-
omy. According to the war budget clock on
costofwar.com, the Iraq and Afghanistan
wars alone have cost our nation more than
$1.1 trillion since 2001, and that's not even

counting the interest we owe on debts from
past wars.
We don't reserve wasteful spending solely
for wartime, either. Political theorists have
been debating our national obsession with a
"permanent war economy" since the end of
World War II. Essentially, the U.S. has main-
tained a high level of military spending in war
and peace because it benefits corporate inter-
ests and stimulates the economy. But couldn't
that money be used to fund jobs in govern-
ment sectors that don't promote death and
destruction?
If the military budget is restructured to pre-
vent additional waste, it will free up funds for
plenty of other eligible initiatives. For exam-
ple, the expenses of Social Security, Medicare
and Medicaid are rapidly growing to manage
increasing numbers of elderly and other wel-
fare beneficiaries. Cutting the defense bud-
get could be a solution to this problem. Not
to mention, extra money might also be used
for improvements to national infrastructure,
environment friendly technologies and insti-
tutions of higher education.
And if military interests are still a compel-
ling concern, why not emphasize domestic
defense spending over the invasion and occu-
pation of foreign countries? It's much cheaper
to protect our interests at home than it is to
funnel money to a war effort on the other side
of the globe.
Yes, it's true that strategic imperialism and
military competition are sometimes neces-
sary as a preemptive defense measure, but not
always. This month, a report by The Guard-
ian indicated that the informant (code name
"Curveball"), whose WMD tips provided
much of the United States's justification for
the Iraq War, fabricated his claims. The inter-
view confirmed the longstanding suspicion
that the eight-year war was a needless waste
of manpower and public funds.
But instead of crying over spilt milk, the
politically active should force a debate to
encourage a significant reduction in military
spending. A frugal, prudent military bud-
get should replace our monolithic military-
industrial complex until a justifiable conflict
mandates added funding - extra emphasis on
"justifiable."
Timothy Rabb is an LSA junior.

Attacks targeting the Democrats' health care law
passed last year have intensified as Republicans have
taken control of the United States House of Representa-
tives. A complete repeal - which failed in the Senate but
passed the House - was even attempted last month. To
make matters worse, conservative judges from Virginia
and Florida ruled the vital portion of the law mandat-
ing individuals to buy insurance unconstitutional, set-
ting the stage for a review of the law by an unpredictable
Supreme Court. It's clear the legislation is beingtargeted
from all angles.
But the "Empowering States to Innovate Act," which
was introduced Feb. s by Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and is
officially backed by the Obama administration could help
preserve the reforms. The bill amends the healthcare law
by "accelerating State Innovation Waivers," which means
states may be granted exemptions from key provisions
of the bill - like the individual coverage mandate and
required establishment of health insurance exchanges
- beginning in 2014 rather than 2017. The catch is that
states will have to find alternative reforms that work just
as well. Accordingto a Feb. 28 White House press release,
proposals different from the law can be implemented as
long as they provide coverage that is "at least as compre-
hensive ... at least as affordable ... to at least as many resi-
dents" and don't increase the federal deficit. Maine has
already been granted a kind of waiver for one regulation,
but it's only a temporary exemption that addresses con-
cerns specific to the state's insurance market.
This is a brilliant political move by the Obama admin-
istration - it staves off some political opposition by
averting potential wider-ranging attacks aimed at the
structure ofthe law and sends the messagethat the White
House is willing to compromise. Not surprisingly then,
senators across the political spectrum have embraced
the waiver idea. Self-described Democratic Socialist Sen.
Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) - whose state is in the process
of attempting to institute a European style single-payer
system - originally inserted the provision into the leg-
islation. On the other side of the aisle, Sen. Scott Brown
(R-Mass.) - though he ran his election campaign on
blocking health reform - is a cosponsor of the proposal
to move the waiver date forward.
Setting aside the proposal's political appeal, moving
the state waiver eligibility date forward could expose
alternative and more efficient ideas to accomplish the
reform goals of the administration. The president has
even admitted the current reform package isn't perfect,
so allowing states some flexibility to implement their

own policy preferences would allow for comparisons of
efficacy between different methods. For example, if Ver-
mont puts single-payer into place, its outcomes could be
juxtaposed and contrasted with the individual mandate
and insurance exchange system called for under the fed-
eral reform. As a consequence, the health care debate will
become more substantive - governors are goingto have
to supporttheir criticism of the federal law by developing
innovative policies that satisfy tangible health care qual-
ity and affordability benchmarks.
It appears then, that Republicans shouldn't have
any trouble getting on board with this proposal - it's a
reasonable challenge that could reveal effective policy
solutions, both liberal and conservative, right? But The
Wall Street Journal expressed its doubts in a March 3
article. The paper labels reform goals - which include
universal coverage and affordability - as "liberal pri-
orities" that rule out "market oriented" reforms like
tax credits to purchase insurance and high deductible
or value-based plans. The WSJ contends that liberals
"think they havea monopoly on good ideas." So basical-
ly, the rebuttal is that near-universal coverage and the
administration's apparently unreasonable definition of
"affordability" - which is too lenient - aren't possible
through "market-based" solutions but will instead lead
to greater centralization.
As the criticism moves beyond policy solutions to
question the premises of health reform, it doesn't carry
the same robust public appeal that came with calls to
"repeal." Voters didn't take issue with the goals of health
reform - the bill was unpopular because it was falsely
tagged as a "government takeover of health care," not
because of its regulations banning discrimination with
respect to preexisting conditions and promises of greater,
more comprehensive coverage.
Though The Wall Street Journal's analysis seems more
like a rationalization for political criticism than anything
else, what if it's right that the paper's definition of "mar-
ket-based" reforms are impossible under the adminis-
tration's guidelines? Maybe, then, those policy solutions
aren't appropriate for what Americans want from their
health care system.
Health care reform is going to be an evolving process,
and if it's going to be a bipartisan effort, there has to be
some compromise. President Barack Obama at least one
Republican, Scott Brown, have made an effort to reach
across the aisle - it's time for others to join them.
Harsha Panduranga is a senior editorial page editor.

0

0

4

44 A


The MTuesday, March 22, 2011 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


ANN ARBOR FILM FESTIVAL
A2 festival turns 49

ANN ARBOR FILM FESTiVAL
Professor documentarians

By JENNIFER XU
Senior Arts Editor

Weeklong film
festival starts today
at the Michigan
By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Art Writer
This week marks the 49th year
of one of the most renowned exhi-
bitions of experimental film in the
country. The Ann Arbor Film Fes-
tival has featured many notable
contributors through the years,
ranging from artists like Andy
Warhol to seasoned filmmakers
like Gus Van Sant. Today through
Sunday, the festival will continue
in its tradition of promoting film
as an aesthetic medium.
Established in 1963 by Univer-
sity professor George Manupel-
li, the festival is the oldest
experimental film festival and
third-oldest film festival in the
country. It quickly grew from
a fledgling dream overseen by
the University, showing films
exclusively in 16mm format, into
an independent showcase with
high-quality digital media and
thousands of entries from inter-
national filmmakers.
To kick off a presentation of

188 films and other performanc-
es, this year's festival will fea-
ture the world premiere of "The
Florestine Collection" tonight at
8:15 p.m. in the Michigan The-
ater. Started by the late experi-
mental animator Helen Hill as a
film about a dressmaker in New
Orleans, "The Florestine Col-
lection" was completed by Hill's
husband after she passed away.
The following days of the
festival will feature screenings
with an established theme. One
is "Always Elsewhere," a col-
lection of five films showing on

Thursday night. Another is the
"Safe As Milk" collection slated
for Saturday morning, which will
offer showings that are suitable
for younger viewers.
Unlike Sundance and Cannes,
the AAFF is a unique opportu-
nity to delight in avant garde
works that may never be seen
by a national audience. The first
showing on Tuesday will follow
an introductory reception with
a DJ, an open bar and appetiz-
ers from local eateries. The
reception costs $30 and includes
admission to the screening.

"This is kind of like the Holy
Grail of film festivals," said Alexis
Bravos, a lecturer in the Screen
Arts and Cul-
tures depart- Hepworh
ment.
The time- Tomorrow at
honored Ann 9:15 p.m.
Arbor Film Michigan Theater
Festival has $
always been
about show- New
casing local e
talent along- Directions in
side inter- Documentary
national
ingenuity. Panel 1
Tomorrow, Thursday at
Bravos ispre- 3:15p.m.
miering her pm
documentary Michigan Theater
"Hepworth," Free
a nine-min-
ute visual portrait of the English
sculptor Barbara Hepworth and
the landscape in which she spent
the latter half of her life. For one
month, Bravos traveled to the
sleepy seaside town of St. Ives in
Cornwall, England, staying at a
cabinnear the beach and shooting
in the sculptor's garden early in
the mornings.
"The light (in St. Ives) is very
particular, it's very beautiful -
almost like Mediterranean light,"
Bravos said.
A portrait of where land and
sculpture intersect and woozily
echo each other, "Hepworth"
was shot on 16mm film on a hand-
cranked camera - giving the
documentary a feel that mirrors
the earthy, tactile materials Hep-
worth used to crafther sculptures.
"I think the core of the film is
about the intersection between
the actual sculpture and what


kind of informed it," Bravos said. (because of it)," she added. "It
"The coastline there is very beau- seems like the boom in documen-
tiful - there's a lot of tide pools, tary is occurring at the same time
places where the sea has kind of that investigative journalism is
eaten away at the rock, and that losing more of its funding, so is it
was somethingthatreally visually that now we turn to documentary
inspired (Hepworth). SoI wanted for what some of what we used
to notnecessarily do a comparison to get from journalism? Is there
between the landscape and her room for films that aren't ... advo-
work, but introduce the two inthe cacy films or didactic films?"
same space." Last year, Gtrsel participated
Bravos has been interested in in the festival as a filmmaker,
nonfiction filmmaking since her promoting and screening her
days as an art school student. short documentary film "Coffee
"I don't think my documenta- Futures," an ethnographic study
ries are traditional in the sense of fortune-telling cafes in Istan-
that they're not expository," she bul. An anthropologist by trade,
said. "I'm not giving you a story - Gtrsel is interested in presenting
it's a lot more of audience interac- her research in an experiential,
tion and whatyou bring to it." communicable way.
According to Anthropology The University faculty has held
Prof. Zeynep Gursel, nonfiction a longstanding relationship with
film allows people to think about the Ann Arbor Film Festival. In
not only whatever knowledge addition to Giirsel's piece, last
they're given, but also the form year's festival showcased another
it's being presented in. Girsel will documentary of Bravos's entitled
be moderating a panel about new "A Deep Well," a four-minute
directions in documentary film- love letter to life in a small North
making Thursday afternoon, and Carolina farm. In the past, other
hopes not only to discuss newtop- faculty members have also helped
ics but also novel ways of present- in other capacities - pre-screen-
ing information. ing films, sponsoring screenings,
hosting panels and encouraging
University students to attend the
Non-traditional festivalbycaincrorating its topics
into their class curricula.
nonfiction film . "I'm always really, really sad-
dened when I meet U of M seniors
that have never been to the Michi-
gan Theater - and worse, have
"Ann Arbor Film Festival is never been to the Michigan The-
really known for celebrating ater during the Ann Arbor Film
film as an art form, so a lot of the Festival," Gursel said.
documentaries also have oral ele- "I think in many ways we're
ments that are really interesting extremely lucky in that we're a
or aesthetically different," Gtrsel small town that has this really big
explained. festival," she added. "It's impor-
"One of the things we want to tant in terms of really bringing
talk about is why documentary together a diverse group of film-
is seeing a boom and are there makers ... who push the boundar-
new or different expectations ies of fiction or nonfiction."

ANN ARBOR FILM FESTIVAL
Student films on show

By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
For most of the 13 students
whose films are showing in the
Ann Arbor Film Festival this
Wednesday, the
opportunity Student Film
came as a com- SlOWCase
plete surprise.
Eastern Tomorrow
Michiax f Uni'- at prn r
versit ta .:
Andrew Reau- Michigan Theater
me's film "Per- Free
ception" was
submitted to the festival by one
of his professors. He had no idea
the film had been accepted until
he ran into the festival director.
"I thought he was just messing
with me (at first)," Reaume said.

"It took a good day for it all to
sink in."
'U' alum Walter Lowe III
recounted a similar experience
for his film "Protocol of a Per-
son." It was his senior Integra-
tive Project at the School of Art
& Design and was submitted
by Katherine Weider-Roos of
the PLAY Gallery. Lowe hadn't
planned any of it.
This is the: first time the Ann
-Arbor Filn;;Festival willbe
devotinga segment of the festival
exclusively to regional student
films. This is not surprising - the
AAFF has included examples of
student work since its 1963 incep-
tion and makes sure to always
consider the quality of the work
over the age of the artist.
According to AAFF executive

director Donald Harrison, the
festival invited schools in the
region to submit their best recent
student films. Most schools sent
five to 10 works to the screen-
Festival first: A
segment for just
student films.
ing committee which selected at
least one from each school. The
selected films include a broad
range of student work from ani-
mations to documentaries.
Harrison maintained that
See AAFF, Page 6

ALBUM REVIEW
Strokes stay sharp on'Angles'

By ELLIOT ALPERN
DailyArts Writer
When The Strokes released
"Under Cover of Darkness" -
their first single since 2006's
"You Only Live
Once" - the
outlook was
promising. It Strokes
was a bitter-
sweet message Angles
delivered in the RCA
form of duel-
ing guitars and
was more than capable of lodg-
ing itself in the average listen-
er's head for days at a time. But
more importantly, it was proof
that whatever The Strokes indi-
vidually accomplished over their
five-year hiatus, they never lost
the talented ingenuity that made
them a headlining act after just
three albums. Angles shows that
"Under Cover of Darkness" was
just a taste of what's in store.
Though the single is likely the
best track on the record, there's
still a goldmine of material to sift.
through. The initiatory "Machu
Picchu" puts guitarist Nick Valen-
si's broad array of skills on display
- his riffs transition from airy to
raw without notice, and comple-
ment Julian Casablancas's lyrics
like soothing tonic to his sharp
gin. "Taken For A Fool," written
entirelybyValensi, shifts between
feelings of animosity and sym-
pathy to provide a well-balanced
contrast. "I wish I left you 'cause
we never grew up," laments Casa-
blancas in a regret that mirrors
the nostalgia of the song itself.
"Games" employs bells and
synthesizers to create a refresh-
ing ambiance. Casablancas's lines
are rather mundane, but this
spotlights the originality of the
__ instrumentation. "Two Kinds of

.=H"ERNST& YOUNG
QualityIn Everything We Do
Day one
and we're in this together
Bring your experience and ideas. Day one is waiting and so is your team.
At Ernst & Young, you'll find an open and diverse environment. You'll tap
into your life experiences. Give fresh perspective to your clients and
your colleagues. And you'll learn from others who share your goals
and aspirations.
Explore your career options in assurance, tax, transaction or
advisory services.
Want to learn more with a chance to win an iPad?
Download your QR code reader by texting EYQUIZ to 22333.
Then snap a pic of the code and take our quiz.
.~I
Es
IE
"Iy
55-


COURTESY OF RCA
"Don't you ever make fun of our hair again."
Happiness" - the group's sec- Regardless, the spirit of the
ond choice to play on "Saturday album as a whole is a joyous one,
Night Live" earlier this month - and it's compellingto see what the
is bright and optimistic. "Let the New York natives can create after
soul go up so high," Casablancas being apart for so long.
sings, like a dare for the other "This (record) is the first one
band members to accept and exe- where we are truly working dem-
cute through the music. ocratically," Valensi said in an
interview with Rolling Stone, and
the effect is perceivable. Angles
Stoked for the isn't Julian Casablancas and The
Strokes, but a unification of the
Strokes blokes, entire outfit, resulting in a sound
that has contributions from each
member.
More than anything, The
The only evidence of rust on Strokes's latest release shows
Angles comes in the slight incon- that the band is evolving. They're
gruity of some of the tracks. For moving away from the barrage
instance, "Gratisfaction" is lively of hype that was Is This It, but
and fun, and has a clear '70s maintaining their sound despite
rock ballad influence. However, the progression. A new album is
"You're So Right" sounds like a apparently already in the works,
bunch of bored rock stars reunit- including material leftover from
ed for the promise of a big payday. previous recording sessions.
The pieces of the track are scat- Angles is the first step in The
tered and unbound, and demon- Strokes's return to form- andthe
strate a lack of effort in creating a road from here on out can only
polished piece of music. leadto more critical acclaim.

B


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 9,

6 - Tuesday, March 22, 2011

6 - Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Too much cyber litter on Twitter

Jwas stuck in the Newark
Airport last week for an
ungodly amount of time,
when I came across a sign that
drew my ire. It read: "Follow
the Shops in
Newark Ter-
minal B on
Twitter at @
ShopEWRB."
Now, I don't
know how T
much of it
was influ-
encedby my KAVI
travel frus- SHEKHAR
trations, but PANDEY
I mentally
launched
into a Lewis Black-esque rant:
Forget celebrities, news orga-
nizations and ordinary people.
Now entities are having Twitter
accounts? And not just any enti-
ty, the establishments of Newark
Airport's Terminal B - we're
talking the Illuminati of Currito
Burrito, Hudson News and frea-
kin' Famous Famiglia's Pizza.
Did some dude wake up one
day and realize the world needs
a constant update of the goings-
on among the shops of this
specific terminal of this specific
airport? Did they think that
there's a person out there shriek-
ing like a crack addict, "I NEED
TO KNOW WHEN WENDY'S
IS OPENING IN TERMINAL B
OF THE NEWARK AIRPORT!
I'M TWEAKIN'! I'M TWEA-
KIN'!" Oh, and upon further
research, the shops of Newark's
Terminal A and Terminal C each
have their own Twitter accounts
as well. Do you think the three
of them are engaged in turf wars
to see who can gain the most fol-
lowers? God, I hope so.

Quite honestly, this incredu-
lously irrelevant Twitter
account made me feel like a bit
of a fool for being a Twitter
user, and made me reconsider
if I wanted to keep an active
account.
At first, when Twitter started
blowing up over the past few
years, I stayed away. I thought
its only purpose was to tell the
world that you had a tuna melt
for lunch or to be another outlet
for celebrities to say inappro-
priate things - not my cup of
chai. But through the pressure
of peers, I got a Twitter account
- first, only to follow the likes
of Stephen Colbert and Jimmy
Fallon (gotta love 'em), before
succumbing to actually tweet-
ing in recent weeks.
One of the reasons I still
keep a Twitter account is that
it's a one-stop shop for all my
breaking news needs. Why
visit CNN's website to check on
the global situation, then go to
ESPN to check the latest sports.
chatter and finally hit up /Film
to see the what's new in Hol-
lywood? That's clearly too much
work. I just wake up in the
morning feeling like P. Diddy,
check Twitter on my phone
to get updated about Japan,
see the latest March Madness
results and discover that Jo
Go-Lev was just confirmed as
Alberto Falcone in "The Dark
Knight Rises." Our culture is
transforming into one of unlim-
ited access and immediate grat-
ification, and Twitter allows me
to drink the Kool-Aid.
The "trending topics" listed
on Twitter are also nifty, show-
ing what's currently on the cul-
tural conscious. I'd have been

late to1
if I had
Twitte
fun, fu
loop, k
mind o
The
Twitte
dissols
society
the cel
Stars w
masses
of acce
that w
Beverl
rons of
Now y
lion pe
alone,:
playing
(Jaden
so fort
N(
v
Re
and
It's
the cel(
ing hov
about t
yet-un:
connec
and the
when t
at indi
person

the Rebecca Black party der) on Mar. 14, felt "so high
n't seen her trending on like a G6!!!"
r early on - it's always The sullying of Twitter's
n, fun, fun to be in the brand is certainly a concern for
nowing what's on the my future usage, though. It's
f society. like when your mom got Face-
absolute best part about book, it became significantly
r is that it has begun to less cool - knowing that a col-
'e the division between lection of stores in the worst
's kings and the serfs, airport in the Tri-State area has
ebrities and the schmos. an account makes Twitter seem
eho tweet have given the really unappealing.
an unprecedented level Additionally, I feel like Twit-
ss into their lives - lives ter is increasing our disconnect
ere once walled off by from reality. During Michigan's
y Hills villas and squad- mangling of Tennessee last Fri-
brutish bodyguards. day, I kept thinking, "I should
ou've got over eight mil- probably tweet something." So
ople following the Bieb I buried my nose in my Black-
reading about where he's Berry thinking of clever things
g, who he hangs out with to say (giving up with, "Since
Smith, apparently) and when can stu douglass dunk?")
h. and reading clever things other
people had to say about the
game - butI realized I was
missing the experience of actu-
ow trending ally watching it. I was too busy
worldwide- tweeting about life to live life,
and that's kind of worrisome.
becca Black At the end of the day, I'm
going to keep my account going.
[Terminal B. Instead of abandoning the
lamesauce ship that Twitter is
becoming, by golly, I'm going
to try my darndest to keep it
permitted stalking, since snazzy while simultaneously
ebs are the ones decid- attempting to curb my compul-
w much they tell fans sion to tweet when cool things
heir lives, allowing for a are happening, and experience
seen degree of personal them instead. Beside, I'm wait-
tion between the idol ing for the day when I'll think
e devotee - especially of something perfect to tweet
hey tweet directly back at Abhishek Bachchan ... OMG
vidual followers. My own WHAT IF HE TWEETS BACK
al Bieber is Bollywood AT ME?!

AAFF
From Page 5
the stigma that often surrounds
student work need not exist. He
mentioned that director Michael
Langan's ("Heliotropes") first
film was in the Ann Arbor Film
Festival when he was a student
at the Rhode Island School of
Design.
"I'm sure if you are just learn-
ing film, it's probably not at the
same level (as a professional film-
maker)," Harrison said. "But stu-
dents really do make some great
films, and it's amazing to have stu-
dent films play alongside the films
of ... influences, to have different
generations working together and
showcase new talents and new
voices."
The Ann Arbor Film Festival
has been uncovering new talents
and new voices, and the student
showcase will certainly continue
that tradition.
"I really want to push people's
ideas of perception and how it's
subjective and how things aren't
always what they seem," Reau-
me said. His film integrates live
action with graphic design.
"It's exciting because I kind
of get to push the line of what is
graphic design," he said. "A lot of

people just think it's a commercial
thing with brochures and stuff,
but (my film) shows that it doesn't
have to be just that, and you can
use it to tell a different sort of nar-
rative. Typography can change
the situation."
Lowe's animated film is equally
ambitious - he did the music for
it himself - but focuses on experi-
ences common to all students.
"(It) kind of reflects my anxi-
eties about entering the work
world," he said. "It's about how
you change yourself and your
behavior in situations. You know,
you're still kind of forming your
personality while you're in school
and it was a culmination of all
those experiences."
Reaume and Lowe are excited
about the upcoming festival and
realize how matchless the experi-
ence will be.
"It's crazy," Lowe said. "(Oscar-
nominated animator) Bill Plymp-
ton's work has been shown here
and now my stuff is shown in the
same festival."
Though the festival could
promise professional opportuni-
ties for its filmmakers, that isn't
Lowe's main focus.
"I really just want to go and
soak it up," Lowe said. "It wasn't
in the plan or anything, so I want
to enjoy it."

HOW MANY TIMES HAVE
YOU READ THE HARRY
POTTER SERIES?
If you can't remember, you might
be the Chosen One to report
on literature for Daily Arts.
E-MAIL JOIN.ARTS@UMICH.EDU FOR
INFORMATION ON APPLYING.

actor Abhishek Bachchan, who
I now know supports Chelsea
football, recorded a song for his
new movie on Mar. 2 and (shud-

Pandey is brushing his teeth with
Jack. To suggest an alternative,
e-mail kspandey@umich.edu.

Now & 2011-12
primesh.com
761-8000

Studio & 1
EE.'Bdrm. Units
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quiet & Secue Highnse- One block frmm rps
Call Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2300
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY !
Sterling 411 Lofts has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2011-
12. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$660, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. 734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com

AVAILABLE FALL! STUDIOS,
one, two, and three bedroom
apartments located on U/M Campus.
Heat, water, and parking included.
Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-5500 or
for more info visit
www.michcomrealty.com

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, March 22, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 West Point rookie 39 Nonbelievers 53A.D. part
1 Crick in the neck, 3 Injury treatment 40 Mop &__: floor 54 The
e.g. brand cleaner Mediterranean,
6 Exec's °I want it 4 Beethoven's 42 Pool shot to Hans
soar" fith~s? 43 Lyon summer 55 Sot's
10 Sci. class 5 Spring month in 45 su m turndowns
14 Foil maker Paris 46 More snoopy 57 General -
15 The Big Easy, 6 Latino's white 47 Mardi chicken
briefly American 51 Recorded, inra 58 Old Italian dough
16 Golden rule word buddies way 60 Debt
17 Having asense af 7 Sorbonne silk 52 Most popular acknowledgment
the PrairieOate?s 80W hoittakes, in baby girl's name, 61 Clinton played
20 Retreats an inclusioe idiom 1s96-20t7 one
21 Pub quaffs 9 Buddy
22 Between then 10 Toe inflammation ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
and row t1 Aware ot
23 V oVendetta" Suffix with narc C A R D H T T P A R L E S
actor Stephen 13 Misplace ALDA IOWA CO U N T
24 Mil. morale 18Poet Ogden R Y A N O N E A L C Y N D I
booster 19_ Canarias ANT I S T O O D O N
25 Scandinavian 24 Its cap. is Abu
capital Ithabi L T T N R
27 Webster's 26 -Ball: arcade A R A R A T R A N D
impression oftthe game STRAP HALO I L K S
Natural State? 28 Olive or peanut T H O N R O M A N S E A T
33'50s song, e.g. product SOTS USES C ON GO
35 Fr holy women 29Veryinmusic OWN E R I O N I A N
36 Not con 30 Emulateaijack-
37 Soccer score in-the-box 0 R O M E 0 5 0 N S N N E
38En_:all 31 Saharan M A D O N N A S H E L
together 32 Vague number A T I L T R I C O C A S E K
40 Likethe Reaper 33 Architect's H O N D A I M A C O N C E
4r Breaktastn 4 gsd S-cam e N G S T D A R K S L U G
42. rug: dorme 3d Peeling sluggish
43 Skip over 38 Has to xwordeditor@aot.com 03/21/11
44Watchthe 1 2 3 4 5 7 a 9 10 11 12 13
Evergreen State?
d8 One-named 1'31" '5
4Deco designer
49 Mine output 17 18 19
50 Verizon 2
forerunner a
53 Test during 235 3I5-
pregnancy,
brietly 27 2a as 33 31 32
56 Start of a birth
announcement 3 a 35 36 as
58 Poting smi
5 Closetothe 37 3 s
Magnolia State?
62 Have to have 4 a 4s
63 Sooner State 4 454e 47
tribe
64 Staggering 46 4e 50 s1 s2
65 Estimate words
66 Political org. until 5a a5 6s sn 57 s
1991
67 Thingsto solve '5 so 61
for in some 2s3 e4
equationsa
DOWN 8 68
1 Not so By Kurt Mengel andeJan-Michele Gianette
dangerous (03i/nl2ribune Meiasei2211,

cfte
19 Lgations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
CetraiCapua -.'ors
Northcapu w Sidr
Let Our Family Take Care oftYours
Private Resident Shuttle contemporary Furniture
24h aneance Staff High Si d internet
Oniie audr Ptswcome
kxereise facilities Study Rrxm
734.274.61 18
www.amarsborapartmonts.net
**FOR MAY & FALL 2011 LEASE.
1,2,3 Bdrm apt. on campus.
www.jmsprop.com (734) 222-9033.
**SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1 IN
STUDENT HOUSING**UNIVER-
SITY TOWERS ON
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-Mi.COM
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
734-274-hitS
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the
Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail Spring & Fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
UNFURN 2 BDRM Apt near UM Law
School & UM RSB. $1000/mo. Utils
incl. May-May lease. 734-323-5021.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
FREE SUBLET APT FINDER!!!
Studio -4Bdrms. Call for a complete
list. 734-274-6118 or visit
annarborapartments.net
CAMPUSMANAGEMENT,INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furmished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
AVAIL Sept.'1 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735

!!DON'T MISS OUT!!
BEST APTS. & LOCATIONS GO-
ING FAST
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Apartments Going Fast!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State-I Left
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State -I Left
515 Lawrence-I Left
326 E. Madison
1000 Oakland-1 Left
520 Packard-I Left
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
726 S. State-1 Left
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished Apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
*Free heat and water
(* Atmost locations)
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqfit. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815StateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
I & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
AVAILABLE FALL! THREE Bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large
kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and laundry. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or for more info visit
www.michiganrealty.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
SAVE OVER $6000 PER YEAR!!
Why pay $1200 per month you can
pay $675 for your own bedroom ON
Central Campus! GRADS, FRESH-
MAN & PROFESSOR'S ARE
ALSO
WELCOME at University Towers.
734-761-2680
UniversityTowers-Mi.com
AVAILABLE FALL! FURNISHED
modem two bedroom aparments
located on Central Campus. Large
enough to accomodatemup 104 people.
Lots of amenities. Call Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500 or for more info
www.micheomrealty.com
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com

6 BDRM HOUSE + Bonus Room!
1608 Geddes. $3500 Updated! 3 Baths.
Free prkg & ldry. Dishwasher. A/C.
Call 734-678-0122.
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3540 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today
for Best Selection, we SOLD OUT
early last year. NOW is the time to
secure your apartment home at Uni-
versity Towers 734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff& 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; Most
units include Heat and Water. Most
have Parking available for $25/m.
Showings Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
NEWER 6-BDRM farn. Units &
Rooms for Fall 11. Flex-Leases sublets
for May 11 -Aug 11.734-418-2050 or
www.828greeneapts.com
AVAILABLE FALL! FURNISHED
four bedroom duplex in a quiet neigh-
borhood on Golden Avenue. Walk to
Football games and Keogers. Landlord
pays all utilities. Call Michigan
Realty,
743-662-5500 or for more info visit
www.michcomrealtv.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
OFFICE ASSISTANT NEEDED
part time for property mgmt. company
for summer. Roughly 20-25 hrs/wk +/-
Basic duties include phone, email, up-
dating websites, maintenance requests,
accounts receivable/payable and filing.
Pay based on experience. Email resume
to cappomanagement@gmail.com or
fax to 734-996-9929.
P-T SUMMER nanny for 2 girls. Pre-
fer Chinese speaker but we speak
mainly English. Must have child care
exp, reliable transportation, non-
smoker, ok w/ dog. Pay at least $10/hr,
commensurate w/ exp. (734)
929-4811.
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu

WUOK UN MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

PI'VAI 3EUTOiR4INGFU LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

i

AD
VER
TWITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

ATTENTION U OF M Students
HOLDAY HELP
1-5 week work program, flex sched,
$16,25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice,
no exp necessary, all ages 17+,
Apply now, start after finals!
734-975-7299
COLLEGE PRO IS now hiring
painters all across the state to work out-
doors with other students. Earn
$3k-$5k. Advancement opportunities.
1-888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

-I

I, a

A



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Tuesday, March 22, 2011 - 7

RESIDENCY
From Page 1
Ehrlichman was one of 174
medical students from the Uni-
versity to participate in the match
services offered by the National
Resident Matching Program - a
non-profitorganizationthathelps
to place individuals with various
levels of medical training into
residency positions at teaching
hospitals throughout the country.
Elizabeth Petty, associate dean
for medical student education at
the University's Medical School,
is one of the numerous medical
faculty responsible for helping
to prepare students for the inter-
view process.
"Prior to (Match Day), students
can't be guaranteed a specific
spot with any residency pro-
grams," Petty said. "It's not clear
where you're going to go until you
get that piece of paper or e-mail -
depending on how you receive the
CITY COUNCIL
From Page 1
would ensure the medical mari-
juana being sold in Ann Arbor
is grown in Michigan and not
imported.
In an interview during a
session break, Hieftje said the
packaging and identification
tags are meant to keep patients
safe from harmful products.

news - essentially."
For the second consecutive
year, the Medical School is boast-
ing a nearly 99-percent match
rate for its students - about five
percent higher than the national
average. Petty said most Univer-
sity students match with one of
their top three program choices,
with many being awarded their
first choice. However, students
place lower on their lists due to
the competitive nature of pro-
grams and certain specialties.
Medical specialties that saw
a particular increase in interest
thisyearfromUniversitystudents
were internal medicine, family
medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics
and gynecology. Internal medi-
tine is consistently one of the top
choices among students due to
the many residency programs and
career paths associated with the
field, according to Petty.
University students placed
at programs in 25 states and the
District of Columbia. Twenty-six
"Our concern is verifyingthat
the product comes from Michi-
gan and making sure the prod-
uct is not tainted," he said.
Now that the first reading is
approved, Hieftje said the sec-
ond reading will have a public
hearing beforehand to encour-
age input from the community.
"It's all about getting input
from the public," he said. "They
might bring us an idea we hadn't
thought about."

percent of the graduating class
will perform their residencies at
the University Hospital, where
University students also train
during medical school.
Fourth-year Medical School
student Latifa Sage Silski is
heading south to The Ohio State
University for her placement.
A Cleveland, Ohio native, Silski
wrote in an e-mail interview that
she is excited about her match,
which was her first choice for
general surgery.
Reflecting on the interview
process, she described her expe-
rience as tiring but at times
humorous, like when she had to
field questions about residency.
"Since the process is so coun-
terintuitive, after every inter-
view, family and friends ask you
if you got the job, and you have to
explain the whole match process
again," Silski wrote.
She wrote that the most nerve-
racking part of applying for
residencies was developing her

match list, which forced her to
choose between two top-notch
residency programs for her num-
ber one choice.
"I think t certified my list sev-
eral times, changing it based on
how I felt on a particular day,"
Silski wrote.
Ehrlichman, also trudged
through an anxiety-filled inter-
view season, meeting with phy-
sicians and hospital staff from
more than 20 medical centers
across the country - more than
double the average number of
formal hospital visits the typical
medical student makes.
On the Medical School's "Dose
of Reality" blog where current
students discuss their experienc-
es in the classroom, Ehrlichman
wrote that interviews would occa-
sionally include hands-on tasks,
such as "suturing wet hot dogs
back together" and "constructing
structures out of clay," in addition
to the typical relevant questions
about her interests and goals.

Ehrlichman said she prepared
for each interview by studying
various topics in health care lit-
erature, but found that many
interviewers seemed to be more
interested in the University's ath-
letic programs.
"Going into orthopedic sur-
gery, you see a lot of people who
are interested in sports (medi-
cine), and I learned early on that
the best way to prepare for inter-
views wasn't necessarily reading
about health care reform, but just
to watch (ESPN) SportsCenter,"
she joked.
Considering the matching
process as a whole, which began
almost a year ago and culminat-
ed in interviews from the fall to
January, Ehrlichman and Silski
praised their mentors at the Uni-
versity for the guidance they pro-
vided duringthe tense time.
"I think every place I went,
the Michigan name carried a
huge amount of weight ... this was
true whether I was in Califor-

nia, the Midwest or the South,"
Ehrlichman said. "I felt like the
Michigan program just prepared
(students) so well for our inter-
views."
For now, Ehrlichman, Silski
and other students will be wrap-
ping up their medical school clin-
ical rotations as their residency
program start dates approach.
Ehrlichman said she will start at
Harvard in mid-June and Silski
will begin at OSU about a week
later.
Despite the stress that comes
with planning for her move,
Ehrlichman said she is taking
some time to bask in her delight.
"I'm just so happy right now,"
she said.
Silski echoed Ehrlichman's
sentiments, writing that she is
excited to be moving on to the
next milestone in her life.
"Even though this is just the
beginning of another journey, I
am allowing myself to enjoy the
moment," Silski wrote.

LIKE STARING AT COMPUTER SCREENS? LOVE THE ADOBE SUITE?
Join Design. E-mail design@michigandaily.com

WANT TO WRITE FOR
NEWS?

* E-mail aber@michigandaily.com



8 - Tuesday, March 22, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

8 - Tuesday, March 22, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

It's a mental game for
Michigan in St. Louis

MEN'S BASKETBALL
A glimpse into the future

After 30 minutes, Michi-
gan was up 4-0 at Yost
ce Arena on Oct. 2nd.
Forwards Louie Caporusso,
Scooter Vaughan and Matt Rust
all scored
glamorously CASANDRA
in the open- PAGNI
ing game of
their final On Ice Hockey
campaign as
Wolverines. They scored on the
power play, at even strength and
even netted a shorthanded tally.
But, in this critical first game,
the seniors - and the rest of the
team - made a crucial mistake.
There were still 30 minutes of
hockey remaining - a memo the
Mercyhurst Lakers received,
but one the Wolverines forgot
to open. Shawn Hunwick let up
four consecutive Mercyhurst
goals, and the Wolverineswere
lucky to have left Yost with a tie,
as the Lakers won the exhibition
shootout.
It was a mental lapse by Michi-
gan that cost it the first win of the
season.
But so much has changed since
that early season mistake.
The fourth-ranked Wolverines
are currently awaiting a Friday
matchup with No.14 Nebraska-
Omaha. This Friday in St. Louis
marks Michigan's 21st consecu-
tive NCAA Tournament appear-
ance, as the Wolverines are the
No.2 seed in the West region,
with Boston College and Colo-
rado College rounding outthe
bracket.
And for this team to get past
the Gatewayto the West and into
the Twin Cities, Michigan needs
to work hard to get its mind right.
"Obviously you want to pre-
pare yourself for the team com-
ing up, and Nebraska-Omaha is
a really good team," Caporusso
said. "We can't look past that
Friday game. Everyone's got to

be goi
as ourv
we're g
there's+
physica
The,
- Hun
since se
with hi
month
BigHot
will use
ity and
17-5-0 r
phenor
CCHA
last we
exp
pr
teal
The(
brillian
game-m
Wester
Night j
Michig
goals in
season,
12th in,
And1
by fresh
Bennet
up thre
the Wo
The(
Mic
seniors,
group t
as Wolv
time w
Caporu
The
various
years in

g. We're only as strong lived the realitythat was roller-
weakest link. Mentally, coaster of going from a Frozen
oing to be focused. I mean, Four appearance as freshmen to
only so much you can do almost missing the tournament
lly." asjuniors.
talent is there. But there was no question on
wick has gone on a tear Sunday that Michigan was in the
curingthe starting job NCAA Tournament this year,
s play in the ensuing even after droppingthe CCHA
after The Big Chill at the Tournament semifinal game
use. The netminder, who to WesternMichigan, 5-2, last
e his extra year of eligibil- weekend.
return next year, holds a The entire team weathered
record since the outdoor various storms this year, from
menon. He also nabbed the Mercyhurst to losingsecond-
Best Goaltender honors leadingscorer junior forward
ek in Detroit. David Wohlberg, who was red-
hot at the end of the season, two
weekends ago to a season ending
Ialent and collarbone injury. This Michi-
gan squad has experienced its
erience have highs and lows, to the tune of
bad Fridays and good Saturdays,
opelled this throughout the season.
They've taken penalties they'd
n all season. like to have back (namely a few at
Joe Louis Arena) and seen a few
too many power play shifts gone
for naught.
offense has had flashes of But still, talentand experi-
ce, too, a la Carl Hagelin's ence have propelled this team for
winning heroics against much of the season.
n Michigan on Senior As the matchup with the
ust over one month ago. Mavericks looms, one grey area
an has scored five or more remains: Will the Wolverines be
ia game 12 times this mentally up to the challenge?
and the Wolverines rank After all, there are two teams
the nation in team offense. waiting to ruin Michigan's hope
the smart defensive play of making it to St. Paul.
hman Jon Merrill and Mac "We can't turn a different
t has contributed to make switch on on Friday," Michigan
e solid defensive pairs for coach Red Berenson said. "We're
Jverines. having a good week, we're ready
experience is there. for this. We're having a good
higan's roster boasts seven season. It's got to be a balance
,plus Hunwick. This is the between confidence and despera-
hat started their careers tion and focus."
verines off with a 4-3 over- If they want to leave their
in over Boston College on a mark on Missouri, this year's
sso game-winner. pack of Wolverines needs to
seniors have collected prove from the time they hit the
accolades over their four ice in St. Louis that they are men-
maize and blue, and have tally in it to get the job done.

By LUKE PASCH they could be competitive in their
Daily Sports Writer limited time in postseason play. But
they wouldn't have gotten the job
Mother Nature can be awfully done against a more experienced
cruel. and more athletic Blue Devil front-
In the waning moments of Sun- court contingent.
day's game against Duke, Darius With time and hard work this
Morris lifted a floater in the lane offseason, Michigan coach John
to potentially send the contest into Beilein will, without doubt, work
overtime. For that precious sec- on the position fundamentals with
ond, as the ball left his fingertips, his youthful players. They'll learn
the Los Angeles native dreamed to be in the right position to avoid
of home. He dreamed of upsetting picking up blocking fouls under-
the top-ranked Blue Devils and fly- neath, take better routes to the ball
ing out to sunny Anaheim, where handlers to avoid getting beaten off
he'd play in the Sweet Sixteen, just the dribble and having to reach in,
a 45-minute drive from where he so on and so forth. Duke went to
grew up. the line 25 times in Sunday's game.
Instead, the ball clanked off the Don't expect that to happen against
heel of the rim. And as it did, the Michigan in the NCAA Tourna-
sky opened up in Ann Arbor. A few ment next year.
hours after he failed to sink the big- FROM COLUMBUS TO ANN
gest shot of his career, he returned ARBOR: With a combination of
to Michigan, where he was greeted injury issues and foul trouble on
with thunderstorms and chilly Sunday, Morris played just 29 min-
winds. utes of basketball.
It'shard for Morris to look to the And if you're like any other Wol-
future. But the sun reaches even verine fan, you probably hold your
Ann Arbor eventually, and soon breath everytime junior guard Stu
enough, Morris will pick his head Douglass dribbles the ball at the
up and prepare for a better tomor- top of the key in lieu of a resting
row. Here is whatMichigan will do Morris. No matter what the depth
in the offseason to reach the Sweet chartsays, Douglass is not a natural
Sixteen nextyear. point guard, and he rarely seems
NOT SO FOUL HAPPY: As heart- comfortable leading the offense out
breaking a way to lose as it was, of the set (he does lead a solid tran-
Morris shouldn't rack his brain sition attack, though).
with "what if" scenarios. Michigan This summer, Columbus native
would not have taken down Duke and Northland High School guard
in overtime - freshman forward Trey Burke will arrive in Ann
Evan Smotrycz had already fouled Arbor to fill a gaping hole in Michi-
out of the contest, and redshirt gan's roster. The 6-foot-1 floor gen-
freshman center Jordan Morgan eral was known for his first few
had tallied four fouls of his own. years of high school as the guy who
Who was going to step in to con- simply dumped the ball to team-
test Kyle Singler and the Plumlee mate Jared Sullinger in the post
brothers in the post once Morgan - now the preeminent Freshman
fouled out (which, at the rate he'd of the Year candidate out of Ohio
gone, would've almost certainly State.
happened in a five-minute period Most recruiters were skepti-
of play)? Freshman Jon Horford cal that Burke would be able to
and redshirt freshman Blake produce without his big man, but
McLimans were the next two on Beilein wasn't. And since the senior
the depth chart, andthey've shown committed to Michigan at the

beginning of the season, he's aver-
aged over 20 pointsper game, earn-
ing the recognition of schools that
initially didn't give him the light of
day. Burke's talent is certainly still
very raw, but with another point
guard in the rotation, Morris will
be able to rest easier and Douglass
will be able to stick to shopting on
the offensive end.
HELLO HORFORD: Beilein loves
Jon Horford. The coach said as
much in a press conference this
season. And early in the year, it
appeared that Morgan and Hor-
ford would work a nice rotation at
center, as the two youngsters estab-
lished themselves as the core of the
Wolverine bigs early in nonconfer-
ence play.
Slowly, though, Horford began
to crumble against more elite Big
Ten competition, as his lack of
experience, compounded with
recurring knee issues, made it dif-
ficult for him to find success. But
you still see flashes of potential
greatness, evidenced by his and-
one dunk over Duke's Ryan Kelly in
his two minutes of play on Sunday.
Sure, he has a goofy looking run,
and Michigan fans love to tease
him for it. But Horford is more
athletic than you think, and his
development will benefit the team
tremendously.
If he can work his way back into
a platoon with Morgan, freshman
forward Evan Smotrycz can move
back to the four - he'd been play-
ing the five with Morgan for the
last quarter of the season or so.
Smotrycz is simply too small to
play center, and he appears to play
more comfortably in his natural
forward position, anyway. Chances
are, Beilein would then have to
decide whether to start Douglass
or Smotrycz at a wing (the other
four starters are solidified - Mor-
ris, Morgan, Tim Hardaway Jr. and
Zack Novak).
But regardless of what he choos-
es, options are never a bad thing.


*I

"

4


