CHERRY BLOSSOMS
Michigan's seniors celebrated the
program being "back" and a 10-2
season at the football banquet.
aPAGE 7

MARCHING FORWARD
Three Michigan Marching Band
members move on to musical careers.

UbeHU Ek1anF E Iaijj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, December 13, 2011

michigandaily.com

MANUFACTURING INNOVATION

REGENTS PREVIEW
Regents
to vote on
start-up
initiative

or a story onthe regional AUSTEN HUFiORD/Daily
meeingyesterdayvisit he Speakers at a meeting of the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership at the North Campus Research Complex yester-
michigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire , ire day. The partnership established by President Barack Obama is co-led by University President Mary Sue Coleman.
LOCAL BUSINESSES
Library lot construction still
underway, hurtn businesses

Three construction
projects totaling
$88.3 million
up for review
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
At the University's Board of
Regents final meeting of 2011 on
Thursday, members will vote on
the proposed
Michigan NOTEBOOK
Investment in
New Technology Startups initia-
tive.
The MINTS program, which
was announced by University
President Mary Sue Coleman in
an address in October, will make
long-term investments of up to
$500,000 in start-ups created by
University faculty members as a
means of diversifying the Uni-
versity's long term investments.
The funding will be available
to any start-up that fulfills the
requirements.
"This way, again, we're not
picking winners and losers at all,"
Coleman said in October. "What
we're doing is simply saying to
the faculty start-up, '(If) you get

money from a venture capital
firm, we will automatically invest
up to $500,000.' We'll scale it
depending on what they get from
the venture capital firm."
Timothy Slottow, the Uni-
versity's executive vice presi-
dent and chief financial officer,
wrote in a communication to the
regents that MINTS is estimated
to require a $25 million invest-
ment by the University over the
next 10 years, will come from the
endowment, which is currently
worth $7.8 billion.
When Coleman announced
the initiative, she said the pro-
gram offers more variation in the
University's investment portfo-
lio.
"Now I want to be clear: This
is not a new expense on the part
of the University," Coleman
said at the time. "Rather, we are
diversifying our assets."
REGENTS TO CONSIDER
$88 MILLION IN NEW
CONSTRUCTION
The regents will also vote on
three new construction projects
totaling $88.3 million.
The projects include a 62,500
square-foot addition to the
See REGENTS, Page 2

Project scheduled locating the restaurant since it's
currently hidden behind cement
to be finished trucks and orange construction
barrels.
by end of spring The con-
struction is part Q ' O
By CHELSEA LANDRY of a project to
Daily StaffReporter build an under-
ground parking 6-
Jerusalem Garden, a small garage located e
Mediterranean restaurant, has at South Fifth
been an Ann Arbor mainstay and East Liberty Streets, right
since 1987. But even Ann Arbor next to Jerusalem Garden. The
residents may have a hard time project started in September

2009, and the construction com-
pany estimated it will be com-
plete by the end of the spring.
Ali Ramlawi, the owner of
Jerusalem Garden since 1993,
said he is upset with the slow
and prolonged construction
process.
"It's been going on for longer
than any other project Ican con-
ceive of," Ramlawi said. "The
problem is the duration."
Some of the problems Jerusa-
lem Garden is facing are a lack

of lighting and signage, lack of
parking, limited accessibility
for pedestrians and difficulty
receiving deliveries.
Ramlawi added that in fiscal
quarters since the beginning
of construction, his restaurant
has experienced up to a 20-per-
cent loss in business, which has
made the restaurant difficult
to sustain. Ramlawi expressed
his frustration with the Ann
Arbor Downtown Development
See CONSTRUCTION, Page 2


UNIVERSITY FACULTY
Slottow: Rising
debt not an issue

'THE SOUND OF SILENCE'

'U' debt expected to
climb to $2.2B
in next five years
By MARY HANNAHAN
Daily StaffReporter
Tim Slottow, the University's
executive vice president and
chief financial officer, spoke
about the state of the Univer-
sity's financial health at the Sen-
ate Assembly meeting yesterday.
to At the end of fiscal year 2011,
the University had about $15
billion in assets across all three
campuses and the University
of Michigan Health System,
according to Slottow. Howev-
er, the University's $7.8 billion
endowment, a restricted fund
used to support the University's
operations, is not included in
this figure, he said.
The University currently has a
debt of about $1.8 billion, which
is expected to climb to $2.2 bil-
lion over the next five years.
However, Slottow said this is not
a problem for the University in
relation to its assets.
"The relationship of the total
assets to the total liabilities is
quite healthy," he said. "The

relationship of notes and bonds
to financial assets is also quite
healthy. So from a strictly ratio
standpoint, the University is in
good shape."
According to Slottow, the Uni-
versity has about $1.5 billion of
liquid assets, or money needed
in order to pay faculty and staff
salaries, which is sufficient
to provide a cushion for daily
expenses. The University tries to
keep expenses low, however, in
order to invest the University's
money elsewhere and accrue
profit.
"A sophisticated financial
group in the treasurer's office
wants to have as little liquid as
possible in order to invest the
rest in something that actually
has some return on our financial
assets," Slottow said. "We aren't
overly aggressive. I also would
say we're not overly conserva-
tive."
Engineering and Radiol-
ogy Prof. Kimberlee Kearfott,
vice chair of the Senate Advi-
sory Committee on University
Affairs, asked Slottow when the
administration will start invest-
ing endowment money in faculty
start-ups.
Slottow said University Presi-
See SLOTTOW, Page 3

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Study:
Grad. rate
higher for
women
Researchers find
higher graduation
rate for high-
income students
By HALEY GLATTHORN
Daily StaffReporter
For a typical college stu-
dent, the odds of sitting next
to an affluent female in class
are greater today than ever
before.
University researchers
recently released a study
indicating that students from
high-income families in the
United States are graduating
from college at an increas-
ingly greater rate than stu-
dents from low-income
families. The study by Eco-
nomics Assistant Prof. Mar-
tha Bailey and Public Policy
Associate Prof. Susan Dynar-
ski also demonstrates that
See STUDY, Page 3

LSA sophomore John Tepper finds a quiet place to study in the Shapiro Undergraduate Library yesterday.
COLLEGE gF ENGINEERrIN Ge
Engineers create holiday greetings website

Global Holiday
Greeting Project
allows users
to tag locations
By PETER SHAHEEN
Daily StaffReporter
In today's technology driven
era, traditional Christmas cards

may not be hip enough for the
Facebook generation.
Last month, the College
of Engineering launched the
"Global Holiday Greeting Proj-
ect," a website that allows Engi-
neering students and alumni to
share holiday messages, greet-
ings and memories. The site
uses a Google Map of Earth that
enables users to tag their cur-
rent location or the site of a spe-
cific memory, which is indicated

on the map by Michigan's iconic
block 'M.'
Dan Kim, executive--direc-
tor of the Office of Communi-
cations and Marketing for the
College of Engineering, said the
goal of the website was to find
an innovative way to share holi-
day greetings among the Uni-
versity's "Engineering family."
The website also demonstrates
to students and alumni that the
See ENGINEERS, Page 3

WEATHER
TOMORROW


HI:43 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LO: 42 Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let usknow.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Grand Traverse Pie Company opening delayed
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX AP N EW S......... ........ ..2 ARTS .....................5
Vol CXXIINo. 67 NEW S ..........................3 CLASSIFIED S........... 6
@011 TheMichiganDaily OPINION....................4 SPORTS ............... 7
ichiourdoilycom

£


2 - Tuesday, December 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, December13, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


A FINAL FAREWELL

fc 1Midh-an ailj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

4

ERIN KIRKLAND AND ALDEN RELISS/Daily
BACK ROW (From Left to Right): Deputy Magazine Editor Stephen Ostrowski, Co-Managing Sports Editor Tim Rohan, Senior Sports Editor Kevin Raftery, Senior Sports
Editor Michael Florek, former Assistant Photo Editor Chris Dzombak, Daily Staff Reporter Suzanne Jacobs, Senior Arts Editor Kavi Shekhar Pandey, Daily Arts Writer David
Riva MIDDLE ROW: Editorial Board Member Seth Soderborg, Editorial Board Member Erika Mayer, Daily News Editor Caitlin Huston, Deputy Magazine Editor Devon Thorsby,
Deputy Magazine Editor Elyana Twiggs, former Co-Managing Design Editor Anna Lein-Zielinski, Senior Copy Editor Christine Chun, Daily Staff Reporter Claire Goscicki, Daily
Arts Writer Veronica Menaldi, Daily Staff Reporter Sabira Khan FRONT ROW: Managing Arts Editor Sharon Jacobs, Magazine Editor Carolyn Klarecki, Managing Editor Nick
Spar, Editor in Chief Stephanie Steinberg, Managing News Editor Nicole Aber, Co-Editorial Page Editor Emily Orley, Co-Editorial Page Editor Michelle Dewitt, Co-Managing
Photo Editor Jed Moch.
THIS IS THE LAST PAPER EDITED AND PRODUCED IN LARGE
PART BY THIS YEAR'S GRADUATING SENIORS
Read reflections on their time at The Michigan Daily at www.michigandaily.com

EDITORIALSTAFF
Nick Spar Managing Editor nickspar@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber ManagingNews Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Joseph Lichterman,
Brienne Prusak
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Sabira
Kahn, Michele Narov, Paige Pearcy, Adam Rubenfire, Kaitlin Williams
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:HarshaNahata,TimothyRabb
StephenJ. Nesbittand sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tim Rohan ManagingSportsEditors
SEOSPoRTn DORS:BenEstes, MichaelFlorek,ZachHelfand,LukePasch, Kevin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin,LizVukelichDanielWasserman
SharonJacobs ManagingArts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jacob Axelrad,oCassie Balfour, Joe Cadagin, Emma Gase,
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed MOch Managing Photo Editors
ASSoSTANHOOEDITORS: Erin Kirkland, TerraMolen M raofehAnchulye
ZachtBergson and .daaign@m~ichigandailyome
Helen Lieblich Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Anna Lein-Zielinski
ASSISTANTDESIGNEDITORS:KristiBegonjaCorinnLewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDIToRS: Stephen Ostrowski,DevonThorsby, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy copy chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Christine Chun, Hannah Poindexter
Sarah Squire WebDevelopment Manager squire@michigandaily.com
Imran Sayed PublicEditor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Associate Business Manager
Rachel Greinetz Sales Manager
Alexis Newton ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Quy VO CirculationManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during thetfall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copiesmay be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via U.S.mail are $110. Winter termJ-anuarythrough Aprilis
$115, yearlong(september through Aprl)is $195.University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions forfall term are $35. Subscriptions must be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Walls get a Yes, another Hebrew group CORRECTIONS
washing car collision meeting " Anarticle
edition of Th
WHERE: South Quadran- WHERE: Lot NC-27, 900 WHAT: A meeting for con- Daily ("PET
gle Residence Hall Murfin Ave versational Hebrew speak- killed afterr
WHEN: Sunday at about WHEN: Sunday at about ers to improve their skills misidentified
11 a.m. 6:15 pm and meet other students junior Aksha
WHAT: A soap dispenser WHAT: Two different interested in speakingthe gender Aks
was pulled from a bathroom vehicles collided into one e tngender. He s
wall, and soap was spread another in the parking lot, WHO: University of Michi- please rep
throughout the room, Uni- University Police reported gan Hille atse rep
versitv Police renore There ew edere - n ~,- - .ero n h
wriltaN: oungor tromt0e5

in the Dec.12
ie Michigan
A says cats
esearch")
d LSA
ay Verma's
a man.
ort any
Daily to
amichi-
n.

In his final column, Matt
Green reflects on his time
as a Michigan Daily colum-
nist, discusses the lessons
he learned about writing and
life and offers some advice to
incoming students. Despite
all the criticism the past
three years, he appreciates
the comments from readers.
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4

Notes? Share them with your
r find them on their new blog.

WHEN: Tonght tro 6:30
p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Espresso Royale
Cafe on South University
Avenue

correctionsi
gandaily.com


REGENTS
FromPage 1
George Granger Brown Memo-
rial Laboratories - which
will house the Department of
Mechanical Engineering on
North Campus - and renova-
tions to the Charles T. Munger
Residences in the Lawyers Club,
the John P. Cook Building and
the Trauma Burn Center at the
University Hospital.
The addition to G. G. Brown is
intended to support more inter-
disciplinary efforts between
the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and other Univer-
sity departments, as well as add
faculty and graduate student
office space, according to Slot-
tow's communication to the
regents.
Updating the infrastructure of
the Lawyers Club will renovate
92,000 square feet of residence
hall space and 67,000 square feet
in the club wing. The renova-
CONSTRUCTION -
From Page 1
"They do little to alleviate the
stress (from the construction),"
Ramlawi said. "They have done
very little to make sure small
businesses stay in business.
You're kind of left on your own.
The level of assistance they've
offered ... is almost insulting."
Ramlawi said he thinks the
project was not the best use of
city funds.
"For $50 million, we could be
doing a lot more for our city," he
said.
Still, Ramlawi said he is
grateful for Jerusalem Garden's
"strong following," and without
its loyal costumers, the restau-
rant may have had to close up
the shop. Ramlawi added that he
thinks the biggest challenges as
a result of the construction are
in the past, "but it has not been a
pleasant trip."
Pat Podges, vice president of
Southeastern Michigan opera-
tions for Christman Company,

tion includes the installation of
air conditioning and highspeed
Internet as well as heating and
plumbing improvements, accord-
ing to the communication.
The plans also include
increasing energy efficiency by
30 percent. Funding for the proj-
ect will come from a $20 million
gift as well as other investment
returns and funds from the Law-
yers Club.
The renovations proposed to
the Trauma Burn Center are the
first major updates since 1986
when the unit was built, Slottow
and Executive Vice President for
Medical Affairs Ora Pescovitz
wrote in a communication to the
regents. The changes include
upgrading treatment rooms and
lighting, as well as building a
physical therapy room and an
occupational therapy room.
"Since then the delivery of
medicine has changed, and
now the physical constraints-of
the unit reduce staff efficiency
and effectiveness," Slottow and
the construction company for
the project, acknowledged that
the construction is causing prob-
lems for local businesses, and the
company is highly sympathetic
to those affected.
"We understand that this
has been a disruptive process,"
Podges said.
According to Podges, the con-
struction should be finished by
the end of this coming spring,
though much of the progress
depends on the weather.
"(We) work as quickly and as
diligently as we can," Podges
said. "We certainly appreciate
their patience."
Like Ramwali, Lenore Ojib-
way, a hostess at Seva - a veg-
etarian restaurant around the
corner from the construction on
East Liberty Street - said the
long duration of the construction
is concerning.
"The costumers don't com-
plain about it, but it was supposed
to be done a year ago, and it's
frustrating," said Ojibway, add-
ing that the construction hasn't
largely impactedbusiness at Seva.

Pescovitz wrote. "The unit will
undergo renovations to improve
staff efficiency and create a more
healing environment for patients
and families."
REGENTS TO VOTE ON
MSA NAME CHANGE
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly announced at the end of last
month that it will change its
name to the Central StudentGov-
ernment starting next semester.
However, the name switch is
pending regents approval this
Thursday.
MSA President DeAndree
Watson said in an interview last
month that the change is intend-
ed to reflect the recently revised
structure of the governing body.
"(It will) help students bet-
ter understand who we are and
the role we serve on campus," he
added.
This is the first name change
for the student government
since 1976.
Herb David, owner of Herb
David Guitar Studio at 302 East
Liberty St., expressed frustra-
tion with the progress of the
construction and said it has neg-
atively affected his guitar repair
and retail shop.
"Business before this was
great ..." David said. "Business is
down (now) 45 to 50 percent"
David acknowledged that
the goal of the future parking
structure is to "create a vibrant
downtown community," but
said the construction is a major
hassle that has kept costumers
away.
The famous guitar shop, which
has catered to renowned musi-
cians such as Bob Dylan and John
Lennon, has been located on East
Liberty Street for more than 50
years. David said he hopes the
store can continue operating at its
current location, but the recent
construction and troubled econ-
omy have made it difficult for his
small business to do so.
"We've had to reduce our
staff," he said. "It's a really bad
situation."

A

THANKS FOR FOLLOWING US ON TWITTER!

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday December 13, 2011 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, December13, 2D11 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
MANCHESTER, N.H.
Romney, Gingrich
get aggressive in
campaign remarks
Trading accusations of greed,
Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich
challenged each other yesterday
to return millions made in private
business as the race for the GOP
presidential nomination turned
increasingly acerbic and personal
at the start of a three-week sprint
to the Iowa caucuses.
Far from Iowa, the two men
campaigned miles apart from
each other in next-up New Hamp-
shire, where Romney has long
dominated in polls but where
Gingrich is aggressively working
to make inroads.
Romney called on Gingrich to
return the estimated $1.6 million
he received for providing stra-
tegic advice to Freddie Mac, the
quasi-government agency that
guarantees home mortgages.
BLACKSBURG, Va.
Hundreds mourn
officer slain in Va.
Tech shooting
A Virginia Tech police offi-
cer ambushed in a shooting that
revived memories of the 2007
massacre on campus was eulo-
gized before hundreds as a loving
husband, father and public ser-
vant.
Bagpipers somberly escorted
the flag-draped coffin of Deriek
W. Crouse into acampus coliseum
for yesterday's funeral as officers,
family, friends and dignitaries
looked on.
Gov. Bob McDonnell called the
Army veteran who had served in
Iraq a lifelong public servant.
Crouse was slain Thursday
during a routine traffic stop in the
coliseum's parking lot. A student
at a nearby college who police said
shot Crouse was found dead after-
ward of a self-inflicted gunshot
wound-nearby. Investigators said
they found no link between them.
LOS ANGELES
Lowe's criticized
for pulling ads from
Muslim TV show
Lowe's Home Improvement
has found itself facing a backlash
after the retail giant pulled ads
from a reality show about Ameri-
can Muslims.
The retail giant stopped adver-
tising on TLC's "All-American
Muslim" after a conservative
group known as the Florida
Family Association complained,
saying the program was "pro-
paganda that riskily hides the
Islamic agenda's clear and pres-
ent danger to American liberties
and traditional values."
The show premiered last
month and chronicles the lives

of five families from Dearborn,
Mich., a Detroit suburb with a
large Muslim and Arab-American
population.
A state senator from Southern
California said Sunday he was
considering calling for a boycott.
TORONTO
Canada pulls out
of Kyoto Protocol
Canada's environment minis-
ter said yesterday his country is
pulling out of the Kyoto Protocol
on climate change.
Peter Kent said that Canada is
invoking the legal right to with-
draw and said Kyoto doesn't
represent the way forward for
Canada or the world.
Canada, joined by Japan and
Russia, said last year it will not
accept new Kyoto commitments,
but renouncing the accord is
another setback to the treaty con-
cluded with much fanfare in 1997.
No nation has formally renounced
the protocol until now.
The protocol, initially adopted
in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997, is aimed
at fighting global warming.
Canada's previous Liberal gov-
ernment signed the accord but
Prime Minister Stephen Harp-
er's Conservative government
never embraced it.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Spruce tree cut down,
stolen from the Arb

es

Of
Bota
Arbo
grinc
To
natur
arbor
Wedr
retur
was r
O':
cials
300 f
appe:
the fc
a tre(
arbor
O'
appri
abou
the t
for u

Officials individuals who are underesti-
mating its worth.
timate value of Arboretum officials report-
ed thatthe tree is worth about
tree at $400 $400, according to University
Department of Public Safety
By STEVE ZOSKI spokeswoman Diane Brown.
Daily StaffReporter However, O'Dell said he per-
sonally thinks the tree was
ficials at the Matthaei worth $1,200.
nical Gardens and Nichols Brown said charges filed
retum say they've been against the suspect(s) in the
hed. incident would depend on what
m O'Dell, collections and parts of the tree, if any, are
al areas specialist at the recovered. She also noted that
etum, said he noticed last the value of the tree affects
nesday that one of the arbo- the severity of charges the
n's two Serbian sprucetrees perpetrator(s) could face.
educed to a mere stump. ' "In larceny and in malicious
Dell said arboretum offi- destruction of property, the
found tracks that led about consequences change when the
eet to Geddes Road and dis- value of the property increas-
ared afterward. This marks es," Brown said.
ourth-consecutive year that Brown said if the suspect(s)
e has been cut down in the are charged with larceny and
retum, according to O'Dell. the value of the tree is between
Dell described the tree as $200 and $1,000, the penalty
oximately 10 feet tall with for the crime would be 93 days
t a four-inch trunk. He said in jail, a fine of $500 or three
ree was most likely taken times the value of the prop-
se as a Christmas tree by erty. If the tree is more than

SLOTTOW
From Page 1
dent Mary Sue Coleman sup-
ports investment in a new
program called Michigan
Investment in New Technol-
ogy Startups because analysis
of University faculty start-ups
over the past 20years has shown
a 70-percent annual return,
which makes it a safe invest-
ment.
At the University's Board of
Regents meeting on Thursday,
Slottow will present the MINTS
program that proposes invest-
ing up to $500,000 - with the
potential of an additional $1
million - in University faculty
start-ups. He projectsthat there
will be an investment of about
$20 million to $30 million in
MINTS over the next 10 years,
or $3 million each year.
"It's good for faculty, and it's
good for the endowment," Slot-
tow said.
FACULTY DISCUSSES
RESOLUTION ON
PEACEFUL PROTEST
Later in the meeting, the Sen-
ate Assembly discussed a reso-
lution expressing the faculty's
solidarity with peaceful pro-
tests on college campuses, spe-
cifically at the University.
The resolution was drafted

in response to the recent events
at the University of California,
Davis and the University of
California, Berkeley that led to
police violence against peaceful
protesters, SACUA Chair Kate
Barald said.
"Not that there's any incident
here that led to this, and cer-
tainly, we hope that no incident
will have a need for this kind of
resolution," Barald said.
Despite unanimous support
for the resolution, the Senate
Assembly did not meet quo-
rum and therefore, could not
pass the resolution discussed at
the meeting. SACUA members
passed the resolution at their
meeting last week.
SENATE ASSEMBLY
DISCUSSES RESOLUTION
FOR REPORTING CRIMES
The Senate Assembly also
discussed a resolution that
expresses sympathy and sup-
port for the survivors of the
Pennsylvania State University
sex abuse scandal. The resolu-
tion cites potential causes, such
as inequities in power between
survivors and perpetrators and
among people reporting the
crime, as well as an underre-
porting of criminal behavior.
It also includes suggestions
for action that can prevent simi-
lar events from occurring at the
University, such as educating

$1,000 in value, Brown said the
suspect(s) could be sentenced
to no more than one year in
jail and charged with a fine of
no more than $2,000 or three
times the value of the property
stolen.
Brown said there has been a
yearly trend of December tree-
cuttings in the arboretum, but
detectives have had difficulty
solving the crimes.
"What I understand from
previous years (is that) they
typically are reported in the
month of December, and we
don't have a lot of success in
finding suspects," Brown said.
O'Dell said the tree was
donated by Ilene Forsyth, a
professor emeritus of history of
art, whose home shares a prop-
erty line with the arboretum.
He added that he thinks future
tree cuttings could be prevented
through additional DPS patrols
and a neighborhood watch in the
area bordering the arboretum.
There are plans to replace
the tree next season, according
to O'Dell.
the community and developing
training programs for faculty
and staff.
"The objective here was to try
to get information to people who
could act as early as possible in
the process because I think all
of us noted that the main issue
beyond the act and the lack of
reporting was the cover-up,"
Barald said.
Last month, former Penn
State football coach Jerry San-
dusky was charged with child
sex abuse. Former Penn State
head football coach Joe Paterno
and former Penn State President
Graham B. Spanier were dis-
missed from their positions, asa
result of the incident.
Barald said the resolution -
passed by SACUA last week - is
i portant.sth e areZ
entities on campus a empoy
people who deal with minors -
including high school students
and small children - for day
camps, day care, sports pro-
grams and music camps.
Earlier in the meeting, Slot-
tow mentioned that in Cole-
man's e-mail regarding the
Penn State scandal, which was
sent to all students and faculty
on Nov. 15, included was a link
to an anonymous hotline and
compliance website on which
individuals can report when
they observe something they
believe to be "unethical, inap-
propriate or illegal."

STUDY BY THE NUMBERS
From Page 1 Collegegraduation rate differences
the phenomenon is replicated in
gender differences, as women
continue to graduate at a higher The percent increase in the graduation
rate than men.
Bailey said she and Dynarski rt1 oy 98h ometheets r20h0
cannot explain the differences
in graduation rates across theyo
groups, but their findings bring
to light many questions regard- Theprlnincestentsegradatn
ing preparation for higher educa- ra af rlyw1980s tden rrhr
tion among low-income students.
"One of the things that is an
important difference is (the) gap
in high-school graduation," Bai- r
ley said. "You're not going to do fpmle d w rddcom-
well in college if you don't have ed tce < <arly200s
a good education going into col-
lege."2
While the number of students
graduating from college has Thepercentmoreofhigh-income
increased among low-income female students who graduated com
families and high-income fami- pared tomen in the ear ly1980s
lies, Bailey and Dynarski found
that growth in university gradu- same schools (and) they're from
ation rates from low-income fam- the same families," Bailey said.
ilies is occurring more slowly. "We don't typically think of kids
When comparing incoming from the upper end of the income
high-income college students in distribution goingto bad schools,
the early 1980s with those in the so why is it that girls in those
early 2000s, Bailey and Dynar- environments are doing so much
ski found an 18-percent increase better? This has to be something
in the graduation rate. For about how girls respond to the
low-income students assessed same environments differently,
across the same time period, the or boys and girls face environ-
increase was only 4 percent. ments differently."
Bailey said the discrepancy Bailey said women have high-
between these numbers can be er rates of success not only in
explained by a variety of factors, U.S. high schools, but also in high
and one specific reason has not schools in other countries. The
yet been identified. phenomenon has occurred con-
"You can trace it back and sistently for decades, she added.
back because there are differ- According to Bailey, the trend
ences in resources, differences in has brought up concerns that
environments, all sort of things," society is putting too much pres-
Bailey said. sure on women to succeed and
Bailey and Dynarsaki also holding men back.
found that among incoming col- The study does not indicate
lege students from high-income how the gaps in higher educa-
families in the early 2000s, more tion attainment between income
women graduated than men by 13 levels and genders should be
percent compared to 2 percent in handled. Bailey said more infor-
the early 1980s. mation is needed before any
Unlike the factor of varia- changes in policy are made.
tions in upbringings between "You need to understand the
low-income and high-income sources of these differentials,"
families, Bailey said the gender- Bailey said. "The common expla-
related findings are difficult to nations people like to give don't
explain because women have really explain these trends.
been outperforming men who Before we jump to policy impli-
were raised the same way. cations, we need to have much
"Sisters and brothers go to the better answers."--

R .¢ f.,-

i

THE DAILY IS DONE
FOR FALL SEMESTER
VISIT WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM
OVER BREAK FOR NEWS UPDATES
Check back Jan. 4 for full
coverage of the Sugar Bowl,
the Iowa Caucus and more.


ENGINEERS
From Page 1
department is at the forefront
of new technologies, Kim said.
Students and alumni can
record a video message directly
to the website, link to a You-
Tube video or enter a simple text
entry.
"It can be a holiday memory,
or they can talk to us about a
holiday tradition - whether it's
cultural or religious - or they
can send a greeting," Kim said.
"It's perfectly fine to send a sim-
ple greeting. We'd love to show
them on the map."
While the map has a con-
centration of uploads from Ann
Arbor and across Michigan,

it also has messages tagged in
places as far away as Iran and
Sri Lanka.
Ben Collins, the main web
designer for the project, said
the geolocation technology
used in the holiday website was
first used to track the Univer-
sity Solar Car Team's progress
across Australia in the Veolia
World Solar Challenge in Octo-
ber.
Collins and Kim said they
predict the technology will bet-
ter connect Engineering stu-
dents and alumni, particularly
by featuring projects and the
impact they have around the
world.
The technology used on
the holiday site also has much
broader implications and pos-

sibilities, according to Collins.
one potential project may be to
develop a computerized map of
North Campus, Collins said.
Engineering senior Samantha
Luber uploaded a holiday greet-
ing to the website after receiv-
ing an e-mail from the College of
Engineering with information
about the project. Luber said the
new service is an innovative way
for students to experience the
cultural diversity that the Uni-
versity offers.
"You have students from all
over the world, and there (is)
no centralized place to see how
different traditions and cultures
celebrate holidays," Luber said,
"This makes an interesting way
to see what everyone is doing
from a map perspective."

-p.- OK


ERIN KIRKLAND AND ALDEN REISS/Daily
The 2011 managing editors of The Michigan Daily thank our readers for reading our coverage, following us on Twitter
and 'liking' the Daily on Facebook this year.

A5

:


I

4 - Tuesday, December 13, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

JEFF ZUSCHLAG E-MAIL JEFF AT.JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU
I'm not ashamed to admit But you don't have
that Rick Perry commercial to be a cartoonist, If elected I will
parodies are probably done or even a liberal, % I don't knw.
to death at this point. / to know that , w
making an ad
that insults our I think I'm too angry
serviemento even deliver a
and women, punchline now.
Vv fabricates a
"war on religion" 4
and denies the ,,
legitimacy of ever
religion outside of j
Christianity, is a
Jeff Zuschlag ; reprehensible and
Sidiotic act.
-V
An unparalleled experience,

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

4
4

NICK SPAR
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROerTHE DAILY
'U' needs to address issues in FOIA Office
The Universitys administration's transparency with public
records has become a concern. Last Thursday, The Michi-
gan Daily exposed another flaw within the administrative
system, specifically with the University's FOIA Office. The Michi-
gan Freedom of Information Act is a state law that mandates pub-
lic bodies to release requested public information at a low or no
cost. The University is a public institution, so most of its records are
public records. But the University's FOIA Office has been recently
charging expensive fees for requestors to receive public records.
The University's inability to provide requested information in a
timely, reasonably priced manner is a failure on its part, and its pro-
cess needs to change.

In recent years, the Daily has uncovered
closed-door meetings held by the Univer-
sity's Board of Regents and administrators
trying to conceal certain decisions. Another
notable investigation was the discovery in
2009 of the University Department of Public
Safety Oversight Committees' failure to hold
proper elections. In the latest investigation,
a Daily article from Dec. 8 revealed that the
University FOIA Office does not function
the same way as other Big Ten School FOIA
offices. The Daily requested information on
the number of parking tickets given on cam-
pus and employees' purchasing cards trans-
actions from the University, as well as other
schools. While some schools gave the infor-
mation for free or a small charge, the Uni-
versity asked for more than $1,000 for each
request. m
The purpose of FOIA is to encourage
transparency among public institutions. If
an organization receives taxpayer money, the
public has the right to know how the orga-
nization is spending that money and how it
operates. A properly functioning FOIA Office
should make that process as easy and effi-
cient as possible.
The discrepancies in estimated costs to
fulfill open record requests between the Uni-
versity and comparable public institutions
show that the University is not meeting its
obligations under the Michigan open records

law. The failure may simply reflect an under-
staffed FOIA Office, or it could be a sign that
the University's records are unorganized. An
understaffed office should be given resourc-
es to hire new employees, and poorly main-
tained records should be made electronic and
more accessible for the benefit of the public.
More alarmingly, the FOIA Office could be
inflating request costs to discourage outside
scrutiny of the University. While that is an
unlikely scenario, without the FOIA Office
operating efficiently, it's impossible to have
complete transparency.
It's clear from other universities' quick
responses and low fees that the FOIA Office
at the University of Michigan is not operat-
ing properly. If it is as difficult to retrieve
charge card information as the FOIA Office
has claimed, then there is legitimate concern
of whether the University has a handle on
the more than $105 million employees spend
with charge cards each year. When records
are not easily accessible, there is an increased
risk of faculty misuse.
Regardless of the reason for the problems
with the FOIA Office, it's an unacceptable sit-
uation. If the office is disorganized or under-
staffed, the University needs to invest in
the FOIA Office to fix these problems. If the
charges are meant to discourage requests,
that violates the spirit and letter of the law
and should be immediately addressed.

presume that many of my fel-
low seniors can relate to the
feeling of not wanting to move
on. The spec-
ter of life after
college looms
large wherever
we look. For
me, leaving The
Michigan Daily
symbolizes the
myriad of chang-
es that lay ahead MATTHEW
in the next few GREEN
months. As you
may imagine,
writing for this paper has signifi-
cantly shaped my experience in col-
lege and I'm sad to see it go. It was
in the second or third week of my
freshman year that I first made my
way to Maynard Street to attend an
Editorial Board meeting. And in the
three and a half years since then, I
may not have been a fixture in the
newsroom as others have - but the
paper has defined me nevertheless.
It's hard to reflect on my tenure
at the Daily without immediately
thinking about all the people who've
hated my columns. Pessimism is in
my nature, so this may not come as
a surprise. Over the years I've main-
tained some loyal readers, of course
- here's a shout out to my girls at the
synagogue sisterhood - but I also
developed a colorfully diverse set of
detractors. And from this latter set,
I've heard a remarkably extensive
range of criticism.
In response e-mails and com-
ment pages, they've accused me of
being both a spoiled son of privilege
and a militant socialist bent on class
warfare. I've been called an agent
of Zionist propaganda as well as an
anti-Israel pawn of the Left. Many
have accused me of pushing a radi-
cal gay agenda. Yet just a few weeks
ago a printed viewpoint accused me
of projecting heteronormative ideas
onto others.
Hyperbolic to say the least, these

seemingly contradictory criticisms
highlight an important element of
my writing over the years.
As I've articulated my opinions,
I've at least attempted to look at
issues from multiple angles, even if
my work generally took one bias or
another. I mean, let's face it - this
was opinion writing. But from all
of the back and forth involved, it's
no wonder that my criticism would
be so varied. This, I think, was the
most valuable part of writing my
column: the chance to figure out
exactly what I believed. In some
ways it was dangerous to put into
writing opinions that may not stick
with me throughout my career. But
from the feedback I've received,
formally and casually, my opin-
ions and my logic were sharpened
immeasurably.
One criticism has been that I've
taken my writing too seriously.
Indeed, this is something I've heard
about the Daily more generally as
well. Musing on this, I think there
are two important truths here.
The first is that college news-
papers don't matter a whole lot.
Skeptical friends and critics are
often quite willing to point that out.
With the exception of some Univer-
sity news, college newspapers only
somewhat provide information that
other sources - other news outlets,
blogs or gossip, for instance - don't.
Articles are written and edited by
unseasoned journalists and opinion
writers are almost never experts on
the subjects they discuss. And in a
culture that's dominated by social
media, the college newspaper is no
longer the go-to medium for campus
communication.
But ina sense, the college newspa-
per is the only thing that does mat-
ter. For freshmen writers, the paper
can provide journalistic experience
to build upon. And for opinion writ-
ers, it's a springboard for formulating
ideas. Both these instances epitomize
the ways in which college is sup-
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

posed to benefit those who can go
- teaching both practical and theo-
retical skills. More important still is
the way in which the paper enhances
the University's ability to develop an
educated and thoughtfully critical
citizenry. Though it often plays sec-
ond fiddle to other pages - sports,
much to my chagrin - the opinion
page is the frontal lobe of the news-
paper. It contextualizes the stories
written in other sections, and it's
the sectionwith the greatest stake in
social justice. I often tried to remem-
ber this as I wrote my columns.
It's truly been an
honor to write
for the Daily.
And whether ornot Isucceeded in
imbuing a greater social awareness
in my writing, I can only hope that
my successors will continue trying
to do so.
In the past few years I've writ-
ten roughly 37,500 words in about
50 opinion articles. That's more or
less 130 pages of double-spaced,
elected, extra work. Though I could
surely continue finding material
within the news and in day-to-day
life, I've decided it's time to tuck
away my byline and give someone
else a pen.
I thank you for reading my work
over the past few years, for sharp-
ening my judgment and for keeping
me honest. You may have hated my
flaming liberalism or my occasion-
ally questionable outlook on life, but
this experience has been unparal-
leled for me. It's truly been an honor
to write for you.
- Matthew Green can be
reached at greenmat@umich.edu.



Aida Ali, Kaan Avdan, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner

COURTNEY MERCIER J

Student-athletes go green CONNOR CAPLIS AND BENNETT STEIN [

Student-athletes at the University are going
green! Well, not green as in our rivals to the
north, butgreen as in sustainable and environ-
mentally aware. Michigan Student-Athletes
for Sustainability, a group of student-athletes,
have organized an official career community
in M-PACT - a professional and career tran-
sition program for student-athletes. With
support from M-PACT and the Student Sus-
tainability Initiative, we are very optimistic
about the changes we can make in the Athletic
Department.
M-SAS's founder, Courtney Mercier, a four-
year varsity student-athlete, formed M-SAS
last year when she realized that there were
other student-athletes like her who were
interested in environmental sustainability
but didn't know how to get involved. Shortly
after the Athletic Department approved the
creation of M-SAS in September, University
President Mary Sue Coleman announced the
University's sustainability goals and commit-
ment for the entire University. Throughout
the University, departments and offices had
begun to embrace a culture of sustainability
even before the announcement.
However, as student-athletes, we have
noticed that this culture isn't infused into the
athletic community. When we go to our ath-
letic events, we wonder how a university that
has made such an incredible commitment to
sustainability could have such a sustainability
deficiency in its athletic facilities. The biggest
exposure thatthe University receives on a daily
basis is through its athletics program. When
fans come to our games, we want them to know

that as a university, we care about sustainabil-
ity. At Michigan, we strive to be the Leaders
and Best in everything, so shouldn't the athlet-
ics community also aim to be the Leaders and
Best in environmental sustainability?
Our goal for M-SAS is to be a program not
only for professional and career-related issues,
but also avenue for student-athletes to express
their interests and desires to make the athletic
community more environmentally sustain-
able. We hope to unify individual interests,
organize action and build awareness. We're
not just fighting to get recycling bins put in
the facilities, but rather we want to reach out
to all student-athletes, coaches, fans, everyone
in the athletic community. We want to educate
and empower them to make their own choices
about sustainability.
The commitment that the University has
made to sustainability has created an amazing
opportunity for us to integrate the sustain-
ability movement into the athletic commu-
nity. In order to do this, we need widespread
support from not only the Athletic Depart-
ment, but from everyone across campus. The
University's commitment would not be com-
plete without the involvement of the Athletic
Department. In an effort to create one culture
of sustainability at the University, we have
made our slogan for M-SAS: "We play on Plan-
et Blue," which complements the "We live on
Planet Blue" slogan conveyed throughout the
rest of campus.
Courtney Mercier is an LSA senior.
She is the founder of M-SAS.

Protect peaceful protests

The images from the University of California, Davis
are shocking. A row of people sit in solidarity with the
Occupy movement. Their arms are linked, and their
heads are bowed. Above them strolls a helmeted police
officer applying a heavy coat of pepper spray to their
heads and faces with the efficiency and seeming indiffer-
ence of a robotic arm in a paint shop. The video, show-
ing the extensive use of pepper spray against non-violent
protesters, immediately strikes as an inexplicable and
indefensible overreaction and abuse of power. On Nov.29,
University students held a vigil on the Diag in support of
UC-Davis and UC-Berkeley students. The use of pepper
spray on non-violent protesters is inhumane, unethical
and unconstitutional. The health of our democracy and
the vitality of the college campus as a haven for non-vio-
lent social protest rely on a police force that protects free
speech, not brutalizes it.
We are fortunate that the University has a deep and
proud history of non-violent protest, dating back to the
1960s anti-Vietnam War protests. Campus saw the rise
and fall of the Students for a Democratic Society's anti-
war leadership. The 1970's included the Black Action
Movement's campus-wide strike to protest low minority
enrollment. These protests and their legacy of student
activism have developed a community that stands firmly
behind the First Amendment in its respect for peaceful
protest. Our University community, however, must work
actively to not only preserve free speech but also expand
the right to those still silenced.
Though much of the non-violent protests at the Uni-
versity have been correctly tolerated, we cannot forget
the less-than-shining moments in our recent past. In
April 2007, the Department of Public Safety unneces-
sarily arrested 12 students who had staged a sit-in at the
Fleming Administration Building as part of a Students
Organizing for Labor and Economic Equality campaign.
In October 2010, the University attempted to charge
a security fee to the student group Students For Life to
pay for an unsolicited DPS presence to monitor protests
of their event. The University eventually revoked the fee,

as it is unconstitutional to financially burden a speaker
because of a potential hostile reaction to her speech.
These local examples as well as the news from around
the country show a growing need for action to prevent
the erosion of this critical liberty and further extend it
to all individuals.
In response to inquiries by the university's chapter of
the American Civil Liberties Union, the University fur-
thered its protection of speech this year as it reviewed
and reformed its trespass policy. The new policy limits
DPS's discretion in banning individuals from campus and
ends the practice of lifetime bans without review. Addi-
tionally, this year the University stood proudly behind
History Prof. Juan Cole, as reports emerged that the
CIA had targeted him as a prominent critic of the Iraq
War and Middle East policy. University Provost Philip
Hanlon wrote in response to the insulting news, "Free
expression of views is essential to dynamic dialogue and
debate." The ACLU of Michigan sued the CIA demanding
that it turn over all documents relatingto professor Cole.
We seethe health and safety of our University and com-
munity threatened not by peaceful protesters, but by any
force that threatens this free exchange of ideas.
There is no doubt that the violence at UC-Davis
illustrates the challenge protests present to university
administrators, public safety departments and the larger
community. The University's protection of protest and
public safety requires preparedness, communication and
professionalism. The University's values and excellence
rely on DPS's continued commitment to these goals. We
call on our administration and our police force to main-
tain their respect for non-violent protest for any cause, at
any time. This is of unique importance as the University
selects a new DPS chief to uphold these principles. The
excessive police force at UC-Davis must remind our cam-
pus of the need to unceasingly demand free speech for all.
Connor Caplis is an LSA freshman and Bennett
Stein is a Public Policy senior. They are members
of the ACLU-UM undergraduate chapter.

0i

I

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and
join in the debate. Check out @michdailyoped to get updates
on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

0

A



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 13, 2011- 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, December 13, 2011 - 5

The year in music

Some thoughts on the past
year in music ...

man, pure vibes. And sometimes,
that is more than enough.

Lil B, I'm Gay (I'm Happy) Grouper, AIA: Alien Observer

Music majors are sometimes discouraged from joining the Michigan Marching Band.
Life atrtebn

Where marching
band members go
after they graduate
By LUCY PERKINS
DailyArts Writer
Directly beneath the maize
'M' sewn on the left chest plate
of his Michigan Marching Band
uniform, a tattooed block 'M' is
inked on the left pectoral of TJ
Wolfgram, a senior in the School
of Music, Theatre & Dance.
The tattoo represents the best
experience he's had at the Univer-
sity.
"This is the best organization
in the country," Wolfgram said. "I
don't think there's another band
in the country that has the unique
character and quality that we do."
But despite the talent and pres-
tige of the MMB, many members
do not ultimately pursue musical
careers.Wolfgram, amusic educa-
tion major, is one exception to the
norm and said being in the MMB
was not only memorable but also
essential to the future career he's
planned as amusic teacher.
According to LSA senior and
MMB member Ross Federman,
music students are often discour-
aged from joining the Michigan
Marching Band. The enormous
time commitment along with
technical and physical demands
work against the classical train-
ing music majors receive.
"It's a huge time-suck," Wolf-
gram said. "If you're a music
major, when can you practice?
The music school kids just don't
have time and don't have energy
to commit."
The MMB gave Wolfgram the

opportunity to learn skills like
marching, writing and arranging
music and drills for the band. As a
fifth-year senior, Wolfgram wrote
this year's halftime show for the
Notre Dame game.
Though Wolfgram intended to
pursue music education since his
freshman year, others are inspired
by their membership in the MMB
to make music their career.
For David Tenerelli, march-
ing in the MMB inspired him to
transfer from the School of Engi-
neering to the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance to become a
band director.
"I had a god audition my first
year in MMB, and I kind of real-
ized that maybe I had to make this
something that I should do with
my life," Tenerelli said.
Now Tenerelli lives in Frisco,
Texas and is the director of the
Northern Dallas suburb's middle
school music program. He said he
teaches about 310 students.
"There's too much attrition
when it comes to young musicians
going through music programs
in schools today," Tenerelli said.
"Too many kids quit. That's some-
thingthat I hate to see."
Tenerelli uses his experi-
ence with the MMB to inspire
his students, showing videos of
marching bands performing and
simplifying old MMB arrange-
ments so his middle schoolers can
play them.
Some MMB members aspire
to be in a professional band, hop-
ing for the off-chance that they'll
make it big - some actually do.
When Federman joined the
MMB's drum line as a freshman
in 2003, he never thought he
would take six years off school
to tour with a successful band

throughout the country.
In 2004 the local band Tally
Hall needed a drummer, so
Federman auditioned. The group,
started out playing at the U Club
and fraternities, but within a
year was selling out shows at The
Blind Pig.
"One year turned into six and
we ended up in New York," Feder-
man said. "It was something I
thought I would just do for a year
but things took off in a way we
didn't expect."
Now back at the University,
Federman is still affiliated with
the MMB, playing drums with the
basketball band.
Regardless of whether music
is a career or a pastime, people
like Federman can't stay away
from the Michigan Marching
Band.
"You're a part of the team that
has so much school spirit behind
it," Federman said. "No other
music ensemble on campus starts
and ends each practice by playing
our school fight song - there's
just this feeling you get."
That unforgettable, infectious
feeling almost always guarantees
a lifetime of dedication to the
Michigan Marching Band.
"In the trombone section,
nobody gets taken off of our list-
serv," Wolfgram said. "We reply
to all on everything. Someone in
our section was at a bowl game
and an alum came up to him and
knew who this student was. That
trombone alum graduated in'91."
It's hard to pinpoint a tangible
reason that ties countless gen-
erations of horns, drum lines and
clarinets together.
"You can't ply apart the rea-
sons," Wolfgram said. "I don't
know where it comes from."

Lil B is perhaps the preemi-
nent rap artist of the Internet age.
We live his art
as a constant,
unfiltered
stream of
content. All
of the embar-
rassing apho-
risms, the
idiotic inside JOE
jokes - utter DIMUZIO
excess oppos-
ing Spartan
simplicity - the tension in his
music cannot be dismissed. On
his most successful album yet, Lil
B sounds indulgent, earnest and
celebratory, in a way few or no
rappers can emulate. It doesn't
hurt that he's working with the
best beat-maker in hip hop right
now. His charms are real, his
failures ample. I feel closer to him
than any rapper ever. Is this what
it means to be based?
Pure X, Pleasure
This record is a ritual. Drone
and heat-smeared bass, yelping
goblin vocals and that guitar!
I can't think of a more somber
instrument in 2011 than Nate
Grace's guitar on Pleasure. It's
supposed to have been recorded
live and you can feel it - all
flimsy cues and slippery notes,
the casual doom of the jammier
bits (sometimes I imagine the
band looking at each other's eyes
when they're not staring at their
shoes) give what is otherwise an
exercise in tone and pedal-play
some intimacy. And don't let that
title fool you!
P.S. Wins award for best
album cover of the year in my
weird book.
Julian Lynch, Terra
It takes effort to make music
this innocuous. Terra is a jumble
of perpetual zonk-outsjingles
for crossing over the River Styx
in a banana boat and what I
imagine your eyes might sing
after staring at the sun for too
long. There's no catharsis, no
drama, no virtuosity. Just vibes,

Oh! A woman after my own
heart. When I first heard Drag-
ging a Dead Deer Up a Hill, I
thought it was too quiet, even
at full volume. Grouper's songs
are bed time-dream time lul-
labies, with a heart of terror and
unquenchable lust. AIA:Alien
Observer finds Grouper doing

ter named. When I hear this
song, I am incapable of stay-
ing still. My foot doesn't tap so
much as spasm, my nose feels
heavy and my head sways (half-
way between bob and bang)
and that's just the first minute.
Where ghettotech got a bit too
tech, Bounce is back to take the
throne, and Big Freedia is the
most fabulous queen to claim it.
Vulnerable R&B


what she does better than every- Drake, sitting in his castle,
one - making records so furi- moping. Kanye and Jay toasting
ously quiet they feel cosmic. to their boredom. The Weekend,
coked- and smoked-up with no
Destroyer, Kaputt place to go. Anonymous violence
and violent misanthropy. When
Call it effete. Call it limp. The-Dream released 1977, he put
But never has utter devasta- it out under his birth name. t'm
tion sounded so gorgeous. One hesitant to give Kid Cudi credit
of 2011's many cases for the for anything, but "Day'N' Night"
saxophone's redemption, and was the prophetic knell that's
ushered in this wave of privileged
ego death. I much preferred...

R. Kelly and
saxophones.
ultimately, a completelyun-ironic
one. In "Blue Eyes" I felt Dan
Bejar mocking me with, "I've
thumbed through the books on
your shelves," sending me his
"coffin of roses," making a chant
out of, "I write poetry for myself!"
and now I chuckle at it. It is also
perhaps 2011's funniest record. If
only you could dance to it!
Saxophones
Could Clarence Clemons
have died in a better year for his
instrument of choice? 2011 was
a year-long obit for him, with
top-40 pop and everything else
reclaiming sax solos, with vary-
ing levels of irony. Bon Iver, Katy
Perry, Lady Gaga, Julian Lynch,
Dan Bejar ... if we get Bill Clin-
ton on the next Ke$ha song, the
post-modern pop machine may
crash from moving too fast. Let's
not forget, John Coltrane had a
church.
Big Freedia -
"Y'all Get Back Now"
The genre of New Orleans
Bounce music could not be bet-

R. Kelly's "Love Letter"
It came out at the tail end of
2010, but I spent my time with
it this year. "Letter" manages
to combine anxiety and post-
millenial helplessness ("Miracles
so amazed, soldiers far away")
and marries it to ebullience,
ensconced in outmoded means
of communication ("Did it touch
your heart / When you read my
love letter?"). Packaged with
syrupy keyboards that revolve,
enveloping bongos and cheap
MIDI horns all leading up to a
shout - "JUST CHECK YOUR
MAIL!" Beautiful.
Ellen Willis,
"Out of the Vinyl Deeps"
One of the best collections of
pop writing released this year/
ever. Most of The New Yorker's
first-ever pop music critic Ellen
Willis's columns and pieces on
pop and rock music of the '60s
and '70s are assembled here, for
your enjoyment, devotion and
study. There are few writers in
music since who have been so
casually brilliant, keen and joy-
ous. A hero of mine, a great gift.
Dimuzio is making his list
and checking it twice. E-mail
him at shonenjo@umich.edu.


DANCE PEVIEW!
'The Nutcracker' in A2

By ANNA SADOVSKAYA
DailyArts Writer
The Arabian coffee, Spanish
chocolates and Chinese tea lithe-
ly pas de deux and chasse across
the stage
as Clara
and her The Nutcracker
Nutcrack- Friday at 8 p.m.,
er Prince Saturday at 2
sit and p.m. and 8p.m.,
watch with Sunday at 2 p.m.
delight. As
they finish Power Center
their per- Ticketsfrom $14
formance
for the mouse-conquering
heroes, the confections line the
stage, signaling the arrival of the
Queen of the Kingdom of Sweets.
The Sugar Plum Fairy takes one
graceful step, then another -
then finally pirouettes onto the
scene, inspiring awe in Clara and
the sweets alike.
Ann Arbor Ballet Theatre's
(AABT) annual production of
"The Nutcracker" ballet follows
E.T.A. Hoffmann's 1816 story
"The Nutcracker and the Mouse
King" to the music of P.1. Tchai-
kovsky. The ballet premiered at
the MariinskyTheatre in Decem-
ber 1892 and has been a classic
holiday tradition ever since.
Carol Radovic, founder
and artistic director of AABT,
brought the spirit and style of
Russian ballettoAnnArbor when
she started her company in 1980.
Having trained with the Bolshoi
Ballet and at the Vaganova Bal-
let Academy in St. Petersburg,

Radovic said her production of ed with their role in the ballet,
"The Nutcracker" echoes the Radovic ensures each ballerina
original choreography and meth- and ballerino feels comfortable
od of the Russian ballet. with his or her character, since
"Russian ballet integrates the this, according to Radovic, is the
arms, the hands, the feet, the key to a stunning performance.
upper torso, the tilt of the head," "One of the comments I've
Radovic said. "You're constantly heard for is, 'So, Carol, you only
doing things that are so much have beautiful people in your
more complex (than other styles company. Do you pick them for
of ballet). But people that soak that?' But that's the very nature
and let it permeate become much of dancers," she said. "I'm picking
better dancers." people that can dance, and placing
Because the AABT invites them into roles they can stand out
dancers of all skill levels to join, in. Because they can dance, they
teaching choreography in the become more beautiful."
rigorous Russian style has been AABT's "The Nutcracker,"
challenging, Radovic said. Yet complete with a colorful mix of
the mix of dancers fits well with dancers of various ages, is the
the large assortment of char- company's most important event
acters in "The Nutcracker." By of the season. Radovic explained
implementing her original cho- that this performance evokes the
spirit of the holidays through the
technical mastery of the ballet
Sperformers.
Everyone s "Every company that can do a
holiday favorite. 'Nutcracker' does 'The Nutcrack-
er,' because it's the one time of
the year that people are caught up
with the holidays and festivities,
reography, Radovic is able to so it has that universal attraction
play up the abilities of each of her (for) people," Radovic said.
dancers. This holiday tradition gives
"We get dancers from all over, audiences a chance to discover
and we get to be a little melting an art form that might have oth-
pot of dancers from all different erwise gone overlooked.
backgrounds," Radovic said. "As "A large variety of people that
much as you think it's about your come to it say, 'Wow, I really like
choreography, you find ways this,' and maybe that will send
to move it around so that a par- them to another ballet some-
ticular dancer really shines. It's where else, or back to us for
a fluid thing and it's not cast in another show," Radovic said.
stone." "You can entice them with this
As dancers become acquaint- holiday gala event."

"You know, most women's bras are actually two sizes off."
PeeVed off b New Year's Eve

By AKSHAY SETH
DailyArts Writer
Twenty well-recognized movie
stars half-heartedly trying to ped-
dle two hours of
uninterrupted .
bullshit. That,
in a sentence, New Year's
sums up "New Eve
Year's Eve,"
the pointless At Quality16
romantic com- and Rave
edy brought to
us by the great Warner Bros.
minds behind
the similarly meaningless "Valen-
tine's Day."
And to think, almost two
years have passed since that
trainwreck of a film came out.
Everyone was already start-
ing to forget, to move on and to
remember director Garry Mar-
shall's ("Pretty Woman") better
years. Then, as if to reclaim his
status as a filmmaker dancing to
the whims of Hollywood execs,
Marshall churns out this mas-
terpiece.

To call this movie bad would
be a disservice to all the other
crappy movies that came out this
year. At least those other movies
didn't try to shove Nivea skin care
products down our throats at the
slightest opportunity. (Granted,
Nivea sells a large chunk of the
merchandise at Times Square
on New Year's Eve, but seriously,
when was the last time we saw
every single New Yorker sport-
ing that fashionable Nivea foam
hand and hat?) -
Dragging on for nearly two
hours, "New Year's Eve" boils
down to nothing more than a
tedious game of waiting out the
clock. The horrifying aspect is
seeing how badly the film can
shake your belief in the motion
picture industry over the course
of those two hours. For one,
there's no real believable plot to
tie the story together. Instead,
the writer (Katherine Fugate,
"Valentine's Day") slapped
together a paltry mash-up of idi-
otic little subplots involving 20
different New Yorkers as they

prep for the titular New Year's
Eve celebration.
In all honesty, the best way to
show the utter senselessness of
these stories is to describe the
most interesting ones. Zac Efron
("High School Musical") plays
a bike messenger trying to help
a boring, middle-aged woman
(Michelle Pfeiffer, "Hairspray")
fulfill all of her New Year's reso-
lutions - it really is as stupid as
it sounds - in exchange for tick-
ets to a party.
Save the bubbly
for next year.
Somehow, two-time Oscar
winners Hillary Swank ("Million
Dollar Baby") and Robert DeNiro
("Limitless") find themselves on
this waste of a movie set. Swank
plays a nervous business execu-
tive responsible for organizing
See NEW YEAR'S EVE, Page 6

4


4

6 - Tuesday, December 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

v- -- ..U ..._ .. . ...


NEW YEAR'S EVE
From Page 5

No 'Shelter' in atmospheric film

4

Jeff Nichols sets
doomsday tone in
surreal thriller
By ADITI MISHRA
DailyArts Writer
A storm is coming that will
wipe out mankind, so take shel-
ter. That's what Roland Emm-
erich would tell
us. In "Take
Shelter," direc-
tor Jeff Nichols Take Shelter
("Shotgun Sto-
ries") has other At the
plans. With Michigan
painful grace Sony Pictures
and execution' Classics
Nichols tells the
story of fam-
ily-man Curtis (Michael Shan-
non, "The Runaways"). There's a
storm brewing in Curtis's head,
and its black, oily thunderous
rain could decide either his fate
or ours. In a whirlwind of hal-
lucinations that obscure the
line between reality and delu-
sion, Nichols treats his audience
to what could just as easily be a
disaster movie as an agonizing
glimpse into the disintegrating
mind of a schizophrenic.

Curtis isn't an extraordinary
man. He's not rich, he's not good-
looking and he operates drills for
a living. But he's got one thing
going for him - he's normal. In
comparison to his drunk, wasted
friends, he's got his life sorted
out. Within the first few min-
utes of the film, one is moved by
his support and compassion for
his deaf daughter Hannah (new-
comer Tova Stewart) and wife
Samantha (Jessica Chastain,
"The Tree of Life").
Nichols uses the connection
between Curtis and the audience
to his advantage when the night-
mares start. With every passing
dream, Curtis encounters a storm
that sends him into a raging panic
in the middle of the night. And it
doesn't end when he wakes up.
Every night brings some new hor-
rors and every day Curtis breaks
just a little bit more. The man we
loved from the start fractures
before our eyes. All the while, the
audience doesn't know whether to
believe his premonitions or sym-
pathize with his mental condition.
Nichols's agenda is ambigu-
ous - "Take Shelter" shuffles
between apocalyptic forebod-
ing and the precarious state of
the human mind. Until the last
minute, it seems to be about the

the New Year's ball drop, and
DeNiro portrays a bedridden old
man whose final wish is to catch
a glimpse of Times Square at
those final magical moments of
the year.
Sometimes this vignette-
based narrative structure can
work. But in order for that to
happen, each little story must
be able to stand on its own and
bring something unique to the
table, so that the final product
appears as multi-player as what
we expect when we walk into
the theater. The idea is alot eas-
ier to imagine than to execute,
and this film proves why.
It doesn't help that every
character showcases the inno-
cence and naivet4 of a five-year-
old. The effect is touching when
it becomes the hallmark of a
single personality, but seeing it
on every other character makes
it seem overdone and foolish.
Seeing as this film was - in
heart and mind - a follow-up
to "Valentine's Day," there's
no reason to expect anything
other than a bunch of recog-
nizable movie stars paid to lure
in weary holiday shoppers. So
keep those $10 for a little bit of
extra Christmas shopping and
save yourself the heartache of
experiencing, firsthand, how
commercialism can warp our
film industry.

SONY PICTURESCLASSICS

Remember to secure your own mask before helping your child.

latter. Knowing Curtis's mother
was a paranoid schizophrenic,
it appears natural that Curtis is
headed in the same direction: But
this movie's abstruse end beats
"Inception" at its own game and
the ever-nagging guessing game
of whether Curtis was right
returns to square one.
If there's one storm that's sure-
ly coming, it's Michael Shannon.
Every flinch of his hand betrays
his solitary distress. As Cur-
tis, Shannon dances around the
emotions that overtake his bet-

ter judgment, knowing they're
delusions. It's excruciating to
watch him build the storm shel-
ter - the ever-persistent battle
between reality and his mind is
pitiful and solemn. And though
it would seem far-fetched to
expect another to match his per-
formance, Chastain does. As the
exasperated yet supportive wife,
she's a dream to watch.
Perhaps that's what makes
this film so extraordinary at
times. There are moments when
it slows to a disappointing degree

and Nichols uses some masterful
cinematography and wide scenes
of the storm to counter the pace.
But while all else is inconsistent,
the performances keep the film
flowing. Disaster movie or not,
Shannon's evident conflict and
internal storm are the driving
forces of "Take Shelter."
Disregarding the underlying
hints of imminent catastrophe,
"Take Shelter" is a phenomenal
ode to the fickle nature of the
human mind and how, like it or
not, all are at its disposal.

'70S MICHIGAN KNIT TAM lost at
OSU game. Seeking replacement for
sale or if found contact 734-546-8636

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
! ON NICHOLS ARBORETUM. Rus-
tic setting. Two room efficiency in pri-
vate home. Semi-private entrance. Wi-
6i; cable. $616. 734 662 7924
***5 UNIT/6 UNIT HOUSE. Corner
of Church & Willard. Across the street
from Pizza House. 2 large sitting areas,
2 kitch., 3 showers/bths, wshr./dryer no
charge, 8 prkg. spaces avail. Aug.
2012-
Aug 2013. CALL: 248-330-0396

BR & STUDIO APTS
FALL 2012
pwww.cpiproperties.coum
4-663-5609
! ! ! www.varsitymanagement.
com !
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments avail-
able
for fall 2012
Studio Apartments
1039 Baldwin
331 Packard
418 E. Washington
Apartments are renting fast! Call
Varsity to schedule your tour today!
8 MONTH LEASES!!!
HUGE TOWNHOUSES w/ 3 1/2
Baths
4 FREE Parking Spaces
9 1/2 foot ceilings throughout
Call for details (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com


S T UDE NT H OU S IN G, 1 N C,'
Parking for Sale
2012-13
Limited spaces remaining!!
909 Chaurch/Abbey
726. State/Faanrtu
J51 IMawrence
520Packarde

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, December 13, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS 62 Cyclops and 28 *Extr
1 Bar one olveineeg. tak
compser of the 63 Pa o S: .29A e
"Goldberg 30 Pumr
Variations" DOWN 32Dayz
5 Civil rights activist 1 Tijuana's region movi
Parks 2 Requiringo 36BMilari
9 Oine money incularsto see 37Stike
14 Hairdo that's 3 *Where evidence 40 Enjo
picked is gathered biteo
15 Barelymanages, 4F based battle 43 Teac
with "nut" 5 Shownmntition e.g.
16"I'm not kidding!" 6Giving the go- 45 Unim
17 Corner Monopoly ahead pers
space 7 Splinter group AS
18*Strikers'formation 8 Pose,a ANS
20 Soldiers'shelter question A L E
22Mostrestricted, 9Trick into B A
filmwise wrongdning BAJ
23 Toil family 10Pia rum E Y E
name drinks T E C
24Thoroughfare 11Gotdown S R T
25Vlcanic rock 12Trig classratio
27 Futuristic 13 Be mindful af
personal 19 Mysterinusly G I G
transportdevices unusual R O O
31 "Filthy"money 21 Flooring A N N
32 Pastrami seller cratsman SIE
33 Fomer Midea 24"Chill ut S I
leader 25 Melwhovoiced P A R
34 Were in the Bugs
present? 26 Like an otological F E W
35n*Severe teet E
reprimand, in 27Teammateof E L A
metaphor Riveraand M I X
38 Simpsonjudge Posada xwordedi
3Indiarsreads 2 a 4 s 6
41 Prehistoric threat,
for short '1
42 Kate's TV
roommate a 18
44 Pollation
legislationgoal 20 21
4613-piece suit?
47 Tenn. athletes 23
48 Train schedule
listings 26 38
49 I, Claudius" star 3
Derek a' 32
52Not drawany 34 3s 3s
cards
551963 hittfor the a 0 41
Drifters... or
whereyou can se a
see the ends of
testarred 47
answer
57 Mixedbag 49 3so 1
58 Demander's
words s s
59 "Othello"
conspiratr es69
60 Fund-raising ,162
dinner, often
61 Like pocket
protectorwearers BnMke sasthneaIt
(02011 Tribune MedaSecs, nca.

emely easy 46 Remain a little
ss Holmes 48Setng for this
ps and clogs puzzle's theme
atthe 49Becomea
es member
in's land 5t AuthorTyler
a lightly 51 ood buddy'
yed every 52 Emulated Michael
of Phelps
up poodles, a 3soultsick
54 With pedfection
portant 56 New Jersey
son fort
IER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
S C A PIS S O U A B
A O G R E A U RA L
S T R A I N F A I R Y
H I E V10 T E
A S C A R W A S H E S
H A L T A R C A N A
A P I E R E A ST S
SM T E M P E R A T U R E
II E B R 1 0 S P Y s
EN N A A N K H
T Y H A C K A Z T E C
A S S T P R 0 W A R
E R L I N E D R I V E
SN D A C H E B R E D
E S N E L L A L S O
itor@aol.com 12/12111
7 9 9 10 11 12 13
16
22
24
27 29 29 30
33
37 39
48
52 53 S4
12/13111

721S. osg/Forest Place
511E Hooter
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 1129 White St.
6 prkg spaces. 3 bth. Some recents Up-
dates. $4200 plus utlities. 734-996-
1991. www.cappomanagement.com
(734) 332-6000
www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2012. dklemptner@comcast.net
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL.FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
cated on Central Campus near the
Busi-
ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.micltcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two,'Three bedroom apartments
loctaed on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedrrom apartments
loctaed near the U/M Medical Cam-
pus.
Two blocks to Central Campus. Call
Michigan Commercial Realty.
734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE
bedroom house loctaed near the U/M
Athletic Campus and Band Field.
Parking and Laundry. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
*!!!!4 BDRM CONDO N. Campus
area. Free utilities, air cond., laundry,
cable, int. Loaded w/extras.
$598/pp/mo. 4 pax min. 313-838-2629.

!! www.varsitymanagement.
THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (DORMS) com !I
THINK U. TOWERS
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTs Varsity Management
WHY PAY OVER $1500
FOR A BEDI Is625 Church St.
OUR ONE BEDROOMS (734) 668-1100
START AT $589
Best Locations in town
'FOR A IM ITED TIME ONLY, Fully furnished apartments avail-
FREE PROCEsING FEE, $150.00 VALUE able
for fall 2012
RA E IREtIN Two Bedrooms
FOR SPRINGI/FALL 2012
1039 Baldwin
"3FREE BUBBLE ILADI
RIEKCUPOB WITH 911 S. Forest
EVERY NEW TUR*
1001 S. Forest
Vstus AT
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MICOM 1015 Huron
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME
S. FOREST AVE. 801 W. Madison
ANN ARBOR, MI148160
734-761-280 539 Packard
917 Packard
1015 Vaughn
521 Walnut
Apartmentsare renting fast! Call
Varsity to schedule your tour today!
ON CAMPUS LOCATIONS! AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS:
WHY PAY $1500 FOR A BED???
Varsity Management has Studios, Our I bedrooms start at $589.
1 Bedroom, & 2 Bedroom Apart- We are now Renting for Spring/Fall
ments 2012
Available on Campus! **FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
FREE PROCESSING FEE, $150.00
Locations close tothe Business, VALUE22
Law School, & more!
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
For Locations & Prices
(734)668-1100 CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
w-vites you to visit
www.CampusMgtcom
www.varsitymanagement.com the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We
BEAUTIFUL 5 BEDROOM spe-
HOUSEco cialize in houses and apartments very
Near the Law School! close to central campusAll are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
Totally remodeled with hardwood many are furnished and some include
floors, updated kitchen, & 2 full baths! utilities. Contact us for details. Cow-
The apt is extremely spacious with plete listing for Fall 2012 available
large bedrooms great for sharing. now! Or call and speak with our
Two parking spaces included and Leasing Consultant, Pat at
on-site laundry. 734-663-4101.
For More Information
Call (734)668-1100 FANTASIC THREE BDRM FLAT.
Main floor private house. Beautiful cus-
www.varsitymanagement.com tom wood burning firerplace, full laun-
dry, larger private fenced yard and sun-
4 BDRM/2 BATH louse deck, hardwood floors and new carpet-
Central Campus. Parking and Laundry. ingthroughout.Freshly painted. $1300/
Avail. Sept. 2012. 734-395-6823 month w/ lease. Cult 734-478-5730.
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
crin g e. now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
best housing sold out early for 2010
Varsity Management and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a. $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
625(734) rch h 00 blocks from Central Campusand down-
town. I to 4 bedroom, private baths
Bst Locations in town available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
Fully furnished apartments avail- 4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
able
for fall 2012: LIMITED 1 BED Apts. Remaining
I @ 326E. Madison $925/$945
One Bedrooms 2 @ 515 E. Lawrence $880
Fully Furnished
543 Church Heat & Water Included
Covered Parking Available
801 W. Madison Free Internet
734-761-8000
848 Tappan primesh.com
1015 Vaughn 411 HIGH STREET APART-
MENTS
515 Walnut 2 Bedrooms
Kerry Town-North Campus!
521 Walnut Quiet Neighborhood!
Heat & Water Included
418 E. Washington Cover Parking Available
$895-$925
Apartments are renting fast! Call 734-761-8000
Varsity to schedule your tour today! primesh.com

FULLY FURNISHED DOWN to
linens private keyed room and share ap-
pointed kitchen, larger bathrooom, fur-
nished living room with two other ten-
ants. Quiet private house. No smoking
or pets. $450/mo. Call 734-478-5730
!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2
kitchens, living room, dining room,
free
laundry and parking, Central Air!
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-8115

INTERNSHP/JOB starts at $12.00/hr
Email resume to
hr@synergybroadband.com
for excellent opportunity with local IT
firm www.synergybroadband.com
Part time during school year, full time
summers and permanent placement
pos-
sible. International work permits wel-
come.
PAID INTERNSHIP W/ local wealth
management firm. Please send resume
to alla@affinitywealthsolutions.com
SCOREKEEPERS IS NOW HIRING
Floormen and part-time office staff.
Punctual and dependable applicants ap-
ply at 310 Maynard. Contact John 734-
368-8678
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

a
a

4


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, December 13, 2011- 7

Seniors celebrate being 'back' Bowl practices ready

Rc
S
M
conk

LIVC
nightti
seniors
progra
Howar
Rich R
to Cher
"It's
it's li
man wi
as the
Michig
rel Ma
some p
Coke m
and de
Coke.
"The
put che
consum
So then
bring i
get this
Hiri
have t
traditio
scheme
parable
tion lik
a new d
"Tha
saying
ple on
"And, y
buying
Mic
Dave Bi
ino's C
seats a'
head.
"So
brough
like Da
thing
said.
Mor
ered M
senior,
ranked'
Ever
"Th
exclaim

obinson voted took the podium.
"If I could apply for a sixth year,
chembechler I would," said fifth-year senior
Junior Hemingway.
VP for second- Fifth-year senior Troy Wool-
folk even joked he was grateful
secutive season senior wide receiver Martavious
Odoms broke his ankle before the
By TIM ROHAN 2010 season, so Woolfolk could be
Daily SportsEditor a part of this year's team.
"Always (I'll remember the
ONIA, Mich. - On the seniors) - no question," Michigan
he Michiganfootballteam's coach Brady Hoke told reporters
gathered to celebrate the after the bust. "The relationships
m being "back," Desmond are what you try and get out of
d compared former coach this.
odriguez "And to see these guys succeed
ry Coke. NOTEBOOK ... and to watch them growtogeth-
a brand er, that was the neat part."
ike Coke," said the Heis- By now, the seniors' story was
inner Howard, who served told: the fifth-year guys had three
emcee for the 91st annual head coaches and three differ-
an football bust at Lau- ent sets of position coaches. The
nor in Livonia, Mich. "So fourth-year seniors had never
eople in the boardroom at won a bowl game.
iake some crazy decisions Rodriguez's tumultuous tenure
cide to go with like Cherry seemingly came crashing down at
this event last year. An emotional
ey said, 'OK, we're going to Rodriguez began singing Josh
erry in Coke.' But then the Groban's "You Raise Me Up," as an
sers didn't like it too much. attempt to show how he felt about
n they had to go back and his players that had just endured
n some brilliant minds to another embarrassing season.
thing back on track." A year later, the seniors reflect-
ngRodriguez, who may not ed on their ascension with their
inderstood the Michigan own emotional speeches,
in and had non-traditional "There was a time when we got
s for the Big Ten, was com- booed by you guys and that hurt,"
to a high-profile corpora- fifth-year senior center David
:e Coke taking a chance on Molk told the crowd. "The reality
Irink. is this is Michigan, and we come
at's like Domino's Pizza back."
we're going to put pineap- "Coach Hoke, like you said on
pizza," Howard continued. day one, 'For God's sakes, this is
ou know, consumers aren't Michigan,' "said senior defensive
it." tackle Mike Martin.
higan Athletic Director Howard used his opening
trandon, the former Dom- remarks to heap praise onto
EO, who was sitting a few Hoke's turnaround effort this
way, laughed and shook his season. In particular, Howard
loved Hoke's hiring of defensive
what Michigan did is we coordinator of Greg Mattison. He
t in some brilliant minds, said Brandon made the hire of the
avid Brandon, to get this year in nabbing Hoke, then Hoke
back on track," Howard made the next-best hire by signing
Mattison. The phrase "Michigan
e than 1,600 people gath- Man" was thrown around several
tonday night to honor the times.
class and relive the 12th- Howard said he watched
Wolverines' 10-2 season. Hoke's introductory press confer-
yone had a lot to celebrate. ence with his wife and told her: "It
ank God for defense," was hard. It was long. But Dave
ed Howard, soon after he got the right guy."

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Junior quarterback Denard Robinson threw for more than 2.000 yards and ran
for more than 1,000 as he led Michigan to a 10-2 record.

As he has done all season, Hoke
made sure the spotlight was on his
seniors, as he laughed and joked
with them all night.
"Doing this at a couple other
schools where you had fifth-year
seniors, at San Diego State, I was
their third head coach," Hoke
said. "That's part of it, and you
understand it.
"There are some guys that this
place means an awful lot too - in
fact, all of them. They appreciate
what Michigan means and what it
has done for them."
AWARD WINNERS: Junior
quarterback Denard Robinson
was selected by his teammates
to receive the Bo Schembechler
Most Valuable Player award for
the second consecutive season.
"I think he means an awful
lot, but it was probably as close a
vote as I've ever seen," Hoke said.
"And what you tell is how they feel
about each other and what this
team has been all year long."
Molk was named the team's
Hugh H. Rader Jr. Memorial
Award winner as the team's top
offensive lineman, adding to his
already impressive trophy case.
Defensive linemen Martin, and
fifth-year seniors Ryan Van Ber-
gen and Will Heininger, took
home hardware too.
For the third-consecutive sea-

GV1G UGLC11MVC 1111C

son, Martin won the Richard
Katcher Award for Michigan's top
defensive lineman. Heininger, an
Ann Arbor native, was given the
Dr. Arthur D. Robinson schol-
arship award for the team's top
senior scholar.
And Van Bergen shared the
Robert P. Ufer bequest with senior
tight end Kevin Koger. The honor
is bestowed upon the seniors who
demonstrate the most enthusiasm
and love for Michigan.
Redshirt junior Kenny Demens,
whose 86tackles led the team, was
given the Roger Zatkoff Award as
the Wolverines' top linebacker.
EVANS WON'T BE BACK:
Fifth-year senior Marell Evans is
not expected to play for Michigan
next season.
"Because of a twist of fate with
different transfers and things that
happened, Marell was not able to
play or be eligible," Hoke told the
crowd. "But what he did do every-
day on the scout team was, he did
a tremendous job of representing
our opponent and our opponent's
defense.
"I can't thank Marell enough
fur that because there would've
been a lot of guys that said, 'That's
it.' But this team means an awful
lot to him, and I'm very glad that
he made a decision to stick with
it."

Campbell and
Washington among
big bodies who
could emerge
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily SportsEditor
For most of the season, Michi-
gan coach Brady Hoke reminded
the media that his team only had
12 guaranteed opportunities to
show people what it could do. Ten
wins turned 12 games into 13.
As the coaching staff tries to
find the formula to surpass the
total next season, the Wolverines
will have 12 more opportunities.
They're not wasting any time
preparing for them.
With two-and-a-half weeks
until the Sugar Bowl, No. 12
Michigan started bowl practices
last Friday. The tentative sched-
ule has the Wolverines practic-
ing during weekends to "dodge"
preparation for finals. But with
so much time before the bowl,
the coaching staff will devote a
little more time to developing the
future.
"We'll, as a group, work on
fundamentals and technique
once we get back on the field,"
said Hoke in his Monday press
conference after the Ohio State
game. "You're doing a little bit
for everybody, but some of the
younger guys we'll give a couple
reps too and some stuff that we
maybe wouldn't (during a game
week)."
In particular, Hoke needs
to groom replacements on his
favorite unit, defensive line. The
departure of fifth-year seniors
Ryan Van Bergen and Will
Heininger, along with senior
Mike Martin leaves junior defen-
sive end Craig Roh as the lone
returning starter in the trenches
in 2012.
Martin finished ttird on the
team in tackles thisseason with
54. The backup defensive line-
men have registered just 44 tack-
les combined in their careers.
Hoke said he would treat the

beginning of bowl practice simi-
larly to fall camp, which should
lead to further improvement
for converted offensive lineman
Quinton Washington. Despite
only playing sparingly this sea-
son, the redshirt sophomore has
drawn the praise of his coaching
staff and teammates throughout
the season.
"That's the first guy that
popped into my head," Mar-
tin said of Washington when
asked about the younger players'
improvement. "It's is something
that not everyone gets to see obvi-
ously because he doesn't get a lot
of playing time, but he's made
huge strides. ... When he first got
here, he was a load to deal with
over there working hard with the
scout team and coach saw the
athleticism that he does have.
"Bringing his hands and feet
were huge for him. He struggled
with that and I've seen day and
night improvement from him."
Likely to join Washington as
heavy contributors on the line
for next season are junior Will
Campbell, who saw chunks of
playing time this season after
receiving a lot of hype in fall
.camp, and sophomore defensive
end Jibreel Black, who was also
a regular contributor. Hoke was
quick to praise Washington and
added a few more names that will
try to fill the giant gaps (literally)
left by the departing seniors.
"I like (Washington's) intensi-
ty about his work and his focus,"
Hoke said. "A kid named (fresh-
man) Keith Heitzman has shown
some things that you get excited
about. (Freshman) Chris Rock,
there's some things there that
he's doing well. (Redshirt fresh-
man) Richard Ash is a guy that
we've got to bring along."
The list isn't exactly full of rec-
ognizable faces, but according to
Martin, they soon will be.
"I have full faith that those
guys are going tobe able to reach
the expectations for tie position
to play defensive line at Michi-
gan," Martin said.
Martin, on the other hand, is
just thankful for one more oppor-
tunity.

Wolverines enter home stretch of non- conference slate

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
On Saturday, the No. 18 Michi-
gan men's basketball team escaped
from the Palace
at Auburn Hills Ark.-Pine
with a 90-80 win
over Oakland. Bluff at
It also escaped Michigan
from the rigor-
ous portion of its Matchup: Ark.
non-conference Pine Buff 5;
scheule. Michigan 7-2
schedule.
With the When: Tues-
major-confer- day 7 P.M.
ence opponents Where:
(and tough mid- Crisler Arena
major compe- TV/Radio:
tition) in the ESPNU
rearview mir-
ror, Michigan
(7-2) now shifts its attention to the
Arkansas-Pine Bluffs and Alabama
A&Ms of the schedule.
The Wolverines' next three
opponents are a combined 7-12,
and with each of those games being
played at Crisler Arena, it would
be a massive letdown if Michigan
didn't head into conference play at
10-2 - a familiar record for a cer-
tain bowl-bound team in the Ath-
letic Department.
After the Wolverines host Brad-
ley on Dec. 22, they will set their
sights on the Big Ten season. The
conference, which had just three
teams ranked in the preseason top-
25, now has six ranked teams. No.
19 Illinois, which was expected to
rebuild this year, is 10-0 so far. And
No. 20 Indiana, which hadn't been
ranked since 2008, just knocked
off Kentucky - previously the No.
1 team.
"I think the league has sur-
prised people around the nation,"
said Illinois coach Bruce Weber
duringthe conference's teleconfer-
ence on Monday. "A good start for
us and for the whole Big Ten con-
ference. I've got to believe (the Big
Ten will) be RPI-wise No.1, unless
we really fall off these last couple
weeks of non-conference.

The Big Ten is indeed tops in
RPI at the moment. And its six
teams in the top-25 is tied for the
best in college basketball.
"I thought beforehand that we
were going to have a lot of sur-
prising teams," Weber said. "A
lot of the question marks that the
teams had and the conference
had, I think are starting to get
answered."
On Tuesday, Michigan will get
its first of three tuneups for Big
Ten play when it takes on Arkan-
sas-Pine Bluff. The low-revenue,
small-conference team has played
each of its games on the road and
won't play at home until Jan. 14.
Arkansas-Pine Bluff (1-5) has
struggled offensively and has
failed to top 60 points all season.
The Golden Lions have shot just38
percent from the field and average
52 points per game while allowing
68. Meanwhile, the Wolverines
put up a season-high 90 points on
Saturday on 57 percent shooting
from the floor and 54 percent
shooting behind the arc.
The Golden Lions' lone offen-
sive threat is senior guard Sava-
lace Townsend. The Mississippi
native has accounted for more
than one-third of Arkansas-Pine
Bluff's scoring and has tallied
nearly one-third of the team's
assists. Townsend likes to get to
the rim and is an excellent free
throw shooter, but he struggles
when forced to shoot the longer
jump shots.
Sophomore forward Evan
Smotrycz will be important in
helping out to keep Townsend
out of the lane and forcing
the guard to snake jumpers.
Smotrycz broke out for 20 points
on 7-for-8 shooting and nine
rebounds. His 5.7 boards leads
the team - a welcome change
from last year when guard Zack
Novak led the team.
The Wolverines should be
licking their chops at the Golden
Lions' offensive inefficiency.
Arkansas-Pine Bluff commits

almost two turnovers per assist -
a staggering ratio that Michigan
will surely try to exploit.
Freshman point guard Trey
Burke could be the beneficiary
of some of those turnovers if the
Golden Lions' guard play gets
sloppy. Burke, who picked up his
second Big Ten Freshman of the
Week award on Monday, scored
20 points and notched his highest
field-goal percentage of the season,
nailing seven of 11 shots. He also
tied a career high with nine assists.
"He has performed, what I say,
is atypical of most freshmen," said
Michigan coach John Beilein. "For
him to be playing 30-35 minutes
a game and still playing at a high
level all 30 or 35 says a lot about his
personality, his desire to win and
be a good player - really become a
good Big Ten player.
"We're just continuing to give
him more and more and he's show-
ing no frustration about when he
makes mistakes, and he's allowing

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Freshman guard Trey Burke hit 7-of-11 shots from the field as he scored 20 points in Michigan's 90-80 win over Oakland.

himself to become a better player
because he's a great listener."
With the starting cast filling up
the stat sheet, Beilein will turn his
attention to the bench to figure out
roles entering Big Ten play.
The games in the next two

weeks will give Beilein a chance to
evaluate and decide who will see
the floor come Dec. 29 when Penn
State comes to Ann Arbor.
"We are still looking for what's
the best bench rotation. I think
that our starting five is pretty

solidified. You can count on (senior
guard) Stu Douglass coming off
the bench.
"We are looking for who's going
to give us something both offen-
sively, defensively at the seventh,
eighth and ninth spots."


Campus Mind Works Groups
FREE drop-in education and support
groups for any U-M student with
Depression, Bipolar, or Anxiety
Seasonal Affective Disorder
and Depression
When: Tuesday, December 13
from 5:30-7:00 p.m.
Where: Psychological Clinic, 2nd Floor
530 Church St., East Hall
Visit www.campusmindworks.org
for more information,
Presented by the U-M Depression
Center in collaboration with
the College of Engineering and
niversiyO "Michigan Psycholog ical Clinic,
Depression Center yogt

r
z
_ :,;;
'' y
'
"

--- - -------- - ---- - - - - - - -------------------


8 - uesayDeceber3, 011The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I

IN DErAIIA

I

I

4 r re, TEXT l'UM2' To 22022
TO GET AN EXTRA $10 WHEN
YOU SELL $50 IN BOOKS~
*Offer valid on buybacks of $50 or more. Eopires 12/31/2011. Not valid with any other offer.
BEST PRICE GUARANTEE

ULRICH'S
549 East University Avenue
ulrichs.com
MICHIGAN BOOK
& SUPPLY
317 5. State Street
michbook.com

t



