be 1*t lian ,IatIgj
()NE I UN EI DI \(_}I' I TWEN Y YE 1S I 'F E iAL FREE()M
Monday, October 24, 2011

Ann Arbor, Michigan

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY POLICIES
'U' to draft new
policy on sexual
misconduct

Law School student Tiffany Huyenh-Cho gets into the fall spirit while carving pumpkins in the Law Quad at an event on Saturday sponsored hy
the Law School Student Senate and OUTLAWS, an LGBTQ club within the school.
POLITICAL FIGURES
Granholm has fullslate
in post-gubernatorial life

Administrators,
students to discuss
permanent policy in
winter semester
By HALEY GOLDBERG
Daily StaffReporter
University officials plan to start
crafting apermanent policy for
addressing allegations of sexual mis-
conduct this winter term with input
from the campus community.
The University put an interim policy
in place in August that lowers the stan-
dard of evidence needed for investigat-
ing allegations of sexual misconduct
from clear and convincing evidence to
a preponderance of the evidence.
The interim procedure was created
in response to federal guidelines for
federally funded universities regard-
ing Title IX compliance, which Uni-
versity officials receivedfrom the U.
S. Department of Education in a "Dear

Colleague" letter on April 4. In antici-
pation of the guidelines, the Univer-
sity's Sexual Assault Prevention and
Awareness Center and other Univer-
sity organizations had already begun
developing a temporary plan, accord-
ing to SAPAC Director Holly Rider-
Milkovich.
"We knew this was coming back in
February and March, and nationally,
our colleagues were put on notice that
there was going to be guidance," Rid-
er-Milkovich said.
The advanced notice enabled Uni-
versity groups to mobilize and start
drafting an interim procedure, Rider-
Milkovich said. The groups include
the Office of Student Conflict Resolu-
tion, the office of Institutional Equity,
the Office of the Vice President and
General Counsel, among others.
Jay Wilgus, director of the Office of
Student Conflict Resolution, agreed
that the temporary plan - which
became effective on Aug. 18 - gave
the University a head start to develop
a permanent procedure.
See POLICY, Page 5A

Former gov. teaches
at UC-Berkeley, has
forthcoming talk show
By HALEY GLATTHORN
Daily StaffReporter
Former Democratic Gov. Jennifer
Granholm left Michigan's gubernato-
rial seat 10 months ago, but her calen-
dar is still full.

Granholm - whose term ended
last January - is now a visiting pro-
fessor at the University of California,
Berkeley, where she teaches a public
policy class. Other projects on Gran-
holm's agenda include promoting her
new book, advocating for clean energy
development and preparing for a polit-
ical talk show she will host beginning
in January.
Granholm said in a phone interview
with The Michigan Daily that leaving
office has given her free time to pursue

other interests.
"I am loving it," Granholm said.
"I get to choose the projects that I'm
working on, (and) I am completely
excited and energized by the students
in my class who are going to be the
next leaders of the country and the
state."
Granholm said she chose to move to
California earlier this year to be closer
to her family and to take advantage of
potential job opportunities at Berkeley
See GRANHOLM, Page 5A



UNIVERSITY ENROLLMENT
Common
App adds
Is 0
to sp ike in
applicants
Application pool
increased by 25
percent in 2010-2011
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
With more applications pouring in
due to the University's switch to the
Common Application last year, admis-
sions at the University are getting more
competitive.
During last year's admissions cycle,
the University received a record num-
ber of applicants for this year's fresh-
man class. The University received a
record 39,584 applications - a 25-per-
cent increase, according to enrollment
data released last Thursday.
Rob Killion, executive director of
The Common Application, Inc., wrote
in an e-mail interview that the Uni-
versity of Michigan's application num-
bers have been increasing every year
and would have likely increased again
See APPLICANTS, Page SA

LOCAL BUSINESSES
Grand Traverse Pie Co. to
fill void left by @burger

Cafe to open on
East Liberty Street
in mid-November
By CHELSEA LANDRY
Daily Staff Reporter
Thanks to a new business open-
ing on Liberty, satisfying your sweet
tooth will be a piece of pie.
Grand Traverse Pie Company is
slated to open at 505 East Liberty St.
the space formerly occupied by @
burger - in mid-November. Founded
in 1996, the company is a regionally-
based operation with 17 locations

across Michigan and Indiana, includ-
ing one on North Zeeb Road in Ann
Arbor.
Grand Traverse Pie Company's
menu includes sand-
wiches, soups and
baked goods in addi- p ,
tion to an extensive
pie selection includ-
ing such flavors as
"Front Street Apple,"
"Blissful Pecan Choc-
olate Chip," and "Tall Ship Blackberry
Peach Crumb."
Brendan Cavender, a sales associ-
ate at Colliers International - a com-
mercial real estate service - sold the
See GRAND TRAVERSE, Page SA

An Eastern Michigan University player tries to grab the quaffle from Michigar
during a Muggle Quidditch watch on Saturday in the Nichols Arboretum.

RAISING AWARENESS
SlutWalk participants emphasize importance of consent

Movement comes to A2
to show support for new
FBI definition of rape
By PHOEBE BARGHOUTY
For the Daily
The FBI's new proposed definition of
rape begins with, "Penetration, no mat-
ter how slight" - a definition partici-

pants of Ann Arbor's SlutWalk endorse.
On Saturday, LSA junior Megan Pfei-
ffer and LSA sophomore Nicole Cor-
rigan, co-organizers of Ann Arbor's
SlutWalk, took to the streets of down-
town Ann Arbor for a walk, which
aimed to raise awareness about sexual
violence toward women. Pfeiffer and
Corrigan were joined by about 75 peo-
ple for the walk, which started on the
Diag and ended at Beta Theta Pi frater-
nity house on South State Street.

The FBI's current definition of rape
- which has been in place since 1929
- is "the carnal knowledge of a female
forcibly and against her will." The new
proposed definition reads, "Penetra-
tion, no matter how slight, of the vagina
or anus with any body part or object,
or oral penetration by a sex organ of
another person, without the consent of
the victim."
Pfeiffer said the FBI's proposed defi-
nition is much more "inclusive," point-

ing out that the new definition of rape
includes men, transgender people and
people under the influence of alcohol or
drugs.
While Pfeiffer and Corrigan said
supporting the new definition was one
of the purposes of the walk, the main
goal was to raise awareness about the
broader issues of rape and the exploita-
tion of women. SlutWalk is a national
movement with walks taking place in
See SLUTWALK, Page 3A


WEATHER HI: 66
TOMORROW LO: 51

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Alum creates website to land U' social media job
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX AP NEWS.................3A CLASSIFIEDS..............6A
Vol.CXXII, No. 33 OPINION.....................4A ARTS .........,.............8A
©2011The Michigan Dally NEWS 5A SPORTSMONDAY..........1B
michigandailycow


2A -- Friday, October 24, 2011

- Frday Ocobe 24,201 1N \VSThe Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4


MONDAY TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
nOhr"This Week in History Professor Profiles Campus Clubs Photos of the Week
NESPPR EANDACCESa O LOU4LSTYOPLAIT DAY
U. of Illinois fights Chicago Tribune

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
wwwmichigandailycom
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-410-4110 ext. 1211 734-418-4115 eat. 1241
steinbrerg@michigandailycom zyancer@michigandailycom

The University of Ilii-
niois has gone to courc again
to restricc the Chicago
Tribune's access to docu-
ments related to the names
on "the clout list," which
shows how applicants with
connections had an advan-
tage in admissions, accord-
ing to an Oct. 20 New York
Times article.
The University of Illinois
went to court two years
ago to protect the informa-
tion on the list the Tribune
reported on, the article
states.
The Tribune is now try-
ing to obtain information
including the ACT scores

an(
on,
ted
rep

d GPAs of the students la and E. coli, according to
the list who were admit- the article. The process nor-
[ to the school, the Times mally costs $50 and requires
sorted. a 12-hour time frame.
The detector reduces the
YALE STUDENTS cost to about $1 and takes
DECTECT FOOD 30 minutes. The Yale team
POISONING won a $20,000 prize for its
design, which in now being
A group of graduate stu- built into a working pinto-
its at Yale University type, The Huffington Post
hoping to end food poi- reported.

den
is k

advocacy group, visited The
George Washington Uni-
versity last Tuesday to dis-
cuss their founding of GW
Phones for Hope, according
to an Oct. 20 Entertain-
ment Tonight article.
The program was born
out of The Clinton Global
Initiative and aims to raise
money for mobile medical
technology in developing
nations, according to the
article.
In order to raise money,
the program will collect
used mobile phones that
will be recycled and made
into new phones.
- PAIGE PEARCY

Newsraam
734-418-4115 ay.3
tarrections
correcrions@michigandoily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandily.comr
Sports Settion
spors@michigandaily.com,
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sates
oetineaodo@michigandaily.co

News Tips
nea@erichigandoily.com
Letters to the tditar
tothedoity@michigoedaity.com
tditorial Pate
opinion@criclrigandaily.rom
Photography Sectian
photo@meichigandaily.com
tlassified Sales
claesified@oichigandaily.coe
Finante
finance@miclrigandaily.com

soning with the invention
of a detector for bovine-
based food-borne illnesses,
according to. an Oct. 21
H~uffington Post article.
Only about one in 1,000
cows are usually screened
for pathogens like salmonel-

CLINTON SPEAKS
ABOUT MATERNAL
ADVOCACY AT GW
Chelsea Clinton and
Christy Turlington Burns,
the founder of a maternal

PAUL SHtOMAN/Daily
The Zeta Taa Alpha sorority holds its
anaual yogurt eating contest on Oct. 21.
Proceeds henefit hreast cancer research.

CRIME NOTES
Extinguisher Bicycle foul play

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

makes its escape
WHERE: South Quad
Residence Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about
~:35 am.
WHAT: A fire extinguisher
was stolen from the
tesidence hall between
October 16 and 23,
University Police reported.
Fire gets canned
WHERE: 500 South State
Street
WHEN: Friday at about
11:35 p.m.
WHAT: Officers
extinguished a fire burning
in a trash can near Tappan
Hall, University Police
reported. Police believe
the fire was accidental, and
nothing was reported as
damaged.

WHERE: Shapiro
Undergraduate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
3:15 am.
WHAT: A male not
affiliated with the
University was found
tinkering with bicycles,
University Police reported.
He was arrested on
outstanding warrants.
Fake cash gets
confiscated
WHERE: 1500 East
Medical Center Drive
WHEN: Friday at about
9:30 a.m.
WHAT: A fake $50 bill
was found during cash
processing from the
previous day, University
Police reported. There are
no suspects.

Three-man
guitar show
WHAT: The Guitar
Masters, comprised of three
acoustic guitar players and
composers, will perform
pieces from their innovative
set list. Tickets cost $30.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
International
law forum
WHAT: Policy makers,
lawyers and academics will
discuss global challenges
in law and policy. An
international judge and a
University law professor
will be among the speakers.
WHO: Center for
International &
Comparative Law
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Hutchins Hall,
room 120

Support group
WHAT: Students of all
identities are invited to
attend this gender support
group to discuss personal
and social issues.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 3200
CORRECTIONS
.SAn Oct. 20 article in
the Daily (111U, Solar
Car Team places third
in World Challenzge"a)
incorrectly stated the
number of times the Solar
Car Team has competed
in the World Challenge.
It's competed S times.
It also misattributed
the photo credit. The
photo was takenhby
Marcin Szczepanski.
0Please report any
error in the Daily
to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

IThe Apple iPod celebrated
*its 10th birthday on
USunday, the Telegraph
reported. Though the, iPod
was not the first MP3 player
available to the public, it was
the first to become a mass-
market product.
2The Michigan hockey
team lost Friday, 5-3,
at Northern Michigan
in a game marred by a brawl
Saturday, the Wolverinesnwon
their first-ever shootout.
>> FOR MORE. SEE SPORTSMONDAY,
INSIDE
3New national figures
reveal that half of U.S.
workers made less than
$26,364 at their jobs last year,
The Washington Post report-
ed. The nation's unemploy-
ment rate remains unchanged
at 9.1 percent, and more than
54 million are out of work.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@nmichigandaily.com
Nicole Aher ManagigNews Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SEOR oNEWS EORS:osBethaBion, DylnCni, CitsliHso,orsephLchtermn,
ASSISTANT sEWS EDITORS: Haley Gathor, ,Clirescicki ,uannesacbsabira0,
Michelle Dewitt ard opinioneditors@michigaadaity.coe
Emily Orley EdioialrPage Editors
SENIOR EDITRAsLePAGEEORsS:sAidaAli, Ashley Grieammernn, Andre-w Weiner
ASSSTNDTOnR IAnosLrPAGEEDIOSHarsha Nahata,,imohRabbE
Stephen J. Nesitt ard sportseditors@eichioandaity.coa
Tin Rahar ManaingSportsEditors
SOR SPoORTS EDITOaRe Eteichralor,,E, Zach Helan,,Luke rasch,a
Pyzik, Kevin aftersy
ASSSANSORTS EDIOS:o EverettCook, elOosh,,ilds, at Rdnitsky, Matt
Slovi, Li, vuelIich, Daniel Wssrmn
SharonlJacohs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigaedaily.com
SENIOR ARTaS EIORS: Leah Burgi, Kavi ndsr, JenniferXu
ASAsNTsmARTS EOS:aooasb sAxelrd, Cssie alfou~sr,eCsadagima as,
Prom~aKhosla,aid Tao
Marissa Mclair atd photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Math ManaagingPhoto Editors
ASSISTNHTOs EITORS:Ein ikansd,Teraoleaf, Ana Schulte
ZachlBergsonnand deign@eichrigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich ManaagiagDesignaEditors
tarolyn Klarecki MagainerEditor ktareckigmicigandily.com
DEPrTYAGsAZINEoEDIToOSStrhenoOstrowski, DvTor sbynsElyana Twiggs
lash Healy Copy Chief copydesk@michigondaily.com
SENI00 COPrsEDIOcRoS:Christine Chun, HanahPoindexter
Sarah Squire WebhDrcrlopment Manager squire@michigaedaily.com
smran Sayed ruhlionEditor pubticeditor@michigandaity.ome
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliarta trinossociateaBusiness Managr
Rachel Greireto Salrs Manager
Alexis Nectar rroduction Manager
Meghan Roney LaoutMsanagr
tConorByrd Finance Manager
QUy VaCirculatioe Manager
TheMichigan Daily (SSN 0t45-967)is puloishdOonday through tFridacuingotheal d
wintr termsbysudentsat theUnivrsty of Michgan. One cpyiaailable reeso crget
to all reaes.AtionalIcopiesmye pirkedp at the Dily'soffice or $. Subripionsfr
fallte, startonSptemer,ciaU.S. mai aret$110. Witer term(Jnarythoughpil) i
$11,lyrong (Septeber throgoAprl st9. Uiversyffiat,es ejcto arde
subscrpion rte.O-campussEbscrptionsfor al term ar$t. Subsciptions mustibeoprpai.
Te Mihian Dalisaemer ofTh AssciatedPress andiTheAssociated CollegatePress.

4

MHORE ONLINE LoveeCrime Notes? Share them with yearL
followerssonTwitter @CrimeNteor fid themsontheirsnew bog. IV


i

a

0

Illl llllllljIII III

60


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam.

Monday, October 24, 2011 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 24, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
PONTIAC, Mich.
Kevorkians estate
sues museum over
rights to his art
The estate of Dr. Jack Kevork-
ian has filed a lawsuit in suburban
Detroit against a Massachusetts
museum that is refusing to return
17 paintings and other art.
The Armenian Library and
Museum of America in Water-
town, Mass., claims Kevorkian
donated the art in 1999. But the
estate of the assisted-suicide
advocate says he merely loaned it
to the museum for an exhibit and
subsequent storage.
The museum filed its own law-
suit earlier this month to prevent
the estate from getting the art.
Estate attorney Mayer Morgan-
roth says an auction next week in
NewYork was supposed to include
the art.
Kevorkian died in June at age
83. He claimed to have assisted in
more than 130 deaths.
DENVER
U.S. appeals court
upholds roadless
frule in forests
A federal appeals court on
Friday upheld a rule prohibiting
roads on nearly 50 million acres
of land in national forests across
the United States, a ruling hailed
by environmentalists as one of the
most significant in decades.
Mining and energy companies,
however, say it could limit devel-
opment of natural resources such
as coal, oil and natural gas.
The 10th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals backed the 2001 Road-
less Area Conservation Rule after
lawyers for the state of Wyoming
and the Colorado Mining Associa-
tion contended it was a violation of
the law.
Supporters of the roadless rule
say the court's decision preserves
areas where outdoor enthusiasts
like to hunt, fish, hike and camp.
WASHINGTON
Obama: Libyans
can celebrate 'new
era of promise'
President Barack Obama hailed
the declaration of freedom in
Libya yesterday, saying "a new era
[ofpoieisunder way in the
African nation. He also urged its
new leaders to turn their attention
to the political transition ahead.
The leader of Libya's tran-
sitional government, Mustafa
Abdul-Jalil, declared the country
liberated Sunday, three days after
the capture and death of dictator
Moammar Gadhafi.
In a statement issued by the
White House, Obama congratu-
lated the Libyan people and said,
lAfter four decades of brutal dic-
tatorship and eight months of
deadly conflict, the Libyan people
can now celebrate their freedom
and the beginning of a new era of

promise."
Obama said the U.S. looks for-
ward to working with officials as
they prepare for free and fair elec-
tions.'
-CANBERRA, Australia
Aussie coast fears
rogue shark may
have killed three
The sudden death of an
American diver in the jaws of
a great white shark off Austra-
lia's southwest coast has raised
the specter of a rogue man-eater
preying on a renowned aquatic
playground and killing three
men in two months.
Scientists say three sharks
more likely are responsible,
and the three cases are sheerly
unfortunate encounters with
nature.
Australia's southwest cor-
ner has been better known for
whale and dolphin-watching
cruises, white sandy beaches,
world-class surf breaks and the
. peppery shiraz of its Margaret
River premium wineries than
for fatal shark attacks.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

SLUTWA LK Hansen said she participated in
the walk because she hasn't seen
From Page 1A enough excitement or energy in
Ann Arbor to end violence - sex-
other cities including New York ual or otherwise.
and Paris. "I think that every college
Pfeiffer and Corrigan saidthey wants to pretend that it's not
hoped the event would put more happening," Hansen said. "But it
focus on preventing rape and less happens everywhere."
on blamingthe survivors. As the walk ended at the Beta
"Our biggest issue is with vic- Theta Pi house, participants
tim blaming," Pfeiffer said. signed a letter to FBI Director
Only a fraction of the 1,014 Robert Mueller supporting the
confirmed Facebook attendees new definition of rape. Corrigan
showed up at the Diag on Satur- and Pfeiffer initially approached
day morning, but participants the fraternity brothers about
were enthusiastic and vocal. getting involved with the move-
During the walk, the demonstra- ment. They said the brothers'
tors, mostly women and a few involvement exceeded their
men, sported signs with slogans expectations and they're pleased
like "My dress is not a yes" and "A with the fraternity's support of
short sirt is not an invitation." the cause.
Pfeiffer said that despite the Beta Theta Pi President Chris
relatively low attendance, the Dietzel, an LSA senior, said the
event occurring on campus was fraternity chose to participate in
important. the SlutWalk because it wants to
"I think just that fact that we take a stance against sexual vio-
are doing it makes a world of dif- lence on behalf of the Greek com-
ference," Pfeiffer said. munity.
LSA freshman Chavon Tay- "Women deserve respect, and
lor, an event participant, said she we just want to make sure that
attended to make the voices of we are doing our part to make
women heard. sure that they feel safe and wel-
"Just because we dress a cer- come in our community," Dietzel
tain way does not mean that we said.
are asking for it, or asking to get An FBI panel with criminal
raped," Taylor said. "There is no justice and national security
excuse for it." experts voted to change the defi-
She added that she hopes the nition of rape last Tuesday. The
movement will change the way FBI will reach a decision regard-
people view sexual violence and ing the proposed definition in
will put more blame on rapists December. Regardless of the
instead of on survivors. outcome, Hansen said the walk
"Instead of telling women how drew important attention to the
to dress, they need to tell men issue of consent.
that it's not OK to rape, period," "Consent is a clear and freely
Taylor said. given 'yes,' not the absence of a
Ann Arbor resident Jenny 'no,' "Hansen said.
'LIKE' THE DAILY ON
FACEBOOK

ABDURRAH MAN ANTAKYALI, ANATOLIA/AF
People try to save victims trapped under debris in the village of Tabanli near the city of Van after a powerful earthquake
struck eastern Turkey yesterday, collapsing some buildings and causing a number of deaths, an official said.
Turkey earthquake kills
8, collapses buildings

Residents forced
to flee to nearby
villages, sleep
outdoors
ANKARA, Turkey (AP) -
Cries of panic and horror filled
the air as a 7.2-magnitude earth-
quake struck eastern Turkey,
killing at least 88 people as build-
ings pancaked and crumpled into
rubble.
Tens of thousands fled intothe
streets running, screaming or
trying to reach relatives on cell
phones as apartment and office
buildings cracked or collapsed.
As the full extent of the damage
became clear, survivors dug in
with shovels or even their bare
hands, desperately trying to res-
cue the trapped and the injured.
"My wife and child are inside!
My 4-month-old baby is inside!"
CNN-Turk television showed one
young man sobbing outside a col-
lapsed building in Van, the pro-
vincial capital.
The hardest hit area was Ercis,
an eastern city of 75,000 close to
the Iranian border, which lies on
one of Turkey's most earthquake-

prone zones. The bustling city of
Van, about 55 miles (90 kilome-
ters) to the south, also sustained
substantial damage. Highways in
the area caved in and Van's air-
port was damaged, forcing flights
to be diverted.
TRT television reported that
59 people were killed and 150
injured in Ercis, 25 others died
in Van and four people, includ-
ing a child, died in the nearby
province of Bitlis. It said at least
nine people were pulled out of
debris alive.
Up to 80 buildings collapsed
in Ercis, including a dormitory,
and 10 buildings collapsed in
Van, the Turkish Red Crescent
said. Some highways also
caved in.
Authorities advised people
to stay away from any damaged
homes, warning they could col-
lapse in the aftershocks. U.S.
scientists recorded over 100
aftershocks in eastern Turkey
within ten hours of the quake,
including one with a magnitude
of 6.0.
Residents in Van and Ercis
lit camp fires, preparing to
spend the night outdoors
while the Red Crescent began
setting up tents in a stadium.

Others fled to seek shelter with
relatives in nearby villages.
Rescue efforts went deep
into the night under generator-
powered floodlights. Workers
tied steel rods around large
concrete slabs in Van, then lift-
ed them with heavy machinery.
Residents sobbed outside the
ruins of one flattened eight-sto-
ry building, hoping that missing
relatives would be found. Wit-
nesses said eight people were
pulled from the rubble, but fre-
quent aftershocks hampered
search efforts. By late evening,
some joy emerged as a ninth,
a teenage girl, was pulled out
alive.

More schools take
anti-bullying action

Climbing teen
suicide rate alarms
schooldistricts
LOS ANGELES (AP) - A his-
tory teacher amends his lessons
on the civil rights movement to
include the push for gay equality.
A high school removes Internet
filters blocking gay advocacy web-
sites. Six gay students sue their
district, saying officials failed to
protect them from bullies.
After anti-gay bullying led to
a spate of teen suicides last year,
school districts across the coun-
try are stepping up efforts to pre-
vent such incidents, while more
students are coming forward to
report bullies.
"It'sanissuethathastakenover
the public consciousnesssincelast
fall," said Jill Marcellus, spokes-
woman for the Gay-Straight Alli-
ance Network. "People realize it
doesn't have to be this way. We
can make it better."
Awareness of anti-gay bully-
ing is increasing as acceptance of
gay people has grown in society.
Gay marriage is legal in several
states, gays are now permitted to
serve openly in the military and,
in California, schools will soon
have to teach gay-rights history.
Kids, even as young as middle
school agefeelmore emboldened
to openly express their sexual or
gender orientation, but many are
not prepared for a possible back-
lash, gay-rights advocates say.
According to a 2009 survey
by the Gay, Lesbian and Straight
Education Network, 85 percent
of gay teens reported harassment
at school within the previous
year and two-thirds felt unsafe
at school because of their sexual

orientation. The problem also
extends to boys perceived as
effeminate and girls deemed
masculine.
"A lot of people have the idea
that coming out as soon as pos-
sible will make themselves feel
more comfortable," said Ray-
mond Ferronato, a 16-year-old
gay junior in Antioch, Calif. "I
tell them come outcwhen you're
ready to come out, and only do
it when you're safe."
Schools became aware last
year of how unsafe it can be.
Five gay teens, ranging from
middle school to college age,
killed themselves in California,
Indiana, Minnesota, Texas and
New Jersey, after being bul-
lied, in some cases for years.
Last month, 14-year-old Jamey
Rodemeyer killed himself in
Buffalo, N.Y., after years of
homophobic harassment.
In one case, the U.S. Depart-
ments of Justice and Education
found the Tehachapi Unified
School District in Califor-
nia violatel the civil rights of
13-year-old Seth Walsh, who
hung himself after relentless
taunting and fruitless com-
plaints to school officials. The
district agreed in a July settle-
mentto train staff and students
how to prevent bullying, orga-
nize community meetings and
form an advisory committee,
among other steps.
Federal laws clearly uphold
students' rights to express
sexual orientation - boys, for
example, are legally allowed to
wearskirts just as girls can wear
pants - and obligate schools to
provide all students with a safe
environment, but problems tend
to arise on a social level, often
outside the classroom.


The Michigan Daily - michiaandailv.com

4A - Monday, October 24, 2011

4A -Monay, ctoer 2, 211 Te Mchien Dily mihieadaiv'.


C 4C i~hl3n~aij
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
'OMTHE LDALY
Protect consenting adults
Sex with of-age students isn't a criminal offense
Sexual relationships between high school students and their
teachers are inappropriate, but they are legal in Michigan if
the student is 18 or older. A proposed bill would make such
relationships a criminal sexual offense, regardless of the student's
age. The bill is the type of government interference in the lives of
Michigan adults that wastes taxpayer time and money and should be
voted down immediately.
Michigan's age of consent is 16. But if 2006 for having sex with an 18-year-old male
the partner is in a position of power, which student. Both consented to the act, but because
includes doctors and teachers, the age is raised the male was a student, the teacher faced
to 18 years old. The current law protects minors charges but ultimately was not indicted by the
from advances from teachers; while also allow- jury.
ing adults to make their own decisions. Bringingforward charges of criminal sexual
This proposed bill violates the individual assault is an extremely serious matter and to
rights of Michigan adults. The government equate this to a consensual, sexual encounter
should in no way be involved in the sexual between two adults is absurd. Additionally,
encounters between consenting adults. Rela- prosecuting these types of cases is costly for
tionships between an adult teacher and a minor the state. Charging someone with sexual mis-
student must be investigated by the school dis- conduct in a consenting relationship is an inap-
trict because of the disruption to the school propriateuse ofthe state's money and resources
environment they cause. But relationships and something Michigan must avoid.
between adult teachers and adult students With a staggering 11 percent unemployment
should not be considered a criminal sexual rate in Michigan, it is shameful that Congress
offense. is wasting time discussing this bill. While
There should undoubtedly be systems to many conservative legislators campaigned on
deal with such issues, but these should origi- the premise of concern for Michigan's econo-
nate from the school and not the state's legal my, these types of bills do nothing but cost the
system. Teachers should not have sex with statemoneyitdoesnothave. If Republican Gov.
their students, regardless of their age. But ifa Rick Snyder wants to affirm his commitmentlto
teacher enters into a consensual sexual rela- prioritizing Michigan's economy, he needs to
tionship with a student over age 18, the issue veto this invasive bill.
should be handled within the school district, Teachers should not have sex with their
and notbe punished as a criminal offense. students, but a sexual assault charge for acon-
In 2003, Texas adopted a law similar to sensual sexual relationship between adults is
Michigan's proposed bill. Under the law a unnecessary. The current law is sufficient, and
25-year-old female teacher was arrested in this bill should not be signed into law.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Sims, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
BRITTANY SMITH | V IN
Obama's wins and losses

FROM THE PUBLIC EDITOR I
Institutional voice

T o complete a discussion
that began in my previous
column, I begin with a fact
that often surprises readers: The
unsigned editorials printed on this
page do not always represent the
opinions of The Michigan Daily's
editorial board or editorial page
editor(s).
Every paper has unsigned edi-
torials, which are discussed and
drafted by its editorial board and
printed and backed by the edito-
rial page editor(s) and perhaps the
paper's publisher. They are under-
stood to be the opinion of the paper
as an institution, and they define
the public perception of the paper
more than anything else.
For example, while The Wall
Street Journal has some of the
most comprehensive, visionary
and creative news reporting and
coverage of any newspaper in
the world, it's regarded in liberal
circles as a useless puppet of the
Republican Party. That's because
it has the most notoriously con-
servative institutional voice of any
major newspaper in America, as
reflected in its editorials.
A similar quandary afflicts The
New York Times. Ignoring its
intrepid reporting the world over
and its unmatched literary and
arts commentary, conservatives
routinely pan the Times as a lib-
eral rag because of its editorials.
It's not fair that any newspaper as
a whole should be vilified (or, for
that matter, beloved) simply based
on what its editorials say, but that
is the reality for the Journal and
the Times.
And it's the reality for papers in
all corners of the country. Cities
such as Chicago (with the Chica-
go Tribune and the Chicago Sun-
Times), Washington D.C. (with
The Washington Post and The
Washington Times) and Detroit
(with the Detroit Free Press and

The Detroit News) all have their
"liberal paper" and their "con-
servative paper." Regardless of
the quality of those newspapers'
sports, news and arts coverage and
commentary, many readers choose
to read only the paper whose insti-
tutional voice reflects their own
opinions.
One of the best examples of that
reality may have come from right
here in Ann Arbor. This liberal
bubble had one daily newspaper
- The Ann Arbor News - and,
judging by its editorials, it was a
"conservative paper." The Ann
Arbor News actually endorsed
George W. Bush in 2004. Five
years later, the newspaper folded.
(With its departure after 174years,
Ann Arbor became the first signifi-
cant American city to lose its only
daily newspaper.)
And that brings us back to the
Daily - which, incidentally, is
the closest thing Ann Arbor has
to a daily newspaper these days.
While the foregoing discussion
has shown that institutional voice
matters, it's a special challenge at
the Daily. Its editorials officially
reflect all that this paper has seen,
done and said in its more than 122
years of existence. But that official
ideal is mostly a fantasy.
Unlike all those other papers, a
college paper like the Daily loses a
significant chunk of its staff every
year, and brings in brand new
replacements, who have everything
yet to learn. This reality has drastic
consequences for the paper's insti-
tutional voice. The Daily has no
editor or publisher who remains in
the newsroom for more than a few
years. Everyone who learns what
this paper is and should be about
leaves shortly after gaining that
special understanding.
And so this paper has a policy
of looking to its past opinions and
drawing on "Daily precedent" for

current editorials. It's an imperfect
process, not only because those
engaging in the exercise are inex-
perienced, but also because Daily
precedent is itself somewhat nebu-
lous and imprecise. Most of what the
editors regard today as the Daily's
institutional voice was created dur-
ing the student revolutionary days
of the 1960s and during a somewhat
turbulent time for this paper in the
late 1980s. All that came before and
after is de-emphasized inthe "Daily
precedent" equation.
None of this should be taken to
mean that Daily precedent is unim-
portant. Institutional voice is obvi-
ously a great asset and the closest
thing to a legacy that a newspaper
can have. The challenge for Daily
editorial board members and the
editors is to ensure they cultivate,
refine and strengthen that insti-
tutional voice. To those few Daily
staffers charged with the respon-
sibility of maintaining this paper's
institutional voice, I stress the
seriousness of this task and the
importance of putting in all the
time and effort it takes to ensure
a sharp, informed and meaningful
advocacy of the issues that matter
to this institution.
Regardless of its massive annual
staff turnover, this paper has built
up a reputation as a champion of
students and anunflinching believ-
er in the greatness of the Universi-
ty, this state and in sensible liberal
causes everywhere. That is "Daily
precedent" in a nutshell: It's what
being an idealistic college student
at a state university is all about.
-The public editor is an independent
critic of the Daily, and neither the editorial
board nor the editor in chief exercise
control over the contents of his columns.
The opinions expressed do not necessarily
constitute the opinionof the Daily.
Imran Syed can be reached at
publiceditor@michigandaily.com

4

JEFF ZUSCHHLAGEE-MAIL JEFFAT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU
Midterm Study Strategies
#1: The Planner #2: The "Friend in Need" #3: The Creative Writing Major
and then I'l st200AM What? Oh, yeah, I had a
to 3:30AM Uh, yeah, could you, uh, midterm once.
When do you help me on chapters 10-65?
plan to eat That would be great. That
To what, now? and sleep? would be just great. I'll It was weird.
be your best friend forever.
FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.
KEVIN BUNKLEY I
Alumni Association is failing you

4,

a

President Barack Obama's scorecard for
the first two years of his presidency is an
unbalanced combination of wins and losses.
Considering the promises he made, his prog-
ress hasn't been satisfactory, largely because
of the many political hurdles he has con-
fronted.
Obama is "winning" by keeping his prom-
ise to monitor the financial services industry
as well as his promise regarding health care.
Because Obama was able to get the majority
vote of Congress, he could sign a bill into law
that gives 32 million uninsured Americans
access to health care and expands Medicaid
- a current government health insurance pro-
gram.
While it is understandable that Obama's
relationship with Wall Street is strained
because of the controversial bailout and
stimulus package, the pledge that he made
during his campaign to give tax cuts for all
Americans - except those who fall into the
top 5 percent of the income bracket - has
gone unfulfilled. Obviously, Obama believes
that this tax cut extension for all but the
wealthy could help stimulate the United
States economy.
As is the case with much of the socially
progressive legislation Obama wants to pass
in the House, he is receiving a lot of pushback
from fiscally conservative Republicans and
Democrats who want tax cuts for everyone,
including those within the top 5 percent. The
consequence of such debate is the suggestion
by House Republicans for either decreased
funding or no funding for social programs like
the Labour Relations Board, Planned Parent-
hood and Obama's recent Race to the Top Edu-
cation Initiative.
An issue all Americans seemed to have
agreed upon was the assassination of terror-
ist Osama bin Laden. However, there is little
bipartisan agreement on whether the recent
assassination of Yemeni-American cleric
Anwar al-Awlaki was justified. The contro-
versy surrounding the approved killing of al-
Awlaki stems from his American citizenship,
his suspected affiliation with a terrorist group
and, most importantly, the premise of the
Fifth Amendment.

The Fifth Amendment is significant in this
debate because it states that no American can
"be deprived of life, liberty, or property, with-
out due process of law." The amendment pro-
tects al-Awlaki as an American citizen. The
fact that Obama has not made a public state-
ment that acknowledges his authorization of
the execution speaks to his struggle to recon-
cile the same debate with the American public.
During the 2008 campaign, Obama's plat-
form included his promise to withdraw U.S.
troops from Iraq within 16 months of taking
office. Obama also made an effort to distin-
guish himself from his opponent, Sen. John
McCain (R-Ariz.), by communicating his dis-
dain for the surge - a strategy that McCain
was fond of pursuing. The stance Obama took
during the 2008 campaign regarding the war
on terror is a stark contrastto his advances for
the surge once in office. While he announced
last week a withdrawal of all troops from Iraq
by the end of December, Obama's platform on
war strategy was too ambitious during the
time of the 2008 election.
Though some U.S. citizens are expecting
Obama to acknowledge his inability to follow
through on his deadline, some U.S. citizens
might have been satisfied to hear him at least
acknowledge that his promise has not been
kept. U.S. citizens have observed that prog-
ress isn't being made on this issue, but some
believe his losses have been offset with the
reversal of the military's "don't ask, don't
tell" policy.
The nation is split with people who under-
stand the issues that Obama must resolve
- such as those he inherited from the Bush
administration - and those who do not.
Obama's supporters are beginning to real-
ize that his presidency is indeed unprecedent-
ed, but is in no way as glorious as they had
anticipated. Perhaps his wins and losses in the
past 34 months speak loudly of how his oppor-
tunities for improvement and proof of achieve-
ment are characteristic of a historical moment
this country finds itself in: A time with a social
and political economy that reacts very strong-
ly to a tightened purse.
Brittany Smith is an [SA senior.

The often repeated phrase among the University
of Michigan family is that a Michigan degree opens
doors. That still holds true even in these difficult eco-
nomic times, but a message to all current and future
alumni: Your Alumni Association is failing you.
Hear me out. In the big city where I live, there are
thousands of Michigan alumni. I see maize-and-blue
shirts all the time. But do all of those people know
about the existence of the rest of us and that we
might need jobs? In my experiences, the answer is an
overwhelming no. The local alumni chapters are ill
equipped to handle the volume of new graduates that
move to their cities each year. It's almost a microcosm
of the employment situation for all college graduates,
not just the alumni coming out of Ann Arbor. Most
studies about unemployed college graduate figures peg
the number at 7 percent nationwide, which is alot bet-
ter than youth unemployment as a whole right now.
After speaking to a few of the officers of my city's
club, my fears that we are mostly on our own have been
confirmed more than once. Yes, they use technology to
connect alumni in a certain city, but when I question
them why I can't access the Facebook page, I get an
electronic blank stare. When I suggest an e-mail list-
serv to easily identify open jobs at companies run by
alumni, no one knows what that is. InCircle, the asso-
ciation's main networking tool, is filled with outdated
information and lists of irrelevant companies that are
so thin you can see through them.

Recently, I contacted four different people at orga-
nizations I applied for a job at. All of them wrote back
to say they hadn't worked there for years (though one
at least offered to still help in any way he could). The
few networking events that are held each year have an
entrance fee on top of other expenses incurred while
doing the activity, which I get, but it's not exactly easy
for someone who can't find a job to leak money just to
get into the door when there's no guarantee of the real
payoff - a lead on a job.
This is not the same as feeling shut out or ignored
because all alumni I have encountered are beyond help-
ful. It's just unfortunate that there is no way for all of us
to reach one another when we need help the most, and
the University Alumni Association is at the forefront of
the list of places that have become complacent. To bor-
row part of an overused phrase from our football coach,
this is Michigan, and the Alumni Association can do bet-
ter than this.
Even if we are a bit on our own, don't give up. I
haven't. I carry business cards around with me for
those times when I see a matching Michigan T-shirt
in a bar or at an office. Our degrees may not open the
same doors as they used to, but they open doors none-
theless - sometimes when we least expect it. Just be
aware that those degrees entitle us to more than we
may be receiving from the University itself.
Kevin Bunkley is an alum and former Daily opinion staffer.

0

0

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print anonymous
letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 24, 2011 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 24, 2011 - 5A

POLICY
From Page 1A
"This (guidance) invites and
requires significant input from
various stakeholders - under-
graduate students, graduate
students, professional students,
faculty, staff, community stake-
holders - and we wanted to
have a robust process to engage
those stakeholders," Wilgus
said.
E. Royster Harper, the Uni-
versity's vice president for
student affairs, and Suellyn
Scarnecchia, the University's
vice president and general
counsel, spearheaded the devel-
opment of the interim pro-
cedure. They hired a project
manager to oversee the produc-
tion of a permanent University
procedure, according to Wil-
gus. He added that the Univer-
sity plans to develop a forum for
students to give their input on
the topic.
"In the winter term of this
academic year, that process
will flush itself out," Wilgus
said. "All students will be noti-
fied of places where they might
engage, whether that is online
surveys or in-person focus
groups."
The interim policy doesn't
change the University's State-
ment of Student Rights and
Responsibilities - the code
every University student must
follow. A permanent amend-
ment can be proposed by the
Michigan Student Assembly,
the Senate Assembly, or Univer-
sity executive officers.
MSA President DeAndree
Watson said he looks forward
to helping develop a perma-
nent policy for the University
community. He added that he
agrees with University offi-
cials' decision to implement an
interim policy while they gar-
ner input from students and
other members of the Univer-
sity community.
Watson said he intends to
draft a summary of informa-
tion regarding the issue to pres-
ent to MSA and wants to invite
administrators to speak to the
assembly. The diverse student
demographic of MSA makes the
assembly a key voice in develop-
ing the policy, he added.
"Ithink that it is important
at this particular moment that
student representatives and
other members of MSA have a
seat at the table shaping a policy
that's going to last for years and
affect students in a substantial
way," Watson said.
Though the next year to
amend the Statement is 2013,
the SRAC "may entertain pro-
posed amendments at other
times," Wilgus said.
Watson said implementing
the procedure with students'
input should occur sooner rath-
er than later.
"I think that something of
this magnitude that affects so
many students on campus is
worth pushing the review date
up..." Watson said.
In addition to lowering the
standard of evidence for inves-
tigating sexual misconduct
allegations, the interim pro-
cedure differs from the cur-
rent procedure in that it uses

an investigative model instead
of a complaint-driven model,

according to Wilgus. Under
the interim procedure, it is no
longer the responsibility of a
student to "drive a complaint
forward" in regard to sexu-
al misconduct, Wilgus said.
Rather, the University takes
the responsibility of investigat-
ing a complaint when officials
become aware "of a disclosure
that may involve sexual mis-
conduct," he said.
"When the University knows
or should have known that sex-
ual misconduct has transpired,
we must do something," Wilgus
said.
This follows guidelines men-
tioned in the DOE letter which
state that, "Ifa school knows or
reasonably should know about
student-on-student harassment
that creates a hostile environ-
ment, Title IX requires the
school to take immediate action
to eliminate the harassment,
prevent its recurrence, and
address its effects."
Once a disclosure of sexual
misconduct is shared with the
University, the allegation is
reviewed, and if the complain-
ant chooses to proceed with
an investigation, it will ensue.
Under the previous complain-
ant-driven model, if a com-
plainant decided not to have the
University investigate the alle-
gation, the investigation would
not occur. Now, however, the
University must consider pur-
suing an investigation without
the complainant's consent in
order to protect the community,
according to Wilgus.
"A review panel ... will try to
balance the survivor's interests
in not moving forward and not
having an investigation ensue
with the community's interest
in making sure that the alleged
perpetrator is not running
around campus and in a posi-
tion to commit the same behav-
ior again," Wilgus said.
Rider-Milkovich said that in
shifting over to the investiga-
tive model, the interim proce-
dure succeeds in maintaining
both the survivor's confidenti-
ality and the safety of the com-
munity.
"I am pleased with our inter-
im procedure because I feel
as though we have taken sig-
nificant effort to balance the
institution's commitment to
survivors with also the insti-
tution's commitment to safety
and to accountability," Rider-
Milkovich said.
The interim procedure also
maintains due process, which
it fully awards to those accused
of sexual misconduct, Wilgus
added.
The change in model and the
lowered standard of evidence
outlined in the "Dear Col-
league" letter has sparked con-
versation nationally, according
to Wilgus, and he anticipates
learning the University's stance
on these issues through discus-
sions about the interim policy.
"There is lots of good dis-
course on campus and nation-
ally about the standard of
evidence, as there should be,
and about the investigative
model versus the complainant-
driven model," Wilgus said.
"Holly (Rider-Milkovich) and I,
along with others who drafted
the interim procedure, look for-

ward to that rich dialogue on
our campus."

GRANHOLM
From Page 1A
and Stanford University. Gran-
holm said that ultimately, Berke-
ley was "very persuasive" in
encouraging her to teach at the
University. Her class is geared
toward public policy and law
students and focuses on the dif-
ficulties of governing in times of
economic crisis.
"It's a survey of the most dif-
ficult problems facing executives
in (government)," Granholm
said. "We are looking at issues
related to the economy (and)
how a president create(s) jobs
in America in a global economy.
That is the critical question now

facing the presidential cam-
paign."
Several of Granholm's post-
gubernatorial pursuits are
related to Michigan's economic
struggles. The book she and
her husband Dan Mulhern co-
authored this year, "A Gov-
ernor's Story: The Fight for
Jobs and America's Economic
Future," conveys her experienc-
es as Michigan's governor to the
rest of the country and showcas-
es how Michigan is an example
of the United States' struggling
economy.
"The central message (of the
book) is what's happening to
the country happened to Michi-
gan first," Granholm said. "I
think Michigan has lessons for

the country. We wrote it so that
people could follow (along and)
learn as we learned what was
going on in Michigan."
Granholm has promoted
the book nationally and spoke
in Ann Arbor on Sept. 27 with
Mulhern. They discussed Gran-
holm's time as governor and the
condition of the global economy,
among other topics.
"The structure of our econo-
my has changed due to global-
ization," Granholm said. "In
this century, when our economic
competitors are aggressively
(interfering) in the market, (pas-
sivity will make us) bystanders
to the perpetual loss of Ameri-
can jobs."
Granholm said she plans to

continue to give her political
opinions on her upcoming show
for Current TV, "The War Room
with Jennifer Granholm," which
is set to debut in 2012. The show
will cover the election season
and feature political commen-
tators. Granholm said she was
recruited to host the show by
former Vice President Al Gore,
who co-founded Current TV in
2005.
Despite her experience in the
political arena, Granholm said
she will not run for another pub-
lic office position in the future.
"I served for 12 years, and that
was a great privilege, and now
I'm eager to turn the page and
write some new chapters," Gra-
nholm said.


APPLICANTS
From Page 1A
without the use of the Com-
mon Application. But because
the increase was so large, Kil-
lion wrote, "it's understandable
to draw the inference that a lot
of that was due to the Common
Application."
The University was the 55th
public university and the 12th
public flagship university to join
the Common Application when
it switched to the application
process last fall.
"Michigan was our first pub-
lic flagship outside the East
Coast to join," Killion wrote.
"We were delighted to have
them."

According to Killion, students
submitted the Common Appli-
cation to more schools during
the last admissions cycle than
in the 2009-2010 cycle, with the
average rising from 4.06 to 4.15
applications per person.
In addition, the University's
enrollment this semester is
42,716 students - the largest in
the school's history. The Univer-
sity attributes the record high
enrollment to an increase in
both undergraduate and gradu-
ate students by 1.4 and 2.8 per-
cents, respectively.
The data shows that the Uni-
versity accepted the same num-
ber of students as in 2010, but
freshman enrollment decreased
3.8 percent from 6,496 to 6,251
students this year.

University Provost Philip
Hanlon said in an interview on
Friday that the University had
a target of 5,960 students for its
2011 entering freshman class,
which is the same target as the
year before.
"Inanidealworld,wewould've
hit 5,960, and we would've been
400 or 500 down from the pre-
vious fall," Hanlon said. "It's
not easy to manage a process of
18-year-old's decision making."
Last year's freshman class
totaled 6,496 students - more
than the University anticipated.
Lester Monts, the University's
senior vice provost for academic
affairs, wrote in a University
press release last week that the
freshman class has already
impressed the faculty. The class

of 2015 has an average high
school grade point average of
3.8, and more than 34 percent of
freshmen scored between 31 and
36 on the ACT.
"The entering class of 2011
represents the highest levels
of academic achievement and
potential," Monts wrote.
Michigan State University's
enrollment numbers went up
this year as well. Though it
doesn't use the Common Appli-
cation, MSU received a record
28,547 applications - about
11,000 fewer applicants than the
University of Michigan - and
admitted alarger freshmanclass,
totaling 7,775 students. MSU's
total enrollment increased from
last to 47,800 - up by almost 700
students.


GRAND TRAVERSE
From Page 1A
3,185-square-foot space to the
company with his business part-
ner, Jim Chaconas. Cavender said
he is excited at the prospect of a
new business on Liberty Street.
"It's one less vacant building,"
Cavender said.
A number of businesses on
East Liberty have closed recently

or will close soon, including Bor-
ders , Poshh and This & That.
"Businesses are struggling,"
Cavender said. "I think it's
because of the types of business-
es down there. It'll be interesting
to see (what happens)."
Potential tenants includ-
ing burger joints, pizza restau-
rants, Middle Eastern eateries
and other national chains were
interested in renting the space,
according to Cavender.

Grand Traverse Pie Company
has plans for "minor renovations
to the space," Cavender said. He
added that @burger left behind
chairs, tables and a full kitchen
when it moved out in July after 11
months of business.
General Manager Rich French
said the staff of the new store has
yet to be hired, but employees
will likely be trained at the busi-
ness's location on North Zeeb
Road.

Angela Eddins, the owner of
Rocky Mountain Chocolate Fac-
tory, which is a few doors down
from the Grand Traverse Pie
Company's new location, said
she welcomes the new establish-
ment.
"All we want are good, strong,
healthy businesses next to us
that bring people into our area
to shop," Eddins said. "I wish
them all the luck and would like
to meet and support the owner."

SIGN UP TO RECEIVE THE DAILY'S E-NEWSLETTERS
Go to michigandaily.com/subscribe


tC am p u s IVii d Wc r ks tGro tap s
FREE drop-in education and support
groups for any U-MIV student with
Depression, Bipolar, or Anxiety
Sleep ani De pression:
What's the Connection?
When: Tuesday, October 25
from 5:30-7:00 p.m.
Where: Psychological Clinic, 2nd Floor
530 Church St., East Hall
Visit www.campuusmindworUcs~org
for more information.

.Unversty of Mcl"higan
Depression Center

Presented by the U-v, Depression
Center in collaboration with
the Callege of Engineering and
Psychological Clinic.

IMI riI
si -


;'" n oe' gy '" a
NOW PLAYING MICHIGAN THEATER 13-66-IME MKOFTHHELORG
6ll EASTLIBERTY STREE ANN ARBOR CALFOR SHOWIIMES



6A - Monday, October 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


ilm faily's 'Way'
Martin Sheen and"
son Emilio Estevez
discuss new film
By ANDREW ECKHOUS
For the Daily
When talking with father-son
duo Emilio Estevez ("The Mighty
Ducks") and Martin Sheen ("The
West Wing"), it's hard to believe
they've been cogs in the Ameri-
can culture machine for decades.
Sitting down with them in an
empty, mid-renovation yoga stu-
dio, effervescent conversation
and amusing anecdotes fill the
room, betraying the Hollywood ARC
seriousness of their black blaz- Martin Sheen's character finishes his sons journey down "El Camino" in "The Way."
ers and khaki pants. They joke
around with youthful energy, tiago," a pilgrimage trail stretch- had seen the actual forces behind
and guileless excitement flows iig from southern France all the the Camino - it became clear
through them as they describe way to the northwestern tip of just how important this movie,
their newest spiritually charged Spain. Tom is appointed with the and more specifically El Camino,
project, "The Way." tragic task of claiming Daniel's isto him.
Somehow, after seven weeks body, which inspires him to fin- Estevez, while well known
of roadtripping cross-country in ish the spiritual journey his late for his roles in movies like "The
a tour bus to promote the movie, son began. Breakfast Club," has moved past
Estevez, Sheen and producer The story actually developed his teen heartthrob days, now
David Alexanian are still full thanks to real-life events, as focusing his energies on behind-
of life. All three exude a conta- Martin Sheen and his grandson the-scenes work. This role
gious passion about their story (Estevez's son) spent some time change has given him more free-
of a life-changing journey, but together walkingthe Camino. dom to express his own ideas,
thankfully, they have no inten- "They stopped in a town called and "The Way" succeeds in illus-
tion of preaching. Burgos, and in that town they trating Estevez's belief that spiri-
"I think we're all yearning for stayed at a bed and breakfast," tuality is an essential aspect of
identity and transcendence ... and Estevez recounted. "They sat at humankind.
we don't hit you over the head the pilgrims' supper, and as the "We're all on a path, from the
with it in the film," Sheen said. plates were being passed around moment we roll out of the crib
"But we do invite you, if you're the innkeeper's daughter walked onto all fours and stand up," Este-
so inclined, to do the physical in. She took a look at my son, they, vez said. "That first step you take
journey and then to consider the fell madly in love, and now he's is the beginning of your 'Cami-
transcendent, the inner journey." been living there for eight and a no.' And that's one of man's first
Maybe this is what makes half years." instincts, to walk, and I think we
"The Way," written and directed With romantic beginnings like are all almost predisposed in our
by Estevez, feel so natural. The that, it comes as no surprise that DNA to be wanderers."
film stars Sheen as Tom, a father Estevez chose to write a script It's obvious that Estevez,
who finds himself immersed in centering around the Camino. Sheen and Alexanian have
every parent's worst nightmare: His reverence for the Camino invested more than just time
a child's death. Tom's estranged was evident when reflecting on into "The Way." Their unforced
son, Daniel (Estevez), sets out to his son's amazing fortune. His enthusiasm is infectious, and it
see the world but falls pre th voice softened and his words makes Estevez's latest release
elements on "El Camino 8%nelbecame more:eliberate, as if he'impossible to ignore.

Art history and mystery

f you really want to make
my day, give me a good
mystery to chew on. I grew
up glued to the works of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, Agatha
Christie and
Edgar Allen
Poe, and my
complete
collection of
illustrated
Sherlock
Holmes
adventures is LAUREN
the absolute CASERTA
first thing I
would save
in a dorm fire (no hard feelings,
"Beowulf").
While imaginary detectives
and fictitious crimes make for
riveting novellas and films, a
true mystery lover knows that
nothing would be cooler than
to stumble across an actual
whodunit. And for those of us
who enjoy the works of Cdzanne
as much as the discoveries of
Dupin, the art world continues
to provide an endless supply of
real-life riddles that would have
surely piqued even the most sea-
soned detective's interest.
Case in point: the recent
"rediscovery" of a 500-year-old
portrait of a young Milanese
girl whom art historians have
creatively dubbed Young Girl in
Profile in Renaissance Dress. It
surfaced at Christie's auction
house in 1998 and, despite its
unknown authorship, sold for
nearly $19,000.
But specialists from around
the world began to question the
origins of the diminutive 9x13
chalk-and-ink picture not long
after it was bought, after it was
suggested to be a long-lost work
of none other than Renaissance
master Leonardo da Vinci. A
confirmation of his authorship
would have launched its value
to upwards of a whopping $160
million.

The
stakes
afoot.
Hist
less ho
square
from it
hatchi
smudg
upper,
of X-ra
printa
proces
TV cri
attenti
hairlin
its aut]
repair
forger
E

facts were few. The very whereabouts of a piece of
were high. The game was art become a mystery.
Museums rarely have the
torians have spent count- security to match the sheer
urs examining each volume of pricelessworks they
inch of the portrait, hold, and because of this some
ts distinct left-handed of history's most famous heists
ng to a small fingerprint have involved art theft. Mona
e that appears in its Lisa herself was stolen in 1911 by
corner - and their use a Louvre employee who simply
ay, chemical and finger- hid it under his coat and strolled
nalysis is not unlike the past the museum's guard station
s we see each night on after hours. Various paintings
me shows. A "Monk"-like by Vermeer, Munch, Renoir,
on to detail is key. Every Rembrandt, Picasso, Van Gogh,
le crack could be proof of Cdzanne, Matisse and Degas
henticity; every miniscule have also been plundered from
could be evidence of a cities all over the globe, and the
y. realization that some of them
have never been successfully
recovered is absolutely mad-
dening.
J e r Even the University's own
mydear collection has been the target of
thieves in the past. Sketches by
da Vinci. Pablo Picasso and Henry Moore,
which were part of a University-
organized traveling exhibit,
were stolen in 1967. Only a com-
efforts of these experts bined effort by the FBI, UMMA
entatively identified and DPS eventually led to the
l as Bianca Sfrorza, the recovery of the pieces after
ter of a duke in whose nearly 30 years of searching.
Leonardo did indeed Though there was no case
However, back then imi- that Sherlock Holmes couldn't
was indeed the highest solve, it's a frustratingtruth
f flattery, and the pos- that some real-life crimes sim-
'exists that the portrait ply lack the necessary evidence
'ne by a well-intentioned to be solved and some artistic
tice wishing to simply mysteries may very well remain
:e the techniques of a mysteries forever. Only a frac-
, making this case of tion of art pieces stolen are ever
g identity that much more recovered and, just like miss-
lt to solve. ing persons, become increas-
h the truth about her ingly difficult to track down
r shrouded in the pages of the longer they've been gone.
udy history, it seems this Some thieves destroy the works
beauty won't give up her they've stolen (NOOOOOO)
without a good fight. after realizing that their steal
seeking out artist identi- may be so iconic that searching
d historical context is for a buyer could very well get
art of the job for the art them arrested, and some, acci-
s greatest detectives. dentally or intentionally, take
imes, art and crime meet the secrets of their thefts to
ad-on collision when the See CASERTA, Page 8A

The
have t
the gir
daught
court I
work.)
tation1
form o
sibility
was do
appren
emulat
master
missin
difficu
Wit]
creator
her clo
Italian
secrets
But
ties an
only pa
world's
Someti
in a he

4

**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED- best housing sold out early for 2010
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/ and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry, today. 2 blocks from Central Campus
Pring. FOR RENT NOW MAY and downtown. 1to 4,bedroom, private
1612. www.horvathproperties.com or baths available. Rates from $660.
'all 734-972-7368. 734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
RELEASE DATE- Monday, October 24, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Working busily 38 Painting and 51 Bridge crossing
1 Use a rotary 4 Sweet sucker sculpture, e.g. charge
phone 5 "LookI" 39 Hawaiian volcano 52 Father-daughter
5 Common movie 6 "Right awayl" 41 Building level boxers
theater name 7 Popular wedding 42 Swamp beast 53 Workplace for the
meaning "jewel" month 45'That's good 52-Down
10 Cheat (out o) 8 Comedic TV enough" 54 Handy bag
14 Regarding alien's planet 46 On edge, as 55 andson of
15 Accustom (to) 9 Tum you hang, in nerves Adam who
16 Cad slang 47Dawdle reputedly livedto
17 Armstrong who 10 Scarecrow's lack 49 Dr. Seuss's 905
took a "giant leap 11 Electrified "Horton Hears_" 57 Place for a drink
forma 12wparticer 50Bankoffer 58Consume
1819611Tmmy 123oselrier
James and the 13 Islets ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
- Shondellshit 19 Bluenose S U R P R S E P A C K A G E
20 Release 21 Thor's father A
22 Comes up, as the 24 Luxury hotel AFAHEWELLTOAHMS
sun bathroom CON IFEROUSTREES
23 Not working features S S T S R I N S E P A N E
24 Knot for a loop 25 Clock readout O R E O H A L O
2F95Cnnie 21 skits S T O N E E V E N T
Frabiesh 27wFlodia abony s H I P M I N T S E T L A W
30 srin2Pwbdt rdrnwba h E AR O R I G A M I I CE
334 First application "the" E R A D E L I M I T O R E
line to fill in 29 Dark T A HOE B A T E D
35 Sheep sound 30 Thumbs-up NIL E R PEE R
36"My mtobatl reiewer O R G S D E W A R G A B S
37 at e 31f"lympia" pai P 0 L i T I C A L A S Y L U M
39 Lst f ice s oaid ALO T ON ON E SP L AT E
40 Fed. pollution 32 Riyadh resident
monitor 37Goat-man of H O M E L A N D D E F ENS E
41 Rani's wrap myth xwordeditor@aoLi.com 1/2211
42Gaveahoot 1 2 3a 5 7 7 10 1 1121 3
43M eoi'Rebel
44 1956 Little
Rchard hit 7 81
481982 Dise, 0 21 7
sci dim 22
49 Wedding site a
52 Dinner alternative, 2s 2ss301 32
on a 39-Across
5615S athed a
Pharaohs hit as3 sa
59 Cat that roars a a12
60 Auditorium a
61 Remark between 3 a4 a
actor and
audience t7 4
-62 Aware of 4 s 12 4
63 Nothing but 55354 55
64 Do a lawn job,58sa 59
65 Mellows, as wine
DOWN2
1 Pio 1 r Boone, 64ie e
2"Undr stood" By Michae Wiesenberg .1A1A

FOR BEST SELECTION,
RESERVE TODAY!
SPRING & FALL
ON CAMPUS,
FURNISHED STUDIO,
1, 2,3 BEDROOMS
DON'T MISS OUT ON
THE BEST OF
CENTRAL CAMPUS
FOR 2012/2013
536 SOUTH FOREST
ANN ARBOR, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
INFO@U-TOWERS.COM
4 BDRM. 2 bath house for rent, central
campus , parking, laundry, sept. 2012.
734-395-6823
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2011. dklemptner@comcast.net
AVAIL FALL '12: 717 Dewey Ave.
5bdrm/2bth $2850/mo. Call (610) 952-
5269. Email louisbreskman@gmail.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
! 2 BLOCKS to Diag, 441 Hamilton !
$100,000 Renovation complete,
6 bdrm, study & 3 bathrooms! Sept '12
12 mo. lease. $3500/mo. includes ldry.,
furn., A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
WWW.CAMPUSREAUUY.COM
734-665-8825
!! BIG 10BED CAMPUS HOUSE!!
4 baths, 2 living, open basement, new
carpet, large screen TVs, great yard,
free laundry, free parking, Mayto May.
www.nancylat.com (734) 663-1370
5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2012
www.CopiprOpertieS.Com
734-663-5609

S T U D E N T H O U S I N G . I N C .
Rates Now Available
for
Fall 2012-2013
Studio, 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
" Central Campus locations
" *Fully Furnished
* *Heat, Water, Internet and
Parking included
" Pleasant and Experienced
Office and Maintenance
Call us today to find your
home for the fall!!
*Varies by location
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2012 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $3800 (313) 215-8115
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
!!!PRIME STUDENT HOUSING!!!
The rates are now available for
2012-13!!
Don't be left out in the cold..
primesh.com
734-761-8000
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5min. walk. Free Wi-Fl.
FALL 2012 HUGE 5 bdrm. house for
6, great loc., furnished, 3 bath, 3 kitch.,
laundry, parking MUST SEE $3750

FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour! WE ARE NOW
TAKING RESERVATIONS! For
best selection come in today, we sold
out early last year. Avail. Rooms, Stu-
dios, 1, 2,3 bdrm furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2012. Dont miss oat on
the Best of Central Campus! Call
(734) 761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit www.UniversityTowers-MI.com

STUDENT REPS NEEDED for new
startup Believe Athletic Gear. Call
Phil Cafferty at 312-498-5560
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
MOVIE EXTRAS TO Stand in the
backround for a major film production.
Earn up to $300 for the5day.5No experi-
ence required. 877-491-5152
ROCKY WOODCARVING CO.
Spanish Co. looking for a P/T Account
Representative to assist in receiving
payment in the U.S./Canada. 10% will
be paid out pertransaction as commis-
sion. Needed: A person who is honest,
responsible and reliable.
Please E-mail Eric Simpkins:
thirdgan-
erationwoodcarving@yahoo.com
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

THSia urs E iNG. LANGUAGEL
organization, format. All disciplines.
25 years' U-M experience.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net.

E

BLACK PEARL SEAFOOD host/
runner/ busser position. Part time, 2 or
3 shiftsper week. Noexperienceneces-
sary. Possible chance for advancement.
Apply in person only, no phone calls.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZERS
WANTED!!! Working America/ AFL-
CIO is hiring F/T staff to take our coun-
try back from the political forces that
favor the wealthy and corporate special
interests over your well-being! Diver-
sity is highly valued at Working Amer-
ica: Women, people of color, and
LGBT applicants strongly encouraged
to apply. $11.44/ Hour $457.60 week
base pay - Entry Level. Fun work envi-
ronment. EOE. Rapid advancement op-
portunities. Call Willie 734.222.6496,
www.workingamerica.org
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com
EGG DONOR NEEDED
For Single Female
$15,000 compensation plus all ex-
penses. Attorney with blonde hair &
blue eyes seeks the help of a healthy, at-
tractive, and intelligent woman be-
tween the ages of 21-27 with similar
look and values. Please contact: 1-800-
264-8828 info@aperfectmatch.com
SCOREKEEPERS IS LOOKING to
hire servers, floormen & cooks. Please
have a great personality, shar image,
willingness to be extremely busy &
handle high volume with Saturday
availability. Apply in person at 310
Maynard 48104

a

LOW COST VACCINE Wellness
Clinic. Tractor Supply Ann Arbor.
Wednesday, October 26th 3-7 pm.
Heartworm test $19.00. Rabies 3 years
$16.00. Skin, ear, eye exams available.
Questions? Call: 313-686-5701
W

I
I

(c)2011 Tribune Media Services,Ine.

10/24/11



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 24, 2011- 7A


i

8A - Monday, October 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FILM SREENINGILM RVIEW
A petrifying prequel


PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Brothers and co-directors Chris and Mike Farah explain their inspiration before yesterday's "Answer This" screening.

By SEAN CZARNECKI
DailyArts Writer
Recently, horror film dross
like "The Thing" and "The
Human Centipede II" has suc-
ceeded in only
one thing: * .*7"
scaring audi-
ences away Paranormal
from spend-A
ing money on
a movie ticket AtQuality16
ever again, and Rave
But "Paranor-
mal Activity Paramount
3" succeeds as
the first true cinematic laxative
in months. Simply put, this film
will scare the shit out of you.
At first, this prequel seems like
the same kind of story that its
forerunners blazed, but this time
around, the bumbling fool with
the camera is Dennis (Christo-
pher Smith, "Mayne Street"),
a videographer who moves in
with his girlfriend Julie (Lau-
ren Bittner, "The Mighty Macs")
and her daughters, Katie (Chloe
Csengery, "Point of Death") and
Kristi (Jessica Brown, "Lloyd").
And they would've been a happy
family, until kitchen appliances
start flying around courtesy of
the Kristi's "imaginary friend,"
Toby.
It's a familiar plot, and some
elements of the story forgo
logic completely. For instance,
as mentioned earlier, Dennis

cannot seem to keep his hands
off his camera. He films every-
thing. There's spiritual posses-
sions, horrifying death, children
screaming for help ... and then
there's Dennis, this preoccupied
bozo passionately fumbling for
his camera so he can get it all
on tape. During moments like
these, the illusion of film disap-
pears, and Dennis seems more
like someone swindling his way
into the morning news, rather
than a loving family man terri-
fied out of his wits.
So while the storytelling
innovations are on short supply
- leaving such stock characters
as the innocent child and the
cynical parent to rule the screen
its ability to electrify audienc-
es is always competent.
The demon, Toby, has never
taken on a more sinister pres-
ence. When the family dismisses
him as nothing more than a fig-
ment of Kristi's imagination,
he quickly assures them of his
existence. He actually taunts the
family, following the babysitter
in a white sheet like Casper and
playing Bloody Mary with the
older daughter, Katie. The story
takes Toby out of a realm left to
the audience's imagination, to a
much more tangible existence,
which may have endangered his
dangerous persona, a pitfall that
was altogether avoided.
The majority of that credit
may be owed to screenwriter

Christopher Landon ("Distur-
bia"). Providing both enough
characterization and humor to
color its otherwise dull premise,
he engages the audience enough
for them to at least see the end.
But even with these precious
few moments, the film would've
failed miserably had it not been
for the dual direction of Henry
Joost and Ariel Schuman (both
of "Catfish"), and their creative
input and subtle camera gim-
micks.
In case it wasn't
'Paranormal'
enough the first
two times
One particular device proves
most effective: a camera that
swings slowly from side to side
in the living room. It's hardly a
panoramic view of the home. At
the mere patter of footsteps, the
audience is left in taut suspense
while the camera lazily turns its
eye. This limited view capitaliz-
es on the film's greatest strength:
A keen sense of claustrophobia
as unstoppable forces prowl the
home, leaving the audience to
tread within their grasp at the
whim of Toby's mercy.

1
l
l
1
i
a
t
t

Their filmorct
Farah brothers' doesn't use unmarked buildings driving to their parents' house
in a generic Midwestern town, in Ann Arbor, Mike used to say,
'Answer This' shows but instead celebrates the Diag, "Let's take it downtown," get-
the Big House - the things stu- ting off at an earlier exit - not
at the Michigan dents hold dear. We love Clooney because it's faster, but just to
and Gosling, but do they love us? take it all in. The Big House,
By MATT EASTON "I'd tried writing a bunch Main Street, the leaves on the
DailyArts Writer of broad scripts," said Chris, ground; Ann Arbor, their town,
the "Answer This!" writer and our town.
Last night was not the pre- director, in an interview. "(But) For 90 minutes during yester-
miere of "Answer This!" but it they weren't anchored in things day's screening event, hundreds
felt like one. As filmmakers Mike I knew or connected with. So I of individuals were transformed
and 'U' alum Chris Farah walked decided that for my next script into a community of friends cel-
onstage to the sound of raucous (I wanted) to do something that ebrating the triumph of a city.
applause, one couldn't help but was really rooted in something Every new Ann Arbor locale,
get caught up in the moment. that meant a lot more to me." inside joke and recognizable
The Farah brothers gave shout- Fewthings are more ingrained actor brought laughter, cheering,
outs to local high schools, which in people than their hometown, applause and excited chattering.
were received with loud screams, ,the place they grew up and the It wasn't about seeing a movie,
and the two actors in the audi- place they went to college. But it was about knowing that after-
ence, Chris Parnell ("30 Rock") "Answer This!" doesn't just cel- wards you would walk down the
and former University Profes- ebrate the University - it also street and pass Ashley's, and you
sor Ralph Williams, stood up to seems to transform it. would be standing where trivia
receive their dues. "Something about movies, jock Izzy threw up. Or it was see-
Sittingin Espresso Royale last and this movie particularly, has ing the theater you were inside of,
Monday, Chris and Mike were the effect of making these places in the movie, while watching the
much calmer: Scenes from their that are so familiar look incred- movie. It was a moment for hap-
first feature film "Answer This!" ibly big and epic," Chris said. piness, a giant raising of glasses
were shot near here. He motioned down State to our city, to simply enjoying
"Moving out to L.A.... it's just Street to Ashley's, the center of what we know best.
nice to come back to Ann Arbor," most action in the film, and dis- The movie showing was com-
said Mike, producer of "Answer cussed how the movie made this plimented by unreleased "Funny
This!" and "Funny or Die," in an simple piece of sidewalk seem or Die" shorts (so in a way it was
interview with The Michigan like so much more. The brothers a premiere), and a Q&A session
Daily. "It feels very comfortable, hope the entire film can allow with the brothers and Parnell.
it's a comfort zone. Just walking University students to see our They drew laughter in their
here from the car, just the smell campus and our city from a new, setup to "Answer This!" After
of leaves on the ground." epic perspective. the film the brothers and Par-
In the past year or so, film- The two also enjoyed giv- nell answered questions, any-
makers have come to Ann Arbor ing some shout-outs to some of thing from "Why was Professor
- and Michigan in general - the "traditions" around cam- Williams's name changed in the
for tax breaks and Midwestern pus. Laughing, Chris discussed movie?" to "What kind of advice
scenes. But have any of them a sex scene that takes place in would you offer young comedic
known this place well enough the Hatcher Graduate Library actors?"
to express the intimate simplic- "stacks." The three exited behind the
ity of "leaves on the ground?" "It was fantastic to see how red curtain to cheering and
To have movies like "The Ides of people here responded different- unanswered questions, inform-
March" filmed here is not quite ly than people in Hollywood," he ing everyone that they would be
the same as to see a film that said with a slight smirk. going to Ashley's - the locus of
understands what it means to The talk ended with Chris the trivia battles in the film -
be in Ann Arbor. "Answer This!" recalling how sometimes, when for drinks and food.

.4

r


I

Students with Learning Disabilities
Need Adaptive Technology or a Tutor?
The Fund for Adaptive Computing Technology, or Fact Fund
Is offering up to $1000 gtrants
for the purchase of equipment or software, except computers, like Kindles, iPads,
SmartPens, Dragon Naturally Speaking or MacSpeech Dictate, etc.
You can also apply for help with tutors.
Only students with a current diagnosis of specific learning disabilities qualify
You must be registered with the Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) Office
Go to Resources for Students on our web site for an application
http://www.ssd.urnich.edu, or stop by the office

4


their results have produced key confession. But while imagi-
CASERTA only theories, accusations and nary detectives must count on
From Page 6A even more questions. Until more their author's creativity for
proof can be found, her author- their next big adventure, the art
their graves. ship comes down to a matter of world will no doubt continue to
Even the mystery surround- professional opinion. provide its fans with perplexing
ing the Young Girl in Profile Without the help of a mystery and fascinating mysteries.
may never come to a true close. author's pen and fictional P.I.,
As historians argue over the real-life investigators must sim- Caserta needs directions
specifics of what little evidence ply continue to hunt indefinitely to Baker Street. To guide her,
they've worked hard to dig up, for that case-breaking clue or e-mail caserta@umich.edu.

Full Scale Gym, Yoga Studio, Sauna & Steam Rooms, Theat
2 Hot Tubs, BBQ Grills, Study Lounges, Group Meeting Spac
Fully Furnished Luxury Apartments With In-unit Washer & Dr
Located 3 Minutes from the Diag @ S. University & S. Forest
Private Balconies & Exclusive 14th Floor Penthouses 2

4

Congratulations
To our 31E Scholars on the
301' Anniversary
of our Class of 1931
Engineering Scholarships
The class of '31e and its Scholarship Selection Committee
congratulates and welcomes their SEVEN new scholarship winners
for the 2011-2012 academic year:
KENDRA BORCHERS DAVID HISKINS
GINA CALCO JAKOB HOELLERBAUER
DONALDCLARK JONATHAN MUNCIE
DUANE GARDNER
They will be joining the '31E HONOR SOCIETY and our SIXTEEN current scholars-

OFF
COZZI
NG
r of the Class of '31E, which will be
:obee 28', 2011 at 5:30 Pm.
pining engineering
ve gone on to

CASEY BOYLE
BENJAMIN BREUE
SARAH CLARK
ALEC COHEN
REBECCA FRANK
SHANE LARKIN

MARISSA MANTEY
PATRICIA McCORMICK
DARIN McLESKEY
KUNAL MEHTA
STEVEN PECHT
NEAL RAKESH

BENJAMIN RIZ
IAN STUART-Ht
ANTHONY TRI
XIAORAN ZHA

All of these scholars will be honored this month at the 80' Annual Reunion Dinne
held at the Four Points Sheraton Inn, Ann Arbor, Michigan on Friday evening, Oct
Since the establishment of the '31 Scholarship Programin 1982, more than 150 as
students have been helped to experience a University of Michigan education and ha
rewarding careers.
George E. Anderson
Director of Media Relations
Class of 1931 Engineering

i
* 1 ,


is ' ;.,
., '
f
r.=
sfh l'Y
[ _
4 (.
,z
aa

i i.
'
a.

The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I October 24,2011

N. MICHIGAN 5, MICHIGAN 3
MICHIGAN 3, N. MICHIGAN 3 (SO)

CORY GENOVESE/Northern Michigan Athletic Department

Fifth-yearsenior goalie Shawn Hunwick was ejected in the second period of Friday's game after punching Wildcat forward Andrew Cherniwchnr.

i

'M' salvages series
in shootout victory
By ZACH HELFAND attempts during the shootout to became the fourth player eject-
Daily Sports Editor secure the victory. On Friday, ed in the series when he picked
Hunwick earned an ejection for up the penalty for a blindside
MARQUETTE - Junior for- a contact-to-the-head penalty hit to freshman forward Travis
ward A.J. Treais said he hadn't after punching Wildcat forward Lynch.
scored a shootout goal "since Andrew Cherniwchan during a On Saturday, Hunwick didn't
mini-mites." brawl. perform at his best - Jones's
That's OK: the No. 1 Michi- "We had a chip on our shoul- tying goal came after a deke that
gan hockey team hadn't won a der tonight," Treais said. "We lured Hunwick out of position
shootout in its history. really didn't want to lose that - but he made stops in big situa-
A shootout, though, was the one. A lot of emotions were fly- tions in front of a hostile crowd.
only fitting ending to the Wol- ing (Friday) night so we just With nine minutes remaining in
verines' wild two-game series really wanted to get this win the third period, he made a save
with No. 17 Northern Michigan (Saturday night)." on a shot that was good enough
(1-0-1 CCHA, 4-1-1 overall). The Wolverines (0-1-1, 4-1- to trick the goal judge.
Treais - who said he found out 1) led for most of the game on A Wildcat player fired in a
he'd be Michigan's final shooter Saturday, but a Wildcat goal by one-timer from close range
just 40 seconds before he took freshman defenseman Mitch that headed toward the corner
the ice - fired a shot into the Jones tied the game just a of the net. The lamp lit up, but
top corner of the net to win the minute into the third period. the puck sat in Hunwick's glove.
shootout victory in a series filled Michigan couldn't convert on The referees reviewed the play
with punches, ejections and a five-minute major penalty and ruled it a save.
late-game drama. that extended from the end of "He's our goalie, he's our
Fifth-year senior goalie the third period into overtime. go-to guy," Treais said of Hun-
Shawn Hunwick denied all three Sophomore forward Reed Seckel See NORTHERN, Page 3B

MARQUETTE -
hawn Hunwick is a great
goalie because of his
unrivaled passion and
intensity. On game days, the
diminutive
senior net-
minder is EVERETT
in the zone COOK
hours before On Ice Hockey
the puck
drops, to the
point where everyone knows
not to mess with him.
He is great because he is an
unbelievable competitor who
will do anything in his power to
win. That's why his teammates
love him - they know the man
behind them wants nothing
more than to protect them.
But the thingthat makes
Shawn Hunwick great is the
thing that got him in trouble on
Friday night in the team's con-

ference opener.
Ten minutes into the second
period, Northern Michigan's
Andrew Cherniwchan ran into
Hunwick after a missed break-
away shot, sending Hunwick
flying through the air and onto
his back. He rolled around the
ice for a couple seconds, then
got up and promptly jabbed his
stick into Cherniwchan.
It was a little reminder that
no one goes in his zone. Goal-
ies do not like to be touched, let
alone knocked over. Fine, no
big deal.
Still not satisfied, Hunwick
shoved Cherniwchan. Retali-
ation ensued, and a skirmish
broke out. Shoving matches
happen routinely in hockey,
especially in tough, physical
games. Fine, no big deal.
But then Hunwick cocked
his arm and delivered a whop-

per of a punch to the chin of
Cherniwchan, sending him on
his back. This was not a little
sock - Hunwick didn't hold
anything back.
Hunwick was subsequently
ejected from the game, putting
the incredibly raw sophomore
Adam Janecyk in the net. Not
fine - and a very big deal.
Less than five minutes later,
the Michigan shutout was gone.
It was the first of four goals that
Janecyk would allow en route
to a 5-3 Northern Michigan
victory.
It's hard to blame Janecyk.
He played more minutes on
Friday than in the rest of his
Michigan career combined,
and he was on the road in front
of a brutal Northern Michigan
crowd. He was not put into a
position to succeed. And that
See HUNWICK, Page 3B

Hunwick can't let emotions
get the best ofhim

Treais's oal wins shootout Sparks continues hot streak in NMU split
By MATT SLOVIN The most recent lamplighter period, he was feeling par-
DottylSports_ Wr-te f_. r .Spakst cme n Stra' tiu.tarty genrou ..omclos


By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
MARQUETTE - Until Satur-
day night, the Michigan hockey
team had only been in three
shootouts since the CCHA first
implemented the concept in
2008 to settle tied games. And
in those three years, the Wol-
verines had never won one.
That's why Michigan coach
Red Berenson has him team
go through a shootout simula-

tion in its last practice of every
week. More important than
making the team feel comfort-
able should the situation arise, it
gives Berenson a chance to eval-
uate who would take the shots.
The Wolverines entered its
weekend series against North-
ern Michigan (1-0-1, 4-1-1) with
plenty of goals behind their belt,
but still no go-to scorer. So when
the situation actually arose
after Saturday night's scoreless
overtime against the Wildcats,

Berenson still had no clue who
he wanted to take the shots. And
he had to come up with names
- fast.
"We weren't even thinking
about going into a shootout,"
Berenson said. "I want to use
players that have confidence,
that are playing well and scor-
ing."
That's how he settled on two
of his shooters - junior for-
wards Lindsay Sparks and A.J.
See TREAIS, Page 3B

Daily Sports Writer
MARQUETTE - Junior
forward Lindsay Sparks's fin-
est moment of a stellar season
so far came
this week- NOTEBOOK
end when his
team needed it most.
With his team-leading five
tallies, Sparks has emerged as
an anchor of Michigan coach
Red Berenson's third line,
which has been a pleasant
surprise entering CCHA play.

for Sparks came in Saturday's
shootout win over Northern
Michigan, when his power play
score extended his team's lead.
"I just try to play honest
hockey," Sparks said Saturday
after the game. "(Everything's)
starting to click a little for me
and we're trying to run with it
now."
In addition to his scoring,
Sparks has proven equally
adept at finding the tape of
his teammates' sticks. As time
wound down in the second

ticularly generous. From close
range, Sparks sailed a beau-
tifully crafted pass right to
junior forward Kevin Lynch,
who knocked it in for his first
point of the season.
HIGHLIGHT FOR HYMAN:
Like Sparks, another Wolver-
ine forward had his strongest
showing of the season this
weekend. Freshman forward
Zach Hyman posted his first
career goal in Friday night's
5-3 loss to the Wildcats.
See NOTEBOOK, Page 38


PATIENCE IS A VIRTUE
Playing with Rich Rod's players, Hoke
and Co. will turn Michigan around. But
they'll need some time. Page 2B

TWO FOR NOTHING
Michigan was shut out twice over the
weekend, blanked by Penn State
and Ohio State. Page 4B


4

2B - October 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

v V ....1 __...


Temper first-year
expectations for Hoke

If you didn't know Keith
Nichol from the recruiting
trail, you met him Saturday
night.
The Michigan State wide
receiver's miraculous Hail Mary
touchdown reception against No.
6 Wiscon-
sin as time
expired put
the Spar-
tans in the
driver's seat
of the Big F
Ten Legends ,.Y
division.r
Some- STEPHEN J.
times you're NESBITT
good enough
to get lucky
against a national title contender.
The biggest factor, though, is
that Michigan State coach Mark
Dantonio has his players and has
established his style of Spartan
football. And his team is light
years ahead of the 7-6 record
he set in his first season in East
Lansing.
No. 17 Michigan, on the other
hand, just isn't there yet. That
was clear when the Spartans beat
up on Michigan - figuratively
and literally - in a 28-14 victory
on Oct.15.
Michigan learned two things
in the battle for the Paul Bunyan
Trophy. First, on the banks of the
Red Cedar, there's a school that's
known to brawl.
Then, everyone learned that
Michigan State is a heck of a
football team, with the most tena-
cious defense in the Big Ten.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
wasn't hesitant to admit that his
team got "out-physicaled."
The coach instilled an attitude
of toughness from the day he
took office in Fort Schembechler.
But his team left East Lansing
bruised and broken.
It was the first blemish in
Hoke's regime at Michigan. He

pointed
the coa
the Wo
Plent
base wa
coordin
ing a fo
could h
Michig,
ButV
to facet
fecta -
coordin
nator -
comfort
They
I
pla
C h
men the
heard o
the offe
Michig.
Rich Ro
long en(
though
decesso
Rodr
ting his
classesi
got boo
Hoke at
Rodrigo
Swiss-c
Andr
gible in
Still,
Cousins
walk th

I the blame at himself and The offense is faltering in Big
ching staff for not getting Ten play. That's expected. The
lverines amply prepared. defense is nation's 28th best. Not
ty of blame from the fan- expected.
is directed at offensive Credit Mattison with bump-
ator Al Borges after blow- ingthe defense 80 spots up in the
urth-and-one call that rankings. And credit Hoke for
ave stolenthe game for Michigan's 6-1 record.
an. Hoke has instilled a confidence
Wolverine nation needs - a rather Yost-like arrogance -
the facts. Michigan's tri- within the program that can't be
the head coach, offensive ignored. It permeates the press
ator and defensive coordi- conferences and spills onto the
are coaching out of their field. If Denard Robinson can't
t zones. keep Michigan within striking
'are playing with young distance of a win, someone else
will.
The foundation is set for a
downright dominant program
l3oke needs i
Hoke eeds in the near future. This team is
-sih h merely a glimpse at the Michi-
yers W I the gan teams Hoke wants to build.
This year is a reality check
iampionship for Hoke, too. His version of his
aptitude. Michigan team didn't have a
rotating backfield, a two-quar-
terback set. And he certainly
didn't envision feeling more
comfortable with his quarter-
ey never met - and hardly back tucking and running instead
f- until they accepted of passing.
r to coach 10 months ago. Michigan won't win the Big
an gave former coach Ten Championship in 2011. It
driguez three years, just likely won't win the division. But
ough for him to struggle that's fine.
the players leftby his pre- "The truth never hurts," Hoke
r. said after the Michigan State
iguez was finally get- game. "It's things that aren't
prototypical recruiting truthful that hurt."
into uniform when he This is the truth. The attitude
ted out of town. And now is there, and that's where it has
nd Co. is working with to start. It's a championship atti-
uez's spread-offense and tude, but Hoke needs players with
heese-defense recruits. the championship aptitude.
Michigan is 6-1. Bowl eli- It will come. Because Michi-
a heartbeat. gan isn't playingthe kind of
people aren't happy. Kirk football that Hoke wants to play,
and Michigan State can and the Wolverines are winning
e streets of this state anyway.

Senior Bryn Bain and the rest of the Wolverines couldn't slow down a faster Tar Heel team in a 4-3 loss on Sunday.
No. 2 UNC squeaks by Michigan
By RAJAT KHARE the 27th minute when Tar Heel opportunities that we didn't get to
For the Daily Katie Ardrey deflected the ball convert," Bain said.
into the goal. However, Michigan North Carolina finally broke
Possession is nine-tenths of the came back to tie the game before through in the second overtime
law - a statement that summed the half ended as senior backfield- with a goal 10 minutes in, sealing
up the Michigan field hockey er Jess Allen scored off a blocked the win.
team's weekend. shot in the 31st minute. Things were completely dif-
The Wolverines (4-1 Big Ten, Michigan relinquished the lead ferent against Michigan State on
12-4 overall) dominated posses- again soon after half time. North Friday. Michigan held the clear
sion on Carolina's Kelsey Kolojejchick advantage in the game, playing in
Friday MICHIGAN 2 scored her 18th goal of the season the Spartans' half for the major-
against MICHIGAN STATE 0 in the 39th minute. ity of the game. Michigan had 10
Michi- The Wolverines kept persist- shots on goal going into the half
gan MICHIGAN 3 ing though and were rewarded but went into halftime with noth-
State U NC 4 a goal in the 53rd minute. Bain ingto show for its dominance, due
(1-4, scored her sixth goal of the season in part to Michigan State's goal-
7-10), holding them shotless en off a penalty corner to stretch her keeper.
route to a 2-0 victory. However, point streak to eight games. , Michigan continued its persis-
roles reversed againstNo. 2 North Later in the game, Michigan tenceein the second half and finally
Carolina (17-1) on Sunday, as the took the lead for the first time in broke through in the 40th minute
Wolverines suffered a 4-3 defeat the game with an upset in sight. when freshmen backfielder Aline
in double overtime. Freshman Emy Guttman scored Fobe scored her fourth goal of the
Michigan was on its back foot her 10th goal of the season off a season off an assist for Bain. Bain
for the better part of the game, deflection from Bain's shot. was always near the center of play,
which showed in the stats - fifth However, the Tar Heels as she has been all year. This was
year senior Christi Barwick fin- responded to tie the game, 3-3, her seventh consecutive game
ished the nightwith a career-high heading into overtime. with either a goal or assist.
11 saves. Though North Carolina out- Despite the heartbreaking loss,
"UNC is a really fast, talented shot Michigan 3-1 in overtime, the Wolverines look to finish the
team," senior midfielder Bryn neither team capitalized off their season strong heading into the Big
Bain said. "They're a much differ- chances in the first overtime. The Ten Tournament with a match-up
ent team from Michigan State so Wolverines had a good scoring against rival Indiana.
I think they were just more pre- opportunity off a penalty corner "Every game prepares us for
pared to play us than (Michigan) towards the closing of the first Big Ten matches and today was a
State was this weekend." overtime, but failed to convert. really good test as to where we are
The Wolverines fell behind in "I just think there were a lot of as a team," Bain said.
ww ntriwarehouse.com

0

knowing they bested the Wolver-
ines four consecutive times.
So be it. But it's time to get
realistic. Don't accept defeat, but
temper your expectations.

-Nesbitt knows Nichol
crossed the goal line, but man
was that close. He can be reached
at stnesbit@umich.edu.

Save 10-50%
offretailprices

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Michigan football coach Brady Hoke hasn't had a chance to coach with a full cast of his own characters just yet.

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

October 24, 2011 - 3B

NORTHERN
From Page 1B
wick. "His emotions got to him
(on Friday). He's not usually like
that."
Michigan dominated the first
period on Saturday after play-
ing a sloppy opening frame on
Friday. The Wolverines outshot
Northern Michigan, 12-4, in the
first period of the finale and reg-
istered goals from Treais and
junior forward Lindsay Sparks.
Sparks's goal came on Michi-
gan's first power play opportu-
nity. Sparks began the play on
the wing and moved the puck to
senior defenseman Greg Pateryn
at the blue line. Pateryn quickly
moved the puck to sophomore
defenseman Mac Bennett who
skated towards the goal, wound
up for a slapshot and then moved
the puck to Sparks for the easy
finish.
The Wolverines failed to con-
vert on the remaining four power
plays, including the five-minute
advantage at the end of the third

period into the overtime frame.
"In the beginning we were
trying to play more of a 2-3 (on
the power play) and move the
puck around high to low," Sparks
said. "They started to read it a
bit, and also on our chances we
didn't move the puck great. Pass-
es weren't on the stick."
Michigan logged 44 penalty
minutes on 11 penalties on Friday
but only wentto the box four times
on Saturday. All of those penalties
came in the second period.
The penalties cost them, as
Northern Michigan scored two
power play goals in the second
period.
"They really moved the puck
well," said Michigan coach Red
Berenson. "They got a little bit
of puck luck too on the second
one. It hit one of their players in
front and bounced right over to a
wide-open player."
A brawl in the second period
of Friday's contest changed the
dynamic of the game. Before the
fight, neither team scored. The
sides combined for eight goals
afterward. The Wildcats thwart-

ed a late comeback to take the
game, 5-3.
The brawl began after a
Northern Michigan breakaway.
Hunwick made a glove save, and
the puck squirted loose. The
speeding Wildcat collided with
Hunwick and upended him.
Meanwhile, forward Reed Seck-
el boarded a Michigan player in
the corner after the whistle.
Players from both teams
exchanged blows near the goal
and the site of Seckel's infrac-
tion. Hunwick landed a punch
on Cherniwchan's jaw, and Mof-
fatt got into a fight for a moment
before being thrown to the ice.
The referees needed several
minutes to sort out the mayhem
and many more to sort out the
penalties. They ejected Hun-
wick, Moffatt and Cherniwchan
and gave Seckel a double-minor
for boarding.
Michigan received a tie and
two points, not three, for the
shootout win.
"This is CCHA hockey,"
Berenson said after Friday's loss.
"It's a battle every night."

HUNWICK
From Page 1B
was because of Hunwick. That
sounds harsh, but here's the
thing: Hunwick is a fifth-year
senior. He's the oldest player
on the team by more than two
years. He's not a fresh-faced
kid who has never handled
adversity before.
"We can't have one of our
senior captains lose his cool
like that, no matter what hap-
pens," said Michigan coach
Red Berenson. "We'll address
that."
Before he was ejected, he
already had 17 saves and was
carrying an offensively slug-
gish Wolverine team. Hunwick
is not only one of Michigan's
best players - he is one of the
best players in the country.
With Hunwick in the net,
the Wolverines have the abil-
ity to beat anybody. He is that
good.
But Janecyk is not, and
Hunwick has to know better
than to get himself ejected.
That's nothing against Jane-
cyk. He just isn't Hunwick
There's a fine line between
playing with passion and play-
TREAIS
From Page 1B
Treais.
Treais scored the Wolver-
ines' first goal of the evening
and Sparks' goal three minutes
later extended his current game
point streak to three - the two
were the ideal "snipers" that
Berenson wanted to take the
shots.
But freshman forward Phil
Di Giuseppe was a less obvi-
ous choice. Di Giuseppe didn't
tally any points this weekend
and hasn't seen as much game
action as Treais or Sparks. But
that's why Berenson thought he
would be most advantageous.
"Di Giuseppe has been one
our good young players," Beren-
son said. "I thought he might be

ing with a hot head.
You can be competitive
without allowing emotions to
control the game.
And for Michigan to be suc-
cessful this year, Hunwick is
going to have to geta much
better grip of that line. If you
were the opposing team, why
wouldn't you try to start some-
thing every game?
Every team and every
fanbase now has a blueprint
against the Wolverines,
because there's no replacing
Hunwick if he gets ejected.
He can't throw punches,
challenge the entire Northern
Michigan bench to a fight and
then taunt the fans behind
him.
Provocation doesn't matter.
It's understandable that Hun-
wick was upset on Friday. But
he has to know that he's Mich-
igan's most important player.
He has to play smarter.
"We are not trying to take
penalties and retaliate, but
that's the way the game was
played," Berenson said. "Hock-
ey is a game of emotion. You
just have to play with more
control."
On Saturday, he did. Hun-
wick didn't play his best game
able to surprise the goalie."
Wildcat goalkeeper Jared
Coreau didn't seem too sur-
prised after Di Giuseppe and
Sparks both tried and missed.
Michigan (0-1-1 CCHA, 4-1-1
overall) had scouted Coreau
and knew he had a "weak
glove," according to Sparks.
But Coreau was easily able to
read their moves as they skated
down the ice.
Di Giuseppe backhanded the
puck into the Coreau's block-
er and Sparks' shot hit him
squarely in the chest.
Treais learned he would be
the third to take the ice just
about 40 seconds before he
actually went out. And that
didn't leave him much time to
come up with an idea.
"I didn't really have a plan
going in there," Treais said. "I

of the year, allowing three
goals, but he played well
enough to keep Michigan in
the game. The Wolverines
went on to win in an overtime
shootout, where Hunwick
stopped all three Northern
Michigan shot attempts.
Hunwick kept his compo-
sure, staying out of scuffles
near the net and ignoring a
hostile Wildcat student section
that was in his ear all night
He even ignored a 400-pound
Wildcat fan who took off his
shirt in order to shake his fat
all over the boards next to
Hunwick's net.
But if Janecyk had been in
Hunwick's spot on Saturday,
Michigan would've lost. A
kid who has never started a
game doesn't have any chance
at denying all three shots in
a shootout, especially on the
road. There was much discus-
sion after Friday's game as
to whether Hunwick would
be suspended for Saturday's
game. If he didn't play on Sat-
urday Michigan would have
lost, simple as that.
With Hunwick in net, the
Wolverines will always have
a chance. Without him, they
won't.
saw a little spot (in the goal)
and picked it."
And although Treais was
the only Wolverine to score
during the shootout, the team
also gives credit to fifth-year
senior goalie Shawn Hunwick,
who is known for his ability to
perform in big games. Saturday
was no exception - he blocked
all the shots he faced during the
shootout.
In fact, he only had to save
two shots - the Wildcats' first
shot went wide. The other two
shots were denied by Hunwick's
blocker. During the unfamiliar
situation, his presence on the
ice provided a sense of ease for
Michigan.
"He took us to the Frozen
Four last year," Treais said. "I
think everyone's got confidence
in him."


NOTEBOOK
From Page 1B
The third-period goal from
Hyman - Berenson's most
prized recruit among the fresh-
men - added to his season tally
of two assists. The freshman has
been tabbed as a dangerous scor-
ing threat.
Berenson hoped that by scor-
ing in a hostile road environ-
ment, Hyman will build more
confidence around the net.
Another freshman contribu-
tor, forward Travis Lynch, is a
regular starter for the Wolver-

ines who also picked up valuable
experience on the road.
MAN DOWN MAYHEM:
Michigan's penalty kill unit was
every bit as troubling this week-
end as the third line was promis-
ing.
The Wildcats enjoyed sus-
tained success when skating
with a man advantage. Two of
their three goals on Saturday
came with a Wolverine in the
penalty box.
"I would give them credit,"
Berenson said. "(But) they got a
little bit of puck luck on the sec-
ond (power play)."
Earlier in the week, Beren-

son had noted that a challenge
of playing on the Olympic-sized
rink at the Berry Events Center
was how spread thin the Wol-
verines would be on the penalty
kill. With 15 additional feet of
ice in the width of the rink, there
was concern about how Michi-
gan would prevent goals on the
penalty kill.
Though the playing conditions
deteriorated as the game wore
on, Berenson knows that the unit
needs to improve as CCHA play
continues.
"The ice wasn't good at the
end, but that's no excuse," Beren-
son said.

WE'RE NOT GOING TO BEG YOU.
Not quite yet, at least.
JOIN DAILY SPORTS - MEETINGS SUNDAYS AT 1 P.M.


An invaluable resource at a new, low rate.
Get a New York Times Digital Subscription for as low as $1.88 a week.
As a college student, faculty or staff member, now you can become a Digital ewC 0 hes
Subscriber to the world's finest journalism on your computer, smartphone or
tablet at our exclusive college rate - and save 50%. Plus, keep this special
college rate as long as you remain a college student, faculty or staff member.
Subscribe at the college rate
available only at nytimes.com/resource


0

4B - October 24, 2011

Sport Mon9day

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

X 4k/ v - _. I .. .V .. ... . ...


WOMEN'S SOCCER
Penn State offense too
much for 'M' defenders

Redshirt unior forward Clare Stachel reacts after a 4-0 loss to Penn State on Senior Day. Michigan also fell to Ohio State on Friday night-
Wolverine offense shut out twice
du frin pairof Big Ten aIt'lChups

By CARLY BODDY
Daily Sports Writer
On Sunday, seniors Kristen
Goncalves, Courtney Mercier
and Kim Siebert played their last
home soccer game for Michigan.
The Michi-
gan wom- OHIO STATE 1
en's soccer MICHIGAN 0
team looked
to beat a PENN STATE 4
No. 14 Penn MICHIGAN 0
State team it
hadn't been able to beat in the last
three seasons. In fact, the Nittany
Lions are a team Michigan hadn't
beat since 2002.
Michigan was shut out, 4-0, by
Penn State. It was coming off a
similar 1-0 loss to Ohio State just
two days before.
The scoring began 22 minutes
in with the first of four goals
against junior goalkeeper Haley
Kopmeyer. The second goal came
in the final minute of the half.
Penn State scored two more
times and the Wolverines were
still unable to turn any chances

into goals.
The seniors finished their
careers without ever pulling off a
win against the Nittany Lions.
"We learned the hard way out
there on the field." said Michi-
gan coach Greg Ryan. "The main
takeaway is experience."
But for the seniors, being hon-
ored on the field and playing their
last home game wasn't really so
much about experience. Senior
defender Kristen Goncalves has
been with Michigan for four
years, and has started since she
was a freshman - she has plenty
of experience.
"The most important thing is
how hard our team fights for each
other," Goncalves said. "I don't
think at any point in these two
games we ever gave up."
And they're still not giving up.
While these two losses may be
detrimental for the team as far as
getting into the Big Ten Tourna-
ment, the players are determined.
"Everyday we talk about what
we are going to need to do." Gon-
calves said. "We are going to be

prepared to play Illinois next
week."
But losing to Penn State (9-1-
O Big Ten, 16-3-0 overall) wasn't
much of a surprise for Michigan
(4-5-1 Big Ten, 9-7-2 overall). The
Nittany Lions have lost just one
game in Big Ten play this season.
It was the loss to rival Ohio State
on Friday that was much more
detrimental.
"Soccer is the kind of game
where, if you don't put away your
chances, it comes back to haunt
you," Ryan said.
And being shut out by a rival
Ohio State team (4-4-1 Big Ten,
8-8-1 overall) on Friday won't be
easily forgotten.
The Wolverines had two close
scoring opportunities. The first
was an apparent goal scored
by freshman midfielder Chris-
tina Murillo off a header. It was
crossed from sophomore forward
Nkem Ezurike but was called off-
sides.
The second was a penalty kick
- and another chance that wasn't
put away. Redshirtjunior forward

Clare Stachel took the kick, which
bounced off the crossbar. Murillo
attempted again and took the
rebound shot, which was saved.
In the second half, play got
physical between the rivals, and
the Wolverines consistently con-
tinued to miss their chances.
Fouled by an Ohio State defender,
Murillo took a kick that soared
straight over the net.
Finally, with 12 minutes left in
the second half, Ohio State scored
and Michigan was unable to get
the equalizer.
"That was the first time I've
felt like we've outplayed Ohio
State since I've been here," Ryan
said.
Yet unable to get a goal, the
Wolverines fell 1-0 to the Buck-
eyes.
For the seniors, it was disap-
pointing. But for the younger
players, the main takeaway was,
as Ryan said, experience.
Michigan will play its final
game before the Big Ten Tour-
nament this coming Saturday
against Illinois in Champaign.

By STEVEN BRAID
DailySports Writer
The Michigan women's soc-
cer team's defense has been suf-
focating all season long.
It is tied for first in the Big
Ten for the least amount of
goals allowed, and during a
road trip earlier in the season,
the unitheld in check two of the
top five scorers in the Big Ten -
Nebraska's Morgan Marlbor-
ough and Iowa's Cloe Lacasse.
But against No. 9 Penn State,
the Wolverines' defense was
in trouble before they even
stepped onto the field.
Playing against the sec-
ond-highest scoring offense
in the nation, the Wolverines
appeared overmatched by a Nit-
tany Lion squad that had netted
50 goals in 18 games entering
the matchup.
"I felt like the defensive plan-
ning was good and the execu-
tion was good," said Michigan
coach Greg Ryan. "They didn't
get a lot of great chances, but
the great chances that they got,
they put away."
With redshirt junior goalie
Haley Kopmeyer anchoring the
defense, Michigan had allowed
less than a goal per game over
its last seven contests.
But despite its best effort,
Michigan could only hold off
Penn State's aggressive attack
until midway through the
first half, as the Nittany Lions
scored four unanswered goals
en route to a resounding 4-0
victory.
Penn State forward Maya
Hayes, the nation's leading
scorer, proved to be the catalyst
against the Wolverines.
Entering Sunday, she had
scored in five straight games,
notching eight goals during
that span.
Hayes wasn't overly domi-
nant but eventually proved too
difficult to contain. She played

patientlythroughout the match,
waiting for the right time to
attack. She converted both her
shots on goal - she scored off of
a rebound during the last min-
ute of the first half and later put
the ball in the back of the net in
the 60th minute after dribbling
by two Michigan defenders.
Those goals gave her 25 total,
one more goal than the entire
Michigan team combined this
season.
"It's tough to play against a
player like (Hayes)," Ryan said.
"We shut her down pretty well
for most of the game, but a kid
like that still ends up with two
goals at the end of the day."
Hayes's impact was felt
beyond her two goals. Her
commanding prescence forced
Michigan to play multiple
defenders on her, opening up
the field for her teammates.
In the 22nd minute, she fake-
touched a cross from forward
Jackie Molinda, momentarily
freezing Kopmeyer and senior
defender Kristen Goncalves,
allowing Penn State forward
Taylor Schram an opening in
the net for the game's first goal
Schram's goal was her 11th of 4
the season, giving her more
goals than the Wolverines' top
scorer.
Kopmeyer played as well as
she could have. She had five
saves, including a diving stop
off a penalty kick late in the
game.
But she couldn't make the
type of impact she has become
accustomed to making.
Ryan admitted that Penn
State's offense was nearly
unstoppable and that their
shots were just too well placed.
"Today, I don't think (Kop-
meyer) had much of any chance
on any of the goals," Ryan said.
"The goals today were just
inside-pocket goals.
"Nothing you could do about
it."

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
Michigan runners wrap up regular season at Eastern Michigan Classic

By COLLEEN THOMAS
For the Daily
On Friday, with the lineup
for the Big Ten Championships
set, the Michigan women's cross
country team showed what a
strong future it has.
The Wolverines let some of
their younger runners compete at
the Eastern Michigan Fall Clas-
sic - a non-scoring meet - while
their top nine runners sat out.
Redshirt sophomore Chloe
Prince - Michigan's top finisher
at 18:33 - placed 11th overall in
the 5,000-meter race. Redshirt
sophomore Meg Bellino (24th)
and redshirt freshman Erica
Crane (25th) were the other Wol-
verines in the top 25.
Michigan also had several girls
run unattached, which means

they participated but didn't run
for Michigan. Most notable was
sophomore Alex Leptich, who
finished second overall with a
time of 17:56, setting a personal
best on the course.
For most of the Wolverines
who ran, it was their second race
in a Michigan uniform and their
last race of the season.
"It was their equivalent of the
Big Ten meet this weekend," said
Michigan coach Mike McGuire.
"I think we did a pretty nice job
with some of them without the
luxury of many races this fall.
These kids are used to running
10 or 12 races by now in their high
school season, and for us they've
run just two. I thought they did a
nice job."
The Wolverines had most of
the season to prepare for the race

and pu
ing the
"
w
"Thi
about
and no
even t
lino sa
to go a
made s
six mile

t in some great work dur- "This was our chance to run
season to get ready. our besttimes and show everyone
what we've been working for."
September 2 was the last time
the Michigan runners who com-
This season peted Friday ran, which hap-
pened to be the first meet of the
vas ... about season. The Wolverines hosted
the Michigan Open on the same
orking hard course, so Friday's race was a
chance to improve upon their
everyday." times from the beginning of the
season.
"We wanted to be better than
we were when we ran that course
s season was just more on September 2nd, and we were,"
working hard everyday, McGuire said. "We had better
t to take any runs lightly, conditions as far as the tempera-
he recovery days," Bel- ture, but we hit a pretty size-
id. "If we were supposed able patch of the course that was
nd run four to six miles, we very muddy along the river, and
ure it was a quality four to it made navigating it a little bit
es. slower. They did a nice job."

The rest of the Wolverines'
regulars were at the meet to cheer
on their teammates but did not
run. Their focus is on next Sun-
day's race in Champaign - the
Big Ten Championship.
Nine Wolverines will compete
for the Big Ten title as Michigan
heads into tournament time.
"We've got two workouts, basi-
cally a workout and a half left,"
McGuire said. "We're plant-
ing the seed on how we want to
attack this race."
McGuiresaid the team is aware
that Michigan State is the favorite
to win the Big Ten title, but they
are ready to compete anyway. He
said the Wolverines, Iowa, and
Minnesota are three teams who
could possibly "dethrone" the
Spartans.
"We think we're capable,

(but) we haven't put it together
across the board that up to this
point would garner us a Big Ten
title," McGuire said. "But we also
have nine days of preparation of
physical, and in particular, men-
tal preparation. Then we've just
gotta go out and execute on game
day. We want it, but so do two or
three other accomplished pro-
grams."
Michigan will keep the ulti-
mate goal in mind as they train
in the coming week for next Sun-
day's race.
As for the rest of the tourna-
ment season?
"We're noteventhinking about
NCAA's right now," McGuire
said. "We're thinking about the
Big Ten meet.
"The ladies' focus is on next
Sunday."


STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what
happens in the 2011 football season.

Michael
Florek

Stephen J.
Nesbitt

0


No.1 LU(-21)vs No.19 Auburn
No 3 oklabama (27.5) vs. Tennessee
No. 3 Oklahoma (-255)ovs. Texas Tech
No. 4 Wisconsin (-7)tat No.1 SMichigan State
No. 5tBoseStae (-29.5) vs.Air Force
No. 6 Oklahoma State (-7.5) at Missouri
No.7 Stanford(-20) vs. No. 22 Washington
No. 8Clemson (-n1) vs. North Carolina
No9Oregaet-02.)at Colorado
No. 10 Askansas (4.5) at Ote Miss
Na.i11West Virginia (-135) at Syracuse
No. 12 Kansas State 5) at annsas
No. 13Nebraska (-26.5) at Minnesota
No. 16 Virginia Tech (-21.5) vs. Boston College
No.17 Texas A&M (-17.5) at lowa State
No. 20 Georgia Tech at Miami (Fla.) (-3)
No. 21 Housto(-16) os. Marshall
No. 23 Illinois (-6) at Purdue
Penn State (-3) at Northwestern
lowa (-2.5) vs.tIndiana
ThiaWeek
Overall

Aoborn
Tennessee
Oklahoma
Wisconsin
Boise State
Oklahoma State
Stnfoa
Oregon
Arkansas
West Virinia
Kansas State
Nebraska
Virginia Tech
Texas A&M
Georgia Tech
Houston
linois
PennoState
owa-
106-83-3

Auborn
Alabama
Oklahoma
Wisconnin
Bois State
Oklahoma State
Stanford
Clemson
Oregoe
Arkansas
West Virginia
KaesasState
Nebraka
Virginia Tech
Texas A&M
Georgia Tech
Houston
Illinois
Penn State
9-10
113-76-3

Alakama
Texas Teah
Wisconsin
Boise State
Oklahoma State
Washington
Clemson
Oregon
Ote Miss
West Virginia
Kaesas State
Nebraska
Virginia Tech
Texas A&M
GeortiaTech
H-oustont
Illinois
Northwestern
owa
10-9
106-83-3

Alabama
Oklahoma
Wisconsin
Noise State
Oklahoma State
Stanford
Clemson
Oregon
Arkansas
Westnirginia
Kansas State
Nebraska
Virginia Tech
Texas A&M
Georgia Tech
Houston
Illinois
Northwestern
116-73-3

Alabama
Oklahoma
Boise State
Oklahoma State
Stanfordt
tlemson
Oregon
Arkansas
WestnVirginia
Kansas State
Nebraska
Virginia Tech
lowa State
Miami
Houston
Illinois
7orth7este
11-8
77-47-1

0*

I + ' n/j


