iC i H11 i l

Ann Arbor,_Michigan

Thursday, January 13, 2011

michigandaily.com

Michigan
community
in toducedto
Brady Hoke
Hoke: 'We're going ers that we've been able to touch ..."
He cleared his voice, eyes water-
to be a program ingandopened his mouth, butthese
words wouldn't come easy.
that's accountable' He pursed his lips and finished,
... as a family. Go Blue."
By TIM ROHAN This was the man who wouldn't.
Daily Sports Editor take Michigan Athletic Direc-
tor Dave Brandon's phone call to
Near the end of his introductory accept theMichigan head coach-
press conference at the Junge Fam- ing job until his wife Laura came
ily Champion's Center yesterday, home from her morning swim at
Brady Hoke slowed to express a the YMCA, so he could share the
point that meant a lot to him. After moment with her.
mentioning many others, he had one This was the man who accept-
thank you left to give. ed the job over the phone, on the
"And one other thank you I spot on Tuesday morning, without
should give to thecthousands of play- See HOKE, Page 5A
New an dformer
coaches talk B
Robinson's future

TOP: Newly-hired Michigan football coach Brady Hoke at his introductory press conference yesterday (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily). BOTTOM LEFT: Hoke at last night's
Michigan men's basketball game against Ohio State (JAKE FROMM/Daily). BOTTOM RIGHT: Michigan Athletic Director Dave Brandon and Hoke at yesterday's press con-
ference (MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily). For more on Brandon's search for a "Michigan Man," see Sports, Page 7A.
BRADY'S BIO Hoke gained the respect-

MICHIGAN'S D-LINE
COACH LDURING
1997 NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP.

Rodriguez never had

) HEAD COACH AT A s Brady Hoke was intro-
BALL STATE AND duced as the Michigan
SAN DIEGO STATE football team's 19th
head coach yesterday, his hands
>) HAS A 47-50 anxiously fidgeted with the 1997
OVERALL RECORD National Championship ring that
he earned as the defensive line
PL AYE D L INEBACKE R coach under former head coach
AT BALL STATE Lloyd Carr.
It was natural to be nervous.
NA MED 2010 After all, during his time as
MOUTAINA 200 coach of San Diego State and Ball
MOU NTAIN WEST State, he had never been grilled
CONFERENCE like he was about to be grilled by
COACH OF THE YEAR the Michigan media.
The lack of respect from the

Michigan fan
base couldn't
havebeen
doing much
to ease his
tensions. Less
than 24 hours
beforehand,
he was viewed
by many as
the fallback

NICK
SPAR

Hoke's career 47-50 record in
the Mid-American Conference
and the Mountain West Confer-
ence wasn't wowing anyone.
It didn't wow the Michigan
faithful, who knew nothing about
the guy besides the shoddy record
and the fact that he happened to
be a "Michigan Man." On Tues-
day evening, Facebook statuses
from Michigan fans everywhere
sardonically remarked on the sad
state of the program.
Many skeptics thought Bran-
don methodically turned the
See SPAR, Page SA

High school coach:
Robinson's transfer
still an option
By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
Now that Michigan's head
'coaching position is secured, one
of the first tasks on the docket for
new headman Brady Hoke will be
to keep Michigan's offensive cen-
terpiece - sophomore quarterback
Denard Robinson - in Ann Arbor.

And after the San Diego Union
Tribune reported that San Diego
State offensive coordinator Al
Borges will be accompanying
Hoke to Michigan, the question of
how Robinson will fit in the Wol-
verines' new offense is one that
many Michigan fans, and Rob-
inson himself, will look to have
answered in the coming days.
In his introductory press con-
ference today, Hoke made it clear
he understands how valuable
Robinson is to the Wolverines.
"We have got a special guy in
See ROBINSON, Page 5A

option to coaches Les Miles, Jim
Harbaugh, and really anyone else
involved in Michigan Athletic
Director David Brandon's clan-
destine national search.


LSA theme semester promotes water sustainability

House Majority Leader
Eric Cantor to speak at'U'

U.S. representative
to address issues
facing new Congress
By JENNA SIMARD
Daily StaffReporter
The U.S. House of Representa-
tives Majority Leader Eric Cantor
(R-Va) is coming to speak on cam-
pus next month, the University
announced yesterday.
Cantor will discuss issues fac-
ing the new Republican majority
in the House and how legislators
plan to tackle them during his
speech on Feb. 2 sponsored by the
Ford School of Public Policy.
Cantor, who has been a mem-
ber of the House since 2001, was
elected House Majority Leader
earlier this month after the GOP
took control of the lower chamber
in last November's midterm elec-
tions.
Laura Lee, director of commu-
nications for the Ford School of
Public Policy, said that Cantor's
visit will be a great addition to the
school's prominent list of speakers.
WEATHER HI 24
TOMORROW LO 19

"We host quite an active pub-
lic lecture series here at the Ford
School," Lee said. "We try to make
it as robust as possible, invite lots
of different people who hold lots
of different political positions or
policy analysts or researchers."
Cantor's speech is part of the
School of Public Policy's mission
to present the University commu-
nity with a dialogue on pertinent
policy issues, Lee said. The pre-
sentation will also address Con-
gress's attemptto reduce spending
and unnecessary regulations,
according to a University press
release issued yesterday.
As the second-most powerful
member of the House, Cantor is a
key player on the national political
scene, Lee added.
"We are just happy he accepted
our invitation," she said. "Hear-
ing from somebody who is in the
position to really influence federal
policy will be a great opportunity
for students," Lee said.
Congressional Quarterly
described Cantor as "GOP's com-
municator, rainmaker and con-
sensus builder," the press release
See CANTOR, Page 6A

College urges
students to put
thought into action
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
After the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts encouraged
student to ponder "What makes
life worth living" in its previous
theme semester, the college aims
to tackle a simpler topic in the
coming months - water.
But, according to those
involved in the theme semester
planning, water is anything but
trite.
"We are all made mostly of
water, we all live near water, and
we are all connected to water -
at least in a basic way," Manja
Holland, co-chair of the LSA
Theme Semester Steering Com-
mittee, said.
In accordance with the LSA
Theme Semester, 75 academic
courses are currently being
offered that are related to the
study of water. LSA will also.
sponsor more than 90 water-
related events throughout the
semester, including lectures,
performances and workshops
across campus.

JEDMOCH/Daily
Associate Music Prof. Michael Gould, Stephen Rush, director of the Digital Music Ensemble in the School of Music, Theatre
and Dance, and Music Specialist Jeremy Edwards perform on ice drums on the Diag yesterday.

Holland, a fellow in the
Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology, proposed the
water theme for this semester.
She said she thought of the idea
because of its omnipresence in
her career as an ecologist and in
the work and research of her col-
leagues and the world.
Amy Harris, co-chair of the
steering committee, said the
theme will focus on water sus-

tainability, ecological studies
and many other disciplines.
"It's not only about environ-
mental sciences," Harris said.
"It's also about literature, the
visual arts, culture and history."
Though organized by LSA,
more than 40 departments
across campus and about a dozen
Ann Arbor institutions not affili-
ated with the University - like
the Ann Arbor Public Library

and local businesses - will also
participate.
The semester program began
yesterday with an ice percussion
concert held on the Diag, where
students and faculty members
played replicas of ancient per-
cussion instruments made of ice.
Other upcoming events include a
riverbank clean-up project and a
lecture by world-renown ocean-
See LSA, Page 6A

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news(amichigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM
Activist Kerry Kennedy to speak on campus
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX AP NEWS......
Vol. CXXINo. 72 OPINION......
Q011tTheMichiganDaily NEWS.
michigaiidoily.cow

..3A CLASSIFIEDS
..4A SPORTS........
.5A THE B-SIDE.

.6A
7A


2A - Thursday, January 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:

.MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Questions on Campus Professor Profiles
Teaching in Tanzania

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

With the limited educational
and career resources, many women
living in Tanzania lack the oppor-
tunities available to women in the
United States.
But a new student group on cam-
pus, AfricAid, aims to address this
issue by providing young women in
Tanzania with the opportunity to
receive an education.
AfricAid is based on a larger
organization started in Golden,
Colo. in 2001. LSA sophomores
Mia Kelly and Kelsey Hamrick said
they came up with the idea to bring
AfricAid to the University this past
fall and were driven by their pas-
sion for promoting education for
young women.
Hamrick said AfricAid's first
goal as a club is to sponsor a couple
of young women in Tanzania and
send them to secondary school.
In addition to working with its
parent organization, AfricAid also

coordinates with the Kisa Project
- a training program for African
women to equip them with skills to
enter into the workforce. AfricAid
aspires to offer .a stipend and two
years of leadership training to the
girls they sponsor, so they have the
tools to be successful and imple-
ment projects in their communities.
Sponsoring one young woman for
two months costs $2,000, so fund-
raising is essential, Hamrick and
Kelly said.
In March, AfricAid is scheduled
to host, a panel about gender and
education in Africa that features
keynote speaker Frances Vavrus, a
professor at the University of Min-
nesota's College of Education &
Human Development.
"We are also in the process of
gathering a panel of University
of Michigan professors in differ-
ent areas like Education, Women's
Studies, International Studies and

Public Policy," Hamrick said. "The
idea is to get a group of people that
are interested in these topics and
can give different viewpoints on
this greater issue of education."
Kelly added that after the event
in March, there will be a question-
and-answer session, with a possible
raffle and silent auction as well.
Once the club gains more rec-
ognition and expands beyond its
current 15 to 20 active members,
Kelly and Hamrick said they plan to
organize a variety of activities that
will continue to work toward the
group's goals.
"We are really focused on fund-
raising right now, but we'd like to
shift that as we raise more money
to promoting cultural awareness,
and I'm hoping that in the long run
that we can have trips to Tanzania
to meet the girls that we sponsor,"
Kelly said.
- SAMANTHA NORMAN

COURTESY OF AFRICAID
AfricAid leaders explain the club's mission to prospective
members at Festifall this year.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief Bosiness Manager
734-418-4115 eat 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
sreioberg@michigaodaily com nmdbuaiess@gmaiteom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom offieehours:Sun.-Thus.11a.m.- 2 am.
734-410-4115 opt.3
NewsTips news@michigandaily.com
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
letters tothe Editor dothedaily@michigandailyxcom
Photography Department photo@mihigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classied@michigandaily.com
Online Sales ontineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
KyleSwanson ManagingEditor swanson@michigandaily.com
Nicole Abe ManagingNewsEditor aber@ichigaydaity.am
SENORsoNEWS EDITORBthaoyBiron, Dyan Cinti, Caitlonoausto,Joeph
Lichterman, Vevon Thorsby
AStSTANTEWS EDBrITOROacheBrao rae Goscicki,SuzanneJacobs,Mike
Merr, MsicheleNarov,BienePruak, KaitlinoWilliams
Michelle DeWitt and opinioneditors@mkhigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editor
SENIO EITORAGEDTOS AidaAitAhleshamorsoeahaeaondoon
AStSTATEDTOIALeAGDIOS: oEagaDasHasaata,AndrewWeiner
Tim Rohanand sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Nick Spar Managing Sports Editor
SENIORSPORTSEDITORS:MarkBurns,MichaelFlorek,ChanteJennings,RyanKartje,
Stephen J. Nesbitt, ZakPyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi,Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
KevinRaftery,MattSlovin .
Sharon Jacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@mchigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: LeahBurgin,KaviPandey,Jenniferxu
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoeCadagin,EmmaGase,PromaKhoslaDavidTao
Marissa McClain and photo@nichigandailycom
Jed Moch Managing Photo Editors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORSErin Kirkland, Salam Ridsa, Anna Schulte, Samantha
Trauen
Zach Bergson and gdesign@michigandaily.com
Heleotieblicb Monagig Designotditors
SENIORDESIGN EDITOR: MayaFriedman-
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS:Alex Bondy, HermesRisien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy and copydesk@michigandaily.con
EileenPatten CopyChiefs
SarahSquire WebDevelopmentManager squire@michigandaity.eom
BUSINESSSTAFF
Julianna Crimasa nager
SALESFORCE MANAGER:StephanieBowker
MARKETING MANAGER: GjonJuncaj
Hillary Szawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
lason Mahakian ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Zach Yancer web Project Coordinator
The Michigan taily ISSN074as-%67)is published MOndaythrough Fridayduringthefalland winter
terms by studentsat theUniversity of Michigan.One copyisavailablefreeof chargeto alreaders.
Additionalcopiesmaybepickedupat theDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforallterm,startingin
September,viaU.S.maiare l.Wintertem(JanuarythroughApril)is$115,yearlong(September
through Apri)is$19s5.University afatesare subject toareducedsubscriptionrate.On-campus
bscrptionfalltermae535.Susciptismustbeprepaid.TheichiganDailyisamember
ofThe AsociatedPess andTheAssociatedColegiaePess

0
0
0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Man files fake Car speakers Nourish
prescriptions catch on fire YourSELF
WHERE: East Ann Arbor WHERE: 1000 Block Wall lunch series
Medical Center Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about WHEN: Tuesday at about WHAT: Nourish Your
4:10 p.m. 10:40 p.m. a lunch series for wom
WHAT: A 45-year-old male WHAT: The speaker in a color, will discuss issu
was arrested for using fraudu- University staff member's car empowerment and hea
lent prescriptions to buy caughtfire due to a faulty wire, WHO: Multi-Ethnic
medicine, University Police University Police reported. The Student Affairs
reported. He is not affiliated car was engulfed in flames, but WHEN: Today at 11:31
with the University. there were no injuries. WHER:ai. san

SELF,
en of
es of
aith.
0 a.m.
rs

Union, MSA Chamber

BWinter slip 'n
Bedding burglar slide on the ice
WHERE:East Quad Resi- s
dence Hall WHERE: 1500 East medical
WHEN: Wednesday at about Drive
2:50 a.m. WHEN: Tuesday at about 6:45
WHAT: A comforter and p.m.
pillows were stolen from a WHAT: A vehicle slid on ice
female student's room, Uni- and into the back of a Uni-
versity Police reported. Police versity bus, University Police
believe the suspect is a male reported. No one was injured in
student. the accident.
MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes? Getlmore online atmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

LGBT bullying
prevention class
WHAT: A class to educate
people on the issues sor-
rounding harrassment of
LGBT students. The class
will also discuss how to
preventbullying. Course
registration is $60.
WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today at Ip.m.
WHERE: School
of Social Work
CORRECTIONS
* In yesterday's arti-
cle titled "A Variety
of Vegetation" mis-
identified LSA senior
Lindsay De Carolis.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Patients at a Southern Cali-
fornia health clinic were
exposed to hepatitis C from
an IV line, the Chicago Tri-
bune reported. The IV line is
believed to have been contami-
nated by a nurse who works at
the clinic.
Several students who
graduated from the Musi-
cTheatre program have
made names for themselves on
the Broadway stage. Some have
even received nominations for
Tony Awards.
*FOR MORE,SEETHEB-SIDE. INSIDE
A 17th Century Bible was
found at a small Luther-
an school and church
in Bonduel, Wisc., Fox
News reported. According to
researchers, the 1,500-page
Bible was printed in Germany
in 1670. The book was discov-
ered in a safe by a sixth grade
teacher.

Poetry Slam
at the Union
WHAT: A night of poetry
with an open mic session,
competition between seven
poets and a performance
from a featured poet.
Cost is $5 per person.
WHO: University Unions
& Arts Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

0

Highhopes for banks
bring Dow, asdaqup

Stocks shoot higher
as worries ease
about Europe's debt
NEW YORK (AP) - Hopes that
banks would start raising their
dividends sent financial stocks
sharply higher yesterday. Indexes
closed at their highest levels in
more than two years after a suc-
cessful bond auction in Portugal
eased worries about Europe's debt
crisis..
Portugal borrowed $1.6 billion
at a lower long-term interest rate
than many expected. Investors
have been concerned that Por-
tugal will struggle with its debts
and become the third European
country to require a bailout after
Greece and Ireland.
Analysts cautioned that it's
still possible Portugal could need
a financial lifeline if its economy
slips back into recession this year.

"Things are not resolved com-
pletely here," said Rob Lutts, pres-
ident and chief investment officer
of Cabot Money Management.
Banks led the market higher
after an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities issued a report saying
their earnings should grow much
faster than other companies this
year. He also said banks were like-
ly to distribute more of their earn-
ings to shareholders as dividends.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose 2.5
percent to $44.71 after the com-
pany's CEO, Jamie Dimon, told
CNBC late Tuesday that the bank
hopes to raise its dividend in the
second quarter. JPMorgan's stock
led the 30 large companies that
make up the Dow Jones indus-
trial average, followed closely by
Bank of America. Bank of America
gained 2 percent to $14.99.
The Dow rose 83.56 points, or
0.7 percent, to close at 11,755.44.
That's the Dow's highest close
since Aug.11, 2008.

The Standard & Poor's 500
index also reached itshighest level
since Aug. 28, 2008. The index
gained 11.48, or 0.9 percent, to
1,285.96.
The Nasdaq composite rose
20.50, or 0.8 percent, to 2,737.33.
ITT Corp. jumped 16 percent
to $61.50 after the defense. con-
tractor said it would split itself
into three publicly traded com-
panies. ITT plans to separate its
defense and information, water
technology and industrial prod-
ucts divisions. Thatshould make it
easier for investors to understand
the company's various businesses,
said Robert Pavlik, chief market
strategist with Banyan Partners.
American International Group
Inc. slipped 1 percent to $58.40
after the company agreed to sell
its stake in Taiwan's third-largest
insurer for $2.2 billion. The deal is
part of AIG's plan to raise money
to repay the $182 billion it received
in government bailout funds.

rneigi oa aa odsuscnen bu eao' oen etclapeysedyU.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, right, gestures as she talks to Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit during their
meeting in Doha, Qatar to discuss concerns about Lebanon's government collapse yesterday.
Hezbollah and allies
topple Lebanese gov.,

Lebanon's worst
political crisis since
2008 prompted by
Hariri tribunal
BEIRUT (AP) - Lebanon's gov-
ernment collapsed yesterday after
Hezbollah and its allies resigned
from the Cabinet in a dispute with
Western-backed factions over
upcoming indictments in the 2005
assassination of former Prime Min-
ister Rafik Hariri.
A U.N.-backed tribunal inves-
tigating the truck bombing that
killed Hariri and 22 others is widely
expected to name members of the
Shiite militant group, which many
fear could re-ignite sectarian vio-
lence that has erupted repeatedly in
the tiny nation.
Hezbollah's walkout ushers in
the country's worst political crisis
since 2008 in one of the most vola-
tile corners of the Middle East.
Lebanon's 14-month-old govern-
ment was an uneasy coalition link-
ing bitter rivals: a Western-backed
bloc led by Hariri's son Saad and
Hezbollah, which is supported by
Syria and Iran and maintains an

arsenal that far outweighs that of
the national army.
Disputes over the tribunal have
paralyzed the government for
months, with Hezbollah denounc-
ing the court as a conspiracy by the
U.S. and Israel and urgingthe prime
minister to reject any of its findings.
But Hariri has refused to break
cooperation with the Netherlands-
based tribunal.
Now, the chasm between the two
sides is deepening with Hezbollah
accusing Hariri's bloc of bowing
to the West. Hezbollah's ministers
timed their resignations to coincide
with Hariri's meeting with Presi-
dent Barack Obama in Washington,
forcing him to meet the American
president as a caretaker prime min-
ister.
Western governments have
worked to strengthen the central
government since Israel and Hez-
bollah fought a devastating 34-day
war in 2006, but they also have
expressed concern about the bal-
ance of power with the heavily
armed militant group.
The U.S. classifies Hezbollah asa
terrorist organization.
A White House statement said
Obama commended Hariri for his
"steadfast leadership and efforts to

reach peace, stability and consensus
in Lebanon under difficult circum-
stances."
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary
Rodham Clinton said Hezbollah's
actions are "a transparent effort ...
to subvertjustice and to undermine
Lebanon's sovereignty and indepen-
dence."
"No country should be forced to
choose between justice and stabil-
ity," Clinton said while traveling in
Doha, Qatar. "The Lebanese people
deserve both."
Hariri's office had no immedi-
ate comment on the walkout that
brought down his government, but
they said he was heading to France
to meet French President Sarkozy
before heading back to Beirut.
France, Lebanon's former colonial
power, is a major player in Lebanese
politics.
The immediate trigger for the
Hezbollah withdrawal was the fail-
ure of talks between Syria and Saudi
Arabia, a Hariri ally, to try to find a
compromise over the tribunal.
There had been few details about
the direction of the Syrian-Saudi
initiative, but the talks were lauded
as a potential Arab breakthrough,
rather than a solution offered by
Western powers.

Cuba calls immigration
talks with U.S'. 'fruitful'

Diplomats discuss
Cubans' attempts
to illegally enter
America
HAVANA (AP) - Senior U.S.
and Cuban diplomats met yester-
day to discuss immigration issues
in an encounter described by the
Cuban side as fruitful and carried
out in a spirit of mutual respect.
The two sides discussed ways to
combat people-smuggling across
the treacherous Straits of Florida,
according to a statement released
by the Cuban government.
"It was a fruitful exchange
aimed at ... the establishment
of more effective mechanisms
of cooperation to combat illegal
migrant smuggling," said Deputy
Cuban Foreign Minister Dagober-

to Rodriguez, who led the Cuban
delegation.
The statement said both sides
recognized that the number of
Cubans attempting to get to the
United States illegally, often in
rickety rafts or inner tubes, had
dropped significantly.
There was no immediate com-
ment from the American side,
which was led by Roberta Jacob-
sen, the United States' principal
deputy assistant secretary of state
for Western Hemisphere affairs.
The gathering focused on a
17-year-old agreement under
which the United States issues
20,000 visas to Cubans a year. But
diplomats from both countries also
use the twice-yearly meetings to
detail a long-standing list of com-
plaints.
Chief among them, as far as
Washington is concerned, is the
detention of Alan Gross, an Ameri-

can subcontractor jailed by Cuba
for more than a year without
charge on suspicion of spying.
U.S. diplomats were also likely
to have raised what Washington
considers Cuba's spotty human-
rights record overall.
The Cuban delegation never
fails to voice its opposition to the
48-year-old U.S. trade embargo,
which Havana says has put a stran-
glehold on the island's economy.
The Cuban statement said its
officials also reiterated displeasure
with a U.S. policy that allows any
Cuban reaching American soil to
remain, while sending back those
intercepted at sea. The Cubans
have said in the past they believe
the policy encourages people-
smuggling.
Despite the many points of
contention, the Cuban statement
said the meeting "developed in an
atmosphere of respect."

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 13, 2011- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January13, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
* LANSING
Gov. Snyder plans
to invest in state's
15 universities
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder says
universities likely will have to sac-
rifice in the short run, but he wants
to invest more in higher education
when times get better.
The Republican governor met
Wednesday with the presidents of
the 15 state universities who make
up the Presidents Council. They
say they're ready to help Snyder
boost economic development.
Michigan Technological Uni-
versity President Glen Mroz said
in a statement that the meeting set
a positive tone for the relationship
between universities and the new
Snyder administration.
Snyder spoke about the project-
ed $1.8 billion shortfall but didn't
give any details on what he plans
for universities in the next budget.
State funding for university
operations has dropped 12 percent
over the past eight years, while
tuition has risen an average of 80
percent.
AUSTIN, Texas
Texas governor
challenges local
immigration rights
Republican Gov. Rick Perry
offered no clues yesterday on how
Texas might abolish "sanctuary
cities" that he says provide haven
to illegal immigrants, after order-
ing the new GOP-dominated state
legislature make the issue a top
priority.
"There are cities in this state
that have made decisions that
they're goingtobe havens for those
that are in conflict with federal
immigration laws or state laws,
and we're going to prohibit that,"
Perry said. "We'll have a good and
open discussion about what we're
going to prohibit."
Democrats say they've identi-
fied at least 40 bills targeting ille-
gal immigration this session. The
proposals include requiring local
law enforcement to ask anyone
without ID during a legal traffic
stop whether they're in the coun-
try legally. Another would require
school districts to identify stu-
dents who are illegal immigrants.
TOKYO
Pentagon views
North Korea a
threat to the U.S.
* Top Pentagon officials say the
United States fears the risk of war
is rising between South Korea
and the heavily militarized and
increasingly unpredictable regime
in North Korea. And the Pentagon
considers North Korea a threat to
the mainland United States.
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
is meeting top political leaders
in Japan today about the grow-
ing worry that North Korea might
push its saber-rattling too far.
Gates sees leaders in South Korea

on Friday.
Meanwhile, Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chairman Mike Mullen says that
North Korea poses an evolving
threat beyond the region to the
United States specifically. Mullen
tells the Foreign Press Center in
Washington he urges coordinated
pressure among China, Russia,
South Korea and Japan. Those
nations have disarmament lever-
age and the most at stake.
* RATHDRUM,Idaho
Idaho mother wins
$190 million Mega
Millions jackpot
A northern Idaho woman has
claimed the remaining half of a
$380 million Mega Millions jack-
pot, Idaho Lottery officials said
Wednesday.
Holly Lahti, a 29-year-old moth-
er of two from the small town of
Rathdrum, will split the second-
largest lottery jackpot in history
with Jim and Carolyn McCullar of
Ephrata, Wash.
The McCullars appeared at a
news conference last Thursday to
announce they'd won half the jack-
pot, or $190 million.
Lahti wasn't on hand for
Wednesday's announcement in
Boise.
"She's requested that the
media respect her privacy and not
attempt to contact her until she's
prepared to speak to you," Lottery
Director Jeff Anderson said at a
news conference.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Obama goes
to Arizona
for memorial

AP
In this frame grab image taken from amateur video and acquired by APTN protesters are seen amid a burning vehicle in
Douz, Tunisia, Wednesday Jan. 12, 2011.
Tunisians protest
in capital,. 23 dead

President Obama
visits wounded Rep.
Gabrielle Giffords
TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) - Thrust
into the role of consoler, President
Barack Obama yesterday stood
at the bedside of wounded law-
maker Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and
spent private moments with oth-
ers who were shot in an assassina-
tion attempt against her that has
unnerved the nation. He prepared
to try to rally the nation's spirit ina
memorial for the victims.
In an unscheduled stop shortly
after landing in Arizona, Obama
spent about 10 minutes with Gif-
fords and her husband in her hos-
pital room. The president and the
first lady also met with other vic-
tims wounded in the shooting ram-
page before moving onto the site of
the memorial, where they gathered
with families of those who were
killed. The president was to speak
for roughly 15 minutes toward
the end of the memorial, devoting
most of his comments to recalling
the lives of the victims. In total, 19
people were shot, and six of them
killed, in what police say was a bra-
zen attempt by a gunman to kill Gif-
fords. She was shot point-blank in
the head butis expected to survive.
Obama planned to use his com-
ments to "reflect on how all of us
might best honor their memory
in our own lives," said his spokes-
man, Robert Gibbs. An overflow
crowd packed the University ofAri-
zona basketball arena for a service
that was meant to give voice to the

nation's shock, sadness and anger.
People erupted into cheers when
a panning camera flashed live video
screen images of people connected
to the story, including Sherriff Clar-
ence Dupnik, and Giffords' intern
Daniel Hernandez, who is credited
with using his own hands to stem
the bleeding from her head after
the shooting.
Searching for the right tone in
the evening service, Obama aimed
to console the country, not dissect
its politics.
Giffords was the target of the
first assassination attempt on a
member of Congress in decades.
Inside the Intensive Care Unit
at the hospital, the president spent
about 10 minutes with Giffords and
her husband, Mark Kelly. He also
met with four other victims from
the shooting, including two of Gif-
fords' staff members who were
wounded in the rampage.
A bipartisan delegation of law-
makers had accompanied Obama
on Air Force One in a sign of soli-
darity; all branches of government
were represented on site.
Back on Capitol Hill, Giffords'
House colleagues praised her and
the other shooting victims and
insisted that violence would not
silence democracy.
"We will have the last word,"
declared new House Speaker John
Boehner. He fought back tears as he
described Giffords' battle to recov-
er from Saturday's gunshot wound
to her head.
Obama was again playing the
role of national consoler that comes
to all presidents and, in rare times,
helps define them.

Youth respond to
oppressive gov. by
rioting in city
TUNISIA (AP) - Tear gas and
stone-throwing youths reached
the heart of Tunisia's once-
calm capital yesterday as rioters
desperate for jobs defied their
autocratic president in escalat-
ing unrest that poses his biggest
challenge in 23 years in power.
The army deployed armored
vehicles around Tunis, and the
government imposed a virtu-
ally unprecedented curfew to
try to quell protests over unem-
ployment and political repres-
sion that began more than three
weeks ago in a central Tunisian
town. Outside the capital, at least
two deaths were reported from
police fire yesterday.
The demonstrations have set off
clashes with police as they spread
around the country, leaving at
least 23 dead and shattering
Tunisia's image as an island of
calm in a region beset by Islamist
extremism.
The rioting stayed outside the
capital until yesterday, when the
interior minister was fired and
clashes broke out hours later,
-ineensifying -ane unprecedented
sense of uncertainty about the
future of Tunisia's government.
European countries issued warn-
ings about the increased dangers
of travel to the country.
President Zine El Abidine Ben
Ali, 74, has maintained an iron
grip on Tunisia since grabbing
power 23 years ago ina bloodless
coup, repressing any challenge to
a government many see as cor-
rupt and intolerant.
The image of stability and

religious moderation helps draw
millions of mostly European visi-
tors a year to the Mediterranean
beaches of this small North Afri-
can nation, making tourism the
mainstay of the economy. But Ben
Ali's tight control has also creat-
ed the simmering sense of anger
and resentment that erupted in
the capital and outside it.
A witness in the central city of
Douz said there were two deaths
at a protest there yesterday. Slah
Nebti, a 32-year-old French
teacher, said he saw "police fire
and everyone flee. I saw a man
who fell, and everyone surround-
ed him, so I filmed him."
The video, posted on Face-
book, showed the victim lying
face-down in a pool of blood.
Nebti said he didn't know the
victim personally, yet learned his
identity when he went with other
teachers to meet the man's fam-
ily. He identified the victim as a
computer science professor who
had spent time in France.
After Nebti posted the video
online, some of the victim's stu-
dents contacted him.
"They sent me messages to say
he was a good teacher and a good
man," Nebti said by telephone.
In Tunis, hundreds of pro-
testers emerged from a suk,
or market, in the capital and
hurled stones at police at a key
intersection. Officers responded
with volleys of tear gas, driving
the protesters to disperse into
adjoining streets. Stores in the
area were shuttered.
It was not clear whether there
were any injuries or arrests.
Two army vehicles were post-
ed at the intersection, which is
right by the French Embassy, and

military vehicles patrolled neigh-
borhoods on the edges of the
capital. The government ordered
the army to ensure the overnight
curfew is obeyed.
In another neighborhood in
central Tunis, hundreds of pro-
testers tried to reach the region-
al governor's office but were
blocked by riot police. And at
the main national union head-
quarters, police surrounded pro-
testers who tried to break out.
Tensions also erupted along the
edges of the capital.
The rioting first erupted in
mid-December in an inland town
after a young man tried to kill
himself. They then hopscotched
around the country, as social net-
works like Facebook spread word
of the unrest, circumventing
tight control of the media.
Police have repeatedly shot
at demonstrators setting fire to
buildings and stoning police. The
government says 23 people have
died but unions and witnesses
put the toll at 48 or higher.
The U.S. calls Tunisia a strong
ally in the fight against inter-
national Islamist terror groups,
which Rex Ali has-c -s ,tly
claimed threaten the nation.
There has been no indication
of a militant Islamist role in the
rioting, but Denmark's Foreign
Ministry said yesterday that
a risk exists of terror attacks
against Western interests in
Tunisia. Germany's government
issued a statement warning of
the "danger of kidnapping and
attacks, and Spain issued a travel
warning urging its citizens to
avoid inland Tunisia and to be
careful in tourist areas along the
coast.

Russia invited
to tour Iran's
nuclear sites.

Man protests destruction of oaks

Iran also extends
invitation to China
and Hungary
MOSCOW (AP) - Russia has
not yet decided whether to accept
Iran's invitation to tour its nuclear
sites, but believes that such a visit
could help ease concerns about the
Iranian nuclear program, a senior
Russian diplomat said Tuesday.
Iran invited several countries -
including Russia, China and Hun-
gary, which currently holds the
European Union's rotating presi-
dency - to tour the sites ahead
of the next round of international
talks on its disputed nuclear pro-
gram, now set for Jan. 21-22 in
Turkey.
The invitation was not extend-
ed to the United States or the three
European countries - Britain,
France and Germany - that have

been more critical of Iran. Those
four countries also take part in the
talks, together with Russia and
China.
Deputy Foreign Minister Ser-
gei Ryabkov said Tuesday that
Moscow received Iran's invita-
tion "with interest," but had some
questions about the proposed tour
and was discussing them with the
Iranians before makinga decision.
"We believe that in the end an
optimal solution can be found that
would allow for such a visit to take
place for the benefit of removing
the international community's
concerns about Iran's nuclear
program," he said, making Rus-
sia's first comments on the Iranian
invitation.
Iran said the facilities to be vis-
ited include the uranium enrich-
ment facility at Natanz and the
Arak site where it is building a
plutonium-producing heavy water
reactor.

Tree sitter inspires
movement against
construction of dam
ARCADIA, Calif. (AP) - With
the sounds of bulldozers echo-
ing beneath him, veteran tree
sitter John Quigley perched in a
century-old oak yesterday, saying
he won't come down until public
works officials stop felling scores
of trees as part of a dam improve-
ment project.
Quigley, who helped save a
beloved oak with a similar sit-in
eight years ago, was joined by a
handful of other sitters who took
up positions in branches overlook-
ing 11 acres of picturesque foot-
hills.
"They're destroying trees all
around us," Quigley said by cell
phone as the sound of bulldozers
below him could be heard. "It's
a sad scene and definitely some-
thing that didn't need to happen."
Public works officials say the
11 acres of trees, some of them
more than 100 years old, must go
to ensure the integrity of a near-
by dam that provides most of the
drinking water to the Los Ange-
les suburbs of Arcadia and Sierra
Madre.
As darkness fell about two
dozen protesters and curious
onlookers including actress Darryl
Hannah gathered at a gate leading
to a stand of trees being felled.
"I came out just to support the
community that is trying to put
out some common sense and not
cut down a paradise for a rubble
pit," Hannah said.
The actress said she learned of
the protest from Quigley, who she
has known since she took part in
a tree-sitting protest to try to save

an urban garden in a warehouse
district near downtown Los
Angeles that was plowed under
in 2006.
Hannah, like other environ-
mental activists, said the sediment
from the Dam could be placed
elsewhere, including a huge gravel
pit about 10 miles away.
Later Wednesday about three
dozen people held a candlelight
vigil with a moment of silence
to express their dismay over the
removal of the trees.
"We shouldsend some thoughts
out to the guys in the trees and the
girls in the trees," Hannah said as
the silence ended.
Los Angeles County Public
Works spokesman Bob Spencer
said four people were believed to
be hiding in the trees and public
workers were checking the area
treebytree to make sure none was
taken down with a person in it.
"The safety of all the people
here today, the trespassers, the
contract workers, the protesters,
is of chief importance to us," he
said.
David Czamanske, vice chair of
the Sierra Club's Pasadena group,
said deputies had not asked the
demonstrators at the gate to dis-
perse. The tree-sitters were not
affiliated with his group, he said.
Spencer said the tree removal
project has been in the works for
three years and the county has
approval from federal and state
agencies. He said it must done for
the Santa Anita Dam, which was
built in 1927, to meetseismic safety
standards.
Over the years, Spencer said,
sediment has built up behind the
dam, limiting its water capacity
and compromising its safety in the
event of an earthquake or other
catastrophe.
Clearing the 11 acres of oaks

and sycamores will create a place-
ment area the sediment can be
channeled to.
Spencer said the dam provides
75 percent of the drinking water
used in Arcadia, a city of about
56,000 people, and all of the
drinking water for Sierra Madre,
where about 10,000 people live.

'

L.


4A - Thursday, January 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, January13, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

WJ E JICd14*ian &I46 J
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Prioritizing public safety
What can be done to prevent future tragedies
T he shooting in Tucson, Ariz. on Jan. 8 that left six
dead and Representative Gabrielle Giffords in criti-
cal condition has many wondering what could have
been done to prevent the tragedy. Arizona's gun laws per-
mit even an individual with a history of mental instabil-
ity to legally purchase a weapon, and there was no security
personnel surrounding Giffords at the event. The incident
has also led many to question the effect of violent political
discourse. None of these factors change the fact that the
alleged attacker is a disturbed person, but they're impor-
tant to consider when contemplating public safety at politi-
cal events.

We would have walked here from San Diego.'
- Michigan head football coach Brady Hoke said about his new job at a press conference at
Schembechler Hall on Wednesday.
DANIEL GOLD E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU
GREAT JOBS, ON PAPER..
Captain of the President of the Michigan Head
Titantic United States Football Coach
1912 2008 2011
Repea needs morethan appeal

0

No permit is required in Arizona to
carry a concealed weapon, and weapons
can be brought into many public places.
Jared Loughner, the shooter, had a history
of drug use and mentally unstable behav-
ior, which contributed to his inability to
join the military and his expulsion from
community college. Under Arizona's laws,
Loughner had no problem legally purchas-
ing an assault weapon. At Giffords' event,
there was no security, and her constituents
were able to wait in a line in order to speak
with her face-to-face.
Arizona's gun laws are among the weak-
est in the country. While background
checks for gun purchases can reveal prior
offenses, they do nothing to assess the
mental health of the buyer. The state of
Arizona needs to seriously evaluate what
kinds of weapons gun sellers are supplying
and whose hands they are putting them
into. The website for Loughner's alleged
weapon - GLOCK "Safe Action Pistols"
a'fdvertise' hatthe gun n ebts 'e4uit- '
ments of police, special units, security
services and the military." The fact that
a civilianinArizona is able to asnotonly
purchase such a weapon, but also carry it
in public is alarming. The sale of assault
weapons to civilians and the sale of any

gun to someone who is mentally unstable,
needs to be reconsidered.
The lack of protection for Giffords at
the event is somewhat shocking. It's trou-
bling that an armed individual was able
to approach the congresswoman so easily.
While bodyguards and extensive police
presence at political events is both expen-
sive and unnecessary, some safety mea-
sures should be put into place. something
as simple as a security checkpoint where
people are screened and patted down
could have completely derailed Loughner's
plans.
In the aftermath of the Tuscan mas-
sacre, many media figures and politicians
have been questioning the effect of violent
political rhetoric. While directly linking
this type of discussion to the actions of an
individual is absurd, there is some validity
to the argument that political discourse
has become too extreme. In our culture of
24-hour news coverage, conflict is omni-
present RdtIppnents are constantly
demonized. The spirit of debate and com-
petition is what makes democracy func-
,tion, but thereia certainly,:o efor a little
civility. Politicians and talking heads need
to carefully consider their words and the
message they're sending.

fter President Barack Obama's straints. The story of the DADT repeal to changingthe policy.
State of the Union address last legislation is full of lessons about how Finally, as in any legislative debate,
anuary, a friend of mine tweet- our political system functions and the opposition took all defensive mea-
ed, "End Don't Ask shows how difficult it can be to pass sures available to stall or block. the
Don't Tell now. Not even the most promising legislation. repeal. Dissenting leaders within the
in a few months, The first institutional factor that military urged voters to lobby their
not soon. Do it contributed to the lengthy timeline elected officials for upholdingthe ban,
now." If only it were of the bill was Obama's campaign. It's and Congressional Republicans stated
that simple. true that the president campaigned they were unconvinced that a repeal
in December, the on a platform of repealing the policy. had full military backing.Although the
president finally However, whenever any candidate House passed a repeal measure rela-
signed the repeal runs for office, that individual must tively easilyin May, Republican filibus-
of "don't ask, don't build a coalition of diverse voting tersblocked the bill in the Senate, once
tell" - the ban on JEREMY blocks in order to win the election. in September and onceinearly Decen-
homosexual men once candidates are in office, they ber. Bythetimeofthefinalvotethough,
and women serving LEVY must prioritize certain parts of their the Senate gained enough Republican
openly in the mili- electoral platform, inevitably alien- support for the bill's passage.
tary - into law. For ating certain groups who voted for
supporters of the them. It's clear that when the presi-
repeal, the elongated process leading dent came into office, the stimulus bill
up.t it was painstakingly slow. The and health are-reform aere his bigv rnsitufiof.l
president campaigned on a platform gest priorities. Perhaps.at the expense= 11 itutiona .
of ending DADT, he had Democrat of the DADT repeal, the abovepolicies
. p jpritie , both houses or sp gg required jtasopf political cap " arr-lers prev ni
and a majority of Americans supported ital in order to pass.
changing the policy. Despite these fac-, Next, obtaining military support major reform.
tors, the repeal wasn't passed until the for the repeal was itself a convoluted
lame-duck session concluded the presi- process. The Pentagon must approve
dent's second year in office. What's the DADT repeal before it can be
more, for supporters of the. repeal, implemented, meaning that it would My point is that there are always
this is a no-brainer issue. The old pol- have been pointless for the president institutional barriers that prevent
icy was discrimination, end of story. It to pass a bill without first seeking passing major reforms, regardless of
becomes tempting to ask - what took military support. In early 2009, the what those reforms are. As my Pub-
so long? president began meeting with top lic Policy Prof. John Ciorciari puts it,
And while I do support the DADT Pentagon officials - who were simul- there are lots of ways for policy actors
repeal, I'd like to challenge fellowsup- taneously managing the wars in Iraq to play offense, and lots of ways to play
porters to understand why it took so and Afghanistan - to begin garnering defense, and those actors will clash at
long to pass. It's too easy to just say such support. The pentagon leader- every juncture in the process. This was
that the president lacked the boldness ship did come to approve the measure, true for DADT and will continue to be
to take a strong stance or that it was as Secretary of Defense Robert Gates true for major legislation in the future.
all because of those stubborn Repub- and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman LGBTQ activists can criticize the pres-
licans. The answer lies largely in the of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Con- ident all they want for not-taking swift- :
fact that our political system was gress in February. The Pentagon also er action, but everyone has something
intentionally designed to be complex released a study on Nov 30 that said to learn from observing how the repeal
and slow moving. Officials face politi- repealing the ban posed little risk to did getpassed.
cal checks and constraints at every military operations. Regardless, there
level of discourse, and it would simply is still strong resistance within the - Jeremy Levy can be reached
be foolish forthem to ignore such con- military, especially the Marine Corps, at jeremlev@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, .
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Teddy Papes, Roger Sauerhaft, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
ROGER SAUERHAFTI
The right man to lead us

Hiring Brady Hoke to coach the Michigan
football team wasn't the sexy choice, but it was
definitely the right choice. Just watch his intro-
ductory press conference, and try telling me you
wouldn't love to play for this guy.
Sure, I dreamed- about Jim Harbaugh com-
ing home and rescuing Michigan from medioc-
rity, and when that fell apart, I relished the idea
of Les Miles bringing his winning ways back to
Ann Arbor. I was one of many. I even saw a poll
that showed fans preferred Miles over the lesser-
known Hoke by a margin of approximately 80
percent to 14 percent. Then Miles was out, and
I had to figure out if our new coach's first name
was Brady or Grady.
I was stunned and left wondering if the
Michigan job wasn't all it was cracked up to
be. Perhaps the incredibly poor treatment of
former coach Rich Rodriguez tainted the job's
appeal in the eyes of elite coaches. A friend's
Facebook status even said "Michigan Football:
1879-2010. Rest in Peace."
After the announcement, I read up on Brady
Hoke and wasn't too enthralled by his creden-
tials. Nobody had ever heard of him, and he
sported a sub-.500 record in non-automatic qual-
ifying conferences. But raise your hand if you
think Ohio State messed up when it hired Divi-
sion I-AA coach Jim Tressel. Tell me how former
Iowa State coach Gene Chizik did in his first two
years at Auburn. They've done alright. So why
not Hoke?
We're getting someone who can really coach
defense. His stellar work as Michigan's defen-
sive line coach between 1995 and 2002 produced
the nation's stingiest run defense and a Nation-
al Championship in 1997. Wolverine offensive
guard Steve Hutchinson called Hoke the best
coach he ever played for - no small feat when
you've played for current President of the Cleve-
land Browns, Mike Holmgren. Fellow Michigan
greats Charles Woodson, Tom Brady, Mike Hart,
Desmond Howard, Braylon Edwards and Jon
Jansen - who all know a little bit about football-
also gave stellar reviews of Hoke.
Yesterday I saw what all the former players
raved about. In the press conference introducing
him as the new head coach, Hoke sounded gruff

and mean but loving of his players at the same
time. He talked tough and bluntly in a boom-
ing voice about growing up in Ohio, hating Ohio
State and his unmatched love for Michigan foot-
ball. He emphasized toughness and defense and
stated multiple times he would have walked here
from San Diego for this opportunity to coach the
Wolverines. Michigan Athletic Director Dave
Brandon even noted that Hoke accepted the job
before asking about salary - something Brandon
recalled onlyBo Schembechler doing before.
The Bo comparisons are unavoidable, espe-
cially if you hear Hoke talk. Just YouTube the
press conference and watch him defiantly stare
down the crowd when asked if the job lost its lus-
ter. It's Bo reincarnated. This guy's legit - and he
can definitely coach. He's also led two success-
ful transitions as a coach and his losing record
is more a product of what he inherited than an
indictment on his performance. His teams all
improved dramatically with him at the helm.
With Hoke, I see total sincerity and nothing
contrived. If you hear him talk just once, you
know you can trust him, and you see his com-
passion toward people. Recruiting, as he said, is
a "people business," and given his qualities and
the enormous resources of Michigan, this should
be a real strength for the program in the coming
years. And although he's aware of the difficult
situation ahead of him with regard to this year's
recruiting class, among other things, he views
the challenges as "fun" and part of football.
Oh, and for the record, Hoke was sure to men-
tion where sophomore quarterback Denard Rob-
inson fit in: "When you have talented players, it's
your job to mold them into what's best for your
football team." In other words, even though he
deplores the spread offense, he recognizes the
need to adapt his system a bit when given a talent
as special as Robinson.
We have every reason to support Hoke as our
new head coach, and we need to give him the
chance we never afforded Rodriguez to be suc-
cessful. Hopefully we've learned our lesson, and
thankfully, we have the perfect man ready to lead
us. Go Blue.
Roger Sauerhaft is an LSA senior.

the
podium

Science Savvy: Nick Clift discusses the technology of
cars and the shift toward electric vehicles.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium


,ASA SMITH I

A Hoke-y hire

I would like to preface this by saying that any assertions
by a fan before a coach has held his first practice, let alone
his firstgame, is going to be problematic. I understand there
are probably things about new head coach Brady 'Hoke I
don't know that will make him a successful coach who can
beat Michigan State and Ohio State more frequently than
the previous coach - which means one time.
Having said all of that, I think this was a pure panic hire
that was the result of a botched succession plan put in place
by Michigan Athletic Director Dave Brandon. The time to
fire coaches is not in January - it's at the very latest Dec 1. It
is incredibly unfair to expect a coach to put together a decent
recruiting class in17 days, especially one who is coming from
the West Coast - where it's unlikely his recruits would fol-
low. Everyone knew former head coach Rich Rodriguez was
gone in December, and the onlythingthe lame-duck period
did was to put coach Hoke under the gun now. At best, the
next class of athletes will be a rag-tag group of Michigan
fans and players who failed to attach themselves to another
school beforehand.
But that is just one class, and had Brandon pulled a Har-
baugh or Miles out of his hat, it likely wouldn't have made
much of a difference. Instead, he got a coach whose record
is woefully unimpressive. in his eight years as a head coach,
Hoke has compiled a losing record of 47-50. This is not the
worst thing in the world, as it's incredibly hard to compile
a winning record at schools like Ball State where it's the
team's job to lose games to teams like Missouri, Boston Col-
lege and Michigan. However, it's the lack of consistency and
team buildingthat worries me more than anything else.

The sterling mark on Hoke's record was the miraculous 0
2008 season when he coached Ball State to a 12-0 regular
season record, which was marred by a loss in the Mid Amer-
ican Conference championship game and a loss to Tulsa in
the bowl game. This is impressive, no qualifications needed.
But the problem I see is that in the following year, this team
went 2-10 with wins against Eastern and Western Michigan
and losses to schools like New Hampshire and Temple - not
exactly powerhouses. It seems that Hoke didn't leave his
team in good shape.
This makes me think that maybe the coach had less to
do with it than three once in a generation players in Nate
Davis, MiQuale Lewis and Sean Baker who all clicked at
the same time. Lewis ran for over 1,700 yards, Davis was a
consummate leader who is currently in the NFL and Baker
had 94 tackles and six interceptions. Once again, I have all
the respect in the world for Hoke's coaching and recruiting
these players, but his unimpressive record - 35-46 in other
years - isvery concerning.
I want to be wrong about this. I want coach Hoke to be
mentioned in the same sentence as coaches like Lloyd Carr,
Bo Schembechler, FieldingYost and Fritz Crisler.I want him
to beat OSU coach Jim Tressel out of his sweater vest and
return Michigan to the glory days. Unfortunately, I don't
think this is going to happen. I think we are in for another
three or four years of mediocrity and losses in big games. But
I would really appreciate it if coach Hoke makes me sound
like a foolwith a win on Oct. 22 and Nov. 26, 2011.
Asa Smith is an LSA junior.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print
anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January13, 2011- 5A


SPAR
From Page1A
Michigan coaching situation into
a Michigan coaching debacle.
But after Hoke stepped to the
podium and spoke to the media
" for about 40 minutes, the sup-
port he garnered from the Tom
Brady's, the Charles Woodson's
and the Desmond Howard's was
crystal clear.
By yesterday afternoon when
the introductory press confer-
ence ended, the statuses made
the smooth and sudden transition
from "Hoke who?" to "In Hoke
We Trust."
That's because in Act I, he
absolutely killed it. With every
single answer to every single load-
ed question at the press confer-
ence, he articulated the qualities
that command the respect of all
his past players.
Rodriguez never earned that
respect, regardless of whether
he deserved it. And Brandon did
everything in his power not to
allow the media to perceive Hoke
the way they perceived Rich Rod.
Hoke doesn't need a map
to travel Ann Arbor, Brandon
claimed. He has spent 25 summer
football camps in Ann Arbor, he
boasted. Hoke blindly accepted
the offer without knowing a dollar
amount just like Bo did. And, oh
yeah, he can coach a defense.
But Brandon's concerted effort
at winning over the Michigan
community by separating Hoke
from Rodriguez was just the tip of
the iceberg. Hoke accomplished
much of that himself by saying all
the right things.
Based on personal experience
growing up, he understands the
importance of a coach in a young
man's life - a perspective that
stands in opposition to the accu-
sations that Rodriguez failed to
uphold the family values of Michi-
gan.
Hoke elaborated on the sig-
nificance of the Wolverines'
three major rivalries and the
significance of the football pro-
ROBINSON
From Page 1A
Denard," Hoke said. "He is a guy
that can do an awful lot for your
football program; and I know he
loves tle University of Michigan.
"I think ,that- when you have
talented layers, it's your joh as a
coa N Idt into w itt st
for your football team, and most
the time when you do that, it's
what is best for that player."
Michigan Athletic Director
Dave Brandon said at the press
conference that Robinson came
up in every conversation he had
with Hoke prior to his hiring. He
explained that Hoke's ability to
adjust his offense to the team's
personnel was one of the deciding
factors in hiring the former Wol-
verine defensive line coach.
"You can't have a conversation
about Michigan football without
talking about Denard Robinson,"
Brandon said.
When asked about his status
with the football team at tonight's
basketball game against Ohio State,
Robinson said, "No comment."
For much of his head-coach-
ing career, Hoke has employed a

pro-style offense, working with
big-armed quarterbacks like San
Diego State's Ryan Lindley and
Ball State's Nate Davis. Last year,
Lindley accounted for almost
4,000 yards through the air, but
finished with -33 yards on the
ground. Davis, meanwhile, fin-
ished the 2007 and 2008 seasons
with more than 3,500 yards pass-
ing and around 300 yards rushing
in each. He also contributed five
touchdowns on the ground in both
seasons.
Borges also has kept a pro-style,
west-coast-like offense and is most
known for his work as Auburn's
offensive coordinator when the
Tigers finished undefeated and
boasted future NFL players like
running backs Ronnie Brown and
Cadillac Williams and quarter-
back Jason Campbell.
Neither Hoke nor Borges, how-
ever, have ever had a quarterback
at their disposal with Robinson's
caliber of mobility. Hoke knows
that and was able to meet with
Robinson for about 15 minutes this
morning at a players' meeting to
introduce the coach. According
to Robinson's former high school
football coach Art Taylor, the two
met again individually to discuss
Robinson's fit in the offense.
Taylor said in an interview with
the The Michigan Daily yesterday
that, with the uncertainty of Hoke
and Borges's offense, the possibil-
ity of a transfer is definitely still

gram within the University. Many
times duringthe Rich Rod era, we
were left wondering if Rodriguez
embraced that significance.
Maybe Hoke has never expe-
rienced the pressure that accom-
panies the position - but we now
know he's got perspective. He
brushed off questions about the
obstacles facing the program.
"I don't know ifI look at any of
it as challenging ... That's football,
and it's fun to do it and it's fun to
be around those kids."
Throughout Rodriguez's time
in Ann Arbor, "fun" wasn't a word
being tossed around too often.
Hoke recognizes that he needs
to coach to his talent, something
Rodriguez did not do on offense
during his first season and on
defense during any of the three
seasons. When asked about the
offense, he immediately spoke,
unprompted, about sophomore
quarterback Denard Robinson's
tremendous value.
And Hoke embraces the impor-
tance of conference play. He even
made it clear that winning Big
Ten championships was the goal,
because only then could the team
vie for a national title. With a 6-18
record in conference, Big Ten play
was not exactly Rodriguez's forte.
Granted, you don't win Big Ten
games at an introductory press
conference. And maybe the sub-
.500 mark is a sign of things to
come. Maybe the resurrection of
two substandard programs wasn't
preparation enough for this behe-
moth of a task.
But it's safe to say the man that
can't address the scarlet and gray
team from Ohio by name is a bit
different from Rodriguez.
"That man's walking around
with a diamond National Cham-
pionship ring on his finger, and
several, several Big Ten champi-
onship rings in his jewelry case,"
Brandon said at the press confer-
ence. "And those players know it."
Maybe the way he was fiddling
with the ring on his finger was
just a nervous tick. But it's also a
subtle reminder that he's got what
Brandon, the fans, the alumni and
the players all want.
there.
"S think he is considering (a
transfer) in some way in the back
of his mind," Taylor said. "It's
always going to be an option."
Taylor spoke with Robinson on
the phone this morning before the
playrs' meeting andsaid that the
sensational sophomore quarter-
back sounded tired. In that phone
call;,'aylor calff ned R bhinsot'to
ask good questions when the quar-
terback meets with Hoke to ensure
that his role in the offense is one
that he feels like he could succeed
in.
Robinson's coach remained
steadfast, however, in saying that
Robinson could succeed in any
offense, including a pro-style
one. But limiting a weapon like
Robinson with a handoff-based,
drop-back offense isn't something
Taylor advises.
"Denard can play straight,
drop-back quarterback," Taylor
said. "He's got the arm. But why
would you want to do that? Why
would you take his legs away?"
Hoke remained mum on most
questions regarding his offen-
sive schemes, but he continued
to maintain, even after his press

conference, that keeping Robinson
would be an important goal in the
coming weeks.
"He has to understand that your
best interest is for him, and that's
truthfully what it will be," Hoke
told the media after the press con-
ference. "We started a relation-
ship a little bit, and we're going
to get deeper into that and talk
to him about the vision and the
goals we have for him. There's no
reason why he isn't going to be or
shouldn't be the quarterback at the
University of Michigan."
Taylor says if Robinson can't
be the quarterback or doesn't fit
into Hoke's new scheme, there
are plenty of other suitors that
have contacted him about tailor-
ing their offense to Robinson's
starpower. Three phone batteries
worth, at least.
"I can't tell you how many col-
leges have called me and said
they want Denard to start at
quarterback right now," Taylor
said. "We're talking big-time D-1
schools."
According to Taylor, the pros-
pect of sitting out a year may keep
Robinson from transferring, but as
of now, Michigan fans may have to
sit tight before anything definite
is known about their star quarter-
back's status.
"He's always said how much he
loves Michigan," Taylor said. "So,
well, I guess we'll just have to wait
and see.

Robotics program sparks interest
in engineering for Detroit students

Engineering students,
professionals use
robots to make
learning fun
SAMANTHA NORMAN
For the Daily
A group of Engineering stu-
dents are taking a creative
approach to encourage education
- by employing robots.
Through the Detroit-based
Michigan Engineering Zone, 15
students in the University's Col-
lege of Engineering are expos-
ing the high school students in
12 Detroit Public High Schools to
engineeringstudies and hands-on
experiences through the national
FIRST Robotics Competition.
The College of Engineering
began working with the Michi-
gan Engineering Zone, or MEZ,
in January 2010 to provide a col-
laborative workspace in Detroit
where high school students can
work with University students
and professional engineers to
build robots for the non-profit
FIRST organization.
High school students across the
country compete in the robot con-
struction competition. Participat-
ing students also have the chance
to receive a range of scholarships
- 60 percent of which are for sci-
ence, technology, engineering and
math majors, according to the
FIRST website.
Jeanne Murabito, executive
director for student affairs at the
College of Engineering, said the
MEZ offers an array of resources
like a computer lab and machine
and electrical shop, that help stu-
dents construct their robots.
"It's amazing for these high
school students to be able to
spend time with the University
of Michigan students and profes-
sional engineers," Murabito said.
"They learn not only about robot-

ANNA SCH ULTE/
FIRST Robotics Team 396, from Finney High School in Detroit, learn techniques from program mentors Tito Huffman and
Mark Kramarczyk before beginning construction on their robot on Tuesday, Jan. 11, 2011.

its skills, but also what it's like to
be a top engineer and what it's like
to get into a university."
Murabito said the MEZ does
much more than assist in the con-
struction of robots for competi-
tion. ' %
"We're -trying to give the stu-
dents information ... on how to
get into Michigan (and) how to
get into college," Murabito said.
"We're helping some of these stu-
dents with admissions applica-
tions and financial aid."
Tito Huffman, a professional
engineer and mentor for the high
school students, said the men-
toring program extends beyond
helping students prepare for the
FIRST competition.
"It ultimately ends up being
more than that," Huffman said.
"We're a coach for basic life

skills. We end up explaining our
experiences as ... guidelines for
them."
Engineering sophomore Jona-
than Meed said his experience
competing in FIRST as a high
school student compelled him to
participate in the mentorship pro-
gram when he became a Universi-
ty student. Meed said his positive
experience working with thehigh
school students during last year's
competition prompted him to
return as a mentor for a second
season.
Meed said he believes the
future of the work force in the
country lies in engineering.
"Technology is the only way
that the U.S. can stay competitive
in terms of education and jobs,"
Meed said. "Getting the high
school students to study as early

as they possibly can is the only
way to get people involved who
normally would never be involved
with science or engineering."
According to a Brandeis Uni-
versity study from 2005, students
who participated in the FIRST
competition are more than three
times as likely to study engineer-
ing than their peers who didn't
participate.
On Saturday, Meed joined other
mentors and high school stu-
dents in Detroit to commemorate
the kickoff of this year's FIRST
Robotics Competition season.
"The room was buzzing," Meed
said. "The new students were
kind of awestruck and didn't even
know what to think. The return-
ing students were itching to get
started and were ready to go for
the new year."


HOKE
From Page 1A
knowing how much he would be
compensated - only coach Bo
Schemhbechlef had' done some-
thing similar, according to Bran-
don.
In fact, Hoke said he would've
walked to Ann Arbor if he had to,
joking that the Rocky Mountains
might've been an issue.
Before Hoke addressed his new
team for the first time in the club
level of Michigan Stadium, Bran-
don asked if Hoke had prepared
anything for the 15-minute talk.
"I'm talking to the team, I don't
need any notes," he responded to
Brandon, as if it was an odd ques-
tion.
"(Hoke) walked around and
spoke from the heart, it was a wow
moment," Brandon said.
Hoke was candid and funny
with the media during his intro-
ductory press conference this
afternoon. He was just being
himself - comfortable in his own
right.
"This is not a guy you're ever
going to program or polish some
image, it's not what he's about,"
Brandon said. "He's just Brady
Hoke. And he said it, 'I am who I
am.' He's a genuine guy and that's
what Michigan football needs
right now."
Coaching the Michigan football
team was Hoke's dream job. Hoke
recalled when Schembechler used
to give him grief about how his
defensive linemen should play
with more toughness, when he
coached the position from 1995-
2002.
Hoke let the Michigan commu-
nity know early on what to expect.
"The traditions, the legacies,
(are) in high regard," Hoke said.
"We understand what Michigan
football means and what Michi-
gan football is ... The things that
we believe in, the foundation, is
WANT TO
WORK FOR
THE DAILY?
Come to our mass
meeting today
at 7:30 p.m.
420
MAYNARD ST.

going to be our character. The
character of the guys on the staff.
The character of the kids in the
pr grap. , -
His voice began to rise.
"Because character wins in life
nd character wina oh fe fotall
field," he said. "We're going to be a
program that's accountable."
Booming with every statement.
"We're going to have a founda-
tion of toughness, because I don't
care what position you play, this is
a tough man's game. Doesn't mat-
ter if you're the holder on the field
goal - you have to be mentally
tough, you have to be physically
tough."
Hoke preached respect. He
wants his players to be held to high
standards - that includes respect-
ing tradition.
This was the man who, accord-
ing to his wife, refused to wear red
clothes when he was the coach at
Ball State because of his hatred
of Ohio State - that was difficult
because the Cardinals' primary
colors are red and black.
"It is the most important game
on that schedule," he said, pound-
ing the podium.
And when the prestige of the
Michigan job was questioned, he
appeared offended.
"This is an elite job and. will
continue to be an elite job, Hoke
said. "This is Michigan for God's
sakes. It's what this is all about."
The Wolverines' 15-22 record
under former coach Rich Rodri-
guez may have the public opinion
thinking otherwise, and Hoke will
face pressure from a deprived fan
base.
He said he always applies pres-
sure on himself to achive great-
ness. He wants his players to earn
the Big Ten Championship
rings he won as a coach of the
Wolverines.
This whole job is not about
him. As he puts it, he's working
for his players.
"Everyone who is going
The new Line
Chinese Cuisine
IRai arden Specializing
in Hong Kn
Hunan &
Szechuan
(734) 995-1401 Style, Many
116 SMain St. vegetarian
(Between W. Huron and dishes
Washtenaw) Canyout
and reerationslccepted. pion-Thur 11-1
Weere alcohol Fri& sal 1.11
Open 7 Days son 12-10

to touch this program and deal
with these kids are going to have
a fanatical love for the University
ojyichigan,, or they won't w rk
in the football office. Ican tell you
that," Hoke said.
, Former Michigan % offensive.
lineman Jon Jansen, who was in
attendance yesterday, remem-
bered Hoke as a coach who cared.
Hoke would jab at Jansen about
how one of Hoke's players got the
better of Jansen in order to moti-
vate him.
"(Hoke) understands that
you have to have a relationship
with every player," Jansen said.
"(Where) the rubber meets the
road, . every guy in that locker
room is going to love Brady Hoke,
but they're going to know he's the
boss."
He may have been raising his
voice to the level of yelling to
make his point yesterday, but he
also poked fun at himself - after
he made up a word answering a
question - he said he was good at
Scrabble.
And the Michigan commu-
nity seems to be rallying around
Hoke - Jansen agreed that the
press conference felt like a fam-
ily reunion, with the football staff
included.
"(The last three years) when I
saw the guys, it felt like it was still
family," Jansen said. "(But) it was
just a different feeling from the
staff."
The connection between the
vast base of alumni and the Michi-
gan coaching staff was in ques-
tion during Rodriguez's tenure.
And several questions still hang
over Hoke's head as he starts his
own: Will sophomore quarterback
Denard Robinson stay? How much

will the defense improve? What
about recruiting?
For now, at least, the players
were impressed with their new
coach's demeanor. Even through
the rocky changes, Hoke is saying
all the right thingsto staru _
As Hoke prepared to be inter-
viewed bythe Big Ten Network, he
saw former Michigan coach Gary
Moeller standing off to the side
and approached him.
"Are you tough enough for all
of this?" Moeller asked through a
smile.
After the two exchanged words,
Hoke had a message for the fellow
Michigan Man. "You're always
welcome (here)," he said.
It's Hoke's family now.
He agreed to a six-year deal
after Brandon's coaching search
concluded on Tuesday. And
though Brandon declined to talk
about specific candidates after he
visited five cities in six days, in his
eyes, Hoke was the right person to
bring Michigan back.
Brandon admitted this was the
most important decision of his
*term as Athletic Director.
"Those people out there who
love this place, and care about this
place and understand this place,
they're going to love this football
coach and they're going to love
the way this team plays," Bran-
don said. "This is about bringing
leadership in here who makes a
difference"in the lives of young
men. And they leave here with a
championship ring and an educa-
tion and they go out and do great
things in life - that's Michigan.
Michigan Men do that, they create
other Michigan Men.
"The guy you just met is all
about that."


Are you a sophomore with a passion for the environment?
Apply for the Graham Institute's Undergraduate
Sustainability Scholars Program by January 19, 20111
Each year, 25 high-achieving undergraduate students from
diverse majors are accepted to this 11-credit, interdisciplinary
sustainability leadership program. In addition to earning
a sustainability certificate, scholars enjoy special access
to, and funding for, field-based sustainability experiences.
Details and application at www.graham.umich.edu.
E JLGRAHAMI T
_ ,,INSTITUTE


Follow the Daily on Twitter
@MICHIGANDAILY


6A - Thursday, January 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

6A - Thursday, January13, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

CANTOR
From Page 1A
stated.
According to a Dec. 20, 2010
New York Times article, Can-
tor bemoaned President Barack
Obama's health care reform
package, the economic stimulus
package and other hallmarks of
Obama's first two years in office.
"Washington has grown far too
large and has become far too intru-
sive, reaching into nearly every
aspect of our lives," The New York
Times quoted Cantor as saying. "...
The repeal amendment would pro-
vide a check on the ever-expand-
ing federal government, protect

against Congressional overreach
and get the government working
for the people again, not the other
way around."
Charles Bogren, chair of the
University's chapter of College
Republicans, said he and the rest
of the organization is very excited
to have Cantor on campus, espe-
cially after having.built a relation-
ship with him during this past
football season when the College
Republicans hosted him at a tail-
gate.
"We're looking forward to hav-
ing him back," Bogren said. "He's
the number two person in the
House Republican leadership - it's
always impressive especially when
they're coming to our University."

LSA
From Page 1A
ographer Sylvia Earle, a National
Geographic explorer-in-residence
at the University.
Harris said organizers have
also begun a "'message in a bottle"
campaign. Reusable water bottles
will be distributed on campus,
with each bottle containing a slip
of paper with 10 basic water facts
and 10 actions that students can
take to preserve water.
This fact sheet, developed by a
team of students in the Program
in the Environment class titled
"Sustainability and the Campus,"
will also be posted as advertise-

ments on University buses in
order to raise awareness about
water conservation.
"We have a kind of 'water lit-
eracy' goal," Harris said. "We
hope that students will learn the
key facts about water because it's
becoming one of the major envi-
ronmental issues of the 21st cen-
tury."
LSA junior Kyle Anderson is
a member of the theme semes-
ter's student steering committee.
He said he hopes that the theme
will encourage students to work
toward water sustainability.
"Besides general knowledge
about water issues on campus and
around the world, we're hoping
to actually change behavior," he

said.
Still, some students said they
don't believe the theme is as all
encompassing as it purports to be.
LSA freshman Dominique
Crump said she wasn't inclined to
take any theme semester courses
because she thought they were
too focused on science.
"I loved last semester's theme,
(What Makes Life Worth Liv-
ing?)," she said. "But this semes-
ter I didn't think there was a lot
of diversity in the class selection."
LSA junior Amber Ostazewski
said though the topic of water
isn't explicitly in her field of
interest, she feels the theme suc-
cessfully involves many different
subjects.

"I think it's a strange topic, but
it's good that they're choosing a
theme that's interdisciplinary," *
she said. "It reminds me of a few
semesters ago when the School of
(Music, Theatre &) Dance did a
big production on the bank of the
Huron River."
LSA freshman Dailyn Foster
said though she wasn't interested
in taking any of the theme semes-
ter courses, she believes many
other students will appreciate the
opportunity to learn about water.
"It's very important especial-
ly because we live in Michigan
where there is so much fresh
water," she said. "Pegple want to
know about where the water they
drink comes from."

KNOW HOW TO USE FLASH? CAN YOU MAKE A MEAN INFOGRAPHIC? DO YOU UNDERSTAND WEB 2.0?
E-mail squire@michigandaily.com to find out how you can apply your skills at the Daily.

"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available New at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000

! AWESOME 3 bdrm house on
Dewey. Free prkg, Indry, water incl.
734.223.7777.
! EXCELLENT 6-BR, 2 Bath colonial
on Central campus(1143 S.Forest Ave).
5 mins walk to college with 2 Refriger-
ators/Microwave/Toaster/Siqk/Free
laundry/Private deck/Free parking.
(MAY 2011) Call 734 578 4625
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distane
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3600 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.

cIMB
19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms
CentralC ampus Downtown
Norch Campus W-s, Sde
Let Orr Famnity Take Care of Yours
os ie 13111 ttswr me
3 crie Fac s :oty Ro
734.741.9300
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$2800 + utilities, only a 10 minute
walk to diag. 734-426-4772.
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdno. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State Idry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AWESOME NEWER 6-Bed Rm
furn. Apts & rooms forFall 11. Also
flex-Leases sublets for June 11 thru
Aug11. www.828greeneapts.com 734-
418-2050
BEAUTIFUL SPACIOUS APTS!
1039 Baldwin. 4 br, 2br, & studios!
Available ina gorgeous converted
house. High ceilings, bay windows,
fireplace, hardwood floors, & screened
in porch!! Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
BEST LOCATION IN TOWN
543Church! Right across from Fast,
Hall! Spacious 4Br bi-levels, 2Br, 1 Br,
& Studios! Updated kitchens w/dish-
washers, heat & water included, and all
apts. re fully furnished '
www.varsitymanagement.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

LIVE W.
PEAlEWLl
CLOSE TO U OF M
NORTH CAMPUS
AFFORDABLE RATES
ON SHUTTLE

Affordable Student Co44V Housing?
Now Signing Room & Board Contracts for
Winter 2010 &Fall-Winter 2011-2012
a$575/Month lncludesfull meal plan, Internet, parking, utilities,
Leadership Opportunities, & Much More.
lnteCopgeatlve Council
vwwwJcccoop 9 734-662-4414
Student Owned and Operated since 1932
RELEASE DATE- Thursday, January 13, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 33uLand in Is mer 50 Needing to be
1 Hand mop? 1 George Harrison 35 Ethereal fielded, asa
5 Siren, forone played one in 36Org. with covert baseball
10 Sound rebound "Norwegian ops 51 Baseball, for one
14 Comy state? Wood" 37 It merged with Air 52 Striking
15 With 17-Across, 2In a sorrier state France in 2004 grouping
illusionist'sact, 3 Be ready for 39 Bond gid Ekland 54 Sixth-day
and this puzzle's 4 Desperados 40 Rose: Pref. Christmas gift
title 5 Bowling initals 43 Give comfort to 55It might be tall
16 Unit of loudness 6 China neighbor 46 Holy 60 "Nice!"
17 See 15-Across 7 Cultural opening? 48 Insurerat One 61 "CSI" sample
20 Playwright's 8 Rounded edges, Lime Street, 62 You'vejust
device usually London reached it
21 Sib, either way 9 Label for many ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
22 Coincide Tom Petty hits
23 Tumin 10 Dorothy Parker L E CA R E N Y A A L G A
25 Most forte CALLE GOER HERB
dependable 11 Job D R E S S D O W N F R I D A Y
26 With 28-Across, 12 Perfects R O A R T A U G T S
renin y3bAdven , T R I P L E A F A R M 7 E A M
Intr 18 Day's "wl he" A C E R FBl
28 See 26-Across 19 Stretched tight AEC EARL FBI
29 Track figures 24 Pop singerBrickell S C A M D I OR A L O U D
32 Start of a 25 Emmy winner S A L A SARAH T Y N E
confession, Thompson EPSO M S I N E S E G A
maybe 27 From dawn to R E D I B S C E L
34 Waste time, with dusk CAR I B B E A N R E S O R T
"around" 28 Illusion of A V A i B N E D A M
38 Louvre Pyramid familiarity C I R C L E T H E W A G O N S
architect 28 Bock soti AIL TE NTl
39 Apy amed lab 30OartoR&D:Abbr. H A I L T E E T E V Y E
apparatus 31 Distributes, as ENHE IRTA ERASE
41 Zip the loot xwordeditor@aol.com 01/12/11
42'80s-'90s 1 s a 4 a 7 a a 10 11 12 13
entertainment
combo 14 1s 18
44 Gp. withgbig ,7 ,8 ,,
busts
45 Aptly named 20 21 22
girder
47 With 49-Across, 2s 24 2s
"PreseMing:26 27
instrumeitaa
49 See 47-Across as8 as0it1 a2 aa3 as4as6a36 so
51 Holy
53 Experience as s 40 41
56 With57-Across,
"Presenting: Wall 42 as a a a
hanging!" 47 48 4s 60
57 See 56-Across
58 Approximately s1 2 s 34s
59 Mountain air
63 Wood site a7
64 Julia in films
65 ClinonCabinet as it9as061 62 63
member as
Shalala
66 Further e7 as 69
67 Kind
68 Notlon the level By John Lampkin
69 Batik artist (c)215 Tribune Media services, Inc.

housing.com
5 BDRM, 2 Bath, heat included, laun-
dry, parking, May-May, $3395, 815
Arch, 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Includedt
EV8ll d6tle9Prlllshed!!
(And HAIL tothe Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
IF MONEY CAN't buy happiness,
I guess you'll have to rent it!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 primesh.com
MY NEW YEARS Resolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my clasens...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall...Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
RIDDLE OF THE Day...
Has the top customer service around.
Best rates & locations on campus.
It's a positive number that's not divisi-
ble without a remainder by any positive
number other than itself and one.
Call (734) 761-8000 to get your answer
& o much more!!
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail spring & fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
WELCOME BACK! Only a few
days left to be a Winner in the "Pick a
Winner" promotion. You can win up to
One Month FREE!!
**This offer ends January 14, 2011**
Call or stop by Today for Best Selec-
tion. Sold out early in 2010, so don't
wait any longer.
SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM APT in house w/ bay
windows, furniture and 2 pkg spots.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2400
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.

wwwwsorsiymanaouonv.cun

Looking for housing for fall 2011?
Studios, i,2 3 4,& &Sedrooms Now Avaanel
Puty furnished
Neat.wer, and parking included most locations
Many newly remodeed
Call to schedule a four todayl
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3400/mo. Call 248-798-4755
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today for
Best selection. "Pick A Winer" Promo
ends on 1/14/11. Call or stop by TO-
DAY! 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.corn
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call todayfor an appointment to see!
PrimeStudent Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff& 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; 2 bed-
rooms (3 left) $950 - $1250; Most units
include Heat and Water. Most have
Parking available for $25/m. Showings
Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC..in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CONDO AVAILABLE AT The
Ridge Tahoe, 400 Ridge Club Drive.
Sleeps 4, 1 bedroom, 1 bath, kitchen.
Apr. 3-Apr. 10, $1000. Contact
merchanj@umich.edu
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 &3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
917 PACKARD
Huge 2br apts. that can easily fit
4 people! Close to central campus, the
athletic campus, and restaurants at
State, Packard, & Hill!! New kitchens
w/dishwashers, large bedrooms w/
double closets and balconies. All apts
are fully furnished, heat, water,
and parking included!
www.varsitymanagement.com

Keeps BED BUGS out of sight'
Kills and Repels Bed Bugs
Non-toxic
Natural Cedar Oil Solution
WWW.SANABODY.COM
GET GROCERIES DELIVERED to
your door. Geneva Grocery Delivery.
734-274-2484.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com

WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

Healthy Research Study
Volunteers Needed
Men and women, non-smoker, ages 18-45
who are not taking any regular medications
(birth control is acceptable for most studies).
There are a few different study opportunities,
most of which incud overmight visit 4
the University of Michigan Hosptal.Bood,
small muscle and fat tissue samples may be
taken during these visits.
dinar cla comph'ion available.
For more information about these studies
and the benefits you may receive for partici-
pating, visit: http:llwww.kines.umich.edul
researchiexrlsmistudies.html
BENEFIT ADMINISTRATORS
NEEDED work from home full time or
part time training provided 734-922-
3435
MICHIGAN
STUDENTS
Good Pay, flexible schedules,
Customer sales/service, conditions
apply,
all ages 17+ call 734-975-7299
LOOKING FOR THE LEAD Cam-
pus Tweeter. Tweet for $$, for start-up
ShoutOmatic.com Contact
mlevy@shoutomatic.com
PAID RESEARCH,
$50 PER PERSON, 1 HOUR
GK, a world-leader in market re-
search, is looking to talk with college
students about their lifestyles & opin-
ions on health/wellness/appearance.
NEED:
O 5 sorority sisters (26th, 9-10 am, at
your sorority house)
 3 pairs of dorm roommates (26th, 10:-
30-12:30 pm, at your dorm)
* 5 fraternity brothers (27th, 9-10 am,
at your fraternity house)
If interested in participating, please
call 734.332.1049.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
BARTEND! . $300/DAY POTEN-
TIAL! No experience required.We
trainv ou! 8t8-575-TIPS (8r7)

LO IN FOR E2PE NUMD,
Sitter Wed. afiemnoons (appx. 3-6).
Must have car to drive kids to/from
activities. Email gsein@umich.edu

PHD or candidate, any field. Part-
time in tiny, highly successful biotech
company near campus. Send CV and
past writing samples (redacted).
admin@eyelabgroup.com
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu
SEEKING AN ENERGETIC and en-
thusiastic person with an understanding
of child development. We have three
children 7, 5 and 18 mths. References
and child care experience required.
Teaching background preferred. Days
and times flexible. Walking distance
from U of M campus. Contact us at
farmerjordan@mac.com or 769-6264.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

IMMATURE MEN BOTHER-
SOME? 50-year old U-M grad (male/s-
ingle) looking for a mature fem. friend-
ship in Ann Arbor. Photo, optional. Re-
ply to thepropdrivein@gmail.com

0
0

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Thursday, January 13, 2011 --7A

drops close game
to.No.2 Ohio State

Michigan coach John Bellein reacts from the bench during the Wolverines' close 68-64 loss to Ohio State on Wednesday,
1 "
Six possessions
decide tree games

By LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Writer
Freshman forward Evan
Smotrycz must have sensed some-
one had just entered in the build-
ing.
A few seconds after newly
crowned Michigan football coach
Brady
Hoke OHIO STATE 68
stepped MICHIGAN 64
into
Crisler Arena during Wednesday's
men's basketball game against No.
2 Ohio State, Smotrycz nailed a
3-pointer from the top of the key,
giving the Wolverines their first
points of the night.
Moments after the Michigan
faithful gave Hoke a warm stand-
ing ovation, junior guard Zack
Novak provided fans with an
encore of sorts, nailing triples on
each of the Wolverines' next two
possessions.
But in the end, Michigan
couldn't give Hoke the welcome
he deserved, as the Buckeyes out-
lasted the Wolverines in a nail-
biter, 68-64.
With 18.6 ticks on the clock,
Ohio State junior guard William
Buford went to the free-throw line,
hitting both of his shots and put-
ting the Buckeyes up, 66-62. Soph-
omore point guard Darius Morris
took the in bound pass and pushed
up the court, scoring quickly on a
drive to the hoop to bring the Wol-
verines back within two.
But it was too little, too late.
Michigan fouled freshman
guard Aaron Craft on Ohio State's
next possession, and he also
drained both of his shots, putting
the game out of reach.
"I can't even describe it," a
frustrated Novak said after the
game. "Right there - once we get
it, we're going to be good. We'll be
really good. But there's something
missing right now.
"If I knew (what it is), we
would've won the game."
Michigan (1-3 Big Ten, 11-6
overall) dug a hole for itself early
in the second half when redshirt
freshman center Jordan Morgan
picked up his third foul of the
night just three minutes into the
frame.
Morgan hit the bench, and
instead of replacing him with
his typical backup - freshman
Jon Horford - Beilein opted to
shift the relatively undersized
Smotrycz to center.
By the time Morgan re-entered
the game, the Wolverines, found
themselves at a nine-point deficit.
But between Morgan and

Freshman forward Evan Smotrcyz scored 11 points in the first half of Michigan's loss.

There are 345 teams in
NCAA Division-I basket-
ball. Most people only pay
attention to 25.
Last weekend, fans poured out
of the cracks of
Ann Arbor and
came to Crisler
Arena to watch
No. 3 Kansas
take on Michi-
gan. (There's
a reason why
Kansas is listed
first.) CHANTEL
FeWex ret- JEN1N$
ed Michigan to
lead the third-
best team in the country. Yes, third
best. That means that technically
there are 342 teams that are less
skillful than the Jayhawks. And the
Wolverines, who fall somewhere
in the middle of the pack, were
leading Kansas. And after a game
of hard-fought, nail-biting, make-
you-wish-you-were-a-fan-rather-
than-a-reporter kind of basketball,
people only cared about one thing.
Michigan lost.
So yesterday, the No. 2 team in
the country came to Crisler Arena
and itwas the same story. The
Wolverines stuck with a team that
features two centers who look like
heavyweight boxers and shooting
guards who put up astronomical
field-goal percentages. But eventu-
ally, they lost.
And today, that's all people will
care about.
They say the ball doesn't lie.
They never said anything about a
record.
In the past week, the Wolverines
are 0-2. In Big Ten play, they're 1-3.
But the problem with just look-
ing at those numbers is that they're
numbers. Wins and losses are
measured by fractions, and at the
COME TO
THE
* DAILY'S
MASS
MEETINGS
TODAY,
MON. JAN 17,
WED. JAN 19
7:30PM AT
THE STUDENT
* PUBLICATIONS
BUILDING
420 MAYNARD ST.

end of the day it doesn't matter if
No.1 Duke beats a no-name school
by 100 or No. 2 Ohio State beats
unranked Michigan by three.
Because when you just look at
wins and losses, that equalizes
Michigan and no-name school. And
that's dangerous.
In the past week, the Wolverines
played 80 minutes of basketball,
and all it amounts to on paper is
0-2. Four quarters of not just stick-
ing with, but playing with, the best
f the best, and all people will see is
that Michigan lost.
In fact, Michigan hasn't beaten a
ranked opponent all season.
Michigan played then-No. 9
Syracuse in just its fourth game of
the season. It lost by three points
to a team that ranks among the top
55 of all Division-I teams in points,
rebounds and assists per game. The
Wolverines played the orange as
closely as they've been played this
year, but it came down to three
points.
That's one single possession.
Then, last Sunday, Michigan
played No. 3 Kansas, which ranks
in the top 20 of all Division-I teams
in points, rebounds and assists per
game. The Wolverines took the Jay-
hawks to overtime before falling to
Kansas by seven.
That's a three-possession game.
So last night, when unranked,
overlooked Michigan was leading
No. 2 Ohio State, it came as no sur-
prise to me that the Buckeyes are
also ranked in the top 20 nationally
in points, rebounds and assists per
game.
And Michigan lost by four. That's
a two-possession game.
So that means the Wolverines'
three major losses this season come
down to just six possessions - a
half dozen of possessions against
teams that will most likely make it

to the NCAA Tournament.
Three teams that could very
likely make a deep run in the tour-
nament.
And we're talking about just six
possessions.
Six times where the Wolverines
didn't score, where they turned the
ball over, where someone made a
mistake.
In anygiven game, Michigan
will have about 75 possessions.
Michigan assistant coach LaVall
Jordan told the players before the
game thatthey can't take a single
play off, because those are the plays
that will come back to haunt them.
"Control what you can control,"
Jordan said on Wednesday. "You
can't do anything about the past or
the future, you've just got to stay
in the present and concentrate on
that. And I think the really good
teams in any sport, at any level have
the ability to do that ... It's what any
team that wins does."
So when you reduce the Wolver-
ines to their record, just realize the
numbers that compile the wins and
losses are much more complicated.
And at the end of the day, those big
things like wins and losses come
down to the little things like pos-
sessions.
Suddenly six sounds like a big
number.
"We're playing tough teams, and
I think we're competing," Michigan
coach John-Beilein said on Wednes-
day. "I sense that people see that
this young team has a chance to be
good one day - nobody wants it to
be sooner than us, but we just have
to stay with it."
Well, it all comes down to six
possessions against Final Four con-
tenders. I'd saythat's competing.
Jennings can be reached
at chanjen@umich.edu

Smotrycz, Ohio State forward
Jared Sullinger was still not much.
of a factor. The freshman sensa-
tion was limited to 12 points and
seven boards in his first game at
Crisler Arena, and he fouled out
with a little more than a min-
ute left in regulation. And at one
point in the second half, Sullinger
vented his frustration by starting a
little scuffle with Morris.
The Maize Rage was infuriated
that Sullinger wasn't given a tech-
nical foul.
And Michigan could have used
that foul - the team went to the
free throw line just seven times
allh'ight,f tpared tnWSirhetfor
Ohio State (4-0, 17-0). The Buck-
eyes soIed 17 points from the
charity stripe.
Beilein was hoping nobody
would ask about the fouls.
"You want to go there, don't
you?" Beilein asked. "I'd rather
not address it at all, publicly. It's
just tough - they do a good job
of drawing fouls, and Sullinger
does draw fouls, and Lighty. The
seniors know how to draw fouls a
little bit."
In the end, free throws were

the difference, as both teams were
neck-and-neck from the field. Ohio
State finished 22-of-42 shooting
(52.4 percent), and Michigan was
24-of-46 (52.2 percent).
Smotrycz and Novak paced
Michigan's scoring effort from
beyond the arc, going 4-of-6 and
4-of-5 from 3-point range, respec-
tively. Morris led the team in scor-
ing with 18.
And as impressively as the Wol-
verines shot, they really shined
on the defensive end, holding an
offense that averages more than
80 points per game to just 68.
Beilein employed the usual mix
of 1-3-1 and 2-3 iondi, varied witfi
a lot of man coverage, and all of
thn seemedlati efe ve.
For the most part, flein was
more comfortable with man-to-
man, as he was unwilling to give
up open shots from the perimeter.
"To hold them to that many
points is a good day," Beilein said.
"We had that four-minute span
there in the second half that was
just killer.
"We had two or three turn-
overs, missed a couple shots ... that
was a big difference in the game."

'M' Note: Liewellyn, Fallon
suspended for entire season

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
Freshman forward Jacob Fal-
lon and seniordefenseman Tristin
Llewellyn
are no lon-
ger part of First seen on
the Michi- -the game
gan hockey
team.
After practice Wednesday Red

Berenson announced the sus-
pension of the two players for
"violating team expectations."
Fallon struggled to find the
lineup consistently, playing in 13
of the team's 23 games, register-
ing three points and 14 penalty
minutes.
Berenson made it clear that
Fallon had the opportunity to
return next year provided his
behavior improves.

Llewellyn will miss the final
half of his senior season. The Ann
Arbor native played in 18 games
this season making his- career
total 126.
He will end his career with
three goals and 18 points.
"I hope he stays in school and
graduates," Berenson said of
Llewellyn. "We'll give him that
support, but we can't keep him on
the team."

DIRECTED BY UM GRAD
SULTAN StIARREf
Based on a true str' o vf
a yotnrg man's batti o
bfeak free of his Detroit
family busiress so that he-
can offend UM.

f


8A Thursday, January 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Brandon sheds light on
coaching search, decision

0I

01

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Quarterback Tate Forcier backed up Denard Robinson during his sophomore year.
Forcier not
enrolled
Forcier will meet Forcier was sent home from
with officials to Jacksonville, Fla. once it was
determined he wouldn't be able
seek reinstatement to play against Mississippi State.
Former Michigan coach Rich
By TIM ROHAN Rodriguez talked about Forcier's
Daily Sports Editor future in a press conference the
Friday before the bowl game.
Sophomore quarterback Tate "(Forcier's) status with the
Forcier is not enrolled in class- school as a student is first and
es for the foremost and that is undeter-
Winter 2011 First seen on mined to this point," Rodriguez
semester at said.
the Univer- -the game The team met Tuesday at 4 p.m.
sity of Michi- to hear Brandon announce that
gan, according to a representative Hoke would be the Wolverines'
in the University's office of the next head football coach.
Registrar. Forcier's former roommate,
Forcier, a sport management running back Mike Cox, said
major in the School of Kinesiol- Forcier was not at the meeting.
ogy, was academically ineligible "I haven't really seen Tate,"
to play in the Gator Bowl in Jack- junior wide receiver Darryl Sto-
sonville, Fla. on Jan. 1. num said. "I don't know where he
In an interview this morning is, but I don't know his status or
with The Michigan Daily, a repre- his situation.
sentative in the registrar's office "Me personally, I haven't seen
said Robert Patrick Forcier was him."
not enrolled in any classes at the The add-drop deadline for Uni-
University as of Jan. 12. versity students to enroll in class-
At Wednesday's news confer- es is Jan 25.
ence introducing new football Because Foricer is not enrolled
coach Brady Hoke, Michigan Ath- at the University, he cannot be a
letic Director Dave Brandon said, member of the Michigan football
"Tate is not with the program." team.

By NICOLE AUERBACH
Daily Sports Writer '
Michigan Athletic Director
Dave Brandon can be deft when
trying to avoid questions he doesn't
want to answer.
First, he spent weeks not
answering questions about former
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez's
job security.
And now, he's not answer-
ing questions about the coaching
search he conducted the past week
- at least not specifics. Brandon
said that's because he wants to
respect the confidentiality of con-
versations he has had with various
people.
Though members of the media
spent days tracking flights and
calling sources to try to fig-
ure out where Brandon was and
who he was interviewing, Bran-
don wouldn't fill in any blanks at
Wednesday's news conference that
introduced Brady Hoke as Michi-
gan's next football coach.
"It ain't going to happen," Bran-
don said. "I'm going to fulfill my
promise to those people. We're not
going to blab about what we talk-
ed about or who we talked to and
when we talked to them:'
Brandon said he visited five cit-
ies in six days and had multiple
phone conversations with potential
coaching candidates.
On Tuesday, Brandon told The
Associated Press that he never
offered the job to either Jim Har-
baugh or Les Miles - two coaches
at the center of Michigan's coach-
ing rumors. And on Wednesday, he
also refuted rumors that Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Coleman
vetoed any coaching candidates.
"I am extremely pleased for
our student-athletes and fans to
welcome Brady Hoke back to the
University of Michigan to lead our
football program," Coleman said.
"His impressive credentials and
his previous experience with U-M

Michigan Athletic Director David Brandon intoduced Brady Hoke as Michigan's next football coach yester

tell me he is a leader both on and off
the field. I look forward to the 2011
season and the excitement that is
Michigan football."
Brandon said he called and
offered the job to Hoke early Tues-
day morning. Hoke accepted it
immediately, without talking about
his salary. Hoke has agreed to a six-
year contract with Michigan.
"We never talked about what
he was going to be paid," Brandon
said. "The only guy I've ever heard
of who took a job without know-
ing what it paid was named (Bo)
Schembechler."
The Schembechler reference
was just one of the many allusions
to Michigan history and the sto-
ried football program on Wednes-
day. It's no secret that hiring a
coach with ties to Michigan - and
therefore a coach who understood
the uniqueness of the job - was a
goal of Brandon's throughout the
search.

"Brady understands Michigan
and what football means here,"
Brandon said. "He has lived it as a
coach and he knows what it takes
to be successful. He doesn't have
to learn the words to 'The Victors'
- he's sang it many times in the
locker room. He doesn't need amap
to get around Ann Arbor; he was
a member of our conmunity for
eightyears."
Brandon also repeatedly ref-
erenced Hoke's Big Ten Champi-
onship rings and 1997 National
Championship ring from his time
as Michigan's defensive line coach
under then-head coach Lloyd Carr.
Brandon said the players know
Hoke's history of success, and that
reminds them of what they want -
championships.
Brandon said the fact that Hoke
is known as a players' coach was
a significant factor in his decision
to hire him. Brandon evaluated
coaching candidates on 12 different

sets of criteria. During last week's
press conference announcing the
firing of Rich Rodriguez, Bran-
don talked about how he wanted
a defensive coach, a person who
understood Michigan and its chal-
lenges, a person who would be flex-
ible in the scheme they run among
others.
And there was one that Brandon
didn't mention last week: the fact
that Hoke's a players' coach makes
a difference too.
"I think one of the most impor-
tant things in judging a coach is if
players want to play for him," Bran-
don said. "We had a long discussion
about how he approaches his job.
"It became very apparent to me
that this wasn't a guy where 'It's
all about me.' This is a guy who is
all about the team. He's a guy that
players want to play for."
-Daily News Editor Joseph
Lichterman contributed to this report.

Hoke talks rivalries, Martin to stay for senior season

New'M' coach to
finalize staff
within next three
or four days
By JOE STAPELTON
Daily Sports Writer
When new Michigan foot-
ball coach Brady Hoke was asked
"The Ohio State question," as the
reporter put it,
he answered the NOTEBOOK
way Michigan
fans want their coach to answer
the question:
"You want to win (rivalry
games)," Hoke said. "And you want
to prepare to win 'em. And they
have got to be front and center of

what you want for your program."
But he elaborated further, say-
ing not only does Michigan's pride
rest on these games, but Michi-
gan's recruiting does as well -
especially when it comes to playing
Michigan State.
"When you play Michigan State,
obviously your in state rival, obvi-
ously that's an important piece of
what you want to do," Hoke said.
"Because the lifeblood of your
recruiting has to be in the Mid-
west, and it has to be in the state of
Michigan."
This contrasts with former
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez's
recruiting philosophy. While
Rodriguez certainly recruited
from the Midwest, there was also
a lot of attention placed on recruit-
ing Florida and other southern
states.

Hoke's comments imply that he
intends to return Michigan's focus
to the Midwest, and that the best
way to get midwestern players to
come to Michigan is by beating
Michigan's three biggest rivals:
Michigan State, Notre Dame and
Ohio State.
Many Michigan fans doubted
that Rodriguez truly "understood"
the magnitude of the Ohio State
rivalry, but Hoke's answers to
questions about The Game reflect-
ed the understanding he had of
the rivalry from his eight years as
Michigan's defensive line coach.
"It's almost personal," Hoke
said.
MIKE MARTIN TO STAY IN
SCHOOL: The Detroit News is
reporting that junior nosetackle
Mike Martin, Michigan's best
defensive player, has committed

to staying at Michigan instead of
jumpingto the NFL draft.
"Yup, I'm staying," Martin told
the News.
There was speculation that
Martin would make an early jump
to the NFL after he put together a
stellar senior season, despite being
hampered severely by an assort-
ment of injuries throughout.
Keeping Martin is integral to
improving the defense, which
ranked among the worst in the
country this season. Martin
anchors a defensive line that loses
senior Greg Banks and Martin's
backup, senior Adam Patterson.
Martin was selected to the All-
Big Ten second team, recording 36
tackles and 2.5 sacks. He also con-
sistently drew double-teams from
opposing offensive lines, freeing
up redshirt junior defensive end

Ryan Van Bergen and sophomore
defensive end Craig Roh to make
plays.
Martin also told the News he
thought sophomore quarterback
Denard Robinson would be back
next year, even after speculation
that Robinson would leave Michi-
gan given the change in offensive
philosophy from Rich Rodriguez
to Brady Hoke.
"I'm sure Denard will come
back," Martin said. "It's important
to keep the family together."
HOKE'S STAFF COMING
TOGETHER: In his press confer-
ence today, Hoke said he had not
finalized his staff but hoped to get
it done in "the next three or four
days."
He's already made progress.
The San Diego Union-Tribune
reported earlier today that Hoke's

offensive coordinator at San Diego
State, Al Borges, will be joining
Hoke at Michigan.
. "This opportunity is such a good
one for me and for Brady," Borges
told the Union-Tribune. "It's diffi-
cult to pass up."
However, it remains unclear
who will fill the defensive coordi-
nator position. Rocky Long, Hoke's
defensive coordinator at San
Diego State, was announced as the
school's new head coach today.
Another position that remains
foggy is strength coach. Mike
Barwis, Michigan's strength
coach under Rodriguez, was not
fired by the University. How-
ever, it's unclear whether Barwis
will return since Hoke appointed
his strength coach from SDSU,
Aaron Wellman, to be Michigan's
strength coach.

*1

I


the b

-side

The Michigan Daily michigandaily com ( Thursday, January 13,2011
B ROADWA.Y

weekend
essentials
Jan 13 to 16
MUSIC
Looking to have your
mash-up-dance-party
concert quota filled?
As luck would have
it, this Saturday, The
Hood Internet invades
the Blind Pig with its
fusion of indie rock and
mainstream hip hop.
Listen to ABX and STV
SLV serve up a slew of
danceable beats from
their laptops in what
is sure to be a packed,
drunken, sweaty mess.
Doors at 9:00 and
tickets start at $8.

ON DISPLAY
At 8 p.m. Sunday,
celebrities will gather
in a drunken stupor
for the 68th Annual
Golden Globe Awards,
broadcast live on
NBC. Nominations
run from favorites like
"The Social Network"
to debacles like "The
Tourjat," byt the real
draw is host Ricky Ger-
vais. He's stolen the
show in previous years
by veering from the
script in his presenta-
tions and consistently
mocking everyone
he lays eyes on.

How the
students
of the
Universilty's
Musical Theatre
program rise
to stardom

The University is quintessen- in addition to having the accept- and staff complements that of
tially known for its incredible able grades for the University at their students. In fact, many of
academics, its (historically) good large, a student must also have the professors have worked in
football team and its large alum- the skills to interpret different the business before, so they have
ni network. But what about its songs and monologues, to make experience with the industry
ability to land performing stars the pieces their own and be a firsthand.
right on the Broadway stage? team player. "Our faculty is unreal," musical
Unbeknownst to some, the Uni- However, acceptance into theatre senior Will Burton said.
versity's Department of Musical the program is not so cut-and- "They really know what they're
Theatre is one of the highest- dry and even an applicant who doing. They know exactly what
ranked theater departments not excels in all these areas still may to do to prepare us."
only in the nation, but also the not merit an acceptance letter. Once a student is admitted into
world. Because the department is so the program, a long journey still
"I think the young people that selective, only the best of the lays ahead. Students takevarious
come out of (the University's best (roughly 3 percent of appli- dance, acting and singing classes
Musical Theatre Depart- at different levels.
ment) are really prepared to Gavin Creel, a 1998 gradu-
work right away. They don't ate of the program who has
have to come to New York starred on Broadway in
and take other classes, but , revivals of "Hair" and "La
they are really so well pre- They're well rounded, Cage aux Folles" and the
pared to audition and get a ti. original "Thoroughly Mod-
job," said Nancy Carson, a They re triple ern Millie" (receiving two
New York-based talent agent Tony nominations in the
at the Carson-Adler Agen- th weats when they process), said he took a lot
cy. "They're well rounded. away from his Musical The-
They're triple threats when waik OUt of there. atre courses.
they walk out of there." "It's appreciation for the
But these University stu- art form," he said. "It's
dents don'tjustriseto Broad- understanding a lyric and
way stardom out of nowhere. understanding a line in a
It's a long process to even get a cants, according to the depart- musical. It's understanding how
meeting with an agency, let alone ment's website) will receive a to communicate through words
a chance to land a starring role student ID number. and where your most powerful
on the Great White Way. It dates As talented as an incoming point on the stage is and to break
back at least to high school. freshman class may be, it also beats down - all these things
tends to be diverse. Wagner that a lot of schools are teach-
Making the said that the department tries to ing, but Michigan is doing in a
admit an equal number of men great way for musical theatre
Collegiate chorus line and women into the program. students."
The department is also known But the department does more.
A prospective student fresh for selecting students of varying It tries not only to push the per-
out of high school must compete appearances. formance factor of its program,
against approximately 600 other "You know, actors come in all but also the history of theater.
hopefuls to be selected for a spot shapes and sizes. Some pro- "I certainly want students to
in the Musical Theatre Depart- grams, you go to their showcases know what's happening in New
ment's 20-student freshman and you see that there are only York and on film and televi-
class. beautiful, perfect people. I like sion," Wagner said, "but I also
According to Music, Theatre & that there is a range of people want them to know the history
Dance Prof. Brent Wagner, who when I go to U of M," Carson of the field - to be comfortable
also serves as the chair of the said. in classics for the stage, whether
Musical Theatre Department, And the talent of the faculty See UMMT, Page 4B

FILM
This Sunday, the
American International
Film Festival comes to
the Michigan Theater.
Award-winning films
and documentaries,
including the festival's
Best Narrative Fea-
ture, "Lucy's Law," and
"Desautorizasdos," a
Venezuelan fantasy
musical that won Best
Comedy. Screenings
occur from 12 p.m.
to 4 p.m. Tickets are
$8 for students.
CONCERT
Avant-garde perfor-
mance artist Laurie
Anderson will present
her multimedia work
"Delusion" tomor-
row and Saturday at
the Power Center.
Accompanying herself
on the electric violin,
Anderson weaves
together film, visual
art, electronic music
and spoken word into
an intricate experi-
ence. Tickets begin
at $18 and the per-
formance starts at 8
p.m. on both nights
with no late seating.

By Arielle Speciner
Daily Arts Writer
PHOTO BY SALAM RIDA


2B - Thursday, January 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, January 13, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

.FOOD WARS
Each week, one Ann Arbor staple menu item becomes a
battlefield as Daily Arts editors butt heads over which restaurant
makes it best. Where should you go for your burger, fro-yo or
garden omlette? Daily Arts will fight for the truth.

Dear Jersey Shore,
Thank God.
Sincerely, Miami
Dear Water,
Why are you our theme semester? Is life not worth living anymore?
Sincerely, LSA
Dear Bachelor,
Don't pick her. Trust me, human-vampire relationships are not all they're
cracked up to be.

0

TIANCHU
613 East William St.
In a nearly empty restaurant on a snowy,
winter's day, one foodie orders Bi Bim Bop
to stave off the frigid cold. Served in a siz-
zling pan, the steaming dish - chock-full
of salty veggies, lean beef and hearty rice,
- does the trick to bring warmth back into
the atmosphere. But even the glippy-gloopy
eggs that sit atop the mass of deliciousness
can't save this entree from the most impos-
sible-to-use chopsticks in the world.
KANG'S
1327South University Ave.
Don't let the mundane decor turn you
away - the food is the only thing that mat-
ters. And Kang's knocks its Bi Bim Bop all
the waytoPyongyang. The delicious assort-
mentof finely-cutvegetables is so crisp and
juicy, you'd think they have a garden in the
back. Conveniently for the weak of heart,
the dish fallsunder the "NoSpice" category.
But for those looking to kick it up a notch,
there's spicy sauce on the side.

ROD'S DINER
812 South State St.
More famous for its un-turn-down-able
colliders, Rod's Diner does hold its own
when it comes to Bi Bim Bop. The restau-
rant has a homemade vibe - dinerscan hear
the fried egg crackling asthey wait for their
meals. And when the food does arrive, it's
delicious, if a little bare-bones. The dining
hall trays are a nice throwback to freshman
year, and the vegetables are clearly fresh,
though a bit too oily. Slimy ... but satisfying.
MARU
414 East William St.
There's something to be said about
Maru's innovation when it comes to Bi
Bim Bop - it's one of the few restaurants
that adds a little panache to its standard
Korean fare, providing freshly-cut cabbage,
nori and carrots among the typical sprouts,
rice and fried egg. But unfortunately, the
execution was only half there - the meal
was rather bland without the aid oftheaping
spoonfuls of hot sauce.

Sincerely, Edward


" Broadway bloopers: Last Sunday's homage to bad theater in review.

* Weird sighting: Celebrity skater Johnny Weir will sign copies of his memoir this Monday.
- Golden hopes: Daily Arts Editors pick their Golden Globe will-wins and should-wins.

And the winner is: Kang's


TRAILER REVIEW

The indestructible Captain
Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp,
"The Tourist") is back in all of his
swashbuck-
ling glory in
"On Stranger
Tides," the PatesOfthe
fourth install-
ment of the Caribbean:
"Pirates of the On Stranger
Caribbean" O tagr
series. But rKIS
whether or not
the box office Disney
will finally do
him in remains to be seen.
Havingshed his annoyingly
sensitive sidekick Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom, "New York, I
Love You"), perhaps Depp will
finally have full reign of the
screen. He'll certainly need it as
he takes on all those mermaids
and zombies, Blackbeard and
even a feisty Penelope Cruz
("Vicky Cristina Barcelona").
Hey, at least it's not more vam-
pires and werewolves. Captain
Jack appears to have sold outto
some pompous fool ina pow-

Sometimes it's hard to tell
whether Kanye is pulling our col-
lective leg or not. He collaborates
with Jay-Z on
his new latest
single "H.A.M.,"
but the track is
pure Kanye - Kanye West
that is, it's the d Jay
work of a slight-
ly unhinged 'HAM."
creative genius.
It's apocalyptic
and stylish, complete with slick
electronic beats and an orchestral
grandness. Although both rap-
pers aggressively spit about how
they're about to go "hard asa
muthafucker," it also features the
vocal stylings of an eerie cham-
ber singer.
Is the diabolical pair trying
to be satirical? Both superstars'
rhymes are the typical cocksure
fare, with Jay-Z reminding any
doubtful listeners just how "hard"
he is. "I play chicken with a Mack
truck/Y'all muthafuckers woul-
da been moved." After a satisfying
beat in the beginning, the track

0

dered wig and is now on a quest
for the fountain of youth - locat-
ed somewhere in what looks like
Sandals, Jamaica.
But that raises a question.
People love Depp's character
for being an outlaw and he's the
appeal of the whole movie. Dis-
ney knows the name "Pirates of

the Caribbean" will draw people
in. Of course they've packed the
previews with sexy mermaids
and glamor shots of the rogu-
ish, swaggering Sparrow. But
who knows if the actual movie
will be worthy of the rest of the
franchise.
-EMILYBOUDREAU

starts to trail offtwhen everything
drops, save the angelic female
vocalist serenading us, before a
blood pressure-raising ending.
It's solid and inventive, which
might be attributable to the
young but talented 19-year-old
producer Lex Luger assisting on
the track. Ultimately, "H.AM.,"

(despite the laughable acronym)
offers upa delectable morsel
from the upcoming album, Watch
The Throne, on which Jay-Z and
Kanye are-collaborating. Iftthis
ridiculously epic track is any inti-
cation, the album is bound to be
explosive.
-CASSIE BALFOUR

0

EPISODE REVIEW

VIRAL VIDEO REVIEW

0

When watching Jim Carrey
host "SNL," it might come as a
surprise to know that this was
only his second
gig at Studio
8H. Carrey fit
in amazing y SNL
the cast, keep- Season 36
ing the show
away from its "Jim Carrey/
usual pitfall - The Black Keys"
trying to make
mediocre hosts NBC
funny and writ-
ing shoddy material whenthey
fail. Instead, Carrey was featured
in many sketches and committed
completely each time. He didn't
holdback in his re-imagined por-
trayal of Mila Kunis's Lily from
"Black Swan," showcasing his
awkward and hilarious dancing.
Musical guests The Black
Keys gave a solid, smooth perfor-
mance, but they weren't featured
in any sketches and definitely
didn't have the incredible perfor-
mance of Kanye. It's always nice
to see the musical guest doa little

Some of us are just born to
dance. And some of us, like "Got
to Dance" contestant Happiness,
are born to
flop around
the stage
energyscat "GotToDanm:
number. More Happnml"
Ever
since the http://skyl.sky.com/got-
epic Susan to-dance-more-happiness
Boyle
viral vid,
we've been cautious to judgea
talent-show contestant. Looks
can sometimes be very, very mis-
leading, as evidenced by Boyle's
simultaneous weirdness and
COURTESY OF N Bc unbelievable talent.
Unfortunately, Happiness
John Boehner was a highlight. makes it pretty clear - within
Similarly, the cold open featuring eight seconds - that she has
Fred Armisen's Mayor Bloomberg no talent whatsoever. The two-
responding to New York City's minute clip features our hapless
recent snowstorms was topical dancer constantly karate-chop-
and spot-on, once again proving ping the air while throwing her-
that "SNL" shines when it focuses self to the ground and jumping
on politics and current events. back up again to run around the
-CAROLYNKLARECKI stage in an impassioned frenzy.

more, but The Black Keys can
sing live and that's all anyone can
hope for.
On "Weekend Update," Andy
Samberg and Taran Killam's bird-
slash-fish romance was bizarre,
boring and ran too long, but an
interview with Kristen Wiig's
Nancy Pelosi and Jason Sudeikis's

She's calls it "freestyle."
Happiness's spastic perfor-
mance is interspersed with the
hilarious reactions of the judges
and the show's host. Abandon-
ing any effort at commentary or
impassive expressions, they burst
out into uncontrollable laughter.
Unlike Happiness's uncontrol-

lable energy and enthusiasm,
viewer interestin thisviral vid
wanes about midway through the
clip. The star is now red-faced and
messy-haired, still karate-chop-
ping and flopping with a passion.
But we've seen itall. Happiness
can't offer us anything more.
-LEAHBURGIN


The Michigan Daily = michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 13, 2011 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 13, 2011 - 38

Confessions of a
ModClothaholic

MEDMA DJs see themselves as campus's electronic music ambassadors.

Electrifying electronica

Hi, my name is Sharon,
and I have a problem.
Growing up, I always
knew it was wrong; adults cau-
tioned me against it, and really, I
never foresaw
any future situ-
ation in which
I'd do it. It's a
nasty habit to e -w
fall into, and
expensive to
boot. But none-
theless, I just
can't kick it: ISHARON
am an online JACOBS
shopper.
As do all
addictions, my online shopping
started small, with a white sweat-
shirt I ordered on a department
store's website to tie-dye at home.
It wasn't exactly an online buy, I
reasoned, because I was going to
modify it myself, and besides -
plain white hoodies are tougher
to track down than one would
expect.
Soon, it spread to footwear.
How was I, a born-and-bred Cali-
fornian and a t"ar-less University
student, supposed to find win-
ter boots that had traction and
retained some degree of cuteness?
And while I'm already making a
purchase, might as well get some
flip-flops to cash in on free ship-
ping for orders over $50.
It was in this weakened state
that I met ModCloth - the web-
site that would become my pre-
ferred clothing dealer. For the
uninitiated, ModCloth is a Pitts-
burgh-based online retailer with a
focus on retro-inspired outfits and
indie designers.
I always held that every time
you buy a dress online, an inde-
pendent boutique dies, but the
muted design and spontaneous
mushroom logo of ModCloth's
website tricked me with an attrac-
tive anything-but-corporate vibe.
Its creations favor floral patterns,
vibrant colors and lots of lace;
dresses and tops are often pulled
in with belts and empire waists so
you don't look fat. With garment

titles adorably referential (the
"Slanted and Enchanted Dress")
and punny ("Sweater Late Than
Never") alike, ModCloth drew me
in, and I couldn't say no.
So here I am, beginning my
fifth semester of college and load-
ing up on ModCloth every day..
When I can't think of an essay
topic, I just take a quick look-see
and check what's on sale. Sleep-
less at 4 a.m., I scour the site for
new arrivals to examine. And so,
as I tune out the dresses, tops,
outerwear and intimates (yeah,
I went there once) and close the
ModCloth tab on my browser, I
vow to stop shopping online and
take a harsh look at the practice
instead.
The major point I've always
held against the purchasing of
clothing on the Internet is the
potential for overspending. on a
glowing computer screen, colors
and patterns burst and dollar
signs fade into the background -
on ModCloth, they're tiny, grey
and utterly unnoticeable. SoI base
my buys on the items of clothing
themselves and load them into my
Lately, I get
my fashion fix
on the Internet.
virtual shopping bag - lacking
the weight of each garment and its
very physical price tag to bring me
down to earth.
When I mosey toward the
"checkout" button, there are way
more zeros next to the total than
I would have expected. But what
can I leave out? I certainly can't
drop the stunningly accurate "My
Top Picks Dress." But the "Stay or
Go Jacket" definitely has to stay.
I've unwittingly overdosed on
ModCloth again, and there's noth-
ing to be done but break out the
credit card.
See MODCLOTH, Page 4B

MEDMA brings an
underappreciated
genre to the 'U'
By CASSIE BALFOUR
Daily Arts Writer
The events of the Michigan Elec-
tronic Dance Music Association
(MEDMA) aren't for the faint of
heart. The beat gets in your head -
so rhythmic that it almost seems to
match your own pulse. With a twist
of a knob, the DJ controls your
every move, as the crowd sways
in sync with the cadence. But this
song is probably something you've
never even heard before.
"We want to raise awareness of
electronic music on campus, just
to get people interested in this dif-
ferent genre that's not really publi-
cized too much on the radio," said
MEDMA president Sean Masters,
an LSA senior.
MEDMA was founded back in
2005 when a few friends decided
to spread their love of electronic
music across campus. Today, the
club has grown to over 70 mem-
bers who actively work to expose
students to a wider range of dance
music. And after procuring some
equipment of their own, MEDMA
DJs began spinning at countless
house parties and frats, introduc-
ing hundreds of students to sub-
genres of electronic music - an
introduction that is usually met
with gleeful surprise.
"Fraternity parties are fun
because you have a bunch of people
who maybe didn't come to listen to
electronic music. You have people
who just came to have a good time,"
Masters said. "We had a ton of peo-
ple come up to us to say, 'Aww man,
I love this. How come I didn't know
about you guys before?"'
Granted, obscure electronic
dance music isn't without its dis-
senters.
"Of course, you always have the
people coming up to us asking for
'Like a G6,' " Masters said, "but
they're still a blast."
MEDMA DJs put a lot of thought
into mixing music and crafting
beats that will stay with partiers
long after the lights have gone up.
"People listen to artists like
Ke$ha and they don't really think
about who's making the actual
beats," Masters said. "In the elec-
tronic music world, the person that
W is actually making the music is the
centerpiece."
Techno, and subsequently mod-
ern electronic music, was locally
grown in Detroit. According to
Masters, Detroit techno was origi-
nally meant to be very thought-
provoking. The scene was inspired
by the repetitive beat created by
the industrial machines found in
automobile factories, and soon
found its way from the Midwest
into clubs worldwide.
Impulse, MEDMA's main DJing
event, takes place on the second
Thursday of every month at Necto
nightclub. Though Necto is gener-
ally the place to go when a person
wants to dance to the dulcet tones
of Katy Perry, during Impulse,
MEDMA takes over Necto's Red
Room so its DJs can showcase their
talents and range of tastes in elec-
tronic music.
In addition to putting on events,
MEDMA cultivates fledgling DJs
and gives lessons to due-pay-
ing members. While some join

MEDMA with DJing experience,
many learn from veteran MEDMA
DJs. And after they practice spin-
ning at various house and frat
parties, they too are able to DJ at
MEDMA's premiere events.
"Its kind of a steep learning
curve, but once you get the hang of

it, it's not that bad," Masters said.
The first (and the most pivotal)
step when it comes to mixing elec-
tronic dance music is called "beat
matching." This is what keeps elec-
tronic dance mixes transitioning
smoothly so dancers reveling in the
music won't break their rhythm.
"If you imagine two cars on a
highway side-by-side, it's like get-
ting those cars lined up and going
the same speed," Masters said. "So
you're trying to line up the beats,
so when you move from one song
to another, you can't really tell that
you're transitioning."
LSA senior Alex DePorre was
one member who mastered DJing
during her time at MEDMA. While
a sophomore, she joined the group
despite being an electronic dance
music rookie and now DJs events
on a regular basis - including
MEDMA's monthly soirees.
"The first time I DJed Impulse,
I was so nervous," DePorre said. "I
practiced so much and memorized
everything I was supposed to do
and I was terrified, but it actually
went really well."
MEDMA DJs and other pur-
veyors of electronic music dance
mixes take affront to the idea that
they're just glorified iPods, as Mas-
ters explained, for good reason.
"The DJ is seen as someone
who has taken the time to go out
and find this music and blend it in
a way that kind of keeps a certain
vibe or a flow going, so it's not very
common to take requests," Masters
said.
But don't accuse MEDMA mem-
bers of music elitism, either -
they'll mix anything with a good
beat.
"If I think the song is appropri-
ate and I have it, by all means I'll
throw it in," Masters said. "We do
some top-40 remixes, even just
a remix of Ke$ha. I actually love
Ke$ha personally."
And MEDMA appreciates how
important star-studded electronic
music makers like deadmauS and
DJ Tiesto are to drawing new
members in and making electronic
music more accessible to the mass-
es.
"We consider artists like dead-
mau5 (to be) gateway electronic
music - like this is gonna be some
of the electronic music they'll first
listen too, and then they might
come to a MEDMA show," Masters

said.
The electronic dance music
genre isn't just for superstar DJs
or high profile producers, though.
Electronic music is a democratic
art form - anyone with talent and
the right software can produce the
sort of music MEDMA thrives on
and encourages other students to
listen to.
"Its up to these DJs to pick out
the best electronic music from tons
of music worldwide, as opposed to
hearing it on the radio and top 40,"
Masters said.
Masters went on to explain the
DJ's role as an ambassador and
tastemaker in the electronic dance
music world, exposing his or her
listeners to electronic music from.
across the globe. The large array of
electronic music made and posted
on the Internet by amateurs and
professionals alike has created an
unregulated market of electronic
music sharing that acts as a veri-
table buffet for hungry DJs eager
to share their findings.
DePorre agrees with this sen-
timent, adding that the variety
allows each DJ to find his or her
own niche in the electronic music
scene.
"There's so much out there that
it's really personal - most things
that you find, most people will have
never heard of," she said. "Right
now, I'm really into minimal,
which is kind of dark and scary."
"Minimal" is one of many sub-
genres in the vast electronic music
world. It has a sometimes eerie and
sparse sound that utilizes a lot of
repetition. But like a surprising
amount of electronic music, it still
sounds immensely soulful, using
only what is essential in order to
make people dance.
When MEDMA isn't busy on
campus advocating for electronic
dance music, its members are tak-
ing limos to electronic shows in
Canada and Detroit or observing
their favorite holiday - the Detroit
Electronic Music Festival. DEMF
is the latest incarnation of an elec-
tronic music festival that Detroit
has hosted for years. Every Memo-
rial Day weekend, scores of the
world's preeminent DJs and musi-
cians descend on Motor City, and
each year MEDMA members go
to bathe in the glow of these elec-
tronic demi-gods.
"My birthday is right next to

Christmas, but I like DEMF bet-
ter than birthday-Christmas,"
Masters said. "During DEMF, we
all get a few hotel rooms and it's a
blast."
Although MEDMA members
have spun at DEMF afterparties in
the past, they've recently turned
their focus back to Ann Arbor.
MEDMA has big plans on campus,
including bringing Detroit DJ Kris
Wadsworth to Necto in February
and continuing its monthly Necto
parties, like the "Class is Back in
Session" Impulse at 9 p.m. tonight.
But this doesn't mean MEDMA
members are bound to the Universi-
ty. Through their tireless campaign
to inject Ann Arbor and southeast
Michigan with danceable beats,
they've introduced townies and
students alike to scores of music
that goes untapped by the average
citizen. And their only objective is
to find the mix, beat and sound that
you can move to.
When Masters ventured out of
the world of low-lit basements and
See MEDMA, Page 4B

MEDMA started in 2005 and has been growing ever since.


4B - Thursday, January 13, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, January 13, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

'NETWORK' (1976), MGM
Clairvoyance from the '70s

MODCLOTH
From Page 3B

By TIMOTHY RABB
Daily Arts Writer
Would you believe that a mere
12 years after "Dr. Strangelove,"
a welcome addition to the film
canon would rise to the occasion
of challenging the dominant satire
of Kubrick's masterpiece? Sidney
Lumet's "Network" has received
countless accolades, including an
induction into the National Film
Registry, four Golden Globes, four
Academy Awards, and the 64th
position on AFI's list of the top
100 films of the last century. But
in spite of the film's critical rec-
ognition, chances are you've never
seen it.
The film begins with a tense
discussion between executives at
the fictional UBS television net-
work and news anchor Howard
Beale (Peter Fincher, "Sunday
Bloody Sunday"), during which
Beale is informed that he'll be
fired within the next two weeks
due to his show's poor ratings.
Upon receiving this troubling
news, Beale has a nervous break-
down and announces that he'll be
committing suicide on live televi-
sion. When a subsequent series of
outrageous events and mad rants
by Beale brings him and UBS
unprecedented popularity, he's
given his own prophetic talk show
segment and coins his trademark
phrase of aimless rebellion: "I'm
as mad as hell, and I'm not going
to take this anymore!"
The screenplay is airtight and
the characterizations are spot-on
- there's enough subtlety in its
political and social commentary
to engage us intellectually, but
there's not so much abstraction
as to encumber it with the hazy
intent of so many art films.
For example, the politics of the

show are all too evident in the
relationship between madman
Beale and his superiors. A wide
viewer base of everyday Ameri-
cans is enthralled with Beale's
antics - antics that give an illu-
sion of the rebellion that they've
long awaited to turn their worlds
upside down and endow their lives
with more drama, excitement and,
ultimately, purpose.
What's ironic about this whole
facade of revolution is that at the
end of the day, Beale is still sub-
ordinate to the whims of the net-
work executives at UBS. Like a
raving child, he is constantly scru-
tinized by his overseers. His free-
spirited diatribes are brought to
a shuddering halt after a dark-lit
meeting with the network chair-
man - leaving no question as to
who's the boss of whom, and end-
ing with Beale's ominous observa-
tion: "I have seen the face of God."
If an unforgiving look at the
omnipotence of corporate Amer-
"I'm as mad
as hell, and I'm
not going to take
this anymore!"
ica isn't enough to whet your
appetite for scandal, there's also
the melodrama of a heated affair.
Diana Christensen (Faye Dun-
away, "Chinatown"), a producer
at UBS, gets entangled with Max
Schumacher (William Holden,
"The Wild Bunch"), president
of UBS's News division. After
a tumultuous relationship that
leads Schumacher to leave his

I'll have to pay shipping on
a package I'll likely be return-
ing anyway come next week,
because nothing looks like the
pictures andI didn't have the
benefit of a store in which to try
on my choices.
Granted, I've had some great
successes with ModCloth, as
well as Zappos and Endless for
shoes, and once, tights from
fredflare.com. Between bus
delays and a hectic student life,
it's nearly impossible for me to
make it to Briarwood, and when
I'm home for break, I'm too busy
sleeping and eating food that
doesn't say Kraft on it to go to
the mall. To be honest, my real-
world interactions with clothing
stores are few and far between.
The Internet, as it is prone to do,
broadens my horizons, allow-
ing me access to designs I would
never encounter otherwise.
And yet, the Internet's inher-
ent lack of physicality makes ita
pretty counterintuitive shopping
ground, and for good reason. I've
heard rumors that the photos of
ModCloth's outfits are tailored
(pun intended), and I can attest
that the outfitsI carefully pluck
from their packages generally
have a cheaper look and feel than
I would have imagined from
their online appearances. When
all is said and done, I'm more
often than not disappointed with

my Internet-bought outfits, and
my ModCloth "order history"
tab currently lists four returns
in a row.
So what's the answer? Is my
Internet addiction OK? Online
shopping has opened my eyes to
new brands, designs and styles.
No, I can't possibly eliminate it
from my shopping repertoire.
But it's simply not worth the cost
- in either money or clothing
quality - that I'm currently put-
ting into it.
As I retype that familiar URL
into my browser and watch
ModCloth's comfortable faded
colors load on the screen,I make
this solemn vow: No longer will
I blindly buy the contents of
that virtual shopping cart. Iwill
understand that the Internet is
a toolto help me know what's
out there in the wide world of
clothes, but that the actual hit-
ting of the "checkout" button
must be reserved for the most
obscure of garments, the perfect
pieces thatI absolutely can't
find anyplace real. Online shop-
ping can no longer be my drug
of choice - it can only exist as a
diagnostic tool to help me find
my real-life wardrobe prescrip-
tion.
Jacobs is looking for her next trip.
To recommend your favorite brand,
e-mail her at shacobs@umich.edu.

0

'Network' predicted consumer dependency on corporate media.

wife, Schumacher realizes he's
made a grave mistake and that his
dalliance with Christensen has no
potential for love - she is inca-
pable of feeling, and talks only of
business, even during sex. His last
words to her are unforgettable:
"You are madness, Diana, viru-
lent madness, and everything you
touch dies with you. Well, not me.
Not whileI can still feel pleasure
and pain and love."
Some critics lambasted the film
for its preachy attitude by noting
there isn't a single character that
isn't featured in some long-wind-
ed tirade. But what a simplistic
approach to criticism! Does the
constant presence of dinosaurs
preclude "Jurassic Park" from
greatness, or the recurrence of
gunfire in "Saving Private Ryan?"
Motifs and themes in a film are
essential to the conveyance of
a deeper meaning, and the fact

that the brand of satire found in
"Network" relies on the theme
of prophecy doesn't diminish its
greatness (or even its watchabil-
ity) in the least.
"Network" is just as important
to today's college students as it
was to film enthusiasts of the
'70s - in some ways even more
so. It specifically points out the
problems that face a generation
raised by television through the
relationship between the elder-
ly Schumacher and the young
Christensen. It highlights the gap
between an era of thinking, feel-
ing individuals and one in which
preprogrammed imagery does all
the thinking and feeling for us -
so much so, in fact, that the whole
gamut of human emotion feels cli-
ched and overused, and we're no
more cognizant of our bondage to
corporate sensibilities than caged
animals.


MEDMA
From Page 3B

jam-packed clubs and played for
Ann Arbor citizens of all ages at
the outdoor summer festival Top
of the Park, he had one of-his best
DJing experiences to date.
"There was this one guy - he
kept saying, 'Hey man, play some-
thing I can groove to,' " Masters
said. "I thought I was playing
something perfectly grooveable,

but then I played this song at the
very end. I didn't think anyone
would recognize it ... but this guy
knew every single word to it, and
he was so pumped up."
Ultimately, that's what
MEDMA is all about - exposing
as many people as possible to elec-
tronic music and finding some-
thing "grooveable" for everyone.


UMMT
From Page 1B
'Brigadoon,' or 'Carousel' - but
also to be up to date and be com-
fortable if they're auditioning for
'Next to Normal' or 'The Addams
Family' so that they understand
where the field has come from and
what's happeningtoday."
The University is also keen on
following and sensing popular
trends as they are manifested in
the musical theater world. Accord-
ing to Creel, understanding both
the past and present of musical
theater is important.
"WhenI was there, there wasn't
as much of a pressure to be good at
pop and contemporary styles," he
said. "Now they're becoming way
more savvy, because that's the way
the world is going."
Participation in the Senior
Showcase is another Musical The-
atre event that helps prepare stu-
dents for a career in the spotlight.
Each year, the Musical Theatre
seniors travel to New York City to
perform for agents, directors and
casting directors to demonstrate
their talent. For many, the end-of-
the-year performance is a way to
jumpstart their careers. Students
must make every second of their
Showcase count. In Creel's year,
the Senior Showcase lasted less
than 45 minutes and included pre-
sentations from all 22 students in
his class.
"We sang about a 45-second
song, and there were a bunch of
casting directors and agents and
things like that," Creel said. "We
found out if people were interest-
ed in talking to us further, and the
next thing you know, I took a lot
of meetings and I was one of the
lucky ones who got an agent from
that."
Jenni Barber, a 2005 gradu-
ate who is starring in "The 25th
Annual Putnam County Spelling

Bee" on Broadway - a role she's
had since 2007- also has a iot to
thank the Showcase for.
"(My career) definitely start-
ed off with the Musical Theatre
Showcase out in New York," Bar-
ber said. "(It) certainly helped me
get representation and introduced
me to the casting world."
In addition to being in national
and international tours of many
different Broadway shows, Bar-
ber is now preparing to audition
for the TV show "Hawaii Five-O"
and has been in working with new
playwrights and directors along
the way.
Maize and Blue on the
Great White Way
once seniors have performed in
the Showcase in New York, they
move onto the next part of their
journey to stardom - landing a
job. It often requires a blood-and-
sweat summer in New York City,
but the graduates feel prepared,
Burton assured.
"We've got a lot ready, we're
put together, we know how to
approach an audition scenario," he
said.
Once there, the former students
audition and compete for the lim-
ited number of industry jobs in the
Big Apple. Whether it be Broad-
way, a regional theater, a national
tour, an off-Broadway production,
a TV show or a film, spots are
severely restricted.
However, Michigan students
have a certain advantage over
other talented young people who
are auditioning for the same jobs.
Because many casting directors
and agents view the University's
program as one of the best in the
world, they can sometimes imme-
diately tell when they're seeing an
alum audition.
"Apparently, you can kind of tell
when a Michigan graduate walks
through the door because of how

0

they carry themselves and you
can tell that they're comfortable
with themselves," musical theatre
senior Andy Jones said.
Another benefit of the Musical
Theatre Department is the long
list of alumni that graduates can
use as stepping stones for their
careers.
"Michigan is everywhere in
New York," musical theatre senior
Sean McKnight said.
McKnight, the self-proclaimed
"longest-running Michigan
senior," has been in the Univer-
sity's program for the past 16 years
and is already an established
dancer and choreographer. He
explained there are even certain
bars that University alumni resid-
ing in New York go to watch the
games on Football Saturdays.
Oftentimes, the intimate com-
munity of the Musical Theatre
Department is regarded as a fam-
ily, but Jones describes it another
way.
"There's this term, as we joke,
'The Michigan Mafia,' " he con-
tinued. "When you leave for New
York, there's this common bond of
Michigan experience. And that's
not just some little phrase that
people throw around,"
It's a feeling Creel noted when
first applying to musical theater
programs in high school.
"The schoolsI went to, for what-
ever reason, I thought like, 'Those
people are over there,' and when I
was at Michigan I thought, 'These
people are my people,' "he said.
Graduates come out of the pro-
gram with confidence and a com-
petitive edge, but still remain
grounded, Wagner said - adding
that one of the goals of the pro-
gram is to give students the con-
fidence to perform at their best,
while keeping the competition
outside of the classroom.
"When they get to New York,

it will be plenty competitive. But
I don't think there's a place for
that at the school," he said. "So
that's one thing that Michigan has
a reputation for. That's something
really important to me that we
continue to maintain."
Singing and dancing in
the city that never sleeps
As students move to New York
and find their ways into jobs, they
often recognize how hectic and
busy their new lifestyle is com-
pared to the one they enjoyed
within the University bubble. Bar-
ber elaborated on the whirlwind of
a life she leads.
"You're freelance - it's like any
kind of freelance work. You just
go where the job is and it changes,
which makes it really exciting,
but you kind of have to be on top
of it - the day changes often," she
said.
Though chaotic and confusing,
the students are pursuing their
passion. They love what they do.
They are aware of the competitive
and cutthroat nature of the busi-
ness - but there is no business like
show business. A performer may
audition five or six times for the
same role and still never land it.
There are high points in the indus-
try, but there are also some lows.
"You can't give up." McKnight
explained. "It's a brutal industry.
If you don't love it, you won't sur-
vive it."
But the University has-produced
many success stories. Students
who graduate from the Musical
Theatre Department have gone on
to land Tony-nominations, star-
ring spots on Broadway, film and
television roles and other highly
regarded accomplishments. Many
students even get jobs right after
the Showcase.
"Pretty much everyone in my


Each year, the University's Musical Theatre Department accepts approximately
three percent of its applicants.

class is working either nation-
ally or internationally on tour or
at a regional theater," said Robert
Hartwell, a 2009 graduate who is
currently in "Memphis" on Broad-
way. "No one's, like, scrubbing
tables right now."
To Broadway and
back again
The Musical Theatre Depart-
ment has made such an impact on
its students' lives that the gradu-
ates often come back to give guest
lectures or become teachers -
sometimes even while still a stu-
dent.
McKnight teaches at MPulse
Summer Performing Arts Camp
- a selective three-week summer
program the helps prospective
high school juniors and seniors get
a feel for how the School of Music,
Theatre & Dance works and what
it has to offer.
Creel, who is currently doing

some teaching in New York, said
he would also eventually like to
come back to the University to
teach.
"I'm looking forward to recon-
necting with the school and
stomping around Ann Arbor. It
would be a dream to come back
and teach someday," he said. "I'm
not going to do that yet, but I love
Ann Arbor and I love the program
and I love what it's about."
The rise to fame is a difficult
process, but with the support of
the University, a push from some
friends and the backbone of a huge
alumni network, everything can
fall into place. Graduates follow
their passion - whether that be
choreographing a dance routine in
a musical, reciting lines for a TV
show or accepting Tony awards
left and right. And they do so
while knowing all the time that it
was hard workat their alma mater
that helped thrust them into the
limelight.

Talent agents can sometimes recognize 'U' alums from their onstage confidence.


