1ie licliqan 0aiIj


.1Is I (I I

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, April 14, 2011

michigandaily.com

FINANCING YOUR EDUCATION
Report: Pell
Grant rates
at 'U' fall in
recent years

'U' argues rates
have increased,
but says it must do
more to improve
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily StaffReporter
Though the University boasts
one of the 50 largest endow-
ments in the country, a recent
report faults the University and
other wealthy schools for failing
to adequately attract and serve
students with financial need in
recent years.
The report, released by The
Chronicle of Higher Education
on March 27, reveals that the Uni-
versity, along with severalotber
colleges and universities across
the country with large endow-
ments, has not increased its Pell
Grant-eligible student popula-
tion since 2004. However, Uni-
versity records show the number
of Pell Grants awarded to Uni-
versity students in recent years
has increased as a percentage
of the student body. Despite the
discrepancy, University officials
say more work must be done to
attract academically qualified

low-income students.
Pell Grants are federal grants
that subsidize college tuition
for students with annual fam-
ily incomes less than $40,000.
Grants are awarded based on a
formula that considers the cost of
attending the institution and the
student's expected financial con-
tribution, enrollment status and
the length of the academic year.
According to The Chronicle's
report, the University awarded
3,416 Pell Grants to students for
the 2008-2009 academic year -
a 0.2-percent decrease from the
number of grants the University
awarded for the 2004-2005 aca-
demic year. During the interim
academic years, the number of
Pell Grants awarded was largely
stagnant.
The report notes that all 50
universities with the highest
endowments - the University's
endowment was $6.6 billion at
the end of the 2010 fiscal year -
have a relatively small student
population of Pell Grant students
compared to many schools with
smaller endowments. It found
that, on average, 15 percent of
undergraduates at the 50 evalu-
ated institutions received Pell
Grants during the 2008-2009
See PELL GRANTS, Page 3A

Lansing Mayor Virg Bernero speaks at a rally outside the Capitol Building in Lansing yesterday. Bernero and others, many of whom were members of unions
across the state, expressed their dismay with Republican Gov. Rick Snyder's budget proposal, including cuts to higher education funding.
Unions gather in. Lansing
to protest Snyder's budget

GEO, others
express dismay
with proposed K-12,
higher ed. cuts
By ANNA ROZENBERG
Daily StaffReporter
LANSING - Thousands of
people representing various
labor unions gathered on the
steps of the Capitol Building

yesterday to voice their con-
cerns about Republican Gov.
Rick Snyder's proposed budget
cuts.
Snyder's proposal calls for a
$213 million reduction in alloca-
tions to higher education fund-
ing statewide, with a 15-percent
cut to higher education for
the state's 15 public universi-
ties, including the University
of Michigan. While protesters
rallied against the higher edu-
cation funding cuts, the State
House Higher Education Appro-

priations Subcommittee, which
has a Republican majority, voted
yesterday approving a simi-
lar higher education funding
reduction of about 15 percent,
with some provisions.
Herbert Sanders, an attorney
for the American Federation
of State, County and Munici-
pal Employees, spoke first at
the rally, urging the event par-
ticipants to be active in voicing
their dissent of Snyder's budget
proposal.
"Let it be known that our

presence here today will not be
limited to stirring words and
unanswered indictment. This
is a call to battle," Sanders said,
receiving enthusiastic chants
from the crowd.
Lincoln Stocks, a history
teacher at East Detroit High
School, said the budget proposal
"will destroy public education
inthe state of Michigan," adding
that the number of students in
his classes has already increased
over the past few years due to
See PROTEST, Page 5A

SUMO-SIZED SAVINGS STU DE NT HOUSING
Saturday night dining to be
Sofferedduring fall semester

RHA passes
resolution, Housing
evaluating budget
By ZACH BERGSON
Daily StaffReporter
After two years of discussions
and student campaigns, dinner
will be back on the menu in Uni-

versity dining halls on Saturday
nights starting in the fall.
With the support of Universi-
ty Housing, the Residence Halls
Association passed a resolution
late last month that would pro-
vide students with the option of
having dinner every night of the
week in campus dining halls.
The decision will revive the Sat-
urday night dining option, which
was cancelled in 2005 because of

low student turnout.
_ RHA President Trevor Grieb
said the association passed a
number of resolutions support-
ing Saturday night dining over
the past two years because there
was strong student support
for the option. However, until
now, University Housing hasn't
approved of the previous resolu-
tions to restore Saturday night
See DINING, Page SA

The co-founders of Sumo Deal, both University students, play chess yesterday in Mason Hall to advertise their new
organization. Sumo Deal is a non-profit organization that works to provide discounts at local businesses.
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Study shows gene therapy an effective
treatment of pain in cancer patients

STANDA RDIZED T ESTING
Altered MCAT to test wider variety
of content, more advanced science

A

dditional trials to treat pain associated with
various forms of cancer. But
to be done for University researchers recent-
ly found that gene therapy
new remedy can serve a similar purpose by
relieving cancer symptoms.
ly BRANDON SHAW David Fink, chair of the
Daily StaffReporter Department of Neurology
in the University's Medi-
orphine and other pain cal School, led a team of four
cations that lead to addic- other University researchers
ave been used for decades and three investigators from

Diamyd Medical - a research
firm based in Stockholm - to
conduct a study that tested
the potential implications of
implementing a new treatment
for patients suffering from
immense pain as a result of
various forms of cancer.
The study, which was pub-
lished in the Annals of Neurol-
ogy journal last week, showed
See GENE THERAPY, Page SA

' officials:
Curriculum will
not be alterd by
changes to exam
By JENNIFER LEE
Daily StaffReporter
Future pre-med students
preparing for the Medical Col-
lege Admission Test will have to
study a little extra due to pro-

posed changes to the tesL.
Changes to the MCAT's con-
tent and length will be imple-
mented in 2015, according to the
preliminary recommendations
released by the Association of
American Medical Colleges last
month. Despite the upcoming
variations, University officials
say the alterations won't have a
significant impact on the Uni-
versity's traditional pre-med or
Medical School curriculum.
Jeff Koetje, director of aca-
demics for pre-health programs

for Eaplan Test Prep, said this is
the fifthtimethe MCAT hasbeen
reviewed by an advisory commit-
tee since its inception about 70
years ago.
"This current review of the
MCAT is a very fundamental
review of everything from sci-
ence, to the structure, to the
different sections of the test,"
Koetje said.
The new test will include more
advanced scientific questions
and will evaluate knowledge of
See MCAT, Page 5A

B
Mo
medi
tion h


WEATHER HI: 54
TOMORROW : 'O:46

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Seven album releases in the last week of classes.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX AP NEWS..........3A NEWS. .................5A
Vol.cXXI,No.131 SUDOKU.....................3A SPO RTS. .,.............6A
v2y1dTheMichiganDaily OPINION..... ......4A BEST OF ANN ARBOR.1B
michigandailycom

A

4 A 4

4


News,

0

2A - Thursday, April 14, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

ti ._ .,.
,. .

AN GLS ON CALL
Spreading joy through song

(The Midiligan Daily
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief BusinessManager
734-410-4115 eat. 1251 734-410-4115 eat. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.cem tmdbasinenn@gnnait.com

There are always doctors
and nurses on call at the Uni-
versity Hospital, but a new
group of singers on campus
say they're now on call too.
Members of Angels on Call,
an a cappella group founded
this year, perform at private
and public events to raise
money for various charities.
one hundred percent of the
group's proceeds go to one or
two charities that the group's
membersvote on at the begin-
ning of the year, according to
LSA freshman Sophia Park,
co-president and co-founder
of the organization.
The philanthropic aspect
of the organization, together
with Park's love of singing,

led to her desire to create the
group.
"Combining something
that I really like to do and
having it go toward really
good causes ... that combina-
tion is just really special, and I
really enjoy doing that," Park
said.
The group's mission and
name are based on the impor-
tance of bettering the lives of
sick individuals, Park said.
"We definitely wanted
something to do with patients
because those are people who
need ... the most cheeringup,"
she said.
The group has held several
concerts and has also caroled
in Detroit during the holi-

Members of Angels on Call perform a cappella performances through-
out the year. One hundred percent of their profits are given to charity.
CRIME NOTES
Thief gets Car damaged
hammered by gate arm

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

WHERE: East Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
10:30 a.m.
WHAT: Two hammer
drills were stolen over the
past few weeks, University
Police reported. The drills
are valued at at total of
$600.

WHERE: M-22 Carport
WHEN: Tuesday at about
4:45 p.m.
WHAT: A female staff
person reported her car
damaged when the arm of
the exitgate in the parking
structure came down on her
car roof.

R Phn Bit Chalk outline

gets away
WHERE: Geddes House
WHEN: Tuesday at about
4 p.m.
WHAT: A caller reported
glass bottles being thrown
at a window by an unknown
subject, University Police
reported. When an officer
arrived, no one was found.

leaves no clues
WHERE: Alumni Memo-
rial Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
11:15 a.m.
WHAT: Writing in chalk
was found on the outer wall
of the building, University
Police reported. It is not
clear if the graffitti will
wash off.

UMMA After
Hours
WHAT: Students are invit-
ed to explore the University
of Michgian Museum of Art
and participate in various
activities. The Michigan
Electronic Dance Music
Association will play music
and snacks will be served.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Tonight at 9 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art
Spring dance
performance
WHAT: The cultural stu-
dent dance company will
perform a number of fully
student-run ballet and lyri-
cal pieces. Tickets are avail-
able for $5 at the door.
WHO: Salto Dance Com-
pany
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Mebdelssohn
Theater

CORRECTIONS
*An article in yester-
day's edition of The
MichiganDaily ("MSA
rejects resolution asking
for 'U'divestment from
four companies") mis-
quoted Yonah Lieberman.
" An article in yester-
day's edition of The
Michigan Daily ("MSA
rejects resolution asking
for 'U'divestment from
four companies") inac-
curately stated the mis-
sion of the University's
chapter of J Street.
. An article in yester-
day's edition of The
Michigan Daily ("Pro-
fessors offer varying
opinions about Israeli-
Palestinian conflict")
inaccurately stated the
mission of the national
organization J Street.
* Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

days, Park said, adding that
the group will soon be per-
forming at nursing homes and
hospitals like C.S. Mott Chil-
dren's and Women's Hospital.
Park said she enjoys sing-
ing for patients because it
helps joy spread when they
may be going through a diffi-
cult time.
"They're happier when
they hear us sing," Park said.
Because the co-ed group
was created this year, it con-
sists mainly of freshmen, but
has several sophomores as
well, Park said. She addedthat
auditions are ongoing and the
group is looking for more
members.
- ADAMRUBENFIRE
The parents of a tod-
dler in Oak Park, Mich.
are suing the Applebee's
restaurant chain after their
child was served a margarita
in a sippy cup, The Detroit
News reported. The toddler
was reported to have a 0.1
blood-alcohol content level.
The Michigan foot-
ball team concludes its
spring practice with its
spring game at the Big House
on Saturday. The game is
expected to last approxi-
mately 90 minutes.
, FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 6
A think tank in France
determined that Amer-
icans work 8.5 hours
each day on average, 30 min-
utes more than most other
developed countries, The
New York Post reported.
Workers in Mexico work the
longest day, on average 10
hours a day.

Newsroom
7348-8-411 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Spurts Settion
sports@michigandaly.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor swanson@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber Managing News Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Joseph Lichterman,
Devo, Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Rachel Brusstar, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Mike
Merar,MicheleNarov,BriennePrusak,KaitlinWilliams
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
tmily Orley tditorialrPagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIALPAGE EDITORS: AidaAli,AshleyGriesshammerHarshaPanduranga
ASSISTANT EDITORIALPAGE EDITORS:Eaghan Davis, Harsha Nahata, Andre Weiner
Tin Rohan and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Nick Spar Managing SportsEditors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Ryan Kartje,
StephenJ. Nesbitt, Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi, Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
KeinRateryMatSloi,
Sharon Jacobs ManagingArtsEditor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
ASSISTANTARTS EDITORS:JoeCadagin, Emma Gase,PromaKhosla,DavidTao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed MOch Managing PhotoEditors
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:ErinKirkland,SalamRida,AnnaSchulte,SamanthaTrauben
Zach Bergsonand design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich Managing DesignEditors
SENIOR ESIGN EDITR ayaFredman
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS: Alex Bondy, Hermes Risien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten CopyChiefs
Sarah Squire Webhevelopment Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna crim sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:Stephanie Bowker
Hillary Szawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan RooneyuLayout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Trevor Grieb and QUy VOncirculation Managers
Zach Yancer web Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. ne copy is available free of charge
to all readers.Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September,.viaU.S.mail are $110. Winter term (Januarythrough April)is
$1i5, yearlong (September through Apri)is $195.University affiliates are subject to areduced
subscription rate.On-campussbscriptionsfortalItermare5.t Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0
0

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@cmichigndaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

0


library

ST
Earn Credits This Summer at
Baruch College-In the Heart of Manhattan

Choose from hundreds of undergraduate
or graduate courses in Business,
the Arts & Sciences, and Public Affairs.
A NATIONALLY RANKED COLLEGE:
" In the Top 15% of U.S. Colleges
-The Princeton Review
" 4th ornong Top 10 Public Colleges
in the Region -U.S. News & World Report
' The 22nd Most Desirable Large College
(public or private) in U.S. -Kaplan/Newsweek

ONLINE REGISTRATION
Begins April 18th
UNDERGRADUATE RATES
$300 per credit for
NY State residents
$640 per credit for
out-of-state residents
SESSION 1 June 2 - July 14
SESSION 2 July 18 - Aug, 18

MLibrary Undergraduate
Research Award
- Did you write a fantastic research paper in the past year?
-Did you design a product that required research and
a bibliography?
-Did you complete a research paper that was A+ work?
If so, submit your papers and projects now!
$1,000
for 1st place
$500
for each 2nd and 3rd place
$100
for each of 3 runners-up
**Extended deadline**
Friday, April 22, 2011
tinyurl.com/ugl-research-award

0
0
0
0
0

E
a-

BarichCOLLEGE
10.4 w4.bac.uy.cu/summ., the cit'y




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 14, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Workers may have
to pay more for
health insurance
Republicans who control the
state Legislature yesterday took
a key step toward requiring pub-
lic employees in Michigan to pay
at least 20 percent of their health
insurance premiums, part of
what the GOP calls an effort to
control government costs.
A Republican-led Senate com-
mittee approved two measures
connected to the effort on party-
line votes. Republican Sen. Mark
Jansen of Kent County's Gaines
Township said the measures
could come up for votes on the
Senate floor later this month.
The legislation would affect
employees with the state, local
governments, public school dis-
tricts, public universities and
other public employers.
PHEONIX
Ariz. may require
candidates to
prove citizenship
The Arizona Senate has
approved a bill requiring presi-
dential candidates to prove they
are U.S. citizens before they can
be included on the state's ballot.
The bill approved yesterday
would make Arizona the first
state to pass such legislation.
Democrats say it exceeds the
state's authority.
Under the bill, candidates
who don't have a birth certificate
could show two alternative doc-
uments, including a baptismal or
circumcision certificate, a hospi-
tal birth record or a postpartum
medical record.
The proposal was prompted by
the claim that there is no proof
President Barack Obama was
born in the United States and is
therefore ineligible to be presi-
dent. Hawaii officials have certi-
fied Obama's birth in the state.
BRASILIA, Brazil
Brazil promotes
tourism with 3-D
animated movie
Brazil's tourism agency plans
to use the global release of the
3-D animation movie "Rio" to
promote the country as a desti-
nation for foreign tourists.
Besides promoting Brazil, the
video is aimed at reducing con-
cerns that foreigners may have
about violence in Rio de Janeiro,
the Brazilian city most visited
by tourists, an Embratur official
said. The official agreed to dis-
cuss that aspect of the video only
if not quoted by name.
In 2009, police began an
ambitious "pacification" pro-
gram in which security forces
clear heavily armed gangs from

slums and establish a police
presence. The program aims
to reduce violence in the city
before the 2014 World Cup
and 2016 Olympic Games and
improve the lives of shantytown
residents by bringing in basic
services.
MOSCOW
Russia to focus on
space with plans
for new spacecrafts
Russia's space agency chief
says the nation will test a next
generation spacecraft, build a
new cosmodrome and even con-
sider a manned mission to Mars.
But Anatoly Perminov con-
ceded yesterday that Russian
spacecraft depend on imported
electronics.
Perminov spoke to lawmakers
in remarks carried by Russian
news agencies a day after Russia
celebrated the 50th anniversary
of the first human spaceflight.
Russian President Dmitry
Medvedev has vowed space will
remain a government prior-
ity, but skeptics said the nation
has done virtually nothing to
develop a successor to the Soyuz
spaceship.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Group shares accounts of
Israeli-Palestinian conflict

Pro-Syrian protesters rally in front the Syrian embassy, in Beirut, Lebanon,
Tuesday April12, 2011.
Syrian president denies
uprising despite increase
in number of protests

Increasing number
of students demand
political freedoms
BEIRUT (AP) - Women, chil-
dren and students took to the
streets in Syria yesterday, lend-
ing their voices to a monthlong
uprising that President Bashar
Assad insists is the work of a for-
eign conspiracy.
The protest movement is pos-
ing an increasing threat to Assad's
iron rule as it attracts an ever-
wider following, with tens of
thousands of people demanding
political freedoms and an end to
the decades-old emergency laws
that extend state authority into
nearly all aspects of Syrians' lives.
"We will not be humiliated!"
shouted some 2,000 women and
children who blocked a main
coastal road in northeastern
Syria, where security forces
and pro-government gunmen
have cracked down on dissent

in recent days. The protesters
were demanding the release of
hundreds of men who have been
rounded up in the villages of
Bayda and Beit Jnad.
"Yesterday they raided our
home in Bayda and took away my
father," said one of the protest-
ers, a 21-year-old woman. "I'm
not leaving here until they return
him to us."
In an apparent attempt to
calm the women's demonstra-
tion, authorities released about
100 of the detainees and paraded
them in front of the protesters,
prompting cheers and cries of
triumph, a witness said. Some
of the men were bruised and
appeared to have broken bones,
witnesses said.
Residents and activists said
hundreds of men, young and old,
were arrested Tuesday when
security forces and pro-govern-
ment gunmen attacked the vil-
lages in northeastern Syria in a
move to crush growing dissent
there.

One
ad
F
Abot
versity
the Ro
night t.
of the I
and w
the reg
Men
interna
founde
to thos
li-Paler
aboutI
the eve
Israel@
zationi
ness ce
and alu
Busi
Noy Ja
IsraelC@
before
decides
becaus(
usually
of the I
in the
allowec
with tI
the co
that it
but rat
discuss
conflict
Onel
state s
came a
ducted
which
Palesti
survey
people
state ne
Rach
Interna
gram
plaguin

Voice members it difficult for Israelis and Pales-
tinians to determine how best to
vOcate citizen move forward.
"There are ... issues particular
)articipation to an area where there has been
a conflict for decades and these
By CECE ZHOU include issues of trust and fear,"
For the Daily Steinberg said. "Some of these
issues have led people to not be
ut 50 members of the Uni able to visualize a better future
community gathered in for themselves."
ss School of Business last As part of OneVoice's goal to
o hear first-hand accounts establish.'a more peaceful envi-
Israeli-Palestinian conflict ronment' the organization has
ords of hope for peace in established the Imagine 2018
ion. project, which calls for Israelis
nbers of OneVoice, an and Palestinians to share their
ational organization visions for what the future would
d in 2002 to give voices look like with a peace agreement.
se involved in the Israc- Shir Lachis;, a 25 year-old,.
stinian conflict, spoke Jewish law student at Tel Aviv
their personal stories at University, shared an experience
rnt, which was hosted by that occurred 10 years ago near
i Ross - a student organi- a club in Israel when a suicide
in the Ross School of Busi- attack broke out. Lachish recalled
ntered on Israeli students that 21 Israeli teenagers were
mni. killed that night and hundreds of
ness graduate student others were either wounded or
cobsberg, co-president of traumatized.
PRoss, said in an interview "Living at that time in this
the event that the club environment makes (it) veryhard
d to host the conference to think about the other," she
e he thinks many people said. "All you think about is for
only hear biased versions you to feel safe, for your family
sraeli-Palestinian conflict and your friends to feel safe. It's
news. He said the panel very hard to look at the outside
d for interactive discussion and see what's going on there."
hose who, had witnessed Lachish , said she decided
nflict first-hand, adding to join OneVoice after several
was not a "political rally" encounters with Israeli Arabs
her an open and relaxed and discussions with Law School
ion about a solution to the friends who felt their opinions
t. weren't significant.
Voice encourages a two- "They felt like there's noth-
olution - a stance that ing they can do in their commu-
as a result of a poll con- nity, there's nothing they can do
by the organization, in to create change ... what they're
thousands of Israelis and doing is meaningless to the bigger
nians were surveyed. The picture," she said.
found that 76 percent of Lachish added that while
were in favor of a two- OneVoice members have differ-
gotiation. ent perspectives and viewpoints,
ael Steinberg, OneVoice they share the same goal.
tional Education Pro- "OneVoice understands two
manager, said the issues narratives that clash from time to
ig the region have made time," Lachish said. "We disagree

on many things, we have differ-
ent motives, we even disagree on
facts ... but at OneVoice, we can
agree on the future."
OneVoice Palestine represen-
tative Mohammad Asideh said
one of his earliest memories of
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
that.iipacted his life on a pef-
sonal :level was when his fam-
ilywas told that the Israeli army
could destroy'two of his family's
houses "for security reasons."
"I believed only in the armed
resistance as the only way to end
occupation and to end the cor-
flict,..'Asideh said.
He added that he was inspired
by his father, who told him that
ratter than seeking vengeanc4,
he should instead look to how he
could change the future for the
better.
"One of the most important
things in my life my father told
me (was), 'Mohammad, it's easy
to get revenge, but you have to
ask what's next? My son, you
must think more about the future
and less about history,' " Asideh
recalled.
Though Lachish and Asideh
shared different experiences,
they reached similar conclusions
- that it is more effective to focus
on creating a peaceful future
for the region rather than con-
centrating on the past. To work
toward this goal, they each began
speaking at universities and to
public officials about a two-state
solution.
Steinberg said she thinks past
efforts toward peace have been
unsuccessful because there has
been a lack of activism from citi-
zens. OneVoice is "asking Israelis
and Palestinians to take personal
responsibility in ending the con-
flict," she said.
"One of the reasons that we
believe that past negotiations
have failed is because there
wasn't a grassroots engagement
and ownership over the peace
process," Steinbergsaid.

,. ,

PELL GRANTS
From Page 1A
academic year.
In the same year, the report
showed the University's Pell
Grant population - 12.8 percent
of its student body - to be below
the average of even the 50 colleges
and universities with the largest
endowments, which on average
have 80 percent fewer students of
Pell Grant-eligible students than
the average of all colleges and
universities in the country.
However, Margaret Rodri-
guez, the University's senior
associate director of financial aid,
wrote in an e-mail interview that
the University's internal statistics
differ from those in The Chroni-
cle report. While The Chronicle
reported a small decrease in Pell
Grants awardedby the University
from 2004 to 2008, the Universi-
ty's records show an 18.7-percent
increase in Pell Grants from 2008
to2009.
For the 2008-2009 academic
year, University students received
a collective $11 million in Pell
Grants.
Despite the University's fig-
ures that show growth in the
number of University students
receiving Pell Grants, Rodriguez
wrote the University must do
more to increase its Pell Grant
student population.
"We are not where we
would like to be yet, butwe're
focusing on doing even better
going forward," Rodriguez
wrote.
Because students' fam-
ily income isn't considered in
the admissions process, the
University accepts academi-
cally qualified low-income
students at the same rate as
students without demon-
strated financial need. How-
ever, low-income students do
not apply for admission at the
same rate, Rodriguez wrote.
"It is important to note
that income is not a factor
in the admissions process,
which is need-blind," Rodri-
guez wrote. "Ultimately, we
admit lower-income students
at the same rates as upper-
income students."
Rodriguez explained that
many low-income families
may assume the University is
too expensive for their level

of income, though theaUniveesity:..is that as= a pn ea efimancia aid.ss_ s y to try-rvy ou-re qualifieds aedemically to
is committed to meeting 100 per- economic diversity, the place we improve the socioeconomic diver- get in, we will make it possible for
cent of the demonstrated finan- need to focus on is the application sity of our student body," Hanlon you to come to Michigan through
cial need of in-state students. stage -getting a richer applicant said. acombinationofgrants andwork-
She wrote that her office and the pool." Hanlon added that though Pell study and loans," Coleman said. r
Office of Undergraduate Admis- A second study conducted by Grant numbers at Michigan col- She added that the difficulty of
sions are working to educate low- Hanlon's office sought to find leges and universities have not attracting low-income students
income families about the options why students from low-income significantly increased in the past is something many Universities
they have to afford University families weren't applying to the few years, the University's statis- face.
tuition. University at the same rate as stu- tics are similar to its peer institu- "I think one of the challenge6
"Direct recruitment of pro- dents from more affluent fami- tions in the state. across the board for higher edu*
spective lower-income students lies. His office surveyed students In an interview last week, cation is convincing low-income
is key," Rodriguez wrote. "To who sent in their ACT scores, but University President Mary Sue families that it is possible to com
this end, staff from the Univer- had not applied. Hanlon said the Coleman acknowledged the to college, even if you don't thinl
sity's Offices of Undergraduate survey (ound that low-income importance of the University you have the wear-with-all;'
Admissions and Financial Aid students didn't believe financial making prospective students Coleman said.
begin active outreach to prospec- aid was available to them and aware of financial aid options.
tive Pell-eligible students at the were concerned they would have "We need to do a much better - Phoebe Barghouti, Daily
middle school level and continue to pay full tuition. job of educatingpeople across the News Editor Joseph Lichterma
through high school." "That further helps us under- income spectrum about the fact and Managing Editor Kyle Swansom
In an interview last week, stand what our issue is," Hanlon that, if you get into Michigan, if contributed to this report
University Provost Philip Han- said. "We have a communica-
lon said a study conducted by his tions issue. We aren't getting
office found that low-income and out the word to students - GEt pt.
high-income students sent ACT particularly lower-income
scores to the University at simi- students - about what kind
lar rates. Additionally, the per- of financial aid resources are
centages of low-income students available to them."'
and high-income students who To help solve this prob- CREativS uatE5
were admitted to the University lem, Hanlon said the Univer-
and the percentage that enrolled sity created a marketing office Now Available at
were the same. The only differ- within the Office of Under- the -M Computer
showcase wel~umch.edu
ence between low-income and graduate Admissions.s s
high-income students during the "We don't have a goal in
admissions process, Hanlon said, mind or articulated, but we're
was the number of applicants definitely tracking how we're Central Campus - Michigan Union North Campus - Pierpont Commons
from each group. doing and trying to craft our
"That was a really helpful find- communications strategy, our
ing," Hanlon said. "What it said marketing strategy and our Mnno rme

Peace Corps-50 Years of Promoting
Global Peace & Friendship

- - - --1I

Information Session:
Thursday, April 14th
6:30 p.m.
International (enter, Room 9
Become a Fan! www.facebook.com/UMpeacecorps
life is calling. How farwill you go? 800.424.8580Ipeacecorps.gov/5C

0 1



4A - Thursday, April 14, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

c4JtE 1ichigan 9ailj

I

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

We will all need to make sacrifices, but we do not
have to sacrifice the America we believe in.
- President Barack Obama on the plan to reduce the
national debt, as reported by the New York Times yesterday.
Should we lock up criminals?

0

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
."
An outdated policy
Legalize transplants of HIV-positive organs
Throughout the 1980s, HIV caused major anxieties in the Unit-
ed States and a law was passed to prohibit any HIV-positive
patients from being organ donors. However, in recent years,
the Center for Disease Control and Prevention has deemed the disease
to be much less threatening than initially thought, if proper medical
practices are followed. Federal health officials and other experts are
working to overturn the 23-year-old law in order to allow HIV-posi-
tive patients to receive organs from HIV-positive donors. This change
in policy would give more HIV-positive patients the chance to live lon-
ger lives and would end the waste of viable organs.

There's ahuge shortage of transplant organs
in the United States. There are currently more
than 110,000 people awaiting transplants.
According to an April 11 article in The New
York Times, "500 to 600 HIV-infected livers
and kidneys would become available each year
if the law were changed." Every time an organ
from an HIV-positive donor is given to an HIV-
infected person, one less patient remains on the
ever growing organ transplant list. Currently,
organs from HIV-positive people are simply
going to waste. They could be used to save lives.
There are obvious health risks involved with
receiving an organ from an HIV-positive per-
son. HIV-positive patients wouldn't be forced
to accept an HIV-positive organ, as there are
concerns that it could intensify their own ill-
ness because they could receive an organ from
an HIV-positive donor with a more advanced
strain of the virus. But doctors have already
begun to discuss criteria necessary to give or
receive an organ from an HIV-infected donor,
in which patients whose illness has progressed
past a certain point wouldn't be allowed to
donate or receive an organ. If precautionary
screening measures are taken, HIV-positive
patients should at least be given the option of
accepting an organ donation from another
HIV-positive patient after discussions with
their doctor.
According to the Times article, if the ban is
overturned, a clinical trial will most likely be

implemented before the option to receive an
organ from an HIV-positive donor is available
to patients. While some experts quoted in the
article have said they can "foresee such trans-
plants even for HIV-negative patients because
contracting [the virus] would be preferable to
kidney or liver failure," the initial trial plans
would include only HIV-positive patients
because it is still unknown what effects an
infected organ would have on an HIV-negative
patient. It's vital that doctors take every pre-
caution while implementing this trial in order
to ensure the safety of transplant patients.
Another safety concern is that an HIV-infect-
ed organ could be mistakenly transplanted to a
healthy person. While errors have been made in
past transplant procedures, hospitals can miti-
gate this possibility by being attentive to their
patients and careful about the storage and trans-
portation of HIV-infected organs, so there is no
reason this should have to be a major concern.
HIV has become a manageable disease with
the proper treatment, and many HIV-positive
people live long lives. It is time to begin to
work past the stigma of this disease, and allow
patients to make their own, educated decisions.
Patients who are HIV-positive shouldn't have
to wait a long time on an organ transplant list
when they could safely be receiving organs
from HIV-positive donors. The amendment
to the National Organ Transplantation Act
should be repealed.

S ince thisAprilmarks the 150th
anniversary of the Civil War,
I'll begin this column by ask-
ing: What makes
slavery wrong?
Of course, it's
because hiring
labor on the basis
of race without
compensation
is unethical and
dehumaniz- JEREMY
ing, especially LEVY
when taking into
account the abu-
sive conditions slaves were often sub-
jected to.
That's actually only the modern
answer. If you were to ask a member
of the nineteenth century Free Soil
Party what was wrong with slav-
ery, one likely answer would be that
poor white farmers were out of work.
Many Free Soilers didn't want slav-
ery to expand into the Western states
because it would have allowed land-
owners to employ slave labor for free
instead of white labor for wages. Abo-
litionists who called for the immedi-
ate end of slavery on moral grounds
were actually a small minority, con-
trary to what many of us learned in
high school history class.
Keeping this in mind, let's switch
to a modern question. What's wrong
with the criminal justice system
today? If you've led a safe life and
have never had an encounter with
law enforcement, you might say noth-
ing. Or, if you've noticed the inten-
sity of the crime alerts recently, you
might say that the system isn't doing
a good enough job keeping us safe. On
the other hand, you may be critical
of the system (I'll put myself in that
category) for any number of reasons
- U.S. law enforcement incarcerates
a grossly disproportionate number of
racial and ethnic minorities, the U.S.
experiences higher rates of recidi-

vism(when those released from pris-
on commit another crime) than other
modernized nations, many families
and communities have been devas-
tated by life sentences, etc.
But what will people say of
today's systemin 150 years?Accord-
ing to the advocacy group Critical
Resistance, the people of the future
are going to wonder why today's
society thought it was rational to
lock humans up in cages. The group
deliberately refers to themselves as
an abolitionist group - invoking
the language of the nineteenth cen-
tury anti-slavery movement - call-
ing for an immediate end to the use
of prisons and current law enforce-
ment methods.
Before we get to the technical
issues of this proposal, take a sec-
ond to consider the historical pos-
sibility. Could future societies look
upon our criminal justice system
with the same derision with which
we view slavery? Or even the way
we view past incarnations of crimi-
nal justice? Think about how you
react to movies set in previous cen-
turies, when prisoners may have
been shackled by their neck and
wrists in the street for public ridi-
cule or subjected to similarly out-
dated forms of punishment. Will
future generations see our prison
system as equally inhumane?
Okay, nowI'll address the elephant
in the room. Why the hell would we
choose not to lock up criminals?
Critical Response argues that incar-
ceration does not address the root
causes of crime; such as depravation
from substantial food and housing,
and that mechanisms to reduce such
problems would be more effective at
reducing crime than a criminal jus-
tice system it considers "violent."
The abolition of prisons is not a
near-term possibility, and Critical
Resistance's explanation offers little

inthe way ofhow we could transition 6
to that point. But there is a rationale
to reducing prison use. Our system
rests on the assumption that we
need prisons to instill order, and that
without them, criminals would run
free in a chaotic and violent society.
The research on this subject is vast,
but it is certainly debatable to what
degree the system succeeds in fulfill-
ing this task. Meanwhile, it causes
harm to countless families - primar-
ily minority families in poor, urban
neighborhoods. The usefulness of
incarceration as a guiding paradigm
for keeping our society safe is hardly
set in stone.
There's a rationale
to reducing
prison use.
The point of this column is two-
fold. Though today we have a clear
answer to the slavery question,
around the time of the Civil War, it
was a complex political issue. The
different coalitions that made up the
various sides of the debate could not
at the time be separated into neat
moral categories at the time. Looking
150 years down the road, then, there
is no telling what society will be like,
even on a matter like incarceration
that is rarely questioned politically.
Sure, Critical Resistance's analysis of
the problem is shaky, butI commend
their drive to put criminal justice
issues on the nation's political agenda
because today's radicals may be the
pride of the future's history.
-Jeremy Levy can be reached
at jeremlev@umich.edu.

*I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Asa Smith, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
KELLY ETZUs
(Un)natural science

WANT THE DAILY ON THE GO?
Now you can access your favorite Daily opinion content on your phone. Keep up with
columnists, read Daily editorials and join in the debate. Check out the Daily's mobile
website at m.michigandaily.com.
NAOMI SCHEINERMAN I
Divestment is divisive

With warm weather dawning, I've come to
realize that I really love nature. The sun is high,
the birds are chirping and flowers are bloom-
ing. I've evenbeen known to love the snow too,
on occasion. Nature is awesome. Natural sci-
ence on the otherhand, just isn't my thing. Sure
there are those who want to study biology and
geology and things to do with Aerospace, and
good for them. They should do what they love.
But is an enforced natural science requirement
really necessary?
While backpacking my classes for the
upcoming fall semester, I realized that, as a stu-
dent in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, I have to finish at least seven natu-
ral science credits before I receive my degree.
What? I'm majoring in communications. What
does communications have to do with the Biol-
ogy of Animal Diversity or 20th-century con-
cepts of Space, Time and Matter (two possible
courses for natural science credits)? Is strug-
gling my way through a natural science class
really going to prove useful in the long run?
The University should stop enforcing these
pre-requisite courses and instead have stu-
dents focus their time and efforts more wisely
on their chosen fields.
I recognize the value of having a solid
knowledge and understanding in the four basic
areas: English, math, science and social stud-
jes. But how much is too much? Classes and
credit hours have a price, which should be
taken into consideration. Why should students
pay for something they aren't actually going to
use to furthertheir careers?
College should be a tool, a way to prepare
for a job and a future. Spending four years on
a bachelors degree is useless if half the time is
spent in classes students don't want to take, or
more importantly, need. With all the require-
ments hoisted upon students these days, it's no
wonder so many are ready to break under the
stress. Why make students, who already work
hard enough, force themselves through these
credits that won't necessarily help them excel

in their chosen field of study?
The enforced credit that is the most useful
is the first year writing requirement. Having
the knowledge to write a decent paper will
aid a student in multiple areas of learning.
Research papers aren't exclusive to the Eng-
lish department. However, the same can't be
said for natural science. In each of my classes
this past semester, I had to write at least one
paper. However, in none of my classes was it
necessary to explain the charge of an atom or
describe whether the clouds outside were cir-
rus or cumulonimbus. So why do we need the
natural science requirement?
According to the University, these natural
science classes - and other pre-requisite cours-
es - are required to foster a well-rounded stu-
dent body. That seems like a rather ineffectual
pretense. Well-rounded might as well mean
mediocre. However interesting these natural
sciences courses may prove to be, students will
more than likely finish with just an average
understanding of biology, geology, physics or
any other natural-science related field. More
importantly, what if students come out of these
natural science classes with a less than desir-
able grade? Havingthis standard knowledge of
natural science seems minor when compared
to a less than stellar grade point average that
could actually affect a student's future.
So what is the point, exactly? In all honesty,
it seems like there isn't a real reason for requir-
ing these courses, aside from the vague desire
for students to be more "well-rounded" indi-
viduals. So more irritating than having to pack
an extra course into my fall semester schedule
is the fact that I'm taking these courses with-
out a valid reason. Let's be honest, being well-
rounded in all these different areas doesn't
really mean anything. Students should strive
to be well versed in their chosen field of study,
rather than just passing time on a subject mat-
ter that isn'tpertinent to their future career.
Kelly Etz is ans LSA freshman.

I'm both relieved and concerned by the Michigan
Student Assembly's vote against its proposed resolution
calling for divestment from four companies - Northrop
Grumman, Monsanto, British Petroleum and Hanes-
Brands Inc - that occurred Tuesday night.
I'm relieved because the vote signified that MSA
rejects stratification of our campus and taking sides on
matters deeply important to significant sectors of cam-
pus. The authors of the resolution called for divestment
from Northrop Grumman, a company that sells mili-
tary supplies to Israel, which "has been widely accused
of committing war crimes" ('U' should practice what
it preaches, 04/11/2011). MSA adopted an amendment
that removes Israel from the reasons for divesting from
Northrop Grumman and emphasizes the company's
manufacture of weapons deemed immoral, rather than
stressing a single client of the company. This resolution,
plus amendment, was voted down - an act that is of
great relief to me.
The topic of Israel and the Middle East conflict is
nuanced and complex, and incredibly important to many
on campus. The views expressed in the MSA resolution
were one-sided and unrepresentative of the passionate
perspectives of a large segment of campus, one that I rep-
resent. Any divisive issue shrouded in great controversy
entails multiple perspectives, facts to consider and narra-
tives to contemplate. The resolution represented only one
of those perspectives. More significantly, it demanded
that MSA decide which perspective is the correct one -
an act existing well beyond MSA's jurisdiction and legiti-
mate authority. MSA isn't an international tribunal. The
representatives did not campaign on foreign policy plat-
forms nor did we elect them to take sides on issues that
divide and stratify campus. The resolution, even with the
amended exclusion of Israel, threatened to do just that.
MSA made the right decision by rejecting a resolution
that would divide campus communities.
I'm also troubled. The authors of the resolution
stated that its reason was to install a campus standard
of influencing social change. When asked why more
companies that committed similar socially unjust acts
weren't included, the authors stated that the four com-
panies selected were only a representative sampling as a

means to commence action and not a comprehensive list.
However, authors rejected a proposal for a new resolu-
tion that included only the other three companies as the
prototype for MSA to spark social change. There was a
persistent insistence to include Northrop Grummon
specifically in the resolution. Why, if the sole purpose for
the resolutions small sample was for MSA to spark social
change, was the resolution ineffective with just one less
company? This is a troublesome turn of events that was
both puzzling and disconcerting.
The vote against the resolution is a vote against tak-
ing sides in a divisive issue that inevitably shuts down
conversation. The vote against the resolution is a vote
against the MSA ruling on an incredible divisive topic
that it has no authority deciding on and threatens to cre-
ate a painful rift on campus.
Encouragement of open dialogue, discussion and
collaborative action should be the precedent we set on
campus. Multicultural groups, such as MuJew, seek to
integrate and bring together individuals with diver-
gent perspectives on the Middle East Conflict. Dia-
logues, such as IGR classes, bring students together.
We shouldn't ask MSA to declare what we stand for,
to accept one viewpoint as representative of the entire
campus community. Instead, we should declare it our-
selves. We possess the power to effect change on our
own by coming together, exploring differences and
similarities and avoiding labeling groups and alienat-
ing others. I look forward to continuing conversations
of both social change and the Middle East conflict in
a campus climate where discussion is the status quo
and stratification is taboo. It's deeply important to me
and the community I represent that we do not reduce
this complex discussion to sound bites and rhetoric,
as was the case in the original text of the divestment
resolution. Explore nuances, ask questions, challenge
yourselves. The situation in the Middle East may be a
conflict, but our discussions of it on campus don't have
to be. We have the power to transform this situation
into an arena for collaboration and discussion.

Naomi Scheinerman is an LSA junior.
She is the Israel Chair of Hillel.

0I

p

A4



0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, April 14, 2011 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 14, 2011 - 5A

DINING
From Page 1A
meals in the dining halls. This
time was different, Grieb said,
because the resolution included
a budget plan formulated by Uni-
versity Housing administrators.
University Housing spokes-
man Peter Logan said the deci-
sion to revive Saturday night
dining came after months of
budgetary considerations and
discussions with the RHA. The
combination of the Michigan
Student Assembly's campaign
to restore Saturday night dining
and support from the RHA and
the residential student popu-
lation encouraged University
Housing to restore dining to all
seven nights of the week, Logan
said.
The issue of Saturday night
dining became a prominent topic
on campus during the winter
2010 semester, when former
MSA President Chris Armstrong
and other members of the MFor-
ward party advocated for the
return of the Saturday evening
meals.
"A lot of students have been
talking about wanting this kind
of option and having the dining
halls more accessible to them
and (Saturday night dining) will
do just that," Grieb said.
Due to structural constraints,
only two of three dining halls
will provide Saturday eve-
ning dining options - Bursley
Residence Hall, South Quad
Residence Hall and/or the Hill
Dining Center. All other dining
halls will remain closed Satur-
day night.

"Ideally, we would like to offer
meals seven nights a week at
South Quad, Hill Dining Center
and Bursley, but we haven't yet
worked out all of those logistics,"
Logan said, adding that Bursley
is a primary candidate because
of its location on North Campus.
While the exact cost of the
Saturday night dining option
remains unclear, Logan said
cuts and reallocations of funds
in University Housing's budget
would pay for the new option,
rather than increasing room and
board rates.
LSA freshman Omar Hash-
wi, an LSA representative on
MSA and chair of MSA's Cam-
pus Improvement Commission
that has been working to resotre
Saturday night meals in campus
dining halls, said he is extremely
pleased with the RHA resolu-
tion.
"We're just really happy to
make this happen for our con-
stituents," Hashwi said. "They
asked something from us and I
believe we were successful in
taking their concerns and mak-
ing them a reality."
LSA senior Nathan Hamilton,
an LSA representative on MSA
who was also involved in the
assembly's Saturday night dining
campaign, said the Saturday din-
ners will provide students who
can't afford to eat off campus
with more nutritional selections
compared to the food offered
at residence hall cafes like Ciao
Down Pizzeria in South Quad.
"A lot of students have left
over meal credits, and it's very
beneficial to be able to actually
use those on Saturday nights,"
Hamilton said.

PROTEST
From Page 1A
funding cuts. If Snyder's budget
passes, Stocks said he antici-
pates his class sizes will increase
even more, which he says will be
a disadvantage for students.
Stocks added that the down-
sizing of his school's staff size
after to previous budget cuts has
already inhibited students' edu-
cation.
"If this budget passes, we will
lose another 15 percent of our
staff," Stocks said.
Serge Farinas, a representa-
tive for the Graduate Employees'
Organization at the University,
spoke at the rally and questioned
the legitimacy of democracy in
Michigan if Snyder's proposal
passes. He added that he hopes
everyone at the rally will come
together again at the Univer-
sity's Spring Commencement
ceremony on April 30, when Sny-
der will be delivering the Com-
mencement speech.
When the University
announced Snyder would be
the keynote speaker at this

year's Spring Commencement,
many students and members
of the University community
expressed their disapproval over
the governor's planned cuts to
higher education funding. Stu-
dents held a rally on the Diag in
protest last month and voiced
their concern at the University's
Board of Regents meeting in
March, where they presented a
petition with nearly 4,000 sig-
natures from members of the
community who opposed Snyder
speaking at Commencement.
If Snyder's 15-percent
decrease to higher education
funding is approved by the leg-
islature, the University would
receive $47.5 million less than
its current state appropriation
of $316 million. Snyder also
proposed a higher reduction
percentage, 20 percent, to col-
leges and universities that raise
tuition more than 7.1-percent.
However, University officials
have said any tuition increase
for the next academic year will
be under this mark.
Lansing Mayor Virg Ber-
nero, who was also the 2010
Democratic candidate for gov-


ernor, addressed the crowd with
his two daughters at his side,
emphasizing the importance of
the working class.
"It's not the money chang-
ers over on Wall Street, it's not
the big bankers, it's the working
people in this state that make
the country go," he said.
Pat Devlin, secretary-trea-
surer of Michigan Building and
Construction Trades Council,
said members of his union have
had their "sense of economic
security ripped apart," and the
Michigan Legislature has done
little to return the state's eco-
nomic environment to normalcy.
"They've lost cars, they've
lost homes, they've lost the
opportunity to send their kids
to college," Devlin said. "Entire
families have lost any sense of
normal. The new normal is eco-
nomic uncertainty. So you would
think our lawmakers would be
focusing on things that take
away that uncertainty, things
that provide jobs."
Devlin continued by express-
ing his concerns about the
current state of politics in Mich-
igan, adding that the state got
means an exhaustive list."
However, Brawn said because
of the changes to the MCAT, he
thinks some students may take
more time to prepare for their
medical school applications.
"The typical three-year sched-
ule may continue to work for
some students, but it won't work
for all of them, and it does not
have to," Brawn said.
According to Koetje, the
changes aren't intended to make
things more difficult for pre-med
students, but are instead intend-
ed to reflect the science-focused
reality of today's medical field.
"The state of medicine is a far
more sophisticated science now
than it ever has been," Koetje
said. "There's increasing expec-
tations on the part of medical
schools that their students are
going to be able to perform with a
certain level of skill or competen-
cy in these sciences even as they
come into medical school."
Because students who plan
to attend medical school typi-
cally take the exam their junior
year, several students, including
LSA freshman Jiajia Huang and
LSA sophomore Phil Berkaw,

into "this mess" because people
failed to vote in the gubernato-
rial election in November.
"... As the old saying goes,
bad lawmakers get put into the
office by good people who don't
vote," Devlin added. "Too many
of us stayed home from the polls
last November, too many of us
weren't paying attention when
the tea party pushed by some big
money donors, pushed Repub-
licans farther to the right than
they've been in recent memory."
Like Farinas, Bernero said
the Republican's fiscal propos-
als won't fix Michigan's econ-
omy and will only exacerbate
the state's financial issues. The
Michigan government faces an
approximate $1.4 billion deficit
for the upcoming fiscal year.
"(Democrats) have a differ-
ent strategy than trickle down,"
Bernero said. "We believe in the
grass roots ... if you water the
roots ... if you take care of the
people at the lower level, then
good things will grow upward.
I'm tired of being trickled on."
- The Associated Press
contributed to this report.
expressed concerns about being
able to finish pre-med require-
ments on time.
Huang, a pre-med student who
has not yet declared her major,
said she feels the new version of
the MCAT will deter students
from declaring concentrations in
subjects unrelated to the material
on the exam.
"I can understand why they
would do thatbecause you should
know more in-depth topics, but at
the same time it's hard for you to
major in something other than
the sciences," Huang said.
Berkaw said he plans to apply
to medical school and thinks
the additions to the test are
appropriate since the new topics
tend to be neglected in the pre-
medical curriculum. However,
he expressed a similar concern
as Huang about the additional
requirements.
"It doesn't leave any room
for exploration, really," Berkaw
said. "For me, I was thinking
about majoring in anthropology,
and I was able to take anthropol-
ogy classes early on, and I don't
know if you'd be able to fit that in
under the new curriculum."


GENE THERAPY
From Page 1A
that injections of the gene trans-
fer vector - commonly referred
to as NP2 - were agent was
safe and that it improved cur-
rent treatments, proving Fink's
hypothesis correct.
The purpose of using NP2 in
the study was to test whether
the pain experienced upon injec-
tion differed from the pain can-
cer patients felt aftef dosages of
more common treatments, like
morphine, were distributed.
The study's subjects were
given a herpes-based vector, Fink
said. Samples of the herpes virus
were injected into the vector,
which was then administered
the subjects. According to Fink,
the herpes virus was explicitly
chosen for this particular study.
"Cold sores are transmitted
through skin contact," Fink said.
"In the same way, their injection
tested for pain upon skin con-
tact."
The similarities between the
transmission of the herpes virus
and the transmission of the gene
therapy as a mechanism of pain
relief was meant to show the
researchers whether the treat-
ment is effective or not, Fink
explained.
Using gene therapy as a mech-
anism to combat pain is a revolu-
tionary discovery, Fink said.
"Initially, we thought gene
therapy was only a way to cor-
rect abnormal genes," Fink
explained. "But now, therapies
are very useful to express pep-
tides as drugs in very local places
in the central nervous system."
There are three phases a
treatment must go through
before becoming available to
consumers at a pharmacy, Fink
said. In phase one, which was
completed for this study, the

safety of the drug is evaluated by
a group of about 10-20 subjects,
Fink said.
Next, larger studies are con-
ducted to assess the effective-
ness of the drug, pending it is
proven to be acceptably safe in
phase one. Finally, randomized,
controlled, multicenter trials
on large patient groups of up to
3,000 subjects assess how effec-
tive the drug is compared to
current treatments. This phase
determines whether a drug or
therapeutic treatment goes to
market, Fink said.
Susan Urba, a professor of
hematology, oncology and oto-
rhinolaryngology in the Medi-
cal School and one of the study's
researchers, wrote in an e-mail
interview that when cancer
patients first come to the Univer-
sity Hospital, they are primar-
ily seeking treatments for their
disease, while researchers also
work to improve their quality of
life.
"They don't realize that we
can also offer innovative new
treatments for control of their
symptoms, too, which can poten-
tially really benefit their quality
of life," she wrote.
According to Urba, the recent
study has the potential to lead to
future developments in the field.
"About 80 percent of patients
with pain can be fairly easily
treated with pain medications,
although the other 20 percent
are more challenging, and new
approaches are needed ..." Urba
wrote.
She added that the research-
ers' recently completed study
will be used to assess the safety
of further clinical trials.
"This study only looked at
patients with cancer pain," Urba
wrote. "Similar vectors are being
studied in neuropathic pain from
nerve injuries and in pain result-
ing from diabetes."

MCAT
From Page 1A
behavioral and social sciences.
Officials have also eliminated the
current writing sample section
and will add 90 minutes to the
length of time to take the exam,
which is currently 5.5 hours.
The behavioral and social sci-
ence section of the new MCAT
will reflect the material taught
in undergraduate psychology
and sociology courses. Koetje
said the additional high-level
science that will be tested on the
exam reflect material students
will encounter during medical
school.
"They're going to be increas-
ingly focusing on biochemistry,
cellular - and molecular biol-
ogy, as well as statistics because
these are sciences that medical
schools themselves are saying
are increasingly important for
pre-medical students to have
exposure to before they come to
medial school," Koetje said.
However, Steven Gay, assis-
tant dean for admissions at the
Medical School and an assistant

professor of internal medicine,
wrote in an e-mail interview that
the University's curriculum isn't
undergoing substantial changes
because of the proposed MCAT
modifications.
"We believe that the improved
MCAT process should help us
continue to evaluate and admit
the best applicants in the country
to the University of Michigan,"
Gay wrote. "Our curriculum is
always under constant review,
but one preliminary component
of admission should not dramati-
cally affect how we design our
curriculum."
Similarly, David Brawn, a pre-
health adviser at the Newnan
Academic Advising Center, wrote
in an e-mail interview that the
additional advanced science to be
included in the MCAT shouldn't
make a considerable difference
for pre-med undergraduates at
the University.
"It is already commonplace
for students here at U-M to fit in
some upper level science course-
work prior to the MCAT," Brawn
wrote. "Biochemistry, physiol-
ogy and genetics are probably the
most common, but that's by no

m'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK
.. .
" " " " r ' r - " r '

77 GOT IDEAS?
Enter the 2011
IIN Invent Now
Collegiate Inventors
Competition!
Top Graduate Prize:
Invent now- $15,000
(and $5,000for theoproject's advisor)
P"etigS Top Undergraduate Prize:
__Abbott $10V00
Fund (and $2,500 for the project's advisor)
Pius Second and Third Place Cash Prizes
in Each Division
Deadline:June 24, 2011
www.invent.org/collegiate

S

4


6A - Thursday, April 14, 2011

4

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Van Bergen, senior class stepping up as leaders

By TIM ROHAN in general. It starts there to be
Daily Sports Editor honest with you. There's a pride
those guys are starting to feel as
Several weeks ago, when asked a defense and an expectation of
who had emerged as a leader how they want to play."
for the Michigan football team, Players like Van Bergen, Her-
Brady Hoke wouldn't name ron, Cam Gordon, J.B. Fitzgerald,
names. Jordan Kovacs and even Carvin
On Wednesday, he sang like a Johnson have been outspoken in
canary. liningup correctly.
"I think Kevin Koger, being One of those senior leaders is
one," Hoke said. " I thinkBrandon leading by example and taking
Herron being younger players aside to teach.
one. I think NOTEBOOK It's the same leader Michigan
Ryan Van Ber- Athletic Director Dave Brandon
gen has come to light a little bit met with when the whole coach-
more. I think with David (Molk) ing change was taking place -
missingso much, it's hard for him Van Bergen.
to assert himself But some of "I think there are a bunch
those guys, some of those seniors, of guys jumping in and helping
are doing a nice job." other guys out," Hoke said. "Van
And it's made an impact on the Bergen is a guy who has played
defensive side of the ball. Hoke a lot of football here, and has
said one of the more encourag- understood maybe some of the
ing developments has been how differences that might be there
everyone's talking when they're in how they played in years past.
on the field - as simple as that But he's a guy who's always try-
sounds. ing to coach up a younger guy, try
"There's a better communica- and help him along. So that's an
tion throughout the defense," important part of it."
Hoke said. "When you have to The 6-foot-6, 283-pound defen-
change a front or check a cover- sive end is comfortable playing in
age, to some point making sure the defense he was recruited to
everyone's on the same page play in at Michigan.

with good technique. That's why
he's a good football player. And he
loves the game."
Hoke added that Barnum has
been as consistent as any offen-
sive lineman this spring.
Barnum is also one of the play-
ers Hoke has moved around on
the line, which is important if
Hoke settles on a set group of
linemen he can rely on.
"You'll have seven guys, prob-
ably or eight guys that are going
to be kinda the nucleus of the
group," Hoke said. "When you
do that, they have to be multiple
(positions) to some degree."
For Barnum, that has meant
playing offensive tackle at times
this spring, while fifth-year senior
Mark Huyge has played both
tackle positions. And redshirt
junior guard Patrick Omameh,
who has received plenty of praise
from Hoke, has played some right
tackle.
Versatility is a priority for
Hoke.
"I think that's important,"
Hoke said. "Some of them have
adjusted well and they've done a
good job with (it). Ricky's adjust-
ed the most from. guard out to
tackle, and then back into guard.

He's handled it well and done a
good job. Patrick (Omameh) has
been outa little bit at right tackle.
He's more - and I think the same
can be said for Ricky - the more
fitting positions are at the guards
for them."
SPRING GAME DROPOUTS:
Several players expected to be
key contributors will miss Satur-
day's spring gdme due to injury.
Hoke said Demens, Troy Wool-
folk, J.T. Floyd and Taylor Lewan
will be out.
However, Mike Shaw and
David Molk have been practicing
and are expected to play in the
game.
Hoke also gave an update on
the recoveries of the two poten-
tial starting cornerbacks, Wool-
folk and Floyd.
"The only thing (Woolfolk) has
done is very little," Hoke said.
"He's done a lot of alternate con-
ditioning. He's done a lot of work-
ingout. He's done someindividual
drills ... He maybe has taken a few
snaps of one-on-one, a few snaps
in seven-on-seven. But any live
bullets? He hasn't played.
"Floyd is behind in his recov-
ery compared to where Woolfolk
is."

0
6
S

Fifth-year senior Ryan Van Bergen is one of the seniors who has taken a hands
on approach as a leader this spring,

"I think Ryan's done a really
good job," said Hoke, who then
paused, gathering his thoughts.
"I think he gets it."
RICKY'S ROLLING: When
springstarted, redshirt junior left
guard RickyBarnum was the only
offensive player with big shoes to
fill.

Four-year starter and captain
Steve Schilling is gone. He is,
really, the only main contributor
lost on offense. Barnum has done
everything he can to help ease the
pain.
"Ricky's a good football play-
er," Hoke said. "He's a tough kid
and he's a smart kid and he plays

9

"PRIME" PARKING 4 SALE
Now & 2011-12
primesh.com
761-8000

! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY!
Sterling 411 Lofts has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2011-
12. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$660, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. Ask how you
can receive a $300 Visa gift card.734-
998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
LEASING OPEN HOUSE
Saturday April 16, 2011 - 11am - 3pm
See any avail. property in our portfolio
All app. fees waived - Special incen-
tives offered. Check out
PMSIproperties.com and call for more
details 734-665-5552
HUGE 6 BDRM house. 1028 Packard.
Reduced to $2590. hard wood floors.
Incl. cable & pkng on site. Mention this
ad & get $100 off first rent payment!!
Call PMSI 734-665-5552.

VI-II . Studio & 1" d nt
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quiet & Secup Hise -One flak frum Campus
Call Brian Tomsic
734-663-1530
**SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1lIN
STUDENT HOUSING**UNIVER-
SITY TOWERS ON
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-Mi.COM
1 NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
NEAR CENTRAL CAMPUS & B-
Schoot, Post. t11t5 White St. 2 person
apt, fum, good beds, heat & water nci.
A/C, wshr/dryer, prkg, 12 mu. lease
Sept-Aug. $1060. Call 734-663-1639.
DOWNTOWN LOCATION 6 bdrms
2 full bath, kitchen and living area. For
group rent $3000 per mo. plus heating
and cooling. Phone 734-662-7888.
Evenings 734-995-2433.
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, April 14, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Student's 34 Santa's 21-Down 51 Jerk
1 Flying group stressor 36 O.K. Corral town 52 Stare master?
5 Comic Johnson 4 Emulate Cyrano 39 It's usually 54 Ratatouille, for
9 Hyphenated 5 It may be uplifting one
dessert name reckless 42 Diced and served 55 Doll's word
14 Half dodeca- 6 Update mtge. in a mushroom 56 Did some selling
15 Linerndanger terms cream sauce out
16 Hater of David, in 7 Band 43s"don't look at 57 Mashhad is its
Dickens u Quaff garnished mar' second-largest
17 Theater giant? with nutmeg 45 Hall of fame city
18 In _: confused 9Technique of 46 Ally Financial 58 Airing
n19 Hghumor? ancient samurai Inc., formerly 5 Intrusive
an F0an? 1n nume nation 49 Ctyuonthe Rhone 60 PC key
23 Relative of -like New Yorkers
24 Wine bar- 11 Afro-sporting ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
offerings "Mod Squad" GAM A C SP A N GAB S
25 Moshe Dayan's characer O M A R H l.L D A AIL E C
k "oxygenuof the i2oVacationlocatin
soul" 13 Criesof B E R G I N U I T S T L O
29Guff understanding 1 N V 0 I C E M A I L J A I L
30Moochew? 21Hillworker N TH V E E R E D
33 With 44-Across, 22 Buggy relative T A B A L I G N M E N T
ten? 25Depth-of-field U H A U L H O O T S B R 0
genetiCally 26 Outitg B O L T L O T T O M E O W
37Fgeealyneut 26 .Oftaayn EY9E P IIt S I F UTi 70N
Rikerun "Star 28 orge Strait E t L L 0 F R t UG T T
Trek: T.N.G." label A T T I C A A D S
3Psntit'sear 3 Ator'sdayjob? C H E C K B E F O R E H A N D)
40uForeshadoing 31 SEC snhnol that t ONtE N I 0O0E 0 5 0 0
41 Service station retired Peyton RONPE R R O L E IDL E
vessel Manning's
44 See 33-Across number SANS R E KEY S N O W
47 Org. whose 32 Pasta al xwordeditor@aol.com 04/13/11

Quit neighborhood
next to Huron River.
1 and 2 bedroom
opts for fall,
U of M discount,
walk/bike to
hospital and
North Campus
Now leasing for fall
734-663-8541
2 BEDROOM FURNISHED Apart-
ments available for Fall 2011. Two
doors to CCRB. Great location for
Medical or Dental Students. Includes
Parking, Heat, Water, and Free Inter-
net. Starting at $1,529. Receive
$1,000
off your first month's rent. Call Cam-
pus Mgt. at 734-663-4101
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the
Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2300
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today
for Best Selection, we SOLD-OUT
early last year. NOW is the time to
secure your apartment home at Uni-
versity Towers 734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
NEWER 6-BDRM furn. Units &
Rooms for Fall 11. Flex-Leases sublets
for May 11 - Aug 11. 734-418-2050 or
www.828greeneapts.com
**FOR MAY & FALL 2011 LEASE.
1,2,3 Bdrm apt. on campus.
www.jmsprop.com (734) 222-9033.
!!DON'T MISS OUT!!
BEST APTS. & LOCATIONS GO-
ING FAST
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Apartments Going Fast!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State-1 Left
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
515 Lawrence-1 Left
326 E. Madison - 1 Left
1000 Oakland- Left
520 Packard-l Left
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
411 High
*Fully Furnished Apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* Atmost locations)
iAffordable Spring &
Summer Housing
Student Co-ops
2 & 4 Month Sp/Su Contracts!
4 & 8 Month F/W Contracts!
. Utilities. Homemade Meals Diversity
. Community-.SingleRooms
WWWJCC.C00p

19 Locations To Serve You
Studio -4 Bedrooms
>Central Campus ; Downtown
SNorth Campus >West Side
Let Our Family Take Care of Yours
Pie aRe sidenat utleC ontemporary Furntr
24hr Mainenace Staf i ghSedI nte et
ExrieFrltes Study Rooms
734.274.6118
www.amborapsrtmests.net
GREAT CAMPUSAPTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815StateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm.uapts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
THE 48 HOUR SALE IS NOW ON!!
Rent your apartment on your first visit
and get $300.00 off your 1st months
rent. This SALE canend at anytime.
Call us today at 734-761-2680 universi-
tytowers-mi.com
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail Spring & Fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
FIVE BDRM DUPLEX. 1001 State
St. Available Sept. Reduced to $2390.
Incl. cable, pkng, Indry on site. Men-
tion this ad & get $100 off first rent
payment!! Call PMSI 734-665-5552.
FREE SUBLET APT FINDER!!!
Studio - 4 Bdrms. Call for a complete
list. 734-274-6118 or visit
annarborapartments.net
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
CAMPUSMANAGEMENT,INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.

mich student
housing.com

COLLEGE PRO IS now hiring
painters all across the state to work out-
doors with other students. Earn
$3k-$5k. Advancement opportunities.
1-888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
ONE YEAR LEGAL INTERNSHIP
position available at Birmingham
Michigan law firm. Perfect for highly
motivated graduating senior. Email
resume/cover letter/transript to
tss225@aol.com for consideration.
OPPORTUNITY UNLIMITED
FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS
Summer work available.
tntdhinltips and scholarships.
Variable work experience
Up to $2000 per month.
Enjoyable atmosphere.
Flexible schedules.
Increase your people skills.
Increase your resume value.
Team atmosphere.
Flexible start dates.
INTERVIEWING NOW.
Call 734-389-0909
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at MichiganTele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC justice
jobs. Turn your passion into action.
WorkingAmerica Community Affiliate
of the AFLCIO is seeking motivated,
passionnate ppl w/ strong comm. skills
to educate voters to elect progressive
candidates who will fight for working
families. Hiringimmed.F/TMon-Fri I:-
30pm - 10:30 pm. Prev. candidates w/
fundraising exp. a plus. Paid training
and valuable campaign exp. $11.22/hr.
Please contact 734-222-6496 or
Annarbor@workingamerica.org. 210
Collingwood Dr. Suite 200 AA, MI
48103
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SENIOR ADMINISTRATOR
non-technical, part-/full-time.
Tiny, highly successful biotech
company near campus. Send CV to
admin@eyelabgroup.com
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.

SUBLET AVAIL MAY-Aug.t bdrm.
apt., Forest Plaza. furnished, utilities
included $600/month. 810-385-8802.
SPACIOUS RM. IN 2 bdrm. apt. at
1001 S. Forest. Personal prkg space
avail. Fully furmished. Apt. avail. May
1st. $550/mo. Please contact Elaita Se-
mos 734-552-2175, esemos@umich.edu

0

PRIVAT ET UTRING FOR L SAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
SUMMER STORAGE- WE pick up,
store for the summer, and redeliver
next fall. Dorms and apts.
www.studentstoragesolutions.com

0

WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

memhers are 1 2a a
S cncerned with
lies 14
48 Birling roller
50 Radius, e.g. n
51 San _:San
Francisco Bay 2
53 Airlineto
Copenhagen 2s25 a,
54 Kin?
60 Centipede as
maker
61 Spicer 37
62Yes-_ question 41 4
63 Veal piccata
ingredient 47 45
64 PartoflCaesar's
boast 51
65 N.L. East squad
66 Country sound 5 4 s
67Golden Fleece 60
vessel
68 Sin in thetfilm s
"Se7en"
DOWN
1 Very smart By Daniel A.Finan
2 San _ (c>2011Tribuneaa:

0 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
15 18
18 19
!1 22
24
28 29 30 34 32
34 35 36
38 39 40
12 43 44 45 48
a 49 59
52 53
56 57 58 59
61 62
64 65
67 68
t Services, Inc. 04/14111

ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude, Victoria's S type lingerie
catalog photography. Flex hrs,
$40+/HR. Must be 18. For interviews
call: 734-678-4181 or email photos to
georgedll@provide.net
THE GUILD OF Artists & Artisans,
producer of the Ann Arbor Summer
Art Fair and five additional fine art
fairs is looking for two event Opera-
tions Coordinators. These are tempo-
rary, part-time positions, from April
thru September. Approximately 30
hours per week plus additional hours
and weekends required during events.
Looking for strong organizational and
communication skills, familiarity with
Microsoft Office programs, ability to
lift 25+ pounds, able to work outdoors
in all weather conditions. Sense of hu-
mor and appreciation of the arts
strongly desired. See www.theguild.-
org for job description. Resumes may
be emailedlto clayton@theguild.org

LOCAL COUPLE LOOKING for
student to provide regular childcare for
toddler and newborn. Mostly evenings.
Must have experience and non-smoker.
Contact Jane atjane.glazer@gmail.com
ADVERT SE
tMICHIGAN DAILY

SUBLET AT VARSITY
Studios, 1, 2, 3, & 4 bdrms available
May 1st! Call Varsity for a complete
tenant list.
(734)668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com


0

r

a


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Thursday, April 14, 2011- 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, April 14, 2011 - 7A

Rockets silence Wolverines'bats

SOFTBALL
Taylor tosses one-
hit shutout for M'

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan coach Rich Malo-
ney looked towards Toledo's
dugout after the Rockets' .3-1
victory over the Wolverines and
saw what his team should be.
Toledo (7-2 MAC, 18-15 over-
all), after all, got off to a poor
start, just
like Michi- TOLEDO 3
gan. The MICHIGAN 1
Rockets sat
at just 7-15 before taking off on
an 11-game winning streak.
"We just watched that team
right there, they've won 11 in a
row," Maloney said Wednesday.
"At some point, they started
correcting some of those things
that we're still having - that
big inning. That's what (Toledo
coach) Cory (Mee) was talking
to me about prior to the game
... Their offensive stats are the
same as ours."
The inconsistencies, though,
continued for the Wolverines
on Wednesday. Michigan (2-4
Big Ten, 9-22 overall) is now
more than halfway through the
season and still appears schizo-
phrenic. One day, like in Tues-
day's 13-3 shelling of Bowling
Green, the team looks great.
The next, like against Toledo, it
barely musters four hits.
The pitching staff threw 23
great innings against Purdue,
but it allowed three or four crip-
pling frames.
On Wednesday night, the
second inning was the dagger.
Freshman right-hander Jake
Engels surrendered four hits and
a walk, and the Rockets capital-

ized for three runs. The cushion
was more than enough for the
Toledo staff, led by sophomore
right-hander Jared Locke.
"That's the story of our sea-
son," redshirt senior second
baseman Anthony Toth said.
"It's one inning a game a lot (of
times) has killed us. It's just
been one inning. Today is a per-
fect example."
The Michigan bats, which
looked so potent just a day ago,
were lifeless. Aside from junior
designated hitter Coley Crank's
third-inning home run with the
bases empty, the Wolverines
barely had any scoring opportu-
nities.
Locke, whose only mistake in
seven innings of work was the
pitch to Crank, kept the Michi-
gan batters guessing. In the sev-
enth, he struck out freshman
right fielder Michael O'Neill
with a pitch on the outside of the
plate.
O'Neill didn't like the call
and let home plate umpire Gene
Klotz know it. Klotz immediate-
ly tossed O'Neill, who became
the first Wolverine to be ejected
from a game this season.
It has been a frustrating year,
and an especially frustrating
game for the lineup, considering
how well it performed Tuesday.
"I was hoping that after we
got those runs yesterday, I was
really hoping that today we'd
have came out and just beat
them," Maloney said. "That
would have been a great thing
for our confidence. But noth-
ing's been easy for this group."
Michigan actually put a small
rally together in the eighth

ByMATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Writer
Following the Michigan soft-
ball team's 3-0 victory over Cen-
tral Michigan Wednesday, senior
hurler Jordan Taylor said her
secret is to "stay even-keeled."
Judging by her calm and col-
lected reaction to her one-hit
shutout in
which she CMU 0
complete- MICHIGAN 3
ly over-
whelmed the Chippewa lineup,
it's safe to say her secret worked.
Taylor struck out nine, keeping
her team in the lead despite a lack
of offense.
"I thought Jordan Taylor had
an outstanding game," Michi-
gan coach Carol Hutchins said
Wednesday. "She was on her
game, and thankfully because the
rest of us weren't."
The Wolverines pushed across
an early run, after a single from
junior center fielder Bree Evans
scored senior designated hitter
Alycia Ryan. It was just the latest
in a string of productive at-bats
for Evans, who was 3-for-3 on the
evening.
Michigan (5-1 Big Ten, 37-3
overall) clung to its 1-0 advantage
as its bats went quiet for several
innings. But Central Michigan fell
completely silent. Just two Chip-
pewas reached base - via a walk
and a single - off Taylor, who
spun another gem for the Wolver-
ines.
"I wouldn't say it was my most

dominant (appearance this sea-
son)," Taylor said. "I try to keep
the approach the same."
Michigan found some insur-
ance in the sixth inning when
Ryan crushed a two-run home
run over the right field fence. Any
chance that the Chippewas (5-3
MAC, 20-13 overall) could touch
up Taylor virtually vanished.
The win was the Wolverines'
fourth in a row and came against
a formidable non-conference foe.
"Central's a good team,"
Hutchins said. "They're having a
great year. After the game, I told
(Central Michigan coach Margo
Jonker) this was some of the best
enthusiasm her team's had. They
came to play and I was really
impressed with them.
"I could see us pressing and
trying to meet expectations, but I
urged themto get into our process.
The season gets harder. It's going
to keep getting harder. That's why
you need to rely on your process."
This weekend, Michigan trav-
els to Champaign to take on an
Illinois team that boasts a 6-2
Big Ten record. Taylor will be
called upon to start at least one of
the two games. If she remains as
dependable as she strives to be, it
may very well be another success
ful weekend for the Wolverines.
"It seemed easy (last weekend
against Purdue), but it wasn't at
easy (Wednesday)," Hutchins
said. "In softball, you rely on your
pitching and your defense because
hitting is hard. Taylor's been con-
sistent. We rely on her."

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Junior designated hitterColeyCrank provided Michigan's only offense of the
game, a third-inning solo home run to left ceoterfield.

inning. With two outs, Toth,
who has been mired in a deep
slump, singled to right field and
received a supportive ovation
from the crowd.
"It was a relief, it was a relief,"
Toth said. "There's no hold-
ing back or sugar-coating it -
I've obviously been struggling
beyond any point that I've ever
struggled before. So it felt good,
and hopefully it's a sign that I'm
coming out of this little funk
that I'm in."
A walk to sophomore center-
fielder Patrick Biondi put the
tying runner on base for red-
shirt sophomore second base-

man Kevin Krantz.
For a moment, Krantz's liner
seemed destined to go over
sophomore left fielder Tyler
Grogg's head and off the wall to
tie the game.
But it was just for a moment.
Grogg barely had time to react
but made a last-second leap
backward to come down with
the snow-cone grab.
"(Krantz) scorched that ball
and the guy makes a heck of
a play," Maloney said. "It was
scorched. That's the way it's
been. Even when we have a
chance, most of the time it just
hasn't worked out."

Kicking game 'a work in progress' for Hoke

By TIM ROHAN
DailySportsEditor
Brady Hoke may as well be
standing by the side of the road
wearing an orange apron and a
hard hat, with orange cones sur-
rounding his kicking game.
"It's a work in progress," he
said Wednesday.
Aside from Will Hagerup at
punter, Hoke is still figuring out
many special teams positions,
from minor details to gigantic
ones - like who his kicker is
going to be this fall.
"From the mechanics of snap-
ping the ball to the mechanics of
punting the ball," Hoke said of
what still needs to be worked out.
"(Hagerup) has a tremendous leg
on him. We've got to keep work-
ing on consistency. We're still
working on who the long snapper
is going to be. So those guys are
competing on a daily basis.
"From a placekicking stand-
point, that's a huge competition
with four guys in there. Who the
holder is - there's so many
things and elements that have
to go into it. We have a lot of
work to do in that area and
really find out who that per-
son's going to be."
Brendan Gibbons, Seth
Broekhuizen, Jeremy Ross and
Kris Pauloski are the four kick-
ers competingfor the spot.
Last year, the trials and
tribulations of the Michi-
gan kicking game were well
* documented, as Gibbons and
Broekhuizen shared the duty.
Gibbons earned the start-
ing nod in the season opener
against Connecticut and pro-
ceeded to miss his first field
goal of the year - a 43-yard
* attempt early in the second
quarter.
Maybe it was an omen of
what was to come, as Gibbons
also missed an extra point that
game and finished the season
with three more missed field
goals - ending 1-for-5 on the
season.
His replacement, Broekhui-
zen, didn't fair any better,
finishing 3-of-9 on field goal
att mpts last season.
Afnd Ross and Pauloski have
never kicked in a game for
Michigan.
"I can't tell you who's
where," Hoke said of where
they stack up against each
other. "We chart everything,
every day. And at the end of
spring, we'll look at it a little
bit and see the accuracy, the
mechanics of snap to kick and
all of those things."
During the spring game Sat-
urday, Michigan fans will get

their first look at the competition
that didn't look so promising dur-
ing last year's spring game either.
Hoke said he hopes that through
the natural progression of the
game, his kickers will be placed
into situational roles. If not, he
said he will take time at the end to
put them through those types of
drills, to "see how they handle it."
Even though the kickers have
had only one chance to kick in
the Big House this spring, Hoke is
more worried about continuing to
work on the details of the game,
rather than how they handle
inclement weather - Saturday's
forecast includeswind gusts up to
22 mph and an 80-percent chance
of rain.
"It becomes a difference, how
much wind and where the wind's
coming from and those kind of
things," Hoke said. "But as far as
the mechanics of where the plant
foot's going to be and how you're
going to swing your leg through,
that's got to be consistent."
Last Saturday, when Hoke had

his team practice in the Big House
for the first time this spring, he
said they kicked 14 or 15 times
during the team's competition.
But location might not matter
if the kickers are still working on
fundamentals.
"I looked into Glick (Field-
house) and the posts were the
same height and the hashes are in
the same place, so it really doesn't
matter," Hoke said.
One kicker who spectators
won't see this Saturday is incom-
ing freshman, Matt Wile.
The San Diego native was set
to play for Hoke at San Diego
State before Hoke took the job at
Michigan.
Then Hoke and his assistants
were able to convince the 6-foot-
2,200-pound kicker to change his
commitment and follow them to
Ann Arbor.
There's certainly room to add
him to the mix.
"Sure, sure, every freshman
has a chance to compete," Hoke
said. "The opportunity is there."

MAX COLLINS/Daily
Redshirt sophomore Seth Broekhuzien, shown here punting in the loss to Ohio State on Nov. 27, 2010, missed six of the
nine field goals he attempted in the 2010 season.

I

$2.75 Pitchers Ofr $ Off All Sandwich Plotters
$Killians/ Coors Lig h Pr
app Hor5-7 Mld $t. ~ ,9
ummuu

It



8A - Thursday, April 14, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I


0
6
0

WHEN YOU S

0

01

WE'LL BUY B
*Offer valid on buybacks of $50 or more. Of

BOOKSTORE

EASY IN, EASY OUT
extended hours to fit your schedule.

549 E. UNIVERSITY AVE.
ULRICHSCOM

317 SOUTH STATE STREET
MICHBOOK.COM

Powered By

0 4 iA ' A,.



_ ._

0 0 0 0 - 0~ p p

12B Thursday Ap 2011 Best of Ann Arbor

I a,


BEST INDIAN FOOD: RAJA RANI

9

Best Outdoor Apparel

Ia
)'

K _

1
1
1

r

,
"
'
. ,.

i

I"'

A RCTERYX
THE MICHIGAN DAILY
4Rb
vasok -

CMB MANAGEMENT
'mod aud THE MICHIGAN DAILY
Voted Best Housing
in the Michigan Daily's Best of Ann Arbor
18 PREMIER LOCATIONS
Experience the Difference!
Family Owned and Managed
Apartments - Houses: from Studios to 4 Bedooms
Now leasing for May and Fall 2011-2012
734-274-6118 cmbproperty@propemail.com

r

I I

wcr

336

mn 12-S

--------------- -------------------




i. r. o

2B Thursday, April 0 Ann Arbor
(BEST BAR: GOOD TIME CHARLEY'S)
There is much to be thankful for at Good Time Char-
ley's. Over the years, the bar has cultivated the Michi-
gan standard for college-aged drinking and revelry.
Long Island Iced Teas in sizes that would shock your
mama, flat screen TVs in strategically placed positions
and cheap Happy Hour specials make it a fan favorite.
When it's nice out, the option to enjoy the patio - with
its primetime South U people-watching location - is a
key element to a rocking good time. On a typical week-
end night, lines curl around the corner, proof that it's
the go-to spot for the over-21 crowd. It's the perfect
stop on the way to Rick's (because, let's be honest, that's
where you're heading), it provides late-night snacks notp
to be scoffed at and it throws a damn good trivia night
every Wednesday. Michigan's most popular bar packs inT
the patrons every time. It's Chuck's. .
-LTLTTA TIALTC W .,T*

Thursday, April 14, 2011 Best of Ann Arbor
BEST DELIVERY: JIMMY JOJHN'S 8 .

It's 2 a.m. You've knocked back a couple cocktails
and are suddenly possessed by an insatiable desire
to eat everything in sight. Panic mode. Your appetite
is exponential. Where do you go? For many Univer-
sity students, the answer is Jimmy John's. With its
fresh meat, crunchy veggies and, best of all, freshly
baked French bread, Jimmy John's packs a satisfy-
ing punch whether the patrons are sober or not. And,
if it's impossible to get to one of the eight locations in
Ann Arbor, its face-meltingly fast delivery is always
an option. There's nothing quite like that first exqui-
site bite into a fragrant fresh bread followed by the
delicious combination of turkey, avocado, provolone
and veggies. But whether you go for turkey or sala-
mi, lettuce wrap or fresh bread, the Jimmy John's
reputation for quality speaks for itself, promising
satisfaction and joy with every bite.
-MACKENZIE METER

:RA MOLENGRAFF/


BEST CLUB: RICK'S AMERICAN CAFE)
After stumbling around Ann Arbor in a drunken haze,
hordes of polo- and high heel-clad revelers descend steps
of Rick's to find themselves in a subterranean oasis. With
Rick's diverse clientele of fraternity boys and sorority
girls and its nightly drink specials (two dollar PBRs on
Wednesday!), students often find themselves shivering in
line just for a chance to navigate down those stairs. The
lack of windows, low lighting and vast dance floor are the
perfect combination for a classic night of regrettable she-
nanigans. For more low-key evenings, clubbers can shoot
some pool or alleviate social anxiety by playing a video
game. On the weekends, Rick's always boasts crowds of
students milling about its entrance, and thanks to advent
of Ricksline.com, merrymakers can now monitor the line's
progress from the comfort of their smartphones. Boys in
pastel button-downs and girls in those-ubiquitous black
skirts dedicate their weekends to standing in that roped-
off line - there's just something about Rick's.
-CASSIE BALFOUR

C BEST PIZZA: PIZZA HOUSE

)

Even the (somewhat recent) arrival of lip-smackingly
delicious new-kid-on-the-block South U Pizza couldn't
claim the "Best Pizza" crown from the venerable Pizza
House. From the heavenly, sesame-seeded Sicilian
deep dish to the stomach-arresting Chicago stuffed,
this Church Street institution simply serves the most
tantalizing slices in town - and for those averse to the
traditional pie, the steaming calzones are equally gastro-
nomically formidable. Being straddled by Charley's and
Rick's doesn't hurt either (nor does being open till 4 a.m.).
After all, that famished beer deserves quality 'za, doesn't
it? Sure, the House is fiscally steeper than other pizza
purveyors, but the well-styled, accommodating setting is
an at-times necessary departure from cramped collegiate
quarters. In other words, the few extra George Wash-
ingtons is worth the upper-crust ambiance. It's no won-
der why George Clooney and Co. recently decided to film
parts of "Ides of March" in Ann Arbor. OK - maybe that's
not the reason. But we wouldn't be surprised if it was.
-STEPHEN OSTROWSKI

(BEST LIVE MUSIC: THE BLIND PIG)
Dark. Grimy. Sticky. These are the words that come to
mind when thinking of the home of Ann Arbor's under-
ground music scene, the Blind Pig. But most people would
agree, that's part of its charm. Though its shows can be as
hit-or-miss as the dart players downstairs, ranging from
the obscurely talented to the downright bizarre, one
thing the music venue is always good for is parties. With
throwback beats and outrageous costumes, the joint's
monthly Soul Club rarely disappoints. Similarly impres-
sive are its more sporadic parties known as Bang!s,
each one thematically adapted for whichever holiday it
appears on (Halloween, New Year's, Valentine's, etc.) -
though these fetes are a tad more exclusive (only for the
21 and up). So if you're looking for a break from the usual
parties and bars or want a music experience a little less
PG than the Ark, be sure to check out everyone's favorite
visually challenged farm animal.
JAKE FROMM/Daily -WILL DEFEBAUGH

I P ~

GO BLUE!,

THE R. Ar' '.. 5, 1
I'
/ 9 i OO
5'5~6.Vtstr4 ( ~*K W$Ta 6cuh4W5 Q~s6

LIKE WHAT
YOU SEE?
YEAH YOU
DO.
FIND MORE
DAILY ARTS
CONTENT AT
MICHIGANDAILY.
COM/SECTION/
ARTS.

The M Den on Main St The M Den Briarwood Mail The M Den on Campus
315 S. Main St Briarwood Mall 303 S. State Street
Ann Arbor Ann Arbor Ann Arbor
734-997-8000 734-769-7455 734-686-3002


0

0

0

Am Ab dft Am - -

!

FOB Thursday, April14, 2011// Best of Ann Arbor

Thursday, April14, 2011//BestfAnnArr 3B
BEST NEW BUSINESS: FIVE GUYS BURGER AND FRIES
Five Guys Burgers and Fries is one of those rare
success stories, a franchise that has exploded from
its Northern Virginia ruuts to become a symbul
of the D.C. area. The beef patties are thoroughly
cooked, yet juicy. The buns are freshly baked. The
free toppings are endlessly customizable. And with
delertable French fries, hand-cut frum painstak-
ingly sourced potatoes, cooked in peanut oil and
served in generously heart attack-inducing portions,
Five Guys is difficult to top. Add in the free crates of
peanuts you can munch on while you wait and it's
practically impossible to resist. This year, Five Guys
has finally come to Ann Arbor and it has managed
to carve out a niche in a town that plays host to both
Blimpy and Quickie Burger. That, in and of itself, is
Iquite an accomplishment
..-DAVID TAO

BEST SANDWICH: ZINGERMAN'S DELI

UNIVERSITY FAN APPAREL: M-DEN

Freshmen, beware: Walking into M-Den. for
the first time is an overwhelming experience. One
doesn't go to M-Den just to peruse idly through maize
and blue regalia - no, you are absolutely immersed
from the second you walk through the doors. This
is no mere student store - it's a die-hard Michi-
gan fan's wildest dream. There are sweaters, vests,
sweater vests, watches, plaques, key chains, earrings,
scrunchies, flags, backpacks, dog collars, underwear,
socks, polos, bedspreads, napkins and bathing suits
- all emblazoned with one of the many logos of our

dear University. And let's not forget about the super-
awesome value room in the back on the second floor.
Don't feeling like breakin' out the big bucks? No fear,
the value room holds an impressive variety of para-
phernalia for a much lower price. M-Den is a haven
of all things Wolverine, where alums, students, pro-
spective students and the like can come and equip
themselves to properly hail to' the victors - albeit
for a price. But come on: What true fan doesn't want
maize-and-blue salt and pepper shakers?
-EMMA GASE

What makes the perfect deli
sandwich? New Yorkers might
say a couple pieces of rye soaked
in Russian dressing and sepa-
rated by a healthy wad of either
pastrami or corned beef is all
you need - after all, they're the
"experts," right? But a Zinger-
man's regular might be less than
impressed. Where are the locally
grown organic meats and chees-
es, the inventive and colorful
sandwich menu, the free samples,
the perennially tie-dyed, intense-
ly knowledgeable staff? What
happened to the flood of grinning

students with Dad's credit card
in hand, the connoisseurs who've
come from far and wide for a taste '
of Midwestern TLC? Fuhgeta-
boutit - it's not in NYC but back
at Zingerman's, which year after
year earns its reputation as a fix-
ture on the Michigan (and nation-
al) foodie scene. And even though
it keeps the highly inflated prices
that deli regulars in the Village
have come to expect, rest assured
that a Zingerman's sandwich is '
worth every penny of its $14 price
tag, every time.
-MIKE KUNTZ HANNAH CHIN/Daily

- il@[3BE2W F-
a r gr
1140 South University Avenue
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 734.668.8411

GET YOUR
DAILY ARTS
FIX IN ONE
SHORT
E-MAIL WITH
THE DAILY
ARTS WEEKLY
NEWSLETTER.
MICHIGANDAILY.
COM/SUBSCRIBE

Thanks for voting us
THE FUTURE BEST CHEAP EATS OF ANN ARBOR
IS NOW. THE MICHIGAN DAILY


FOLLOW
US ON
TWITTER
@MICHDAILYARTS

btbburrito.com

BTB State BTB Cantina
810 S. State St 1140 S. University
222.4822 222.3715

-I


Imh Alk Am Ab

p p

_0

0

w

W.

w

4B Thursday, April14, 2011// Best of Ann Arbor
BEST BREAKFAST:ANGELO'S )
It's hard to cure that Sunday morning headache after
a fun night out, but Ann Arbor prescribes something bet-
ter than Advil and coffee - breakfast at Angelo's. With its
savory pancakes, fluffy-as-can-be French toast and mouth-
watering, world-famous raisin bread toast, Angelo's is a-
tasty remedy for those in need of hangover and hunger:
recovery. Though the line is often out the door, this fine
dining establishment is worth the wait. Its atmosphere-
is inviting and diner-like, the staff is friendly, the prices
won't kill your budget and the food is top notch. And for-
those who aren't always down for sugary sweetness in the
morning, there are sandwiches, eggs, salads and more.
There's even a take-out coffee shop for those on the go.
Tucked away on East Catherine, Angelo's is an Ann Arbor
gem too tempting to pass up.
-ARIELLE SPECINER FsIEPOa v AN <5

Thursday, 4 2 9B
BEST OUTDOOR STORE: BIVOUAC r

The term "bivouac".usually refers to some kind
of makeshift camp. But in Ann Arbor, it most likely
refers to the store on State Street that is so ingrained
in the life of the student shopper. Michigan is known
for its unpredictable weather - hailstorms, three
feet of snow, violent thunderstorms and the occa-
sional sunny day. It's best to be prepared for these
conditions, and Bivouac supplies any outdoors-wear
need with its abundant selection of North Face,
Patagonia and Mountain Hardware. In addition to

the ever-popular North Face wardrobe staple, the
store also offers a range of gear, like sleeping bags
and backpacks, for those who love the outdoors. But
Bivouac is -not just for those more rustic types. It's
also a great place to pick up some stylish workout
clothes or even a dress to wear to the bar. Not only
is Michigan's weather unpredictable, but'a student's
shopping needs are too. Bivouac is the perfect one-
stop shop.
-EMILYBOUDREAU

BEST GROCERY STORE: MEIJER
Granted, both of Ann Arbor's Meijer locations are a bit
of a drive, but the payoff is worth it. Both stores have a
far wider variety of foods and lower prices than similar
superstores, with the added benefit of non-food depart-
ments like housewares, clothing, sporting goods and
kitchen wares. Big-box stores can be a turn-off to some,
but the convenience of getting everything in one place fits
the busy schedule of a college student - so long as you can
bum transportation. And really, you're still supporting
a local company, as Meijer is based in Grand Rapids and
about half of its locations are in Michigan. There are also
more checkout lines than in other stores, and that includes
more self-checkouts in case you only need a few things.
Overall, it's the lowest price and the widest selection in
town.
-TIMOTHYRABB

)DD NEEDLE/Daily

BEST CHEAP EATS: BTB

BTB is worthy of so many superlatives, but
nothing can rival its price. Cooking is always the
wallet-friendly alternative to eating out, but three
square BTB meals a day would challenge any bud-
get shopper to find a cheaper regiment (a vegetar-
ian burrito for $3.75 seriously outweighs all other
options). What's more, if the basic BTB burrito isn't
enough, the menu drifts from the hippie-friendly
vegan plate to the deep-fried steak chimichanga

with extra steak (yes, this is a real option). Panche-
ro's and Chipotle may rival the quality of BTB, but
with such low prices, it's nearly impossible to jus-
tify purchases anywhere else. The establishment
is also open 11 a.m. to 4 a.m., so even late-night
foodies can get in on the cheap eats. At almost any
hour of the day, BTB will have the cheapest meal
around.
TEDDYPAPES

BEST JAPANESE FOOD: SADAKO
Of all the sushi restaurants in Ann Arbor, one stands
above the rest: Sadako. It's a sushi lover's dream come true,
with the calm, casual atmosphere making it the perfect place
to stop in for dinner with friends or bring family members
when they come to visit campus. The delicious miso soup
and salad with ginger dressing are the perfect start to what
is always a fresh, quickly prepared meal. And for those din-
ing with friends who don't eat sushi, there's an entire menu
of Japanese food, which includes teriyaki and noodles. In
terms of price, nothing is too expensive and the service is
always fast and friendly. Takeout is usually ready in a snappy
15 minutes, a waiting time rivaled only by the super-speedy
Jimmy John's. Be sure to treat yourself to Sadako's amazing
sushi before a study session - fish is a great brain food - or
whenever you just feel like it.
- ERINSTEELE

sALAM R1DA/Daily


ALLISON KRUSKE/Daily

C

BEST HOUSING: ZARAGON PLACE

)

i

DAILY ARTS: IT'S BETTER THAN AN UNPAID INTERNSHIP.
WRITE FOR US THIS SUMMER.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for information on applying.

"Got an 8 a.m. class? Wake up
at 7:59." The Zaragon Place pro-
motional video teachescollege
students an important lesson on
real estate - it's all about "loca-
tion, location, location." Merely a
stone's throw away from the Diag,
the Ross School of Business and
the Law Quad, Zaragon boasts one
of the best locations on campus.
However, its proximity to classes

is only half the reason why people
should start emptying their piggy
banks. Featuring granite kitchen
tops and a washer and dryer in
each unit, Zaragon "Palace" is the
most luxurious student-housing
complex on campus. With Zara-
gon's lofty aesthetic and rent, stu-
dents have the opportunity to live
like collegiate royalty
-DANIEL CARLIN


0

0

0 -0 W 00 0- 0 -

"""T"

8B TusaArl 201 o n ro

Thursday, April 14,2011 //B-est of Ann Arbor 5B
BEST BURRITO: CHIPOTLE

BEST BARBER/HAIR SALON:
DOUGLAS J AVEDA INSTITUTE
For all colors, cuts and styles, one salon stands alone as
the best of Ann Arbor: Aveda. The Douglas J Aveda Insti-
tute offers cheap cuts and color for students. Student hair-
dressers carefully follow the specifications of clients under
the close supervision of their instructors to ensure the best
service possible. While waiting for color to set or bangs to
be trimmed, complimentary hand massages are common,
leaving customers relaxed. Aside from the service, anyone
who leaves Aveda is guaranteed to smell great. Every hair
flip, glance or nod will send waves of countless natural
essences that are sure to turn heads. There's a reason Aveda
is a cut above the rest.
-LtUCYPERKINS

(BEST CHINESE FOOD: CHINA GATE)
You can't even walk into China Gate without observing
the staggering number of awards Executive Chef Jan has
accrued over the years. The signs that brag to this effect
fill the front windows, reminding any passerby that he has
won the Top Gold Medal an impressive eight times at the
International Professional Culinary Competition (which,
the signs also claim, is the world's largest culinary com-
petition), With China Gate, Chef Jan clearly found an out-
let to pour his culinary expertise into. There's a reason
China Gate is being bestowed the honor of Best Chinese
Food in Ann Arbor for the 10th time. The sauces are suc-
culent, the soups warm and comforting and the spices
dialed in to the perfect extent. The menu's daunting only
because of its massive breadth, but from the mainstays
(like wonton soup or chicken with cashew nuts) to the
less common (Kung Pao scallops), China Gate executes
with blatant expertise.
-ELLIOTALPERN

Just picture it: a beautiful fall day, and a
Football Saturday to boot. You woke up early
for some pre-game festivities. It's now 4 p.m.
You're hankering for something delicious,
and you know there's only one place where
the food is as good as the people-watching.
That's right: the "Chipotle Experience," Ann
Arbor style. The number-one burrito in town
is located at the intersection of East Liberty
and State. And we're not just talking burri-

tos, but also burrito bowls, crispy tacos, soft
tacos and the always-tasty vegetarian option
(in which guacamole doesn't cost "extra").
With ingredients that smell and taste as good
as they look, friendly service and an excel-
lent soundtrack accompanying those anxious
minutes of picking out the perfect ingredients,
Chipotle's burrito earns its spot as a best taste
of Ann Arbor.
-JACOB AXELRAD

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily

BEST THRIFT STORE: THE SALVATION ARMY

BEST COFFEE: ESPRESSO ROYALE

Don't be fooled by its name - Espres-
so Royale is about more than just coffee.
From its hip background music to the tan-
talizing display case of muffins, parfaits
and brownies, the caf is a haven for all
things comfortable and cool. It's the per-
fect place to kick back and catch up with
friends, kill awkward gaps between class-
es and even grab a scone on the way home
from a party Sunday morning. That isn't
to say that the drink menu doesn't have its

merits, though. With its spicy chai lattes,
creamy cappuccinos, rich teas and assort-
ment of mocha flavors, Espresso Royale
boasts enough beverages to satisfy even
the most serious caffeine consumer. It's a
royal destination for any student's needs,
whether you're just popping in for an
expertly brewed cup of coffee or looking
for a cozy booth to spend a day of study-
ing in style.
-CHLOE STACHOWIAK

BEST DATE PLACE: THE CHOP HOUSE

Nothing says "I want to have sex with
you" like a $43 steak (unless, of course, you're
dating a vegetarian). Impress your signifi-
cant other with a trip to one of Ann Arbor's
swankiest and priciest dining venues: The
Chop House. The Main Street restaurant's
logo - a long-horned bull with prominently
displayed genitalia - is a testament to the
house specialty of thick, juicy, red-blooded,
all-American, USDA prime beef. Wash your
steak down with a bottle of cabernet from The
Chop House's award-winningecellar. Or, order

two bottles if the date is going awkwardly. But
no trip to the Chop House would be complete
without a descent into La Dolce Vita, the res-
taurant's dark and dungeon-chic dessert bar.
Aromatic cigar-smoke swirls around the bar's
plush leather chairs, where diners can relax
and order after-dinner cocktails and pastries.
Seated together in an intimate corner, you and
your date will be sure to make La Dolce Vita's
regular clientele - a bunch of middle-aged
white guys - green with envy.
-JOE CADAGIN

TERRA MOLEGR FF/Daily

SALAM RIDA/Daily


U===mind

AOL AOL

i "

0

0

0

6B Thusday April 14, 2011 Best o Ann Arbor

14, 2011// Best of AnnArbor 7B

HIP

1 7) \
J

r

)

R

Win 'S

COFFEE SHOP
BARBER/HAIR SALON
OUTDOOR STORE
HOUSING
TEST PREP
THRIFT STORE
UNIVERSITY FAN APPAREL
BAR
CLUB
BREAKFAST
CHINESE FOOD
KOREAN FOOD
SANDWICH
INDIAN FOOD
PIZZA
CHEAP EATS
BURGER
BURRITO
DATE PLACE
LIVE MUSIC
DELIVERY
BANK
GROCERY STORE
ITALIAN FOOD
NEW BUSINESS
JAPANESE FOOD

Espresso Royale
Douglas J Aveda Institute
Bivouac
Zaragon Place
Kaplan
Salvation Army
M-Den
Good Time Charley's
Rick's American Cafe
Angelo's
China Gate
University Cafe
Zingerman's Deli
Raja Rani
Pizza House
BTB
Blimpy Burger
Chipotle
The Chop House
The Blind Pig
Jimmy John's
TCF
Meijer
Gratzi
Five Guys Burger and Fries
Sadako

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily

SAL AM RIBA/Daily


