(l'NE 1I4 H NDRE)F NY-TW \ SE t 1F IOIAIII EEIOM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, December 8, 2011

michigandaily.com

SPECIAL REPORT
'U' charges high fees for public records

Legal experts say
costs meant to
deter media from
getting information
By STEPHANIE STEINBERG
Editor in Chief
Under Michigan's Freedom of
Information Act, a public body
like the University may give
* requested records to the media
at no cost or a reduced charge if
the information benefits the gen-
eral public. Yet several records
requests from The Michigan
Daily to the University's FOIA
Office have resulted in fees of
hundreds - and sometimes
thousands - of dollars to obtain
records to be used in news arti-
cles that benefit the public.
The requests included
information about University
employees who use purchas-
ing cards, or PCards, to pay for
University-related expenses and
information regarding number
of parking tickets given each day
for one year by the University's
Department of Public safety.
The FOIA Office responded that
PCard information would cost

thousands of dollars - no defini-
tive amount was named - and
the parking ticket information
would total $1,240. But when
the Daily requested similar data
from other Big Ten universities,
the majority of schools sent the
data free of charge.
When a university charges
thousands of dollars to retrieve
a public records request, it raises
questions about how the school
is managing its information,
says Frank LoMonte, executive
director of the Student Press
Law Center - a non-profit that
advocates for student journal-
ists' First Amendment rights.
"When we see these jackpot
prices quoted ... either the school
just doesn't want the records
seeing the light of day, or the
school's record-keeping is a
disaster," LoMonte said.
Chief FOIA Officer Lee Doyle
and FOIA Coordinator Pat Sell-
inger have run the University's
FOIA Office, located in the Flem-
ing Administration Building,
since 2004. Sellinger's full-time
job includes responding to FOIA
requests within five business
days as required by law. Doyle,
who also serves as the Univer-
sity's director of communica-
tions administration and policy,

dedicates about a quarter of her to a 2010 FOIA Office report. under the Michigan Freedom of University is a public body, the
time helping Sellinger devise of the 436 requests received in Information Act. Nine percent, FOIA Office plays an important
cost estimates for FOIA requests 2010, the office granted 45 per- or 41 requests, were withdrawn role in ensuring the University's
and hunting down information. cent in full, 35 percent in part after the requester didn't pay a spending and decision-making
Since 2007, the FOIA Office and denied 11 percent - either deposit fee. remain transparent.
has received more than 400 because the record didn't exist In an interview Tuesday, "The whole ethos of the Uni-
requests each year, according or the information was exempt Doyle explained that since the See RECORDS, Page 5A


w

4 -
F
.. Jl
M

UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS
LSA offers Philosophy,
Politics, Econ. major

Interdisciplinary
concentration
to be offered
next semester
By KATIE BURKE
Daily StaffReporter
For LSA students who can't
decide on one concentration, a
new interdisciplinary concen-
tration focused on global issues

might be the right fit.
LSA is introducing a new
concentration next semester
within the Department of Phi-
losophy entitled Philosophy,
Politics, and Economics, which
will involve collaborative
efforts from the thre'e depart-
ments.
Requirements for the con-
centration include a combi-
nation of formal reasoning
courses such as statistics, nor-
mative theory and political
economy. Students will also be

required to choose a concentra-
tion theme like global justice or
modern immigration patterns.
The prerequisites for the
concentration include intro-
ductory classes in philosophy,
political science, economics
and calculus. To declare, stu-
dents must apply with a tran-
script and aone-page statement
about their interest in the pro-
gram.
Elizabeth Anderson, direc-
tor of the new PPE con-
See MAJOR, Page 5A

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Study: Fewer teenagers
obtaining driver's licenses

Chrome Sparks plays at the Work Gallery on State Street in a free show put on by WCBN last night.
STUDENT AWARD
U' student wins You"ube food challenge

Tasha Edwards
winner of
YouTube's Next
Chef Competition
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
In her apartment kitchen,
School of Public Health stu-
dent Tasha Edwards explains in
front of the camera how to make
her latest dish, vegan macaroni
cheese. Fortunately for viewers,
it only takes a click of the replay

button to see any steps they may
have missed in the recipe for
Edwards's "Sweet V's."
Edwards is the creator of the
Sweetest Vegan cooking chan-
nel on YouTube and the winner
of YouTube's Next Chef Compe-
tition.
"It was kind of surreal, like
most big things that happen
in your life," Edwards said. "I
had a feeling that I had a wor-
thy enough channel to win, but
you kind of never know ... it was
rewarding."
Edwards's channel, along
with 14 other YouTube cooking
channels, was named a finalist

in the competition last month.
YouTube users from the United
States, United Kingdom, New
Zealand, Australia, Ireland,
Canada, India and South Africa
submitted their channels to be
judged on the ability to attract
a large audience and originality.
After winning the com-
petition in early November,
Edwards participated in Google
Plus Hangouts, which allow
video communication sessions
between users, with YouTube
employees to learn how to
improve her videos. She also
received advertising and new
See CHALLENGE, Page 2A

New study shows
percentage of older
drivers on the rise
By CHELSEA LANDRY
Daily StaffReporter
High school driver's educa-
tion classes may be becoming
less popular, as fewer teenag-
ers are eager to get behind the
wheel, according to a recent
University study.
Michael Sivak and Brandon
Schoettle, researchers at the
University's Transportation
Research Institute, published a
report last week in the journal
Traffic Injury Prevention indi-
cating that fewer teenagers are
obtaining their driver's licens-

es, while more elderly Ameri-
cans are continuing to drive. In
1983, a third of all U.S. drivers
were under the age of 30. But
today, only22 percent of drivers
fall into this category, according
to the study.
Sivak wrote in an e-mail
interview that a major reason
for the trend is the shift toward
electronic communication
among Amefica's youth, reduc-
ing the need for "actual contact
amongyoung people."
Time spent driving detracts
from time spent texting, Sivak
wrote, especially with various
laws in many states that ban
texting while driving. Michi-
gan was the 28th state to ban
texting while drivingwith alaw
that took effect in July 2010.
See DRIVERS, Page SA


* WEATHER HI: 31 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
CE AT HE Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Creator of Islamic superhero series to speak today
TOMORROW LO: news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX AP NEW S ....................3A ARTS ..................6A
Vol. CXXII, No.64 OPINION.....................4A SPORTS.... . . ......7A
Q201 The Michigan Daily NEWS........................ SA THE BSIDE............. 1B
michiasdaily.os


2A - Thursday, December 8, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
a e fiiipan~wa11m
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

Bringing the Constitution to life
What is your favorite class to never expected. ied set of areas and take anything but
teach at Michigan? What is the biggest accomplish- courses about law before you get to
I think first-year Constitutional ment of your career? law school. Study broadly in English,
Law. Constitutional Law is averyinter- It has been the work I did the last history, economics and philosophy.
estingtopic.Yougetto teach aboutalot couple of years in the government And generally, try to be a curious
of fascinating concepts as well as about when we took the Civil Rights Divi- reader of what's going on.,
the history of the United States. sion of the Justice Department from What is the message you want
What is your favorite snack, a very sad and difficult place to a students to take away from law
and what does it tell us about your place where it's once again the lead- school?
teaching style? ing civil rights enforcer of America. I think it's not really about the sub-r
My favorite snack is Coca-Cola, and What was your inspiration stance of the course. The message I
what it tells you is that I speak way too behind the civil rights work that want my students to take away is that x
fast in class. you did? they are really the authors of their
What were your dreams as a kid, I just felt I had a great responsi- own career and their professional
and have you accomplished them? bility and great privilege to get up life. A big momentum in law school is
My dream was to play for the St. every morning and try to make "we to send people on a particular path,
Louis Cardinals, and that didn't work the people" in the Constitution mean and the students have to fight that
out. But when I was a teenager, I was what it says. and find out what path they want to
very interested in law, and I've had To students applying to law be on and pursue it.
the opportunity to do all kinds of school, what is your advice? COURTESY OF SAMUEL BAGENSTOS
amazing things as a lawyer that I've I would say take courses in a var- -JOSH QIAN Bagnestos is a Law School professor.

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
tunectosLetters tothe Editnr
tothedaily mchigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
PhotographySection
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Firey fashion What a steal Free crafts Evolution of
A dog named Reagan
WHERE: Parking Lot, 900 WHERE: North Quadran- and a movie viruses lecture saved two kittens, Tip-
Sybil Street gle Residence Hall per and Skipper, who
WHEN: Tuesday at about WHEN: Tuesday at about WHAT: Stress Relief Week, WHAT: Yale University were trapped in a Meow
10:50 p.m. 2:45 p.m. which aims to help students Prof. Paul Turner will dis- Mix bag left in the middle of
WHAT: Four students WHAT: A female student de-stress before finals, cuss the evolution of viruses the road in Iowa, CBS News
burning a shirt in the said her laptop was stolen continues with free crafts and the effects of develop- reported. Reagan carried the
parking lot were asked to from her backpack when and a movie. ing pathogens on humans. bag, which was run over by a
extinguish the fire and were she was at a book sale, WHO: Center for Campus WHO: Ecology and Evoluti- vehicle, safelyto his owner.
interviewed, University University Police reported. Involvement

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aben Maaig Newsttditor aber@michigandaily.com
SORNEWSEDTORS:Bethany Bironoylan Cinti,Cait linHustosephuLchtermn,
Binne rrusak
5NE NoOR alel atornlr e Gsi cki, Suzanne Jacobs,Sabira
Kah,,MichelsNar, ige r,Adam Rbefr, at~ilin Wl~iams
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
EmilyOrley Editorial PageEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb
StepheniJ. Nesbitt and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tim ROhan Managing Sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
Raftery, Neal Rothschild
ASA TS PoORTSITORS:Stev:en Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin, LizVukelich, Daniel Wasermn
Sharon Jacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
^,S0 05TA TA0EDITORS: JacobAxelrad,Cassie Balfour,JoeCadagin,EmmaGase,
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch ManagingPhoto Editors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Terra Molengraff, Anna Schulte
Zach Bergsonand design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Anna Lein-Zielinski
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS:Kristi Begonia, Corinn Lewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Devon Thorsby, ElyanaTwiggs
Josh HealyC opyChief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:ChristineChun,HannahPoindexter
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
mran Sayed PublicEditor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim AssociateBusiness Manager
RachelGreinetz sales Manager
Alexis Newton Production Manager
MeghanRooney LayoutManager
Connor Byrd FinanceManager
QUy VOncirculation Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday dring the falland
winrtetrms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge
to all readers.Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fal term, starting in SeptemberviaU..mal are $110. Winter term (anuary through Aprilis
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
ssptiort.O-cam uubsciptionsforfl tere $5. Sbsiptinsmsttbep repai.
Theichi~ga aly isateeeof The Asscat~ted esadThrescatediColleiate Press

Police reported. An investi-
gation is pending.

There are no suspects.

WHEN: Tonight at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
Kalamazoo Room

noary oiogy
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Chemistry
Building, room 1210

Good luck Vacuum
finding a class cleaned up
WHERE: Angell Hall WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
WHEN: Tuesday at about ate Library
9:50 a.m. WHEN: Tuesday at about
WHAT: Several room iden- 5:40 a.m.
tification signs that listed WHAT: A staff member
room numbers were found reported that a vacuum
removed from a wall on cleaner was taken within
Nov. 1, University Police the past week, University
reported. The estimated Police reported. There are
cost of the damage is $30. no suspects.

Little Women CORRECTIONS

the musical
WHAT: A performance of
Little Women, a musical
based on the Louisa May
Alcott novel, will feature
students in the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance.
Student tickets cost $10.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30
p.m.
WHERE: Arthur Miller
Theatre

* An article in the Nov. 7
edition of The Michigan
Daily ("Babo: a market
by sava fuses food, aes-
thetics and community
in design") incorrectly
stated the market's
hours. babo is open from
7 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

The Artrain, a mobile
arts exhibit aimed at
spreading creativity
throughout the U.S., got its
name from once being an
actual train, which took its
shows from town to town.
" FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, INSIDE
An artist said he discov-
ered the heads of a lion,
an ape and a buffalo in
Leonardo da Vinci's Mona
Lisa, The Sun reported. The
artist believes the animal
heads are near Mona Lisa's
head in the painting.

*I


Ch ild trafficking bsin
China frees 178 children

18,518 children
saved since start
of anti-trafficking
campaign in 2009
BEIJING (AP) - Chinese
police arrested 608 suspects and
rescued 178 children in busts of
two separate child trafficking
networks, authorities said yes-
terday.
The Ministry of Public Securi-
ty said prosecutors were prepar-
ing cases against the suspects,

suggesting charges have yet1
be filed.
Its statement posted onlir
said 5,000 police across 10 pro
inces cooperated for six montl
on the investigation and mov
in to arrest the suspects la
week.
Child trafficking is big pro
lem in China, where tradition
preference for male heirs an
a strict one-child policy h
driven a thriving market in bal
boys, who fetch a considerab
higher price than girls. Girls at
women also are abducted at
used as laborers or as brides f


to unwed sons.
Tens of thousands of children
ne go missing every year, though
v- the exact numbers of victims are
hs difficult to obtain.
ed The rescued children will
st be put into orphanages while
authorities try to reunite them
b- with their families, the ministry
al said. It didn't give the age range
nd of the abducted children or other
as specifics.
by State broadcaster CCTV aired
ly footage showing female police
nd officers cradling babies in their
nd arms. The footage also showed
or more than a dozen suspects
handcuffed and escorted by offi-
cers, or lined up outside a build-
ing in Fujian province.
Families who bought traf-
ficked children would be for-
bidden from keeping them, a
ministry official told CCTV.
"Those who have paid for
these children must be punished
by losing both the child and
the money, so that the market
shrinks gradually and eventual-
ly, the number of child traffick-
ing cases will be substantially
reduced," Chen Shiqu, director
of the ministry's human traffick-
ing department, was quoted as
saying.
An investigation into a traf-
fic accident in south China's
Sichuan province in May led
police to the first ring, which
was allegedly selling children
abducted or bought in Sichuan
to buyers in central China's
Hebei province and elsewhere.
The ring had links to at least 26
gangs nationwide, the ministry
said.
The second ring was uncov-
ered in August and was based in
southeast China's Fujian prov-
ince and led by a female suspect
identified as Chen Xiumei.
The statement said police
have cracked more than 7,000
gangs or rings that sold women
or children since a special cam-
paign against human traffick-
ing started in April 2009. It
said 18,518 children and 34,813
women have been rescued.

CHALLENGE
From Page 1A
video equipment, including a
camera, tripod and microphone,
valued at $15,000.
According to the competi-
tion's website, it was created as
a part of the YouTube NextUp
program, a development and
funding program for potential
YouTube partners. Austin Lau,
who works for the YouTube
Next Creator Programs, wrote
on his blog that the finalists
of the competition will now
receive continuing education
in culinary arts via the Google
Plus Hangouts,
Edwards, who grew up in
Atlanta, has been cooking for
her whole life with her family,
but only became more interest-
ed in cooking when she went to
college at Clemson University
and had to cook for herself.
"You can only afford Burger

King so many times," Edwards
said.
In her senior year of college,
Edwards decided to become
a vegan because of the health
benefits. She taught herself how
to make vegan food since vegan
dining at restaurants was lim-
ited.
"I was gaining weight, which
is the reason why I decided to
try a vegan diet," Edwards said.
"After I went vegan, I lost about
10 pounds, which for me, I wasn't
that large, so 10 pounds was a
pretty good chunk of weight."
Last August, Edwards recog-
nized that there was a disparity
in cooking shows for vegans and
started producingher own show
to teach viewers how to prepare
different recipes.. However,
learning to make vegan food
and recipes was a challenge at
the beginning.
"I used to have about a
50-percent recipe fail rate,"
Edwards said. "Cakes would

fall, stuff just wouldn't ever
rise, things would just fizzle and
pop." 0
But as time went on, Edwards
learned more about how to rem-
edy problems with recipes for
vegan diets, and now she rarely
has recipe mishaps.
As a School of Public Health
student, Edwards wants to use
her show to promote healthier
eating, rather than pursue a
culinary career.
"I really want to use the
Sweetest Vegan as a platformfor
health promotion programs that
I have," Edwards said. "I want
to teach people how to cook at
home ... I really want people to
leave the junk food, leave the
bad food, leave processed pack-
aged stuff at home, bypass the
fast food restaurant and come
home and cook, and I would love
to be the person to teach them
how to do it, whythey should do
it and hopefully see America get
healthier."

Obama, Clinton push for global gay rights

President: Equal
treatment of LGBT
community is
foreign policy goal
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - The
Obama administration's declara-
tion that it plans to use foreign
assistance, international diplo-
macy and political asylum to
promote gay rights abroad is a
momentous step that could dan-
gerously backfire if not pursued
with delicacy and an appreciation
of how the challenges faced by
gays and lesbians vary by nation,
human rights activists said.
President Barack Obama, in
a memorandum to executive
departments, and Secretary of
State Hillary Rodham Clinton,
during a speech before the U.N.
Human Rights Council, issued a
coordinated denunciation yester-
day of anti-gay discrimination,
stating that equal treatment of
gay, lesbian and transgender peo-
ple was an explicit U.S. foreign
policy goal.
The White House said the
twin moves represented the U.S.

government's first comprehen-
sive strategy to combat sexual
orientation-based human rights
abuses around the world. Gay
rights groups cheered the actions,
noting that gays and lesbians can
be arrested, tortured and even
executed in some countries.
Wayne Besen, founder of
Truth Wins Out, a group that
monitors religious organiza-
tions with anti-gay views, list-
ed Russia, Nigeria, Cameroon,
Uganda, Iran and Zimbabwe
among the nations that had
recently "declared war on sex-
ual minorities" and said that he
hoped they would be chastened
by the administration's blunt
talk.
"This was one of those times
where our nation demonstrated
true international leadership and
made me incredibly proud to be
an American," Besen said. "There
were no carefully crafted and
focus grouped code words that
sugarcoated the abuses - just
the honest truth spoken from the
heart."
Other activists focused on gay
rights internationally were more
restrained in their praise. Neil
Grungras, founder of the San

Francisco-based organization for
Refuge, Asylum and Migration,
which represents gay asylum-
seekers, said it was critical for the
administration to secure allies on
every continent to avoid looking
like it was imposing American
values on parts of the world that
view the West with mistrust or
hostility.
Recalling how large demon-
strations broke out in Pakistan
in June after staff at the U.S.
Embassyheld agay pride celebra-
tion there, he said that Obama's
sincere commitment to improv-
ing the gay rights picture glob-
ally could inadvertently make
life worse for gays and lesbians
abroad.
"This cannot be seen as a U.S.-
only issue because at the end of
the day that would be counter-
productive," said Grungras, who
was in the audience for Clinton's
speech.
"In countries where U.S. moral
leadership is not high and where
increasingly Western values are
negative ... there is a real danger
people can use this issue and say,
'No, we are cleaning up here, we
are going to reject this American
imposition of decay."'

ts


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 8, 201- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Michigan Senate
bans domestic
partner benefits
Republicans who control the
Michigan Senate have approved
bills aimed at blocking the offer-
ingoftaxpayer-paid health insur-
ance to domestic partners living
with some public employees.
The main bill in the package
passed by a 27-9 vote yesterday,
with only Democrats in opposi-
tion. It returns with changes to
the House, which approved the
bill earlier this year.
The legislation would pro-
hibit some public employers
from extending health benefits to
unmarried partners of employees,
whether they are of the same sex
or opposite sex. It would apply to
public schools, local governments
and some state employees.
It would not apply to public
universities, which have consti-
tutional power to determine their
own policies.
SEATTLE

Nations marks
70th anniversary
of Pearl Harbor

Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich looks back at the crowd and waves as he returns home with his wife Patti is Chicago,
yesterday, after he was sentenced by Judge James Zagel to14 years in prison for his convictions on 18 corruption counts.
Blagojevich gets 14-
year prison sentence

Events held to
remember 2,390
Americans who
died in attack
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii
(AP) - In wheelchairs and on
walkers, the old veterans came
yesterday to remember the day
70 years ago when the Japanese
bombed Pearl Harbor. But FDR's
"date that will live in infamy" is
becoming a more distantmemory.
Fewer and fewer veterans who
experienced the attack on Dec. 7,
1941, are alive to mark the anni-
versaries and most of them are
in their 90s, many prevented by
health problems from traveling
to Hawaii. One survivors' group
said it would disband because
age and infirmity made it too dif-
ficult to carry on.
"People had other things
that they wanted to do with the
remainder of their lives," Pearl
Harbor Survivors Association
president William Muehleib
said. "It was time."
The 2,390 Americans who
died in the attacks are not forgot-
ten. Besides Pearl Harbor, there
are remembrances elsewhere.
In Phoenix, the goal every
year isto draw 1,177 people - the
number who died on the USS
Arizona - to march through the
city, but organizers don't come
close to that anymore.
Just 45 people showed up last
year. Yesterday, about 300 people
gathered for a mile-long remem-
brance walk, carrying miniature
U.S. flags and tags bearing the
names of Pearl Harbor casualties.
"As time goes by, it might
actually fade. This may be the
last significant anniversary
when we could thank a survivor.
Get out there. Get your chance

to thank them," event chairman
Ben Ernyei said.
Those who made it to Pearl
Harbor were treated to a hero's
reception. The 5,000 spectators
whistled, shouted and applauded
loudly as the 120 or so survivors
stood to be recognized, and oth-
ers asked for autographs and
took photos with them.
Muehleib said local chapters
of his group will function as long
as they have members and sur-
vivors can gather socially, but
they will no longer have a for-
mal, national organization. He
also predicted survivors would
attend future commemorations
at Pearl Harbor.
The association - founded
in 1958 - has 2,700 members,
he said. There are an estimated
7,000 to 8,000 Pearl Harbor sur-
vivors.
President Barack Obama
hailed the veterans in a state-
ment proclaiming yesterday as
"National Pearl Harbor Remem-
brance Day."
"Their tenacity helped define
the Greatest Generation and
their valor fortified all who
served during World War II,"
he said. "As a nation, we look
to December 7, 1941, to draw
strength from the example set
by these patriots and to honor all
who have sacrificed for our free-
doms."
Sen. Daniel Inouye,D-Hawaii,
witnessed the attacks as a young
man in Honolulu and fought in
World War II, losing his right
arm in combat and earning the
Medal of Honor.
"As we continue to lose mem-
bers of the Greatest Generation,
those who witnessed the attack,
lived through the war and saw
the world change, we must
remember the events of Decem-
ber 7," he said ina speech on the
Senate floor.

Occupy movement F

protests move to
foreclosed homes
The Occupy Wall Street pro-
tests are moving into the neigh-
borhood.
Occupy protesters across the
country are reclaiming fore-
closed homes and boarded-up
properties as they find it increas-
ingly difficult to camp in public
spaces.
Groups in more than 25 cities
held protests yesterday on behalf
of homeowners facing evictions.
In Atlanta, protesters attempt-
ed to disrupt an auction of seized
homes. New York protesters ral-
lied outside a Brooklyn foreclosed
house and said a group of home-
less people were going to move in
to the building.
The events reflect the protest-
ers' lingering frustration over the
housing crisis that has sent mil-
lions of homes into foreclosure
after the burst of the housing
bubble..
ATLANTA
Test scores show
improvement in
urban schools
Students in urban schools
are doing better in reading and
math, even in Atlanta, which
has been embroiled in a cheating
scandal on state exams.
Federal officials said there
was no evidence that the cheat-
ing had carried over to the
National Assessment of Edu-
cational Progress - called the
"Nation's Report Card" - and
that Atlanta fourth- and eighth-
graders have made substantial
gains since 2002.
The national test is adminis-
tered by independent officials
rather than by the school dis-
trict. Atlanta is one of 21 urban
districts that volunteered to be
part of the federal testing pro-
gram, which is congressionally
mandated to gauge how students
are performing using a uniform
measure.
MEXICO CITY
Mexico says
Gadhafi's son tried
to enter country
Mexico said yesterday that a
son of the late Libyan dictator
Moammar Gadhafi and three
relatives had plotted to sneak into
Mexico under false names and
take clandestine refuge at a posh
Pacific coast resort.
The elaborate plan to bring al-
Saadi Gadhafi to Mexico allegedly
involved two Mexicans, a Cana-
dian and a Danish suspect, all of
whom have been detained, Interi-
or Secretary Alejandro Poire said.
He did not reveal which rela-
tives had planned to accompany
Al-Saadi Gadhafi, who is known
for his love of professional soc-
cer and run-ins with police in
Europe.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

g
01

CH:
Blagoj
lenged
like a
politic
Tv sh
cence,
yester
to14y
tion.
Fro
vously
forme
anoth
to add
Bluste
his far
hair v
his Ju
that it
Presid
Senats
In
Demo
and a
Zagel
mistal
"I c
ing an

ormer Illinois trying with uncharacteristic
humility to avert severe punish-
)V. tried to sell ment. "I was the governor and I
should have known better and I
bama's former am just so incredibly sorry."
It was not enough for Zagel,
Senate seat who gave the 54-year-old a sen-
tence close to the 15 to 20 years
ICAGO (AP) - The Rod prosecutors had sought.
evich who once chal- "The abuse of the office of
d a prosecutor to face him governor is more damaging
man, the glad-handing than the abuse of any other
tan who took to celebrity office, except the president's,"
tows to profess his inno- he said.
, was nowhere to be found "Whatever good things you
'day as he was sentenced did for people as governor,
rears in prison for corrup- and you did some, I am more
concerned with the occasions
wning and pulling ner- when you wanted to use your
at his tie, the disgraced powers ... to do things that
r governor seemed like were only good for yourself,"
er person as he stepped up Zagel said.
ress the sentencing judge. Blagojevich slumped for-
r once as conspicuous as ward in his chair - momen-
mously lavish head of dark tarily frozen as the judge
vas wiped out, a victim of pronounced the sentence.
ne convictions on charges Moments later, his wife,
ncluded attempting to sell Patti, fell into his arms; when
lent Barack Obama's U.S. he pulled back from their
e seat. embrace, he brushed tears
a low voice, the two-term from her cheek.
crat apologized again "When it is the governor
gain, telling Judge James who goes bad," Zagel said,
he had made "terrible "the fabric of Illinois is torn
kes." and disfigured and not easily
aused it all. I'm not blam- repaired."
tybody," Blagojevich said, Illinois governors have

gone bad with stunning fre-
quency. Four of the last nine
have been sentenced to prison,
including Blagojevich's pre-
decessor, George Ryan, who
remains behind bars.
Blagojevich, who received
more than twice as much time
as any of the other governors,
was also more of a national
spectacle - both because of the
charges against him, and how
he responded to them.
In the most notorious of the
FBI wiretaps that sealed his
fate, Blagojevich is heard crow-
ing that his chance to name
someone to Obama's Senate
seat was "f---ing golden" and
he wouldn't let it go "for f---ing
nothing." His lawyers claimed
the comments were simply
"musings," but jurors and the
judge agreed they were evi-
dence of a crime.


Deutsche Bank
Agile
minds
explore all
possibilities

Holiday wish lists
shorter this year

I!'
Taking your first steps with a global
leader will give your career a real head
start. Here at Deutsche Bank, we can
give you direct access to some of the
greatest minds in banking - people who
are setting the pace and shaping the
future of the entire industry.
If you want to make your own mark
on our success, join our Analyst
Internship Program.
Submit your resume by Friday,
December 9th.
Learn more at db.com/careers/Umichigan
Afare.'ovws

Parents and Santas
careful not to get
kids' hopes up
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - A job
for their mom or dad. Money for
the heating bill. Food or a place
to live. Maybe gloves or boots.
More and more, Santas say
the children on their laps are
asking for less for themselves
- and Santa is promising less as
well.
With unemployment stub-
bornly high, more homes in
foreclosure and the economic
outlook dim, many children who
visit Santa are all too aware of
the struggle to make ends meet.
"These children understand
the conditions around the home
when they ask for stuff," said
Richard Holden, a 69-year-
old Santa from Gastonia, N.C.
"They understand when there
are other children in the fam-
ily, they need to be cautious or
thoughtful of them as well and
not ask for 10to 12 items."
Cliff Snider, who's been play-
ing Santa since he was a teen-
ager, agrees.
"I think the parents are say-
ing, 'It's an economic thing. Just
list two to three things you real-
ly want to have,"' he said. "Par-
ents are tryingto encourage the
children to be thrifty."
And the 64-year-old Snider
does his best to help out. When
he gets a big-ticket request, he
typically responds: "There's an
awful lot of children asking for
that this year. What else do you
want?"
At the Charles W. Howard
Santa Claus School, Santas

learn lines like, "Wow, that's a
big gift. Is there anything else
you might like?"
These days, though, Santas
are havingto use it less and less.
"I think it's becoming more
popular not to have that long
list," said Tom Valent, dean of
the Howard Santa school in
Midland, Mich., which gets
more than 3,000 letters to
Santa a year and just graduat-
ed its 75th class. "Families are
teaching their children to be as
much of a giver as a receiver."
Starlight Fonseca has been
teaching her five children, ages
5 to 14, "that we're not the only
ones who have to cut things
back. We're not the only ones
struggling."
The 31-year-old mother and
her husband Jose had been
relying on a stipend from the
University of Texas law school
that Fonseca lost when an ill-
ness made it impossible for her
to keep her grades up. She'd
hoped to graduate in May but
was unable to attend school
this semester and can't get stu-
dent loans due to poor credit.
Fonseca tells her kids that
"to make it fair for everyone,
Santa has to cut back for every-
one.... We paint it in a way that
Santa is doing the best he can
to make everybody happy at
Christmas."
It's especially hard for the
oldest children.
"They were two little kids
who used to be excited about
Christmas, and now they know
every gift under the tree should
have gone to the utility com-
pany," she said. "It shouldn't be
that way, but that's where we
are now."


4A - Thursday, December 8, 2011

0
The Michigan Daily -michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, December 8, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

c fiiioan Bath
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
State takeover oversteps
Emergency managers are given too much power
fter being appointed by Republican Gov. Rick Snyder last
week, Flint's new emergency manager Michael Brown
didn't waste any time making changes to the city. By last
Friday, his second day on the job, Brown had fired seven city hall
officials and docked the pay of several others, including the mayor
of Flint and City Council members. Flint is the fourth city in Michi-
gan to fall under state takeover, and the policy seems to be expand-
ing to more cities. Elected city officials should be the individuals
who represent citizens, not appointed state officials. The state take-
over law needs to have greater restrictions and should not give sole
power to a state-appointed official.


I have nobody to blame but myself for my
stupidity and actions, words, things that I
did, that I thought I could do:'
- Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich on his sentencing of
14 years for 18 felony corruption convictions, as reported yesterday by The New York Times.
Expressing outrage in Troy

As of Dec. 1, the state took over Flint's
finances. The city has been in bad shape since
General Motors left the area, taking factory
and assembly jobs along with it. This isn't the
first time Flint was declared to be in an eco-
nomic state of emergency, as a financial man-
ager was put into place from 2002 to 2006.
The emergency manager position was
established under the state takeover law
20 years ago. Public Act 4 allows the gov-
ernor to appoint a manager to assist cit-
ies in which finances have become overly
burdensome. The holder of the position can
circumvent city charters, fire current city
officials and even interfere with collective
bargaining rights.
The state takeover law jeopardizes democ-
racy. Appointed officials are not able to speak
for the citizens they represent. The purpose
ofhavingelected officials is for local residents
to choose someone to represent them. But in
the event of a state takeover, an appointed
emergency manager calls the shots. State
takeovers are negative for the state. They
signify that Michigan cities are unable to
succeed economically and instead must rely
on state funds. Frequent state takeovers also

set a bad precedent. Cities may choose to fall
into state takeover - hoping the government
will bail them out rather than try to fix their
financial problems on their own.
Cities that are struggling to manage their
finances should be helped by the state, but
not in this manner. Giving one outside per-
son the power to overhaul an entire city is
not an effective management strategy. After
the emergency manager is gone, the city can
easily fall back to its previous status. Instead
of having one state-appointed individual
make unilateral decisions, there should be a
consultation process, in which someone like
an emergency manager works with city offi-
cials, instead of ruling over them.
While many cities need the help of the
state government, complete state takeovers
are not a viable solution. When the elected
officials in a city can no longer represent
their constituents, residents are left feeling
a lack of control in their own governance.
Rather than appoint one state official to have
all the power, state takeovers should use a
consultation process, in which qualified indi-
viduals come in and help a city, not take it
over entirely.

Troy, Mich. isn't the kind of
place that usually makes
headlines. A suburb of
80,000 people
five miles up
Interstate 75
from Detroit, it
claims the title
of Michigan's
safest city. Troy « -=
has major malls
and corporate JOEL
headquarters, HATTERMAN
and the city's
government
tends to be pret-
ty low-key. When your residents are
solidly upper middle class, after all,
there's not that much more to do
other than make sure the schools
and other services run smoothly.
Within the city itself, at least, there
isn't the same vexing questions of
inequality and distributive justice
that plague the nation as a whole.
Well, so much for low-key gov-
ernance. After declining prop-
erty values nearly shuttered the
Troy Public Library, and residents
passed a new property tax mill-
age to keep it open this summer, a
slate of three Tea Party candidates
rode the backlash to victory in last
month's City Council election. One
of them was Mayor Janice Daniels.
A week ago today, a local blogger
noted that Daniels had written a
Facebook post in June stating, "I
think I am going to throw away my
I Love New York carrying bag now
that queers can get married there."
As you'd expect, that slur rico-
cheted around the Internet. Pub-
lic comment about the post at the
Troy City Council meeting Mon-
day, what someone called "the most
monumental meeting in Troy his-
tory," lasted more than four hours.

Watching a live streaming of the
meeting over Troy Patch (originally
to see what became of a proposed
new train station opposed by Dan-
iels), I found myself glued to the
proceedings as citizen after citizen
advanced to the microphone - most
to condemn her words and request
an apology. A number of them were
Troy high school students. In more
than a few ways, the group repre-
sented American democracy at its
finest.
Yes, there were a few people say-
ing, "We need to get off this politi-
cal correctness nonsense right
away!" But lecturing the mayor
on respect, there were also Asian
20-somethings recounting how
tough it had been for them to come
out, Muslims identifying anti-gay
hate speech with their own expe-
rience of being called terrorists,
Catholics talking about how find-
ing out friends were gay had made
them reconsider previous prejudic-
es and Italians quoting Holocaust
survivor Elie Wiesel on how "we
must always take sides."
The scene made for a kind of
liberal pluralist fantasy: a commu-
nity made up of all sorts of people,
of diverse heritages and beliefs,
all transcending their differences
to come together, mostly, behind a
shared moral vision for respect and
love. This is what we're supposed to
be able to do: acknowledge but also
get beyond our particular herds
and tribes to forge a broader com-
munity, in what sociologist Michael
Eric Dyson, in his lecture here last
Friday, called:"metastatic multicul-
turalism."
Beyond the fact of who was
talking, though, it felt good to see
an affluent American community
expressing sincere moral outrage

about something, given all the cru-
elty that goes down these days and
the scarcity of meaningful open
discussion about our responsibili-
ties. Some University community
members may feel there's all too
much talk, and not nearly enough
meaningful action, but I'd say that
reflects how these discussions have
been relegated from an increas-
ingly segmented public sphere into
more sanitized realms like the col-
lege classroom. The kind of society
we live in doesn't usually ask us
to believe in much, other than the
virtues of consumption and the cer-
tainty of continued opportunities
for self-enrichment.
Acknowledge our
differences, but

01

move past them.
Of course, moral outrage at anti-
gay bigotry can often come relative-
ly cheap. It's a lot harder for those
of us in the upper brackets to start
talking about injustice when the
stakes include our own current and
potential wealth, not just whether
someone else can get married. But
our country's sense of common pur-
pose and civic virtue is so depleted,
especially in local governance, that
you have to hope this can lead to
greater and more enduring change.
The Troy of legend fell. With a new
commitment to our own communi-
ties, maybe we can avoid that fate.
-Joel Batterman can be
reached at jomba@umich.edu.

MATT BOUSE AND MATT WOELFEL I
Intern in philanthropy

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
STEPHEN RAIMAN |
Not all GSRAs want unionization

Internships often introduce students to
new careers, provide valuable experiences
and offer contacts for future employment.
When looking for internships, many students
search in big cities, but did you know there is
a paid opportunity open to all undergraduate
students right here in Ann Arbor? The Uni-
versity's Development Summer Internship
Program, or D-SIP, is a 12-week program
that introduces students to careers in philan-
thropy and primes students for professional
success. So why should you consider D-SIP?
D-SIP interns are placed in University
development offices and select non-profit
organizations in Ann Arbor. Past intern-
ship sites range from the Office of University
Development and the College of Engineering,
to Food Gatherers and the Ann Arbor Sum-
mer Festival. These offices apply to host an
intern and create meaningful projects that
allow interns to take responsibility and con-
tribute to the success of their office. Projects
challenge interns and strengthen their pro-
fessional skills, making D-SIP alumni strong
applicants in the competitive job market.
Individual assignments are diverse, and past
projects have included producing resources
on the best ways to thank donors, coordinat-
ing major fundraising events and communi-
cating giving opportunities to corporations
and foundations.
In addition to the Monday through Thurs-
day paid work component, interns attend a
Friday session that focuses on the academic
research behind philanthropy (class credit
is available). We learned about the history
behind philanthropy, donor motivations
and the many career options available in the
development profession. The class also pro-
vided an opportunity to engage with Uni-
versity leadership and major donors. As we
considered our future throughout the sum-
mer, it was powerful to hear about the profes-
sional journeys of the leaders and financial
supporters who have made the University
what it is today. Overall, D-SIP interns leave
the summer with a greater understanding
and appreciation for what it means to be a
Michigan Wolverine.
The Friday class also includes afternoon

lessons in professional development. With
one-on-one coaching by University staff,
reflective writing and mock interviews,
interns learn how to build a strong network,
create a personal brand and present them-
selves professionally. This training not only
helps interns think about what their dream
career might look like, it provides advice on
how to achieve those goals.
And we can't forget to mention that D-SIP
is fun. Getting to know each other through
teambuilding activities, our summer retreat
and social activities our class planned, we
left D-SIP with a group of new friends. We
bonded as an intern group - planning out-
ings like seeing a Tigers game at Comerica
Park and meeting up at many fun, sponta-
neous gatherings after a busy day of work.
As co-interns, we were able to support each
other as a collaborative unit.
D-SIP is focused on providing a complete
internship experience from the work com-
ponent through the educational opportuni-
ty. Interns learn skills that are not found in
college courses but are necessary to begin a
career. If you are unsure about your career
options, or if you are having trouble deciding
what you want to do, D-SIP is an excellent
way to explore your strengths, aspirations
and the careers available to you. As alumni of
the program, we encourage you to learn more
about non-profit fundraising and expand
your career prospects through the Develop-
ment Summer Internship Program.
Each of us came into the program from
diverse backgrounds, but by the end of the
summer we were more prepared to enter the
professional world, and we left D-SIP with
an increased understanding of the impact of
philanthropy on our lives and the legacy of
the University.
That's why you should apply to D-SIP.
For more information on how to apply,
visit: http://www.giving.umich.edu/intern-
ship/. And for more alumni tips, fan us on
Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/
UMDSIP.
Matt Bouse is an alum. Matt Woelfel is a
senior in the Ford School of Public Policy.

In a recent resolution pushed through the Michi-
gan Student Assembly, and in a recent press release,
the Graduate Employees' Organization has called for
an election "free of outside interference" to determine
whether graduate student research assistants will
become unionized. Most of my fellow GSRAs would
find this idea a little hypocritical, as GEO has hired paid
American Federation of Teachers employees to visit the
homes and offices of every GSRA on campus to deliver a
sales pitch. It seems GEO's definition of "outside inter-
ference" only includes those who disagree with them.
This political double-speak, sadly, has been a con-
stant theme during GEO's campaign to push compulsory
unionization on GSRAs. During GEO's most recent con-
tract negotiation, it simply tried to absorb GSRAs into its
bargaining unit with no election at all. This fact should
be remembered when GEO claims it seeks only to hold a
fair and democratic election.
Having failed to strong-arm the University into
including GSRAs in its union, GEO set out to pull an
"election" fast one. During GEO's negotiations with the
University, GEO lawyers pushed to hold an election as
soon as possible during the summer term. It's clear that
GEO felt it had an advantage by holding the election
while many GSRAs-were away from school, and before
their opposition could properly mount a campaign.
Again denied by the University, GEO took to politi-
cal means to get what it wanted. Recent hearings before
the Michigan Employment Relations Commission
regarding an election have laughably seen GEO argu-
ing its case with no opposition, after successfully using
legal and political maneuvers to silence the University
administration, and my group, Students Against GSRA
Unionization. The recent involvement of the Attorney
General's office will finally provide a voice opposing
GEO, though it may already be too late. Using the courts
to silence its opposition does not seem very democratic.
Why is GEO trying to silence its critics? Why are
members not telling the whole truth? Because compul-
sory unionization does not make sense for GSRAs. GEO
has not proposed any benefits that aren't already offered

to GSRAs by the University. GEO has argued that it has
been the driving force behind raises in graduate student
pay and benefits over the years, expecting us to believe
that the University would simply let GSRA pay fall
behind other comparable universities, with whom we
compete forthe most talented graduate students.
GEO has used fear as motivation, spinning tales of
oppressive advisers who mistreat their graduate stu-
dents at-will and never let them leave their labs, even
when family members pass away. We've all heard these
tales, but the fact is that Rackham Graduate School
already provides resources for students who feel that
their advisers or departments are treating them unfair-
ly. Rackham has a long record of successfully advocating
for students who feel they have been mistreated, and the
school does it without reaching into our pockets. GEO
has been trying to scare us into handing them over $400
per year for their "protection," but it is clear to all of us
that their protection is not needed or wanted.
A fair election seems like a noble cause, but what GEO
seeks is hardly fair. With the University prohibited from
campaigning against the union, the only opposition to
GEO would come from student groups like mine, which
is a volunteer group with no budget or staff. GEO, on the
other hand, is free to spread campaign promises (true or
untrue) with its vast financial and promotional resourc-
es, including full-time paid campaign staff.
GEO's motivation is primarily financial. By absorbing
GSRAs, GEO stands to collect nearly $1 million annu-
ally in additional dues. This will nearly triple its annual
income. The $400 annual fee will be mandatory for all
GSRAs - whether they want the union's services or not.
GEO's claims of "freedom" and "choice" fall flat with the
realization that all GSRAs would be forced to submit to
GEO's employment agreement, and all would have to
submit to their mandatory service fee for the privilege
of being included in a contract with which they may or
may not agree.
Stephen Raiman is a GSRA and Ph.D. student. He is
the founder of Students Against GSRA Unionization.

0


W The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Thursday, December 8, 2011 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, December 8, 2D11 - 5A

RECORDS
From Page 1A
versity of Michigan is to share
knowledge and to share infor-
mation, and it's something that
we take very seriously here," she
said.
REQUEST FOR PCARD
TRANSACTIONS
In April, the Daily submitted
a FOIA request for records of
PCard transactions of all Uni-
versity of Michigan-Ann Arbor
employees during fiscal year
2010.
Out of roughly 42,000 Univer-
sity faculty and staff, about 6,100
possess a PCard, according to
Rowan Miranda, associate vice
president for finance. The cards
can be used like credit cards, and
employees use them to pay for
travel, research expenses or sup-
plies for departments. Most Uni-
versity employees with a PCard
have a spending limit of $5,000,
and total PCard expenses for the
University average $105 million
to $115 million per year, accord-
ing to Miranda.
The University implemented
the PCard system, which stores
expense reports electronically,
in 1995 to better track employee
spending and reduce the cost of
small-dollar purchases.
"The modern business prac-
tice is to use PCards because the
cost of processingthe transaction
when used appropriately can be
so much less," Miranda said.
Upon receiving a phone call
from Sellinger that the Daily's
request for PCard transactions
would cost thousands of dollars,
the Daily narrowed the request
to employees in the Office of the
President and upper level admin-
istrators including: University
Provost Philip Hanlon, Athletic
Director Dave Brandon, Execu-
tive Vice President for Medical
Affairs Ora Pescovitz, Executive
Vice President and Chief Finan-
cial Officer Timothy Slottow, Vice
President for Development Jerry
May, Vice President for Research
Stephen Forrest, Vice Presi-
dent and General Counsel Suel-
lyn Scarnecchia, Vice President
for Student Affairs E. Royster
Harper and Executive Director of
Research Communications David
Lampe.,
On May 27, the FOIA Office
responded that the information
would cost $1,800.
Asubsequentattempttonarrow
the request to University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman - instead
of her entire office - and six of the
nine aforementioned administra-
tors yielded an $870 fee.
An appeal submitted to Gary
Krenz, special counsel to Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man, to lower the cost of the
PCard FOIA request is pending.
Under section 15.234 of the
Michigan Freedom of Informa-
tion Act, institutions may only
charge for the cost of producing
records, which often means the
cost of printing and mailing doc-
uments. However, a public body
may charge a fee in order to pay

an employee to review content -
such as students' transcripts or
private information like Social
Security numbers - that may be
exempt from the law. The law
states that public bodies may only
impose a fee if a request "would
result in unreasonably high costs
to the public body because of the
nature of the request."
In this case, Lisa Mikalonis, an
intellectual property and media
attorney based in Southfield,
Mich., said the Daily's request is
"more of a usual request which
arguably would fall under the
that part of the definition where
(the Daily) shouldn't have been
charged anything at all."
To gauge whether the cost of
retrieving PCard data at the Uni-
versity of Michigan was reason-
able, the DailysentFOIArequests
over the past three months to
each Big Ten school asking for
all PCard transactions of univer-
sity employees who possessed a
PCard in fiscal year 2010. North-
western University and Penn-
sylvania State University are
exempt from FOIA laws because
Northwestern is a private school
and Penn State is protected by
Pennsylvania's Right-to-Know
law, which doesn't require uni-
versities to grant public access of
their information.
Of the schools that responded,
Ohio State University, University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
and University of Nebraska-
Lincoln sent the records free
of charge. Purdue University
requested $500 for the six months
of data it had on file. Michigan
State University requested $200
for 10 hours of labor to compile
records of more than 140,000
transactions. The University of
Iowa requested $181.50 for three
hours of labor to gather records
for more than 2,500 employees
who totaled 275,000 PCard trans-
actions.
Each state has different open
records laws with various fee
regulations, but LoMonte said it
doesn't make sense that the Uni-
versity of Michigan would charge
thousands of dollars to retrieve
the same information other uni-
versities offered for free or at a
lower cost.
"If Michigan is like most
schools, that data is all comput-
erized, and it's the kind of thing
that ought to be retrievable by a
skilled IT person in a matter of
hours and not days or weeks," he
said.
At the University, the FOIA
Office charges for requests if
more than two hours of labor are
required to obtain the informa-
tion. The office calculates charg-
es of requests based on what it
would cost to pay the hourly sal-
ary of the lowest-paid employee
capable or authorized to find the
requested material.
Section 15.234 of the Freedom
of Information Act states that
a public body must identify the
nature of "unreasonably high
costs" - meaning that a body
must provide a cost breakdown if
it imposes a fee. The Daily asked
for a cost breakdown of the $870
fee on Sept. 15, 2611 and did not
receive the estimate until Nov. 11,

2011.
The cost breakdown to gener-
ate PCard transactions indicated
that it would cost $72.50 per hour
to retrieve PCard transactions
for Coleman and $346.63 per
hour for Pescovitz.
In an interview Tuesday, Sell-
inger explained that the cost is so
high because, due to privacy con-
cerns, each administrator named
in the request would have to
review his or her PCard transac-
tions and redact any information
for individuals whose identities
could be revealed in the PCard
statement.
"It is our obligation to make
sure we don't provide informa-
tion that we shouldn't," she said.
Despite the disparity in fees
charged by the Big Ten schools,
Doyle said the University of
Michigandoesn'tusecosttodeter
requests, and fees are always
"very carefully calculated." She
added that the sheer number of
people at the University makes
it difficult to keep costs down for
large requests like PCards trans-
actions for all employees.
"I thinkthe thingthathappens
here that other institutions don't
experience is the large number of
people that are involved around
the University when you give a
request like that," she said. "We
just have a larger population of
people with PCards."
REQUEST FOR
PARKING TICKETS
On Sept. 16, 2011 the FOIA
Office notified the Daily via a
written letter that it would cost
$1,240 to respond to a Sept. 11,
2011 request for the number of
parking tickets given out by the
DepartmentofPublic Safetyeach
day from Sept. 1, 2010 to Sept. 1,
2011. When the Daily inquired
about the expense, Sellinger
responded that parking ticket
reports are stored in separate
computer files for each day, and
$1,240 is what it would cost to
pay one person to download
every file in one year.
An appeal submitted to Krenz
to lower or waive the cost of the
FOIA request was denied last
month.
University Department of
Public Safety spokeswoman
Diane Brown confirmed it would
take several hours to look up
parking ticket data because the
information is stored by day and
not month or year. She explained
that the system doesn't pose
record-keepingproblems for DPS
officers because the city of Ann
Arbor handles disputes and pay-
ments of parking tickets.
However, LoMonte pointed
out that parking ticket reports
are the kind of data a school
should be able to generate in a
matter of minutes or "with the
push of a few buttons."
"If the institution is well-man-
aged, they ought to be able to put
their hands on their own records
easily, and if they can't - if vari-
ous obvious records are kept in a
disorganized way or non-search-
able way - you really have to ask
yourself if that university has
management problems," LoMon-

te said.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said some data at the
University can be accessed in a
few minutes with a computer,
while other records are still kept
on paper.
"There's an enormous range of
how information is stored, and I
can well imagine that that's the
case in any large decentralized
institution like the University of
Michigan," he said.
After requesting similar park-
ing ticket information from the
10 other Big Ten schools subject
to open records requests, eight
of the schools sent the informa-
tion at no cost. Of those, three
sent the monthly - instead of
daily - breakdown of parking
tickets. The only other school
to charge a fee was MSU, which
charged $250 to provide a daily
breakdown for how many of the
115,684 tickets given last year
were handed out by the Michigan
State Police Department.
Upon submitting a FOIA
request to the city of Ann Arbor
for the number of parking tickets
administered by the Ann Arbor
Police Department in the same
time period, the city provided
data for 90,925 tickets at no cost.
An Oct. 6 response to a sepa-
rate FOIA request to the Univer-
sity's FOIA Office indicated that
DPS issued 43,078 parking tick-
ets from Sept. 1, 2010 to Sept. 1,
2011.
When comparing MSU's cost
to the University of Michigan,
Mikalonas, the attorney, said
both schools could be following
the state's FOIA guidelines and
calculate different fees. How-
ever, she said it's suspicious that
the University would charge
hundreds of dollars more when
it gave out fewer tickets than
MSU.
"A $1,000 discrepancy, to me,
suggests that somebody was
makingthe calculation incorrect-
ly because I can't imagine that
those two departments would be
that different in terms of their
hourly wages for the lowest-paid
employee to find the amount of...
parkingtickets (given each day),"
Mikalonis said.
A COST TO
COMPUTE A COST
In addition to the PCard trans-
actions and parking ticket data
requests, the Daily submitted a
request on Nov. 13 asking for all
reports and/or documents that
mention the Native American
Graves Protection and Repatria-
tion Act from March 26, 2010 to
the present. In a phone conver-
sation last month, Sellinger said
the request was so large that
the office may have to charge
a deposit in order to calculate
the cost estimate of the FOIA
response.
In an interview this week,
Sellinger said it would take more
than two hours to contact every
University employee encom-
passed in the request and pro-
duce a cost estimate.
"When a request is that broad,
it's difficult for us to proceed if
the time to prepare the cost esti-

mate exceeds the time that we
would normally charge," Sell-
inger said.
But LoMonte and Mikalonis
said charging a deposit to calcu-
late an estimate is not permitted
under the law.
"They're supposed to charge
you only for directly respond-
ing to the request, not for some
incidental or tangential cost,"
LoMonte said.
However, the University typi-
cally requires a requester to pay
half the fee of a FOIA cost before
the office starts to collect data,
which Mikalonis said complies
with the law.
"(A FOIA officer) can't say, 'I

need
fee' "
can sa
going
the fe
it.' "
In
receiv
reque
in 20
accord
FOIA
Lo
schoo
profit
they c
way t
that d
pen.
to tin
that
and g
actual
are de
said."
poking
charg
of den
denyir
not in
Doy
view '
the ca
Michi
"It';
FOIA
hold
Doyle
value
of sac
Oft
versit
the m
entitie
neys.I
ing em
compe
Athlet
have
docut
to the
In
Michi
versit
man s
compl
possib
"W
becau
that w
as we(
are so
don't
compl
ply be
we're

a deposit to determine the good for society. I think it builds
Mikalonis said. "But she trust."
y, 'Here is what the fee is But Mikalonis said even if
to be. I need 50 percent of public institutions don't mind
e before I then go through sharing information, they often
charge expensive fees because
they don't want to be bothered.
THE HIGH-COST "In today's economy, public
FOIA TREND bodies are very understaffed,"
she said. "So you're asking some-
2010, the University body to stop what they're doing
ed $7,878 from FOIA and respond, and that cduld be
st fees as well as $11,841 another basis for comingup with
09 and $22,184 in 2008, what are arguably unreasonably
ding to the 2010 University fees to deter you - not neces-
report. sarily because they don't want
Monte explained that it public - but because they just
Is cannot legally make a don't want totake the time to get
off FOIA requests, and you that information."
annot use large fees as a Additionally, LoMonte said
o deter requests. However, though the media often acts
oesn't mean it doesn't hap- in the public's interest when
requesting records, many insti-
e definitely see from time tutions get away with charging
ne that there are schools exorbitant fees because few news
are marking up the cost organizations have the money to
rossly overestimating the challenge fees or denials of open
1 cost for what we think records requests in court.
Aerrent motives," LoMonte "Government agencies have
They just don't like people figured out that they can get a
g into their business, and way with a lot of concealment
ing a jackpot fee is a way knowing that the odds of being
lying their request without challenged are in their favor,"
ng a request in function, if LoMonte said.
word." However, there are instances
yle emphasized in an inter- of professional and student jour-
Tuesday that this is not nalists challenging institutions
ase with the University of of higher education about their
gan. open records requests. In Octo-
s never our goal to deter a ber, a student journalist at The
request because we really Campus Ledger - the student
it extremely essential," newspaper of Johnson Coun-
said. "It's that democratic try Community College - and
of FOIA that we hold kind the Student Press Law Center
red in our office. " brought a lawsuit against the
:he 436 requests to the Uni-- Kansas college for charging the
y last year, 111 came from newspaper $47,426 to obtain
edia, 105 came from private e-mails exchanged between two
es and 55 came from attor- administrators during a seven-
Personal records - includ- month period. The school also
nployment agreements and estimated it would cost $9,745.96
ensation information for to obtain just one day of e-mails.
tic Department officials - Last week, the former student
been the most requested journalist won the lawsuit, and
nents since 2007, according the cost for the records was low-
report. ered to $450.
an interview with The In LoMonte's opinion, the
gan Daily on Tuesday, Uni- media has to "really need the
y President Mary Sue Cole- record" to be motivated enough
aid the University tries to to take an institution to court
y with as many requests as over a denial or fee.
le. "There are very few news
e make a very sincere effort organizations that are willing
se, ultimately, I believe to spend tens of thousands of
'e need to be as transparent dollars chasing public records
can," Coleman said. "There in this economy," LoMonte said.
me things that either we "That's just the sad reality."
have records or we can't
y with, but we try to com- - Daily News Editor
cause we don't have things Joseph Lichterman
trying to hide. This is contributed to this report.


MAJOR
From Page 1A
centration and a professor of
philosophy and women's studies,
said the program aims to equip
students with the analytical
skills necessary to combat cur-
rent global issues.
"(The goal of the program is)
to learn how to understand and
describe what's going on with
these phenomena of politics and
economics in relation to what do
we want the world to be like,"

Anderson said.
She said the concentration
emphasizes a combination of
qualitative and quantitative rea-
soning - skills that can prepare
students for success in the com-
petitive job market.
Due to the necessary faculty
supervision for advising and
limited resources, the number of
students accepted to the concen-
tration will be capped at 20 stu-
dents next semester, according
to Anderson.
Anderson said the concentra-
tion will be a good fit for "people

who want to combine their pas-
sion for making the world better
with very solid empirical under-
standing of (global issues)."
She said similar programs
have proven to be popular among
students at other universities,
such as the University of Penn-
sylvania, University of Arizona,
Duke University, University of
North Carolina and Yale Univer-
sity.
Economics Prof. Jim Adams
said he is excited about the
collaboration because he is
interested in interdisciplinary

concentrations. He said the care-
ful and reflective analytical tools
provided by the curriculum will
provide students with a variety
of career paths ranging from
education to legal practice.
"The program takes the best
of the verbally rigorous training
of the LSA with the best of the
quantitative training of the LSA
and puts it together in a dyna-
mite package," Adams said.
He added that the PPE pro-
gram is expected to be a chal-
lenging concentration.
"There are a lot of hurdles

that students will have to jump
to navigate this program suc-
cessfully," Adams said. "It will
require a lot of initiative on the
part of the student."
LSA sophomore Phillip
Schermer, who said he is inter-
ested in applying to the program,
said he views 'the smaller sized
concentration as a way to per-
sonalize a much larger school.
"When students have oppor-
tunities where they can work
in smaller groups with people
with similar interests, they feel a
deeper connection to the Univer-

sity," Schermer said.
He added that unlike double
or triple majors, the PPE pro-
gram frees up credits to explore
other fields. Schermer also said
he likes that the concentration
consolidates multiple ranges of
study and interests.
"I don't know if I want to go
into law or business, and (the
PPE concentration) sets me up
to do both," Schermer said. "This
allows me to follow my career
interest, and it allows me to take
other interesting classes in the
University."


DRIVERS
From Page 1A
According to the study, the
rates of teenagers with driver's
licenses have decreased at every
age. In 1983, 80 percent of 18 year
olds held driver's licenses, and in
2008, the number was 65 per-
cent.
Sixteen-year-olds are also less

likely to have a license today than
they were 25 years ago. In 2008,
31 percent of 16 year olds had a
license, compared to 46 percent
in 1983, according to the study.
Young adults under age 30 are
also less likely to be on the road
today, as the study indicates a
10-percent drop in the number
of drivers in their 20s and a 5
percent drop in drivers who are
in their 30s compared to 1983

levels.
Another main finding of the
study, according to Sivak, is that
senior citizens are becoming less
likely to relinquish their licenses
as they grow older.
"We think that this reflects the
fact that the elderly are less likely
to give up their mobility now than
they were 25 years ago," Sivak
wrote.
Fred Woodhams, a spokesman

for the Michigan Department of
State, confirmed that an increas-
ing number of senior citizens are
continuingto stay on the roads, as
America's population continues
to age.
"We recognize that people
are living longer lives and living
(more) active lives," Woodhams
said.
He added that senior drivers
seem to be "very safe drivers"

since they tend to use their seat
belts often and are not likely to
drive drunk or be overly aggres-
sive behind the wheel.
Senior citizens account for 16.5
percent of Michigan drivers, but
only represent 8 percent of driv-
ers involved in crashes, according
the Woodhams.
However, Woodhams acknowl-
edged that senior drivers do tend
to raise public concern.

"The issue of senior drivers
is (one) we get a lot of questions
about, especially from families,"
he said. "We encourage people to
be aware of their abilities."
Sivak echoed Woodham's sen-
timents, adding that the shift in
age of America's drivers could
have serious implications for the
number of vehicles purchased
and environmental consequences
of transportation in the future.


FOLLOW THE MICHIGAN DAILY ON TWITTER
@MichiganDaily @MichDailyNews @MichDailyOpEd @MichDailyArts @MichDailyFball @MichDailySports


6A - Thursday, December 8, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NBC' s'Parks'makes for recreational fun

Paris of America
still shining in
fourth season
By SAM CENZHANG
DailyArts Writer
Coming off one of the best
season-and-a-half, stretches in
the history of television comedy,
"Parks and Rec-
reation" makes
its bid for all-*
time classic Parksand
status with sea-
son four. By the Recreation
fourth season, Season Four
most comedies Midseason
know . what
they're good at Thursdays at
and what their 8:30 p.m.
audiences want NBC
to see. Some
shows, like "The
Big Bang Theory" or "The Office,"
are content to languish in stasis,
as their stories get stale and their
jokes become broader and broad-
er. Showrunners Greg Daniels
and Michael Schur seem to have
learned from their mistakes on
"The Office." The fourth season of

"Parks" stays true to the tone and
spirit of the show. With fresh plots
and development of beloved char-
acters, "Parks" proves it still has
plentyto say.
"Parks" has always stood out
among sitcoms for beingunabash-
edly nice. None of the wall-to-wall
laughs come at anyone's expense
(except Jerry, but who cares about
him?). Schur talks often about the
influence of "Cheers" on his work:
Like "Cheers," "Parks" is about
people who, even though they
have to work together, still want to
spend time together. The show's
feel-good endings are earned,
because they're constantly show-
ing us how much these characters
care about each other, even when
jokes are flying.
"Parks" continues to give view-
ers the specificity of its jokes
and the world-building they've
become accustomed to, and there
are no descents into comic broad-
ness in the fourth season. Instead,
"Parks" offers us gems like anoth-
er installment of Perd Hapley (Jay
Jackson, Mr. "I don't understand
what you just said, but it had the
cadence of a joke"), Andy Dwyer
(Chris Pratt) taking a women's
studies class and Ben (Adam

Scott) rolling up his sleeves and
making geopolitical problem solv-
ing his bitch.
Season four has been a mas-
terclass in character work. Ron
Swanson is always teetering on
the edge of caricature, but the
writers have not made a single
misstep as they toe the line. The
stone-cold classic episode "Ron
and Tammys" is probably the
funniest thing to air on television
this year. It also shows us Ron
not just- as a meat-eating, gov-
ernment-hating cartoon, but also
as someone who genuinely cares
about his friends. It's just that
one to three friends are sufficient.
Also, Nick Offerman shaves his
beard. Who knew something that
bone-chillingly unsettling could
be so hilarious?
The pitch-perfect Leslie and
Ben storyline demonstrates that
"Parks" could do heartwarm-
ing romantic comedy just as well
as it did anything else. We've
seen "Parks" tackle relationship
storylines before, but Andy and
April (Aubrey Plaza) got married
almost immediately and eat out of
Frisbees. At first glance, Leslie's
dilemma with Ben seems to be
another rehashing of the tired old,

0

Nsc

"Community' was benched?!"
"Can a woman have it all?" sitcom
plot.
But this is where the show's
specificity saves it. It's not that
Leslie can't juggle work and love.
It's that she's running for office
and in love with someone who
works with her, her boss Chris
(Rob Lowe) banned intra-office
relationships and she bribed
someone to hide their relationship
in season three. The show sticks

the landing with the help of its
actors: Ben and Chris's interplay
in "The Trial of Leslie Knope"was
touching and hilariously over-the-
top at the same time, and Leslie's
reaction shots when she's told why
she got to keep her job are among
the best work Amy Poehler has
done on the show.
If "Parks and Recreation" has
failed at anything this season, it's
simply thatit's notas transcenden-

tallygreatas itslastseason. Season
three was defined by Leslie and
Ben's refreshingly unconvoluted
will-they-won't-they-yes-they-
will. Whatever the show does with
them now that they're together,
expect it to be funny, charming
and compelling. With this excel-
lent first half of a season, "Parks"
continues to be the best comedy -
and quite possiblythe best show -
on television.

IS IT 'THEATER' OR 'THEATRE?' YOU'LL NEVER KNOW ... BUT WE DO.
Request an application to write for Fine Arts at arts@michigandaily.com

'70S MICHIGAN KNIT TAM lost at
OSU game. Seeking replacement for
sale or if found contact 734-546-8636

! ! !www.varsitymanagement.com!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments avail-
able
for fall 2012:
One bedrooms
543 Church
801 W. Madison
848 Tappan
1015 Vaughn
515 Walnut
521 Walnut
418 E. Washington
Apartments are renting fast! Call Var-
sity to schedule your tour today!

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedroom apartments
loctaed on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, December 8, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4_ plume 38 Try 48 Concerning, in
1 Bombed 51999 Motorcycle 39 Plastic choice memos
6 Hindu title Hall of Fame 40 Decant 51 Erie-
t Easyletters? induce e 42 Formed by the 52 John Arbuckle's
14 Board 6OTakes the wheel solidification of rotten
15 Bar mixer 7 Prolix magma 57 LPN skill
16 Mme., across the 8 Santa._.winds 43 Bookish types 56 California's
Pyrenees 9 "Cool" amount 44 Absorbs, in a Nuevo State
17 Evian, in Evian 10 Chipping tool way Park
19 One whocan't 11 Make 45 More than words 5916th prez
passthebar? responsiblefor, 45 Mureya wr 59 e in
20 Marked for as a came 46 Buckeye an Form ending
remkoal 12 t9th-century 47 Put on alert 61 Post-op dose
21 House coat literaryfamily ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Thankfully credit name_
28 Org.concerned 13 Stuffed mouse, A L E T A P D U O Y U M A
withtheNoChild eg N O A R G U M E NT A M E N
Left Behind Act 18Cardor Met I M S U R E O F I T H A L T
29 Ambulanearrival 22 Capalmoutho S A T E E N S T O P O
sites,lbriefy the Black Sea E NS E TE S L OAN S
30 London taxi 23 "My treat!"
31 She played Julia 24 Whacker's A D E T E X A S T E A
in "Julie & Julia target V E R B R A ME N R E F
33 Bohemian dance 25Merit t J U S T C A N T D E C I D E
34NovelistFerber 26Grand D E M H O N K I D A Y S
35One wayto 27DutchGolden E C 0 T O P I A A E C
serve beef Age painter O T R O S T A S M S S T
37 SASE enclosure, 32Showed R E S T 5 H E L L E Y
maybe disinterest, R S H L E
4tmeaklings maybe S A G A N O T A P R A Y E R
43 laceforalarge 33Earlya.m.wear U H U H I N A P I G S E Y E
um a 35 AKC part: Abbr. BI N S PEG T E T R A S
44 Muoces 36 Daisy lead-in xwordeditor@aol.com 12/07/11
47 She turned pro 1 2 a a s a 8 e 9 11 12 13
before her 16th
birthday 14 15 18
49 Sch. with a Mesa
campus1
50Sweettreatwith a'
an onclamation
point in its name 2 3 25 a a
53 One ofnthe
deadly sins as 9 3a
54 Pianist Claudio a' aa 2 3
55 _ Tome
56 Classic noel a43 as n3 a ua a
02 - ..Today
63 Joint-forming a'41
hones as a as a c a7 as4
64 Surface with legs
65 Author m 1 52
66 Tell off
67 Slammin' sa31 a
Sammy of golf
DOWN $2 63
t alors prnron 
2 Ode title wrds ms s a,
3 Kwik-E-Mart guy
on 'The B oonGagiard12/08/11i
Simpsons" (c)2011aTriOuneMedia Services,,Inc.

! ! !www.varsitymanagement.com! ! ! ! !www.varsitymanagement.com! ! !
Varsity Management

Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments available
for fall 2012
Studio Apartments
1039 Baldwin
331 Packard
418 E. Washington
Apartments are renting fast! Call Var-
sity to schedule your tour today!
AVAILABLE FALL. FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
cated on Central Campus near the Busi-
ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2
kitchens, living room, dining room,
free
laundry and parking, Central Air!
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com
*!!!!4 BDRM CONDO N. Campus
area. Free utilities, air cond., laundry,
cable, int. Loaded w/extras.
$598/pp/mo. 4 pax min. 313-838-2629.
610 S. FOREST
Efficiencies ~ 2 Remaining
Fully Furnished
Heat & Water Included
Free Internet
734-761-8000
primesh.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 1129 White St.
6 prkg spaces. 3 bth. Some recents Up-
dates. $4200 plus utlities. 734-996-
1991. www.cappomanagement.com
8 MONTH LEASES!!!
HUGE TOWNHOUSES w/ 3 1/2
Baths
4 FREE Parking Spaces
9 1/2 foot ceilings throughout
Call for details (734) 665-8825
www.cainpusrealty.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $200011/onth. Avuil
Fall 2012. dkiemptnergcomcams.net
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
best housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
blocks from Central Campus and down-
town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofls.com

625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments available
for fall 2012
Two Bedrooms
1039 Baldwin
911 S. Forest
1001 S. Forest
1015 Huron
801 W. Madison
539 Packard
917 Packard
1015 Vaughn
521 Walnut
Apartments are renting fast! Call Var-
sity to schedule your tour today!
f7341 33'2600(

s T U o E N T H o U sING, I N C.
Parking for Sale
2012-13
Limited spaces remaining!!
909 Church /Abbey
726£S. Statc/Foln
,51O1E LanWrence
.5201 ekard
721S. ForestFrest Place
511 . Hoover
734.n761.8000
1www.primesh.com

411 HIGH STREET APARTMENTS
2 Bedrooms
Kerry Town-North Campus!
Quiet Neighborhood!
Heat & Water Included
Cover Parking Available
$895-$925
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
I & 2 bdrm., modern,.clean, quiet
5 mm. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
i www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-8115
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedrrom apartments
loctaed near the U/M Medical Campus.
Two blocks to Central Campus. Call
Michigan Commercial Realty.
734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL THREE
bedroom house loctaed nearthe U/M
Athletic Campus and Band Field.
Parking and Laundry. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com

ARBO
TIVE:
town, C
Burns1
734-991
AVAIL
bedro
hooi
Krog
BEAU
Tota
floors,
Thee
larg o
w
! 5 UN

 s) _s- v
ww.CarlsonProperties.com *
Now Leasing! CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
R POPERIES.DISTNC- www.CumpusMgt.com
R PROPERTIES. DISTINC- the best local website for a wide selec-
Award-Wnming rentals in Kerry- tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
entral Campus, Old West Side, cialize in houses and apartments very
Park. Now Renting for 2012. close to central campus. All are attrac-
4-3157. ww w.arborprops.com tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
LABLE FALL. FOUR and five utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
am duplex in a quiet neighbor- plete listing for Fall 2012 available
d. Walk to football games and now! Or call and speak with our
er. Call Michigan Commercial Leasing Consultant, Pat at
Realty. 734-662-5500. 734-663-4101.
www.michcomrealty.com
LIMITED 1 BED Apts. Remaining
TIFUL 5 BEDROOM HOUSE 2 @ 326 E. Madison $925/$945
Near the Law School! 2 @ 515 E. Lawrence $880
Fully Furnished
illy remodeled with hardwood Heat & Water Included
updated kitchen, & 2 full baths! Covered Parking Available
apt is extremely spacious with Free Internet
e bedrooms great for sharing. 734-761-8000
:parking spaces included and primesh.eom
on-site laundry.
ton More Information ON CAMPUS LOCATIONS!
Call (734)668-1100 Varsity Management has Studios,
ww.varsitymanagement.com I Bedroom, & 2 Bedroom Apartments
Available on Campus.
Locations close to the Business,
IT/6 UNIT HOUSE. Corner of Law School, & more!

HELP rWANTED01- TYPrIST Needed
for a dictated transcription. Strong Key-
boarding and Communication skills re-
quired. Paid. Call 734-395-2332 for
more information.
NOW HIRING
Spring 2012 Campus Reps
Contact jobs@GoEnnounce.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE tojoin. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

I

Church and Willard. Across the street
from Pizza House. 2 large sitting areas,
2 kitch., 3 showers/baths, wshr./dryer
no charge, 8 prkg. spaces avail. Aug.
2012-Aug 2013. CAlL: 248-330-0396
FANTASIC THREE BDRM FLAT.
Main door private house. Beautiful cus-
tom wood burning firerplace, full laun-
dry, larger private fenced yard and sun-
deck, hardwood doors and new carpet-
lug throughout. Freshly painted. $1300/
mnth w/ lease. Cull 734-478-5730.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
FULLY FURNISHED DOWN to
linens private keyed room and share ap-
pointed kitchen, larger bathrooom, fur-
nished living room with two other ten-
ants. Quiet private house. No smoking
or pets. $450/mo. Call 734-478-5730

For Locations & Prices
Call
(734)668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS:
WIY PAY $1500 FOR A BED???
Our 1 bedrooms start at $589.
We are now Renting for Spring/Fall
2012
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
FREE PROCESSING FEE, $150.00
VALUE**
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
4 BDRM/2 BATH House
Central Campus. Parking and ILaundry.
Avail. Sept. 2012. 734-395-6823
WWW.CAMPUSREALTY.COM
734-665-8825

0

'shr 3 [biy -pail


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
t

Thursday, December 8, 2011 - 7A

En ign
r9 ,
The most notable addi-
tion to the Maize Rage
this season is obvious -
Smotrycz's Lobstryczs. In honor
of the sophomore forward, sev-
eral students have attended every
game in Crisler Arena wearing
full lobster costumes, with maize
T-shirts thrown over top.
Evan Smotrycz is a natural
target to be honored like that,
with his casual demeanor, sense
of humor and
goofy gait.
But Michigan
coach John
Beilein prob-
ably doesn't
care at all
that one of
his starting BEN
forwards is
now the toast ESTES
of the student
section -
he's more worried about getting
Smotrycz to start playing more
consistently.
It's been a bit maddening at
times to watch the Reading,
Mass. native play this season.
Known as a tall swing/post man
with the ability to hit the 3-point
shot with consistency, Smotrycz
lived up to that billing last season.
But in the early stages of his
sophomore season, with many
expecting Smotrycz to make a
significant leap in his develop-
ment, the forward has frustrated.
He's flashed a multifacted offen-
sive game and has defended sol-
idly inside at times, but at other
times, he has forced shots outside
the flow of the offense and has
lost his man on defense.
Smotrycz is shooting at a
36.8-percent clip from deep,
which is down a little from last
year but not in any significant
way - he still can shoot the three
well. And he's had plenty of posi-
tive moments when he has looked
to be on the verge of a breakout.
But most of those moments
came in the first two games of
the season against weak oppo-
nents. Smotrycz has been unable
to maintain that play since the
levelof competition ramped up.
He shot just 8-for-19 in Michi-
gan's three games at the Maui
Invitational and alternated solid
play with missed 3-pointers and

iatic Evan Smotrycz
y d

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Sophomore forward Evan Smotrycz is the top-ranked recruit on the Wolverines asa former four-star forward.

mistakes in Saturday's win over
Iowa State.
That's been the biggest thing -
inconsistency. Because Smotrycz
looks so good at times, showing
the ability to hit long jumpers,
drive the lane and rebound in the
paint, it's that much more frus-
trating when he turns the ball
over or commits a silly foul.
The loss at Virginia was the
best example of this. Beilein
called it one of Smotrycz's "best
games," and for good reason -
he made all six of his shots and
pulled down five rebounds. But
Smotrycz couldn't avoid dumb
fouls and fouled out late in the
game. Smotrycz fouled out just
three times last season but has
done so three times already this
year, and it's probably no coinci-
dence that Michigan's two losses
have come in games when he's
been forced to sit.
"He continues to have issues
with just understanding his body
posture and how he's goingto
guard people when he's forced
to give help," Beilein said. "He
learns from it day by day. ... But
foul trouble remains something
that sneaks up on him one of
every three games."
The reference to body posture
is telling, because Smotrycz may
still be learningto deal with
his new frame after adding 36
pounds in the offseason. The idea

was to allow the wiry freshman
to better handle the rigors of the
college game - especially in the
paint, as Big Ten big men were
too powerful for the forward last
season.
It has undeniably done him
well, with his rebounds up from
2.3 per game last year to 5.3.
But that maybe the problem -
Smotrycz may have an identity
crisis. Beilein's offense has always
thrived when it's had a big man
who was proficient at shooting
threes (think the immortal Kevin
Pittsnogle, or DeShawn Sims).
When Smotrycz came to Michi-
gan, he seemed a perfect fit for
that role.
But then he got a decent
amount of time at center last sea-
son, and the weightgain indicates
that Beilein plans to give him
even more time at the "five" in
the future (though he'll surely be
a "four" most of the time).
The two positions require very
different styles in Beilein's sys-
tem, so itchas to be tough to keep
floating between them. Smotrycz
has proven decent enough at
center, but he'd be better off just
improving and diversifying his
game as a "four."
Nobody's asking himto be a
star - Tim Hardaway Jr. will
always be the team's top threat.
But if Smotrycz could improve
and become consistent enough

that opposing defenses must
account for him at all times, it
would open up even more offense
for Hardaway Jr. Plus, the Wol-
verines wouldn't have to rely on
freshman pointguard Trey Burke
as much, who has enough on his
plate as is.
This isn't to say that Smotrycz
has been some huge disappoint-
ment, either. He played very well
for a freshman last season, and
it still is just his second year -
there's plenty of time for growth.
But you know he has talent -
he's actuallythe highest-rated
Beilein recruit to play for the
Wolverines. And Smotrycz has
shown enough flashes that it
leaves you wanting more.
"When he lets the game come
to him a little bit more, he's a far
more efficient player," Beilein
said. "He knows it. And he's just
got to continue to work at it.
When you're out (in a game), it's a
different thing."
If Smotrycz does that adjusting
more rapidly and can become the
player thathis talent promises
sooner ratherthan later, the ceil-
ing for this Michigan team will
increase dramatically.
And he'll give those Lobstryczs
even more to be proud about.
Estes can be reached at
benestes@umich.edu or on
Twitter @benestes91.

Blue sends two
to WJC camp
LIZ VUKELICH when they first arrived.
Daily Sports Writer "You play against the best
20-and-under kids in the world,"
Freshman forward Phil Di Brown said. "You have to elevate
Giuseppe has developed into one your game that much more to
of the Michigan hockey team's compete and keep up. When you
most reliable scorers. His eight play at that tier, you can bringthat
goals this season put him in a tie back here."
for first place on the Wolverines' Di Giuseppe wasn't the only
roster and any teammate will Wolverine to receive an invitation
attest that he's notjust an average - sophomore Jon Merrill was
18-year-old hockey player. named to the USA's preliminary
So it comes as a surprise to see roster for the second consecutive
that Di Giuseppe will be a scratch year. The defenseman only start-
in Saturday's game againstMichi- ed skating with Michigan in the
gan State. last month and a half following a
It has nothing to do with inju- suspension, and he has yet to see
ries - Di Giuseppe will be return- any game action for the Wolver-
ing to his native Canada where ines.
he'll attend a week-long training According to Berenson, Team
camp for the Canadian Junior USA was aware of his suspended
National Team, which announced status before naming him to the
its roster at the end of last month. roster. There is still no concrete
"This summer, (Di Giuseppe) timetable as to when Merrill will
went to the (Canadian junior see game action again for Michi-
team's) camp and had a real good gan, but playing with the WJC
camp," said Michigan coach Red will give him the game experi-
Berenson. "Then when he had a ence he's been missing forthe first
real good start here, it was under- half of the season.
stood that he'd be invited." Brown said that though no
The World Junior Champion- player is a "shoe-in" just because
ship kicks off after Christmas he played the previous year, he
and pits 12 countries from North thinks Merrill has a good chance
America and Europe against each at making the team again - he
other. It's exclusively for 18 to 20 was Team USA's top defenseman
year olds and only involves the last year.
best - the top scorers, skaters, Di Giuseppe was an obvious
defensemen and goalies. pick for the preliminary roster,
On average, Michigan sends but the Canadian coaches will see
two players each year to train- if he is skilled enough for the final
ing camp, and Berenson is happy roster, which will be decided on
to support them - he thinks it's Dec. 14. The final roster for Team
important for the players to have USA will be decided on Dec. 22.
experience at the international Between 30 and 40 players are
level. named to the preliminary lists,
But at the same time, it's tough and by the end of camp, that num-
to lose Di Giuseppe, especially for ber is whittled down to about 20.
a big road game against a rival. The camp is tough - it must
"(Letting Di Giuseppe go) is to be if only the top skaters are
not a pleasant decision," Beren- invited. But Berenson and Brown
son said. "I don't like to lose these are confident about Di Giuseppe
players, but that's the way it is. and Merrill's chances of making
I'm trying to do what's best for the final cut.
the kid." "I think both (Di Giuseppe and
Junior forward Chris Brown Merrill) will make it and do really
won a bronze medal for Team well," Brown said.
USA in last year's tournament and Then he added with a smile:
knowsthat players leave the camp "But I hope the US wins, obvi-
as better hockey nlavers than ouslv."

'M' enters Sweet 16 led by even attack

Spi
for
Sil

Bala
For
gram h
gan vo
players
season
outside
Alex H
sophor
Erwin
side hi
and ser
ney Fle
With
high l
son, th
blocker
ducing
mance
The
Wolvet
overall
comple
depth
turn fr
In 2
a one-p
That
verines
nearly
of McE
middle
who tie
the tea
But
deraile
injury,
mighti
In it
ington
NCAA
contest
season

ikers searching sputtered. In three sets, the Wol-
verines hit just 12.33 kills per set
first multiple- compared to their season average
of 14.15, and their .137 attack per-
win weekend centage was well below their sea-
son average of .240.
nce September "Sitting on the bench during
NCAAs and watching your team
STEVEN BRAID lose and not being able to do any-
DailySports Writer thing about it, that really hurt a
lot," Hunt said earlier this season.
tnce is power. Though Hunt leads the team
just the second time in pro- in kills again this season, she's
history, the No. 22 Michi- receiving increased support from
lleyball team boasts four her teammates. Michigan has
s with at least 300 kills in a shown that it is far more equipped
- senior to handle an injury to its star out-
e hitter NOTEBOOK side hitter.
unt (396), With Hunt missing the major-
more outside hitter Lexi ity of the Nov. 23 match against
(361), redshirt junior out- No. 16 Minnesota with an ankle
tter Claire McElheny (327) sprain, the Wolverines hit for a
nior middle blocker Court- .291 attack percentage en route to
tcher (300). a resounding three-set victory. In
h Hunt playing at her usual Michigan's following match - a
evel for most of the sea- five-set victory against North-
e other hitters and middle western in which Hunt's injury
rs have taken turns pro- forced her to play only in the back
excellent offensive perfor- row - it had five players with
s. double-digit kills for the firsttime
NCAA Sweet 16-bound since October 2008.
rines (8-12 Big Ten, 22-12 "One of the reasons we have
)have become a much more been good this year is because
rte team with increased we haven't had to rely on just
at the net - a 180-degree one player," said Michigan coach
om last season. Mark Rosen. "We have a lot of
010, the team's offense was players who can step up and put
player wrecking machine. up pretty good offensive produc-
t player, Hunt, led the Wol- tion."
' attack with 503 kills, Early in the season, Erwin
twice as many as the duo spearheaded the Wolverines'
Elheny and then-freshman offense. She earned Most Valu-
blocker Jennifer Cross, able Player honors with 48 kills in
ed for second most kills on three gamesduringthe Michigan/
m with 261. Adidas Invitational in September.
when that machine was Recently though, sophomore out-
d late last season due to side hitter Molly Toon and McEl-
the Wolverines struggled heny have emerged as dynamic
ly. offensive weapons.
is matchup against Wash- Though she has just 97 kills so
in the first round of the far this season, Toon has become
Tournament - the only an impact player over the last
Hunt missea all of last couple of weeks, posting double-
- Michigan's offense digit kills in four of her last eight

matches. And with 31 kills and a
.406 attack percentage through
the first two rounds of the NCAA
Tournament, McElheny's superb
play is one of the biggest reasons
Michigan has advanced to the
Sweet 16.
"It gives us a lot of confidence
to know that we have such great
balance up front," McElheny
said. "Our production kind of just
depends on how our opponents
scout us. If they focus on just one
or two of us, we know that the
other players at the net will step
up."
Added Rosen: "I think that's
what has helped Alex this year.
If somebody tries to go after her,
then (McElheny) is going to go
nuts on them, or Fletcher is going
to go nuts on them or Cross is
goingto go nuts on them."
B1G-TIME OBSTACLES: Prior
to last weekend, the last 'time
Michigan finished a weekend
with muptiple victories was more
than two months ago, when they
went 3-0 during the Michigan/
Adidas Invitational.
Coincidentally, those three
games were also the last non-con-
ference foes the Wolverines faced
until the NCAA Tournament.
After starting its season with
12-straight non-conference
wins, Michigan entered Big Ten
play with high hopes. But disap-
pointment followed, as the Wol-
verines struggled to maintain
consistencythroughout their con-
ference schedule. They finished
the season with an 8-12 confer-
ence record - their worst Big Ten
mark in five years.
Fortunately for Michigan,
teams from the same confer-
ence are prohibited from playing
against each other in the first two
rounds of the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
With victories against Bay-
lor and Stanford in the first two
rounds of the tournament last

weekend, the Wolverines con-
tinued their undefeated record
against non-conference oppo-
nents.
"I think everyone was looking
forward to getting out of the con-
ference," Rosen said.
The strength of the Big Ten is
well demonstrated by this year's
NCAA Tournament bracket -the
eight teams selected from the Big
Ten are the most of any confer-
ence. Of the 16 teams still stand-
ing, six are from the Big Ten.
Rosen suggested that the
strength of the Big Ten has had
a positive impact on the Wolver-
ines during the postseason.
"I think our 14-0 (record)
outside the conference speaks
volumes about how good our con-
ference is," Rosen said. "You have
to be on every piece of your game
to be able to be successful in the
Big Ten ... but outside the confer-
ence, you maybe don't have to be
completely on your game because
the teams just aren't quite as
good."
PROGRAM ON THE RISE:
Since taking over the head cach-
ing position 13 years ago, Rosen
has turned Michigan into an elite
volleyball program. Before hir-
ing Rosen, Michigan had only
appeared in- the NCAA Tourna-
ment once in 26 years. But since
1999, Rosen has led the Wolver-
ines to the NCAA Tournament in
all but two seasons.
During the last five years,
Rosen has taken Michigan vol-
leyball to even greater heights.
Friday's matchup against Florida
will mark the program's fourth
Sweet 16 appearance - all in
the past five years. The Wolver-
ines' best postseason finish was
two years ago, when they lost to
Hawaii in the Elite Eight.
Rosen's 261 total victories and
.614 winning percentage rank
him as the winningest coach in
the program's history.

THE NEWLINE CHINESE CUISINE
SPECIALIZING IN HONG KONG,TAIWANESE,
SZECHUAN & HUNAN STYLES
734-995-1786
116 S. MAIN STREET
(BETWEEN W. HURON AND WASHINGTON)
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR
WWW.KAIGARDEN.COM

*s uI D1 IHUE


8A -Thurday Decmbe 8, 011The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4

0

6

0

0

*I

TEXT 'UM2' TO 2202
TO GET AN EXTRA $10 WHEN
YOU SELL $50 IN BOOKS
*Offer valid on buybacks of $50 or more, Eopires 12/31/2011. Not valid with any othtr offer.
BEST PRICE GUARANTEE

ULRICH'S
549 East University Avenue
ulrichs.com
MICHIGAN BOOK
& SUPPLY
3175S. State Street
michbook.com

*Excudes Stodent-to-Student dealt. Powered Byj



The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com Thursday, December 8, 2011
LOl[G IN, Let s Eat



r

weekend
essentials
Dec. 8 to 11
ON STAGE
It might be best to tem-
per expectations of Lea
Michele, but nonethe-
less one should antici-
pate some golden pipes
at the Walgreen Drama
Center this Saturday.
The Women's Glee
Club will be performing
the works of Porpora,
Ramsey and Hyokki,
among others. Come to
the Stamps Auditorium
at 8 p.m. for a twilight
serenade - tickets are
$5 for students and $15
general admission.

x.

i

. L,


!#
ra
iY
i
,,'

t
I
i
I
i
I

CONCERT
It's not an easy thing
to make it in the music
world, and at that, to
ascend the ranks of
Austin's music scene.
However, the Wheeler
Brothers are on their
way to doing just that
after releasing their
debut "Portraits." The
five-piece folk-rock out-
fit features three titular
brothers and they will te
hitting The Ark this Sun-
day - doors open at 7
p.m., show starts at 7:30
p.m. Tickets from $15.

How the new media landscape is
transforming Ann Arbor's foodie culture
by Kayla Upadhyaya, Daily Arts Writer

countless restaurants in Ann Arbor, one of amateur reviewers who share their food opinions taurants. It's difficult to find information on Zagat's
may not realize his or her dish choice with others, and ithas opened up dialogue between website and even the annual print edition of the
may have been critiqued by a number businesses and their customers. Zagat Survey isn't all that thorough.
of resources. Some Ann Arbor favorites Anyone can contribute reviews to Yelp and read Yelp covers more than 400 restaurants in the
have been placed in the spotlight, like last year the information or search for places to go. Though Ann Arbor area. The only Ann Arbor establishment
when Krazy Jim's Blimpy Burger and Tios Mexi- the site features reviews on a range of establish- featured in the 2011 edition of Zagat is Zingerman's
can Cafe were featured on Travel Channel's "Man v. ments, it focuses substantially on reviewing restau- Delicatessen, and the blurb is merely a strung-
Food." But there are so many food favorites offered rants and places to eat. together amalgamation of short quotes about the
in Ann Arbor that not every restaurant receives the Yelp differs from Zagat, a website born from the restaurant.
attention it may deserve. Zagat Survey, which was created in 1979 as a codi- Annette Janikis the community manager forYelp
Luckily, professional opinions are becoming less fled way to rate restaurants. Featuring a complex in the greater Metro Detroit area. She explained
important. The Internet has opened a whole new rating system based on a 30-point scale, Zagat is a that her role is to introduce people to places in and
realm of food critique, making it possible for home tool for the gourmet glitterati. To access the actual around Metro Detroit, and getting them excited
chefs, students and people who simply love food to Zagat scores by subcategory and read the detailed about businesses in their own backyards.
share their point of views and analyze res- Janik said some people believe Yelp is a
taurants just like the professionals. place where people go to rant about poor
Social media has significantly changed "Even if you aren't dining experiences or restaurants they
the way we get information on food and don't like; but the truth is quite the opposite.
restaurants e whether it's through a vast I vAccording to Janik, about 75 percent of the
interconnected network of foodies on Yelp, inteestea sn cooking reviews on Yep are positive. People enjoy
an online service that gives everyday food writing about the places and foods that they
lovers across the nation avoice, or througha yourself, most people are like.
food community more specific to the Univer- "I think people just really want to sup-
sity like Wolverine CuiZine. A student-run attracted to food in some port their own and have a good time doing
project exploring food from all angles, Wol- it," Janik said.
verine CuiZine allows students to give their way shape or form." "For the most part, everybody is just
take on recent food trends and Ann Arbor's w y o sort of sharing what they truly think," she
local resources. Individual food bloggers are added. "They don't maybe necessarily have
also influencing the world of food reviewing, the vocabulary that some critics have, but-
infusing their commentaries with personal- -Kay Feker, Editor in Chief of they're truthful and they're sharing what
ity and voice that professional critics may they like and what they don't like."
not be able to offer. Wolverine CuiZine, LSA junior Brent Hegwood, the general manager of
The Internet has made this "food democ- BTB Cantina and BTB Burrito, said he regu-
ratization"possible by openingup accessibil- larly checks Yelp reviews of his restaurants
ity and providing more personalized and informal reviews in their entirety, those interested must to see what customers are saying. He said he has
platforms to read and write about the universal become premium members, which is fairly expen- responded to someYelpers on the BTB Burrito page
topic of food. sive. about complaints or concerns they had.
on the other hand, Yelp is a resource open to all. Hegwood explained that even though there are
The people's review There are no paywalls or restrictions, just a free other resources giving customer feedback to restau-
flow of information compiled in an easy-to-search rants, Yelp seems to be the most popular and widely
More and more restaurant windows boast bright database. In this way, Yelp is aligned tothe idea that used right now. That is why he feels it's important
red stickers expressing approval from Yelp, an food reviewing should be open to all people inter- for the management to be plugged into what is being
online city guide that helps people find places to ested in food, not just the culinary elite. said on Yelp. See LOG IN, Page 3B

FILM
The Michigan Theater
will be screening "Rare
Exports: A Christmas
Tale" tomorrow and
Saturday. The film is
set in northern Finland
where the grave of the
true inspiration for
Santa Claus was found.
As the trailer puts it,
"He knows if you've
been bad or good ... and
he doesn't give a fuck."
Showings are at 7 p.m.
and 10 p.m. tomorrow
and at 10 p.m. on Satur-
day. Tickets from $8.
AT THE MIC
Word of Mouth Stories
will be putting on its
next StorySlam this
Friday at the Work
Gallery on State Street.
This months theme is
"Stuffed" - audience
members are encour-
aged to tell five-minute
stories about Thanks-
giving, and more impor-
tantly, the flavors that
come with it. So swing
by from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
and fill your belly with a
cornucopia of tales and
the ensuing Slam.

DESIGN BY KRISTI BEGONIA
PHOTO BY ERIN KIRKLAND


2B - Thursday, December 8, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, December 8, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

FOOD WARS
Each week, one Ann Arbor staple menu item becomes a
battlefield as Daily Arts editors butt heads over
which restaurant makes it best.
HAMBURGER

BLIMPY BURGER
551 South Division Street
Know that unsophisticated, awesome
satisfaction that comes when a delectable
beef patty slides down the throat? The
guys eating at Blimpy sure as hell do. What
makes Blimpy Blimpy is the meat. Tender,
earthy, juicy and weirdly cleansing, the
beef ties together the entire burger and
adds the classic home-cooked touch that
makes the food addictively good.
QUICKIE BURGER
800 South State Street
All in all, Quickie's hamburger can be
summed up in one word: solid. There are
no bells and whistles, no tricks up sleeves,
no flashy accoutrements. But when you're
stumbling home at 2 a.m. on a Friday night
and the scent of grilling burger meat wafts
your way, what more could you really ask
for? Nothing more and nothing less.

SAVA'S
211 South State Street
A Sava's burger is like a friend who has
just come back from a semester abroad:
fashion-forward, but bogged down in
flaunting it. The actual beef, vegetables
and burger sauce are good but not great.
But that doesn't matter, as they aren't the
focal point. The brioche bun dominates
the vision and the tastebuds, leaving you
thinking, "Man, that bread was good!"
FIVE GUYS
311 South State Street
Five Guys is a DC staple, an apology
for the backroom politics that infect the
country. Despite its franchised nature, the
burgers are obviously freshly made - hot,
juicy and piled with a ton of diverse (and
100-percent free!) toppings. They're super
messy to eat, but surprisingly cheap. Also,
their staff doesn't treat you like shit.

And the winner is:
FIVE GUYS

Artrain has brought art to more than 850 communities across the country.
Art stays on
Derailment doesn't ous Americans view themselves
- was originally supposed to be
stop Ann Arbor- a mobile show, but was forced to
forgo the MMUs due to financial
based Artrain concerns. Currently stationed
at Keene State College in New
By KATIE STEEN Hampshire, the project will soon
DailyArts Writer be moved to the University of
Maryland University College in
While University students may Adelphi, where it will remain
enjoy artwork by simply strolling until April 2012.
down State Street and encounter- While a main part of Artrain's
ing Orion - hello, giant orange mission is moving artistic and
statue - not all cities are able to cultural exhibits to communities
so readily enjoy arts and culture. that otherwise would not be able
That's where Artrain comes in. to host such displays, the "Infinite
Artrain is an Ann Arbor-based Mirror" diverges from this goal
nonprofit organization that given the artwork is stationary
transports cultural exhibitions to for prolonged periods of time and
communities around the nation is being shown at already-estab-
that lack facilities like museums. lished artcgalleries.
Artrain has featured collections "Today, we're open to mobile
including the works of Andy projects, but they remain expen-
Warhol and Luis Jimnez, and sive and the economy has still not
it has made more than 850 com- returned to such a point where
munity visits all over the country, it's easy to provide projects of a
from Royal Oak, Mich. to Alaska. million dollars or more," Polich
The organization's mission is the explained. "If we don't use mobile
deliverance of arts and culture facilities, what are our other
to places that may not otherwise options? Can we define delivery
have such exhibitions in order to differently than just on a mobile
educate and transform commu- vehicle?"
nities, organizations and indi- For Artrain's "Paths to Peace:
viduals. a War of 1812 Arts Legacy Proj-
Artrain was founded in 1971 ect," the organization used a
by E. Ray Scott, an arts advocate method of delivery that was nei-
and former executive director ther by train nor MMU. In Octo-
of the Michigan Council for the ber, "Paths to Peace" brought
Arts. What started as a short- 150 students from Amherstberg,
term statewide project gradu- Ontario by boat to Put-in-Bay,
ally grew into the full-fledged Ohio to meet 150 local students.
organization Artrain is today. During their seminar, the stu-
Though the exhibits were origi- dents worked with War of 1812
nally transported via locomotive, specialists from Canada and
the museum-on-a-train officially the U.S. in artist workshops.
retired in 2007 due to increased The students are now working
regulations and demands on the on a project in which they cre-
rail system. Additionally, railway ate their own artwork related
routes and schedules restricted to their communities' ties to-the
Artrain's ability to travel to cer- War of 1812.
tain communities. In addressing In May, the students will again
these obstacles, Debra Polich, meet at Fort Malden in Canada
Artrain president and CEO, said and the Perry's Victory and Inter-
the Artrain team engaged in some national Peace Memorial at Put-
significant self-reflection. in-Bay to display their artwork to
"Does our mission have any- the general public. In this man-
thing to do with the train? No," ner, "Paths to Peace" exempli-
Polich said. "Our mission really fies Artran's goal of serving as a
has to do with taking arts and "community catalyst" in that it
culture to communities that don't works to connect communities to
have it, and helping them develop not only the artwork, but to one
and strengthen their (artistic and another.
cultural) infrastructure." "We hope what we're doing
In 20Q8, the organization left with that is opening these young
the iron horses behind and began people's minds to exploring a con-
transitioning to MMUs, which flict from three perspectives -
are expandable semi-trailers able Canada's, Native Americans' and
to create environments appropri- ours," Polich said. "There's always
ate for hosting original artwork another point of view."
and artifacts. But while in the Though Artrain had to alter
process of switching to MMUs, its programming in recent years,
Polich explained quite frankly, the MMUs aren't gathering dust.
"The worldblew up. The economy Artrain plans to use the mobile
crashed ... and it set us back on our museum for its 2012 "Hands-On
heels quite a bit." Alternative Energy Exhibition."
As a result, Artrain's goal of Historically the focus has been
"delivering discovery" has some- on transporting artwork specifi-
what suffered. Its current proj- cally, but the organization has
ect, "Infinite Mirror: Images of recently emphasized deliver-
American Identity" - an exhi- ing a wider range of projects.
bition that focuses on how vari- Its 2012 "Hands-On Alternative

Make Friends -:
215S. state
rUSSOA.CL E ann arbor L EE

track
Energy" exhibition will lack art-
work entirely - Polich.explained
the education component of
the exhibition is what makes it
still relevant to the mission of
Artrain.
"The intention is to provide as
much access to kids, their fami-
lies (and) adults that generally
might not take part in a cultural
experience," she said. "Taking art
projects to these towns is great
but there are other types of muse-
ums that these communities don't
have either, like science, cultural
or history museums."
In moving such programs
around, Artrain has received
assistance from members of the
University community. 'U' alum
Jason Polan traveled with the
organization back in its train
days as part of the Allesee Fel-
lowship, a program offered to
recent college graduates. An art-
ist himself, Polan spent about a
year touring, including a trip all
the way up to Alaska, performing
avariety of duties such as prepar-
ing exhibits, helping with volun-
teer training and creating and
discussing artwork to students in
classrooms.
While on tour, Polan also
worked on his project, the "Taco
Bell Drawing Club," which essen-
tially involves drawing people at
Taco Bell and inviting others to
draw with him. He continues the
club today, citing Arrain as an
influence.
"A lot of the positive reactions I
got to the projects I was working
on made what I was doing then
affect the way I do things now,"
Polan said. "I still like doing proj-
ects where I get to interact with a
lot of people."
Artrain has inspired college
students on the administration
end as well. 'U' alum Nathan
Zamarron also traveled with
Artrain, working as an admin-
istrative assistant while still in
school and then accepting a full-
time position as office manager
upon graduation.
After spending three years on
the road, Zamarron described his
experience with Artrain as amaz-
ing and inspiring for the com-
munities he visited and himself.
Zamarron attributes Artrain to
helping him find his career path
in administration and community
organization in the arts. He now
works as community arts man-
ager for the Lexington, Ky. arts
council, LexArts.
"That experience of really get-
ting to see first-hand the living
working artist was something
special," Zamarron said. "You
could find out that, wow, there are
people actually making a living
supportingthemselves in the arts.
Artrain made me realize that that
was a possibility."
And Zamarron certainly isn't
the only one who thinks Artrain
is special. The many unusual
artistic opportunities Artrain has
created have earned the organiza-
tion nationwide recognition. In
2006, it won the National Medal
for Museum and Library Service,
which honors organizations that
make extraordinary changes in
the community. In response to the
medal and all it represents, Polich
expressed her pride and confi-

dence in Artrain's future.
"Having Artrain's work
acknowledged in that way was
very validating in every single
way," Polich said.
Polich added that the organi-
zation still looks to the award for
guidance, despite all of the chang-
es that have occurred since.
"We're still pretty humbled by
it. It makes you want to continue
to live up to that standard."

0

S
0
0

ALSO
LIKES
FIVE
GUYS.
Learn more
about him and

0

r-, _ m m o

USm s hamburgers
in this week's
B-Side Buzz at
8 4 9 6 2 5 michigandaily.
__ _ __ __ _ __com.

( LITTLE
the
musical
a Department of Musical Theatre studio production
Music by Jason Howland " Lyrics by Mindi Dickstein
Book by Allan Knee " Based on the novel by Louisa May Alcott
Dec. 8 at 7:30 PM " Dec. 9 & 10 at 8 PM " Dec. 10 & 11 at 2 PM " Arthur Miller Theatre
ft General Admission $17 e Students $10 w/ID
IMusic,Theatre&Dance League Ticket Office 9 734-764-2538 " tickets.music.umich.edu

0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Thursday, December 8, 2011 - 38

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Yelp allows anyone to contribute reviews of food establishments.

LOG IN
From Page 1B
"People seem to be doing a lot
more now to express their opin-
ions about the places that they
like and what they don't like,"
Hegwood said. "So for someone
that's managing a restaurant, I
obviously want to have a finger
on the pulse of what is going on,
what people are saying, so that
we can make corrections if we
need to or so that we can give the
positive feedback to the people
that work at BTB."
h Hegwood said BTB probably
has a review posted on Yelp once
a week or every other week. He
recognized that Yelp has opened
up dialogue between customers
and restaurants, and thinks the
prominence of this new dialogue
is still growing.
"I don't think it's at the point
where people are just immediate-
ly saying, 'Oh, I went to your res-
taurant so I'm going to go on Yelp
and write a review,' " Hegwood
said. "It's become more popular
over the last couple years and it's
something that I monitor more
often now than I did maybe two or
three years ago."
According to Hegwood, Yelp
can only continue to inspire dia-
logue if restaurant management
teams are willing to monitor the
posts and respond when neces-
sary, which is why he has been
keeping tabs on BTB's presence
on Yelp.
By connecting customers and
management, Yelp is helping to
break down the barrier between
creators and consumers. This
culinary democratization is also
found in other online food initia-
tives.
An education in fine cuisine
Another Internet-based com-
munity centered around food
has evolved within the Univer-
sity: Wolverine CuiZine. This
food blog covers a variety of
food-related topics during the
academic year and publishes one
print publication every spring.
LSA junior Kay Feker, editor
in chief of Wolverine CuiZine,
made a point to distinguish
Wolverine CuiZine from profes-
sional food criticism. Wolverine
CuiZine welcomes writers of all
interests, and contributors do
not necessarily need culinary
backgrounds.
"Obviously, the people who

write for Wolverine CuiZine
are people who live to eat rather
than eat to live," Feker said. "So
we're kind of trying to share
that with the community and
get people interested in what
they're putting into their bodies,
or making it easier for them to be
interested."
"Even if you aren't interested
in cooking yourself, most people
are attracted to food in some
way, shape or form," she added.
There are obvious differences
between professional food crit-
ics and amateur student writers.
Feker said there are pros and
cons to both perspectives. The
professionals have more exper-
tise, but can sometimes seem
patronizing, whereas publica-
tions such as Wolverine CuiZine
have more freedom and can be
less formal.
"I feel like a lot of the stuff is
very technical or shootingto talk
about a much more complex pal-
ate," Feker said of professional
restaurant reviews. "I feel like
food blogging is more fun, and I
think the main thing is that it's
not exclusive."
The writers of Wolverine Cui-
Zine are students just like their
readers. Feker said they are all
interested in sparking a dialogue
about food and events in the Ann
Arbor area, such as the emer-
gence of new restaurants and
new food fads.
"None of us have a culinary
degree," Feker said. "We're
interested in food, you're prob-
ably interested in food, so we'll
share what we know and you can
give us feedback, and hopefully
that will either spark interest or
(you'll) tell us we're wrong."
According to Feker, the blog
has a vast diversity of cover-
age and therefore is broken into
three sections. In one section,
columnists write weekly on top-
ics of their choice. For example,
writers who studied abroad over
the summer decided to base
their series on the cuisine of the
area where they studied.
A "Food in the Media" section
explores recent food fads and
trends, such as upcoming chefs
and movements like the "food
truck revolution," which has
been morphing the concept of
food trucks toward a more gour-
met experience.
The final section of Wolver-
ine CuiZine is called "Local Fla-
vor," and Feker described it as
the section that directly involves
the University and Ann Arbor.

This s
review
produ
reviem
studer
"I t
neces<
great
local
Arbor
to do
what
hand,
have
you're
you do
to get
dinne
Unl
reviex
also
said t
CuiZi
to loc
ing fc
featur
for pe
and f
focus
they
restri
Fek
are e)
that I
the In
that n
social
ter an
blogs
"Fo
popul
home
neces
backg
it's ju
for th
nutrit
play w
and aI
LSI
person
gry B
She st
sopho
keep
friend
in Au:
her bl
things
ed to
Her m
to try
in An
made
the bl

ection includes local food of the places she has and hasn't
es, information about local visited.
ce and farmers and food "I've always enjoyed food and
vs from other cities that I really like educating people
nts venture to, like Chicago. about the different types of food
hink a lot of students don't available in Ann Arbor," Hsu
sarily realize how many said.
food establishments or Hsu said her father used to
sources we have in Ann own a restaurant, so she has
so a lot of our writing has always had a passion for food.
with exposing students to She uses her blogto fuel her pas-
we have immediately at sion and share it with others.
" Feker said. "You don't "I think food blogging is a
to travel far to get what way to show just how much you
missing from home, or love and appreciate food," Hsu
on't have to break the bank explained.
something to make your Hsu said she thinks there are
r." many different types of food
like most professional food blogs: Some teach how to cook,
ring, Wolverine CuiZine some feature reviews and some
seeks to educate. Feker just feature photography of food.
wo key goals of Wolverine The last type of food blog is con-
ne are exposing students sidered by many food junkies as
al resources and provid- "food porn," intended for people
bod education. The blog who simply want to look at food
es information on options and appreciate its aesthetics.
ople with specific allergies Foodporndaily.com and food-
ood needs, with a special gawker.com are two popular
on showing people what examples that post pictures of
can eat versus what their all different kinds of foods with
ctions are. links to other culinary websites.
er mentioned that there Hsu explained the link
ven more food resources between the different kinds of
have surfaced, thanks to food bloggers and professional
ternet. Aside from the fact culinary critics by saying that
estaurants are using more they share a love for food. How-
media tools such as Twit- ever, she said she feels her blog
d Facebook, personal food offers a more personal perspec-
have taken off. tive than reviews done by expert
od blogs are becoming so food connoisseurs, with an Ann
ar," she said. "So now, for Arbor perspective of food.
chefs - people who don't And Ann Arbor has a lot to
sarily have any cooking offer in the food world. The new
round but enjoy food - . media landscape of Yelp, Wol-
st such an accessible way verine CuiZine and personal
em to learn about both the food blogs such as The Hun-
ional aspects and how to gry Beluga have revolutionized
vith recipes in a very easy the way restaurants, foodies or
pproachable manner." casual customers interact with
food and culinary critique.
A personal palate Janik, Feker and Hsu all
echoed the sentiment that food
A senior Amie Hsu runs a unifies people. Whether it's by
nal food blog, The Hun- exploring recent fads in the
eluga, in her free time. food industry or expanding the
arted the blog during her accessibility of food reviewing,
more year as a way to the Internet is strengthening
in touch with one of her the connection between us and
s who left to study abroad the food we eat.
stralia. When she realized With something as univer-
og focused mainly on the sal as food, it only makes sense
she was eating, she decid- that the ever-accessible Internet
turn it into a food blog. plays a crucial role in moving
host ambitious objective is the culinary world away from
to eat at every restaurant elitism to more of a people's
n Arbor. She has already movement. And now, not know-
significant progress, and ing where to eat is a problem
og displays a running list that can be easily solved.

Going gaga for
Mother Monster

That special someone
we all know as the
only soul confident
and famous enough to wear a
50-pound dress made of beef
to the MTV
Video Music
Awards
occasion-
ally imparts
quotes as-
common-
place as
the follow- JULIA
ing: "I'm SMITH-
obsessively EPPSTEINER
opposed to
the typical."
Consideringher fiery, auto-
biographical and nearly 14-min-
ute music video "Marry The
Night" as the cherry on top of
the most demented-but-terrific
cake, words hailing from Mama
Monster's mouth have never
made so much sense.
Gaga herself is a trend - of
music, of fashion, of dance, of
rebelling against anything and
everything and of embodying
herself - far beyond the edge
of glory.
I'm under the impression
that the gal's mojo comes from
a bit more particular of a place
than opposition to anything
typical. With a fair share of
Gaga research under my bedaz-
zled belt (just kidding, I'm not a
little monster myself), it seems
she digs people who find a place
of personal acceptance they
may have been told to hide away
from the public and themselves.
More than acceptance, she
craves for them to rock it.
As Gaga told the Los Angeles
Times, "I want women - and
men - to feel empowered by a
deeper and more psychotic part
of themselves. The part they're
always trying desperately to
hide. I want that to become
something that they cherish."
The best part about Lady
Gaga making eccentric cool and
making crazy-off-your-rocker
even cooler is that she does it
with good ethics and class.
By good ethics, I mean that
she seems to be against all judg-
mental qualities. She has met
with President Obama to pass
anti-bullying legislation. Some-
times, it'll take an enchantingly
screwy woman to galvanize
important change.
By class, I mean that she
would rather die than remove
her heels, and as wild and dark-
ly twisted as her imagination is,
she remains on top of her game
in interviews and onstage.
Mother Monster is trendy
to the world at large but even
trendier to her massive and
startlingly devoted fan base.
As of this speck of a moment in
time, Lady Gaga of New York,
N.Y. has a running total of

16,707,599 monsters, including
myself, who follow her on Twit-
ter. To put that in perspective,
that's almost twice the popula-
tion of the state of Michigan.
We were all introduced to
the power of Gaga's strangeness
in 2010's "Telephone," in which
she took her chemistry with
Queen B and an unconventional
manner of expressing the prob-
lems with 21st century America
to a certain level. This was only
a precursor to the madness that
persists in the recent "Marry
The Night."
In that album, we get a
wacked-out narrative about
her dark past meetingup with
flaming cars and an'80s dance
throwdown. To listen to her
music without the image and
the moves behind it is a dras-
tically different experience
because she's one of those few
singers who doesn't separate
her career life and her life-life.
She is an iconic character to the
end of the earth.
She might be
different, but
she was born
this way.
Her character quality lends
itself to trendiness, especially
on evenings like All Hallows'
Eve, when women of a range
branch out and try to inhabit
their way of living like a spunky
spirit animal on the regular.
It's not only on the night-to-
be-someone-you're-not when
females fashion themselves
after Gaga; she also has a fash-
ion line at Barney's New York.
Whether it's with high fash-
ion, glittering jean jackets or Jo
Calderone impersonations, this
Mother is leading pop culture
of today's society, having been
named one of the most influen-
tial people in the world by Time
Magazine last year.
What's most impressive is
that no one else has been so
outrageously successful in
working honestly with their
own creativity to the outcome
of products that could easily be
referred to as avant-garde.
"I'm interested in taking
what's underground and mak-
ing it overground," Gaga said
in an interview with Ryan
Seacrest earlier this month.
Gaga is fame: a trend in
motion, with her head screwed
on the perfect amount of crazy.
Smith-Eppsteiner is gaga
for Lady Gaga. Go gaga too by
e-mailing her at julialix@umich.edu.

ANNA SCHULTE/Daily
LSA senior Amie Hsu runs a food blog, The Hungry Beluga, in her free time.

Thornton Wilder
-and Ken Ludwg's
adaptationof ILL
taagem

By George Farquhar
Directed by Priscilla Lindsay
Department of Theatre & Drama
December 8at 7:30 PM
December 9& 10 at 8PM
December 11 at 2 PM
Power Center

Reserved seating $26 & $20
Students $10 with ID
tickets.music.umich.edu
League Ticket Office
734-764-2538
C f M 1(ilii -,, "n
9 MNuSir"IIi:ii iD I~irrt

Wolverine CuiZine helps students discover the local flavor of Ann Arbor.



y
4B -- Thursday, Decemeber 8, 2011

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

4B -Thusday Deemeer 8 201 Te Mihign Daly mihigadaiyco


S

Just say "YES" to these great benefits -
exclusively for Mcard holders:
- NO Minimum Daily Balance Requirement
* NO Monthly Maintenance Fee
* FREE Online Banking and Bill Pay
- FREE Mobile Banking
* FREE TCF ATM withdrawals
* FREE (no TCF fee) non-TCF ATM withdrawals'
- FREE gift at account opening2
" FREE checks
* FREE TCF Check Card
- FREE Direct Deposit of financial aid, student loans and payroll

0
q

0

TCF Banka Branches
1123 S. University Ave., Ann Arbor, MI 48104
401 E. Liberty, Ann Arbor, MI 48104
2701 Plymouth Rd., Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-741-2613 1

BANK
Since 1923
The Official K f Bank

Please note that TCF's account service fees will apply for your account. These include fees for any non-sufficient funds (NSF) items or over-
drafts on your account and other fees. Talk to a TCF Representative, or see the terms of your account contract, for a complete description of
these conditions.
02011 TCF National Bank. Member FDIC. 'Up to four (4) per statement period. 2With initial opening deposit of $25 or more. Limit one per customer.
Recipient is responsible for all applicable taxes. See a TCF Representative for details. www.tcfbank.com

0 i



