IN DEFENSE OF MANHATTANITES: Students from Long Island and Westchester are giving real New Yorkers a bad rep. )) PAGE 4A
5 THE HOUSING ISSUE
Look beyond Packard Street for your
perfect home next fall. THE STATEMENT, INSIDE

()F 'l li

\Vl~ ~ 1 N MINI'\O' F 1:1 fF101 \l.f"1.

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, September 28, 2011

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL
Entrepreneur
law program
to encourage
collaboration

Zell program
to debut next
semester
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
Law' School students cur-
rently have the opportunity to
prove accused people innocent,
work on environmental issues
and starting next semester,
they'll have a chance to col-
laborate with aspiring entre-
preneurs.
Through the University's
newest clinical law program,
the Zell Entrepreneurship and
Law Program, Law School
students will gain practical
experience in entrepreneurial
law, and student entrepreneurs
will have free access to other-
wise expensive legal advice.
The program is named after
and funded by Sam Zell, a Law
School alum who donated $5
million to help start the pro-
gram.
Law School Dean Evan
Caminker said he was
approached last fall by alumni
who saw a need for an entre-
e preneurship program at the
school. The program has since
been in development and is the

Law School's 12th clinic. Other
Law School clinics include the
Michigan Innocence Clinic, the
Child Advocacy Clinic and the
Environmental Law Clinic.
Caminker said the ZEAL
program is unique because
it caters to students who are
already involved in entrepre-
neurship at the University. He
added that the ZEAL program
will give field experience to
Law School students, since they
will aid student entrepreneurs
with their legal transactions.
"We believe that we will be
the first program which servic-
es entirely a student entrepre-
neurship clientele," Caminker
said.
After graduating from the
University, Zell founded Equity
Group Investments, an invest-
ment company headquartered
in Chicago. Zell also owns the
Tribune Company and helped
launch the Samuel Zell & Rob-
ert H. Lurie Institute for Entre-
preneurial Studies in the Ross
School of Business about 11
years ago.
Zell said in an interview with
The Michigan Daily that based
on his past experience start-
ing the Zell Lurie Institute, he
thinks the ZEAL program will
be successful. He added that
See LAW, Page 5A

University President Mary Sue Coleman speaks about the University's upcoming environmental sustainability initiative in the Hatcher Graduate Library Gallery
Room yesterday. The $14 million initiative intends to reduce greenhouse gas emissions over the next 14 years,
Coleman outlinesnew
'U' sustainability goals

$14 million initiative
includes addition of
seven hybrid buses
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
University President Mary
Sue Coleman told University
students yesterday morning that
they are goingto be living, seeing
and breathing a lot more green in
the next 14 years.

Speakinginthe Hatcher Grad-
uate Library's Gallery Room,
Coleman introduced an ambi-
tious new set of sustainabil-
ity goals that the University will
start working toward this year
and are projected to be complet-
ed by 2025, including changes to
the University's transportation,
emissions and academic offer-
ings.
Coleman announced a $14 mil-
lion investment the University is
making for several sustainability
projects including one that will

fund new hybrid cars and buses
- making one in six University
buses a hybrid. The seven new
hybrid buses are expected to
arrive in December.
The University will also part-
ner with DTE Energy to install
solar panel fields on North Cam-
pus. Additionally, the new Weis-
feld Family Golf Center, which is
scheduled to open this fall, will
be heated with geothermal tech-
nology, Coleman said. When the
Weisfeld Center opens on South
Campus, it will be the first build-

ing at the University to use the
technology.
Coleman also announced that
the College of Literature Science,
and the Arts will offer a new
academic minor in sustainabil-
ity through its Program in the
Environment. The minor will be
available to all LSA undergradu-
ates.
"I want the message to be
clear: Sustainability defines the
University of Michigan," Cole-
man said. "Combine maize and
See SUSTAINABILITY, Page 3A

IN MEMORY
Fleming remembered
by 'U' Marching Band

Trumpet player
Patrick Fleming
died Monday ,
in car accident
By BETHANY BIRON
Daily News Editor
Members of the Michigan
Marching Band were gathered
in Revelli Hall before practice

on Monday when they received
the sad news that their friend
and bandmate, Patrick Flem-
ing, had died in a car accident
that morning. Instead of stop-
ping the practice, most of the
band members came together
and continued playing, knowing
that the effervescent Fleming
wouldn't have wanted them to
stop the music.
Fleming, a sophomore at the
University's Flint campus and a
graduate of Pioneer High School,

was commuting to school from
his home in Ypsilanti on Monday
morning when he encountered
sudden traffic while driving in
a construction zone. His 1994
Oldsmobile Bravada crashed into
the vehicle in front of him, police
told the Flint Journal. Fleming
was traveling northbound on
US-23 near Fenton, Mich.
A second-year member of the
trumpet section in the Michigan
Marching Band, Fleming was
See FLEMING, Page 5A

Darren Meyer, food services associate director for University Unions, speaks to Public Health student Brittany Lewis at
EarthFest on the Diag yesterday. A variety of campus organizations set up tables at the event to educate passersby
Annual EarthFest event aims to increase
environmental awareness among students

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
DPS chief talks safety at MSA

'U' considering
creation of bike-
sharing program
By CHELSEA LANDRY
For theDaily
Dressed head-to-toe in a
white plastic bodysuit, thick
gloves and goggles, LSA junior

Anna Snoeyink sorted through
heaping piles of pungent trash
on the Diag.
Snoeyink volunteered to sift
through recyclables and trash
emptied from the Diag's recy-
cling bins yesterday. Though
it's dirty work, Snoeyink said,
she enjoyed the experience dur-
ing yesterday's EarthFest, an
annual event aimed at promot-
ing campus sustainability.

Other highlights of Earth-
Fest included bike repairs by
Common Cycle, free snacks, a
musical performance by Mich-
igan-based musician Joe Reilly.
A number of student organiza-
tions focused on environmental
issues also set up tables on the
Diag for the event.
Snoeyink - a Program in the
Environment concentrator -
See EARTHFEST, Page SA

O'Dell speaks to
students about
recent assaults
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
The ongoing pertinent topic
in the University community
- student safety - was on the
Michigan Student Assembly's
agenda last night.

At the student government
meeting in MSA Chambers,
Greg O'Dell, chief of the Uni-
versity's Department of Public
Safety, addressed the assaults
that occurred near campus dur-
ing the summer and have per-
sisted into the fall semester.
O'Dell, who began his posi-
tion as University police chief
at the end of August, began
his presentation by explaining
the department's jurisdiction,
which includes all property

owned or leased by the Univer-
sity. However, O'Dell said DPS
and the Ann Arbor Police
Department work closely, and
when individuals dial 9-1-1they
will be connected to the appro-
priate department.
O'Dell specifically addressed
the six assault cases that
occurred between July 15 and
July 26 - four of which were
sexual assaults. He added that
he is not sure if a reported
See MSA, Page SA


WEATHER HI: 68
TOMORROW Lo: 50

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115ore-mail
news@michigandaily.corb and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
2012, 2013 football schedules released
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX AP NEWS ................
Vol CXXII,No.17 OPINION..................
0111The Michigan Daily N EWS..........
michigandaily.com

.3A ARTS ....................
.4A SPORTS.................
.5A THE STATEMENT...

A


-_..lvs

2A - Wednesday, September 28, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Nw h ihgnDiy ihgnal o

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigaodaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-41e-4115 ext. 1201 734-41e-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandailycom zyancer@michigandailycom

LORLC OMEDYJ CLUBi
Laughing out loud with student comedians

LOL and ROFL are more
than texting acronyms for
a group of University stu-
dents.
The LOL ROFL comedy
club, a student group started
five years ago, offers stu-
dents interested in comedy
an outlet to practice stand-
up. Engineering sophomore
Erich Laux, co-president
of LOL ROFL, wrote in an
e-mail interview that LOL
ROFL is the only comedy
group at the University that
focuses primarily on stand-
up, rather than other forms

of comedy.
The group welcomes
experienced comedians as
well as inexperienced stu-
dents who appreciate com-
edy, Laux wrote.
"We have weekly meet-
ings where we come togeth-
er with new joke ideas, tell
them to each other, and help
tweak/improve them so
they are ready to be told on
stage," Laux wrote.
All University students
are welcome to join the
group's meetings and attend
any of LOL ROFL's free per-

formances, which occur
every few months.
LSA senior Eon Harlow,
the club's historian, said
that unlike other comedy
clubs on campus, LOL ROFL
does not require auditions.
"Anyone who has ever
wanted to try stand-up is
welcome to drop in on any of
our workshops and get con-
structive feedback on their
jokes," Harlow said.
Harlow, who has been a
member of LOL ROFL for
four years and is a former
co-president, added that the

group also goes to see come-
dians and might plan a flash
mob for this year.
With the demands and
stress students experience
on campus, Laux wrote that
the group strives for a casual
atmosphere.
"LOL ROFL is a laid back
organization that isn't a
huge time commitment, but
all of our members still man-
ageto have plenty of laughs,"
Laux wrote. "What's better
than hanging out with your
friends and telling jokes?"
- CHELSEA LANDRY

Newsronm
734-410-4115 set.3
tornections
corecetios@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@nichigoedaily.con
Sports Section
spot@nichigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineadeg ichigandaily.con

Saws Tips
news@mich~igandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.een
Editorial Page
opinion@miehigandailyecom
Photography. Section
photo@micigandaly.on
Classitied Sales
claified@miehigandailycom
inance
finance@michigandaily.een

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Makeshift
water balloons
WHERE: South Quadran-
gle esidence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
8:50 p.m.
WHAT: Police responded
to reports of large bags
of water being thrown
from either the seventh or
eighth floor of South Quad,
University Police reported.
No credit for
debit faker
WHERE: Mosher-Jordan
Eesidence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
1:10 p.m.
WHAT: An unknown
person tried to make a
purchase usinsga student's
bank card, University Police
reported.

Grab bag
WHERE: Eons School of
Business
WHEN: Monday at about
10:10 a.m.
WHAT: A student's back-
pack, laptop and cellphone
were taken after the stu-
dent left them unattended
for about three minutes,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
Solici-gone
WHERE: Lorch Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
11:4S am.
WHAT: A faculty member
reported a solicitor in
the back of a classroom,
which violates a University
ordinance against any form
of solicitation, University
Police reported. The
solicitor left before the
police arrived.

Comedy
competition
WHAT: Students will com-
pete in MI Favorite Comic's
monthly competition for
stand-up comedians.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 7
p.m. to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League

Lecture on
woodblocking
WHAT: Chen Limbn will
talk about her experiences
and female artists in China.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Today from 5 p.m.
to 7 p.m.
WHERE: UMMA, Helmut
Stern Auditorium

Engineeingijunior Neil Bhattltalkstos
an AllStar employee at a career fair
yesterday.
1 Uging $10.50 worth
of hardware and an
eighth grade education,
it's possible to hack voting
machines to be used in 2012
elections, saloncom reported.
Members of the Argonne Lab
in Illinois performed tests that
left no evidence of tampering.
If you're lookingcto sign
ao new lease for next
fall, keep in mind Ann
Arbor extends beyond Pack-
ard Street. The Daily breaks
down neighborhoods to help
you find your dream home.
>FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
INSIDE
3Hallmark launched a
new line of greeting
cards for people who
have lost their jobs, wlbz2.
tom reported. Hallmark said
customers called in requests
for job loss sympathy cards
because the unemployment
rate is so high.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Sick Span nanagingEndior t nickspar@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber ManagingNes Esditor aber@miehigandoily.oom
SENI00 NEWS 00D 0ORlSay io,Dylan Cini, Caitlisto,Josph Lihterman,
ASSISTNTNEW EDITO S ly lanor, Clai 0,osk, uane Jacobs,,Sar
Kah,Micleao,aige Par,,dam RubenfireailinWilliass
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors~michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Edinoisl Page Editors
SENI00 EDITORIAL PAGE EITORS: Aida Ali,hy Grissh,ame,,Andre Winer
ASISTAN ETORILAEEITonoe O RnoS: .,HarshaNhat, Tiothy Rabb
StephenoJ. Neshitt and sayrtseditors@michieandiloy.om
Tin Rohan Managing Syoertdinors
SENIOR0SPORTSEDITORS:0Ben ses Mihel Flork, ah,1elfsd, LkPasch,oZak
Pyzik, KvinR0ftery
ASSISTANTSPORTS EDIT0 ORaS retCook, Neal othshild, MatRdnitsky, Matn
Slovn,, Li, Vukelich, Daniel Wasea
SharonlJacohs Managing~Art ditor jaobs@miehigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: LeahBugi,Kai Pnd, JenniferXu
ASSIST05NTSARTS EDITORS: Jao~b Axelrad, Cassie Balfor, JoeCadagin, OxmmaGase,
Proma Khsla,David Tao
Marissa McClain and yhoto@michigandailycom
led Moth Msnagingo'hotoEditors
ASSISNTPOTnEsonooORS: Einirklnd, Chrinybo,,,Schu, Sawanthan,,al,,
ZachlBergsnand deign@michigandaityomn
Helen Liehlich Managieg DesigntEditors
SENIOTDESIGN EDITOnna Lein-Zielinski,,a
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klareki@michigandailycom
DEPUTY MGAIN EITORS:000StephOsowski DevonThos, ly~anTwggs
lash IHealy Copy Chief copydek@michigandaily.com
SO O P0Y DITOS:Ciie C,ann,ahoindexter
Sarah Squire WeboeelopmntoManagee squire~michigandailyomn
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliann CinAsociatesBusiness Manager
Rachel Greinetz Sales Manaer
Alexis Newton ProductionsManager
Meghan Rooney LayoutoMansger
Cannonryrd Finance Manager
Qay VO tirculation Manager
The Michign Daily(SSN 0745-9i7) is pubished Monday throughFriday during the falland
winte termsby students 0t70, Uniaersity of Miohigan. On coysis aailable freeof clange
to allraders. Additional copis maybe pickedup at teDailysoffie for 2. Sbscitions fo
$115, yearlong (SeptemberthoughAril)is$15. Uiersityaffiliateaesubjet toa rducd
subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall tem are $35. Subcriptions must be prepaid.
The Michigan Doily is a member of The Assoated Pess and The Asociated Collegiate Press.

Time skills Swing concert
workshop WHAT: The band Asleep
at the Wheel will perform
WHAT: Students will Western-style swing and
learn some of the prob- country music.
lems preventing good time WHO: Michigan Union
management and hear tips Ticket Office
for balancing their time WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
between classes and other WHERE: The Ark
commitments.CORTIN
WHO: Counseling and CORTIN
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today from 4:15 *Please report any
p.m. to 5:30 p.m. error in the Daily to
WHERE: Michigan Union, corrections@michi-
room 3100 gandaily.com.

0


Rethink Possible

01

* Click and share. The first U.S. phone
with a dedicated Facebook share button.
" App packed. The HTC Status comes
preload~d with all the applications
you need to stay connected.
* Work and play. Manage multiple email
accounts and calendars. Browse the Web
and stay up to date on all the news that
matters to you.
Visit your [ocal AT&T store at
att.com/storelorator/
Or go to: att.com/wireless/univofmich
Mention FAN: 2899228

* All the latest social networking apps.
*Unlimited usage on the nation's
largest Wi-Fi network.1
" Simultaneous use of voice and
data on the nation's fastest mobile
broadband network.2
*The power of the Internet in the palm
of your hand.

01

hTC Status TM

0

- Moonfdy ooLoonn

'IMPORTANDTIN OEADAION Otmit 0- time offer.: i : I:i. l l~ .~-- l
-I s.

irkof l& nteeclss


4 *k

A



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 28,.2011- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 28, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Bill to require 1-yr.
residency to obtain
medical marijuana
Two Republican state senators
said yesterday they're planning
legislation that would require
people to live in Michigan for one
year before getting state permis-
sion to use marijuana for medi-
cal purposes, a proposal aimed at
stopping out-of-state pot growers
from exploiting Michigan law.
The sponsors of the legislation
said the current law can be abused
by out-of-state marijuana growers
setting up shop in homes rented in
Michigan to try and avoid arrest in
their home states.
Michigan State Police say they
have had at least one instance
where an out-of-state resident
rented a home in Michigan, then
got a state driver's license and a
state-issued medical marijuana
card. The out-of-state residents
grow pot in the rental homes and
return occasionally to check on
the crop, selling the drug in their
--home states.
FORT WORTH, Texas
Power utility co.
sued after massive
Texas wildfire
A utility knew about wild-
fire dangers amid Texas' severe
drought but failed to remove
dead trees and branches near
power lines that sparked the
most destructive wildfire in state
history, an attorney said yester-
day after filing a lawsuit for some
families who lost their homes.
A Texas Forest Service inves-
tigation into the Sept. 4 Bastrop
fire near Austin determined that
the fire started after wind gusts
caused limbs and a dead tree to
topple onto power lines. How-
ever, the report did not blame
Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative
for the blaze that destroyed more
than 1,500 Central Texas homes
and left two people dead.
Bluebonnet CEO Mark Rose
released a statement Mon-
day saying the fire was a "ter-
rible incident" brought on by
high winds, hot temperatures
and historic drought in heavily
wooded areas - but those condi-
tions were beyond anyone's con-
trol. He also said the trees that
first caught fire were on private
* property and outside the utility's
rights-of-way.
ACAPULCO, Mexico
Five severed heads
found outside
elementary school
Mexican police have found
five severed heads in front of a

primary school in the Pacific
coast resort of Acapulco.
It's unclear whether the grue-
some discovery is related to
extortion threats that led about
140 elementary schools in the
city to close temporarily earlier
this month after teachers and
parents decided it wasn't safe
enough to start classes.
State police say the five heads
were found early yesterday in
a sack, along with a handwrit-
ten message threatening three
alleged drug traffickers.
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina
Argentine gas blast
kills woman, hurts
9 others near city
An explosion wrecked two
homes, a business and several
cars early yesterday, killing a
woman and injuring nine people
on the outskirts of Argentina's
capital.
Early reports by some witness-
es that they had seen a ball of fire
fall from the sky around the time
of the 2 a.m. explosion caused a
sensation, but authorities said
later that evidence pointed to an
explosion of leaking gas.
Officials said a search by the
more than 100 police and others
turned up a canister of natural
gas with a poor connection to a
pizza oven.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Middle EastI
peace talks
urged by U.N.

About 1,300 students join
IFC, Panhel organizations

Israel announces
1,100 new housing
units in Jerusalem
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -
The U.N.'s political chief said
yesterday that Israel and -the
Palestinians remain far apart
on reaching a peace accord but
insists "now is time for everyone
to give diplomacy a chance."
B. Lynn Pascoe told the U.N.
Security Council that the main
obstacles to setting up a Palestin-
ian state - a bid which Palestin-
ian President Mahmoud Abbas
submitted last week despite a
promised U.S. veto - are politi-
cal, not institutional. He said that
the main issue remains the "con-
tinuing Israeli occupation and
the ongoing Palestinian divide."
The remarks at the monthly
briefing on the Middle East came
as Israel announced it would
build 1,100 more homes on con-
tested land in Jerusalem.
They highlighted the tenuous
path confronting not only the
Palestinians and Israelis, but also
the Quartet of Mideastmediators
- the U.N., U.S., European Union
and Russia. The Quartet has
drafted a plan to bring the two
sides together for negotiations,
with an ultimate goal of achiev-
ing a deal by the end of next year.
"Resuming negotiations, and
making progress, is easier said
than done," Pascoe told the coun-
cil.
With the Quartet's proposal
and the push to restart nego-
tiations, he said, "this would be a
moment where the parties would
be truly tested in their readiness
to make serious proposals that
addressed the core concerns of
the other."
Abbas' insistence on present-
ing the application for Palestine's
full membership to the U.N.
pushed the long-stalled peace
process again to the forefront
of this year's General Assembly
discussions and sparked a frenzy
of last-minute diplomacy to dis-
suade him from submitting the
application. The U.S. has vowed
to veto the statehood bid in the

Security Council.
Abbas said that if it was reject-
ed, the Palestinians could turn
to the General Assembly to raise
their current status as a perma-
nent observer to the a nonmem-
ber observer state, and resubmit
the application again with the
council.
The Palestinians have refused
to resume negotiations with Isra-
el until the Jewish state halts the
building of settlements on occu-
pied land.
Israel, however, has rejected
the Palestinian demand, with
Israeli Prime Minster Benjamin
Netanyahu again ruling out a
freeze in an interview published
yesterday.
Also yesterday, Israel
announced 1,100 new housing
units in east Jerusalem, a move
that U.S. Secretary of State Hill-
ary Rodham Clinton criticized
as counterproductive to the Mid-
east peace process.
Netanyahu has called for
the resumption of peace talks
without preconditions. He has
dismissed demands that a Pales-
tinian state be based on Israel's
1967 prewar lines - putting him
at odds with the administration
of President Barack Obama.
Pascoe said the new settle-
ment announcement was "of
particular concern," adding that
"we have repeatedly stated that
settlement activity is illegal and
contrary to Israel's" commitment
to the peace efforts.
He also said extremists on
both sides should not be allowed
to "inflame the situation," noting
several arson attacks by Jewish
settlers on a mosque and a knife
attack in Tel Aviv by aWest Bank
Palestinian on Aug. 29, as well
as Israeli reports of a foiled sui-
cide bombing the same month in
Jerusalem.
The Palestinian request for
recognition is to come up at the
Security Council on today.
Diplomats said the council
president will read a statement
saying the Palestinian applica-
tion has been transmitted to the
council committee on the admis-
sion of new members, which
includes all15 council nations.

Number of was the emphasis the organi-
zation placed on ensuring the
Panhel recruits safety of potential new mem-
bers, according to Sarah Smith,
a record high at Panhel's vice president of public
relations and a former Michigan
797 women Daily columnist.
In response to the sexual
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH assaults that occurred over the
DailyStaffReporter summer, Panhel organized sev-
eral programs in an attempt to
'Go Greek' continues to be a increase safety during recruit-
popular slogan on campus, with ment, Smith said. One of these
about 1,300 University students efforts - spearheaded by Adam
joining the Greek community Davis, IFC's executive vice presi-
last week. dent - involved fraternity mem-
After about a month of recruit- bers who walked prospective
ment, 797 women accepted bids sorority members back to their
from one of the 16 Panhellenic residences after recruitment
Association sororities and about activities.
500 men accepted bids from one Panhel also kept the William
of the 31 members of the Inter- Monroe Trotter Multicultural
fraternity Council. Center open late at night dur-
Though IFC fraternities have ing recruitment so students had
not yet completed their recruit- a centrally located and well-lit
ment process, LSA senior Rick place to go between house visits.
Stepanovic, the IFC's vice presi- Overall, the Greek commu-
dent of recruitment, said he nity saw a 1-percent increase in
expects the number of men who membership for Panhel and IFd
accept bids to increase beyond this year. Though the University
the 500 who have already has seen an increase in fresh-
accepted. He said he projects man enrollment in recent years,
the number to be higher than Director of Greek Life Mary
last year's 542. Beth Seiler said she doesn't think
The IFC is welcoming a new this influenced the growth in
chapter to campus this year, Greek Life membership.
Acacia, which is one of the chap- Similarly, Stepanovic said he
ters still recruiting, according to doesn't think freshmen enroll-
Stepanovic. ment caused the increase in new
The number of women accept- IFC members.
ing bids for Panhel sororities is "It is my impression that the
the highest on record, surpass- number of freshman coming to
ing last year's record of 790 the University was significantly
women. Upon completion of the lower this year," Stepanovic said.
recruitment process, 85 percent "So the fact that our numbers
of women who went through the stayed roughly the same, I think
recruitment process accepted was a huge success."
bids. This represents a 5-per- Despite the fact that soror-
cent increase from last year and ity and fraternity members are
7-percent more than the national required to pay dues to their
average. organizations, the country's
One difference during this ongoing financial crisis hasn't
semester's Panhel recruitment made a noticeable impact on

Greek Life numbers.
"Evidently (the economy) has
not really affected our recruit-
ment in Michigan," Seiler said.
Still, fraternities and sorori-
ties have made an effort to make
Greek Life more affordable.
Along with offering scholar-
ships, potential sorority mem-
bers are required to view a
presentation about the financial
commitment of joining Panhel.
While fraternities tend to
have less expensive dues than
sororities and offer a degree of
leniency for members struggling
to pay, the benefits outweigh the
costs, Stepanovic said.
He added that he thinks the
reason for the increase in stu-
dents interested in fraternities
and sororities is due to Greek
Life programming and the com-
munity's involvement in other
areas of campus, as well as the
connections being in the orga-
nization offers. Stepanovic said
he's particularly happy with
IFC's numbers this year because
the council has lost a chapter
since last fall. In March, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity was
expelled from the IFC after
alleged hazing activities sur-
faced.
"I think our numbers are
great, especially considering
that we expelled a fraternity in
the past year," he said. "They're
trying to recruit outside of us. I
don't think they dampened our
efforts at all."
LSA freshman Connor
Toohey, a Sigma Chi fraternity
pledge, echoed Stepanovic's
sentiments about the benefits of
Greek Life.
"I kind of think that being
(in) a fraternity would give me
a brotherhood, as cliche as that
sounds," Toohey said. "The con-
nections you can make in a fra-
ternity are pretty unique."


N.Y. college student
paid for taking SAT
New York District Attorney Kathleen Rice
said.
authorities charge Eshaghoff is a 2010 gradu-
ate of Great Neck North who
seven people in spent his freshman year at the
University of Michigan before
transferring to Emory Univer-
sity in Atlanta.
GARDEN CITY, N.Y. (AP) Rice said that between 2010
- A college student from New and 2011, six students at Great
York was paid between $1,500 Neck North High School paid
and $2,500 to stand in for at him to take the SAT in hopes
least a half dozen students of achieving a higher score.
attending a prestigious Long The six students implicated
Island high school and take the in the case were not identified
SAT exam for them, a prosecu- because of their ages, a spokes-
tor said yesterday in announc- man for the prosecutor said.
ing criminal charges in the Earlier this year, Great Neck
case. North faculty members heard
Six students were also arrest- rumors that students had paid a
ed yesterday on misdemeanor third party to take the SAT for
charges, although authorities them, Rice said. Administra-
said the investigation remained tors then identified six students
active and that other high who "had large discrepancies
school students in the area may between their academic perfor-
also have been involved. The six mance records and their SAT
were all released on their own scores," the prosecutor said.
recognizance. The students had registered
Sam Eshaghoff, 19, of Great to take the tests at a different
Neck was arraigned on charges school where they would not
of scheming to defraud, crimi- be recognized. Eshaghoff then
nal impersonation and falsify- went to the schools and showed
ing business records, according a photo ID with his picture,
to the Nassau County District but another student's name
Attorney's Office. His bail was on it, Rice said. At least once,
set a $1,000 bond or $500 cash. Eshaghoff flew home from col-
Eshaghoff's attorney, Matin lege primarily to impersonate
Emouna, said his client is not two students and took the SAT
guilty. "He has cooperated with twice in one weekend.
the investigation, and he denies Rice said her office is inves-
the charges," Emouna said. tigating whether similar SAT
He said he expected his client scams occurred in at least two
would be released. other area high schools. Pros-
"Colleges look for the best ecutors also are investigating
and brightest students, yet whether Eshaghoff took the
these six defendants tried to SAT exam for others.
cheat the system and may have Tom Ewing, a spokesman for
kept honest and qualified stu- The College Board, which spon-
dents from getting into their sors the SAT tests, applauded
dream school," Nassau County the district attorney's office

University President Mary Sue Coleman announces new sustainability initiatives yesterday.

SUSTAINABILITY
From Page 1A
blue, and you get green."
By 2025, Coleman said, the
University will cut greenhouse
gas emissions by 25 percent and
decrease University vehicles'
carbon output by 30 percent for
every person in the vehicle.
Other goals include reducing
University waste sent to landfills
by 40 percent and protecting
the Huron River. The University
aims to do so by using less chem-
icals on campus and diminishing
the amount of storm water that
directly flows into the river.
Coleman also announced yes-
terday that all new or renovated
dining halls on campus will not
use trays in order to be more sus-
tainable.
Starting in January 2010, the
University conducted the Cam-
pus Sustainability Integrated
Assessment, which examined
at sustainability in seven areas
on campus - buildings, energy,
land and water, food, purchas-
ing and recycling, culture and
transportation. The University's
new goals were created based on
findings from the CSIA.
Coleman spoke about the
ways sustainability has been
incorporated into all facets of
the University, from teaching to
research. She noted that of the
100 new employees the Univer-
sity hired for interdisciplinary
teaching, more than 25 percent
ofthemwere previouslyinvolved
in sustainability projects.
However; during the talk

about sustainability efforts,
Coleman told the audience why
the University decided not to
sign the American College and
University Presidents' Climate
Commitment - an agreement
between U.S. colleges to elimi-
nate greenhouse gas emissions
on campuses nationwide.
"After seeking expert counsel,
we have concluded we cannot set
a date by which we will achieve
carbon neutrality," Coleman said
in her speech. "There is simply
no viable way forward at this
time to achieve such a feat, and
I will not place an undue burden
on the backs of future presidents
of this great institution."
Engineering graduate stu-
dent Ryan Smith, who attended
the event today, was involved
with the University's Student
Sustainability Initiative and the
CSIA. In 2009, the Student Sus-
tainability Initiative collected
information about which sus-
tainability issues the student
body cared about and relayed it
to the administration. The CSIA
then began, and Smith worked
on the energy use team of the
assessment.
"Through this whole pro-
cess (the administration) really
depended on all the data that
was generated by the students
and the integrated assessment
process," Smith said. "I'm proud
of them for just putting all that
on the table, saying, 'OK, we care
about this. Let's really get some
real good data."'
Smith said his only concern
is that some students will want
bigger and faster changes.

"I know the student body
tends to be very zealous and very
energetic about issues," he said.
"They always want to push it
further. Really based on the all
the data that was presented to
us, (the University has) the most
reasonable, and quite honestly,
ambitious step forward."
To help encourage student
involvement in the sustain-
ability efforts, the University's
Planet Blue Student Ambassador
Program recently started hav-
ing student and faculty advi-
sors. The ambassador program
involves selected students who
live in residence halls and make
others in the community more
environmentally conscious
through a variety of programs.
"I think this Planet Blue
ambassadors program has great
promise," Coleman said. "The
best thing possible would be to
accelerate the pace of change so
that we really begin to see more
and more people taking personal
responsibility. So I'm very hope-
ful."
During the announcement
the lights were turned off in
the Gallery Room when some-
one in the audience pointed out
that there was sufficient lighting
from outside and the lights were
unnecessary - a reminder that
the little changes will make a
difference.
"Students are the story of
environmental awareness and
sustainability at Michigan,"
Coleman said. "They exemplify
our belief that a great public
university continually strives to
make the world a better place."

A I


4A - Wednesday, September 28, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

HANNAH DOW

E-MAIL, HANNAH AT HDOW@UMICHXDU 01

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

NICK SPAR
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Maize +Blue Green
Coleman's plan will help create a sustainable 'U'
uStainability has been a buzzword thrown around by campus
officials about eco-friendly practices at the University. But
yesterday, University President Mary Sue Coleman presented
a plan of action for campus to increase its overall sustainability, both
in the coming months and years. It's easy to speak abstractly about
green practices and sustainability, but it's much more difficult to put
these ideas into practice. University officials should be commended
for making a commitment to reduce the University's environmental
impact, and students should get behind these changes and work to
reduce their own carbon footprints.

University of Michigan: 4-0
V
A path to mediocrity?
n Nov. 8 2006, the day after students and 23.4 percent students to-day basis. When I look at people
Michigan voters approved of color - this time the student pop- in positions of power in academia,
a proposal to eradicate ulation was only5 percent black. The government, business and medicine,
affirmative black student population was the I see people of my race.
action from the only demographic to significantly The other day in a discussion sec-
state, Univer- drop over the past decade. tion, a piece of art by a black artist
sity President A look at these numbers brings was broughtup, and several students
Mary Sue Cole- a few items to mind. First, I fit the immediately looked at the single
man proclaimed, criteria of an average University black man in the class to hear his
"I am standing student: I am white, and my parents perspective. When speakinginclass,
here today to tell have a combined income of more I'm not expected to speak on the
you that I will NORA than $200,000. And although we behalf of my whole race. When art
not allow this STEPHENS shouldn't limit ourselves to view including white people is shown, no
university to go people in terms of their wealth and one looks around the class at all 20
down the path race, I do think it's important for us white students to hear their opinion
of mediocrity. That is not Michi- to contemplate the implication of of the piece. It's necessary to notice
gan. Diversity makes us strong, studying at a school where a major- these moments because they clearly
and it is too critical to our mission, ity of students are white and upper show the effects of being on a cam-
too critical to our excellence and middle class. How do you think this pus where three out of four students
too critical to our future to simply has an effect on your education? are white.
abandon." Nearly five years later, Are we prevented an opportunity
have we stood by this mission to to learn about a world outside of our
keep diversity a priority? Let's take own? A world that is different than T ,
a look at the numbers. how we perceive it? Would we be U sdemographic
Obviously, income and race are challenged more if our campus was * .
not the only indicators of diversity, not so homogeneous? isn t as divers as
but they are important identifiers Besides the decreased opportu- i should be.
when considering society's usual nity to learn from those who are dif- it
definition of diverse. According to ferent from ourselves, what about
a 2004 study, the University fresh- the experiences of the quarter of
man class that year had more stu- the campus population that is not So, have we gone down the path
dents whose parents' household white? How are the lives of students of mediocrity? We have if we con-
income was more than $200,000, of color shaped by the fact that they tinue to be blind to the privileges
compared to students whose family are constantly in the minority? As a of the majority of students on this
income was at the national median white person who thinks about the campus. The "Michigan Differ-
of about $50,000. The University's implications of her race everyday, I ence" will be achieved through
demographic reports indicate in am relentlessly aware of my white having more constructive conver-
1998 the University's entering class privilege. I can go anywhere on this sations about how our social identi-
was 66.2 percent white and 25.4 per- campus and never be a minority and ties affect our daily lives.
cent students of color - including8.7 never need to consider my race. But
percent black. In addition, the 2009 that is why it's a privilege - I do not - Nora Stephens can be
entering class was 74 percent white have to think about my race on a day- reached at norals@umich.edu.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
JEFF SORENSEN E N
React to capital punishments

Coleman - who spoke yesterday at the
Hatcher Graduate Library - pledged a serious
financial commitment by the University of $14
millionthatwillgotoward avarietyofprojects.
The plan, which is outlined on the University's
sustainability website, highlights the effort to
combine education, research and operations at
the University in order to reach sustainability
goals. The city of Ann Arbor has been a nation-
al leader in green initiatives for years now, and
it's good thatthe University is finally following
in the city's footsteps.
one of the goals is increasing the number of
hybrid buses on campus - making one in six
University buses a hybrid by December. This
is a positive change that makes transportation
around campus more sustainable. The Univer-
sity will also purchase other hybrid automo-
biles, which will reduce the amount of fossil
fuels as well as the quantity ofgreenhouse gases
produced by University operations.
Anotherlarge-scalemodificationthatwillgo
into effect in the coming year is a commitment
to implementing alternative energy resources
throughout campus. From solar panels on
North Campus facilities and the Weisfeld Fam-
ily Golf Center, which will be heated entirely by
geothermal energy, campus will slowly reduce
its reliance on expendable energy sources.
The plan also outlines general goals to
reduce the University's environmental impact
by decreasing greenhouse gases, waste sent
to landfills and pollution of the Huron River.

While these changes will not be visible on a
day-to-day basis, they represent a crucial com-
mitment to sustainability that will make the
University a leader in eco-friendly practices
among other universities and colleges.
Coleman emphasized in her speech that the
initiative was a collaborative effort between
University officials, faculty and students. With
that in mind, the proposal has many opportu-
nities for students to make sustainability a part
of their education. LSA will begin offering a
minor in sustainability, as well as organizing
the course guide so students can search spe-
cifically for classes pertaining to sustainability.
Students should explore the available options
and consider taking a course to educate them-
selves on the importance of creating a more
sustainable world.
Students, however, shouldn't rely on the
University to pioneer all the changes. They
should take advantage of the resources at their
disposal and initiate changes of their own.
Coleman pledged funding specifically for stu-
dent projects dedicated to reducing environ-
mental impact and waste. There are dozens of
student groups on campus focused on the mis-
sion of sustainability, some that include large-
scale University projects and others that focus
on reducing personal environmental impact.
The options are abundant, and all students, fac-
ulty members, administrators and University
employees should explore how to incorporate
these practices into their own lives on campus.

0
0

01

SARAH SQUIRE I
The New York Stereotype'

After working for The Michigan Daily for
two years, I finally accepted media as a signifi-
cant force in my life. Or maybe it was the more
than 30 hours of television I was watching per
week last year. Whatever it was, I registered
for my first class in Communications Studies
this semester. My friends reacted with a mix
of amusement, pity and horror. Apparently, I
was screwed because history has proven these
classes are filled with New Yorkers.
Wait, what? I'm from New York.
Since stepping into East Quad Residence
Hall for orientation in 2008, I have found
myself both a victim of and witness to what
I am calling "The New York Stereotype."
According to some students at the University,
students from Long Island, New York City and
Westchester (and they're likely unknowingly
including New Jersey as well) have certain
indefinable characteristics the rest of you sim-
ply can't stand. For whatever reason, we trig-
ger an impulsive eye roll.
Over the summer, a friend's sister said I'm
the only New Yorker she has met and subse-
quently liked. New acquaintances are often
shocked to find out I hail from the Big Apple
and are quick to disclose the reason: I don't fit
into "The New York Stereotype." Many other
native NYC folk don't fit "The Stereotype"
either. But since this subsection of the city's
population in Ann Arbor aren't identifiable at
a glance, they appear to be considerably out-
numbered by the rest.
I don't want to argue the definition of
"The New York Stereotype" or even deny its
accuracy. I'm not even certain I can accu-
rately describe the stereotype, but I do know
it isn't good. While I'm proud at times to be
an exception, I can't let another year go by
without extending a hand to my oppressed
neighbors. True New Yorkers, the ones who
are forced to constantly repeat "No, I'm actu-
ally from Manhattan" (or another acceptable
borough), are really not that bad. In fact, we
are pretty awesome.

Growing up in New York City offers unique
opportunities to experience different cultures
and interact with people from all types of back-
grounds. Those of us who attended schools in
Manhattan or near our homes never drove to
school, so any prissy tendencies (for both guys
and girls) were expelled when we dealt with
the weather and whatever public transporta-
tion threw at us before 8 a.m. We experienced
9/11 firsthand, and it changed us. We tasted
alcohol before college and learned how to
deal with it responsibly. We know when to pay
attention to the crosswalk signal and when to
ignore it. We know how to look and sound like
we knowwhatwe are doingevenwhen - espe-
cially when - we don't.
If you're still not convinced, you have no
choice but to separate a true city person from
the pack and find out for yourself. Luckily,
there are even slight differences in his or her
appearance if you are attune to the variations.
Look for the guy or girl outfitted in a pea coat
or a jacket with toggles instead of a North Face.
Uggs aren't an automatic once the temperature
dips below 40. When they get dressed to go
out they're also dressed for the walk home or,
at the very last, the line outside Skeeps. And
if you hear a New York accent in more than a
couple words then rest assured the speaker
was not raised in Manhattan.
So please, hold your judgment until you've
done some research - isn't that why we have
Facebook? And maybe go a step further and
stop judging people on their appearances and
10-second interactions in the first place. But,
in case that's too much, I'll give you a simple
mantra to repeat every now and then: New
York City is better. As for the stereotype,
maybe I'll rename it "The Long Island and
Westchester (and sometimes New Jersey)
Stereotype" to avoid any confusion in the
future.
Sarah Squire is an LSA senior. She is
the Daily's web development manager.
A

Last Thursday morning, about12hours after our coun-
try executed a man amid overwhelming public opposi-
tion and apparent reasonable doubt, life went on. For me
and most people who didn't know Troy Davis, nothing
is immediately different. Buses are running. Classes are
in session. Everything is comfortable. In a sense, this is
reassuring - we are resilient enough to continue our
lives in the wake of tragedy. But this reassurance is eas-
ily misplaced. Our current comfort is not a testament to
our resilience; it's a sign of our collective apathy.
Rather than feeling reassured, we as a nation should
feel poignant anxiety. Why are we, as Americans, so
comfortable with an act that most of the Western world
has long considered to be barbaric and unfair? It's darkly
ironic that our nation, the one that proudly sings "the
land of the free and the home of the brave" at various
sporting events every day, remains legislatively silent -
and in the eyes of the world, cowardly - on this topic.
A young generation of our European counterparts
watched in disbelief last Wednesday night as an inter-
national media storm opened their eyes, maybe for the
first time, to how different our country's perception of
justice really is.
As an American, I find myself ashamed that it took
an international media storm to get my attention.
Young people in France have an excuse for not previ-
ously worrying about the status of capital punishment
in America - they have their own national problems to
worry about. But what's my excuse? Why have I been so
comfortable with the thousands of executions that have
occurred in the United States during my lifetime? I can't
justify my comfort.
The Troy Davis case illuminated the awful practice
of allowing a man to anticipate the final moments of his
life, all while being kept in isolation. This alone appar-
ently didn't satisfy our sadistic cravings enough. We had
to, not once, but twice allowhim to literally approach his
final moments before granting him a temporary stay of
execution. Even defendants of the death penalty surely
don't support this kind of psychological cruelty. But our
nation, which is necessarily more than just the sum of
its parts, does.

There's one way to ensure that national policy lines up
with the individual intuitions of those who care to pay
attention: We must demand change. In order to get to a
place where this kind of demand is influential though, a
significant number of us have to focus our efforts on the
things that actually matter. Here at the University, we
proclaim ourselves to be "the Leaders and Best." Yet, in
a moment when protests were forming in France, Chile,
Hong Kong, Great Britain, Peru, Norway and other
countries, the most common topic on students' Facebook
pages was... Facebook. People were mad! There was fury
over a Facebook redesign, and people demanded justice
from the system. Things had to change.
In a twisted way, this showsthat young Americans are
certainly capable of making their voices heard. I must
highlight the "twisted" aspect, though. In this case,
people were mad mostly because Facebook implemented
changes that required adjustment and made it more dif-
ficult to mindlessly browse. (Because of this, there's an
uproar after every redesign). We were mad that we had
to think - a little - in order to use Facebook. Capital
punishment is a different situation. In order to become
upset at all, people have to think about why they believe
what they believe.
Signs of reaction are present. Protests have occurred
in the past few days at the center of campus in Ann
Arbor. Surely, similar protests have occurred on cam-
puses across the country. In order to have a significant
impact, however, the masses of youth must get involved.
I'm not entirely cynical about our long-term chances.
I thoroughly believe if every young American took 20
minutes to open their eyes to the reality of capital pun-
ishment and form a personal (not inherited) belief, we
possess the ambition and the ability to create significant
change. I'm confident that, like younggenerations before
us, we will be the ones to enact change in America. I'm
confident that it's not a question of if but of when. The
question, however, still remains: When will we shake
ourselves from our nearly sedated state of comfort and 0
actually think?
Jeff Sorensen is an LSA senior.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print anonymous
letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Ai


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 28, 2011- 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 28, 2011 - 5A

LAW
From Page 1A
the program is necessary as the
legal field evolves.
"I think America is all about
entrepreneurial activity in one
form or another, and I think
the legal profession, myself
included, has been the creator
of a lot of entrepreneurs," Zell
said. "I would hope this kind of
a program would make the idea
and the concept much more
real for potential law students
to look at as a different kind of
an option than just the practice
of law."
Caminker also said he thinks
an entrepreneurial background
will put the students involved
in the program at an advantage
after they graduate.
"I think (the ZEAL pro-
gram) will allow them to hit
the ground running faster,"
Caminker said. "There's a high-
er premium being paid right
now on students who not only
know how to be great lawyers
but who also understand some-
thing about the business world,
and who understand how busi-
ness people think and what they
want out of their lawyers."
Law School student Brian
Flaherty, a former Daily colum-
nist, said he thinks acceptance

into the program will be com-
petitive, since the program will
only offer one course during its
first semester.
"I think there's been a void
between the entrepreneurial
community at (the University)
and Law students, and the void's
been there for a long time," Fla-
herty said. "I think hopefully
this program will help students
who are interested in entrepre-
neurship have a venue to get
experience in that area and also
to form connections with entre-
preneurs on campus."
Flaherty is also one of the
founders of the Entrepreneur-
ial Law Association - a student
group started this past sum-
mer that now has 97 members.
Flaherty.,said he and the other
founders didn't know about the
ZEAL program when they start-
ed the Entrepreneurial Law
Association.
Caminker said the ZEAL
program will strive to maintain
a low student-to-faculty ratio
and that the class's enrollment
will be limited until more fac-
ulty members are added. At the
moment, no faculty member has
been assigned to the program,
but Caminker said he expects
the program will have two fac-
ulty members in its first semes-
ter. He added that several Law
School faculty members already

work with the University's
Center for Entrepreneurship
in the College of Engineer-
ing. Caminker also said he also
hopes to expand class offerings
after the program's first semes-
ter.
Moses Lee, an academic pro-
gram manager and lecturer in
the Center for Entrepreneur-
ship, said he thinks he will see
an increased number of students
in his class because of the pro-
gram. He added that the ZEAL
program will be a resource for
his students by helping them
move forward with their pro-
spective businesses.
"Many of our student entre-
preneurs here have legal ques-
tions, and obviously legal
services can be very expensive
for a new start-up," Lee said.
"So the fact that the Law School
is providing the resource for
student entrepreneurs is really
going to help push our students
in the right direction."
Flaherty said he believes the
program will give Law School
students an experience they
otherwise wouldn't have had in
the school.
"I think it really makes it a
lot easier for a lot of students to
achieve their career ambitions
because there are definitely a lot
of students who are interested
in entrepreneurship," he said.

Patrick Fleming was a trumpet player in the Michigan Marching Band.

FLEMING
From Page 1A
known to have a constant smile
on his face and to be dedicated to
hard work on the practice field.
In addition to being a student
and member of the band, Flem-
ing also worked the night shift
at a retirement home. During
summer training he worked all
night prior to the band's 9 a.m.
practices.
Scott Boerma, director of the
Michigan Marching Band and an
associate professor in the School
of Music, Theatre & Dance, wrote
in a statement to The Michigan
Daily that Fleming's dedication
and commitment served as an
inspiration to the band and the
entire University community.
"Patrick had an infectious
smile at all times and was a
devoted member of our fam-
ily," Boerma wrote. "He worked
the midnight shift, went to his
classes at UM-Flint, and drove
back for marching band practice
every day. His dedication to liv-
ing life fully was inspiring, and
he had a positive impact on all
of us."
In honor of Fleming, the
band will dedicate its Saturday
performance at Michigan Sta-
dium to Fleming, Boerma wrote.
Members of the band will wear
armbands and trumpet pins in
memoriam. The band will also
leave Fleming's place in the field
formations unoccupied on Sat-
urday, according to a blog post
Athletic Director Dave Brandon
wrote on MGoBlue.com yester-
day.
"Patrick Fleming will be
missed by us all," Brandon wrote.
"The Michigan Marching Band
was an important part of Patrick's
life, and he was an important part
of what makes our band special."
In the blog post, , Brandon
expressed his condolences on
behalf of the Athletic Department
and praised Fleming for his com-
mitment to the marching band.
"This. young man wasn't on
scholarship; he had to work to
make it through school," Bran-
don wrote. "Between perform-
ing, practicing and studying he
had to work full time at a retire-
ment home to raise the funds
necessary to realize his dream,"
Brandon wrote. "Every week-
day, Patrick drove 112 miles back
and back to Ann Arbor for the
90-minute band practice."
MSA
From Page 1A
assault on Sept. 13 on the 400
block of South First Street near
William Street is connected to
the others.
"Now at this point, we don't
know how many are actually
related," O'Dell said. "It looks
like there's a fair chance that
the six maybe related. It's really
unknown as far as this last one
whether it is going to be related
or not."
O'Dell stressed that despite
the large amount of media atten-
tion the summer cases received,
assaults by strangers are anoma-

lous in Ann Arbor.
"There are a lot more sexual
assaults that take place between
people who know each other," he
said. "In fact, it is estimated that
90 percent of sexual assaults are
between people where the vic-
tim knows the offender."
O'Dell said DPS would like to
maintain an active relationship
with students.
"I'm a big believer in doing
this and us being out in pub-
lic and being available for your
questions," he said. "If things
come up during the school year,

After hearing the news of
Fleming's death Monday after-
noon, band officials first contact-
ed the band's student leaders as
well as the University's Division
of Student Affairs. They subse-
quently told all the band mem-
bers before practice, according
to Boerma.
Engineering senior Jeffrey
McMahon, the marching band's
drum major, was among one of
the first members of the band to
hear the news of Fleming's death.
McMahon received a phone call
from Boerma on abus ride home
from class and was shocked by
the news. He said his first thought
was how to help the rest of his
teammates cope with the tragedy.
"It really took everybody off
guard," McMahon said. "It kind
of was like a lightning strike
that hit home rather than a few
miles away.... It was hard for me
to take it in because I think my
first reaction as a drum major
was to wonder how we're going
to handle everyone else and how
everybody else is going to be."
McMahon recalled Fleming's
unwavering optimism, noting
that even when Fleming made
a mistake during a rehearsal or
performance, he would never
falter or be deterred.
"I've just never seen the kid not
smile," McMahon said. "There
would even be times where he
would mess up something in the
drill, and in the tower the direc-
tors would call him out for what-
ever it may be - maybe being a
step off or playing a wrong note
- and he would just smile."
McMahon added that Flem-
ing's passion for the Michigan
Marching Band and the art of
the trumpet could be seen in
everything he did - on and off
the field.
"There'd be a lot of times
when I'd go out just to hang out
at Elbel, and he'd be there sitting
up in the stands just playing his
trumpet," McMahon said.
At Pioneer High School,
where Fleming graduated in
2009, Fleming was known by his
peers and teachers as a "wonder-
ful humorful spirit," said David
Leach, director of bands and
chair of the Performing Arts
Department at Pioneer High
School. Leach directed Fleming
in symphony and jazz bands.
Leach recalled Fleming's abil-
ity to connect with younger band
members and serve as a men-
tor to students who felt unsure
about their place in the school.

"Oftentimes, - middle school
students think band is a bunch of
nerdy kids that talk about notes,"
Leach said. "And out comes Pat-
rick ... an engaging young man
who said, 'Look, you can be as
cool as you want to be and be a
student here in this band pro-
gram.' And he made that kid feel
comfortable instantly. And that's
very much what Patrick was to
everybody."
LSA senior Kevin Smith, the
Michigan ' Marching Band's
trumpet section leader, echoed
McMahon's sentiments and said
Fleming had a "swagger" about
him and exuded confidence that
put other band members at ease.
Smith recalled Fleming's enjoy-
ment of everything trumpet and
band-related, right down to the
minute details. Smith described
Fleming's gusto for his equip-
ment, in particular his vast col-
lection of mouthpieces.
"He was really into his mouth-
piece collection, and so every
single show he would come up to
someone to say, 'Hey, check out
this crazy mouth piece,"' Smith
said. "He always had a barrage
of equipment. He had a different
mouthpiece for every situation."
Despite the effect . of Flem-
ing's death on the band, McMa-
hon said his focus as a leader
must be to help the band move
forward in the aftermath of the
tragedy.
"One of the things I thought
on the bus ride home is: I have
a bunch of different manuals,"
McMahon said. "There's a lead-
ership manual for being a section
leader, a drum major and I'm just
thinking, this is not in one of
those. There's no way to prepare
yourself as a leader for some-
thing like this to happen."
McMahon noted the impor-
tance of the band remaining
united in the wake of Fleming's
death and continuing to practice
in preparation for Saturday's
halftime performance, as Flem-
ing himself would want the band
to do.
"We have to continue to
push forward for 110,000 peo-
ple, many of whom don't know
about this, and put a new show
out onthe field for the Minne-
sota game," McMahon said. "So
hopefully that will be a healer
for people to get back on the field
and keep busy and do what Pat-
rick loved doing."
- Taylor Wizner
contributed to this report.


EARTHFEST
From Page 1A
said she thinks EarthFest has a
different feel than Festifall - the
annual fall event when tables
for student groups line the Diag
to recruit new members. The
difference between the events
is that the student groups at
EarthFest were asked to refrain
from making paper handouts or
pressuring students to join their
organizations, she said.
LSA sophomore Gabby Trupp,
a member of the Taking Respon-
sibility for the Earth and Envi-
ronment Subcommittee, or
TREES - a subcommittee of the
LSA Student Government - said
the success of EarthFest lies in
its ability to get students to focus
on environmental issues. She
added that she was pleased the

pleasant fall weather and free
food helped increase attendance
at the event.
"Students seem genuinely
interested in what's going on,"
Trupp said. "Our main goal is
to show conservation is actually
doable."
LSA junior Megan Pfeiffer,
another member of TREES,
discussed some of the group's
upcoming goals for the 'year.
These include a zero-waste tail-
gate, installing more water refill
stations around campus and
expanding the tray-less dining
initiative.
New and updated campus
dining halls will go tray-less
as part of the University's new
sustainability initiatives, which
University President. Mary Sue
Coleman announced yesterday.
Pfeiffer emphasized the
importance of collaborations

on campus and throughout Ann
Arbor on environmental issues.
She encouraged all studentswith
an interest in the environment
to consider joining the LSA-SG
subcommittee.
Also at yesterday's event were
University-sponsored booths
where campus officials
discussed recent green initia-
tives. Grant Winston, associate
director of customer service for
University Parking and Trans-
portation Services, was at
EarthFest to encourage car-
pooling and to administer sur-
veys to gauge student interest in
a bike-sharing program similar
to Zipcar. If student response
is substantial enough, the Uni-
versity may look into starting
its own bike-sharing program,
Winston said.
"So far (we've had) very strong
support from students," he said.

Marines find order
from combat zones

Afghanistan
camaraderie offers
meaning and
rewards for soldiers
FORWARD OPERATING
BASE JACKSON, Afghani-
stan (AP) - An American in
uniform stands near a landing
zone at about 2 a.m., moonlight
framing his features, and talks
about dead and maimed men he
knows. His flight out isn't until
next month, and he is counting
the days.
Then he says he will miss
Afghanistan.
"It's just life or death: the
simplicity of it," said Cpl. Rob-
ert Cole of the 1st Battalion, 5th
Marine Regiment, which ends
a seven-month deployment in
the southern region of Sangin in
October. "It's also kind of nice
in some ways because you don't
have to worry about anything
else in the world."
The dominant narrative about
war in a foreign land says its
practitioners yearn for home, for
the families, the comforts, and
the luxury of no longer worrying
about imminent death or injury.

It applies to young American
troops in Afghan combat zones,
but it's not the whole truth.
Combat can deliver a sense
of urgency, meaning, order and
belonging. There is the adrena-
line-fueled elation of a firefight,
and the horror of rescuing a
comrade wounded by a bomb on
patrol. It is magnified, instanta-
neous experience. An existence
boiled down to the essentials
mocks the mundane detritus,
the quibbles and bill-paying and
anonymity, of life back home.
Building on the costly inroads
of a previous unit, the Marine
battalion has seen a decline in
Taliban attacks in Sangin, a
southern Afghan area where
the insurgency battled British
forces to a stalemate for years.
Now the troops have more time
to build bridges and sluice gates,
and sit cross-legged at meetings
with Afghan elders in hopes of
stripping the insurgency of pop-
ular support.
Early on, the going was hard.
Cole said his platoon suffered
close to 30 percent casualties,
mostly from bombs hidden
around its patrol base.
He described how one
Marine on patrol triggered a
bomb that severed his legs.

Another Marine rushed forward
to apply tourniquets, knowing
his friend would bleed to death
if he methodically checked, as
training dictated, for more boo-
bytraps in his path. The second
Marine started dragging the
first toward safety when he set
off another bomb, severing his
own legs, according to Cole. But
he saved his comrade in the pro-
cess.
"He didn't lose his legs for his
country, he lost his legs for his
brother," Cole, of Klamath Falls,
Oregon, said bluntly. He ges-
tured to another Marine in the
dark at the landing zone at For-
ward Operating Base Jackson,
the battalion's headquarters.
"The only shred of sanity that
keeps us going out here is that
I have to protect his ass and he
has to protect my ass," said Cole,
who is confined to the base after
suffering concussions in two
explosions.
Cole, 22, is not bitter. He
treasures the fierce loyalty,
born of bloodshed. Politics, the
debate about the wisdom of
the decade-long U.S. involve-
ment in Afghanistan, the plan to
withdraw international combat
forces by the end of 2014, seem
irrelevant to young Marines.


I'm very happy to return here
I'm happy to come in (MSA
meetings) and address things.
It's a much better way to operate
instead of hearing rumors and
not know what's going on."
In an interview after the
meeting, MSA President DeAn-
dree Watson said he appreciated
that O'Dell came to the meeting
to address students.
"It's really important to con-
tinue the conversation about
people's safety, and that's really
looking to the sexual assaults
that occurred near campus and
staying updated on what the
University's response is and
what's going on in the investiga-
tion," Watson said.
NURSING REP. TALKS
MNA CONTRACT
NEGOTIATIONS
Toward the end of the meet-
ing last night, Nursing junior
Hayley Mandell, a Nursing
School representative in MSA,
announced that nurses at the
University are happy to see stu-
dents supporting the Michigan
Nurses Association's position
in its contract dispute with the
University's Board of Regents.
The nurses have not had a solidi-

fied contract since July 1.
At the MSA meeting on Sept.
13, the student government
passed a resolution to support
the nurses union. Last night,
Mandell explained the current
situation to the assembly.
"Basically, the University
Hospital is re-contracting the
nurses and changing some
things like reducing the health
benefits, and the nurses are con-
cerned that if this starts, other
things will happen that will
impact the people who work
below them," Mandell said.
Watson added that MSA's sup-
port stems from the assembly's
desire to see the nurses receive
their contractual benefits, and
that students aren't negatively
affected by the negotiations.
"The reason behind (MSA's
support of the nurses) is that
we really want to ensure that
students are not harmed in this
process," Watson said. "We
understand that these conces-
sions are possible, and we just
want to make sure that the.
quality of care of students isn't
reduced as a result of these con-
tract negotiations."
- Peter Shahin contributed
to this report.


FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@Michigan Daily, @MichDailyArts, @MichDailyFBall,
@MichDailySports, @MichDailyOpEd,
@Mich DailyNews

&


01

6A - Wednesday, September 28, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

House panel asks
Planned Parenthood
to hand over records

PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/AP
President Barrack Obama greets supporters after speaking at a Democratic fundraiser at the Paramount Theater, Sunday, Sept. 25, in Seattle, Wash.
Obama grapples with
memoriesI of 2008 hope

GOP questions
spending of public
funds on abortions
WASHINGTON (AP) - A
Republican-led House panel
has asked the Planned Parent-
hood Federation of America to
hand over more than a decade's
worth of documents in a probe
of whether the organiza-
tion improperly spends public
money on abortions.
Democrats and Planned
Parenthood supporters say the
90-year-old group is audited
regularly and publicly and that
the probe is the latest Republi-
can run at shutting it down.
At issue is whether Ameri-
can taxpayers are unwittingly
underwriting elective abor-
tions, in violation of federal law.
Absolutely not, says Planned
Parenthood. But congressional
Republicans are not so sure.
Planned Parenthood, the
nation's largest provider of
abortions and an array of other
health services, is at the cen-
ter of the fight. Republicans
portray the organization as
primarily focused on perform-
ing abortions, and charge that
taxpayer funds for family plan-
ning and other health care ser-
vices indirectly subsidized that
role. They've launched multiple
efforts this year alone to bar
federal money from the group
as long as it provides abortions.
The Planned Parenthood Fed-
eration of America - the formal
name of the organization -
says taxpayer money is strictly
separated.
"The committee has ques-
tions about the policies in
place and actions undertaken
by PPFA and its affiliates relat-
ing to its use of federal funding
and its compliance with federal
restrictions on the funding of
abortions," Rep. Cliff Stearns,
chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce investigations
subcommittee, wrote in a Sept.
15 letter to Planned Parenthood
President Cecile Richards.
Due by the end of the month:
internal audits of how much
Planned Parenthood received
and spent in government money
from 1998 to 2010. Stearns also

requests any state audits of
PPFA for the last 20 years that
have not been made public, as
well as a description for how
"segregation between family
planning and abortion services
is accomplished," and how the
practice is monitored for com-
pliance.
"The American taxpayer
does not want to be in the
business of abortion, and this
investigation is an important
first step toward ending public
funding of the nation's largest
abortion provider," said Char-
maine Yoest, president and
CEO of Americans United for
Life, which earlier this year
conducted and presented to
Stearns' committee its own
study on Planned Parenthood.
Democrats say the group's
800-plus health centers nation-
wide provide an array of servic-
es, from screenings for cancer
to testing for sexually transmit-
ted diseases. Abortion, they say,
is only one of Planned Parent-
hood's services. The law bars
the group from usingtax money
for the procedure.
They cast Stearns as only
the latest Republican to assail
women's health services. The
group is audited regularly by
the Department of Health and
Human Services' inspector
general and state Medicaid pro-
grams,and the results are made
public, the Democrats said in
their response yesterday.
"These audits have not iden-
tified any pattern of misuse of
federal funds, illegal activity or
other abuse that would justify a
broad and invasive congressio-
nal investigation," Democratic
Reps. Henry Waxman of Cali-
fornia and Diana DeGette of
Colorado wrote.
Planned Parenthood's Rich-
ards said in a statement that the
investigation was really aimed
at "undermining access to
care." Nonetheless, the group
was responding to Stearns' let-
ter "in a timely manner."
Abortion politics nearly
scuttled President Barack
Obama's health care overhaul
in the final hours of debate last
year, and has popped up in the
budget fights that have domi-
nated the new, more conserva-
tive Congress since January.

President works to
regain momentum,
starting in Denver
DENVER (AP) - Remember
when Barack Obama first ran for
president and people were really
into him?
Obama remembers it, too; but
not the same way some of his
supporters do.
Bidding for re-election in
tough economic times, Obama
says there is some "revision-
ist history" going on about how
great that first race was.
His strategy is to bring disil-
lusioned supporters back into
the fold by addressing their feel-
ings of discouragement head-
on and reminding them they
signed up for something tough
to begin with - even if now they
just remember the "hope" and
"change" posters.
And he's telling them bluntly

they will have to be even more
determined and find different
sources of inspiration this time
around since he is not the fresh
face.
"I'm grayer, I'm all dinged up,"
Obama told a Hollywood fund-
raiser crowd Monday night. "And
those old posters everybody has
got in their closet, they're all
dog-eared and faded. And so the
energy of 2008 is goingto have to
be generated in a different way."
The approach is one Obama
almost has to take if he's to rec-
oncile memories of his historic
2008 campaign with the dispir-
iting realities of governing a
divided country amid a sagging
economy and unemployment
topping 9 percent.
Yesterday, Obama was in
Denver, the city where he
accepted the Democratic presi-
dential nomination three years
ago before an adoring crowd
of 80,000. Tuesday's event, a
speech at a high school to pro-

mote his jobs plan, wasn't an
attempt to recreate that specta-
cle or recapture that energy.
But the contrast did under-
score how much harder it can
be to inspire as president than
as candidate. He was pushing a
nearly $450 billion jobs plan that
has little if any chance of getting
through a divided Congress.
It's a far cry from three years
ago in Denver when the presi-
dent told the huge crowd, "It's
time for us to change America."
Comments from people waiting
to hear Obamaspeak yesterdayday
showed how much has changed.
"It doesn't feel the same. Peo-
ple aren't excited," said Adrienne
Hernandez, 26, an electrical
engineering student in Denver.
"There's a lot of fear, a lot of anx-
iety. It's totally different."
Brooke White, 36, a profes-
sional blackjack dealer from
Denver, said she was an Obama
volunteer in 2008.
"I'll volunteer again, but I'm

not as into it, I'll tell you that,"
White said. "I'm not so excited,
I'm not as motivated. I worked so
hard four years ago. I don't have
the same motivation to get out
there and work every single day
like I did in '08."
It would have been tough for
the realities of the Obama presi-
dency, with its deal-making and
compromises, to compete with
the inspirations of the Obama
campaign under the best of
circumstances. He's encoun-
tered far from the best, with the
tough economy and Republicans
attacking him at every turn.
But for Obama, the disillu-
sionment goes even deeper than
the political reality that govern-
ing is harder and uglier than
campaigning. ,
Obama's campaign was pre-
mised on the notion of uniting
the country and changing the
very way Washington worked.
But that's something he's
acknowledged he failed to do.


Survey: Insurance
costs surge in 2011


RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, September 28, 2011


Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Vacation 37 Embroidered 47 Security device
1 Olds compact destinations word 48 Kid-lit elephant
6 State secrets? 5 Brass band 38 Put to the test 49 "Hee Haw" host
10 "Casablanca" sound 41 Painter's medium 52 Break
character 8 Brown-haired 42 Half-story 53 _-Ball
14 Loggers 7o windows 54 Manuscript
competition 7 Trunk 44 Cape May marking
15 Getto attachment Countyweekly 58 Family
16 Like 8mhtz. in 8 Chow chow
WWII 9 Affectionate 45 Time for nickname
17 Bottomless pit gesture con los celebration 59 Org. with body
18 Strike callers labios 46 Faster's dream scanners
19 Maot-r 10Thorough girl 60 Retiring
20 *Testthat 11 Aprils1605pope ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
sounds easier 11 'Poison" shrub
thanioftenis2 3lemental bits e I 8 5 A M 5 L E T M AR
23i2l witGbbbles 11 Greekvowel A N E T B E S I S E A L E
25Maorstories 22"The Family BROD Y S C A N N E R R AD
26 *""Cod of Circas" ANALYST KNAVISH
discussion" cartoonist Z E N BTU I N K A
30 Heather map 23"Bullying is__. Z E N A T P E N K A
figates school rule A DZ C RAM PEDSSE A T
31 Symbol of strict 24 Dickens's Drood P 0 L K A L I L E I
control r 26Homecoming T O E N A I L R O L O E
35OCycle opener guest i s E s NI CE
36*Z's 27Occupyina L O N G L A Y 0 V EIR S OD
39 Compete way O PA H A XEMAL G
40 She has a 28 Raman numeralD STAN G N O E D
memorable smile 29 Today, in Toledo S A S T A N T I U N 0 R E
42 Hamlet, for one 32 Help G AD LOS TL U GGA GE
43 hi toron 3Dt E T A EVE N L Y I C ON
before a heist 34Bug bugger REQ CAN N E S C E S T
47 Scrub, at NASA 36 November ticket xwordeditor@aol.com 09127/11

5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2012
www.COpiprOperties.COm
734-663-5609
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mmwalk. Free Wi-F.


CONDO FOR SALE. Northeast Ann
Arbor end unit. 4 bedroom, 2 bath.
Hardwood floors, new appliances,
paint. I Haverhill Ct., $249,900. Call
Marjorie 734-635-1881 Century 21.
Brookshire

5H Either"Cathy's
Clown" singer
51 What the first
words of the
answers to
starred clues
describe
55 Genesis victim
56 Swedish
furniture giant
87 Egg Solders
61 Hindu royal
62 Tumbled
63 Corkers?
64 Howard's wife, to
the Fonz
65 Offended, with
"off'
66 Homework
assignment
DOWN
1 Notre Dame's
Parseghian
2 Tennis tactic
3 Bridge guru

8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
i4 15 16
1 2 3 4 121
17 18 19
2
20 2
M 24 25
28 ;31 29
30 1 32 33 34
35 36 37 311 39
40 41 42
43 44 45 46
47 48 49 50
51 52 53 54
$5 5s 57 58 59 60
61 62 63
84 A ss 66
By Bruce Veuzke and Gail Grabowski 09/28/11
(c)2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

t NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Incl. Fteat/Water/Parking. l
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
!? BIG 10 BED CAMPUS HOUSE !!
4 baths, 2 living, open basement, new
carpet, large screen TVs, great yard,
thee laundry, free parking May to May.
www.nancylat.com (734) 563-1370
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Fireplace/cool kitch,
prkg. Must see! $3800 (313) 215-8115.
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
**3 BEDROOM HOUSE** Newly
renovated. Near Yost. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
AVAILABLE FALL 20125 bedroom
2 buth houses. Cull 610-952-5269 or
Email louisbreskanan@gmail.com.
MYUMHOUSE.COM
Jager Properties
3-6 Bedrooms
Beautiful, Secure Campus Homes
Available September 2012
No Hidden Costs!
734-668-7955

DSG ASSOCIATES, INC. is loaking
for individouls 1 purticipate in a paid
online research study. Sign up for free
at www.dsgai.com or call 800-462-
8765 today!,
ONLINE AUTO INSURANCE. Call
Anytime for a quote (734) 944-9393.

Premiums for
family coverage
climb 9 percent
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) - The
cost of employer-sponsored
health insurance surged this
year, snapping a trend toward
moderate growth, but experts
say these increases may slow
again in 2012.
Annual premiums for fam-
ily coverage climbed 9 percent
and surpassed $15,000 for the
first time, according to a report
released yesterday by the Kai-
ser Family Foundation and the
Health Research and Education-
al Trust. Premiums for single
coverage rose 8 percent com-
pared to 2010.
That growth compares to
increases last year of 3 and 5 per-
cent for family and single cover-
age, respectively.
The study does not delve into
why rates jumped in 2011, but
foundation CEO Drew Altman
said a. number of factors may
have played a role. He noted
that health care costs continue
to rise. Insurer profits and the
health care overhaul also have
some impact.
Companies and workers split
premiums for employer-spon-
sored coverage, the most com-
mon form of health insurance in
the United States.
Businesses likely reacted to
these cost increases by freez-
ing retirement account contri-
butions or giving a flat wage or
smaller increase to their work-
ers, said Helen Darling, CEO of
the National Business Group on

Health, a nonprofit organization
that represents large employers
on health care issues.
"(Workers) basically are giv-
ing their pay raise to the health
system," said Darling, who was
not involved with the Kaiser
study. It's really bad news.c
The annual study was con-
ducted earlier this year and
includes results from more
than 2,000 companies across
the country. It also indicates
that many more families than
previously believed have ben-
efited from a popular provision
in President Barack Obama's
health care overhaul allowing
young adults to stay on aparent's
health plan until they turn 26.
Kaiser asked employers how
.many people were added to
their insurance plans because
of this provision and estimated
that 2.3 million young adults
enrolled. Last week the govern-
menthad reported that the num-
ber of uninsured young adults
had dropped by nearly 1 million
since the law took effect, a find-
ing independently corroborated
by Gallup.
The difference isn't necessar-
ily a contradiction.
Insurers have been saying for
months that health care use has
grown more slowly this year,
something industry observ-
ers pin on the sluggish econo-
my. Altman and other benefits
experts say that could lead to
lower premium increases next
year, since insurers base their
rates inpart on how often people
use care.
The overhaul aims to eventu-
ally cover millions of uninsured
people.

EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with uds.
www.FreeCarJobs.com
PART TIME TUTORS needed for
math & science. Call (734) 434-1228.
Dynamic Tutoring Services.
PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSIS-
TANT U.S. Rehab Services has an
immediate full time position available
in Ypsilanti area. Must have MI PTA
License and have experienced in the
field. Eligiblehcandidates send resume
at hr@usrehabpt.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

4 1 k 4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 28, 2011- 7A

FILMA[EVIEW
Cole keeps his cool

'Cole World' reveals
talent but no
hip hop messiah
By EMMA GASE
Daily Music Editor
The release of J. Cole's Cole
World: The Sideline Story is pre-
ceded by a more-than-loaded
question: Can
J. Cole save
hip hop? Or to
go meta, does J Cole
hip hop need
saving? Most Cole World:
would reply The Sidelne
"yea" to the Story
latter (Where
is this year's Roc Nation
MBDTF?). As
for the former, the same question
could easily be asked about Drake,
Jay Electronica or Big Sean - all
young upstarts with impres-
sive and powerful mentors (Lil'
Wayne, Diddy and Kanye, respec-
tively). Cole doesn't have just any
mentor, though. Most aspiring
rappers would give up their abil-
ity to rhyme to be taken in by
Jay-Z, signed to Hova's label, Roc
Nation, and have their first guest
spot on The Blueprint 3's "A Star is
Born." Talk about a head start on
the game. No pressure, right?
Inevitably, it does beg the
question: Can J. Cole summit the
mountain of his own hype? The
answer: not yet. But that's not
to say he isn't climbing. On Cole
World, he delivers his verses with
a hard-to-pin magnetism - there
is no denying Jermaine Lamarr
Cole has the X-factor. He's articu-
late, relatable and possesses a fas-
tidious intelligence - all qualities
that are in short supply in current
hip hop (we're looking at you, Tha
CarterIV).
He's not lacking confidence,
either. On "Cole World" he raps,
"My reigngon' last like three, four
eras / Say hello to the real 'I can

COURTESY OF MUSIC BOX
"So ... who can I interest in an after-dinner foursome?"
The many forms of 'Love'

COURTESY OF ROC NATION

J. Cole forgets his locker combination.
be your hero.' " Though you can't
help rooting for the guy, Cole
spends more time talking about
being hip hop's hero than actually
delivering songs that transcend
"pretty good."
Cole's style fluctuates from
boastful to introspective to self-
conscious to straight-up frenzied.
On "Sideline Story," he goes hard
on his haters over a sauntering,
cocktail-hour beat as he recounts
his rise to success. On "Lost
Ones," he poignantly role-plays a
drama between a couple dealing
with anunplannedpregnancy. It's
this balance between his two per-
sonas - the hedonistic player and
the neurotic intellectual - that
makes Cole a compelling rapper.
With the exception of the
polarizing "Work Out," which
samples Kanye's "New Workout
Plan" and Paula Abdul's "Straight
Up," and the Trey Songz-assisted
"Can't Get Enough," Cole World
suffers from a dearth of light radio
hits. It's easy to see Cole is more
comfortable with his introspec-
tive, personal songs than the ones
where he rattles off pithy lines
about women and fame. As with
his mixtapes, he still favors the

old-school soul feel of piano laced
around his self-produced beats.
In arguably the only genre that
is still evolving in exciting ways
(sorry, chillwave, you've gone as
far as you could), Cole tries his
hand at playing hip hop's savior.
Drake's Thank MeLater was astep
in the right direction (Take Care
remains to be seen), Big Sean's
Finally Famous was a dud and Jay
Elec still hasn't gotten it together
and putout a real-life record. That
leaves J. Cole. Many expected
(perhaps unfairly) Cole World
to be a messianic gift - one that
could tip the scales of a genre vac-
illating between producing High
Art and total garbage. His mix-
tapes - especially Friday Night
Lights - certainly packed enough
punch to add to the build-up.
But then again, what more can
we expect? The guy's 26 years
old, his verses are superior to the
majority of his contemporaries
and he produced most of his debut
album by himself. J. Cole has had
the weight of the hip-hop world
thrust upon him by desperate
speculators, industry gods and
even his own idols. Give the guy
some time.

By PHILIP CONKLIN
DailyArts Writer
In trying to describe "The
Names of Love," a French film by
director Michel Leclerc, many
words come to
mind - whim- *
sical, funny,
touching, clev- The Names
er, insightful.
But above all, of Love
it's muddled. At the Michigan
This is really
three films in Music Box
one: a witty
romantic comedy, a lyrical love
story and a social critique. And
while the film has a lot of smart
and sensitive things to say about
love, politics, cultural identi-
ty, colonialism and sex, these
strands of brilliance, (while often
funny or poignant on their own)
never quite coalesce.
"The Names of Love" opens
with Arthur Martin (Jacques
Gamblin, "The First Day of the
Rest of Your Life"), an earnest,
dour but handsome man in his
forties, talking directly to the
camera. He is also one of about
15,000 other Arthur Martins in
France, he tells us.
Next, we see Baya Benmah-
moud (Sara Forestier, "Gains-
bourg: A Heroic Life"), a young,
passionate and colorful woman
who brightly tells the audience
that no one in France shares her
name. She is one of a kind.
The film takes its time narrat-
ing the lives of these characters,
making much of the disparity in
their backgrounds. Arthur is the
son of a Franco-Jewish mother

who g
ond W
daught
who f
French
ily. In
a succ
Baya i
who li
love n(
pation
of righ
seduct
Tho
tive, th
on far
minute
nists e
do, th.
ting to
strang
of a fi
attract
is satis

rew up during the Sec- dinarily warm and sensual. And
'orld War, and Baya is the interspersed at regular intervals
ter of an Algerian father are scenes of pure comedy, some
led to France when the gimmicky (when Baya, through
occupiers killed his fam- her characteristic caprice and
the present day, Arthur is forgetfulness, somehow ends up
cessful veterinarian, and on the metro naked) and some
s a devoted liberal activist brilliant (an awkward family din-
ves by the maxim "make ner in which every word evokes
ot war" - her only occu- the Holocaust), which are alter-
is the political conversion nately distracting and refreshing.
it-wingers through sexual As "The Names of Love" goes
ion. on, it begins to grapple with
ugh charming and inven- even larger themes. It turns out
is portion of the film drags Arthur's Jewish grandparents
too long. It's almost 30 were victims of the Holocaust,
es before the two protago- and he and Baya bond over the
rven meet. But once they similarities of their persecuted
ey waste no time in get- ancestors and muse on their
gether: The two go from national and cultural identity.
ers to lovers in a matter "We embody France," Baya says.
ew scenes. Opposites do However, the film begins to reel
, it seems, and their union out of control, and many strands
fying. are left hanging. It even suc-
cumbs to some romantic comedy
tropes, including the perfunctory
Trench fln breakup/reconciliation. Under-
eU 1 neath all this is the sense that the
vith liberal filmmakers are tryingdesperately
to keep the audience interested.
seduction. The director is clearly talented,
s tand "The Names of Love" would
have benefited from a decrease in
scope, a tighter fooos
e is where "The Names But the two lead performances
e" begins to fracture into are brilliant enough to cover up
As Arthur spends time many of the film's inconsisten-
aya's family, the film offers cies, and always at the core of
compelling insights into the film are Baya and Arthur,
m culture, and some sig- who remain appealing and fun
tly less compelling mus- to watch throughout. They make
n modern French politics. "The Names of Love," if not the
o, as the romance between social critique the filmmak-
nd Arthur develops, there ers might wish it to be, at least
veral poetic, beautifully a pleasurable, even affecting,
ye scenes that are extraor- diversion.

F


Her
of Lov
three.
with B
some
Muslin
nifican
ings of
But als
Baya a
are se
shot lo

'Office' minus Carell is still boss

I

COURTESY OF NBC
The bridal low-five: An age-old tradition.
'Whitney'lacks the wit

By MATT EASTON
For the Daily
How high should our expecta-
tions be for television comedies?
Are we satisfied with a show
that makes us
chuckle, that
leaves us sitting
on the couch 30 shl..
minutes later Witney
thinking, with pilot
a grinning half-
shrug, "Well, Thursdays at
that was pretty 9:30 p.m.
funny"? NBC
"Whitney,"
starringnewcomerWhitney Cum-
mings and Chris D'Elia (from the
unjustly canceled "Glory Daze"),
gives us some little laughs. The
premise is simplistic: Cummings
plays the independent woman
not afraid to speak her mind, and
D'Elia plays the supportive, and
at times overwhelmed, boyfriend.
Together with some cookie-cut-
ter buddies, they move through
contrived plots and talk about dull
problems. In the pilot, Cummings
finds herself at a friend's wedding
(which she interrupts with some
manufactured rudeness), where
she begins to wonder if her rela-
tionship with D'Elia is cooling.
The long-term couple in a sitcom
worrying about sex? Riveting!

Audi
becaus'
And th
problet
all wati
"Every
all thos
were gr
though
least no
ket tha
from t
show. I
out of:
pluckin
isn't no
in tod:
tiredne

ences have seen this before been given sheets of paper saying,
e it has been done before. "This is what Cummings is like.
erein lies the fundamental Here's what D'Elia is like. This
m with "Whitney." We've friend, she was dumped, so she's
ched "Friends," "Seinfeld," grouchy. This friend, she's happy.
body Loves Raymond" and OK, now we are going to put them
e formulaic sitcoms. They in situations and they will react as
reat -10 years ago. Today, expected."
, there isn't a market (or at It could be funny, but it certain-
t a forward-thinking mar- ly isn't interesting. It won't bring
it demands better things people back week after week.
elevision) for that kind of "Whitney" may be able to stir
NBC is dragging concepts up enough sets and plots to keep
the attic with the hope of these characters busy for a few
ig a nostalgic string. But it episodes, but eventually audienc-
stalgic - it's boring. And es will catch on and it will run out
ay's television landscape, of steam. If there's one redeeming
ass is death. quality to "Whitney," it allows us
to recognize television is getting
better: This type of show simply
i isn't acceptable anymore.
e re so over DElia calls Cummings
he formula. "Whit," an attempt by the writers
to manufacture some colloquial-
ness between the lovers. He says
it like a new friend who is using a
ences want something nickname from an inside joke he
Whitney" lacks: depth. was never a part of, so that you
g forward, it's almost look at him and think, "You're
ible to conceive where we ruining it."
taken that we haven't been "Whitney" as a whole oper-
Cummings and D'Elia ates in the same way. The jokes,
ieir characters, and these the laugh-track, the characters
ers have good and bad - they leave us grimacing at the
he problemis, we can't see screen thinking, "You weren't
m for growth within these there when it was funny. Why are
t feels as though we have you bringg it up now?"

By TIMOTHY RABB
DailyArts Writer
For seven zany seasons, "The
Office" navigated the choppy
waters of primetime comedy
with remark-
able ease,
helmed by
the capable The Office
Michael Scott
(Steve Carell, Season Eight
"Crazy, Stu- Premiere
pid, Love"). Thursdays at
There seemed 9:30 p.ma
to be an infi-
nite number of NBC
ways for him
to sabotage his own well-mean-
ing attempts to be the "World's
Greatest Boss," but Dunder Mif-
flin's rag-tag team weathered
the storms and he finally earned
the respect (and the lady) he so
desperately sought. Tempting as
it was to sound the series's death
knell when Michael departed,
however, the ship sails on.
Granted, it's scary at first -
the cold open's homage to the
"planking" sensation throws
the whole crew into a band-
wagon of overdone pop culture
parodies, but it's not for noth-
ing. We quickly learn from Jim
(John Krasinski, "Something
Borrowed") that after the enig-
matic Robert California (James
Spader, "Boston Legal") got the
regional manager gig, he imme-
diately became CEO, choosing
Andy (Ed Helms, "The Hang-
over Part II") as manager in his
stead. Andy appoints Dwight
(Rainn Wilson, "The Rocker")
the new office "enforcer," and
Dwight kicks his officemates off
the planking wagon one by one,
violently and hilariously.
From then on, the show's

t

"Before this night is over, one of you will betray me."
new strategy comes into clearer er" role (let's hope it's a running
focus. It was hard to appreciate theme). Stanley (Leslie David
the excessive screen time dedi- Baker) shows a boisterous side of
cated to Michael before - his himself we've never seen before.
antics were a show of their own. And Robert's "promotion" to
But now, the rest of the ensemble CEO is an especially brilliant
comes out of the woodwork to get move, since he conducts his CEO
their 15 minutes, and it's startling duties furtively from the Scran-
to see how much they've changed ton branch's conference room.
in such a short time. His constant, eerie presence in
the office along with his one-of-
a-kind temperament guarantees
Ensemble cast plen'yofeisodespringboards.
anyone's guess where
fills the holes the show will go from here, but
there's still plenty of ground to
That's what cover if the show's writers take
advantage of their new template
she said. and explore the office's lesser-
known funny(wo)men. Was the
scarcity of crucial characters like
Creed and Kevin in past episodes
Andy's nothing like the awk- neglectful or deliberate? Time
ward, sycophantic spaz we will tell.
remember from seasons past - Amid the uproar of new char-
instead, he's shrewd yet loyal, acters and evolving old ones,
political but practical. Dwight is there's at least one certainty:
still the same zealous sociopath, "The Office" hasn't overstayed
but it'll be interesting to see how its welcome; it's simply outgrown
far he goes with his new "enforc- Michael Scott.

Audi
that
Lookin,
imposs
can bet
before.
have th
charact
traits. T
any roo
traits. I

I

A


f

i 8A - Wednesday, September 28, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Wednesday, September 28, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

M unveis speed option play
MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor"

If there's one word to describe
junior quarterback Denard Rob-
inson,"t' speedy. He runs fast,
his teammates say he talks fast
and most of the time when he
struggles, the coaches say he just
needs to slow down. So when the
coaches unveiled their newest
offensive wrinkle, it was only fit-
ting that it started with speed -
the speed option, that is.
Despite working on the speed
option since spring practice,
Michigan hadn't run a speed
option the first three games this
season. The only option they ran
was a read option. Robinson was
inthe shotgun, readthedefensive
end and decided whether to hand
the ball off or keep it. In Michi-
gan's fourth game last Saturday
against San Diego State, offen-
sive coordinator Al Borges didn't
waste any time unleashing the
new weapon and called the play.
On 3rd-and-2, Robinson went to
the line and checked the play to
the right."Junior running back
Vincent Smith went in motion as
Robinson snapped the ball.
Robinson took a few strides
horizontally, found a crease and
sprinted 53 yards into the end
zone.
"You got a guy who can run
(a) 4.3 (40-yard dash) with the
ball," Borges said before laugh-
ing. "That's a little scary to the
defense, that kind of ball car-
rier. It just forces them to defend
more."
The Wolverines ran the play
a couple of more times, to vary-
ing success. Robinson did make
the pitch to redshirt sophomore
Fitzgerald Toussaint for five
yards. Then Robinson converted
on fourth down. Borges said that
most defenses are playing man

MEN'S GOLF
Blue disappoints
in rain-shortened
18-hole tournament
ZACH HELFAND junior Miguel Echavarria, who
Daily Sports Editor shot a five-over 76.
The Inverness Club - the
For the first time since host course for the tournament
1993, the Michigan men's golf - gave the team difficulty with
team played just one round its short game.
in the rain-shortened 18-hole "The greens at this course
Inverness Intercollegiate were very small, so they're
Tournament on Tuesday. For hard to hit, which puts pres-
the second time in two weeks, sure on your short game,"
Michigan finished with a dis- Whitten said. "I thought our
appointing score by its own shots around the green were
standards. maybe a little bit sloppy at
The Wolverines tied for sev- times."
enth with an aggregate score Three other Big Ten teams
of 301. The tournament was participated in the tourna-
originally scheduled for two ment. Michigan State and Penn
days, but rain forced officials State finished directly ahead of
to cancel Monday's round. Michigan.
Senior Matt Thompson and The Spartans took fourth
junior Matt Alessi were Michi- with a 295, followed by the Nit-
gan's top golfers for the round. tany Lions, who shot one stroke
They tied each other for 17th ahead of the Wolverines. Ohio
with a pair of three-over 74s. State, which finished ahead of
"(The one-round tourna- all three teams in last spring's
ment) was an unusual event," Big Ten Championship, fin-
said Michigan coach Chris ished last in the 11-team field
Whitten. "Statistically, the with a 305.
more golf you play, the bet- Michigan has struggled in
ter teams are going to rise to both of the tournaments it has
the top. But in a one-round played in this year, as it fin-
shootout, we prepare for every ished sixth as the host team
round the same way, and we at the Wolverine Intercolle-
think that every shot we hit in giate Tournament earlier this
the tournament has the same month. Still, Whitten says the
value. So it's no different game team is not far off from its
plan, no different attitude. Just potential.
a little bit of unusual routine "I think we're still figuring
maybe." out what our team looks like,"
Whitten said nobody Whitten said. "We don't have
stepped up to carry the team to make huge jumps in terms
through a below-average of our games, but I think the
round, but he was impressed results will definitely get bet-
by former walk-on Alessi and ter."

0

MARISSA MCCLAIN /Daily
Junior quarterback Denard Robinson and junior running back Vincent Smith combined for one deadly option combo.

coverage on the receivers, leav-
ing a couple of guys keying on
Robinson while trying to. force
him to pass. Running the speed
option is an effort to counterbal-
ance that defensive set.
"(It) is a way to really back
people off from man coverage,"
said Michigan coach Brady Hoke.
"Because if you've got your pitch
man and whoever's going to take
the quarterback - when you play
man and you're going to blitz,
you've got to be right."
Despite the success of the
option, Borges said he wasn't
surprised the Wolverines hadn't

run it until now.
That may have been due to
the original plan of the offense.
Before the season, Michigan's
offensive mantra was to take
the pressure off Robinson's legs,
partly in order to prevent some
hits to Robinson's body.
After four games, Hoke and
Borges have been adamant that
they're going to do everything to
win, even if it means exposing his
quarterback to more hits through
the option or otherwise. Robin-
son has carried the ball 47 times
for nearly 400 yards in the past
two games. As No. 19 Michigan

heads into the Big Ten season -
which beat up Robinson last year,
knocking him out of multiple
games - Robinson's health is a
concern. But Hoke has said Rob-
inson has been "doing the best he
can" in avoiding contact.
The option won't be a new
wrinkle-from here on out, but if
it continues to work, Michigan
will still run it. According to
Borges, novelty may not be an
issue.
"There's more," Borges said.
"We're in the Big Ten now, and
the're's going to be more stuff
that we haven't done."


EMBARK: NASSAU, BAHAMAS
ROSEAU, DOMINICA
MANAUS, BRAZIL
TAKORADI, GHANA
CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA
PORT LOUIS, MAURITIUS
COCHIN, INDIA
SINGAPORE
HO CHI MINH CITY, VIET NAM
HONG KONG, CHINA
SHANGHAI, CHINA
KOBE, JAPAN
YOKOHAMA, JAPAN
. . ........................ . . .. . . . . . . . .
HILO, HAWAII
DEBARK: SAN DIEGO, CA USA
ITINERARY IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE.
To apply, scan the code or cl
8OO.854.O1 95. Mentin thic ad arid
we'H waive your applicatin tee!

.........................................................

0I

Space is Limited: Apply Now! * Financial Aid is Available

APPLY FOR SPRING 2012
Scan the code for the SAS Fast
Appication or apply by phonet
Mention this ad and we'll waive
your appcation feet
00.854.0195

I!J i
4J!L

4

4 A

A



0

0"

8B Wednsday 2011

PERSONALSTATEMENT

LOVE FOR LUTHER HOUSE
WHY OPTING FOR A CO-OP MIGHT
BE THE BEST DECISION YOU MAKE
BY MIA MARINO

From 'creating a ridiculous
rivalry for no reason with another
co-op to shouting absurd phrases
that became yearlong themes ("If
someone's not dying, we're not
living"), we merged from strang-
ers into family. Everyone in the
house shared a common humor,
from choosing a mural theme
(The Great Wave) to cleaning the
kitchen messes. I could not think
of a better group of people to live
with.
Each house member is seen as
an equal owner of the space - a
participant, a helper and a contrib-
utor. At the first

After living in the Univer-
sity's Luther Haus co-op
last year, I can confidently
say two things: First, that I loved
every minute spent in the co-op
and second, I praise the Lord every
day that my conservative mother
never set foot in that house.
My experience as a member of
a co-op was particularly unique
to this campus because of my
dual affiliation with the co-op
and Greek Life. Initially, I joined
Luther because I wanted to be
near Central Campus and have a
low-key living environment with
few rules. As a California girl
with only one older brother, I had
always felt at home in fraternity
houses. Therefore, in my pursuit
for the perfect housing option I
felt pulled toward the Inter Coop-
erative Council - the body that
oversees the maintenance and
contract information for each
of the University's 19 co-ops -
because of its fun, easygoing envi-
ronment. With reasonable rules,
spacious rooms, low living costs
and provided food, there was a lot
to like about Luther.
However, these are not the rea-

sons why I really cherished my
time at Luther. Each individual
co-op boasts a unique personal-
ity and a new group of incred-
ible members each year. From the
people to the physical home itself,
co-ops are something that more
people should know about.
From day one I felt like an inte-
gral member of Luther Haus. It
is outlined in the rules of co-op
living that each member has an
equal voice in decision-making.
This rule is not always impor-
tant when you are living with a
homogeneous group, but for most
co-ops the inhabitants are as
unique as the psychedelic murals
that adorn the walls. As I sat on
the porch swing that first August
evening as a "Lutherite," older
members swapped stories about
how Luther had been the birth-
place of the band M-5, had har-
bored the White Panthers during
the civil rights movement and
that John Lennon had slept with
a student in another Lutherite's
room.
The current members' back-
grounds rivaled the richness of
Luther's history. Luther boasted

students from the University of
Michigan and Eastern Michi-
gan University across many
departments. Ages ranged from
18-year-old undergraduates to a
30-year-old graduate student in

"Each individual co-op boasts a house meeting, an
executive board
unique personality and a group is democrati-
cally assigned.
of incredible members." The food stew-
ards order bulk
the physics department. Needless food and run to the grocery store
to say, Luther was not lacking aca- for specialty items. The kitchen
demic diversity. czar maintains the curb appeal
This diverse group of students of the kitchen and oversees the
not only led to interesting intel- overall cleanliness of the hub of
lectual discussion, but also to the house. Work managers create
some pretty fun everyday expe- detailed work schedules - one
riences. Without Luther I would of the reasons why co-ops are so
be less aware of the true devotion affordable is because of the work
required to succeed in a program- hours contributed by each house
ming course at the University (I member.
am a lowly double major in LSA My personal work experiences
academic departments). I would were unforgettable. During first
never have befriended a School of semester, I was a chef on Mon-
Art & Design senior set on becom- day evenings, for which my friend
ing a minister who simultaneously Jonah and I were expected to
enjoyed a great social life and prepare both vegetarian and car-
rocked a phenomenal party per- nivore dinner options for 50 peo-
sona. ple. While we definitely burned

the rice, and may have accidently
transferred a spognful of bouil-
lon broth to vegetarian chili, we
were not the worst chefs by a long
shot. Through cooking, we quickly
befriended each other.
I was ready for a less strenu-
ous job the next semester. Com-
ing from a family where Edith
and Anna had cleaned our home
from top to bottom weekly since I
was 6 years old, few would peg me
as the type to request bathroom
cleaning. However, I was happy to
scrub until the shower sparkled.
While duties differ from clean-
ing, to cooking, to working at the
administrative ICC office, each
job requires the cooperation of all
house members.
Co-ops are not defined solely
through the manner by which
they are run either. Luther Haus
hosts an annual Halloween party
that touts live bands and fierce
costumes. We opened our home as
the location for weekly Ann Arbor
Free Skool cooking classes. I may
have lost my mind at times, but
overall, my time at Luther made
me a more patient, understanding
and awesome person because of
the people who I was surrounded
by and the foundation by which
co-ops are run.
Look into co-op living regard-
less of your academic or social
backgrounds, as they are filled
with individuals as varied as their
locations around campus.
- Mia Marino is ans LSA junior.

the
EstatEm
SEPTEMBER 28, 2011

V
.
.
'
-
';
' ."
..
,,, .
:
"
~ <.T
:

f
1


'LIKE' THE
MICHIGAN DAILY
ON FACEBOOK.
And follow us on Twitter.
@MICHIGANDAILY
@MICHDAILYNEWS
@MICHDAILYSPORTS
@MICHDAILYOPED
@MICHDAILYARTS

CHECK OUT WOLVERINES' STREET
STYLE ON THE DAILY'S STYLE BLOG.
VISIT MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR THE FASHION VOYEUR.
DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING YOU
WANT TO SAY?
WRITE A PERSONAL STATEMENT.
E-MAIL KLARECKI@MICHIGANDAILY.COM



Adlb Ado& Adillk

0 S

0

0 .

2B Wednesday, September 28, 2011 // The Statement

I W dnsda, epembr 8, 01 / T. Sateen 7E

statement
Magazine Editor:
Carolyn Klarecki
Editor in Chief:
Stephanie Steinberg
Managing Editor:
Nick Spar
Deputy Editors:
Stephen Ostrowski
Devon Thorsby
Elyana Twiggs
Designers:
Maya Friedman
Hermes Risien
Photos:
Jed Moch
Copy Editor:
Hannah Poindexter
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.
To contact The Statement e-mail
klarecki@michigandaily.com.
THINK YOU'RE
THE NEXT
SAM ADAMS?
ENTER OUR
HOME BREW
COMPETITION
AND WE'LL
SET YOU
STRAIGHT.
BOTTLES DUE ON
OCT.16
Bring your beer to
420 Maynard on
weekdays between
11 a.m. and 5 p.m.

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview by kaitlin williams

Welcome to the random
student interview,
where we make obvious
observations to start awkward
conversations.
I see you're holding a Daily.
Yeah, it was in the Union so I
picked up a copy.
Are you using it for warmth or
kindling?
I actually read it.
So you're not using it for shade?
No, I use it to find out what's going
on.
OK, awesome. I see people using
it more to shield themselves as
they run through the rain. It's
kind of a rare sight to see some-
one reading it.
That would be a good way to use
it.
So, how've you been feeling?
Have you come down with any
one of the random things going
around campus?
I don't know.
Have you gotten sick or any-
thing like that?
Oh! No!
Do you think there's going to be
some new strange strain of flu
this year?
I hadn't thought about that, but
probably.
What do you think they'll call it
this time?
I don't know. It'll be named after
whatever animal it came from.
Speaking of things named after
animals, have you ever heard of
a dance called The Cat Daddy?
No.
Apparently it's kind of like a
Dougie. But the Dougie is sup-
posedly out, so no one will be
able to teach me.
I have no idea what that is.
1|inmII

You don't know what the Dou-
gie is?
No.
It's just some sort of dance
craze. So what's your favorite
dance?
Hmmm ... I don't know very many.
I only know the terrible ones, like
the sprinkler or the shopping cart.
Have you been known to break
out the sprinkler when the situ-
ation calls for it?
Yes. I have some moves in my rep-
ertoire.
Great ... What's your favorite
season?
What's my favorite season? Maybe
spring.
What does spring smell like?
It just smells like life.
So what's your favorite smell?
Well, there's probably not one
absolute favorite. It probably
depends on, you know, if I'm really
hungry I'll probably like the smell
of food.
Yeah.
Other times I might like the smell
of girls or something like that, you
know.
Have you ever been caught
smelling a girl?
Um, only when I have the right to
be smelling a girl.
When do you have a right to be
smelling her? Like she's given
you express permission to?
Yeah. Otherwise, no.
OK, I get you. So, what's your
position on plaid? I see you've
broken out the green plaid
shirt.
Oh yeah!
Flannel, am I right?
Yeah, it was a recommendation
from my girlfriend. She was tell-
ing me I need some new clothes.

Oh OK, so plaid is still in?
Yeah, I guess it's like kind of cool.
This is my first time wearing this
kind of style.
Really? A first-time plaid-er.
But I mean, I mostly got it because
it's comfortable and it's warm.
What do you think about people
who are still wearing shorts?
Yeah, I think that they are prob-
ably more tolerant of the cold than
I am.
Where are you from originally?
I've lived in Michigan my whole
life.
Do you think we're going to see
any more of summer?
Yeah, I think we'll probably have a
few more warm days.
Have you ever heard of an Indi-
an summer?
Um, no.
Do you think it's racist to call it
that?
I've never heard of it.
I believe it's where we geta
few warm days after it's gotten
really cold.
oh, yeah.
So have you started thinking
about Halloween? What do you
want to be for Halloween?
Yeah, I think I'm going to be Tux-
edo Mask. Do you know who that
is?
Is it that guy from that Jim Car-
rey movie?
No, from "Sailor Moon." That's a
good guess though.
OK, I'm not familiar with that.
So what does this guy look like?
Can you try to explain to the
readers?
Well, he wears a tux and he has a
cape and he has you know a mask
covering his face.
Nice. I wouldn't have guessed.

So is your girlfriend going to be
Sailor Moon?
She and her friends are going to be
the Sailor Scouts. I think my girl-
friend is Sailor Mars and her best
friend is Sailor Moon.
Oh, so it's a whole themed group
sort of thing?
Yeah, themes are a good idea for
Halloween.
So did you have to buy some-
thing online for that costume
or are you making it all on your
own?
No, I'm buying a tux. And as for
the cape, I'll have to get creative.
And the mask as well. We'll see
though. I should get cracking, only
have about a month left.
Yeah, you'd better start plan-
ning. And you also need five or
six more costumes depending
on how many nights you plan on
going out that week.
Oh yeah, I forgot. Halloween is
not just one night.
How many nights do you think
is acceptable to go out for Hal-
loween?
I have no idea.
Well, do you have a personal
record?
Oh. I don't know. Maybe like two
or three. I didn't even know peo-
plc did it for a week. That seems
like kind of tan much.
What's your favorite holiday?
Probably Christmas. It's just so
good: family, presents, being
inside next to fireplaces and stuff.
I also like Valentine's Day and
Mother's Day. Those are nice -
women's days.
Women. They smell nice.
- Kevin is a recent
LSA graduate.
Your
Beer
H ere


I7

C ollege isn't college without the streets that
morph into a strip of bars at night - you
know, the streets that crawl with freezing
girls in skimpy dresses and have lines that are
never worth the wait. The spot in Ann Arbor
that is primarily graced by students, located
near the heart of campus, is also the one with
the best nightlife.
If you want to pay an arm and a leg for a
massive mason jar of Constant Buzz at Domi-
nick's (only during the warmer days) or get
your groove on in the dodgy Rick's American
Cafd underground, the area between North
University Avenue and Hill Street might be for
you. This neighborhood is infested with loud,
uninhibited partiers in the later hours of the
evening, since most of the college bars in Ann
Arbor are located just blocks away.
Not only are the bars fun and age appropri-
ate, the sheer amount of restaurants are a sav-
ing grace for the seeker of the "fourth meal."
Plus, no one can judge you since they are shar-
ing the same kind of inebriated hunger as you
(you and College Joe danced so much at Rick's,
you basically burned it off, right?). Pizza, bur-
ritos and most other tasty morsels will be at
your fingertips, especially after an embarrass-
ing night of karaoke at Blue Leprechaun or a
shot too many at Chuck's.
However, if you want to stay in and read
poetry on a Friday night, don't be pissed if you
are within earshot of Negative Nancy crying
over the beer that some jerk spilled on her on
the dance floor.

S afety is on everyone's mind right now.
According to crime reports from the Ann
Arbor Police Department and the University's
Department of Public Safety, the neighbor-
hood with the least amount of crime since
January 2011 is north of West Summit Street
and west of Main Street.
This area - which is usually inhabited
by grad students and Ann Arbor citizens -
includes a quiet neighborhood with high-qual-
ity housing. Few (if any) house parties happen
in this area, and the lack of students walking
around late at night is a possible reason for low
crime rates.
If safety is your primary concern, keep in
mind that though your neighborhood may be
crime free, your lengthy commute to cam-
pus and Central Campus nightlife may not
be. Summit and Main is roughly a 25-minute
walk to the Diag and might not make for fun
late night walks from the library or bar crawls.
DPS recommends that students avoid walking
around alone at night, that they walk it well-
lit areas and lock their doors to increase +heir
personal safety.

n the search for a house or apartment that's
I close to campus, it's no question that the
neighborhood between Hill and East Huron
streets offers one of the shortest commutes to
the heart of Central Campus. With the Diag at
its center, the area is crawling with students at
all hours of the day. The numerous libraries,
restaurants and bars in the area service the
constant flow of students, who might be run-
ning any number of errands.
The area - with its mix of sorority and
fraternity houses along Hill and Washtenaw,
highly populated locations like University
Towers and luxury housing like Zaragon Place
apartments - boasts a wide range of housing
options for students looking for a short walk
to classes.
But because the area is filled to the brim
with University buildings - ranging from res-
idence halls to the School of Dentistry - the
housing options in this area are limited, and
the available choices can fill up early in the
lease-signing season. You might need to act
fast so you can sleep late and still be on time to
your morning classes next fall.

-.

I


0

_ _

0

0

a

0

0

0

6B Vednesday, September 28, 2011 // The Statement

ednesday, September 28, 2011// The Statement 3B
news in review

Rarely can a stomach go hungry in this
Main and State Street-bound area densely
packed with a taste bud-tickling grab bag of
eateries. What the area lacks in campus water-
ing holes, it makes up for in dining diversity.
Want some local grub? Ann Arbor favorites
Sava's and Le Dog on State Street and Liber-
ty Street, respectively, pack a gastronomical
punch with some small town flare. Need the
convenience of quick-and-dirty fast food? Pot-
belly, Jimmy John's, Five Guys and other State
Street chains got your back (and your wallet).
For those who are willing and able to break the
bank on a date, perennial favorites like Gratzi,
The Real Seafood Company and the rest of
the Main Street roster will whip you and your
beau something up at a premium. And if that
special someone isn't a carnivore, not a prob-
lem - hit up Liberty Street institution Seva's
for some prime vegetarian eats.
It's hard for other areas of town to go tit-for-
tat with this area's high-flavor spread. True,
famed pie palace Pizza House dominates
Church Street, but longtime veteran Cottage
Inn anchors William Street. And, of course,
burger haven Good Time Charley's holds its
own on South University, but Main Street
brewery The Jolly Pumpkin dishes out top-
notch patties of its own. In short, this area's
unbeatable mix of options leaves the rest pal-
ing in comparison. Should you be scoping out
your food elsewhere, let us kindly point you in
the right direction.

Five of the most talked-

The neighborhood north of the Huron River
offers some of the cheapest off-campus
housing for students. The area just east of
Argo Pond and west of North Campus offers
housing ranging from less than $300 to $700
per resident in the home. Nearby, the neigh-
borhood just north of the University Medical
Campus offers similar prices.
The distance from campus attracts a larger
population of graduate students rather than
undergrads, but the area has a variety of new
and recently updated houses and apartments.
Those who are willing to deal with the longer
commute to campus in exchange for avoiding
the hefty cost of living in the high population
density South Campus area can find afford-
able housing here.

A hile Ann Arbor is certainly a modern
city and students typically stick to the
paved parts of town, our namesake is rooted
in trees. There are plenty of locations on the
greener side of campus: the Diag, the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens, all of North Campus. But
none of these are more popular than the Uni-
versity's very own Nichol's Arboretum. Affec-
tionately known as the Arb, this treasure trove
of nature trails is not just for smoking pot, but
a staple of student life.
The students living between Geddes and
Washtenaw streets in the Oxford area know
this all too well, as they're just a hop, skip and
a jump away from lying in the grass beside the
Huron River, jogging through the fall foliage,
tossing a Frisbee with friends or tray sledding
while procrastinating for fall finals. Summer
months welcome community performances
by Shakespeare in the Arb, which has featured
classics such as "A Winter's Tale" and "Mid-
summer's Night Dream." Nichols Arboretum
also boasts dozens of species of exotic and
native trees, many of which outdate the park's
founding in 1906.
For students who need some nature, the
Geddes and Washtenaw neighborhood will
satisfy your green cravings.

The Scottish government has
asked the United Kingdom to
support the creation of a Scotland-
specific internet domain, scot.
Those in support of the domain
say it will be a source of local
identity for Internet users.

Eng
the
Mo
for
ear
Pre
exp

about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
gineers will rappel down A Saudi woman was sentenced Six men were charged with Congress passed a resolution
sides of the Washington to 10 lashes after being found terrorism offenses in the United Monday night to avoid partial
nument this week to check guilty of violating Saudi Arabia's Kingdom. Two of the men are government shutdown. The
cracks caused by last month's law against female drivers, The charged with "preparing for dispute over disaster aid was
thquake, The Associated BBC reported Tuesday. Two other an act of terrorism," including resolved when FEMA announced
ss reported. The inspection is women will stand trial for the traveling to Pakistan to train for it had enough funding through
ected to last five days. same offense later this year. terrorist acts. the end of the fiscal year.

0Ii 1 2 3, 4 5 6 ,, 8 7 T90 10
quotes of the week from the archives
"If they're not doing enough to help the American Unbuckledfreedom
people during a time ofgreat need, then we'll make
sure we have a new Congress."
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA, on getting his $447 billion lobs plan
through Congress, which is currently facing a large amount of opposition.
"I wish no ill will against Rihanna and herfriends.
Perhaps they could acquaint themselves with a
greater God."
ALDERMAN ALAN GRAHAM, NORTHERN IRISH FARMER, after
asking production of a Rihanna music video to be stopped on his propertyU Y
because he felt she was dressed inappropriately. ILLUSTRATION BT HANNAH nOW
For most, it's a reflex to buckle up as soon as they get into a car. Few students
today were alive to witness a car without seatbelts, but there was a time when
the r ules the decision to wear a seatbelt was argued as a civil liberty. In fact, the idea
of mandatory seatbelts in cars was a hot political topic in 1985 when The Michi-
gan Daily reported the argument over a pending vote among state legislators that
No. 323: No. 324: No. 325: would determine if seatbelts wouldbe a necessity in cars ("Drivers may be forced
It is acceptable to Feeding the Diag Rain is a perfectly to buckle up," 2/17/1985). Despite significant evidence from studies conducted by
the National Safety Council and the National Highways Traffic Safety Administra-
claim warranty on squirrels doesn't good excuse to tion that demonstrated the safety in wearing a seatbelt, opponents to the bill like the
your phone after make you Snow miss class under Libertarian Party argued it was their constitutional right to choose if they wear one.
checking for texts White. Stay away the claim that you While the Libertarian Party acknowledged the safety in wearing a seatbelt, mem-
bers felt it should not be law. Virginia Copsey, the issues coordinator for the Liber-
in the shower. from wild animals., can't swim. tarian Party at the time told the Daily the seatelt legislation was a "silly, silly issue."
he numbeCrs COURTESY OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
In feet, the height of the Washington The magnitude of the earthquake that In thousands, the number of dollars of the
Monument. The structure was shaken by shook the Eastern Seaboard last month, current cost to repair the known damages
the Aug. 23 earthquake. J causing cracks in the monument. in the Washington Monument.


_ . 3

Auk AdML Adi,

9 Q0

0

0

4B Wednesday, September 28 2011 // Thle Statemnent

Wednesday, 2011 5- B

a SA FEST S
BEST
B E ST SHOPPIN G
& SERVICES
ET/RESTA U R ANTS

LOWEST
PRICE
TO

HOME
S W EET H 0 E By Statement Staff
You just settled into your off-campus home and probably haven't even unpacked your last box when your landlord rings the doorbell and arrives
with eager young house-hunters looking to rent a place next fall. With October right around the corner, the student lease-signing cycle begins anew.
As the house-hunting season begins, The Michigan Daily has put together a housing guide to help you find a neighborhood you'll love. The housing
information is based on an online survey of 186 students from the 1S different off-campus neighborhoods recognized by the University who shared their
thoughts on the quality, price, location and safety of their home. The Statement staff scoured business maps to find the neighborhoods with the most
and best shopping, nightlife, restaurants and green spaces and looked at reports from the University's Department of Public Safety and Ann Arbor
Police Department to find areas of low crime. Act fast before your dream home gets taken.

The area between West Huron Street and West Madi-
T son Street usually breeds the nicest living spaces for a
decent price in an eccentric and unique part of town. The
area is great because it's Ann Arbor at its finest: think free
trade stores and older hippies. The area - located in the old
West side historical district - is a five minute walk to the
Kerrytown shopping district (which means Zingerman's
and the farmer's market) and is adjacent to the classy and
overpriced shopping and dining available on Main Street.
So, if you want a fancy date night with your special someone
(or your parents), or feel like taking a stroll down the Huron
River to watch the crew team on Argo Pond, this area is
docile, quiet and one of the prettiest in Ann Arbor.
Almost every house has a special flavor to it, and most of
the living spaces are cozy and homey. Walk outside your
house in this district, and you will be greeted with beautiful
paved sidewalks to stroll along and clear your head or the
opportunity to feed an already fattened squirrel. Usually
called home by graduate students and Ann Arbor residents,
the houses here are usually kept up nicely, and kitchens
don't look like fallout shelters. The bedrooms also lack holes
in walls and unhinged doors. The two downsides to living in
this area are that higher quality often means higher prices,
and the neighborhood is about a 15-minute walk from Cen-
tral Campus, which makes walks from the library or Brown
Jug on a chilly winter night rather excruciating.

Well stocked with a bevy of outfitters, this area is a
haven for Carrie Bradshaw pretenders. State Street is
a murderer's row of retail, with women's boutique Pitaya,
men's staple Van Boven and other shops helming the block.
Like your threads distressed? With Liberty Street's Rag-
stock and Avtomobile, and State Street's Star Vintage and
The Getup, the area is host to a healthy crop of subversive,
used clothing destinations that tastefully complement the
mainstream, trend-driven offerings of heavy hitters Urban
Outfitters and American Apparel. And, with outdoors stores
State Street's Bivouac and Main Street's Moosejaw, the best
answers to Ann Arbor's Hoth-like winter inhabit the area.
There's no excuse to be starved for school spirit in this
area either. State Street's neighboring All About Blue and
The M-Den (and let's not forget local leviathan Under-
ground Printing's Main Street destination) boast an almost
ridiculous stock of University gear, saving a student that
annoying trek to Briarwood should, say, their "Michigan
Beer Pong" T-shirt get totally thrashed at that Psi U pre-
game.
Sprinkle in a few corporate conveniences - chiefly,
State Street's 7-Eleven and CVS - and dash it with Nickels
Arcade, Dawn Treader Book Shop and other only-in-Ann
Arbor locales, and the area is ultimately a shopping hotspot.
As our favorite obese gangster rapper Rick Ross would say:
"blowing money fast." Indeed, Rick.


