Ann Arbor, Michigan Friday, January 7, 2011

michigandaily.com

2010 US. CENSUS
With dropin
population,
state to.lose
House rep.

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Alan Abel, former member of the Philadelphia Orchestra, performs with the help of University alum Tom Bowden. Abel put on a master class for School of Music, Theatre &
Dance students. The class featured the bass drum, triangle and orchestral percussion and was held in honor of former University professor and colleague Charles Owen.
AROUND ANN RBOR
 UM CreditUnion to occu
offices of former A2 newspaper
Credit Union UMCU bought the building to UMCU purchased the building The structure includes rare
centralize administrative ser- in June 2010 for an undisclosed parking spaces in the downtown
expected to move vices - primarily accounting and price. In a November interview area and is the only commercial
marketing administration - and Schillag said the amount was building in Ann Arbor designed by
in by late March to be more cost efficient, accord- less than it would cost to build a renowned architect Albert Kahn,
ing to Jeff Schillag, UMCU's vice structure of equivalent size and it who designed the Fisher Building
By HALEY GLATTHORN president of marketing and com- eliminated the financial burden of in Detroit as well as Hill Audito-
DailyStaffReporter munity relations. leasing office space. rium and the Burton Memorial
The credit union's administra- "We looked at what our space Tower on campus. The Ann Arbor
The University of Michigan tive offices are currently located needs were and looked at it in News vacated the 58,000 square-
Credit Union is planning to relo- at a number of different branches, terms of what we'd need to grow foot building when the newspaper
cate its administrative offices but UMCU is planning to make into," Schillag said. "The history closed in July 2009.
to the former Ann Arbor News the switch after the completion of of the building was very signifi- The building was valued at
building on East Huron Street by renovations that are scheduled to cant to us, as well as (its) close $9.3 million when it went on the
the end of March of this year. take place early this year. proximity to (the University)." See CREDIT UNION, Page 6

Census: Michigan
population declined
by 0.6 percent
By HALEY GLATTHORN
Daily StaffReportet
Michigan will lose aseat in the
U.S. House of Representatives
next year due to 2010 U.S. Census
results that show a 0.6-percent
decline in the state's population.
The decrease in population
didn't come as a surprise to most
Michigan politicians who say
Michigan's continuing economic
struggle presents a struggle for
keeping residents in the state.
And because of the decrease in
Michigan residents, officials
foresee a reduction in federal
fundingto the state - something
thatwill also affectfinancial sup-
port for Michigan's universities.
State Rep. Mark Ouimet (R-
Lyndon Twp.) said Michigan's
economic difficulties hinder its
ability to attract new citizens.
The lagging economy, therefore,
leads to a lower state population,
which resulted in the drop in
congressional seats.
According to the census web-
site, Michigan had the largest
decline in population among all
states.

"We have a high tax rate that
drives people away, and the
unemployment drives people
away and the lack of opportu,
nity drives people away," Oui-
met said. "States that are more
pro-business are the ones to gain
congressional seats."
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) echoed Ouimet, saying
that a weak economy stalls popu-
lation growth. Michigan is lack-
ing the public goods, services
and "vitality" that drive such
growth, Irwin said.
Michigan is failing to demon-
strate a high quality of life in the
state, Irwin added. This prob-
lem is exacerbated by Detroit's
deteriorating appeal as a large
and successful city for students,
employees and retirees, he said.
"I think our problem here in
Michigan is that Detroit used
to be that big city that really
anchored the state," Irwin said.
"There were opportunities in the
city, not just for employment, but
for art. There was a lot of vitality,
and that vitality is what a lot of
people leave for because we have
sucked that vitalityout."
Irwin added that the popula-
tion drop and subsequent loss
of a seat in Congress is likely to
have far-reaching consequences
for the state, citing the potential
See CENSUS, Page 3

i MC IGAN FOOTBALL
Report: Ross pursues Harbaugh
'I I for Miami Dolphins, talks to'U'

Bi
don
ofi
Like
igan alt
ing tha
head co
But
ends up
The

usiness School and Ross School of Business
namesake approached the Uni-
or and Dolphins versity to ensure that the school
wouldn't be vying for the Stan-
wner allegedly ford coach to replace former
scoachMichigan football coach Rich
ers C $8M Rodriguez, ESPN.com recently
reported.
By NICK SPAR Dolphins spokesman Harvey
Daily Sports Editor Greene told The Michigan Daily
that he couldn't confirm whether
many University of Mich- Ross had been in contact with the
umni, Stephen Ross is hop- University about recruiting Har-
t Jim Harbaugh gets a new baugh.
aching job. "We don't have any comment
Ross isn't hoping that he regarding our coaching situation
tin Ann Arbor. at this time," he told the Daily in a
Miami Dolphins owner phone interview.

' Ross was reportedly assured
by a University official that
Harbaugh wasn't interested in
Michigan's now-vacant coaching
position.
And according to the same
report, Ross flew to the West
Coast in an attempt to persuade
Harbaugh to take the Dolphins'
head coaching position. The
reports also said Ross is willing
to pay the former Michigan quar-
terback between $7 million and
$8 million per year, which would
make him the NFL's highest-paid
coach.
The rumors that Ross and the
See ROSS, Page 3

Art & Design junior Eli Yudin, LSA junior Diana Rosenbach and LSA senior Matt Plonsker of the WOLV-TV show "Turned On"
after taping the program on the ninth floor in South Quad Residence Hall on Tuesday, Dec. 7, 2010.
WOLV-TV sex-ed show
provides comic relief

TOf MHIGAN HEALTH SYSTEM
'U'-burn center treats explosion victim

TV program aims
to attract more
viewers on campus
By DAVID BUCCILLI
Daily StaffReporter
"Hi, and welcome back to
'Turned On' where we're always
turned on. I'm Diana."
"And I'm Matt."

Sex experts, or sexperts, LSA
junior Diana Rosenbach and LSA
senior Matt Plonsker smile in
front of the camera as they co-host
WOLV-TV's student-run sex talk
show "Turned On" during an epi-
sode in early December. The epi-
sode, which was the last of the fall
2010 semester, focused on the holi-
days and exam week.
The hosts discussed everything
from "sexy" ways to use apen, high-
lighter, calculator and cell phone, to

what kind of gift togetyour partner
atony stage of a relationship.
The show, which is filmed in
South Quad Residence Hall and
airs on Tuesdays at 9 p.m., typi-
cally focuses on season-appropri-
ate themes, such as holidays or the
World Series, and features calls
from viewers and interviews with
random students on campus.
Art & Design junior Eli Yudin,
one of the show's guest hosts, pro-
See WOLV-TV, Page 3

Store owner
improves from
serious to fair
after trauma
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
The owner of a suburban
Detroit furniture store is now in
fair condition at the University's
Trauma Burn Center after being

rescued from an explosion that
killed two people last week.
Paul Franks, the owner of Wil-
liam C. Franks Furniture in Wayne,
Mich., was upgraded from serious
to fair condition on Wednesday,
according to Shantell Kirkendoll, a
spokeswoman for the University of
Michigan Health System.
Franks was one of two people
reported as injured after the fur-
niture store suddenly exploded at
about 9 a.m. on Dec. 29. Franks
was pulled from the rubble after
his store exploded due to a sus-

pected natural gas leak, TheAsso-
ciated Press reported. Two other
employees at the store were killed.
Franks, 64, was reported to
be in critical condition imme-
diately following the explosion.
Franks was in serious condi-
tion earlier this week and then
improved to fair condition on
Wednesday, Kirkendoll said in
an interview yesterday. Patients
in fair condition display con-
sciousness and have stable vital
signs, according to the American
See BURN CENTER, Page 6

WEATH ER
TOMORROW

HI: 24 GOT A NEWS TIP?
LO: 16 Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICNIGANDAILY.COM
Michigan drops close one to Purdue, 65-64
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX AP NEWS...............
Vol CXXI, No. 68 OPIN ION.
2011 The Michigan Daily NEWS... ....
oichiyondaily coo

.3 CLASSIFIEDS.......... ..6
4 ARTS -.................................7
.6 SPORTS..... .. .........8

ol


2A - Friday, January 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Friday, January 7. 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers When They Were Here

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

-TOP Storm troopers march in a
pre-bowl game parade io Jackson-
nvill, Fla. on New Year's Eve. The
.Wolverines played Mississippi
State in the Gator Bowl which
eoded in Michigan losing 52-14.
(JAKE FROMM/Daily)
w BOTTOM LEFT Student veteran.
Angelina Larso poses tsr photos
tor The Statement cover story
in The Michigan Daily on Jan. 5,
t"2011. The story discussed the
"ditficulties veterans taco when
transitioning trom mar to college.
r(SALAM IDA/Daily)
'BOTTOM RIGHT The Mississippi
State mascot, Bully, poses tsr a
photograph atter Michigan played
xagainst Mississippi State in the
Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla.
on Saturday, Jan. 1, 2011. (JAKE
FROMM/Daily)

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
W ww.michigandaily.cam
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor inChief easiness Massager
734-418-4110 eon. t251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
uteinbeny@michigasdaiy.com tmndbusines@gmait.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hoursS.-Thus1am.Oase- 2a.m.
73a-a18-4115 opt.3
News Tips nesmichigandaily.caom
Conections correstions@mihiandailycom
Letters to the Editor tssedaity@michigandaity.com
Photography Department photo@ohchigaodaily.om
Arts Section artspagegoieigandaiycvem
Editorial Page opinion@ehchigandaiy.com
Sports Section sporsgmihigaodaiy.com
Display Sales diptay@micheigandaity.com
Classified Sales clasifiedgihigandaiy.com
Online Sales otlineads@michigandaitycoam
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Kle Swanson. Managing Editon swanson@micthigaodaily.om
Nicole Aber ManegigNewstEditor aber@mihigatdaity.comi
SNOREWe S mn IOeRvS: BaetyBiten, Dlan Cinsi, CaitlinHuston, JopS
LihtemaneonThorsby
uSIN N E DTuss ORS:acel ssa, lairseGosciki SannsJaobsb,Mike
Mers, Mihelsea,renePrusak, OeitliodWilliames
Michelle DeWitt and opinioeditors@mihigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editoal argeEdito
SENO DTOn LnvuPurAEEnORS asusli,Aslsnsrssammersathaeanutam
AvSnSTNTEDORIALAE E IT~OR:Enaghan ais,Harsa Nahs~atAdew eners
Tim Rohan and sporseditors@michigandaitycoam
Nick Spar Mnaging SportsEditor
SNORSORTeS EIORns S: akBurns, MichaelFloenk, Chaeete enu,oRan Kart*,
Stephen.si.5tt, Zak Pyzik
usnennuNSPSEDIORnvS: Emily Bohi, BenEstes, Caaneuaeagni,Lukaeasc,
SharonnJacobs Managig Arts Editon Jasos@mivteigaodaity.eome
SENIvOvARnSEInORS:LeahBurgn, KaviPandey, Jennifse X
AnvSnSNARTSEDIOR oaeCadagin EmmaeuaePreomahoa,aid Tao
Marissa Mctlain and phto@michigansdaily.eom
Jed Moch Managing PhotoeEditors
ASnISTnNnnPHOnO EDIS:En Kirklanu, ala sAav Sult, Sameantha
Zach Bergson and design@mishigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich Managing DesignoEditors
AeSoSNDSIGuN EDITnSAlexeBny,Hermesisien
Carolyn Kianecki MagzinetEditon klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTnnMuuuZINEEDITORSn:nStehnoski,lnasnins
Josh Healy and coydekgmichigandailyom
Eileen Patton Copy Chiefs
Sarah SquireWenhDnnlpmnt Mnoegr quiregmihigadaiy.com
BUSINESS STAFF
JutiannatCrim SaltnnManagen
SALESntocFOuC MNuGER:tephanieowker
Hillary SzawalaClasiiesanogen
Jason Mahakian PnoductinsManager
Meghan Rooney Layot Managnr
Nick Meshkin Fineangeroe
Chrissy WinklrCiculation Manager
Zach 1Yancer WebProjecCoordinator
The Michigan Daji ilt S N 74-%v7)is publihed Monday trugh Friday dusing thefall ad winte
t~ermsvyesudnltts t tUiertyf ichigan.Oneecp iaailabe~leeohargt alleades.
Addtional copienay be pikutteaia'soffice frl ciptioiintstr all temsamting it
Setme,htvieU..mnel aret$110.intetierJnlauarythraughAprilis$115,elengl(temtnr
throigvvApilie$1t5.nioveyafiliates areubet ta recedesubseriptinrate.tnl-campus
eubsci ionl all temae$3Suci tinsmunst be pepaidTh Mihigan Daily is a nenhe
ofnvTveAsitetPessandThve Asoied ollegatePree.

0

ICRIME NOTES

* Between a rock
and a hard place
-WHERE: Mosher-Jordan
Residence Hall
-WHEN: Wednesday at shout
2 P.M.
WHAT: A delivery truck
-struck the loading dock of
Mosher-Jordan Residence
Hall, damaging bricks and
concrete, University Police
reported. There were no inju-
ries in the accident.
Hit and run at
the loading dock
,WHERE: Lot M-53, 1506 East
Medical Center Dr.
nWHEN: Tuesday at shout 915
a.m.
"WHAT: A parked University
vehicle was hit by a delivery
truck while at a loading dock,
x neiverseityrPasicesrepted.us

Leave the phone,
take the cash
WHERE: Briarwood Medical
Group, 375 Briarwood Dr.
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9:30
WHAT: A stolen purse and
phone were recovered, hut a
wallet and cash from the purse
remain missing, University
Police reported.
Parking gate arm
reported broken
WHERE: M-22 Carport, 1535
Hospital Dr.
WHEN: Wednesday at about
6 p.m.
WHAT: The arm of a parking
structure gate was broken,
University Police reported.
Police don't know how the gate
was broken, and there are no

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Bluegrass MTango
band concert boot camp

WHAT: Bluegrass band,
Mountain Heart, will
perform to celebrate the
Michigan Union Ticket
Office's 46th year. The
Grammy-nominated band
was formed in 1999.
WHO: Michigan
Union Ticket Office
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

WHAT: MTango is
offering a five-week boot
camp beginner series to
learn Argentine tango.
Advsnced dance classes
are also offered.
WHO: MTango
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Mason
Hall, 3rd floor

Talk on success Flute recital

1The National Park of'Can-
con has created an under-
water museum called
MUSA, National Geographic
reported. The exhibit is called
"eThe Silent Evolutiontt and fea-
tures 400 life-size statues. The
museum was started to try to
draw tourists away from reefs.
2 The Michigan men's
basketball team will face
off against No. 3 Kansas
this Sunday at 4:30 p.m. inside
Crisler Arena. This is.the first
time Michigan will compete
against, a top-five opponent
this season.
>> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS PAGE 8
3 A respected psychol-
ogy journal is planning to
publish a paper endors-
Jug extrasensory perception,
or ESP, The New York Times
reported. The paper's author, a
professor at Cornell, tested col-
lege studentst,- ability to sense
random events.

WHAT: George Fraser, CEO
of the networking company
FraserNet, will speak at an
event titled, 'Succeeding
in Tough Economic Times:
the Power and Importance
of Relationships.t' The
event is part of the Univer-
sity's MLK Symposium.
WHO: National Society
of Black Engineers
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Stamps Audito-
rium at Pierpont Commons

WHAT: Flute player Mira
Magrill will perform in a
program that will feature
various instruments.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

.... .... ...

GUT THIS AD OUT. FOLD AND RIP GO AHEAD. TEAR lTl JUST THINK OF ALL TH-E THINGS YOU CAN B1UY WHEN YOU 'AVE 75/n UON
:l
SSave cold, har ca
.F4r this winter at BookRenter.i
Z I
'01
V t
101
21
H1
2z
YOUR *CIO UAATED
CITIS
'rmH
o

J TPYTPnnVR Ynl IgRIZ MnT PnlNr, TO R( IV VOI IR TFYTROr)Kf:

ish
corn

10
10
U)
'C3
Ia)
10
1a:
!m
10
!-n
12
IT
I-I
10
I>
12
I 10
1>-
101
1

In our dime).

101
EsI
0 1

04

S MlLLION TITLES TO CHOOSE FROM. THAT IS A LOT. PLUS, GET FREE SHIPPING ON ORDERS OF $100 OR MORE. W E ALSO GUARANTEE YOUR8

EAU R9-AU I IUN.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 7, 2011 -3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 7, 2011 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Muslim group sues
critic over website
" A Muslim civil rights group in
the Detroit area has filed a lawsuit
to stop a critic fromusing its name.
The Council on American-Islam-
ic Relations, known as CAIR, says
lawyer Debbie Schlussel has cre-
ated a website called cairmichigan.
com. It lets visitors go to other web-
sites that are critical of Muslims.
Schlussel recently wrote on her
blog that she wanted to "drive the
Muslims crazy" by registering a
nonprofit group with the state and
naming herself executive director
of CAIR-Michigan.
A lawsuit filed Wednesday
in Detroit federal court accuses
Schlussel of violating trademarks.
She says the suit could simply be
an attempt to silence her critique
of what she says is the "dominant
intolerant strand of Islam" on her
website, and she calls CAIR "a
Hamas front group."
OMAHA, Neb.
" Police: Gunman
suspended before
school shooting
Hours before he opened fire on
two principals at his high school, a
Nebraska teenager calmly accepted
a suspension for driving on an ath-
letic field. He went home to speak
with his father and some friends -
all the while giving no hint of turn-
ing violent, police said Thursday.
But after his father left to run
errands, 17-year-old Robert Butler
Jr. took a handgun from a closet
and headed back to the school to
confront the administrator who
had punished him.
Butler, whose father is a detec-
tive for the Omaha Police Depart-
ment, asked to see the assistant
principal and fatally shot her in
her office with his father's service
weapon. He then wounded the
9 principal and fled before killing
himself.
Authorities on Thursday out-
lined the events that led up to the
shooting, which unfolded at Mil-
lard South High School on the first
day of class after holiday break.
Butler had transferred to Omaha
in the fall from a school in Lincoln,
about 50 miles away _
TORONTO
Canadian Mafia
family's funeral
home set on fire
In the latest attack against a
reputed Canadian Mafia family, a
funeral home belonging to the Riz-
zuto clan was firebombed yester-
day.
Montreal police Const. Yannick
Paradis said the Loreto funeral
home in Montreal's east end dis-
trict of Saint-Leonard was set on
fire early yesterday morning.
Three men were arrested and
charged with arson and related
crimes. They appeared in court yes-
terday and will be detained until a

bail hearing on Monday.
Police said there was no immedi-
ate indication of any injuries in the
attack, and they were still trying to
determine what type of device was
used.
The Rizzuto crime family came
to prominence in Montreal with a
violent coup against its Calabrian
rivals in the 1970s.
They became one of the most
powerful Mafia families in the
world, with connections to a num-
ber of businesses that appeared
legitimate, including bars, restau-
rants and construction companies.
MAPLE RIDGE, British Columbia
Charges filed in
Facebook rape case
Canada's federal police force has
charged two teenage boys after a
girl was gang raped at a party and
photos of the incident were put on
Facebook.
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Sgt. Peter Thiessen said Thursday
that 18-year-old Colton Ashton
McMorris has been charged with
sexual assault and 19-year-old
Dennis John Allen Warrington has
been charged with production and
distribution of child pornography
in the Sept. 10, 2010, incident. The
girl was 16 at the time.
The photos were widely circulat-
ed on the Internet after they were
posted on the popular social net-
working site. A 16-year-old boy was
charged last fall with production
and distribution of child pornogra-
phy in connection with the attack.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

CENSUS
From Page 1
difficulty in obtaining federal
grants or receiving attention in
national elections.
"It means less opportunities
to win support for transporta-
tion projects and service proj-
ects, and most importantly, for
Ann Arbor research grants,"
Irwin said.
To combat these issues, state
politicians are aiming to retain
college graduates, carry out
more transportation projects
and make the state's tax laws
more appealing to businesses.
Many businesses in the state
oppose the Michigan Business
Tax because of its 22-percent
surcharge. Recently inaugu-
rated Republican Gov. Rick Sny-
der also supports a repeal of the
Mithigan Business Tax.
In order to bring more jobs to
the state, Irwin said he is working
to introduce a bill to appropriate
state funds to the high-speed rail
project that would create trans-
portation between Kalamazoo,
Mich. and Dearborn, Mich. The
project has already received $150
million in federal aid.
Though Irwin and Ouimet
spoke of upcoming projects like
the high-speed rail corridor

and rebuilding the East Stadium
Bridge in Ann Arbor, Public Pol-
icy Prof. John Chamberlin said
residents will likely be kept wait-
ing for these improvements.
"I think the state is in such bad
shape, they're going to have to
cut (the budget in) nearly every
place (possible)," Chamberlin
said. "There are going to be fewer
opportunities to secure funding
at the state and federal level for
projects."
Chamberlin said universities
often make other adjustments
- like raising tuition - when
federal and state funding isn't
sufficient.
"Tuition will probably go up
and continue to," Chamberlin
said. "On the other hand, Ann
Arbor's economy is in much bet-
ter shape than most of the econo-
mies (in the state)."
ouimet said the asset of a
young student population and
the start-up companies that
arise from universities will be
the state's "economic engine" for
growth in the coming years. In
addition, he said research grants
received by the universities help
to maintain research programs
that attract both scientists and
businesses to cities home to the
Michigan's universities.
Though 'most state represen-
tatives are calling for economic

recovery, Chamberlin said the
state legislature will likely be
distracted by the upcoming
redistricting, or redrawing of
district lines, that will determine
the districts of the new U.S. rep-
resentatives.
He added that with Republi-
cans in control of the state's leg-
islative and executive branches,
redistricting will most likely
become an effort to weaken
Democratic representatives'
strength within their constituen-
cies. He also noted that Republi-
cans might attempt to build their
majority in districts where their
party won by a close margin.
"It shouldn't be that hard for
the Republicans to redraw to
knock out one more Democrat,"
Chamberlin said. "(They can)
pit two Democrats against one
another, that's what they did last
time (in 2000)."
U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-
Ann Arbor) wrote in a Dec. 21,
2010 press release that in the
past, party differences in the
state legislature have gotten in
the way of providing the best
results for Michigan residents
when it comes to redistricting.
"I hope that Michigan's state
legislature and all those involved
with redistricting rise above the
partisan fray and put the people
of Michigan first," Dingell wrote.

-------------
M 4
1 A


ROSS
From Page 1
Dolphins are pursuing Harbaugh
has left their coaching situation
muddled. Though Tony Sparano
is currently under contract as the
team's head coach for one more
season, there is speculation that
he'll be fired after a disappoint-
ing 7-9 season. But as of late
Wednesday night, ESPN.com
reported that Sparano would be
retained.
The University's Athletic
Department did not immediately
respond to requests for comment
from the Daily.
Within the past couple of
months, Harbaugh has gar-
nered national attention in both
the collegiate and professional
ranks. Before Michigan's regu-
lar season even ended, many
thought he'd ultimately return to
his alma mater and become the
team's next head coach.

But the media buzz surround-
ing the Harbaugh-to-Michigan
rumors has subsided since Satur-
day's Gator Bowl loss. And Ath-
letic Director David Brandon all
but eliminated the possibility of
Harbaugh signing with Michi-
gan during his press conference
on Wednesday.
"Jim Harbaugh is close to
Michigan, and I think Jim is
in a position where he's mak-
ing important decisions as (they
relate) to where his career is
going," Brandon said. "I person-
ally believe that Jim Harbaugh is
headed to the NFL."
He later added: "There are
many stories ambling around out
there about what Jim Harbaugh
is thinking and going to do and
where his interests are as there
are about all of the atmosphere
that's been around here the last
few days.
"So I don't want to speak on
behalf of Jim and I don't want
to speak on behalf of the people

who say they are speaking on
behalf of Jim. Jim has got deci-
sions to make. Jim Harbaugh is a
great coach, he had a terrific sea-
son and I think the world of him."
Harbaugh has rebuilt the Stan-
ford program since he accepted
its head coaching position before
the 2007 season. After seven
consecutive losing seasons, the
Cardinal posted an 8-5 record in
2009, and on Monday, Harbaugh
led the team to an Orange Bowl
victory - its first bowl win since
1996.
Harbaugh's brother, John
- the head coach of the Balti-
more Ravens - recently offered
some insight on Jim's chances of
becoming Michigan's coach.
"I don't know what he's going
to do," John said on his weekly
radio show on Tuesday. "I think
the Michigan thing is done now.
I think that's over. I don't think
he's going to have anything to do
with that. I think that says a lot
about Stanford."


WOLV-TV
From Page 1
vided advice to viewers in the Dec.
7, 2010 episode about how to be
sexy during exam week when stu-
dents don't have much time to get
spruced up. He suggested going
commando or bra-less, wearing
sweatpants or putting hair in a
ponytail.
As Yudin talked about his sexy
study tips, a picture of a smiling
female in a low-cut button up shirt
wearing glasses popped up on the
screen. .
"That's what I would look like
(studying)," Rosenbach joked.
"Third floor UGLi. Come and find
me."
As the episode ended, Plonsker
offered viewers a Hannukah-
themed sex tip.
"I just want to go over a quick
role play for the holiday this year,
a Jewish Hannukah version,"
Plonsker said. "It's called the 'Mel
Gibson (Sadomasochism) Thing.'
One of you pretends to be Mel
Gibson. One of you pretends to be
Jewish, and you just beat the crap
out of that person because God
knows, (Gibson) hates Jews."
Rosenbach said in an interview
after the taping that some of what
Plonsker says on-air can cause
problems.
"If our episodes are deemed too
inappropriate or offensive for the
University, we don't air them," she
said. "It'll show live, like tonight.
But we won't rerun onWOLV-TV."
Being censored isn't too much
WANT TO
JOIN THE
MICH IGAN
DA I LY
Come to our
mass meetings
JAN.13
JAN.17
JAN.19
7:30 p.m. at 420
Maynard St.

of a concern, Rosenbach added,
because "Turned On" still posts
episodes on the show's Facebook
page and Vimeo.com.
Rosenbach said issues often
arise because scripts are impro-
vised from a list of bullet points.
"It'll say like talk about gifts, or
talk about this sex position. When
the script is so improv based you
have the chance that things could
take a turn and get inappropriate
quickly," she said.
But Plonsker said many of the
jokes made on the show are meant
to be light-hearted and comical
and that people can sometimes
take them too seriously.
"People are infinitely too sen-
sitive about sexual commentary,"
Plonsker said.
Rosenbach, who is also the
show's main producer, said the
show started a few years ago as
informational, but with the arriv-
al of her co-host Plonsker, the
emphasis shifted toward comedy.
"Kids aren't watching for sex
advice," Rosenbach said. "They're
not going to turn to us as doctors
or professionals."
Plonsker added that some
questions are still serious, such
as proper dating etiquette or the
logistics of sexual activities. But
he said he often goes for shock
value with humor that, like the
Gibson joke, tends to be vulgar or
offensive.
LSA sophomore Nicole Tillem,
the show's marketing director,
said because viewership is limited
to students in the residence halls,
"Turned On" is trying to find ways

to reach out to all University stu-
dents.
"It's more promoted through
word-of-mouth," she said, adding
that Facebook and Vimeo offer
great access for anyone to watch
"Turned On" at any time.
Plonsker joked about the lim-
ited number of viewers.
"I feel like that's the major rea-
son why we all do it because it's
entertaining, and having viewers
is really secondary because they
don't exist," he said.
LSA freshman Ryan Bloom
said he's never heard of "Turned
On," though he was familiar with
WOLV-TV.
"I'd be interested in watching
the general programs on the sta-
tions," Bloom said. "It's worth it
to watch the efforts of the general
students. You can appreciate the
work they put into it."
LSA freshman Annalise Povolo
said she didn't know about the
channel or program, but laughed
while watching a five-minute
snippet of "Turned On" pointed
out to her on the show's Facebook
page.
"It's funny," Povolo said. "It
would be something to check out."
Tillem said she markets the
show through a blog to increase
viewership.
LSA junior Kat Riley, associ-
ate producer of "Turned On,"
said even with the show's limited
audience, she remains optimistic
it will continue to attract viewers.
"It's the most-watched show on
WOLV-TV," Riley said. "There's a
reason for that."

, 1n the L,1 -
NNe
Gtt ena;ll
OVOu r acesomer00 rn uC
Ou saved roe SOOO
moneyY out for
really Ion &
YQU e us and their Phone
tUd nd r 'ad!!!
earl frOtn
chi ar,
lyerls rhor k
35%-45% chew er
than ether on ne stares
Saves 225 on average on average* 54% cheaper
multi-item textbook orderso than bookstores
on average-091
8 GWORDS lowest price vs. average lowest price fr m ea .h online store. B1 I83
a 8 GWORDS owest price with shipping vs. retail wit lout sipping.


4 - Friday, January 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycam

4 - Friday, January 7, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY KYLE SWANSON
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Taking care of business
Snyder needs to turn his promises into realities
he self-proclaimed "nerd" is now officially at the helm of
the state government. On Jan. 1, Republican Rick Snyder
was inaugurated as Michigan's governor. His inaugural
speech focused on his plans for the state's overhaul and his belief
that "it's time to start a new era." While the governor's words sound
good, the state needs more than encouraging rhetoric. Rebuilding
Michigan is going to take more than the efforts of one man, and
Snyder needs to maintain the bipartisan ideals that characterized
his campaign. Snyder must follow through on his campaign prom-
ises and ensure he delivers results for Michigan.


Where we cannot find common ground, we must
stand our ground."
- House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi at a ceremony honoring the Black Congressional Caucus on
Wednesday, as reported by USA Today.

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAIL JEFF AT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU

So, any New Year's resolutions Except this year, I'm serioussabout it!
for2 7 EI I've written a note onall myfriends Nsmorewasinglhoursmessing
;Ye I This year I've ti Facebook walsabout it, and Ive spent /around ontheinternetl Framno
nesolved -F be more oonYouTuberlearningal about ionImall aboutstyingproductive Wait.
prodsinebynot the dangers ofprocrastination, andj n-task
wasting so muchtime . _-__ ...._./% #&.M r
p aw

Merry Christmas to Jew

Last Saturday, Rick Snyder was sworn in
as the state's 48th governor. The ceremony
took place on the Capitol steps in Lansing,
:with nearly 1,000 residents in attendance lis-
tening to the new governor speak about his
plans for revitalizing Michigan. Snyder laid
out his objectives, which include the diversi-
fication of Michigan's economy, job creation,
a secure and better future for Michigan's
youth and ensuring that no citizen is left
behind in the revamping process.
Snyder's speech brings hope to a state
with insurmountable problems. But the real-
ity is that nothing will get better for Michi-
gan until its economy is stable. Snyder, who
will go to work with a Republican controlled
state House and Senate, must focus on cre-
ating jobs and developing emerging markets
that are able to supplement and ultimately
replace Michigan's declining auto industry.
In his inauguration speech, Snyder said that
"today (is) the birth of the era of innovation
and the reinvention of Michigan." He must
act on these words by fostering an environ-
ment that grows new knowledge-based
industries such as the green energy and bio-
technology sectors.
To accomplish this reinvention, Snyder
must move beyond party politics and petty
political banter. Throughout his campaign,
he reiterated the importance of bipartisan-

ship. Snyder even appointed a Democratic
treasurer and a Republican adviser to his
staff four days after the election. But Snyder
needs to ensure that he is listening to both
sides when determining legislation. And
though Michigan is traditionally a blue state,
lawmakers and citizens alike must realize
that the state needs a fresh start and must
trust this politically diverse administration.
The economy is on the forefront of near-
ly every Michigan residents' mind, but
it can't be the only policy addressed dur-
ing Snyder's term. Social issues shouldn't
completely take a backseat to economic
concerns. Michigan is a state where pub-
lic education is faltering, gay rights issues
have been largely unaddressed and envi-
ronmental concerns often go unnoticed.
And the constant struggle to clarify the
state's medicinal marijuana law is an ongo-
ing issue. Progressive ideologies, in addi-
tion to a strong economy, will begin to
draw people back to the state and should
be among Snyder's priorities.
Michigan desperately needs to be revi-
talized. If Governor Snyder stays true to
his word, the state's outlook will be much
brighter than in year's past. But for this to
happen, Snyder needs to focus on creating
a successful bipartisan environment and a
healthy state economy.

P olitical correctness dictates I was safe. Hanukkah had been over
that we use a standardized for weeks, and these folks were ship-
"Happy Holidays" in lieu of a ping gifts. Merry Christmas. Instead,
denominational I got a tongue-lashing from a Jew who
winter greeting. invoked Jesus to teach me a lesson
Let me begin about religious deference.
by acknowledg- He only used "for Christ's sake" for
ing that the con- emphasis. It's a common phrase that
troversy over this seldom carries its literal connotation
habit was primar- or weight.
ily invented by the But that's no different from my
righteous cable saying "Merry Christmas" - I most
TV talking heads. certainly didn't mean "May you recog-
It doesn't matter nize the glory of your Lord and Savior
nearly as much as Jesus Christ and devote the entirety
any of them would AARONSON of your being to commemorating His
have you think. It's birth and His death for you, the sorry
almost a non-issue. human sinner whose existence on this
Almost. I'll also acknowledge that, earth is entirely owed to His sacrifice
nearly two weeks after Christmas, and whose fate in the afterlife lies in
this could not be less timely. Regard- the balance of His judgement."
less, I'm inclined to weigh in. No. What I really meant was, "I
In high school, I worked part time at hope you get to relax, spend time with
a local pack-and-ship store. One late- family and enjoy some good food." I
December night, I finished ringing up really did. And I'm sure that's what
one harried middle-aged couple, stuck happened.
my hand out with their receipt and As I shared the story with others,
said, "Merry Christmas." I learned that this response was rela-
Her face turned sour. He gave her tively common, though perhaps not to
what could only be a "don't get into it" the same extreme. There are .people
look. But she did, indeed, get into it. who are actually offended by well-
"We're Jewish," she said, cocking wishing, if it's not the precise senti-
her head and putting a hand on her ment that suits howthey worship.
hip, pausing thereto make sure itcsunk Store clerks shouldn't have to worry
in with me. that their extension of warmth might
He leaned in to snatch the receipt put someone off, and cab drivers
from me, adding: "For Christ's sake, shouldn't have to offer the transpar-
you know, you can avoid offending ently diplomatic "Happy Holidays" to
anyone by just keeping it to 'Happy ensure that they get tipped.
Holidays."' I'm not hung up on it the way Bill
That's right, for Christ's sake, don't O'Reilly, for instance, is. His disdain
wish us a Merry Christmas. for "Happy Holidays" stems from a
As the son of a Jewish man and a bizarre persecution complex and a
Catholic woman, raised in the church longing for some fictitious, idealized
but comfortable with the cultural "way things used tobe in this country."
sensibilities of both sides, I reasoned As O'Reilly or Sean Hannity would tell

you, this is a Christian country, and
they're not about to let the PC Police
take that away by bastardizing"Merry
Christmas."
Instead, I just don't think Christ
mas - Bible Christmas - has much to
do with it.
Christmas is asecularholiday in the
United States. American children, in
their most impressionable years, sub-
mit to the canon of Santa Claus before
they know or understand who Jesus
Christ is, or the concept of a Christian
God. It's the omniscient Santa Claus
who "knows when you are sleeping ...
knows when you're awake ... knows
when you've been bad or good." It's
Santa with his gifts, not Jesus with
his promise of eternal salvation, who
guides Christian childhood morality
Americans spend more and more each
year on Christmas, while fewer iden-
tify as Christians and even fewer regu-
larly attend services.
Holiday greetings
now lack religious
connotation.
To say "Merry Christmas" isn't
to assume that everyone shares
the same worldview, and it's not an
underhanded assertion of the supe-
riority of that worldview. It would be
nice if all involved parties could take
"Merry Christmas" for what it is: a
nice thing to say to another person.
- Matt Aaronson was the Daily's
managing editor in 2010. He can be
reached at maarons@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions
become property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.

SEND LETTERS To: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

:Fans shouldn't worry about
finding a 'Michigan Man"

Michigan football. Those of you who didn't, not
only did you not support Michigan football, but
you also crippled its foundation. It's important
to have your own ideas, and you should hold

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Teddy Papes, Roger Sauerhaft;Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner

TO THE DAILY: onto them, but sup
Michigan, support your coach. I'm sick of
all the misguided conclusions toward Rodri- Chad Paulinski
guez's failings and the erroneous ideology of Engineeringsenior
the "Michigan Man." To all of the people who
attacked Rodriguez from the start: You actively C s of 2
helped to destroy Michigan footba lass
Nearly everyone is eager to point out the
statistics: losing records to rivals, extremely .
low defense rankings, missed bowl games, etc.
Those aren't pleasing statistics. The things TO THE DAILY:
considered most involved in obtaining those The University
statistics are what people are blaming Rodri- Bowl defeat at the
:guez for: neglecting defense and special teams, which appears to
not recruiting well enough or the right players coach Rich Rodrig
and not winning games, among others. These seasons, was a lous
problems fall partially on the fan base itself. fan to ring in the I
From the very beginning, the Michigan fan special significanc
base was torn in half because of the new system in this outgoing cl
- not having a "Michigan Man" coach and losing like Obi Ezeh, Step
tradition. College football changes, and it's up to dros and Martell M
the coaches, players and the fan base to adapt. part of the fifth-st
Michigan used to run the wishbone offense against the Buckey
before going to a pro set. Offenses change, but now become the fi.
it's still the same game. The Michigan Man ide- of just a handful is
ology has to be changed. The man who coined late a losing record
it, Bo Schembechler, only had affiliation toward Arbor - quite ad
-Michigan as the "enemy," Ohio State. A Michi- ball's winningest p
gan Man (or Woman) is someone who represents Bookended by S
the University at the highest level, not just some- cle on one end an
one who attended the University. ner against Appal
I won'tstopyou from arguingthat NCAA vio- the class of 2011 h
lations do not represent the University at high- record. Students w
est level. I admit it; I'm not a fan of Rodriguez. I the ones who silen
thought that he didn't mold the Michigan talent dorm rooms from
to its potential and that he didn't adjust his sys- state of acute disqu
tem to the players' strengths. Support, however, game on Sep. 1, 200
for a coach is so incredibly crucial; it affects in 46 years to chee:
recruiting, mindset and the morale of both the wins. Most of us
coaches and the 18 to 22 year olds on the field - possible three or ft
thus the entire structure of the team. That's not to si
In a Sports Illustrated College Football Pre- memories from th
view article, an overwhelming majority of Big gan football. Beati
Ten players - 55 percent - said they would and Florida in Mi
want to play at Michigan the least because of the Carr's final game,
coaching situation. The biggest problem I think sin in 2008 in an e
Michigan football had was attrition (players Notre Dame three
leaving) and depth. To plug these holes, college more quarterback
football teams need to recruit strongly, but no sion have been unf
one wants to come to the University when half to be part of the fir
the fan base hates the coach, and they may not with a losing footb
-play for the same coach during theirtenure. I'm we'll be the last.
not saying it could have worked out. I'm say-
ing that I support Michigan's coach even if I William Petrich
-have my reasons against him because I support LSA senior

port your team.
911 has had the
fears of football
of Michigan's 52-14 Gator
hands of Mississippi State,
have cost former football
Suez his job after only three
sy way for every Wolverines
New Year. But the loss holds
ce for players and students
ass of 2011. Football players
phen Schilling, Mark Moun-
ebb are more than merely a
raight senior class to go 0-4
yes. More strikingly, they've
rst class since 1964, and one
n school history, to accumu-
over their four years in Ann
distinction for college foot-
rogram.
aturday's Gator Bowl deba-
A that still-fresh 2007 stun:
lachian State on the other,
has compiled a 24-26 losing
-ho started school in 2007 -
tly walked back to their new
the Big House in a stunned
aiet after their first Michigan
7 - are part of the first class
r on Blue to more losses than
wouldn't have thought that
our years ago.
ay there haven't been great
e past four years of Michi-
ng quarterback Tim Tebow
chigan football coach Lloyd
shocking top-five Wiscon-
pic comeback, beating hated
times and watching sopho-
Denard Robinson's ascen-
forgettable. So I'm not bitter
st Michigan class in 46 years
all record - I just hope that

WILL BUTLER I

Rick Skywalker

On New Year's Day, Republican Gov. Rick Snyder was
inaugurated as the 48th governor of Michigan. An appro-
priate ceremony for the day, many declared that inaugura-
tion not only begins a new year with a new governor, but
also dawns a new era for Michigan. Editorials from across
the state describe a sense of hope for the future for Sny-
der's ambitious goals of bipartisanship and for an end to the
"business as usual" corruption in Lansing. Bill Schuette, the
new attorney general for the Snyder administration, had the
confidence to proclaim that it's "morning in Michigan." He
continued to add, "There are better days ahead for Michi-
gan." Being a "nerd" himself, Snyder might appreciate this
analog. The scene at the inauguration looked a lot like the
Ewok celebration at the end of "Return of the Jedi": the
defeatof the evil Darth Granholm and a new era of freedom
with Rick Skywalker.
The inauguration, the campaign and the support all
remind me of another formerly-beloved politician: Presi-
dent Barack Obama. Whether Snyder would admit it or not,
so much of his campaign was based off hope and change- a
positive campaign to bring in independents and build bipar-
tisanship- exactly like Obama. But as more and more on
the left become disappointed with the president, Snyder's
supporters may want to heed this warning: Your candidate
is not a Messiah, he is not a superman and he will not fix
everything. He is a politician. At best, he will be a good one.
At worst, he will be a bad one.
This is exactly what happened to Obama. Everyone
became so enthralled during the campaign. They became
enamored with the rhetoric. The left is always looking for
their messianic figure, their progressive savior, and many
thought they found him with Obama. But as political real-
ities set in and some political losses occurred, supporters
became low on morale and lost motivation and energy.

As a strongly-committed Democrat, I still fully support
Obama and intend to help him get re-elected. However,
I never bought into the myth. I supported him because
he was my party's candidate and because his legislative
ambitions and policies were most similar to mine. How-
ever, many supporters were not able to stick with the
president when times got tough, and they realized he was,
in fact, just a politician.
Snyder most likely shares the same fate. He's in his hon-
eymoon phase.-He has done little politically, givingthe pub-
lic no reason to dislike him. But once he must start making
difficult decisions about the future of this state, decisions
that some may dislike, supporters will fall out of love and
lose faith in the Snyder fairy tale. This is especially true
when it comes to Snyder's claims that he will fight corrup-
tion in Lansing. This is a wonderful campaign promise, but
while he tries to accomplish his legislative goals, he may be
tempted to indulge in them.
It's not that Snyder might not be successful in passing
his agenda. Even as a Democrat I recognize his intelligence
and competence. But Obama isn't a failure either. He passed
health care reform - something Democrats and progres-
sives have been trying to accomplish for more than 50 years
- financial reform, ratified the Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty (START) and even repealed "don't ask, don't tell".
But all this didn't stop people from losing their messianic
image of Obama. The same process will likely occur for Sny-
der. There is a reason why they stopped the Star Wars mov-
ies at the Ewok celebration, and it's because that way you
always saw Luke Skywalker, you never saw him fail. Unfor-
tunately, Rick Snyder's career didn't stop at his inauguration
celebration.
Will Butler is an LSA sophomore.

A

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFORMATION.




,

0 0 S


'-
Q
3

(N
0
0
0
0 C
2
0MM
0:

T
°t




6 - Friday, January 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Friday, January 7, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Building to stay locally owned
From Page 1

market in October 2009. To help
cover the cost of purchasing the
building UMCU plans to lease the
third floor to Arbor Research Col-
laborative for Health - a research
company for health care - for the
next eight to 12 years, according
to a Dec. 30, 2010 UMCU press
release.
Schillag said UMCU plans to
eventually use the leased space as
the company expands.
The building will have an ATM
for Credit Union members and the
location might be expanded into a
full branch in the future.
For now, Schillag said UMCU
is looking at renovation options
to ensure the building is prepared
for occupancy when employees are
assigned offices and ready to move
in.
"There isn't really a lot of do,"
Schillag said. "The building is in
really good shape. We're going to
have to build some offices in there
(because it was) a news building.
It's a really open floor plan."
Despite changes at the admin-
istrative level, UMCU is taking
precautions to guarantee that
customers are not inconvenienced
by the move. Schillag said the
company will move employees by
department to minimize the time
administrators will be unavail-

BURN CENTER
From Page 1
Hospital Association.
Jessica Soulliere, a UMHS
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail
interview Tuesday that Franks's
family is requesting privacy during
his treatment.
"The family has requested we
not release any other information
about Mr. Franks other than his
condition," she wrote.
Franks is one of about 1,450
patients who are admitted to the
University's burn center each

year, according to the UMHS web-
site. The burn center is classified
as a Level 1 Pediatric and Adult
Trauma Center by the American
College of Surgeons, the website
states - meaning it's recognized
as a resource for all hospitals in the
region.
The other person injured in the
explosion was last reported to be
in stable condition at the Oakwood
Annapolis Hospital in Wayne,
Mich., according to the AP. The
victim, whose name hasnot been
disclosed, was driving by the store
when itexploded, the AP reported.
In an interview yesterday,

Debra Dodd, a spokeswoman for
area energy supplier Consumers
Energy, said Consumers Energy is
investigating the incident.
Consumers Energy is working
with the Michigan Public Service
Commission and the federal Pipe-
line Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration to determine the
cause of the accident, Dodd said.
She added that Consumers
Energy workers removed an eight-
foot section of a steel gas main pipe
from the area near the explosion
earlier this week. The section was
then sent to a lab in Wixom, Mich.
for testing, Dodd said.

House Republicans introduce
legislation to block EPA spending

able. Additionally, none of UMCU's located on East Liberty Street near
seven branches will close at any the building, said his restaurant's
point during or after the move. business was severely impacted
According to Colliers Interna- by the loss of customers when The
tional broker Jim Chaconas, who Ann Arbor News left the space.
was the listing broker on the sale, He said he foresees an increase
the property was on the market in business from the soon-to-be
for three to four months before occupied building.
UMCU bought it. UMCU was the "We were sad to see loyal cus-
only local company interested in tomers in the news building go,"
the deal, though several out-of- Seaver said. "(We) definitely saw
state investors were also potential a drop-off in our lunch business in
buyers, Chaconas said in a Novem- particular." -
ber interview. Seaver said he is one of many
Nearby business owners said Ann Arbor residents who sup-
the building's future occupation is port UMCU's relocation because
warmly welcomed. Jeremy Seaver, the historic building will remain
co-owner of Tio's Mexican Cafe locally owned.

Rep. Poe's bills
intend to prohibit
global warming
prevention efforts
WASHINGTON (AP) - House
Republicans wasted no time.
yesterday in trying to block the
Obama administration from act-
ing to stem global warming.
On their second day in power,
GOP lawmakers introduced sever-
al bills that would hamstring the
Environmental Protection Agency
from moving forward with regu-
lations to reduce heat-trapping
pollution from factories and other
sources that they say contributes
to global warming. The bills are
partofaneffort by House Republi-

cans to reverse what they consider
job-killing policies of the admin-
istration. The bills introduced by
Rep. Ted Poe of Texas, Rep. Mar-
sha Blackburn of Tennessee and
Rep. Shelley Moore Capito of West
Virginia would stymie the EPA in
different ways.
Poe's measure would prohibit
the EPA from using any money to
implement or enforce regulations
to impose a limit on global warm-
ing gases. Blackburn's bill would
change the Clean Air Act so the
EPA could no longer use the law to
control greenhouse gases.
A 2007 Supreme Court decision
said the EPA had the authority to
regulate carbon dioxide and other
global warming gases under the
statute.
Capito's measure would delay
for twoyears anyeffort by theEPA

to regulate carbon dioxide under
the Clean Air Act.
In a statement, Capito calledthe
EPA's actions a power grab that
would have devastating effects on
the economy.
"Without congressional action
to say otherwise, the EPA will
continue to dismantle energy and
manufacturing industries through
regulation," she said.
Meanwhile, a top Democrat
in the Senate on environmental
issues,.Sen. Barbara Boxer of Cali-
fornia, said Thursday she would
use every tool to block the Repub-
licans efforts and ensure that the
EPA was allowed to follow the law.
A bill that would have placed a
limit on heat-trapping gases died
in the Senate last year, after it
passed the then Democratic-led
House.

LIKE TAKING PICTURES OF DOGS? CELEBRITIES?
Join the Daily's photo staff
E-MAIL PHOTO@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

WELCOME BACK! Only a few
days left to be a Winner in the "Pick a
Winner" promotion. You can win up to
One Month FREE!!
**This offer ends January 14, 2011**
Call or stop by Today for Best Selec-
tion. Sold out early in 2010, so don't
wait any longer
SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
! AWESOME 3 bdrm house on
Dewey. Free prkg, lndry, water incl.
734.223.7777.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
-3! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
lure/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
7344a.4 i e coop0%
3s.. 32gt"

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
PACKARD 5 BDRM!
539 Packard: Very spacious 5 Br 2 bth
w/ large bedrooms to share!! Good for
5-7 people!! Completely remodeled
w/hardwood firs and new furittre.
Eat-in kitchen, Washer & dryer on-site,
and just one block from the union!
734-66&-1100
4 BDRM APARTMENT near Kerry-
town at 813 E. Ann. 3 B2B Parking
space, Coin Laundry in Basement, Heat
and Water Paid. Asking $2300 for Pall
2011-12. Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991
*LOOKING FORTHE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were AFFORDABLE
and MUCH Better than the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 foryour
appointments.
www.UniversityTowers-Ml.com
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, ' water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
1 BDRM FOR Aug. 1st, very large bi-
level, semi-furn, private deck, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking/no pets,
$1179/mo. 734-996-8506
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #BI or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com



RELEASE DATE- Friday, January 7, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Wedding 41 Head lines? 53 Setting for many
1 Lip creations 42 Anteater's sound Thomas Hardy
5 One usually 4Get all mushy effect in the novels
includes an aria 5 Slice comic "B.C." 56 Go along
and a recitative 6 Hold together 43 Chunk of time 59 __ contendere
10 Rhode Island's 7Work with a wide 47 Apartment 60Small quantity .
motto scope caveat 61 Like doodling
14 Jim-dandy 8 Roger Maris 48 "Mystarsl" 62 Full coif
15 Kachina carvers wore it 49 Some judges sit 63 Automaker's
16 Clue i uhunt 9 Wine town near on them concem, briefly
17 Amounting Is Turin ute nebil
nothing 10 Placato chill 51 Skin wound 64 Water under le
18 "Ble e.d.' 11 Adsentures lospn
9 Teter O tz 12 Top 40 genre ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Pmsoftofquartz 13 Beore
sales? 21 Hollywood "spear J A R G O N C T R S S O L
23 __moon carrier" O N E O N E Z O O S I L 0
24 Ballot marker 22 Before,before? T O M A T O S A U C E X E D
25 "OneGood Cop" 26 Take in S N O W N A R C A T O Z
actress 27 Scrap O L A F HEAT H
28 Money in the 29 Stirrup site
bank, eg. 31lPeoplebend M I L I T A R E B A YS S
30OBrewery'shbest? oerhbackwardus C N EN E R I B A R E L Y
34 Is aer you? for 0d O T E R I I C H P I N E D
36 Oscar-winning 32 Promising words T E X A N S C A S A S E S
role for Forest 33 Save for later T O N G U E I N C H E E K
37 However viewing R U S E S D R O P
38"Mad Max"and 35Feminizing W R A P C O L E O H I O
"TwelveAngry ending H U B N E R V E E N D I N G
Men"? 38 Rushnd
42 Self-realization 3Pudaway I L L A L O E C O E R C E
sect 409Pompwser Z E E G O W N H U S T L E
44 Bill Al snizr xwordedltor@aol.com 01/06111
45 Sweet ending 1 01 21
46 One oftmany at a
Syracuse 1 15i16
University
football game? 17 18 19
50 Lit up
54 Resort area near 20 21 2
Reno
55 Org. offeing2
lumps 28 29 22 31532 33
57 First mate?
58 Making a mess at 32 25 t 363
the warehouse?
63 Pure and simple 38 se a0 41
65 Law partner 2s 43 42 45
66 Some are noble
67 Head line as 7 42 4 0so 51 52 s2
68 City where de
Gaulle was bom 1 5 se M s
69 Cameo, maybe 55 59 40 61 82
70 Fellows
71 Like Falstaff 6s e4 6s 66
72 Cameo material
DOWN
1 Yogurtflavor 7001 02
2 They make you
red inutheface tByCar"""'nmeds ,01/07/11
{c20Tribune Me032dia erve,5 Ic,2,.1071

GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Bes Rues Around!1!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
WW W.0FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., mode, clean, quiet
5 min walk. Free Wi-F
RIDDLE OF THE Day...
Has the top customer service around.
Best rates & locations on campus.
It's a positive number that's not divisi-
ble without a remainder by any positive
number other than itself and one.
Call (734) 761-8000 to get your answer
& so much more!!
4 BDRM APT in house w/ bay
windows, furniture and 2 pkg spots.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard bw
McKinley and Sylvan an 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2400
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
S BDRM, 2 Bath, heat included, laun-
dry, parking, May-May, $3395, 815
Arch, 665-695, renewalco@al.com
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3600 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$3000 + utilities, only a 10 minute
walk to diag. 734-426-4772.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber, 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3400/mo. Call 248-798-4755
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsoproperties.com
917 PACKARD
Huge 2br apts. that can easily fit
4 people! Close to central campus, the
athletic campus, and restaurants at
State, Packard, & Hill!! New kitchens
w/dishwashers, large bedrooms w/
double closets and balconies. All apts
are fully furnished, heat, water,
and parking included!
www.varsitymanagement.com
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today for
Best selection. "Pick A Winner" Promo
ends on 1/14/11. Call or stop by
TODAY! 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call todayfor an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8060primesh.com
*Varies by location

Looking for housing forfatl 20115
Sudnoi os,. 3n4,a&sdroomsNowAvailabe!
Fully furnished
Heat, water , adprig"inclde"*ms*loa*ion
Mary sewly remodeled
can to schedue a tour today!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
IF MONEY CAN't buy happiness,
I guess you'll have to rent it!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 primesh.com
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail spring & fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff& 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; 2 bed-
rooms (3 left) $950-$1250; Most units
include Heat and Water. Most have
Parking available for $25/m. Showings
Scheduled M-F l2pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
877-367-7368 or htp://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. fun.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
BEAUTIFUL SPACIOUS APTS!
1039 Baldwin. 4 br, 2br, & studios!
Available in a gorgeous converted
house. High ceilings, bay windows,
fireplace, hardwood floors, & screened
in porch!! Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
BEST LOCATION IN TOWN
543 Church! Right across from East
Hall! Spacious 4Br bi-levels, 2Br, 1 Br,
& Studios! Updated kitchens w/dish-
washers, heat & water included, and all
apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
MY NEW YEARSkesolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall...Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com

Healthy Research Study
Volunteers Needed
Men and women ,non-smoker, ages 15-45
who are not taking any regular medications
(birth control is acceptable for most studies).
There are a few different study opportunities,
most of which include overnight visits at
the University of Michigan Hospital. Bood,
small muscle and fat tissue samples may be
taken during these visits.
Financialcompensation available,
For more information about these studies
and the benefits you may receive for partici
pating, visit: hstp:llwwwkines.umich.edul
researchlcxrlsmistudieshtml
CARING AND LOVING sitter
needed for afternoon care. Girls 4 & 5.
Mondays, Wednesday 3:30-5:15. Need
own car. Please call 734-754-1145.
LOOKING FOR HOUSEHOLD as-
sistant to do laundry for Ann Arbor
family of four. I day per week for 5
hrs. Study between loads.
naku_17@yahoo.com
PHD or candidate, any field. Part-
time in tiny, highly successful biotech
company near campus. Send CV and
past writing samples (redacted).
admin@eyelabgroup.com
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefundumichoedu

SITTER/DRIVER FOR KIDS ages
13, 12 and 8, three afternoons 3:45-7:-
30 total approx. 10 hrs/wk. Located 10
mis from campus. Light cooking, addi-
tional help. contact
drfee@plymouthortho.com

WI'

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT, WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM Make lifelong friends. The Island
My credentials: House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
- perfect 180 on LSAT Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA) Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
- licensed attorney ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
- 18 years of teaching experience 847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGI7RU.com

www.varsitymanaciementcom

.


0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 7, 2011- 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Friday, January 7, 2011 - 7

Rousing 'Speech'

Firth and Rush
unite for royally
entertaining film
By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer

between Firth at
the film compel
tionofaspeechin
seems the stuff o
icance, let aloneE
for a movie. Hon
be made and fe
tions between I
King's Speech" s

In the vein of 1948's "The Red Shoes," "Black Swan" invigorates a fading art.
ilm representations
keep ballet on pointe

By JOE CADAGIN
Daily Fine Arts Editor
Oscar buzz and heated debate
surround the recently released psy-
chosexual thriller "Black Swan"
- a film that encapsulates the cut-
throat world of classical dance.
Yet Darren Aronofsky's movie
is not the first film of its kind. In
1948, British directors Michael
Powell and Emeric Pressburger -
a filmmaking partnership known
as "The Archers" - released their
cutting-edge masterpiece, "The
Red Shoes."
Loosely based on Hans Chris-
tian Andersen's fairy tale of the
same name, "The Red Shoes" fol-
lows the rise of ballerina Vicky
Page, a British dancer with a
thirst for success. When Page
(Moira Shearer) joins the ballet
company of Russian impresario
Boris Lermontov (Anton Wal-
brook), she quickly becomes the
principal soloist of the company's
latest production. However, when
she falls in love with the ballet's
composer, Julian Craster (Marius
Goring), Page is forced to decide
between her love and her career.
Overwhelmed by pressure, she
chooses suicide instead, leaping
off a balcony to fall on an oncom-
ing train.
The elements of "The Red
Shoes" will jump out to anyone
familiar with "Black Swan": an
ambitious ballerina, a pitiless
and domineering ballet direc-
tor, a fatally demanding role and
a climactic suicide. But the most
important similarity between the
two films is, arguably, the way
their respective directors cap-
ture the thrilling exhilaration and
poetic beauty of ballet on film.
To manyanuninitiated audience
member, ballet can be summed up
by a comment from Mila Kunis's
character in "Black Swan": "It's not
for everyone." Indeed, a 2008 study
by the National Endowment for the
Arts showed that in 1982, only 4.2
percent of American adults attend-
ed a ballet. Twenty-six years later,

in 2008, that number has dropped flop largely because of director
to just 2.9 percent. By contrast, 9.3 Kounen's unsuccessful attempt
percent of adults filled the seats of to pass off composing music as a
classical music concerts in 2008, visually stimulating act. Scenes
and a whopping 16.7 percent of of Stravinsky banging on a piano
adults attended a musical that year. or vigorously scribbling down
In a nation where athletes are "The Rite of Spring" came across
worshiped as gods, it is a wonder as tedious, over-acted and even
that ballet - with all its athletic ridiculous.
allure and physical grandeur - However, "The Red Shoes" and
should trail so far behind other "Black Swan" display the blood-
performance art forms. Dizzy- thirsty competition and intense
ing fouettds, perfectly balanced pressure that goes on behind the
arabesques and impossibly high- scenes in a ballet company, milk-
reaching battement are enough ing these intense moments for
to make any hardcore sports fan's all they are worth. It is a riveting
jaw drop. In fact, the success of process to watch as Vicky Page in
former Pittsburgh Steelers wide "The Red Shoes" claws her way to
receiver Lynn Swann is largely the top and then ends everything
due to the flexibility and muscular in an almost operatic moment of
discipline he gained from his days self-destruction.
as a dancer in high school. As Nina Sayers, Natalie Port-
man's lust for perfection and ter-
rifying sexual awakening translate
Self-destructive- beautifully onscreen - especially
during her onstage transformation
ballet dancers: into the black swan.
balle dan ers: With the possible death of bal-
oddly enticing let looming on the horizon, the day
may come when we can only wit-
ness the beauty and excitement
of classical dance through films
This sporty appeal can be seen like "Black Swan" and "The Red
in the films of the Archers and Shoes." Since the advent of modern
Aronofsky. The leading ladies are dance styles like jazz and hip hop,
no sissy twinkle toes, but rather a ballet has begun to disappear from
pair of agile and aggressive acro- theaters and dance studios. Even
bats. Moira Shearer of "The Red the University lacks an official
Shoes" left audience members of ballet company that performs full-
the late '40s spellbound following scale works.
her forceful 14-minute onscreen Yet the world of ballet may find
ballet sequence, which she danced unexpected help from films that
herself. While Natalie Portman depict it as an alluring art form. By
may have partly relied on a dance emphasizing the athletic appeal of
double, critics raved over her abil- dance and by portraying it with a
ity to duplicate much of the adroit fresh sense of drama, "The Red
athleticism of a prima ballerina. Shoes" and "Black Swan" could
In addition to its athletic inspire a new generation of ballet
appeal, ballet has a certain dra- dancers and fans.
matic quality that lends itself to There's no use denying the emo-
the silver screen - a quality that tional and physical attraction of
many other art forms lack. Jan classical dance, especially when
Kounen's 2009 film "Coco Chanel depicted on screen. Just as ballet
and Igor Stravinsky" showed how inspired the Archers' and Aronof-
clumsy directors can be when try- sky's daring films, the cinematic
ing to portray the arts cinemati- medium may lead to a revitaliza-
cally. The film was a dramatic tion of ballet itself.

December is a dreary month, shaping of a na
and this year in particular it's but the evolutio
packed with dark movies, like a between two re
gritty Western It's not just abou
and the story ** * obscenities and
of a rather sin- the window to cu
ister ballerina. The King's how one man ins
However, "The a royal stutterer
King's Speech" Britishsubjects n
shines through At the Michigan, Above all, "TI
the gloom with Quality16 is filled with
its outstanding and Rave whether it's th
cast and smart between the Ki
sense of humor. The Weinstein Helena Bonham
Despite the Company Wonderland") as
cheery veneer sitting on the K
of the film, the plot's setup is root-
ed in the tension of 1930s Britain.
As the threat of war grew with
the specter of Adolf Hitler loom- n ,
og in Germany, the British people
looked to the voices of their leaders
to find comfort and strength. But
in comparison to the reassuring
charisma of future British Prime
Minister Winston Churchill, their
king stuttered - literally. "The
King's Speech" examines the rela-
tionship between King George VI
(Colin Firth, "A Single Man") and
his speech therapist Lionel Logue
(Geoffery Rush, "Pirates of thb
Caribbean").
As a historical film, the subject
that director Tom Hooper ("The
Damned United") wrestles with is
ambitious - a nation on the brink
of war, the scandalous abdication
of King Edward VIII (Guy Pearce,
"The Road"), class differences in
a time of turmoil - but he pulls
it off. The characters do not seem
like blurry, two-dimensional pho-
tographs ina Ken Burns documen-
tary. Instead, they're lively and
witty. Firth in particular is won-
derful; his days spent combating
Hugh Grant in romantic comedies
are long over.
But Firth's perforinance, out-
standing as it is, hardly drives
the movie. It's the interactions "J-J-i71-Jolly good."

nd Rush that make
hng. The correc-
mpedimenthardly
f historical signif-
engagingmaterial
wever, history can
lt in the interac-
people, and "The
hows not only the
ation's figurehead
n of a friendship
markable people.
ut a king shouting
vowel sounds out
tre a stammer, but
adingy office gave
a voice when the
seeded it the most.
he King's Speech"
clever humor -
he quick banter
ng and Logue or
Carter ("Alice in
Queen Elizabeth
tin'l rbpctxubil

he practices his breathing exer-
cises, there's never a dull moment.
Hooper creates a world in the
movie that is warm and wonderful
to witness.
But perhaps in Hooper's attempt
to make the movie a happy one
- to energize and uplift a darker
period in history - something is
lost. Hooper is careful to acknowl-
edge the darker side of the royal
family, mentioning King George's
epileptic brother, the jealousy
within the family and George's
harsh upbringing. However, these
references are easy to miss and
loom only briefly, and they don't
carry the same force as the humor
in the film.
Not all historical films have to
be dark and carry an overbeai-
ing message about morality. "The
King's Speech" still remains a
powerful story about courage in
thrn- nicriin~

-- -------- -

THE BIGGEST & NEWEST BACK TO SCHOOL
P.STER SALE
Where:
MICHIGAN UNION
GROUND FLOOR
When:
Monday January
thru Friday January 14
Time: r
10 A.M.- 7 PM.1
Sponsor:
University Union Arts
and Programs ee'
A0
Most Images Only $7, $8 and $9


8 - Friday, January 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michgandaily.com

0I

8 - Friday, January 7, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

JAYWALKIN' TO CRISLER

Breakdown: Morris
brothers will dominate

By LUKE PASCH Ten opener against Purdue just a
Daily Sports Writer few days prior? Novak's one con-
sistency has been rebounding - he
Sunday afternoon's matchup averages 6.9 boards a game, a team
between No. 3 Kansas and Michi- high. If Michigan's big men can
gan will feature the elite of the Big clear the lane for Novak, he'll out-
12 and one of the youngest squads of rebound the Kansas guards with
the Big Ten.Essentially,thisgameis ease. And in the three games that
far less important for the Jayhawks Novak has scooped up nine or more
than it is for the Wolverines, who defensive boards, he's also tallied
will be looking to prove something double-digit points.
in front of their home crowd. ADVANTAGE: PUSH

POINT GUARD
Tyshawn Taylor: His statistics
aren't particularly eye opening, but
Michigan's backcourt defense will
still have its hands full with'this
6-foot-3 point man. Taylor will be
one of the fastest guards Michigan
will face this season, and his abil-
ity to make quick lateral cuts could
pose problems for the relatively
slow-footed Wolverines. Michigan
may be able to capitalize on turn-
overs - Taylor makes more mental
mistakes per gamethan a third-year
starter should.
Darius Morris: Michigan
wouldn't have the 11-4 record it
holds today if it weren't for Morris'
All-American worthy numbers. He
averages 7.3 assists a game - good
enough for fourth best in the nation
- and a team-high 15.1 points per
game. Out of the top-20 assist-men
in the country, he has the highest
assists-to-turnover ratio (2.79). If
the Wolverines are to beat a more
experienced Kansas squad, they'll
need Morris to limit his mistakes.
ADVANTAGE: MORRIS
WING PLAYER
Tyrel Reed: Reed is by no
means Kansas' most athletic
starter, but he plays with one of
the highest basketball IQs in the
nation. He leads the Jayhawks in
3-point shooting, and the Wol-
verines need to avoid fouling him,
because he shoots with 91-percent
success from the charity stripe.
Reed will only take smart shots, so
if Michigan gets a hand in his face,
he shouldn't do much. But then
again, if he has the ball less, his big
men will have the ball more, which
could doom the Wolverines.
Zack Novak: There's no way to
know which Novak you're going to
get. Will he shoot 5-of-6 from the
field like he did against Penn State?
Or will he go 1-of-4 like in the Big

WING PLAYER
Brady Morningstar: Morn-
ingstar didn't forget how to play
basketball after his semester-long
suspension from the team last year
for a DUI-related arrest. The 6-foot-
3 guard has quietly become a valu-
able player, especially on defense.
This Jayhawk is more of a ball hawk
- he specializes in baiting point
guards to make ill-advised passes
and leads his team with 26 steals.
Expect him to pull this off a couple
of times against the youthful Wol-
verines, even against the mostly
level-headed Morris.
Tim Hardaway Jr.: It's never
easy to perform well on the national
stage as a true freshman. Just ask
Hardaway, who has shot a meager
32-percent from the field in Michi-
gan's first three Big Ten games this
season. The Wolverines will need
Hardawaytogrowup quickly -he's
the team's second leading scorer
and will need to act like it against
Kansas. Expect him to hang around
the perimeter though, as the Morris
brothers clog the paint.
ADVANTAGE: PUSH
FRONTCOURT
Marcus Morris: Here's where
Michigan (and every other Kansas
opponent this season) starts to run
into trouble. Marcus is one of the
nation's elite forwards. He plays
with range, draining shots from the
high post and perimeter - shooting
at a 45-percent clip from beyond the
arc. But he also plays underneath,
terrorizing defenders in the paint
with power and craft.
Markieff Morris: As if one
wasn't enough. Markieff has devel-
oped into one of the most prolific
centers in the nation. He throws all
245 pounds of himself into oppo-
nents to make space for rebounds,
blocks shots enough to scare away
potential drives to the hoop and

registers an impressive 12.9 points
per game.
Evan Smotrycz: Surprisingly,
the freshman forward has excelled
in the big-game setting so far this
season, with some of his better
performances coming on the road
against Clemson and in the confer-
ence schedule. He tends to show
some fire in those important match-
ups as well - against Oakland, he
found himself ina little scuffle with
Golden Grizzly forward Ilija Miluti-
novic. Smotrycz should save some of
that intensity for the Morris broth-
ers. He'll need it.
Jordan Morgan: If there was
ever a time for Morgan to make a
name for himself, this is it. After
getting embarrassed by Concordia's
Rocko Holmes earlier this season,
Morgan has seemingly woken up on
the defensive end. Against Oakland,
he held potential first-round NBA
draft pick Keith Bensen to just 11
points, showing his ability to hold
his own against premier posttalent.
And Beilein has really begun to uti-
lize the power brand of basketball
that Morgan brings to the key.
ADVANTAGE: MORRIS DUO
BENCH
Kansas: Highly touted fresh-
man Josh Selby, since returning
from a nine-game suspension for
receiving impermissible benefits,
has been nothingshort of spectacu-
lar. He averages 15 points per game
and can run over any Division-I
defense and embarrass some very
worthy defenders with an arsenal of
crossovers and hesitation dribbles.
Thomas Robinson has also been
more than capable in the post when
relievingthe Morris brothers.
Michigan: Junior guard Stu
Douglass has been a very effec-
tive sixth man for Michigan this
season. He and sophomore Matt
Vogrich have been rather proficient
in hitting their shots coming off the
bench. But the bench doesn't pro-
vide a whole lot of frontcourt talent.
When Morgan needs to rest or finds
himself in foul trouble, the go-to
guy is freshman Jon Horford. And
while he hasshownpotential for the
years to come, he doesn't match up
well with the Morris brothers.
ADVANTAGE: KANSAS
PREDICTION: KANSAS 74,
MICHIGAN 62

Sophomore guard Darius Morris will play a key role in Sunday's matchup against the third-ranked Jayhawks.
'M' faces-toughest test yet

By ZAK PYZIK notched nine of their own. And
Daily Sports Editor three Wolverines will be back on
the floor on Sunday looking for a
Sunday will be the first time different outcome.
the Michigan basketball team will But this time around, a fresh-
square up with a top-five opponent man that has put fear into opposing
this season. It's also the first time coaches' eyes will be joining the
the Wolverines will play against veterans on the hardwood. Kansas
twins this year. rookie guard Josh Selby is averag-
The dynamic Kasat ing 15 points a game and shooting a
duo of Kansas team-high 56 percent from behind
men's basket- Michigan the arc for the Jayhawks.
ball's forwards Matchup: Selby has been one of the
Marcus and Mar- Kansas 14-0; NCAA's most prolific freshmen in
kieff Morris have Michigan 11-4 this season.
led the third- When: Sunday After being ranked last year's
ranked Jayhawks 4:30 P.M. No. 1 high school recruit by Rivals.
to an unblem com, Selby has lived up to the hype.
ished 14-0 mark eArena He is a combo guard that can
this season. The na crank a shot from anywhere on the
junior twins TV/Radio: floor, even with a hand in his face,
weigh in at a CBS and he averages less thanone turn-
combined weight over a game.
of 480 pounds and average a com- With Kansas scoring more than
bined 28 points and 15 rebounds 75 points in 13 of its 14 games,
per game. Michigan's biggest challenge will
On Sunday, the Morris twins be to either stop or keep up with
will meet Michigan guard Darius Kansas' high scoring offense.
Morris. Containing the Jayhawks will
The floor general will lead the be difficult. Kansas is shooting
Wolverines at Crisler Arena in 54 percent from the field and due
hopes of upsetting undefeated in large part to the Morris twins,
Kansas after falling to the top- have outmuscled almost every
ranked Jayhawks, 75-64, in Law- team they've faced thus far on the
rence, Kansas last season. boards.
In that matchup, Darius tal- But the Morris twins in the post
lied nine points and juniors Zack will be even more troublesome for
Novak and Stu Douglass both the Wolverines.

In Wednesday's loss to Wiscon-
sin, Michigan allowed a combined
30 points from Badger forwards
Jon Leuer and Keaton Nankivil. If
Michigan fails to stop an aggres-
sive Kansas offense, its own
offense-will have to keep up.
However, if the offense can't
keep up, things don't look bright
for Michigan coach John Beilein
and his Wolverines.
Averaging 68 points a game, the
Wolverines are the second-lowest
scoringteam in the Big Ten.
Michigan is shooting 34 percent
from 3-point range, something that
doesn't work well when a team has
four or five guards on the floor. But
if Michigan leaves victorious, this
Sunday's game in Ann Arbor could
be a huge mark on the Wolverines
resume come March.
"If you look at our schedule, this
is all about opportunity," Michigan
coach John Beilein said. "You've
heard me say before: in the leagues
where I come from, you don't get
these opportunities in January,
February.
"These are guaranteed games in
December at their place... You have
Kansas at home in front of a great
crowd - great chance for a home
win. So these are the opportuni-
ties you look at and say, 'Hey, this
is what these kids have been wait-
ing for a long time to be able to do
this.'"

ICE HOCKEY
Fresh off GLI title, Michigan to take on rival Spartans

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
Nearly a month removed from
the Big Chill at
the Big House,
the No. 8 Michi- Michigan
gan hockey team at Michigan
is poised to take
the ice against State
in-state rival Matchup:
Michigan State Michigan 12-5-
once again. 4; Michigan
But this time, State 7-10-4
the Wolverines When: Satur-
won't have a day 7:35 P.M.
crowd of 113,411 Where: Munn
at their beck and Ice Arena
call.
On Friday, the
Spartans will host the first half of
the home-and-home week-

end series at Munn Ice Arena, a
rink widely regarded as one of the
most hostile environments in col-
legiate hockey. But it's Michigan
(9-3-1-0 CCHA, 12-5-4 overall)
who has all the momentum, com-
ing off the program's 14th Great
Lakes Invitational Championship
and a 5-0 drubbing of Michigan
State in the Big Chill.
And if their last meeting at
Munn is any indication, the Wol-
verines may have the edge not
only on the ice, but in the stands
too. After posting one of the poor-
est records since Red Berenson
became coach, Michigan trav-
eled to East Lansing in the second
round of the CCHA Tournament
last March fully expecting to be
trounced by the 11th-ranked Spar-
tans.

Michigan State students were
on spring break during the tourna-
ment, so much of the crowd was
a roaring Michigan contingent.
And the Wolverines rumbled past
the Spartans, 5-1 and 5-3, en route
to a surprise finish in the NCAA
regional finals.
"Going up there and seeing all
those Michigan fans was unbe-
lievable," senior Shawn Hunwick
said. "You could never think that
you'd come to Yost and see a bunch
of Michigan State fans. So to see it
up there, everyone wearing maize
and blue, was pretty special."
Students are back on campus
for this weekend's matchup, but
the Spartans (3-8-1-0, 7-10-4) are
faltering in the CCHA as of late
- currently sitting in tenth place
in the conference. And Michigan

fans may have the opportunity to
muster another takeover of Munn
on Friday.
While Yost Ice Arena has a
thriving fan base and is already
sold out for Saturday's contest,
Michigan coach Red Berenson has
sensed a decline in support for the
hockey team at Michigan State.
"(Munn) is obviously anti-
Michigan, and it used to be that
they were sold out every game,"
Berenson said. "Fifteen years ago
and beyond it was sold out, there
were no Michigan fans ... But now
it's a different scenario. Their
crowds haven't been that good, so
the opportunity for Michigan fans
is there. I think (the CCHA Tour-
nament) was the first time that our
fans really sensed that."
Along with the edge in fan sup-

port, the Wolverines have built
a lot of confidence against this
Michigan State team. In his three
starts against the Spartans, Hun-
wick has allowed just three goals,
and the Michigan offense has
backed him with 15 scores on the
other end of the ice.
"If you've already beat the team
you feel like you can win again,"
Hunwick said. "If I was 0-3, I'd
probably be a little nervous going
up there."
The two teams haven't played
a regular-season, relatively low-
stakes game in nearly a year.
And while this isn't a postseason
matchup or in front of a world-
record crowd, there should be no
shortage of intensity.
Michigan took a 2-0 first-period
leal in the Big Chill with a pair

of goals from freshman defense-
man Jon Merrill. The Wolverines
are hoping for a similar scorching
start.
"We have to get off to a good
start," Hunwick said. "If we give
Michigan State the first goal to
give them the lead, they're going
to have the confidence."
With 21 games played, the Wol-
verines are rounding the corner
for the second half of the season,-
the same time the team picked up
its play last season.
According to Berenson, the
Michigan State series is reminis-
cent of last year in that the teams
have switched roles - Michigan
now is nationally ranked and atop
the conference while the Spartans
are the bottom feeders at the half-
way point.

6
0
0


35%-45% cheaper 50% cheaper
than online stores than bookstores
on average* on averagem
r Iasiuwoets t pace wivs t s prinvnst er,'nwith t piinsor. ew8s


