WHO'S NEXT?
With Rodriguez gone, who is the best
fit, who should Michigan want and who's
the most likely replacement?
n SEE PAGE 9A

THE DAILY'S
BEST OF 2010
Kanye and Buzz lead our
list of top picks for movies,
music and TV.
>INSIDE

P iC i an a46Fl l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, January 6, 2011

michigandaily.com

RICH ROD) OUT

Rodriguez officially
fired as head coach

A.D. David Brandon:
'Michigan fans expect
more than this'
By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan coach who led the Wol-
verines to their worst three-year span in
Michigan football history was fired yes-
terday afternoon. Rich Rodriguez's 15-22
record and plenty of off-the-field drama
resulted in a tumultuous tenure that will
not be forgotten anytime soon.
"Michigan is not used to this," said Uni-
versity Athletic Director David Brandon
in a press conference yesterday afternoon.
"Michigan fans expect more than this - so
do Michigan athletic directors. And so we
need to put ourselves in a position where

we get ourselves competitive again"
No coach has recorded a worse record
in Michigan's 131-year football history and
no other Michigan football team has per-
formed worse in a bowl game - leaving
the 52-14 Gator Bowl loss as Rodriguez's
lasting impression in his lone bowl appear-
ance.
His offense, led by sophomore quar-
terback Denard Robinson, re-wrote the
record books this season. But the Wolver-
ine defense was as bad as the offense was
good.
Brandon said he concluded his evalu-
ation of now-former coach Rodriguez on
Tuesday night after meeting with Rodri-
guez for three-and-a-half hours to discuss
the future of Michigan's football program.
In an e-mail statement to The Michi-
gan Daily yesterday afternoon, Univer-
sity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald wrote that
See RODRIGUEZ, Page 5A

Rich Rodriguez on the sidelines during a game against Ohio State in the second half at Michigan Stadium on Saturday, Nov. 21, 2009.

Robinson s former coaches speak out

High school coaches
weigh in on how
firing affects QB
By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
With Rich Rodriguez no longer Michi-
gan's football coach, a great deal of the
attention in the coming days will center
around players possibly leaving the pro-
gram, considering how many Wolverines
left when Rodriguez was hired in 2008.
But of any player on the roster, sopho-
more quarterback Denard Robinson could
be Michigan's mostvaluable pieceto retain
during the upcoming coaching transition.
Following the Wolverines 52-14 blow-
out loss in the Gator Bowl, Robinson was
asked about the prospect of leaving Michi-
gan if his coach was no longer here.
"No response," he replied.
He added: "That's my coach. That's who
recruited me, so that's it."
See ROBINSON, Page 5A
BRANDON'S
CRITERIA
What the A.D. is loking for
in Rodriguez's replacement.
* See Sports, Page 9A

MARISSA M,
Rich Rodriguez talks with sophomore quarterback Denard Robinson (16) during at the
in Jacksonville, Fla. on Saturday, Jan. 1. In Rodriguez's last game, Michigan lost 52-14.

University Athletic Director David Brandon discusses his decision to fire Rich Rodriguez at a press
conference at the Junge Family Champions Center yesterday.
Brandon's comments shed
light on divided Michigan
D avid Brandon is facing the big- move - hiring Rich
gest challenge of his young Rodriguez's replace-
career as the University's Ath- ment - will be a criti-
letic Director. cal decision that will
He has to hire the best coach in the impact the storied
world - someone who will instantly fix Michigan football pro-
the Wolverines' struggling defense with gram for years, maybe
the wave of a magic wand, bring in a field decades, to come. And, NICOLE
goal kicker who can accurately make of course, that choice AUERBACH
60-yard field goals and turn Michigan will tell us a lot about
into a national championship contender Brandon himself.
by September. Brandon was cool, calm and convinc-
Or ... something like that. ing yesterday afternoon as he announced
In all seriousness, Brandon's next See AUERBACH, Page SA

PLAYERS REACT TO
DECISION
The team remains united
despite uncertain future.
See Sports, Page 9A

TIMELINE OF RICH
RODRIGUEZ'S CAREER
A look at his three seasons as
Michigan's head coach.
See Sports, Page 8A

'U' alum Yousef Rabhi sworn in as
commissioner in Washtenaw County

22-year-old Rabhi
elected chair of Board of
Commissioner meetings
By DYLAN CINTI
Daily News Editor
A nameplate reading "Yousef Rabhi"
sat alongside 10 others in the boardroom
of the Washtenaw County Administration
Building. Behind the plate sat its name-
sake, a 22-year-old who graduated from
the University last month.
Last night, the Program in the Environ-
ment alumRabhi assumed a very different
role - commissioner on the Washtenaw

County Board of Commissioners.
Rabhi won November's general elec-
tion with 74 percent of the vote after
defeating his primary opponent by a mere
two-vote margin. During the months
leading up to the August 2010 Democratic
primary, Rabhi went door-to-door can-
vassing through neighborhoods in the
student-heavy 11th district.
Rabhi's hard work finally paid off yes-
terday, when he sat down for his first
meeting with the Board of Commission-
ers.
During the first part of yesterday's
meeting, Rabhi said he felt both nervous
and out of his element.
"My heart is racing," Rabhi told the
assembled crowd of roughly 60 attendees

after he was sworn in.
As the board launched into a lengthy
discussion of the meeting rules for the
coming year, Rabhi said after the meeting
that he still felt a little out of place at that
point.
"It was kind of intimidating," Rabhi
said, "at least for the beginning."
Midway through the meeting, however,
Rabhi said he began to feel comfortable
participating, and the moment he started
partaking in the discussion, he realized
the board was where he belonged.
"When I started talking I started feel-
ing like, 'Hey ... my feedback is valuable,"'
Rabhi said.
In a group of commissioners between
See RABHI, Page 5A

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Yousef Rabhi is sworn in as commissioner on the Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners.


WEATHER HI: 23 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail Merrill honored as Team USA takes home bronze Vol CXXI, No. 67
TOMORROW 17 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/ THE GAME @2010 The Michigan Daily
0 michigondailycom

AP NEWS .........................3A CLASSIFIEDS. ..A.......6A
O PIN ION ...........................4A SPO RTS ............................7 A
NEWS.. . . . . 5A THE BSIDE.........................1B

i

i


2A - Thursday, January 6, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, January 6, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Michigan Myths

WEDNESDAY: -THUR SDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles CampusCu Photos of the Week

Fighting for food servers' rights

Everyday, University students and
Ann Arbor residents eat at local res-
taurants most do not realize how their
tips, or lack thereof, affect restaurant
staff, but one student group is aiming to
change that.
Restaurant Workers Justice Alliance
is a University student organization that
aims to improve the rights of restaurant
workers on campus.
LSA senior John Mickley, president
of the Restaurant Workers Justice Alli-
ance, wrote in an e-mail interview that
the Restaurant Opportunities Center of
Michigan inspired him to raise aware-
ness of oppressed restaurant workers on
campus. Mickley learned about the issue
when the ROC gave a presentation in his
English as a Second Language class in
order to help immigrants get accommo-
dated in the food service industry.
According to a 2008 report released
by the ROC, restaurant workers make an
average annual wage of $14,136 - a sal-
ary much lower than the average wage

in the private sector, which is $50,914.
In February, the ROC also announced
that 51 percent of restaurant workers
who participated in a survey said they
encountered overtime violations and 31
percent said they worked "off the clock"
without getting paid.
The ROC-United, a national organi-
zation that aims to improve conditions
for workers, employers and consumers
in restaurants, prompted Mickley to co-
found the University club.
"The relationships that I made with
the members of my class inspired me to
learn more about immigration issues,
and because so many oppressed restau-
rant workers are recent immigrants,
bringing ROC's mission and action to the
Michigan campus seemed like a natural
progression," Mickley wrote.
Though it became an official club last
semester, the Restaurant Workers Jus-
tice Alliance began meeting in fall 2009
to campaign for the rights of restaurant
workers at Andiamo restaurant in Dear-

born, Mich.
Since November 2009, club members,'
along with other members of the Univer-
sitycommunity, havejoinedvarious pro-
tests outside the restaurant. Since then,
Andiamo's management has agreed to
pay their workers overtime wages, and r
attorneys for both sides are working to
reach a settlement to end the campaign.
Mickley added that the group plans to
research labor conditions at restaurants
in Ann Arbor.
Through protests, campaigns and t
overall support for underpaid restaurant
workers, Mickley wrote that he hopes
to increase students' awareness of labor
issues in local restaurants.
"If students comprehend how dif-
ficult it actually is to live on restaurant
wages, they may tip a little more the nextJ
time they eat out or, at the very least,
have a greater appreciation for how their cOURTESYOF JOHN McKLEY
food is prepared and who prepares it,"he University students protest in Dearborn, Mich.
wrote. for better labor conditions for workers at Andi-
- ALYSSA ADLER amo restaurant.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRADWIEY
Editonisn Chief Business Manager
734-418-4tt5 ext. 1250 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
sreisberg@michigadaitycem nmdbssiness@gmait.cem
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Officehours:Sun.-Thurs.11a.m.-2a.m.
nsa-a1-41nt opt. 3
News Tips news@michiandailycom
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaity.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily~com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaitycom
Classified Sales classifted@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaity.com
Finance finance@michigandaity.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor swanson@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber ManagingNewEditor atber@michigandaily.com
SENORNES 00D 0TORS ehany Biro, eDylansCintiCailinstoneoesaeph
LichtermanDevon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Rachel Brusstar, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Mike
Merar,Michele Narov, BriennePrusak, KaitlinWilliams
Michelle DeWitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
tmilypOrlep Editoiat PogEditor
NIOORALorAEDIORSAidaAli,AshleyGriesshammer,HarshaPandurang
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EaghanDavis,HarshaNahta,AndrewWeiner
Tim Rohan and sportseditors@michigandaity.com
Nick Spar Managing Sports Editor
SENIORSPORTSEDITORS:Mark Burns,MichaelFlorek,ChantelJennings,RyanKartje,
StephenJ.Nesbitt, Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANTSPORTSEDITORS: Emily Bonchi,BenEstes,CasandraPagni,LukePasch,
Kevin Raftery, Matt Slovin.
SharonJacobs lanaging ArtsEditor jacobs@michigandaily.com
AS SNT AR'T'S EORS:Joe Cadagin, EmaGse, PromsnKhos,David Tan
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaiy.com
Jed Moch ManagingPhotoEditors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITOR: Jake Fromm
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Salam Rid, Anna Schulte, Samantha
Trauben
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich ManagingDesign Editors
ASSINoRDSGNEORSAaleBndy, HermesRisien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaity.xom
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healyand copydesk michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten copychiefs
Sarah Squire webnevelopment Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Julianna CrimoSales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: Stephanie Bowker
MARKETINGMANAGER:GjonJuncaj
HillarypSzawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason MahakianPreoduction Manager
MeghantRooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
ChrissyWinkler Circulation Manager
Zach Yancer web Project Coordinator
The MichiganDaily(ISSN 0745-967)is published Mondaythrough Friday duringthe fall and winter
terms by students at the Universityof Michigan.One copyisavailablefreeof chargeto allreaders.
Additionacopies may bepickedup at the Daily's officefor$2.Subscriptions forfalterm, startingin
September ViasU.mailare$110.Winter termoanuarythrough April)is$11,yearlong (September
through Apri nis$19.University affiliates are subject to a reduced subscription rate.On-campus
subscri nrlteaet$3.Suscriptionsu st be pepaid.TheMichiganDailyisa member
ofThe Assoiaed Pres end TheAssociated ColegitePess.

0

CRIME NOTES
Coffee klepto in Vandals visit
need of caffeine men's restroom

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Presentation by Class for
famous author drummers

WHERE: Briarwood MedRe-
hab, building 4
WHEN: Tuesday at 6:40 a.m.
WHAT: Two cases of coffee,
creamer and sugar were taken
University Police reported.
They were valued at $32 and
there are no suspects.

WHERE: Mason Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about 8:15
a.m.
WHAT: Grafitti was found in
the men's restroom in Mason
Hall, University Police report-
ed. The damage cost less than
$100. There are no suspects.

Bottle thrown
Garmin GPS
through Martha
stolen from car .
WHERE: M-15parking
structure WHERE: MarthaCook
WHEN: Sunday at about 10:05 WHEN: Saturday at about
a.m. 10:05 a.m.
WHAT: A Garmin GPS was WHAT: A bottle was thrown
stolen from a car parked in a through the front window of
University parking lot, Univer- Martha Cook, University Police
sity Policy reported. There are reported. The cost of the dam-
no suspects. age was about $50.
MORE ONLINE
LoveCrime Notes?Getmoreonlineatmichigandaily.co/blogs/TheWire

WHAT: A presentation
by award-winning author
Charles Baxter, who
wrote "The Soul Thief."
WHO: English Language
and Literature - MFA
in Creative writing.
WHEN: Today at5 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art,
Helmut Stem Auditorium.
Final round
of concerto
comptetion
WHAT: The final round for
graduate students competing
in a concerto competition.
Winners will perform in
ensembles later this year.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre and Dance
WHEN: Todayat 4 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium

WHAT: A bass drum, tri-
angle and orchestral percus-
sion class taught by renowed
percussionist Alan Abel.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre and Dance.
WHEN: Today at 2:30 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Build-
ing, McIntosh Theatre
CORRECTIONS
" The headline of a story
inyesterday's edition
of The Michigan Daily
"After 30 years of busi-
ness, College Shoe Repair
closes" mistated the num-
ber of years the business
was open. It was 70years.
* Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Britain may soon replace
the traditional pint size
with a smaller measure
of beer called the "schooner,
Yahoo News reported." The
measure is used in Australia.
Toy Story 3 and Kanye
West top The Michigan
Daily's lists for the best
films and artists of the year -
see what else made the cut.
>> FOR MORE,SEETHE B-SIDE,INSIDE
Jersey Shore star Nicole
Polizzi, also known as
Snooki, recently wrote a
novel called "A Shore Thing,"
MSN news reported. The book
is described by Polizzi as "a lit-
tle vulgar," but the content was
toned down for her younger
fan base.

0


Arts & Eats combines two things
you can't live without - great music
and free pizza - all in one night!
You get great seats to a UMS event
for $15 (at least a 60% savings!)
and a pizza dinner before the
concert, along with a 10-minute
talk by a seasoned expert about the
evening's performance. Tickets go
on sale at wwwums.org/students
approximately two weeks before
each event.

UMS (University Musical Society) brings
big art to all kinds of people by presenting
dazzling music, theater, and dance
performances from all over the planet.
They are the joint that selects the artists
puts them on a stage, pays them,
shows you a little bit about what
you're seeing/hearing/experiencing/
digging, and puts it all together in a
nicely-designed season of shows.
UMS is a bridge-builder from
idea to performance; an Ann
Arbor culture machine of sorts,
bringing you Wynton Marsalis,
soprano Renee Fleming, the St.
Petersburg Philharmonic, Merce
Cunningham Dance Company,
Kodo, and all of the more than
6,000 shows that UMS has done
in the past 132 years.-You walk
into one of these performances
and emerge a little smarter, a little
more whole, and a little more in
touch with what it means to be a
human being.
Winter Half-Price
IStudent Ticket Sale
Begins: Sun, Jan 9 at 8 pm
Ends: Tue, Jan U at 12 noon
Purchase your tickets at
ww.ums.rg/students
Log on early to get access
to the best seats!

0

Grupo Corpo
FRI, JAN 21
The Cleveland Orchestra
TUE, FEB 1
Druid Theater Company:
The Cripple of Inishmaan
THU, MAR 10
Septeto Nacional Ignacio
Piteiro de Cuba
THU, APR 7
ARTS & EATS IS SPONSORED BY
UMc '100 arts
WITH SUPPORT FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ALUMNI ASSOCIATION.

0
0

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 6, 2011- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 6, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.
Great Lakes Asian
Carp DNA research
r proven effective
Scientists whose genetics-based
research became a.lightning rod
in the debate over protecting the
Great Lakes from Asian carp have
made their case in a newly pub-
lished article that says at least
some of the dreaded invaders have
gotten beyond an electric barrier
meant to block their path to Lake
Michigan.
Still, the researchers argue that
so-called "environmental DNA," or
"eDNA," has proven a more effec-
tive means of detecting Asian carp
than conventional methods such as
electroshocking and netting. They
predict it will become a valuable
tool in efforts to prevent exotic spe-
cies invasions and preserve species
that are threatened or endangered.
"There can no longer be any
question about the validity of the
eDNA work and its reliability,"
David Lodge, a University of Notre
* Dame biologist and the project
leader, said in an interview Tues-
day. "This research has with flying
colors passed the most rigorous
peer review possible."
OMAHA, Neb.
Student opens fire
on school officials
before killing self
A student opened fire at an
Omaha high school yesterday-
wounding two adults including
the principal and causing students
to rush to a school kitchen to take
cover, authorities said.
Later, the suspect, identified as
17-year-old Robert Butler, Jr., was
found dead in car about a mile away
from the school after shooting
himself, Omaha police chief Alex
Hayes said.
It was not immediately clear
why Butler, a son of an Omaha
police detective, shot Millard High
School Principal Curtis Case and
Vice Principal Vicki Kasper.
Case was in stable condition and
Kasper was in critical condition
at an area hospital, the chief told
reporters.
A 16-year-old student at the
school told The Associated Press
she was just beginning lunch when
a school administrator came into
the cafeteria.
"He was like yelling, 'Get in the
kitchen! Get in the kitchen!' He was
waving his arms. You knew some-
thing was wrong and it wasn't a
drill," said Laura Olson, who is the
daughter of an AP reporter.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.
Mysterious plane
crash barely misses
* residential house
Federal authorities say one per-
son was killed when a small plane
crashed in a Birmingham neigh-
borhood.
Federal Aviation Administration

spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen
said the Beech BE-58 went down
while it was approaching a runway
at the Birmingham International
Airport. She said authorities have
not yet determined why it crashed
and wasn't sure if anyone on the
ground was hurt.
Firefighters and police officers
swarmed the scene. WBMA-TV
reported the plane crashed about
50 yards from a house.
* JUBA, Sudan
Sudanese officials
expect large voter
turnout for election
Nearly 4 million people in
Southern Sudan are registered to
vote in a referendum to be held
Jan. 9, the top election official said
Monday.
The electoral body is "100 per-
cent prepared" for the vote and it
will be held on time, said Justice
Chan Reec Madut. Some observ-
ers had worried that South Sudan's
poor infrastructure and political
issues might delay the polls.
Most people expect the oil-
rich, mainly Christian south will
vote for independence from the
mainly Muslim north. The two
sides fought a bloody civil war that
stretched over two decades. Sun-
day's vote is the culmination of a
* peace deal that ended the conflict
in 2005.
"Our people are ready to walk
for six hours, eight hours, in order
to reach their polling centers," he
said.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

A Jordanian man lights a candle before a prayer ceremony for the victims who died after a New Year's Day church bombing
that killed 21 people at the Coptic Orthodox Church in Amman, Jordan.
Coptic churches far
r s
mTore suicide attaCks

Extremist Islamic
websites encourage
attacks on Coptic
churches in Egypt
CAIRO (AP) - Egyptian Chris-
tians say they fear a repeat attack
against their community on Cop-
tic Christmas Eve today despite
authorities planning heavy secu-
rity following a New Year's suicide
bombing of a church in Alexandria
that killed 21.
In response to the threats
against the Christians by extrem-
ists, Egyptian activists have called
on Muslims toform humanshields
in front of the churches on Christ-
mas Eve as gesture of solidarity
with country's Coptic Christian
minority, which makes up 10 per-
cent of Egypt's 80 million people.
The bombing of the church, the
worst act of sectarian violence in
the country in a decade, touched
off days of demonstrations and
riots by the Christians blaming
the government for encouraging
discrimination and prejudice and
not doing enough to protect them.
Some Christians have even said
they will skip today's Christmas

Eve services for fear that there
will be more attacks.
"I had a fight with my mother.
She kept saying no churches this
year. I wanted to go but my par-
ents are afraid something might
happen again," said Karim Moni-
er, a 19-year-old student living in
the middle-class neighborhood
of Hadayak Helwan in southern
Cairo.
Egyptian authorities have
beefed up security around many
churches all over country, with
explosives experts on hand.
Armored vehicles will be sta-
tioned in main squares in case of
emergency.
The Interior Ministry yester-
day released to the. public a com-
posite photo of what is said was
the one remaining victim out of
the 21 dead who has not yet been
identified. The ministry asked for
anyone who recognized the face to
report the identity to authorities,
apparently aiming to determine
whether he could be the bomber.
Police said the face in the photo
had been pieced together from
remains, and parts of the image
appeared digitally manipulated to
fill in gaps.
Extremist Islamic websites
affiliated with al-Qaida have

been circulating lists of Coptic
Churches in Egypt and Europe -
including the one attacked on New
Year's - along with instructions
on how to attack them.
"Blow up the churches while
they are celebrating Christmas or
any other time when the churches
are packed," the statement read.
Coptic websites have been
worriedly circulating the lists of
churches as a warning to their
members and several European
government have announced they
will be increasing security at their
own Coptic sites.
Mohammed Moussaoui, head
of France's main Muslim group,
said it will send a delegation to
attend a Coptic Christian Christ-
mas service in France on Friday.
The threats have sparked a
backlash in Egypt, where there
have long been sectarian tensions,
and numerous groups are pushing
for Muslims to guard the churches
as human shields.
Prominent young Egyptian
actor Khaled Aboul Naga called
on Muslims in his blog not to
"stand still while Coptic Egyp-
tians feel unsafe in their worship-
ping places," and urged people
to head to any nearby church to
attend Christmas Eve prayers.

New U.S. Census formula
measures rise in poverty

Census figures:
1 in 6 Americans
live in poverty
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
number of poor people in the U.S.
is millions higher than previously
known, with 1 in 6 Americans
- many of them 65 and older -
struggling in poverty due to ris-
ing medical care and other costs,
according to preliminary census
figures released yesterday.
At the same time, government
aid programs such as tax credits
and food stamps kept many people
out of poverty, helping to ensure
the poverty rate did not balloon
even higher during the reces-
sin in 2009, President Barack
Obama's first year in office.
Under a new revised census
formula, overall poverty in 2009
stood at 15.7 percent, or 47.8 mil-
lion people. That's compared to
the official 2009 rate of 14.3 per-
cent, or 43.6 million, that was
reported by the Census Bureau

last September.
Across all demographic groups,
Americans 65 and older sustained
the largest increases in poverty
under the revised formula - near-
ly doubling to 16.1 percent. As a
whole, working-age adults 18-64
also saw increases in poverty,
as well as whites and Hispanics.
Children, blacks and unmarried
couples were less likely to be con-
sidered poor under the new mea-
sure.
Due to new adjustments for
geographical variations in costs
of living, people residing in the
suburbs, the Northeast and West
were the regions mostly likely to
have poor people - nearly 1in 5in
the West.
The new measure will not
replace the official poverty rate
but will be published alongside
the traditional figure this fall as a
"supplement" for federal agencies
and state governments to deter-
mine anti-poverty policies. Econ-
omists have long criticized the
official poverty measure as inad-
equate because it only includes

pretax cash income and does not
account for medical, transporta-
tion and work expenses.
"Under the new measure, we
can clearly see the effects of
our government policies," said
Kathleen Short, a Census Bureau
research economist who calcu-
lated the revised poverty num-
bers. "When you're accounting for
in-kind benefits and tax credits,
you're bringing many people in
extreme poverty off the very bot-
tom."
Short's analysis, published yes-
terday as part of a series of cen-
sus working papers on poverty,
shows that out-of-pocket medical
expenses had a significant impact
in affecting the number of poor
- without those costs, poverty
would have dropped from 15.7
percent to 12.4 percent.
The numbers cited for 2009 are
preliminary, but census officials
say they offer a good representa-
tive look at the state of U.S. pov-
erty and where the numbers are
headed when new 2010 figures are
released this fall.

Southern Chileans evacuate
in anticipation of earthquake

Citizens flee from
7.1 earthquake, no
damage reported
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) - A
magnitude-7.1 earthquake shook
southern Chile on Sunday, prompt-
ing tens of thousands to flee the
coast for higher ground amid fears
it could generate a tsunami like the
one that ravaged the area last year.
There were no reports of deaths
or damage, and Vicente Nunez,
head of the National Emergency
Office, said no tsunami alert was
issued.
"There has been no harm to
people, no harm to property,"
Nunez said. "We will continue
monitoring."

The Pacific Tsunami Warn-
ing Center in Hawaii also said a
destructive Pacific Ocean-wide
tsunami was not expected.
Some cell-phone communica-
tions and electrical power were
knocked out in the Araucania
region where the quake was cen-
tered, 370 miles (595 kilometers)
south-southwest of the capital,
Santiago.
The U.S. Geological Survey
said the epicenter was about 45.
miles (70 kilometers) away from
the provincial capital of Temuco,
which has a population of about
250,000.
The quake struck at a depth
of about 11 miles (17 kilometers),
according to the USGS, and there
was at least one aftershock of 5.0
magnitude.

When the first temblor struck,
people in several coastal cities
quickly moved away from the
ocean, abandoning some shop-
ping centers entirely.
Inthe communities ofLaArau-
cania, Puerto Saavedra, Tolten
and Teodoro Smith, an estimated
50,000 people voluntarily evacu-
ated to higher ground, according
to Nunez.
Residents of the region have
fresh memories of the magni-
tude-8.8 quake and resulting
tsunami on Feb. 27, 2010, that
killed at least 521 people and left
200,000 homeless.
Sergio Barrientos, director of
the seismology office at the Uni-
versity of Chile, said Sunday's
temblor was itself an aftershock
of last year's mega-quake.


4A - Thursday, January 6, 2011

4 Th d Jnr ,0The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

J11E 1Jidiigan &a11j
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

I don't think Rich Rodriguez has had a peaceful night(s)
sleep since he arrived in Ann Arbor.'
- Michigan Athletic Director David Brandon when asked about his thoughts on Rich Rodriguez's career on
Wednesday, as reported by The Michigan Daily.

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
(Re)raising the bar
The new coach must meet 'U' football standards
The Michigan football program is undoubtedly one of
the most important institutions at the University. Many
displays of school spirit involve sporting a football jer-
sey around.campus or cheering on the football team at the Big
House. But lately, being a Michigan fan hasn't maintained its
appeal. The team has been shrouded in issues of NCAA viola-
tions, lack of public support for the coach and serious concerns
about the future of the program. And with coach Rich Rodriguez
heading out of Ann Arbor, it's crucial that decisions about the
team's future are centered on restoring public perception of the
program to a level consistent with the winngingest program in
college football.

Fit not flair

Rodriguez was fired yesterday afternoon
- a decision that was announced at a press
conference by University Athletic Direc-
tor David Brandon. Rodriguez's overall
record, Big Ten record and bowl game per-
formance were all concerns that have been
subject to much recent discussion. At the
press conference, Brandon talked about the
variety of factors that went into his deci-
sion and the need for a change within the
program. No decision has been made yet
about who the next coach will be - though
many names have been tossed around -
but Brandon has criteria in mind. He also
wants to return the team to its former
status of Big Ten champions and national
championship contenders.
Football at the University is a culture in
and of itself. With one of the largest alumni
bases of any school, Michigan football fans
can be found around the world. And while
fans want the team to win games and be
associated with success, it's equally impor-
tant that the team is associated with a
positive image. Lately, this hasn't been the
case. It's unfair to blame this entirely on
Rodriguez, but when a new coach'comes
in he is going to need to change more than
just the defense. Brandon spoke at the
press conference about fan expectations
and the importance of the team meeting

these expectations. The new coach needs
to restore the program to the level that fans
expect of Michigan football and regain the
support of the University community.
While football is important for the spirit
of the school, the reality is that it's a busi-
ness. The team generates millions of dol-
lars in revenue each year, and Rodriguez
was one of the highest-paid coaches in
the sport, making more than $2.5 million
in 2009, according to a USA Today report.
Additionally, a large portion of the team's
funding comes from alumni donations and
many alumni have expressed their dissat-
isfaction with the program's downturn.
Michigan football can't continue to gen-
erate money for itself, and the city of Ann
Arbor if an unsuccessful team turns off
fans. An underperforming team is bad for
the business of Michigan football, which
makes finding a successful coach that
much more important.
Big Ten schools are about sports, and the
University is no exception. While athletics
is by no means the most important focus
on campus, it's indisputably part of the
campus culture. Whether the new"coach is
a "Michigan Man" or someone less famil-
iar, he needs to understand what football
means to the school, and he must meet
expectations.

,602. 22. And 38. Those were
the numbers it took to finally
sink now former Michigan foot-
ball coach Rich
Rodriguez. It's -
been 2,602 days
since Michigan
has won a game
against Ohio State;
22 losses in his ten- -
ure (18 in the Big
Ten); and perhaps"
most damning, the
38-point loss in the RYAN
Gator Bowl, which
marked the larg- KNAPP
est defeat in a bowl
game for Michigan
in the football pro-
gram's history. Simply put, Rodriguez
wasn't a good fit for Michigan.
Let's not sugar coat what happened
in the three years that Rodriguez has
been here at the University. Though
his Michigan career was pockmarked
by back-to-back losing seasons and
NCAA violations, Rodriguez was
doomed from the start. Inheriting a
team that lost its starting quarterback,
its all-time leading rusher and a pair of
receivers - coupled with a completely
revamped style of offense - Rodriguez
had his work cut out for him.
Along with drawingthe ireofalum-
ni and former players for not being a
"Michigan Man," Rodriguez strug-
gled at first to morph the team from
the three yards and a cloud of dust into
a high-octane, quick-pace, run-first
spread offense. For fans and alumni
that were clamoring to win immedi-
ately, he was rebuilding the Michigan
program at aless than acceptable pace.
While a lot went wrong in his three
years here, Rodriguez, as he detailed
in a November press conference,
didn't suddenly become "stupid over-
night." He has a great offensive mind
and was loyal to his players and staff

- almost to a fault. Players remained
loyal to Rodriguez even when they
knew the end was coming. He never
once blamed the failures of the team
on any individual player or staff mem-
ber, even when it may have been clear
that the defensive side of the ball
wasn'tgetting the job done.
But instead of rectifying the prob-
lem or making changes, Rodriguez
simply sat back and kept things at sta-
tus quo. I refuse to believe after sev-
eral weeks of watching the sieve of a
defense be shred by opponents, that
the 3-3-5 defense was the best scheme
for the team to run. Instead of adapt-
ing his scheme to the players and per-
sonnel, Rodriguez and his staff were
stubborn - trying to fit a square peg
into a round hole. Rodriguez went
with what was successful for him
in the past, and in the end it burned
him. If you believe that a Michigan
defensive unit starting a former stu-
dent walk-on, two true freshmen and
a nomadic senior - who was flipping
between offensive and defense during
his first three years in the secondary
- could be successful, then you are
either nuts or defensive coordinator
Greg Robinson.
Something needs to be done before
Michigan becomes like Notre Dame -
scrambling after every three or four
years of mediocrity to look for the
next hot name coach out there. I hope
David Brandon will make the decision
that is best for the program and not
placate the masses that are hollering
for the names being bandied by the
press. However, I do hope that whoev-
er takes over will have full support of
the fans, alumni and administration -
something I'm not too sure Rodriguez
had during his three years here at the
University.
Let's get one thing straight, the
myth that the coach needs to be a
Michigan Man should be put to rest.

Bo Schembechler came to the Univer-
sity after serving as the head coach of
MiamiOhioandevenspenttimeon the
staff of Woody Hayes and that team
down to the south. Michigan needs
to hire the best-fitting coach possible.
We need a coach that can embrace the
tradition of Michigan, but also fix the
decline of a program that may be one
more coaching mistake from becom-
ing a has-been program.
Rodriguez was a
square peg in a
round hole.
Michigan needs a coach who will
command the respect of players, stu-
dents, alumni and former Wolverine
players. We've tried the hot name
coach tactic, and it ultimately didn't
work out. Fans clamoring for Jim Har-
baugh or even Les Miles may be disap-
pointed if either of the two Michigan
Men fail to leave their already stable
jobs to come to Michigan. But that
doesn't mean there aren't competent
candidates that can return the pro-
gram to the top.
Goodbye, Rich Rodriguez, it cer-
tainly has been a roller coaster ride.
You've definitely had good moments
with the last-minute wins against
Notre Dame last season and thethrill-
ing overtime win against Illinois this
season. While you may not be forever
known as a Michigan Man, you gave
it your best shot, and I have no doubt
that you and your offense will catch on
somewhere else.
- Ryan Knapp can be reached
at rknapp@umich.edu.

The Daily is looking for a diverse group of strong, informed, passionate
writers to be columnists for the winter semester. Columnists write a
700-800 word column every other week on a topic of their choosing.
If you are an opinionated and talented writer, consider applying.
E-MAIL MICHELLE DEWITT AT DEWITTM@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFORMATION.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Teddy Papes, Roger Sauerhaft, Andrew Weiner
MICHAEL BERTENTHAL
The "Michigan Man" curse

ATHREY KRISHNAKUMAR|

Support is essential for success

0

I hear a lot of talking heads say that the Rich
Rodriguez experiment has failed at Michigan
because he and his audience failed to see eye to
eye "culturally."
Whether or not the common fans or the true
stakeholders (big boosters) have led this upris-
ing, we'll never know. After all, which came
first: the chicken or the egg?
You and I both know Rodriguez was never
given a fair shake since he landed in Ann
Arbor more than three years ago. The skep-
tics grumbled initially, then probably helped
expose his faults just one disappointing season
into the rebuilding process. This all boiled over
into "self-imposed sanctions." Whatever that
means, many claim it was the first big, black-
and-blue eye for the program.
He's not a "Michigan Man." He's more of a bro
- anativeson from aplace where "wild and won-
derful" once constituted a state slogan. I'm pretty
sure I heard the student section start chanting
"read a book!" as he walked the periphery of
Michigan Stadium during the Big Chill, his prize
quarterback at the flank, his head lowered.
The point is that, apparently, there are great
expectations on this campus.
I must say, however, that there is no short,
results-based list of why Rich Rod's Blue never
crossed our particular hype threshold. Holisti-
cally, however, the football team under Rodri-
guez just never satisfied our personal taste for
the top self
Here are a few reasons: He made few con-
cessions. He consistently neglected two sides
of the ball - special teams and defense. He
didn't recruit defensive players well enough.
He perhaps insisted on a 3-3-5, when that won't
cut it in the Big Ten without the accompany-
ing talent - or ever. His offensive play calling
in the red zone was ineffective. Perhaps he also
lacks in the equivocation department.
Some have argued that the consummate
Michigan Man is one of unusual integrity. But
maybe this criterion is either too tall an order

or a dying breed these days.
Today's NCAA and its member athletic
departments, all hankering for a piece of the
TV revenue pie, make honesty a rare corporate
commodity.
A local barber of all people initially told me
that Rodriguez is scantly visible within the
Ann Arbor community. This came in stark
contrast to sightings of former football coach
Lloyd Carr making keynote speeches at worthy
student organization events, such as a fund-
raising banquet for Camp Kesem - a student-
run summer camp for children with parents
who have or had cancer.
I swear, even Michigan basketball coach
John Beilein, a fellow West Virginian, has been
seen roaming the Michigan Union, helping
student-athletes pick out the perfect computer
from the computer Showcase and leading tours
for recruits at the second-floor Billiards and
Games Room. These persons, and some of their
predecessors, most likely approach Michigan
Man status.
Coaches are traditionally supposed to
emblazon the University. Despite our sky boxes
and future night games, Ann Arbor may still be
a place where these values matter. Attention to
corporate social responsibility, therefore, can
be checked and affected by the consumer - in
this case the ardent fans - as well as less con-
spicuous financial boosters.
Surely, the time is now for the University's
Athletic Director David Brandon to find a new
head football coach, justified alone by that
abysmal win-loss record in importantgames. A
fitting conclusion to a historic, if suddenly infa-
mous, stint for Michigan's student body.
Interestingly, we will never know if Rich
Rod could have silenced the critics by just spit-
ting out a winning product.
Which comes first, egg or chicken?
Michael Berthenthal is a Ford
School of Public Policy senior.

No less than three years ago, as the head coach of West
Virginia University, Rich Rodriguez spearheaded argu-
ably the nation's best team to a Fiesta Bowl victory over
the No. 3 Oklahoma Sooners. Though the Mountaineers
were led on the field by then-interim coach Bill Stewart,
there was no denying that the team and its performance
on the field, an absolute white-wash of the perennial
power Sooners, was a product solely that of Rodriguez's
handiwork.
My, what a difference three short - and for many very,
very long - years can make.
Once one of the most highly sought-after and respect-
ed coaches in the nation, Rodriguez is now unemployed,
relieved from his head coaching duties after three turbu-
lent years at the University of Michigan. Based on pure
results, it's hard to argue with Athletic Director David
Brandon's decision to fire Rodriguez. Three seasons that
fell well below the expectations held in Ann Arbor, no
noticeable development on the defensive side of the ball
and of course the embarrassing NCAA investigation that
has left a blemish on the once - pristine program, all
occurred with Rodriguez at the helm.
Many feel, however, that the entire mess could have
been avoided by not hiring Rodriguez in the first place.
From sport pundits to alumni, many criticized Rodri-
guez's move to Ann Arbor, stating that it was a clash of
game philosophies and, at an underlying level, a mismatch
of cultures. Simply put, he was not a "Michigan Man." As
a result of this not-so-discrete elitism, Rodriguez never
got the 100 percent support that a coach with a 10th of his
accolades would elsewhere.
From day one on the job, Rodriguez faced an uphill bat-
tle not only on the field but off it as well. The roster he was
left with was in absolute shambles after former Michigan
football coach Lloyd Carr's retirement. This was painfully
evident during the Wolverines' abysmal 2008 campaign
in which the Maize and Blue only notched three victories
while setting a slew of school records that no athlete wants
to be a part of. Meanwhile, as soon as he set foot on cam-
pus, Rodriguez had to contend with an underground faction
within the University communitythat resented the fact that
he was allowed into the hallowed fraternity of Michigan
coaches. The faction resented this interloper with his spread
schemes and smaller, speedy players who buzzed around
like flies. This was not "Michigan football," they cried.

Rodriguez, by all means, did not share many qualities
with his predecessors. He never had any prior connec-
tion with the University; he played college ball at West
Virginia and held a variety of coaching positions at other
small schools before making it big with the Mountain-
eers. He lacked the stoic demeanor that characterized
those before him. He was visibly emotional during press
conferences and perhaps was not as articulate as Lloyd or
Bo. He brought a new, fast-paced offensive mindset that
challenged all that those before him stood for. These rea-
sons, which many may deem trivial, prevented Rodriguez
from gaining full support from the community and, one
may argue, led to his downfall at the University.
At the end of the day, Brandon had no choice but to let
Rodriguez go. The Wolverines have not been competitive
with their Big Ten counterparts, and a coach's job status
is directly linked to results on the field. After three con-
secutive years of losing to the Buckeyes and Spartans, it
was time for a change.
However, it's hard to argue that Rodriguez got a fair
chance to turn things around here in Ann Arbor. He
never received the support that most coaches are guar-
anteed simply because he didn't fit, which is strangely
hypocritical at a school that prides diversity. Who knows
what might have been had he received genuine support?
Perhaps we would be in the same situation we are now. Or
maybe, without the constant pressure, Rodriguez would
have been able to lead the Wolverines to become national
championship contenders. There's no denying the fact
that he is a quality coach or that he put every ounce of his
soul into this job. It's unfortunate the way things trans-
pired, both for Rodriguez and the University, but it is a
situation that could have been, and should be, avoided in
the future.
As the football program searches for its next head
coach, it's important that no matter who is selected, we as
fans give the coach as much support as he needs in order
to succeed. It would be great if we land a certain former
Wolverine and recent Orange Bowl victor. But if things
don't pan out quite as well as we'd like them to, then we
should move on and still truly be"'all in" for the Maize
and Blue. As we can see, if we don't do so, the results can
be disastrous.
Athrey Krishnakumar is an Engineering junior.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions become
property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@umich.edu.

0

Want to be an opinion cartoonist? The Daily is looking for creative,
artistic and opinionated people to draw weekly cartoons.
E-MAIL EMILY ORLEY AT EHORLEY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 6, 2011- 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 6, 2011 - 5A

ROBINSON
From Page 1A
Robinson was with his former
high school track coach at Deer-
field Beach High School, Kenny
Brown, when he heard the news
. about Rodriguez's firing. In an
interview with The Michigan Daily
yesterday, Brown said Robinson
was "very upset" about losing his
coach.
"He came to Michigan because
(of) the offense that Coach Rodri-
guez ran," Brown said. "It was tai-
lor-made for him."
Robinson finished the season
with 4,272 total yards, along with
32 touchdowns - a breakout per-
formance that earned him Big
Ten Offensive Player of the Year
honors, as Michigan's offense fin-
ished sixth in the nation in total
offense. At an average of 330 yards
per game, Robinson tallied 23 more
yards per game than Auburn quar-
terback and 2010 Heisman winner
Cam Newton.
But with that offense possibly
changing, Robinson will decide in
the co.sing days whether to trans-
fer or stick with Michigan's new
coach and scheme.
Robinson's former high school
football coach Art Taylor spoke
with the Daily yesterday about
Robinson's future with the team.
Taylor hasn't spoken with Robin-
son since news about Rodriguez's
firing was made public.
"I think first you have to look at.
who they're going to bring in and
does he fit his style as a quarter-
back," Taylor said. "You can't jump
to conclusions too quickly ... It just
depends on who they bring in.
"They averaged 400 or 500
yards on offense, and that type of
offense that coach Rodriguez ran
fit Denard perfectly ... That is the
type of offense that he needs to
stay in."
Jim Harbaugh will likely
become the coach of the San Fran-
cisco 49ers, but in the last few
weeks much speculation centered
around the possibility of Har-
baugh bringing a pro-style offense
to Ann Arbor. But with Robinson's
skills "tailor-made" for the spread
AUERBACH
From page lA
the end of the Rodriguez era and
answered questions about his
decision and the future replace-
ment.
A reporter asked Brandon how
important it would be for the
next coach to be embraced by the
Michigan community. Brandon's
answer was honest and incredibly
telling:
"Clearly, if we want to be suc-
cessful - if we want to be suc-
cessful as a football program,
as an Athletic Department, and
we want our University to really
represent what we're all about
- we need to rally around our
new coach," he said. "Don't find
fault. Don't make hasty judgments
before he arrives on campus."
But that's exactly what hap-
pened three years ago when
Rodriguez came to Ann Arbor.
Rodriguez wasn't a "Michigan
Man," whatever that means. He
was bringing a spread offense, and
that would never work in the Big
Ten. He came with a huge price
tag: the West Virginia buyout. He

wasn't Les Miles, a rumored can-
didate for the job, who was weeks
away from playing for (and win-
ning) a national championship.
Blah, blah, blah.
RABHI
From Page 1A
ages 35 and 65, Rabhi is not only
the new guy, but also the young
guy.
According to his colleagues,
however, that isn't a problem -
quite the opposite, in fact.
In an interview before the meet-
ing, the three other incoming com-
missioners, including Rob Turner,
spoke enthusiastically about Rab-
li's youth and his ability to serve
on the board.
"Here's someone who's new,
young and energetic," Turner said.
"I know his heart is to serve the
people. t'm excited."
Despite having nine years of
experience on a school board in
Chelsea, Mich., Turner said he
doesn't see a difference between
himself and Rabhi in terms of qual-
ifications for serving on the Board
of Commissioners.
"We're (working) together to
give the people of this county the
best services we can," Turner said.
Turner added that he believes

offense, many are worried that
Robinson's skill set doesn't fit that
type of offense.
And though Taylor said Robin-
son could succeed in a pro-style
offense if necessary, he doesn't
think it would be a good use of Rob-
inson's explosive presence in the
open field.
"He can do it," Taylor said. "But I
think you lose such a weapon if you
make himstraight drop back....You
take away all his weapons and he'll
never be as good as he could be.
You'd be taking away a 4.3-speed
kid, a running back type that has an
arm that defenses have to adjust to.
You'd be taking that weapon away."
In his press conference yester-
day afternoon announcing Rodri-
guez's firing, Athletic Director
Dave Brandon said no single player
will affect the decision as to what
coach he will hire and what offen-
sive scheme that coach will bring.
"This isn't about one particular
kid we're recruiting, or one par-
ticular kid on the football team,"
Brandon said. "This is about mak-
ing a decision that will really lay
the groundwork for years to come.
I understand that."
But Taylor doesn't think that
approach is wise for a team that
leaned so much on its speedy quar-
terback this season.
"I think that's a bad choice of
words right there," Taylor said,
referring to Brandon's statement.
"That's not really smart when you
have a weapon like Denard Rob-
inson. How many schools in the
country would want Denard Robin-
son as their quarterback? Everyone
would want him as their quarter-
back ... Could you even think about
if he went somewhere like Oregon?
There's a lot of offenses out there
that run the spread, read offense.
"I think you better think about
Denard, and if you don't, you don't.
Then, you just have to let the chips
fall as they may."
If a pro-style offense is institut-
ed by the Wolverines' new coach
next season, many have wondered
whether Robinson could switch
positions and play as a receiver or
runningback.
Robinson was recruited out of
Deerfield Beach High School in
The cards were stacked against
Rodriguez before he even set foot
on campus.
The Michigan community split
into factions: Those blindly sup-
porting any head coach, those
willing to give Rodriguez a chance
and those who decried him.
Every event - the announce-
ment of NCAA violations, wins
over Notre Dame, losses to Ohio
State - only further polarized
fans. There was no "all in" for
Michigan.
And now, Brandon's task is dif-
ficult. He has to hire a coach that
can unite this divided community
- one that was even split on keep-
ing former coach Lloyd Carr or
calling for his head (and Carr won
a national championship!).
Is there such a coach? Is the
Michigan fan base capable of ral-
lying around its coach?
Maybe Jim Harbaugh could
have been that guy, a former
Michigan player with ties to
Bo Schembechler, but Brandon
thinks he's heading to coach in
the NFL.
As for the fan base's ability to
unite, well, I don't know if that's

possible. Fans, alumni and stu-
dents have had three years to try
to do that with Rodriguez, and
they haven't come close. If Bran-
don isn't careful, we might have a
similar situation take place in the

Deerfield Beach, Fla. to play receiv-
er by many schools around the
country, including Florida. Michi-
gan was one of the few schools that
gave him a chance under center.
Taylor and Brown both agree
that the reason he came to Michi-
gan was to be a quarterback, and
theyaren'tveryoptimistic he'd stay
in Ann Arbor playing any position
other than that.
"I don't think Denard would be
open to moving his position," Tay-
lor said. "I think that would be a big
thing."
Added Brown: "This stuff about
moving Denard to the slot and have
a pro guy like Harbaugh come in? I
don't agree with that. (Brandon) of
all people knows how Denard feels
about being a college quarterback."
Both Taylor and Brown spoke
about the importance of Robinson's
chance of playing in the NFL, and
Taylor said it should be a part of his
decision. And while Taylor thinks
Robinson could play quarterback
on Sundays, Brown says Robinson
is open to changing positions - but
only at the next level.
"At the next level, (Robinson)
was saying, he can't control that,"
Brown said. "He's not going to say
no ifa team drafted him and asked
him to change positions, that's fine.
"But in college, he always had
dreams of being a college quarter-
back, simple as that. If he wanted
to play wide receiver, he would've
went to Florida. He would've been
a Gator if he wanted to play receiv-
er - that's what they wanted him
to play. He wants to be a quarter-
back. He should be a college quar-
terback."-
Either way, Michigan fans will
be waiting on bated breath in the
next week or so as Brandon and
Robinson both make decisions that
will seriously affect the future of
the Michigan football program.
Taylor said Robinson was a "big
Rich Rod fan," and he assumes the
news of his firing was "definitely
hurtful" to the Michigan quarter-
back.
"He's a loyal guy and he loves
Michigan," Taylor said. "But at the
end of the day, you have to look out
for what's best for you in that situ-
ation."
coming weeks.
Even Michigan ties may not
satisfy a large contingent of
fans, especially if fans perceive
this coaching search as another
disaster, like most view 2007. And
people could consider Rodriguez's
successor their second choice,
feeling that Harbaugh should have
been the guy. It's messy any way
you look at it.
"Whether it's a Michigan Man,
quote un-quote, or not, what
clearly is important is whoever
it is has a clear understanding of
what Michigan is all about," Bran-
don said. "This is a unique place.
It creates unique challenges. It
also provides unique opportuni-
ties."
Unique challenges - like an
impatient, divided fan base with
sky-high expectations. Unique
opportunities - like the chance
to coach for 20 years at one of the
most prestigious football pro-
grams, with a chance at immortal-
ity in the eyes of Michigan fans.
It's an alluring gig, but a scary
one - especially after watching
the Rodriguez show the past three
years.

It's even harder when you
aren't sure you'll have the Michi-
gan community supporting you.
- Auerbach can be reached
at naauer@umich.edu.

Brandon to begin a national
search for new football coach

From Page 1A
University President Mary Sue
Coleman supports Brandon's call
to fire Rodriguez.
"President Coleman supports
Athletic Director David Brandon,
and this decision on the football
coach was the athletic director's to
make," Fitzgerald wrote.
Brandon announced the basic
criteria he used to evaluate Rodri-
guez: performance in competition,
recruiting and retention, student-
athlete academic performance and
the coach's leadership.
Throughout December, specu-
lation swirled around Rodriguez
and his job status after an embar-
rassing37-7loss againstOhioState.
At the press conference, Brandon
revealed he didn't make his deci-
sion until after the Gator Bowl in
order to keep the players focused
and give them their best shot at
winning. However, he noted that
the game was another test of the
progress the program was making
under Rodriguez.
From the start, the West Vir-
ginia native faced pressure from
Michigan fans and the public
at-large because he was replac-
ing former coach Lloyd Carr, who
retired after a 9-4 season in 2007.
Carr had held positions as a Michi-
gan coach for more than 25 years
and was a former assistant coach
for legendary Michigan coach Bo
Schembechler. In comparison,
Rodriguez was viewed - fairly or
unfairly - by many as an outsider
who didn't understand the tradi-
tion of Michigan football.
Due to all the "drama," Brandon
said he doesn't "think Rodriguez
has had a peaceful night('s) sleep
since he arrived in Ann Arbor" in
December 2007.
"It seemed like it was one thing
after another," Brandon said. "It
clearly impacted recruiting. It
clearly impacted the positive ener-
gy that a team needs to be success-
ful. It created a lot of hardships
and a lot of distractions. Clearly,
we need to put ourselves in a posi-
tion where that is all history."
Under Rodriguez's watch,
the Michigan football program
received its first NCAA violations
in program history for exceeding

practice time limits and for mem-
bers of the quality control staff
overextending their duties and
acting as coaches. The ultimate
result included a three-yearproba-
tion period and a 130-hour reduc-
tion in practice time, among other
sanctions.
In his first season, in which his
team went 3-9, Rodriguez strug-
gled to transition the players left
over from Carr's regime to his new
spread option offense. Brandon
said one of the qualities he will
look for in Michigan's next coach
is the ability to fit his scheme to the
players he'll inherit.,
The tide looked as though it was
shifting in Rodriguez's favor in
2009 when then-freshman quar-
terback Tate Forcier led Michigan
to a 4-0 start and a top-25 rank-
ing, only to finish the season los-
ing seven of its last eight games.
Rodriguez's offense took another
leap in 2010, and Robinson became
the first quarterback in NCAA his-
tory to throw for 2,000 yards and
run for 1,500 in a single season -
all in Rodriguez's system. But the
Wolverines lost six of their last
eight games this season to seal
Rodriguez's fate.
Rodriguez also didn't fare well
in what Brandon called, "bench-
mark games,"or "red letter games"
against Notre Dame, Michigan
State, Iowa Wisconsin, Penn State,
Ohio State, which resulted in a 3-15
record. And the Wolverines need-
ed late-game heroics in 2009 and
2010 against Notre Dame and a
19-point comeback in 2008 against
Wisconsin.
"First and foremost, the goal of
the Michigan program is to win
the Big Ten championship and go
to the Rose Bowl - every year,"
Brandon said. "You're going to
be ranked in the top-10 or better.
You're going to be in BCS bowls.
You're going to, from time to time,
have the opportunity to play in the
national championship."
The national search for Michi-
gan's next head coach began after
Brandon met with the media on
yesterday. And though he didn't
give a specific timeline for select-
ing a coach, Brandon said he would
"go fast, but do it the right way."
Brandon detailed a few char-

acteristics that he would look for
in Michigan's next coach: head
coaching experience, the ability to
adapt a system around the inher-
ited players and someone who can
handle the pressure of coaching at
Michigan. He added that the new
coach doesn't need to be someone
who has experience in a BCS auto-
matic-qualifying conference.
Brandon also said he will hire
a coach to help Michigan's 108th-
ranked defense.
"Is there a thought of getting
a defensive-minded head coach?
- There's a thought of getting a
defensive-minded everything,"
Brandon said. "I want the ball boys
to be defensive minded."
Current Stanford coach Jim
Harbaugh, who is a popular coach
candidate at both the college and
NFL level, has, been linked to
Michigan at times, but Tuesday's
rumors for a potential replacement
didn't include his name. Brandon
said he believed Harbaugh would
end up in the NFL and explained
that he had not yet talked to other
rumored candidates, including
Brady Hoke from San Diego State
or Les Miles from Louisiana;State.
With the end of Rodriguez's
tenure in Ann Arbor, the Universi-
ty will pay the coach's $2:S million
buyout clause, and Brandon made
it clear that money will not stand
in the way of finding Rodriguez's
replacement. In the athletic direc-
tor's opinion, the job still has the
same prestige.
"I do not believe we'll have a
shortage of interested candidates,"
Brandon said. "I think that this
program is still one of the most
premiere programs in the coun-
try. When you look at the facili-
ties here, when you look at the fan
base here, and the passion that
exists here for Michigan football,
the role that it plays in the athletic
program here, the Big House and
everything that comes with it is
something a lot of coaches aspire
to be a part of."
"So I believe there will be very
qualified, interested candidates
out there, and it is my job to select
the right one"
- Daily News Editor Joseph
Lichterman contributed to this report.

14 offenders affiliated with'U'
on state sexual offender registry

In e
85,


Rabhi's status as a recent Universi-
ty graduate will work to his advan-
tage on the board, noting that the
University is one of the most influ-
ential employers in Washtenaw
County.
"Who best to know what's going
on with the people within the Uni-
versity than a freshly-graduated
student?" Turner said.
Incoming commissioner Dan
Smith expressed similar thoughts
about Rabhi, and said Rabhi's
youth provides him with a fresh
and unique insight in board meet-
ings.
"He has no preconceived
notions of anything," Smith said.
"He brings a completely different
perspective from the rest of us-a
lot of fresh thinking I think we're
going to get from him."
Commissioner Alicia Ping said
she thinks Rabhi is "fabulous" and
will do a greatjob in his position on
the board.
Ping added that her political
career began at age 26 - a head
start that served her well later.
"I think that being younger
brings you a different perspective

and oftentimes (you) ask questions
that generate new ideas," Ping said.
Rabhi's mother, Peggy, pointed
out yesterday that her son's politi-
cal involvement began as early as
preschool, when he participated
in an environmental advocacy pre-
sentation in front of the Ann Arbor
City Council.
"He went to the council meet-
ing to talk ... (and) he was like four
years old," Peggy said.
After years of activism, Rabhi
now finds himself on the other side
of the political podium.
"I don't know how to describe
it," Rabhi said of his nerves at the
start of the meeting. "It's almost as
if I'm not supposed to be there."
Rabhi's excitement about his
first meeting as commissioner was
heightened toward the end of the
meeting when he was unanimous-
ly elected chairman of the board's
work sessions - a biweekly meet-
ing Rabhi described as "the discus-
sion section of county business."
In his capacity as chair, Rabhi
will be in charge of leading the
meetings and setting the agendas.
"It's a crazy feeling," he said.

Josh
the Un
convic
soliciti
the Int
person
sity w]
offend
The
ated w
curren
anyone
to find
offend
addres
of offe
are alui
staff m
in janit
nursing
This
contain
fourth
ers in
Parent
al victi
Michig
offend(
and 85
Somi
affiliat
ties lik
which
and M
which1
Hoe
with ti
will be
Offend
receive
on sent
was pL
pleadin
conver:
who pc
the Int
AnnAr
Acc
versity
commu
diately
versity
and h
ended.
The
by nam

ity of Ann Arbor, ia - is a product of the Michigan
Sex Offenders Registration Act, a
offenders listed 1994 state law which requires per-
sons convicted, of certain crimes
on registry to register and prohibits certain
offenders from working in school
By JONAH MOST zones.
For the Daily While each state regulates
registered offenders differently,
1ua Hoe, former director of Michigan's law exceeds federal
iversity's debate team, was standards set by the Jacob Wet-
ted in October of sexually terling Act - an act passed in 1994
ng an alleged minor over that requires states to produce a
ernet. But Hoe isn't the only registry with names of sex offend-
affiliated with the Univer- ers who have committed acts
ho is on Michigan's sexual against children.
er registry. Michigan's online sex offender
re are 14 people associ- directory has been viewed more
ith the University who are than 4 million times, according to
tly on the registry - a list its website.
can access on the Internet One offender, a current Uni-
I information about a sex versity employee who requested
er's height, weight, current anonymity but allowed his gender
s and offense. The majority to be used, said the registry does
nders with University ties not fairly portray the offenders on
mni and current and former the list.
embers who hold positions "Just because you're on the list
torial work, bus driving and doesn't mean you're dangerous,"
g, among others. he said in a December interview.
year, Michigan's registry He said his biggest fear of
ns 45,717 offenders - the being on the list is that it will
-highest number of offend- cause people to accuse him of
the nation - according to crimes he didn't commit. While
s For Megan's Law, a nation- acknowledging that the list may
m's rights advocacy group. be useful for law enforcement, he
an's registry includes 559 said he doesn't think the public is
ers in Washtenaw County equipped to use the information
in the city of Ann Arbor. appropriately..
e offenders on the list are "The general public doesn't
ed with other universi- know what to do with it," he said.
e Wayne State University, An August public opinion sur-
has 31 affiliated offenders, vey by the Center for Sex Offender
tichigan State University, Management, a project of the U.S.
has 19 affiliated offenders. Department of Justice, found that
an offender associated state and federal officials have
he University of Michigan, enacted a large number of sex
on the Michigan Public Sex offender laws in a short period of
er Registry for life. Hoe also time. However, according to the
d a one-to-seven year pris- study, "evidence regarding the
tence in early November. He impact and effectiveness of many
aced on the registry after of these laws and policies is lim-
ig guilty to having sexual ited."
sations with an investigator Proponents of the law argue
used as a 14-year-old girl on that the registry protects people
ernet, according to a Nov.17 from sexual predators, but they
bor.com article. also say that sex offender recidi-
ording to David Reid, Uni- vism rates can be misleading
senior director of strategic because many sexual crimes go
anications, Hoe was imme- unreported.
suspended from his Uni- Parents for Megan's Law offers
position upon his arrest e-mail alerts that inform com-
is employment has since munity members of new offend-
ers. The group also lobbies to
list - which is searchable strengthen sex offender-related
e, location and other crite- legislation.

"Most parents and community
members believe that they are
doing everything they can to pro-
tect children from sexual preda-
trs, but the disturbing reality is
that registered sex offenders are
obtaining employment and volun-
teer positions across the country
where they can have unfettered
access to children," Laura Ahearn,
executive director of Parents for
Megan's Law, wrote in a statement
on the group's website.
Michigan sentencing guidelines
require registration for a variety
of offenses - including a third
instance of obscene or indecent
conduct or indecent exposure -
and judges often have discretion
in placing people on the list.
The offender interviewed by
the Daily argued that the listing
is a burden for those convicted of
sexual crimes and pointed out that
there are not specific lists for other
crimes.
"Why don't murderers have
their own list?" he said. "Isn't that
pretty serious?"
When reviewing job applicants,
University doesn't automatically
disqualify people with criminal
histories, but they are certainly a
factor, accordingto Reid.
"Each case is considered indi-
vidually, based on factors that
include the nature of the crime,
the position applied for, how
long ago the crime occurred and
whether the individual has estab-
lished a good work record since
then," Reid wrote in an e-mail
interview.
The University employee on the
registry said he feels lucky to have
a job, and said that many offenders
have faced much more discrimina-
tion than he has.
"I've seen news stories of people
pounding signs on trees or trying
to annoythem out of the neighbor-
hood," he said.
No other listed offenders affili-
ated with the University respond-
ed to requests for interviews with
the Daily.
Currently, no University stu-
dents are listed on the registry,
Despite persistent rumors, people
caught urinating in public are not
likely tobe placed on the registry,
according to Department of Pub-
lic Safety spokeswoman Diane
Brown. She added that there is a
See REGISTRY, Page 6A

COME TO OUR FIRST MASS MEETING
Thursday, Jan. 13 at 7:30 p.m.
at 420 Maynard St.

A


6A -- Thursday, January 6, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Thursday, January 6, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Planet Blue exceeds goal to decrease
energy consumption for FY 2010

U.S. added 300,000 .
jobs in December

44 'U' buildings
reduced energy use
by 12 percent
By RACHEL BRUSSTAU
Daily StaffReporter
As a result of partnering with
various campus buildings, the
University's Planet Blue Opera-
tions Team exceeded its goal in
decreasing energy consumption
for the 2010 fiscal year.
Since the establishment of the
Planet Blue Operations Team
in fall 2008, the University has
saved about $3.5 million annually
by curtailing the consumption
of energy in campus buildings.
Overall, Planet Blue cut consump-
tion in 44 University buildings by
12 percent in the 2010 fiscal year,
according to a Dec. 14, 2010 Planet
Blue press release.
This represents a 1-percent
increase over the 2009 fiscal year,
when the University reduced
energy use by 11 percent in 30
buildings, according to Planet
Blue's website.
Because of initiatives to increase
the University's energy efficiency,
cost savings and environmental
sustainabilityareprojectedtoclimb
in the upcoming years, according
to Terrance Alexander, executive
director of the University's Office of
Campus Sustainability.
"We set for the Planet Blue
Operations Program ... a goal of
5-percent energy reduction in
buildings, so hitting over 10 per-
cent is far exceeding what we had
expected at that point, and we
think it's just going to get better as
time goes on," Alexander said.
In addition to leading Planet
Blue, Alexander oversees other sig-
ificant sustainability initiatives at
the University, including recycling
efforts and water conservation.
Though the University has
been working on energy conser-
vation projects for the last 20
years, the recent projects have.
given these efforts a new level of
success, Alexander said.
For the 2011 fiscal year, the
University's goal to achieve a

The Ross School of Business is among the most sustainable buildings on campus.

5-percent decrease in energy use
in campus buildings will remain
the same, but about 30 additional
buildings will begin projects in
energy efficiency. These buildings
include the Ruthven Museum of
Natural History, the Bentley His-
torical Library, several engineer-
ing buildings on North Campus
and the School of Dentistry -
bringing the total number of cam-
pus buildings involved in Planet
Blue projects to 90.
Alexander emphasized two
pivotal factors in evaluating the
overall success of the programs -
ensuring the building's conserva-
tion systems run as efficiently as
possible and teaching occupants
how to operate the building in the
most sustainable way.
"We can do all the things that
we can technically to make things
work right, but if the people still
don't understand how to make it
work right as they're working in
the building, we're not (going to)
get there, so the combination ofthe
two is really what makes it a suc-
cessful program," Alexander said.
Stephen Hipkiss, facilities and
operations manager of the Hatch-
er Graduate Library, echoed
Alexander's sentiments about
the importance of the partner-
ship between Planet Blue and
the employees working in build-
ings around campus. He said the
Planet Blue Operations Team's
instructions are a key component

of yielding positive results in sus-
tainability on campus.
While the library has been
working on energy conservation
for more than 10 years, Hipkiss
said Hatcher has been particu-
larly successful in the last four or
five years following partnerships
with Energy Star and Planet Blue.
He said improvements in motion
sensor lighting in the south stacks
area have been especially helpful
in cutting energy consumption.
"Lights that would be burning
normally 18 hours a day are not
burning if there's nobody using a
particular study carrel area," Hip-
kiss said.
He added that the lights benefit
students looking for a study spot.
"When a student comes onto
a floor they can immediately see
where there are carrels that are
available for their use because
there won't be light on above them
until they enter the carrel," he said.
As a result of the library's part-
nership with Planet Blue, Hatch-
er South avoided $109,000 in
energy costs between July 2009
and June 2010. It also reduced
the amount of energy used by 12
percent during the same period,
according to data on the Planet
Blue website..
"As I sit here today, I think our
figures next year will be substan-
tially better than they are even
today, and we're certainly way
ahead of the game from where

we were three or four years ago,"
Hipkiss said.
The Office of Campus Sustain-
ability has also been working
with students through courses
taught in the School of Natural
Resources by Mike Shriberg, the
education director of the Gra-
ham Environmental Sustain-
ability Institute. The classes give
students the opportunity to gain
hands-on experience in the opera-
tional process of energy conserva-
tion projects.
"Each semester they connect
up withsixto eightprojects where
they can actually work with some
operations people and try to study
something or come up with an
idea to improve the campus sus-
tainability, so we've been doing
this for a number of years, and
we're just getting ready to kick
off the next set of classes there,"
Alexander said.
Alexander added that the Office
of Campus Sustainability is also
participating in a project with the
Graham Environmental Sustain-
ability Institute called the Inte-
grated Assessment, which aims to
establish long-term sustainabil-
ity goals on campus. The project
comprises seven project teams,
each of which has anywhere from
five to eight students.
"It's giving more students the
chance to get more involved with
the operations groups," Alexan-
der said.

Some economists
question accuracy of
employment report
NEW YORK (AP) - Compa-
nies added nearly 300,000 jobs in
December, according to an unof-
ficial count by a private payroll
firm - more than in any month in
the past decade. The news raised
hopes that the government's official
report Friday on last month's job
creation could be a blockbuster.
While there were reasons to
doubt the numbers, the report from
Automatic Data Processing, and
another showing strength in the
nation's service industries, reversed
what was shaping up to be an ugly
day on Wall Street.It also generated
optimism that the unemployment
rate might finally start to fall.
* Some economists expressed,
skepticism about ADP's monthly
figures because they often don't
track the official government
employment data. Others said
that the report's estimate of job
gains was so high that it at least
reinforced evidence that hiring is
picking up as employers gain more
confidence.
Diane Swonk, chief economist
at Mesirow Financial, says the
ADP numbers suggest the Bureau
of Labor Statistics could report
Friday that the economy created
more than 300,000 jobs last month.
Economists have been predicting
fewer than half as many -145,000.
It takes about 125,000 new jobs
a month just to keep up with popu-
lation growth and hold the unem-
ployment rate - now 9.8 percent
- stable. It takes up to 300,000 new
jobs a month to reduce the unem-
ployment rate significantly, econo-
mists say.

The report is just the latest
sign that the job market might be
turning around at last. The Labor
Department said last week that
the number of people applying for
unemployment benefits has fallen
to its lowest point in two and a half
years. The staffing firm Challenger,
Gray & Christmas said Wednesday
that layoffs fell last month to the
lowest level since June 2000.
And big companies, which have
been slow to commit to hiring full-
time workers, are starting to do so
again. Discount retailer Dollar Gen-
eral this week said it plans to hire
more than 6,000 workers in 2011.
Union Pacific, the nation's larg-
est railroad, plans to replace 4,000
workers - about 10 percent of its
total staff - who are set to retire
in 2011. It's also recalling some
employees who were furloughed
during the recession.
Economists had expected the
ADP numbers, the first major
snapshot of hiring in December, to
show that private employers added
100,000 jobs last month. The actual
figure, 297,000, was"aboltfromthe
blue," says Ian Shepherdson, chief
U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics.
In part because of that powerful
number, the Dow Jones industrial
average edged higher for the third
day in a row. The Dow closed up
nearly 32 points, or about 0.3 per-
cent, and broader stock averages
posted larger gains. Before the ADP
issued its report, futures markets
had suggested the Dow was headed
for a steep loss.
Yet many economists are uncon-
vinced by the ADP report. Zach
Pandl of Nomura Securities says
the report has a "spotty track
record" in aiming to predict what
the official government numbers
will show.


REGISTRY
From Page 5A
difference between public urina-
tion and indecent exposure.
"Typically, urinating in public is
exposingyourselfto conducturina-
tion," Brown said. "Indecent expo-

sure is exposing yourself for other
purposes."
LSA senior Daniel Kohn said he
wouldn't want to urinate in public
and risk being seen.
"I just don't want to be a sex
offender," Kohn said. "You can
wait to go to the bathroom; it's
cold outside."

the dailyclassifieds...
they're kind of a big deal.

lIEWELL
CLOSE TO U OF M
NORTH CAMPUS
AFFORDABLE RATES
' /1\ 111TT1

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, January 6, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 30 "Monster'(2003) 48 Lyric poems
1 Techie talk, e.g. 1 Scribbles co-star 51 Crackerjack
7 They have guards 2 Soon, poetically 31 Streamlined 52 Run the show
on both sides of 3 San 32No-frills bed 54 Bakery appliance
them: Abbr. 4 Commit a service 35 NFL gains 56 "Cotton Candy"
11 Roman sun god infraction 37 What the mouse trumpeter
14 Nine follower? 5 Toronto's prov. did clockwise? 57 Not left out: Abbr.
15 Menageries 6 Nursery arrival 39 Radio moniker 58 Curved molding
16 Worldwide 7 Winter Palace 42Take to court 60 Henpeck
workers'gp. figure 44 Collision 61 "Strange Magic"
17 Marinara, for one 8 Sensitive preceder band
19 Marked, in a way 9 "One Thousand 47 Money set aside 62..:-turn
20 Hintercoat and One Nights" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE.
21 Pusherpursuer bhrd ANWRT-RVIU UZE
22 The gamut 10 GPS heading A U D I C D S B O G ART
23 -_. 11,king w ho 11 Intu ition S T A R S H I P A V LA T -A R
founded Berg 12lSpread on the P A LOM IN O TI ME T O
(now Sarpsborg) table SHE8A GUSH BEET
25 Moor 130One ofPoland's OS T A
18 Pentagon thre motH EAL
bigwigs populostce ITes E H A Y L E WIDE
32Swindle 18 ExotIc i U N O M E L B A R R O W
33 Philip.__:16th- honeymoon, M O I $ T E N 8 0 N R I N I
century Italian raps P I L E O N S P F N H L
nyut 22Asteroids maker L E A F O H I F O R G O T
36 Cheriwho played atre S W APtrotN R AN R E 0 SR
lairymi"n 26 Withdraw I A T E 1 T M I S T E R E D
3Firstpersonin 27Wyoming tribe B R O N C S A L T E R E G O
Bier? i 28Choral piece S T I N K 0 N S A T S A R
40 Yeamed 29 Unyielding xwordedtoraotcom 01/05/11
41 Reliant Stadium 1 2 3a s a e 10 11 12 13
NFL team
43 Latin quarters? 1 -s 1s"
45 French 17.18 1
possessive
46 Not serious o 21
49 Artful dodges
50 Mention with an2a 2927
ulterior motive as asa1
51 Finish shooting
53 Eldest Younger s2 3 a s so
gang member
55 Louisville's river " a
59 Air base? r sa as
60 Part of an axon
(and what 17-, -5 as
28- and 46-
Acrosseach e9t
has?) s1 s s s so
63 Feverish, say
64 Natural balm "s 1 9a
65 Browbeat
66 One of a jazz
duo? s" r s
67 It's often seen
under a cap By GaryJ.rWhitehead
68 Swindle (c)2011 Tribune MediaservicesInc. 01/06(11

Looking for housing for fanO 201?
Studio,t.,Z 3.24 5sBedrooms Nonda,,o8.,
fully furnished
seat water,. and pokingincltudedrmostlocation
Caotshedolewour today
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were AFFORDABLE
and MUCH Betterthan the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
-ppointments.
www.UiversityTowers-Ml.com
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
1 BDRM FOR Aug. Ist, very large bi-
level, semi-furn, private deck, wash-
er/dryer, non-smoking/no pets,
$1179/mo. 734-996-8506
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM APARTMENT near Kerry-
town at 813 E. Ann. 35B2B Parking
space, Coin Laundry in Basement, Heat
and Water Paid. Asking $2300 for Fall
2011-12. Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-FL.
5 BDRM, 2 Bath, heat included, laun-
dry, parking, May-May, $3395, 815
Arch, 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com

mich student
housing.com
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2400
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff & 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; 2 bed-
rooms (3 left) $950 - $1250; Most units
include Heat and Water. Most have
Parking available for $25/m. Showings
Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent-
877-367-7368 or http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furs.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
BEAUTIFUL SPACIOUS APTS!
1039 Baldwin. 4 br, 2br, & studios!
Available in a gorgeous converted
house. High ceilings, bay windows,
fireplace, hardwood floors, & screened
in porch!! Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
BEST LOCATION IN TOWN
543 Church! Right across from East
Hall! Spacious 4Br bi-levels, 2Br, 1 Br,
& Studios! Updated kitchens w/dish-
washers, heat & water included, and all
apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
WELCOME BACK! Only a few
days leftito be a Winner in the "Pick a
Winner" promotion. You can win up to
One Month FREE!!
**This offer ends January 14, 2011**
Call or stop by Today for Best Selec-
tion. Sold out early in 2010, so don't
wait any longer.
SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com

CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
PACKARD 5 BDRM!
539 Packard: Very spacious 5 Br 2 bth
w/ large bedrooms to share!! Good for
5-7 people!! Completely remodeled
w/hardwood firs and new furniture.
Eat-in kitchen, Washer & dryer on-site,
and just one block from the union!
734-668-1100
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3720 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest,
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$3000 + utilities, Jim at 734-426-4772.
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
917 PACKARD
Huge 2br apts. that can easily fit
4 people! Close to central campus, the
athletic tampon, and restaurants at
State, Packard, & Hill!! New kitchens
w/dishwashers, large bedrooms w/
double closets and balconies. All apts
are fully furnished, heat, water,
and parking included!
www.varsitymanagement.com
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today for
Best selection. "Pick A Winner" Promo
ends on 1/14/11. Call or stop by
TODAY! 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com

SITTER/DRIVER FOR KIDS ages
13, 12 and 8, three afternoons 3:45-7:-
30 total approx. 10 hrs/wk. Located 10
min from campus. Light cooking, addi-
tional help. contact
drfee@plymouthortho.com

0

CARING AND LOVING sitter
needed for afternoon care. Girls 4 & 5.
Mondays, Wednesday 3:30-5:15. Need
own car. Please call 734-754-1145.
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu

AD
VER
TiSE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
764-
0557
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

0

LOOKING FOR HOUSEHOLD as-
sistant to do laundry for Ann Arbor
family of four. 1 day per week for 5
hrs. Study between loads.
naku_17@yahoo.com
MICHIGAN
STUDENTS
Good Pay, flexible schedules,
Customer sales/service, conditions
apply,
all ages 17+ call 734-975-7299


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 6, 2011- 7A
4 'M'no match
for Badgers at
Kohl Center

Freshman center Jordan Morgan battles for a rebound against Wisconsin during last night's game. Michigan lost the game, 66-50.
In second-half Wicosi
turs abeson Wolverines

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Editor
MADISON - Saying it's tough
to beat Wisconsin at home would
be an understatement. In fact, to
say it's anything other than nearly
impossible is a lie.
According to the statistics that
Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan has
racked up in his 10 seasons with
the Badgers, an opposing team
entering the Kohl Center has just
a seven-percent chance of leaving
with avictory.
Michigan coach John Beilein
has never won on the main court
at the Kohl Center. And Wednes-
day was no different, with Michi-
gan dropping its game against
Wisconsin, 66-50.
"I just heard everybody talking
about how hard it is to play there
and they haven't been losing like
other Big Ten schools at home, so
I knew it was going to be a tough
one for us on the road," fresh-
man guard Tim Hardaway Jr. said
after Wednesday's game.
The ambiance of the arena was
quite different this year since
Wisconsin students don't return
to campus for classes until Janu-
ary 18th, but the student section
- known as the 'Grateful Red' -
still filled nearly seven sections of
bleachers.
The $76-million facility seats
17,142 fans - more than 3,500
more seats than Crisler Arena,
but Ryan doesn't believe the arena
had an effect on the young Wol-
verines.
"A lot of these guys played in
state championships with 20,000
or 10,000, they played in packed
gyms," Ryan said Wednesday. "I
think thatfactor incollegenowof,
'Wow, are they gonna go into our
place or somebody else's place and
have it effect them.' I don't think
in this day and age it's that big of
a deal."
But with the win, Ryan

advanced to 71-6 in Big Ten play
at the Kohl Center and 145-11
overall. There are just three other
teams in the country that play bet-
ter on their homecourts - Kansas,
Duke and Utah State.
For seven first-year Wolver-
ines, the loss in Madison marked
the first Big Ten road game of
their careers, with an outcome
that has occurred frequently. But
not a single player on the Michi-
gan roster has ever beaten a Wis-
consin squad, home or away.
The most experienced mem-
bers of the team, juniors Stu Dou-
glass and Zack Novak, are now
0-5 in their matchups against the
Badgers. But in the co-captains'
two previous seasons, the Wolver-
ines improved greatly from their
first to second showing against
the Badgers.
In the 2007-08 season, Michi-
gan lost 70-54 to Wisconsin in
Crisler Arena, before coming back
and losing by just three at the
Kohl Center. The following year,
the Wolverines lost by nine points
in the first matchup of the season
and lost by just five in the second
contest.
"Obviously this is a great facil-
ity and a great atmosphere in the
Big Ten," administrative special-
ist and captain of the 2007-08
team C.J. Lee said Wednesday'
"We always played well for 25 to
30 minutes and then we'd have
those lapses where we wouldn't
score and we wouldn't get stops,
and a similar thing happened
tonight."
In Ryan's ten-year tenure,
the Badgers have dropped just
11 games on their home court.
Six were Big Ten games, but just
three schools have managed to
upend Wisconsin in Madison
- Purdue, Minnesota and Illi-
nois. The Badgers have fallen to
the Fighting Illini three times,
the Boilermakers twice and the
Gophers once.

MAD
the tun
ing eac
the Mi
team.
The
oppone
for We
listed a
tainly a
sign of
the you
tainly r
Mich
66-50
Wolver
game at
Wiscon
to hand
"The
man for
after th
kind of
mistake
could'v
took ad
the gam
Alth
28-26 l
gers sto
half.
Led
Taylor's
Badgers
opening
open up
Taylo
20 poi

By BEN ESTES and his playmaking ability from it to tha
Daily Sports Writer the lead spot in the second half back an
proved too much to overcome. session
)ISON - A board hangs in Wisconsin controlled the "Fro
nel of Crisler Arena, list- game's pace and tempo the rest of are out
h team on the schedule for the way, running its methodical or four
ichigan men's basketball swing play to slowly choke out the because
MICHIGAN 50 Wolverine offense. foul sh
WISCONSIN 66 After shooting 45.5 percent to turn
nt from the field in the first half, The
dnesday night's game is Michigan went just 7-of-21 the.
s 'Wisconson.' While cer- rest of the game.
spelling error and not a Wisconsin continued to hit its "T
disrespect to the Badgers, shots, though, making it nearly T
tng Wolverine squad cer- impossible for the Wolverines to t
espects Wisconsin now. come back in a hostile road envi- to
igan fell to the Badgers ronment.
at the Kohl Center. The Sophomore guard Matt Vogrich 01
ines battled the entire hit back-to-back 3-pointers to ma
nd even led at halftime, but pull Michigan back within four at
sin proved to be too much 48-44 with 8:31 left in the game.
le. But Michigan scored just six
y're really solid," fresh- points for the remainder of the
rward Evan Smotrycz said game. ., . first-ha
e game. "They forced us to The Wolverines rushed their by as m
beat ourselves. We made shots on several possessions and break u
s,just mental lapses (that) couldn't get quality attempts on playing
e been avoided, and they others. DariusI
vantage ... They shortened The Badgers reached the bonus The
se, and they made plays." early in the second frame, allow- commit
ough Michigan held a slim ing them to put the game away minute
ead at halftime, the Bad- from the free-throw line. causing
armed back in the second Wisconsin finished the half And Mt
" 14-of-16 from the charity stripe, time as
by point guard Jordan while Michigan had just eight game -
pair of 3-pointers, the attempts the whole game. utes int
went on a 13-0 run in the "Once we got behind, it was But f
g minutes of the half to really hard to come back on away J
a nine-point lead. them," Michigan coach John frame,c
tr finished the game with Beilein said. "We tried zone, we around
nts to lead all scorers, tried man ... We just couldn't get jumper

a,
r<c
i3
Xn
.t
r
.e
is
Li
r
a
cc
a
a
r
ti
g
.0
s
t
fr
J1
c
t

it pointwhere we could get When senior guard Zack Novak
d make it a one or two pos- hit the second of his consecu-
game. tive 3-pointers to put his team up
m there on out the lights 28-22 late in the half, Michigan
usually here with three had momentum, and a blowout at
minutes to go down four, the hands of the Badgers seemed
e they are not going to miss unlikely.
ots, and they're not going But the Wisconsin defense did
it over." what it always does, forcing long
Wolverines enjoyed their possessions and low-percentage
shots by preventing any offense
down low.
The Wolverines had just 12 .
hey forced us points in the paint all night.
kind of beat "They're really good at forc-
T e ing you to take elbow pull-ups.
rrselves. XXe and (3-pointers)," Smotrycz said.
"They're really solid inside, long
de mistakes." enough. They've got the two big
guys (center Keaton Nankivil and
forward Jon Leuer).
"It's tough to get it to the rim,
so you're going to have to make
If success - the team led your pull-ups."
any as six and entered the Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan said
p by two - despite largely he'thought Michigan's young
without leading scorer players performed "loose," and
Morris. Beilein was happy with Michi-
sophomore point guard gan's effort.
ted his first foul before a But with his team's offense
had elapsed in the game, falling off late, Beilein recognized
Beilein to take him out. the Wolverines aren't where they
orris fouled for the second need to be to finish games.
soon as he reentered the "(Our poise) is going to come
- he played just five mm- and go at different times," Beilein
the first half. said. "I'm talking about a poise
reshman guard Tim Hard- that's got to be at a very high level
*r. had 10 points in the and (understanding) what stacks
consistently finding space up against other things ... it's a
the free-throw line for lot of freshman things that will
s. evolve as they play."

NEED LIVE UPDATES
ON THE COACHING
SITUATION?
FOLLOW @MICHDAILYSPORTS FOR THE
LATEST ON MICHIGAN FOOTBALL


Hunwick answers call
with Hogan sidelined

Michigan looks to carry
on successful Big Ten start

GLI performance
evokes memories.
from last season's
CCHA tourney
By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
Members of a football team's
secondary are often said to be 'on
an island.' Left all alone to face the
opposing team's leading receivers,
they are single-handedly respon-
sible for preventing the big play
downfield.
According to Michigan coach
Red Berenson, hockey goaltenders
have a similar, somewhat peculiar
desire for that kind of isolation.
But in a matter ofseconds, when
that solitude breaks down and the
other teams' forwards come skat-
ing at a furious pace towards the
net, a goalie's next desire is also
intriguing.
"You want to be hit by the puck,"
Berenson said. "I mean, there's
something weird about that. The
best part of your day is when
you're getting hit by the puck, not
when it's missing you. The aver-
age forward is trying to get out of
the way of the puck, but the goalie
wants to get hit."
Regardless of how you inter-
pret the quirks of the position, the
netminder has to be a rock on any
hockey team in order for it to find
continued success - and Michigan

is counting on senior goalie Shawn
Hunwick to stand on his head and
fill that role.
After losing senior goalie Bryan
Hogan to a groin injury during the
warm-ups before The Big Chill
at the Big House, No. 7 Michigan
called upon Hunwick to man the
pipes during Hogan's absence.
Prior to The Big Chill, the Wol-
verines had been starting each
goalie in one game of a series, with
Hogan boasting a 7-2-0 record to
Hunwick's 2-3-4.
With Hogan's-return still weeks
away, Hunwick needs to be that
rock for Michigan (12-5-4).
Embracingtheopportunitypre-
sented before him, Hunwick start-
ed - and won - both games at the
Great Lakes Invitational and will
start both games in this weekend's
upcoming home-and-home series
with CCHA rival Michigan State.
To followers of Michigan hock-
ey, Hunwick's name being broad-
casted over the sound system at
Joe Louis Arena revived a sense of
ddji vu of last season, when Hogan
was injured in February and Hun-
wick took the Wolverines on a
Cinderella run to win the CCHA
Tournament and to within one
win of the Frozen Four.
"He's never nervous at all,"
senior forward Scooter Vaughan
said. "He's been playing well. He's
going to come in and make the
saves he needr to and if we play
good in front of him, we should get
a win.
"He's coming in knowing he's

got to make all the easy saves, and
if he makes a few big ones, then he
gives us a chance to win."
Hunwick earned the 5-0 shut-
out over Michigan State in The Big
Chill, but gave up seven goals over
Michigan's two games in the GLI.
While he was the first to admit
that his GLI performance was less
than lights-out, a win is a win -
and he found a way to notch two
in the GLI and earned all tourna-
ment-team honors.
"I thought there were goals
they shouldn't have scored, but
then there were some that maybe
he shouldn't have saved, but he
saved," Berenson said. "But he
battled. The one thing about Hun-
wick, is he's a competitor. He bat-
tled and he found a way to help us
win. I can't tell you we were the
best team in the tournament, we
were just ... we were lucky."
A combination of luck and hard
work has proven to be the recipe
for success for the former walk-on.
And with a few quirky goalie traits
of his own, Hunwick is Michigan's
guy in net for the time being.
"He's going to die of supersti-
tion one day because he has so
many rituals and stuff that he does
before the game," Vaughan said.
I know in this second half of the
season he said he's going to get rid
of that, but I see him do all those
little rituals, all those little knick
knacks.
"But it's working, so if he keeps
doing it and we keep winning, I
have no problem with it."

By CAITLIN SMITH
Daily Sports Writer
Two weeks ago, the Michigan
women's basketball team suf-
fered a 67-48 loss to the Univer-
sity of Detroit. But that home-court
embarrassment - against a team
that hadn't beaten
the Wolverines in Michigan
16 years - became
a turning point at Purdue
for Michigan. Matchup:
"That was Purdue 9-5;
probably one of Michigan 9-6
our worst losses When: Thurs-
this year," senior day 6:30 P.M.
guard Veronica Where
Hicks said after Mackey Arena
the game againstT
Detroit. "It's hard TV/Radio:
to swallow, but
you kind of have
to go through the trenches before
you can get to the top."
And that is exactly what the Wol-
verines have done.
Since the loss to Detroit, Michi-
gan (2-0 Big Ten, 9-5 overall) has
won three straight games - all
against ranked opponents. The
Wolverines have taken down No.
24 Boston College, No. 14 Iowa and
the Big Ten frontrunner No.12 Ohio
State. Michigan has also gone 2-0 in
Big Ten matchups, which puts it at
the top of its-conference.
The Wolverines will look to
continue their momentum on the
road against Purdue (0-2, 9-5) on
Thursday. The Boilermakers are
coming off two consecutive losses
to conference rivals - Northwest-

ern and Wisconsin - but have the
home-court edge over Michigan.
The Boilermakers are 7-2 at home
this season and hold a 23-4 series
record against the Wolverines in
West Lafayette.
Purdue is led by junior guard
Brittany Rayburn, who averages
16 points per game. Rayburn is an
offensive powerhouse who recently
scored her 1,000th career point and
is the seventh highest scorer in the
Big Ten.
She led her team with a game-
high 26 points in Purdue's loss to
Wisconsin, marking the fourth
time this season that Rayburn has
tallied more than 20 points in a
game.
Freshman guard Courtney
Moses complements Rayburn on
the court, averaging 12.6 points
and three assists per game.
Moses earned her third con-
secutive and fourth overall Big Ten
Freshman of the Week award after
her 22-point performance against
Northwestern.
Michigan coach Kevin Borseth
has two main goals against Pur-
due: to hit shots down the stretch
and to grab the key rebounds.
Michigan struggled with these two
components of its game early on
in the season but has since shown
improvement, which paid off in
the Wolverines' three wins against
ranked opponents.
The Wolverines have grabbed 34
or more rebounds in each of those
three games.
Michigan could also continue to
rely on the strength of its bench.

Sophomore forward Sam Arnold
has been a key bench player all
season, tallying seven points and
two rebounds per game, while only
averaging 15 minutes of play.
Junior guard Courtney Boylan,
who has seen little playing time
"You go through
the trenches
before you can
get to the top."
this season, also made a prominent
appearance on the court in Michi7
gan's most recent game against
Iowa. Boylan tied her career-
high with 18 points and had five
rebounds and three steals in th4
game.
Having beaten two of the top
three projected leaders in the Big
Ten, the Wolverines have an oppor-
tunity to establish themselves itk
conference play with a win against
Purdue. But Michigan is not allow-
ing its recent success to hinder its
main goals.
Instead,theWolverinesarekeep
ing a modest mindset and focusing
on one game at a time.
"Right now, we are looking at
Purdue and only Purdue," sopho-
more guard Jenny Ryan said on
Sunday. "But after that we will see
what's ahead of us."


8A -,Thursday, January 6, 2011

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

TIMELINE OF RODRIGUEZ'S TENURE*

BY: NICK SPAR
DAILY SPORTS EDITOR
INTRODUCED AS HEAD
COACH IN 2007

Rich Rodriguez's three-season tenure as coach of the Michigan
football team was a rocky one. The 15 wins he earned from 2008 to
2010 are the fewest for any Michigan coach since 1928. Digging into
the Daily archives, we bring you a timeline of events under Rodriguez
- a regime that brought one of the most prestigious programs in the
nation to one of its lowest points.

The Rodriguez era began after the
2007 regular season when he was hired
to succeed Lloyd Carr as the 18th head
coach of college football's winningest
program. And the era began on a much
more lighthearted note than it ended.
His opening line to the media at a press
conference on December 17, 2007:
"Great crowd. Mast be giving away free
hats or something."

FILE PHOTO/Daily

MISERABLE 2008 SEASON
Michigan didn't lose its 2008
opener to an FCS team like it did
in 2007 under Carr, but Rodri-
guez's first season was disastrous.
The team posted a 3-9 record - the
worst in the program' history - and
nearly outdid its 2007 Appalachian
State loss with a loss to Toledo on
Oct. 11. The Michigan PA Announc-
er's words, "Steven Threet, sacked
on the play," still resonate with
Michigan fans everywhere.

WEST VIRGINA LAWSUIT
AND SETTLEMENT
Rodriguez left his post as head
football coach at his alma mater,
West Virginia, to come to Michigan
- and with a little bad blood. The
Mountaineers filed a law suit against
Rodriguez for breach of contract.
The dispute was ultimately settled
in July 2008 when Michigan agreed
to pay $2.5 million of his buyout. But
the off-the-field trouble was only a
sign of things to come.


0

FILE PHOTO/Daily


WOLVERINES DROP SIXTH
STRAIGHT GAME TO
OHIO STATE
Michigan started its 2009 cam-
paign 4-0 behind the efforts of
freshman quarterback sensation
Tate Forcier. But it lost seven of
its last eight games, lost its sixth
straight game to Ohio State and
remained without a bowl game des-
tination for the second straight year.AE FROMM/Daily
A BRIGHT SPOT: 2010 WIN
OVER FIGHTING IRISH
There were a few glimmers of
hope - like the 2008 victory over
Wisconsin and the 2009 win over
Notre Dame. And some felt Michi-
gan was a national power on the ;'.
rise after another great start in 2010
(5-0), highlighted by the last-min-
ute win in South Bend. This time,
Heisman hopeful Denard Robinson
spearheaded the Wolverine resur-
gence with a Michigan-record 502
yards against the Fighting Irish.

FILE PHOTO/Daily

NCAA ALLEGATIONS AND
INVESTIGATION
As if the negative attention sur-
rounding Rodriguez for the poor
2008 performance wasn't enough,
allegations surfaced in August 2009
that the team violated NCAA rules
by exceeding practice time limits.
Five days removed from the start of
his second season, Rodriguez shed
a few tears at the podium trying to
defend himself.
MICHIGAN FOUND TO
HAVE VIOLATED NCAA
RULES
On Feb. 23rd, nearly six months
after the allegations and ensuing
investigation, the NCAA deter-
mined that Rodriguez and Michigan
did violate NCAA rules. The players
exceeded practice limits and over-
trained. Although Rodriguez was
not found to have "fostered an atmo-
sphere of non-compliance" like first
alleged, the program was hit with a
three-year probation by the NCAA
and reduced practice time.

0


0


2011 GATOR BOWL
ANNIHILATION
As was thecase in2009, Michigan
fell apart late in the 2010 season dur-
ing the meat of its Big Ten schedule
and finished 7-5. The icing on the
cake was a 52-14 obliteration at the
hands of Mississippi State in the
Gator Bowl on New Year's Day. For
many, Athletic Director David Bran-
don's decision to move in a different
direction seemed tobe only a matter
of time.

FIRED
On Tuesday, the Michigan Ath-
letic Department denied multiple
reports that Rodriguez had been fired.
But Brandon confirmed the news on
Wednesday morning after a hectic 24
hours of rumors. Rodriguez and much
of his coaching staff were sent packing
after three tumultuous seasons.


0

ESIGN BY ZACH BERGSON


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 6, 2011 - 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 6, 2011 - 9A

Brandon reveals his
. criteria for next coach

Players talk about
Rodriguez's firing

By JOE STAPLETON
Daily Sports Writer
Though the press conference
yesterday was called to relegate
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez to
the past, Athletic Director David
Brandon fielded mostly questions
about the future - specifically, who
would be the next coach.
Several names have been floating
in and out of the conversation. Jim
Harbaugh of Stanford, Brady Hoke
of San Diego State and even North-
western's Pat Fitzgerald have been
suggested as possible replacement
candidates. And though specula-
tion about Rodriguez's job status is
over, speculation about who will be
his replacement is just picking up
steam.
Brandon addressed only Har-
baugh specifically, saying it was
his opinion that Stanford's coach
will end up in the NFL. Bran-
don didn't offer much in the way
of naming who would probably
replace Rodriguez, but he did talk
about what he is looking for in a
replacement.
"This individual is a very high-
profile person who becomes, to a
large degree, a name and a face
that's very important to the Uni-
versity," Brandon said. "This indi-
vidual has to be able to compete at

the highest level. The expectations
here are extraordinarily high ....
(and) that puts a coach in a position
where they have to have the abil-
ity to stand up to that pressure and
perform against it."
He added that the head coach of
the football team becomes a "sig-
nificant spokesperson for the Uni-
versity."
Another thing Brandon made
clear was that he feels no pressure
to find a coach who runs a similar
offense to Rodriguez - though he
is looking for a coach who is will-
ing to modify his schemes to fit the
players available.
"One of the things I look for
is a coach who can modify their
approach and their attack based on
the personnel they have," Brandon
said.
"We know who our players are,
and we know what we have, and
we know what they're used to, and
we know what their experience has
been."
One of the knocks on Rodri-
guez has been his inability to do
just that. Many fans have pointed
to the transfer of quarterback and
potential NFL first-round pick
Ryan Mallett to Arkansas, soon
after Rodriguez came to Michi-
gan, as an example of a coach who
couldn't adapt his system to the tal-

ent around him. Mallett is not seen
as a run-option quarterback.
That seems to indicate one major
change. The other: Brandon wants
defense.
"Is there a thought of getting a
defensive-minded head coach?"
Brandon said. "There's a thought of
getting a defensive-minded every-
thing. I want the ball boys to be
defensive-minded."
This would be a sharpbreak from
Rodriguez, a coach who focuses
almost exclusively on the offensive
side of the ball.
Michigan's defense statistically
was one of the worst in the country
this year.
Brandon went on to say that he
feels the candidate must have head
coaching experience.
"My personal belief is that the
requirements of this job really lend
themselves to someone who's led
a team," Brandon said. "And who
has head coaching experience and
who has recruiting experience and
recruiting roots."
When asked if he thought the
coach had to be someone from a
BCS school, Brandon said he didn't
think so and replied, "Is (Ohio State
coach Jim) Tressel a bad coach? I
think he seems to be doing pretty
well down there, at least against
us."

By TIM ROHAN publicly said that they would like
Daily Sports Editor to have Rodriguez back as their
- - coach next season. As junior wide
Ryan Van Bergen and Kelvin receiver Darryl Stonum sees it,
Grady stood behind a sea of tele- the players lost their father.
vision cameras and reporters, "It was pretty emotional, but
waiting to hear what Michigan he was like our dad. We were his
Athletic Director David Brandon kids," Stonum said of Rodriguez on
had to say about the fate of their Wednesday. "He told us to all stay
coach, Rich Rodriguez. in contact ... We're like all family,
Brandon announced soon after and we're going to miss him."
that Rodriguez would not be back The whole family atmosphere
to coach their senior seasons. The that Rodriguez preached couldn't
players were losing their leader. have been more exemplified
The Michigan athletic direc- than his relationship with Brock
tor did have the players in mind Mealer, the brother of Michigan
based on the timing of his evalu- offensive lineman Elliott Mealer.
ation - he waited until after the Rodriguez was close to Brock as
bowl game to give the players he rehabilitated himself after frac-
their best chance at winning on a turing his spine in a car accident.
national stage on New Year's Day. "I think he's always been just
But Rodriguez didn't survive shown as a villain, and he's noth-
his third season. Then, with ing like that," Brock said. "He's
the program's future in limbo one of the greatest guys I've
without a coach, Brandon told ever met in my life. And I wish
the players of his decision dur- people would acknowledge that,
ing a team meeting at 4 p.m. on and whether or not he works out
Wednesday afternoon. Rodriguez as Michigan's coach is maybe a
also addressed the team. totally different story. And as
Players started exiting Schem- little as I know about football, I
bechler Hall about 45 minutes know his character is much dif-
after the meeting was sched- ferent from what people played
uled to start, and most declined him out to be."
to comment on the fate of their For as much as the players
coach. Previously, some of the may have liked Rodriguez, they
players, like Van Bergen and learned first-hand that big-time
junior nose tackle Mike Martin, college football is a business.

"They do whatever they can
(that's) best for the program,"
senior cornerback James Rogers
said. "I mean, of course, every-
one's down on themselves and
stuff like that. They're a little
mad, I mean, as we found out as
players it's abusiness."
Added Stonum: "(Brandon)
told us why he did it. He told us
his reasoning. What he's going
to look forward to - what we're
moving forward to. And for us to
continue what we've been doing
- working hard, going to class
and being 'Michigan Men.' So
that's all we're going to do."
With Rodriguez gone, ques-
tions started about whether the
players he recruited will stick
around.
Stonum said there had been no
talkoftransferringand addedthat
all of the players were Michigan
Men who would stick together,
even as the program potentially
faces upheaval. And as they did
after the Wolverines' 38-point loss
in the Gator Bowl, the players took
responsibility for their poor per-
formance this season.
"We just didn't get it done,"
Stonum said. "So we just got to
keep working hard. It's on us, we
talked about itbeingonus. Every-
body wants to blame the coach,
it's on us."

EVALUATING MICHIGAN'S POSSIBLE

COACHING CANDIDATES

BY RYAN KARTJE
DAILY SPORTS EDITOR

After firing head football coach Rich Rodriguez, Athletic Director Dave Brandon officially opened the Michigan football program's second coach-
ing search in three years. And with high-profile, highly popular candidate Jim Harbaugh likely off to the NFL, the Wolverines are looking at an
even shorter list of possible coaching candidates. Here's a short list of possible candidates for Michigan's newly vacant coaching position:

BRADY HOKE. SAN DIEGO STATE COACH

GARY PATTERSON, TCU COACH

San Diego State coach Brady Hoke is a former Michigan assistant coach and has said Michigan is his dream ob

Why Michigan would want him: Hoke seems
to be the name on everyone's radar as far as Michi-
gan's head coaching position goes. He's definitely
a "Michigan Man," having coached under Lloyd
Carr as his defensive line coach and associate head
coach from 1995-2002. Hoke took two relatively
irrelevant teams in Ball State and San Diego State
and transformed them into competitive teams. The
Aztec coach loves defense, and wouldbring a defen-
sive mind to Ann Arbor. He also employs a spread
offense, which would mean less of an adjustment
from Rodriguez's system to the new scheme. It's
also a breath of fresh air that Hoke has spoken on
end about how Michigan is his dream job.
Why Michigan wouldn't want him: Hoke
doesn't exactly unite a fan base like Harbaugh

would have, and the reaction around Ann Arbor
seems lukewarm atbest when it comes to hiring the
San Diego State coach. Hoke hasn't really done that
much as far as his coaching pedigree goes - he's
just 47-50 in his career. The jump from San Diego
State to Michigan is a pretty hefty one, and Bran-
don may be better off hiring a more proven coach.
Likelihood that he's Michigan's next coach:
Tough to tell. There's no reason why Hoke wouldn't
take the Michigan job, having turned down the
Minnesota job a few weeks ago and speaking pub-
licly on his hopes of coaching the Wolverines. Bran-
don made it clear that the coach should be a proven
one, preferably from a better pedigree. However,
until any other names come out of the woodwork,
Hoke looks to be the favorite.

TCU coach Gary Patterson led his Horned Frogs to a 2119 Rose Bowl win over Wisconsin on New Years Day.

LES MILES, LSU COACH

Why Michigan would want him: Patterson is
fresh off a Rose Bowl win over Wisconsin, and
he'll probably be one of the hottest commodities
in the country after his Horned Frogs finished
the 2010 season undefeated. Patterson is a defen-
sive-minded coach - one of the most respected
on that side of the ball - who will surely garner
some respect from his players, and the work he's
done at TCU is hard to ignore. Michigan's job
could be an impressive next step for Patterson,
where he'd get a few more shots at beating Big
Ten teams, like he did in the Rose Bowl.
Why Michigan wouldn't want him: Not
much. Patterson is an all-around great candidate

and would probablybe welcomed with open arms
in Ann Arbor. He's not a "Michigan Man" per se,
and he doesn't have many Midwestern ties. But
Patterson's head coaching experience and ability
to recruit quality athletes out of Texas to a small
school like TCU is a significant detail.
Likelihood that he's Michigan's next coach:
A long shot. Patterson has turned down jobs
before, including rejecting an offer from Min-
nesota to coach in the Big Ten. He doesn't have
Midwestern roots, and he'd be going to Michigan
because he thought it was strictly abetter job and
had more money than TCU. But at this point, he
might be better off just staying put.

KYLE WHITTINGHAM, UTAH COACH

Why Michigan would want him: Whitting-
ham has been part of the same list of mid-major
candidates destined to move up for a while now
and for good reason. He has a 58-20 record at the
helm of the Utes and has coached in a BCS bowl.
He's done a great job of continuing Urban Mey-
er's recruiting excellence at Utah, and he could
bring some of that to Ann Arbor. Whittingham,
a defensive-minded coach, would definitely amp
up the Wolverine defense, as the Utes always
rank pretty high nationally on that side of the
ball.
Why Michigan wouldn't want him: The Utes
started to struggle down the stretch this year,
and they've definitely had some rough patches.

He doesn't have many Midwestern ties, and as
far as recruiting goes, he might not bring the
most attractive pipeline pedigree. Whittingham
is a pretty well-accomplished coach though, and
Michigan wouldn't be in dire straits with him as
coach. He might not do much to incite a passion
in the fan base.
Likelihood that he's Michigan's next coach:
Not likely. Whittingham has stayed at Utah for a
while now, and with the team moving to the Pac-
12 next season, Whittingham has plenty of reason
to stay. Again, the Michigan job may not be that
much of a forward move for the Utes' coach, and
there aren't many reasons he'd take the job aside
from it being a wealth-inducing career move.

Why Michigan would want him: Fonrmer Ath-
letic Director Bill Martin wanted Miles and he
wanted him badly when the Wolverines were look-
ing to find a vacant coaching spot in 2008. Miles has
won a national championship, and he's a "Michigan
Man" by any definition of the phrase, having played
and coached in Ann Arbor. Miles is an inventive
play-caller to say the least, and his defenses at LSU
have always been the strength of the team. Giv-
ing him a quarterback like Denard Robinson could
open up his playbook in very exciting ways. Miles is
also a notably good recruiter.
Why Michigan wouldn't want him: He may
be an inventive play-caller, but he's also made a lot
of head-scratching calls as coach at LSU. There's a
reason they call him "The Mad Hatter," and Miles

could cause an awful lot of heart attacks in Ann
Arbor. A great deal of people think Miles is over-
rated, and they may be right. For a program that's
having an awful lot of problems with gaining sup-
port, Miles could anger a lot of fans and higher-ups,
and for Brandon, that might notbe worth the risk.
Likelihood thathe's Michigan's next coach: A
decent shot. If Miles is willing to leave the Bayou,
then Brandon would probably jump at the chance
to hire his fellow Schembechler product. Michigan
fans seem to be pretty leery about Miles, especially
after he spurned the University and made the Wol-
verines into a laughingstock the last time around.
We won't know anything until after Miles' bowl
game on Friday, but Michigan would probably take
him if he's willing to move.
t e

OTHER POSSIBLE CANDIDATES:
Chris Petersen, Boise State; Mike Trgovac, former Carolina Panthers defensive coordinator; Dan
Mullen, Mississippi State; Jon Gruden, former Tampa Bay Buccaneers head coach; Mark Bradley,
Penn State defensive coordinator.


10A - Thursday, January 6, 2011

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com


1OA - Thursday, January 6, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

19

Vs

LOWE$T
TEXTBOOK
PRICE$
GUARANTEED

01

NEW OR USED.

FOR SALE OR RENT.

*Show us a lower textbook price anywhere in town and we'll beat it by 10%. See store for details.

BOOKSTORE
549 E. UNIVERSITY AVE.
ULRICHS.COM

Powered By

i

SAVE UP TO
$20 ON YOUR
TEXTBOOKS
Text
to MSGME
(67463)

317 SOUTH STATE STREET
MICHBOOK.COM

r


enThe Michigan Daily | michigandaily.com I Thursday, January 6, 2011


Co

ddlk
r
iqlpppp-


< ,

PHOTO COURTESY OF DEF JAM
ALBUMS
1. KANYE WEST, MY BEAUTIFUL
DARK TWISTED FANTASY 8
Kanye West naysayers of the past year, it's officially time to get
over yourselves.You can claim he's a douchebag. You can whine about
his embarrassingly rude treatment of Taylor Swift. You can even say
808s & Heartbreak sucked. Fine. But on My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, Mr.
West has resoundingly absolved himself of any and all public besmirching.
Unfailingly complex and as blatantly confident as Yeezy himself, the album is
forever describable: apologetic, honest, chauvinistic, egotistic, ecstatic
ridiculous, catchy, dark, twisted - but most of all, it's beautiful. MBDTF
has the originality of College Dropout, the studio expertise ofLateRegis-
tration, the swagger of Graduation and the emotional airing-out of808s t
Heartbreak. Of course, West was not alone in creatingthis grandeur - the album
is royally stacked with a barrage of respected guests - with Nicki Minaj,
Jay-Z, Bon Iver and Kid Cudi among the prestigious assortment.
Kanye West wants to be (or already considers himself) "the best rap-
per alive." He may not have officially won the crowning title just yet, but
he did succeed in making the best album of the year - although it seems
unlikely that this will satisfy'Ye for long.
EMMA GASE
tIUlIlIIIIIiillillllllilllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllillilllillilllllllll1IlIIlIlI1111Illllllllillilll
2. ARCADE FIRE, THE SUBURBS
Suburban discontent - it's not exactly glossed over in contemporary art. So how
to give a new take on such a worn-out subject? On The Suburbs, Arcade Fire doesn't
try to create some overcooked raison d'etre for the humdrum childhood wasted just
short of urbanity. Each track provides a window into the ubiquitous 2.5-kids-
and-a-golden-retriever suburban home, but with minimal judgment and irony.
Frontman Win Butler is always either one of "the kids," or a guy looking at =
a faded photograph vaguely remembering when he was. It's because Arcade
Fire doesn't hold up any pretense of "getting" suburbia any better than its
fans do that The Suburbs has sprawled its way to the top. Who hasn't seen
ghostly malls tower above infinite stretches of flat pavement like "Mountains
Beyond Mountains?" And what college kid can't relate to old friends rebelling
and drifting as time passes in "Suburban War?" Itchingguitars and risingmulti-
voice choruses frame Butler and co.'s confused nostalgia for a childhood ill-
spent - one that much of America shares, but that's rarely laid out
so flat. It's not a new concept. But, like the suburbs themselves, we
keep wanting to go back.
-S HARON JACOBS
III I I l 11111l 1111111111111Ii t ll lll lll ll 1ll ll llllilllll ll lll ll I I I lI I I I tIII I I I { I I III I I IIItI i l 11111111111111illi
3. BEACH HOUSE, TEEN DREAM
When it comes to towering heartachey melodies, Beach House had everyone else
~ beat this year. Vocalist Victoria Legrand's spectral balancing act between Her-
culean mother and smoky seductress honestly makes 99 percent of indie rock
starlets sound like acid-washed teeny hoppers. And Alex Scally's clean-picked,
merry-go-round guitar parts take the word "catchy," slow it down to half its
tempo and project it onto the folds of your heart tissue (along with mquntains of
nostalgia-oozing reverb). Beach House may have settled into its sound, but the net -
effect feels more like a remedial bowl of time-tested chicken noodle soup than a lazy =
attempt to cash in on a comfortable formula. On Teen Dream, the arrangements
are lusher and swoopier, feeling less conjured by humans than anything off
Devotion. And having leaked over a year ago, the album has already heft-
ily transcended flash-in-the-pan status - this is a record we're going to
be listening to for years to come.
-JOSH BAYER
: ill] 1111 11111 1111l1 l1111 II II II 1111 # |1 1 " ,IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIlI IIIIII I I II I I
See BEST ALBUMS, Page 4B
DESIGBY HELEN LIEBLICH

PHOTO COURTESY OF DISNEY
FILMS
1. "TOY STORY 3"
Threequels aren't supposed to work. Just ask Francis Ford Cop-
pola, Sam Raimi, Robert Zemeckis, George Lucas or that guy who
made the "Blade" movies. But when you learn that our gold star of the
year has been helmed by the flawless Pixar - who 16 years ago took a
bunch of hard, plastic faces and breathed not just life, but love into
them - the situation changes.
So where did it all go right? Maybe it was during those old film
reels of Andy's jubilant adventures with Sheriff Woody, the evil Dr.
Porkchop and a brigade of swarming monkeys. or maybe it was the
moment when the attic ladder slides shut behind the unmarked bag of toys
beside it, dooming them forever to the incinerator.
"Toy Story 3" transcends the ordinary not just because it's a clever parable
about commercialism, but because it asks genuinely stirring questions about
aging. What happens when those that loved us must let us go? How do we
carry the remnants of our past relationships while preserving our indepen-
dence? Woody and Buzz might not be part of Andy's college life, but they've
certainly found their way into ours.
-JENNIFER XU
2. "THE SOCIAL NETWORK"
There's a mesmerizing quality, oh current University students and recently gradu-
ated alums, to watching a movie about the genesis of Facebook. Our generation is as
inexorably tied to its success as is Mark Zuckerberg - if he was the nurturing parent,
we were the Hollywood agent that realized its potential and made it a society-
changing phenomenon.
The release of "The Social Network" in the midst of Facebook's golden __
years made for delicious irony, as thousands updated their statuses to
profess their love for the film - an expected reaction, since the "The
Social Network" was such a supreme amalgamation of expert writing,
directing and acting that not declaring adoration for the film to the world
could result in a minor stroke.
Aaron Sorkin's diabolically good script was consistently laugh-
out-loud funny, nullifying the inherent drabness of lawsuits, ven-
ture capitalism and (shudder) computer programming. Director David
Fincher created each frame with a mama grizzly's care and deserves an Oscar
simply for pulling a tremendous performance out of Justin Timberlake. But
when it came to the stellar cast, Jesse Eisenberg rose above all, playing Zucker-
berg as a geek yearning for acceptance in our increasingly disconnected world.
Wait ... where's the "like" button on this newspaper?
-KAVI SHEKHAR PANDEY
ti I I III I I I tllI I l I I III II II II 11|11111111111 11111 | |1111111 II |1111 11111 1111111||1111 11 1 1III Il IlI III II I IIIIII Il I lTf
1 i tlilt i ll I II I i lilill IIIl lI I IIIIII I I I I I H I III I1 1 1I I I I I I I I l l l l l l l i l l l i l l l l l III I I Il IIIII IIII I I IN I 11 1 11 1 1 11i 111 l il il il
3. "INCEPTION"
Christopher Nolan's auteuristic drama-meets-mindfuck thriller cre-
ated a storm of hype in the months before its release, only to be out-
done by the social impact of the film itself. "Inception" cemented
Nolan's dual status as a virtuoso of the smart blockbuster and our
generation's most bankable director. It was start-to-finish captivat-
ing, from the brilliant temporal presentation of the dreamworld to
the engrossing compound action sequence that constituted the sec-
ond half of the film.
The logistics of the film's dream-stealer plot still elude, but figuring it out
is half the experience. Despite Nolan's best efforts to deceive the audience,
those who switch off for a minute and take the film as what it is - a visual
presentation -- will notice that the single moment may be the most B
telling. A widower's ringless hand, the persistent spinning of a =
top - are these keys to the story? Maybe. But if the film left you -
* breathless, you're halfway there.
-ANKUR SOHONI =
See BEST FILMS, Page 3B

I


28 - Thursday, Jarnuary 6, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

28 - Thursday, January 6, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

The year in
arts events
"(Re)Visionary Dances"
Feb. 4-7
Power Center
The Dance Department started off 2010 with a bang, show-
casing its technical virtuosity and impressive artistic utility in
a concert featuring original debuts by dance professors Amy
Chavasse, Jessica Fogel and Sandra Torijano, and as a restag-
ing of prominentAmerican modern choreographer Paul Taylor's
"Le Sacre du Printemps" (The Rehearsal). The University Dance
Company displayed a remarkable range of talent as it tackled
works both old and new. "Le Sacre du Printemps" was restaged
in honor of Taylor's 80th birthday and displayed a fresh outlook
on Taylor's renowned choreography while remaining trueto the
original work. In addition to commemorating a classic compo-
sition, the company reminded the audience of its strong voice
and originality in the refreshingly innovative faculty pieces. The
concert set the tone for what turned out to be an impressive sea-
son for the department.
-ERIN STEELE
"The San Francisco Symphony"
March 8
Hill Auditorium
The audience at Hill Auditorium went wild after the last heav-
enly chord of Gustav Mahler's massive Second Symphony rang
out. In honor of the composer's 150th birthday, the combined
San Francisco Symphony and University Musical Society Choral
Union - both Grammy Award-winning ensembles - crowded
the stage of Hill Auditorium under the baton of world-renowned
Maestro Michael Tilson Thomas. Spectacle was the theme:
Before the performance, President Mary Sue Coleman awarded
Tilson Thomas and the SFS the honor of UMS Distinguished Art-
ist Award. Thomas then went on to lead an army of choir mem-
bers, orchestra players and two female soloists in a masterfully
handled interpretation of Mahler's epic "Resurrection" sympho-
ny. The conductor brought out all of the emotional complexities
of the 90-minute work - its luscious romance, a sense of over-
whelming frustration and the religious ecstasy of the final choral
movement.
-JOE CADAGIN
"A Very Potter Sequel
May 14-16
Walgreen Drama Center
Fans, cameras and enthusiastic mayhem descended upon sum-
mer's sleepy Studio One last May to an intoxicating effect. The
reason? The highly anticipated "A Very Potter Sequel," a musi-
cal martini with a comical twist inspired by the "Harry Potter"
series and concocted by Team StarKid, a theatrical production
group made up of University students and alumni. The musical
was posted on YouTube in July, racking up over a million views
since that time. 'U' alum Darren Criss (who has recently gained
fame as Blaine on "Glee") starred as Harry and also wrote the
hit music and lyrics. The tight bond between the group of writ-
ers, producers and actors stood out like Potter's lightning bolt
scar, so character interactions rather than punchline jokes cre-
ated soaring laughs. Despite the humor, "AVPS" was no parody.
The writers shared a love of "Harry Potter," illustrating that the
series is a genuine treasure to our generation.
-ADDE SHRODES

"UMMA Projects:
Jacob Kolding"
July 31 - Oct. 24
Walgreen Drama Center
Berlin-based Jakob Kolding juxtaposed urban structures
with images of skateboarders and breakdancers in multimedia
collages of urbanity for his UMMA Projects exhibit. The artist,
who has a background in sociology, explored the contradictions
in how modern, urban spaces are planned and used. His thought-
provoking collages contained diverse materials: black-and-white
images, cityscape photos, patterned paper cut into phrases and his
own drawings. Themes of urban decay and inner-city revitaliza-
tion were also featured in the exhibit. Images of trees and grass
were often collaged to poke through concrete, reflecting the blur
between urban decline and renewal. Kolding drew inspiration
from Detroit for this exhibit, and some of his new collage works
featured his own photos of Detroit spaces, making the exhibit of
particular interest to Detroit-area audiences in Ann Arbor.
-ADDIE SHRODES
"Gibson Fleck"
Nov. 18-21
Arthur Miller Theatre
While audiences are accustomed to experiencing works by
William Shakespeare and Richard Rodgers and Oscar Ham-
merstein It, as well as other notable names, the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance's "Gibson Fleck" reminded University
audiences that talent can be found at home. "Gibson Fleck" is
an original piece of musical theater conceived by three musical
theatre majors (the book was written by junior Ali Gordon and
music and lyrics by seniors A. J. Holmes and Carlos Valdes).
This beautiful and "homemade" production incorporated folk
rock alongside other more familiar musical theater sounds to
assist in telling the story of a young man who is searching for
a place of his own.
-DANIEL CARLIN

Viral videos: 2010's
top time wasters -

Antoine Dodson
Every once in a while, a sound bite comes along that just exists
to be Auto-Tuned. The summer news clip of Huntsville, Ala.'
native Antoine Dodson warning against bed intruders is a perfect
example. Dodson's public service announcement advising viewers
to hide their kids and wives (and husbands, too) is almost pain-
fully catchy. His distinct phrases, like "climbin' in yo' windows,
snatchin' yo' people up" are funny enough, but add the enraged
body language and intense eye contact with the camera and you
have a recipe for Internet stardom. The original clip is equally
funny, if only because we've heard the addictive musical version.
Essentially, there isn't anyone who disliked this video. But if
you did, we gon' find you.
-PROMA KHOSLA
"Single Ladies Devastation"
What's not to love about this video? It has all the right compo-
nents for a successful and funny home video, including a catchy
pop song, little kids singing and dancing and a cute young Asian
boy throwing a fit. As the little kid instantly goes from jubilant to
wailing when told that he is not a single lady and shouldn't sing
the song, it's hard not love every second of the video. Whether
this was really just a precious family moment caught-on tape or a
common occurrence for the little boy is hard to tell. But really, it
doesn't matter. Fake or real - that boy is just too dang cute. After
watching this, it's clear that everyone should be allowed to jam
out to Beyonc6 - single, female or neither.
-LINDSAYHURD

the greatest advertising ploys ever devised. Old Spice was the
first to use new media (whatever that is) to interact with its fans
in a genuinely meaningful way. From the original ads to the del-
uge of videos responding to viewers, Mustafa and Old Spice con-
quered the Internet in manly fashion.
-JAMIE BLOCK

0
0

"This Too Shall Pass" Music Video
Most viral videos are one-hit wonders; in time, we forget the
people behind them and move on. The exact opposite is true of
pop-rock sensation OK Go's consistently amazing music vid-
eos. "This Too Shall Pass" not only upholds the brilliance we've
come to expect since "End Love" and "Here It Goes Again" but
tops it in terms of originality and execution. The video is one
mesmerizing shot of the band in a warehouse; surrounded by
a continuous machine that eventually splatters the four musi-
cians with brightly colored paint. It's nothing short of transfix-
ing, a feat of physics and cinematography that you can't help
watching through to the end every time you click on the link.
Other bands could learn from OK Go's creativity - one thing we
sincerely hope does not pass.
-PROMA KHOSLA
Double Rainbow
Two rainbows, one man. And then, that one man's uncondition-
al joy at witnessing such a beautiful thing of nature. The "Double
Rainbow" video was first uploaded in January and gained expo-
nential popularity in the year that followed. Some loved it, some
thought it was stupid, some overheard it and thought it was porn.
Regardless, the "double rainbow guy" - less commonly known as
Paul Vasquez - became an internet celebrity and embraced his
newfound fame so much so that he was interviewed everywhere
from CBS News to "Jimmy Kimmel Live" to sex and relation-
ships website nerve.com ("Sex Advice From The Double Rain-
bow Guy"). At three-and-a-half minutes, the detailed account of
Vasquez's overzealous reaction to a double rainbow never gets
old. It's beautiful, all the way.
-PROMA KHOSLA

Old Spice Ad Campaign
It began with a simple instruction: "Look at your man, now
back to me." Well, it didn't take long for all of America to do just
that, and when they looked back, they liked what they saw. Old
Spice's "Man Your Man Could Smell Like" campaign - featur-
ing the beautiful, divine, elegant, dragon-taming, feral, gentle,
loving, hilarious and muscular creature that is Isaiah Mustafa
- achieved astonishing hype from the masses, inspiring one of

0

Five best singles of'1O

Cee-Lo Green
"Fuck You"
An unlikely trend in recent years has birthed songs like
OutKast's "Hey Ya!" and Amy Winehouse's "Rehab." These
Grammy-winning, chart-topping tracks have roots in Motown-
influenced rhythm and blues, but transcend that listening audi-
ence with sing-along choruses that createultimate appeal. With
a tambourine flick, Cee-Lo adds a bit of vulgarity to this canon,
accompanied by a couple of organ chords, vitally contagious
rhythm guitar and some snarky back-up singers. At its core,
"Fuck You" is a statement song. Not only do the lyrics address the
problem of shallow, gold-digging ex-girlfriends, but the song's
very existence as a Top-10 hit confronts its Auto-Tune-obsessed
peers, who substitute the compelling instrument arrangements
of yesteryear for the same stale beats that are cut and pasted
from each fleeting and forgettable track. So no matter how your
musical compass orients itself, don't be ashamed to embrace this
instant classic - it's undeniably the year's best song.
-DAVID RIVA
Kanye West
"Runaway"
How nice for Kanye West that after simply hearing the same
lone piano note repeated three times over and then once more at
a lower octave, millions of listeners instantly knew it was him.
That's all it takes; the repetition a half-step below just proves it.
Toasting douchebags at the 2010 VMAs just a year after West's
(arguably) biggest douche move ever at the 2009 show, "Run-
away" gave us all the Yeezy bravado we could hope for in 2010.It
also gave us all the Yeezy not-quite-apologies we never thought
we'd hear - plus that excellent line about the emailed penis pic
- all over that same four-note motif. Piano is all about pushing
the right keys at the right time, and Kanye West is so used to
pushing buttons that hitting the same one three times is all it
takes for him to make heads turn.

nated the charts. She took a few seemingly played-out cliches
and turned them into a dreamy; nostalgicromp on the beach to
which anyone who has ever had a crush can relate. The track is
a simple love song with low expectations ("You think I'm pretty
without any makeup on / You think I'm funny when I tell the
punch line wrong") as it drifts along until Perry explodes with
passion for her ideal lover. "Teenage Dream" appealed to the
lowest common denominator in all of us. She made a quiet, uni-
versal dream a triumphant reality.

0

-CASSIE BALFOUR
Arcade Fire
"Sprawl II (Mountains
Beyond Mountains)"
Despite all of its successes, The Suburbs has one obvious,
glaring flaw. "Sprawl II" in particular brought to light just how
underused and underappreciated Regine Chassagne truly is.
The wife of frontman Win Butler and occasional vocalist deliv-
ered her most memorable performance to date on a song about
being silenced in the face of an unbreakable yet non-tyrannical
repression. The protagonist describes her mall-ridden, clock-
in-clock-out surroundings as a source of creative stagnation,
similar to the artistic restraints that have been unintentionally
imposed on Chassagne over time. How's that for art imitating
real life? Thematic and lyrical content aside, the track is musi-
cally significant because it marks Arcade Fire's first foray into
disco. A thumping beat lays the groundwork for the seven-piece
group to crescendo in its signature anthemic style, and a darkly
colored breakdown makes way for a hopeful coda, encapsulat-
ing the grim and uplifting ping-ponging of the album.
-DAVID RIVA
Vampire Weekend
"Giving Up The Gun"

Katy Perry
"Teenage Dream
Tracks with heavy rotation on mainstrear
have a lot of longevity. Katy Perry's seeming
"Teenage Dream" had a guileless charm th
oversexed party track that saturates the Top
refrain "we'll be young forever" struck a few

-SHARONJACOBS The Upper East Side band of prepsters - Vampire Weekend
- is known for producing some lyrically challenging, but unbe-
lievably catchy tunes. Though listeners may get tongue-tied try-
ing to spit out the words, "Giving Up The Gun," from the band's
second album, Contra, includes mesmerizing piano plinks, a
I" call-and-response hook and a music video cameo by Jake Gyl-
lenhaal in tennis shorts - come on, isn't that just what every
m radio don't often great indie single needs? Ezra Koenig's charming vocals with a
gly clich6-laden hit Greek Bouzouki sound creates a light, airy atmosphere with a
at outlasted every hint of sophistication. Clearly, Vampire Weekend keeps it classy
40. Perry's wistful - yet again.

chords and domi-

-ARIELLE SPECINER

WANT TO MAKE YOUR OWN
- BEST-O0F-TH E-YEAR LISTS?
Come to the Daily's mass meetings on January 13, 17 and 19
at 7:30 p.m. at 420 Maynard St. to learn how to apply.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 6, 2011- 3B

'Small screen standouts of the year

"Community"
Second season
With classes on space flight, dorms with elaborate blanket forts and
stop-motion classmates, Greendale Community College is, without a
doubt, the coolest place to get your degree. On the surface, "Commu-
nity" details the misadventures of a diverse study group at community
college. In actuality, the show is a love letter to our favorite movies and
TV shows, with episodes recreating "Mean Girls," "The Secret Garden"
and zombie flicks. Augmenting the pop culture references is a meta self-
referential humor that hasn't been seen since "Arrested Development."
As is often typical with television, the show's ratings haven't reflected
its awesomeness. "Community" fights against CBS's powerhouse "The
Big Bang Theory" in Thursday's 8 p.m. timeslot. Despite being snubbed
at the Emmys, facing regular threats of cancellation and struggling
through its financial woes (KFC even sponsored an episode, during
which Senor Chang exclaims, "I'm tryingto buy us some time with these
Doublicious sandwiches"), "Community" has still garnered a cult fol-
lowing of media junkies and pop culture-obsessed college kids. Just like
its characters, "Community" is quirky and lovable. And it's the Daily's
pick for the best TV show of 2010.
-CAROLYN KLARECKI

"Boardwalk Empire"
First season
Once upon a time, there was a show on HBO that combined gangland
violence with symbolism, intelligent stylization and incredibly power-
ful acting. That little fairy tale was "The Sopranos," which came to the
most ambiguous ending in television history in 2007.
This year, "Sopranos" veteran Terence Winter and legendary direc-
tor Martin Scorsese united to bring this winning formula back to TV.
They shifted "The Sopranos" to the Prohibition era, moved it a few
miles south to Atlantic City and voila, we have "Boardwalk Empire" - a
bloody, symbolic, period-correct crime drama. It's "The Sopranos" with
a loud pinstripe suit and a tommy gun.
Really though, it's a bit "The Sopranos," but almost as much "The West
Wing," as central character Nucky Thompson, the treasurer of Atlantic
City, toes the line between running the local political machine and sup-
plying the underground speakeasies with illegal booze. His interactions
with some of the period's most notorious criminals, such as Al Capone
and Arnold Rothstein, make for an incredible viewing experience and
contribute to some of the most complex stories currently being told on
television.
-DAVID TAO
"How I Met Your Mother"
Sixth season
Ted gets the opportunity of his career when asked to design the new
headquarters for Goliath National Bank, Barney comes a bit closer to
discovering the real identity of his father and Marshall and Lily make
their first attempts to start a family. The gang gains a member in the
form of Zoey (Jennifer Morrison, "House") and a new Robin Sparkles
video is revealed. Sound like a lot? Throw in the fact that each episode
moves effortlessly from dramatic to slapstick, and it's understandable
why these carefully crafted storylines have landed season six of "How
I Met Your Mother" on the Daily's Best of 2010 list.
The series progressed this past year, but while maintaining the
light, playful humor we've come to know and love. Where this beloved
series will head remains a mystery, but one thing is certain: Co-cre-
ators Carter Bays and Craig Thomas have succeeded in making a tra-
ditional sitcom fresh and original - a plot-driven show that strives to
serve the story.
-JACOB AXELRAD

"Mad Men"
Fourth season
For better and worse, Don Draper has gone wild - better for the faith-
ful and verdant "Mad Men" audience; likely worse for its dapper hero.
Season four of the hit AMC drama took our favorite angry gents in a
new direction, as a new look and new characters gave the series a fresh,
if sometimes jarring, start. But of course the alcohol and fornication are
along for the ride.
With its new beginnings, everything in the series was taken up a
notch - the emotional highs have soared higher, and the lows have
become more depressing and pitiable. In the undeniable triumph that
was "The Suitcase," Don Draper's late-night meltdown gave audiences
a raw look at the troubled boy we always knew was hiding behind the
aloof fagade. But what made "Mad Men" trulygreat in 2010 isjustwhat
made it great in its three past years. The writing is masterful, slowly
luring in viewers instead of hitting them over the head. The perfor-
mances are true-to-life, differentiating the series from a caricatured
period piece. The stories are complex and volatile while still contained
in a small space, both physically and temporally. It's one of the smartest
shows on television.
-JAMIE BLOCK
"30 Rock"
Fifth season
There's a reason why this show continuously wins comedy awards
- it just doesn't get much better than Liz, Jack, Tracy, Jenna, Ken-
neth and the rest of the "30 Rock" crew. Over the years, the show has
become the gold standard in comedy. Season highlights included Liz
Lemon finding her favorite pair of jeans, Matt Damon's kooky airplane
pilot character and Tracy Jordan's career as a "serious" actor in "Hard
to Watch." True, the jokes and situations are often unrealistic, but
because of the amazing cast, they work almost every time. When the
show chooses to go the route of realism, it attacks both conservative
and liberal ideas, sparing nothing from the line of fire.
With Alec Baldwin's retirement from playing Jack Donaghy immi-
nent, let's hope that season six is just as good, if not better, than the
rest. One thing is for sure, though - the show is bound to go out with
a bang. It's just so hard to pass up the workplace of 30 Rockefeller
Plaza.
-LINDSAYHURD


BEST FILMS
From Page1B

"The Ghost Writer"
Toparaphrase Eric Cartman, Roman Polanaki may have date raped an
underage model, but he known how to make a thriller - keeping his films
old-school despite box office pressure from thrillers filled with shaky-
cam. In "The Ghost Writer," the veteran director uses subtle cues like
beautiful cinematography and extended precise takes with the camera to
create an anxious atmosphere. After the title character (Ewan McGregor),
meets his newest client, a former British Prime Minister who finds him-
self facing war crimes charges, he quickly finds himself caught in a web
of intrigue. Polanski's direction ratchets up the tension in a sweeping cre-
scendo, ending with a haunting, poignant reveal.
-DAVID TAO
"Winter's Bone"
The best suspense film of the year is a family movie atits core, though its
chilly, remorseless tale of children suffering for their parents' actions isn't
likely to make your heart feel all warm and fuzzy. "Winter's Bone" sends its
protagonist, Ree Dolly (Jennifer Lawrence, in an unflinching performance),
out on the huntfor her meth-cooking, authority-ditching father inthe heart
of the Ozarks, confronting her vicious extended family along the way.
There's an uncomfortable truth buried here: The illusion of kinship, the
love we all count on to get through life, protects no one in a lawless world.
-ANDREW LAPIN

"True Grit"
In this adaptation of a John Wayne film, Joel and Ethan Coen take an
old fashioned story about courage and turn it into something more. It's
not just another washed-up Western with southern drawls, ghost towns
and gun fights.
"True Grit" avoids the traditional mold because of the strength of the
actors. Matt Damon adds humor to an otherwise desolate landscape as
LaBoeuf, a Texas Ranger who is proud of what he is and lets everyone
know it. Newcomer Hailee Steinfeld's portrayal of smart, overconfident
Mattie Ross - a girl on a quest for real justice - guides the story with
force. And she manages to hold her own against Jeff Bridges's character,
Rooster Cogburn.
But creating memorable characters has always been something the
Coen Brothers have been good at. What's particularly impressive is their
transformation of the story. They don't try to modernize it or jazz it up
- none of the characters speak using contractions - but the story does
become edgier and more haunting under its rendering. The film takes
the audience to a world where the boundary between good and evil isn't
clearly defined, which raises questions about the nature of justice and
redemption in the world.
-EMILYBOUDREAU

Treasured
traillers
The Daily picks the previews that
lingered after the main attraction.
"True Grit"
The new Coen Brothers film is the acme of the duo's directorial career,
deftlystraddling the line between the commercialism the brothers have
tried to avoid and the pure aestheticism they've always embraced. This
marriage of ideals is reflected beautifully by the trailer. It provides just
enough meat to intrigue us with its plot, but not so much that it spoils
the feast (Liam Neeon's "Unknown" trailer, anyone?). Most importantly,
it foreshadows Jeff Bridges's brilliant performance with billowing gun
smoke, bottled bourbon and the grouchy, sarcastic quips we've come to
expect of him.
-TIMOTHYRABB
"Inception"
This trailer ingeniously plants the idea in viewers that "Inception"
is worth seeing without giving away too much plot - or what the title
means. It features the faces of the film's stars; memorable, ominous
music and a city folding over on itself. A voice mentions that what
we're watching is "called Inception." This secretive trailer ends beg-
ging the question: "What is Inception?" Ironically, if you were curious
enough after the trailer to see the movie, you answered the question.
-BEN VERDI
"The Social Network"
Familiar icons flash across the screen. Friend requests. Status
updates. "In a relationship." This is what we do. This is what we have
become. This is a Belgian children's choir telling us we're creeps. This
is the shiny college campus, equal parts elitism and debauchery. This
is TIME's Person of the Year, or at least an approximation - the clos-
est the public will get to the man who created the need for privacy
settings. This is the story of Facebook in two minutes flat: a group of
frustrated, snarky individuals who took social networking very, very
seriously. Go ahead - call it a joke. Your profile page says otherwise.
-ANDREW LAPIN
"Black Swan"
Aronofsky's twisty-turny psycho ballet thriller didn't stick its land-
ing with all folks that ended up watching it, but the hype building up
to its premiere almost made up for it - as the frigid, winding lines at
the Michigan Theater on Friday and Saturday nights demonstrated.
The trailer, a mlange of oozing lust and beauty, has a lot to do with
this. And that climax, that harrowing climax - all reflective surfaces
and Freudian doppelgangers, coupled with Clint Mansell's quiver-
ing tremolos, as a red-eyed Natalie Portman yanks out a single black
feather from her arched, tensed back. Obvious and melodramatic?Yes.
Terrifying? Most definitely.
-JENNIFER XU
"The Town"
The best trailers aren't always made for the best movies. Sometimes,
they're assembled from satisfying, well executed cliches - a love tri-
angle, a crew of thieves, a relentless FBI agent - and hint atsomething
the source material doesn't quite offer.
The trailer for "The Town," from washed-up star-turned-up-and-
coming director Ben Affleck, is a prime example. The film itself was
simply, well, a satisfying, well executed clich. But the expertly edited
trailer cut out the fluff and gave audiences a product that was more
sizzle reel than trailer, presenting stars Affleck, Jeremy Renner and
Jon Hamm at their most intense, and teasing at 90 minutes of non-stop
badassery that, unfortunately, wasn't really there.
-DAVID TAO

"The Fighter"
"Raging Bull." "Rocky." "Cinderella Man." Boxing has become an
Oscar-bait sideshow. "The Fighter," however, differs magnificently. Man-
aged by his pushy mother (Melissa Leo) and trained by his crack-addict
half-brother, a former boxer (Christian Bale), title character Micky Ward
(Mark Wahlberg) struggles to find the sport's glamour. Ward struggles
toward the top while flirting with the idea of quitting altogether. The
film focuses as much on the family dynamic as the fighters themselves,
as Ward searches for individuality. Wahlberg's endearing performance is
among his best, but it's the ensemble that steals the show - particularly
with Bale, who delivers the most unsettling performance of his recent
career. From a distance, it doesn't seem like the most original picture, but
a closer look reveals a more sophisticated, layered story.
-ANKUR SOHONI
"The King's Speech"
"The King's Speech" is a powerful, funny and historically accurate
masterpiece. Colin Firth and Geoffrey Rush play King George VI and
his quirky speech coach, respectively, who at first, couldn't be less com-
patible. Firth wants a quick, impersonal fix to his impediment, but Rush
knows his issues have less to do with his tongue than they do with the
King's mind and heart. It's rare that a film so artfully enhances a true
story into something this moving, but the performances and writing in
"The King's Speech" make it an instant classic.
-BEN VERDI
"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part I"
For those who waited anxiously for their Hogwarts acceptance let-
ters, consolation lies in the latest "Harry Potter" movie. The franchise
has tried to capture the magic of Hogwarts but, outside of bedazzling
special effects, the movies have disappointed many fans - which makes
the deeper, more mature "Deathly Hallows" all the more rewarding.
The film stays true to the book, even if it means svatching the emotional
aspect of the plot unfold in a tent in the middle of nowhere while our
heroes try to destroy a Horcrux. It's a much darker movie that's made
for a generation that can't be dazzled by Quidditch matches anymore. It
gives them exactly what they want.
-EMILYBOUDREAU

"Black Swan"
Acclaimed director Darren Aronofsky's tale of Nina (Natalie Portman),
a young ballerina given the lead in Tchaikovsky's "Swan Lake," turns the
delicate art of ballet into something riveting. The best aspect of Aronof-
sky's work is its enthralling predictability. Strange as that may sound, the
imminent demise he constructs for his protagonist demands a nontradi-
tional interpretation that draws our eyes to the lighting, staging and cin-
ematography rather than the plot. It's another tragic time bomb in the
vein of "The Wrestler" and "Requiem for a Dream," and we're helpless to
do anything but count the seconds until the glorious explosion.
No longer will the impressionable masses indulge in heroin, profes-
sional wrestling or suicidal ballet routines. However, they may very well
continue to indulge in Aronofsky. His vision - paired with Portman's
flawless execution - will transform his career, and may win the pair a
few Oscars to boot.
-TIMOTHYRABB


4B -- Thursday, January 6, 2011

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Looking forward to 2011in arts
Daily Arts editors share their takes on what to expect in the new year

By DAVID TAO
Daily Film Editor
Director Jon Favreau ("Iron Man"), who's helm-
ing the soon-to-be-released "Cowboys and Aliens,"
recently referred to 2011 as a box office "bloodbath,"
packed full of blockbuster competition. He's right
to be worried. While summer 2010 was dominated
by "Inception," 2011 is a different animal. Though
"Cowboys and Aliens" features Daniel Craig ("Casi-
no Royale") and Harrison Ford ("Raiders of the
Lost Ark") and is written by duo Alex Kurtzman
and Roberto Orci ("Star Trek"), it faces stiff compe-
tition from a year full of high-profile releases.
January brings us "The Green Hornet," a super-
hero film starring Seth Rogen ("Observe and
Report") and directedbyOscar winner Michel Gon-
dry ("Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind"). In
March, there's "Battle: Los Angeles" - an intense
alien invasion film starring Aaron Eckhart ("Rab-
bit Hole") that's been described as "Black Hawk
Down" with aliens - and "Sucker Punch," director
Zack Snyder's ("300") first original film. Judging
from the action-packed trailers, it earned every bit
of the praise it received following Comic-Con 2010.
April release "Source Code" - director Duncan
Jones's follow-up to the trippy, critically acclaimed
2009 indie "Moon" - brings us to an average of
one highly-anticipated wide release movie per
month, during a period when Hollywood tradition-
ally dumps its worst films. It's exciting, not to men-
tion unprecedented, to see this much mainstream
potential so early in the year. It will be followed
up between May and August by a mysterious J.J.
Abrams movie, "Super 8," and the exciting con-
clusion to the "Harry Potter" franchise. Wheth-
er you're ready for more or all tapped out by the
release of "Cowboys" in late July, there's no doubt
that 2011 will be an exceptional year.

By EMMA GASE
Daily Music Editor
2010 was undoubtedly a stellar year in terms of
musical releases, which means 2011 is certainly not
short on musical expectations. But fear not. With
exciting releases, an ever-growing festival scene
and national tours being announced, the coming
year issure to be as chock full of gems as the last.
Kanye protdge Lupe Fiasco is breaking out a
new album in March, titled Lasers. Hopefully, fel-
low Chicago old-school rappers The Cool Kids are
expecting to put out an album in 2011 (though it
may not land until 2012), and the group may take
the prize for best album title with When Fish Ride
Bicycles. Also look out for new Fleet Foxes, finally
coming on the heels of its 2008 hype-fest, and a
prospective new album from vets Radiohead.
On the touring circuit, 2011 is looking reliable
in the festival arena. Let the countdown begin for
the summer barrage of excellent festivals. Ring-
ing in the season is Coachella, occurring in the
outrageously inconvenient weekend of Apr. 15 to
17, directly (and tragically) preceding finals week.
No worries though, Midwesterners. The Pitchfork
Music Festival is here to save the day, or more spe-
cifically, July 16 through 18. Known for its emphasis
on "the music" rather than being a meeting ground
for drunk twenty-somethings in cargo shorts, this
Chicago festival offers a respite from the more
crowded and overwhelming atmospheres of Lolla-
palooza and Bonnaroo.
And don't worry, you aren't the only one obsessive-
ly checkingwhenKanye West's inevitable tour for My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy will happen, only to
find yourself panicking at the lack of tour dates. The
dates should be announced soon, and knowing Yeezy,
this tour will rival his famed "Glow in the Dark Tour,"
so stay tuned. 2011 is looking pretty good..

By PROMA KHOSLA
Daily TV/New Media Editor
There are plenty of things to look forward to in
TV and new media in2011, but what I'm most eagerly
anticipating isn't necessarily everyone's cup of small-
screen tea. It's not the spring finales and sweeps that
usually bring out the best in our favorite shows. It's
not the innumerable new shows that will premiere
throughout the year - not even new dramas that
could fill that island-shaped hole in my heart. And
it's not new video games, because I'm a menace to
anything involving hand-eye coordination.
Nope, what I'm looking forward to most in the
new year is the awards show season.
There, I said it. My name is Proma and I am an
awards show addict.
I think it started when I was ten and my father
moved the dining table into the living roomso that we
could see if."Lagaan" would become the first Indian
movie ever to win an Oscar (it didn't). By the time
"Lost" won its first (and only) "Outstanding Drama
Series" Emmy, I was hooked. Emmys, Golden Globes,
SAG, People's Choice Awards, BAFTA, Oscar!
The reason I'm so devoted is because; in terms
of pure entertainment, awards shows never disap-
point. There's always a dress so ugly that you feel
superior to the star wearing it. There's the ill-timed
political commentary; there's that someone at the
Globes who's too drunk to give a coherent speech;
there's anything Ricky Gervais says or does; there's
the mystery of who invited Miley. And if we're lucky,
there's a musical number by Neil Patrick Harris.
And of course, if you're into this sort of thing,
there are the awards themselves. In the end,
though, it doesn't matter if I love the nominees or
hate the winner or have not (to date) watched an
HBO biopic: They've got me watching. They've
already won.

By JOE CADAGIN
Daily Fine Arts Editor
There will be much in store for the fine arts lover
this semester. The University Musical Society's sea-
son continues in 2011 with American soprano Renee
Fleming, whose highly anticipated Jan.16 recital will
include works by Puccini, Korngold, Schoenberg and
Richard Strauss. On Feb. 1, UMS will present the cel-
ebrated Cleveland Orchestra under the baton ofFranz
Welser-Mast. The program will include a perfor-
mance of Schumann's Piano Concerto in a minor, per-
formed by Pierre-Laurent Aimard. Finally, mystery
and uncertainty surround the Mar. 19 performance
of Mahler's Symphony No. 8. The massive work, sub-
titled "The Symphony of a Thousand," is scheduled to
include eight soloists, five choirs and the Detroit Sym-
phony Orchestra, all under the directionofconductor
Leonard Slatkin.
The School of Music, Theatre & Dance has an excit-
ing season this semester that includes a performance
of "The Crucible," written by Pulitzer Prize-winning
'U' alum Arthur Miller. The production will be per-
formed over two weekends - Mar. 31 to Apr. 3 and
Apr. 7 to Apr. 10. From Mar. 24 to 27, The University
Opera Theatre will present composer and librettist
Mark Adamo's 1988 opera "Little Women," which will
offer an accessible introduction for thoseinterested in
modern music or opera ingeneral.
Finally, next semester will bring productions of
two well known musical comedies. From Mar. 25to
27, MUSKET will perform "The 25th Annual Put-
nam County Spelling Bee" - a hilarious work of
contemporary musical theater that pokes fun at the
world of competitive spelling. From Apr. 7 to 10, the
University of Michigan Gilbert & Sullivan Society
will present the dynamic duo's 1885 operetta "The
Mikado," which is a spoof of Victorian England set
in imperial Japan.


BEST ALBUMS
From Page 1B

is a compilation of American blues
rock at its finest. With a soul sound
and rich guitar riffs, The Black Keys
create a sound unique to the times.
Vocalist Dan Auerbach brings the
sultry and soulful vocals with a
rusty, raspy tone that goes well
with the rest of the album. Tracks
like "Tighten Up" and "Everlast-
ing Light" showcase the exacting
uniqueness and bluesy-ness with
tambourine-sprinkled backgrounds
and a captivating drumbeat. Each
track has an exceptional sound that
makes it stand out from the others,
but still connects the album as a
whole. The Black Keys take listen-
ers on a modern Motown ride with
Brothers - and frankly, we don't
exactly want toget off.
-ARIELLE SPECINER

Gorillaz,
Plastic Beach
Plastic Beach is superficially a
critique of the artificial. However,
as it progresses, it smoothly tran-
scends into a celebration of synthe-
sis through the creation of its own
genre. It begins with an orchestral
intro, and never fails to surprise as
it rises into bouts of rap and then
ebbs into ballads. Where else can
Snoop Dogg be found tracks away
from Lou Reed? How else would
Mos Def share a song with R&B
singer Bobby Womack? Plastic
Beach effectually describes itself
by deftly blending various styles of
music together into a single har-
monic polymer.
-ELLIOT ALPERN

2010 through*
the consoles
The video games that made us
want to stay inside and play

The National,
High Violet
There's something to be said
about the eternal listenability of
High Violet. There are no obvious,
catchy hooks, no gut-busting gui-
tar solos, no sing-along hit singles.
Here, The National revels in its
finesse for understatement - these
guys are experts on subtlety, mas-
ters of raw emotion without sound-
ing overwrought, connoisseurs of
tasteful expression. Aided by Matt
Berninger's arresting baritone, The
National has produced some of the
most finely layered instrumenta-
tion of the last few years. From the
apprehensive guitars on "Afraid of
Everyone" to the closest thing The

Big Boi,
Sir Lucious Left Foot
ListeningtoSirLuciousLeftFoot,
it's easy to forget it was due three
years ago. Label battles, delayed
release dates and the removal of a
certain Three Stacks kept it behind
the gates. But Left Foot doesn't
sound old. In fact, it sounds so far
ahead of hip-pop's better charting
acts that it could drop next year
and still sound fresh. Taking the
best aspects of OutKast's influences
and crystallizing them to a funky,
charming and nasty set of jams, Big
Boi's solo debut proves that Chico
Dusty's son can do just fine all on
his lonesome.
-JOE DIMUZIO

"StarCraft II:
Wings of Liberty"
Twelve years was a long time
to wait for a sequel to "StarCraft,"
but after the first few minutes
of "StarCraft II," it's clear the
series aged very well. Blizzard
Entertainment has managed to
develop some of the most impres-
sive video games ever made, and
there is no question that "Wings
of Liberty" falls in rank with the
rest of its releases.
The gameplay is extremely
complex and the graphics are
absolutely gorgeous - beauti-
ful sprawling landscapes and
a nuanced design of each unit
and building make staring at the
game as much fun as playing it.
And as impressive as its looks are,
the revamped gameplay is really
what makes "Starcraft II" so
much fun. Rather than clinging
to the dynamics of the original,
Blizzard expanded and altered
the three races, fleshing out dis-
tinct idiosyncrasies for each.
The world of real-time strat-
egy now has another sharp and
carefully crafted title to add
to its ranks. It will keep com-
petitive gamers happy for a long
time, and in all likelihood, it will

sacrificing streamlined action.
Though the game had enough
depth that it could have eas-
ily made a satisfying and slow-
paced RPG or an exciting action
game, it is a nearly perfect amal-
gamation of the two.
In true BioWare fashion, the
story was one of the most com-
pelling of any game to date, and
it shows that well written scripts
are not reserved for Hollywood.
And while these benefits are ren-
dered close to inexhaustible by
the huge quantity of content in
the game, the ability to continue a
character fromthe original"Mass
Effect" is the most remarkable
feature, not only for the series,
but for video gaming as a whole.
With it, the worlds in each install-
ment are connected throughout
the series and allows the games to
grow with the player.
By completely raising the
expectations and capabilities
of an open-ended RPG, "Mass
Effect 2" can only make us won-
der what "Mass Effect 3" has in
store.
-TEDDY PAPES
"Red Dead
Redemption"

Titus Andronicus, LCD Soundsystem
rJLCD A--ndsyse ,

a ne monitor

National has ever cot
with "Lemonworld'
reprise of penultimo
land," The National
itself (a feat many
be impossible after
Boxer). Once again,'T
proved not only itsi
in the studio, but als
songs that crawl intc
stay there.
The Blac
Broth
The bluesy duo h.
The Black Keys' sixt
Brothers, has breac
and our Best of 2010

ame to a pop song Like Conor Oberst fronting the E
to the rousing Street Band, Patrick Stickles' love-
ate track "Eng- lorn tales of drunken revelry and
has outcrafted wasted youth were as epic as they
feared would were affecting. Shot through with
2007's superb a loose storyline surrounding the
the National has Civil War, each of The Monitor's ten
impeccable skill tracks - many containing multiple
so for writing 11 movements of their own - sounds
o your brain and on the verge of total collapse. When
a track does collapse, a well placed
-EMMA GASE spoken-word excerpt from Abraham
Lincoln or Walt Whitman (voiced by
The Hold Steady's Craig Finn) was
k Keys, there to pick up the pieces. As dra-
matic as the band is on tape, festi-
ers valgoers were treated to a new mess
altogether - live Titus provided a
as done it again. noisier alternative to the chillwavers
:h studio album, and solidified a war-torn rallying cry:
hed the charts Titus Andronicus Forever!
list. This album -MIKE KUNTZ

This is Happening
LCD Soundsystem helped define
2010's sound with the atmospher-
ic, deliciously synthy This is Hap-
pening. Aging hipster frontman
James Murphy crafted an expan-
sive, often painfully self-conscious
album that sounds simultaneously
vintage and modern. The album
has a frenetic pace and features
Murphy's neurotic, often melan-
choly lyrics over dancy electro.
The rambly opener "Dance Yrself
Clean" starts out slow, but as Mur-
phy wistfully looks back on old
friendships, the synth explodes
into a full-blown dance track that
sets the pace for the rest of the
record. Nostalgic and dynamic, the
album is a finely tuned piece of art
with plenty of soul.
-CASSIE BALFOUR

The Roots,
How l Got Over
The Roots made one of the most
surprising albums of the year. How
I Got Over features characteristi-
cally clever lyrics grappling with
heavy issues like politics and reli-
gion but also dabbles in funk on
tracks like "Right On" and rein-
vents indie rock group Monsters
of Folk's song "Dear God 2.0" with
shocking success. The title track
is one of the highlights and may
very well contain this album's
thesis statement. Black Thought
raps over a tight beat, "First thing
they teach us / Not to give a fuck /
That type of thinking can't get you
nowhere / Someone has to care."
The Roots engage the listener and
resonate long after the beats have
faded.
-CASSIE BALFOUR


be the bar for
games of its kir
quite a feat for
pass it.
"Mass E
BioWare brok
aries of thet
Effect" with t
expanded on ev
right and trimm
and unnecessar
character class
oughly fleshed
The new Li
Chinese Cuis
Ka~i dardc]
(734) 995-1401
116 SMain St.
(Between W. Huron and
Washtenaw) Carryout
and reservationsaccepte
We serve alcohol
Open 7 Days

all subsequent "Red Dead Redemption" cap-
nd. It would be tures everything a Wild West
another to sur- game should be. The Western
setting truly feels like a fron-
-TEDDYPAPES tier - the landscape is vast and
beautiful, and wild animals can
be seen roaming the land con-
Nfect 2" stantly. Outlaw John Marston's
story as he makes up for the
e all the bound- evils of his past is extremely well
original "Mass done. Marston runs into a range
his sequel. It of flawed characters that end up
verything it did helping (and sometimes betray-
red down baggy ing) him, and, in typical form
y features. The for developer Rockstar, the dia-
es were thor- logue and voice acting for every
out without character is excellent. The music
stands out even more - a rivet-
ing and era-appropriate score
that sounds like no other game.
ne As far as gameplay goes, "Red
ine Dead Redemption" impressively
manages to make old guns feel
n Specializing satisfying - the gunplay is fluid
and exciting. There's a tremen-
in Hong Kon dous amount of variety in the
Hunan & missions, from robbing trains in
Mexico to shooting grizzly bears
Szechuan in wooded territories.
Style. Many It's the little things that
make "Red Dead Redemption"
vegetaian great. Running into a man being
d dishes chased by wolves on the prairie
or the realistic way the horses
d. Mon-Thor 1l are animated really bring the
game to life. It'sjust an enjoyable
Fri& Sat 1111 world to be in - the Wild West
Sun 12-10 depicted perfectly.
-SHIN HIEFTJE


