~iie 1*Iia aijj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, December 5,2011

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
Patients
move into
new Mott
hospital

Senior tight end Kevin Koger said in a press conference yesterday that he spent his weekend Googling all of Michigan's possible bowl scenarios. He is part
senior class that brought the Wolverines from a 3-9 season in 2008 to a BCS bowl this year.
Wolverines headed to second
Sugar Bowl inprogram history

In eight hours, 170
patients transfer
to women's and
children's hospital
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
One-hundred and seventy
patients traversed an indoor
passageway yesterday connect-
ing the old C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital and Von Voigtlander
Women's Hospital as the hos-
pitals' new $754 million home
opened for business yesterday.
Over an eight-hour period,
170 patients from every depart-
ment of the hospital made the
transition to the 348 inpatient
rooms, 50 maternity rooms, 48
neonatal intensive care rooms
and 16 operating rooms in the
new building.
The outpatient facilities will
continue to be transitioned into
the new space throughout next
week. Once the move is com-
plete, the old hospital facility
will consist of single rooms for

adult patients.
The transfer process began
last Wednesday when hos-
pital staff started categoriz-
ing the patients by severity of
symptoms in order to move
individuals with more serious
conditions first, according to
University spokeswoman Mar-
garita Wl.agerson. Last Satur-
day night, staff members began
preparations for the transition
and slarted to move patients
yesterday morning at 7 a.m.
Patients in the newborn
intensive care unit and children
in other intensive care units
were moved into the new space
first. The last patient settled in
by 3 p.m. yesterday afternoon.
Kara Gavin, University
of Michigan Health System
spokeswoman, said the most
impressive aspect of the project
was its scope.
"I was walking around the
building in the hours before the
different areas started to move
and it's amazing that even as big
as this building is, everything is
ready," Gavin said.
Thousands of staff members
See MOTT, Page 7A

Finished No.13 in
final standings, will
play Virginia Tech
for first time
By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
All the debating, bickering
and speculation didn't change
much. The Michigan football

Tech in New Orleans on Jan. 3.
The game will be the Wol-
verines' second Sugar Bowl
appearance in program history
- their first came in 1984, a 9-7
loss to Auburn - and their first
BCS bowl since the 2007 Rose
Bowl, also a loss, this time to
USC.
"I just think it kind of rees-
tablishes what this team has
been able to do and how far
we've come, especially with
the expectations we had com-

Van Bergen said. "It's a tremen-
dous opportunity to put a final
stamp on this year."
The Wolverines spent the
past week watching, needing
to jump into the top 14 spots
of the BCS standings to qualify
for a BCS bowl. When the final
rankings came out, Michigan
rose from 16th to 13th, getting
passed by Baylor, but passing
four teams who lost on the final
weekend of the season, includ-
ing Michigan State. The Spar-
.... -L-.a. ~ r:.L:.....--1 toisL:

Ten's Legends division crown.
The rankings' reconfigura-
tions brought controversy as to
whether the Wolverines were
deserving of the opportunity to
play in the game.
"We don't control any of
that," said Michigan coach
Brady Hoke. "The things that
we can't control we really don't
worry about because we have
enough things as a program
and how we want to represent
Michigan on a daily basis that
we have to worry about."
See SUGAR BOWL, Page 7A

team is going to the Sugar Bowl. ing into this season," fifth-year tans beat Michigan earlier
C It will play No. 11 Virginia senior defensive lineman Ryan season and took home the
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES
Stephen S. Clark Library
to house 370,000 maps

this
e Big

CAROLING FOR CHARITY

New library libraries on campus. Little did
he know that one day a library
celebrated at would be built in his name.
On Friday afternoon, mem-
dedication Friday bers of the University commu-
afternoon nity gathered on the second
floor of the Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library to celebrate
By TAYLOR WIZNER the grand opening of the Ste-
Daily StaffReporter phen S. Clark Library for
Maps, Government Informa-
When he was a student at tion and Data Services, which
the University, Stephen Clark will provide access to 370,000
said he spent endless hours at maps and 10,000 atlases.

The new maps library is
a collaboration between the
University's map collection,
the Government Information
Center and the Spatial and
Numeric Data Services. The
library is open to the pub-
lic and provides full access
to maps, data software and
librarian assistance.
Jennifer Green, manager
of the new library, said the
program will aid in research
See LIBRARY Page 7A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
Campus governments talk
student issues at conference

Medical School students Linda Tran, Grace Boynton and Surya Sabhapathy sing Christmas carols on Main Street for Galen Tag
Days last Friday night. The money raised will benefit children in Washtenaw County.
STUDENT OUTREACH
Detroit Partnership provides food,
clothing at One Stop Shop event

Reps. from 11
colleges gather
for first SAM
meeting at 'U'
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Student
Assembly hosted its first Stu-
dent Association of Michigan

this past weekend to foster
increased discussion among
student governments within
the state about issues affecting
every college student in Michi-
gan.
Founded in 2007, SAM is a
student-led organization com-
prised of representatives from
student governments at the 15
public universities in Michi-
gan. Jay Gage, SAM president
and a student at Lake Supe-
rior State University, said the

organization aims to work
collaboratively with student
governments to generate poli-
cies that can make an impact
among students.
The event was held at MSA
Chambers on the third floor
of the Michigan Union. Sean
Walser, chair of MSA's Exter-
nal Relations Commission of
MSA, said while MSA has not
been actively involved with
SAM in the past, it has been
See CONFERENCE, Page 7A

Student volunteers
assist low-income
residents in Detroit
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily StaffReporter
DETROIT - Students carrying
bags of donated clothing to West
Outer Drive United Methodist
Church in the Brightmoor neigh-

borhood of Detroit on Saturday
were greeted by the scent of fresh-
ly baked lasagna wafting from the
kitchen as they began preparing
for the Detroit Partnership's ninth
annual One Stop Shop.
As part of the One Stop Shop
event, the Detroit Partnership -
a student group at the University
that provides volunteer opportu-
nities in the Detroit area - held
an event for low-income Detroit
residents to pick out clothing and

food donated by members of the
Ann Arbor community. Benefi-
ciaries and volunteers gathered in
the church dining room to enjoy
a home cooked meal before pro-
ceeding to the basement to pick
out clothing.
The partnership provides a
range of services throughout the
year, with One Stop Shop being
the highlight of the fall term. In
the spring, the group hosts DP
See DETROIT, Page 2A


WEATH ER HI: 35 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Occupy Wall Street goes Disney Vol. CXXII, No. 6
TOMORROW LO: 2 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER The Michigan Daily

AP NEWS ....................3A CLASSIFIEDS.......... 6A
OPINION ....................4A ARTS........................ 7A
NEWS.........................5A SPORTSMONDAY.A...... 8A

,b


2A - Monday, December 5, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, December 5, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

A CHRISTMAS CAROL

(rt C Jidgan ailg
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIESTEINBERG ZACHYANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaiy.com

Confederate flag taken down

A freshman at the University
of South Carolina Beaufort was
asked to remove a Confederate flag
on display in his dorm room win-
dow following multiple complaints
from students and parents during
campus tours, according to a Dec.
1 Associated Press article.
Byron Thomas, who is black,
was asked to remove the flag
before Thanksgiving, but has since
been granted permission to put
it back up, the article reported.
Thomas posted a video online,
which currently has about 70,000
views, explaining why he put the
flag up and acknowledging that it
may seem strange because of his
race.
"When Ilook at this flag, I don't

see racism. I see respect, Southern would be terminated, according to
pride," he said in the article. the Huffington Post.
POMONA COMMUNITY TWO FOOTBALL PLAYERS
RALLIES IN SUPPORT OF DIE IN MISSOURI CAR CRASH
UNDOCUMENTED STAFF

After 16 undocumented work-
ers from Pomona College were
fired last Friday - with one case
still pending - students, profes-
sors, alumni and other campus
employees held a rally in support
of the workers, according to a Dec.
2 Huffington Post article.
In a letter sent to 84 employees
last month, the college said the
employees had until Dec. 1to sub-
mit papers proving their eligibil-
ity to work in the country or they

Two Missouri Southern Uni-
versity football players were killed
in a car accident early last Friday,
according to a Dec. 2 Associated
Press article.
Michael McCrimmons and
Diondre Johnson - both freshmen
from Springfield, Mo. - were driv-
ing with two other students when
they suddenly drove off Interstate
44 in Southwestern Missouri
before being hit by a tractor-trailer
truck, the article reported.
-PAIGE PEARCY

Newsroom
734-418-41s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michiga idaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaiy.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Pate
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

- PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Medical Student Linda Tran sings Christmas carols
on Main Street for Galen Tag Days on Friday night.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Grant is gone
WHERE: University
Hospital
WHEN: Thursday at about
12:05 p.m.
WHAT: A patient reported
that $50 in cash was stolen
from his wallet between
Nov. 29 and Nov. 30,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

Leaky heater Cowboy show Manicures
New research studies
WHERE: University Golf WHAT: Country band and massages reveal that female
Course Riders In The Sky will dolphins exhibit unique
WHEN: Thursday at about play Western songs WHAT: Students are swimming patterns when
6 p.m. and Christmas classics invited to receive free pregnant, the New York
WHAT: A broken water ina cowboy-themed manicures and massages as Times reported. This is
heater was leaking water, performance. part of the kick-off event for primarily due to the dolphins'
University Police reported. WHO: Michigan Union Stress Relief Week. iz
The University's Plant Ticket Office WHO: Center for Campus resistance.
Operations team responded WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. Involvement
to the incident. WHERE: The Ark, 316 WHEN: Today at 5 p.m.
South Main Street WHERE: Michigan Union, The Michigan hock-
Pond Room e y team snapped its

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar Managing Editor nickspar@michigandaily.com
Nicole Abet MaagisgNesEoaditsr aber@miehigandailyecom
SENIO NEWSEDITORBenyBirn, DylanCinti,CaitliHuson, Josephihtema,
Brienne Prusak
ASSISTA NEWSEDInORS:Haylaorn,laireaGosciki,SuzanneJacobs, Sabira
Khn,,MihleNao,aie Pearc, a enfire5, Kaitlin William
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
EmilyiOrley Editorial PageEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb
StepheniJ. Nesbittand sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tim Rohan ManagingsportsEditors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
Raftery, Neal Rothschild
ASSISNSOSE ORS::Steen Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin,Liz Vuklich, DanielWasserman
SharonJacobs ManagingArtsEditor jacobs@michigandailycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey,Jennifer Xu
ASSoSTANTAR TSDITORS: JacobAxelrad, CassieBalfour, Joe Cadagin, Emma Gase
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch Managing PhotoEditors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Terra Molengraff, Anna Schulte
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen l.ieblich ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Anna Lein-Zielinski
ASSISTA NT DESIGN EDITOR S: Kristi Begona, Corinn Lewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski,DevonThorsby, ElyanaTwiggs
Josh Healy copy chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Christine Chun, Hannah Poindexter
SarahiSqUine WebDevelopment Manager squire@michigandaily.com
lmran Sayed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
lulianna Crim Associate Business Manager
Rachel Greinetz sales Manager
Alexis Newton Production Maxager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Connor Byrd FinanceManager
QUy Vo CirculationManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additionalcopies may be pickedup at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, viaU.S.mail are $110. Winterterm(Januarythrough April)s
is. yearlong (September through April)is $195.University affiliates are subjec to a reduced
subscriionate On-capussbs r ptonse ,realtermPneae $3Se Abaritonscolgte prso

0

Bus butts car
Smoker sent to CRS himehenn Baroque show

WHERE: 1000 South State
Street
WHEN: Thursday at about
4:35 p.m.
WHAT: A moving
University bus hit and
damaged a vehicle's outside
mirror, University Police
reported. The value of
damage to both vehicles is
unknown. There were no
reported injuries.

y ..., _ _ -- I <J 1J IJ 11.1111..11E 1111 -...". .... " .,. .., a s . .

the slammer
WHERE: Law Quadrangle
WHEN: Friday at about
12:40 a.m.
WHAT: A substance
suspected to be marijuana
was confiscated from a
subject, University Police
reported. A suspect was
arrested on the same day.

WHAT: Professors will WHAT: The E
address challenges facing Chamber OrcI
the Center for European perform an en
Studies and ways to improve classical musi
the program. The forum WHO: School
will be moderated by CES Theatre & Da:
Interim Director Karla WHEN: Toni
Mallette, an associate WHERE: Mo
professor of Italian and
Near Eastern Studies. CORRECTIONS
WHO: Center for European
Studies " Please rep
WHEN: Today at noon error in the I
WHERE: School of Social correctionsC
Work Building gandaily.com

Baroque
hestra will
semble of
ic-.
of Music,
fne
ght at 8 p.m.
ore Building

seven-game winless
streak in Alaska on Saturday
night, defeating the Nanooks
in overtime, 1-0, in Fair-
banks. Freshman Alex Gup-
till scored the game-winner
FOR MORE, SEE
SPORTSMONDAY, INSIDE
A study shows that
10 percent of apple
and grape juices
contain levels of arsenic
that are unsafe for human
consumption, CNN reported.
Experts recommend that
infants and young children
limit intake of these juices.

ort any
Daily to
@michi-
n.

_ ._

Italian gov't develops new
plan to boost economy

Growth package
awaits approval
from Italian
Parliament
MILAN (AP) - Premier
Mario Monti said yesterday his
government of technocrats has
approved a package of auster-
ity and growth measures worth
euro30 billion ($40.53 billion) to
"reawaken" the Italian economy
and help save the euro common
currency from collapse.
The measures include immedi-
ate cuts to the costs of maintain-
ing Italy's bulky political class
as well as significant measures
to fight tax evasion, Monti told
a news conference following a

three-hour Cabinet meeting.
As part of the political cost
cuts, Monti said he would fore-
go his salaries as premier and
finance minister - a move he said
was a personal decision and not
meant as an example for other
ministers in the government,
which was formed 2 1/2 weeks
ago after Premier Silvio Berlus-
coni's resignation under market
and political pressure.
The package also includes
measures to spur growth and
competition, while aiming to
stamp out rampant nepotism. But
it also raises the retirement age
and the number of years of ser-
vice to qualify for a full pension,
steps strongly opposed by unions,
and imposes new taxes on Ital-
ians' private wealth, including
their homes, boats and luxury

cars, measures that conservatives
have protested.
"We gave alotofweightto fair-
ness, we had to distribute some of
the sacrifices but we took a lot of
care to distribute them in a fair
way," Monti said.
Monti will outline the mea-
sures today in addresses to both
houses of Parliament, which must
approve them. Monti said he will
appeal to lawmakers' sense of
responsibility.
The Berlusconi government
stepped down due to its failure
to get tough measures through
a fractious Parliament, which
remains intact, meaning fault
lines could easily reopen.
"A lot depends on how well
or not we explain to the citizens
what we are trying to do," Monti
said.

DAVID GOLDMA/AP
announcemenO that he was suspending his campaign.
Amid allegations of sex),ual
-mi sconduct, ain exits race


DETROIT
From Page 1A
Day, a service event that usu-
ally draws more than 1,000 stu-
dent volunteers to Detroit.
Albert Rush, pastor of the
church, said the One Stop Shop
program has a different focus
than many other charities, and
one of its main goals is to provide
the disadvantaged with neces-
sities such as clothing and food,
while upholding their dignity
and honor.
"What we want people to dois
when they walk out the door, to
know that somebody cares about
them," Rush said. "We think
we're volunteering for them, but
it gives us a chance to show our
humanity."
According to Rush, the Detroit

partnership and church have
been collecting food and clothes
for the event in both Ann Arbor
and Brightmoor since August.
"We want people to get good
quality stuff," Rush said, "Not
just stuff that's thrown there,
and depending on how much
inventory we have, (beneficia-
ries) can get as much as (they)
want."
Rush said the program
expected to serve about 200
people throughout the day. He
added that the tough economy
had increased demand for their
services and decreased contribu-
tions this year.
LSA senior Cassie Basler,
executive director of the Detroit
Partnership, said the program
impacts both the students and
beneficiaries involved.
"What I thought was really

moving was how honest people
were about the life experiences
they've had," Basler said. "People
come in with newborn kids, and
they don't even have a stroller."
Basler said the collection pro-
cess in Ann Arbor typically picks
up around Halloween, when
the partnership trick-or-treats
for canned food and non-per-
ishables. Later in the semester,
the group sets out colored boxes
around campus in which stu-
dents can donate clothes.
Linda Fulgham, a beneficiary
of the program, said students
were hospitable, and she felt at
home shopping at the church.
"Everything's been great,
everything's been helpful, every-
thing's been beautiful and it's
good to give to the ones that
need," Fulgham said. "Puts a lot
of smiles on faces."

In narrowed five days after an Atlanta-area
woman, Ginger White, claimed
campaign-pool, she and Cain had an affair for
more than a decade, a claim that
Gingrich and Romney followed several allegations of
g ne ipl sexual harassment against the
Georgia businessman.
"Now, I have made many mis-
ATLANTA (AP) - A defi- takes in life. Everybody has.
ant Herman Cain suspended his I've made mistakes profession-
faltering bid for the Republican ally, personally, as a candidate, in
presidential nomination Saturday terms of how I run my campaign.
amid a drumbeat of sexual mis- And I take responsibility for the
conduct allegations against him, mistakes I've made, and I have
throwing his staunchly conserva- been the very first to own up to
tive supporters up for grabs with any mistakes I've made," he said.
just one month to go before the But Cain intoned: "I am at
lead-off caucuses in Iowa. peace with my God. I am at peace
Cain condemned the accusa- with my wife. And she is at peace
tions as "false and unproven" with me."
but said they had been hurtful to White's attorney said in a
his family, particularly his wife, statement after the announce-
Gloria, and were drowning out ment that Cain had disparaged
his ability to deliver his message. his client and should apologize.
His wife stood behind him on the Cain had called her a "troubled
stage, smiling and waving as the Atlanta businesswoman" whom
crowd chanted her name. he had tried to help.
"So as of today, with a lot of "We continue to encourage Mr.
prayer and soul-searching, I am Cain to retract these statements
suspending my presidential cam- and apologize for the way he has
paign because of the continued characterized these women in
distractions and the continued the media," Edward Buckley said.
hurt caused on me and my fam- Cain's campaign had no immedi-
ily," a tired-looking Cain told ate response.
about 400 supporters. Cain's announcement provides
Cain's announcement came a new twist in what has already

been a volatile Republican race.
Former House Speaker NewtGin-
grich has, so far, been the biggest
beneficiary of Cain's precipitous
slide. Polls show Gingrich and
former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney atop the field in what
is shaping up as a two-man race
heading into earlyvotingstates.
But others, such as Texas Gov.
Rick Perry and Minnesota Rep.
Michele Bachmann, will likely
make a strong play for Cain's anti-
establishment tea party backing
as they look to rise as a viable
alternative to Romney, whose
conservative credentials are sus-
pect in some GOP circles.
Cain said he would offer an
endorsement, and his former
rivals were quick to issue state-
ments on Saturday praising his
conservative ideals and grass-
roots appeal.
At a tea party rally in Staten
Island, Gingrich praised Cain for
bringing optimism and big ideas
to the race.
"He had the courage to launch
the 9-9-9 plan, which, whether
you liked it or disliked it, was a
big idea and started to elevate
the debate toward big solutions
and not the usual nitpicking,
consultant-driven negativity,"
Gingrich said.

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@michigandaity
@MichDailyNews
@MichDailySports
@MichDailyOpEd

0


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 5, 2011 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December 5, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Police investigate
disappearance of
girl in carjacking
Detroit's police chief says
investigators are questioning the
truth of a story that a 2-year-old
girl was kidnapped during a car-
jacking.
Chief Ralph Godbee issued a
statement yesterday saying police
are interested in "allaying some of
the fears of the public" about the
"apparent randomness" of Bianca
Jones' disappearance.
Thirty-two-year-old ex-con-
vict Dandre Lane told police Fri-
day that a man forced him from
his car and drove off with his
daughter Bianca strapped into a
seat. The car was found later with
a child seat and no sign of the girl.
On Saturday, Godbee said
Lane was in custody on unrelated
charges.
NEW YORK
Trump selected as
moderator of GOP
debate in Iowa
Real estate mogul Donald
Trump will moderate a Republi-
can presidential debate in Iowa
a week before the state holds the
first in the nation caucuses.
The conservative website
Newsmax will host the debate,
scheduled for December 27 in Des
Moines. All the GOP contenders
have been invited to participate.
Trump announced he would
not seek the Republican nomina-
tion himself after toyingwith a bid
last spring. The host of "Celebrity
Apprentice" has remained visible
in the GOP contest, hosting many
of the candidates for meetings at
Trump Tower in New York City.,
Former House Speaker Newt Gin-
grich is set to visit Trump Monday.
Trump has also been a strong
critic of President Barack Obama
and drew considerable publicity
when he questioned the validity
of Obama's birth certificate.
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia
Report: Allowing
women to drive
promotes sex
A report given to a high-level
advisory group in Saudi Ara-
bia claims that allowing women
in the kingdom to drive could
encourage premarital sex, a rights
activist said Saturday.
The ultraconservative stance
suggests increasing pressure on
King Abdullah to retain the king-
dom's male-only driving rules
despite international criticism.
Rights activist Waleed Abu
Alkhair said the document by a
well-known academic was sent
to the all-male Shura Council,
which advises the monarchy. The
report by Kamal Subhi claims
that allowing women to drive will
threaten the country's traditions

of virgin brides, he said. The sug-
gestion is that driving will allow
greater mixing of genders and
could promote sex.
Saudi women have staged sev-
eral protests defying the driving
ban. The king has already prom-
ised some reforms, including
allowing women to vote in munic-
ipal elections in 2015.
BERLIN
Two WWII bombs
safely defused in
evacuated city
Firefighters say a massive
British World War II-era bomb
that triggered the evacuation
of half of Germany's western
city of Koblenz was successfully
defused.
Koblenz firefighter spokesman
Heiko Breitbarth said yesterday
experts were able to defuse the
1.8 ton bomb and a 275-pound U.S.
bomb that had been discovered
last month in the Rhine river.
He says the evacuation order
still remains in place because a
smaller smoke grenade found
nearby will be brought to a con-
* trolled explosion.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Egyptian election
results worrisome
for Israeli leaders

MUZAFFARSALMAN/AP
A pro-Syrian regime protester breaks stones with his head to symbolize breakingsanctions against Syria during a protest
against the sanctions by Arab and European nations, in Damascus, Syria, on Friday.

Syria violence si
U.N. calls for pr

U.N. official: Syrian
conflicts constitute
a 'civil war'
BEIRUT (AP) - The United
Nations' human rights chief
called on the international com-
munity to protect Syrian civil-
ians Friday as violence surged
across the country, with hours
of intense shooting that sent
stray bullets whizzing across
the border.
The new bloodshed came as
activists reported a grim mile-
stone in the 8-month-old revolt:
November was the deadliest
month of the uprising, with at
least 950 people killed in gun-
battles, raids and other violence
as protesters demand the ouster

of President Bashar Assad.
The U.N. estimates more
than 4,000 people have been
killed since the uprising began
in the middle of March, inspired
by the Arab Spring revolutions
sweeping the Middle East.
"In light of the manifest fail-
ure of the Syrian authorities
to protect their citizens, the
international community needs
to take urgent and effective
measures to protect the Syrian
people," Navi Pillay, the U.N.
High Commissioner for Human
Rights, told an emergency
meeting of the U.N. Human
Rights Council in Geneva.
Pillay on Thursday charac-
terized the conflict in Syria as
a civil war.
International intervention,
such as the NATO action in

irges as
)tection
Libya that helped topple Moam-
mar Gadhafi, is all butout of the
question in Syria. But the Euro-
pean Union, the Arab League,
Turkey and others have piled
on sanctions aimed at crippling
the regime once and for all.
The EU's latest sanctions,
which were announced Thurs-
day, target 12 people and 11
companies with travel bans and
asset freezes. They add to a long
list of regime figures previously
sanctioned by the EU, including
Assad himself and high-rank-
ing security officials.
The identities of those on
the new list were made pub-
lic Friday in the EU's official
journal.
They include the ministers
of finance and the economy, as
well as army officers.

New Isalamic
gov't may position
Egypt as a threat in
Middle East
JERUSALEM (AP) - For Israe-
lis, the Islamist election surge in
Egypt is depressing confirmation
of a deeply primal fear: An inhos-
pitable region is becoming more
hostile still.
This sentiment has been
accompanied by a bittersweet
sense that Israel was dismissed as
alarmist when it warned months
ago that the Arab Spring - widely
perceived as the doing of liberals
yearning to be free - could lead to
Islamist governments.
Speaking for most people here,
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud
Barak called the emerging result
of the first round of parliamentary
voting in Egypt "very, very dis-
turbing" and expressed concern
about the fate of the landmark
1979 Egyptian Israeli peace treaty.
"We are very concerned," added
Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz,
who has long warned that Egypt
could potentially pose a threat.
Speaking to The Associated Press
yesterday, Steinitz expressed hope
that Egypt "will not shift to some
kind of Islamic tyranny."
Experts here, as elsewhere,
point out that political Islam
comes in varying shades of green:
The Muslim Brotherhood in
Egypt has about a 10 percent lead
over the more radical Salafists and
appears far less eager to impose a
devout lifestyle or seek conflict.
But most Israelis appear to
have little patience for such dis-
tinctions. There is a sense that
moderate Islamists are pulling off
something of a con, lulling oppo-
nents into complacency, project-
ing a seemingly benign piety to

exploit a naive public's hunger for
clean government after years of
corrupt, despotic rule. And there
is a long memory of Iran, once
friendly to Israel, where secu-
lar forces including the military
helped depose the Shah in 1979
only to swiftly be steamrolled by
fundamentalists.
"Theseupheavals are abadthing
for the modern world, for Israel,"
said Yitzhak Sklar, a 50-year-old
Jerusalem resident. "There is
something in their religion that
pushes them to extremism. Their
religion calls for murdering anyone
who opposes them."
Smadar Perry, Arab affairs
writer for Israel's top selling
Yediot Ahronot daily, bemoaned
Islam's "coming out of the closet"
in Egypt, symbolized by the "dis-
appearance of jeans-clad young-
sters in favor of (those with)
long beards and eyes ablaze with
fanaticism." Islamist rule in Egypt
under any stripe would be "a ter-
rifying problem," she wrote.
Some of the fears - for exam-
ple, that an Islamist-led govern-
ment in Egypt would mold itself in
Iran's image - may be overblown.
Iran's clerical rule is unique in
the Middle East, and the Muslim
Brotherhood stresses the idea of a
theocracy has no place in its ideol-
ogy. Instead, it says it's committed
to an Egypt that is civil, democrat-
ic, modern and constitutional.
Israeli concerns about political
Islam can be traced to its long-
standing battle against Hezbol-
lah guerrillas in Lebanon and
more recently to 2006, when the
Islamist Hamas group swept Pal-
estinian legislative elections.
The Hamas victory triggered
a process that ultimately left the
militant group, considered a ter-
rorist organization by much of the
world for its suicide bombing cam-
paigns and other violent acts, in
control of the Gaza Strip.


State could step in
to run city of Detroit

Mayor Bing insists
city is capable of
reducing its deficit
DETROIT (AP) - The idea
is extreme, even in a city accus-
tomed to fighting for survival:
Should the state of Michigan
step in to run Detroit?
The governor has taken steps
in that direction, proposing an
unprecedented move that could
give an appointed manager vir-
tually unchecked power to gut
union contracts, cut employee'
health insurance and slash ser-
vices. But city leaders bristle at
the notion. Said the mayor: "This
is our city. Detroit needs to be
run by Detroiters."
If it happens, Detroit would
be the largest American city ever
taken over by a state. Michigan
has seized control of smaller
struggling cities, but until now
Detroit was always off-limits.
That changed this week,
when Republican Gov. Rick
Snyder's administration said it
would begin a review of Detroit's
precarious finances. If the gov-
ernor concludes that the city's
economic situation constitutes
an emergency, he could dispatch
a manager who could push the
mayor and city council to the
sidelines.
It's not clear how everyday
services like trash pickup and
bus routes would be affected;
but the fixer's mission would be
clear: Do whatever it takes to
stop the bleeding.
Democratic Mayor Dave Bing
says Detroit doesn't need the
help. He insists the city is reduc-
ing a $150 million budget deficit
and easing cash-flow problems
on its own.
"We know what needs to be
done, and we stand ready to do
it," an indignant Bingsaid.
The financial review starts
Tuesday and may last up to 90
days, meaning a takeover could
be under way by the end of Feb-
ruary.
The same fate has befallen
other cities.
Atlantic City agreed in 2010

to let New Jersey take over its
finances in an arrangement that
allowed the city to spread a $9.5
million deficit over five years,
sparing homeowners and busi-
nesses a significant property
tax increase.
In Pennsylvania, Gov. Tom
Corbett signed a law in October
enabling a takeover of Harris-
burg.
New York City had a brush
with bankruptcy in the mid-
1970s, but the rescue package
put together by then-Gov. Hugh
Carey stopped short of a full
state takeover.
"It terms of a city, I think
Detroit stands alone," said
Michael LaFaive, director
of fiscal policy at Michigan's
Mackinac Center for Public
Policy, anonpartisangroup that
espouses free markets.
An emergency financial
manager would have the power
to privatize utility depart-
ments, as well as the bus system
and other agencies. A manager
also could sell off city-owned
parking lots and even Belle Isle,
Detroit's popular island park,
LaFaive said.
That person could even cut
the pay of the mayor and city
council members.
In a 2001 report, LaFaive
wrote about Detroit's bur-
geoning fiscal problems and
recommended privatization,
contracting out services and
ways to generate revenue.
"I think they knew what the
recommendations were, but
their hands were tied a bit by
recalcitrant employee unions,"
LaFaive said. "Those kinds of
bold reforms would be difficult
to get over with the city council
or voters, in general."
Last month, Bing declared
the city government "broken"
and said the public's checkbook
would be short by $45 mil-
lion next year unless Detroit
starts saving money fast. In an
attempt to ward off an emer-
gency manager, he proposed
laying off 1,000 employees - 9
percent of the workforce - and
negotiating 10 percent pay cuts
with unions.

r Located 3 Minutes from the Diag @ S. University & S. Forest
Private Balconies & Exclusive 14th Floor Penthouses ,


4A - Monday, December 5, 2011

0
The Michigan Daily -michigandaily.com

4A - Monday, December 5, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
F ROM T HE DAB'LY
(AID)i ngrecovery
Federal funds will benefit AIDS research
Jn honor of World AIDS Day last Thursday, President Barack
Obama announced a plan that seeks to put a serious dent in the
transmission of HIV, and he declared that our generation "can
beat this disease." Obama pledged $50 million toward AIDS treatment
centers and research throughout the United States. This statement is
a huge commitment to a serious disease that has killed more than 30
million people since it was first diagnosed in 1982. With technologi-
cal and medical advances in this field occurring at a rapid pace, it's
important that Obama continues to reaffirm his promise to help fund

FROM THE PUBLIC EDITOR I|MRA SED
Benign bias

n my time as editorial page
editor of The Michigan Daily,
there was no more consis-
tent criticism of our page than the
constant cries of "bias." We would
try to explain to critics that bias
is kind of a necessity on opinion
pages - without it there wouldn't
be too many opinions to speak of.
But the epithet of bias is much
harder to shake when leveled at
facially objective news organiza-
tions, or divisions of a newspa-
per that are supposed to be about
"just-the-facts" - like the Daily's
news section.
Having considered the question
for a longtime, I continue to believe
that most news stories mean well.
Even in the age of Fox News and the
cable news infotainment explosion,
it's important to remember that
most news outlets that purport to
be unbiased really do try to live up
to that billing.
For example, when NBC was
owned by General Electric, and
the latter was building planes for
the American war effort, NBC's
news division faced criticism for
its apparent pulling of punches
when it came to reporting the true
disaster of the war in Iraq. It made
for an intriguing story, but it's sim-
ply not sensible to believe that an
organization that employed Keith
Olbermann for all those years was
somehow not critical enough of
the Bush administration's failure
in Iraq.
Commenting on a story in the
Daily last week, however, a reader
reminded me of a significant addi-
tional nuance to the bias-in-news
argument: There is some degree
of advocacy in every news story,
whether it's explicit enough to
annoy the average reader or not.
Even a simple decision on what
to deem newsworthy enough to

publish is a biased decision driven
by, and reinforcing, a particular
worldview.
And with that contention (which
I think rings true), I turn my atten-
tion to a story that appeared in this
paper last week: "To professors'
dismay, students still use RateMy-
Professors.com," 11/28/2011. The
focus of the story was a website
that we're all familiar with - and
the potential problems students
and professors face when students
rely on that website for informa-
tion about courses. While the story
did disclose that the Daily operates
a competing website (maizeand-
bluereview.com), several people
expressed to me some discomfort
with the story.
The main point I think the aver-
age reader would take away from
that news story is that RateMyPro-
fessors is often inaccurate (given
its penchant for extremist reviews
by outlying students), and students
would be better informed about
the suitability of classes if they
could look at the University's own
course evaluations, which are more
detailed, though not always eas-
ily available. The Daily's compet-
ing website makes those University
course evaluations more accessible
to students, thereby seemingly
being the solution to the problem
the story points out.
Perhaps some readers will find
that to be a convenient enough out-
come to indicate somethingsinister,
but I disagree. The actual answer is
simple: The thesis of the story (that
RateMyProfessors is bad) is obvious
and widely known. And the Daily
provides course evaluations on
Maize & Blue Review not because
there is some gold mine there to be
tapped, but rather because it is a
simple and obvious student service,
the likes of which this paper should

engage in.
But that's not to say that no issue
remains. Ultimately it cannot be
denied that the Daily wrote a news
story that pushed readers into a
view that reinforces a competing
service provided by this news-
paper. What I want to suggest,
however, is that isn't always a bad
thing. The only alternatives the
Daily would have had are to: 1) not
create a website like Maize & Blue
Review, which would mean there is
less information out there for stu-
dents - an undesirable outcome, or
2) not write about the significant
shortcomings of the most popu-
lar professor and course review
website - another undesirable
outcome, given that students care
about such issues.
The Daily in this case avoided
both of those silly alternatives and
picked what I think is the most sen-
sible course: Write the story, have it
say what needs to be said, and pro-
vide full disclosure.
Sarcastically extrapolating a
common conservative complaint,
Stephen Colbert famously said,
"Reality has a liberal bias." That
comedic observation hits home
because it hints just enough truth.
Some stories need to be written,
even if writing them pushes read-
ers toward a certain viewpoint.
This isn't egregiously biased jour-
nalism, rather, it's an inevitability
for a paper trying to do its job. And
there's no use denying it or hiding
it - all we can do is explain it.
-The public editor is on independent
critic of the Daily, and neither the editorial
board nor the editor in chief exercise
control over the contents of his columns.
The opinions expressed do not necessarily
constitute the opinion of the Daily.
Imran Syed can be reached at
publiceditor@michigandaily.com

6
6

research for a cure for AIDS.
About 1.2 million people live with HIV
in the U.S. Each year, nearly 50,000 people
are infected with the disease, according to a
White House statement. In Obama's address,
he stated that over the last three years, it's
estimated that the disease has increased in
young, gay, black men by 50 percent.
In 2003, former President George W. Bush
launched the President's Emergency Plan for
AIDS Relief - a program that provides treat-
ment and support for the 15 countries that are
most affected by the disease. The plan cur-
rently has a budget of $48 billion, and a major
benefit of Obama's pledge is that the major-
ity of the money will be reallocated from this
existing resource, rather than taking addition-
al funds out of the government's budget.
The money will be put toward the govern-
ment's plan for expanding research, funding
medical facilities and digging deeper in pur-
suit of an eventual cure. But the funding will
not just be limited to helping to decrease AIDS
and HIV transmission. Money will also be put
toward providing antiretroviral drugs to HIV-
positive pregnant women in order to prevent
them from passing the disease along to their
unborn child. It will also fund the distribution
of more than 1 billion condoms in developing
countries around the world. These are impor-
tant measures that can help prevent HIV from
continuing to spread while people work on

finding a permanent cure.
In 2009, the International AIDS Society
announced that it will be holding the 2012
International AIDS Conference, a biannual
conference for HIV and AIDS professionals,
in Washington, D.C. Coinciding with this
news, Obama lifted a 20-year ban prohibit-
ing people from entering the country if they
were infected with the HIV virus. This event
should unite leaders and innovators from
various countries all over the world in hopes
of working together to improve global health
and medicine.
Paul De Lay, deputy director of the Joint
United Nations Programme on HIV and Aids,
said in a Dec. 1 CNN article that, "2011 has
been a game-changing year, with new sci-
ence, unprecedented political leadership and
continued progress in the AIDS response."
He stressed that countries around the world
must utilize these resources and use them to
end this disease. Obama's plan is a tremendous
financial backbone that can help scientists and
doctors work toward this goal.
The AIDS epidemic is a serious public health
issue in this country and around the world.
Proper funding must be assigned to research
so that a cure can be discovered. Obama's plan
to allocate $50 million toward AIDS research
and medical treatment across the countrywill
move us even closer to this goal.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
LOU WANG I
The economics of immigration

0

ERIKA MAYER I V EWP NT

As
State
will e
I took
to cal
Earlie
was n
the 5
and tr
took t
my fr
would
Hous
team
year I
the Bi
A
travel
mate
versit
by the
by m3
looker
dium
rooms
and t]
the cr
const:
We w
10 rul
ments
for us
watch
a criti
Thi

Big House, big memories
I stood in the endzone after the Ohio football game in East Lansing. While it was
football game this year, the last game I eye-opening in more ways than one, we were
ver attend as a student at the University, again surprised by the stadium. Spartan Sta-
a moment to reflect on how lucky I am dium looks like a college stadium, which was
. the Big House my college football home. more than we could say for Purdue, but we
r this year on a tour of the stadium, I still suffered some culture shock (beyond the
early in tears as I sat on the block 'M' at sea of green and taunts that assaulted our eyes
0-yard line, overwhelmed by the history and ears). To be fair, our scoreboards are now
radition of the stadium. For three years I the size of a blue whale, so it's not really fair to
he Big House for granted - laughing at compare them to other stadiums' scoreboards.
lends from the University of Illinois who But even our old scoreboards could have eaten
ln't miss their chance to come to the Big these scoreboards as an afternoon snack. Once
e,eventhough they don'twatchtheir own again, comparisons to our high school were
playgames intheir own stadium. Butthis running through our heads. It was nearly
realized just how lucky we truly are - impossible to watch a replay - something
g House is one of a kind, which became very frustrating at that game
huge part of my realization came from in particular - and there was only one score-
ing to away games. Last year, my room- board, so if you were sitting on the far side of
and I road tripped down to Purdue Uni- the stadium like us, good lucktrying to read the
y in West Lafayette. We were amazed yardage and down. And Spartan Stadium plays
e stadium. At the risk of being disowned advertisements too.
y Boilermaker relatives - the stadium Michigan Stadium has clearly spoiled me.
d more similar to our high school sta- With history and tradition backing us up, I've
than the Big House. The away locker become really proud to walk to the stadium
s weren't even attached to the stadium, every Football Saturday. I'm thankful that
he players had to walk outside through the Athletic Department doesn't need to sell
owd to get onto the field. And there were advertisements during the game soI can watch
antly ads playing throughout the game. replays and awesome sports montages on
ere astonished - we thought it was a Big screens the size of a whale. I'm proud that our
le that schools couldn't have advertise- stadium is admired country-wide and that fans
splaying at the game. It didn't take long from other schools are excited to visit. Most of
to wish we were at the Big House after all, I'm happy that I will always be able to call
ing the 27th Pepsi commercial instead of the Big House my home.

Attempts at immigration reform have been undistin-
guished at the federal level. The last serious bipartisan
effort - the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act
of 2007 - failed. Since then, states have enacted their
own legislation, which go to great extents to deter ille-
gal immigration. For example, in one of the most extreme
provisions - that was struck down inArizona, but upheld
in Alabama - officers must check the immigration sta-
tuses of individuals who they stop or arrest when they
suspect them to be in the country illegally.
Severe immigration laws like these at the state level
appear to differ drastically and unprecedentedly from
legislation previously debated at the federal level and
are gaining momentum in at least six states. These
laws are noteworthy because they come at a time when
illegal immigration to the United States is declining
dramatically.
According to Marcelo Suirez-Orozco, a professor of
globalization and education at New York University and
co-founder of the Harvard Immigration Project, since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, illegal immigration
has significantly decreased while lawful immigration has
remained steady. But if illegal immigration is declining,
why is legislation that drastically deters it becoming more
prevalent, and what will it achieve? There's probably no
single or simple answer, but much could be understood
by considering the history of Mexican immigration tothe
U.S.
As early as the 1850s, and well into the 1920s, Mexi-
cans filled labor shortages created by the U.S.'s expand-
ing agricultural and railroad industries. Mexicans were
crucial to the American economy. Moreover, central
Mexico in the 1920s was essentially a backwater of Mex-
ico's faltering economy. As agricultural economist Paul
Taylor documented in his pioneering work, jobs there
were scarce, and those employed in agriculture could
likely earn five times more building railroads in America.
Since Mexicans could easily cross the border at this time,
many migrated.
This trend reversed when the stock market crashed
in 1929. As unemployment escalated during the Great
Depression, so did opposition to Mexicans and beliefs
that Mexicans drain the country's welfare. For several
reasons the federal government and Legislatures nation-
wide passed laws that restricted Mexican immigration.
These laws also restricted Mexicans from getting jobs,
denied them welfare when they became unemployed
and, eventually, encouraged their deportation from
the country. In cities as north as Dearborn, police were
known to coerce Mexicans to prove their legal residence
to immigration authorities - something alarmingly close

to what the current Alabama legislation requires. Byl1937,
approximately 453,000 Mexicans were deported. Then
during World War II, this trend reversed. In response to
labor shortages, Mexicans were once again recruited to
the farms and factories they left just 10 years prior.
In hindsight, the essence of pre-Depression Mexi-
can immigration policies resonated in immigration
legislation debated by Congress before the 2008 reces-
sion. The 2007 legislation, for example, would have
introduced a guest worker program and given many
illegal immigrants paths toward citizenship. The
Depression-era anti-Mexican policies were somewhat
extreme manifestations of immigration legislation
that's emerged during our recession. Though immi-
gration regulations have evolved since the Depression,
two things remain clear: when the economy roared,
policies were more lax toward illegal immigrants,
even though they came illegally. When the economy
crashed, policies became harsher toward illegal immi-
grants because they came illegally.
Considering this history, it's troubling that the
emerging harsher immigration laws come at a time
when illegal immigration is dramatically declining, ille-
gal immigrants fill a labor shortage in unskilled farm
jobs that more Americans avoid today than during the
Depression and a significant number of illegal immi-
grants come from rapidly industrializing nations that
provide far more economic opportunities for its citizens
- and therefore far less push for them to leave - than
Mexico did from 1850 to 1940.
This raises two questions. If illegal immigration is
declining as a result of the recession, to what extent
will drastic measures at the state level further this
decrease? When the economy recovers, our labor short-
age for unskilled farm jobs will rise. We will require
more migrant workers. But if the new fences staked by
emerging harsher legislation significantly curtails ille-
gal immigration, will enough migrant workers climb the
extra fences to come to the U.S., legally or illegally, when
the economy recovers? Unlike deported Mexicans who
rushed back during WWII, 21st century migrants come
from countries far wealthier than 1940s Mexico.
States that now wish to enact even harsher legislation
to deter illegal immigration need to understand that ille-
gal immigration is now both informed and complicated
by our history and our current and future economy. Per-
haps this change in complexity is the only thing that is
drastic and unprecedented about illegal immigration
reform today.
Lou Wang is an SSA senior.

cal replay.
is year we went to the Michigan State

Erika Mayer is an LSA senior

JEFF ZUSCHLAG E-MAIL.JEFFAT JEFFl)Z@IUMICI.EDU
Ok so maybe
scutny th ing tr...u... $1.8milio trom
Int such a uh... Freddie Mac?
good iaea WHAT $1.8 milliun?
for me D on't break, I'm a
Mitt, dont candidate
sreak yarp yarpl
The Line-
is
The Lineup

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 5, 2011 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December 5, 2D11 - 5A

Celebrating Sturges

Among the filmmakers of
early Hollywood, one in
particular stands out:
Preston Sturges, whose legacy
comprises just 10 films he made
between 1940
and 1948,
had a career
remark-
able for its
brilliance,
brevity and
peerless inno-
 vation. In his PHILIP
time, Stur- CONKLIN
ges's body
of work was
groundbreaking, and his films,
which remain vibrant and fresh,
should not be missed.
Sturges began his career as a
Hollywood screenwriter in 1930,
and for 10 years was one of the
most successful writers in the
industry. In a time when writers
were largely marginalized and
disrespected, Sturges became
the first-ever Hollywood screen-
writer to become a director,
when he famously sold his script
"The Great McGinty" (1940) for
one dollar on the condition he
be allowed to direct. And thus
began an amazing run of bril-
liant films.
The best place to start with
Sturges is "Sullivan's Trav-
els"(1941) and "The Lady Eve"
(1941), two of his best films, and
also his most accessible. "The
Lady Eve" - about a rich but
unsophisticated scientist (Henry
Fonda, "12 Angry Men") who
falls in, then out, then back in
love with a beautiful con artist
(Barbara Stanwyck, "Double
Indemnity") - showcases every-
thing that makes a Sturges film
great: broad comedy, clever dia-
logue and elegant romance. "Sul-
livan's Travels," about a director
of comedy films who tries to
live as a hobo as research for a
social commentary film about
the downtrodden masses, is as
delightful as "The Lady Eve,"
but even more sophisticated - it
contains some lyrical scenes of
staggering beauty, and is one of
Sturges's most affecting films.
Equally great is "Palm Beach
Story," (1942) Sturges's most
iomantic film. The film follows
a young wife who leaves her

husband for Palm Beach to try
to marry a millionaire. It's an
intricately detailed film, one that
reveals new pleasures on each
viewing. "Hail the Conquering
Hero" (1944) is another Stur-
ges gem, and often overlooked.
After being discharged from
the military before even seeing
action, a young private meets a
group of Marines that helps him
return home under the guise of
a war hero. "Conquering Hero"
shows the director at the top of
his game - it's a hilarious, inven-
tive, continually surprising film
that's also one of Sturges's most
touching.
Sturges wrote some of the
funniest, cleverest scripts of the
studio era, and his films abound
with visual beauty. He operated
inside the conventions of the
screwball comedies of the time,
but elevated them to new heights
with unflagging wit and complex
narratives. But what makes Stur-
ges's films even more impres-
sive is he had complete artistic
control over his films - he had
sole writing and directing credit,
which was unprecedented. And
this was at a time when Holly-
wood was ruled by giant studios
and their powerful producers.
Sturges is one of the original
American auteurs, and certainly
the first one in the Hollywood
studio system.
But Sturges's defying of stu-
dio practices put him on thin
ice and he often clashed with
studio heads. In 1944 he made a
film called "The Great Moment"
aboutthe dentist who pioneered
the use of anesthesia, and his
struggles in the medical commu-
nity. The movie, a straight-ahead
drama, is a real departure for
Sturges and, though still a good
film, flopped at the box office,
causing a falling out with his stu-
dio. This led to Sturges forming
a partnership with millionaire
Howard Hughes, who helped
Sturges form his own studio,
California Pictures, where, as
writer, director and producer,
Sturges had even more creative
control over his films.
However, this turned out to be
the beginning of Sturges's pro-
fessional decline. He made just
one film with Hughes, "The Sin

of Harold Diddlebock" (1947).
Though nominated for the
Grand Prize at the Cannes Film
Festival, it was a flop. Hughes
meddled with the film's produc-
tion, and the result is a film that,
while very funny, doesn't quite
hold together like Sturges's pre-
vious work. When the film failed,
Hughes fired Sturges from the
studio.
After this, Sturges moved to
Fox Studios, where, though his
reputation had been irrevocably
sullied, he made his best film,
"Unfaithfully Yours" (1948).
The film is a pitch-black comedy
about a conductor who suspects
his wife of infidelity and, while
conducting a symphony perfor-
mance, imagines several revenge
scenarios. Part psychological
drama, part slapstick comedy
and part romance, the film is an
adroit satire, and Sturges's most
compelling and mature film. It
A director's
rise and fall in a
volatile industry.
flopped with both critics and
audiences in its time, but is high-
ly regarded among film scholars
today.
Sturges made two more films
after this, one in Hollywood
and one in France, neither one
successful. His improbable
meteoric rise into film stardom
was followed by an even quicker
fall into obscurity. But Sturges's
effect on the modern movie
industry cannot be overplayed.
He broke away from the system
at a time when the system was all
there was, and paved the way for
countless innovators in cinema.
His career was an anomaly - he
was an auteur before auteur
theory, and managed to be one of
the most successful filmmakers
in Hollywood while breaking all
of its rules - and his films still
feel modern and fresh today.
Conklin wants toset up a movie
studio with Howard Hughes. To
pitch in, e-mail conklin@umich.edu.

'Paradise' out loud
at annual reading
Fans gather to some people acted is if they read and Brice Harris, who stayed for
the entire "Paradise Lost" every the entire reading, described the
recite Milton's epic Saturday morning. When asked apples as their favorite part of
the significance of reading "Par- the reading experience.
in 10-hour run adise Lost" aloud, Trevor noted "It was super loud - while
that Milton was blind when he somebody was reading,
By KATIE STEEN wrote the poem. you would continually hear
Daily Arts Writer "Think in terms of the com- (chomp)," Harris explained, bit-
position of the poem," Trevor ing into an imaginary apple to
While most University stu- said. "In the early morning, one demonstrate.
dents were sleeping off their or two of (Milton's) former stu- The students admitted it was
Friday night festivities, a par- dents would come by his house difficult to stay for the entire
ticularly brave group arrived at and he'd recite 30 or 50 lines or reading, particularly toward the
Angell Hall at 8 a.m. Saturday so each morning and they would end of the poem when it began to
morning to read John Milton's read back those lines that he had seem "epilogue-ish," as Stefadu
epic poem "Paradise Lost" - yes, composed the day before. It was described it. While a substan-
the entire thing - in one sitting. a poem that was largely com- tial number of people stayed the
This was the second year the posed orally." entire time, the size of the group
University's English depart- Gregerson also shared a few varied throughout the day.
ment held a reading of "Para- benefits of oral reading; she "It's funny because when it
dise Lost." Headed by English said that since "Paradise Lost" was the 'fall of man,' the room
Profs. Linda Gregerson and is filled with speeches, it's won- was full," Stefadu said. "People
Doug Trevor, the reading was derful to givea voice to the char- seemed to know when tocome to
conducted in a round robin fash- acters. She also explained that a the interesting parts and I don't
ion, as participants took turns lot of her students read poetry know how that happened."
reading the poem in a "circle." out loud in order to understand Round robin attendees varied
In reality, the readers situated it best. greatly, including one woman
themselves in an amorphous "I think all poetry should be who brought her elementary-age
blob shape, but all the benefits read out loud," Gregerson said. son (who preferred to silently
of a round robin reading were "In an ideal world, we'd meet munch on a bagel and observe).
certainly still present. Greger- every Saturday and read poet- Some people stayed for 20 min-
son described the first "Para- ry." utes while others stood and
dise Lost" reading as having Of course, reading for 10 stretched against the wall, com-
a diverse group of people, and hours every weekend would plaining of body aches after the
stressed that anyone and every- become a bit taxing. Prior to the reading was complete.
one was welcome to come read reading, Trevor had offered the The poem's finish was met
for this round as well. participants some advice. with clapping in a seemingly
"It's wonderful to hear a vari- "Drink lots of water," he said. mixed reaction of enjoyment of
ety of voices, not where we're The department provided the experience and sheer relief
sort of center-staging anybody," food and beverages to maintain it was over. In the end, however,
Gregerson said. "We don't assign participants' energy - or at least the unanimous response was
roles; people don't come and to prevent accidental nodding one of satisfaction.
read Satan for the day." off during the marathon. Pro- "It's very rare that you get to
Voices of all sorts were heard visions included apples for the hear such a thing in one sweep,"
at this year's reading, including "fall of man" scene when Adam Gregerson said. "We fully intend
a few particularly appropriate and Eve are tempted to eat the to do it annually ... it's a won-
English accents. The readers' fruit from the forbidden tree. derful tradition that builds very
confidence levels fluctuated - LSA seniors Galina Stefadu nicely."

T uFILM REVIEW
True romance mn Crazy'

By AKSHAY SETH
Daily Arts Writer
"I love you." These three
immortal words, now as bat-
tered as the movies that inanely , -
slap them into
the final scene,
just don't mean
what they Like Crazy
used to. After
years of see- At the State
ing the phrase paramount
emblazoned on
random greet- Vantage
ing cards and
uttered by people who really
don't mean what they're saying, "So silky, so smooth ... have you been u
it's not hard to see why.
Filmmakers have always pre- how quickly it happens, almost
tended to understand how some- as if, within the scope of this
one can muster enough courage movie, the two characters can't
to say the words with meaning. exist outside the bounds of their
And most of the time, they're relationship.
wrong. But some movies manage On paper, this can seem like
to creep past our defenses and a bit of a turn off. After all, who
show us why the real world, no wants to see a movie about two
matter how often it tries to com- grown individuals with separa-
moditize what we feel, really tion anxiety over a long-distance
shouldn't have a say in whether relationship? If such a story is
or not we love someone. "Like drawn out for enough time - and
Crazy," as timelessly heart- there are plenty that have been -
breaking as it is deep, is one of the audience just ends up want-
those movies. ing to shoot the characters. But
somehow, writer and director
Drake Doremus ("Douchebag")
Gotta love makes it work.
Gottalove Perhaps it has to do with
'Like Crazy. the choice to marginalize the
script and instead rely on the
two leads' ability to improvise.
. The result is a more realistic
At first glance, there's nothing dialogue, without any traces of
special about the film - it's just a screenwriter's wit or acerbity,
a story of two college students, that lets the relationship the
Jacob (Anton Yelchin, "Star two characters form breathe in
Trek") and Anna (Felicity Jones, our world, at a level where we
"Soul Boy"), drawn to each other can organically relate. Or maybe
from first glance. No one is real- it's because the only bad guy in
ly surprised when the pair starts this movie is the mean immigra-
dating or when they inevitably tion officer, who bars Anna from
fall in love. What is surprising is returning to the U.S. after she.

sing Nivea?"
overstays her student visa.
Neither one of the characters
ever does anything really wrong.
They remain faithful and only
see other people after realizing
Anna might never return to the
U.S. It's just a matter of circum-
stance stepping in between. But
they're star-crossed lovers, and
with that cliche comes the real-
ization that circumstance can't
keep the two apart.
Even though the years slowly
draw out and the two quietly
grow apart, Doremu shows us
snippets of their lives apart and
time together, weaving between
those instances the sense that
they're still looking out at the
horizon, waiting for the slightest
sign of the other.
Despite the tropes, which at
times can seem overdone, this
movie can be interpreted as one
final argument for true romance,
including all of its little intrica-
cies and quirks. More realistical-
ly, it's a painful treatise on love's
naivete and cruelty, how it has
the potential to slowly tear apart
everything it comes into contact
with. But that's OK, because love
is worth believing in.

MUERNST& YOUNG
Qualityin Everything We Do


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Monday, December 5, 2011



FILM REVIEW
A Hawaiian ennui

ALBUM REVIEW
'Jet Life' takes to the sky

'The Descendants'
delves into realistic
relationships
By AKSHAY SETH
Daily Arts Writer
Life can be a long, point-
less walk through normality.
In the bleakest of terms, we go
to school,
get a job, go * ***
to work and
eventually, like The
cattle being Diats
herded from
one platform to At Quality 16
another, die. It and Rave
really doesn't
matter who Fox Searchlight
we are or how
much money we have in our wal-
lets, because at some unfortu-
nate point, we all get smacked
across the face with the sudden
realization that there's absolute-
ly nothing to be done about it.
Most movies try to bank on
this notion of insignificance
by offering an escape from it,
depicting the lives of extraordi-
nary individuals who rise above
the confines of regularity. But
"The Descendants," the latest
directorial effort by Alexan-
der Payne ("Sideways"), isn't
like most movies. It's a tender
tale of mourning and melan-
choly, touched with moments
of hilarity that bring to life the
ironic imperfections of human
existence. The most surpris-
ing detail? Every single char-
acter onscreen is absolutely
and unapologetically normal -
they're the kind of people who
could be our next-door neigh-
bors.
George Clooney ("Up in the
Air") plays Matt King, a worka-
holic lawyer who happens to be
one of the last surviving descen-
dants of Kamehameha I, the first
king of a united Hawaii. Part of
the trust fund he and his cousins
have inherited is a large tract of

"Bring your daughter to work day" with Clooney is less exciting than you'd think.
undeveloped "virgin" Hawaiian even if he lives in America's par-
land, the last of its kind. With adise land - facing all the crap
said trust fund about to dissolve, that life offers. The keen sense of
Matt and his cousins decide to honesty in the script and direc-
cash in their chips and sell off tion enliven Payne's ability to
the land, a venture that would highlight the little character
make all of them extremely rich details he puts onscreen.
and irrevocably change Hawaii's Seemingly unnecessary
real estate climate. minutiae, like the way Matt
As the details of the sale are deals with a bitter father-in-law
ironed out, Matt's wife Eliza- (Robert Forster, "Middle Men")
beth (newcomer Patricia Hastie) and his daughter's idiotic friend
is involved in a boating accident (newcomer Nick Krause), give
that puts her in a coma and fore- the character room to breathe,
es him, for the first time in seven allowing the audience to see him
years, to care for his rebellious when he's not exposed by his
daughters. The oldest, 17-year- grief.
old Alexandra (Shailene Wood- Clooney excels in using the
ley, TV's "The Secret Life of freedom he's given with a char-
the American Teenager") soon acter as multifaceted as Matt.
reveals that she caught Eliza- There are moments inthe movie,
beth with another man before just seconds after Matt stops
the accident. himself from breaking down,
Matt - struggling to maintain that serve as a constant remind-
a measure of authority - finds er of how completely Clooney
himself at a crossroads, unsure understands the personality he's
of where to turn. Is he going been asked to embody and how
to keep supporting the wife he that personality fits into this
thought he knew for close to 20 movie's voice.
years, or will she always be that Shit hits the fan. There's noth-
unfaithful woman who intend- ing much Matt can do to clean it
ed on demanding a divorce and up, but he faces it in the same
jumping ship? way any one of us would, and he
The movie, like the other films becomes a better man for it. It
Payne has written and directed, would be too simple to just break
stands out because there's no down and turn your back. Matt's
discernible plotline. The main unwillingness to do so reminds
character is just a regular guy - us why.

By GEOFF MARINO
Daily Arts Writer
Say the word "Jet" to your-
self. Say it again. What meaning
comes to mind? Are you envision-
ing New York
Jets quarter-
back Mark San-
chez lobbing a Je
football down-
field? Are you Jet World
contemplating Order
the loud, some-
what terrify- Jets International
ing drone of a
military jet flying over Michigan
Stadium, observing the power of
the military-industrial complex?
To New Orleans rapper
Curren$y and his crew Jet Life,
the word "jet" has nothing to do
with football, but it definitely
means something important to
him, because Jet World Order
is one of four aircraft-themed
albums. To him, the "jet" is a
symbol of liberation, nullifying
the most extreme topographical
hindrances. It breaks down bar-
riers. Effectively, the "jet life"
the group members talk about in
interviews transcends the con-
ventional wisdom that says art-
ists need to sell out to get rich.
Luckily for Jet Life -
Curren$y, Trademark Da Sky-
diver, Young Roddy, Smoke
DZA, Mikey Rocks and oth-
ers - the album lives up to the
group's audacity. It creates a
balance by embracing pop sen-
sibilities without groveling to
the hip-hop industry's formula
for a chart-topping pop smash.
On "Excellent," the album's first
and most impressive track, Jet
Life provides a down-to-earth
rap experience. Young Roddy
subtly excites, letting vowel
sounds dance on the fine line
separating snarly and soft, and
the upbeat music seems to mir-
ror that nature, with a buzzing
synth line that characterizes a
kazoo and a piano.
The song gets your head bop-
ping, but it thankfully doesn't

6

"Shark World Order" was ousted as the title after several New York rumbles.

indulg
rap an
lesslyc
in. The
chorus
There
or vitr
adrena
doesn'
Cu
st
while
ing us
and ra
totally
for sti
The
end v
ing Le
wobbli
ferent
from T
though
and Yc
to its L
ing tru
pler E
"jet li
Every

e in any of the mainstream genius doesn't end.
d hip-hop scene's shame- The lyrics are as playfully
overused tactics to draw us enigmatic as the music is innova-
re is no soaring, emotional tive, and in this department the
to wrench out our tears. album serves the essential func-
is no bone-shaking bass tion of demystifying Curren$y's
'iolic verse to demand an fascination with jets. The top-
line rush. The tracksimply of-the-world mentality is juxta-
t need any of it. It excites posed alongside the anti-society,
anti-machine, marijuana culture
Jet Life is a part of. In "Lop-Sid-
rren$y won't ed," Young Roddy spits outa line
that epitomizes the group's phi-
hortcha . losophy: "Fuck yo' system, I'll get
paid without it."
In short, Jet Life is incredibly
ambitious. The group doesn't
coaxing curiosity, leav- want to play within the sys-
able to appreciate hip hop tem in society or art - but still
p as high art without being thinks it can win. And at least
overtaken by an appetite in terms of this album, Jet Life
mulation. does. When the unfamiliar tim-
musical innovations don't bres of the various Jets mix with
with "Excellent." "Noth- these imaginative productions,
ss" incorporates a mellow, the product is delightfully fresh.
ing synth line not much dif- Plus, it's hard not to wish these
from what one would hear guys well. Who wouldn't want to
Madvillian or MF Doom, live the "jet life," making money
h Trademark Da Skydiver with boundless creativity? The
Dung Roddy don't concede profundity of the mission is
aziness. In "Pilots," a fall- apparent and should resonate
impet line evokes the Dop- with anyone who has felt their
ffect, making the "jet" in creative powers quashed by the
ife" especially palpable. pressures of modern capitalism

song is inventive - the

- essentially everyone.

0

WWW.CAMPUSREALTY.COM
734-665-8825
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATIONS
543 Church
Best location in town! Right across
from East Hall. Spacious 4 bdrm
bi-level apts. Updated kitchens
w/dish-
washers, heat & water included,
and all apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.

RELEASE DATE- Monday, December 5, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Studying intoathe 39 Corp. bigwig 54Oft-timed
1 Trojan Horse, for wee hours, say 40 It's not fiction or contests
example 3 Ancient Athens fantasy 56 Seagoing
5 Move a muscle rival 41 Fannie attention
9 G sharp 4Trattoria rbrw 42 Emotional verse getters
equivalent 5 Throat prohlem 46 Harass 58 Memorial news
14 Phone 6 Razzes 48 Hars item
downloads 7 Furniture chain as Widened, as a 59 tismet
15 Grab hold of founded in Salen S auitable
16 Doctrine Sweden
17 Open-handed hit 0 Putone's tet up 51 Presenttrom irh e Fretting plane
10 Foals sarrp 5 Cold outburst? 52 Etrasone whs's e2 Chinese menu
a1ot 10 Extreme "out" general
19 Intoxicating, as agitation ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
wine 11 Grassy expanse
20nNotabllea0s 12Goaon tssay P 5 B L I C S A L E S
anti-alcohol s 3Giftunder a tree, C O N E 0 F S I L E N C E
demonstrator 2a DO U B L E S I D E D T A P E
23 Try 21 Macoswhos
24 Garden hose collected shoes I
feature 22 Emulate the
28 Car dealer's Gregorians C 0 N T M A U R A L E T O
deal 25 Likethe Marx E N G P A R T T I M E R S
29 Rotisseriearod Brothers P 0 R T W I N ESa
32 "Divine Secrets 26 Corrosive stuff T O O L C H E S T S B U S
of the 27Have a byte C A P P OAST 1S WON T
Sisterhood" 30 Moveswith A BGE S S S T S G E N I E
33 _-mo replay eort P O N C A S U R E T E
35 Leeds lays 31 Ltxers at
37t Lpstr'os ligatio N O TES O N A S C A N D A L
target 34 Fish hawk S O N S A N D L O V E R S
38 Thebondocks 36 Totally stump P E T S E M A T A R Y
41 '60s chic 38 Aussie greeting xwordeditor@aol.com 120311
43 Acted like 1 23 4 4 5 8e 7 a 10 11 12 13
44 Check out
45 Sandler of 1c a
"Grown Ups" 17 ,, ,,
47 Civil rights
pioneer Parks ca c1 cc
49 Novelist Puzo
53 Piglet pal c2 24 2 5 cc
55 Final part
57 General cc c 0cc1i 3c
situation cc c1 c3 cc35 8 3
60 Ancient Mexican
63 Scott of "Charles cc a 4o
in Charge"
64 Mosque offtcial c41cc a
65 Grth shelping cc 47 4 c 49 a 51 52
the sherixf
66 "Just doing my cc 53 54 c5
best"
67 Crumblycheese 57 c cc
68 Horn sounds
69 Ball-bearing cc cc c2 53 4
pegs cc5 s 67
70 Genesis locale
DOWN
1 Mischief-maker BycGal Grabowski and Bruce Venzke 12/0511
(c)2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (DORMS)
THINK U. TOWERS
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
WHY PAY OVER $1500
FOR A BEDItt
OUR ONE BEDROOMS
START AT $589
HURRY IN FOR BEST SELECTION
WE ARE NOW TAKING
RESERVATIONS FOR SPRING/FALL 2012
FOR1 WEEK ONLY
FREE PROCESSING FEE
A $150 VALUE!!
"FREE BUBBLE ISLAND
DRINK COUPON WITH
EVERY NEW TOURN"
VIST US AT
UNWERSITYTOWERS-MICDM
YOURN OME AWAY FROM HOME
S. FOREST AVE.
ANNARBR, MI 4160
734-761-MNO
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
2-BD APTS. Great for 4 People!
515 Walnut
2 bdrm, 2 bath bi-levels w/ roof top
pa-
tios near the CC-Little & CCRBt The
apartments are fully furnished and in-
clude heat, water, & parking. Contact
Varsity Management at (734)668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2012. dklemptner@comcast.net
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com a
Now Leasing!
*!!!!4 BDRM CONDO N. Campus
area. Free utilities, air cond., laundry,
cable, at. Loaded w/extras.
$598/pp/mo. 4 pax min. 313-838-2629.

!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2
kitchens, living room, dining room,
free
laundry and parking, Central Air!
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com
! ON NICHOLS ARBORETUM. Rus-
tic setting. Two room efficiency in pri-
vate home. Semi-private entrance. Wi-
fi; cable. $610. 734 662 7924
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5509.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
cated on Central Campus near the
Busi-
ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedroom apartments
loctaed on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedrrom apartments
loctaed near the U/M Medical Cam-
pus.
Two blocks to Central Campus. Call
Michigan Commercial Realty.
734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE
bedroom house loctaed near the U/M
Athletic Campus and Band Field.
Parking and Laundry. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2012 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
610 S. FOREST
Efficiencies - 2 Remaining
Fully Furmished
Heat & Water Included
Free Internet
734-761-8000
primesh.com
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-0115

! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
best housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
blocks from Central Campus and down-
town. I to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
7 BDRM HOUSE 1129 White St.
6 prkg spaces. 3 bth. Some recents Up-
dates. $4200 plus utlities. 734-996-
1991. www.cappomanagement.com
8 MONTH LEASES!!!
HUGE TOWNHOUSES w/ 31/2
Baths
4 FREE Parking Spaces
9 1/2 foot ceilings throughout
Call for details (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS:
WHY PAY $1500 FOR A BED???
Our 1 bedrooms start at $589. We
are now taking Reservations for
Spring/Fall 2012
*FOR 1 WEEK ONLY, FREE PRO-
CESSING FEE, $150.00 VALUE*
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
LIMITED 1 BED Apts. Remaining
2 @ 326 E. Madison $925/$945
2 @ 515 E. Lawrence $880
Fully Fumished
Heat & Water Included
Covered Parking Available
Free Internet
734-761-8000
primesh.com
ON CAMPUS HOUSING
AVAILABLE!
Varsity Management
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Bd apts. & 6 Bdrm Houses
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
411 HIGH STREET APART-
MENTS
2 Bedrooms
Kerry Town-North Campus!
Quiet Neighborhood!
Heat & Water Included
Cover Parking Available
$895-$925
734-761-8000
primesh.com
FALL '12 REDUCED RATE!
5 Bdrm, 2 bath. at 811 Sylvan. 10 min
walk to campus. 5 min to baseball field
and track. Appliances. $2200/mo.
734.834.1680.

FANTASIC THREE BDRM FLAT.
Main floor private house. Beautiful cus-
tom wood burning firerplace, full laun-
dry, larger private fenced yard and sun-
deck, hardwood floors and new carpet-
ing throughout.Freshly painted. $1300/
month w/ lease. Call 734-478-5730.
FULLY FURNISHED DOWN to
linens private keyed room and share ap-
pointed kitchen, larger bathrooom, fur-
nished living room with two other ten-
ants. Quiet private house. No smoking
or pets. $450/mo. Call 734-478-5730
5 UNIT/6 UNIT HOUSE. Corner of
Church and Willard. Across the street
from Pizza House. 2 large sitting
areas,
2 kitch., 3 showers/baths, wshr./dryer
no charge, 8 prkg. spaces avail. Aug.
2012-Aug 2013. CALL: 248-330-0396
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE
organization, format. All disciplines.
25 years' U-M experience.
734-996-0566 or iteon@iserv.net.
NOW HIRING
Spring 2012 Campus Reps
Contact jobs@GoEnnounce.com
PAID BUSINESS INTERNSHIP
Sales and Marketing. $15-18 / hr. Dead-
line to Apply Dec. 6. Call 800-930-
7348 For More Information
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SWIM INSTRUCTOR-PRIVATE
health & tennis club-Provide excellent
instruction and water safety skills to all
levels of swimmers. Provide superb
customer service and enthusiasm in
teaching swimming. Will teach group,
semi private, and private lessons. Free
membership with employment. Life-
guard certification required. Please
email your resume to cara.peterson-
@libertyathletic.net
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 2, 2011 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, December 2, 2D11 - 7A

'U' entrepreneurial group
hosts 1000 Pitches summit

n 0 n 1 . .

t
.

M

Daniel Atkins presents at the Humanities, Arts, Technology Advanced Collaboratory conference in Rackham Auditorium
on Friday.
Experts discuss digital age
atfftHannual A

tec
Exp
geonin
in aca
at Rac
weeke
Cati
profes
was th
at the
Arts,
Advan
ferenc
Saturd
"Digit
cation,
digital
the stu
univer

ational event to the 21st century academia.
i i e iDavidson, co-founder of HAS-
draws global TAC - a nationwide network of
hnology leaders scholars committed to maximiz-
ing the potential of new technol-
ogy - spoke to the amphitheater
By ALEXANDRA of professors, activists and stu-
MONDALEK dents about the institution of
Daily StaffReporter learning and how it must change
to accommodate growth in the
erts spoke about the bur- post-industrial age.
g growth of the digital age "We have great institutions
demics in front of a crowd that do a good job of preparing us
kham Auditorium this past for the 20th century," Davidson
nd. said. "How do we rethink those
by Davidson, an English institutions for the 21st century?"
sor at Duke University, Panels and presentations at
ie first of several speakers the conference offered by a vari-
fifth annual Humanities, ety of professionals from schools
Science and Technology such as Columbia University
ced Collaboratory con- and Cornell University sought
e held Thursday through to investigate the nuances of the
lay. This year's event, titled digital age.
al Scholarly Communi- Philosophy professor Daniel
focused on improving Herwitz, professor and director
technology available to of the University's Institute for
dents and staff of research the Humanities, said the Univer-
sities, as well as adapting sityhas become asignificantplay-

er in the digital era. According to
Herwitz, this period emphasizes
the importance of student adapt-
ability to technology.
Herwitz added the three most
important qualities of students
in the digital age are "the ability
to think synergistically between
different kinds of technolo-
gies, the ability to have a critical
approach to complex social prob-
lems and the ability to negotiate
global divides."
LSA senior Paris Von
Habsburg-Lothringen, HAS-
TAC's event coordinator, said she
supports the University's efforts
at becoming a more digital com-
munity.
"Digital humanities allow peo-
ple to connect across the various
concentrations," Von Habsburg-
Lothringen said. "I see that
there's a lot of professors now
who try to integrate technology
into the classroom as a teaching
aid and a way to improve learn-
ing."

Stu
leade
Univi
toget
dents
the 1
await
Th
for tI
es Su
dent
MPon
ness i
on St
the fo
comp
to gu
advic
pitch
Ea
dents
prene
comp
categ
best
earn
event
the C
Cente
the U
Goog
Ml
they
this
the ex
Busin
Chris
proje
helpe
the
Nov.

Semi-finalists MPowered hosts in the winter
semester.
network at "People are engaged and
moving forward and meeting
[Poweredevent great mentors today," Christo-
pher said. "We're giving (the
By STEVE ZOSKI semi-finalists) the people they
Daily StaffReporter need to reach out to and learn
from so they can take the next
tdent entrepreneurs, big step."
rs of local start-ups and One of the keynote speak-
ersity professors came ers, Marc Weiser, managing
her this weekend as stu- director of RPM Ventures -
' entrepreneurial ideas in an Ann Arbor-based venture
000 Pitches competition capital company that invests
:judgment. in businesses developed in the
e participants gathered Midwest - said in his speech
he inaugural 1000 Pitch- that networking is essential for
ummit held by the stu- entrepreneurial success.
entrepreneurship group "Today is about your first
wered at TechArb, a busi- step," Weiser said. "Entrepre-
incubator on East Liberty, neurship is not a destination, it
aturday. Semi-finalists of is not a thing you become, it is a
aurth annual 1000 Pitches state of mind."
etition met and listened Weiser, an adjunct assistant
est speakers, who offered professor of entrepreneur-
e on entrepreneurial and ial programs in the College of
ing skills. Engineering, offered advice
ch fall, University stu- about networking.
submit their entre- "Don't confuse networking
urial ideas to the with notoriety," he said. "You
etition, which has 10 don't have to have everyone in
ories. Students with the the world know who you are.
pitch in each category will You just have to know every-
a $1,000 award from the body you want."
's sponsors, which include Doug Neal, managing direc-
College of Engineering's tor of the Center for Entre-
er for Entrepreneurship, preneurship, told the event's
niversity Law School and participants that competition
le, on Dec. 11. is an opportunity for students
Powered members said to become entrepreneurs while
decided to hold a summit still in school.
year because it enhances "When I was in school and
xperience for participants. there was no entrepreneurship
less sophomore Scott program, I just wanted to get
topher, a 1000 Pitches out," Neal said. "I wanted to
ct director, said the event get into the world and experi-
d bridge the gap between ence it.
submission deadline of But Neal explained that as a
18 and related events that student, he didn't have access

to the resources that University
students do to pursue his entre-
preneurial interests right away.
"The resources on our cam-
pus are incredibly valuable ..."
he said. "This and the other
programs all linked together
provide all sorts of resources.
Students can stay in school
and can achieve results while
they're here."
LSA junior Gautam Muth-
usamy, an 1000 Pitches partici-
pant at Saturday's event, said he
hoped to network to enhance
his penny stock company into
an investor relations company.
"I'm looking for the next
phase," Muthusamy said.
"That's primarily why I came
here - to network with people
and find some venture capital."
Engineering seniors Kins-
huk Rajan and Andrew Copp
collaborated to create a proto-
type of a medical testing device
that is currently beingtested by
a doctor at the University Hos-
pital.
"My idea is a simulator
that simulates a fundamental
test that doctors use to assess
dehydration and peripheral
perfusion," Rajan said. "Unfor-
tunately, it's a test that many
younger doctors are bad at
doing, soI built a simulator that
simulates the test and allows
them to practice with it."
Copp said the idea can still
be improved upon, and one rea-
son he came to the summit was
to find ways to pitch the simu-
lator better.
"One of the reasons I'm here
is to try and find better ways
to explain what exactly it is
we're doing," he said. "Even my
parents don't really get what
exactly it is I'm making."



SUGAR BOWL
From Page 1A
While there were indications
that Michigan was headed for
the Sugar Bowl, due to more to
its large fanbase than its 10-2
record, its rumored opponent
changed throughout the week-
end. Houston was the most
likely, but its loss in the Confer-
ence USA Championship Game
on Saturday left the door wide
open.
"We really didn't know,"
said senior tight end Kevin
Koger. "We kept hearing differ-
ent stuff. ...We were just going
through every scenario pos-
sible, Googling all the scenarios
as each game went on."
The final announcement was
CONFERENCE
From Page 1A
SAM in the past, it has been
increasing its role in the pro-
gram.
"Having the conference here
in Ann Arbor symbolizes our
recommitment to the Student
Association of Michigan," Wals-
er said.
This weekend's meeting drew
participants from 11 of Michi-
gan's 15 public universities. The
agenda included a wide array of
issues, including discussion on
the impact of state legislation on
students.
Gage said SAM has been
achieving tangible goals, like
aiding to defeat a bill in the
state House of Representatives
that would have cut $13 million
in funding from Wayne State
University and $18 million from
Michigan State University.
Earlier this fall, SAM started
a petition opposing the bill and
collected signatures from stu-
dent leaders at the 15 schools.
Kevin Tatulyan, vice president
of SAM and a student at Wayne
State University, also met with
state Rep. Bob Genetski (R-Sau-
gatuck), who introduced the
bill, to discuss their grievances,
according to Gage.
After the meeting, Genetski
pledged that the bill would not

a bit of a surprise. It was the
Hokies, a team the Wolverines
have never played. The two pro-
grams find themselves in simi-
lar situations. The Hokies were
blown out of the ACC Cham-
pionship Game, losing their
chance at the Orange Bowl.
But Virginia Tech fell to just
No. 11 in the BCS rankings, leav-
ing them in contention. They
weren't a popular choice, as
many fans and analysts thought
teams like Boise State or Kansas
State were more deserving.
"I think there's a lot of rea-
sons why Virginia Tech would
be an attractive team to a BCS
bowl," said Virginia Tech coach
Frank Beamer in a teleconfer-
ence last night. "The number
of years we've won 10 straight
games, I think that's another
thing, the only team to do that.
leave the committee, and while
Gage said SAM cannot take full
credit for Genetski's decision,
he emphasized the ability of the
organization to influence state
legislation.
"That's a really tangible
result," Gage said. "We may not
be able to win the cuts just yet,
but let's work on smaller, more
obtainable goals. Let's work on
keeping that bill in committee
and saving $31 million."
Tyler Helsel, a SAM spokes-
man and a student at Lake Supe-
rior State University echoed
Gage's sentiments, and said
student governments now have
more of an active relationship
with state lawmakers.
"SAM has built this bridge to
where (student governments)
can go, and we can discuss these
issues with the decision-mak-
ers," Helsel said.
Jeremy Jones, a student gov-
ernment representative from
Saginaw Valley State University
who attended the conference,
said SAM works on issues that
affect both current and future
students.
"As a future teacher, I defi-
nitely want to see my students
go on to college, and obtain
degrees and have successful
careers," Jones said. "Personally,
(because) I pay for my education
myself, it's definitely important
to me that it remains affordable

Over the years I think the Vir-
ginia Tech name has gotten to
be a very good name."
Michigan has only reached
two bowls since the 2007 loss to
USC - a 41-35 win over Florida
in the 2008 Capital One Bowl
and a 52-14 loss to Mississippi
State in last season's Gator Bowl.
As questions over whether
each team deserves to make the
trip to New Orleans begin to
fade, Michigan will move for-
ward. Hoke said the team will
have the week off "a little" bit
during finals week and a couple
of days off near the holidays.
But other than that, it's back to
work.
"That Ohio game is long
gone," Hoke said. "It's been a
while ago. So we've got to look
forward and we've got to work
forward toward the bowl game."
and that I can graduate without
a lot of debt."
During the conference, MSA
introduced aresolution to oppose
a House bill that would eliminate
benefits for domestic partners of
employees at public universities
in the state.
According to Omar Hashwi,
an LSA sophomore and MSA
representative who spoke at the
conference, 570 adults and 48
children would lose benefits due
to the new legislation.
SAM passed MSA's resolution
unanimously, and it will now be
sent to lawmakers.
Despite its mission to unite
members of student govern-
ments within the state, not every
university or college in Michi-
gan has consistently sent repre-
sentatives to the organization,
and Gage said he would like to
see increased attendance in the
future so students can work
together to combat issues like
cuts to higher education.
"Regardless of the size,
regardless of the quality of edu-
cation, we're all in this same boat
together," Gage said. "If you cut
one (budget), you cut another."
According Helsel, SAM's vis-
ibility isn't widespread around
the state, but is something they
would like to improve.
"A lot of people don't know
what SAM is and what we do,"
Helsel said.

MOTT.
From Page 1A
and about 300 volunteers, most-
ly comprised of members of the
UMHS community, contributed
to the effort. To ensure patients
were well fed and hydrated,
meals were provided from Plum
Market in Ann Arbor.
To make the move more
exciting for patients, the staff
developed a theme of traveling
on an airplane and provided
small gifts, such as backpacks,
blankets and coloring books.
Kathy Wade, director of
social work for UMHS, said the
theme was intended to create a
welcoming environment for the
hospital community.
"We really tried to address
it from babies to kids to ado-
lescents to teenagers that are
moving," Wade said. "And the
families, we've involved them
since the very beginning."
Gavin said nurses and staff
members of one intensive
care unit even made Top Gun

T-shirts to follow the theme. ing in the old building have been
"It was a way of making it fun prepping for this and waiting
for the kids and for the staff and for this," Gavin said. "Now that
of thinking about it as a jour- it's finally here, all this training
ney," Gavin said. "A very short is paying off."
journey, but a journey." Pat Warner, executive direc-
Throughout the day, updates tor of the new hospital, said
were posted on UHS's Facebook the transition went smoothly
and Twitter pages. Photos and throughout the day, adding that
postings generated comments staff members were prepared
from those connected to the for any possible interruption to
hospital, many offering memo- the move, including deliveries
ries of the hospital or thank- of babies or emergency situa-
ing hospital staff. Others wrote tions like cardiac arrests.
questions about where new "With a move like this, you
departments will be located and plan every contingency you can
how the move was progressing. think of," Warner said. "Have
Gavin said parents of past we along the way had to make
patients and future patients tweaks in the plan? Yes. But
were eager to see the develop- have there been any barriers or
ments online. things we didn't have an imme-
"They're asking questions diate solution to? No."
and commenting," Gavin said. According to Warner, there
"So this virtual community that were no emergencies, but the
is being built around Mott is day did not pass without some
also being engaged today." excitement. The first baby was
Gavin added that all the prep- born in the new hospital at
aration added to the anticipa- 8:45 a.m. yesterday, before the
tion of the opening of the new move was completed to parents
building. Yasmina Debieb and Ali Mah-
"Staff who have been work- moudi.


LIBRARY
From Page 1A
initiatives.
"The ability to join these
resources together in a help-
ful format for people to use for
research and inquiry is really
amazing," Green said.
The new library features
presentation and event spaces
with dual projectors, screens,
a whiteboard and seating for
more than 30 students. It also
includes nine workstations with
software for spatial and statisti-
cal analysis, data visualization
and a high-quality scanner.
"The librarians and resourc-
es help the process from start to
finish," Green said. "People can
find the data they need, can get
information for the way they
are collecting data and can cre-
ate an end point, with data com-
putation and presentation."
The library also has a maps
and materials viewing bar that
spans the length of the library.
Green said the bar provides
increased space for students to
conduct research and has moni-
tors that allow for simultaneous

access to maps, data and statis-
tical software.
"Where the maps were pre-
viously located, on the eighth
floor of the Hatcher Library,
the maps were difficult to
access and the viewing area was
cramped," Green said. "Now
with the assistance of a librar-
ian, several maps can be taken
out and viewed at once with the
large space on the table."
The library's namesake, Ste-
phen S. Clark - a 1974 alum of
the College of Engineering and
1976 graduate of the Ross School
of Business - said he donated to
the library because he valued
the libraries during his time at
the University. -
"I needed a quiet refuge to
study (in college) so that is how
I discovered the libraries," said
Clark, who is now president of
Dwyer Instruments, Inc. "They
saved my college career."
Margaret McKinley, director
of development for University
Libraries, worked with Clark in
deciding how to utilize his past
contributions to the library sys-
tem, which included providing
funding for increased techno-

logical resources in many of the
libraries on campus.
"I toured the libraries with
Stephen to show him all the
innovations his contribu-
tions have made," McKinley
said. "After several visits, he
expressed that he was thinking
about funding a new library so
we worked on ideas and decided
on combining the three units."
Clark said he was impressed
by the libraries' ability to adapt
to technological advances, par-
ticularly through the Google
Books Library Project - a col-
laboration with universities
around the nation to digitize
thousands of books and make
them accessible online - and
wanted to help facilitate growth
of its programs.
"I liked how the library was
adapting to change, rather than
hiding from it," Clark said.
"The library was embracing
the change, starting with the
Google Books Project. I liked
the idea of linking books and
sharing on the Internet - that's
how I knew the libraries would
be around for a while and would
be a good use of my funds."

if 'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


8A - Monday, December 5, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Cheok the
trade -in
value
Ship to
us for
free

"


Go
shopping

0

amazon.com/ sellb ooks

Download the Amazon
Student app and check
trade-in value inatantly



U The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I December 5, 2011

New Orleans
January 3rd,
2012

Michigan
vs.
Virginia Tech

Virginia Tech
unfamiliar foe
for Wolverines

Sugar Bowl berth pushes
Michigan back into spotlight

By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily SportsEditor
It's not often that a team gets
spanked on the first Saturday of
December but still gets a taste of
sugar a day later.
But that's the case for No. 11
Virginia Tech, the Michigan
football team's opponent in the
Allstate Sugar Bowl on Jan. 3.
On Saturday, No. 15 Clemson

smoked the Hokies, 38-10. It was
the second time this season the
Tigers have easily handled Vir-
ginia Tech - on Oct. 1, Clemson
rolled them, 23-3, in Blacksburg,
Va.
Yet, despite only beating
one ranked team all season in
then-No. 20 Georgia Tech on
Nov. 10, Virginia Tech (7-1 ACC,
11-2 overall) is on its way to the
See VIRGINIA TECH, Page 3B

The Big Easy beckons.
The lights are bright,
Bourbon
Street is bus-
tling. And
here come
the Wolver-
ines, who
earned a spot
in the Sugar
Bowl in New TIM
Orleans and ROHAN
return to col--
lege football's
grand stage - playing in a BCS

bowl for the first time in five
seasons.
"It'll just show everybody that
Michigan's back and we're seri-
ous," said fifth-year senior tight
end Kevin Koger.
Beating Ohio State was the
most important thing, but all it
did was make knocking off No.
11 Virginia Tech the next impor-
tant thing.
There will only be one college
football game that night.
At 8:30 p.m. on Jan. 3, Mich-
igan-Virginia Tech will take
center stage. Opinions across the

nation will be formed. Expecta-
tions will rise. Win and it was
no big deal. Lose and it's a catas-
trophe.
People like to associate a
certain phrase when discussing
Hoke: "What you see is what you
get." With the spotlight shining
as bright as it has all season -
and maybe as bright as it will
for a few years to come - Hoke
has one last chance to leave an
indelible mark on this magical
season.
What will the nation see?
Like he did with the Ohio

State game, Hoke will treat this
opportunity like a business trip.
He said he wouldn't mess with
a formula that produced a 10-2
season. Why should he change
who he is when the lights get
brighter?
The nation will be introduced
to the coach with the goofy
smile and a coaching style to
match. The man who was grin-
ning ear to ear when he walked
off the field after beating Ohio
State - his emotions on his
sleeves - still drenched by his
See SPOTLIGHT, Page 3B

Guptill's OT goal ends Blue's skid, nets series split
By MATT SLOVIN a Nanook defenseman. After
Daily Sports Writer Michigan coach Red Berenson freshman forward Zach Hyman F O
let out a long sigh of relief that he dumped the puck into the attack- 0

FAIRBANKS - Regulation
ended in Saturday night's game
against Alaska Fairbanks and
the No. 19
Michigan MICHIGAN 3
hockeyteam ALASKA 4
had yet to
snap its lon- MICHIGAN 1
gest winless ALASKA 0
streak of the
new millennium.
The Wolverines battled
through three scoreless periods,
having to hold their collective
breath throughout as the Nanooks
(4-8-2-0 CCHA, 7-9-2 overall)
fired shot after shot at fifth-year
senior goaltender Shawn Hun-
wick. But the hero, freshman for-
ward Alex Guptill, capitalized on
a failed Nanook pass to clinch the
game in the early stages of over-
time, giving Michigan a 1-0 win.

had been holding in since Nov. 5,
when his team last won against
Western Michigan.
"It's about time," Berenson
said. "We had a lot of pressure
on us and a little bit of self-doubt.
Sooner or later we were going to
get out of it, but the sooner part is
better."
With the game winner, Gup-
till tied fellow freshman forward
Phil Di Giuseppe for the team lead
with eight goals. But the biggest
tally of his young collegiate career
came with its fair share of what
Berenson calls "puck luck."
"I didn't even know it went in,"
Guptill said. "I saw everyone else
celebrating, so I figured it went
in."
That's probably because it
wasn't supposed to go in - at
least until it was re-directed by

ing zone, Guptill was there to col-
lect. He weighed his options and
fired a shot. Alaska's Adam Hen-
derson frantically tried to clear
it, but a bad bounce sent it off his
skate and into the net.
"Obviously, it's nice to be able to
win a game on the road," Hunwick
said. "We had a bad stretch going
there. But at the same time, it's
only one win."
With the losing streak snapped,
the long plane ride home seemed
far less daunting.
And the mood in the locker
room mirrored Berenson's. Hun-
wick, too, mentioned just how
"relieving" the win was.
After all, it was the team's first
true road victory. Sure, the Wol-
verines picked up a couple points
from its shootout win at Northern
See GUPTILL, Page 3B

COURTESY OF ALASKA FAIRBANKS ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT
Fifth-year senior goaltender Shawn Hunwick recorded his first-career shutout on the road to ensure Saturday's win.


RUNNIN'N' GUNNIN
Led by Tim Hardaway Jr.'s 19 points,
Michigan downed Iowa State on Saturday.
The Wolverines used 21-5 second-half
run to coast to a 76-66 win. Page 2B

CYCLONE DETHRONED
* Michigan rebounded from its loss
against Maryland with a strong seven-
point win over Iowa State, improving the
Wolverines record to 8-1. Page 2B


2B -December 5, 2011 TMhna-cido

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'We never promised
you a rose garden'

The Michigan State foot-
ball team entered the
conference title game
dreaming of roses.
At Lucas Oil Stadium, the
Sparty bus faltered. The drive
gave out late
in a thrilling
42-39 loss to
Wisconsin in
the inaugu-
ral Big Ten
Champion-
ship game on
Saturday. STEPHEN J.1
The NESBITT
momentary
prestige and
superiority
that fueled the engine finally ran
dry on Sunday night with the
BCS bowl selection:
Michigan State - Outback Bowl.
Michigan - Sugar Bowl.
It was a Spartan double-
whammy, courtesy of the BCS. It
wasn't fair. Michigan was beaten
fair and square at Spartan Sta-
dium earlier this season and
finished as the clear No. 2 in the
Big Ten Legends division.
"Michigan sat home tonight
on the couch and watched us,"
said Michigan State senior quar-
terback Kirk Cousins follow-
ing the loss to Wisconsin. "We
played our hearts out - you saw
it. I don't see how you get pun-
ished for playing and someone
else gets to sit on the couch and
get what they want.
"If this is the way the system
is, I guess it's a broken system."
Cousins is right, of course. It
is a broken system pockmarked
with holes and inconsistencies.
But the injustice this season just
might be payback.
On Nov. 26, 1973, an equally
flawed system crushed Michi-
gan's season.
That day, the Daily ran the
headline: "We never promised
you a rose garden: Everything's
coming up weeds!"
It was two days after a titan
clash between Michigan and
Ohio State, a pair of unbeat-
ens. They tied, 10-10. At 2:01
p.m. that Monday, the Big Ten
announced that the conference
athletic directors voted, 6-4, to
send the Buckeyes to the Rose
Bowl.
The deciding vote came from
Michigan State.
Bo Schembechler was
incensed. Michigan had earned
the right to the Rose Bowl.
"They did everything I ever
asked of them," Bo said. "They
outplayed Ohio State.
"The Big Ten will live to
regret this decision."
Bo took no time in diagnos-
ing the faults of the Big Ten
selection system - there were
grudges and biases galore.
Wisconsin's Elroy Hirsch
voted for Ohio State. Bo claimed
it was due to the Wisconsin
Athletic Department receiving
an unfavorable mention in his
book that had just been released,
"Man in Motion."

0

ALDEN REISS/Daily
Junior guard Eso Akunne and sophomore center Blake McLimans sparked a key 10-0 run in the Wolverines' win.
McLimans Akunne step
Up in win over Iowa State

Michigan State coach Mark Dantonio led the Spartans to a 10-3 record.

Nort
voted f
Michig
Canha
his ear
tor in E
ing the
Northv
Mic
voted f
tans an
for ove
rightst
game. t
was a p
Michig
to vote
admiss
Butt
by Big'
T
t

thwestern's John Pont What, you say, the system is
or Ohio State. Then- flawed?
;an Athletic Director Don "It's nothing but goddamn
m had made enemies in politics," said senior defensive
lier days as athletic direc- end Don Coleman. "The athletic
tvanston after not allow- directors were playing with us
Chicago Bears to play at and we really got screwed in the
western's Dyche Stadium. end.
higan State's Tippy Dye "I hope Southern Cal beats
or Ohio State. The Spar- the (expletive) out of Ohio State.
ad Wolverines had battled I've got nothing against Ohio. I
r a year over television won't be rooting against them,
to their annual rivalry but against the Big Ten."
On top of that, the vote Thirty Michigan seniors
erfect retaliation for missed out on the Rose Bowl in
;an being the only school 1973. Today, in the BCS era, 18
against the Spartans' Michigan State seniors were left
ion to the Big Ten in 1949. out of a prestigious bowl.
the pot was stirred most Why? Not necessarily because
Ten commissioner Wayne of the running feud between
the programs. It's because the
NCAA can't find a just postsea-
. . . son system.
he injustice "I feel like we deserve (a BCS
bid)," Spartans receiver B.J.
is season Cunningham said. "We earned
could be it, we got to the championship
game and we beat Michigan."
payback. Unfortunately, today's equa-
tion considers much more than
simple wins and losses, B.J.
Michigan jumped the Spar-
tans and will play in the Sugar
Before the decision was Bowl - not because of talent
he volunteered informa- or head-to-head success, but
Michigan quarterback because of prestige, fan bases
Franklin's collarbone and money.
In a word, it's still about poli-
ois's Cecil Coleman heard tics. No matter what, there's no
ury status of the Wolver- way to get it right. Either way, it
ar player and flip-flopped. always seems wrong.
ed for Ohio State. "I want to know ateam that's
e decision) was based on better than the Michigan State
nce, petty jealousies and Spartans in the Big Ten (other)
:ggerated issue of Frank- than Wisconsin," said Michigan
ury," Bo fumed. State senior wide receiver Keith
easy to see how Michigan Nichol.
own. It was anything but "It just gets ripped out of your
hand. I could literally taste that
got screwed," said senior rose in my mouth and it's not
Doug Troszak. "It's a what I have right now."
hame." The Spartans have exploded
for two brilliant seasons.
Michigan is rewarded for 132
seasons as the winningest
program in college football
history. The two programs still
aren't even.
In this day and age, wins still
give you roses, but prestige and
money still drive the bus.
Sparty's over.
- Nesbitt can be reached
at stnesbit@umich.edu or on
Twitter: @stephenjnesbitt.

LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Editor
Saturday afternoon's men's
basketball game between Michi-
gan and Iowa State was a story of
unlikely heroes.
For much of the first half, nei-
ther team could gain separation,
and the
Cyclones IOWA STATE 66
led the MICHIGAN 76
Wol-
verines, 23-21, with just a few
minutes to go before the break.
Then, from the high post, red-
shirt sophomore center Blake
McLimans kicked the ball out to
junior guard Eso Akunne, who
knocked down the 3-pointer.
Neither McLimans nor
Akunne typically see much floor
time, but the pair kick-started
a 10-0 run for the Michigan
offense, and the Wolverines
went on to win, 76-66.
"It feels magnificent," said
sophomore guard Tim Hardaway
Jr. after the game. "We just feel
great to be back home in frontof
our home crowd. We just wanted
to go out there and put on a show
for our fans."
McLimans added a two-point
bucket of his own during that
run, and for good measure, the
big man nailed his own 3-pointer
on Michigan's last possession of
the half. The Wolverines (6-2)
took a 34-25 lead into the locker
room.
"The bench was really respon-
sible for that," said Michigan
coach John Beilein. "Eso came in
and shots weren't falling.... Then
he went behind a ball screen on
a hand back and knocked one

down.
then to
threet
"Th
team -
shooti
anothe
gamea
back i
was hi
Blake1
Fre
Burke
his fir
he fini
points
to
pu
Ha
back p
to Virg
he rod
the fir
finish
Saturd
with a
6-of-1
Hea
from t
Michi
half, le
hande
crowd
In t
contin
Iowa S
morel
came a

Blake got a pick and roll, jumpers, free throws and tough
ook a charge, then hit a plays underneath after tallying
to end (the half). just four points in nine minutes
:at separation on that of the first half. He finished the
- we'll play a lot of 3-point contest with 16 points on 7-of-10
ng teams - we won't play shooting.
er that can get back in a On the defensive end, the Wol-
as fast as that team can get verines did solid work limiting
n the game. So the spread a proficient shooting team. The
uge for us, and Eso and Cyclones came into the game
had a lot to do with that." tied for No. 7 nationally with 10.3
shman point guard Trey 3-point field goals per game. On
continued to impress in Saturday, they were just 6-for-27
st season with the reins, as (22 percent) from long range.
shed the contest with 13 But late in the game, Iowa
and three 3-pointers. State made a comeback push.
Down by as much as 23 points
in the second half, the Cyclones
eventually narrowed their deficit
e just wanted to six points with under 30 sec-
onds to play.
go out ... and "We weren't strong with the
ball (late in the game)," Beilein
t on a show." said. "We talk about being boss
with the ball. We weren't strong.
We were just watchingthe
clock."
rdaway Jr. had a bounce- But it was too little too late for
'erformance from his trip Iowa State.
ginia on Tuesday, where The only Iowa State player to
e the bench for most of give the Michigan defense much
st half in foul trouble and trouble was redshirt sophomore
ed with just five points. On forward Royce White, who fin-
lay, Hardaway Jr. finished ished with a game-high 22 points
team-high 19 points on and six offensive boards. But
2 shooting. those were points the Wolverines
also picked up a steal were seemingly willing to con-
he top of the key during cede, as they keyed in mostly on
gan's 10-0 run in the first the dangerous Cyclone perimeter
eading to a breakaway one- shooters.
d dunk that ignited the "Very rarely did we double
'in Crisler Arena. (White) in the post," Beilein said.
he second half, Michigan "We've doubled people in the
rued to pull away from post. We felt that he was going to
State (5-3). Redshirt sopho- have to beatus from two.... We
forward Jordan Morgan weren't giving him a lot more
alive, scoring on midrange attention than just 1-on-L"

0

01

Duke. I
made, I
tion on
Dennis
injury.
Illin
the inji
ines' st
He vot'
"(Th
ignorar
the exa
lin's inj
It's e
went d
fair.
"We
tackleI
damn s

Wolverines drop Cyclones

MATT SPELICH Though Michigan was even-
Daily Sports Writer tually able to put more points on
the board than Iowa State, its
With 29 seconds left in the inside game struggled against
Michigan women's basketball the Cyclones' big baseline
game defense.
against IOWA STATE 49 "I thought both teams tonight
Iowa MICHIGAN 56 did really well defensively," said
State Michigan coach Kevin Borseth.
yesterday, the Cyclones' sopho- "We were struggling offensively
more forward Hallie Christof- to get down in the paint and get
ferson drained a 3-pointer to cut quality shots off. We tried to do
Michigan's lead to four. anything we could to get inside
Following a timeout, the there and make something hap-
Cyclones needed to foul. Unfor- pen. A couple of times we forced
tunately for them, they decided shots in the middle, but they are
to foul senior guard Courtney so tough around that basket.
Boylan. She went six-for-six Luckily, kids hit shots when they
from the charity stripe, all of needed to, so that was really big."
which came in the final minute Fortunately for the Wolver-
of play. ines, Iowa State wasn't defend-
The Wolverines (8-1) held on ing outside shooters, allowing
to defeat the Cyclones, 56-49. Michigan to have a successful

game around the arc.
"Their style of defense is to
lay off the 3-point shooters,"
said junior guard Jenny Ryan.
"As a 3-point shooting team, our
shooters came in and knew that
this was our game."
The Wolverines ended up
shooting 8-for-18 from beyond
the arc. Though Iowa State made
two more threes than Michigan,
it also took 36 attempts.
The Cyclones live and die by
the 3-point shot, averagingclose
to 30 attempts a game. The only
other time the Cyclones (6-2) lost
was against Penn State, when
they went 6-for-26 from the
3-point line. Michigan has been
very careful not to depend too
heavily on its shooting to win
games. Instead, defense has been
the focus so far.
"When go into a game we
don't think, 'We're shooters,
let's just shoot the ball,"' Ryan
said. "We approach each game
differently, tryingto figure out
what will be required of us to
win. I think this year, versus past
years, we go into games relying
on our defense so we can win
even when we aren't feeling our
shots."
Rebounding has been a central
focus of the Wolverines' defense,
primarilybecause it's been their
weakness. Iowa State snagged 10
more boards than Michigan, and
No.6 Maryland - the only team
to beat the Wolverines - nabbed
23 more rebounds.
"Free throws and defensive
rebounds win games," Borseth
said.

SThantonWilder
andKen Ludwig'si
radaptationo
By George Farquhar Reserved seating $26 & $20
Directed by Priscilla Lindsay Students $10 with ID
Department of Theatre & Drama tickets.music.umich.edu
December 8 at 7:30 PM League Ticket Office
December 9 & 10 at 8PM 734-764-2538
December 11 at 2 PM
Power Center uniry oMkga sA,,F
kIMUsic,Theatre & Darce

musical
a Department of Musical Theatre studio production
Music by Jason Howland " Lyrics by Mindi Dickstein
Book by Allan Knee * Based on the novel by Louisa May Alcott
Dec. 8 at 7:30 PM " Dec. 9 & 10 at 8 PM " Dec. 10 & 11 at 2 PM " Arthur Miller Theatre
f Ur ive,,ityof Imichigc)"kh General Admission $17 " Students $10 w/hD
JEL Hakc, Thatrc'&Danc.eLeague Ticket Office 734-764-2538 tickets.music.umich.edu

0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

December 5, 2011 - 3B

Russell's streak ends,'M' takes 2nd place

}

Top-ranked that's what champions do," said
Michigan coach Joe McFar-
Russell's 46-match land. "They come back with a
fury, and you don't want to be
winstreak snapped that next guy. I think Kellen did
in quarterfinalS a great job of refocusing, and I
think we saw a different wres-
tler out there than we saw (Fri-
By LIZ NAGLE day) night."
Daily Sports Writer In the semifinals of the
consolation bracket, Russell
Those who travel far and squared off against Cal Poly's
wide to Sin City hope to pick No. 2 Boris Novachkov in a
the luck of the draw and return rematch of last year's NCAA
home with pockets full of cash. Championship bout, which
At the two-day Cliff Keen Las Russell narrowly won. Through
Vegas Invitational, the Michi- the third lengthy tiebreaker,
gan wrestling team nearly hit consisting of nothing but sin-
the jackpot. gle point escapes, Russell and
Top-ranked 141-pound Kel- Novachkov defended their
len Russell entered the tourna- respective territories with
ment after recovering from a resilience.
minor tweak in his right knee. Novachkov mustered anoth-
He was not expected to miss er escape, which put the pres-
a step throughout the tourna- sure on Russell. With just 13
ment. seconds to make an escape,
But it seems as his luck ran Russell did just that, and won
out. with two seconds of riding
No. 9 Michigan placed sec- time, earning his third win over
ond, and Russell's 46-match the Cal Poly senior.
win streak came to a shocking "Overall, it was one of the
end against Ohio State fresh- best matches I've wrestled
man Hunter Stieber in the against him," Russell said. "I
quarterfinals. Russell failed to was more offensive than I have
take home his third Cliff Keen been in the past."
championship title, but he man- Redshirt sophomore Eric
aged to wrestle his way back Grajales took the cards he
through the consolation brack- was dealt against each oppo-
et for a third-place finish. nent and traded them in for
"Kellen bounced back - the 149-pound crown. His win

helped the Wolverines take
second place with 116 points,
just behind the tournament-
winning No. 6 Ohio State team
with 129.
Grajales, ranked sixth in the
nation, captured his first col-
legiate tournament title. After a
bye in the first round, he pinned
California Baptist's Dylan Cata-
line in the first period.
Grajales moved on with a
technical fall in 6:56 on Indi-
ana's Taylor Walsh. A month
ago, Walsh caught Grajales off
guard and scored an upset at
the Michigan State Open. But
this time, Grajales didn't hesi-
tate to make a multifaceted
attack. He racked up a 19-4 win
with two throws, a body lock,
a headlock, three takedowns,
locked hands and an escape.
"I felt great," Grajales said.
"It was a chance to prove myself
and show what I'm capable of."
Senior Zac Stevens finished
fourth in the 133-pound circle
after a notable start on Fri-
day. In round one, he pinned
Nebraska Kearny senior
Kazuhiro Fujinawa and later
pummeled Western Wyoming
sophomore Richard Serna with
a 16-0 technical fall victory.
Apparently, redshirt senior
Justin Zeerip went to Vegas
with a figurative rabbit's foot in
his pocket.
Zeerip pinned his first oppo-

Senior Kellen Russell, pictured against Purdue last season, lost to Ohio State freshman Hunter Stieber in the quarterfinals.
nent in a mere 28 seconds, entering the third period, but "I thought we were in a posi-
before his 8-2 decision in the DesRoches struck back and tion to take control of this tour-
second round and 11-1 major eventually forced overtime. In nament, and we let it slip away a
decision in the quarters. He the extra periods, Zeerip could little bit," McFarland said.
worked his way up the bracket not find a point advantage and He wanted his wrestlers to
by his own merit, but made it lost 6-5. learn a valuable lesson: to know
into the finals on a medical for- But even with the multiple that they must never give an
feit. losses, Michigan had its best opponent an inch of mat.
While fighting for the crown, finish at the annual invite since "(To give) nothing less -
Zeerip's luck finally ran out as 2007. But was it enough to quell that's when you're going to get
well. He had a 5-2 lead against Michigan coach Joe McFar- your hand raised," McFarland
Cal Poly's Ryan DesRoches land's lofty expectations? said.


VIRGINIA TECH
From Page 1B
Sugar Bowl for the third time in
school history.
"I'm proud of our football team
and what we've been able to do,"
said Virginia Tech coach Frank
Beamer in a teleconference last
night. "I think the people we've
been able to beat, they didn't seem
weak to me.
"There's a lot of reasons why
you'd like to have Virginia Tech in
your bowlgame."
Beamer would know - the
25th-year coach is a Virginia Tech
graduate and wasthe starting cor-
nerback for the Hokies from 1967-
69. He's currently first in all-time
wins (251) and bowl appearances
(18) for active coaches.
During Beamer's tenure at Vir-
ginia Tech, the program has been
one of the most consistent in the
nation, winning 10 or more games
in eight straight seasons and in 13
of the past 16.
Though he's been around a long
time, Beamer knows very little
about the Wolverines. He said he's
never met Michigan coach Brady
Hoke buthas heard good things.
"I know (Hoke's) name for
the tremendous job he's done in
coaching," Beamer said. "I don't
know a lot about Michigan. Until
recently, I didn't really think us
and Michigan would be meeting
in a bowl game."
There was a similar feeling on
Michigan's end.
"From the clips on ESPN, they
look pretty good," said senior
defensive end Ryan Van Bergen.
SPOTLIGHT
From Page 1B
celebratory cooler bath.
He's the man Virginia Tech
S coach Frank Beamer has never
met, but took note of.
"I know his name for the tre-
mendous job he's done in coach-
ing," Beamer said. "(This season)
he got them all going in the same
direction at a fast pace. And the
wins that he had, the way they
played and the discipline that
they played with - from where
he came from he won and he
won quickly at Michigan.
"Michigan's got a great future
in front of it."
There's no place like a bowl
game to merge the future and
present. A month after your last
regular season game, you play
a singular game that swings
momentum for the next season.
*Then the Sugar Bowl's spotlight
magnifies it all.
Defensive coordinator Greg
Mattison's Mona Lisa will be
under the spotlight: one of the
greatest masterpieces of his
career, a reclamation project
that transformed the No. 107
scoring defense in 2010 into the
seventh-ranked unit.
Everyone already knows

cH UCK BURTON/AP
Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer and the Hokies have just two losses in 2011, but both came against Clemson.

"I didn't get the chance to watch
them too much this season, but
obviously we're taking them very
seriously. They're going to be very
motivated off their loss to Clem-
son and they've got plenty of ath-
letes, I know that."
Michigan has some athletes
of its own, too. And there's little
doubt that one of the first names
Beamer will address in prepara-
tion for Michigan will be Denard
Robinson. Beamer has never seen
the junior quarterback playin per-
son, but he's seen plenty of him on
television.
"What I've seen of him is on the
highlight reels, and he's got plen-
ty of them," Beamer said. "You
understand pretty quickly what a
unique and talented athlete he is."
The Hokies also have a pretty
talented dual-threat quarterback
about Denard Robinson. Even a
busy coach like Beamer found
time to catch highlights.
"That guy can go," he said.
But will Robinson thrive in
maybe his only opportunity to
be remembered outside of Ann
Arbor?
Everyone will learn about
Mike Martin and Ryan Van Ber-
gen and the Michigan-defense-
that-could - a group that played
fundamentally sound and smart
football and became a respect-
able unit instead of a bunch of
misfit individuals. Will anything
change against an athletic Vir-
ginia Tech team?
Fitzgerald Toussaint, who
made a season out of the past five
games, will face a newfound level
of pressure. Can he keep up his
pace?
Forget that Michigan doesn't
deserve the spotlight. By no
means are the Wolverines - who
finished ranked 13th in the final
BCS standings - absolutely a
better team than No. 6 Arkan-
sas or No. 7 Boise State or No. 9
Kansas State. We'll never know.
They'll never play those teams.
Michigan has its tradition and
program prestige to thank for
this chance to play No. 11 Virgin-
ia Tech (who also should thank
its rich history) in a clash of tra-

in redshirt sophomore Logan
Thomas. Thomas was a second-
team All-ACC selection this sea-
son, completing 60.5 percent of
his passes for 18 touchdowns and
seven interceptions. He also car-
ried the ball 125 times for an aver-
age of three yards per carry and 10
total touchdowns.
Robinson, a second-team All-
Big Ten selection, mirrors Thom-
as's touchdown numbers but has
thrown double the amount of
interceptions with 14. However,
Robinson is a much bigger threat
on the ground - he's averaged 5.9
yards per carry off 208 rushes for
16 touchdowns this season.
"From what I've seen, that guy
can go," Beamer said.
Beamer, who has coached sev-
eral dual-threat quarterbacks
in his career, including Michael
ditional powerhouses in a bowl
game with equally rich history.
Granted, it's not the Grand-
daddy of them all. No, Michigan
didn't accomplish all of Hoke's
goals: win the Big Ten, go to the
Rose Bowl.
But for the seniors who had
only one bowl appearance in
three seasons, the spotlight alone
is enough.
The lights weren't as bright at
the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville,
and even then, Rich Rodriguez's
shadow was large enough to
obscure a 38-point loss to Missis-
sippi State, an average SEC team.
"It was embarrassing to say
the least," Koger said. "I think it
was disappointing to just put all
that work into a football game
and have the outcome that we
did last year.
"The main thing is to go dowr
(to New Orleans) and win the
football game."
Once Hoke and the Wolver-
ines beat Ohio State, it became
more than a comeback. Hoke's
re-establishing Michigan for
what it once was one step at a
time. The next is beating the
Hokies in front of the nation.
Just 10 teams get to play in
BCS games and, politics and
fairness aside, Michigan's one
of them. That means something

Vick, said it'll help a little bit that
his team is used to playing with
running quarterbacks.
But when it comes down to it,
the Hokies are still going to have
to find a way to take down the
shifty Robinson.
"I think us having that type of
guys gives us some experience,"
he said. "But it all gets back to the
players and being able to tackle
the guy when you get him there."
For Virginia Tech, the Clemson
spanking is in the past. The bad
taste of its second loss is gone and
sugar is all it can taste.
And now, the Hokies' focus is
solely on Michigan.
"We're gonna pay close atten-
tion to (Michigan) now," Beamer
said. "We're going to get to work
on them and try to represent the
ACC in the best way possible."

GUPTILL
From Page 1B
Michigan, but Michigan (4-6-2-1,
8-8-2) needed to win in Fairbanks
if for no other reason thanto prove
that it could. And forget the three
flights the Wolverines had to take
to get it. Berenson would've taken
three more.
"You've got to win on the road,"
he said. "This is an important win
to take a lot of pressure off (the
team)."
With two minutes remaining
in regulation, though, the elusive
victory appeared in serious jeop-
ardy. Of all the bad spots to take
a penalty, freshman defenseman
Brennan Serville - coming off a
career-best two-point game on
Friday - picked the worst. Per-
haps out of desperation, Serville
was sent to the penalty box for
boarding. The Wolverines would
have to close it out a man down.
"I didn't see the hit," Berenson
said. "But it must've been a serious
hit or they wouldn't have called it
(so late in the game)."
What followed was likely the
strongest penalty kill of the sea-
son. It shifted the momentum to
Michigan for the overtime period,
of which Guptill needed just 57
seconds.
"Our team dug in and they
killed it," Berenson said of the late
penalty. "That was a huge kill -
one shot and the game's over."
Before the game, Berenson
told the Wolverines that it could
be another one-goal game, but
with fewer goals than Friday's 4-3
Alaska win. In the second period,

with the score still knotted atzero,
Michigan realized his prediction
may be spot on.
"(Nanook goaltender Scott)
Greenham's making huge save
after huge save," Hunwick said.
"Halfway through the game, it
looked like one goal could do it."
Knowing that changed noth-
ing for Hunwick. He rose to the
occasion, recording his seventh
"We didn't
want to go
home with zero
points."
career shutout and first away from
Yost Ice Arena. Hunwick shared
Berenson and Guptill's relief. But
he knows the win is simply a small
step in the right direction.
"Guys are excited," Hunwick
said. "We didn't want to go home
with zero points. (But) it's a rivalry
week. We'll turn our attention to
Michigan State."
When asked whether the get-
away game could serve as a turn-
ing point, Berenson wasn't ready
to make any more bold predic-
tions. But the sigh of relief said it
all. With the weight of the world
off the team's shoulders, the Wol-
verines may again be ready to play
"Michigan hockey," the mistake-
free style of play that the team
reverted to - at least temporarily
- Saturday.

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Fifth-year senior Ryan Van Bergen said the Sugar Bowl was Michigan's chance to put a "stamp" on its 10-2 season.

for Hoke, the program and the
senior's legacy.
"It kind of establishes nation-
al relevance for Michigan as a
program," said fifth-year senior
defensive end Ryan Van Bergen.
"It puts us kind of back on the
map so to speak as a national
powerhouse.

"It's a tremendous opportu-
nity to put a final stamp on this
year."
When he was asked how big
a stage the Sugar Bowl would
be, interestingly enough, Koger
started talking about how differ-
ent it would be playing indoors
at the Louisiana Superdome.

"The lighting will be a little
bit different," he said. "It's going
to be a great stage."
Michigan's back under the
spotlight. Front and center.
-Rohan can be reached
at trohan@umich.edu or on
Twitter @TimRohan.


4B - December 5,2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Wolverines, Nanooks play
rare scoreless regulation

Redshirt sophomore forward Jordan Morgan scored 16 points in Michigan's 76-66 victory over Iowa State.
Morgan sports new look,
new game in 'M' victory

NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
When Jordan Morgan got rid
of his faded high-top haircut,
it was a textbook example of
addition by subtraction. At least
that's how Michigan coach John
Beilein saw it.
After shedding some locks,
the redshirt sophomore Morgan
was the center at the center of
the Wolverines' attack Satur-
day - knocking down jumpers,
slamming home dunks and get-
ting to the free-throw line in
Michigan's 76-66 win over Iowa
State.
"If you ask Beilein, he'll say
it's the haircut," Morgan said.
"But, I mean, it could be."
Morgan was 7-for-10 from
the field and 5-for-5 in the sec-
ond half, becoming the team's
second-leading scorer with 16
points.
"We do want to score close to
the basket," Beilein said. "You
look at our 2-point field goal
percentage, it was tremendous
today. So we're trying to get the
ball inside, hopefully with an
angle of some type. I like what
(Morgan) did today, he scored
without angles and that's really
important for him to do that."
After sophomore Jon Horford
started the firstgame of the sea-
son at center, Morgan has since
taken control of the spot he held
all last season. Though Morgan

has had impressive stretches,
he's been absent for periods at
a time too. On Saturday, he was
visible for all 23 of his minutes.
"You can't just be a perimeter
team," Beilein said. "You've got
to have some presence inside.
He's worked hard, he's going to
continue to work hard."
Though Morgan scored
Michigan's first two baskets of
the game, he tired, and Beilein
pulled him out of the game for
nine minutes.
A rejuvenated Morgan came
back in the second half and hurt
Iowa State from all areas in and
around the paint. He scored 12
of his 16 points in the second
period and was the key cog in
helping the Wolverines build
a 20-point lead before it was
whittled down to single digits
late in the game.
"I just feel like I got the ball
places where I could score and
my teammates were looking for
me," Morgan said. "It started
on defense. We got stops on
defense, we were able to get
easy baskets out on transition. It
was just easier to push that lead
up."
Morgan's early baskets were
layups, but as the game pro-
gressed, his range increased.
Teammates got into the lane
and found him to spark a 21-5
run toward the start of the sec-
ond half.
He made two jumpers from

Guptill overtime
goal ends seven-
game winless
drought
MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Writer
FAIRBANKS - Some fans
might call it an instant classic.
Others might say it was boring.
Regardless, the 3,367 people at
the Carlson Center witnessed a
rare event Sat-
urday night, NOTEBOOK
when the Wol-
verines and Nanooks hung goose
eggs on the scoreboard for 60
minutes.
"Give our team credit," said
Michigan coach Red Berenson.
"One shot either way and the
game's over. We didn't give up
anything. (With) the puck not
going in ... we needed one goal to
win the game."
When the horn sounded to
indicate the end of regulation,
the Wolverines found them-
selves in their first scoreless tie
heading into overtime since Dec.
29, 2007. In that game, Michi-
gan needed double overtime to
beat Michigan Tech and win the
Great Lakes Invitational.
And freshman forward Alex
Guptill made sure the end result
would be the same when he lit
the lamp just under one minute
into the extra period.
"It came at the end of shift
there," Guptill said. "It kind of
turned out lucky. We were get-
ting really down ... but now we
know what it feels like to win."
Though teammates and
coaches alike were quick to cred-
it fifth-year senior netminder
Shawn Hunwick for keeping the
Wolverines in the game, he was
even quicker to reciprocate the
gratitude.
"(The defense) did a huge
job," Hunwick said. "They were
clearing guys out so I could see
the shots from the point. We
did a good job tonight of limit-

the paint - one of which drew a
foul --as well as a 13-footer near
the elbow.
"He's been working on that
jumper - that little 15 (and)
10-footer - all through summer
and all through practice," said
sophomore forward Tim Hard-
away Jr. "So he showed it today
and he's knocking it down. That
just gives Coach Beilein more
confidence in him down the
stretch when we need to get a
shot in the post."
Added Beilein: "We work
so hard on these areas and we
came out during the beginning
of the season and didn't show
those areas. It's tough to win
without it, so I think that was a
good step for him."
For the season, Morgan is
27-for-35 from the field - an
unworldly 77 percent. His free
throws, on the other hand,
could use some work. Though
he made two of three on Satur-
day, he's at a disappointing 44
percent through eight games.
Both averages will likely gravi-
tate to the mean, but Michigan
can still expect Morgan to keep
his play at a high level.
"He was just knocking down
shots and that's what we need
from him," Hardaway Jr. said.
"He was playing smart and he
was playing hard and aggres-
sive. So that's what we need out
of Jordan Morgan all through
the season."

cOURTESY OF ALASKA FAIRBANKS ATHLETic DEPARTMENT
Michigan players battle for the puck along the boards at the Carlson Center.

ing screens and tips and all that
stuff."
Added Guptill: "Shawn's our
go-to guy. He's been unbeliev-
able in the last two years here.
"If we're going to end up win-
ning, we're going to need to ride
him."
WIDER ICE WILL SUFFICE:
The weekend series against Alas-
ka Fairbanks marked the second
time this season that Michigan
had played on Olympic-sized
ice. The Wolverines also had to
adjust to the larger playing sur-
face against Northern Michigan
in October.
No learning curve has been
evident. In fact, some Michigan
players seem to think it favors
the team's playing style.
"The Olympic ice is a lot dif-
ferent," Guptill said. "We have a
really fast team and I think our
speed showed (Saturday). We

controlled the play."
For some teams, the extra
space to cover spreads players
too thin.
But that hardly seemed to be
an issue this weekend in Alaska.
Though the offense took a while
to get going in the series finale,
Michigan scored three times in
Friday's loss.
NOTES: With his seventh
shutout, Hunwick climbed into a
tie for fifth on Michigan's career
shutout list.
Saturday's meeting was the
53rd all-time between the Wol-
verines and the Nanooks. Michi-
gan holds the series lead with a
42-10-1 advantage. The Wolver-
ines' 18 first-period shots are the
second most the team has had
in a single period this season.
Against Bentley on Oct. 7, Michi-
gan managed to fire off 23 shots
in the third period.
'SPORTS? a
D T7^
VERY SUNDAY
ISROOM

WANT TO JOIN DAILY
Thought so.
SPORTS STAFF MEETINGS ARE E
AT 1RPM. IN T HE DAILY N EW

Team all smiles as Michigan finally snaps winless streak

ZACH HELFAND Fifth-year senior goalie
Daily Sports Editor Shawn Hunwick said the seven-
game winless streak - the Wol-
FAIRBANKS - Apparently, verines' longest in more than a
the members of the No. 19 Michi- decade - weighed heavily on the
gan hockey team have teeth. team.
For the past few weeks, you "It's been a long time since
wouldn't know it. For one, we've won a game," Hunwick
they're hockey players, so the said. "We really needed (the vic-
whole teeth thing is always in tory). You start to doubt yourself,
doubt. But mostly, they just you start to forget how it feels to
haven't had anything to smirk win."
about for the past month. The tension left Berenson's
On Saturday, the Wolverines voice for the first time in nearly
could smile, and they did. a month.
Finally. Remember, remember the
"This was the weekend," said fifth of November? That was the
Michigan coach Red Berenson. last time Michigan had won a
"Good for this team, especially game before Saturday.
with our backs against the wall, Berenson let out a content-
like we have had lately. And they ed sigh just before he started
gotta feel great." answering questions. The rest of

the team seemed to collectively
exhale as well.
A few feet away from Beren-
son, junior forward A.J. Treais
happily signed autographs for a
handful of Alaskan Wolverines
fans. Fifth-year senior goalie
Shawn Hunwick chatted before
taking questions.
Freshman forward Alex
Guptill, who scored the game-
winning goal in overtime on Sat-
urday, kept bringing up streaks.
But this time, he wasn't talking
about losing.
"We were getting really down
there," Guptill said. "We just
weren't sure we could win. It was
a really long streak, but it's over
now, and now we know what it
feels like to win, and I think we
can go on a real streak now -

winning."
Mostly, the players just looked
relieved.
"The team's really light now,"
Guptill said. "I think it took us
17 hours to get here, so I can
only imagine 17 long hours after
another sweep and eight (winless
games) in a row. That would've
been brutal."
A few Michigan personnel
patted each other on the back and
exchanged different versions of
the same message: Finally.
Finally, a bounce that went
the Wolverines' way. Guptill's
goal actually deflected off of a
Nanook defender and into the
net.
Finally, a happy locker room.
And finally, the defense
stepped up. After surrendering

20 goals in the previous four
games, the defense earned the
victory to snap the streak.
"It's huge for the defense,"
Hunwick said. "We weren't
turning the puck over. In recent
weeks we've been turning it over
a little bittoo much."
Hunwick credited his defense
with clearing out the middle of
the ice so Hunwick could have
a better view of shots from the
point. Alaska generates much of
its offense from shots from the
blue line.
Clearing the center of the ice
also limited deflection opportu-
nities and chances to score on
rebounds.
Rebound goals plagued the
Wolverines the entire winless
streak.

The penalty-kill unit smoth-
ered the Alaska power play,
stopping all eight of their oppor-
tunities on the weekend.
The defense let just four shots
through on four power-play
opportunities on Saturday and
kept the Nanooks out both dur-
ing and after the man advantage.
The Wolverines rode Hun-0
wick to the win.
Hunwick came up with huge
saves late in the game, especially
during a two-minute Nanook
power play at the end of regula-
tion.
"(Hunwick is) like our team,"
Berenson said. "We had a lot of
pressure on us and a little bit of
self doubt and so on. Sooner or
later we were going to get out of
it, but the sooner part is better."

No.3 Okahoma State (-3) vs No. 13 Oklahoma
No. 5 Virginia Tich (-45) vs No. 21 Clemson
No.7Houston(-17)vsNo.24SouthernMiss
No 8 Oegon (30 ,) sttUCLA
No. 11Mishigan State vsNo. 15Wisconsin (-7.5)
No. 15 Kansas State (-12) owea Statr
No. 18 TCU (-40.5) cs UNLV
N.t9 Bayil 2.)cv- exas
No.2WestVirginia (-1) tiSouthir, da
Last Week
Overall

Virginia Tech
Houston
Oregon
Kansas State
UNLV
WestVirginia
3-7
168-131-4

Virginia Tech
Houston
UCLA
Wisconsin
Kansas State
WestVirginia
s-5
170-129-4

Virginia Tech
SouthernMiss
Oregon
MichiganSstate
Kansas State
USL
SoutFlo-ida
4-6
163-136-4

Virginia Tech
Houston
Oregon
Wisconsin
Kansas State
UNLV
Baylor
West Virginia
4-2

Virginia Tech
Houston
Oregon
Wisconsin
Kansas State
UNLV
West Virginia
3-7

S

__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _. _ _ _ __ _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __1 _ _ _ _ _ ___


