s
s
e
r
ONI IIUNI)ICIJ-) 'I' 1=V FA'I'Y-'I W() Y IaJAIIS( W i IA1, [, 11' Y

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, September 29, 2011

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
New women's
hospital hosts
discussion on
cervical cancer

Journalist Joan
Lunden, doctors
promote screenings
to detect disease
By TAYLOR WIZNER
For the Daily
In anticipation of the grand
opening of the newly constructed
C.S. Motts Children's Hospital
and Von Voigtlander Women's
Hospital in November, more than
400 people came together yester-
day to promote women's health.
The Von Voigtlander Women's
Hospital - part of the University
of Michigan Health System -
hosted a panel yesterday morning
at the North Campus Research
Complex to commemorate Wom-
en's International Health and
Fitness Day. The panel, moder-
ated by journalist Joan Lunden,
discussed cervical cancer screen-
ing and health issues that affect
women across the globe.
Lunden, a long-time television
host for ABC's Good Morning
America, has reported numerous
stories on women's health, which

helped her realize the impor-
tance of cervical cancer screen-
ings.
"(We are doing this) to try and
get each and every woman out
there to commit herself to her
own health, educate herself on
how to make better nutritional
choices, to get the proper screens
she needs throughout her life-
time and to keep her weight in
check and to put regular activity
into her life," Lunden said.
The benefit aimed to encour-
age women to take advantage of
screenings for cervical cancer
since the cancer is treatable if
detected early.
"Fifty percent of all cancers
are preventable," Lunden said.
"Right here in our country there
is so much that we can do to make
sure that we get screens available
to the public."
Liz Lange, founder and cre-
ative director of clothing line
Liz Lange Maternity and Com-
pletely Me by Liz Lange and
a panel member, said she was
shocked when the results of
her routine scan showed she
had cervical cancer. Lange, a
healthy, active businesswoman
See HOSPITAL, Page 7A

tRIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Riders board as AATA boo outside the Michigan Union yesterday. Thetide will receive $2.7 million in federal funds to ban 10 hybrid bases.
AATA gets$27Mfo
updates, hybrid buses

Federal grant to
fund Blake Transit
Center renovation
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily Staff Reporter
Not only will Ann Arbor's
public transit system be getting
a facelift in upcoming years, it
will also be reducing its carbon
footprint.

The Ann Arbor Transporta-
tion Authority announced on
Tuesday that it will receive a
$2.7 million grant from the Fed-
eral Transportation Adminis-
tration. The funding will be used
for infrastructure improve-
ments to the Blake Transit Cen-
ter in downtown Ann Arbor and
the addition of 10 hybrid buses
to join the 31 currently operat-
inginthe city.
U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-
Mich.) wrote in an e-mail inter-

view to The Michigan Daily
yesterday that the addition of
hybrid buses will reduce harm-
ful gas emissions. The new
buses, along with the Blake
Transit Center updates, will
create more jobs in the state,
Dingell wrote.
"This funding will play a
critical role in expanding and
enhancing transportation
options for Ann Arbor to help
us retain, create and attract jobs
to Washtenaw County," Dingell

wrote. "Both of these projects
will help the AATA operate
more efficiently and effectively,
working to better public trans-
portation and economic secu-
rity for Southeast Michigan."
The addition of the 10 hybrid
buses will bring the total num-
ber of TheRide buses to 78,
including the non-hybrid buses.
The grant for the purchase of
the buses comes from the Clean
Fuels Bus and Bus Facilities
See AATA, Page 7A

NEW TECHNOLOGY
Mobile apps aim to help
I Iwstudents in emergencies

Police recommend
students use blue
lights, call 911
By ANNA ROZENBERG
Daily Staff Reporter
Instead of calling the police in
an emergency, new mobile appli-

cations allow students in dan-
gerous situations to receive help
with the click of a button.
Safety mobile apps collect
users' personal information,
which is sent to police in an
emergency when the user acti-
vates the app. However, while
app developers say the technol-
ogy is intended to increase stu-
dent safety, University Police

should primarily dial 911 or
activate the blue light system on
campus during an emergency.
One of the mobile apps is
OnCall Defender, which allows
iPhone users to input informa-
tion including identification
photos and phone numbers. The
application, which was devel-
oped last year, can also track
See APPS, Page 8A

ALLISON KR USKE/Daily
Students study in the new Robert B. Aikens Commons at the Law School yesterday.
Kirkland & Ellis Cafe opens
in Law School common area

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Chemistry Prof. Al-Hashimi named
in Popular Science's 'Brilliant 10'

Cafe serves The aroma emanates from the
c Snew Kirkland & Ellis Cafe, which
Starbucks and opened earlier this month at the
grand opening of the new com-
fresh, local food mons area located in Hutchins
Hall. The cafe offers customers a
By HALEY GOLDBERG variety of products from freshly
Daily StaffReporter baked pastries, to grilled sand-
wiches, to Starbucks coffee.
For students studying in the The cafe is owned and operat-
Law School's new Robert B. Aik- ed by Picasso Cafd, Inc. - a local,
ens Commons, it's hard to ignore family-owned business that also
the sweet smell of freshly brewed operates the 20/20 Cafe at the
coffee and baked scones wafting University's Kellogg Eye Center.
through the air. The construction of the cafe was

funded through a donation from
two University alumni and part-
ners at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, the
Kirkland & Ellis Foundation and
1956 Law School alum William
Jentes.
Caleb Pizana, general man-
ager of the cafe, stressed that the
Kirkland & Ellis Cafe offers many
affordable options for students.
"Our sandwiches are any-
where from a dollar and a half to
$2 less than what you would find
at other cafes, so very reasonably
See CAFt, Page 8A

Magazine calls
prof. 'Molecular
Filmmaker'
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA and
CAITLIN HUSTON
Daily StaffReporter and
Daily News Editor
University Prof. Hashim Al-
Hashimi, a biophysical chemist,
has moved beyond his lab to the

pages of Popular Science.
The magazine recently
named Al-Hashimi one of this
year's "Brilliant 10"- agroup of
young researchers recognized
for their accomplishments -
for his project involving nucle-
ar imaging of DNA and RNA
movements. Popular Science
gave him the title "Molecular
Filmmaker."
Al-Hashimi, who has worked
for the University since August
2002, is using nuclear magnetic

spectroscopy, which he com-
pares to an MRI with a higher
magnetic field, to examine
individual atoms that make up
structures such as DNA and
proteins. Using this technol-
ogy, Al-Hashimi and his team
- including several University
graduate students -have found
that DNA is a moving molecule,
rather than a static structure.
Unlike previous methods of
studying molecules, the nuclear
See AL-HASHIMI, Page 7A


WEATHERH 51 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
w T H E9 Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Remembering Milosz and his achievements
TOMORnROW LO: sews@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICH IGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/TH E FILTER

INDEX AP NEW S .................3A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
Vol.CXXII,N.t8 OPINION ..'..N....... ......4A NEWS ....................7A
Q01dTheMichigan Daily SPORTS..................5A TH E BSDIE..........1....1B
michigandoily.com

A

- oi


T
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

2A - Thursday, September 29, 2011



4t Michigan Dailj
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

Bringing Latin to life

Why did you decide to
bring spoken Latin to the
University?
When I was hired, I was
asked by my colleagues if
I could speak Latin, and I
didn't know that anyone
did. So I decided to do an
exploration of that, and it
brought me to Rome and
to California. And in the
process, I discovered that
there were pedagogical
reasons for incorporating
spoken Latin into the cur-
riculum.
How did you make
your way to the Univer-
sity?
I was a graduate student

here because it's one of
the great programs in the
country. I was an under-
graduate for nine years,
but my last four years were
at the University of Wash-
ington. I'm from Seattle. I
started at Boston Universi-
ty as a music major. Iended
up with a double degree in
classics and comparative
literature.
Is Latin a dead lan-
guage? Do you feel that
there will be a revival of
Latin?
No.I don't see it as a lan-
guage that one is going to
learn as a first language.
I know people who have

taught their children Latin
pretty much from birth, so
I've been around kids who
are quite young, who speak
quite well. But it's still not
the only language they
learn, and it's not their
primary language. I can't
really imagine an envi-
ronment where it could
become the primary lan-
guage. On the other hand,
Latin has never stopped
beingspoken.
What is your favorite
class to teach?
Whichever one I'm
teaching at the moment.
What are the goals of
your courses?

I want what students
learn in my class to go
with them outside of the
class and beyond. I want
them to have a differ-
ent relationship with the
classical world, whether
it's the Latin language or
the Greek language or the
civilization. I want them
to think about language
differently. I want them to
understand English better.
I want the kind of work
we do in class and the
kind of thinking that they
learn to do to go with them
throughout life.
-KINNARD
HOCKENHULL

Newsroom
734-418-411s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@,nichigandaily.coe,
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
OnlineSales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@m ichigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opiniosC~aiehigandaily.coo
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

4

SALAAM IDA/Daily
Gina Soter is a lecturer IV in classical studies
and in the Residential College.

CRIME NOTES.
Dining on The nose
another's dime knows

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Info session on Banned book
Duke-NUS 'Read Out'

WHERE: South Quadrange
Residence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
11:30 p.m.
WHAT: A student told
police that her roommate
used her credit card at a
nearby restaurant, Univer-
sity Police reported. The
investigation is ongoing.


Back it up, but
not too far
WHERE: Lot M-34, 201
Observatory St.
WHEN: Tuesday at about
8:05 p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle hit
another vehicle while back-
ing out of a parking space,
University police reported.

WHERE: Bursley
Residence Hall
WHEN: Yesterday at about
12:40 a.m.
WHAT: Staff told police
that they smelled marijuana
coming from the room of
two students, University
Police reported.
Saving on
Blue Bucks
WHERE: South
Quadrangle Residence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
6 p.m.
WHAT: Residence hall
staff reported $35 missing
from a cash drawer in the
residence hall dining office,
University police reported.
There are no suspects.

WHAT: Craig Stenberg,
associate dean of Duke-NUS
Medical School Singapore.
will meet with students
interested in the joint
medical program.
WHO: The-Career Center
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m.
to 3 p.m.
WHERE: Student Activities
Building
Poetry reading
WHAT: Writer Tony
Hoagland will read poems
from his published book
of poems called "Unincor-
porated Persons in the Late
Honda Dynasty," published
in 2010. Hoagland teaches
writing at the University of
Houston.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Today from 5p.m.
to 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art

WHAT: Faculty and
students will read aloud
passages from banned
books in honor of Banned
Books Week.
WHO: Shapiro Undergrad-
uate Library
WHEN: Today from 11 a.m.
to noon
WHERE: The Diag
Folk rock show
WHAT: Seattle's criti-
cally acclaimed band, Fleet
Foxes, will play in concert
tonight with The Walkmen
as featured guests.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Researchers at Tel Aviv
University have created
a synthetic cerebellum
that helps restore lost brain
function in rats, the New Sci-
entist reported. The implant
interprets input signals from
the brainstem and outputs
signals to motor neurons.
While hijab is a tradi-
tional aspect of Mus-
lim culture students
are making headscarves
something more special and
fashionable. Read how they
are turning a religion-based
choice into self expression.
,> FOR MORE, SEETHE B-SIDE, INSIDE
The Southern Poverty
Law Center found stu-
dents' knowledge of
civil rights history is deterio-
rating, The New York Times
reported. One test showed
only 2 percent of seniors knew
Brown v. Board of Education
was prompted by segregation.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber Managing News Editor aOber@michigandaily.com
SENOR NWS EDITORS:aBethany Biron, DylanCinti, Caitlin Huston, Joseph Lichterman,
ASISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Sabira
Kahn, Michele Narov, Paige Pearcy, AdamRubenfire, Kaitlin Williams
Michelle DeWitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, TimothyRabb
StephenJ.Nesbittand sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tin Rohan Managing SportsEditors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Zak
Pyzik, einaatery
ASITN PRS EDITORS: Everett Cook, Neal Rothschild, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin,LizVukelich, Daniel Wasserman
SharonJacobs ManagingArtsEditor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTS EDITORS: LeahBurgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jacob Axelrad, Cassie Balfour, Joe Cadagin, Emma Gase,
Proma Khosla, David Tao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
led Mach ManagiegePhoto Editors
ASISTANTPHOTOE DTORS: ErnKirkland,ChrisRyba,AnnaSchulte,SamanthaTrauben
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Hlelieblich MaagingDesignditors
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS:Kristi Beganja, Corinn Lewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor ktarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Devon Thorsby, Elyana Twiggs
lash Healy topytChief copydes@michigandaily.com,
SENIOR COPY EDTORS:Christine Chun, Hannah Poidtoyy
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Associate Business Manager
Rachel Greinetz sales Manager
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
QUy Vo Circulation Manager
The Michigan Daily (115N 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by studentsat the University ofMichigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in september, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (January through April) is
$115, yearlong (september through Aprilis $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall term are $35. Subscriptions must be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

4

I

MORE ONLINE Love CrimeNotes? Share them withyour
followersaon Twitter @CrimeNotes or find them on their new blog.


THINK YOU HAVE
STYLE?
Check out The
Michigan Daily's
fashion blog
THE FASHION
VOYEUR
"Rocky and His Friends"
Saturdays @ 11a & 5p
"The Bullwinkle Show"
Saturdays at 11:30a & 5:30p

Mexican president
orders federal
forces to Veracruz

4

Police to small amount of cocaine inside,
the statement said.
investigate after The Zetas have extended their
operations inland from the Gulf
body dumping coast, and state police in the
neighboring state of Hidalgo
MEXICO CITY (AP) - Mexi- reported that two officers were
can President Felipe Calderon's wounded by grenade fragments
administration said yesterday in a shootout with alleged Zetas.
it is sending troops and federal One of the attackers was killed in
police to a Gulf coast state where the confrontation.
gunmen dumped 35 bound, The assailants abandoned
seminude, tortured bodies on a a vehicle with a grenade, two
busy avenue in front of horrified assault rifles and about 1,000
motorists. rounds of ammunition inside,
Federal security spokesman authorities said.
Alejandra Sota said the federal In Tamaulipas state, to the
forces will reinforce operational north of Veracruz state, officials
and intelligence work in the state in the state attorney general's
of Veracruz. She didn't say how office said the hacked-up and
many troops and officers are burned body of a man believed
being sent. to be a federal police officer was
Sota said Veracruz's govern- left on a road in the state capital.
ment asked federal prosecutors State and federal police could not
to take over the investigation of confirm the man's identity.
last week's body dumping. A message left with the body
Authorities have said the vic- said the Zetas had carried out
tims were linked to the Zetas the killing, in retaliation for the
drug cartel. The killers are officer's alleged support for the
believed to be from the New Zetas' main rival, the Gulf cartel,
Generation gang, a group that is said the officials, who spoke on
associated with the Sinaloa car- condition of anonymity.
tel. . Federal police have been sent
The area had been dominated to several hotspots throughout
by the hyper-violent Zetas car- Mexico to supplement often cor-
tel, while Sinaloa is challenging rupt, intimidated or weakened
their control. local police.
Banners appeared in some In Ciudad Juarez, a border
Veracruz cities over the weekend city where thousands of federal
accusing Mexican marines, who officers have been posted, the,
have taken a leading role in the federal Attorney General's Office
government's offensive against announced that 10 former feder-
cartels, of kidnapping residents al officers had been arrested and
and favoring the Sinaloa cartel. ordered to stand trial on charges
Yesterday, the navy said of extortion, abuse of authority
marines had detained three and drug possession, among oth-
people who were carrying simi- ers.
lar banners in their vehicle near Prosecutors said the officers
the Gulf coast port of Tuxpan were detained'earlier this month
in Veracruz state. The three on a citizen complaint. They
are believed to be linked to the were caught with a captive man
Zetas, the navy said. in their vehicle, who told inves-
Marines pulled over their tigators the police had threat-
sport utility vehicle at a highway ened to plant drugs on him and
checkpoint Tuesday and found demanded money in return for
the banners, ammunition and a releasing him.

4

GREGORY BULL/AP
Judy Clarke, the lawyer representing shooting suspect Jared Lee Loughner, walks out of a federal court building Wednes-
day, June 29, 2011, in San Diego. A judge ruled yesterday that prison officials can forcibly give the Tucson shooting ram-
page suspect anti-psychotic drugs in a bid to make him mentally fit for trial.
Judge:Loughner can be
mentally fit to stand rial

Ad

treC
TUI
federa
that th
ing Re
deadly
eventu
to star
a prisc
month
U.S.
Burns
Jared
listeni
The
was in
court.
an ang
kicked
Bur
Lough
that, ft
tion to
"Th
mistic
able to
judge
substa
ner's i

rosecutors say restored. "The court finds that
measurable progress has been
atment can help made."
Experts have concluded
chizophrenic Loughner suffers from schizo-
phrenia, and prosecutors
23 year old contend he can be made com-
petent with more treatment.
CSON, Ariz. (AP) - A But Loughner's attorneys argue
i judge ruled yesterday prosecutors have failed to prove
ae man accused of wound- that it's probable his condition
op. Gabrielle Giffords in a will improve enough.
shooting rampage can Loughner has pleaded not
ally be made mentally fit guilty to 49 charges stemming
od trial and should stay at from-the Jan. 8 shooting in Tuc-
on hospital for four more son that killed six and injured
s. 13, including Giffords.
District Judge Larry Earlier Tuesday, a psycholo-
made the decision as gist testified that Loughner has
Lee Loughner sat nearby, improved to where he under-
ng intently and quietly. stands that he killed people and
23-year-old's demeanor feels remorse about it, and can
stark contrast to his last be made competent to stand
appearance in May, when trial within eight months.
;ry, loud outburst got him Loughner is still delusional
out the courtroom. but has made strides during the
ns noted yesterday that past four months at the Spring-
ner wasn't smirking and field, Mo., facility, Dr. Christina
'or once, was paying atten- Pietz said.
the proceedings. When he first arrived, Lough-
ere's reason to be opti- ner was convinced Giffords was
he will recover and be dead, even though he was shown.
o assist in his case," the a video of the shooting.
said in ruling there's a "He believed it had been edit-
ntial probability Lough- ed" by law enforcement, Pietz
mental health could be said.

Now that Loughner is being
forcibly medicated with psycho-
tropic drugs, "he knows that she
(Giffords) is alive."
"He is less obsessed with
that," Pietz testified. "He under-
stands that he has murdered
people. He talks about it. He
talks about how remorseful he
is.
As yestserday's hearing
dragged on, Loughner swiv-
eled back and forth in his chair
at times, and sighed as the talk
turned to video surveillance of
the shooting and later his delu-
sions.
But for the most part, he sat
still and expressionless. He
looked thin and pale and was
wearing a white T-shirt and
khaki-colored prison pants. He
had closely cropped hair and
sideburns, and his wrists and
ankles were shackled.
According to transcripts of
Loughner's May 25 appearance,
he interrupted the hearing by
blurting out: "Thank you for the
free kill. She died in front of me.
Your cheesiness."
Federal marshals whisked
him from the courtroom, and
he watched the rest of the hear-
ing on closed-circuit TV from a
separate room.

WWW.WADLDETROIT.COM

A

4 &

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, September 29, 2011 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, September 29, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHINGTON
Rev. Al Sharpton
to lead march in
Washington D.C.
The Rev. Al Sharpton says he
will lead a march in Washington
next month in support of Presi-
dent Barack Obama's jobs plan
- and he dismisses blacks who
criticize Obama over high black
unemployment.
As Sharpton announced plans
yesterday for the Oct. 15 March
for Jobs and Justice, he was asked
whether there is a double standard
in failing to hold Obama account-
able for joblessness among blacks.
The leader of the Congressio-
nal Black Caucus, Rep. Emanuel
Cleaver, has said there is.
The double standard, Sharpton
says, is that most black politicians
who publicly criticize Obama did
not initially back his 2008 presi-
dential bid -theysupported Hill-
ary Clinton, who is now secretary
of state.
EUGENE, Ore.
Gov't gives patients
monthly supply of
medical marijuana
The U.S. government consid-
ers marijuana among the world's
most dangerous drugs, classifying
it as a highly-addictive substance
that has no medical use.
But there's a catch: The gov-
ernment also supplies four people
with 300 marijuana cigarettes
each month. They are patients in
the government's Compassionate
Investigational New Drug Pro-
gram.
The program began when a
Washington, D.C., man sued the
government in order to get access
to marijuana to treat his glau-
coma. He won, and the program
was born.
The pot is grown in Missis-
sippi as part of the government's
research into marijuana. It's then
sent to a facility in North Caro-
lina, where it is rolled into ciga-
rettes.
WASHINGTON
U.S. Census shows
130,000 married
gay couples in U.S.
Increasingly visible, the num-
ber of gay Americans telling the
U.S. census they're living with
same-sex partners nearly dou-
bled in the past decade, to about
650,000 couples. And more than
130,000 recorded partners as hus-
band or wife.
Census figures released Tues-
day provide a rare snapshot of
married and unmarried same-sex
couples in the U.S. based on the
government count conducted last
year, when gaymarriage was legal
in five states and the District of
Columbia. It comes at a time when

public opposition to gay marriage
is easing and advocacy groups are
seeking a state-by-state push for
broader legal rights.
NAIROBI, Kenya
U.N. reports gains
in fight against
* famine in Somalia
The U.N. yesterday said food
assistance has reached nearly
half the Somalis in need, though
it warned cases of diarrhea and
cholera could spike with the sea-
sonal rains expected in October.
Famine relief has gotten to
about 1.85 million Somalis, the
U.N. Office for the Coordination
of HumanitarianAffairs said.
The World Health Organiza-
tion, meanwhile, reports that
cases of diarrhea and cholera
are down, though October rains
could pose a high risk of trans-
mission of waterborne diseases in
highly populated camps for those
displaced by the famine.
Tens of thousands of Somalis
already have died from a lack of
food, and the U.N. says 750,000
more are at risk of death from
famine in the next four months.
Six areas in southern Somalia
have been declared famine zones.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Emergency food
providers become
mainstay for many

An Afghan police officer, left, looks at a police vehicle damaged ina suicide attack in Lashkar Gah, Helmand province,
Afghanistan, Tuesday, Sept.27, 2011.
U.N. reports a growing
i ntensity in Afghan war

17 million in U.S.
deemed 'food-
insecure' in 2010
NEW YORK (AP) - Rosa-
linde Block.receives $241 a
month in food assistance for her
and her 18-year-old son, to add
to the money coming in from the
piano lessons she teaches and
the art commissions she gets. In
one of the world's most expen-
sive cities, it's not enough.
"That goes pretty fast," said
Block, 59, of the amount she got
for September, "it was already
gone by the 12th or the 15th."
So Block, who lives on Man-
hattan's Upper West Side, adds
to it with visits every other
month to a food pantry in near-
by Harlem, where she'll get
some chicken or milk, or some
ingredients for soup or a few
other meals. It's been like this
for a couple of years.
A report released yesterday
by Feeding America, a hunger-
relief organization, finds that
food banks that were originally
created to serve as stop-gap
emergency food providers are
now taking a long-term, chronic
role for Americans turning to
them routinely to get enough to
eat.
The organization's study,
"Food Banks: Hunger's New
Staple," analyzed data com-
piled in 2009 as part of the

group's "Hunger in America
2010" report. The latest analysis
showed that 18 percent of those
surveyed said they used food
pantries six to 11 months of the
previous year, while 36 percent
they used them every month.
The survey also found that
among those 65 years and older,
56 percent went to a food pantry
every month. And even those
receiving aid in the form of
supplemental nutrition money
still needed more help, with 58
percent of them being frequent
or monthly users.
"Those dollars don't go very
far," said Vicki Escarra, presi-
dent of the Chicago-based Feed-
ing America.
The report "really puts kind
of a fine point on the fact that
food banks are becoming the
new normal for a large percent-
age of the population," she said.
It's not the role they were
created for, she said, "but we are
doing that right now because we
have to."
According to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, 14.5 per-
cent U.S. households, about 17
million, were termed "food-
insecure" in 2010, a jump from
about 11 percent in 2007. Of
those households, 6.4 million
had very low food security,
meaning one or more members
of the household had eating pat-
terns disrupted because of lack
of money or other resources for
food.

Violent incidents
up 39 percent from
same time last year
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -
The monthly average of armed
clashes, roadside bombings and
other violence in Afghanistan
is running 39 percent ahead of
last year's figure, U.N. reported
yesterday, with more complex
suicide operations involvingmul-
tiple bombers and gunmen.
The statistics show that the
intensity of the nearly decade-old
war is growing, not abating, as
the U.S. and other nations start
to withdraw some forces with
an eye toward pulling all combat
troops out by the end of 2014. The
Taliban's resilience raises ques-
tions about whether the Afghan
government and its Western
allies have a solid grip on secu-
rity - and whether the Afghan
forces can ever secure the nation
by themselves.
NATO says it has made prog-
ress in taming the Taliban insur-
gency by routing its strongholds
in the south. But the Taliban have
hit back with several high-profile
attacks in the capital and assas-
sinations of government officials
and senior Afghan leaders.

In its quarterly report on
Afghanistan, the U.N. said that
as of the end of August, the aver-
age monthly number of incidents
stood at 2,108, up 39 percent over
the same period a year earlier.
It did not provide comparable
data. The figures include insur-
gent attacks as well as assaults
by NATO and Afghan forces on
Taliban figures and positions.
"Armed clashes and impro-
vised explosive devices contin-
ued to constitute the majority of
incidents," U.N. Secretary-Gen-
eral Ban Ki-moon said in his
report. "The south and south-
east of the country, particularly
around the city of Kandahar,
continued to be the focus of mili-
tary activity and accounted for
approximately two-thirds of the
total security incidents."
The U.S.-led coalition said it
disputes the U.N. figures and
planned to hold a news confer-
ence today to release its own sta-
tistics related to overall violence
trends in Afghanistan.
Kandahar, the birthplace of
the Taliban insurgency, was
where most of the 33,000 addi-
tional U.S. troops that President
Barack Obama sent to Afghani-
stan were deployed. The extra
U.S. and other NATO . forces
succeeded in routing insurgents

from their stronghold and now
are trying to hold those areas in
the south.
The militants, however, have
opened new fronts in the north
and west and have stepped up
attacks in the east, including
ones inside the heavily secured
capital, Kabul.
According to the U.N. report,
while the number of suicide
attacks remained steady, insur-
gents conducted more suicide
operations involving multiple
bombers and gunmen. It said
that on average, three complex
attacks have been carried out
each month from January to
August - a 50 percent increase
compared with the same period
last year.
"Complex suicide attacks
made up a greater proportion
of the total number of suicide
attacks," the report said.
Many of these attacks have
taken place in Kabul.
On Aug. 19, Taliban suicide
bombers stormed the British
Council, the U.K.'s international
cultural relations body, killing
eight people duringaneight-hour
firefight as two English language
teachers and their bodyguard
hid in a locked panic room on
the anniversary of the country's
independence from Britain.

gave "-._t,.
t AM, na
V~k 3cutc 5nsr a.bet'"+ lr1 h

President of Haiti plans to
reinstate military presence

Human rights
groups wary of
army's restoration
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
(AP) - Haiti's president is mov-
ing forward with a controversial
campaign pledge to restore the
country's disbanded military
with an initial force of 3,500 sol-
diers, according to a document
obtained Tuesday by The Associ-
ated Press.
The role for the army replacing
the former discredited military
would be to patrol Haiti's border,
keep order during times of crisis
and provide opportunities for
young people, says the document
outlining the plan.
President Michel Martelly's
government proposes spending
$95 million to train and equip the
new armed force with the goal of
eventually replacing the 12,000
U.N. peacekeepers in the country.
"The fragility of the Haitian
state now makes it vulnerable to
the risks of internal unrest that
could plunge the country into
anarchy," the document says.
Martelly spokesman Lucien
Jura said Tuesday afternoon that
he was unaware of the document,
and referred questions to security
consultant Reginald Delva, who
told the AP he would comment
later.
Haiti has not had a military
since it was disbanded in 1995
under President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide after years of coups and
human rights abuses. Some Hai-

tians have said in recent months
they welcome the creation of a
new army, a reflection of patrio-
tism but also of the expectation
that it would create jobs in an
impoverished country.
Human rights groups have
expressed uneasiness with the
idea of restoring a military that
was notorious for abuses.
The Martelly administration's
proposal has been circulating
among foreign officials in Haiti
and would need the approval of
Parliament as well as funding
that would likely have to come
from international aid.
The AP obtained the document
from an official on condition of
anonymity because the person
was not authorized to distribute it.
Haiti's government notes in
the report that it does not face
any threat from other countries
but says a new army is necessary
to patrol the porous border with
the Dominican Republic, now fre-
quently used by drug traffickers
and for other types of smuggling.
The budget for the project,
known as the National Council
of Defense and Security, includes
$15 million to compensate for-
mer military personnel who lost
wages and pensions when Aris-
tide disbanded the military. That
is a long-standing grievance of
the former soldiers.
The 22-page proposal says
organizers would initially name
an interim military staff and
identify sites for military bases
in the countryside, with the first
class of troops recruited from
November to January.

The plan also calls for cre-
ation of a "national intelligence
service," a special unit to deal
with terrorism threats, criminal
syndicates and illegal trafficking
networks. It would also moni-
tor "extremist organizations and
movements intended to spread
anarchy."
A U.S. Embassy spokesman,
Jon Piechowski, said by email
that Haitian government officials
had recently met with embassy
personnel to discuss the plan.
"We are reviewing the informh-
tion theyhave shared in support of
their vision," Piechowski said.
A human rights lawyer criti-
cized the idea, noting that the
military has long been used in
Haiti as a tool to quash democrat-
ic movements.
"The problems raised in the
proposal are real, but there is
little basis for believing that the
army would be an effective solu-
tion," said attorney Brian Con-
cannon, director and founder
of the Institute for Justice and
Democracy in Haiti.
"The (army) did not success-
fully defend the borders against
foreign attacks, and the other
listed functions - development,
disaster response and policing
are done more cheaply and effi-
ciently by civilian entities. What
the army has done w611 through-
out its history is attack unarmed
civilians and stunt democracy."
Haiti-born political observer
Jocelyn McCalla said the country
would be better served by creat-
ing a job program thatfocuses on
young people.

TOM UHLMAN/AP
In this June 27, 2011 photo, a Kroger store receipt with a food recall notice sits
near a check out lane atla Cincinnati Kroger.
E. coli scare leads
son to recall
ground beef

Ohio family
becomes ill after
eating Kroger beef
CINCINNATI (AP) - Tyson
Fresh Meats Inc. is recalling
about 131,300 pounds of ground
beef because a family in Ohio
fell ill after eating meat pro-
duced by the company that was
contaminated with E. coli, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture
reported yesterday.
The recall involves beef sold
as Kroger brands at Kroger Co.
supermarkets; Butcher's Beef
at Food Lion supermarkets; and
generic beef sold to SAV-A-LOT,
Spectrum Foods, Supervalu and
the Defense Commissary Agen-
cy, company spokesman Gary
Mickelson told The Associated
Press.
Tyson produced the affected
meat at its plant in Emporia, Kan.,
on Aug. 23, the USDA said in a
news release.
Four children became ill after
eating the meat with their family
in Butler County, Ohio, in the sec-
ond week of September, said But-
ler County Health Department

director Pat Burg. A 9-year-old
child was hospitalized for about
10 days with severe diarrhea, said
Burg, who declined to release the
family's name.
Ground beef from the family's
home tested positive for the bac-
teria. No other cases have been
reported in the southwest Ohio
county, Burg said.
The Ohio Department of
Health confirmed that two But-
ler County siblings received
medical treatment after becom-
ing sick from E.coli, while other
two children reported to be ill
didn't get medical treatment,
spokeswoman Tessie Pollock
said.
The family told health officials
that they bought the beef at a
Kroger supermarket.
Cincinnati-based Kroger
spokesman Keith Dailey said
the ground beef in question
would have been taken off store
shelves on Sept. 12, because of
when it was produced. He said
Kroger tracked beef to three
geographic divisions where it
was distributed and will have
in-store signs notifying custom-
ers of the recall and details of
the recalled beef.

,it,


E A IA


4

4A - Thursday, September 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, September 29, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

BRUNO STORTINI

E-MAIL, BRUNO Xr BRUNORS( ,bUMICH.EDU I

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
. EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
-DITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

NICK SPAR
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Problematic panhandling
City officials must help alleviate safety concerns
In the wake of a worrying series of crime alerts the past few
months, students returned to campus this fall with a differ-
ent mindset than in years past. The comfortable atmosphere
in Ann Arbor has been compromised as a result of an increase in
reported sexual assaults - one occurring in the Liberty Street park-
ing structure near many downtown businesses - and noticeably
aggressive panhandling. These changes to the character of down-
town Ann Arbor have many local business owners concerned, and
they fear that safety concerns throughout the Ann Arbor area are
driving away business. The city needs to allocate funds to address
the problem of Ann Arbor safety concerns and support local busi-
nesses and residents.
According to a Daily article from July 31, ans, it shouldn't be the department's sole pri-
amendments dealing with panhandling in Ann ority. Police should be patrolling downtown
Arbor have been ineffective. A Sept. 25 AnnAr- Ann Arbor and enforcing panhandling policies
bor.com article details how this problem has in order to protect businesses and encourage
only gotten worse in the eyes of those who commerce. It's contradictory that resources
frequent the downtown area. Business owners are allocated to revenue-earning endeavors
say aggressive panhandling is driving costum- when there is a clear need for on-the-ground
ers away from their stores. Some shoppers and police presence throughout the city.
employees don't feel safe, especially at night. However, city officials should work with
Housing in the Liberty Street area is some of social service institutions to ensure enforce-
the most expensive in downtown, and business ment isn't simply a war on people facing dire
owners say the concentration of panhandlers poverty. The Ann Arbor City Council should
on the street, along with other crime-related focus on social services to fight homelessness
factors, is hurting their businesses - poten- and help get people off the street. The task
tially leading some of them to close their doors. force was originally intended to be an out-
Last year, a city task force attempted to reach program, and it shouldn't focus solely on
address this issue. Panhandling became pro- enforcement. Resources should be in place to
hibited in more areas, including public buses, help, rather than punish, homeless people.
areas near parking garages and within 12 feet In addition to the necessary increased
of Nichols Arcade. The task force called for police activity, individuals need to educate
stricter enforcement by police. Unfortunately, themselves on how to stay safe. Students and
with the police force already spread thin as a consumers should travel in groups, especially
result of budget cuts, removing panhandlers at night. Businesses should also continue to
from prohibited areas isn't a top priority for report incidents so that the' city takes this
law enforcement in the city. matter seriously.
Instead, the Ann Arbor Police Department We must not be naive in thinking Ann
recently decided to crack down on motor- Arbor is recession-proof and idyllic. Residents
ists who.fail to stop for pedestrians by fining should encourage city officials to curb actions
them up to $100 for an offense. While this is it has already deemed illegal to keep the city
important for the safety of campus pedestri- thriving.
ANDREW WEINER
Streaming success story

K. An lie roofe. on
&
,- K~onleeees {r re)
Relapse or recovery?
J n the cover art for his album days, Republicans are mopping up "I'm going to propose ways to
"Recovery," Eminem sits on a the unions' remnants, fiscal inequal- put America back to work," Obama
couch in the middle of Detroit's ity in the United States is at record announced, "that both parties can
Hart Plaza, placidly reading as levels and many Democrats are still agree to."
the towers of working out whether they want to do Groans rose from the audience. A
GM's Renais- anything about it. woman standing next to me in the
sance Center Despite all that and the worst crowd turned and said, "Here we go
loom behind economic crisis since the Great again."
him. It turns out Depression, Obama did have some- The speech carried on, and "Four
Detroit's break- thing to celebrate on this occa- more years!" came back, but there
through white sion. Thanks to the U.S. bailout, you had it. The people who had been
rapper isn't the the American automobile industry Obama's champions no longer trust-
only embattled hasn't crumbled to the ground. ed that he'd be theirs.
dude with a taste JOEL This was the victory that the Ren-
for symbolism BATTERAN Cen setting aimed to recall, despite
involving this the fact that the RenCen is not an
giant plate-glass auto plant, as The Washington Post Obama needs to
castle. This Labor Day, I watched reported, but an office, hotel and
as the RenCen played backdrop for shopping complex. The crowd of 'break the first-
another jumper of racial lines,Presi- mostly union members assembled
dent Barack Obama, who kicked off for Obama's speech interjected term slum p.
his election counteroffensive after "Four more years!" more than once.
a rough year in Washington and Yet the enthusiasm seemed tem-
around the nation. pered by a nagging sense that in the
The event should have been a struggle to rebuild the U.S. econ- Turns out Eminem originally
kind of homecoming. Detroit gave omy Obama had won a few battles planned to release an album titled
birth to the modern American labor but might be losing the war and the "Relapse 2" ("Re-Relapse"? "Three-
movement, which in turn shaped sense that the fight might just be lapse"?), instead of "Recovery."
the 20th-century Democratic Party. going out of the guy. Then he changed his mind. It's not
Former Presidents Harry Tru- Teamsters president James P. so clear whether we can count on
man, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Hoffa practically begged for some Obama to overcome his own lapses,
Johnson launched their presiden- action. "The one thingabout working even if he wins another term. That
tial drives in Detroit. Think about people is we like a good fight," Hoffa doesn't mean giving up on him, but
that. Each Democratic president in told the crowd. He himself is facing a it does mean looking beyond the
the 20 years that marked the high- challenge from Teamsters - a one of moment to the long run and building
water mark of American liberalism the largest labor unions in the world new movements, which show that
and the decades that witnessed the - who say he's in love with manage- people matter more than money. On
biggest middle class in human his- ment, so he didn't stop there trying my way to the rally, I passed a house
tory, the civil rights movement and to cover his flanks with the martial on Detroit's Clairmount Street with
manned space travel, all started in rhetoric. "President Obama, this is thistles rising high in the front yard
Detroit. your army." and a faded "HOPE" poster in a win-
That era didn't last, of course. But the commander in chief dow. We've been sticking with a los-
Black freedom didn't sit well with a wasn't biting. After walking onstage ing game for a long time now. And as
lot of whites in the North and South, and going down the list ofhis accom- one of the unionists who spoke that
leading them away from the Demo- plishments - health care, auto bail- day said, sometimes hanging on ain't
crats, who also proved too willing out, middle-class tax cuts - Obama enough.
to acquiesce as the economy was launched into the plan of action
re-engineered to benefit the rich that ought to have rallied the troops -Joel Batterman can be
at everyone else's expense. These around his standard. reached at jomba@mich.edu.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
DAVID SCHWARTZ|
The beginning of a green era



4

4

4

I

4

I can't remember what my life was like
before I had my driver's license. The ineffi-
ciencies of "Michael's mom can drive us there
if we see the 8 o'clock, but my dad can't come
get us until 11..." astound me. Why didn't I just
get in the car and start driving? It's not that
hard. Gas on the left, brakes on the right, fun
all around!
In the same vein, I have no recollection of
my life before Netflix revolutionized it. No,
my memory loss wasn't caused by my exces-
sive methamphetamine usage (though that
does explain my teeth falling out). I must
have blocked the memories of having to get up
and change out the "Golden Girls" disc in the
DVD player for the next one. All that physical
movement - what were we thinking?
It should come as no surprise that we live in
an increasingly digital world. Physical books
are being replaced with e-readers. Money is
no longer paper currency, it's numbers on a
computer screen. Our e-mail inboxes are by
far more useful than our physical mailboxes.
And though Netflix started as a DVD-by-mail
service, its online streaming capabilities have
clearly become the main draw for consum-
ers. With hundreds of thousands of titles to
peruse and watch instantly, DVDs or Blu-ray
discs are simply unnecessary.
Netflix pioneered online streaming and
remains the clear leader in the market. Its
profits continue to rise as competitors dwin-
dle. According to some estimates, 20 percent
of peak-hours Internet traffic is Netflix users.
Still, recent controversial business decisions
leave room for speculation if Netflix can
retain its crown.
Netflix stock reached an impressive $300
in July. Then, in a surprise announcement,
monthly subscription prices were significant-
lyraised. The movegarnered noticeable media
attention, along with Starz and Sony drop-
ping content from Netflix's streaming library.
Perhaps as a result of the hype surroundingit,
rather than the price change itself, Netflix's
stock price plummeted - currently valued at
$127 - and approximately 1 million out of 25

million customers canceled their subscrip-
tions. The mass exodus of customers and dra-
matic stock price drop prompted Netflix CEO
Reed Hastings to apologize to consumers. An
apology, but no price reduction.
Last week, in a substantially less publi-
cized move, Netflix announced in a short post
in their blog that the company would be split
in two. Netflix will continue operating as an
online streaming service, and the DVD-by-
mail service will spin off into a new company:
Qwikster. So, if you want to continue getting
movies in the mail and streaming online, you
now have to deal with two websites, twq com-
panies and two prices. Customers were upset,
and stock prices continued to drop. Despite
the obvious backlash against the two-compa-
ny confusion, it's obvious why Netflix made
this decision.
DVDs, Blu-rays and any physical media are
going by the wayside. They're not gone yet,
but looking at the music industry as an exam-
ple, it's easy to see a not-too-distant future
when all of our media is web-based. Netflix
knows this. It knows that the DVD side of its
business isn't viable in the long run. And with
the rapidly changing technology market, "the
long run" could be less than three years away.
Hastings and Co. didn't want the shrinking
DVD market to kill their streaming empire by
bringing the whole company down.
The stock price drop and customer loss
were a large price to pay, but they probably
saved the business. With an innocuous name
like Qwikster, Hastings seemed to be prepar-
ing for the inevitable failure of the spin-off
brand. When the DVD market dies for good
in three, five, or even 10 years, Netflix can
quietly kill Qwikster without dramatically
upsetting Netflix investors.
Despite ups and downs, it appears Netflix
has the brains to evolve with the market. And
thank goodness, because a life without Netf-
lix hardly seems worth living.
Andrew Weiner is a senior editorial
page editor. He is an LSA sophomore.

For those who attended University President Mary
Sue Coleman's sustainability speech on Tuesday,
many things were made clear. For one, I was finally
convinced of her existence, and the audience was con-
vinced of the University's strong and growing commit-
ment to sustainability.
"Sustainability" gets thrown around quite a bit,
especially in an eco-conscious town like Ann Arbor;
its overuse often leads to a softening of its meaning.
However, Coleman made it abundantly clear to all
those in attendance that sustainability isn't a mere
buzz word but a deep, underlying theme that's to guide
this University into the future. "I want this message to
be clear," Coleman asserted, "Sustainability drives the
University of Michigan. Combine maize and blue, and
you get green."
The goals the University has set are commendable,
highly attainable and are large enough in scope to
truly make an impact. Among the goals Coleman enu-
merated were a 25 percent reduction in greenhouse
gas emissions, a 40 percent reduction of waste sent to
landfills, the use of 40 percent fewer chemicals to treat
grass and trees around campus and the transformation
of the University bus fleet to hybrid vehicles.
All these changes are scheduled to be fully imple-
mented by 2025, and judging by Coleman's Hoke-like
resolve and steel-like gaze, I have no doubt she meant
every single word she said.
However, the eventual success or failure of these
ambitious plans lies not in firmly pressed pantsuits or
paraphrasing ubiquitous Hoke-isms but squarely in the
laps of all Michigan students, regardless of year or con-
centration. In order for sustainability to truly take hold
at the University, it must become a part of campus life,
not just a message preached to us by the administra-
tion. As current students, we all have a deep obligation
to begin to alter the way the student body thinks and

acts in relation to the natural world. Just like Denard
Robinson's dreads are the source of his speed, the stu-
dent body is the source of the University's vitality. Col-
lectively, we have the power to take the University in
any direction we choose. All we need to do is "plant
(the) seeds of ideas" and "forge new trails."
The continued development and expansionof student
groups committed to various areas of campus and global ,
sustainability is a sign that students are beginning to
realize their enormous potential to bring about change
on campus and in the community we love. In addition
to the numerous student organizations' that already
exist, Coleman announced the formation of a $50,000
annual "Planet Blue student fund," which will be used
to support the best and most innovative student-devel-
oped campus sustainability ideas. We not only have the
dreams and the plans, but we now have the money to
make it happen. Anyone who thinks they don't have
ample opportunities to become involved with sustain-
ability on this campus and to truly make a difference is
as blind as the Ohio State NCAA compliance office.
It's imperative that students seek out the opportu-
nities that exist all around them. Even the smallest
change for good, when done on a scale as large as the
University of Michigan, has enormous potential to
bring about real, tangible results. So, fellow students,
I implore you all to seriously consider your everyday
actions and reflect on the ramifications these actions
have on the local and global environment. We sit here
today with the tremendous opportunity to direct our
University in a direction few, if any, other universities
across the country, or across the globe for that matter,
can achieve. We have a duty to ourselves, to future gen-
erations, and as Wolverines, to seize this opportunity
and bring our University into a new era.
David Schwartz is an LSA junior.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print anonymous
letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com

4




The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Thursday, September 29, 2011- 5A

Michigan red-zone package tough to defend

Offense a perfect
13-for-13 scoring
inside the
20-yard line
By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan football team's
offense is a perfect 13-for-13 in
red-zone conversions through
four games this season.
There, the secret's out.
"Why do you say that?" said
Michigan offensive coordinator
Al Borges, when reminded of the
red-zone success. "Doggone it.
It's just like that kiss of death,
OK?"
OK then.
The Wolverines, led by junior
quarterback Denard Robinson,
have scored 12 red-zone touch-
downs, tearing up defenses for
the nation's second-leading red-
zone touchdown percentage
(92.3).
But that success is nothing
new. Michigan's identical 4-0
starts the past three seasons
have been due in large part to
the offense's success inside the
20-yard line.
In 2010, Robinson tortured
defenses in the opening four
games to the tune of 18-for-19
in red-zone conversions with 12
touchdowns.
The Wolverinesnevergotclose
to those numbers in the previ-
ous three seasons under former
quarterbacks Chad Henne, Ste-
ven Threet, Nick Sheridan and
Tate Forcier. The 2007-09 totals
through four games were 10, six
and 10 touchdowns respectively,
for touchdown percentages of

66.7, 60.0 and 62.5.
Clearly, Denard Robinson
makes a difference. But he's not
the only factor in the red-zone
equation.
"I don'tknow if there's a magi-
cal answer," Michigan coach
Brady Hoke said. "I mean, I think
part of it is always you have some
pretty good luck."
Even with one of the nation's
most-feared rushers handling
the ball at quarterback, Michi-
gan hasn't favored spreading out
the field to open running lanes in
enemy territory.
Inside the red zone, Borges
has called in what Hoke referred
to as "jumbo personnel" - I-back
sets and three tight ends stacked
up close to the line of scrimmage
in a classic goal-line look.
Facing the red-zone offense
in practice seems to have helped
defensive coordinator Greg Mat-
tison's defense. The unit has
allowed just seven scores on 13
red-zone attempts this season,
with just five touchdowns.
The Wolverines have the low-
est opponent red-zone conver-
sion percentage (53.9) in the Big
Ten and the eighth-lowest in the
nation.
"Some offenses you can really
get a tendency on," Mattison said.
"And you can just say, in this per-
sonnel group they're going to do
this, and in this personnel group
they're going to do this.
"Coach Borges, now, if you're
playing against him, just when
you think they may run it, he's
going to throw it. Just when you
think that he's goingto be in this,
he's going to spread out and be in
that. I think that it's because he's
so sound in every group, where
some teams aren't."
The goal-line tenacity is

TERRA MOLLt
Junior quarterback Denard Robinson and the Michigan offense have come away with at least three points on every red-zone possession this season.

emphasized in practice, where
the offense and defense square
off inside the red zone everyday.
"One thing I'll say for this
football team - we are not per-
feet by any means, 'we are not
there - but we've got pretty
good will," Borges said. "A lot of
times, teams don't have a great
will and you tend to fold. We've
shown no signs of that. Not yet,
anyway."
Michigan's 4-0 start will be
tested against Minnesota on Sat-
urday. But if you're going by the

numbers, Robinson should have
his way with the defense.
When backed into the red
zone, the Goldon Gophers have
allowed 14 scores on 16 chances.
That spells a busy day for Min-
nesota.
"(The red zone) is a point of
emphasis," Borges said. "There's
nothing more distressing than
getting the ball down there and
not scoring. And you're not going
to score a touchdown every time,
but you're not coming away with
something."

They're not perfect in his eyes,
but they've been perfect in the
red zone.
"There you go again," Borges
said, laughing.
NOTES: Gophers coach Jerry
Kill, who was admitted to the
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
on Sunday after suffering a sei-
zure earlier in the day, returned
to practice Wednesday.
The first-year coach has had a
seizure disorder for nearly two
decades.
It caused him to collapse dur-

ing a game against New Mexico
State earlier this year.
"I ain't changing," Kill said
after his return from his first
seizure. "What the hell am I
supposed to do? Stop? I mean,
sit in the chair and wait for the
next God-dang seizure to come
along?"
He hasn't stopped. Kill was
back in practice and defensive
coordinator Tracy Claeys said
Tuesday that he expects Kill
to coach the Big Ten opener at
Michigan Stadium on Saturday.

Lewan playing penalty-free football on offensive line

By TIM ROHAN Michigan lineman a year ago,
Daily Sports Editor Lewan has anchored a Wol-
verine offensive line that has
Taylor Lewan jogged off the allowed only one sack through
field Saturday and put his arm four games this season. And
around a team staff member. Lewan's playing a penalty-free
"No penalties," Lewan told the left tackle, protecting junior
man. "I'm due for one, aren't I?" quarterback Denard Robinson's
When Michigan coach Brady blind side.
Hoke first arrived, he met with The difference?
every player "I don't want to say, 'Not being
individually. NOTEBOOK dumb,' but that's what it is,"
He spent his Lewan said. "Go back and look
time with Lewan discussing the at the film and see the things I'm
number of costly holding and doing. It's like you're thinking to
unnecessary roughness penal- yourself, 'Why would he do that?'
ties he racked up last season. The whistle's obviously over and
"That was what our meet- I go and run into a person. I don't
ing was about, and it was a little know what that's all about. I
longer than everybody else's," fixed it. We're good.
Lewan said. "But I think you jinxed me
"I can blame it on being a red- though. Now I'm getting all ner-
shirt freshman last year, just vous about it."
going guns blazing, hoping for Lewan said he wanted to see
the best. At the end of the day, improvement in the offensive
it's just being a smart player. You line's run blocking, even though
can be more aggressive than Michigan has averaged 250
I was last year, more aggres- yards rushing per game. With a
sive than I am now and still not new coaching staff that teaches
get penalties. Just be a smarter blocking differently from the old
player, know when the whistle's staff, Lewan said the line is still
blown." learning to "jell" with one anoth-
Easily the most-penalized er as they start understanding

what each lineman's responsibil-
ity is on every play.
"There's still some gray area,"
Lewan said.
But the other four linemen
have a more mature Lewan to
lean on.
"Yeah, I mean, I'm an old man
now, I'm 20," Lewan said. "It's
ridiculous. My knees hurt now."
GET LOW, BIG FELLA: Junior
defensive tackle Will Campbell
has shown Hoke flashes. The
next step is shining all the time.
Campbell's high school team-
mate, redshirt sophomore safety
Thomas Gordon, offered a simple
solution for Campbell.
"Will's just got to keep stay-
ing low," Gordon said. "He's got
to stay low all the time. Because
he's a big guy, and he if he keeps
that good leverage, he'll be good.
"You see some flashes here
and there, and that's when he
stays low."
Campbell first made an
impression in Michigan's win
over Notre Dame. In the two
games since, he hasn't been as
disruptive.
"I'm glad Thomas is coach-
ing him up," Hoke said with a

ERINKIRKLAND/Daily
Redshir sophomore offensive lineman Taylor Lewan and the offensive line have only allowed one sack in four games.

smile. "I really am. And Thomas
is right, Will just has to ... play
lower and be more consistent
in that part of it. His get-off the
football is something that he has
to be conscious about and make
good habits with."
Senior defensive tackle Mike
Martin said Campbell has the
tendency to watch the ball
instead of going full-steam ahead
and finding the ball himself. Get-
ting low and driving ahead is the
solution.
"If he comes in low like that,
you can't stop him," Gordon said.
MEET THE COMMITTEE:
Michigan's lead running back
may just be Denard Robinson.
His 18 carries for 138 yards per
game average say he is.
As for a true lead running
back, one Michigan offensive
coordinator Al Borges can feed
the ball 20 times a game, the
Wolverines still don't have one.
Borges was resigned to the real-
ity Tuesday that he may not have
a feature back with Robinson at
quarterback, playing so often out
of the shotgun.
All offseason and through the
first four weeks, Borges has been
opposed to the tailback-by-com-
mittee approach, but with junior

running back Vincent Smith and can get that kind of productivity
redshirt sophomore Fitz Tous- every week, that'd be pretty darn
saint, that may be the only pos- good."
sibility. Smith and Toussaint com-
"If we can produce over a hun- bined Saturday to run 22 times
dred yards rushing from our tail- for 114 yards and a touchdown
backs between two guys, I can - together still not up to Robin-
live with that," Borges said. "As son's production.
long as there's productivity at INJURY UPDATE: Hoke said
the position, and we'll get into a fifth-year senior cornerback
little of that now, I'm not going to Troy Woolfolk, who injured his
complain about it. It's just not my ankle again on Saturday, has
participated in every practice
since the game against San Diego
State.
"I'm not going - Redshirt junior left guard
- Ricky Barnum also injured his
to complain .-- ankle against San Diego State,
-t's jubut he had not practiced as of
it's just not y Tuesday, which doesn't bode
well for his chances to play this
-eSaturday against Minnesota.
"I'm not saying he's out, but
he's trying to take care of that
ankle," Hoke said.
preference. And as for injured lineback-
"Because Denard's such a ers Cam Gordon and Brandon
featured runner in our offense, Herron, Hoke said they're doing
I don't know if the tailbacks are everything in practice.
ever going to get huge numbers Gordon, on the other hand,
until we just jump into the I-for- has been practicing for a while
mation and startcdoing that every now, and his name appears on
play, which we're not doing as the list of available players, but
long as Denard's the quarterback he hasn't played a game yet this
- not every play, anyway. If we season.

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daly
Junior running back Vincent Smith has stepped up to take the No.1 running back spot for the past two games.

WANT TO JOIN THE DAILY SPORTS STAFF?
DROP BY OUR SPORTS MEETING ON SUNDAYS AT 1 P.M. ON 420 MAYNARD STREET

#4 AOA

A

A


4

6A - Thursday, September 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Congress shutdown
due to disagreement
about disaster relief

A

FEMA only has
enough emergency
funding to last
through the week
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Congress is once again allow-
ing shutdown politics to bring
the federal government to the
brink of closing.
For the second time in nine
months, lawmakers are bicker-
ing and posturing over spend-
ing plans. The difference this
time is that everyone agrees on
the massive barrel of money to
keep the government running
for another seven weeks.
"It is embarrassing," Sen.
Mark Warner, D-Va., admit-
ted Sunday on CNN's "State
of the Union." Warner asked:
"Can we, once again, inflict on
the country and the American
people the spectacle of a near
government shutdown?"
At issue is a small part of
the almost $4 trillion budget
intended for an infrequent pur-
pose: federal dollars to help
victims of floods, hurricanes,
tornadoes and other natural
disasters and whether some of
the expense should be offset
by cuts in other governrent

spending.
This sort of crisis man-
agement has cost Congress
credibility in the eyes of the
electorate, with about eight in
10 Americans disapproving of
the institution's performance
after this summer's debt crisis.
A major credit agency down-
graded the nation's ratings as
a result, unnerving the world's
financial markets.
FEMA estimates that as of
Monday morning, it had $114
million left in its disaster relief
account, enough to last until
Thursday or Friday, said agen-
cy spokeswoman Rachel Racu-
sen. That is a couple of days
longer than FEMA estimated
last week, which an agency
official attributed to unused
money FEMA has been able to
reclaim from grants to states
for recovery projects that have
been completed.
Those extra days are signifi-
cant because that means FEMA
may not need additional money
to function until Saturday,
when the government's new
fiscal year begins. That takes
some pressure off House and
Senate leaders who have been
unable to strike a compromise
on a bill providing disaster
relief and financing the govern-
ment until mid-November.

A police car sits in the driveway of the home of 26-year-old Rezwan Ferdaus, in Ashland, Mass., yesterday. Ferdaus has been arrested and accused of plttint to destroy
the Pentagan and the U.S. Capital with lange remate-contralled aircraft filled with eaplasives.
Man accused of attack
on Pentagon arrested

4

Suspect allegedly
discussed
terror plot with
undercover agent
BOSTON (AP) - A Massachu-
setts man was arrested yesterday
and accused of plotting an assault
on the Pentagon and U.S. Capitol
using remote-controlled aircraft
armed with explosives - the lat-
est of several terrorism cases to
spring from federal sting opera-
tions.
Rezwan Ferdaus was arrested
in Framingham after undercover
federal agents delivered materi-
als he had' allegedly requested,
including grenades, six machine
guns and what he believed was 24
pounds of C-4 explosive. Federal
officials said the public was never
in danger from the explosives,
which it said were always under
control and closely monitored.
Yesterday's arrest was similar

to other cases in which reput-
ed would-be terrorists were
caught in sting operations that
revolved around fictional plots
against various targets, such as
Dallas skyscapers or a Chicago
nightclub. In this case, though,
authorities say Ferdaus planned
the scheme.
According to a federal affi-
davit, Ferdaus, 26, of Ashland,
became convinced America was
evil through jihadi websites
and videos, and began planning
"jihad" against the U.S. in early
2010. He contacted a federal
informant that December and
months later, allegedly began
meeting to discuss the plot with
undercover federal agents he
believed were members of al-
Qaida.
Ferdaus said he wanted to deal
a psychological blow to the "ene-
mies of Allah" by hitting the Pen-
tagon, which he called "head and
heart of the snake," according to
the affidavit.
"Allah has given us the privi-

lege," he allegedly told the infor-
mant. "... He punishes them by
our hand. We're the ones."
Ferdaus, a U.S, citizen who
graduated from Northeastern
University with a bachelor's
degree in physics, made a brief
initial appearance yesterday
in federal court on charges of
attempting to destroy federal
buildings and providing sup-
port to a foreign terrorist orga-
nization, in this case al-Qaida. A
detention hearing was scheduled
for Monday.
Telephone messages were left
at the office of his attorney, Cath-
erine Byrne, and at the address
listed for Ferdaus in the affidavit.
Several alleged domestic plots
have been thwarted since the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks,
including in Lackawanna, N.Y.;
Portland, Ore.; and Virginia.
Terrorism arrests involving
federal stings have often been
followed by claims of entrap-
ment, but none of the cases
brought since Sept. 11 has been

thrown out by a court on such
grounds.
U.S. Rep. William Keating of
Massachusetts, a member of the
Homeland Security Commit-
tee, said lawmakers have been
warned for months of an emerg-
ing threat from homegrown
extremists. He said al- Qaida
is casting a wide net to radical-
ize individuals or small groups
already in the country because of
the significant advantages.
"They're already here, so they
don't have the hurdles of getting
into the country, they know the
country better.... They know how
to move around," Keating said.
"The testimony we heard, things
like this (the Ferdaus arrest)
were inevitable."
Ferdaus is accused of planning
to use three remote control air-
planes measuring about from 60 to
80 inches in length. Ferdaus alleg-
edly planned to pack five pounds
of explosives in each plane, while
saving some of it to blow up bridg-
es near the Pentagon.

4

4


RELEASE DATE- Thursday, September 29, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

5&6 BR Houses
May 2012
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

ACROSS DOWN 30 Borde
1 *Rodkrconqueror? 1 Bo and Barney, 31 Derby
6 Ilk e.g. 36 Some
1 'Ioy milk brand 2 Mountain climber 37'atart
14 Diminish, as trust Ralston, subject dwelle
15aCourttarget ot"t27 Hours' 3aSuas. to
16 ingerwh the 3 H uster'sgame 40 Drudg
platinum 1992 4 Atlanta summer 43 Aband
album 'The Celts" hrs 46 Orego
17 *Dental checkup 5Warm up home
freebie 6 Crowd 47 Irritabl
19 Hungarian spa 7mords tooneon 48 Pin in
cit' deck at Gold u
20 "3a Rocki S8Nosegay ANSW
loosely based 00 98Bk. before
it briefly Philippians A L EF
21 Georgiacampus 10 Envision a way R O L
22 Transparent tt Taagreatexant A B Y
persnly? r12Caus iflutds
23HWebber's parnner 1tao-t
24tbtinkdendingrtn ASCAP rival A
25 Are proper for 22 Union member? A N 0F
28*Wile E. Coyote 23 Like pintos L W
buy 24LO
32 a leo, before Lasa tiona U N I
seeing Cba? 25 Albegtanatisnal M 0 N
33 Its symbolisF"$ parkt
34 West Bank initals 26 "Christ Stopped at A B O
35*Getscreative 2- t L A W
39*Extent 27 Amount requiring A B E1
41 "Alice"spinoff an Ritcard R A NI
42Gives goose atorztin M R St
bumps, maybe 29 Japanesechip
44 PennsylvaniapaOrt maker xwordedi
45 Flashydisplay 1 2 3 3 4 6
48 Umbrella brand
49 Idiot 14s
5 inalize, as a 1
comic strip
52 Pubdrinks 20 21
54dSudden
outpouring 23
55 Sch. with a
Phoenixcampus 25 26 27 2
sa Comic book 32
buyeraof old?
59 Beginner's piano as 3 37 as
plece
6t Analegous a1 423
62 Forcetul takeover
63 Johnw ohplayed 4a 46
Gomez Addams 49n
64*Forged check
65 Maker of Kate s a se
Mass fragrances
66 Icelebrates a s,
National Daypon
Otber t land 812
it'swherethe an as
answersto
starred les) ByeD2 agoandaea.a. Bur iea
were invened)l (c)2ue1TrnibneaMedaSeves4,ne.

n mascot 52 Mt. Rushmore's
prize state
greenacres 53 Joint Web project
Wtars"tree- 54d'Buzzaotf!"
er 55 When Emile sings
alk "Soe Enchanted
'"as" ECenieg"
on, with "cs" 56 Word with care or
n Ducks' cream
57 Oliver North's
)le alma mater: Abbr.
a shirt 5VoxLX
uois: Abbr.60 -like relative
ER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
R O B L A B I L S A
E O R I L E N E U T
O PE N 130O OK EDX AM O
R AT E E P I C S,
T H A T SIT H A T
S I R O N H A N D
AS H U T E Y E VD I
IC IA S E T H E J11011 N T
R T E V E R L Y
Y E R S D R E A M
1 F E L L I R I S H
CT E E D E S S A Y
tor@aot.com o9/2wi1
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
16
22
24
29 0311
33 34
39 40
43 4 44a
47 48 s7
eso
63
09/29111

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
!Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
!! BIG 10BED CAMPUS HOUSE!!
4 baths, 2 living, open basement, new
carpet, large screen TVs, great yard,
free laundry, free parking, Mayto May.
www.nancylat.com (734) 663-1370
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $3800 (313) 215-8115
(734) 332-6000
www.CarlsonProperties.com
003 BEDROOM HOUSE00 Newty
renovated. Near YostOff-streetpark-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
AVAILABLE FALL 2012. 5bedroom
2 bath houses. Call 610-952-5269 or
Email louisbreskman@gmail.com.
MYUMHOUSE.COM
Jaeger Properties
3-6 Bedrooms
Beautiful, Secore Campus Homes
Available September 2012
No Hidden Costs!
734-668-7955
SIX BEDROOM HOUSE/ Campus
All Amentities, very nice, furnished,
off-street parking, laundry, large front
porch, 2 baths, $3350, Arch Street,
May 2012. Jim at Spring Valley Farm
734-426-4772
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fl.

DSG ASSOCIATES, INC. is looking
for individuals to participate in uapaid
online research study. Sign up for free
at www.dsgai.com or call 800-462-
8765 today!
ONLINE AUTO INSURANCE. Call
Anytime for a quote (734) 944-9393.

Hispanic youth rally in downtown Seattle on Sunday, Sept. 25, 2011.
Obama frustratedy
immigration policy
President says he approvingof Obama's job perfor-
mance, compared with 60 per-
can't fix the issue cent in January.
While Obama has made lit-
on his own tle progress on comprehensive
immigration legislation, he has
WASHINGTON (AP) - Fac- pushed Congress to pass the
ing weakening support among Dream Act, which would provide
Hispanics, President Barack a route to legal status for college
Obama expressed deep frus- students and service members
tration yesterday over what he brought to the country as chil-
called an inaccurate and damag- dren. The bill passed the House
ing perception that he can fix the last year when it was controlled
nation's flawed immigration sys- by Democrats but was blockedby
tem on his own. Senate Republicans.
"This notion that somehow I "I think there's been a great
can just change the laws unilat- disservice done to the cause of
erally is just not true," Obama getting a Dream Act passed and
said during a White House getting comprehensive immigra-
roundtable targeting Hispanic tion passed by perpetrating the
voters, a key constituency for notion that somehow by myself
the president's re-election cam- I can go and do these things,"
paign. Obama said. "We have to pass
The president said compre- bills through the legislature and
hensive immigration reform then I can sign it."
continuesto be a "top priority" Democrats view Hispanic
for his administration. But he voters as a voting bloc in 2012
blamed Republicans in Con- that could help determine the
gress for failing to join Demo- outcome in swing states such as
crats in supporting legislation Florida, Colorado and Nevada.
that would address the flow of The Democratic National Com-
foreigners into the U.S. and deal mittee has aired Spanish-lan-
with illegal immigrants already guage ads in those states in the
in the U.S. past week to tout the benefits of
"Only a few years ago, you had Obama's jobs bill for small busi-
some Republicans who recog- ness and workers in the con-
nized that we needed to fix our struction industry, which the
immigration system," Obama DNC said employs 2.77 million
said, noting that his predeces- Hispanics.
sor, George W. Bush, was among Hispanics accounted for more
them. "Right now you do not than half of the U.S. population
have that kind of leadership com- increase over the last decade,
ing from the Republican Party." exceeding estimates in most
A strong majority of Hispan- states and totaling SO million.
ies supported Obama's election The burgeoning Hispanic
in 2008. But his support among population, Obama said, means
Hispanics has declined, as it it will only be a matter of time
has in the broader population. before the country sees a strong
A recent Gallup survey found Latino candidate for president or
48 percent of Hispanic voters vice president.

4

s

EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com
PART TIME TUTORS needed for
math & science. Call (734) 434-1228.
Dynamic Tutoring Services.
PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSIS-
TANT U.S. Rehab Services has an
immediate full time position available
in Ypsilanti area. Must have MI PTA
License and have experienced in che
field. Eligiblehcandidates send resume
at hr@usrehabpt.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL AGE 18 2 No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

a

4


4


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Thursday, September 29, 2011 - 7A

AL-HASHIMI
From Page 1A
magnetic resonance allows Al-
Hashimi, who is the University's
Robert L. Kuczkowski profes-
sor of chemistry, to see how the
atoms and nucleic acid move in
three dimensions.
"The advantage of using this
nuclear magnetic resonance
method is that in principle, it can
provide us with insight as to how
the atoms jiggle and wiggle and
not just the static arrangement
of how they look in a structure,"
he said.
By getting a detailed picture of
the atoms "dancing," AI-Hashimi
said he and his team examined
the RNA molecule for HIV and
identified the compound that can
stop HIV replication. Al-Hashi-
mi compared the imaging meth-
od to identifying the proper lock
or molecule shape, so research-
ers can determine which key or
drug can unlock it.
"By imaging the whole image
of the lock ... we increase our
chances of finding the key," he
said.
This method of imaging can

also be applied to finding the
proper drug to combat multiple
diseases found in RNA including
cancer and Alzheimer's.
As his experiment progresses,
Al-Hashimi said he would like
to begin imaging larger pieces of
the cell and eventually take 3-D
images of the entire cell in order
to see large-scale movements.
The goal, Al-Hashimi said, is to
make a movie of a cell and anoth-
er of a drug interacting with the
cell.
"It's a big game changer," he
said.
Al-Hashimi said he found out
about his Popular Science award
in an e-mail and was honored to
hear that he was selected.
"It's wonderful to be recog-
nized," he said. "It's great to
share this with my students and
collaborators."
Al-Hashimi said the Univer-
sity community, including his
wife, Allison Aiello, the John G.
Searle assistant professor of epi-
demiology in the School of Pub-
lic Health, has encouraged his
work.
"It's nice to be at the Univer-
sity of Michigan where you're in
a very supportive environment,"

Al-Hashimi said.
Al-Hashimi added that he
also received support from LSA,
as the college purchased more
space for his research expan-
sion. In turn, Al-Hashimi said he
likes to use his research to better
engage his students.
"I love teaching and I often
try to mix (research and teach-
ing) together," he said. "I have
lots of undergraduate students,
for example, doing my research
and learning science by doing
science at the lab, and it's a nice
compliment to the lecture mate-
rial."
When he teaches about ele-
ments, for example, Al-Hashi-
mi doesn't teach the concept
abstractly. Instead, he likes to
focus on one or two elements
that he's currently researching
to make a more interesting and
concrete connection for stu-
dents. Al-Hashimi added that he
also makes an effort to have an
undergraduate student work on
each of his academic papers.
"I often in the lectures talk
about science from a research
perspective ... I present the
material in a way that a scientist
might think about it," he said.

AATA
From Page 1A
Program, which supports the
increase of clean fuel technolo-
gies for transit buses.
However, the AATA isn't the
only transportation service plan-
ning an environmentally friendly
revamp. As part of the Univer-
sity's new sustainability plan, the
University will add seven hybrid
buses to serve the campus com-
munity.
Construction on Blake Transit
Center, located on East William
Street and South Fourth Avenue,
is scheduled to begin in spring
2012 and will triple the space from
2,000 square feet to approximate-
HOSPITAL
From Page 1A
with two children, didn't real-
ize the importance of cervical
cancer screening until it saved
her life.
"I was very lucky that I had
an excellent OB/GYN who
explained to me that pap smears
were a necessity to me once
a year, and I was obedient, so
I did that," she said. "But the
truth is I knew pap smears were
important, but I wasn't exactly
sure what they were for. Then it
turned out that this pap smear
was positive for cervical cancer."
Hope Haefner, a professor in
the Department of Obstetrics
and Gynecology in the Medi-
cal School, said having access
to and knowledge about cervi-
cal cancer tests can be the dif-

ly 6,000 square feet. The projectis
estimated to cost $5.5 million.
The $2.7 million grant will be
divided into $1.013 million for
improvements to Blake Transit
Center and $1.697 million for the
cost of the 10 hybrid buses.
The $2.7 million is part of
the $4.195 million that has been
allocated to AATA for the proj-
ect thus far. In Oct. 2010, AATA
received a $1 million federal
grant for the Blake Transit Cen-
ter renovation. AATA has also
applied for an additional federal
grant to aid the project.
Dingell wrote that updating
TheRide and other modes of pub-
lic transit are integral to the lives
of Michigan residents.
"As travel time is becoming a
ference between life and death.
Haefner described that in some
countries, women have to travel
by foot three days to get a pap
smear. However, women abroad
and in the United States often
don't follow up on their test and
die of cervical cancer.
"We've done a great job in
the United States, but still 4,300
women die of this cancer in the
United States, which I think is
atrocious," Haefner said. "But
of that number, 50 percent were
never screened."
To decrease these numbers,
Haefner suggested doctors reach
out to women who don't typical-
ly receive treatment for cervical
cancer, like women in impover-
ished areas.
"I saw a woman 45 minutes
away who had advanced cervical
cancer," Haefner said. "If we'd
have gotten to her earlier maybe.

key quality of life issue for Michi-
gan workers, public transit is an
accommodating transportation
option to provide access to jobs
and school while alleviating car
congestion," Dingell wrote.
This $2.7 million federal grant
follows last week's announcement
that TheRide plans to expand its
services between Ann Arbor and
Ypsilanti. AATA spokeswoman
Mary Stasiak told The Michigan
Daily last week that the proposal
to extend the TheRide's services
and make transportation more
efficient in the next few years is
in response to the needs of Ann
Arbor residents. The proposal also
includes the creation of a shuttle
from Ann Arbor to the Detroit
Metro Airport.
she would be doing better. We
need to go to the people in Pon-
tiac (and) Detroit that are not too
far from us here in Ann Arbor."
Vivian Pinn, founding direc-
tor of the Office of Research on
Women's Health at the Nation-
al Institutes of Health, said
researchers need to help the
general population better under-
stand the causes of cervical
cancer and why it progresses so
quickly. The health care indus-
try can then be informed, and
women can gain access to qual-
ity health care offered at places
like the Von Voigtlander Wom-
en's Hospital.
"Access to health care is
extremely important," Pinn said.
"It doesn't matter how much
research we have. If the results
go into the test book and don't go
into the medicine, then it is all
for naught."

'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


CARLOSOSORIO/AP
' Alan Mulally, president and CEO of the Ford Motor Co., stands with United Auto Workers President Ron Gettelfinger, far
left, and Ford Motor Co. Executive Chair Bill Ford after the executives signed the auto workers contract in 2007.
Ford's success stirs UAW
resentment in labor talks

Union employees
looking to get
raises, bonuses
DEARBORN, Mich. (AP) -
Ford's turnaround over the last
five years has resulted in big
profits and won its CEO a repu-
tation for brilliant management.
But those same achievements
are stirring resentment among
many of its factory workers. And
that is complicating contract
talks between the company and
its union employees.
At The Rouge, Ford's massive,
94-year-old factory complex in
Dearborn, Mich., there's talk
along the assembly lines of win-
ning back raises and bonuses
lost when the company was near
 financial collapse in 2007. Work-
ers, who assemble F-150 pickup
trucks at the site, are upset that
Ford is trying to cut labor costs,
especially after nine straight
profitable quarters and a $26.5
million pay package for CEO
Alan Mulally.
A few miles to the north, inside
Ford's 13-story headquarters
known as the Glass House, exec-
utives are worried because work-
ers, on average, cost the company
$58 an hour in pay and benefits,
the highest in U.S. auto industry.
Both sides are trying to find
a compromise this week while
work continues at Ford factories
under a contract extension. A top
union bargainer told workers on
a telephone recording Monday
night that talks are accelerating
and he is "hopefully optimistic"
a deal can be reached this week.
Ford's profits and the possi-
bility of a strike could force the
company into a deal that's more
generous to workers than the one
already negotiated with General
Motors Co. Chrysler, meanwhile,

continues to negotiate its own
contract with the union.
Differences between Ford and
the union date to 2007, when all
three Detroit automakers were
on the verge of financial ruin.
The year before that, Ford lost
$12.6 billion, and U.S. sales were
down 8 percent. Worried that
the company would collapse,
Ford workers began a series of
givebacks.
Like workers at GM and Chrys-
ler, they eventually gave up cost-
of-living pay raises, performance
bonuses and other benefits. GM
and Chrysler needed government
bailouts and bankruptcy protec-
tion to stay in business, but Ford
took billions in private loans and
endured on its own.
As a result, Ford became a
consumer favorite and the com-
pany prospered. It paid Mulally
for engineering the turnaround
and restored merit pay and some
other benefits for white-collar
workers, angering union, mem-
bers.
"The compensation for the
CEO has been widely publi-
cized, and those kinds of things
wend their way up and down the
assembly line," says Harley Shai-
ken, a professor at the University
of California at Berkeley and a
specialist in labor issues. "It cre-
ates higher expectations."
At Ford, bargainers are expect-
ed to use the deal with GM as a
template. But it's unclear if its
provisions will be acceptable to
Ford or its union workers. Under
the deal, GM workers would get
a $5,000 bonus for ratifying the
contract, more profit sharing and
higher pay for entry-level work-
ers. Although the deal has no pay
raise for most workers, it appears
headed for approval.
It's the lack of raises that has
rankled many of Ford's 41,000
factory workers.

"Ford has to do a lot more,"
says Gary Walkowicz, a worker
at the company's Dearborn plant,
the epicenter of union dissent.
Walkowicz says many work-
ers are ready to strike, especially
in Dearborn. Workers there led
the rest of the company in reject-
ing a round of concessions in
2009. Ford sought the conces-
sions to match deals given to GM
and Chrysler as they were going
through bankruptcy protection.
Ford is the only Detroit auto-
maker where the union can
strike, something it has not done
at Ford since 1976. Walkouts over
pay are banned this year at GM
and Chrysler Group LLC under
the terms of their government
bailouts. At Ford plants, workers
are making picket schedules in
case they need to strike. But get-
ting ready is standard procedure
during contract talks.
Gary Chaison, a professor of
labor relations at Clark Univer-
sity in Worcester, Mass., says
Ford can cut the risk of a strike
if it doesn't stray too far from the
GM contract. But if Ford tries for
big labor cost cuts, the odds of a
strike rise to 50-50, he says.
UAW President Bob King has
said he's not thinking about a
strike. But he thinks workers
should get a piece of the profits
because they have each given
up $7,000 to $30,000 a year in
concessions since 2007. He also
has called Mulally's pay "outra-
geous."
Mulally, in a recent inter-
view, defended his compensa-
tion, saying it was determined
by the company's success and
the free market. He said much
of his pay is "at risk" because it
comes in stock that can rise and
fall in price based on Ford's per-
formance. Mulally's salary is $1.4
million, with the rest coming in
stock and a bonus.

Robins on's red mption la(Is Blue How it ended:
The Last 5 Minutes
' 4:57
3:14
1:22

p I 

r


4

8A - Thursday, September 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Thursday September 29 2011 The MicIgnDiy-mcgaalco


The new Kirkland & Ellis Caf, located in the Law School's Hutchins Hall, opened earlier this month.

APPS
From Page 1A
the user's location using GPS and
can emit a high-pitched alarm to
deter anyone who appears to be a
threat.
University alum Marsha New-
man, president of AMP, LLC - the
company that operates OnCall
Defender - said the app also has
a stealth mode, which can be used
in situations when speaking might
be dangerous.Throughthestealth
mode, the app sends information
to OnCall Defender's monitor-
ing station at the touch of a but-
ton. OnCall Defender's licensed
monitoring station then contacts
authorities and passes on the
user's information.
"A lot of times in an emergen-
cy situation you're not in a posi-
tion to say, 'I feel uncomfortable
with this guy,"' Newman said.
"It has particular relevance on
campus because you can do the
stealth mode, you don't have to
get parents involved, (and) you
don't have to get anyone else
involved."
In light of the recent assaults
in Ann Arbor and attempted
robberies on campus, Marsha'
and her husband Fred Newman,
also a University alum and CEO
of AMP, LLC, said they hope
students with iPhones will use
the mobile app. Marsha said
she believes OnCall Defender is
faster and more efficient than
callingt911 and, like a home alarm

system, the monitoring station
immediately knows who's call-
ing.
"The main goal is for people
to protect themselves - to have
a monitored emergency security
system," Marsha said.
Diane Brown, spokeswoman
for the University's Department
of Public Safety, said though she
is unfamiliar with the mobile
app, she believes calling 911is the
"most effective way to get help."
Brown suggested that stu-
dents use the Blue Light Emer-
gency Phone System on campus
or text DPS in situations when
speaking aloud is difficult.
The OnCall Defender mobile
app is free to download, but
iPhone users pay a subscrip-
tion fee of $6.99 per month for a
year-long subscription or $11.99
for month-to-month service. A
similar mobile app, MyForce,
is compatible with the iPhone,
BlackBerry and Android. While
it costs the same for amooth-long
subscription, it is more expensive
than OnCall Defender for a year-
long subscription at $119.
Similar to OnCall Defender,
the MyForce program has cus-
tomers register personal infor-
mation and upload a picture of
themselves. MyForce also uses a
GPS tracking system that helps
local police departments find the
reportee when the distress signal
is sent.
The main difference between
the two apps is that MyForce also
records the incident once the dis-

tress signal is sent. According to
the MyForce website, the com-
pany aims to serve as an alterna-
tive to blue light phones and to
provide users with an additional
emergency and safety resource.
"Wherever students are on
campus when they send their
alert from their smartphone, you
get an instant alert notification
in an emergency, alleviating the
student's need to find a blue-light
phone," the MyForce website
states.
According to the MyForce
Facebook page, the company
has a current three-month free
promotion because September is
National Campus Safety Aware-
ness Month.
LSA junior Kelly Lenkevich
said she is unfamiliar with the
mobile apps and doesn't feel the
need to pay for the services.
"I don't feel threatened enough
for it to be a worthwhile invest-
ment," Lenkevich said.
However, Lenkevich added
that this kind of mobile app might
be a good resource in an emer-
gency.
"If you're in a situation, you
can't always take the time to call
911," she said.
Similarly, LSA junior DeJone
Miles said she is not interested
in paying for a safety mobile app
service, though she supports
their purpose to increase stu-
dent safety. She said if a similar
and free smartphone application
were available, she would con-
sider using it.

CAFE
From Page 1A
priced," Pizana said. "We hope to
gain thetrust of the students, that
they can come here and not feel
that we're taking more money out
of their pockets than whatthey're
already putting into the school."
Pizana added that the Kirkland
& Ellis Caf6 uses local ingredients
- including produce from East-
ern Market in Detroit - and sells
homemade goods.
"We have a bakery out of
Detroit that we use that brings
in fresh muffins and donuts and
(other products)," Pizana said.
"We also provide our own fresh
baked goods: scones, cookies, rice
krispie treats, brownies - that
sort of thing we all take care of in
house here."
The cafe also imports Star-
bucks coffee. But Pizana said
the caf6 offers the full Starbucks
menu at a slightly cheaper price
than the franchise's stores.
"We'd done our research, and
Starbucks was what we felt was
wanted by the people that both go
to school here and study and then
also the people around town,"
Pizana said.
The opening of the Kirkland &
Ellis Cafe was on Sept.-7 around
the same time as the closing of
the Law Library's snack bar, a
small cafe previously located on
the library's lower level. Though

Pizana recognizes that the snack
bar was a popular choice for
many students, he said he hopes
the new cafe can fill the snack
bar's void.
"We've been well accepted due
to the change with the snack bar
downstairs," Pizana said. "A few
people had mixed feelings about
it, but now that we've been up
and running and we've strived
for customer service and gained
those customers on a one-on-one
level ... I think we've kind of won
them over with our caf6 and the
products that we serve."
Business at the cafe has been
going well during its first three
weeks, Pizana said. He added that
the Sept. 7 grand opening ceremo-
ny of the Robert B. Aikens Com-
mons increased the number of
students and staff visitingthe cafe.
The business is also in the
process of setting up a system
to accept Blue Bucks, but Pizana
said he hopes the caf6's cus-
tomer demographic will expand
beyond Law School students and
staff.
"We are really hoping that the
public finds out about us - people
passing through from classes,
people passing through to work,"
Pizana said.
Pizana said he believes the
personal'nature of the caf6, along
with the quality of food it serves,
will draw customers.
"You can go into any caf6 and
get a sandwich, but the experi-

ence, I think, is what brings peo-
ple back," Pizana said. "We are
very personable here. We make
it an effort for everyone, not just
our cooks but our cashiers, to
know our customers on a person-
al basis."
First year Law School student
Elisabeth Madden said she has
been to the cafe everyday since
it opened and finds the location a
convenient stop between classes.
"We have a lot of one-hour
breaks in our classes, so it's not
really enough time to go home,"
Madden said. "So it's'nice to have
a place to be able to sit down and
have a snack or coffee."
First year Law School student
Laura Jacobson said she also fre-
quents .the new cafe and enjoys
the salads, sandwiches and muf-
fins. She added that the snack bar
was "awful," and she doesn't miss
it, even if products at the new cafe
are slightly more expensive.
"I know everything at the
snack bar was like a dollar or two,
but it's really not that expensive
(at the Kirkland & Ellis Cafe),"
Jacobson said.
Madden also said the new cafe
is an improvement over the snack
bar and offers a better space for
students.
"It's a nice place to kick back
after class and relax and see
friends, but it's also quiet enough
that it's a good place to study and
get ready for the class you have
the next day," Madden said.

4


4

WANT TO BE THE NEXT
STEPHEN SPIELBERG?
PRODUCE VIDEOS FOR
THE MICHIGAN DAILY
E-MAIL SQUIRE@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

4

4

E

EMBARK: NASSAU, BAHAMAS
ROSEAU, DOMINICA
MANAUS, BRAZIL
TAKORADI GHANA
CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA
PORT LOUIS, MAURITIUS
COCHIN, INDIA
SINGAPORE
HO CHI MINH CITY, VIET NAM
HONG KONG, CHINA
SHANGHAI, CHINA
KOBE, JAPAN
YOKOHAMA, JAPAN
HILO, HAWAII
DEBARK: SAN DIEGO, CA USA
ITINERARY 5 SSUBJECT TO CHANGE.

aG30o lD

4

NO DEADLINE FOR UNIV. OF F

Space is Limited: Apply Now! Financial Aid is Available

APPLY FOR SPRING 2012
8c0t.4deO t
Anpcn or aopoy by phone
RO.854,0n95

'U

0

I

i

t


the b

-side

weekend
essentials
Sept. 29 to Oct. 2

D The Michigan Daily ( michigandaily.com I Thursday, September 29,2011

CONCERT
Tomorrow, the renais-
sance band Fleet Foxes
brings its trademark
baroque folk-pop to
the acoustic splendor
that is Hill Auditorium.
Touring behind their
sophomore hymn-
flecked album 'Help-
lessness Blues,' the
sextet is sure to recall
spooky reminiscences
of Crosby, Stills & Nash
and The Beach Boys.
Doors open at 7:30
p.m. Tickets from $34.

A peek inside the University's
public museums
Ni by J e rts Edit 4

BOOKS
Einstein and Newton
may have been nerd
geniuses, but that
doesn't mean you can't
be one too! Instead of
spending your Saturday
morning sleeping off
that hangover, learn a
little something about
the beauty of phys-
csa rom Profl, mp
F yMcKay e
at 10:30 a.m in 170
Dennison. If that's
not incentive for you,
there's free food a half
hour before lecture.

stands calcified as
M useuin The word
soon as it leaves your
lips, like Grecian col-
umns with straight-backed arches
and gilded chandeliers slinking
along the walls of the Louvre and the
Hermitage. It suggests impenetrabil-
ity. A slight, sneering inaccessibility.
Behind the exhibit is a sea of ster-
ile white. Objects and viewers are
divided by glass. Museums make us
uncomfortable, forcing us to. recon-
cile with the fact that the things we
have created can have a standing life
much, much longer than the human
race does.
Perspective plays a large role
in creating these biases, wheth-
er they're from a terrible child-
hood vacation or a grouchy curator
screaming at you to stay at least 10
feet awayfromthe exhibit. But muse-
ums are organic, living, changing
institutions. And each of the seven
public museums at the University -
the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology,
the University of Michigan Muse-
um of Art, the Sindecuse Museum
of Dentistry, the Exhibit Museum
of Natural History, the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens, the Nichols
Arboretum and the Detroit Obser-
vatory - challenges this definition
in several ways. Ultimately, these
establishments merely act as tools
of our self-signification, and what a
museum has to present has more to
do with what society expects from it
than what it expects of society.

The age of collecting
Though the relationship between
people and things has existed since
the beginning of time, the 18th-cen-
tury aesthetic of curatorial thought
was what gave rise to the modern
museum. The artists and painters of
the Age of Exploration viewed the
way their minds worked very much
like the collections they maintained
- fabulous collections that ranged
from rare butterflies to old coins,
botanical specimens to "suckling
pigs" (as Foucault introduced in his
preface to "The Order of Things") -
and ascribed a separate meaning to
the items they assembled and took
out of circulation. These collections
were eventually displayed to the
public and deemed "cabinets of curi-
osity."
"Youhave people traveling all over
the world, things coming to Europe,
things people had never seen before,"
said Prof. Ray Silverman, director of
the Museum Studies program at the
University. "And people admiring
them and putting them into these
rooms - jam-packed, creating these
incredible spectacles."
Context, the cloud of classifica-
tion that surrounds an object and
influences people's expectations of
it, evolved a little later. Darwin and
his contemporaries ushered in the
Age of Reason and influenced its
corresponding practices: grouping
the objects into taxonomies, being
See MUSEUMS, Page 4B

FILM
Maybe you support the
war in Afghanistan and
think we should stay.
Maybe you question
the legality of our for-
eign conflicts and think
we should bring them
all home. Filmmaker
and Michigan native
Heather Courtney doc-
uments the impact of
the war on soldiers in
her new documentary,
"Where Soldiers Come
From," showing at the
Michigan Theater this
Saturday at 7 p.m.
AT THE MIC
When Mark's Carts
announced that it
would be closing at the
beginning of Novem-
ber, foodies all around
Washtenaw County
heaved a collective sigh
and yearned for spring
to come again. With
only a month left until
its impending hiatus,
you can still enjoy the
jumping beats of West
African group Purple
Green Flavor tomorrow
evening from 7 to 9
p.m. in the courtyard.

Ithink that museums
are places where we
form memories and
find inspiration.
-Kira Berman, Director of
Education at the Exhibit
Museum of Natural History
PHOTOS BY HANNAH CHIN, JAMES WEAVER AND TODD NEEDLE
DESIGN BY KRISTI BEGONJA AND K.C. WASSMAN


p


2B - Thursday, September 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FOOD WARS
Each week, one Ann Arbor staple menu item becomes a
battlefield as Daily Arts editors butt heads over
which restaurant makes it best.
FALAFEL

COURTESYOFVERAYU AND DAVID LI

PITA PIT
615 East University Avenue
Service is fast, but prices are a bit steep.
Meat costs extra and this addition brings
the falafel to more than $8, while the veg-
etarian option plays around $6. The ingre-
dients lack pizzazz; they don't embrace
one another. The result is a pita of Philly
cheese steak, hummus and pickled vegeta-
bles that sit in your mouth but never blend
to make something greater.
OASIS
1106 South University Avenue
At Oasis, the falafel itself - the little
fried spheres of heaven incarnate - are
clearly cooked with a carefully seasoned
touch. While the wrap in totality could
use a little less tahini and a bit more fla-
vor, the crispy chickpea shells and the
crunchy pickles come together to bring
the dish to a new scrumptous textural
level.

PITA KABOB
619 East William Street
Pita Kabob knows what falafel is. It's fast
food - no matter how you slice it - and
here, they embrace it. Deep fried falafel
balls, lathered in the patron's choice of
excellent hummus or baba ghanouj (at no
extra charge, too!), and garnished with
pickled parsnips so that every bite is as
savory and flavorful as the last. And all this
deliciousness at only $4.89? Not bad at all.
LA MARSA
301 South State Street
La Marsa's falafel comes in a warm,
crispy pita with yogurt sauce, tomatoes, let-
tuce and pickles. The consistency is flawless
with the crunch of the pita, the crispy fried
goodness of the falafel and the fluffiness of
the delicious chickpea inside. There is also
a surprising cilantro-lime taste that coats
the falafel, giving it a zesty flavor. At first
bite, the tastes blend harmoniously.

B-Side Buzz
The Violin Monster
On Main Street near Parthenon
Why do you wear a wolf mask?
It was the best mask I saw when I went to the costume shop.
People seemed to like it.
Why do you think people like wearing creative things on their
heads?
To get in touch with their creative side. I think for a lot of people, it's
kind of repressed, but I think everybody has something to offer.
Are you single?
Yes.

4

14

4

So your face isn't secretly hideous or anything?
I don't think so.
Excerpts are taken from the B-Side Buzz video,
which can be found on MichiganDaily.com.
Interview by Jeff Waroniok
TRAILER REVIEW

And the winner is: La Marsa
SINGLE REVIEW

It's no secret many who were
enraptured with Ryan Adams's
breakthrough record, Heart-
breaker, have
been waiting
for the former a
Whiskeytown Ashes & Fire
frontman to
mine its sound Ryan Adams
ever since. PAX-AM/Capitol
Shades of
Adams's brand
of plaintive mythmaking have
cropped up here and there on
songs like "Oh My Sweet Caroli-
na" and "Come Pick Me Up," but
he's shied away from the naked
Americana of his debut. Twelve
years and 12 albums later, it
seems Adams is finally ready to
dress it back down again.
The title track from the
upcoming Ashes & Fire shows
Adams playing every bit the
alt-country elder statesmen he's
become; a rollicking Appala-
chian waltzwinds beneath some

L
of his strongest and most tune-
ful vocals in years. Underpinned
by a whirring B3 organ from
Benmont Tench (Tom Petty &
The Heartbreakers) and some
scattershot piano string plucks,
"Ashes & Fire" typifies the kind
of heartbroken wisdom and

In 1987, Oliver Stone made
a movie where some Wall
Street guy with a fancy suit
made money
screwing **
people over.
Charlie Mrfl ai
Sheen was Roadside Attractions
in it. It won
an Oscar. And then Hollywood
stopped caring about "Wall
Street."
Then, the economy collapsed.
Suddenly, Wall Street was sexy
again. First came the BBC docu-
dramas. Then the liberal ram-
blings of Stone, back again for
another run at the trough. HBO
did their obligatory true-to-life
blow-by-blow. And now, on the
heels of superior competition,
we get "Margin Call."
It's "inspired by true events"
in the same way that "300" was,
which means almost none of
it actually happened. It's got
all the Wall Street stereotypes.

4

unabashed sincerity that gave
Adams his career and, here, lets
him get away with lines like,
"Cool and silvery eyes / And a
heart that's fit for desire." The
difference these days, though, is
that he actually means it.
-MIKEKUNTZ,

down; busy "professionals" rush
through Manhattan, splitting
their time between strip clubs,
exclusive (not strip) clubs and,
on rare occasions, the office,
where its all "uh-oh, we're
screwed!" followed by politi-
cal shenanigans and unethical

ways to get not screwed. There's
something' about market cap
and other, complicated finan-
cial terms that may or may not
be properly.used. And that guy
from "Heroes." He has a pen in
his mouth.
-DAVID TAO

E

I

ASANTE
SANA
SQUASH
BANANA...
WRITE FOR,
DAILY FILM.
IT'S THE
CIRCLE OF
LIFE.
E-mail join.arts@
michigandaily.com.

TRAILER REVIEW

First off, let's begin with an
equivocation: The trailer for
"The Double" is not entirely a
waste of pre-
cious min-
utes of your*
life. There The Double
are some
strong per- ImageEntertainment
formances
here, not only from Richard
Gere ("Brooklyn's Finest"),
who shares the film's top line
with Topher Grace ("Preda-
tors"), but also from Martin
Sheen ("Apocalypse Now") and
Stephen Moyer (TV's "True
Blood"). The trailer's ground-
work hints at a taut, if by-the-
numbers thriller that in any
other context would probably
be suspenseful.
Gere plays a retired CIA
operative who spent his career
chasing a Soviet assassin code-
named Cassius. Grace is an FBI
agent investigating a murder
that features all of Cassius's
evil-Soviet-secret-agent trade-
marks. Naturally, they've got

4

to work together to find Cas- on super thick with the whole
sius and neutralize him. "I WAS BETRAYED!" angle,
But then the trailer loses etc., etc., etc. Maybe there'll be
it, and starts defecating plot a twist where Gere isn't actu-
details like a dysentery-rid- ally a turncoat. Or maybe the
den traveler in a third-world director wants us to focus on
country. Halfway through, we the chase between Cassius and
learn that Gere's character was his former bosses. But sadly,
actually the assassin all along, there's no reason to spend $10
morphing into a crazy evil to find out.
maniac! Grace starts laying it -DAVID TAO

4

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, September 29, 2011 - 3B

A head for fashion Manufacturing nostalgia

'U' students are
making an age-old
tradition their own
By ERIN STEELE
Daily Arts Writer
In a fashion industry where
avant-garde is the name of the
game and style icons like Lady
Gaga parade around in scandal-
ous outfits made out of every-
thing from stuffed animals to raw
meat, dressing according to a rel-
atively conservative set of rules
may be thought to stifle one's cre-
ativity. But Muslim students at
the University are demonstrating
the exact opposite.
Verse 33:59 in the Shakir trans-
lation of the Qur'an - "O Proph-
et! Say to your wives and your
daughters and the women of the
believers that they let down upon
them their over-garments; this
will be more proper, that they
may be known, and thus they will
not be given trouble" - explains
the idea behind hijab, an Islamic
style of dress that promotes mod-
esty among both women and
men. Those who choose to wear
hijab are to cover their heads
and wear loose, non-transparent
clothing with long sleeves and
pant legs or skirts.
While followers of Islam have
different beliefs about the tech-
nicalities - whether feet are
allowed to be shown or whether
women have to cover their entire
face - the underlying principle is
the same for all.
"It's about the modesty and
how you carry yourself," said
political science doctorate stu-
dent and former hijab fashion
blogger Imaan Ali. "Men, for
example, they're not supposed to
wear something shorter than to
their knee."
The hijab, according to Asso-
ciate Professor of Near Eastern
Studies Mohommad Alhawary, is
described in the Qur'an as a way
of allowing people, especially
women, to actively participate in
society and maintain separation
of the public and private spheres.

Is there anything more hap-
pening than documenting
what you did this weekend
and sharing it with your
friends and friends of friends?
Anything
hipper than
documenting
your self-doc-
umentation
on the Inter-
net, showing M
your people
in what tone, JULIA
saturation, SMITH-
crop, con- EPPSTEINER
trast, vignette
you see the
world? Nope. And to elevate the
sharing process, why not make
it retro?
What's most interesting
about the very recently thriving
trend of faux-vintage (artifi-
cially aged) photography is how
white culture has commod-
itized the art of photography. To
produce a picture that the gen-
eral public would call "artsy"
a few years ago, one would
have had to tow around a nice,
chunky camera with 35mm film
or a plastic-but-unique Holga
on adventures. Fast-forward to
present day- now all you need
is an iPhone and a pair of hands,
and faux-vintage self-docu-
mentation is at your fingertips.
Ready, set, touch!
Hipstamatic was the win-
ner of Apple's 2010 App of the
year. Pay $1.99 and get yourself
over to the nearest coffeehouse
where beanies and Moleskine
notebooks exist in bulk, and
bingo!, you are trendy gs shit.
And now the free application
Instagram, both simpler to
navigate and easier to network
through, has gained more than
10 million users in 12 months.
Looking epidemic, eh?
Sepia tone isn't enough any-
more - in fact, it's borderline
tacky. Technology now allows
numerous capabilities of edit-
ing the image your cellular
device snapped: relaxing in
the pool on an animal-shaped
floater or holding out the red
velvet cupcakes you just baked
- you appear more vintage.

But it t
are mo
from tc
foundi
ents po
You ca
"Hipst
lens to
offbea
HelgaI
exclusi
contin
option
cases.]
a Holg
phone,
more h
snappe
with ei
everyo
ity - X
and it':
all par
over at
Ev
te
Y
But,
ogy is
ward o
we are
Back i
tory, tI
skirts,
and th
Allen I
in Pari
enougl
Our
furthe
we ha'
momei
We're
potent
that w
momei
wheth
is thei
experi
Scet
you're
with a
got ea(

urns out these photos cards and wakeboards to play
:ck-ups - far, far away with. Ideal: You immerse your-
he authentic photographs self into the happiness of the
in a dusty box of your par- present, deepening your human
sing, grinning in '70s air. relationships. Year 2011 Reality:
n shop at Hipstamatic's You expend your energy decid-
a Mart" and change your ing how to digitize your friends
options with absurdly shotgunning beers on the back
t names: Roboto Glitter, of the boat, in order to achieve
Viking, Lucifer VI. The a maximum hipster product.
ve club-sounding titles Your weekend in nature is spent
ue with the extensive thinking about something that
s of flashes, films and isn't now. The pictures that
Hipstamatic is essentially are "coolest" look furthest
a camera on your smart- from reality: They're trippier,
with the aim of adding color-enhanced and more like
ntrigue to people's quickly postcards that you'd find in the
ed images. But as it goes Dawn Treader Book Shop -
verythitig in life, when those of a rustic, hip life that
ne is partaking, the activ- isn't really your own.
,trend - loses its intrigue What's key is that these
s just a matter of time for "vintage," smartphone-edited
ticipants to realize it's photographs would not be a
nd "on to the next!" trend on their lonesomes. An
audience is necessary. If just
snapped, edited and enjoyed for
-en ur hgh- private reminiscing or printed
'en our high- out to put in a frame on the
lch apps are wall, they would not be of value.
The faux-vintage photography
earning for peoeo a become worth
ea nn o r looking into as representativetof
the past. contemporary social behavior
because of the degree to which
we share this visual informa-
tion. The images seem to only
as much as our technol- gain importance until they are
always sprinting for- uploaded onto a social network,
tn cheetah-turbo power, whether it's Facebook, Tumblr,
forever looking back. WordPress or Twitter.
s overly admired his- Instagram and Hipstamatic
he "ooh-aah" of poodle have allowed many millions
the original Woodstock of people to take retro photo-
e nostalgia that Woody graphs from their pocket-sized
pointed out in "Midnight cellular devices and potentially
is" ... we just can't get think of themselves as skillful,
h. creative creatures. It's possible
generation has taken it that this heightened trending
r than just nostalgia, as of photography in today's youth
ve begun to live present might be us discovering a new
nts as past memories. kind of beauty. I won't let this
so excited about the amiable viewpoint disappear
tial to double-document completely, but it's also very
e sometimes lose the possible that our generation's
nt itself, fingers deciding current obsession with faux-
er Nashville or Lomo-Fi vintage photography will burn
right filter to capture this out quickly. I may just welcome
ence. the incineration.

"You see now in social net-
works, Facebook and other
places - people have no separa-
tion," Alhawary said. "They get
in trouble whether with them-
selves, with their peers (or) with
their employers because there's
no observance of separation in
private life and public life."
Over thousands of years,
observers of hijab have used their
creativity to dress themselves
according to worldly trends with-
out violatingthe rules set forth by
the Qur'an.
Ali began wearing hijab at 20
years old, a fashion-conscious
age for many. A fan of H&M and
Forever 21 scarves, she follows
the latest runway collections for
inspiration.
"You can kind of modify and
make the trends (to) what you
want to wear," she said. "You
have to use your imagination.
It was really a challenge at the
start."
Ali also said hijab styles vary
widely across all Muslim coun-
tries. Generally, women in the

Gulf States (Saudi Arabia, United
Arab Emirates, Oman, Bahrain,
Qatar and Kuwait) tend to wear
long black dresses and cover
everything but their eyes, while
women in Egypt and the Levant
(a region including most of Leba-
non, Syria, Jordan, Israel and
the Palestinian Territories) wear
more colorful scarves and expose
their faces.
"You can tell where people are
from based on how they tie their
scarves," Ali said. "Lately, the
borders are a little bit smudged.
I wear this one day, I wear the
Spanish (scarf) another day. It's
totally up to you. You use your
imagination. It takes some prac-
tice to know what looks good and
what doesn't make you look really
weird."
Alhawary cites Turkey as one
of the largest current influences
in hijab fashion, saying this is
likely due to the country's recent
secularization and people's
attempts to maintain the hijab in
a less jarring way.
See HIJAB, Page 4B

nario: It's summer and
at a cabin on the lake
bunch of friends. You've
ch other, a boat, beer,

Smith-Eppsteiner has already
moved on to other apps. To call her
"hipster," e-mail julialix@umich.edu.

D ''BOY MEETS WORLD' (1993-2000), ABC
Good friends, young love, wise mentors in 'Boy Meets World'

By PROMA KHOSL A
Daily TV/New Media Editor
You call yourself a '90s kid?
Let's put that to the test: "When
this boy meets wooorld ..." Did
you start singing in your head (or
out loud)? Did you feel that inter-
nal leap of joy associated with the
start of an episode of "Boy Meets
World?" Congratulations. You
have enough taste to recognize
one of the greatest sitcoms ever.
Of course, even those of us now
in college - in our humble opin-
ion, the last of the true '90s kids
- were probably still too young to
catch "Boy Meets World" when
it first aired during the T.G.I.F.
block of Friday night program-
ming on ABC. Chances are, you
fell in love with Cory, Shawn,
Topanga and Eric once the show
went into syndication on the Dis-
ney Channel around 1999. Since
its conclusion a year later, "Boy
Meets World" has become the
cult favorite of a generation.
"Boy Meets World" began in
1993, during the golden age of
situation comedies. It was born

of the wholesome family humor
and hilarious teen shenanigans
that infuse other beloved sit-
coms of the decade, like "Fresh
Prince of Bel-Air" and "Sabrina
the Teenage Witch." Young Cory
Matthews (Ben Savage) deals
with the daily ups and downs of
high school, family and romance.
Nothing earth-shattering. Then
why is it so damn good?
Watching a show more than 10
years since it ended is an excel-
lent way to test its merit. (Warn-
ing: "Captain Planet" doesn't hold
up.) "Boy Meets World" was to its
television contemporaries what
"30 Rock" is today: individualis-
tic and downright weird.
There's a scene that exempli-
fies this, during season three's "I
Was a Teenage Spy," the episode
in which Cory dreams he's in
1957. During the scene in ques-
tion, he goes home only to find
Tom Bosley and Anson Williams
of "Happy Days" eating brownies
in the kitchen. It's utterly bizarre
- then and now - but that doesn't
stop it from being hilarious.
That endearing weirdness

emerg
seven
Cory s
Fishel)
think i
Strong
visible
ex-girl
isn't C

Ff

es in dialogue across the but "Boy Meets World" almost
seasons. In one episode, tests the audience's capacity for
says to Topanga (Danielle being toyed with. If the show
, "I don't think it's funny. I were made today, Eric would
t's ... wood." Shawn (Rider never become as painfully stupid
attempts to hide a very as he did in the last two seasons.
Cory from a possessive Topanga's parents wouldn't be
friend by claiming "This played by half a dozen actors. Stu-
ory! This is cake!" Eric art Minkus 'wouldn't disappear
for the high school years. And
remember Mr. Williams and Mr.
Turner? What even happened to
"e "'+' them?
Fe n That being said, the things
Feen " that mattered were consistent
ee-hee-hee- without fail. The fact that people
still want to find love like Cory
heeny and Topanga (despite their few
sporadic, contrived break-ups)
is a testament to natural writ-
ing and magnetic chemistry. The
Friedle) refers to himself Matthews parents (Betsy Randle
third person - as "Kyle." It and William Russ) were always
its asking what the writers positive role models, an idealis-
moking, but also endless tic example to juxtapose Shawn's
de for whatever it was. father - who harbors ambitions
only thing keeping this as a pearl diver - and Topanga's
rom timeless perfection is estranged parents. Mr. Feeny
atant inconsistency. To be (William Daniels) was and is the
itcoms were almost never perfect mentor, from the pilot to
ent up until the 2000s, the last emotional moments the

main cast shares in his classroom.
Alongside the usual sitcom
fare, "Boy Meets World" tackled
its fair share of topical subjects.
Among the episodes that never
aired on the Disney channel is
one in which Cory and Shawn go
on a drinking binge as Cory copes
with his break-up. Yet another
sees Cory and Topanga planning
to sleep together after senior
prom. Though there is little talk
of race or religion, there is a con-
stant theme of social class strug-
gles that comes to the forefront at
least once a season. All these epi-
sodes choose the altruistic route
- no more drinking, wait until
marriage, don't judge people -
without the preachy voice of, say,
"Full House."
The show's greatest strength is
the sheer perfection of Cory and
Shawn's friendship. Best of bud-
dies before Harry and Ron; a bro-
mance to rival Turk and JD; the
boys meeting the world. They are
unfailingly loyal to one another
throughout the most turbulent
years of their young lives when
siblings, parents and girlfriends

prove unpredictable. They dress
in drag, pee on a cop car, spend
a night.sleeping in Splash Moun-
tain and always come to school to
sit in the same desks, one in front
of the other.
It's best summed up by the
boys themselves in the season
four episode "Easy Street": "Why
are we on the ground?" Cory asks,
after the duo mistakes a backfir-
ing car for a gunshot. "Because
it's fun," replies Shawn. "And we
do everything together."
A decade later, with the final
season comingto DVD next week,
"Boy Meets World" illustrates the
importance of relationships in
ourlives. If nothingelse, itinstills
a fervent desire to spend the rest
of your life with your best friends
at your side, helping you make
sense of a random and chaotic
universe. The fact remains that
"Boy Meets World" is more intel-
ligent, funny and relevant than
most shows marketed toward
today's teens.
As Shawn puts it, "TV is the
true mirror of our lives." Amen,
buddy.

(Willl
in the!
promp
were s
gratitu
The
show f
the bl
fair, si
consist

THINK YOU'RE THE NEXT SAM ADAMS?
ENTER THE DAILY'S HOME BREW COMPETITION AND WE'LL SET YOU STRAIGHT.

BOTTLES DUE ON OCT.16
Bring your beer to
420 Maynard on weekdays
between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.

.

Your
Beer
Here

I

A


4

4B - Thursday, September 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


L.

4

HANNAH CHIN/Dail
The Exhibit Museum of Natural History was founded under 19th-century ideals.

MUSEUMS
From Page 1B
preoccupied with authenticity and guar-
anteeing that one object could be repre-
sentative of the whole - among others.
The University's Exhibit Museum of
Natural History stands as testament to
these 19th century ideals - the skeleton of
an ancient sea creature hangingtenuously
off the ceiling, chasing its prey; a mag-
nificent diorama of a reptile-like animal
prowling the lands; a display case crowd-
ed with specimens taken directly off the
pages of Audubon's "Birds of America."
Director of Education Kira Berman refers
to the museum's organization as a "great
chain of being," with the primordial tri-
lobites at the bottom of the chain and the
Planetarium and space-age discoveries
peering benevolently from the top.
At the entrance of the museum's Hall of
Evolution sits a massive hunk of petrified
wood, one of Berman's favorite objects in
the building.
"We use it td talk about the process of
fossilization," she said. "How water car-
ries the minerals into the tissue of the tree
while the tissue is still there, fills into the
interstitial spaces and then eventually the
wood itself rots away - leaving only the
minerals."
Of course, not all object collections
consist of decayed skeletons and hol-
lowed-out rocks. At the Matthaei Botani-
cal Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum,
the living and blooming flowers, fruits
and vegetables take center stage. The
phrase "botanical garden" hasa monastic,
medicinal bent to it - Mendel's pea plants
spring to mind - and indeed, the first
area of its kind sprung from the medieval
"physic gardens" that doctors maintained
to treat their patients. While nowadays
the term has atrophied into something
with more of a public face, the plants
inside certainly haven't.
"It's like a living museum," said Prof.
Bob Grese, director of the Botanical Gar-
dens and the Arboretum.
For Grese, the purpose of the museum
always has been to educate the public on
the greater concerns of plant conserva-
tion and maintenance, whether through
an interactive display of edible cocoa
plants or a stunning recreation-of a desert
biome.
"I think people have always been
dependent on plants for food, for medi-
cine, for all kinds of things," Grese
explained. "Today, people don'trecognize
their connection quite as readily. They're

not as involved in collecting plants that
they might use for medicine, or they buy
food in grocery stores and don't necessar-
ily connect with growing it. So in some
ways that becomes a real opportunity or
challenge for us in the botanical gardens
to tryto re-forge that connection." The Matthei Botanical Gardens are turning their
About six miles southwest from the
Botanical Gardens, another museum is "All that is going on in your head," Sil-
striving to reconstruct society's connec- verman explained. "Because objects have
tion to its past, but through materials. The no intrinsic meaning or value, it's always
Sindecuse Museum of Dentistry - a place ascribed to the object by people."
housed within the University's Dental Of course, the rarity of an object is not
School but supported entirely by private always its greatest selling point. It can
donors - strives to propagate the history often be the power of a story that makes
of dentistry to the public, one largely root- the item so transformative.
ed in the evolution of materials and tech- "The thing I like most (about working
nology. Director Shannon O'Dell narrates in the dentistry museum) is the research
a tale of self-sustainable dentists falling - investigating an individual that we're
victim to larger corporations: companies trying to tell their story," O'Dell said.
consolidating and buyingup smaller com- "Where I'm really digging through the
panies; and the movement from rubber archives trying to find out about them -
and ivoryto plastics, resins and acrylics. that's the most fun."
"That's the same thing with a lot of The quality of aura as a requisite for a
technologies. The same thing has hap- museum is one challenged at the Botani-
pened, all across the board," O'Dell said. cal Gardens. As you walk through the
Regardless of the collections they Gardens' many nature paths, the plants
maintain, the directors all look upon their along the boundary brush against your
roles as a sort of stewardship between the legs, almost forcing you to interact with
public and the objects they oversee. them. One of the institution's most prized
"We play a curatorial role in plants," features is the Gaffield Children's Gar-
Grese said of the Botanical Gardens and den, a fairylike area with exhibits ranging
the Arboretum. "Just like (art museums) from an edible flower demonstration to
are taking care of individual works of art, a series of lilting bells that evoke Keats's
we're taking care of gardens, individual Grecian lyre to slabs of concrete taken off
plants or natural areas." the roof of the Betsy Barbour Residence
Hall on which visitors can make etchings.
Aura, authenticity and context A botanical garden's authenticity is
synonymous with another cultural buzz-
Perhaps most paramount to your expe- word: endangered. The mission of a
rience in a museum is the idea that the botanical garden is more about propaga-
object in front of you is one unreplicated tion than preservation - to spread rare
in any other place or time. species among areas that have lost the
"I've had experiences in museums capability of sustainingthem.
where I've picked up an object, a tool that The differences between the role of
was made 10,000 years ago by a person," an art museum and a science museum is
Silverman said. "To hold that in your more difficult to articulate.
hand, and to say, 'I'm holding something "I think the main difference is that
that was made by somebody 10,000 years we're looking at context for the objects
ago,' that object has ... that specialness that we treat," Berman said of the Exhibit
about it." Museum, after several attempts to answer
Museums have evolved techniques to the question. "We're looking at what the
fabricate this special aura. Oftentimes, objects tell us, whereas in an art museum
visitors are not permitted to touch the you're looking more at the form."
objects. Obscured from view in thick Context does seem to play a larger part
glass boxes, the items are separated by in the interpretation of educationally
large white spaces, the perimeter roped minded museums than it does in more
off - giving rise to the ultimate aesthetic aesthetically driven ones.
contemplation. Berman recalled a time when a differ-
But what is the real definition of ent kind of context took center stage. In
"aura?" Does the object itself exude some medieval bestiaries (illustrated compen-
sort of a magical quality, or is it something diums of the natural life of an animal) if a
artificially derived? person were tolook up the information for
fox, he would find not only the biological
histoiy of the fox, but also the symbolism
of the fox, and poetry about foxes -all of
which were considered parts of the whole
of what the object was.
"So there was a time when the part
that things play was much more interwo-
ven with the things themselves," Berman
said.
n it Silverman contended withthe question
by turning to personal experience. In his
own research, he works with the visual
cultures of Africa. Many objects he works
with are found in both art museums and
cultural history museums. He has found
in many cases the object itself doesn't
matter, but the way people have classified
the object and the value and meaning they
give to it vary depending on the context it
is placed in.
Berman wants to return the Exhibit
Museum back to a time when cultural sto-
TODD NEEDLE/Daily ries could be told once again, and for con-
ad history of the field. text to reclaim its mythological quality.

4

efforts toward increasing sustainability.
"I can continue to love the fact that
early settlers in this country thought
that mastodon skulls were the skulls of
Cyclops," she said. "I continue to teach
that during (docent training sessions),
saying, 'Here's a story that can show you
the different ways of looking at that one
object.'
"I think that we're beginning to be able
to tell those kinds of stories again - to be
more inclusive, rather than saying, 'Well,
that's not objective, so we can't display
that.'
A new direction
Recently, museums have been under-
going a radical change.
"Whereas originally museums were
about things, there's been a shift in think-
ing that museums are really about people.
They're social institutions," Silverman
said.
Fundamentally, a person will visit a
museum with his or her own individual
way of thinking, and as a result that per-
son experiences what's offered up at the
museum differently from anyone else
there - in spite of the relative stasis of the
objects themselves.
Originally, however, the absolute model
for a museum was for an authority on the
topic, the curator, to offer up his own nar-
rative on the exhibit to a passive audience.
To Silverman, it resembled a monologue:
"Here it is, take it or leave it."
Now, museums have gained reputation
as more dialogical spaces, with the audi-
ence, the curator and museum conversing
with each other - a relationship con-
stantly in flux.
"They're becoming places where
exhibits can be multi-vocal," Berman
said. "There's not just one voice of author-
ity and there can be more forums for dis-
cussion."
Of course, this assembly of voices is not
without its critics. Especially within the
practice of digitalization - museums put-
ting up the entirety of their collections on
the Internet in an effort to become more
accessible to the public - people question
whether the physical institution will lose
some of its hold on the public audience.
"There's been a lot of dust that's been
kicked up in the air as a result of (digi-
talization)," Silverman said. "There are
some people that are running around like 
Chicken Little saying, 'The sky is falling,
the sky is falling, museums are extinct,
nobody's going to want to come anymore
because it's all available on the Web.'
"But I'm a really firm believer in the
object, the original object - what we refer
to as the 'aura' of the original. And the fact.
that that is somethingthat will ensure the
museums' future."
For Grese, maintaining the Arboretum
and Botanical Gardens has helped him
to understand people's relationship with
nature.
"For a lot of people, having a place to go
out and understand plants, to reflect on
their relationship with the natural world
is important," he said. "It's not just con-
serving nature by itself but showing how
people relate to it."
Grese's efforts for the museum's future
are rooted in sustainability. The Michi-

gan Solar House (otherwise known as the
MiSo* house), an entry in the 2005 Solar
Decathlon and designed by the Univer-
sity's Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, sits on one side of
the Botanical Gardens. Within the house,
all the appliances are powered by the sun-
light outside and the plants that frame the
front yard.
. Over time, he is also trying to reduce
the areas where the lawn is mowed.
"The goal is to get to a point ... where we
won't do as much planting, a buffer that
provides better habitat value," he said. "A
mowed lawn is notcvery diverse. The taller
grasses and blooming plants have more of
a habitat value and food value for butter-
flies and bird species."
To create a place where new objects
spring forward from old ones is an inter-
esting consideration - a permutation of
the concept of "aura."
All the directors admit that running
their respective museums has influenced
their experiences of visitingone.
"We joke around inthe museumstudies
program, that once you've been through
this course, museums will not be the same
for you," Silverman said. "Before, you go
into a museum of art and you go to see the
art. Now ... your experience of looking at
the art is going to be competing with you
thinking about, 'OK, well, how are they
fixing the light?' and, 'What kinds of col-
ors are they using on the wall?' and also
to look at how other people are engaging
with the exhibits."
Berman described herself as "jaded."
"I look with more of a professional eye
than spme people," she said. "I look at
things that people don't see.
. "But, when Igo with my six-and-a-half
year old to a museum, I'm just like any-
one else. I think that museums are places
where we form memories and we find
inspiration. That's what the word means,
right? 'Muse."'
Where to find the
University's museums
Detroit Observatory
1150 Beal Ave.
Exhibit Museum of Natural
History
1109 Geddes Ave.
Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
434 South State St.
Matthaei Botanical Gardens
1800 N. Dixboro Rd.
Nichols Arboretum
1610 Washington Hts.
Sindecuse Museum of Dentistry
1011 N. University Ave.
University of Michigan
Museum of Art (UMMA)
525 South State St.

I

4

i

4

4

The Sindecuse Museum of Dentistry tells the bro
HIJAB
From Page 3B
"For the first seven years (I wore a
headscarf), it was about matching my
hijab to my outfit," LSA senior and Mus-
lim Student Association president Eman
Abdelhadi said. "For the next seven
years, it was about matching my outfit to
my hijab!"
Abdelhadi has been wearing hijab
since she was nine years old and is a fan
of the colorful silky scarves she finds
during her visits to Egypt.
"They're just so gorgeous," she said. "I
tend to wear more solid colors, so I love
just wearing a pretty normal outfit that's
just solid colors ... and then having the
hijab be the thing that pops out. Every-
one's looking at it, so might as well make
it pretty!"

Abdelhadi is used to getting atten-
tion everywhere when she wears hijab in
public, although it doesn't bother her as
much in Ann Arbor.
"There is a sense of being different and
being stared at," she said. "The reason I
know this is because I travel to the Mid-
dle East relatively frequently, and when I
travel, it's a different feeling. At first, it's
hard to pinpoint, but then I realize it's
because people aren't staring at me when
I walk in a room. I'm used to (walking)
into a room and everyone (looking) at me.
... There's sort of the lingering gaze."
Both Ali and Alhawary also pointed
out the misconceptions surrounding the
practice of hijab and the thought that it
intrinsically oppresses women. Ali said
she has had trouble finding work at hone
in Norway because some people refuse
to employ wearers of hijab. Alhawary
argues that it is important to separate

the religious foundation of hijab from
its cultural contexts - the other stricter
practices that sometimes occur in con-
junction with it. He said the intent of the
religious ruling can be equally misun-
derstood by Muslims and non-Muslims
because it is observed in countries where
policies are employed that affect the lives
of women for political reasons rather
than religious ones.
Despite its potential to be miscon-
strued, Ali and Abdelhadi are proud to
wear hijab on their own terms and repre-
sent their religion in a positive way.
"I really consider myself a Muslim
feminist in a' way, because I believe in
the power of women," Ali said. "I don't
believe we should do anything for men."
Abdelhadi mentioned another impor-
tant perk: "You know, it's true that when
you have a bad hair day, it's really nice to
wear hijab."

4

4

ANNA 
Muslim Student Association president Eman Abdelhadi shows off her collection of col


