A
Ann Arbor, Michigan

eason. After a dismal nonconference start, romcomgone wrongwith
M' looks to turn it around.'Boy Gets Girl.
PAGE 8 PAGE 5

Friday, April 1, 2011

michigandaily.com

North Quad
council's use of
funds for trip
raises concern

$2,000 of hall
funds allocated
to send council
members to Peru
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily StaffReporter
While some North Quad resi-
dents are excited to embark on
a trip to help schoolchildren in
Peru, others who live in the resi-
dence hall aren't as thrilled.
Members of the Commit-
tee for International Impact
- a subcommittee of the North
Quadrangle Residence Hall
Multicultural Council - voted
at a meeting on Sunday to allo-
cate $2,000 of its budget to
send 14 Multicultural Council
members on a community ser-
vice trip to Peru. In a meeting
last night, the Residence Hall
Association also voted to give
the trip participants an addi-
tional $4,089.10, which is the
remainder of the RHA Commu-
nity Council Fund used to grant
supplemental funds to residence
hall councils.
Despite the votes passing that
allocated the funds for the trip,

some North Quad residents and
RHA council members said they
were concerned about the fund-
ing allocation.
Engineering junior Andrew
Kurdelski, a floor representa-
tive at North Quad, said he was
frustrated that the funds, which
were originally intended for all
450 North Quad residents, are
being used on only 14 students.
"I thought that it was an
unfair use of the funding," Kur-
delski said.
The Committee for Inter-
national Impact consists of 10
members and is a subsection
of the Multicultural Council,
which is the residence hall's stu-
dent governing body.
LSA junior Andrew Schantz,
chair of finance for the Multi-
cultural Council, said the trip to
Peru has been planned since the
beginning of last semester. At
that time, the council allocated
$500 in anticipation of funding
a community service trip. Addi-
tional funding came from out-
side sources, Schantz said.
Members of the University's
Global Scholars Program - an
academic residential commu-
nity focused on global issues
- live in North Quad. Schantz
See FUNDS, Page 3

Uiniversity President Mary Sue Coleman speaks during the North Quad Community Open House yesterday. Attendees toured the academic and residential build-
ings, which opened at the beginning of fall semester.
Students protest cost
of building Noirth Quad

On day of open
house, students
vandalize windows
By SABIRA KHAN
and BRANDON SHAW
Daily StaffReporters
While most members of the
University community cele-
brated the newest architectural
member of University Housing

yesterday, a few students pro-
tested the cost of the building by
voicing their objections on the
building's windows.
The open house for North
Quad Residence Hall and Aca-
demic Complex took place yes-
terday afternoon, with several .
hundred University affiliates
and Ann Arbor residents in
attendance. During the open
house, University President
Mary Sue Coleman, University
Provost Philip Hanlon, E. Roys-

ter Harper, the University's vice
president for student affairs,
and School of Information Dean
Jeffrey MacKie-Mason spoke
about the history of planning
the facility and highlighted var-
ious technological aspects of its
construction.
In addition to housing stu-
dents and classrooms, North
Quad, which opened at the
beginning of the fall semester
and cost about $175 million to
construct, features academic

department offices, includ-
ing the School of Information,
Communication Studies and
Screen Arts.and Cultures.
Guests at the open house
were invited to take a tour of
the residential quarters, which
comprise one of the two build-
ings that make up the facility.
But before administrators spoke
and the public went on tours,
several University students
expressed their disapproval
See NORTH QUAD, Page 3


MENTAL HE ALTH ON CAMPUS
New 'U' center encourages
student mental well-being

CAPS creates
Wellness Center as
outlet for students
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily StaffReporter
The next time students want
to ease the pressure of finals with
some time in a massage chair,
they won't need to look any fur-
ther than the Union.

The Wellness Zone, estab-
lished by the University's Coun-
seling and Psychological Services,
officially opened last night in the
Union. The Zone was created
to promote emotional and men-
tal health among students. The
Zone's services, which include
chair massages throughout the
day and special movie nights, are
free for students.
The Zone also has a bio-
feedback program, video game
technology for meditation and

a Seasonal Affective Disorder
lamp. Additionally, the Zone will
offer workshops on topics includ-
ing meditation, mindfulness
techniques and yoga.
In an interview at yesterday's
event, CAPS Director Todd Sevig
said the idea for the Zone has
been around for a while. Uni-
versity research has shown that
improving emotional stability can
help significantly diminish psy-
chological issues students face,
See WELL-BEING, Page 2

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Art & Design senior Jenny Key makes a puppet for FestiFools in her Art & Design Perspectives class yesterday. The
puppets will be featured in FestiFools on Sunday.
Puppets to parade down Main St.
for annual FestiFools celebration

Study discovers how cell phone
use affects social interactions

Students and A2
residents show off
giant creations
By CASSIE BALFOUR
DailyArts Writer
This April Fool's weekend,
Main Street will be awash
in loud, living, moving and
maybe even breathing giant

puppets, propelled by their
gangly, paper machd limbs
down the street by loyal pup-
pet handlers and the cheers of
a crowd that loves them.
Since 2007, hordes of giant
puppets, amateur puppe-
teers, musicians and commu-
nity members have descended
upon Ann Arbor each year in a
colorful celebration known as
FestiFools. This Sunday, from
4 p.m. to 5 p.m., the fanciful

puppets and their puppeteers
(along with DJs, musicians
and community members)
will once again grace Main
Street.
The street festival is the
brainchild of Lloyd Hall
Scholars Program art teacher
Mark Tucker, who wanted to
bring democratic, interactive
art to the masses by harness-
ing the talents of not only art
See FESTIFOOLS, Page 3

Cell phones use
enhances and
inhibits sociability
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI
Daily StaffReporter
The way you use cell phones says
a lot about how you act after you've
hung up, according to a University

study.
Appearing in the current issue of
Human Communication Research,
an international journal that pres-
ents contemporary communication
studies research, a recent Uni-
versity study f;und that the fre-
quency and methods of cell phone
use affect how users interact with
people around them.
The study was led by Scott
Campbell, an assistant professor of

Communication Studies and Nojin
Kwak, an associate professor of
Communication Studies. The two
hypothesized that frequent cell
phone users would be less likely to
talk with strangers in public set-
tings due to what Campbell calls
the "tele-cocooning" effect, or the
tendency of cell phones to reduce
interpersonal interactions.
Campbell said the study shed
See STUDY, Page 2



WEATHER H I: 39 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mai
TOMORROW L3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
RHA approves housing budget
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX AP NEWS.......................2 ARTS..................5
Vol.CXXI, No.122 NEWS.........................3 CLASSIFIEDS.................6
@2011The ichiganDaily OPINION ........ ....4 SPORTS.....................7
michigondaiiyco


2 - Friday, Aprill1, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
in Other Ivory Towers Questions on Campus Professor Profiles Campus Clubs *Photos of the WeekiCiiJ
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
LEFT: Music, Theater & Dance www.michigandaily.com
junior Garrett Mendelow plays STEPHANIE STEINBERG BEAD WILEY
the xylophone at the North Editor in Chief Business Manager
Quad Community Open Hlouse i ni.734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
on Thursday, March 31, 2011. steinberg@michigandaily.com tmdbasiness@gmait.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor ,
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

E6 s
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES |

CRIME NOTES
Tire takes a Nuisance at
tumble North Quad
WHERE: Intersection of WHERE: North Quadrangle
Baxter and Hubbard Roads Residence Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at WHEN: Wednesday at
about 4 p.m. about 3 p.m.
WHAT: A tire on a Univer- WHAT: Up to seven tables
sity bus flew off and struck were broken in a public
the window of a building, room and paint was spilled
University Police reported. on the floor, University
No injuries were reported. Police reported. There are
currently no suspects.

Skateboarders
reach new level
WHERE: Fletcher Carport
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 7:15 p.m.
WHAT: A bystander
noticed a group of young
people skateboarding on
the top of the carport, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
subiet fled the scene.

Pop can pilferer
WHERE: Phoenix
Memorial Library
WHEN: Thursday at about
5 a.m.
WHAT: Two large bags
of returnable bottles were
stolen from a private room,
University Police reported.
There are currently no
se,,ts.re

Performance of
Shakespeare
WHAT: The all-male
theatre performance group
Propeller.will act out a
rendition of Shakespeare's
"Richard III."
WHO: University Musical
Society
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts
Food festival
for charity
WHAT: Food will be served
from local restaurants
with proceeds benefiting
impoverished children
worldwide. The evening will
also feature performances
by campus groups.
WHO: People Realizing
Opportunities to Volunteer
in Dreams of Eliminating
Starvation
WHEN: Tomorrow at 6p.m.
WHERE: East Hall

CORRECTIONS
. An article in the March
16, 2011 edition of The
Michigan Daily ("Funds
for UHS, Planned Par-
enthood threatened')
inaccurately reported
that cuts to Planned Par-
enthood would affect
UHS. UHS is funded by
a student health fee in
tuition and pharmacy
and clinical service fees.
* An article in the March
20,2011 edition of The
Michigan Daily ("Native
American dance, tradi-
tions honored at39th
annual powwow") inac-
curately stated where
the University holds
culturally unidentifiable
Native American human
remains. They are held in
the University's Museum
of Anthropology.
* Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

According to KKTV.com,
a Denver man is offering
a $700 reward for the
return of Butti, a 13-year old
tortoise that was stolen from
the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo.
The tortoise was stolen from
the zoo on March 27, 2011.
Basement Arts is pro-
ducing Rachel Gil-
man's "Boy Gets Girl,"
a play critiquing dating cul-
ture. Tickets are available
for the show, which is being
performed tonight at 7 p.m.
and 11 p.m. and tomorrow at
7 p.m.
>> FOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGE5
According to the Chi-
cago Tribune, a teacher
put photos of a student
on Facebook, which resulted
in the student being mocked.
The teacher apologized and
removed the photos. How-
ever, the teacher now faces
disciplinary action.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson ManagingEditor swanson@michigandaily.com
SicoleAber Masaging NesEditoe aber@michigandaily.com
SEO N NEW sDITORS: Be anyBiron, DylanCinti, CaitlinHusto nJose Lichterman,
Devon'Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Rachel Brusstar, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Mike
Merar, Michele Narov, Brienne Prusak, Kaitlin Williams
MichelleDewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial PagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Harsha Panduranga
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Eaghan Davis, Harsha Nahata, Andrew Weiner
Tim Rohanand sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Nick Spar Managing Sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Ryan Kartje,
Stephen J Nesbit t, Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi, Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
Kevin Raftery, Matt Slovin
SharonJacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
ASEoSN ANRTSEDIODRS:JoeCadaginEmaase,rmaKhosla,DavidTao
Marissa McClainand photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch Managing Photo Editors
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:ErinKirkland,SalamRidnns,AnaSchulte,SamanthaTrauben
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helet Lieblich ManaginggDesignEditoes
SENIORDESIGNEDO R:Mayaiedn r
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS: Alex Bondy, Herms Risien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTYMAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski,uElyanaTwiggs
Josh Healy and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten copy chiefs
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Sales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER:StephanieBowker
Hillary Szawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Trevor Grieb and QUy Vo Circulation Managers
Zach Yancer webProject Coordinator
The Michigan Daily iIsSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. one copy is availablefree of charge
to alt readers.Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via u.s.mail are $110. Winterterm(anuary through April)is
$115, yearlong (september through April) is $195.OUniversityaffliliates are subject to a reduced
sbsciionrte.On-saepussubsritonsoraternare$.subsersptieseeutbeepsid.
The Michigan Daily is a:ember of TheAssoiated Press and TheAsociatled Collegiate Press.

0


Japan disaster leads to
 social media innovation

People around
the world turn to
Facebook, Twitter
to aid in tragedy
TOKYO (AP) - As Japan
grapples with an unprecedented
triple disaster - earthquake, tsu-
nami, nuclear crisis - the Web
has spawned creativity and inno-
vation online amid a collective
desire to ease suffering.
Once the magnitude of the
March 11 disaster became clear,
the online world began asking,
"How can we help?"
And for that, social media
offered the ideal platform for
good ideas to spread quickly, sup-

plementing efforts launched by
giants like Google and Facebook.
A British teacher living in
Abiko city, just east of Tokyo, is
leading a volunteer team of blog-
gers, writers and editors produc-
ing "Quakebook," a collection of
reflections, essays and images of
the earthquake that will be sold
in the coming days as a digital
publication. Proceeds from the
project will go to the Japanese
Red Cross, said the 40-year-old,
who goes by the pseudonym "Our
Man in Abiko."
The entirely Twitter-sourced
project started with a single
tweet exactly a week after the
earthquake. Within an hour, he
had received two submissions,
which soon grew to the 87 that
now comprise the book.
Quakebook involves some 200

people in Japan and abroad, an
the group is in negotiations t
PJ's Records sell the download on Amazon
& Used CDs com. It didn't take long for oth
ers to notice. Twitter itself ha
sent out a tweet about Quake
The Best
Music Selection
in Ann Arbor
Since 1980
SLEARN WELl
617 Packard CLOSE TO U OF M
Upstairs from NORTH CAMPUS
Subway AFFORDABLE RATES
ON SHUTTLE
633-3441BSROUTE
Open 7days
Paying $4-$6
for top CD's mich student
in top condition. housing.com
Also buying
premium LP's.
$ 4

td
to
n.
Z-
s

book, as has Yoko Ono. Best-
selling novelist Barry Eisler
wrote the foreword for the book.
Organizers, including Our Man
in Abiko, will hold a press confer-
ence at the Foreign Correspon-
dents' Club of Japan in Tokyo on
Friday.
"I just thought I want to do
something," he said in a tele-
phone interview. "I felt complete-
ly helpless."
Another project, "World's
1000 Messages for Japan," is an
effort to convey thoughts from
around the globe. Writers can
leave short notes on Facebook or
through e-mail, which a group
of volunteers then translate into
Japanese. The translations are
then posted on Twitter as well as
the group's website.
"The news of the earthquake,
tsunami, and meltdown in Japan
has mostly been horrifying. But
it has also served as a reminder
of the strength and resolve that
comes out of Japanese culture,"
said one recent message on the
project's Facebook page.
The calamitous events that
transfixed people worldwide
led to a jump in traffic among
social networking sites - typi-
cal after recent major disasters
elsewhere.
In the immediate aftermath
of the disaster that likely killed
more than 18,000 people, phone
and cellular networks were
either down or overwhelmed
with traffic.
So people turned to the Inter-
net to track down friends and
family, and connect with those
who saw the disaster unfold
firsthand. In Tokyo, which suf-
fered minimal damage, commut-
ers wanted to know if their trains
were running, and whether their
neighborhoods would be subject
to rolling electricity blackouts
due to damage to nuclear and
conventional power plants.
Figures released this week
show that millions flocked to
sites like Twitter following the
earthquake and tsunami.

WELL-BEING
From Page 1
he said.
"Wellness and well-being for
college students has really been
on the rise," said Christine Asid-
ao, assistant director of Outreach
and Education for CAPS.
Though in part due to the
office's faculty and funding
expansion, 3,362 students went
to CAPS last year - an increase
from the 3,127 students who vis-
ited the office in the 2008-2009
school year, according to the
CAPS 2009-2010 annual report.
Funding for the Zone - now
open each weekday - came from
existing CAPS resources and is a
part of the office's five-year mas-
ter plan, Sevig said.
The Zone's primary goal is to
encourage emotional wellness

to prevent serious psychological
problems, Sevig said. And while
Sevig said he hopes the Zone can
be used to help those already
seeking treatment through
CAPS, he is hopeful the new
center can reach out to students
who have never been to CAPS
before.
Asidao said she anticipates the
"wellness center will essentially
attract a lot of students who don't
necessarily want to come in for
therapy, but who would really
benefit from just learning how to
relax."
Asidao and Sevig emphasized
that students' input is especially
important since the Zone is tai-
lored to them.
"We as professionals can think
of all kinds of great things, but if
it doesn't meet student needs, for
us that would violate our mission
and everything that we stand


STUDY
From Page 1
light on an interesting paradox in
that cell phones can close people
off but also help them connect with
the world around them.
"The technology itself is not
good or bad," Campbell said. "It
is how it's used and who it's used
with."
In the study, more than 1,800
responses from a national survey
suggested that. cell phone users
seekingnews ontheir mobile devic-
es were more likely to engage with
people around them than people
talking on cell phones. Addition-
ally, the study found that people
who use cell phones to coordinate
plans are more likely to participate
in public conversations.
Campbell said the findings also
support the notion that people who
talk on cell phones frequently are
less likely to communicate in pub-
lic.
"Cell phones do have the poten-
tial to make us more focused on
what's going on in our personal
lives, and the personal lives of the
people that we're close to," Camp-
bell said. "Maybe we're not paying

enough attention to things outside
that realm."
While Campbell said he was
surprised to find that cell phone
use can spark conversations with
strangers, the new findings also
support the researchers' previ-
ous hypothesis that cell phone use
can strengthen familial bonds and
encourage interpersonal commu-
nication.
These previous findings, which
were published in an issue of New
Media & Society last year, chal-
lenge the popular assumption that
cell phones are replacing face-to-
face contact. In the 2010 study,
Campbell and Kwak found that a
positive link exists between the
amount of time spent communicat-
ing with someone on the phone and
the amount of face-to-face time
with that person.
Campbell said his fascination
with how mobile communication
devices connect and detach people
motivated him to pursue research
on the topic. He added that he plans
to continue studying cell phones,
particularly how they function in
international societies.
"Who we are closely connected
with rubs off on us," he said. "I'm
interested in the way that the cell

phone facilitates that social conta-
gion effect."
This week, Campbell and Kwak
presented separate research
at a conference in Hawaii. The
research focused on the ways
mobile communication facilitates
connectedness and disconnect-
edness between adults in South
Korea. Kwak, who is in Hawaii,
could not be reached for comment.
Campbell said there is a lot left
to explore in the field of telecom-
munications.
"Compared with other tech-
nology studies, only a sliver of
research is being done on mobile
communication," Campbell said.
"It's outrageous because cell
phones are contributing so muchto
social change. I think it's meaning-
ful and something that people take
for granted."
Next fall, Campbell plans to
teach a course in the Department
of Communication Studies called
"Social Consequences of Mobile
Communication," which will
examine mobile device use and the
impact ithas on social interactions.
"(The course) will basically
explore the social changes that
we're witnessing right now with
mobile communication," he said.

for," Sevig said.
The CAPS student advisory
board - a group of 18 members
who meet monthly with Sevig
and Asidao to provide student
perspectives on CAPS - played
a key role in developing plans for
the Zone. When a space opened
on the third floor of the Union
over the summer, CAPS real-
ized a wellness center could truly
become a reality and approached
the student advisory board with
the idea at the beginning of last
semester.
LSA senior Emily Green, a
member of the student advisory
board, said she thinks the Zone
will provide students with a good
place to relax.
"It's not about studying, it's
about recharging, regrouping, sit-
ting in a massage chair for twenty
minutes and just kind of letting
the dayde-stress," Green said.

0
0

0

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER @MICHIGANDAILY


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

NEWS BRIEFS
EAST LANSING
State's last known
wolverine brings in
visitors to center
Michigan's only - and last -
known wild wolverine is becom-
ing quite the attraction at Bay
City State Recreation Area.
The Michigan Department of
Natural Resources says the ani-
mal found dead about a year ago
along a trail in Michigan's Thumb
has been mounted and displayed
at the recreation area's visitors'
center.
Park interpreter Valerie
Blashcka says the display is bring-
ing a lot of new visitors.
Wildlife experts don't know
for sure how the female wolver-
ine arrived in Michigan. Biolo-
gists say if wolverines were native
to Michigan they died out about
200 years ago.
LONDON
British cat sets
new record for
purring volume
No need to bell this cat: A gray-
and-white tabby by the name of
Smokey has cat-apulted to fame
with purring so loud it has been
recorded at a potentially record-
setting 73 decibels.
The British community college
that measured the sound said it
peaked at 16 times louder than
that of the average cat. By some
estimates, that is about as noisy
as busy traffic, a hair dryer or a
vacuum cleaner.
The 12-year-old, ordinary-
size feline first came to national
attention last month when her
owner, Ruth Adams, decided to
run a local competition for the
most powerful purr. That led to
a local radio show appearance,
and from there, media coverage
snowballed, with the tabloids full
of headlines like "Thundercat"
and "Rumpuss."
NEW DELHI
India's tiger census
shows increase in
species population
India's latest tiger census
shows an increase in the num-
bers of the endangered big cat,
but threats to their roaming ter-
ritory could reverse those gains,
officials said Monday.
The census counted at least
1,706 tigers in forests across the
country, about 300 more than
four years ago, a government offi-
cial said Monday.
Environment Minister Jairam
Ramesh called the increase good
news but cautioned against any
complacency in efforts to save
the iconic animal from extinc-
tion.
"The rise in numbers is the
result of sustained efforts, but
the shrinking of tiger corridors is
alarming," Ramesh said.
Wildlife experts who conduct-
ed the census said tiger corridors,

which are the routes frequently
used by the big cats to move
from one reserve to another, had
declined sharply as huge power
projects, mining and roads cut
into their habitats.
NEW YORK
Elusive Bronx Zoo
cobra found in cage
The missing Bronx Zoo cobra
has been found.
Zoo officials say the snake
was found yesterday morning in
the zoo's Reptile House, nearly
a week after it went missing.
The Egyptian cobra was found
coiled in a dark corner of the
reptile house and zoo director
Jim Breheny says she is in good
health.
The zoo's Reptile House had
closed last Friday after the snake
disappeared and zoo workers
couldn't find it.
In less than a week, the snake
has become the stuff of urban
legend. Someone even started
pretending to be the cobra on
Twitter and sent fake updates to
legions of followers.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

FUNDS
From Page 1
said the international theme of
North Quad made funding the
trip a sensible choice.
"Our residence hall has
never really taken this on ...
to send residents internation-
ally to do this kind of service,"
Schantz said.
Though only 14 residents
will be participating in the trip,
Schantz said the travelers will
give a presentation to share
their experience with other
North Quad residents during
the fall semester.
"We believe that with the
exchanges that we get from
this trip, we'll be able to take
them back to the residents
next year and hopefully inspire
them to take part in interna-
tional service trips as well,"
Schantz said.
But LSA junior Nicholas
Cormier, another North Quad
resident, is worried about how
the funds were being used. He
said the approval of the pro-
posal is alarming, considering
several other proposals by resi-
dence staff were not approved.
"I've heard from quite a few
people on (residence) staff that
they've been really frustrated
proposing things that they'd
like to see at North Quad for
the residents," Cormier said.
At the RHA meeting last
night, several members also
initially said because the
money would only be allocated
to 14 people, it would be unfair
to other residents in North
Quad and other residence halls.
The remaining RHA budget
moneywas initially slated to be
equally distributed among the
residence halls.
Kurdelski also noted that
nine of the 14 trip participants
are on the Committee for Inter-
national Impact. He said he
thinks the members partici-
FESTIFOOLS
From Page 1
students, but of students and
community members who don't
generally have the opportunity
to create art on this scale.
The story of FestiFools starts
with Tucker's art class for non-
majors, "Art in Public Spaces."
"The class never focused
on creating artists, but on cre-
ating an environment where
people can make art and access
that creativity used to make
murals," Tucker said.
But after the class's mural
was complete, the vibrancy of
the grand opening had faded
and the community members
and musicians streamed out of
the building, Tucker was left
yearning to contain that ener-
gy in a more substantial and
sustained way. When Tucker's
class designed sets for a com-
munity theater production
using puppets, he realized he
had found the perfect vehicle
to capture that spirit of the
mural's debut all semester long.
"We had these two pup-
pets that came down through
the audience, and they were so
effective, they really frightened
small children, who just bolted

from the crowd," Tucker said.
"And we thought, what happens
if we make 50 of these puppets?
And what happens if we can
create our own performance on
the street?"
Tucker's class turned its focus
to making giant puppets for the
newly minted FestiFools. Buck-
ing the notion that art is simply
for artists and elite consumers,
Tucker not only embraced non-
art students at the University,
but welcomed community mem-
bers too. Anyone can volunteer
to help students work on pup-
pets, but Ann Arbor residents
can also make their own proj-
ects and participate as puppe-
teers on the day of FestiFools.
"A lot of people in the com-
munity got involved - the idea
of making this giant perfor-
mance with giant sculptural
puppets grew out of that need
to make something that was
bigger than themselves," Tuck-
er said, gesturing to a commu-
nity volunteer working with
students in the class. "And it
took more people to make and
to operate the puppets, so we're
drawing more people into the
whole process rather than just
the class itself."
Tucker's "Art in Public Spac-
es" class is populated with stu-

pating in the trip should have concerns about the allocation
abstained from voting. of funds. But before the meet-
In response to worries that ing, a petition was circulated
the council lacked impartiality throughout the residence hall
in its vote, Schantz said since to ensure that the council had
this is the first time such a trip the support of its residents. The
has been planned, it's under- petition had about 114 signa-
standable that leaders in the tures, he said.
council would be participants According to its constitu-
on the trip. tion, the council is not required
"It makes sense that the peo- to call meetings that deal with
ple that are more familiar with the allocation of funding for
the project and the people that specific activities like the Peru
are closer to the project from its trip.
beginning stages are the ones "We just wanted to hold that
that participate in it," Schantz vote because it's not a typi-
said. "In the future we want a cal amount to request for pro-
wide variety of residents to be gramming ... We just wanted to
able to go, not just the people make that sure that everyone
who are involved in residence on the council was OK with
hall government." that," Schantz said.
University Housing spokes- Members of the council
man Peter Logan said he thinks reviewed the constitution
the voting process to approve before voting and determined
the trip was appropriate. that the council members
"We don't see anything out attendingthe trip were allowed
of hand in the manner in which to vote, Schantz said.
this was debated, voted on and He added that the allo-
agreed to," Logan said. cated money doesn't cover
He added that hall councils the total cost of the trip for
are solely responsible for how participants, and the council
they allocate funding. is working to ensure the par-
"The hall councils determine ticipants can afford the pro-
their own manner of gover- gram. Though the council may
nance, and University Housing be able to get more money for
does not impose guidelines or the trip, Schantz said partici-
process on the councils," Logan pants will most likely have to
said. "It's upto the councils and personally pay for their plane
their communities to deter- tickets.
mine what is appropriate use of Logan said though this situ-
student dollars that are avail- ation was handled properly, the
able to the councils for commu- hall council will be looking into
nity programs and activities." how it can prevent similar con-
Kurdelski said he under- flicts in the future.
stands the group will be edu- "The leadership of this inte-
cating other residents after the grated council is very much
trip, but he noted that some aware of the disagreement and
current residents won't be liv- concerns expressed by some
ing in North Quad in the fall, of the students in this whole
and thus won't benefit from the process ... and are going to
allocation of funds. He said he review ... to see how they could
wishes the money would have improve or modify the process-
been instead used to purchase es," Logan said.
pots and pans for the residents'
kitchen. - Daily Staff Reporter
Schantz added that some res- Mary Hannahan contributed
idents atthe meeting expressed to this report.
dents who come from a wide in Kool-Aid are pretty much a
variety of majors and Tucker different language."
views his students' inexperi- The puppet partners pointed
ence with art as an asset. to the various sculptures sus-
"Everything is a complete pended from the ceiling of the
and utter mystery for them ... studio and described the vari-
this is way outside their com- ous points the individual art
fort zone," Tucker said. "These pieces were trying to convey.
students bring a wealth of dif- "It's niceto think that every
ferent interests and a broader puppet has a deeper message,
understanding of the world so if you take the time to actu-
with the type of things that ally think about it you can learn
they're studying. What are they something about us and the
gonna do? You know what art world, and what is going on
students are gonna say, but you right now," Robinson said.
never know what these guys are FestiFools is branching out
gonna say." this year: On Friday, Tucker
Tucker has seen every ragtag is coordinating another street
group of non-art majors commit party called "FoolMoon." This
to their giant puppets and find moonlit festival will populate
their voices using only paint, Ann Arbor's streets with lumi-
paper mache and a lot of trial nous sculptures crafted by
and error. And when the pup- Ann Arbor residents and art-
pets finally make their debut on ists alike, as participants weave
the streets, they take on lives of their way throughout streets in
their own. Ann Arbor to create a cinematic
"(The puppets will) prob- experience that ends in every-
ably have a message, so we just one dancing and celebrating in
need to figure out how to har- the street. The spectacle, which
ness that and discover alongthe starts at "dusk," (around 7p.m.),
way what that message really will have a beer tent, music
means," Tucker said. "And they and shadow puppet shows on
won't really discover it until Washington Street. The night-
they get out on the street and time street party will give Ann
connect with the audience, and Arbor residents a taste of what's
the audience starts to connect to come this Sunday.

with their piece. When you "Festifools is a way for peo-
get the puppets out there, they ple to get away from your more
become alive - they become generic jobs, and just be able to
these animated spirits." enjoy intrinsic work for what its
Tucker's students echo his worth," Kinesiology freshman
belief that art can take on a Max Moray said.
whole new meaning with the Kinesiology freshman Jason
addition of the "fourth dimen- Schwartz explained that the
sion" of the public. puppet-making experience is
"I like the idea of art in public more collaborative than his
spaces because a lot of the time other classes, since students get
art seems like something you to know each other outside of a
would find in museums, and not big lecture setting.
very open to the public," LSA "This class requires that we
freshman Zoe Stahl said as she take a different path," Schwartz
added another layer of gluey said.
paint to her sprawled-out pup- And though the studio was
pet. "I like that it's a fusion of abuzz with energy as Tucker
art and community." threw out suggestions to eager,
Stahl and her partner in fledgling artists ("Well, the
puppet-making, LSA freshman gorilla should be lots of differ-
Susie Robinson, decided at first ent colors") and gluey paste
to build a mouth so they could covered nearly every surface,
send a message about food, the giant puppets won't come to
since both are vegetarians. life until they crawl out of their
They eventually settled on mak- cramped quarters and stretch
ing a massive Kool-Aid puppet, their newly animated limbs on
as Robinson acknowledged the the street this weekend.
puppeteer's overall vision shifts "It's like an Ouija board. You
a little bit everyday. get three people on the puppet
"We want to show how and it starts to move, and you
people drink the Kool-Aid, or believe that you're giving it life
follow the crowd, like buying when the puppet actually has a
into agribusiness," Robinson life of its own and you're merely
said. "It's supposed to make following it," Tucker said. "Are
you think about the ingredi- you moving that? Am I moving
ents you're putting into your that? That's the ultimate end of
mouth because the ingredients puppetry, that disbelief."

NORTH QUAD
From Page 1
over the expense of the build-
ing's construction yesterday by
vandalizing several outer sur-
faces of the facility. The students
later received trespass warnings
banning them from the building.
Two students went to North
Quad at 8 a.m. yesterday and
used spray chalk to write state-
ments including "fancy buildings
for the few" and "$175 million,
this money could have been used
to pay for 10,000 tuitions" on a
brick building in the courtyard.
LSA sophomore Ian Matchett,
one of the students involved in
the vandalism, said he and the
other student were asked to leave
within 15 minutes.
Three students, including
Matchett, went to the building at
noon to write statements on win-
dows ip the interior courtyard
of North Quad. They were again
told to leave the area. Police sub-
sequently arrived, and the stu-
dents were cited with trespass
warnings, Matchett said.
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown said
the students were charged with
malicious destruction of proper-
ty and received a trespass warn-
ing banning them from North
Quad only.
The University's trespass
warning policy is currently
under review by the University's
Office of the General Counsel.
The Office of the General Coun-
sel has proposed six initial modi-
fications to update the current
policy, originally implemented a
decade ago.
Matchett was the only stu-
dent involved in both the morn-
ing and noon incidents. He said
he and his friends chose to write
the statements on the facil-
ity because a large crowd was
expected at the open house. He
said he and his friends involved
were protesting the fact that the
building was constructed with-
out student input.
"Given the economic climate
in Michigan, that money could
have been used putting a lot of
people through school who could
have really used that education,"
Matchett said. "Instead, letting
450 wealthy students live in
somewhat higher standards than
the rest of the students on cam-
pus, doesn't seem like a better
way to spend to us."
However, guests at the open
house never saw the students'
protest, as the vandalism was
cleaned up before the open house
ceremony began yesterday.
Speaking at yesterday's event,
Rackham student Bobby Poul-
son-Houser and LSA junior Nick
Renkes - both representatives

- Friday, April1, 2011- 3
from the Global Scholars Pro-
gram - explained how their
program takes advantage of
the technology in North Quad.
Members of the Global Scholars
Community can videoconfer-
ence with other schools around
the world, Renkes said.
Housed within the residen-
tial area are two living-learning
communities - the Global Schol-
ars Program, which focuses on
fostering cultural diversity, and
the Max Kade House, a German-
speaking language community
for students.
The other building in North
Quad is the academic building,
which is home to the School of
Information and has several
new technological features.
The building has faster Internet
access than any other area on
campus and an IT system that
enables students to share docu-
ments, MacKie-Mason said.
He added that the building
is equipped with several life-
size videoconferencing centers,
which display high-definition
video. Using the large screens,
guest speakers from around the
world can be conferenced in to
address classes.
MacKie-Mason and Hanlon
also highlighted the SMART
Board system in the building.
The system, which consists of
several monitors in North Quad's
lounges, allows students to write
on touch-sensitive screens.
MacKie-Mason added that the
Tower Room on the residence
building's 10th floor is a popu-
lar destination for students who
need amore specific kind of tech-
nology. The room contains a full
audio-visual console, enabling
students to watch films in high-
definition and work on audio
projects with full sound-mixing
capabilities.
Additionally, all flat-panel
televisions in North Quad's
lounges have computer-display
capabilities, allowing students
to plug in their laptops to work
on a group project or share vid-
eos and information with a large
number of people, MacKie-
Mason said.
In an interview after the
event, Hanlon said the Univer-
sity's main goal as an institu-
tion is to educate students to be
successful in an ever-changing
world. North Quad reflects this
I aim by offering technology that
will help students adapt and
become more productive work-
ers in the increasingly technolo-
gy-dependent global workforce,
he said.
"The reaction I've heard
from everyone is positive so far
- those living in and working
in the building," Hanlon said.
"So we hope to continue on the
upward trend we've been on."

WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS?
E-mail aber@michigandaily.com
All Day Fish Fry Platter for $6.99
1-// - &a 74,fo 10-C
$3 Pints & Well Drinks - All 27 Draft Beers
$1.75 Heineken & Amstel Light Bottles
No Cover Charge
310 Mavnard St.-Food To Go 734.995.0100-Next to the Mavnard Parkin Structure
.5-,,


4 - Friday, Aprill1, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Friday, April 1, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

C 1aa
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAIL JEFFAT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU


Hello, folks. GOP, here to tell ye
about a group of parasites that
are responsible for America's
destruction:
Public worhers

Maybe if I close my eyes,
I can pretend it's all just
an elaborate April Fools
Day joke.
0
0

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Rebuilding bridges
Mich. needs to repair its damaged infrastructure
Just when it seemed Michigan's infrastructure couldn't get any
worse, Transportation for America - a non-profit organiza-
tion focused on gaining support for laws in favor of progressive
transportation - released a troubling report on Michigan bridges
that adds considerable insult to the already-injured state economy.

0

Pros and cons of Greek Life

According to a March 28 MLive.com arti-
cle, the report found that 1,400 of Michigan's
10,928 highway bridges - or 13.1 percent - are
"structurally deficient." This classification of
"structurally deficient" means that one of four
bridge components - the deck, superstructure,
substructure or culvert - was deemed to be in
"poor" condition by National Bridge Inventory
standards. The figure isn't a staggering con-
trast from the national average of 11.5 percent,
but with Michigan's decade-long budget crisis,
the state is far less prepared to solve the issue.
The report also states that Michigan
exhausts all its federal bridge money on bridge
repair, and flexes even more money from other
sources to supplement the shortfall. Though
Michigan's budget crisis has severely hin-
dered the state's ability to reallocate state and
federal funds, bridges are a vital component of
the state's infrastructure and must be main-
tained.
A report released on March 17 by the Citi-
zens Alliance on Prisons and Public Spending
- a non-profit group that is concerned with
Michigan's punitive strategies - indicated
that the Michigan Department of Corrections
appropriation currently uses 25 percent of
the state's general fund budget - more than
what's allocated to schools and universities.
In spite of the sweeping measures Republican
Gov. Rick Snyder has implemented to recon-
cile the state budget, the corrections budget
has remained virtually untouched. Some sen-
sible options that would free up these funds
for bridge repair include privatization of the
prison system and reduction or elimination of

mandatory minimum sentences for nonvio-
lent drug offenders.
In an Mlive.com article, Keith Ledbetter, a
lobbyist for the Michigan Infrastructure andy
Transportation Association, reassures Michi-
gan drivers that the Michigan Department of
Transportation is vigilant in its inspections of
structurally deficient bridges, but that doesn't
change the fact that many of the country's
bridges are rapidly approaching their pro-
jected life spans of 50 years. The average age
of bridges in the United States is 42 years,
and Michigan's average is slightly less at 41.3
years.
Additionally, many of these bridges have
significant surface damage - potholes, ruts
and cracks in the pavement - that are con-
tributing factors to poor gas mileage and
increased car repair costs. If the damage gets
bad enough, an entire bridge may have to be
closed for a period of repair. If a bridge is a
vital commuting route, the closure can lead
to increased commute times and added gas
expense. These concerns don't include the
potential for injury and death in the case of a
bridge's collapse.
The evidence plainly shows that the
nation's bridge infrastructure is in trouble,
and Michigan's is in even worse danger. The
state government needs to reevaluate its pri-
orities regarding the general fund budget to
ensure that adequate funds are available to
repair the state's deteriorating bridges and
roads, not only to avoid the ongoing nuisance
they pose for drivers, but to prevent more
severe consequences in the future.

As I am writing my last col-
umn, and pondering my
time in the Greek commu-
nity, I thought I
would dedicate
this column to
a list of my ran-
dom musing and
thoughts. Bear
with me here,
this is certainly
not an exhaus-
tive list - there RYAN
are many more KNAPP
positives (and
negatives for that
matter) that I simply could not fit.
What the Greek community at the
University of Michigan does very
well:
Creating Leaders: We are culti-
vating future leaders on campus and
for the future. Just look at the list of
business, civic and sport leaders that
were Greek at the University. It's
simply not a coincidence.
Maintaining a great balance
between social life and GPA: This
is not true of every Greek, but on
average, we do a great job of work-
ing hard and playing harder. Simply
put, we know how to have fun, but to
keep our lives in check to ensure that
we will be successful in the future.
It makes me laugh when people
categorize fraternity members as
guys who only care about partying
hard. I live with eight guys from
my fraternity in our senior house,
and contrary to popular belief, we
all have been extremely success-
ful in college. Among the group is a
future investment banker, doctor,
consultant, lawyer, equitytrader and
mechanical engineer.
Creating and maintaining life-
long relationships: If you don't

believe me, see if you will have a
reunion for your hall mates your
freshmen year or with the members
of the student organization that you
participated in.
It may not be the case for all, but
I've met people who are 80 years old
who can still tell you everyone in
their pledge class and still talk regu-
larly to brothers who were in their
house. This is not just some corny
catchphrase that rush chairs spit
to get people to join chapters - you
really are creating tangible bonds
with people who you will talk to for
the rest of your life.
Preparing you for the real world:
If a company existed with more than
$100,000 in inflows and outflows
and was run by a myriad of 18 and 19
years old, you would think that the
company structure was foolhardy,
and the firm would be insolvent. But
this is how fraternities and sorori-
ties have been operating success-
fully for decades. Sure, they have a
backstop with alumni helping man-
age the finances, but they are giving
real-world experience to those run-
ning the chapter.
What the Greek community can
improve upon:
The Rivalries: The only real tan-
gible thing that separates chapters
are our rituals. Some of the best
aspects of being a Greek (Mud-
bowl and Greek Week for example)
involve direct competition between
chapters. It's ok to be competitive,
but spewing vitriolic words at each
other further divides us into seg-
ments. One house is too fratty, the
other house is not fratty enough.
One house is full of douche-bags,
the other filled with boy scouts who
don't know how to have fun.
Twenty percent of people doing
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:

80 percent of the work: This is true
with any organization. Not every
individual can be president of the
chapter, nor would every individual
want to bear the colossal responsi-
bility of serving as a chapter execu-
tive member. But whether it is at a
chapter or council level, very few
individuals shape the way the com-
munity is run. If we pride ourselves
on being a diverse community, why
does it seem like the same individu-
als are always making decisions that
have a tremendous impact on the
Greek community?
My fraternity has
shaped my 'U'
experience.
Keeping seniors involved: A stig-
ma exists that the old guys and gals
should be done with their chapter
involvement after their junior year.
After putting in two to three years
of work they are either burnt-out or
forced out by the younger members.
If I could only track how many
times I heard the words, "We are
a completely different fraternity/
sorority than we were a few years
ago." Here's a hint - no you aren't.
The seniors are the ones who
recruited you, and they are the ones
who indoctrinated you into the fra-
ternity and sorority culture. It is
natural to want to grow and do big-
ger and better things, but let's stop
tryingto reinvent the wheel.
-Ryan Knapp can be reached
at rjknapp@umich.edu.

STEVEN BRAID I
Abright side ofthe Final Four

Somewhere within the money-making busi-
ness that is the NCAA, there's a glimpse of
morality and principles in the Final Four.
Somewhere between the historic basketball
programs of Kentucky and Connecticut and
the Cinderella story that is Virginia Common-
wealth, lies Butler - the undaunted team that
improbably reached the last weekend of the
tournament for the secondconsecutive year,
led by the confident, classy, too-wise-for-his-
age Brad Stevens.
Yet Brad Stevens's greatest achievement is
not that he's guided Butler, a so-called "mid-
major," to consecutive Final Four appearances,
but that he's done so while maintaining the
university's and his own integrity.
Can you believe that, Jim Tressel?
Collegiate athletics is littered with coaches
and programs in every sport that have been dis-
ciplined for violations of one kind or another,
but Butler serves as a beacon of light. The uni-
versity has never been sanctioned. Their coach
has never been fined or suspended. Butler has
been an exemplar. Their opponent on Satur-
day, Virginia Commonwealth, isn't far behind.
Though this will only be their first appearance
in the Final Four, the Rams have enjoyed simi-
lar success. And like Brad Stevens and Butler,
head coach Shaka Smart and his team have
never been involved in pernicious allegations.
The same can't be said about their Final
Four counterparts, though.
While Connecticut head coach Jim Calhoun
and Kentucky head coach John Calipari are
widely considered as two of the best coaches in
college basketball, they have both been linked
to NCAA violations. If they were on an Inter-
net dating site, Calhoun and Calipari would be
matched instantly.
Calhoun was handed a three-game suspen-
sion earlier this year - one which he will serve
next year - for recruitingviolations committed
under hiswatch. While he continues to play the
ignorance card - citing an unawareness about
these recruiting violations - I would think
a head coach of his tenure would be aware of
everything that goes on inside his program.
And Calipari hasn't been any better. Though
he hasn't been personally indicted by the
NCAA, it's no coincidence that Calipari has
been a part of two basketball programs that
have had to vacate their Final Four appear-
ances due to NCAA violations. After having his

first Final Four appearance in 1996 expunged
at the University of Massachusetts after it was
found-that his star player - Marcus Camby
- had accepted money from an agent, Cali-
pari proceeded to make the Final Four again a
decade later with the University of Memphis.
This time Calipari's 38-2 record with Memphis
was removed from the records because one of
his star players was deemed ineligible after the
player's SAT score was discovered to be fraud-
ulent and the school provided a player's family
with benefits that violated NCAA rules.
Calipari obviously didn't listen to his parents
when they told him two wrongs don't make a
right. I wouldn't even be surprised if Kentucky
had this year's Final Four appearance vacated
sometime in the near future.
But to say that Calhoun and Calipari are the
exceptions would be fallacious.
Integrity in college athletics has been dwin-
dling. Sanctions, suspensions and fines have
unfortunately become the norm in the NCAA.
Top athletic programs such as Ohio State Uni-
versity and the University of Southern Califor-
nia have recently faced sanctions for incidents
involving players and coaches. And let's not
forget about the violations incurredby the Uni-
versity of Michigan under former head coach
Rich Rodriguez's reign.
It's alarming that these same men who dis-
play such a lack of rectitude are allowed to
continue to be in charge of leading and shap-
ing a group of young adults. College is a time for
development and maturation, but we shouldn't
expect much improvement from students
whose models are coaches who consistently
violate ethical codes. No wonder so many col-
lege athletes have been suspended of late.
But Butler and Virginia Commonwealth
inspire hope. They have shown that middling
athletic.programs can hang with the "bigboys"
without violating the NCAA rulebook. They
have shown that success can come without any
allegations or suspensions. They have shown
that integrity still exists in college athletics.
And one of them will be playing for a national
championship come Monday night.
So, please, don't root for Butler and Virginia
Commonwealth because they're the perceived
underdogs. Root for them because they do
things the right way.
Steven Braid is an LSA freshman.

Aida Ali, Will Butler, Ellie Chessen, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Melanie Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Asa Smith, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
ROBBY SOAVE |
Are college degrees overrated?

Many students, opposed to Republican Gov. Rick Sny-
der's higher education cuts are protesting his selection
as Spring Commencement speaker. How they must turn
red with envy when they recall last year's speaker, Presi-
dent Barack Obama, and his oft-repeated pledge to make
the United States the most college-educated nation in
the world. Of these two leaders, which offers students
and graduates the better vision of a responsible educa-
tion policy?
Before reflexively answering "Obama," consider this:
Policy experts from all sides of the political spectrum are
concluding that a college degree isn't necessarily worth
the investment - not for the student, and not for the state.
The simple truth is that the U.S. already has too many
college graduates. As a result, Obama's push to increase
the college graduation rate to 90 percent is unlikely to
yield much economic benefit. Richard Vedder, an Ohio
University economist, published some telling statistics
in The Chronicle of Higher Education in December.
Over the last 20 years, more and more graduates have
taken jobs that do not require a college education. For
example, there are now twice as many waiters and wait-
resses with degrees than there were in 1992.
Think of it this way: If it takes a person tens of thou-
sands of additional dollars and four to five years extra
to do a given job than it did two decades ago, the U.S.
worker is actually becoming less efficient. It makes little
sense to encourage such inefficiency by urging every
young person to go to college. It makes even less sense to
force taxpayers to subsidize inefficient behavior.
If this strikes you as some sort of Right-wing assault
on public education, you may be surprised to learn who
else is taking the side of the skeptics. Paul Krugman -
a New York Times columnist as reliably liberal as they
come - recently disparaged the notion that higher edu-
cation spending is key to economic growth. Krugman
called degrees "tickets to jobs that don't exist or don't
pay middle-class wages," while noting that advances
in computers are displacing college-educated workers
faster than less skilled workers. Why hire an informa-
tion analyst when Watson the Jeopardy!-winning robot
can do the job better? Unskilled laborers, on the other
hand, aren't so threatened.

It's true that the educated have an advantage over
others to the extent that prospective employers attribute
more competence to them. But this distinction is harder
to document on paper than you might expect. A study
released this year by professors at New York University
and the University of Virginia found very little actual
learning among a representative sample of 2,300 under-
graduates from 24 colleges. After two years of college,
nearly half the students demonstrated no measurable
improvement in a variety of subjects. After four years, a
third were still no discernibly smarter.
In that case, college degrees are a product - an expen-
sive, time-consuming product - with a remarkably high
failure rate. Ifa third of the cars coming off the line at
Ford Motor Company were defective, would anyone still
buy Fords? Would we urge the state to invest huge sums
of money ina faulty manufacturer?
Apparently, Obama would. Melody Barnes, a White
Mlouse policy advisor, made the president's case for
higher education in a Huffington Post article just last
week, reiterating Obama's goal to boost the U.S. college
graduation rate to 90 percent by 2020. Barnes noted,
somewhat bizarrely, that half of today's 30 fastest-
growing jobs require a college degree - as if the statis-
tic strengthened her case. But this also implies that half
of the 30 fastest-growing jobs do not require a college
degree. In other words, graduating from college pro-
vides about as many opportunities as not graduating
from college, but the Obama administration still wants
everyone - or nearly everyone - to go for the degree.
This is lunacy, not policy.
College degrees are expensive (for students and tax-
payers) defective (for a third of all students sampled),
and increasingly unlikely to yield an actual job. In light
of these uncomfortable facts, Snyder's 15-percent cut to I
higher education fundingseems all-too reasonable.
And in a day and age when college dropouts found
billion-dollar companies while graduates wait tables,
should we be so confident that higher education spend-
ing is a commitment, rather than a curse?
Robby Soave is a University alum and a former
editorial page editor of The Michigan Daily.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 1, 2011 - 5

Fruition of 'Appleville'

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Theresa, the main character in "Boy Gets Girl," is a successful magazine writer.
Rom- corn reversal

B
exa
S

Guy
with g
obstacl
obstacl
ing hi
* the
and
object
affectio
gets gi
Base
Arts's
tion of
Gilman
drama
Gets
rom-col
its hea
story,
And th
develot
and da
The
main c
cessful
Tony o
ise of r
howev
escalat
Theres
' and sel
Scho
Dance
who p

asement Arts colleague Mercer, describes
Tony's development through the
mines the dark. lens of a romantic movie. In Tim
Burton's "Big Fish," for example,
ide of dating the main character perseveres
after his future wife continually
By ERIKA JOST rejects him.
DailyArts Writer "Everything that guy does -
writing her name in the sky with
meets girl. Guy falls in love an airplane, filling the field with
irl. Guy confronts some daffodils, finding out where she
e, and guy overcomes lives, finding out what she does,
e, prov- is to woo her," Cruz said. "He's
mself to Boy Gets Girl stalking her, and they end up
audience happy together. Gilman forces
to the Tonight at 7 us to reexamine the assumptions
of his and 11p.m., we makeabout romance."
on. Guy tomorrow The drama and poignancy of
rl. at 7 p.m. "Boy Gets Girl" arise from the
ment fact that the characters involved
produc- Walgreen Drama are so ordinary and relatable.
Rebecca Center, Studione Both stalker and stalked are
's 2000 Free ultimately very recognizable
"Boy people - to the actors and to the
Girl" takes this standard audience.
m fodder and turns it on "I'm directing this show in
d. Where in this classic memory of a woman who did not
Gilman asks, is the girl? seek outside help when she was
he answers Gilman gives beingstalked," said MT&D soph-
p into a critique of sexism omore Amanda Cohen. "She was
ting culture in America. murdered. It happens to people
play begins when the we know and love. It happens to
haracter, Theresa - a suc- confident, independent people."
magazine writer - meets Theresa embodies the confi-
.n a blind date. The prom- dence and independence Cohen
omance quickly dissolves, is talking about, but as the play
er, as Tony's pursuit of her and the stalking progress, she
es into stalking, robbing slowly loses the traits she cher-
a of her sense of safety ishes most about herself.
fhood. "She didn't do anything to
ool of Music, Theatre & make this happen," said MT&D
freshman Elliot Cruz, senior Emilie Samuelson, who
lays the role of Theresa's plays Theresa. "There's this

assumption that the woman who
is attacked is somehow respon-
sible for it, and this play just puts
that idea aside. She's living the
life she's always wanted, and she
loses it."
By the same token, the likabil-
ity of the stalker himself is crucial
to the script. Tony - played here
by the tall, dark-haired and hand-
some Jon Manganello, an MT&D
sophomore, appears in the first
scene on a blind date with The-
resa, charmingly awkward and
funny in that first-date way.
"It's important that you like
Tony," Manganello said. "If I
were to come out in a cape and
fangs, that would be ridiculous.
It's creepier - and more true to
life - that he's a normal guy. And
the clues come slowly. He's a lit-
tle insensitive, he makes light of
her opinions. 'Oh, so you're, like,
a feminist? Oh yeah, I am too.'"
Even members of the cast
said they could identify with the
motivations of the Tony charac-
ter, whose actions are fueled by
a culture that objectifies women.
It's reasonable that Tony's under-
standing of romance could have
been gleaned from a romantic
comedy thatshows similar disre-
gard for the autonomy of the pur-
sued, the woman who is there to
"get got," as Cohen described it.
The themes - the objectifica-
tion of women, loss of identity,
sexism - made this production
attractive for grants. Where most
Basement Arts plays have a
See BASEMENT, Page 6

By EMILY BOUDREAU
Daily Arts Writer
For a group of 22 students
from the University of Michi-
gan, Wayne State and Michigan
State University, Wednesday
night might as well have been the
Oscars for all the excitement pres-
ent at the celebration of the pre-
miere of their film "Appleville."
These students spent the past
summer working, creating, direct-
ing, producing and editing as part
of the Michigan Creative Film
Alliance, a program created by
former Gov. Jennifer Granholm
to keep, attract and foster creative
talent in the state of Michigan.
"The project was a cooperative
thing among universities in Mich-
igan to sort of reflect the influx
of films and get students ready
to work ... not just help, but to do
their own stuff," said LSA senior
and "Appleville" director Bhanu
Chundu inan interview.
"Appleville," a dark com-
edy about a robbery on a bus full
of senior citizens, premiered
Wednesday evening at the Detroit
Film Theater. Dressed to impress,
the student filmmakers stopped
to pose for pictures along the red
carpet - this was their night.
But it hasn't always been so
easy. In his opening speech, Uni-
versity faculty member and Vice
Chairman of the Michigan Film
Office Advisory Council Jim
Burnstein said members of the
Creative Film Alliance had spent
half an hour just deciding where
to put the red carpet - one can
only imagine the more pressing
pitfalls along the path to the stu-
dent film premiere.
Of course, the past few months
have not just been trivial debates,
especially for the students them-
selves. They overcame old school
rivalries and battled the elements
in order to show the state of Mich-
igan exactly what students are
capable of doing.
"Chaos," said Coordinating
Producer Alison McKenna, a Uni-

versity
was ch
a rush
got ex
to actu
Usuall
and ju
people
the op
roles,t
have t
for 10y
TI
All(
film w
their e
discus
footba
the tal
the thr
"Ikt
well b
but I w
seamle
on a t
has the
Michig
of digit
each o
just w"
good ti

r alum, "A lot of the time it munities and schools in the best
taos. Every single day was light possible."
, but in a good way ... We And that's what the premiere
posure to what it was like on Wednesday was all about -
sally work in the industry. making a statement about the
y you'd start at the bottom incredible wealth of talent in the
st have to bring papers to film industry in Michigan.
and get coffee, but we got "('Appleville') really repre-
portunity to take on big sented Michigan pride, you know,
things that normally you'd being proud of being from this
o have been in the industry state and working with people
ears to do." who were so talented and from the
same area," McKenna said. People
throw around 'brain drain' as kind
ree schools of a buzz word of what's happen-
ing here, when students leave the
one e film. state, but this just shows that you
don't need to go to L.A. and that
Michigan is turning out those
kinds of creative people too."
of the students working on During the question-and-
rere aware of how unique answer session following the
xperience was and put aside showing of the film, almost all of
sions of who has the better the cast stood together and said
11 team in order to showcase that they would want to stay in
ent that lies within each of Michigan and continue to work
ee universities. in the industry. The makers of
new we'd all get alongreally "Appleville" hope the work will
ecause we all love movies, show in some film festivals across
vas really surprised at how the country to demonstrate Mich-
ss the workflow was. Even igan's talent and promise. Before
echnical level, each school moving on, however, the students
eir own workflow - like at are content to enjoy the fruits of
Ian we learn on film instead their labor.
tal. But we all learned from "I think (this night) is the most
other," Chundu said. "We incredible end we all could've
anted to go out and have a imagined," Chundu said at the
me and represent our com- premiere.

Cast member Evan Kole responds to questions at the "Appleville" premiere.


Gearing up for 'Tempest'

 'Doggumentary' has little bite

ByJULIASMITH-EPPSTEINER
DailyArts Writer
Excellence to the ears is
rare and evanescent on Snoop
Dogg's 11th studio album, Dog-
gumentary. He
doesn't sound
40 years old,
but on a scale Snoop Do
of one-to-My
Beautiful Dark Doggumentary
Twisted Fan-
tasy, Snoop's Priority
latest LP finds
itself many meters away from
Kanye West's altitude of fresh
masterpiece.a
A documentary is usually
defined as a film, radio or tele-
vision program based on or re-
creating an actual event, era, life
story, etc., that purports to be
factually accurate. Well, Snoop's
dog-version of this fictional auto-
biography centers on sex, weed
and the West Coast. The lyrics
from his latest record indicate
that his life is much more suc-
cessful than the musical caliber
of Doggumentary.
Along with a few singles, Snoop
pre-released his opinion for this
album, saying it's less about "rec-
reating a 'Doggystyle, Part 2' (his
1993 debut studio album). It's just
me doing me."
Those words are hard to
believe, especially considering
there are no fewer than 18 fea-
tured artists on Doggumentary,
which is partially produced by
Swizz Beatz. Though it seems
Snoop is scraping for inspiration
and hiding behind collaboration
on his 21-track record, the out-
side influence is much appreciat-
ed as it adds a bit of true sunshine
to his Cali-identity.
None of this talk matches up
to his elusive album cover art -
an empty royal blue chair fit for a
king with ablack splotch of paint

brushes
against
the Do
artsy?
Hisi
rious. K
which
gettabl
soundt
than tl
it lack
or his
Scott S
respect
(retires
"I Don
der Wh
Thang.
Othe
laborat
Mine,"
"Sumth
turing<
Dc
9
A m
Lay,"
which
life int'
beats a
vocaliz
summe

d behind it, both popping Aid and hot leather seats.
the white backdrop. Has "Gangbang Rookie" features
ggfather of hip hop gone Pilot, and introduces a jazz vibe
as the Dogg sets his documenta-
music isn't quite as myste- tion straight with zing - "I'm not
)ne of his singles, "Boom," down with the Republican Party
features T-Pain, is for- or the Democratic Party/ I repre-
e beer-pong background sent the gangster party."
rack. Though it's catchier Taking big steps away from
he majority of the album, anything gangster and heading
s originality from Snoop towards the barnyard, Snoop
producer for this track, features Willie Nelson and his
torch. "Boom" falls from harmonica on "Superman." The
directly into mediocrity addition of "Superman" on Dog-
ment anybody?) alongwith gumentary adds some dimen-
't Need No Bitch," "Won- sion, which is canceled out by the
sat It Do" and "It's D Only Greek life-happy track, "Wet,"
which is about exactly what you'd
er disappointing col- think. Snoop's tenor clouds over
ions are "The Weed Iz the simple cadence, "Tell me baby
featuring Wiz Khalifa and are you wet (wet, wet, wet, wet,
sing Like This Night," fea- wet) /I'm gonna get you wet."
Gorillaz. "Eyez Closed" features Kanye
West and John Legend, and isn't
as impressive as their names look
)ggie style is on paper. But it feels the best of
themall, and the chorus reso-
retting old. nates deeply.
The lyrical harmonization of
Legend and West layers electron-
ic beats and electric guitar with a
ore agreeable track is "El smooth caress. The chorus ("And
featuring Marty James, I can see it with my eyes closed,
breathes bare-minimum now / Feeling like my life froze
o Snoop's efforts. Relaxed / I'm about to hit the ground") is
nd airy, marijuana-related Snoop's savinggrace on this track.
ations spawn mirages of It looks as if Snoop is spinning a
rtime like bikinis, Kool- Dogg-wheel that's already broken.

Thi
Englis
There
in al
ent m
will p
wrong
weeke
Rude
cals
Shake
"The
at Me
Theat
As
studes
on caj
cals pr
works
play
Kaufm
Music
"The
ductio
"I
you d
Kaufm
somet
direct
cast a
distrib
ing wi
Kau
with a
also al

By ERIN STEELE a wider audience.
Daily Arts Writer "In order for it to work,, you
have to get these non-theater peo-
nk Shakespeare is just for ple you're working with to under-
h majors and theater buffs? stand Shakespeare," he said. "You
's a group of undergrads really have to strip it down to its
11 differ- bare bones. I think the audience
ajors that is far less intimidated by Shake-
trove you speare because the actors are less
This Tonight and intimidated."
nd, the tomorrow at 8 While Kaufman chose to keep
Mechani- p.m., Sunday the play's scenic, thematic and
present at 2 p.m. chronological elements true to the
speare's original, he has taken some artis-
Tempest" Mendelssohn tic license to put a new spin on the
ndelssohn Theatre conventional characters.
re. From $3 "It's a selling point," he said.
the only "You'll have to come see the play."
nt-run Shakespeare group Co-producer and LSA senior
mpus, the Rude Mechani- Allison Shuster acknowledged
erform one of Shakespeare's that appreciating Shakespeare
and one contemporary can be difficult for most people,
every year. Director *Max but maintained that it's possible.
nan, a senior in the School of "It becomes easier with the
Theatre & Dance, proposed more plays you read," she said. "It
Tempest" for its spring pro- also depends a lot on the acting,
n due to its malleability. how well the actors convey their
asked myself, 'What can feelings through the words."
o something new with?' " With opening night approach-
san said. "I was looking for ing, the producers and director
hing I could take in a new have very different expectations
ion that has a large enough for how they will feel when the
and some adequate gender curtain rises.
bution, so we're not just play- Shuster and fellow co-producer
th a cast of five white males." Rebecca Noble, also anLSA senior,
sfman feels that working said they will likely be stressed
cast of non-theater majors out by the multitude of potential
lows the play to translate to catastrophes that are bound to

arise, and both said their favorite
part is typically intermission.
"The unpredictability and
spontaneity of it all" is Kaufman's
favorite part of seeing his work
onstage - the exact thing that
makes his producers cringe.
"It's a dance, everyone changes
and moves with the process that
nobodyhas seen coming," he said.
Though none of the perform-
ers, stage technicians or produc-
ers will be receiving credit hours
for their performance, the escape
from reality and chance to be in
the spotlight is enough incentive
for them.
The Bard's
perfect storm.
"You get to see people who nor-
mally don't do this sort of thing,"
Kaufman said. "People that are
used to crunching numbers and
thinking about molecules get to
pretend to be kings and mtirder-
ers. The play also has a lot of very
tangible and applicable messages
and is, despite being hundreds of
years old, completely relevant to
our lives today.
"And, we have a fog machine,"
he added.

F

NATIONAL NATIONAL STORAGE
.ST AmE CENTER OF ANN ARBOR

nas u aranaUMMy - rasmet n servea. tApJies 1 nun
3870 Jackson Road, Ann Arbor
734-747-9060
www.selfstoragespecialists.com
Michigan DailylSpring 2011


6 - Friday, April1, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


4

OFF!'s Morris turns on the punk

Fo
f
h

Jus
ris tal
music
ing to
gelica
preaci
about
nal d
He sp
the re
bands
with
that m
on ban
the G(
A t
of a
tion, h
shaker
maker
his sh
frontn

rmer Black Flag Circle Jerks and now OFF!, his
latest project, Morris is a living
rontman talks relic and centerpiece to the sound
that has become known as hard-
Lardcore scene core punk.
To highlight his newest proj-
By MIKE KUNTZ ect's stop tonight at the Magic
Daily Arts Writer Stick in Detroit, Morris talked
with The Michigan Daily about
t hearing Keith Mor- the band's throwback album
k about his music - heck, packaging, time travel, and why
in general - is like listen- Pitchfork's music selection just
an evan- ain't too exciting.
1 soapbox OFF! "Maybe it'sjust our turn," Mor-
her rave ris said of the positive reaction to
the eter- Tonight at OFF! from the music industry
lamnation. 8p.m. at large. "Sometimes you just do
eaks about what you do and let all the pieces
cords and The Magic Stick fall the way thatthey fall."
he loves From $15 OFF! released a string of EPs
a charge last year, packaging them togeth-
iakes his everyday thoughts er in a Raymond Pettibon-illus-
nds like the Seeds sound like trated four-by-10-inch collection
ospel. titled, simply enough, First Four
rue believer in the power EPs. Channelingthe raw sound of
damn good record collec- early hardcore punk - think The
Morris has been a mover and Germs, X and, yes, the first Black
r in the world of DIY music- Flag recordings - OFF! captures a
s his entire life. Through group of aging punks (Morris is in
tort-lived stint as the first his mid-50s) banging away with
san of Black Flag, then the the same fury they had 30 years

ago. If punk's dead, it sure doesn't
sound like it when listening to
these guys.
"When Dmitri andI were going
through our songwriting process,
he created a time-travel device
through his guitar that took us
back to a Baptist church on Man-
hattan Avenue in Hermosa Beach,
where a lot of the blueprint was
drawn out for (hardcore punk),"
Morris said.
This blueprint proved to be
the birth of an entire movement,
Black Flag's classic 1978 Nervous
Breakdown EP paving the way for
an entire generation of bands in
the coming decade.
"What we were doing was just
moving at our own pace," Morris
said, describing the M.O. of early
Black Flag. "There was no man-
ager, there was no record label,
there wasn't anybody standing
over us saying 'Well this is what
you need to do if you want to get
from point A to point B.' There
were no rules, there was just a list
of things to do today."
Given his past, it's no surprise
Morris is a little put off by today's

age of required online exposure,
overnight YouTube sensations
and up-to-the-minute critiques
of new music by amateur bloggers
and professional critics alike.
"The waythat Iwould describe
a site like Pitchfork is that it's very
horizontal, and we're vertical,"
said Morris, in reaction to OFF!'s
critical success in 2010. "They
were excited about us because
we're pretty exciting. A lot of the
bands that they write about aren't
very exciting bands, they come
from the head more than the
heart or the soul."
Which isn't to say Morris is
out of touch or swears off today's
more cerebral brand of indie rock
- he confessed to being a fan of
groups like Deerhunter, Thee
Oh Sees, Ty Segall and Nobunny.
The guy is far from having been
asleep for the past 30 years - and
he wants you to know it - though
fortunately the sound of First
Four EPs is as frozen in time as a
record like GI. The sound, energy
and attitude that OFF! exudes is
so iconic that Morris would be
forgiven for being surprised when

newer fans marvel at its "fresh
sound."
"There's a lot of people out
there who like my other band
(Circle Jerks), but there's a lot of
new people out there, like fresh
young pups that aren't aware of
some of the other bands that I've
been in," Morris said. "This is
actually a new thingto them. And
the situation is that not only is
it new to a lot of the kids but it's
also new to a lot of the people who
work for the magazines and blog
and people who are part of the
music industry."
Whensittinginhis livingroom,
surrounded by the records he
loves, Morris can't help but relate
the best way he knows how -
through music. But really, he just
wishes people nowadays would
listen to more of the classics.
"People need to listen to more
Sonny Boy Williamson," he said.
"And Blue Oyster Cult. And Gil
Scott Herron, and Golden Ear-
rings and Television and Burning
Brides and the Who and Sparks
and..."
The listgoes on and on.

BASEMENT
From Page 5
budget of $100, "Boy Gets Girl"
received $800, which helped
construct the five sets through
which every aspect of Theresa's
existence is visible at all times to
the audience. Just as Tony moni-
tors every aspect of Theresa's life,
so can the audience inspect every
moment on stage.
"We had the opportunity to be
a little more elaborate than other
Basement Arts shows," said LSA
sophomore Tim Wood, the assis-
tant stage manager.
While the theory support-
ing the story is pivotal and far-
reaching, Cohen said Gilman's
dialogue performs the necessary
job of breaking the tension when
it needs to. For instance, after
finding a graphic and upsetting
note from Tony, Theresa wonders
aloud if the Yankees won their
game that day.
"You can't beat up the audience
and then say, 'OK, bye,"' Mangan-
ello said. "There is a message to
this play, but there is humor and
entertainment as well."
In a story of boy-doesn't-get-
girl, this production investigates
the harmful effects a subject-
object description of romance has
on the people involved.

4

"PRIME" PARKING 4 SALE
Now & 2011-12
primesh.com
761-8000

6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3540 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937,
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today
for Best Selection, we SOLD OUT
early last year. NOW is the time to
secure your apartment home at Uni-
versity Towers 734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff & 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; Most
units include Heat and Water. Most
have Parking available for $25/m.
Showings Scheduled H-F t2pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H2O incl. 734-904-6735

Stdo &
Tower Plaza Condominium
Quiet & SecueHm H Onebokfrom Qr
734-663-1530
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2300
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the
Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Barns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arboryrops.com
AVAILABLE FALL! FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments
located on Central Campus. Large
enough to accomodate up to4 people.
Lots of amenities. Call Michigan Re-
alty, 734-662-5500 or for more info
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL! STUDIOS,
one, two, and three bedroom
apartments located on U/M Campus.
Heat, water, and parking included.
Call Michigan Realty, 734-662-5500 or
for more info visit
www.michcomrealty.com

Quit neighborhood
next to Huron River.
1 and 2 bedroom
apts for fall,
U of M discount,
walk/bike to
hospital and
North Campus
Now leasing for fall
734-663-8541
!!DON'T MISS OUT!!
BEST APTS. & LOCATIONS GO-
ING FAST
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Apartments Going Fast!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State-1 Left
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State -1 Left
515 Lawrence-1 Left
326 E. Madison - 1 Left
1000 Oakland-l Left
520 Packard-1 Left
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
411 High
*Fully Furnished Apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
*Free heat and water
(* Atlmost locations)
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
**SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1 IN
STUDENT HOUSING**UNIVER-
SITY TOWERS ON
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-Mi.COM
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
6 BDRM HOUSE + Bonus Room!
1608 Geddes. $3500 Updated! 3 Baths.
Free prkg & ldry. Dishwasher. A/C.
Call 734-678-0122.
AVAILABLE FALL! THREE Bed-
room house located near U/M Athletic
Campus and Band Field. Large
kitchen,
dining and living room. Beautiful
woodwork, screened in porch. Parking
and laundry. Call Michigan Realty,
734-662-5500 or for more info visit
www micimaravcom

RELEASE DATE- Friday, April 1,2011


Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Checkup charges 32 What an asterisk 40 Coat opening?
1 Lexington and 4 Inviting words mayindicate 41 Volcanictfluid
Concordtfighters before "Want to 33 Lotion additive 42 Perjurer's
11 xXXvyears after come over?" 34 City WSW of admission
the creation of 5 Mystical decks Sacramento 44"Melrose Place"
te original 6 Vacant 35 Lays eyes on ac00,
MagnarCata 7 Dangerous 36 Amchairpartner 46 E plosive
15 Apple snake 37 Hall of Fame initials
consumers? 8Darn defensive back 47 _ judicata:
16 River through 9 Mendes of Mel decided case
Lake Brienz "Hitch" 38 Like hell 48 Some alarm
17 Start of an aptly 10 It may bea 39 "Edda" author _ respondents:
expressed scoop Sturluson Abbr.
lingistic 11 Hitched ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
observaton 12 Plts
19 Duplicated 13 Words to live by B A T P H O N E L O U V E R
20 Roma road 14 "The Merry A G R E E D O N O N S A L E
21 Word with sharp Widow" operettist L E E R E D A T P E E L E D
or trouble 18Latin term usually S A M L E E N E V E
23 Hand abbreviated PASS Mt TTROMNEY
24 Leagues: Abbr. 21 Window part EGO S O N I A A C N E
25 Uike 22 EalyChine
pe2ormancestby dynasty C O N S T R U E O G R E S S
the Wallendas 25 Canadian young C A P P I S T O L
27 Place to build adultlfiction P O T A S H N O R E A S O N
28 Flying need author A P E D E T N A S A P U
30 Is down with McClintock J E R S E Y B O Y S PVT S
31 Observation, 2t Nice samers A R M L A B A L A I
part 2 sa8Nmers in a MIA I L E R F A N D A N C
32 Source of support corner, often MA T L E N D A NTE ACE
35 lt'sabout325 29Texters'amused A ETE NAS BA NTE NNA E
miles east of syllables
Texas's H-Town, 31 Mexican bread xwordeditor@aot.com 03/31/11

crt.
19 Locatins ToSre You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
y Centalcyampus cDwntown
r Nrth Campus > Wes Side
Let Our Family Take Care of Yours
Pr:ivtc Rsient Shut0e,0Con e oy ueN o
24 Mxinenane Snff High e5, dInere
C~-ieI ~ r es W""'-
734.274.6118
wwwaomabJAPatme ts.net
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 . State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815StateManagers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. aps.
Call Phil at1734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
FREE SUBLET APT FINDER!!!
Studio - 4 Bdrms. Call for a complete
list. 734-274-6118 or visit
annarborapartments.net
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
DOWNTOWN LIVING
543 Church across from East Hall
The best location on central campus!
Two fully furnished spacious I bed-
room apts available. Built-in computer
desks and shelving for your study
space! On-site laundry & parking
available. Heat & water included.
(734) 668-1100
FIVE BDRM DUPLEX. 1001 State
St. Available Sept. Reduced to $2390.
Incl. cable, pkng, lndry on site. Men-
tion this ad & get $100 off first rent
payment!! Call PMSI 734-665-5552.
FIVE MINUTE WALK to B.School!
Best deal per sq ft 1at917 Packard!
Close to central campus, athletic
campus, and restaurants at State,
Packard, & Hill. All apartments have
balconies or patios and are fully
furnished. Heat, water, & parking in-
cluded. I & 2 bdrms available
Call for new rent specials!!
(734)668-1100
! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY !
Sterling 411 Lofts has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2011-
12. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$660, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, alltutilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. Ask how you
can receive a $300 Visa gift card.734-
998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
a*FOR MAY & FALL 2011 LEASE.
1,2,3 Bdrm apt. on campus.
www.jmsprop.com (734) 222-9033.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
NEWER 6-BDRM furn. Units &
Rooms for Fall 11. Flex-Leases sublets
for May I1 - Aug 11. 734-418-2050 or
www.828greeneapts.com
2 BEDROOM FURNISHED Apart-
ments available for Fall 2011. Two
doors to CCRB. Great location for
Medical or Dental Students. Includes
Parking, Heat, Water, and Free Inter-
net. Starting at $1,529. Receive
$1,000
off your first month's rent. Call Cam-
pus Mgt. at 734-663-4101

mich student
housing.com
HUGE 4 BEDROOM Apt.
Unbelievably spacious 4bdrm/2bth
apartment in a gorgeous converted
house. 10 minute walk to the undergrad
library. Beautiful bedrooms, hardwood
floors throughout, fireplace, large back-
yard, heat, water, & parking included!
New reduced rent price!
www.varsitymangement.com
HUGE 6 BDRM house. 1028 Packard.
Reduced to $2590. hard wood floors.
Incl. cable & pkng on site. Mention this
ad & get $100 off first rent payment!!
Call PMSI 734-665-5552.
LEASING OPEN HOUSE
Saturday April 16, 2911 - 11Iam - 3pm
See any avail. property in our portfolio
All app. fees waived - Special incen-
tives offered. Check out
PMSIproperties.com and call for more
details 734-665-5552
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail Spring & Fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
THE 48 HOUR SALE IS NOW ON!!
Rent your apartment on your first visit
and get $300.00 off your 1st months
rent. This SALE can end at anytime.
Call us today at734-761-2680 universi-
tytowers-micom
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.

-ue NELLt ^S"'.
nNORTH CA MPUS
is
AFFORDABLE RATES
ON SHUTTLE

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
COLLEGE PRO IS now hiring
painters all across the state to work out-
doors with other students. Earn
$3k-$5k. Advancement opportunities.
1-888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
OPPORTUNITY UNLIMITED
FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS
Summer work available.
Internships and scholarships.
Variable work experience.
Up to $2000 per month.
Enjoyable-atmosphere.
Flexible schedules.
Increase your people skills.
Increase your resume value.
Team atmosphere.
Flexible start dates. '
INTERVIEWING NOW.
Call 734-389-099
P-T SUMMER nanny for 2 girls. Pre-
fer Chinese speaker but we speak
mainly English. Must have child care
exp, reliable transportation, non-
smoker, ok w/ dog. Pay at least $10/hr,
commensurate w/ exp. (734)
929-4811.
POST FLIERS ON campus, 2-5
hrs/wk. $12-15/hour + comm.
editor@academicenglishediting.com.
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC justice
jobs. Turn your passion into action.
WorkingAmerica CommunityAffiliate
of the AFLCIO is seeking motivated,
passionnate ppl w/ strong comm. skills
to educate voters to elect progressive
candidates who will fight for working
families. Hiring immed. F/TMon-Fri I:-
30pm - 10:30 pm. Prev. candidates w/
fundraising exp. a plus. Paid training
and valuable campaign exp. $11.22/hr.
Please contact 734-222-6496 or
Annarbor@workingamerica.org. 210
Collingwood Dr. Suite 200 AA, MI
48103
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

4

with "the"
"Retort nothe
37di dkaunean

1e 2 34ane 5 7 818 10 1112 11314
16 1

37 Like Cologne and 1-
dicnit i16
39 Condescend
40 Fowlt na
showy mate 223
41 Herbal drink
43 "Bewitched" witch n 0 26
44 Place with ne a 2
swinging doors
45 End of the 30n 31 32 33 34
obsenvation
49 Abbr. onfolk33
song sheet music 37 38 39
50 Listed
51 They have their 40 41 42
pluses and
minuses 434
52 Fabled tortoise's
trait 4 74
DOWN
1 Bud s s2
2 First name in
tyranny By Dan Naddor
(c)2011Tribune Media Services, Inc. 04/11

SUBL1 l' Al'VARSITYx
Studios, 1, 2, 3, & 4 bdrms available
May 1st! Call Varsity for a complete
tenant list.
(734)668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com

E MP LOY ME NT
GOLF COURSE MAINTENANCE
STAFF at Stonebridge GC. Call Jim
for details at 734-323-8790.
GRILL, BANQUET, BEER Cart
Servers at Stonebridge Golf Ann
Arbor. Call Doug 734-323-8782.
NEED PRO SHOP staff at Stone-
bridge Ann Arbor. Call Doug 734-323-
8782. www.stonebridgegolfclub.net
WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. wwvw.theislandhouse.com

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

4

SEEKING P/T SUMMER sitter for 8
& 1i year old. Best candidate will en-
joy older kids. Must have own car and
not smoke. Please send information to
einilygtm@umich.edu. I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, Aprill1, 2011 - 7

'Killer Keller' provides edge for 'M'

Kim in good company
in Augusta at Masters

By HEIKO YANG the moment, though, that doesn't
Daily Sports Writer really matter.
Because if you're Felt, the Wol-
The start of a water polo game verines are starting on offense.
is moments away. You're tread- "(Felt) is as good of a sprinter as
ing water at the lane line with there is in the nation," Michigan
your teammates, head back and coach Matt Anderson said. "You
feet pointed toward the center of can count on one hand the num-
the pool where the ball will be ber of sprints that she's lost."
dropped. Breathing as fully as you Felt has been the Wolverines'
can, you clear your mind. starting sprinter since she took
You're the sprinter, and a lot over the job after splitting time
is about to happen in the next six with Kelsey Haley her freshman
seconds. year. For the past three seasons,
The whistle blows. You pivot Felt's sprinting prowess has
hard on your hips and swing your afforded Michigan a luxurious
 upper body forward with arms four extra possessions per game,
outstretched and locked. The every game.
momentum carries you briefly, It's no small advantage. Not
just enough for your body to only does winning the sprint set
straighten out. a positive tone for the team, but
Then you swim. Fast, frenzied also converting even one of those
strokes - not the kind you would possessions into a score could be
use at a swim meet. When you're the difference in a close contest.
less than 12 meters from the ball, Just ask the Indiana Hoosiers.
you don't get up to speed by look- "Indiana started a differ-
ing pretty. You keep your head ent player (last Saturday) than I
down and eyes forward. You expected because they wanted
don't know where the ball is yet that person to sprint against
because the referee doesn't drop Keller," Anderson said. "Keller
it until you're halfway there. If still beat her every time."
you lift your head prematurely, Felt is what Anderson, who
you'll slow down. is known for recruiting speedy
On that note, don't even think players, calls "the rabbit of the
about turning to breathe. group." Like most other water
You finally reach the ball, but polo players, the California native
so has the other team's sprinter. started out as a swimmer. She
The timinof your hands is criti- began swimming at age five and
cal as the two of you fight to pass competed in high school, where
it back to your trailing team- she set records for 200-meter and
mates. If you succeed and your 400-meter relays and was named
teammate secures the ball, your team MVP twice.
team gets the first offensive pos- But also like most other water
session, at which point you come polo players, Felt eventually got
out, receive a pat on the back, and tired of just swimming, so she
wait for the beginning of the next joined her high school water polo
quarter. Your job is done, for now. team.
But if you were Michigan However the transition from
senior sprinter Keller Felt, you'd swimming to water polo wasn't as
keep swimming. easy as many would assume. Even
This is because in addition to with her speed. Being a fast water
being the fastest player on the polo player and being a fast swim-
team, she's a four-year veteran on mer aren't quite the same.
offense. Her coach calls her his "You can be the fastest swim-
best two-meter defender, too. For mer in the world and get coun-

Senior Keller Felt rarely loses a sprint for Michigan.

tered by a great water polo
player who understands when to
go," Felt said. "If they know when
to go on the counter, that's going
to make them seem like the faster
player."
With eight years of experience
now under her belt, the discrep-
ancy between swimming and
water polo has disappeared. In
addition to sprint duty, Felt often
leads the counterattack, where
her speed and game sense give
her an edge. It's evident even dur-
ing practice. When the pass from
the goalie lands in front her, she's
already half a body length ahead
of the closest defender. And that's
before Felt starts really swim-
ming.
"There's a fast person and
there's a quick person," senior
Cara Reitz said. "(Felt) is both.
Not only is she the fastest swim-
mer straight up and down the
pool, but she's quick, and she
reads well."
Unsurprisingly, Felt and her
unique set of skills have been the
gamebreaker more than once in
the past year.

In last season's first game
against Indiana, her breakaway
counter drew a penalty shot
in the final 30 seconds, which
senior Lauren Orth converted to
win the game. Earlier this year
against UC-Santa Barbara, a team
Michigan had never beaten, her
breakaway in sudden death over-
time elicited a penalty that led to
another Orth goal, again for the
win.
Last Saturday, Felt had the ball
late in the fourth quarter. Her
speed on the edge pulled several
Hoosier defenders out of position,
which opened a shooting lane for
junior Meagan Cobb. Felt recog-
nized the setup and passed the
ball with such precision that the
ensuing tip shot looked more like
an alley-ooped slam dunk.
It was the Wolverines' final
goal of the game, and it allowed
them to outlast Indiana, 9-8.
For a weapon so deadly, Felt's
teammates have given her the
perfect nickname.
"'Killer Keller.' Because her
name's Keller, and she's a killer,"
said Reitz.

By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Writer
It's not often a player gets to beat
his coach.
But when Michigan senior Lion
Kim qualified for
the Masters by NOTEBOOK
winning the US
Amatuer Public Links Tournament
in July, he did just that - kind of.
Kim was permitted to play in the
Public Links Tournament since he
doesn't belong to a private golf club
- a requirement for anyone who
competes in the tournament.
Since Michigan coach Andrew
Sapp, who played at North Caro-
lina, belongs to a private club, he
has tried for years to qualify for the
Masters by winning the US Ama-
teur - a tournament similar to the
Public Links and one in which the
winner gets an invitation to the
Masters.
"I don't anticipate that I will ever
get to play in The Masters," Sapp
said. "But everybody's got a dream."
This year, Sapp failed to get
past the local qualifier to play in
the national tournament. Kim also
failed to qualify for the US Ama-
teur, but he had the luxury of play-
ing in the Public Links Tournament
as well.
And it'd be safe to say Kim took
advantage of that luxury. But both
Kim and Sapp insist there was no
internal competition that went on
between the two as they attempted
to qualify for the world's most pres-
tigious golf tournament.
In fact, every player on the Mich-
igan team played in a local qualifier
for the US Amateur this past sum-
mer.
"I'm not expected to (win the
Amateur)," Sapp said. "He has high-
er expectations than I do. I spend
more time walking around the golf
course watching people play than I
do swinging it and hitting the ball."

And though Kim now has the
chance to live out his coach's and
nearly every golfer's dream, he
still has plenty of respect for Sapp's
game.
"He's a great player, to tell you
the truth," Kim said. "He's got a lot
of game, but he just doesn't practice
as much as we do. It's not like he
should be ashamed for not qualify-
ing (for the Masters). I wouldn't be
ashamed if I didn't qualify either -
it's just I got real fortunate to win
one of the biggest tournaments over
the summer."
IN GOOD COMPANY: Kim will
have plenty of support in Augusta.
In fact, his good luck charms will be
with him the whole time he's there.
"My parents are my lucky
charms," Kim said. "It's going to
give me confidence and definitely
make me feel comfortable knowing
they're out there."
Kim will have ample time to
spend with his parents, Yong and
Hyun Kim, as the Kim family will
be driving down to Augusta togeth-
er.
Kim's brother will also be in
attendance, as will former team-
mates, high school friends, and
coaches - including Sapp, who will
be there for the entire week.
A REAL LIFE PICTURE: Kim has a
picture in his room of him and PGA
golfer KJ Choi, when Kim met Choi
as a spectator at the 2002 Bay Hill
Invitational.
"He probably doesn't remember
that," Kim joked.
But on Monday, Kim hopes to be
practicing with Choi.
Kim said his instructor, Brian
Mogg, contacted Choi's agent, who
said Choi would enjoy practicing
with Kim in Augusta.
"(Choi's agent) told KJ about
doing a practice round with me,
and he was very happy about it,"
Kim said. "He said, 'For sure, we'll
do it."



8 - Friday, Aprill1, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Friday, April 1, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

Sxw

BASEBALL PREVIEW 2011

Turning Two: Middle infielders journey
t hogh second season together

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Writer
Two competing ideals of col-
lege sports play tug of war every
day across the country.
At one end of the rope, you have
the sensational prospects who use
college sports as a stepping stone to
the pros. Education maybe impor-
tant to these athletes, but playing
professionally is the end goal.
On the other side, you have the
guys who thirst for the opportuni-
ty to continue their playing career
as long as possible. They may not
have the talent to play at the high-
est level, but they're willing to
work extremely hard to get all that
they can out of their ability.
That game of tug of war might
as well be played over second base
at Ray Fisher Stadium by Anthony
Toth and Derek Dennis.
No one could have expected
second baseman Anthony Toth to
be a starting infielder and team
captain for the Wolverines. The
Lorain, Ohio, native was lightly
recruited outofhighschool,where
he didn't start until his senior year.
His prospects for collegiate ball
weren't looking good until a Mich-
igan assistant coach saw him at a
showcase in Ohio and invited him
to a winter camp in Ann Arbor.
"I wasn't going to go because I
grew up an Ohio State fan," Toth
said. "So the last place I thought
to go was Michigan. Coach wrote
me a couple letters and wanted
me at camp. I came to camp, and
he offered me a walk-on spot, so I
took it."
Although he was happy to be
playing college baseball, Toth
wasn't exactly a prized recruit his
freshman year.
"He had to work from the bot-
tom up," Michigan coach Rich
Maloney said. "He was pretty
much, on the 35-man roster, prob-
ably the 34th or 35th man."
Toth beat the odds to see play-
ing time his freshman year and
then start his redshirt sophomore
and junior years. The fifth-year
senior was named a team captain
this season.
"He worked himself into being
captain of the team which says a
tremendous amount about him,
his work ethic, his desire and his
competitiveness," Maloney said.
It was a different story for the
shortstop.
"Derek, on the other hand,
comes from all the accolades,"
Maloney said. "We competed for
Derek, who could have went any-
where in the country. He could
have called up anybody and they
would have taken him in a heart-
beat."
Dennis, the shortstop who
grew up in Ohio but moved to Ada,
Mich. when he was 7, took a differ-
ent route to Ann Arbor.
He was drafted out of high
school by the Tampa Bay Rays in
the 10th round of the MLB draft
and has the tools for a professional
career.
He's 6-foot-3, has quick hands
and the type of range that makes
scouts drool. He passed up a
$750,000 offer from Tampa Bay to
come to Michigan.
"I knew that I wasn't really
ready to play pro ball, and I figured
that college would be a good expe-
rience," Dennis said. "In the end, I

knew I wanted to be close to home
and playing for Coach Maloney
was my top choice."
As much as Toth and Dennis
may come from different acclaim,
they have been perfect comple-
ments to each other in their time
as Michigan's double-play combi-
nation.
When Dennis came to Ann
Arbor, Toth had been the starting
shortstop the previous year. But
there was no controversy in mov-
ing Toth to second base for the
2010 season.
"You've got a pro prospect play-
ingshortstop, so thatwasn't avery
difficult decision when you've got
a talent like Derek Dennis," Malo-
ney said, "Anthony's a very good
college infielder and certainly an
outstanding second baseman."
Dennis and Toth wasted little
time getting acclimated to being
Michigan's new double-play tan-
dem. The two worked during
practice and put in time together
- on their own - to get the tim-
ing and cohesion that a middle
infield combination needs. They
took ground balls after practice,
worked on double-play balls and
got used to eachother's throws.
It wasn't all serious. To keep the
mood light, they goofed around,
showed some flash and had fun
with it.
Dennis credits Toth with help-
ing him develop as a shortstop in
his first year.
"He told me a lot of little point-
ers that I'd never known about like
reading the ball off the bat and
double-playstuffthathe hadexpe-
rienced the year before," Dennis
said. "I think he's the best second
baseman in the league."
Maloney also had to make a
point to adjust his coaching style
to cater to each player's person-
alities.
"One, you have to
motivate in a cer-
tain way. Another
person you have
to moti-
vate
in a dif-
ferent way," Maloney said.
"I think that's for everybody on
the team. The coaches that have
success in their careers have the
ability to find which buttons to
push to motivate those guys."
Dennis and Toth grew even
closer after being paired as road
roommates last season. According
to Toth, it is a Michigan tradition
for the starting second baseman
and shortstop to room together
to develop unity between the two
positions.
"I think Anthony's helped
Derek a lot in keeping him
grounded, and I think Derek
brings some flash that prob-
ably has helped Anthony
out," Maloney said.
That season, Toth
hit .309 while Den-
nis batted .267 en
route to Michi-
gan's second-
place finish
in the Big
Ten.

After the 2010 season, Toth had
a chat with Maloney about wheth-
er he would stay for his fifth year.
Toth let him know that he would
love the opportunity to play in the
Cape Cod Baseball League - the
premier summer playground for
amateur baseball. Maloney had
connections with the Wareham
Gatemen of the CCBL and was
able to get Toth and Dennis on the
team.
Almost every American major
leaguer who went to college has
played in the Massachusetts
league. The 10-team wooden bat
league represents the beauty of
amateur sports. The idyllic fields
are barely high school quality, and
fans sit on the lawns down the
outfield lines eating hot dogs and
lobster rolls as pink sunsets color
the summer sky. The league does
without the tired presence of jum-
botrons, artificial noise and gim-
micky promotions.
But the popular vacation spot
pulls in the best college players
from around the country every
summer. Players stay with host
families, and many hold jobs dur-
ing the day - before their games
- to pay the rent.
"Everyone that ever has gone
there (that I've coached) has really
enjoyed their experience, and
they've relished it for the rest of
their lives," Maloney said. "Not
too many guys get that opportu-
nity, so to send two of them to get
that experience, it's great."
Toth and Dennis roomed
together with a host family who
lived 20 minutes from the field.
"We had a great host family
with some dogs, a pool-," Dennis
said.
"And no air con-
ditioning," Toth
chimed in.
"That
was pretty
bad," Dennis
said.

The real revelation was in the
caliber of play.
"It's unlike anything you'll ever
see in college baseball," Toth said.
"Even guys that were coming out
of the bullpen were some schools'
Friday night guys, which are their
best guys. It's definitely where you
go to improve and that's where you
really learn how to hit."
Although Dennis and Toth hit
under .300 for the Gatemen, who
finished 19-24-1, playing at that
level of competition helped them
develop their offensive abilities.
When the Wolverines played their
fall game against the Ontario Blue
Jays, Toth said that the pitches
looked like beach balls after hit-
ting against some of the best
pitching in the country during the
summer.
With two guys spending so
much time together, a relation-
ship can go in one of two direc-
tions. Luckily for Toth and Dennis,
things went in a good direction.
"We're pretty close," Toth said.
"We were roommates last year
on the road at Michigan and then
going out to summer ball together,
we got closer and bonded more
because it was just him and I a lot.
And this year, we're really com-
fortable acting like 5 year olds
around each other."
Specifically, comedian Brian
Regan's work is fodder for much
of their fun. But just as quickly as
Toth and Dennis came together
last year, they will abruptly part
ways at the end of the season when
Toth graduates.
Toth wants to continue his
baseball career. He said he would
jump at the opportunity to play
professionally if he is drafted this
summer, but if that doesn't hap-
pen, he wants to play ball in Italy.
He has family living there, and
his ability to get dual-citizenship
makes it a lot easier to get on a
team.
If that doesn't work out, he'll
have to leave the sport behind.
"Choice No. 3 is hit the
real world," Toth said.
"I'm a

Position-by- Position
Breakdown
By DANIEL WASSERMAN been steady thus far, but his hit-
Daily Sports Writer ting is below last year's numbers
when he was named to the fresh-
After a dreary start to the sea- man All-American team. Bion-
son, no one is more excited to di's on-base percentage is down
hit the reset button with a clean .70 percentage points to .354 -
conference record than Michi- not what Michigan needs out of
gan. Originally tabbed as the No. its leadoff hitter, though he does
2 team in the Big Ten, the Wol- lead the team with 12 RBI. Bion-
verines (6-16 overall) are in des- di is second on the team in steals
perate need of momentum. . with nine and covers centerfield
Michigan coach Rich Malo- with ease. He has shown his
ney - in his ninth season with ability to bunt for a hit and will
the team - said he's never seen need to continue finding ways to
a team begin a season in such a get on base if Michigan has any
slump (Michigan is hitting .248 chance of breaking free from its
with under four runs per game). lack of offensive production.
Fifth-year senior captain Antho-
ny Toth sparked some contro- Left field
versy when he called out the To say there's been a drop off
team's effort, saying his team- in the production in left field
mates are "cutting corners." from last year is like saying the
With a chance to forget the Wolverines start to the season
non-conference schedule, the wasn't great. Replacing last
Wolverines begin their pursuit year's All-Big Ten left fielder
of rectifying the season in their Ryan LaMarre, a .419 hitter,
chase for the program's 36th Big Maloney has gone to left field by
Ten title, and first since 2008. committee - with no one stick-
Here's a position-by-position ing. Freshman Alex Lakatos -
look at this year's team: also a pitcher - is hitting just
.233 in 10 starts. Redshirt soph-
First base omore Kevin Krantz is hitting
As the only newcomer to the just .214 with just 12 hits and 18
infield, redshirt junior Garrett strikeouts in 18 starts. At this
Stephens came in with big shoes point, it seems any production
to fill. With just 12 career starts fromleft field will be a nice addi-
- only two of which came at first tion to the bottom of the lineup,
base - it's hisjob to fill in for for- but it shouldn't be counted on.
mer captain and All-Big Ten first
baseman Mike Dufek. Stephens Catcher
had a red-hot start to the season In another colossal drop-off,
- he's still second on the team the Wolverines replaced Chris
with 11 RBI - while working Berset and his .373 average
his way up to the clean-up spot, with a catching platoon. Junior
but has since cooled, now hit- Coley Crank, who's primar-
ting nearthe bottom of the order ily been the designated hitter,
with a,.250 batting average. In was recently moved to catcher
a lineup that severely lacks the to try to produce something
ability to drive in runs, Stephens behind the plate. Crank's num-
will be looked upon to rediscov- bers were superb last year - he
er his swing. hit .324, and led the team with
a .596 slugging percentage and
Second base 14 homeruns. But this season,
Toth, who started in each Crank is hitting just .208. Red-
of the 134 games over the last shirt freshmen Zach Johnson
three years, is now a staple in the and John DiLaura and freshman
lineup and the heart and soul of Cole Martin began the season
the team. Despite any extra-base as the primary catchers, but are
power, he manages to get on hitting a dismal.164 combined.
base, steal bases, and play stellar
defense. Toth isn't a superstar, Starting pitching
but with a history of clutch hit- The Michigan starters have
ting- he has seven career game- been inconsistent to say the
winning hits - and uncanny least.
leadership, he's the kind of guy Maloney shuffled the rotation
every team needs. a bit, but has seemed to settle on
three for now: redshirt sopho-
Third base mores Bobby Brosnahan and
In his third year as the start- Tyler Mills and sophomore Kyle
ing third baseman, junior John Clark.
Lorenz is off to a slow start. A New pitching coach Matt
solid fielder, Michigan had high White, a former first-round pick,
hopes for Lorenz coming into has seen his staff plagued with
the season, as he started in the injuries - seniors Kolby Wood
top half of the lineup. But due to and Travis Smith are both out
a meager .304 on-base percent- indefinitely (Smith recently had
age, the junior is now hitting surgery). The lefty Brosnahan
near the bottom of the order. was the early season ace, but has
since been anythingbut. Though
Shortstop he's shown recent signs of prom-
Expectations are sky-high ise, Brosnahan is just 1-5 with a
for sophomore Derek Dennis, 7.39 ERA. Command hasbeen an
Michigan's most talented player issue - he's walked as many (14),
and highest-ranked prospect, as he's struck out.
but Dennis has struggled to find Mills is Maloney's favorite
consistency. While his .407 on- pitcher to talk about, describing
base percentage is encouraging him as "electric." He's shown
and the reason he's been hit- flashes, but inexperience has
ting in the three-hole, it's time sometimes turned the electric-

for Dennis to show the ability ity into a power outage. He's 1-2
that ranked him in the top 10 for with a 4.60 ERA. Clark has come
shortstops coming out of high on nicely as a newcomer to the
school. Dennis has improved his rotation, also going 1-2, but with
range and anchors Michigan's a very respectable 3.42 ERA.
defense, which will be counted Opening weekend start-
upon if the Wolverines continue ers- junior Brandon Sinnery
to struggle at the plate. and sophomore Ben Ballentine
- have seen little action after
Right field struggling last month.
Freshman Michael O'Neill
has done everything Michigan Relief pitching
could've asked of him and more After being overworked in
so far. O'Neill is the closest thing the first few weeks due to strug-
the Wolverines have to a five- gling starters, the bullpen has
tool player. While his power - settled in a bit. Junior Keven
like the rest of the lineup - is Vangheluwe has 2.81 ERA and
light, he hits for average (team 17 strikeouts in just 16 innings
leading .333 batting average and freshman Jake Engels has
with hits in 20 of 22 games), has a 2.89 ERA in seven appear-
speed (he leads the team with ances. Lakatos, Maloney's other
12 steals), has a superb arm (an favorite pitcher with an "electric Q
impressive four assists from arm," will serve as the closer.
the outfield) and boasts excel- But as Maloney warned, he
lent range. Currently the clean- may be too good to stay in the
up hitter, O'Neill has been the bullpen. Maloney called the
only quality producing batter righty a "workhorse," saying he
thus far. If he keeps his pace, he could close out games in four to
should be named to the fresh- five inning appearances.
man All-American team and be Lakatos has shown promise
a future mainstay as an All-Con- with 11 strikeouts in 13.1 innings,
ference outfielder. but his 12 walks and a 7.43 ERA a
need to improve before he can
Center field truly be counted upon in save
Sophomore Patrick Biondi has situations.

S
n
r
i
11
a
p
S
a

"But
it was a nice
situation."
The Gatemen
were comprised of
players from across the
country, including guys
from Indiana, Harvard,
Texas, Vanderbilt, Duke, TCU,
Maine, Elon and Georgia Tech.
Dennis described the team as a
goofy group of guys, but said that
they got along well.

sport manage-
ment major, and
right now I'm look-s
ing to go into real estate
investment."
Dennis also has his sights set on
the bright lights.
"I'd love to play professional
baseball," he said. "I've just
heard great things from
people who have made it
there. So it's been a goal
of mine and a dream."
Though Dennis is
only a sophomore,
he is eligible to
be drafted again
this year
because his
21st birth-
day is
within
45
days
of the
draft. He
said that
although play-
ing in the pros
is his end goal, he hasn't given
much thought about when he
wants to sign that contract.
Both Wolverine middle infield-
ers could conceivably be gone
at the end of the year.
While the two are consider-
ing their futures, they have to
remain focused on the current
task - turning the Wolverines'
season around.
Michigan has fallen flat in
the first half of the season,
going 6-16 in its non-conference
games. While Dennis is bat-
ting .280 and leads the team
with a .407 on-base percentage,
Toth has struggled offensively
recently and his average stands
at .244.
"It's funny because with
how poorly we've been doing,
we can still end this week-
end and be first place in the
Big Ten," Toth said. "We still
want to win a Big Ten cham-
pionship because that goal is
still very real and very right in
front of us."

STAFF PICKS
The Daily baseball beat
predicts the 2011 season
The Daily's baseball beat
writers guess how Michigan ,
will stack up to the rest
of the Big Ten and which
players will step up. Zach Neal Daniel
Helfand Rothschild Wasserman
Michiganoverallrecord 21-34 24-31 26-29
Michigan Big Ten record 11-13 (6th) 10-14 (7th) 13-11 (5th)
Michigan MVP Michael O'Neill O'Neill Patrick Biondi
Michigan Pitcher of the Year Tyler Mills Mills Kyle Clark
Michigan Freshman of the Year Michael O'Neil O'Neill O'Nell
Big Ten Regular Season Champion Minnesota Indiana Indiana
Big Ten Regular Season Runner-Up Indiana Michigan State Minnesota
Big Ten Regular Season Third Place Michigan State Minnesota Michigan State
Big Ten Tournament Champion Michigan State Michigan State Iowa
Big Ten Tournament Runner-up Minnesota Purdue Michigan State
BigTenMVP AlexDickerson,Indiana Dickerson Dickerson
Big Ten Surprise Team Michigan State Penn State Michigan State
Big Ten Disappointing Team Michigan Michigan Michigan
Michigan season ends here Misses Big Ten Tournament Misses Big Ten Tournament 2nd Round Big Ten Tournament
National Champion Virginia Virginia Vanderbilt


