()N I HN DI 1)1X TWNT1YONE YEAI{S OF EDIUI( AL. FIIEED)OM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, September 16, 2011

michigandaily.com

CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS
Michigan
nurses union
protests at
regents mtg.
Community shows overtime, reducing paid time
off and requiring the union to
support for nurses pay more for health insurance,
among other parameters.
in contract dispute "If you take away all of those
things, including making us
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN pay for more insurance, we're
Dacily News Editor pretty much taking a pay cut,"
Bokor said. "We have nurses
Members and supporters of that come from Davison, Flint,
the Michigan Nurses Associa- Lansing, Toledo - we service
tion, clad in red t-shirts, packed the entire region. Those nurses
into the Regenta' Room yester- aren't going to want to work
day ready to expreaa their dis- here if they don't have thoae
content with recent contract kinds of benefits."
negotiations. Ora Pescovitz, the Univer-
The University of Michi- sity's executive vice presi-
gan Health System and the dent for medical affairs, read
MNA have been negotiat- a statement on behalf of the
ing contracts since April, and University at yesterday's meet-
the nurses have been work- ing about the situation. While
ing without a contract since Pescovitz declined to comment
July. In response, MNA mem- about the specifics of the nego-
bers and the union's support- tiations, she said that this past
ers attended the University's week, union leaders petitioned
Board of Regents first meeting the Michigan Employment
of the fall semester yesterday Relations Commission to begin
in the Fleming Administration collecting information to assist
Building, to tackle the issue - the two sides to reach an agree-
centered mostly on the nurses' ment.
compensation and benefits - "We do welcome this pro-
head on. cess and look forward to a
Speaking to the regents, Keri successful conclusion of the
Bokor, a nurse who works in negotiations," Pescovitz said.
the UMHS Surgical Intensive Members of the University
Care Unit, said UMHS wants to and Ann Arbor communities
cut back on benefits by limiting See NURSES, Page 5

I I

CHRIS RYBA/daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman speaks during the University's Board of Regents meeting in the Fleming Administration Building yesterday. Coleman was
given a 2.75-percent salary increase but donated the money back to the University in the form of scholarships for students to study abroad.
Coleman donates 2.75-percent
p arai se back o te University

$15,678 allocated
to study abroad
scholarships
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
University President Mary
Sue Coleman received a 2.75-per-
cent pay raise at the University's
Board of Regents meeting yester-
day but promptly returned the
money.
Coleman said she receives

enough compensation from the
University and doesn't need
more than the $570,105 base
salary she cur-
rently receives. NOTEBOOK
Coleman grant-
ed the $15,678 pay increase to
enhance the scholarships she
and her husband, Ken, sponsor
for students wishing to study
abroad.
Last October, the regents
approved a 3-percent pay
increase for Coleman and last
November, the board extended
her contract for an additional

two years. Coleman's contract
i-aus through July2014.
According to an April article
in The Chronicle of Higher Edu-
cation, Coleman was ranked the
sixth-highest-paid university
president in the 2009-2010 fis-
cal year, the most recent year for
which data is available.
The regents' personnel, com-
pensation and governance com-
mittee conducted a performance
review before awarding this
year's salary raise. Regent S.
Martin Taylor (D-Grosse Pointe
Farms), the chair of the com-

mittee, read the regents' recom-
mendation for the raise saying
deserves the raise for her con-
tinuing efforts to better the Uni-
versity.
He said in an interview after
the meeting that he is not sur-
prised by Coleman's donation.
"Her willingness to give back
to the University has been there
since the beginning," Taylor said.
"She's been a terrific president,
and she loves this University
and she's shown it time and time
again."
See COLEMAN, Page 5

LOCAL BUSINESSES
Liberty St. Borders space
to be split into three areas

Local bookstore
owners await
effects of closure
By MAAISA WINTER
Daily StaffReporter
Now that the doors of Bor-
ders on East Liberty Street
are officially closed, many
students, Ann Arbor residents

and local bookstore owners are
wondering what will next fill
the 37,000-square-foot space.
Ralph Welton, chief develop-
ment official for the city of Ann
Arbor, said the space has been
bought and will be subdivided
into three different build-outs.
"I think that either retail or
restaurants will soon occupy
the building because those are
always popular in Ann Arbor,"
Welton said.

Borders, Inc., which liqui-
dated 399 stores across the
country and closed the East
Liberty store on Monday, was
started in Ann Arbor by broth-
ers Tom and Louis Borders in
1971.
Local bookstore owners
have mixed views on how the
closing of Borders will affect
their businesses. While some
bookstore owners said they are
See BORDERS, Page5

HALEY HOARD/Daily
Members of University Unions Arts and Programs sell fresh flowers to a student shopping at the first MFarmers' Market in
the courtyard of the Michigan Union yesterday. The farmers' market is a new Michigan Student Assembly initiative.
MSA brings new farmers'
market to Michigan Union

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
Mott aims to improve patient, caregiver
experience with mobile alarm technology-

Assembly aims to
give students local,
healthy food options
By YOUNJOO SANG
DailyStaffReporter
Students who think Kerry-
town is too far of a walk to buy
fresh produce, will have to travel
no further than the Michigan.

Union.
In the courtyard of the Michi-
gan Union yesterday, the Michi-
gan Student Assembly hosted its
first MFarmers' Market which
offered local produce and plants
for purchase, as well as live dem-
onstrations and instructions for
food preparation. MSA's new ini-
tiative, which many other Uni-
versity divisions also contributed
to, raise awareness about locally
grown food.

LSA senior Monica Sangal, the
MSA Health Issues Commission
chair, said she came up with the
idea for an on-campus farmer's
market because she wants fresh
produce to be available for stu-
dents.
"We really wanted to promote
healthy eating on campus," San-
gal said. "Normally, the Farmers
Market (in Kerrytown) is a little
too far away for getting food."
See MARKET, Page 5

Nurses, doctors to
use cell phones to
monitor patients
By SABIRA KHAN
Daily StaffReporter
The long-awaited C.S. Mott
Children's Hospital and Von
Voigtlarider Women's Hospi-
tal will open to the public on

Nov. 13, complete with tech-
nological advancements that
will increase communication
between patients and nurses.
In the hospital, clinicians
will operate and interact with
patients through a system
in which nurses and doctors
will use cell phones to trans-
mit alerts from patient rooms
to notify them when patient
needs assistance.
"Patients of a really high

acuity tend to have different
types of monitors attached to
them, and getting the alerts
and alarms out of those moni-
tors so that the caregivers
can understand them is really
important," said Christine
Szumko, Information Services
project manager of the new
facility.
In the current facility, care-
givers can hear alarms from the
See MOTT, Page5


Alll

WEATHER HI: 68
TOMORROW LO 51

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX AP NEWS ....................3 CLASSIFIEDS .............6
Mediterranean restaurants come to A2 Vol. CXXII, No. 9 O P IN IO N....................4 A RT S. . . . 7
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE TABLE 011 The Michigan Daily NEWS......................5 S P O R T S.... ......9
Ci michigandaily.com

.. _ 43 ..:..



2 - Friday, September 16, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2is Y -ENSDY FrdaUetebe16D01ATe.ihianDalR-IihiadaY:o
420 Maynard St.
LEFT Jef Mc~honthe ichiAnn Arbor, MI 48109-1327
LEFT Jef Mcaho, th Mihi-wwwmichigandaily.com
reatst Marchigeand'drumna or, }+' lSTEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
down Satarday, Sept. 10, sealing Ju Editor in Chief easiness Manager
theWolernesinn oerNote?734-4t8-4tt5 ext. 1201 734-418-4115 eat. 1240
the olvrins' in verNote ~seeinbera@michigndaity.com zyancer@michigandailycom


Newsroon
734-418-4115 sts3
Cnrnections
corrections@mnichigandaily.coms
Arts Sectin
arts@michigandaily.com
Spnrts Sect ian
sports@m~ichigandailycom
Disptay Sates
displaylynichigandaily.coms
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar Managingtditor
Nicole Aber Managig NewsEditor

News Tips
news@m~ichigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opisios@michigasdaily.cos,
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
fisasce@michigandailycosm
nickspar@michigandaily.com,
aber@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES
Not a very safe Hit and learn

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

storage room
WHEERE: University Hos-
pital
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 8:20 am.
WHAT: A purse wan left
unattended in a storage
room between 11:15 am.
and 1:50 p.m. Tuesday and
cash was stolen, University
Police reported. There are
no suspects.
Someone is
getting fired...
WHERE: 1500 East Medi-
cal Center
WHEN: Wednesday at
about10 am.
WHAT: A valet driver hit
another car us he tried to
park, University Police
reored.t

WHERE: 900 block of
North University Ave.
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 3:30 pm.
WHAT: A University stu-
dent said she was hit by a
cur io front of the Michigan
League at about 2:20 pm.,
University Police reported.
After she was hit, the stu-
dent continued to go class.
She reported the incident
and recieved medical treat-
ment after her class.

UMix ping
pong contest
WHAT: The Michigan
Union will be open late
for activities including a
movie screening of "Super
8," crafting, improv perfor-
mance and Mindball - a
mind-control ping pang
contest.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from tO
p.m. to 2 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union

Tango together
WHAT: MTango will offer
dunce lessons for beginners.
The five-week session
costs $2S. No partner is
necessary.
WHO: MTango
WHEN: Tonight from S
p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
WHERE: Mason Hall
CORRECTIONS
* An article in the Sept.
15, 2011 edition of The
Michigan Daily ('MSA
resolution callsafor plastic
water bottle ban') incor-
rectly stated where fund-
ing for refill stations in
campus buildings might
come from. They could
he funded by the Divi-
sion of Student Affairs,
the Athletic Department
and the General Fund.
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1Employees who play
the mobile video game
Angry Birds at work cost
American employers $1.5
billion in productivity, the
Tornoto Star reported. An
analyst estimated that 5 per-
cent of Americans play the
game at work.
2 Michigan running
backs coach Fred
Jackson has been at
Michigan for 20 years. He's
seen success every step of the
way. But why has he stayed?
>> FOE MORE, SEE FOOTBALL
SATURDAY, INSIDE
3An iPhone applica-
tion called "Jew or Not
Jew?" was removed
from the French iTunes
store, CNN reported. The app
allows users to look up celeb-
rities and determine whether
or not they are Jewish.

SENIOR oNEWS DIORS: Bethay io, Dn Cinti, Caitlin Huso,Jsephitran,
ASSITATEWSoDITOS: aley latto, Caire Aoscicki,Sunoe Jacobs, Sabira
Kan, Michel e r Pigeeary, Adam RubenouoKitin iimios
Michelle Dewitt and opinoneditorsgmichigandailycom
Enily Orley EditorialPeoEnditos
00EN O EDIOIALPAE EDTOnS:AiaAi, Ashyriessame, nsvdrew Winer
ASSSTANT EDITORIAL PAE EDTvOS Harshaht,,ioty Rbb
Stephen INesbitt and aportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tin Rohan ManagingSposEditors
S0NIOR SPvOT Ts ORS:oBen Este,,Micha,1el orek, Zc lan mnd,, Luk e PschZak
eyzik, OKevinftery
ASITsAT SeOTSEDTnOS:EverettCook,sNsealRohschildMatt Ruaitsky, ats
Slvin, Liz Vukelich,DanielWaserman
SharonlJacobs Managing ArtstEditor jocobs@mitigaedolycom
SENIOoARnSDTvORS:LahBurgi, KaviPaodey,oenifer Xu
ASAT AR DT ORS: aob n,5Axelrad, Cas sBlo, Joe cadagin, Emnmannas,
Proa osl,,DavidTao
Marissa McClain and photo~mihigandaily.com
Jed Moch ManagingohtoEditoss
ASSITNT PeHvvOTO IOS:nsiklnd, ChisRyas,AnnSch,amavntha o mbnoo
Zach Bergson and deign@michigasdaily.com
Helen Lieblich ManagingoDesignEditoss
ASSSTANT DESIGsNoDTnoORS: i st eonj,CooinnLewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@mihigandaily.com
DEPTYr AAIEv DTR:itpe Otfvi DvnTorbEyaaTig
Josh Healy Copy Chief copydek@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPY EDTnOS:ChisineChu,Hnnh oindexter
Sarah Squire Web DevetopmesntManager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
lulianna CrinAsociateoBusinessnManager
Rachel Greinetz Soles Manaer
Alexis NewtonroductionoManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
ConnorlByrd Finanoe Manager
Qay VOCcultin Manager
The Mihign DailyltSSNt0745-967)is pubished Mosnythrsogh ridnyvduringothefallaned
winter temsibystuients at the UnivesitysofhMichignn, Onnscopy isnavailb fflefr o re
to all radersAditionlcopiesemaybe picked up t theDily's offie or .Stubsriptisnfor
flnlte tartig inSeptemers, viaU.S.mailare $11. Wisnte em(Jnuary thrugh Apil)is
f115, yenrlong (September through Apil ist9. University affiliates are subect to anreduced
suscrsiptionrat.tn-campus suscriptins fofllteae$5,Suiscitinsustbe prepid.
Tie Micigantoils is anmemere:oThieAssociiadPres ned TheAsociated Collegiate Press.

0

Back and bash Techno Tiesto

WHERE: 328 Hoover Rd.
WHEN: Wednesdy*t
about 1:30 p.m.
WHAT: A car backectinto a
passing vehicle, University
Police reported. There were

WHAT: Dutch musician
Tiesto will bring his unique
brand of electronic dance
music to Ypsilanti. Tickets
start at $39.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Eastern Michigan
University Convocation
Center

F *1

Rethink Possible

# Click and share. The first U.S, phone
with a dedicated Facebook share button.
" App packed. The HTC Status comes
preloaded with all the applications
you need to stay connected.
M ork and play. Manage multiple email
accounts and calendars. Browse the Web
and stay up to date on all the news that
matters to you.
Visit your local AT&T store at
att.com/storelocator/
Or go to: att.com/wireless/univofmich
Mention FAN: 2899228

YoV las no thesebefis
" All the latest social networking apps.
*Unlimited usage on the nation's
largest Wi-Fi network.'
* Simultaneous use of voice and
data on the nation's fastest mobile
broadband network.2
* The power of the Internet in the palm
of your hand.

hmrc Status TM

0

'II-IP0F? I lb..i 7


g

,.


The Michigan Daily - michigandail
NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Ford pays off $1.8
billion in debt
Ford Motor Co. paid off $1.8
billion in debt yesterday, part of a
plan to lower its total debt to $10
billion by mid-decade.
Chief Financial Officer Lewia
Booth announced the action ear-
lier this week at an investor pre-
sentation in Frankfurt, Germany.
Ford spokesman Todd Nissen
confirmed that the payment was
made yesterday. Ford's total debt
now stands at $12.2 billion, down
from $33.6 billion at the end of
* 2009.
The payment is the latest in a
string of debt reduction actions
at Ford. The company paid down
$2.6 billion in debt in the second
quarter and $2.5 billion in the
first quarter.
CLEVELAND
Ohio man defrauds
$16.8 million from
Amish community
An Ohio man has been charged
with defrauding fellow Amish in
29 states out of nearly $17 million
. by movingtheir money from safer
securities to riskier investments
subject to market fluctuations,
federal prosecutors said yester-
day.
Monroe Beachy, owner of
A&M Investments in Sugarcreek
in northeast Ohio, was charged
in a one-count mail fraud indict-
ment filed late Wednesday in U.S.
District Court.
The 77-year-old Beachy said
by phone yesterday that he was
unaware of the indictment and
had no comment.
Nearly 2,700 people and enti-
ties, including an Amish commu-
nity loan fund, lost about $16.8
million since 2006, the indict-
ment said. Beachy routinely
mailed false investor statements,
it said.
SAN JUAN
Girl-stabs 37 peers
* with needle
A 14-year-old girl went on
a playground rampage with a
hypodermic needle, stabbing 37
classmates, Puerto Rican officials
said yesterday.
"She would stab one, run,
stab another, run, like it was
some sort of joke," Education
Secretary Jesus Rivera Sanchez
said about Tuesday's lunchtime
attack on 12- to 14-year-olds at
the Jose de Choudens middle
school in the southern coastal
town of Arroyo.
Health Department spokes-
woman Margarita Casalduc
said it was unclear if the syringe
contained anything and further
tests were needed to determine
if it was contaminated. But the

victims, accompanied by their
shaken parents, gathered at a
convention center to be tested
for HIV and hepatitis C and to be
given preventive medications.
ROME
Italian mobster
escapes from
0 police custody
Italian news reports say a top
mobster believed to be the head of
an organized crime clan involved
in the slaying of six people in Ger-
many in 2007 has escaped from
custody.
News reports said yesterday
that Antonio Pelle escaped from a
hospital in Locri, in the southern
Italian region of Calabria, where
the 'ndrangheta crime syndicate
is based.
Pelle had been given house
arrest because he is anorexic,
and was taken to hospital a few
days ago, according to the ANSA
news agency. He escaped custody
_Wednesday.
Pelle was hiding in a bunker in
Calabria when he was arrested in
2008. He has been convicted of
Mafia association. His family was
involved in a feud that led to the
Aug. 15, 2007 killing of six Ital-
ians outside a restaurant in Duis-
burg, Germany.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

y.com

Friday, September 16, 2011 - 3A

Potential cuts
to Pentagon
budget may add
to'jobless rate

John M arkon/AP
Security officers outside the terminal gates at the Port of Longview in Washington following a raid by union workers.
nion workers arrested
for raiding rain terminal

Judge rules union
members in
contempt of court
TACOMA, Wash. (AP) - A
federal judge found a union in
contempt of court yesterday, a
week after police said hundreds
of its members raided a grain
terminal in southwestern Wash-
ington, smashed windows and
menaced security guards.
U.S. District Judge Ronald
Leighton said he wants the
operator of the Longview grain
terminal, EGT, to provide him
an accounting of the damage for
purposes of gauging how much
he should fine the Internation-
al Longshore and Warehouse
Union Locals 4 and 21.
Leighton had issued a tem-
porary restraining order before
last week's actions, demand-
ing that the union not block
entrances to the grain terminal.
But the union's members, upset
JOURNALISTS
WORK HERE:
THE NEW
YORK TIMES
WALL STREET
JOURNAL
THE WASHINGTON
POST
USA TODAY
THE DETROIT
FREE PRESS
DETROIT NEWS
ESPN
SPORTS
ILLUSTRATED
BECAUSE THEY
WORKED HERE:
L71
0ailj
COME JOIN US
MASS MEETINGS
AT 7:30 P.M.
SEPTEMBER 18
SEPTEMBER 20

420 MAYNARD

that EGT has hired a contractor Leal Sundet, of the union's
staffed with workers from a dif- coast Longshore division, said
ferent union, repeatedly blocked the company hasn't been held to
a train carrying a grain ship- account for hurting the commu-
ment there, then stormed the nity with its employment deci-
terminal and dumped some of sions.
the grain. "If union members stand on a
Eight people had been arrest- train track exercising their First
ed by yesterday evening - seven Amendment rights, it is a crime,"
for investigation of criminal Sundet said. "But, if a major
trespassing, and one for inves- corporation plunders an entire
tigation of assault and other community, it matters not."
charges. Leighton's decision to hold
The judge mused yesterday the union in contempt followed
about whether it would help- lengthy testimony about what
ful to set out a schedule of happened during the protests
fines should the union violate and the raid. Security guard
his orders again, but decided Charlie Cadwell, employed by
against it. Columbia Security for patrols
"It's like asking the parent of at the Longview grain terminal
a juvenile delinquent to predict for the past two months, told the
your client's behavior," he told judge of the harrowing experi-
attorneys. ence: Every protester he saw
The Longshore union has that night was carrying a weap-
an agreement with the Port of on - baseball bats, lead pipes,
Longview entitling it to work at garden tools.,
the port, but EGT claims it is not "I didn't see a longshoreman
a party to that agreement and who didn't have something in
need not follow it. his hands," he said.

National plan calls
for Pentagon to cut
defense funding
ABOARD A U.S. MILITARY
AIRCRAFT (AP) - Defense Sec-
retary Leon Panetta warned Con-
gress yesterday that if lawmakers
fail to agree on debt-ceiling talks
and trigger $1 trillion in Pentagon
budget cuts, they could add 1 per-
centage point to the nation's job-
less rate.
Pentagon press secretary
George Little said yesterday that
Panetta has relayed those num-
bers to lawmakers in person and
in calls this week, urging Con-
gress to avoid the deadlock that
would require the sweeping cuts.
Under the current deficit-
reduction plan, the Pentagon
must slash more than $400 bil-
lion in defense spending over the
next decade. In addition, a newly
created deficit-cutting supercom-
mittee has until Nov. 23 to reach
a consensus on budget cuts. If
the committee members can't
agree, or if Congress rejects its
plan, automatic cuts of $1.2 tril-
lion would hit the government
accounts, with half coming from
defense spending.
The trillion dollar total, Little
said, would be devastating for the
military, forcing spending reduc-
tions thatlikely would necessitate
shrinking the size of the Army,
Air Force and Marine Corps to
the smallest numbers in decades
and also lead to the smallest Navy
in nearly 100 years.
"We would break faith with
those in uniform who are serv-

ing. At a time of war, that's unac-
ceptable," Little told reporters
traveling with Panetta back to
Washington after security meet-
ings with Australian leaders in
San Francisco.
Citing a new Pentagon analy-
sis, Little said the defense indus-
trial base provides 3.8 million
private sector jobs. He said the 1
percentage point increase in the
unemployment rate would include
government, military and private
sector jobs. He did not know how
many jobs that entails or how
many could be lost inthe individu-
algovernment and privatesectors.
The current national unem-
ployment rate is 9.1 percent.
The new comments reflect the
Pentagon's growing worries that
partisan divisions on Capitol Hill
could foil any attempt to reach
an accord on spending cuts and
revenue changes to meet the debt
reduction plan. Defense officials
have argued repeatedly that trig-
gering the automatic spending
reductions would mean slash-
ing military programs based on
arithmetic rather than on sound
national security strategy.
Panetta and his predecessor,
Robert Gates, have insisted that
government leaders and lawmak-
ers must decide what they want
their military to be able to do, and
then cut the budget accordingly,
rather than take a percentage off
all the accounts.
Defense spending has nearly
doubled since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terror attacks to more than $500
billion. That spending is separate
from the $1 trillion-plus for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in
the past decade.


Ir

:r .
. . . c '}
h r -;

mras puto unties tPGE to1 30 p.m in
y: y . 3 r:3 p . I vw (13, 1014sand 1017
_ I t'cue fo Session:r udy. t00 0 0pin o6: p.m. in

_:t.dt I
' s

ncer Atrium

S imagintion at work

Tor rrow's Caling You.
ge.com/careers


A i

A


4 - Friday, September 16, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Friday, September16, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

C WmIC t'gan 4:atly
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

NICK SPAR
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Re-affirm(ative action)
Circuit court shouldn't rehear appeal
Affirmative action is once again a topic of discussion within the
Michigan appellate court system. On July 1, a three-member
panel from the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals voted 2 to
1 to remove the ban on consideration of race in college admissions
that Michigan voters approved in 2006. The decision, made in July, is
being reviewed again in 2012, but affirmative action should be used
by the University in its admissions process, and the courts should
reject this appeal.

In November 2006, Michigan voters passed
Proposition 2 - also known as the Michigan
Civil Rights Initiative - which was a proposed
amendment to the Michigan Constitution. The
proposal intended to bar public universities
from considering race in admissions decisions
as well as barring the consideration of race in
government hiring. Voters passed the amend-
ment by a vote of 58 to 42 percent. However, the
ban mustcultimately be overturned.
In a rare occurrence, the appeals court has
agreed to hear the case presented again in its
entirety. This time, the case will be heard by
the entire court rather than another three-
member panel. Oral arguments are set to
take place next year.
Prop 2, as it is currently written and
enforced by law, is unconstitutional. The
main purpose of the amendment violates the
14th amendment of the U.S. Constitution,
which grants all individuals equal protection
under the law. The proposition violates this
amendment because it fails to allow admis-
sions counselors to consider one's race as cri-
teria for admission. Admissions counselors
shouldn't be denied the option to consider
this component, which certainly plays a role
in an applicant's life.
As of now, Prop 2 remains in effect, mean-

ing the University is unable to consider race
for its current undergraduate application
cycle. The University needs tobe able to con-
sider this and give these students a chance
to attend an established college in order to
reach their full potential.
The consideration of race in college admis-
sions not only promotes a sense of cultural
understanding throughout the University,
but it also promotes diversity. In order for the
University to be a truly diverse community,
it must factor in components like race and
socioeconomic status when making admis-
sions decisions. Not allowing the University
to consider race is unacceptable.
Opponents of affirmative action often
claim the policy is reverse discrimination.
However, affirmative action simply seeks to
give universities the opportunity to evaluate
applicants holistically by considering their
entire background in its entirety.
Right now, admissions counselors here at
the University are beginning to sift through
piles of applications. The University prides
itself on the promotion of tolerance and
acceptance of all people. Failing to consider
race in the admissions process prohibits the
University from upholding its commitment
to diversity.

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
You could tell he's kind of rusty, but
I think he'll come around'
- Fifth-year senior defensive tackle Ryan Van Bergen said about chest-bumping
Athletic Director Dave Brandon, as reported by The Michigan Daily today.
One day, two meanings
M"illions of Americans ignorance in Afghanistan is, it has stan seem like the victim of an
gathered to remem- dire consequences for United States aggressive U.S. looking to colonize.
ber what many recount strategy and the outcome of the war. The purpose of this article isn't
as perhaps the It is easy to argue that since to debate the legitimacy of the war,
most tragic day educated Afghans and those who and it isn't to draw lofty conclu-
of the 21st cen- live in cities know what happened sions about whether Americans
tury this past on Sept. 11, what does it matter if should be in- Afghanistan or not.
Sunday - a day the farmers and villagers know or The point is to reiterate the need to
that changed not? The problem is that the war re-evaluate our PR strategy for this
America drasti- we are fighting isn't being fought war. If you are fighting in a place
cally and per- in the cities; it is being fought in where the people already see you as
manently, a day rural Afghanistan. The people who an outsider, where they don't know
that made inno- HARSHA are bearing the brunt of our fight- or understand why you are there,
cent words such NAHATA ing are rural Afghans. The people where they see you disrupting
as "9/11" and the Taliban are recruiting and per- their daily lives and can't seem to
"Twin Towers" suading are rural Afghans - not the decipher your motive for doing so,
reminders of utmost pain and suf- educated elite. then that is a PR disaster. And when
fering. The image of two towers The bulk of American troops are these people are then being brain-
burning is forever etched in the in the southern Kandahar and Hel- washed and trained to fight against
memories of all who witnessed it. mand provinces. When President youby your enemies, thisbecomes a
Sept. ils not just a day. It is the day Barack Obama announced a surge PR disaster turned deadly.
that changed everything - the day of 30,000 troops to Afghanistan in
no one will ever forget. December 2009, he sent them to
Or so you would think. those very areas. And yet, in those
In some parts of the world, Sept. provinces, 92 percent of people don't A 'majority o
11 brings back no memories, no pain even recognize what 9/11, is accord- Afghans don't
and no images of burning buildings ing to a survey by the International
and dying people. In other parts of Council on Security and Develop- recognize 9/11.
the world, it truly is nothing more ment. According to a CNN article,
than another day. when one villager was shown a pic-
The part of the world I speak of ture of the burning Twin Towers
is rural Afghanistan. In interviews and asked what he recollected from We are in thiswar to win, but it is
done by journalists in the rural vil- the image, he claimedthey were pic- a warthat many have acknowledged
lages of Afghanistan, there was an tures of buildings in Kabul. Other can't be won without winning the
overwhelming majority of Afghans Afghans reiterated the belief that trust and support of the Afghan
who didn't know what 9/11 was. In 9/11 was a story concocted by the people. And how can we win their
a country where 42 percent of the U.S. for an excuse to come in and support if they don't understand
population is under the age of 14, take over their country. why we are in their country? How
and 72 percent of the population is Beliefs like thisare ripe fruits can wwin a war if the people.we
illiterate, this may not be surprising. for the Taliban, ready for picking. are fighting don't even know what
Of course, in villages where running According to a Sept. 8 Wall Street we are fighting for?
water and electricity are sometimes Journal article, terrorist groups
scarce, expecting international have successfully woven anarrative -Harsha Nahata is an assistant
news coverage is wishful thinking. of imperial conquest by drawing on editorial page editor. She can be
But as inevitable as this endemic of this sentiment, making Afghani- reached at hnahaa@umich.edu.
Beyond campus confines
E very fall for the past three people and places and immersing Recently, I walked past Main Street
years I have made the nine- myself (the best my Spanish would and discovered a plethora of new
hour trek from my home in allow) in the culture. This made me restaurants, coffee shops and bou-
Maryland to Ann realize that just because Ann Arbor tique stores which are seemingly
Arbor, spending isn't an ocean away doesn't mean ignored by the student population
the majority of it lacks its own culture and quirks, and appear to e more frequented
the drive day- and I for one am guilty of getting by Ann Arbor locals. While a simple
dreaming about caught up in University life and fail- visit to a store isn't a profound explo-
the Big House, ing to seek out the quirks and dis- ration, it does allow for some quality
reunions with cover its good ol' charm. That being people watching, which I find one of
friends and col- said, my goal this year is to remove thebest ways to learn about a town.
liders from Rod's myself from the hustle and bustle

Diner. However, LEAH of student life in hopes of becoming
as I recently POTKIN more familiar with what lies beyond
made the jour- the Modern LanguagesBuilding and Students should
ney for the fourth North Quad.
and maybe final time, my daydreams My first destination on my quest visit all parts of
were interrupted by the realization to tour Ann Arbor is the Ann Arbora
that, while I obviously have my favor- Farmers' Market. I've heard about Ann Arbor.
ite spots in Ann Arbor, I have yet to it time and time again from local
make Ann Arbor feel like my own students and professors, but I have
home. It's not that I have a desire to never made the effort to actually
graffitimyname acrossbuildings,but visit it. Other places I plan on visit- Now that I've been babbling for
I do sense a need to explore beyond ing in the near future include the a couple hundred words and have
the confines of the campus proper in Ann Arbor Hands-On Museum hopefully convinced a few of you to
order to feel I haveboth paid my dues (which I hear is good for all ages) grabyour map and camera, I'd like to
as a student here and have made pay- and the Matthaei Botanical Gardens leave students with this thought: In
ing my dues worth my while. & Nichols Arboretum (which I've a city as diverse and eclectic as Ann
I don't blame myself for not real- passed before but have never taken Arbor, there are endless opportuni-
izing my lackluster exploration until the time to explore). And since I ties for exploration and discovery.
now, as it's all too easy to get into a know many of you are either locals And though it's easy to forget this as
routine of class, work and extracur- or have actually ventured off cam- paper due dates approach and mid-
ricular activities and stay on that pus and explored Ann Arbor already, terms loom overhead, there's a lot to
path throughout. In fact, I only please, send suggestions my way! be said for a little venture off-cam-
came to this realization after study- Now, I understand that some pus. We might not be here for the
ing abroad in Argentina, where students are really set in their rou- long haul, but we're here for now so
weekend excursions and local com- tines on campus and are disinclined we might as well get a bang for our
munity fair visits were favored over to venture out, but I challenge any buck. So, Farmer's Market next Sat-
school work and class time. Much of homebody to take baby steps - liter- urday anyone?
what I learned from my time abroad ally - and see what new and excit-
came from wandering the streets ing places and people there are right Leah Potkin can be reached
of new cities, stumbling upon new on the outskirts of the University. at lpotkin@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300 words and
must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print anonymous letters. Send
letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner

AIDA ALI 1'.
Honor all lives lost on 9 11

On Sept. 11 2001, I was at home about
6,000 miles away from New York City, fin-
ishing up my fifth-grade homework when
my mom received a phone call, screamed and
ran to the television to watch the news. As I
joined her in watching the iconic towers of
New York City crumble to the ground, I was
horrified, but not horrified enough. For what
I presumed to be just another disturbing
piece of news of the world outside my own
was really an event that was going to send
waves of destruction, misunderstanding and
fear all over the world. It was goingto change
the lives of billions of people forever, includ-
ing me.
I have lived all my life in Kuwait, and the
geographic location of the country - bor-
dered by Saudi Arabia and Iraq - was never
as significant as it became after Sept. 11.
There have been several times over the past
years when it's been interesting to watch the
play of emotions on people's faces when I tell
them where I'm from and the religion I was
born into. Some people are fascinated while
others are judgmental - the former being a
little naive and the latter being completely
shallow and annoying.
A couple years ago, I flew to John F. Ken-
nedy International Airport in New York from
Kuwait and was detained by security for an
hour. The officer told me security officials
were looking for "someone with my name"
and escorted me to a small, scary room where
I sat terrified for 60 minutes before they
handed back my passport and told me I was
free to go. Yes, I have noticed an obvious bias
in the Western world against me, and I don't
know who to blame.
But the things I have had to deal with are
petty and negligible compared to what mil-
lions of others have had to go through. These
#4

are the people who have lived in the middle
of war for the past 10 years. They have lost
their homes, their families, their nation and
even their lives for something many of them
don't even fully understand. The tragedy
of Sept. 11 resulted in a death toll of almost
3,000 Americans, and the wars that have fol-
lowed 9/11 in the last 10 years have taken the
lives of more than a million people.
This Sept. 11, the media flooded the world
with memories of 9/11 and made many relive
the experience. As Americans' grief resur-
faced, it brought with it once again the feel-
ings of anger and revenge. But this time a
new and strong voice of regret and doubt
emerged as well - were we right to wage war
as we did? Is all we have done in the past 10
years completely justified?
I'm afraid these questions do not have one
clear answer. Trying to imagine the current
situation any other way is impossible now.
We cannot undo what has happened, nor
can we make everything OK just like that.
But perhaps we could acknowledge 9/11 as a
tragedy involving the death of almost 3,000
American victims and millions who died in
the events that followed, including soldiers
from more than 20 other countries.
News this past week has focused on little
other than the thousands who died in the
United States. We should widen the focus and
make 9/11 a day when the world mourns the
consequences of human action and holds acan-
dlelight vigil for the loss of millions of human
lives. It shouldbe a day when not only America,
but the entire world unites to fight insecurities
and misunderstandings, so in another 10 years
this will be history that has altered our lives
but doesn't punish us anymore.
Aida Ali is a senior editorial page editor.
a

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 16, 2011 - 5

The Michigan Daily - micbigandaily.com Friday, September16, 2011 - 5

BORDERS
From Page 1
anticipating an uptick in busi-
ness, others said they're unsure
what kind of impact the closure
will have on their stores.
Nicola Rooney, owner of Nico-
la's Books on Jackson Avenue in
Ann Arbor, said she anticipates a
definite change in the customer
traffic of local bookstores due
to Borders's closing. She added
that she has noticed an upswing
in patronage at her store since
August.
"People who used to buy
books in Borders are looking to
us to carry what they are looking
for," Rooney said. "Groups who
used to meet in Borders now
" meet here. We are adjusting our
inventory to cater to the people."
Rooney said she antici-
pates that the dynamics of Ann
Arbor's downtown businesses
will continue to adapt despite
MARKET
From Page 1
Sangal teamed up with Keith
Soster, the food service direc-
tor at the Michigan Union, to
brainstorm the idea for the mar-
ket. A variety of campus divi-
sions collaborated on the project,
including representatives from
MHealthy, University Housing,
the Student Sustainability Ini-
tiative, Planet Blue, University
Catering, University Arts and
Programs, University Health
Services and the Graham Envi-
ronmental Sustainability Insti-
tute.
Soster said he hopes the farm-
ers market will educate the Uni-
versity community about what
the broader Ann Arbor commu-
nity has to offer.
"That is ultimately our goal -
to educate the community as to
what is available out there," Sos-
ter said. "This is a great time of
the year because harvest time is
approaching, so we'll have lots of
great varieties."
MSA also approached the Uni-
versity Unions with the project
because the assembly had heard
from students who were inter-
!MOTT
From Page 1
monitors and respond accord-
ingly if they are in the same room
treating another patient. How-
ever, since patients will be in
separate rooms in the new facil-
ity, nurses and doctors will now
receive alerts in the form of cell
phone messages.
To ensure a smooth transition
to the new system, several units
of the hospital staff have already
been practicing with the phones,
Szumko said.
"The nurses will have a phone
on their hip, and they're going to
be able to call each other," she

the loss of Borders.
"Now people have to make
the decision to come out to other
bookstores that are now in the
downtown area," Rooney said.
"We will be watching to see what
people are looking for and make
sure to keep the right options in
stock. I don't assume any spe-
cific change, but I am watching
and will respond quickly. There
definitely will be a change."
Corby Gillmore, manager of
the Dawn Treader Book Shop
on East Liberty Street, said
he isn't sure what will replace
the void Borders left in town
but expressed regret about the
store's closing.
"In a couple of months from
now we will have a better idea
of what is going on with the
replacement, but (what) I do
know is that more people are not
coming downtown to pass the
time at Borders anymore, and
that is bad for all of us," Gillmore
said.

While Borders was competi-
tion for local bookstores, the
attention and number of stu-
dents it brought to the State
Street area made it a beneficial
asset, Gillmore said.
"Hopefully a couple of retail
stores will replace the book-
store, but it has been there for
so long, it's hard to know what's
coming next," he said. "All we
can do is adapt to the change."
Rachel Pastiva, owner of
Crazy Wisdom Bookstore & Tea
Room on Main Street, said she
is also unsure about what will
fill the space but added that she
hopes to increase her success as
a bookstore due to the closing.
"I don't think we've been
planning any specific way of
changing our store, but we hope
to have a more mainstream title
as a specialty bookstore," Pasti-
va said. "It's a question we are all
asking ourselves of how this will
affect bookstores and what peo-
ple are looking for in general."

COLEMAN
From Page 1
Coleman, who has been at
the University since 2002, has
been in line for a merit-based pay
raise every year. But in 2009, she
requested that the regents not
give her a raise. In 2007, she also
donated her 3 percent pay raise
back to the University.
CRISLER ARENA CLEARED
FOR NEXT STAGE OF
RENOVATION PROCESS
The ongoing renovations to
Crisler Arena received another
thumbs-up from the regents yes-
terday when they approved the
project to continue by accepting
outside bids and offering con-
struction contracts.
Timothy Slottow, the Univer-
sity's executive vice president
and chief financial officer, said
the renovations aren't sched-
uled to finish until winter 2014
because the arena will still be
used during the basketball sea-
sons, he said.
"It's tricky in and out of sea-
sons," Slottow said.
The regents' approval stipu-
lates that the submission of bids
are within the proposed $52 mil-
lion budget for the project. In
May, the regents approved the
schematic design for the renova-
tions.
At yesterday's meeting, Slot-
tow reported that the next phase
of the construction will involve
the addition of new fan entranc-
es and amenities. He added that
renovating is more cost-efficient

for the University than buildinga
new arena.
G.G. BROWN TO RECEIVE
FUNDING FOR UPDATE
The regents voted during
their meeting yesterday to reno-
vate the George Granger Brown
Memorial Laboratories on North
Campus.
The state will fund approxi-
mately $30 million of the project,
while the University will cover
the approximately $17 million
in remaining expenses. Slottow
said in an interview after the
meeting that he is grateful to the
state of Michigan for contrib-
uting so generously to the G.G.
Brown project.
"It's the first time the state
has come through ina number of
years," said Slottow, adding that
the contribution is a change from
the steady decline that has char-
acterized state funding in recent
years.
Science buildings are espe-
cially important to maintain, and
G.G. Brown has been in need of
a renovation for about a decade,
Slottow said.
"It'sjust crucially important to
keep taking care of the really old
buildings that provide so much
support for University research,"
he said.
REGENTS APPROVE
716 OAKLAND PURCHASE
The regents also approved
the purchase of property locat-
ed between the University Law
School's Weill Hall and South
Hall.

The purchase was made amid
widespread construction cur-
rently taking place at the Law
School. The school's upcoming
building, South Hall, is still being
built and is scheduled to be com-
pleted in January 2012. The Uni-
versity is also negotiating with
the city to constructa pedestrian
mall on the 700 block of Monroe
Street to connect South Hall with
the rest of the Law Quadrangle.
Regent Andrew Richner (R-
Grosse Pointe Park) approved the
purchase and said he could speak
to the qualityofthe Oakland Ave-
nue lot since he lived in a house
there during his time as a Law
School student.
"It's great the University is
acquiring the property and it's a
betteruse as well."
FINANCIAL AID AWARDS
AT ALL-TIME HIGH
Donations to the University
increased in almost every donor
categorythis year.
Jerry May, the University's
vice president for development,
delivered an annual development
report to the regents yesterday.
Contributions to the University
by foundations increased by 26
percent, and corporations donat-
ed 10 percent more than they did
last year. May said there has also
been a 7-percent increase in gifts
and pledge payments.
Still, May said the figure he is
most proud of is that 11,200 stu-
dents received financial aid this
year - the most students to have
ever received financial support.
"It's an all-time record and it's
really-exciting," May said.


ested in having more local and
fresh items available on campus,
said Laura Seagram, marketing
communications specialist for
the University Unions.
The University already stocks
locally grown products in Uni-
versity dining halls and retail
locations such as Beanster's Cafe,
University Club Cafe and U-go's.
However, Seagram said she
believes the farmers market will
be an opportunity for students
to get to know more about local
produce.
"This is a handy way to have
the farmers get a little bit more
exposure and have direct contact
withthe students," Seagramsaid.
At yesterday's market, two
chefs from Residential Dining
Services and the Michigan Union
led a cooking demonstration
focused on healthy eating and
preparing easy, affordable meals
that students can make at home.
Tina Todosciuk - a firmer
from Howell, Mich. had a table
at the market and sold sweet
corn, melon, eggplant, tomatoes
and peppers. Todosciuk said she
hopes the market encourages
students to get more interested in
locally grown food.
"The great thing about local

food is that you know where it's
coming from, you know how
it's raised," she said. "You know
what chemicals are in it, or not in
it, and it's more nutritional."
Sangal wrote in an e-mail
interview that the MFarmers
Market - scheduled next for Oct.
6 - offered a variety of produce
including apples, squash, plums,
tomatoes, sweet corn, eggplant,
peppers, melons and watermel-
on.
Law School student Mary Fee
said she appreciated the markets
selection, especially considering
it was the first run.
"It's great," she said. "It's
small, but it seems to have as
much variety as a farmer's mar-
ket usually does."
LSA junior Stacy Kim said she
decided to check out the market
after receiving an"invite to its
debut on Facebook. Kim praised
the market, calling it "cute" and
"adorable."
But the market could benefit
from a change of location, Kim
said.
"It was kind of hard to under-
stand where (the Union patio)
was," she said. "Maybe if they
could have it in a more recogniz-
able location, it would be nice."



NURSES
From Page 1
in support of MNA - including
about 20 undergraduate stu-
dents - were among the crowd.
For the duration of the two-hour
meeting that was standing-room
only, supporters also held up sev-
eral large banners that displayed
thousands of signatures from
University nurses.
Public Policy junior Kevin
Mersol-Barg, co-chair of the
Social Justice Committee of the
University's chapter of College
Democrats, said he attended the
meeting because he is worried
about the future ofcollective bar-
gaining rights.
"If we support (the nurses)
now, then going into the work-
place when we graduate, it'll be
more accommodating to what
we want tosee in the workplace,"
Mersol-Barg said. "We might
have more of a say when we go
out then, instead of leaving it on
the trajectory it's going on cur-
rently, where we might not have
any negotiating rights when we
graduate."
Other students behind MNA

are members of the Michigan
Student Assembly, which passed
a resolution at its meeting on
Tuesday to support the nurses in
the negotiations. For about the
last two weeks, representatives
of the union have provided infor-
mation to MSA about the nego-
tiations.
In his regular monthly address
before the board, MSA Presi-
dent DeAndree Watson said the
assembly was wary of potential
impacts the negotiations could
have on the campus community.
"After considering the
information provided and the,
concerns of some of the rep-
resentatives around the table,
including the Nursing student
representative, the assembly
decided to express its support of
the Nurses Council in an effort
to protect students from any
potential negative effects of the
contract negotiations," Watson
said.
Representatives from local
unions such as the Lecturers'
Employee Organization and the
Graduate Employees' Organiza-
tion also attended the meeting.
Britt Satchwell, president of the
Ann Arbor Education Associa-

tion, spoke before the regents on
behalf of the nurses. Despite the
tough economic times, Satch-
well said the University should
be understanding of the nurses'
predicament.
"Just as we try to keep the cuts
as far away from the classroom in
education, so should you keep the
cuts as far away from the hospital
corridors and bedsides," Satch-
well said in aprepared statement.
When asked about the nego-
tiations, several regents declined
to comment, but Regent Andrea
Fischer Newman (R-Ann Arbor)
said she appreciated that the
union came to speak to the board.
"I think this is appropriate,
but I think it's only one part of
the discussion," Newman said,
acknowledging that talks are
ongoing behind closed doors.
Regent Denise Ilitch (D-Bing-
ham Farms) said she was "very
interested" in continuing to dis-
cuss the situation amongst the
regents.
"(They) showed a lot of com-
mitment and care, which is
always what you want to see from
our nurses, and I only have come
to expect their professionalism,"
Ilitch said.

said. "So today, they're just using
the features of the phone - how
to call each other, having to get
used to wearing it, how to under-
stand who has what phone."
The most significant part of
the new system, Szumko added,
is the technology involved in
transmitting the alerts from the
monitors to the phones, since the
messages must cross a variety of
electronic barriers. The system
was created by Connexall USA
- a company that creates orga-
nizational methods for medical
information and communication.
"What we're really excited
about is that we have middle-
ware, this software that sits in
the middle of everything and

is able to take various different
inputs - whether it's from the
nurse call system or the patient
monitors system - and send it to
various different outputs, like the
wireless phones or the pagers,"
she said.
Ultimately, improving the
quality of care for patients also
improves the quality of care
provided by doctors and nurses,
Szumko said.
"The environment itself pro-
vides a better care environment
for the patients, and this is what
we're going to give to our care-
givers," she said. "To sort of
extend their eyes and ears into
the patient rooms when they're
not physically present."

WANT TO WRITE FOR THE
DAILY?
Come to our mass meetings to get started.
SUNDAY, SEPT.18
TUESDAY, SEPT. 20
7:30 P.M. @ 420 MAYNARD ST.

[1 Up to $7,500 award
[Z Pre-candidate doctoral
students
7 International component
required
71 Proposals must integrate Marshall
all three areas

'LIKE' THE
DAILY ON
FACEBOOK

Upcoming Campus Events
-info Session: Monday, Sept. 19th
6:30 pm, International Center, Rm 9
-Application Workshop: Tuesday, Sept. 20th
6:30 pm, International Center, Rm 9
Apply online byOct. 1 foropen
programs departing in2012!
facebook.com/UMPeaceCorps - peacecorps.gov



6 - Friday, September 16, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Chrysler, GM and UAW
carry on negotiations

TARA TODRAS-WHITEHILL/AP
Palestinians hold candles during a demonstration in support oftheir bid for statehood, outside the Church ofnthe Nativity, in
the West Bank town of Bethlehem, yesterday.
Palestinians continue to
pursue United Nations bid

Against wishes
of United States,
Palestinians seek
U.N. recognition
RAMALLAH, West Bank (AP)
- In a direct challenge to the
United States, the Palestinians
said yesterday they will ask the
Security Council next week to
accept them as a full member of
the United Nations, even though
Washington has promised to
veto the measure.
The Palestinian assertion
came as a senior U.S. diplomatic
team was in the region trying
to avert an embarrassing show-
down and relaunch peace talks.
By pushing forward, the Pales-
tinians risk putting President
Barack Obama in the uneasy
position of having to veto a
measure supported by the vast
majority of the international
community.
Foreign Minister Riad Malki
told foreign journalists the Pal-
estinians were not looking for a
fight. But he said the American
stance puts the U.S. ina "confron-
tational position" with the rest of
the world, and suggested Ameri-
can credibility could be at stake.
"I don't know what it means
to the standing of the U.S. in the
United Nations and among the
countries of the world," he said.
Even so, the Palestinians left

the door open for compromise.
Malki said the Palestinians
were still ready to listen to sug-
gestions from American envoys.
And in New York, his U.N.
ambassador, Riyad Mansour,
said a final decision on whether
to pursue recognition in the
Security Council, or seek a less-
er, symbolic status in the General
Assembly had not yet been made.
"The final decision will be
taken in the next few days as to
which path we will follow," Man-
sour said.
Asked about his boss's com-
ments in Ramallah, he replied:
"There are many words from
many places, but what I'm telling
you is that we are deliberating
all these details and it is not yet
finalized." Palestinian President
Mahmoud Abbas was to give a
speech Friday in Ramallah and
there was speculation he might
address the issue then.
In Washington, White House
spokesman Jay Carney empha-
sized that negotiation with Israel
was the only viable path to Pales-
tinian statehood.
"The Palestinians will not
and cannot achieve statehood
through a declaration at the
United Nations. It is a distrac-
tion, and in fact, it's counter-
productive," he said, adding
that "the only way to resolve the
issues between the Palestinians
and the Israelis, and to ultimate-
ly create a Palestinian state, is
through direct negotiations."

The Palestinians seek an inde-
pendent state in the West Bank
and Gaza Strip, with east Jeru-
salem as their capital. Israel cap-
tured the territories in the 1967
Mideast war.
Israeli Prime Minister Ben-
jamin Netanyahu rejects a com-
plete pullout from the West Bank
and says Israel must retain east
Jerusalem, which it considers
an inseparable part of its capi-
tal. Israel withdrew from Gaza
in 2005.
The Palestinians say they are
turning to the U.N. in frustra-
tion after years of failed peace
talks. While a U.N. vote will
not change the situation on the
ground, the Palestinians believe
it will improve their position in
future talks. In particular, they
say Israel must accept the 1967
borders as the basis of a future
agreement.
By doing so, Malki argued
Israel could help end its growing
international isolation. Israel's
relations with key regional allies
Egypt, Turkey and Jordan have
all grown rocky in recent months.
"I think the best way out for
Israel today is to come forward
and to recognize the state of Pal-
estine on the '67 borders," Malki
said.
Obama himself has endorsed
the 1967 lines as the basis for a
settlement. But he, like Israel,
says a peace agreement can be
reached only through negotia-
tions.

Deadline passes in his letter that he was leav-
ingthe U.S. and wouldn't return
without agreement until next week, so it's unlikely
a deal will be finalized before
between union, then.
Negotiations with all three
automakers companies, which began earlier
this summer, will determine
DETROIT (AP) - Negotia- wages and benefits for workers.
tions between General Motors, They will also set the bar for
Chrysler and the United Auto wages at auto parts companies,
Workers union carried on yes- U.S. factories run by foreign
terday even though bargainers automakers, and other manu-
missed a deadline for agreeing facturers, which employ hun-
on a new contract. dreds of thousands of people.
The union, which represents The talks are the first since GM
111,000 workers at Detroit's car- and Chrysler needed govern-
makers, agreed to keep working ment aid to make it through
under the old GM and Chrys- bankruptcy protection in 2009.
ler contracts, which expired The union wants bigger
Wednesday at 11:59 p.m. While profit-sharing checks instead of
missing a deadline could have pay raises, higher pay for entry-
brought a strike in past years, level workers and guarantees of
GM and Chrysler workers have new jobs. Ford and GM want to
limited ability to strike under cut labor costs, while Chrysler
the terms of their government wants to hold its costs steady.
bailout agreements. Health care costs are also an
Talks also continued with issue.
Ford Motor Co., but little prog- Once agreements are
ress has been made. On Tues- reached, workers will vote on
day, the UAW extended its them.
contract with Ford indefinitely. The fact that bargainers at
General Motors Co. appeared GM are breaking for the night
close to a deal. Its talks with the and returning in the morning is
union ran all day before end- a sign that GM and the UAW are
ing at 9 p.m. EDT. Negotiations close to a deal, perhaps by the
were expected to resume today weekend, said Gary Chaison, a
at 9 a.m. EDT. The automaker professor of labor relations at
has taken the lead on the nego- Clark University in Worcester,
tiations and its agreement may Mass.
be used as a model for the other In past talks, both sides
two companies. Each company would have stayed up all night
negotiates separately. trying to pound out an agree-
"We are hopeful that an ment, Chaison said. But this
agreement can be reached time, bargainers appear more
soon," UAW leaders bargain- thoughtful and are taking time
ing with GM said ina statement to digest what they have done,
early Thursday. "While we have he said.
made significant progress, we Until Wednesday's deadline,
have not been able to secure a the negotiations seemed free
new agreement." of the acrimony marking past
Chrysler Group LLC's nego- talks. That's partly because GM
tiations were strained, however. and Chrysler workers agreed
Just before Wednesday's con- not to strike over wages under
tract expiration, CEO Sergio the 2009 bailout agreements.
Marchionne wrote an angry In the past, workers might have
letter to the UAW president say- gone on strike..
ing that he failed to show up to But the mood of the talks
finalize a deal. Chrysler would turned tense for Chrysler. Mar-
say only that both sides are still chionne complained Wednes-
talking. But Marchionne said day thathe had been snubbedby

UAW President Bob King. That
caused the two sides to miss
the deadline for the new agree-
ment, he wrote.
"I know we are the smallest
of the three automakers here in
Detroit, but that does not make
us less relevant," Marchionne
said in the letter, which was
obtained by The Associated
Press.
King would not comment on
the letter when reached by tele-
phone early yesterday.
King spent much of the day
Wednesday negotiating with
GM, but it was unclear why
he didn't appear at Chrysler's
Auburn Hills, Mich., headquar-
ters.
Marchionne said a few main-
ly economic issues separate the
two sides. He said he would
agree to a weeklong extension
of Chrysler's current contract.
"We did not accomplish what
leaders who have been tasked
with the turning of a new page
for this industry should have
done," he wrote.
Chaison said Marchionne
made the mistake of injecting
personalities into the talks at
a critical late stage. That could
delay a contract agreement.
Marchionne, he said, clearly is
miffed that GM is getting more
attention from the union than
Chrysler.
"He also has to understand
that these are not typical nego-
tiations," Chaison said, noting
that the talks are being watched
by the White House, the public
and the labor movement. The
U.S. government still owns 26.5
percent of GM, the remainder of
a big stake it got in exchange for
bailing out the company.
It's likely, though, that any
setback in the negotiations at
Chrysler is temporary. The
UAW has an interest in reaching
a deal because a union-run trust
that pays retiree health care
bills owns more than 40 percent
of Chrysler. Chrysler has turned
a small profit in the fist half of
the year, excluding a one-time
accounting charge for refinanc-
ing government bailout debts.

01

WANT TO INTERVIEW COOL PEOPLE?
Come to our mass meeting at 420 Maynard
SUNDAY AT 7:30 P.M.
Thorning- Schmidt
SelectedDanish PM

i

RELEASE DATE- Friday, September 16, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 Like the northem 34 Chaps 46 Chansons de _:
1 Last of three Lesser Antilles, 35 Cruising medieval French
Catherines vi--oaths 38upportfor a poems
5 Plat Winudward deeads Salohow 470Dead end,
10 Pathfinder org. 3Sportytwo- 40Ron Howard workwise
14 Naturalbalm seaters send-up of reality 48 Drab color
15 Last of the 4Sugar plant shows 49 Rootless sort
Oldsmobies 5Carved sardmo 41 Applemona desk 51 Aoretme
16Old Persanpoet 6Bight-eyed 42 Snigglinggear 52 MountKa'ala is its
d74Foli4art 74moothie 44 Frozen margarita highest peak
18 Wodofthanks ingredent insert 53 R&Bsinger
19Conmdetritus 8 eConquistadors 45eeming ndian
20 sppova fom ceset (wih) 54 Toch~or shuffle
Cddiz resident? 9sTenderocut latl Ooohosle
23 Hig-and-mighty 1t Margaritachoice ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
businessshool 1 It might be R D S A D D I S T I S
25Pairof caliente M A R I E C R O S S W AL K
barersop 3 atc-22 acor A W I N G C I G IA R I L L O
O 21'Atia'Band C APUFFS SLUR
27 Admisreq.for 22 Moaesin maCe O C O P
24-Ass 25ONaoforoly A N I s a s T A H 0 S T
29 Approval from Roman emperors I D D D E C O W E S
LouisXIV? 26 Rough waters A O L E R M E D I A
33Codeonsome 27Sourceofmilkfor N E M O N I C D E V I C E $
NYC-bound chbvre OPERA A R O N 1
luggagetags 28SieraClub'sfirst P N
Conservative 30 Third-oldest U.S. A G E E SCAR O B O E
37 Jack's UN university S H A D T H U Ma S D O W N
ambassador 31aYemen'schiefport H A R D T O S E E C ItV IC
38 Markers 32Crpanership IS L A N D E R S A L E N E
39 T ee 4bi
sometimes 33 One gamering E T S T O A S T B E R G
special lots oftinterest xwordeditor@aol.com 09/15/11
shockedSot?
42"Fake is as old as 4 ,1te
the _tes:
43 itassomesmart
44"Full House"
co-star a
47 Plaeto get
50 Approvalfrom a 31 ax3 aas
sushiche at the
lunchcounter? as e3 a
5Rough talk
56 Indras sn as 4o 4
57 50-and-up group
59nouragenone
oo gently a a4 a a 5 4
60 Nurserrhyme b a s as
tab assembl,
62 Rutabaga, for onea a a
63 Squeezed (out) 263
DOWN
1 Chitmoanner s BeDonnr. .le s ./
reading matedial ()201 TribuneMdaSrvice,tsnc. tt9l6/11

ON CAMPUS PARKING AVAIL
Varsity Management still has parking
spots avail. on campus! Locations close
to the Business School, Law School, &
More! For locations & prices please
call (734)668-1100 or email us at
leasing@vasitymanagement.com.

**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL AGE 185+ No exp. nec.,
training avail..B00-965-6520x125
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com
ITALIAN TUTOR FOR 9 year old.
Two times a week after school hours.
Please respond to Maggie
at mamarc@comcast.net
JIMMYJOHN'S IS looking for sand-
wich makers and delivery drivers for
all Ann Arbor and Ypsi locations as we
gear up for fall semester. Apply in per-
son or send your resume to
ggailitis@jimmyjohns.com.
NIGHTTIME LINE COOK, Apply
in peron. 2045 Packard. Please bring re-
sume if available. 734-665-1955.
NIGHTTIME WAIT STAFF. Apply
in person. 2045 Packard. Please bring
resume if available. 734-665-1955.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need inA2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
' Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Fireplace/cool kitch,
prkg. Must see! $3800 (313) 215-81r5.
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
FACULTY HOUSE EXCHANGE
CO Ski Condo for Ann Arbor 2+ bdrm
house. Dec 22- Jan 3rd. 970-547-4612.
holleyadcock@gmail.com

44-year-old
mother becomes
first woman to lead
Denmark
COPENHAGEN, Denmark
(AP) - When Helle Thorning-
Schmidt took control of the
Social Democratic Party in
2005, some called her "Gucci
Helle," mocking her taste for
designer clothes and accesso-
ries.
Today, few people question
her credentials as leader of a
party sprung from Denmark's
labor movement in 1871.
The 44-year-old mother of
two, who is married to former
British Labor Leader Neal Kin-
nock's son, has shed an air of
inexperience and now projects
confidence and poise. She's fine-
tuned her debating skills and
handles media with wit and a
disarming smile.
But it took a painful defeat to
get there.
In her first election as party
leader in 2007, a teary-eyed
Thorning-Schmidt watched the
Social Democrats slump to their
worst result in a century, with
25.5 percent of the votes.
"Danes need more time
before they hand over responsi-
bility to us," she said.
They needed four more years,
fraught by economic turmoil.
Ironically, the Social Demo-
crats dropped another parlia-
mentary seat in the election
yesterday, but a strong showing
by other parties in her center-

left alliance secured a majority.
"The Social Democrats are
ready to take their share of the
responsibility," the tall blonde
told her supporters. "We will do
our utmost, our utmost to live up
to your confidence."
It remains to be seen whether
Thorning-Schmidt will be a bet-
ter steward of Denmark's lack-
luster economy than outgoing
Prime Minister Lars Loekke
Rasmussen at a time when
Europe's debt crisis creates
uncertainty.
Thorning-Schmidt will
become the first woman to lead
a Danish government, and she's
also the first female leader of the
Social Democrats. However, she
doesn't think those firsts will
have much significance in egali-
tarian Denmark.
"Exceptmaybe foryounggirls
who can start saying'hmm, this
is a post I can aspire to,"' Thorn-
ing-Schmidt said in a recent TV
interview.
Looking back at her youth,
she said she always wanted to
be a decision-maker "like a hotel
manager or something like that"
but never imagined making it to
the top of Danish politics.
Thorning-Schmidt got a mas-
ter's degree in political science
from Copenhagen University in
1994. Two years later, she mar-
ried Stephen Kinnock, whom
she met in Belgium.
She lives with their two
daughters, Johanna, 14, and
Camilla, 11, in a rowhouse in
northern Copenhagen, while
Kinnock is based in Switzerland
as a director of the World Eco-
nomic Forum.

0

0.


T ggnFriday, September 16, 2011 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Roberto Alagna was booed off the stage in a La Scala performance of "Aida."
Applause isn't
for everybody
By JOE CADAGIN with an equally disappointing
Daily Fine Arts Editor night at the theater? While per-
formance-goers may not have
Imagine going to an elegant the option of going backstage and
restaurant for a gourmet meal. complaining to the house manag-
Instead of a lovely evening out, er about the quality of the perfor-
however, your experience turns mance, there is one way in which
out to be a disastrous affair com- they can stand up for themselves

PUPPETS PREVIEWED
A2 walks down'Avenue
Adults-only puppet
musical showing at
the Mendelssohn
By LAUREN CASERTA
Daily Arts Writer
Remember watching "Sesame
Street" as a kid? Of course you do.
Ever since its first episode aired in
1969, millions
of children Avenue Q
have tuned in
and grown up Tonightand
with this PBS Saturday at
favorite aimed 8p.m.,Sunday
to make learn- at2 pm.
ing fun while
teaching kids Lyda Mendelssohn
to share, care Theatre HALEY HOARD/Daily
and bshere iIt's complicated between puppets Princeton and Kate Monster in "Avenue Q"
and brush their Tickets from $9
teeth. lenging, but it's kind of enjoyable, process - even before she'd final- Sielaff knows the show's quirky
But for those who now find too, because I know I'm pushing ized her human cast. lyrics and outrageous characters
themselves confronting "big- the bar for community theater," "We had a puppet at our audi- build a surprisingly down-to-
people problems" not covered Sielaff said. "We haven't changed tions," Sielaff said. "Since this isn't earth story - students may even
in any of the show's 4,000-plus any ofthe lyrics or the dialogue, so a huge dance show, we had the end up seeing a little of themselves
episodes, the Ann Arbor Civic we'll see if the audience can make actors kind of manipulate them underneath the fur and polyester-
Theater's 2011-2012 season debut, it through Act One with all the just to see if they had hand-eye blend fluff of the puppet cast.
"Avenue Q," is here to help. Fea- puppet sex." coordination while they did some "Just look at our opening song,
turing a mixed puppet/human Along with tackling its lov- different techniques that the pup- 'What Do You Do with a BA in
cast, the show follows the lives of ably crude but demanding script, peteer we had wanted to see." English?'" Sielaff said. "That's the
some colorfully irreverent down- Sielaff had to account for the Since the rights to perform thread of the show, you know -
and-out New York City residents, logistical obstacles many of her "Avenue Q" have only recently what's Princeton's purpose? And
including a recent college grad actors faced as they carried their become available to the public, so I think the college kids will
named Princeton, a young (and puppet counterparts around the many parts of the musical's pro- absolutely relate to the show since
furry) professional, aptly named stage. duction have become an impro- they're pretty much Princeton
Kate Monster, and their apart- "The biggest difficulty by far vised learning process, even for and Kate Monster."
ment manager, Gary Coleman. was not only having to direct a 20-year theater veteran like So whether you're looking for
The Tony-winning show's human beings, but having to Sielaff. your own "Purpose," wondering
human characters and Muppet- direct puppets at the same time," "Much of the challenge came if "Everyone's a Little Bit Rac-
esque creatures thoroughly Sielaff said. "I've never tried to do from it being a brand new show ist" or just hoping that "You Can
delight in satirizing "mature" anything like this before." to community theater," she said. Be as Loud as the Hell You Want
issues like Internet pornogra- Because a seamless perfor- "We really wanted to do it well (When You're Makin' Love)," the
phy and racism. Veteran director mance between actor and puppet and keep the script pure. We Ann Arbor Civic Theater and
Wendy Sielaff was acutely aware is crucial to the show's success, didn't want to change anything or "Avenue Q" are sure to provide
of the demands that the show's Sielaff ensured that the felt-cov- try to put our own flavor on it. We you with all of life's answers that
content would present. ered characters were incorporat- just tried to keep it what 'Avenue Cookie Monster wasn't allowed
"For me, it's been a little chal- ed into every step of her creative Q' was meant to be." to say on television.

plete with long waits, rude serv-
ers and undercooked salmon.
Of course, like any wholesome,
' polite, moral-lovin' American,
you will take this all with a smile
and tip your waiter 15 percent -
maybe even 20. Right?
Of course you won't! You'll
complain and ask to see manag-
ers and take down names and
refuse to tip, damn it. If you're
paying premium prices for a
meal, you expect to get the best
possible service and the best
quality food.
Then why, pray tell, do the
same boisterous Americans who
stand up for themselves during
an unpleasant dining experience
suddenly wimp out when faced

What is the
sound of no
hands clapping?
and make some noise - or rath-
er, not make some noise. It goes
against everything civilized soci-
ety has ingrained into us: refus-
ing to clap.
It's that easy - don't clap. If the
ballerina tripped and you didn't
think she was particularly grace-
ful, then don't applaud for her. If
See CLAPPING, Page 8A

y
S
z
S
1
e
i
e
n
r
'
n
t
e
e
.t



r i ___lm ....

fieect
I , 1 t , 1 1 ,
i 4 4 4 , 1 t t
/ i /y i , 1 4 I
co /y/ 4 co ! 1 C* ! k co , 1 4 I W i co , co 1 Vlj ,
# 1 h 1 h 1 +! , h 4 4 h i I '
I:z I F 1 I:z i I:z i U Fz i F 1 F 4 f 1 :M
I , , t t 1 i 1
i 0 # + i !
1 4 1 4 i , 4 ,
1 , t i i t 1 4
i 1 1 1 , , 4 4
i 4 i 4 I , 1


8 - Friday, September 16, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

COMMUNITY CULTURE NOTEBOOKa
Love for a local library

By JENNIFER XU
Senior Arts Editor
Recently, our local library was
rocked with a scandal that shook
America to its very core, as they
say in melodramatic news pro-
grams. It almost closed down.
It's funny, but when I think
about the times I spent there,
I don't think about the hours I
exhausted browsing its dusty
shelves for "Sweet Valley High"
books (I was obsessed with the
Wakefield twins back then), or
the hundreds of study sessions
spent in the children's section
cramming for the APs or even
the illicit romances that went
down tucked behind closed
doors (admittedly, some of them
fictional).
I think about how I got into a
car accident there (my first hit-
and-run, if you want to know
the truth), how I turned into
a parking spot, overshot it and
basically grinded into the car
standing adjacent to me, leaving
the incriminating stain of red on
white, like the few drops of blood
that trickled down when Sleep-
ing Beauty pricked her finger on
the spinning wheel and fell into a
deep, deep slumber. I remember
running into the library in pur-
suit of the friend I was supposed
to pick up for ice cream, finding
her in the midst of being asked
to prom via an elaborate staging
of multicolored origami frogs,
dragging both asker and askee
into my illicit vehicle and high-
tailing it the hell out of there. I
didn't drive back to the library on
my own for a long, long time.
I've always associated the
building, its ugly worn brown-
stone with the faded letters
TROY stamped on its exterior,
with freedom. The library was
the first place I drove to when I
got my license at the ripe old age
of 17. I didn't even walk inside
the building when I got there,
just cruised around the park-

ing lot
foundf
some w
repress
and ma
thing:
enclose
On t
close d
tre thr
stairwa
of swe
minute
just rei
Her
I was t
YO
do
the
cably t
the mid
on kin
where
Kroger
Science
my fav
Here is
lot whe
was a 7
ator ga
and ask
I noti
mostly1
thing,
their fa
a shelf,,
I'mn
about t
an eve
age, an
and-mo
our sou
don't h
tribute
But
Should
library
imprin
just be

and breathed in my new- tory of books and DVDs, its
freedom. From this story, capacity to educate the public in
vould say that I led a pretty the most unassuming way pos-
sed, suburban lifestyle - sible - but because of its social
aybe I did - but here's the substance.
My entire childhood is As a kid, you think of the
ed inside its walls. library as this giant fairyland, a
he day before its tentative place where colossal pictures of
late, I walked like a spec- Harry, Ron and Hermione smile
ough every passage, every down on you like benevolent
ay, ignoring the long line saints encouraging you to read.
eaty people settling last When you grow up, you realize
fines and book returns, it's so much more.
membering. The library, more so than any
e is the table where the guy other place, is where you can
utoring in physics inexpli- find the personality of the city,
the collective consciousness of a
community buzzing with activity
and civic pride. John Cusack said
)U r lOW yOU in "High Fidelity" that the kinds
o a lot more of music people like, the kinds
ofmovies people watch - even
're than read. though people say it's not a big
deal in the long run, these things
matter. Well, the cases matter,
too. The mediums all that stuff
:ried to hold my hand in comes in matter.
ddle of a practice problem They matter because they're
ematics. Here is the bench our most public manifestations
I ate chocolate fudge of something that is very, very
r cake while studying for private. When you're standing in
e Olympiad with two of line, checking out your various
orite people in the world. books and movies, there's a cer-
s the place in the parking tain solidarity experienced as you
re the old guy who said he secretly take a peek at the others'
Frank Sinatra imperson- wares. Libraries intimate a kind
ve me his e-mail address of collective sharing. When you
ked to keep in touch. And lose that, it's not something you
ced a few other people, can easily get back.
teenagers, doing the same The library's day of elections
strange smiles gracing was the first day I had ever voted
ices as their hands grazed in my life. "How do I do this?"
a stool, a surface. the woman next to me whispered
not going to go on and on from the makeshift cubicle. "I
he value of print media in have no idea," I mouthed back.
rr-digitized, ADD-addled But this was something I had to
d the necessity for brick- do, something Iowed, both to my
ortar strongholds to house past self and my future.
ils or whatever, because I I stayed up all night waiting
ave anything new to con- for the results. The millage to
on the topic. save the library passed, 12,246
I will say this much: votes to 8,799.
n't every city have a The first thing I did the next
a receptacle to store the morning was drive to the library.
is of a community? Not This time, I didn't get into an
cause of its large reposi- accident.

t

COURTESY OF FOXSEARCHLIGHTS
"All these bands? You've never heard of them. All those books? Those, too."
So over DesChanel

Don't be pulled in
by the adorable face
of Zooey Deschanel
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Magazine Editor
Of all the terrible shows that
will premiere this fall, it was
"New Girl" that made me audi-
bly groan. The FOX sitcom stars
Zooey Deschanel ("(500) Days
of Summer") as a quirky, eccen-
tric 20-something getting over
a rough breakup with the help
of her new bro pals. It's not that
the show sounds bad. In fact, I
read the script and think it will
likely be one of the more suc-
cessful new series this fall. I
just can't stand Zooey Descha-
nel.
I'm aware that's an unpopu-
lar opinion. But the thing is,
Zooey represents everything I
feel is wrong with Hollywood,
and seeing her porcelain face
on the cover of this week's New
York Magazine has sent me over
the edge.
Deschanel soared to indie
darling heights in weak female
roles: bitchy roommates, crazy
ex-girlfriends and doe-eyed
sweethearts for the lead man
to win over. Then she became
a household name as Summer
Finn in "(500) Days of Summer."
Summer and Zooey are largely
indistinguishable. They both
wear cute, feminine dresses
and love bands you've probably
never heard of. But Summer, as
a character, only exists to make
Tom (Joseph Gordon-Levitt)
grow and accept life.
This isn't inherently prob-
lematic. After all, Tom is the
protagonist; every character
only exists to make him grow.

The problem comes in when
every sensitive guy in glasses
wants to be with a girl just
like Zooey/Summer and every
girl who was ever described as
"quirky," even once, wants to
be her. It's then that the brood-
ing boys in skinny jeans expect
the cute woman reading Oscar
Wilde in the local coffee shop
to "fix" them, and the wannabe
dream girls who wear vintage
feel they have to keep their
quirkiness at a constant high,
while also being spontaneous
and unpredictable.
What's more, many feminists
have argued that Zooey's love
of sugar and spice and every-
thing nice fetishizes girlish-
ness and leads to infantilization
of women in media, making it
harder for real women to be
taken seriously. For men, Zoo-
ey's female ideal is perfection.
But I am not perfect. My mere
existence isn't going to give any
man an epiphany, and I actu-
ally hate cupcakes, thank you
very much. Many of my bad first
dates could've been rectified
had my dates known this.
Beyond glorifying and
romanticizing a weak female
mentality, Zooey epitomizes
the star system, the method of
filmmaking where the star's
name becomes the most impor-
tant facet of a production. I'm
sure she's not stomping around
sets ordering drastic creative
changes just because she can,
but she does have a noticeable
effect on people - particularly
critics.
During the Television Crit-
ics Association's summer press
tour, a two-week conference
during which all the major TV
and cable networks present
their shows and host Q & A ses-
sions with the critics, Zooey


Sos n y

owned her audience. Critics
are notoriously not very nice,
and they don't clap much. But
they were filled with nothing
but adoration during the "New
Girl" panel. All professional-
ism died as many of the mean-
est critics in Hollywood raved
about how sweet Zooey is.
One critic even dared to
ask the hard-hitting question,
"When did you realize how
adorable you were?" It was
talked about for days. I wanted 0,
to vomit.
"New Girl" is a great script,
but I fear no one will notice the
writing hidden behind those
large fringe bangs and big blue
eyes. No one sees story - they
just see Zooey.
She's not exactly untouch-
able. Take one look at her IMDb
page and you'll see she's not
God's gift to acting, as the world
treats her. I'll give her "(500)
Days of Summer" and "Our
Idiot Brother," but then we're
left with "Yes Man," "Surf's
Up," "The Happening" and
"Your Highness" - hardly Sun-
dance fodder.
She's not without petty
squabbles. She got in a heated
fight with Los Angeles Times
columnist Patt Morrison after
he reported on Zooey's wor-
ries about how the royal couple
would view downtown Los
Angeles. She's also suing Steve
Madden for $2 million over an
endorsement deal. But these
qualms go largely unnoticed,
because she's Zooey Deschanel
and she can do no wrong.
While everyone goes gaga
for "New Girl," I'll be watching
alone, waiting for society to get
over their giant collective crush
on Zooey Deschanel and accept
reality: Girls like that don't
exist. And that's OK.
our more "civilized" European
cousins engage in such behav-
iors as booing and whistling
when they are displeased. In
2006, superstar tenor Roberto
Alagna was booed at La Scala
following his opening aria
in "Aida." Enraged, the divo
stormed off the stage and had to
be replaced by an un-costumed
understudy.
Did Alagna deserve it? Proba-
bly not, but the situation proves
refusingto clap maynotbe quite
the faux pas that it appears.
With a new theater season
here, it's time American audi-
ences start to recognize their
rights as patrons, including the
right to get one's money's worth.
If the performers don't come
through with their end of the
deal, then it's not your place to
pretend like they did.When itall
boils down, the decision to clap
means staying honest to oneself:
Are you clapping because you
actually enjoyed it, or are you
clapping because everyone else
is? Remember that the next time
you make a move to "put your
hands together."


CLAPPING
From Page 7
the singer's voice cracked and
he was flat the entire evening,
then sit on your hands during
the curtain call.
Audiences, however, have
it in their heads that it's polite
to clap - that they're supposed
to give a big hand, no matter
how poor the performance. But
professional theater isn't some
fourth-grade pageant during
which you applaud to make the
kids feel good. These perform-
ers are being paid to do their
jobs correctly, and it's your
money they're getting. Ifa doc-
tor gives the wfong diagnosis,
you sure as hell won't give him a
pat on the back. So why give an
underserved ovation to a less-
than-satisfactory performance?
The same goes for the now-
meaningless standing ova-
tion. What should be reserved
for only the most illuminating
and virtuosic performances is
wasted over and over again on
the likes of community theater.

Take, for instance, the time a
friend and I went to see a high
school performance of "Les
Miserables." After the final cur-
tain, while the rest of the audi-
ence rose to their feet, my friend
and I remained seated. A scan-
dalized audience member in the
row behind us made sure we
heard her when she remarked
to her companion, "Some people
are so rude!" That she found it
such an offense in the first place
reveals how deeply rooted this
philosophy is in our society.
We must keep in mind that
the act of bowing is one of
humility - the performer hum-
bly comes forward to receive
the audience's appreciation
through a bow, as if to say, "I
don't deserve this." The irony is,
many performers don't deserve
it, making the whole process a
sham.
I'm sure there will be those
who deem me a boorish, toma-
to-flinging philistine. These
critics may be surprised to learn
that in Europe - especially in
Italy - honesty reigns supreme
during curtain calls. In fact,

* How it ended.:
Robinsons redemption leads Blue The Last 5 Minutes
RrMKHB IARiL F(.R f:K f m 5 BF ly . -kr ige r. 1r leaM- 4II, .". r _=;. rn, _..
++L >. r'1 l "- -A i L.1 : h ..... .k n.fan r Ihr. I4 :57nl I
t1r n t rx .n i
Il f P 1 1 U i. n~r:r al < r<rx , 1 it lra w kr v.+u n4 I4 :,L .n>V,-s.r.n M 2 r .-il :I

FEEL THE RHYTHM,
FEEL THE RHYME,
GET ON UP, IT'S DAILY ARTS TIME!
JOIN DAILY FILM.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.


,,
,.
u ,

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, Semptember 16, 2011 - 9

Breakdown: EMU run game worrisome for 'M'

ByKEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Editor
Eastern Michigan is 2-0 for
the first time since 1989. For-
mer Michigan football players
Kurt Anderson, Mike Hart and
Steve Morrison are now part of
the Eagles' coaching squad, and
long-time Michigan assistant
coach Ron English is now the
Eagles' head coach. Will the for-
mer Wolverines be able to work
up some old magic to help give
the Eagles their first-ever vic-
tory against Michigan? There's a
chance, but not a very good one.
Here's a breakdown of Saturday's
matchups:
Michigan pass offense vs. East-
ern Michigan pass deferse
In victories against Howard
University and Alabama State,
the Eagles gave up an average 171
yards per game in the air. They're
not horrible numbers, but when
you consider the opponents East-
ern Michigan faced (both are
FCS schools), the numbers aren't
exactly eye-popping. Sophomore
defensive back Marlon Pollard, a
transfer from UCLA, has been a
nice addition for the Eagles and
has already snagged one inter-
ception. Senior defensive back
Latarrius Thomas, a transfer
who started as a true freshman at
Louisville, has also improved the
defense,
The Michigan offense has seen
some troubles of its own through
the air, as junior quarterback
Denard Robinson has completed
just over 50 percent of his passes
and has thrown'three intercep-
tions, often having trouble with
his footwork and accuracy. At

times, the receivers have shown
an inability to hang onto balls that
they should have caught. But you
can bet that the Eagles have never
faced a versatile quarterback quite
like Robinson (except for Rob-
inson himself in 2009), and he
should be successful as long as he
stays poised.
Edge: Michigan
Michigan rush offense vs. East-
ern Michigan rush defense
For the most part, the Michi-
gan running backs have strug-
gled so far this season. Redshirt
sophomore Fitzgerald Toussaint
appeared to have taken hold of the
starting job after his 80 yards and
two touchdowns against Western
Michigan, but a shoulder injury
kept him sidelined against Notre
Dame last weekend and his role on
Saturday is up in the air.
Senior Michael Shaw stalled in
the starting role last week, tallying
two carries for minus-three yards.
Sophomore Stephen Hopkins
didn't fare much better, with just
10 yards on five carries and one
fumble. Junior Vincent Smith has
shown flashes of potential, but it
appears he will be primarily used
as a third-down back.
The Eastern Michigan defense
excels against the rush. The
Eagles have given up an average
of just 41.5 yards per game on the
ground, including minus-13 yards
in their 14-7 victory over Ala-
bama State. Pollard and Thomas
received preseason All-MAC rec-
ognition, and senior defensive end
Brad Ohrman leads the MAC with
three sacks already this year. But
Michigan still has the most dan-
gerous rusher on the field in Rob-
inson, who is averaging 77 yards

per game and can break loose at
any point. That's enough to give
the Wolverines a slight edge.
Edge: Michigan
Eastern Michigan pass offense
vs. Michigan pass defense
The Eastern Michigan passing
game has been far from stellar
this year, but then again, so has
the Michigan pass defense. Eagles
quarterback Alex Gillett has com-
pleted just 47 percent of his passes
for 176 total yards, three touch-
downs and two interceptions.
His longest completion went
for just 25 yards. The Wolverine
defense has given up an average
of 249 yards per game in the air -
over a third more yards than Gil-
lett has passed for in two games.
But Michigan has forced three
interceptions so far, and Gillett is
a prime subject to toss up a few
more.
Edge: Michigan
Eastern Michigan rush offense
vs. Michigan rush defense
The Eagle running backs have
proven to be a two-headed mon-
ster so far this season. Asa whole,
Eastern Michigan is averaging 331
yards on the ground in two games.
Redshirt junior Dominique Sherer
and sophomore Javonti Green
crossed the century mark in each
of the Eagles' first two games.
Green is averaging 133 yards per
game, and Sherrer is averaging
115.
That could spell trouble for the
Wolverines, who are tenth in the
Big Ten in rush defense and have
given up an average of 147 yards
on the ground per game. Redshirt
junior safety Jordan Kovacs is tied

MARISSA MCCU
Senior defensive tackle Mike Martin and the rest of the defensive line will be tested Saturday against tastern Mich

with reds
Kenny De
(18), mean
ning back
through ti
and into tI
- someth
to avoid on
Edge: E
In seven
Eastern It
Jay Karut
inside the
and he's p
better pun
Michig:
punter Ma
for suspen
Will Hage
at times,

:hirt junior linebacker punt.
mens for most tackles Eastern Michigan sophomore
ing the opposing run- kicker Kody Fulkerson, who sur-
s have often made it prisingly snagged the job away
he initial line of defense from redshirt junior and for-
he Wolverine secondary mer starter Sean Graham at the
ing Michigan will hope beginning of this season, has
Saturday. been solid so far, going 7-for-7 on
astern Michigan extra points and 2-of-3 on field
goal attempts.
Special Teams The Wolverine field goal kick-
ers have yet to attempt a field
n attempts last Saturday, goal. Michigan would probably
dichigan junior punter like to keep it that way. Its kick-
z pinned Alabama State ers finished 4-for-13 on field
20-yard line five times, goals last year - good for last in
roven to be one of the the nation.
ters in the MAC. But you've got to believe the
an freshman kicker/ Wolverines will have to attempta
att Wile, who took over field goal eventually, and there's
nded sophomore punter a good chance it won't be pretty.
rup, has looked decent Edge: Eastern Michigan
averaging 39 yards per

Intangibles
Coming off an incredible 35-31
comeback win over Notre Dame
last Saturday night, Michigan's
biggest concern could be avoid-
ing a letdown against Eastern
Michigan in an ordinary noon
game. But Michigan coach
Brady Hoke has stressed many
times that he will not let his
team take the Eagles lightly,
and he'll have the Wolverines
ready. Redshirt sophomore Tay-
lor Lewan echoed Hoke's com-
ments and tabbed Saturday's
game as another opportunity for
Michigan to improve its record.
In -Hoke's 100th career game as
a head coach, the Wolverines
won't let him down.
Final Score: Michigan 38,
Eastern Michigan 14

VOLLEYBALL
Rosen plans to open up offense for Dannemiller

Freshman setter
finding her groove
entering last
preseason tourney
By MATT SPELICH
Daily Sports Writer
Mark Rosen may not be work-
ing at Baskin Robbins, but he is
hard at work adding new flavors
to his offense for freshman set-
ter Lexi Dannemiller.
"We are still running a very
vanilla offense," said Rosen, the
Michigan volleyball coach. "It's
starting to get a little chocolate
swirl, but we need to get to the
point where it's got whipped
cream and a cherry and the
whole bit. We are a long way
from that, but we're getting
there.
"We are confident that we
can probably be successful
this weekend with the stuff
we're running, but we are
going to need to have more
tricks in our bag to compete
in two weeks at the Big Ten
level."
While Rosen's metaphors
may be strange and may bring
about a hankering for some-
thing sweet, his logic holds
~true.
Dannemiller's ability to
spread the offense has been
a cornerstone to Michigan's
success this year. Rosen sim-
ply knows that Dannemiller is
going to have to become more
creative with her sets to com-
pete in the upcoming weeks.
His veteran women's volley-
ball team has proven that it is
capable of executing complex
offenses under three-time All
American Lexi Zimmerman.
Big Ten Athlete of the Week
Dannemiller will have to step
up the flavor of this Wolver-
ine sundae. But for now, as
Rosen often says, "It's a work
in progress."
Coming off their Dayton
Flyers Classic victory, the
18th-ranked Wolverines are
preparing for the Michigan/
Adidas Invitational in Ann
Arbor this weekend. Michigan
will face Toledo and Xavier
on Friday, and Texas A&M on
Saturday.
Each team will bring its
own unique challenges. Xavi-

er plays a fast game that may
prove difficult to contain. Texas
A&M is the only other team in
the tournament with an unde-
feated record.
And Toledo has shown an
aptitude for kills despite its los-
ing record, which indicates that
the Rockets are capable of going
on major runs.
Toledo was also one of the
few teams to beat Michigan last
year.
As the last tournament of the
preseason, the Wolverines will
look to make the final adjust-
ments to Dannemiller's game,
specifically how she weaves
middle blockers sophomore Jen-
nifer Cross and senior Courtney
Fletcher into the offense.
The job of the middle blocker
is multi-faceted and is integral
to both the offensive and defen-
sive sides of the net.
The main responsibility,

though, is in the name - block-
ing, a skill Michigan has been
looking to improve since the
start of the season.
"Jen and I take a lot of pride
in our blocking," Fletcher said.
"It's definitely not our best skill,
it never has been. But before
every match we look at each
other and say, 'We are going to
go block some balls.' We also
just adopted swing blocking,
and while it was a little rough
in the beginning of the season,
I thought last weekend was the
best it's been so far, and it will
continue to get better."
Added Cross: "No one wants
to be a middle blocker. We're
constantly going from pin to
pin. It's a hard job, but some-
body's got to do it."
Cross and Fletcher also share
the same favorite kill spot - a
complex set they call an "A."
It's a set in which the setter

fakes to the outside, getting the
blockers in motion, before set-
ting it behind her head for the
middle blocker to, as Cross says,
"Take that ball to pound town."
Both middle blockers are

waiting for Dannemiller to per-
fect this play, but they are confi-
dent it will come in time. No one
can be sure what this is all going
to amount to, but it is clear that
Rosen has a definitive picture in

his mind.
For now, it would appear that
he has astrong base and all the
toppings to make this a delicious
season, though only time will
tell.


Financial aid is available
to assist U-M students
participating in U-M
study abroad programs.
- View instructions to apply for study abroad
aid at: www.finaid.umich.edu/Abroad.
- If you will be enrolled in a study abroad
program sponsored by the University of Michigan,
you will be considered for all aid programs
except Work-Study. Note: You must apply
for aid by completing a Free Application for
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and other forms
as noted on the web page above.

- If you will enroll in a study abroad program
sponsored by another institutionlagency, contact
the Office of Financial Aid immediately to
review your options.

I


10 - Friday, Semptember 16, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Notre Dame will be massive test for Wolverines

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Writer
If the Michigan men's soc-
cer team is at its best form of the
young season - and seeing as the
Wolverines (2-4-1) are unbeaten
in their last three games, that
seems to be the case - good for-
tune has it that its biggest test is
next.
When the team travels to South
Bend on Friday to take on No. 22
Notre Dame, Michigan coach
Steve Burns hopes his squad has
learned quickly enough - from
its dismal start and its positive

results of late - to pass.
"Notre Dame is a very good
team," Burns said Wednesday.
"We know that their game is
going to pose some problems for
us."
The Fighting Irish (2-1-2) are
entering a treacherous portion
of their schedule with a visit to
Michigan State later this week-
end followed by a tilt with nation-
al power Louisville on September
24.
With those matches, as well as
Big East play lying ahead, Notre
Dame knows it can't afford to
make mistakes similar to the ones

the Fighting Irish made in a dou-
ble-overtime loss to Saint Louis -
their lone defeat thus far.
But, like Notre Dame, Michi-
gan's success of late has oppo-
nents struggling to figure out its
tactics.
With just two more non-con-
ference battles before Big Ten
opponents begin fillingthe sched-
ule, the Wolverines are playing
much more confidently than they
did to start the season -- when
goals were hard to come by.
In fact, Michigan is coming off
of its highestscoringoutput of the
season in a 4-1 win over Detroit on

Wednesday. During that match, Burns doesn't think the Wol-
junior forward Etienne Lussiez verines need to look farto find an
opponent that parallels the Fight-
ing Irish's intensity and physical-
ity - traits that have them picked
"Their game to finish second in the Big East's
Blue Division. Rather, ateam that
is 0111gto Michigan drew last week is com-
par able.
pose problems p"They're a lot like George-
town but they probably have a
for us. little more depth," Burns said,
"They've got a great midfielder
and a legitimate four up front."
Michigan goalkeeper Adam
scored his first career goal. And Grinwis will be tasked with stop-
second. And third. ping that talented Notre Dame

attack. Junior midfielder Dillon
Powers, in particular, can cause
significant problems roaming the
center of the pitch. On the other
end, it seems that opportunities
to get past Fighting Irish senior
netminder Will Walsh will be
few.
So when a chance does pres-
ent itself for the Wolverines
- whether via a sophomore mid-
fielder Fabio Villas Boas Pereira
strike or a sophomore forward
Malcolm Miller run - Michigan
simply has to take advantage.
"They don't give up a lot of
chances," Burns said.

6

0

0

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, Semptember 16, 2011 -11

Demens stands alone as leader of linebackers

By TIM ROHAN The only returning starter
Daily Sports Editor from last season's linebacker
corps spent his offseason learn-
Kenny Demens is the lone sur- ing Mattison's complex scheme
vivor - he's Brady Hoke's rock in because he's responsible for set-
the middle. tingthe defense up as the middle
The 6-foot-1, 248-pound linebacker.
thumper looked left and at first The only times he comes off
it was Brandon Herron he saw, the field are when senior J.B.
then a little bit of Mike Jones. Fitzgerald gives him a rest. He's
Then it was the true freshman the one everyone looks to for
Desmond Morgan, then junior checks - and there are about
Brandin Hawthorne. four to five checks per play.
He looked right and saw Jake "It's a big job," Demens said
Ryan playing the first games of last week. "My spot here is the
his Michigan career, while Cam quarterback on the defense."
Gordon sat out with a back inju- Usually coaches want to sur-
ry. round their quarterback with
Last Saturday, it was either consistency.
Ryan or another freshman, Bren- That's been far from the real-
nan Beyer, out there. ity, but Mattison isn't too con-
They're all smaller, athletic cerned he hasn't found two
guys - perfect for the exotic consistent sidekicks for Demens
blitz schemes and coverages just yet.
Michigan defensive coordina- "We felt there's a number of
tor Greg Mattison likes to tinker them that are all fairly equal,"
with. But injuries and inexperi- Mattison said. "That's the good
ence have kept the door revolv- news. That, if a guy or someone
ing, especially at weakside gets gimped up for some rea-
linebacker. son, then the next guy's got to be
Then there's Demens. ready to go."

Added Demens: "Just going
through camp, a lot of guys
proved they can play. And that
kind of helps. I'm not out there
wondering who's going to play
and if that guy's going to have my
back. I'm confident in whoever's
in there."
Against Notre Dame Haw-
thorne burst onto the scene, ris-
ing from the bottom of the depth
chart to make game-saving
defensive stops.
Relegated to special teams for
two seasons, Hawthorne's ath-
leticism took center stage for the
first time on Saturday night. He
finished with a career-high six
tackles, and earned a chance to
make his first career start this
week.
"He showed some things in the
spring, he showed some things in
the fall and then he sprained that
ankle (the last week of camp),
been gimped," Mattison said.
"And the one thing that I was
impressed with him, even when
the ankle was not good earlier,
he came out and practiced hard
and limped and showed that he's

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily

Junior linebacker Brandin Hawthorne is expected to make his first career start this Saturday.

a tough kid. And I was happy
for some of the things he did
(against Notre Dame). It really
helped us."
On two separate plays in'the
same drive, Hawthorne showed
his versatility - knifing through
the line and dropping a running
back for a loss then full-out div-
ing to bat away a pass in cover-
age.
"I was happy for him," Demens
said. "There's a guy who's a little
undersized but has a heart as big
as (anyone). He made some plays.
... I was just happy that he got a
chance to prove himself, and the
coaches put the trust in him.
"I feel like it's his time. He's
waited around. He's worked his
butt off in offseason condition-
ing workouts and he goes hard
in practice. He has the heart. He
can hit with the best of them, the
biggest of them, and I like that
about Hawthorne."
Even though Demens has a few
pounds on the 6-foot, 214-pound
Hawthorne, Demens said that
the Pahokee, Fla. native keeps
up with the middle linebacker
in the weight room. That's key

for a group of linebackers who has a knack for getting to the
typically weigh less than 240 quarterback.
pounds - Demens said they may Gordon, though, is expected
be small, but they're all strong to make his season debut this
enough to be physical presences, Saturday against Eastern Michi-
and take on blockers. gan. But with Mattison coaching
Jake Ryan was one of those the defense, expect a lot of sub-
undersized linebackers. stitutions and rotations. While
In the spring the coaches one guy could take a hold of a
spot, that doesn't mean Ryan,
Herron (when he returns from
t a *big job. leg injury), Beyer, Jones and
Morgan won't see the field.
M y spot here is "Ieel comfortable with any-
body that's out on that football
the quarterback ,field," Mattison said.
Demens is too. But, eventual-
of the defense." ly, he said he would like to start
developing chemistry with the
other two linebackers, get into a
rhythm and find a comfort level.
bragged about how good he "We just have to keep trying
could be, but he just needed to to get them healthy, make sure
add weight. they're 100 percent, making sure
Now, Hoke has Ryan playing they keep improving," Mattison
defensive end in his nickel pack- said. "You have a number of line-
ages. backers there that haven't played
Ryan hasn't played perfectly, alot of football.
which is why Gordon's still listed "You get thrown in a ball game
ahead of him on the depth chart, like that, for them to make some
but he forced a key turnover of the plays they made, I was
against Western Michigan and proud of them."

Redshirtojuniorlinebacker Kenny Demens (25) is tied for the team lead with 18 tackles in two games.


12 - Friday, September 16, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Get your textbooks fast with
FREE Tw-Day Shipping
for students

0

"

amazoncom /textbooks



0

0

0

0

Running backs will get chance to shine against EMU

September17, 2011: Eastern Michigan

By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan football team's
running backs were supposed to be
an asset this year.
Five different backs - redshirt
sophomore Fitzgerald Toussaint,
redshirt junior
Michael Cox, Eastern
senior Michael a
Shaw, junior
Vincent Smith, Michigan
and sophomore Matchup:
Stephen Hop- Eastern
kins - all had the Michigan 2-0;
potential to have Michigan 2-0
breakout years When: Satur-
and take over the day, 12p.m.
starting role. Where: Michi-
"I know all of gan tadium
them are ready S
to play," quarter- T Radio:
back Denard Rob-
inson said at Big
Ten Media Day in
late July. "Hopkins is the big back,
Shaw has the speed and the moves,
you got Vincent Smith with quirks
and shakes....You gotMike Cox. It's
goingto be crazy."
But two games into the season,
the running backs are a concern.
Toussaint grabbed hold of the start-
ing position against Western Michi-

gan and delivered, tallying80 yards
and two touchdowns on 11 carries.
But in the process, the injury-prone
back hurt his shoulder, sidelining
him for the Notre Dame game last
week. Shaw took over the starting
duties against the Irish but did little
to convince anyone he should be the
No. 1 back, as he lost three yards on
two total carries. Hopkins had five
carries for just 10 yards and a fum-
ble. Smith has been a solid third-
down back but no longer appears
to be in the running for the starting
job.
"Of course I am (concerned about
the running backs)," said Michigan
offensive coordinator Al Borges
after practice on Tuesday. "But
I'd be more concerned about them
if they had more carries and you
weren't getting the yield that you
wanted."
But against Eastern Michigan
on Saturday, the backs should have
a chance to tally up a significant
number of carries - at least in
comparison to the limited number
they've seen so far, which is in part
due to the rain-shortened game
against the Broncos and partly due
to the Wolverines' inability to put
together a sustained drive against
the Irish.
"The first game, we had a chance

to get them rolling a bit," Borges
said. "They weren't doing too bad.
But (against Notre Dame), we just
found one heck of a time getting
into any rhythm. When you're not
rhythmic, you're not getting first
downs, you're not converting third
downs, you don't get the turns, and
you don't get the snaps."
Toussaint leads the running
backs with just 11 total carries.
Shaw has six, Hopkins five, and
Smith three. On Saturday, each one
could have the opportunity to sepa-
rate himself from the pack against
an inferior Eastern Michigan team.
If Michigan can build a sizable lead
in the first half, each back should
get his touches - possibly even
freshmen backs Justice Hayes and
Thomas Rawls.
"It will always depend on how
fast they learn, maturity-wise,
and all those things," Hoke said of
the freshmen. "I think they're OK.
Depending on where we get, they
may play."
But while the Wolverines should
clearly have the edge over the
Eagles overall, the Eastern Michi-
gan run defense is one of the team's
biggest strengths and could present
a challenge for Michigan.
The Eagles have allowed just
41.5 yards per game on the ground

in their wins against Howard and
Alabama State and have notched
10 total sacks. Eastern Michi-
gan's early success should give the
Michigan running backs even more
incentive to prove they can perform
well against a solid defense.
And while it will be up to the
running backs to perform, it'll also
be up to the offensive line to prove
that they can help the backs be suc-
cessful.
"I'd like to think (the running
backs' struggles is on us) 100 per-
cent," said redshirt sophomore
offensive lineman Taylor Lewan.
"I would like for (Toussaint) or

Shaw or anybodythat's runningthe
ball to be able to walk through the
hole rather than have to squeeze
through."
The running backs should get
their carries Saturday, but Lewan
and the Wolverines are still focused
on what's most important.
"I think Eastern Michigan is a
good team," Lewan said. "They're
not ateam to overlook at all. That's
the truth. Every Saturday is an
opportunity to get a 'W' and to
make our record even better. And at
Michigan, it's 10 wins ayear,11wins
a year that we want. Anything less
than 11,12 wins a year is a failure."

,
1 ;
z,:
p
;

7V
Ni--

i wd

THE ROAD HOME
- PAGE4

8 FootballSaturday - September 17, 2011




0

S 0

0

Welcome to week three. If you saw that finish coming last Sat-
urday, please raise your hand. Now put it down and stop readin
this paper. You're simply too smart for us. Denard Robinson's
226-yard fourth quarter was about as unexpected as Jeremy
Gallon becoming a hero by the end of the game. After two wee
of extraordinary football, is this when "normal" returns?
Michael Florek, Stephen J. Nesbitt, Kevin Raftery, Tim Roha
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Q&A: In the aftermath of the Notre
Dame weekend, defensive tackle Ryan
Van Bergen opened up to the media.
Coach J and Co.: Why Fred Jackson,
Michigan running backs coach, has
stayed with the team for two decades.
Preview: Still without a lead back, Michigan
will give its running backs a chance to shine
against Eastern Michigan.
Cover illustration by Marissa McClain
STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers pick
against the spread to predict Michaela
scores in the 2011 football season. Florek

Ig

2011 Schedule

Western Michigan (Sept. 3): Good thing the
ks rain came. And the blitzes, too. Looked like Greg
Robinson was coaching until the second quarter.
an
Notre Dame (Sept. 10): Nothing to see here.
Michigan rallied with a 28-point fourth quarter
to stun the Fighting Irish and get the victory.
Eastern Michigan (Sept. 17): Another meeting
with another inferior neighbor: may be Michi-
gan's only shot to hang 50-plus points in a game.
San Diego State (Sept. 24): Hoke said it was
hard leaving his players behind at San Diego
State. They were mad he didn't say goodbye.
Minnesota(Oct.1):MarQueis Gray played wide
receiver last year - now he's the quarterback
and the only thing exciting about the Gophers.
Northwestern (Oct. 8): Dan Persa - that's
about it.

Michigan State (Oct. 15): Edwin Baker and
Le'Veon Bell ran over and through Michigan last
year, and Kirk Cousins ain't too shabby either.
Little Brother's growing up.
Purdue (Oct. 29): Guard your ACLs! The knee
injury has plagued Purdue the past two seasons.
Quarterback Rob Henry was the latest victim.
Iowa (Nov. 5): The faces change, but it always
seems like Kirk Ferentz finds the same types of
 players. This is just another solid Iowa team.
Illinois (Nov. 12): Nathan Scheelhaase-to-A.J.
Jenkins and Jason Ford is the whole offense.
Consider Scheelhaase a poor man's Denard.
Nebraska (Nov. 19): The legendary blackshirts
make their debut at the Big House. By the time
Jared Crick and Co. leave, it may get ugly for 'M.'
Ohio State (Nov. 26): No Tressell? No Pryor?
Ohio State's still deeper than Michigan, but a lot
could change by Thanksgiving.

Michian(-3.5) vs EasternMichiga
No.5 Oklahoma(-4)atNo.5FloridaState
No.2 Aabama (-43.5) vs North Texas
No 3LSU (-4) atNo. 25 Mississippi State
No. 4Boise State(-20.5) atiToledo
No. 6 Stanford(-8)at Arizona
No7 wsconsin 4) at Northern Iinois
No.91FoasA&M(-20.5)v s.Idaho
No.12 South Carolinal-16.5)vs. Navsy
No.17 hNebasktt-7.5Mms.Washi.)gto(
No. 12 Oregon (-47.5) vs. Missouri State
No 1i3Va. Tch(-27.01 vs. Aksaiat
No.4 Arksa(-2.5)vs. Troy
N.i15Michigan Siaieat'Notre Dame (-3.5)
No. 16 Fobida rn0x)vs F. Tm nssA
No. 17 Ohio State at Miami(Fla.) 0-)
No. 10 Wesl Virina (-3) at Maryland
No. 19Bayor NS) vs.SF Austin
No. 20 Soth Floida (-441vso. Forida A&M
No.21AubrnatiClmson(-3)
No.22Arizona State .(-5)at Illinois
No. 23TCU (-31) vs. La.-Monroe
No.23Teas(-4.5) at AUCLy
PenSatee(-6.atTemple
owar-4)vs.Pittsburgh
Purdue (-22.5)ovs.SE MissouiState
Indiana (-14.5) vs. S. Carolina Slate
MinnsotaH .5)v.Miami (Ohio)
Nothwesiern(-6.5) a Army
Last Week
Oerall

Oklahoma
Alabama
Lousioana Sain
Bois tate
Sanford
W scons in
Oklahoma State
daho
South Carolina
Washington
Oregon
Virginia Tech
Nrkassass
Florida
Ohio Stain
Marvland
Baylor
Florida A&M
Auburn
Arizona State
L-Monroe
PenoStster
Iow
Prdue
Iodiana
Miami(Ohio)
Northoestern
15-12
34-21

Oklahoma
Alabama
Louisiana Slain
Boise Slain
Stanford
wisconsin
Okiahoma Slate
Texas A&M
South Carolina
Nebraska
Missouri Slain
Virginia Tech
Arkansas
Notre Oasi
Florida
Ohio State
Woot Virginia
eayslor
South Florida
Auburn
Arioooaioat
TCU
Toxs
PenStat
Iodiaoa
Minnesot
Northwestern
17-10
35-20

Florida State
Alabama
Loiuisiana 5ioin
eoise State
Texas A&M
Navy
Washington
Missouri Slain
Virinia Tech
Michligan Stain
Tennessee
Miami (Fla.)
Wesi Virginia
TA
Tleson
Nor.hoesen
36-i9n

Oklahoma
Alabama
Louisiana S ate
Boise Stain
Stanford
wisconsin
Oklahoma StaI
Texas A&M
Souih Carolina
Nebraska
Orngon
NotreDame
Florida
Miamsi(i'la.)
Bayior
South Florida
Ariaona Sste
TCU
UCLA
PeonState
Indiana
Minnesota
Northwestern
19-8
37-18

Eric Dudek,
Business
School Senior
Michigan
Florida State
Alabama
Louisiana State
Boise Siate
Stanford
wisconsin
OklahomassSiate
Texas A&M
South Carolina
Nebraska
Missousi Slain
Virginia lash
Troy
Michigan State
Florida
Miami (Fla.)
westVirginia
Baylor
Florida A&M
Auburn
Arizona State
TCU
Texa
Penn Stae
Pardun
S. Carolina Slatn
Mineota
Northwestern
16-11
16-11

Hopkins's parents fell inlove with Jackson. Jackson con-
vinced Hopkins to take a visit. Jackson talked to Hopkins's
high school coach, Bryan Erwin.
Is he tough? Does he work hard? Does he show up to
practice on time? How are his grades?
When the formal part was over, Erwin shut the doors. In
the five years Erwin has known Jackson, Coach J always
has to get on the grease board. Marcus runs the I-forma-
tion. Jackson knows all about it. He got on the board and
talked through plays for hours. Wherever he goes, he still
teaches like a quarterback.
"We've gone through a lot of grease cans," Erwin said.
This is building relationships. This is recruiting. No one
does it better than Coach J.
Darryl Stonum, Troy Woolfolk, Brandon Herron, Carvin
Johnson and Terrance Robinson, among others, are all his
guys. Royce Jenkins-Stone, a linebacker in Rivals.com's
Top 100 prospects, has committed to play for Michigan
nextyear.
He's a Jackson guy. Super-recruit Shane Morris, one of
the best - if not the best quarterback - in the 2013 class,
has already verbally committed to the Wolverines. He's a
Jackson guy.
"Recruiting is the name of the game," said Wheatley,
now the running backs coach at Syracuse. "Michigan
wouldn't be Michigan if you don't get the players in there
to continue the Michigan man tradition, to put the butts
in the seats, fill that thing up, 111, 112,(000) whatever it is.
"Add up the number of backs and the yards that he's
coached over the years and then the players that he's
brought in over the years, I would say that's pretty much,
you've got to keep that guy."
Starting with Rick Leach, Jackson learned from Bo. He
sells the same tradition to the kids and coaches that Bo sold
to him. He builds relationships on the trail the same way
Moeller built a relationship with him. He recruits the way
he was recruited.
The method isn't a secret. If you step into his office on
a Thursday morning and ask, Jackson will give you a pre-
view.
"I know Ican sell this place as well as anybody," Jackson
said. "I've known about this place since the '70s."
The rest is right out of Boo textbook.
'This is Michigan. Whatever you put in this article
you've gotto knowthatchat's what I sell kids. This is Mich-
igan. This is not any other school.
"Like Bo said, 'Those who stay will be champions.' You
feel like you're a champion here."
.He continues on. The academics, the life in Ann Arbor,
the stadium, the tradition, Fielding Yost, Gary Moeller,
Lloyd Carr.
It's nothing new. But hearing it this time was different.
Jackson looks you in the eye when he says it. His pace was
steady, his words forceful but ringing of truth. You have no
choice but to believe him.
"My dad has got a way of talking to young men," Fred
Jr. says.
As a young man Fred Jr. was on the receiving end of
those talks. Now 35, he coaches football at Flint Northern
High School. Last year his running back, Thomas Rawls,
broke 2009 Heisman Trophy winner Mark Ingram's Flint-
area single-game rushingrecord.
Jackson paid a visit to his old stomping grounds. He
made his pitch. Word got out.
"When (Iowa) found out my dad was seeing him, they
were like, 'Man, I might as well lay off. Coach Jack got a
hand on him, that's it,'"Fred Jr. said.
But there was one recruit Jackson handleddifferently.
That one provides a window into the other side of Fred Jack-
son's tenure at Michigan. He's not the reason Jackson sur-
vived or became indispensible. But more so than Jackson's
love for Michigan, the recruit is the reason he's stayed.

CHAPTER SIX
Jeremy Jackson got to play the position Fred Jr. didn't.
He got a lot of things Fred Jr. didn't.
While Pops still worked long hours during the fall and
missed football games, he came home at night. To see his
son, Jackson had to drive a few miles, not across state lines.
When Jeremy was growing up, Jackson began his suc-
cess at Michigan. Lloyd Carr took over as head coach in the
summer of 1995 and named Jackson the offensive coordi-
nator in addition to running backs coach. Carr trusted him.
After two seasons, Jackson lost the offensive coordina-
tor job. He was named assistant head coach. During that
time, more opportunities arose - Sunday football was call-
ing.
"I had opportunities to coach in the NFL numerous
amounts of time," Jackson said. "I mean like eight, nine
times and I didn't go because I wanted to coach here."
In the most unstable of professions, the Jacksons found
stability. They had bought a house in Ann Arbor. Jeremy,
the oldest son of Jackson and his second wife, Teresa, was
growing up. Josh came along. The wife was happy. The kids
were happy. Jackson was at the only college he had every
wanted to coach at.
But the allure remained. This was the highest level, the
top of the coaching ladder. Could Jackson start all over,
leaving his house and family all over again to chase another
objective?
No. He was going to be there for Jeremy and Josh.
"I think he wants to coach in the NFL," Fred Jr. said. "I
think he really does, butI think he's stayingbecause of his
kids."
"I had the
opportunities
to coach in the NFL
numerous times."
Jackson still works long hours and misses events. That's
the nature of the job. He told AnnArbor com he saw about
"a fifth of what Jeremy did as an athlete in high school."
But he lived under the same roof, and that was more than
he could say for Fred Jr.
Jeremy took Pops' advice. He became a receiver. With
the help of Jackson and former Michigan coach and cur-
rent tows wide receivers coach Erik Campbell, who had
coached Jeremy since he was young, Jeremy developed into
a Division-I prospect. Offers started rolling in.
LSU coach Lea Miles, who coached with Jackson when
the two were at Michigan, wanted him down in Baton
Rouge. Campbell wanted him at Iowa.
"That bothered me when they offered him," Jackson
said. "I mean, I thought there was a chance."
But this was Coach J's son. Might as well lay off.
There was no pitch, no question about becoming the
next great Michigan receiver. For all of his life, Jeremy had
seen his dad live the moments of the Michigan program:

Fred Jacksonand son Jeremy never had to sit down and talk about
Michigan during Jeremy's recruitment.
Biakabutuka's 313 yards, Charles Woodson and the 1997
national championship, Braylon Edwards in triple over-
time against Michigan State. Having a sit-down in the liv-
ing room wasn't changing anything.
"I never told him a thing," Jackson says.
"There wasn't much for him to really tell me," Jeremy
added. "I pretty much knew."
CHAPTER SEVEN
Jackson's shot at the NFL is fading fast, if it's not gone
entirely. He's in his fourth decade asa college coach. Now
coaching with his old buddies, Hoke and defensive coor-
dinator Greg Mattison, he'll remain as the running backs
coach at Michigan, probably for at least the next four or
eight years.
Josh, now 53, is in eighth grade. Already over 6-feet
tall, he may be best athlete of them all. Jackson may have
the chance to see another son through Michigan.
"It's funny now that I'm older, I see my little brothers
and how they are and I'm like, 'oh they're getting all that
hands on,' " Fred Jr. said. "If I would've got it, I would
have been sweet. Real sweet."
Ann Arbor and the Michigan football program have
brought the Jackson family together. Jeremy's a sopho-
more now. Josh will be at Huron High School next year,
about four miles away from Michigan Stadium.
Fred Jr., with a baby of his own, is about an hour up the
road. With him, tucked away in some closet or in some
box in the garage, are those quarterback playbooks Dad
gave him all those years ago.
In a way those books represent the old Fred Jackson:
the man who loved football, wanted to be at Michigan and
was willing to sacrifice his family time to get there.
There's a different Fred Jackson now. There's a differ-
ent relationship with Fred Jr. now. Fred Jr. comes to visit
and it's an event. Jeremy and Josh have to be home. Fam-
ily is here.
That lost time between Fred Jr. and Dad in those early
years has been found.
"When I was younger, I wasn't with him every day like
my mom," Fred Jr. says. "Now, it's like I've got unlimited
access to him and maybe t'm livingsa childhood a little bit
with him. ButI don't mind that."
TheMichiganDaily - www.michigandaily.com I 7

2 1 FootballSaturday - September 17, 2011





0

0 0

0

MAR
Sophomore wide receiver Jeremy Jackson saw his dad live the historic moments of Michigan football. Now he's part of it. H
Michigan's 14 games since he joined the team.

playoff victories. They were the best team in Flint history.
Jackson's lack ofsize scared off Division-I teams schools.
After a brief stint as a walk-on wide receiver at Western
Michigan, he transferred to Jackson State. His playing
career over, questions still lingering.
What if Dad had been around? How would Fred Jr.'s
football career be different if he wasn't miles away?
"When I was playingI did feel like if I had Pops around it
might bea little bit different," Fred Jr. said. "I did feel that.
But I think my whole thing and why I had success playing
quarterback in high school is because I wanted to impress
him.
"I guess you can pin it both ways."
Jackson returned in the middle of his son's high-school
career, taking the job at Michigan. But by then Fred Jr.
didn'thave much time left to develop and Jackson was con-
cerned with figuring out a way to make this the last stop on
his journey.
He had finally achieved his dream of coaching at Michi-
gan, but there was an added incentive to stay. .
"I think part of it was because myself and my sister was
here," Fred Jr. said.
CHAPTER FOUR
Coach J stood in between stretching lines on a Tuesday
practice. It was a sunny day and he was wearing a baseball
cap and his trademark sunglasses. He hovered over junior
Vincent Smith, cracking jokes.
It's here where he finds the special ones. After 20 years
he knows what he's looking for: toughness, smarts, and "an,
inner will that wouldn't allow them to think anything you
did physically would stop them."
It usually takes a year to figure out, but the way Jack-
son sees it, there's no mistaking it. Tyrone Wheatley, Tim

Biakabutuka, Anthony Thomas, Chris Perry, Mike Hart -
they all had it.
Once he finds it, he can get started.
"You've got to coach the special guys - who you think
may be special - in a different way," Jackson said. "You've
got to treat them all fair, but you don't necessarily have to
treat them the same."
Before arriving at Michigan, Jackson had coached quar-
terbacks all his life. If he always wanted to come to the
school he always wanted to coach at and try to figure out a
way to stay close to his kids, he had to take over a position
he knew little about.
"I'm going to coach
them just like
I coach the
quarterbacks."
He worked with Burton on learning the finer points of
the position, like blocking. After two weeks, he understood
the technique. Everything else, he already knew.
"I realized after coaching quarterbacks all these years,
coaching running backs, to me, was the easiest thing I
could do," Jackson said. "I said I'm going to coach them just
like I coach the quarterbacks in terms of knowledge."
The special ones already knew how to run. Teaching

COURTESY OF FRED JACKSON JR.
Fred Jackson's son Fred Jr. (center) had a much different childhood
than his brothers Josh (left)cand Jeremy (right).
them the technique wasn't too hard. Blocking was more
about mentality anyway. They just had to know who to
block. Reading a defense and knowing which players are
likely to be blitzing isn't much different from what a quar-
terback had to see.
With Wheatley, Jackson's first test case, it worked.
"I never liked getting in the huddle because I knew all
the signals," Wheatley said. "I knew what the audibles
were so I just never liked getting in the huddle. I kind of
stood back there. I would see the same thing the quarter-
back saw."-
Wheatley was an All-Big Ten first team running back
three times. Tim Biakabutuka became All-Big Ten the fol-
lowing year. Three others followed suit, ending with Mike
Hart.
The time away from Fred Jr. and Tonya coaching quar-
terbacks at Toledo and Navy and Vanderbilt wasn't wasted.
All that time spent studying blitz schemes and quarterback
check downs turned Fred Jackson into one of the premiere
running backs coaches in the country.
"He sees everything," Hart said. "He knows exactly
what happens on every play. ... I think as much success as
he's had, you have to respect him. He's not one of those
guys where you say, 'Oh, well this guy's only had one run-
ning back."'
The time away got Jackson to Michigan, back to his
children. Now, through Moeller, Carr, Rich Rodriguez and
Hoke, it's one of the reasons for his longevity.
"He's a good coach," Biakabutuka said. "Any new coach
that comes in, the head coach, can realize that."
CHAPTER FIVE
Coaches can't create talent. They develop it. But if an
assistant coach wants to stay employed, he better find it.
Coach J knows that better than anybody. More so than
his coaching, it's the reason Rodriguez enabled years 17, 18
and 19, despite Jackson not knowing anybody on the coach-
ing staff.
Back in 2009, Jackson needed another running back
for the 2010 class, so he traveled down to Texas, the place
where he'd spent years convincing some of the state's best
players to spurn burnt orange or crimson and cream to don
maize and blue.
Stephen Hopkins was a downhill runner for Marcus
High School. When he rushed for over 1,500 yards his
sophomore year, colleges started calling. When he did it
again his junior year, so did Michigan.

Fifth-year senior defen-
sive tackle Ryan Van Ber-
gen has been through a lot
of change at Michigan.
He came to Ann Arbor
under the direction of Lloyd
Carr, paced the defensive
line through the Rich Rodri-
guez era and now he head-
lines Brady Hoke's front
four on defense.
Van Bergen spoke with
the media on Monday,
fresh of the Wolverines'
stunning victory over Notre
Dame less than 48 hours
earlier:
The Michigan Daily: How do
you balance enjoying that win and
how it doesn't do anything for you
facing Eastern Michigan?
Ryan Van Bergen: You enjoy
it. Saturday night we enjoyed it.
Sunday we watched some film and
enjoyed the highlights. Then it's
time to move on. Eastern's a good
team, they're 2-0 for the first time
in a longtime. We've got to prepare
for them, and we've got to play a
game Saturday.
TMD: How different was it
coming out of the tunnel Saturday
night, under the lights, as opposed
to noon or 3:30?
Van Bergen: It was really
weird. The tunnel is dimly lit any-
way and the field looks like it's
daylight because of the lights. The
atmosphere was just crazy. I've
never heard the Big House that
loud. We were watching film on
it, and the cameras were shaking.
You could barely see the game at
some points because it was so loud
that the stands were moving.
TMD: You've been through
these comebacks before, a couple
against Notre Dame and against
Wisconsin back in 2008. Did you
draw on them? Did you talk to
other guys to keep the faith when
it was looking so dire at some
points?
Van Bergen: We just know we
have the players who are capa-
ble of making plays. If you have
Denard Robinson on your team, 30

seconds is plenty of time to score
a touchdown. He can run 100
yards in under 10 seconds, so you
don't need to worry about 30 sec-
onds being on the clock. Denard
Robinson can take the ball down
himself, and he's got receivers that
can make plays - as you can see -
one-on-one they're dangerous. We
didn't ever give up as a team. We
persevered, it's something we've
talked about all off-season.
TMD: When you see wide
receiver Jeremy Gallon that wide
open on the wheel route on the
sideline, what's that like when you
see it develop?
Van Bergen: Well I didn't see
it because Gallon is 5-(foot)-6 and
everybody else was in my way.
I saw it on the JumboTron and
I couldn't believe it. I'm looking
and trying to find out where their
defense is because he's running
still and he got to the sideline.
And then we're down around
the 25-yard line, and I'm a good
friend of Brendan (Gibbons), and
I know he's going to make the
field goal. And then coach Borges
throws a pass to Roy (Roundtree).
I can't believe he caught it; I just
fell down. I think I chest-bumped
Dave Brandon. It was just a great
experience, it was awesome.
TMD: What's that like, chest-
bumping Dave Brandon?
Van Bergen: "It was kind of
interesting because I was going
for it and I don't think he knew.
You're making eye-to-eye contact,
you start gathering for the jump,
you've got it timed out. You prac-
tice this kind of thing. We didn't
rehearse this. You could tell that
he's kind of rusty, but I think he'll
come around."
TMD:Are you aware that you're
now off scholarship?
Van Bergen: No, he seemed to
enjoy it.
TMD: The defense locked down
pretty well in the fourth quar-
ter; so how disheartening was it
when they walked right through
the defense to take the lead again
inside 90 seconds?
Van Bergen: We didn't com-
municate as well as we needed to
in that kind of situation. It was a
great learning experience for us.
Luckily it didn't cost us that game.
We need to look back at it and see

what things we can improve on,
because two-minute defense is the
most pressure-packed situation
in the game. We've got to be good
there. Our offense scored, we need
to hold onto that win for them.
TMD: On the flip side, talk
about recovering the fumble just
minutes earlier.
Van Bergen: I didn't know what
happened because I was rushing
the passer. I thought I saw the
ball out of the corner of my eye,
and I wasn't sure, but then it came
squirting through the line. They
were in the red zone, if they would
have scored there, who knows
what the outcome of the game
would've been? That was a big play
for us. All I really did was fall on
the fumble. F
TMD: You've created and
secured more turnovers this year.
What's been the difference there?
Van Bergen: Emphasis. In prac-
tice, we emphasize that regardless
of what the tempo is. If we're in
shoulder pads or not, we're always
trying to strip the ball from our
backs. If there's incomplete passes,
we're always scooping and scoring
those in practice. Every ball that's
on the ground is our ball.
If you look at turnovers, that
decides a lot. The top of the AP
charts are the teams that get the
most turnovers and have the big-
gest turnover margin. We haven't
been at the top because of that
reason. If you look at it now, we're
probably creating some of the most
turnovers in college football.
TMD: You've had fast starts the
last couple years, and you've only
played seven quarters, but does
this 2-0 start feel different than
the last couple years?
Van Bergen: I feel like every
year has felt different. This year's
felt different just because we're
2-0, and one game was called
because of rain and the other came
down to the last two seconds. It's
been a rollercoaster already and
it's only been two games. We'll
find out where we are with this
next game ... we want to come out
and be dominant and have a good
all-around game, because we have
not put one together that we've
been successful in all three phas-
es. If we can do that, then I'll start
thinking it's a different season.

ifth-year senior defensive tackle Ryan Van Bergen recovered a fumble Saturday.

I

6 FootballSaturday - September 17, 2011

TheMichiganDaily - www.michigandaily.com 3




0

0 0

COACH J. AND CO.
Why running backs coach Fred Jackson has stayed at Michigan for the past two decades
By Michael Florek

corner behind his desk. An un-hung picture rests gently on a
cardboard box.
Jackson and Bo are standing on the field of Michigan Sta-
dium. The picture was taken in 1989, Bo's last year, just before
Jackson and Purdue took on Michigan.
Jackson reaches behind the box and pulls out another
picture. It has a slight yellowish tint to it. It's old but there's
no mistaking who it is. It's Bo standing on the sideline, with
slicked back chestnut hair.
"Look at how young he looked," Jackson says. "You know
what year that is? That's '74."
It was Bo who taught Jackson, a young kid from Louisiana,
what Michigan stood for. It was Bo who brought him here.
After playing quarterback at Jackson State, Jackson came
to Flint, Mich. because of a program that brought minority
educators to the Midwest. Flint Southwestern Athletic direc-
tor Dick Leach hired him as an assistant football coach and
biology teacher. He would coach track and basketball, too.
A year later, Leach's son Rick was in his junior year at
Southwestern and was already one of the top recruits in the
country. Michigan State was all over him. Arizona, Stanford,
UCLA, Colorado and many other major colleges in the nation
wanted him.
"If you don't take
this job, we're never
going to offer you
another job."
That included Bo Schembechler and Michigan. Leach was
the perfect fit for any offense, but especially Schembechler's.
He had the speed to run the option and the arm to make the
defense pay for defending it.
Leach hadn't yet made a commitment when Bo turned to
Southwestern's barely-out-of-college assistant coach.
"Are we going to get Leach?"
"Yeah, you'll get him," Jackson told him. "His family is
Michigan. He's Michigan."
Leach signed. A relationship was born. Bo kept coming back
and kept selling his passion for Michigan to Jackson and his
recruits. Players like Gary Lee and Brian Carpenter spurned
the best recruiting efforts of then-Illinois defensive coordina-
tor Lloyd Carr to sign with the Wolverines. Then-Michigan
defensive coordinator Gary Moeller took a liking to Jackson
and began teaching him. Any time Jackson had a question, he
would call Moeller. Gary always answered it.
Barely into his coaching career, Jackson already found his
objective.
"I knew this: I always wanted to coach in college football,"
Jackson said. "I wanted to coach at Michigan."
Separated from his first wife, the journey began in 1979
when he became the offensive coordinator, quarterbacks
coach and wide receivers coach at Toledo. Three-year-old Fred
Jr. and his older sister Tonya stayed in Flint with their mother.
Thirteen years after Bo Schembechler got that Leach guar-
antee, Jackson was well on his way to achieving his goal. He
was the offensive coordinator at Wisconsin when Bo called
him again.
Michigan's wide receivers coach had just left. Did Jackson
want the position?
This was Jackson's chance. He could bring everything full

COURTESY OF FRED JACKSON JR

circle, go to place that was sold so well to him and his players.
He could work with the people who taught him, be closer to his
family. But he was the already an offensive coordinator - one
step away fromthe top of the coaching ladder. You don't volun-
tary step down a rung.
Jackson turned it down.
Six years later, Bo was long retired as head coach, but he
never stopped recruiting. After leaving Madison, Jackson
bounced from Navy to South Carolina to Purdue to Vanderbilt.
He was the quarterbacks coach with the Commodores when
Bo called again.
Longtime running backs coach Tirrell Burton has just
retired. Head coach Gary Moeller wanted Jackson to have the
job. This time Bo had leverage.
"If you don't take this job," he told Jackson, "we're never
going to offer you another job."
CHAPTER THREE
Fred Jackson Jr. was fed up.
As his dad chased his dream, Fred Jr. was stuck in Flint.
Spending summers throwing the football around wasn't
enough time together. He was going to stay with his dad.
Mom was havingnone of that.
"She wanted me to be with her," Fred Jr. said. "I'm her only
son. I understand now. I didn't understand then."
Those backyard throws and catches would have to suffice
for a few more years. In those days, Fred Jr. was always the
receiver. His dad was the former college quarterback, after
all. Jackson had played at Jackson State, handing the ball off
to Walter Payton during his senior season. The Philadelphia
Eagles gave Jackson a shot, but cut him not long after.
Jackson still had enough pop in his arm to throw the ball
repeatedly to his son as they tried to scrunch their bonding
time into the short summer months before fall camp started
in August.
"I didn't talk to him as much, it was either late night when
he got home, or if he could shoot me a quick call during the

A

CHAPTER ONE
"Do you want to be the next Michigan running back?"
It wasn't so much a question as a recruiting pitch.
Fred Jackson was in Double Oak, Texas. Tall, with a mus-
tache fading into his cheeks, at 61 the wrinkles are there, but
only if you look for them. In his deep, booming voice he asked
this question to 17-year old Stephen Hopkins.
Jackson knew how loaded it was. He created its meaning.
Entering his 20th year as Michigan's running backs coach,
Jackson has groomed five of the top-10 career rushing leaders
in school history. His backs have been named All-Big Ten 10
times. He's been responsible for over 35,000 yards rushing.
This is the other part of hisjob - recruiting.
The Wolverines offered Hopkins a scholarship in Febru-
ary of his junior year. Four months later, at Michigan's spring
game, Hopkins officially answered Jackson's question and
committed.

"Following the people that have been here already, people
that have already played here, it wasn't reallythat hard," Hop-
kins said before this season.
At a school ripe with history, the mystique of the Michi-
gan running back Jackson had spent his life's work creating
had just landed him another recruit. And unlike most of the
countless other players Jackson has recruited, Hopkins is in
his position group. He gets to mold Hopkins into the player
his mind sees him to be.
It's the perfect intersection of what Fred Jackson does:
coach and recruit. For the past two decades, with four dif-
ferent head coaches, he's done this donning a block 'M' on
his chest, even if it was in his heart long before then. In pro-
fession known for its nomadic ways, Jackson has gone from
Tyrone Wheatley to Mike Hart, finding and molding the next
great Michigan running back.
"Coaching with Fred and watching him develop backs and
how his kids play on a daily, weekly basis, there's no better
running backs coach in the country," Michigan coach Brady
Hoke said.

If his coaching allows him to survive, his recruiting makes
him indispensable.
Logic says with a resume like that, Jackson shouldn't be a
running backs coach. The coaching ladder says the best posi-
tion coaches become coordinators. The best coordinators
become head coaches. The ladder used to matter to Jackson.
He spent most of his career running across the country, try-
ing to finda way to the next rung.
Now, it doesn't mean much. Jackson's set it aside for a
peaceful house and a chance to catch a few more Pop Warner
football games.
Why hasn't he left? The answer begins with a quarterback
from Baton Rouge becoming'Coach J.' It ends with 'Pops.'
CHAPTER TWO
Twenty years later, Fred Jackson hasn't fully moved into
his office. Papers are scattered on an end table in the back

(TOP)>MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
(BOTTOM) COURTESY OF MICHIGAN ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT
Running backs coach Fred Jackson has coached five All-Big Ten run-
ning backs in his 20 years at Michigan.
day or something," Fred Jr. said.
During those fleeting moments in June and July, it wasn't
any different from a typical father-son relationship. As far as
football, Jackson had some advice.
"Always be a receiver," he would say. "If you want a schol-
arship or if you want play at the next level in the pros, they
take more receivers than they do quarterbacks."
But as Fred Jr. entered high school, he had no choice. His
coach had heard of his dad's successes. Jackson was a quar-
terback. Jackson's son was going to be a quarterback. It didn't
matter that Fred was 6-foot and barely 155 pounds.
Jackson, well into his coaching career at this point, knew
how to make up for some of the lack in size. He started feed-
ing his son quarterback playbooks. He provided him with
inspirational quotes and related everything to football.
Knowledge makes you better.
With the help of future Michigan cornerback Andre
Weathers, Fred Jr. took the 1994 Flint Central Indians to two
See COACH J, Page 6
TheMichiganDaily - www.michigandaily.com I S

4 1 FootballSaturday - September 17, 2011


