THEOF PR
Rachel Van Gilder is mad the Ui
students of paper they paid for.
shnuld mil nvr tr th next se

.4

A lVAl 1VI V Gf

PAGE 4 PA
Tuesday, January 11, 2011

Ann Arbor, Michigan

JUST DANCE

The Taal dance team performs during Delta Theta Psi's annual variety show yesterday in the Michigan League. This year the show featured performances by Indian
student groups on campus.
UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS
Coeman
address, state funding amount

MICHIGAN FOOTBALL
Brandon,
Miles met
last night in
Louisiana
Players' meeting on Monday, citing a source close
to Miles, that the coach would
scheduled for accept the Michigan job if it was
offered.
4 p.m. today LSU Athletic Director Joe All-
eva released a statement late last
ByTIM ROHAN night saying, "We continue to
Daily Sports Editor work with Coach Miles and we
remain committed to keeping him
After a meeting between Loui- as the head coach of LSU foot-
siana State University coach Les ball."
Miles and officials from Michi- Miles and Brandon were
gan's Athletic Department, specu- teammates under the legend-
lation is swirling that Miles may ary Michigan football coach Bo
soon be headed to Ann Arbor to Schembechler. Miles was later an
lead the Wolverines' football pro- offensive line coach at Michigan
gram after the firing of former from 1987-1994, including three
coach Rich Rodriguez. seasons under Schembechler.
LSU spokesman Michael Bon- When he was hired before the
nette confirmed in an e-mail to 2008 season, former Michigan
The Michigan Daily last night that coach Rich Rodriguez became
a meeting did take place between the first coach since 1969 to guide
Miles and Michigan officials on the Wolverines without having
Monday, but said he couldn't pro- worked under,$,ch bechler. If
vide any details regarding what Miles was hired, he would restart
happened in the meeting or who the trend of Schembechler disci-
was present. However, the Baton ples coaching the Michigan foot-
Rouge television station WAFB ball team.
reported that Michigan Athletic Miles is the first-known candi-
Director Dave Brandon and Miles date to potentially interview for
met yesterday evening at Miles's the head coaching position. Dur-
home in Baton Rouge, LA. ing a Senate Advisory Committee
A source with knowledge of the on University Affairs meeting yes-
situation told the Daily that there terday, University President Mary
will be a players' meeting today at Sue Coleman said even she didn't
4 p.m. Brandon could announce to have an inkling of whom Brandon
the team at that time who the Wol- will select.
verines' next coach will be. "No, I don't know who the next
ESPN's Joe Schad reported See MILES, Page 8

At meeting, SACUA
members suggest
loan forgiveness to
prevent 'brain drain'
ByKAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
University President Mary Sue
Coleman attended the Senate
Advisory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs meeting yesterday and
told the faculty governing body
that the effect of the state's nearly

$2 billion budget deficit on the
University's general fund is cur-
rently unknown.
Coleman said she expects the
University and other state-funded
institutions to make sacrifices as a
result of future
budget decisions NOTEBOOK
to be made by
new Republican Gov. Rick Snyder.
Snyder will be making his State
of the State address on Jan. 19, and
it is only then that the University
will know where it stands in terms
of receiving state appropriations,
Coleman said.
About 21 percent of the Univer-

sity's general fund is provided by
the state - an amount that is at an
all-time low for public universities
in Michigan, Coleman said.
"We hope for the best, but we
understand the dire issues that the
state faces," Coleman said.
While Snyder's agenda for
University funding are currently
unclear, Coleman said Snyder has
been "pretty aggressive" with his
budget plans for Michigan.
However, Coleman said she
thinks the University has been
successful in rationalizing the
state funding.
Later in the meeting, SACUA

member Steven Lusmann, a profes-
sor of Music, also said that the state
could benefit from looking at how
the University plans its budget.
"There are some things that the
state could learn of the Univer-
sity," Lusmann said.
Anticipating future state bud-
geting problems, SACUA mem-
bers discussed possible solutions
that the University can collaborate
with the state on. These include
more outreach for research fund-
ing on the part of the University
and loan forgiveness legislation -
which would eliminate a student's
See COLEMAN, Page 7

'U' students say they are honest
when filling out class evaluations


Survey shows
students at other
universities lie in
course feedback
By JENNA SIMARD
Daily StaffReporter
Motivating students to fill out
course evaluations is not the pri-
mary concern at some univer-
sities - it's actually students'
dishonest comments about their
professors.

A recent student survey con-
ducted at Southeastern Okla-
homa State University and the
University of Northern Iowa
revealed that students don't
always tell the truth when filling
out course evaluations, a Dec. 13
article in The Des Moines Reg-
ister reported. According to the
article, one-third of students
surveyed at both universities,
admitted to lying on anonymous
course evaluations.
However, several University of
Michigan students interviewed
by The Michigan Daily said they
are usually honest when filling

out course evaluations at the end
of each semester.
Gretchen Weir, assistant vice
provost for academic affairs at
the University, said she believes
there is no evidence that sug-
gests University students have
any reason to lie on course evalu-
ations.
"I don't think that our stu-
dents feel like they need to lie
about them because they aren't
worried about professors finding
out who they are," Weir said.
The University has always
kept evaluations anonymous,
See EVALUATIONS, Page 7

UNIVERSITY ALMNI
Business School alum puts fashion
first with creation of class jewelry

(FROM LEFT) MSA President Chris Armstrong talks with Business senior Alex Serwer, LSA senior Caroline Rooney and LSA
senior Crist Stilianos at the Spectrum Center's 40th Anniversary kickoff party at UMMA yesterday.
Spectrum Center celebrates
40th anniversary with kickoff

2010 graduate
partnered with
Peruvian designer
By LINDSAY KRAMER
Daily StaffReporter
Many students have passed
by the class ring booth outside
Ulrich's Bookstore on any given

day. But unlike students who
stopped to examine the rings for
a possible purchase, University
alum Sara Jones took a look at the
rings and thought about how she
could make thembetter.
A 2010 graduate of the Ross
School of Business's MBA pro-
gram, Jones said the slim Opiot
for aesthetically pleasing female
class rings for women prompted
her to create her own line of class

jewelry. Jones founded Heart
Graffiti - a jewelry company spe-
cializing in student pieces that are
subtle and meant for daily wear.
Jones started working on the
companyin 2009 and was inspired
by the artistic designs of jewelry
makers in Pe'u while she worked
there when receiving her MBA.
She said that at the close of
summer 2009, she traveled down
See JEWELRY, Page 7

Director: In light
of recent events,
'place of acceptance'
essential
By BRIENNE PRUSAK
Daily StaffReporter
'rhe University's Spectrum
Center launched a year-long cel-

ebration in honor of its 40th anni-
versary last night.
About 100 attended the event,
titled "Doin' it for 40 Years,"
that was held at the University
of Michigan Museum of Art and
featured live music, speakers
and artwork that honored four
decades of LGBT activism.
The Spectrum Center - which
provides education, outreach,
advocacy and support for LGBT
students and allies at the Univer-

sity - was developed by Jim Toy
in 1971 and originally called the
Human Sexuality Office. Toy,
who became the first person in
Michigan to publicly announce
his gay identity, is a long-time
advocate of gay rights in the state.
He is also the co-author of the
city of Ann Arbor's LGBT non-
discrimination policy.
At the event, Toy said he
thinks it's "unbelievable" that it
See SPECTRUM CENTER, Page 7



WEATHER
TOMORROW

H: 26 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
L:14 Call 734-763-2459 orer 'U' and Toyota create safety research center
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX AP NEWS..
Vol. CXXI,No.70 OPINION..
2TheMichigana 0 ARTS......
michigandoily.com

.................... 3 CLA SS IFItO S.E ....... ....... .....6
... 4 NEWS .....7
.............5 SPORTS..... .8

4


2 - Tuesday, January 11, 2011

The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com


2 - Tuesday, January 11, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

PERUSING POSTERS

What the library offers

Editor's Note: Today The Michi-
gan Daily debuts a new weekly rotat-
ing item called Questions on Campus.
Every Tuesday, we'll answer ques-
tionsfrom students about the Univer-
sity. Topics will range from academic
policies, campus life and anything in
between. To submit a question you
want answered, e-mail questions@
umich.edu.
Q: There are many libraries
across campus, but what are some
of the specific resources offered
by libraries that can be most help-
fulfor students?
With more than 20 different
libraries in 12 campus buildings, stu-
dents may be overwhelmed by the
vastness of University resources and
may not know where to start. And
while many students study in at least
one University library, especially
during midterms and finals, students
leave many resources untapped.
Many University tools allow stu-

dents to fulfill their library needs
online without stepping out their
door.
MLibrary, the University
Library's online resource, gives stu-
dents the option to complete their
research online - eliminating the
task of searching through library
catalogues and archives in person.
MLibrary also allows students
to access a plethora of online jour-
nals free of charge. In November,
the website was updated and now
combines the browsing and search-
ing features of the site into a single
interface.
Additionally, delivery services for
hard copies of books are available for
students - allowing them to pick up
the materials at the checkout coun-
ters at the libraries instead of search-
ing through the stacks.
Another service is Mirlyn Get
This, which provides a delivery ser-
vice from one library on campus to

another at a library pickup location
of the student's choice.
If a student encounters difficulty
finding the necessary materials from
an on-campus library, the Univer-
sity also uses an Interlibrary Loan
system, which allows the libraries
to borrow materials from a library at
another university or institution.
But the libraries on campus aren't
purely for academic needs. Students
can also go to some libraries for
entertainment purposes like play-
ing computer and video games. The
Shapiro Undergraduate Library is
also home to Askwith Media Library,
where students can rent movies and
television shows free of cost.
In the basement of the Duderstadt
Library on North Campus, there is
also a Computer and Video Game
Archive, which offers a selection of
games ranging from 1970s classics to
new releases.
-RACHEL BRUSSTAR

School of Music freshman Ji Kim and LSA freshman
Sarah Garvey browse through posters in the Union.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-418-411s eat. 1201 734-418-4115 eat. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmailcom
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Office hours: sun.-Thur.11 a.m.-2a.m.
734-418-4115 er,.3
News Tips news@michigandaily.com
Cotrrectionscrections@michigandaify.com
Letterstothe Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.com
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaiy.com
Sports Section sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor ' swanson@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber ManangNesEditor, y aber@ichigandaily.com
SNRs oNEWS EIRos sS:Btanair,, Dln Cini,Caln stonu, seph
Lichterman, DevonThorsby
SSISTnAN EWSnEDITnnSnahlB ,ClaiueGoscicki,SuzanneJacbs,Mine
MrarMiheNaro, Bnuune r, Kahinlims .
Michelle DeWitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editor
SNOREDORIALPEEDAOSAidallsaAsl eyriesshamme andurag
ASITN TRAnnnr sLPAGE EITOSEsaghnavs,Hnnasa ta,sAdrew Weine
Tim Rohan and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Nick Spar Managing Sports Editor
SENIORSPORT EDmTORMarkBurns, MichaelFlorek,ChantelJennings,RyanKartje
StephenJ. Nesit, ZakPyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi, Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
Kevin Raftery, Matt Slovin
Sharon Jacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: LeahBurgin,KaviPandey,JenniferXu
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JoeCadagin,EmmaGase,PromaKhoslaDavidTao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moth Managing Photo Editors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Salam Rida, Anna Schulte, Samantha
Zach Bergsnnand g design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich ManaingoDenignuEditoes
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Maya Friedman
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS: Alex Bondy, Hermes Risien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.cor
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski,Elyana Twiggs
lsh tealypand copydesk@michigandaily.cor
Eileen PattentCpytChiefs
Sarah Squire web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Sales Manager
SALES FORCE MANAGER: StephanieBowker
MARKETINGMANAGER:GjonJuncaj
HillarytSzawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Zach Yancer WebProjectcCoordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN0745-%7) ispublished Monday throughFridayduringthefallandwinter
terms by studentsat theuniversity of Michigan.Onecopy isavailablefree of chargetoallreaders.
AdditionalcopiesmaybepickedupattheDaily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,startingin
septemberviaU.S.mailare$110.Winter term(anuary through Apri)is$115.yearlong(September
throughApril)is$195.Universityafiliatesaresubjecttoareducedsubscriptionrate.On-canpus
subscriptions no fall temae $35. Subsciption sust be rpaid.TheMichigan Dailyisamember
of TheAsscated Pessandedsocatd Clleiteress.

0

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

$130 stolen from Access denied 'U' Mentorship Trumpet recital The decline in the number
unlocked car WHERE: Modern Languages mass meeting WHAT: Jason Bergman 1ofsmokers in the United
Building will perform his disserta- Kingdom could result in
WHERE: 1012 Cornwell Place, WHEN: Monday at about 2:15 WHAT: An informa- tion recital - playing various the disappearance of the habit
Lot M-65 a.m. tional meeting for under- pieces of music, including by 2050, The Telegraph report-
WHEN: Sunda at about 1:15 WHAT: An MCard door read- graduates lookinoto oe those of Gershwin and Bach. ed.

rxarr;aiuy a UUL
p.m.
WHAT: A female reported that
$130 in cash was stolen from
her unlocked car, University

er was ripped off an exterior
door, University Police report-
ed. The damage is estimated
to be about $300. There are no

gt uac iv ig wgc
involved in the University
Mentorship Program.
WHO: Office of New
Student Programs

WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building

Police reported. suspects. WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m. Thanks in large part to
Accident reveals Michigan UniRoms W interfest in 7 Michigan coach John
MBeilein's 1-3-1 zone
faulty license Parking lot loner the Union scheme, the Michigan men's
2011 Summer basketball team held Kansas to
WHERE: East Medical Center receives M IP WHAT: Students can 35-percent shooting on Sunday.
Drive Orientation visit informational >> FORMORE,SEESPORTS,PAGE8
WHEN: Sunday at about 11:30 WHERE: 705 North Univer- booths set up by campus
p.m. sity, Lot C-1 leader meetng groups and departments
WHAT: Two men were in an WHEN: Sunday at about 2:30 and sign up to join.
automobile accident, Univer- a.m. WHAT: Students interested WHO: Student Activities According to a recent

sity Police reported. Minor
damage was done to both cars,
but there were no injuries. One
driver was arrested for driving
on a suspended license.

WH AT: A male student was
arrested for possession of alco-
hol, University Police report-
ed. The student was found
alone in the parking lot.

in becoming orientation
leaders for summer 2011
are invited to attend the
mass meeting tonight.
WHO: Office of New
Student Programs
WHEN: Tonight at 7p.m.
WHERE: Boulevard Room,
Pierpont Commons

and Leadership
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

study, Washington D.C.
has the most literate citi-
zens, USA Today reported.
The study examined resources
available n each city, including
newspapers, bookstores, maga-
zines, education, libraries and
the Internet.

0

MORE ONLINE
Love Crime Notes?Getfmoreonline atmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire

Fraud allegations surround
C E -presidential candidate in Haiti

Job seekers search for jobs at WorkSource Oregon Friday, Jan. 7, 2011, in Tualatin, Ore. The nation added 103,000 jobs in Decem-
ber, and the unemployment rate dropped to 9.4 percent last month.
xperts predict recent job
growt to continue in 2011

Inc
Dec
WAS
govern
Friday
hiring
to gain
Econ
employ
145,001
the un
9.7 pert
Som
after a;
ed this
nearly
Also en
fewerp
ment b
than it
more tf
A de
ers feel
my and
past he
the bes
And
into ef
Americ
new ye
will be
give bu
hire.

creased hiring in "Consumers are no longer as
concerned about their job security,
ember bodes well and that's giving them a little more
confidence to go out and spend,"
for new year said Ryan Sweet, an economist at
Moody's Analytics.
HINGTON (AP) - The The economy needs to generate
ment is expected to report about 125,000 jobs a month just to
that businesses stepped up keep up with population growth
in December, a trend likely and prevent the unemployment
momentum in 2011. rate from rising. More than double
nomists are predicting that that amount is needed to reduce
ers added a net total of the rate.
0 jobs last month and that Last year, the nation added an
employment rate dipped to average of 86,500 jobs a month
cent. through November. The unemploy-
e are even more optimistic ment rate, meanwhile, actually
private payroll firm estimat- rose - from 9.7 percent in January
week that companies added to 9.8 percent in November.
300,000 jobs in December. But many economists expect
couraging was a report that hiring to ramp up in 2011. Goldman
eople applied forunemploy- Sachs projects that employers will
enefits over the past month add 2.2 million jobs this year, or
n any four-week period in about 180,000 a month, double last
han two years. year's amount. Moody's Analytics
cline in layoffs has consum- puts the figure at about 250,000
ing better about the econo- per month.
I spending more freely. This Still, the recession left a deep
liday shopping season was hole in the job market. More than
t in four years. 7.3 million jobs were eliminated
a payroll tax cut that goes during the downturn. Most econo-
fect this month will give mists expect the unemployment
ans even more money in the rate will still be near 9 percent by
ar. Economists expect that the end of 2011.
tost economic growth and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
sinesses more confidence to Bernanke, who is scheduled to tes-
tify about the economic outlook

Friday on Capitol Hill, has said it
will take years for the unemploy-
ment rate to return to a healthy
level of about 5.5 percent.
One positive development is
that small businesses are starting
to add more workers after lagging
behind their larger counterparts.
The National Federation of Inde-
pendent Business said Thursday
that its measure of the small busi-
ness hiring outlook rose to its high-
est level in more than two years in
December.
Meanwhile, applications for
unemployment benefits rose last
week to a seasonally adjusted
409,000, the Labor Department
said Thursday. Still, that's not
much higher than the 391,000
level reached in the previous week
- the lowest in more than two
years - and week to week figures
tend to fluctuate more during the
holidays.
A more reliable measure is the
four-week average for applications.
That fell last week to 410,750, the
lowest level in nearly two and a half
years and the eighth decline in nine
weeks.
Fewer than 425,000 people
applying for benefits signals mod-
est job growth. And applications
are far below their peak during the
recession of 651,000, reached in
March 2009.

Government-backed
candidate to be
removed from ballot
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP)
- An international team of elec-
tion experts will recommend that
Haiti's government-backed candi-
date be eliminated from a presi-
dential runoff ballot due to strong
evidence of fraud in voting that led
to riots, according to a draft of the
report obtained yesterday by The
Associated Press.
The report by the organization
of American States team has not
been released publicly but officials
confirmed its conclusions. It was
to be presented to President Rene
Preval later yesterday, foreign and
Haitian sources confirmed.
The report's most important
conclusions are that the disputed
Nov. 28 vote should neither be
thrown out entirely nor recount-
ed, and that enough fraudulent or
improper ballots should be invali-
dated to drop governing-party
candidate Jude Celestin into third
place and out of the second-round
runoff.
That would favor carnival sing-
er Michel "Sweet Micky" Mar-.
telly, a populist candidate who
was in third place and out of run-
off contention when results were
announced last month. Former
first lady and law professor Mir-
lande Manigat would remain in
first place. All the top candidates
would lose thousands of votes
under the team's recommenda-
tions.
Haitian electoral officials must
make the final decision on what to
do, but the OAS recommendations
could weigh heavily. The three top
candidates all believe they should
advance to a second-round vote if
not declared the winner outright.
Rioting broke out in several cit-
ies when the preliminary results
were announced, with Martelly's
supporters blocking streets and
demanding their candidate be
immediately named president.
The U.S. Embassy expressed
doubt over the results at the time,
saying they did not match observ-
ers' polling estimates that showed
Celestin in line to be eliminated.
The OAS report matches that

expectation.
"After a thorough statistical
analysis ... the Expert Mission has
determined that it cannot support
the preliminary results ofthe pres-
idential elections released on Dec.
7,2010," the report said.
"Should this recommendation
be implemented, the position of
the candidate in third place (Mar-
telly) would change to second and
the candidate now in second place
(Celestin) would move to third," it
stated.
The AP obtained a copy of the
report, and a foreign official with
direct knowledge of the report
confirmed its conclusions. A sec-
ond foreign official said that the
report had been completed and
translated into French and that
the conclusion in the draft would
stand.
The sources spoke on condition
of anonymity because the report
had not been made public and was
not supposed to be discussed until
it was reviewed by Preval.
Some critics of the election say
the entire vote should be thrown
out because of rampant disorgani-
zation, fraud and instances of vio-
lence and voter intimidation.
Twelve of the 19 candidates,
including Manigat and Martelly,
joined together while polls were
still open to demand the vote be
tossed out. The front-runners
changed tune a day later after U.N.
and other officials informed them
they were expected to advance to
a runoff.
The Washington-based Center
for Economic and Policy Research,
a left-leaning think tank, said the
vote should be invalidated because
errors and fraud were too wide-
spread and the party of ousted
former President Jean-Bertrand
Aristide, who is still popular in
Haiti, was not allowed to partici-
pate.
"The OAS has abandoned any
professional standards by certi-
fying an election where nearly
three-quarters of registered voters
did not vote because the country's
most popular political party was
banned," said economist Mark
Weisbrot. "Given the massive
irregularities in that first round, it
is not even possible to determine
who the top two finishers were."
Celestin's campaign chief, Sen.

Joseph Lambert, said the cam-
paign would not commentbecause
it did not have a copy of the report.
The Martelly campaign also
declined comment, and a Manigat
spokesman did not return calls.
Preval was not expected to
respond publicly until after
Wednesday's one-year anniver-
sary of the earthquake that dev-
astated Port-au-Prince. An aide
declined comment.
The second round was origi-
nally scheduled for Jan. 16 but
was delayed in part because elec-
toral officials were waiting for the
results of the OAS review. Officials
have said the earliest it can be held
is next month.
The experts found that tens of
thousands more votes than previ-
ously thought should be discarded
because polling-place officials did
not follow procedures or because
of signs that tally sheets were
altered.
According to the review, Mar-
telly would end up in second place
with 22.2 percent after having
7,150 votes ruled invalid. Celestin
would drop to third place with 21.9
percent after losing 17,220 votes.
Manigat would remain in first
place with 31.6 percent after hav-
ing 13,830 of her votes thrown out.
The team included electoral,
technical and statistical experts
from the United States, France,
Canada, Jamaica and the OAS. It
reviewed a sample representing
roughly 16.9 percent of the votes
cast, along with ballot boxes and
bags, user access logs and other
material.
The team said it decided not to
recommend holding a new vote
because "a new election would
involve more contests and can-
didacies than the evidence war-
ranted."
A new election also would be
a burdensome expense for the
impoverished country, "subject the
Haitian people to a further lapse
in constitutional governance," it
added.
The team also decided against
recommending a partial do-over
in "certain problematic locations"
or a nationwide recount.
Preval's term is scheduled to
end Feb. 7, but he could remain in
power until May because he was
inaugurated late in 2006.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Tuesday, January 11, 2011 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 11, 2011 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Kilpatrick, father
plea not guilty to
* indictment charges
Former Detroit Mayor Kwame
Kilpatrick and his father sat
together as criminal defendants at
the first court hearings since pros-
ecutors filed asweepingindictment
that charges them with turning
city hall into a den of corruption.
Not-guilty pleas were entered
yesterday on behalf of Kilpatrick,
Bernard Kilpatrick and three oth-
ers accused of a multi-year racke-
teering conspiracy. At a subsequent
hearing an hour later, a judge said
the "unusual and complex" case
won't be on a fast track.
The 89-page indictment
returned in December describes
a brazen pay-to-play scheme in
which the Kilpatricks took kick-
backs and bribes to steer city
business to certain contractors.
Prosecutors call it the "Kilpatrick
enterprise."
Defense attorney James Thomas
says Kilpatrick is in good spirits
and plans to fight the case.
OKALAHOMA CITY, Okla.
Oklahoma's first
female governor
takes office
Republican Mary Fallin (FAY-
lihn) has taken her oath of office
to become Oklahoma's first female
governor.
During her inauguration yester-
day, Fallin recognized the historic
nature of the day, but she stressed
that she is foremost an Oklahoma
conservative and vowed to improve
the state's economy.
Fallin says she is excited about
returning to her home state after
spending four years in Congress.
She reiterated her campaign
promise to make Oklahoma more
business friendly, improve public
education and reduce the size of
state government.
Fallin is Oklahoma's 27th gov-
ernor and replaces Democrat Brad
Henry, who left office after eight
years because of term limits.
NEW YORK, NY.
Judge rules teacher
performance ratings
maybe disclosed
A judge has ruled that New York
City's Department of Education
can release performance ratings
for 12,000 teachers.
Justice Cynthia Kern of Man-
hattan state Supreme Court issued
the ruling yesterday. She says
releasing the ratings with the
teachers' names attached would
not be arbitrary or capricious
under the law.
The judge denied a petition by
the United Federation of Teachers
to keep the teachers' names private.
A lawyer for the union argued
last month that releasing the data
would unfairly subject teachers to
public ridicule. The union said it

would appeal the decision.
The teacher ratings are based
on how well students performed
on standardized tests. Five media
organizations filed Freedom of
Information Law requests for
them.
ACAPULCO, Mexico
31 victims killed
in resort city over
past four days
The body of a murdered man
was found yesterday on the main
highway to Acapulco, bringing to
31 the number of people killed in
the Pacific resort city over four
days.
The unidentified man was shot
several times in the head and
found under a pedestrian bridge
with his shirt pulled over his face,
said Fernando Monreal Leyva,
director of the investigative police
for Guerrero state, where Acapul-
co is located.
Leyva said federal, state and
local police planned to meet yes-
terday with the military to con-
sider ways to beef up security in
Acapulco, where 14 decapitated
men and two police officers were
among the unusually high body
count since Friday evening.
Most of the killings occurred in
just a few hours from Friday night
W to Saturday in non-tourist areas of
the city. But the officers were shot
to death in front of tourists on Ave-
nida Costero Miguel Aleman, the
hotel-lined thoroughfare that runs
along the bay.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Suspected Az.
shooter faces
federal judge

Nine year-old Kasandra Ortiz, of Los Angeles, plays in the snow for the first time in her life at Fraziez Park, Calif.
Winter storms blanket
Southern United States

Up to 13 inches of
snow recorded in
areas of Tennessee
ATLANTA (AP) - Southerners
more accustomed to sunshine than
snow began digging out yesterday
from a wintry blast that stranded
drivers and air travelers, cut power
to thousands of homes, and even
forced Auburn University to can-
celviewing parties for the national
championship bowl game.
Snow ranging from several
inches to more than a foot blan-
keted states from Louisiana to the
Carolinas - a region where many
cities have only a handful of snow
plows, if any. And more misery
was on the way: The snow began
turning to freezing rain in numer-
ous areas, threatening to make
untreated roads even more treach-
erous.
"If you're off the main roads, it's
a skating rink," said Tim Loucks,
manager of the Pilot Truck Stop in
Haughton, La.
The storm shut down most cit-
ies and towns, closed many busi-
nesses, and canceled almost every
flight at Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jack-
son International Airport, the
world's busiest. At least eight peo-
ple were killed in weather-related
traffic accidents.
Worried shoppers left grocery
store shelves bare, and families
without electricity huddled in
dark, chilly homes. Predicted
overnight lows in the 20s, raised
the threat of more outages caused
by snow and freezing rain accumu-
lating on tree branches and power
lines.

"The problem here is that
they're not used to it, so the equip-
ment and the sanitation removal
and the snow removal is not really
geared for this kind of situation,"
said Tino Grana, 48, of New York
City, who traveled to Atlanta to sell
art at a downtown trade show.
Atlanta, which got 4 to 7 inches,
has just eight snow plows. The
city hired a fleet of 11 privately
run trucks to help spread salt and
gravel.
The heaviest snow fell in parts
of Tennessee that received as
much as 13 inches.
The weather began rolling
across the South on Sunday, coat-
ing bridges and roads with snow,
sleet and freezing rain. The gov-
ernors of Alabama, Georgia,
Louisiana, North Carolina, South
Carolina and Tennessee declared
emergencies. Schools and colleges
called off classes.
More than 2,000 flights were
canceled around the South -
affecting passengers as far away as
Scandinavia - and Atlanta's air-
port was nearly deserted on what
would normally be a busy Monday
morning.
For those whose flights made it
to Atlanta, the sight of snow-cov-
ered runways was disorienting.
Larry and Judy Keefauver, of
Buffalo, N.Y., thought their flight
from Sacramento had landed
somewhere else when they looked
out the window.
"I have been flying (through
Atlanta) since the early '70s, and
I've never landed on snow here
ever," said Larry Keefauver, 62.
In Georgia, the storm forced
inauguration ceremonies for
newly elected Gov. Nathan deal to

be moved from the state Capitol
steps inside. The inaugural gala
was scrapped to keep supporters
off the roads. Arkansas officials
planned to move their inaugura-
tion indoors today.
And in Alabama, Auburn Uni-
versity students looked for some-
where other than campus to watch
the Tigers play in the champion-
ship bowl game yesterday after the
school canceled all viewing par-
ties. Gov. Bob Riley called off his
trip to Glendale, Ariz., to see the
game in person.
In tiny Oxford, Miss., where the
historic town square got 8 inches
of snow, city workers used back-
hoes to clean up because they had
no snow plows..
"They aren't as good as plows,
but they do a pretty good job,"
Mayor Pat Patterson said.
Drivers struggled to stay on
slippery pavement, and roads were
littered with abandoned vehicles.
Some motorists got out in the mid-
dle of the interstate to push their
cars up ice-covered ramps.
"Towns down here just don't
have the equipment to deal with
this much snow," said Joel Weems,
a worker at the University of Mis-
sissippi.
Icy roads were blamed in acci-
dents that killed two people Sun-
day in Louisiana. Two others died
in Oklahoma: a woman whose car
went off an icy road and into a
pond and a man whose pickup slid
off an interstate and hit a tree. In
Kansas, a woman went out of con-
trol on a slick road and struck a
sport utility vehicle.
Three more drivers were killed
in Arkansas when they veered off
the pavement.

2 1
rece
PHC
got its
22-yea
ing to
Giffori
shaved
temple
scanne
sat dov
IHis
"Unab
whispe
The
he und
life in1
alty -
John R
in the
fords'
on Satt
"Yes
lecturr
suit. H
stoodx
shal.
The
held w
Thri
televis
outside
where
from
eral b
becaus
Hou
observ

2year old could the victims of the rampage, from
the South Lawn of the White
ive death penalty House and the steps of the U.S.
Capitol to legislature beyond Ari-
if convicted zona and the International Space
Station.
XENIX (AP) - The nation There, Giffords' brother-in-
first look yesterday at the law, Scott, the commanding offi-
r-old loner accused of try- cer, spoke over the radio. Flight
assassinate Rep. Gabrielle controllers in Houston fell silent.
ds. Jared Loughner, head "As I lookout thewindow, Isee
, a cut above the right a very beautiful planet that seems
and his hands cuffed, very inviting and peaceful," he
'd a packed courtroom and said. "Unfortunately, it is not."
wn. "These days, we are constantly
attorney, who defended reminded of the unspeakable acts
omber" Ted Kaczynski, of violence and damage we can
ered to him. inflict upon one another, not just
judge asked Loughner if with our actions, but also with
lerstood that he could get our irresponsible words," he said.
prison - or the death pen- "We're better than this," he
for killing federal Judge said. "We must do better."
oll, one of the six who died On a frigid morning outside the
shooting rampage at Gif- White House, President Barack
meeting with constituents Obama and first lady Michelle
urday in Tucson. Obama stood side by side, each
," he said, standing at a with their hands clasped, heads
n in his beige prison jump- bowed and eyes closed.
[is attorney, Judy Clarke, On the steps of the U.S. Capi-
nearby, as did a U.S. mar- tol, congressional staff and other
employees did the same.
judge ordered Loughner At the Supreme Court, the
ithout bail. justices paused for a moment of
ongs of reporters and silence between the two cases
ion news crews lined up they were hearing yesterday
e the federal courthouse, morning. Arizona's chief federal
the hearing was moved judge, John Roll, was killed in
Tucson. The entire fed- the attack.
ench there recused itself The president called for the
:e Roll was the chief judge. country to come together in prayer
rs earlier, the nation or reflection for those killed and
ed a moment of silence for those fighting to recover.

Wiklascreates
tough diplomacy
obstacles for U.S.

Snowstorm causes plane
to crash in Iran, 77 dead

Singapore leaders
show caution in talks
with America
SINGAPORE (AP) - Singapor-
ean officials mustbe more cautious
in discussions with U.S. diplomats,
the country's foreign affairs min-
ister said yesterday, calling the
release of classified documents by
WikiLeaks disastrous for Ameri-
can diplomacy.
Singapore officials will be less
open when speaking with U.S.
diplomats for fear their conversa-
tions will be made public, Foreign
Affairs Minister George Yeo said
inparliament.
"The WikiLeaks disclosures
have been disastrous for U.S.diplo-
macy," Yen said. "We have to be
more guarded in our communica-
tions with U.S. diplomats. If it hap-
pened once, it can happen again, so
we've got tobemore careful."
Last month, WikiLeaks released

a document showing Singapore
statesman Lee Kuan Yew describ-
ing Myanmar's junta leaders as
"stupid," and calling North Korea's
leaders "psychopathic types" in
conversationswith U.S. diplomats.
Another confidential cable quot-
ed Singapore diplomats making
unflattering remarks about Malay-
sia, India, Japan and Thailand dur-
ing meetings with U.S. officials.
Yeo said he would not comment
on specific leaks.
Home Affairs and Law Minis-
ter K. Shanmugam warned news
media and private citizens they
could be prosecuted under Sin-
gapore law for receiving or pub-
lishing confidential government
information.
"Everyone involved with the
leak of information, whether in
government or outside, should be
dealt with firmly," he said yester-
day in parliament. "Public interest
in the free flow of information can-
notjustifythe abuse of confidential
information."

Black box recovered
to analyze failure of
Boeing-727
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) - Inves-
tigators yesterday found the black
box from a passenger jet that
broke to pieces on impact while
trying an emergency landing in a
snowstorm in northwestern Iran,
killing at least 77 people.
The pilots of the Boeing-727,
operated by Iran's national airline
and carrying 104 passengers and
crew, reported a technical failure
to the control tower before try-
ing to make the landing Sunday
night, state-run TV reported. The
IranAir aircraft broke into several
pieces, but Mahmoud Mozaffar,
head of the rescue department of
Iran's Red Crescent Society, said
there was no explosion or fire.
Footage on state TV showed the
plane's crumpled fuselage lying in
a field, torn apart in several places,
under whirling snow in the dark-
ness as rescue workers and local
farmers searched for survivors in
the hours after the crash.
Heavy spow hampered rescue
efforts, the semiofficial Fars news
agency cited the head of the state
emergency center, Gholam Reza
Masoumi, as saying. That report
also mentioned fog in the area.
State TVsaid the aircraft disap-
peared from radar and went down
in farmland after makinga second
attempt to land at the airport in
the northwestern city of Orumi-
yeh. The nature of the technical
failure was not clear.
Iran's Transport Minister
Hamid Behbahani said 77 people
died and 27 were injured, some
critically. Behbahani said the
flight was carrying 104 passen-
gers and crew, correcting earlier

reports of 105 on board. The state
news agency IRNA said two chil-
dren were among the dead.
Behbahani said the plane's
flight data recorder, known as
the black box, has been recovered
"and is now being studied by a
committee probing the crash."
Four Iraqi nationals were
aboard the plane, the official
IRNA news agency reported
late Monday. Two of them were
among the victims while two
others were in the list of those
injured.
Some of the passengers were
able to walk away from the
landing, said Abbas Mosayebi, a
spokesman for the civil aviation
authority. There were conflict-
ing accounts on whether all 104
on board were accounted for,
with some TV reports saying all
were found and others saying
two remained missing.
President Mahmoud Ahma-
dinejad sent a message of con-
dolence to the families of the
victims and ordered a quick
investigation of the cause of the
crash.
The aircraft was headed from
Tehran to Orumiyeh, capital of
West Azerbaijan province, a dis-
tance of about 460 miles, or 700
kilometers.
Iran has a history of frequent
air accidents blamed on its
aging aircraft and poor main-
tenance. Many of the Boeing
aircraft in IranAir's fleet were
bought before the country's
1979 Islamic Revolution, which
disrupted ties with the U.S. and
Europe.
Iranian airlines, includ-
ing those run by the state, are
chronically strapped for cash,
and maintenance has suffered,
experts say. U.S. sanctions pre-
vent Iran from updating its

30-year-old American aircraft
and make it difficult to get Euro-
pean spare parts or planes as well.
The country has come to rely on
Russian aircraft, many of them
Soviet-era planes that are harder
to get parts for since the Soviet
Union's fall.


4 - Tuesday, January 11, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

1E CIt44an 4 a
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

ELAINE MORTON

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Wasting precious time
Attempts to repeal health care reform are pointless
he new Republican-led United States House of Represen-
tatives has taken office and kicked the year off by wasting
as much time as the old House did. Plans had been made
for a House vote tomorrow to repeal President Barack Obama's
health care reform law. The vote - along with other action on
legislation - has been postponed this week in light of Saturday's
attack on Arizona Representative Gabrielle Giffords. While this is.
the appropriate thing to do for the time being, the vote on this par-
ticular piece of legislation needs to be postponed indefinitely. The
U.S. Senate has vowed to derail any House efforts to repeal health
care reform, so this is merely a symbolic and time wasting gesture.
Representatives need to compromise on legislation and do what is
in the best interest of their constituents.

(ezo'l -iTho my lfe.iidrecsios } e4yoll wr
re K-frt- kcosc r my iA r i . "o oe . ' re adr 3 had nto
spbt -art #is- f i be res porsi be. 1AN Ar h L
n-ntd siV jcUi A I5IA ,q build up4yourttC 01
'. mat~aft F you, Son- na-sd p- v ideo'34-for
lesprosu. 'C " s-vii' t-an
J Vscbie.t'jair
- ->o
Problems at the printer
A t the end of last semester, I There are a couple of ways this sys- pages that Isprinted in color for a proj-
got an e-mail from the won- tem gyps us. First, even if students ect. If the University wants to deal
derful people at University print on both sides of a single sheet of with ink costs, they could count color
Information and paper, it counts as two pages of their printing as two pages worth of a stu-
Technology Ser- allotment. The logic behind that is dent's printing allotment - or what-
vices. The e-mail probably that the printing allotment ever the monetary equivalentis.
kindly informed is really meant to manage the amount Printing allotments should also roll
me that I had used - of ink that goes onto a page, not really over. For example, I took a class one
up half my print- the amount of paper used. Paper is a semester in which I had to print out
ing allotment for considerable coston a campusof about all my readings from CTools. My pro-
the semester. Since 26,000 undergraduates, but ink car- fessor and GSI were quite insistent.
it was the Tuesday tridges are much more expensive. That semester, I blew through half
after classes ended That's why color pages aren't my allotment in about one month. If
when I received RACHEL included in the printing allotment. the University had roll over printing, I
that e-mail, IVAN GILDER It's an extra $0.35 to print a page on a would've had abouts00 pages left from
wasn't too con- color printer - even if that page only previous semesters to use. This would
cerned. has black and white text. That extra ensure that students get to use every
Then I started cost is charged to students' accounts. single page which they are entitled.
thinking that in my three and a half But the biggest rip off is that stu-
years at the University, this is only the dents' printing allotment doesn't roll
second time I've gotten that e-mail, over. At the end of. each semester, Printing doesn't
I'm pretty sure I'm getting ripped students lose whatever pages they
off haven't used. My tuition must pay forgiesu nt th r
Most students get a measly 400 my printing in some way - tuition
pages worth of printing each semes- money goes into the general fund, money's
ter, according to the ITS website. Stu- which pays for operating costs. I'm Y Worth.
dents in the College of Engineering paying for 400 pages per semester,
are allowed to print 2,000 pages each and I'm barely using half of them.
semester if they use a computer con- This isn't a good system. The Uni-
nected to the University's Computer versity says it is committed to going But not every student will use up
Aided Engineering Network (more green - the Planet Blue program all their pages - in fact, I bet.fairly
commonly known at CAEN). being implemented in select build- few students ever use up all 400
I've heard some students say that ings and campus recycling initiatives pages every single semester. Students
their 400 pages aren't nearly enough, are evidence of this. Printing duplex should get reimbursed for pages they
but it's actually a fair amount consid- is certainly more environmentally- don't use at the end of their college
ering that we live in an increasingly friendly than printing single-sided, career. This way, students would only
digital world. Professors often allow but the University doesn't offer stu- be paying for what they actually use.
laptops in the classroom so that stu- dents any incentive to do this. Duplex The University isn't giving stu-
dents don't have to print readings printing should count as a single page dents their money's worth, The Uni-
and lecture slides off CTools. Some - or perhaps as one and a half if the versity should overhaul its system of
even allow students to submit papers University needs to consider the cost printing allotment to give students
via e-mail. So the number of pages of ink. what they're paying for.
allotted is reasonable. What's unrea- It's also outrageous that even
sonable is the way that the Univer- thoughI had about 200 pages remain- - Rachel Van Gilder was the Daily's
sity counts those pages and the way it ing in my allotment last semester, I editorial page editor in 2010. She can
makes students pay for them. had to pay an extra $0.70 for the two be reached at rachelvg@umich.edu.
Want to be an opinion cartoonist? The Daily is looking for creative,
artistic and opinionated people to draw weekly cartoons.
E-MAIL EMILY ORLEY AT EHORLEY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFORMATION.

0

Last week, the 112th Congress began
its work under new Republican leader-
ship. This work began by reading the
entire United States Constitution aloud.
The reading came a day after the chamber
approved new rules for passing legislation.
The first requires bills that feature spend-
ing increases must balance these increases
with spending cuts in another part of the
budget. The second states that tax hikes
are prohibited. The third requires the
specification of which part of the Consti-
tution validates the bill. The new Republi-
can leadership has also scheduled a vote to
repeal the health care reform bill, but the
new date of this vote has yet to be deter-
mined.
Conservatives were able to take con-
trol of the House in November's mid term
elections by campaigning on a platform of
change. Many representatives asserted that
they wanted to change the way Congress.
operated and make it more efficient. But all
we've seen so far are grand, pointless ges-
tures. Taking the time to read aloud a docu-
ment that all legislators should already be
well versed in is exactly that: a grand, point-
less gesture. It doesn't accomplish anything
for the voters who put these people in office.
The vote to repeal health care reform, also

accomplishes nothing since it has no chance
of making it past the Senate. Instead of arbi-
trarily asserting their power over House
Democrats, House Republicans should
compromise and pass legislation to modify
the health care law.
Repealing last year's health care law
would actually increase the budget deficit,
according to the non-partisan Congres-
sional Budget Office. It would also deprive
30 million Americans of health insurance.
The law hasn't been fully enacted and needs
to be given time to work. If congressional
Republicans want to address their concerns
with health care reform they should do it in
a way that actually has the opportunity to
make positive change.
Now that they are a majority in the House,
Republicans must commit to governing. If
they wish to lead this country responsibly,
Republicans must begin by changing House
spending rules and stop wasting time with
meaningless votes. After one week in office,
they have shown themselves more inter-
ested in political theater than responsible
governance. Republicans need to make an
honest effort to keep their campaign prom-
ises to voters by making Congress more
efficient and reasonably addressing serious
legislative issues.

S

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt,
Ashley Griesshammer, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes, Roger Sauerhaft, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
TEDDY PAPES j
Circumventing circumcision

Drop New Year's diets

I've got a new sibling on the way who is due
in a few months. Along with the many experi-
ences I want to pass along to my sibling, there
are also a few I wish to shield it from. Should he
be a boy, the most immediate and foreboding
offense that I must fend off is the circumcision.
Mutilated at birth without any say in the
matter, my parents had the doctor abbreviate
my penis. What I'm left with is what I assume
to be a "normal"-looking organ, but as you
can imagine, I'm totally ungrateful. The most
important issue to me is the decrease in physi-
cal pleasure. Apparently there are some major
nerve endings in the foreskin, and, allegedly,
that sexual pleasure is significantly decreased
when the skin is removed. It's like-that old say-
ing, "IfI had a penny for every time ..." If I had
foreskin for every sexual encounter ... well, my
sex life would be a lot better.
On top of that, there's a practical reason to
have a foreskin - a skin shield on one of the
most important biological organs seems like
a good idea. According to healthychildren.org
"Without (the foreskin) the tip of the penis
may become irritated and cause the opening of
the penis to become too small. This can cause
urination problems that may need to be surgi-
cally corrected." Fortunately no terrible medi-
cal incidents have befallen my penis because of
circumcision, but that's not always the case.
There's the famous David Reimer of the
"John/Joan Case" who had his penis destroyed
during circumcision - and he isn't the excep-
tion. While the issues aren't always as extreme,
the American Medical Association says that
complications arise during 0.2 to 0.6 percent
of neonatal circumcisions, and the rates are
much higher in non-developed nations. The
American Medical Association, the American
Academy of Pediatrics and The British Medi-
cal Association don't recommend routine, non-
therapeutic circumcision for males.
This procedure also produces a severe
amount of pain for weeks on end. I remember
my brother's circumcision soon after birth. As
you can imagine, it was a grueling healing pro-
cess. Though babies don't remember their pain,
this doesn't excuse the infliction.
The other problem with circumcision is the
total lack of consideration of a child's rights. I
obviously regret that I was circumcised. Had
the decision been left up to me, I would have

kept my body intact. But if aboy is not circum-
cised, he can always choose to be circumcised
at a later age. If there's a health issue, it might
be necessary for parents to make a decision on
behalf of their child, but if cosmetic, the deci-
sion should be left up to the child. We shouldn't
let parents tattoo and cut up their child's geni-
talia because it's the prevailing societal trend.
In the U.S. there seems to be a social taboo
against the natural penis. It's anecdotal, but I
personally have heard girls voice complaints
about the uncut penis. Is this any differ-
ent than men in Mauritania suggesting that
women undergo female circumcision? One
might prefer it, but in an attempt to reverse a
backward social trend, people should encour-
age the abstention from circumcision and open
their sensibilities to less mutilated genitalia.
About 56 percent of infants born in the U.S.
are circumcised and the rate is much lower in
Europe and Australia - where they've begun
to abandon the procedure. Unfortunately reli-
gion plays a large role in the world, and cir-
cumcision is a common practice among Jews
and Muslims due to religious traditions. This
is no excuse and religion shouldn't be a mask
to hide behind child abuse or any other detri-
mental activity. Circumcision is a total viola-
tion of rights, and religious tradition shouldn't
be the influential force that decides the fate of
the penis.
If circumcision were necessary, it might be
acceptable, but in most cases there is no sig-
nificant advantage to the procedure. There are
some therapeutic reasons to circumcise a boy
- like phimosis - where the foreskin is too
tight and is difficult to retract, but this is a rare
occurrence. Other benefits of circumcision
are minor and achievable through responsible
health practices. For example, circumcision
can slightly lower the risk of HIV and the
chance of infantile urinary tract infections,
but proper hygiene and the practice of safe sex
make permanent mutilation of the male sex
organ totally unnecessary.
If a male truly wants a circumcision, then it
should be granted, but to circumcise an infant
at birth - for cosmetic or social reasons - is
totally inexcusable. One day, maybe, all men
will have the penises they were born with.
Teddy Papes is an LSA junior.

it's that time of year again -
early January - which for many
also means that it's time for yet
another attempt to
lose weight. Every
year as January
approaches, I get
more and more
e-mails about
how to lose that
weight gained or,
even more improb-
ably, how to lose
15 pounds pain- MARY
lessly. Typical tips DEMERY
include taking only
one bite of that
really delicious
cookie, or exercising like a maniac
five days a week. Few e-mails suggest
that I enjoy what I eat, or that I treat
meals like what they actually are -
meals, not heightened experiences
and certainly not cause for hinging or
purging.
As a regular reader of fitness and
health-oriented magazines and web-
sites, I've come to accept the constant
barrage of weight loss tips and tricks.
Like it or not, they're embedded in
my psyche. I know, for instance, that
3,500 calories equals one pound.
Likewise, blueberries and green tea
are "super foods" and should be con-
sumed as often as possible for their
bountiful health benefits. These are
dietary tidbits that, in accepting them,
I've stored away. I've also accepted
that though these weight loss tips are
ever changing, the overall message of
the fitness magazines doesn't change.
Weight loss remains, issue after issue,
the main selling point.
And though this message isn't the
greatest for readers' self-esteem,
magazines like Self and Shape retain
subscribers year after year. The per-
manence of these magazines reflects
the steady interest American women

have in losing weight and a collective
desire to lead a healthy lifestyle.
The New Year's weight loss dilem-
ma remains. Why, during the begin-
ning of a new year, must weight loss
be an issue? Why isn't it possible to
flip through Self without seeing a rec-
ipe for low-calorie dinners? Do peo-
ple really gain that much weight over
the holidays? It seems unlikely to me.
And even if some people do gain a few
pounds, I'd argue that fitness maga-
zines contribute to the feeding frenzy
the holiday season is so often associ-
ated with. By berating readers with
weight loss tips, fitness magazines
are (subconsciously or not) telling
readers that weight gain during this
season is a common occurrence. For
me personally, this makes me more
inclined to over eat. I rationalize it -
it's the holidays. I'm supposed to eat
until I'm stuffed. I put off the serious
thoughts about weight loss until after
New Year's, telling myself that this
will be the year I actually make los-
ing weight a serious resolution.
I didn't ajways think this way. The
family Christmas party used to be
a time when I saw my family from
out-of-state, and the food just hap-
pened to be really good. Now, though,
the holidays are all about food to me.
It can be a bit of a minefield. I want
to enjoy all the hors d'oeuvres, the
mashed potatoes and the sweets. But I
also don'twantto gain weight. Fitness
magazines, with all their hype about
how to offset holiday weight gain and
jumpstart weight loss resolutions,
make it seem impossible to do both.
The New Year's weight loss hype
has gotten so frustrating that I've
had to take a break from health web-
sites and magazines. When I see an
issue of Women's Health Magazine
at the drugstore during this time of
year, I pass it up, choosing Vanity Fair
instead. At least I know Graydon Cart-

er won't assault me with diet tips.
I'm trying something new this
year. It's sort of an anti-New Year's
resolution. I'm not going to diet my
way through next December, nor am
I going to eat so many cookies that
my stomach starts to swell up like
Santa's. Instead, I'm going to do what
I should have been doing all along,
which includes thoroughly enjoying
each meal - realizing that it's only
that: one meal. It isn't magical. It
won't make me miraculously gain or
lose five pounds. This rational men-
tality will serve as a practice run for
something I'd like to start implement-
ing full time in 2011: eating when I'm
hungry without guilt.
This year I'm
trying an anti-New
Year's resolution.
This all sounds deceivingly easy.
But ask anyone that's felt stuffed after
a few too many servings of turkey,
and you'll know that it's not. And it's
OK to eat a little more on the holidays
than you would usually. But doing so
isn't cause for panic. In choosing to
not associate the holidays with food
and food with guilt, it's easier to stop
thinking about weight gain. After
all, good food is a major part of the
holidays, but it shouldn't be the only
part. It shouldn't be a powerful part.
Thinking about food this way makes
it easier to resist the pressure to make
losing weight one of your resolutions.
Food can only cause guilt if you let it.
- Mary Demery can be reached
at mdemery@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. All submissions become
property of the Daily. We do not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 11, 2011-- 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomTuesday, January 11, 2011 - 5

.Cake is getting stale

And the Academy
Awards go to.

Classic alternative band
does nothing new
on 'Showroom'
By CHLOE STACHOWIAK
- Daily Arts Writer
There's something refreshing about
Cake's musical style - a clever fusion of
guitars, horns, percussion, keyboard and

the occasional organ.
The band has been
diversifying the alter-
native rock scene since
the early '90s, breathing
originality. into a genre
dominated by the same
guitar riffs and gruff,
scratchy vocals (what is
the difference between

Cake
Showroom of
Compassion
Upbeat

album's opening song, "Federal Funding,"
features a cool, laid-back beat and an edgy
guitar pulsing in the background. The
song is iced with a trumpet and French
horn, which only add to its easy, funk-
infused sound. Together, the parts create
an undeniably appealing whole, capable of
making any listener feel like a badass.
"Teenage Pregnancy" also makes a
bold musical statement, as Cake's pre-
cision and intricacy in the studio shine
through on a purely instrumental track.
With dark, dejected piano keys and
aggressive guitar breaks, the song har-
nesses powerful emotions in less than
three minutes. The captivating blend of
sounds showcases Cake's musical range
and sets the album apart from much of
the band's earlier material.
Few of the album's other tracks make
the same impression as these two. Songs
like "Mustache Man" and "Easy to Crash"
attempt to follow in the funky footsteps
of "Federal Funding," making use of the
same strong horn parts and a low, rhyth-
mic guitar. However, the songs don't
offer anything new. Instead, they employ
similar instrumentals and vocals without
melding the sounds into anything notably
original. They feel flat and familiar, fading
into the background of the album.
"Got - to Move" carves the album's
mediocrity even further. Though Cake is
known for its inventiveness, the role of
instruments in the song is simple and less
impressive than in past work. Instead of
building upon each other dynamically, the
guitars and keyboard wail the same slow
melody continuously. Additionally, the
vocals are slightly underwhelming; each

Q NC 95.

Nickelback and 3 Doors Down, again?).
Unlike some of its alternative peers, Cake
plays on touches of funk, ska and jazz,
constantly varying and evolving its music
into something new, original and, above
all, memorable.
That is, the band did until the release of
its latest album Showroom of Compassion.
There is nothing revoltingly terrible about
the 11-track collection - on the contrary,
the songs are all fine. That's it, though.
While the album is pleasant as a whole,
few tracks stand out - it's nearly devoid
of irresistible hits like "Short Skirt/Long
Jacket" and "Going the Distance" that
drove the band to popularity.
This isn't to say Showroom of Compas-
sion lacks catchy tracks altogether. The

SHOWROOM fCOMPASSION
COURTESY OF UPBEAT
line rhymes perfectly and sounds obvious,
forced, verging on irritating. Even the
piano part isn't enough to rescue the track
from its dull, predictable sound.
When Cake does attempt to diversify
Showroom of Compassion, the results
sound awkward and out of place. "Bound
Away" takes on an unexpected country
persona, complete with twangy guitars
and crooning vocals. In a different context
the track might shine, but here it sounds
more like the theme song to a gimmicky
Western flick more than anything else.
Showroom of Compassion might not
be hideously bad - or, for that matter,
bad at all - but compared to the band's
past work, it comes as disappointment.
Though it starts out strong with "Federal
Funding," the rest of the tracks don't offer
anything new or exciting. The alterna-
tive rock scene might just have to wait
for future Cake albums for the next fiery
"Comfort Eagle" or "Short Skirt/Long
Jacket" megahit, because this record just
doesn't deliver.

Visuals are legacy of 'TRON'

The early days of the new year
are less than exciting for film
releases, soit isn't especially sur-
prising that more attention will be paid
to the major awards ceremonies in the
coming months than
to the actual theatri-
cal output during
the same period. At
The Michigan Daily
(as well as across the
world of artsjournal-
ism), there's likelyto 1
be forecasts and pre- ANKUR
dictions of what might SOHONI
occur on Oscar or
Golden Globe Sunday,
and a breakdown of what should happen,
in the journalists' ownhumble opinions.
But maybe it's time to take a look back
and consider what exactly these awards
accomplish. What's the point?
A ceremony like the Oscars is more
than a simple awards show, but the hype
that surrounds it has been consistently
misplaced. It's often Hollywood politics
- a campaign of sorts that finds studios
pitching their films to industry folk and
doing what they do best: throwing money
and buying success.
The strategy has worked well for
certain films in the past. The Oscar-bait
Miramax films that earned their awards
through multi-million dollar campaigns
often saw the studio employing campaign
strategies that involved sendingscreeners
to Academy members and hiring teams
of consultants to leverage their film's
advantages. Miramax also saw other stu-
dios employing similar tactics to catch up,
- most notably with the success of unde-
serving films like "Shakespeare in Love"
and "Chicago."
In many ways, the Academy Awards
became like an election, wherein voters
didn't choose the the best film. Instead,
the one that fit with the Academy's image
of the award was crowned the winner.
Among true film fans, the Academy
Awards, and specificallyits Best Picture
crown, is among the most flawed awards
in the book - likely amplified by cer-
emony's prominence in the industry as a
potential red-herring sign of quality.
That said, the Academy, like the com-
munity of filmgoers as a whole, is evolv-
ing.
With the inclusion of ten, rather than
five, nominees for Best Picture, the Acad-
emy is startingto counteract displeasure
with nomination snubs and allowing
more non-traditional titles into the fold.
While the result may initially seem like
a circus for the elite awards show, the
long-term effect allows for a more accu-
rate and ultimately less questionable
outcome.
With more strict promotional regula-
tions limitingstudios' interactions with
Academy members now also in place,
those outside the industry can be con-
fident that Oscar decisions aren't being
made by marketers on the inside.
It's also safe to say that the Academy
Awards, as well as other awards cer-
emonies, is just as much a driver of the
film industry as something external to it.
Films released in the last few months of
the year are often positioned there specifi-
cally for the awards season, and a number

of films get spurred on at the box office
and in home video sales because of their
performance therein.
The most important point of this sea-
son has become clear in recentcyears.
More than being a measure of the best in
film, the awards ceremonies are a meter of
the film industry as a whole andillustrate
trends in whatpeople want fromyear to
year.
In the past ten years, that public opin-
ion has shifted from wanting traditionally
dramatic films like "Gladiator," "A Beauti-
ful Mind" and "Million Dollar Baby" to
more original concepts dealing with con-
temporary stories, like "The Hurt Locker,"
"Crash" and "Slumdog Millionaire."
The 2011 Academy Awards, as well as
the Golden Globes and other ceremonies
over the next few months, will likely fol-
low in that trend.
Front-running films in this year's
awards season - "Inception," "The Social
Network" and "Black Swan" - and others
likely to get significantcattention - like
"Toy Story 3" and "127 Hours" -beauti-
fully show a shift in the film industry
toward critically rewarding originality.
Even films that have more historical,
based-on-a-true-story premises are show-
ing a formal shift in the way in which they
are made. "The King's Speech," set in the
One small step for a
naked golden man,
one giant leap for
the Academy.
early-to-mid twentieth century England,
uses off-puttingcinematography and a
quiet aural landscape to focus the audi-
ence on its characters while foregoing the
melodramaofthetypical period piece.
"The Fighter," a boxing film set in the
1990s in Massachusetts, strives for reality
in its boxing sequences by using the same
TV cameras that were actually used in
broadcasting the fights.
No matter what type of film they're
working on, directors and filmmakers are
consistently and confidently puttingtheir
efforts into new, inventive modes of film-
making, and viewers, critics and awards
voters alike are rewarding them for it.
In an industry thatless-than-subtly cel-
ebrates its history and whose golden age is
by definition long past, it's a refreshingly
good sign. With new technologies taking
over the industry in abig way, the future
of filmmaking is looking up in a manner
unique to our time.
I'm excited for the coming awards
ceremonies, startingwith Golden Globes
on Sunday. If nothing else, I'm excited to
watch the next ten years of film begin its
own evolution. And if the general cyni-
cism that often surrounds the awards is a
sign of the past, perhaps that excitement
is what's most important.
Sohoni is campaigning for "Best
Supporting Critic." To vote for him,
email him at asohoni@umich.edu.

By BEN VERDI
Daily Arts Writer
Imagine if Lady Gaga wrote and direct-
ed "The Matrix." Now imagine if video
games were portals to a world where peo-
ple who looked like Daft
Punk had dreamed them
into being. Throw in the
most unconventional TRON:
performance of Jeff
Bridges's career, and you LegaCy
begin to approximate At Quality 16
what "TRON: Legacy," and Rave
directed by newcomer Disney
Joseph Kosinski, feels
like.
This film doesn't hide what makes it
entertaining, valuable or expensive. It's
a fairly standard, and at times didactic,
good-versus-evil plotline. It is essentially a
reimagining of "The Chronicles of Narnia"
set inside a video game instead of a ward-
robe. Bridges is stuck inside his created
virtual world until his son Sam, played by
Garret Hedlund ("Friday Night Lights")
comes to save him, and brings him back
to the real world. From there fights ensue,
armies are assembled and the film's spe-
cial effects become the star of the show.
This description may make the film
seem a little shallow, and there is some
validity to that opinion. However, people
don't go to "Cirque du Soleil" and leave

disappointed because the show lacked a
challenging narrative. "TRON: Legacy"
was created to be viewed in 3-D, screened
in IMAX and immediately turned into a
video game.
Actually, "TRON" already is a video
ga'me. So there's no excuse for not know-
ing exactly what this film is going to feel
like. And to form an opinion toward the
film after only seeing it in 2-D; would do
the entire project a disservice. That would
be like judging a university's greatness
solely on the quality of its dorm food, party
scene or football team.
The virtual world itself, with its haunt-
ingly beautiful mountain ranges slashed
with constant lightning to mirror the
turmoil of the peoples below, is breath-
taking to behold. The ships they fly, the
cars they drive and the things they wear
make the characters (who are really com-
puter programs ... again, think Lady Gaga's
"Matrix") look almost as outlandish and
tragically mechanical as the world they
inhabit.
The only reason for a true conflict to
arise in this film is its villain: a program
called Clu, also played by fridges, who
was created by the good Bridges to perfect
the virtual world and remove everything
that "held it back." But, instead of improv-
ing it peacefully, Clu became a vicious dic-
tator, creating an Orwellian dystopia from
the virtual world Bridges thought would

save humans from their own imperfec-
tions.
The message that sneaks its way into
our minds as we're bombarded with the
killer soundtrack and images of "TRON"
is that, in a way, the most evil thing for
which we can strive is perfection. We have
to be able to embrace the fact that things
- even things programmed to be perfect,
Sometimes CGI
isn't so bad.
like Clu - will always have flaws, because
we, their creators, and the world that
every hero attempts to save, has flaws too.
So when we live only to perfect the
things around us, through judgment, war
and - as those who instigate it might argue
- genocide, we are perhaps overlooking
the place where we find more imperfec-
tion than anywhere else - ourselves.
A straightforward message indeed, but
a valuable one extracted from an unlikely
source. It's one we won't encounter if we
assume that a movie about a game can't
possibly be worth our time. One we won't
realize if we expect every story we hear,
every book we read and every movie we
see, to be perfect.


ABC's 'V' is lost in outer space
JAMIE BLOCK
DailyArts Writer

Cage the Elephant still
childlike on 'Birthday'

A few plotholes can ruin an other-
wise great series. Maybe there's that one
scene in which there's just no way our
hero would have left that
bastard alive. Or maybe *
there's the scene when
the super-tight security V
conveniently has a blind
spot just where the pro- Season Two
tagonists go. But while Premiere
there were a few of these Tuesdays at 9 p.m.
scenes in the first season ABC
of ABC's alien adventure
series "V," every scene from season two is
full of gaping holes. Every last one.
That devious character from last sea-
son - he's a good guy now. That security
the aliens have monitoring every science
lab - well, it doesn't cover the one science
lab that contains an alien skeleton in it.
That incredibly dangerous alien traitor
Viciously, vividly,
violently vacuous.
with intimate knowledge of the alien's
culture and infrastructure - yeah, let's
let him go free. And that dead guy - yeah,
he's alive now. Seriously. All that's in one
episode, along with too many others to
mention.
And then there's the greatest plot
inconsistency of all. An alien is said to be
traitorous, or at least untrustworthy, if

ELLIOT ALPERN
Daily Arts Writer
The release of Cage the Elephant's
2008 self-titled debut left the rock scene
with tentative admiration and a hand-
ful of questions: Was
this band from the
boondocks of Ken-
tucky worthy ofC
the harsh scrutiny
directed at the alter- Elephant
native genre? Was "Thank You
its arrogant swagger Happy
justified or simply a Birthday"
fagade? Ultimately, Relentless
the answers would
have to wait until its body of work grew.
With Thank You Happy Birthday, the lis-
tener gets some long-awaited answers.
Cage the Elephant's sophomoric (in
more ways than one) release is a few short
steps above mediocrity. At times, it shows
the same promise that radiated from
2008's "Ain't No Rest For The Wicked."
However, the bravado occasionally bor-
ders on excessive, and many of the cocky
risks end up resulting in a mess of noise.
In an album where it seems to be feast or
famine, the hits are impressive, but are
overshadowed by the flops.
Unfortunately, Thank You Happy Birth-
day suffers from the affliction of bad filler
material - something that plagues many
younger bands. The deep tracks are fairly
forgettable, or memorable for the wrong
reasons. For instance, "Sell Yourself" is a
punk nightmare. The lyrics echo passion-
ate dissatisfaction and would complement

any semblance of a tune, but the end result
finds singer Matthew Shultz shrieking his
lines over a mash-up of cymbals and bad
guitar.
One track worth mentioning above the
rest for its blatant display of egotism is the
uncomfortable "Indy Kidz." The band tries
its best to sound intimidating, but fails
miserably. Twice during the song, Schultz
falls into bouts of senseless screaming. The
second time, the screaming declines into
strange guttural noises, which Schultz
follows by repeating the yearning lyrics,
"You're so cool" and "I want to be just like
you." If Cage the Elephant is trying to sug-
gest anything for the listener to believe,
the music dissuades it from doing so.
Musical mess is
the elephant in
the room.
It's a shame thata few of the songs are
so heinous, since there are a few gems
among the havoc. "Right Before My
Eyes" is perhaps the best song Cage the
Elephant has composed. It's deep, slower
and uncharacteristic of its artist - but
then again, the best songs often are (see
"Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)"
by Green Day). "Right Before My Eyes"
shows maturity where almost every other
song exudes some measure of childish
See CAGE, Page 6

I told you no on the crash diet.
it has human emotion. And which emo-
tions specifically are human? Whichever
one seems convenient at the time. Minor
bouts of anger, joy, disappointment and
worry are all perfectly fine for an alien,
but the extremes are taboo. It's nonsensi-
cal that the strength of an emotion should
determine whether it's human or not. The
one consistently human emotion appears
to be love. And as quaint as that is, if love
is what the writers mean by "human emo-
tion," then they should just say "love"
instead.
But iLot everything in this season is a
worsening of the old flaws. A couple new
characters appear to be stepping into the
mix. First is Dr. Sidney Miller (Bret Harri-

son, "Reaper"), the bumbling young scien-
tist unwittingly forced into intergalactic
war. A caricature of the techno-savvy,
nerdy young adult, Miller adds nothing
to the series, except that five people tak-
ing down an entire alien race is way more
believable than four. Then there's Anna's
mother, played by Jane Badler of the orig-
inal "V." She has yet to utter a line, but
based on how unbelievable it is that the
aliens haven't already gotten whatever
they want from us, her diabolical input is
unlikely to speed things up.
With its second season, "V" needs to
accelerate. Week after week, the aliens
offer some blessing that turns out to be a
See V, Page 6


6 - Tuesday, January 11, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Tuesday, January 11, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Some love for 'Morris'

Carrey is convincing,
but uneven message
throws off film
By EMILY BOUDREAU
DailyArts Writer.
It's hard not to picture Jim Car-
rey as Ace Ventura, pet detective,
or to imagine him contorting his
face into hilari-
ously grotesque
expressions. But*
in "I Love You
Phillip Morris," I LOVe You
Carrey reigns in Phillip MorriS
his antics, deliv-
ering a perfor- At the Michigan
mance that is Europa
both funny and
endearing.
Steven Russell (Carrey) lives a
seemingly normal life - he's got a
great wife (Leslie Mann, "Knocked
Up"), a steady job as a cop and he
plays the piano for his church choir.
But appearances can be deceiving.
On the side, Russell meets up
with strange men in hotels for
crazy, wild sex. After a traumatic
car accident, Russell decides to
reassess his life. He vows to quit
his double life and comes out of the
closet to live a flamboyant lifestyle
in Florida. But when the pleasures
of his new life - loud silk shirts
and clubs with male go-go danc-

ers - become too expensive for
him, Russell becomes a con artist
and eventually ends up in prison.;
There, he meets the love of his
life, fellow prisoner Phillip Mor-
ris (Ewan McGregor, "The Ghost
Writer").
Outlandish as the plot may
seem, it's based on a true story.
And though the film manages to
add an eccentric, humorous layerM
to the truth, its message becomes
a little convoluted. It's a love story
(as the title suggests) between
two men. But while there is one
really cute scene with Carrey and
McGregor dancing romantically in
their jail cell, the romance takes a
backseat to Carrey's con schemes.
It's too bad, because "I Love You
Phillip Morris," as a comedy, hasr
the potential to appeal to a broad=
audience - a feat for an American
movie with gay subject matter -
without having to compromise on
the topic of sexuality.
Unfortunately, the film does
compromise. After the repeal of a message, "I Love You Phillip Mor-
"don't ask, don't tell" and amid ris" doesn't really have one. Does it
debates about gay marriage, it's cause the audience to see gay men
hard not to ask what the political in a different light, or does it just
agenda of "Phillip Morris" is - reinforce stereotypes? The major-
especially because it was actually ity of the movie's humor relies on
made two years ago in the wake of Jim Carrey and his little dogs and
films like "Brokeback Mountain," farcical anal sex scenes.
but was forced to sit on the shelf This is not a film that handles
because it couldn't find a distribu- politically charged material in
tion company. a delicate manner, and it's hard
While other films clearly deliver to say if some of the laughs come

V
From Page 5
curse, and the season two pre-
miere was no different. A battle
between a vastly technologically
superior alien race and a band of
four misfits who spend all their
time doing research should not
last more than a day. Even if they
need the humans alive, there is
no reason the aliens couldn't take
the planet by force, enslaving the
human race for whatever nefari-
ous purposes the writers still
don't want viewers to know about.
But just when it gets unwatch-

able, one of the few strong char-
acters takes center stage to give
"V" a tiny hintof potential. Anna's
daughter Lisa(LauraVandervoort,
"Smallville") is the most dynamic
of the lot by far, stuck between an
angry lizard matriarch and a hard
place. And lead actress Elizabeth
Mitchell ("Lost") does an admira-
ble job at stayinggrounded as pro-
tagonist Erica Evans, even when
everyone around her is absolutely
ridiculous.
But a few strong women do
not a strong series make. If "V"
doesn't quit it with all the plot-
holes and make the alien agenda
clear, the human race may just die
of boredom and frustration.

growing up to do. Cage the Ele-
CAGE phantbegins the albumwith pure
From Page 5 rock in "Always Something" and
ends it with the soothing "Flow,"
but there are many bumps in the
ignorance. "Shake Me Down" also road between. The band is left in
provides an appealing contrast the same position it was after its
with shifts between ethereal gui- first release. It still has potential,
tar and rocking drums. but also continues to make lapses
Thank You Happy Birthday in judgment that prove to be det-
showcases the talent contained rimental. Thank You Happy Birth-
within Cage the Elephant, but it day is worth it in the end, but just
also proves that the band has some barely.
C UCKOJO FOR KAHLO?
WRITE FOR FINE ARTS.
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for
information on applying.

k,

from potential discomfort on
the audience's behalf or because
directors Glenn Ficarra ("Bad
Santa") and John Requa ("Bad
News Bears") have actually hit
on something that is legitimately
funny. But maybe it's best not to
read too much into the movie's
politics. It might just be better to
accept the movie for what it is and
what it does bring to the screen -
and that's a great time.

"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000

PROPER C T MArBMENT
19 Locations To She You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
Cta Cn pas 1 wiow I
r No*'i Camus Wet id
ILet Our Fatity Take Care of Yours
24i tblla na sd Mb w d loili
734.741.9300
WWw.anaboraparfmtnlts.net
WELCOME BACK! Only a few
days left to bea Winner in the "Picka
Winner" promotion. You can win up to
One Month FREE!!
**This offer ends January 14, 2011**
Call or stop by Today for Best Selec-
tion. Sold out early in 2010, so don't
wait any longer.
SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
BEST LOCATION IN TOWN
543 Church! Right across from East
Hall! Spacious 4Br bi-levels, 2Br, 1 Br,
& Studios! Updated kitchens w/dish-
washers, heat & water included, and all
apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
EXCELLENT 6-BR, 2 Bath colonial
on Central campus(1143 S.Forest Ave).
5 mins walk to college with 2 Refriger-
ators/Microwave/Toaster/Sink/Free
laundry/Private deck/Free parking.
(MAY 2011) Call 734 578 4625

? AWESOME 3 bdrm house on
Dewey. Free prkg, lndry, water incl.
734.223.7777.
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
tore/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvatuProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368
auutauma
Cow. C-t
tiltutW n tans n; urentes
iner-cooperative Commit OCC)
7:4-62-4414 www""* m

www.varsitymanagement.com

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, January 11, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 17-Across in the
neck
5 Adventurous
10 Domesticated
14 Chase on stage
15 Cat-_-tails.
16 Wicked
17 See 1-Across
18 Pass keyboard
key
20 Bigger photo:
Abbr.
21 Extremely, in
Essex
22 hornormaven
Craven
23 Folowerof Mary
25 Sphere
27 Was beaten by
29 Midday energizer
34 K-6
35 Stroll
37 Vowel before
omicron
38 Bounty tval
39 Angle irons
graphically
represented by
four sets of black
squares in this
grid, and by letter
formations
starting in thefour
longestanswers
41 Picketlinecrosser
42Garden site
43 Actor Neeson
44 Finishes the road
45 Got sickagain
48 Lke somequaint
50 Fairgrade
51 German GM
subsidiary
52 Workshop sprite
55 Crete-bom "View

2 Verve
3 Video game
difficulty setting
4 Bronze relative
5 Pasadena arena
6 Andean ancient
7 Leter
addressees
8 Masseuse's
challenge
9 Cowardly
10 Business card
abbr.
11 Speak bluntly
12 Cats' quarry
13 Benevolent
lodgeful
19 Ancient strings
21 NYC subway line
named for two
boroughs
24 Farmers'
publication?
26 Brash
component
27 Hyped-up
feeling
28 Saybos'n," say
29 Scottish patter
30 Gumbo pod
31 Names on itare
off-limits to
telemarketers
32 Big name in
video games

33 Big name in 53 Recline lazily
beer 54 Do a slow burn
36 Upnto the task 56 Trotor canter
40 Wet ones, soto 57 Litter's littlest
speak 58 Kellogg's toaster
46 Banana discard brand
47 Haeas a 60 Donkey's protest
customeer 81 Bullet leap
49 Stock mkt. 63 Sad
debut 64 Emie of the PGA,
52 Makeup towhomthis
accentuates puzzle could be
them dedicated
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
C I T E P AND A S S G T
A C H T A W A I T A L E R
R E A D O N E S F O R T U N E
O T T N E S T N I C E T Y
M E L E E R O T H
A L L l N T H E F A M I L Y
F L O R I D S O RE S
O F F R A T S O K A L
C O R G I S M E R S H
A B Q U T T H E A U T H O R
I S A Y O H R O B
P I S T O L B Q L O G U Y
I T T A K E S A V I L L AG E
S E E R S I R E D O N E A
A M P S E X T R A U S S R
xwordeditor@aoi.com 011011

Looking for housing for fall 2011?
studios1, , ton asuueroomsN owAvanilable
Fully fumished
eat water, and paksinenlded mnotlocatons
Many newly remodeled
Call to schedule a tour today!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
RIDDLE OF THE Day..
Has the top customer service around.
Best rates & locations on campus.
It's a positive number that's not divisi-
ble without a remainder by any positive
number other than itself and one.
Call (734) 761-8000 to get your answer
& so much more!!
IF MONEY CAN't buy happiness,
I guess you'll have to rent it!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 privoesh.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
*LOOKING FOR THE RIGHT
APARTMENT? Were AFFORDABLE
and MUCH Better than the Dorms!
Check us out and get a FREE Bubble
Island drink with any new tour! We
have Studios, 1, 2 & 3 bedroom fur-
nished apartments available for Spring
/ Fall. Call us at 734-761-2680 for your
appointments.
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site paring, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3600 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3400/mo. Call 248-798-4755
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
917 PACKARD
Huge 2br apts. that can easily fit
4 people! Close to central campus, the
athletic campus, and restaurants at
State, Packard, & Hill!! New kitchens
w/dishwashers, large bedrooms w/
double closets and balconies. All apts
are fully furnished, heat, water,
and parking included!
www.varsitymanagement.com
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff & 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; 2 bed-
rooms (3 left) $950 - $1250; Most units
include Heat and Water. Most have
Parking available for $25/m. Showings
Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm.
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.

THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mm. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today for
Best selection. "Pick A Winner" Promo
ends on 1/14/11. Call or stop by
TODAY! 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
877-367-7368 or http://www.subletcom
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkgheat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
MY NEW YEARS Resolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall..,Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
PACKARD 5 BDRM!
539 Packard: Very spacious 5 Br 2 bth
w/ large bedrooms to share!! Good for
5-7 people!! Completely remodeled
w/hardwood firs and new furniture.
Eat-in kitchen, Washer & dryer on-site,
and just one block from the union!
734-668-1100
4 BDRM APARTMENT near Kerry-
town at 813 E. Ann. 3 B2B Parking
space, Coin Laundry in Basement, Heat
and Water Paid. Asking $2300 for Fall
2011-12. Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991
BEAUTIFUL SPACIOUS APTS!
1039 Baldwin. 4 br. 2br, & studios!
Available in a gorgeous converted
house. High ceilings, buy windows,
fireplace, hardwood floon, & screened
in porch!! Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call todayfor an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location

Only a fe ays left to be a WINNER
in the "Pickl tisner"proodtin.
You can win up to Month FREE!!
tiliovllrrev. lag'ndantsa *".
We offer m cnitis ch a, MFEEwirLls nene
MitteCnmanc, F- Renls, Fm ea WandWar icludd with
Call or stop by Today for
Best Selection.
Sold out early in 2010,
so don't wait any longer.
SIE WHY WERE STILL #1
536 South Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-268Q .
ww "ymuveritvoer - n
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM APT in house w/ by.
windows, furniture and 2 pkg spots.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
741-9300 '
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2400
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
5 BDRM, 2 Bath, heat included, laun-
dry, parking, May-May, $3395, 815
Arch, 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CONDO AVAILABLE AT The
Ridge Tahoe, 400 Ridge Club Drive.
Sleeps 4, 1 bedroom, 1 bath, kitchen.
Apr. 3- Apr. 10, $1000. Contact
merchanj@umich.edu
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail spring & fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.

0

For moreinformationaboutthesestudies
and the benefits you may receive for partici-
pating, visit: http:tlwww.kines.umich.edut
researchlcxrlsmistudies.html
ATTENTION U OF M Students
HOLDAY HELP
1-5 week work program, flex sched,
$16,25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice,
no exp necessary, all ages 17+,
Apply now, start after finals!
734-975-7299
BARTEND! ' $300/DAY POTEN-
TIAL! No experience required.We
train you! 888-575-TIPS (8477).
CARING AND LOVING sitter
needed for afternoon care. Girls 4 & 5.
Mondays, Wednesday 3:30-5:15. Need
own car. Please call 734-754-1145.
PHD or candidate, any field. Part-
time in tiny, highly successful biotech
company near campus. Send CV and
past writing samples (redacted).
admin@eyelabgroup.com
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu

Keeps BED BUGS out of sight!
Kills and Repels Bed Bugs
Non-toxic
. Natural CedarOil Solution.
0 WWW.SANABODY.COM
GET GROCERIES DELIVERED to
your door. Geneva Grocery Delivery.
734-274-2484.
PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734 .O99 21 -www.TSTGURU5eom

Healthy Research Study
Volunteers Needed
Men and women, non-smoker, ages 18-45
who are not taking any regular medications
(birth control is acceptable for most studies).
There are a few differentstudy opportunities,
most of which include ovemight visits at
the University oftMichigan Hospital. Blood,
small muscle and fat tissue samples may be
taken during these visits.
Financial compensation available.

0


2 " -- g B 7 19 - 10 11 112 11

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 9 10 77 112 113
14 15 1$
iT 18 18
20 21 22
23 24 25 2$
27 28 29 30 31 32 33
3a as s$ sT

59 Teasrancheitals 353 9 a 41
62"I'm afraidthiswill
sound funny'
64 Dublin's land as 4e an 4a a
5 Red Muppet
67 Future atty's
hurdle n2 a 5 sa4 55 a 5 7r nu5 9 aa1
68 Boatload
69 Preminger et al.5 02 ra3
70 Eyelid problem
DOWN 88 0 70
1 Loungingluacket
wearers smoke, ,Iututao n.
ma b tbBy Saguuard S 01/11/11
(c)2III Tribune Media Services, Inc.

WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

LOOKING FOR EXPERIENCED
Sitter Wed. afternoons (appx. 3-6).
Must have carto drive kids to/from
activities. Email gsein@umich.edu


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 11, 2011- 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 11, 2011 - 7

SPECTRUM CENTER
From Page 1
has been 40 years since the office
first opened its doors. He said he's
appreciative that the University
supported the establishment of
what was a controversial office at
the time.
"The University took an enor-
mous risk in creating the office and
sustaining it, and 'm grateful," Toy
said.
The Spectrum Center's staff,
volunteers and allies have strived
to stay strong over the years, Toy
said, despite hardships they have
faced from inequality and discrim-
ination that have plagued LGBT
students at the University.
"We are connected," he said.
"We are family."
Royster Harper, the University's
vice president for student affairs,
said at the event that the Spectrum
Center has played a pivotal role
at the University for helping stu-
dents gain a better sense of self and
increasing tolerance for the LGBT
community.
"(The center) has helped us dis-
cover who we are and what's inside
us," Harper said. "Our differences
are as important in making us
human as our similarities."
Jackie Simpson, director of the
Spectrum Center, said that in light
of recent character assaults against
LGBT students like Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly President Chris
Armstrong, it's particularly impor-
tant to have organizations like the
Spectrum Center encourage open
discussion and tolerance.
Armstrong was the target offor-
mer Michigan assistant attorney
general Andrew Shirvell, who cre-
ated a blog about Armstrong which
claimed he was promoting a "radi-
cal homosexual agenda."
"If you look at the events of the
past year, like the harassment of
Chris Armstrong and the suicides

COLEMAN
From Page 1
loans after ten years of working as a
civil servant - for recent graduates.
SACUA Vice Chair Gina Poe,
a professor of Anesthesiology,
said University faculty members
are especially good at organizing
symposiums that make research
conducted at the University more
known in the public arena, and said
events like these could help the
University get more research fund-
ing.
"What should come out of these
symposiums are grant ideas from
the industries," Poe said.
Lusmann also suggested that
legislation absolving student loan
payments should be drafted to pre-
vent the continued "brain drain" in
Michigan by providing a monetary
incentive.
He added that the monetary
incentive would keep some of the
"best minds" in the state.

COLEMAN HIGHLIGHTS
BABY CLOTHES COMPANY
Coleman also mentioned several
honors that members of the Univer-
sity community received at the end
of 2010.
Engineering senior Allen Kim
was recently named "College Entre-
preneur of 2010" by Entrepreneur
Magazine. Selected as a finalist in
August, Kim will be featured in the
January issue of the magazine.
Kim won the title for his company
Bebarang, formerly called Bebaroo,
which is an online rental service that
delivers brand name baby clothes at
discount prices. Coleman and oth-
ers have called Bebarang "the Net-
flix of baby clothes.'
Coleman said she was also
pleased that the University received
two awards for architecture in 2010
- The Best of the Best Award from
McGraw-Hill Construction for the
renovations to the Big House and
the award for Excellence in Archi-
tecture from the American Institute
of Architects.


SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
University alum Alma Davila-Toro and LSA senior Carla Fernandez-Soto at the Spectrum Center's 40th anniversary yesterday.

on college campuses around the
country, I feel it's important to have
a place of acceptance and a place
that says we care," Simpson said.
Simpson said as the center
reaches its 40th anniversary, she
hopes it will continue to establish
itself as an important institution
on campus that helps generate
thoughts about LGBT issues among
students.
Social Work graduate student
Timothy Corvidae, a staff member
at the Spectrum Center, said that
students who enter the office "walk
out with a much bigger vision."
"The fact that there is a need for
(support) is what brings us togeth-
er," Corvidae said. "We're not a sin-
gle-identity community, so we can't
be a single-issue organization."
LSA freshman Heather Coo-

per, who attended the anniversary
event, said the Spectrum Center is
a crucial part of campus because
it provides a "safe" place where
LGBT students can feel comfort-
able discussing issues they are fac-
ing.
The Spectrum Center's celebra-
tion will continue throughout the
year with a monthly film series, a
health panel series, speakers and
various entertainers.
According to the Spectrum Cen-
ter's website,oneofthemainevents
occurring this year is the Midwest
Bisexual Lesbian Gay Transgender
Ally College Conference (MBLG-
TACC). This is the first year the
University has been chosen to host
the conference, which will run
from Feb. 25 through Feb. 27.
MBLGTACC is the largest

national student-led LGBT con-
ference. This year, it will fea-
ture speakers like Mara Keisling.
executive director of the National
Center for Transgender Equality,
and Mandy Carter, founder of the
National Black Justice Coalition.
It will also feature performances,
workshops and presentations by
groups like the Sexual Assault Pre-
vention and Awareness Center and
InterGroup Dialogues.
Gabe Javier, assistant director of
the Spectrum Center, said the con-
ference will benefit the University
because it provides a forum to dis-
cuss prevalent LGBT issues.
"(It's) goingto be a great point of
energy for our campus as a whole,"
Javier said. "It's not just a celebra-
tion for Spectrum Center, but it's
for the University."

EVALUATIONS
From Page 1
even before the Internet made it
easy to do so, Weir said.
"Back then when it was paper,
even though the faculty members
saw the results, there were often
steps taken so they wouldn't actu-
ally see the handwriting, so that
was a confidentiality technique
back in the old days," Weir said.
But students worrying about
anonymity was not the main rea-
son they were lying at SOSU and
UNI. The study, which will be
published this year in "Market-
ing Education Review," found that
students tended to fib in order to
make instructors they like look
good and ones they don't like look
less favorable to administrators
who read the evaluation, accord-
ing to the The Des. Moines Regis-
ter article.
LSAhsenior Quincy Westhuis
said she could understand why
students would lie if they wanted
to portray a professor in a better
light.
"I think sometimes people
probably exaggerate if they don't
like the class, but they like the pro-
fessor," Westhuis said.
LSA sophomore Hannah Fiels-
tra said she thinks lying on course

evaluations is pointless because
it's the only chance students have
to voice their opinions about pro-
fessors and classes.
"If you lie on a course evalu-
ation, it's not really going to help
anyone," Fielstra said.
LSA sophomore Alicia Biggs
said she tends to make her
answers more moderate when fill-
ing out course evaluations, mostly
because of the University's avail-
able responses to questions.
"I tend to play them down
because only the comments section
is open, everything else is always
agree or disagree, and I never
choose the extreme," Biggs said.
According to Weir, however,
lying on University course evalu-
ations is not one of the main con-
cerns or faculty members. Weir
said since the switch from paper
to electronic submissions in
December 2008, there has been a
significant drop in the number of
students who fill out evaluations.
"We've done a lot of research
about what happened in other
schools and colleges, and in fact,
it was a pretty well documented
thing that when you go to elec-
tronic evaluation, the participa-
tion rate drops," Weir said. "We've
been trying to look at a number
of different ways to encourage
response rate."

Biden visits Afghanistan to assess war progress

U.S. official says
relations with
Karzai going well
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -
Vice President Joe Biden made a
surprise visit to Afghanistan Mon-
day to meet with President Hamid
Karzai and assess progress toward
a key objective of handing over
security from foreign to Afghan
forces.
The U.S. plans to begin with-
drawing combat forces from
Afghanistan in July but remains
concerned that gains made in the
nearly decade-long war could be
reversible. There are also questions
about the ability of Afghan security
forces to take up the fight against a
virulent insurgency. NATO hopes
Afghan forces will assume full
responsibility for security by 2014.
Tensions have surfaced between
the Obama administration and
Karzai, whose government is
plagued by charges of corruption.
U.S. officials have expressed grave
concerns about how this is affect-
ing efforts to stabilize and rebuild
the country.
Just a month ago, Obama came
to Afghanistan but did not meet
with Karzai. The White House said
that foul weather foiled plans to
take Obama to the presidential pal-
ace in Kabul from the Bagram Air
Field military base where he land-
ed, and that technical difficulties
prevented the two presidents from
talking by secure videoconference.
Although the two leaders spoke
briefly by telephone, the change of
plans was seen by some in Karzai's
circle as a snub. And it was unclear
whether part of the reason for
Biden's visit was to smooth things
over with Karzai.
A senior U.S. official traveling
with Biden tried to present a united
front, saying the U.S. and Karzai
are "very much on the same page"
after a NATO summit in Lisbon in

November and the December U.S.
review of its war strategy. The offi,
cial said the visit comes at a "pivot
point in our policy" with the U.S.
moving from atroop surge last year
to the planned start of a pullout and
it would give Biden an opportu-
nity to discuss progress toward the
transition.
' The official spoke on condition
of anonymity and was not autho-
rized to talk to the media.
NATO and U.S. officials insist
they are making progress in
quelling the insurgency. In an
end-of-year review of strategy in
Afghanistan, the Obama admin-
istration said the U.S. had made
advances in its push against the
Taliban in the south - the insur-
gents' traditional stronghold - but
acknowledged that "gains remain
fragile and reversible."
The Taliban has repeatedly
shown its ability to regroup, despite
constant offensives by the interna-
tional coalition, and to carry out
attacks across Afghanistan seem-
ingly at will. Last year was the
deadliest for NATO forces in the
country, with more than 700 troops
killed.
Afghanistan is also suffer-
ing from a lack of social services,
unemployment is rife and Afghans
complain that they have seen little
tangible improvement in their lives
since the 2001 invasion that top-
pled the Taliban. The insurgents,
in turn, have tried to capitalize on
that frustration, tapping into the
discontent to win new supporters.
Karzai has accused foreign gov-
ernments of meddling in Afghani-
stan's internal affairs, most notably
taking issue with criticism follow-
ingfraud-plagued presidential elec-
tions in 2009 and parliamentary
elections last year.
The White House official said
Obama has made it clear that
the U.S. was not "here to govern
Afghanistan, we're not here to
nation build." He said the purpose
of the mission was to help Afghans


U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, right, speaks with Gen. David Petraeus, NATO's top com-
mander in Afghanistan, during a press event in Kabul, Afghanistan yesterday.

reach a stage "where they can fully
assume the responsibilities of gov-
erning the country and securing
the country."
"That's exactly what (Obama's)
vision is, and it's also President
Karzai's vision as I understand it,"
he said.
American troops are the bulk
of the 140,000-strong NATO force
that has been battling the Taliban.
The White House said Biden,
who last visited in January 2009,
met Monday night with U.S. Gen.
David Petraeus, the commander of
U.S. and NATO forces in Afghani-
stan. He also plans to visit U.S.
troops and tour an Afghan Army
trainingcenter.
Biden is also reported tobe head-
ing to Islamabad this week to deliv-
er a message that the U.S. will send
more help to Pakistan, which U.S.
and Afghan officials see as a key
partner in routing the Taliban.
The Taliban's top leadership is
believed to be hiding somewhere
along the rugged and porous
Afghan-Pakistan border, but Islam-
abad has resisted pressure to crack
down on them.
The challenges faced by NATO

forces in Afghanistan were brought
home by an alliance announcement
Monday that airstrikes had killed
three Afghan police officers and
wounded three mistaken for insur-
gents settingup an ambush.
The incident was at least the
fourth in roughly a month in which
coalition troops killed civilians or
friendly forces in error - lapses
that have threatened to further
sour Afghan attitudes toward the
foreign troops.
In Kandahar, scene of some of
the fiercest fighting of the war, a
suicide car bomber struck a bor-
der police convoy Monday, killing
at least two officers and a civilian,
said Zalmai Ayubi, the spokesman
for the Kandahar provincial gov-
ernor.
NATO says it is making progress
in battling the Taliban with major
offensives in the southern provinc-
es of Kandahar and Helmand. An
extra contingent of more than 1,000
U.S. Marines will be deployed in
Helmand in what coalition spokes-
man Brig. Gen. Josef Blotz said
Monday was a temporary operation
to take advantage of gains on the
ground.

JEWELRY
From Page 1
to Peru again to find a designer she
would want to use in the long run.
While the company originally
created general types of jewelry like
rings, necklaces and bracelets, Jones
said that as a student, she saw the
need for a class jewelry niche. Jones
said she decided to pursue class jew-
elry opposed to other types while in
one of her business classes here. The
idea was then solidified after a sur-
vey she conducted showed that 90
percent of women in the survey said
class jewelry options for females are
unfashionable.
"It's about time women have
something to celebrate their
achievement and have something
they actually want to wear. It's
sophisticated and subtle and some-
thing you want to wear," said Jones
of the class jewelry Heart Graffiti
produces.
Once she decided she wanted to
add class jewelry to Heart Graffiti's
product line, Jones applied for and
was given licensing rights to the
University of Michigan trademark
in June 2010. Since then, she has
created seven pieces for women to
choose from, ranging in price from
$145 to $435. The company also has
five pieces of jewelry designed for
Michigan State University students,
according to the Heart Graffiti web-
site.
While most of the jewelry is sold
online through Heart Graffiti's
website, Jones also has a deal with
M-Den. -
Jones said she is working with

her sales representatives on campus
to spread awareness about the prod-
uct and create a client base within
the sororities at the University..The
company has also held several trunk
shows near campus.
The company's first class jewelry
item sold was actually for a woman
who graduated in 1972, she said.
With four lines of jewelry, Jones
said she's sold about 50 pieces from
three of the lines and 12 items
from Ecole, which means "cool"
in French and is the class jewelry
line. Jones said the line is growing
slowly, but she foresees doing well
around graduation.
LSA senior Sarah Hanson said
she hasn't considered getting a
class ring because of their high
price tag and limited options for
women.
"I got a high school ring, but
I never wear it because the girl
options are so ugly," Hanson said.
"To be honest, I haven't even really
looked into the ones for college."
But she said that if the rings avail-
able were more fashionable, she
would consider getting one.
"I'd only get a ring if it was some-
thing I would wear a lot," Hanson
said. "Grad stuff costs so much that
it would have to be worth it."
Business junior Allison Haney, a
sales representative on campus for
Heart Graffiti, said the company's
class line as well as other lines have
been well received.
"I lovemyMichiganclassbracelet
and always get tons of compliments
on it," Haney said. "The fashion line
of jewelry is really classy and origi-
nal, and it also matches the class
jewelry wonderfully."

U' U..i'1.. 1

Campus Mind Works Wellness Groups
FREE drop-in education and support groups for any
U-M student with Depression, Bipolar, or Anxiety
When: Tuesday January 11th from 5:00-6:30 p.m.
Where: North Campus, Room 133, Ch rysler Center
Visit www.campusmindworks.org for more
information.
No pre-registration is required.-
/_YI & A:.% &.

Are you a sopnomore with a passion for the environment'
Apply for the Graham Institute's Undergraduate
Sustainability Scholars Program by January 19, 2011!
Each year, 25 high-achieving undergraduate students from
diverse majors are accepted to this 11-credit, interdisciplinary
sustainability leadership program. In addition to earning
a sustainability certificate, scholars enjoy special access
to, and funding for, field-based sustainability experiences.
Details and application at www.graham.umich.edu.
[ RAHMINSTITUTE

W iiurigarung neen ng
Universitytof Michigan'

x y r

TIN.


8 Tuesday, January 11, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

Against Jayhawks, Beilein's
1-3-1 zone scheme effective

JAKE FROMM/Daily
Freshman defenseman Mac Bennett has been in and out of the lineup all season.
Bennett scores
first- career
goal in 'M'win
CASANDRA PAGNI the rush."
Daily Sports Writer Joining the rush is one area
of Bennett's game he looks to
With the No. 7 Michigan hock- improve on in the second half of
ey team up 3-0 on Michigan State the season.
late in the third period on Sat- Although he needs to make
urday, the victory - and series sure to take care of his defensive
split - looked secure. Less than responsibilities first, Bennett saw
five minutes remained, and the the outcome of being aggressive
Wolverines had already given on the offensive end first-hand on
the 6,842 fans in attendance at Saturday.
Yost Ice Arena three goals to add "I want to see myself jump up
to their traditional goal-count in the play like (in that goal) lit-
chant. tle bit more often," Bennett said.
It was definitely icing on the "I'm a lot more comfortable skat-
cake, but freshman defenseman ing with the puck now than I was
Mac Bennett gave the fans at Yost in the beginning of the season."
one more thing to cheer about. Michigan (10-4-1-0 CCHA,
Senior forward Scooter 13-6-4 overall) carries eight
Vaughan passed from the top of defensemen on its current ros-
the right circle to Bennett, who ter, and while only six see game-
came from behind and rushed action each night, Michigan
to the left faceoff dot. Bennett coach Red Berenson knows how
tough it can be for the younger
defenders to accumulate any sort
of confidence.
"Every game he "If you're paired with one guy
Friday and another guy Saturday
plays, he's (it can be difficult)," Pateryn said.
"I've been paired with (freshman
playing a little defender Kevin Clare and Ben-
nett) a lot this year. (Clare) is a
better" stay-at-home guy, and Mac is a
run-and-gun guy, so its different
to know when to stay back or go.
But you just read off each other.
roofed the puck blocker-side for Sometimes you just play with
his first career goal, cementing players that have different styles."
the 4-0 win for Michigan. But Bennett, who has played
Bennett was so overwhelmed the majority of his games this
that he even didn't hear the Yost season with Pateryn, can play on
faithful erupt, but his teammates either defensive side.
saved the puck for him. That flexibility gives Berenson
After the game, associate head different ways to use the fresh-
coach Mel Pearson joked that man.
Bennett should, sleep with that "I like (Bennett's) skating,"
puck - and show off his shot more Berenson said. "He carries the
often. puck out of trouble. I like his
But his partner, junior defense- passing. He definitely can join
man Greg Pateryn, knew Bennett the rush. (His goal) was a classic
had the shot all along, example of something we practice
Pateryn had an inkling during everyday but we don't see enough
the Wolverines' morning skate of it in games.
that Bennett was going to catch "I like what he's giving to our
fire on Saturday. team. I think every game he plays,
According to both Pateryn and he's playing a little better."
Bennett, the two were skating In a game where confidence is
when Pateryn realized most of everything, Bennett is relishing
Bennett's shots were finding the his new-found offensive flair.
back of the net. And Michigan will take any
"Before the game, it was kind extra offense it can get, as the
of funny, I told him 'I think you Wolverines face a home-and-
got one today, you're going to get home series with Ferris State this
one. I feel it,' " Pateryn said after weekend - asteam that ranks first
practice on Monday. "And sure in team defense, allowing an aver-
enough, he went down and joined age of just 1.96 goals per game.

Michigan's youthful
defense forces
powerhouse Kansas
to shoot 35 percent
LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan men's basketball
coach John Beilein wins basket-
ball games two ways: shooting and
masterful defensive zones.
Well, it doesn't always work -
the Wolverines still lose games. But
on Sunday afternoon, there was
a definitive reason that Beilein's
team - one of four in Division-I
without a single fourth-year player
- pushed No. 3 Kansas to the brink
in a 67-60 overtime loss.
And even a seven-year-old with
the most rudimentary knowledge
of basketball could have told you
that Michigan didn't keep it close
because of shooting (the team fin-
ished with a miserable 4-of-28 per-
formance from 3-point range).
The Wolverines (1-2 Big Ten,
11-S overall)tied the game with
seconds left in regulation because
their defense kept them close
throughout the second half, par-
ticularly when Beilein deployed
his notorious 1-3-1 zone.
As Michigan finally started to
find its groove on the offensive
end, the shutdown zone allowed
the Wolverines to outscore the Jay-
hawks 33-26 in the second frame.
"I really can't explain it," Beilein
said on Monday. "Sometimes, it
just happens. And whether it's a
UConn, a Georgetown, a Villa-
nova, a Duke, there's things that
happen in a game, and it gets into
a flow when things don't go well,
and it starts to get a little mental."
And Beilein was right - it was a
bit mental, and Kansas came really
close to beating itself at Crisler
Arena.
Kansas coach Bill Self's squad
shot just 35.7 percent from the
field, and some of his more experi-
enced players turned the ball over
more than usual - especially in
the final 10 minutes of regulation.
Beilein may be good, but he
still needs some luck on his side
to coach such an inexperienced
team to a near victory over a top-
10 offense.
Illinois coach Bruce Weber
may have dubbed him the "mad
scientist" of college hoops at Big
Ten Media Day in November, but
Beilein doesn't have mythical abil-
ities.
Self admitted after the game that
his team played about as poorly as
they possibly could have against
the zone, even though it had pre-
pared for it in practice all week.
But whether Kansas beat Kan-
sas in the second half or whether

C
Freshman gaurd Tim Hardaway Jr. is positioned at the top of Beilein's 1-3-1 zone and plays an important role

Michigan beat Kansas in the sec-
ond half, the bottom line is that
the 1-3-1 was incredibly effective,
and fans shouldn't be surprised
if Beilein starts running it more
often as the season progresses.
On Monday, Beilein came close
to alluding to one of the reasons
why the zone works for his team
before retreating and remember-
ing that he doesn't reveal that type
of information to the media.
"The thing about the 1-3-1 is
that it's not as schematic as people
think," he said prior to the John
Beilein Radio Show. "It can be a
gimmicky thing at times, where it
just works. And then there's other
times where you really can apply
some strategy ... I can't speak too
much about it, but if it works, we'll
use it more."
Basically, the 1-3-1 is relatively
easy to coach and manipulate,

which
Wolver
Beil
with T
gin
at
it
top of
court l
other
Morgai
paint,'
take th
And

is essential for the youthful dribble around the perimeter,
ines. Hardaway floats laterally, look-
ein typically runs the zone ing to trap the ball with one of his
rim Hardaway Jr. at the wingmen.
When the ball goes to the cor-
ner, Douglass looks to trap the ball
with one of his wingmen, and the
'It can be a rest of the zone rotates to make up
for Douglass fleeing the baseline.
mmicky thing It's truly a team defense - two
players go to trap the ball, and the
times, where rest of the defense needs to move
as a unit to cover the gaps created
just Works." bythe shift.
And so far, the Wolverines have
proven they could do just that
against one of the top offenses in
the diamond, near the half the nation.
ine, and Stu Douglass at the "It's not schematic - it's a feel,"
end on the baseline.Jordan Beilein said.
n or Jon Horford mans the And on Wednesday night, he'll
while the other two players see if his team feels it against
e wing. . another one of the country's best
as the opposing guards offenses - No.2 Ohio State.


MILES
From Page 1
football coach is going to be,"
Coleman said. "I can promise you
that the athletic director is work-
ing very hard and that he will do
a good job."
Miles was asked about poten-
tial contact with Michigan dur-
ing a press conference early
yesterday afternoon in which his
star cornerback Patrick Peterson
announced he was leaving for
the NFL - Miles confirmed he
would be meeting with Michigan
at some point.
"If anything, we have a very

distant conversation with repre-
sentatives that would represent
the school," Miles told reporters.
"I'm told we will speak at that
time in a place that has not been
identified, and it's hard for me to
speculate to the substance of that
meeting."
Last Friday, LSU trounced
Texas A&M 41-24 in the Cotton
Bowl, extending Miles's career
record in Baton Rouge to 62-17
in six seasons - including a 5-1
record in bowl games. And Michi-
gan fans may celebrate the fact
that Miles led LSU to a 38-24
win over Ohio State in the 2008
National Championship game.
After the Tigers' win in the
Cotton Bowl, a reporter asked"

Miles if it was his last game as
LSU's head man.
He paused, then responded:
"It's a wonderful place. I love it
here."
Brandon started his nation-
wide coaching search last week
after announcing Rodriguez's ter-
mination.
Rumors have connected a wide
range of candidates to the vacant
position since then, from ESPN
Monday Night Football analyst
Jon Gruden to San Diego State's
Brady Hoke to Miles.
In his MGoBlue.com blog post-
ed yesterday, Brandon warned the
Michigan fan base to "not believe
everything you read or hear" and
called some of the reports "simply

ridiculous."
"I am sure all of the news
reports are interesting for our
fans," Brandon wrote. "But I am
too busy to follow the majority
of the news except to hear some
pretty wild stories about 'where I
am and who I am talkingto.'"
Brandon added that the public's
expectation of a speedy decision
was unrealistic.
"Some would suggest we should
complete this national search in a
matter of hours, but this is a criti-
cal decision for Michigan Athlet-
icts and it cannot and will nod be
made in haste," Brandon wrote.
-Daily News Reporter Kaitlin
Williams contributed to this report.

BRANDON'S CRITERIA: EVALUATING LES MILES

"MICHIGAN MAN" t DEFENSIVE COACH , COACHING RESUME RECRUITING

Miles played under Bo Schem-
bechler. He coached under Bo.
Brandon avoided saying that
Michigan's next coach needed to
be a "Michigan Man." He instead
made it clear that the next coach
needed to understand what Mich-'
igan was all about. Miles is one of
the few remaining options for the
Wolverines to hire someone who
coached under Bo.

LSU was one of the top teams
defensively in the entire nation
this season, ranking 11th in points
against. But with the Michigan
fan base clamoring for a coach
with a defensive emphasis, Miles's
success at LSU may not translate
into an improved defense, given
the lack of talent at Michigan and
his expertise on offense. But you
really can't argue with a top-15'D.'

Miles spent three seasons as There's no doubt Miles's teams
the Oklahoma State head coach have been loaded with talent. But
before moving to LSU in 2005. some of the talent on the Sugar
And in his third season, he led the Bowl and national title teams
Tigers to a national title - taking - including JaMarcus Russell,
down Ohio State in the champion- Dwayne Bowe and Glenn Dorsey
ship game. The Tigers have gone - was acquired during the Nick
to a bowl game in all six of Miles's Saban era. Part of Brandon's crite-
seasons at the helm, and he has 20 ria was the ability to recruit in the
years of experience as an assistant Midwest. Miles hasn't done that
coach in college and the NFL. extensively as a head coach.

MONEY
Brandon made it very clear that
he's not afraid to pay top-dollar to
get Michigan's next coach. Miles's
current deal with LSU runs
through 2014 and pays him $3.75
million annually. He also has a
reported buyout of $1.25 million.
Michigan was paying Rich Rodri-
guez about $2.5 million per year.
Brandon will probably have to up
Miles's salary to lure him away.
xN

SCHEME
His spread offense may not be
exactly what Rodriguez ran the
past three years in Ann Arbor, but
it's close enough to make an easy
transition. Jordan Jefferson quar-
terbacked the LSU offense this
season and he was able to throw for
more than 1,400 yards and rush for
450 yards. Denard Robinson could
excel with Miles. On defense, Miles
runs a traditional 4-3 defense.
0
0 5


