46F 46F 46F
1111C41gan 43at IV
I I UN Il I

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, November 9, 2011

michigandaily.com

* Ann Arbor, Michigan Wednesday, November 9,2011 michigandailycom

* * ELECTION DAY 2011

*

Turnout of
'U' students
low for city
elections

Student-heavy
precincts yield
between three and
65 votes cast
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily Staff Reporter
Though Ann Arbor resi-
dents elected new and incum-
bent local leaders yesterday,
University students had little
to do with the results.
University residence halls
and off-campus buildings
that served as precincts saw
low student voter turnout
yesterday for Ann Arbor
City Council elections. Only
seven voters cast ballots at
the Michigan Union - Pre-
cinct 4-1 - which is a stu-
dent-heavy precinct. Other
precincts heavily comprised
of students reported totals
ranging from three to 65 vot-
ers. According to poll work-
ers, election years that do not
have national or state candi-
dates on the ballot - like this
year - notoriously attract a
small voter base.
Eric Sheie (R), city coun-
cil candidate for Ward 4 who
was not elected, said he was
shocked by the lack of stu-
dent participation in the elec-
tion and would like to help
increase student voter turn-
out in the future.
"It's a shame (students are)
not more involved," Sheie
said in an interview after the

election. "There should have
been a lot more people voting.
Period."
No voters showed up to
the voting booths at Palmer
Commons before 3 p.m. yes-
terday, according to Precinct
2-2 Chair Stacia Zellner. Zell-
ner said she was disappointed
that no one had come to cast
a vote because local elections
are important.
"It's sad," Zellner said. "I
would like to see more people
come out, but unfortunately
we can't do much about that
at this point."
She added that she didn't
expect to see more students
show up to vote. In fact, only
three people had cast ballots
at the precinct by the end of
the day.
Precinct 1-1 Co-Chair
James Wessel Walker, said he
was not surprised by the low
student voter turnout con-
sidering it largely depends on
the type of election. For state
and national competitions,
voter turnout is much higher
than for local elections.
"There's not much to
attract attention (in off-elec-
tion years)," Wessel Walker
said.
As of 2:30 p.m. yesterday,
12 people had cast votes at
Precinct 1-i's voting location
in the Michigan Union. The
University typically expects
about 1,200 voters for presi-
dential elections, according
to Wessel Walker.
LSA sophomore Han-
See TURNOUT, Page SA

Jane Lumm celebrates her win for a seat on Ann Arbor City Council at Paesano Restaurant on Washtenaw Avenue last night.
Lumm beats Rapundalo

Independent unopposed.
Voters also passed three pro-
snags seat posals last night that dealt with
road and sidewalk issues and
from Democratic the city's retirement regulation
board.
incumbent In an active race for Ward 2,
Stephen Rapundalo, a Democrat,
By JENNIFER LEE and faced off against former Repub-
ADAM RUBENFIRE lican Council member Jane
Daily StaffReporters Lumm, who served from 1993
to 1998 and chose to run with no
One Ann Arbor City Council party affiliation in this race. In
seat will change after the results an interview at her watch party
of elections last night. at Paesano Restaurant on Washt-
With 63.68percentofthevote, enaw Avenue, Lumm thanked
Independent candidate Jane members of her campaign for
Lumm beat incumbent Stephen helping her gain the victory.
Rapundalo to become a council "I'm excited, very grateful
member for Ward 2. The other and this is truly the result of an
four winners - Stephen Kunsel- incredible team effort," Lumm
man (D-Ward 3), Mike Anglin said. "So many people ... did so
(D-Ward 5) and Marcia Higgins much to make this possible."
(D-Ward 4) - are currently on When she assumes office
council. In Ward 1, incumbent in January, Lumm said she'll
Sabra Briere (D-Ward 1) ran place a greater emphasis on con-

ELECTION RESULTS

WARD 1
Sabra Briere (D) 95.3%
WARD 2
Jane Lumm (I) 60.37%
Stephen Rapundalo (D) 39.46%
WARD 3
Stephen Kunselman (D)
77.28%°l
David Parker (R) 21.43%
WARD 4
Marcia Higgins (D) 58.84%
Eric Scheie (R) 40.06%
stituents' voices in city politics.
Lumm added that she will easily
adjust to her new position given
her prior experience on council,

WARD 5
Mike Anglin (D) 79.59%
Stuart Berry (R) 19.59%
- PROPOSAL1
Street and Bridge Millage
Yes 77.3%
NO 22.7%
PROPOSAL 2
Sidewalk Millage
Yes 60.12%
NO 39.88%
PROPOSAL 3
Pension Board
Yes 68.14%
NO 31.86%
and she said she's already think-
ing about issues to bring before
the council.
See LUMM, Page SA


UNIONIZATION
MERC to
evaluate
* GSRAs'
positions
MSA in support
of GSRAs voting
on unionization
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH and
KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily Staff Reporters
After months of debate regard-
ing graduate student research
assistants' status as employees
or students, the body denying
GSRAs unionize will be reconsid-
ering its 30-year-old ruling.
After declining to reconsider
the role of GSRAs in August -
See GSRA, Page 5A
WEATHER HI: 45
TOMORROW LO 32

GAMELAN JAMMIN'

STATE LEGISLATION
Faculty mayleave'U'if
domestic benefits removed

S
I

Students play isa gamelan ensemble in tbe School of Music yesterday.
COLLEGE ATHLETICS
NCAA approves eligibility,
new scholarship reforms

By ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily Staff Reporter
A new series of reforms for
collegiate athletics may make
life easier for some student-
athletes, but more difficult for

future athletes to get recruited.
In response to the Knight
Commission on Intercolle-
giate Athletics - an indepen-
dent committee that assesses
the academic standards set by
See NCAA, Page 5A

Sc
leave
In
Univ
grew
ily li
arour
consi
the
woul
from
dome
"I

enate bills would reason to stay here," said Dennis,
a humanities librarian and coor-
ban health care dinator at the Hatcher Graduate
Library. "Normally (my partner
for partners at and I) would not have thought of
relocating, but I certainly have
iblic institutions become opento it given this."
State House Bills 4770 and
By PAIGE PEARCY 4771 aim to bar public entities
Daily StaffReporter like the University from provid-
ing health benefits to domestic
ott Dennis does not want to partners. The passage of the
Ann Arbor. bills would cause same-sex part-
addition to working at the ners of public employees to lose
ersity for 14 years, Dennis their health insurance. The bills
up in Ann Arbor, his fam- passed in the state House on
ves here and his life centers Sept. 15 with a vote of 64-44 and
nd the city. But now, he is are currently in committee in the
dering moving because of state senate.
possibility that new laws Cynthia Wilbanks, the Uni-
d prohibit the University versity's vice president for gov-
offering health benefits to ernment relations, said the
rstic partners. University opposes the bills.
love this state. I have a lot of "We strongly believe there

would be acompetitive disadvan-
tage with faculty and staff that
we are either trying to recruit
or retain," Wilbanks said. "As a
result, we want to be sure that we
raise these issues in every way
that we can with those who will
be voting on or considering the
legislation."
Wilbanks said the Univeri
has been working with diffe
legislators to try to stop the bills
passage. If they do pass, the situ-"
ation will be re-evaluated.
"We're going to take it one
step at a time," Wilbanks s
"Obviously we consider al
our options when evaluating the
impact of legislation on the Uni-
versity and then take the appro-
priate steps whennecessary."
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor), who voted against the
See BENEFITS, Page 5A


GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Michigan lands local running back Drake Johnson
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX AP NEWS....................3A SPORTS...............7A
Vol. CXXII, No. 45 OPINION............4A ARTS..........................A
©2011 The Michigan Daily NEWS .........................SA THE STATEMENT.........11
michigondaily.com

Na


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A -Wednesday, November 9, 2011


FRIDAY:
otas of the Week

Ann Arbor acceptance

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaityconzyanceromichigandaiy.com

To most students, a
string of fiveA's showshigh
academic achievement on a
transcript. But to the mem-
bers of A5, it represents a
club making a difference
for students with disabili-
ties on campus.
The Abilities Alliance at
Ann Arbor, or A5, is a stu-
dent-run club that strives
to promote equality within
the student body by creat-
ing a social group for stu-
dents with disabilities.
LSA junior Andy Clark,
co-founder and current
president of A5, said by
participating in the group,
he aspires to foster rela-
tionships between students

with and without disabili-
ties to create a feeling of
acceptance.
"On campus, especially
undergraduate students,
those with a disability
have a hard time creating
a social network even with
the simple things like eat-
ing in the dining hall,"
Clark said. "AS rectifies
that by getting people in
touch that want to hang out
and chill. We are lookingto
createthatsocial network."
Business School sopho-
more Rohit Kapur, another
AS co-founder, spearhead-
ed the creation of the club
after an unfortunate first-
hand experience dealing

with the challenges of a
disability.
"I was having trouble
getting through to the dis-
ability office about shovel-
ing snow," Kapur said. "I
missed classes for two days
straight, and no one did
anything."
Frustrated by the lack
of response he was get-
ting from the Services for
Students With Disabilities
office, Kapur decided to
take matters into his own
hands. His friends shov-
eled a path from East Quad
Residence Hall to the Diag
to make his trip to class
wheelchair accessible, and
the idea for a student orga-

nization arose.
The club hosts a month-
ly event that provides AS
members with the oppor-
tunity to meet and partici-
pate in social activities like
playingboard games.
A5 has 37 members, but
the club is still in its infan-
cy, and Clark believes the
numbers will continue to
increase. To increase pub-
licity and attractnew mem-
bers, Kapur plans to have
A5 participate in Festifall
and Investing in Ability
Week next year.
"Even if we change a few
lives, it would be a huge
benefit," Kapur said.
- MATT CONNOLLY

Newsroom
734-418-415 5opt.3
Corrections
correctio7nmichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts:,,icigaod,iy.,ire,
Sports Section
spo rit)michiga la ily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily. com
Online Sales
onlineadsmichigandaily.com

News Tips
newsmichigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily(michigandaily.com
Editorial Pate
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@mtichigandaily.com
Finance
fiance@ michigandaily.com

0
S

FACEBC
Members of AS participate in one of the
group's events.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Pleasurable Skater haters Medical

.

studies
WHERE: Shapiro
Undergraduate Library
WHEN: Monday at about
11:45 p.m.
WHAT: A student was
reported masturbating
while watching
pornography, University
Police reported. The
student was charged with
disorderly conduct.
Pirate radio
WHERE: University
Hosptial
WHEN: Monday at about
4:30 p.m.
WHAT: A staff member
reported that a portable
radio was stolen from
a maintenance room,
University Police reported.

WHERE: Church Street
carport
WHEN: Tuesday at about
1 a.m.
WHAT: A staff member
sighted skaters, University
Police Reported. The
skaters were gone when the
officers arrived.
Caught inside
the Big House
WHERE: Michigan
Stadium
WHEN: Monday at about
11:05 p.m.
WHAT: Nine students were
found inside the Big House
after two people reportedly
jumped the fence,
University Police reported.
They were given a warning
for tresspassing.

I

ethics lecture
WHAT: Dr. Laura Roberts,
chair of the Department of
Psychiatry and Behaviorial
Sciences at Stanford
University, will discuss the
stresses of being a physician
and ethical issues in the
medical profession.
WHO: Depression Center
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Ford Auditorium
Zydeco music
performance
WHAT: Accordionist
Jeffery Broussard, a leading
member in Zydeco Force,
will perform a new style
of Creole music inspired
by Louisiana's culture and
tradition. Tickets cost $15.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

Physics lecture
WHAT: Prof. David
Hertzog from the University
of Washington will give a
lecture entitled "Precision
Muon Physics: Capturing a
Moment in a Lifetime."
WHO: Department of
Physics
WHEN: 4 p.m. to 5 p.m.
WHERE: 340 West Hall
Survivor
speak out
WHAT: A forum for
survivors of sexual violence
to share their stories.
WHO: Sexual Assault
Awareness and Prevention
Center
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Ballroom of
Michigan League
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

UPS will hire 55,000
seasonal workers this
holiday season due to
increased shopping activity,
which is considered an
indicator of economic health,
CNBC reported. Last year,
UPS hired 50,000 workers
during the same time period.
From 1837 to 1852,
the all-male student
body at the University
attended mandatory chapel
services every morning at
5:30 a.m.
FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
INSIDE
The 28-member crew
of a Taiwanese fishing
vessel overpowered a
group of Somali pirates who
hijacked their boat last week,
the BBC reported. The crew
was taken hostage by the
pirates and then gained con-
trol of their attackers.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@:michigandaily.com
Nicole Aher 'aagingxcews ditcor saberllxich:gaxdaiy.co
SNIOR NEWScEi D::O y:l:.:on, Dylan Cinti, CaitinItuston, Joseph Lch:te:na,
BriennePruak
ASITN ESEITR S: Haley Glatt ornClaire GosciciSuzanne Jacobs, Sabira
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial PageEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali,. Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITOR IA L PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb
StephenJ. Nesbitt and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tim Rohan Managing Sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Tien Estes, Michael lorek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
ANTSPRTIEIORS:teven Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Sharon Jacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: LeaBurgin,'Kavi Pandey,JenniferXu
STANTARTETORS:JacobAxelrad,CassieBalfour,JoeCadagin,EnnmaGas,
Marissa McClain and photo mi.higandaily.com
Jed Moch Managing Photo Editors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirk and, Terra Molengraff, Anna Schulte
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIG DTR AnenZielinsk
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@mxichigaxdaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Stephen Ostrowski, Devon Thorsby, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy copy chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDI'TORS: Christine Chun, Hannah Poindexter
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
Imran Sayed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
JUlianna Crim Associate usiness Manager
Rachel Greinetz Sales Manager
Alexis Newton Production Manager
MeghannRooney Layout Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
QUy VO circulation Manager

0I

The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-'
winter terms by students at the
to all readers Additionalcopies
.al term, startingrin September,
S ye arong (September throu
subscrption atO-amps
TheeMihianDailyisamembler

University o Michgan. Oneropy isaaieflreeofchare
ay berp:ikdupattheDalys offie fo $2.abcripians fo
via 0.. ail re 110. Winter1term 7Jaay though Apl is
,Apr is $1195.Universiy afltare subject toarledue
scrptions forall termare $35.8u871rpiorsmutaealprepaid
ofTheAssocated Pess adTheAssociatedClleiate Prss


United Nations report: Iran is
developing a nuclear arsenal

Report confirms U.S.
suspicion of Iran's
nuclear activities
VIENNA (AP) - The U.N.
nuclear -atomic energy agency
said yesterday for the first time
that Iran is suspected of conduct-
ing secret experiments whose
sole purpose is the development
of nuclear arms. The report is the
strongest sign yet that Iran seeks
to build a nuclear arsenal, despite
claims to the contrary. With Israel
threatening a military response,
the report opens the way for a new
confrontation between the West
and Iran.
In Washington, officials said
the report confirms U.S. suspi-
cions about the military nature
of Iran's program and that the
Obama administration is con-
sidering pressuring Iran with
additiopal sanctions, if it fails to
answer questions posed by the
new information.
In its latest report on Iran, the

International Atomic Energy
Agency outlines the sum of its
knowledge on the Islamic Repub-
lic's alleged secret nuclear weap-
ons work, including:
-Clandestine procurement of
equipment and design informa-
tion needed to make such arms;
-High explosives testing and
detonator development to set off a
nuclear charge;
-Computer modeling of a core
of a nuclear warhead;
-Preparatory work for a nucle-
ar weapons test, and
-Developing and mounting a
nuclear payload onto its Shahab
3 intermediate range missile -
a weapon that can reach Israel,
Iran's arch foe.
Israeli government spokesman
Mark Regev said there is a gov-
ernment directive not to comment
until Israel has studied the report
in depth.
But ahead of the report's
release, Israeli Defense Minis-
ter Ehud Barak warned of a pos-
sible Israeli military strike against
Iran's nuclear program.

He told Israel Radio that he did
not expect any new U.N. sanctions
on Tehran to persuade it to stop its
nuclear defiance, adding: We con-
tinue to recommend to our friends
in the world and to ourselves, not
to take any option off the table."
The "all options on the table"
phrase is often used by Israeli pol-
iticians to mean a military assault,
and Israeli government members
have engaged in increased saber
rattling recently suggesting that
an attack was likely a more effec-
tive way to stop Iran's nuclear pro-
gram than continued diplomacy.
Iran's official IRNA news agen-
cy dismissed the IAEA report,
saying it "repeats the past claims
by the U.S. and the Zionist regime,
what was rejected in the past
report of the agency."
The IRNA commentary said:
'Thehead ofthe agency has includ-
ed worthless comments and pic-
tures provided by the intelligence
services in the report." It said past
inspections by the agency proved
what was mentioned as a large
steel container, which the IAEA
believes is used for nuclear arms-
related high explosives tests, were
only "metal-constructed toilets."
In Moscow, Russia's Foreign
Ministry said it would not com-
ment on the report until it had
time to study it. "Time is needed
to study it carefully," the ministry
said in a statement issued short-
ly before the IAEA report was
released. .
"The analysis should be carried
out in a calm atmosphere because
it is importantto figure out wheth-
er there really are new, and indeed
trustworthy, facts that confirmthe
suspicions that there are military
components in the Iranian nuclear
program, or whether we're talking
about the intentional and counter-
productive exacerbation of emo-
tions," the ministry said.
While some of the suspected
secret nuclear work outlined in
the IAEA annex could also be used
for peaceful purposes, "others are
specific to nuclear weapons," said
the confidential report obtainedby
The Associated Press.

PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/AP
Democratic Kentucy Gov. Steve Beshear, second from right, and his running mate Jerry Abramson celebrate their victory
with their wives Madeline Abramson, left, and Jane Beshear, right, in Frankfort, Ky. last night.
Incu-mb ent parties
prevai ii'n .gov. ae

I

Ohio overturns
law limiting
public employees'
bargaining rights
Kentucky and Mississippi
refused yesterday to turn their
governors' offices over to differ-
ent parties, despite the nation's
stubborn economic woes, and
Ohio restored full bargaining
rights to hundreds of thousands
of public employees in a major
victory for organized labor.
A Mississippi initiative that
would have defined life as begin-
ning at conception went down to
defeat, ending supporters' plans
to use it to challenge Roe v. Wade,
the Supreme Court decision that
established the right to abortion.
Across the nation, voters' last
major judgments of 2011 were
closely watched for any hints
about the public's political mood
just two months ahead of the
first presidential primary and
nearly four years into the worst
economic slowdown since the
Depression.

Kentucky's Democratic gov-
ernor easily won another term,
and Mississippi voters kept their
governor's office in GOP hands
- decisions that suggested many
Americans were not ready to
abandon incumbent parties.
In Ohio, a new law that severe-
ly limited the bargaining rights of
more than 350,000 teachers, fire-
fighters, police officers and other
public employees was repealed.
The overwhelming defeat was
a stiff blow to Gov. John Kasich
and cast doubt on other Repub-
lican governors who have sought
union-limiting measures as a way
to curb spending.
"Ohio sent a message to every
politician out there: Go in and
make war on your employees
rather than make jobs with your
employees, and you do so at your
own peril," AFL-CIO President
Richard Trumka said.
Kasich congratulated his
opponents and said he would
consider his next steps carefully.
"I've heard their voices. I
understand their decision, and
frankly, I respect what people
have to say in an effort like this.
And as a result of that, it requires

me to take a deep breath, you
know, and to spend some time
reflecting on what happened
here," he said.
The disputed law permitted
workers to negotiate wages but
not pensions or health care ben-
efits, and it banned public-worker
strikes, scrapped binding arbitra-
tion and eliminated annual raises
for teachers.
The outcome will no doubt
be studied by presidential can-
didates as a gauge of the Ohio
electorate, which is seen as a bell-
wether. No Republican has won
the White House without Ohio,
and only two Democrats have
done so in more than a century.
Elsewhere on the ballot, Ohio
voters approved a proposal
to prohibit people from being
required to buy health insurance
as part of the national health care
overhaul. The vote was mostly
symbolic, but Republicans hoped
to use it in a legal challenge.
The governors' races were of
keen interest to both parties. Ten
states will elect governors next
year, and governors can marshal
get-out-the-vote efforts crucial to
any White House candidate.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 9,2011 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 9, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WOODHAVEN, Mich.
Father of 9-year-
old driver charged
with child abuse
A 9-year-old girl cried yes-
terday as she explained how she
drove a full-size van in suburban
Detroit while her father sat in the
passenger seat after a night of
drinking whiskey.
The girl said her dad, Shawn
Weimer, asked her if she wanted
to drive in the wee hours of Oct.
8.
"I said yeah but I'd be a little
scared," she said.
Weimer, 39, was charged
with child abuse after police in
Brownstown Township stopped
the van and found the girl behind
the wheel. A judge will decide
Nov. 15 whether he will stand
trial.
The girl cried throughout her
brief testimony. Judge Michael
McNally tried to calm her and
offered a soft drink before call-
ing a recess.
WASHINGTON
D.C. qualifies for
federal funding
after earthquake
President Barack Obama has
signed a disaster declaration for
the District of Columbia from
this summer's earthquake. The
damaged Washington National
Cathedral could be eligible.
Yesterday's declaration makes
federal funding available to
repair buildings damaged by the
5.8-magnitude quake on Aug. 23.
Mayor Vincent Gray's adminis-
tration says damages to govern-
ment facilities total $6.8 million.
Gray says money is needed to
repair schools and other gov-
ernment buildings as well as
the cathedral, which was heav-
ily damaged. Initial repairs are
expected to cost $15 million.
Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency spokeswoman
Rachel Racusen says Gray could
seek funds for cathedral areas not
used for religious purposes. The
funds can also go toward prepar-
ing for future emergencies.
NEW ORLEANS
Coast Guard ends
BP oil spill cleanup
* The Coast Guard has approved
a pian to end cleanup along the
Gulf Coast from the BP oil spill,
a move officials said opens a new
phase of work for BP - restoring
areas damaged by the largest off-
shore spill in U.S. history.
According to the document
obtained by The Associated Press
yesterday, the plan "provides the
mechanisms for ceasing active
clean-up operations."
In it, the Coast Guard spells
out protocol for ending the clean-
up. It has been going on since

April 20, 2010, when the Deep-
water Horizon exploded off the
Louisiana coast.
Coast Guard spokeswoman Lt.
Suzanne Kerver says the shore-
line plan outlines "the standard
for clean."
She said about 10 percent of
the Gulf Coast fouled by the BP
spill remains to be cleaned.
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
U.N. asked to pay
for damages of
Cholera outbreak
A human rights group said
yesterday it has filed claims with
the United Nations seeking dam-
ages on behalf of more than 5,000
Haitian cholera victims and their
families.
The claims filed by the Boston-
based Institute for Justice and
Democracy in Haiti argue that the
U.N; and its peacekeeping force
are liable for hundreds of millions
of dollars for failing to adequately
screenpeacekeepingsoldiers.
They cite a range of studies
that indicate the infected sol-
diers caused the outbreak when
untreated waste from a U.N. base
was dumped into a tributary of
Haiti's most important river.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Defiant Cain
says he won't
drop out of race

Italian Premier Silvio Berlusoni waves to journalists as he leaves the Quirinale, Presidential palace, after meeting with
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano, in Rome, yesterday.
Berlusconi to resig as
Italian prime minister

Demands for achieved the feat of becoming
his nation's longest-serving pre-
economic reform mier.
The media baron dominated
provoke possible Italian politics. for nearly two
.sg .in decades. He served as premier
three times over the past 17 years
- a charismatic if polarizing fig-
ROME (AP) - Silvio Berlusco- ure who sold Italians a dream of
ni survived sexscandals and cor- prosperity with his own person-
ruption trials. Tawdry accounts al story of transformation from
of sexy "bunga bunga" parties cruise-ship crooner to Italy's
turned him into an international richest man. He also owns AC
laughing stock. Prosecutors pur- Milan, one of Italy's famous soc-
sued him over a mind-boggling cer clubs.
array ofsuspected improprieties. But in his last years in power,
Every time he seemed fin- he became almost a grotesque
ished, the perma-tanned pre- caricature of the charming bil-
mier managed to miraculously lionaire who cast a spell over his
bounce back. nation.
But he just couldn't beat the The hair transplants and plas-
markets. tic surgery became all too obvi-
Berlusconi announced yester- ous. His reputation as a seducer
day he would resign after parlia- gave way to allegations of trysts
ment passes economic reforms with prostitutes and underage
demanded by the European girls. He embarrassed Italy with
Union. He acted in the face of jaw-dropping gaffes at interna-
a relentless investor attack on tional summits.
Italy's government bonds and Accusations grew that he was
crumbling support in parlia- in politics not for Italy's sake but
ment, almost certainly ending for his own - to boost his busi-
a political career in which he ness interests and change laws

to shield himself from prosecu-
tion.
As pressure for his resignation
grew, he remained defiant, label-
ing opponents "communists" to,
be kept at bay and prosecutors
as "terrorists" defying the will of
the people who elected him.
Even as his allies were defect-
ing, he anointed himself Italy's
savior at the close of the Group
of 20 summit in Cannes, France,
last week.
"I feel a duty to continue these
things," he said. "This is a great
duty and sacrifice for me. Here,
at the Cannes summit, I looked
around and I don't see anyone in
Italy who is up to representing
our country. I asked myself, you
could represent Italy if I weren't
there?"
But he had only so many polit-
ical lives. The magnetic smile,
the confident wisecracking, the
perennial optimism were no lon-
ger reassuring.
When Italy became the new
focus of the eurozone debt crisis,
the financial markets delivered
their verdict: Berlusconi him-
self was the problem.

(
rep
SC(
Under
Repul
Herm
repute
fully d
of sex
yester
sy wo
race fc
"Ai
declar
Cai
after
the ca
than
voice1
allega
MittI
distur
Spe
Cain
this,",
paign
er in
as Ro
tive ri
At
be wi
test, I
his an
Th
was i
week
surroi
camp
politi
over 1
the le
nomir
Ro
oppor
answ
nent
full a
grow
conse
"If
a par
yes, i
Perki
Famil
interv
An

jain questions as well, when one of his two origi-
nal accusers gave an interview
utation of one of to The New York Times and was
identified publicly by news orga-
his accusers nizations including The Associat-
ed Press as Karen Kraushaar, now
OTTSDALE, Ariz. (AP) - a spokeswoman in the Treasury
r rising pressure from fellow Department's office of inspector
blicans, presidential hopeful general for tax administration.
an Cain sought to muddy the When asked about Kraushaar,
ation of one accuser, force- Cain said he recalled her accu-
lenied any and all allegations sation of sexual harassment but
ual impropriety and vowed insisted "it was found to be base-
day the growing controver- less."
'uld not drive him from the Kraushaar and her lawyer,
or the White House. Joel Bennett, did not respond to
n't gonna , happen," he questions from The Associated
red. Press. But Bennett has told other
in flashed defiance one day news organizations that he hopes
a woman publicly accused to arrange a news conference in
indidate of groping her more which all of Cain's accusers will
a decade ago, adding her appear.
to three other accusers with An upstart in the presidential
tions that presidential rival race, Cain shot to the top of opin-
Romney called "particularly ion polls and emerged in recent
bing." weeks as Romney's main oppo-
taking at a news conference, nent, with tea party activists and
vowed, "we'll get through otherconservatives flockingto the
as he sought to steady a cam- former pizza company executive's
that has made him the lead- tell-it-like-it-is style and outsider
an unofficial race to emerge image.
mney's principal conserva- But, since Oct. 30, he's been
val. dogged by accusations from
one point he said he would women that he acted inappro-
illing to take a lie detector priately toward them while he
but then appeared to hedge headed the National Restaurant
iswer seconds later. Association in the 1990s. And
e Georgia businessman in recent days, the women have
n the midst of his second started to step forward publicly.
trying to curtail the furor At least two women who
unding his unorthodox worked at the restaurant asso-
aign. There were signs his ciation the same time as Cain filed
cal trouble was far from sexual harassment complaints
ess than two months before with the trade group and received
eadoff contests of the GOP financial settlements.
nation fight. One of them was Kraushaar.
mney joined other GOP After her name was revealed by
nents in urging Cain to several news sites yesterday, The
er the allegations. Promi- AP chose to publish it after inde-
Republicans pressed for a pendently confirming she was one
ccounting. And there were of his accusers.
ing indications of unease in Kraushaar and her attorney
rvative circles. previously had attempted to keep
there is a pattern then it's her name out of the public discus-
t of his character and then, sion, but they issued an anony-
t is going to matter," Tony mous statement last week that
ns, head of the conservative confirmed she had complained of
ly Research Center, said in an sexual harassment and received
riew. a financial payout from the trade
other name confronted Cain, group.

Sarkozy overheard
calling Israeli prime
minister a liar'/Y

French prime journalists, including one from
The Associated Press, over-
minister's heard the conversation but did
not initially report it because
comment made to Sarkozy's office had asked the
journalists not to turn on the
President Obama headsets until the news con-
ference began. The comments
PARIS (AP) - The French were deemed private under
president's overheard remark French media traditions.
to President Barack Obama French journalists rarely
that Israel's prime minister report on public figures' pri-
is a "liar" laid bare escalat- vate lives, for example, and
ing international frustration when they report behind-the-
at deadlocked peace efforts - scenes conversations involv-
and left all three world leaders ing top politicians, they almost
looking blemished. never cite the source of the
Obama, heard through an information.
interpreter, responded, "I have However, a French website
to work with him every day." that analyzes media coverage
Some Israelis felt French of current affairs, Arret sur
President Nicolas Sarkozy images, on Tuesday reported
uttered out loud what many fragments of the Sarkozy-
think in private about Israeli Obama conversation.
Prime Minister Benjamin Sarkozy's office would not
Netanyahu. Others were comment yesterday on the
shocked, and embarrassed. remarks, or on France's rela-
Fragments of a conversation tions with Israel. The White
between Sarkozy and Obama House and Netanyahu's
were overheard by reporters spokesman also said they had
last week at the Group of 20 no comment.
summit in southern France, In the remarks Thursday in
via headsets that were to be Cannes, Sarkozy said: "Netan-
used for simultaneous transla- yahu, I can't stand him. He's a
tion of an upcoming news con- liar."
ference. Obama, whose remarks
Sarkozy's remarks were were heard via a French trans-
especially harsh for a man who lation, was not heard objecting
has labored to improve French to Sarkozy's characterization
relations with Israel while also of Netanyahu. According to
using France's traditional ties the French interpreter, Obama
to Arab countries to encour- responded, "You are sick of
age peace talks - and whose him, but I have to work with
maternal grandfather was him every day."
Jewish. Through the interpreter,
It's an awkward moment for Obama was heard asking Sar-
Obama, who was already seen kozy to help persuade the Pal-
as cool to Netanyahu but is estinians to stop their efforts
Israel's main international ally. to gain U.N. recognition of a
Several French-speaking Palestinian state.

KARIN LAUB/AP
Libyan Nadia Seif visits the interrogation wing of Moammar Gadhafi's intelligence service at the Abu Salim prison complex,
in Tripoli yesterday. Seif says she was held there for seven months in the late 1990s, mistreated and twice raped by a guard.
Moammar Gliadhafi's
victimlns seek fair trials

New Libyan
government faces
grievances amid
reorganization
TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) -
Moammar Gadhafi's intelligence
service killed Nadia Seif's hus-
band for plotting to assassinate
the dictator, seized her villa,
then held her for seven months
in a tiny cell where she says she
was raped twice by a guard.
The 59-year-old and others
brutalized by Gadhafi's regime
now demand that their tormen-
tors be put on trial, but swift
justice seems unlikely. Libya has
just emerged from a traumatic
civil war that piled new griev-
ances onto the old ones of nearly
42 years of Gadhafi rule. Tens
of thousands have been killed,
wounded and displaced in eight
months of fighting that ended
with the tyrant's capture and

death in late October.
Many claims will likely have
to be settled through media-
tion and compensation, rather
than the courts, to help wounds
heal quickly and allow for a new
beginning, said Jamal Bennour, a
prominent Libyan judge.
"The priority is reconciliation,"
said Bennour, part of a team that
is drafting the rules for a "Recon-
ciliation Commission" that is to
hear complaints by victims of the
Gadhafi regime and the civil war.
Victims can also demand trials,he
said, but acknowledged that Lib-
ya's justice system will first have
to be built from scratch.
Seif, the ex-prisoner, said
she fears many of the guilty
will not be punished, including
those who had minor roles in
the regime. "The big guys, with-
out the small guys they can do
nothing," she said of those who
imprisoned her. "We don't care
about money, but we want our
dignity back."
Her story provided a glimpse

of widespread human rights
violations by the regime, which
employed brutal tactics to quash
dissent. Revolutionary forces
have also been accused of abuses
against former Gadhafi support-
ers, raising the prospect of diffi-
cult road ahead for those trying to
rebuild the country and unite its 6
million people.
Seif and her husband
Mohammed had once been
among the beneficiaries of the
Gadhafi regime. Her husband
worked for the intelligence ser-
vice and the couple lived with
sons Mohammed and Mukhtar
in a six-room villa in Tripoli's
upscale Andalus neighbor-
hood. Seif, a confident woman
who once worked as an English
translator, said her husband
eventually resigned, disgusted
by his work, and opened a fur-
niture store in Andalus.
In 1996, he and others were
arrested on suspicion they had
plotted to overthrow Gadhafi, Seif
said.

lk


i


6

4A - Wednesday, November 9, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

.d'-_.. v i V _ A


C 4tMicliganDail
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
FROM THEf DAILY
More than entertainment
Students should pay attention to tonight's debate
Michigan's electoral votes have not been cast for a Republi-
can presidential candidate since 1988 when former Presi-
dent George Bush won the election. But the Michigan
Republican Party will play host to the slew of candidates hoping to
receive the GOP's presidential nomination in a debate tonight at Oak-
land University in Rochester. The debate will be the ninth of this pri-
mary season, and many people are, understandably, beginning to lose
interest in a race that often seems more like primetime entertainment
than politics. But Michigan residents, including students, should pay
attention to tonight's debate and seriously consider and discuss the
ideas of the presidential hopefuls.
The GOP debate will commence tonight at with each other and give meaningful answers
8 p.m. and air on CNBC. Tonight's debate will to the questions.
feature Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, While the style and content of these
Herman Cain, former Georgia Rep. Newt Gin- debates could be improved, it is also the
grich, former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman, Texas responsibility of eligible voters to watch
Rep. Ron Paul, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, former them with a critical eye. Young voters are
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and former too often characterized as apathetic toward
Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum. The dis- politics, and a debate not far from the Univer-
cussion will focus on jobs, taxes, the budget sity is an opportunity for students to become
deficit and the economy. active listeners and show they are seriously
While in Michigan, the candidates should invested in the nation's future.
focus on issues pertaining to the state. Michi- The debates are not just for conservative
gan has been hit hard by the economic down- candidates to pander to their base. They are an
turn and represents the struggle many states opportunity for Democrats and moderates to
face across the nation. If Republicans want engage with the opposition. People from other
to connect with Michigan citizens, they need parties should challenge the candidates to pro-
to speak to the obstacles facing the state and vide meaningful responses and well-thought
offer solutions. criticisms of the current administration. Forc-
The Republican debates are attracting a ing the candidates to face tough questions is a
large number of viewers, but not for the right crucial part of the election process.
reasons. Romney and Perry have spent more Students should watch the debate and
time bickering with each other than giving think seriously about what they hear, and the
Americans agood reason to believe that either candidates need to seize the opportunity to
of them could be a successful president. The engage in meaningful discussions. The Oak-
debates have received more attention because land University debate will bring necessary
of their shock value, and a nation that is facing national attention to the struggles of Michi-
serious unemployment and economic hard- gan residents, and the candidates should focus
ship deserves better than bickering for rat- on these issues rather than let petty disputes
ings. The candidates need to stop squabbling dominate the evening.
JUSTIN JALL I
U can do more to cut tuition

6

Prioritize political reform

Dr. Joe Schwarz will tell you
that he's part of a coalition
of conservatives who no lon-
ger feel they are
part of a political
party. Schwarz,
a Battle Creek
resident, served
in the Michi-
gan Senate from '
1987-2002 and
the U.S. House
of Representa- JEREMY
tives in 2005 LEVY
and 2006. I'm
a student in his
undergraduate policy class - called
Congress and State Legislatures -
and if there's one take-away message
from the course, it's that the current
state of gridlock and partisanship in
Washington is not tenable.
Undoubtedly, you've already
heard this prescription for our coun-
try'swoes. Butwecanall learnsome-
thingnew from a man who served so
long - not to mention a man who lost
his seat after sticking to his values in
a competitive primary.
For perspective on the issue,
Schwarz will first point you toward
Congressman John Dingle, the Dem-
ocratic representative of Michigan's
15th district (which includes Ann
Arbor). Dingle is the longest serving
member of the House, havingserved
since 1955, and often speaks of a time
when Democrats and Republicans
were actually cordial to one another.
In fact, members of opposing parties
used to form friendships and dis-
cuss issues over drinks. To our gen-
eration, such an image is completely
foreign.
When asked why these relation-
ships are no longer socially accept-
able, my initial answer was that the
two parties have grown further and
further apart ideologically in the
past three decades. Congressmen
Dingle and Schwarz point to some-
thing more fundamental. Most rep-
resentatives no longer live in D.C.
- the rent is absurd, and every week-

end, they are under enormous politi-
cal pressure to spend as much time
in their home districts as possible. In
the past, representatives often spent
weekends collaborating across par-
ties on important issues. Now, mem-
bers of the two parties hardly know
anything about each other. And it's
much easier to smear someone you
don't know personally.
Schwarz won't hesitate to tell you
that the extremism is worse on the
Republican side than on the Demo-
cratic side. But here is a point where
I think lots of liberals falter. Every
time we talk to each other about the
most recent shenanigans of Repub-
lican Texas Gov. Rick Perry or Min-
nesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, it
leads us to the conclusion that grid-
lock is the Republicans' fault, which
it's not (completely). It's a systematic
problem. Keep in mind that when
Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan rolled out
his plan for Medicare Reform, the
Democrats used many of the same
strategies that Republicans used
to fight President Barack Obama's
Health Care Bill.
While we can't revert to 1955
political conditions, there are many
fundamental changes that can make
the political system more responsive
to the public. Imagine what politics
would look like with all the following
changes: Candidates could not start
campaigning or fundraising for elec-
tions earlier than a year prior to the
date of the election, states held open
primaries instead of party primaries,
interest groups were legitimately
restricted in the size of their contri-
butions and the use of gerrymander-
ing and filibusters was curtailed.
Popular support for many of these
proposals is strong. The problem is
that there are few mobilized efforts
to ensure that they actually happen.
Average citizens do not devote much
time to politics, and when they do,
they are more likely to devote it to
issues they feel strongly about rather
than something as dry as political
reform. I, for one, have spent much

more of my academic energy learn-
ing about poverty and labor markets
than political systems.
Few efforts
actually create
real change.
But I'm beginning to question this
approach because issue after issue,
the pattern is exactly the same. Poli-
cy analysts, both liberal and conser-
vative, make proposals. that many
third party observers would consid-
er reasonable.Yet, when those issues
are brought into a political realm
that favors extremism, the propos-
als don't stand a chance. There are
too many good policy proposals
that would be considered poisonous
under current conditions. We can-
not continue on the current path in
which policy outcomes are dictated
primarily by office holders' re-elec-
tion strategies.
So as individual citizens, what
do we do? There's no quick answer.
One option is to participate in local
organizations that are seeking to
change political discourse. Two
organizations to which Schwarz
introduced us include the Center
for Michigan - a nonprofit think
tank - and Michigan Campaign
Finance Network - a nonprofit
focused on the need for campaign
finance reform. More ideologically,
we may need to change our pri-
orities as voters. Whether you are
truly passionate about deficits, tax
reform, abortion laws or climate
change, it's time to care about polit-
ical reform. As politics stand now,
reasonable debate on any of the
above issues is non-existent.
-Jeremy Levy can be reached
at leremlev@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
AidaAli, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
JEFF LIU AND STEVE SU
Don't support Dream Nite Club

Earlier this year, the University's Board
of Regents called for a 6.7-percent tuition
increase for in-state undergraduate students,
citing Lansing's $47.5 million cut in funding to
the University. Of course, it's only fairto accept
these "necessary" tuition hikes because you,
the poor, debt-ridden college student, are sup-
posed to accept your role as the sole victim of
evil Republican Gov. Rick Snyder's war on pub-
lic education.
Yet, as Michigan students tighten their pock-
etbooks and take on record levels of debt to pay
for their education, the University is actually
getting richer - a lot richer. In fact, while your
education continues to get more expensive, the
University's endowment has grown a whop-
ping 18 percent from last year alone. Despite
what you are being told, the University's cof-
fers have never been more full. The endow-
ment now stands at a whopping $7.8 billion - a
several billion-dollar increase from when I was
a freshman in college in the fall of 2006.
If you're like me and find yourself wonder-
ing why the University isn't using all of those
billions of dollars to help cut the cost of your
tuition, then you may (or may not) take solace
in a response provided by the FAQ section of
the University's website:
"About 20 percent of the total is restricted
to direct student financial aid. Other endowed
funds have an indirect effect on tuition as
well... used to pay for faculty, academic sup-
port, research and building maintenance, so
that tuition increases are not required to cover
the full cost of faculty salary increases."
Twenty percent of the endowment is
restricted for student financial aid? Let's do
some math: 20 percent of $7.8 billion is $1.56
billion. If you divide that figure by the 42,000
graduate and undergraduate students cur-
rently enrolled, you will have given each stu-
dent $37,142 of financial aid. Sure, that figure
implies that the University will have to blow 20
percent of its endowment on its current student
population, but a lot of students don't qualify
for financial aid from the University or receive
aid from outside sources unrelated to the Uni-
versity.
So, where is this money really going? And,
when you factor in all that endowment money
the University is purportedly spending on its
students with the assertion that much of the
endowment is being used to offset other costs
that supposedly help keep the price of your

education down, then what's with the tuition
hikes?
Surely all that money is being spent on
improving the quality of a Michigan educa-
tion, right? We must be spending Big House-
sized loads of money in order to build upon the
value of a Michigan degree and increase our
competitiveness. You're getting the best public
education money can buy, right? Not exactly.
Accordingto U.S. News and World Report, the
most venerated authority on college rankings
in the United States, the relative quality of an
undergraduate education at the University has
decreased: The University went from being
ranked 24th in 2006 to 29th in 2010. During
that period, tuition had gone up approximately
15 percent (adjusted for inflation) for unde-
clared, undergraduate freshmen.
Furthermore, if you compare the University
to other top-ranked public undergraduate pro-
grams such as the University of Virginia, the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
University of California, Berkeley and Univer-
sity of California, Los Angeles, we have the
highestexpected tuition per student (excluding
financial aid). Their endowments? A fraction
of ours, excluding UVA's $5.2 billion, none of
the schools mentioned have endowments that
crack $3 billion.
The fact of the matter is that annual tuition
hikes shouldn't be the norm at expensive uni-
versities that sit on growing multibillion dollar
endowments and aren't doing much to improve
the relative quality of the education they offer.
Eastern Michigan University (yes, that Eastern
Michigan University) was able to completely
halt increases in fees, room and board and
tuition last year for its 23,000 students, despite
the fact that they, like us, also received a sig-
nificant funding cut from Lansing. In case you
were wondering, EMU was able to do this with
receiving substantially less tuition per student
and a $39 million (with an "m") endowment.
Unfortunately, the Board of Regents isn't
interested in using a fraction of our growing
endowment to ensure that the cost of your edu-
cation never outpaces inflation. The University
has shown it is more concerned with raking
in as much money as possible by making pub-
lit education as unaffordable as possible - all
while crying poor duringtimes of record finan-
cial growth.
Justin Jalil is a University alum.

Today marks the third anniversary of a blatant act
of discrimination in Ann Arbor. On Nov. 8, 2008, the
Chinese Student Association and Filipino American
Student Association hosted a club night at Studio 4 to
celebrate the organizations' events that weekend. The
student organizations had negotiated a contract with
the club's management to divide the night's cover: 50
percent going to Studio 4, and 50 percent to be split
between CSA and FASA.
Earlier that afternoon, CSA president Steve Lai dis-
covered the club was promoting another event that
evening. Lai called the club to confirm that this would
not impact their agreement. Reese Mangray, son of club
owner Jeff Mangray, told Lai that the cross promotion
would not affect their contract. Assured, the students
went through with their club night at Studio 4.
At the end of the night, Lai and FASA president Ash-
ley Manzano approached Mangray to collect their share
of the cover. Jeff, however, refused to pay Lai and Man-
zano the amount agreed upon in the contract. Instead,
he insisted he would only pay for the "SO Asians" there
that night, who he had tallied on his clipboard. Lai and
Manzano explained that not only did they bring non-
Asian friends to the event, but the contract stated that
the organizations were to receive 50 percent of the
entire cover, not just 50 percent of the Asians' cover.
Mangray countered that he believed many of the attend-
ees were there for the cross-promoted event. Despite
Lai and Manzano's repeated explanations, Mangray
refused to honor the contract and ejected the remain-
ing students from the club. Outside, the confrontation
escalated; Reese launched into a verbal tirade, spitting at
some of the female students and callingthem "skank ass
whores." The students chose to leave peacefully to avoid
an altercation.
Later that night, the younger Mangray called Lai,
threatening not only to shut down the student organiza--
tions, but also to find Steve and "settle this tonight." Lai
refused to respond to his comments and said they would
talk after things had calmed down. The following morn-
ing, Lai received a call from Jeff Mangray, who still only
wanted to pay for the "50 Asians" that he had tallied.
Eventually, Jeff Mangray agreed to pay the full amount,
but by then, Lai, Manzano and the Asian American orga-
nizations on campus were too offended and outraged to
accept any money from Studio 4.
Following the incident, CSA and FASA approached
the United Asian American Organizations, a coalition
of many Asian American organizations on campus,
to organize a formal response against Studio 4. The
response included a campus-wide boycott that was

supported by the Michigan Student Assembly, which
passed a resolution to refuse funding for events held at
Studio 4 and launched an investigation of the incident. 
UAAO also worked with the Office of Student Con-
flict Resolution to mediate negotiations with Studio 4.
The club management, however, ignored requests to
engage in mediation. Since the incident, Studio 4 has
not offered any apology for its unprofessional and dis-
criminatory behavior that night.
Unsurprisingly, Studio 4's history contains a pleth-
ora of other incidents and complaints. On June 3, 2010,
Studio 4 was finally closed after the city of Ann Arbor
filed a lawsuit against the club, declaring it a "public
nuisance" to the city. A day earlier, police arrested three
people after a fight involving at least one suspect with a
handgun. The city also cited numerous liquor violations
and unpaid taxes in its suit. After two years of numerous
incidents with the police, this dangerous and noisome
landmark was shut down at last.
This is where you would expect the story to end. A
dangerous club with shady owners had finally been
brought to justice. Unfortunately, it wasn't meant to
be. The Mangrays ended up re-opening the club under
a different moniker: Dream. On Sept. 3, 2010, a mere
three months after the closing of Studio 4, Dream Nite
Club was open for business. What has since followed
is more of the same. On June 2, 2011, the city of Ann
Arbor filed yet another lawsuit against Dream. In the
suit, the city cites a fight where three people were
stabbed and another in which a man was shot, among
other grievances. Dream was again closed for a few
weeks but has since reopened.
We wrote this viewpoint because we fear that the
campus community suffers from a four-year short-term
memory. The current seniors are the only students who
were around when this incident occurred. We want to
ensure that even after they graduate, the campus contin-
ues to be informed of this bias incident and continues to
fight against discriminatory practices. If your organiza-
tion is planning a club night, please think twice before
hosting it at Dream. By hosting or attending an event at
Dream, you are implicitly supporting a business that has
no qualms with disrespecting its patrons and dishon-
oring its contracts. We hope that the next time Dream
is closed down, it will be for good. We also hope that
nobody else is racially profiled, verbally abused, spat on,
stabbed or shot in order for this to happen.
Jeff Liu& Steve Su are Engineering
seniors. They are writing on behalf of the
United Asian American Organizations.

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate. 0
Check out @michdailyoped
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

A IP

A

'A'


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 9, 2011 - 5A


LUMM
From Page lA
University alum Tim Hull, a
programmer at the University's
Center for Computational Medi-
cine and Bioinformatics and a
candidate in the Aug. 2 City Coun-
cil primaries, worked on Lumm's
campaign and expressed enthusi-
asm about Lumm's win.
"It says something that Demo-
crats, Republicans, Greens, all
types of people from all parts of
the political spectrum got togeth-
erto supporther,"-Hull said. "That
says a lot."
In a phone interview last night,
Rapundalo said he cannot predict
how Lumm's lack of party affilia-
tion will affect the dynamic of City
Council but feels that she will face
the same struggles many members
on council deal with.
"I think she will be faced with
a lot of challenges on issues and
constituencies just like I did and
others around the council table
(did), and she'll have to use her
good judgment in addressing
them," Rapundalo said. "So what-
ever her political leanings may or
may not be ... I think will manifest
themselves in due course."
At Lumm's watch party, Briere
said Lumm will bring a fresh per-
spective to the legislative body.
"It will be good for us because
you get used to each other, and you
don't question your assumptions,"
Briere said.
Briere also commended
Rapundalo on his tenure on coun-
cil.
"He really dug into what he was
doing," Briere said. "He was on a
lot of committees, and he knew his
work."
Kunselman - who beat Repub-
lican challenger David Parker
with 77.28 percent of the vote -
said Lumm's election reflects a
TURNOUT
From Page 1A
nah Duke voted yesterday at the
Union. She said she believes vot-
ing is important, even in the off
years, and is disappointed with
how few of her fellow students
showed up to the polls.
"I think government on all lev-
els is important," Duke said.
At 2:30 p.m., almost eight hours
after the polls opened, Duke was
the second person to cast a ballot
at the Union. Despite her disap-
pointment, Duke said she under-
stands why students don't vote in
local elections.
"I wasn't really aware that
there was an election today until
the last couple days," Duke said.
"It doesn't seem there's much
hype about local elections, and
so students just don't really care
about them."
Engineering junior Amy Lang-
horst said she feels that as a citi-
zen she has a responsibility to
vote. She voted yesterday because
there were proposals on the ballot
- like those that had to do with
GSRA
From Page 1A

stating that GSRAs are students
rather than employees - two of
the three commissioners on the
Michigan Employment Relations
Commission voted yesterday to
reassess the role of the roughly
2,100 GSRAs at the University.
Ruthanne Okun, director of
the Michigan Bureau of Employ-
ment Relations, said the commis-
sion will review two action items
regarding GSRA unionization
at its next meeting in Detroit on
Dec. 13. If approved, the first item
would send the GSRAs' case to
judge to determine if they are enti-
tled to participate in a MERC-con-
ducted election that would gauge
how many GSRAs want to form a
union. If there is interest, MERC
may consider overturning a 1981
ruling stating student researchers
cannot be employees, Okun said.
The other action item will deny
the motion for reconsideration to
unionize.
Okun said both documents will
contain language denying the
Mackinac Center Legal Founda-
tion's motion to intervene. The
Foundation, which is a public
interest law firm, filed the motion
on July 28 and requested that
MERC stand by the 1981 prec-
edent.
The reconsideration of GSRAs'
roles comes after several months
of campus-wide discussion on the

need for change.
"It's indicative of some changes
that needed to be taking place.
within the city government and
city politics," Kunselman said.
"And that (change) is bringing a
level of integrity back to the City
Council.'"
Kunselman said he wasn't wor-
ried about his re-election.
"I have the history of Ward 3
being a very strong Democratic
ward, so I was not really feeling
any heat from ... the Republican
candidate in this case," he said.
Kunselman acknowledged
Parker's campaign effort, but said
voters ultimately sided with the
right candidate.
"Mr. Parker certainly should be
commended for putting his name
out there and participating in the
race," Kunselman said. "But in
the end, it's still about getting out
there and knowing the voters, and
I've got a strong record of doing
so."
Parker could not be reached for
comment last night.
In Ward 4, Higgins faced
Republican attorney Eric Scheie.
Higgins protected her seat on
council by gaining 58.84 percent
of the vote. She was not available
for comment last night.
In a phone interview last night,
Scheie said though he lost the
election, he felt gaining 40 percent
of the vote indicated a need for
opposition.
"I do think thatI sent a message
that there's alot of discontent, and
in combination with Jane Lumm's
victory. I think it indicates that a
lot of people in Ann Arbor believe
there should be some sort of viable
opposition," Scheie said.
Scheie said Higgins may not be
the best representative of the resi-
dents of Ward 4.
"It's not so much that I think
I should be the city councilman
for the Ward, but I've met a lot of

people who just feel disenfran-
chised, and that's what kept me
going," Scheie said. "They don't
like what's going on, they feel
the City Council does not listen
to them and I think that Marcia
Higgins has shown that she really
doesn't care about her ward or the
process."
Mike Anglin-whobeatRepub-
lican Stuart Berry with 79.59 per-
cent of the vote in Ward.5 - said
in an interview at his watch party
at Old Town Tavern on West Lib-
erty Street that facing opposition
forced a more thorough examina-
tion of the issues.
"I was glad that IShad an oppo-
nent in Stuart Berry because I
think the dialogue increased, and
with different people of course in
a town like this will have many
different opinions," Anglin said.
"But I think it's important that we,
after the elections, join together
and try to achieve all possibilities
in what people wanted."
Berry could not be reached for
comment last night.
All three of the city's ballot pro-
posals were passed by more than
50 percent of the vote.
The passage of Proposal 1 will
replace a current tax that funds
street reconstruction between
2012 and 2016. The proposal is
expected to raise more than $9
million in its first year. Proposal 2
adds another tax to Proposal lthat
will go toward sidewalk improve-
ment and is expected to generate
an additional $563,000 within a
year. Its passage also transfers
responsibility for sidewalk main-
tenance from homeowners to the
city.
With the passage of Proposal 3,
the city administrator will no lon-
ger serve on the city's Employee's
Retirement Board. Also as a result
of the proposal, two new citizen
trustees will be added to the cur-
rent 10-person commission.

NCAA
From Page 1A
collegiate sports - the NCAA
Division I Board of Directors
approved last Thursday several
significant reforms to the organi-
zation's eligibility requirements
and scholarship guidelines. The
Knight Commission also met in
Washington D.C. late last month
with NCAA President Mark
Emmert and several adminis-
trators from universities across
the country to discuss a variety
of subjects, including the new
reforms.
One of the changes includes
an increase in the grade point
average for incoming freshmen
student-athletes from a 2.0 to
2.3 GPA. Junior college transfers
now must have at least a 2.5 GPA
to be eligible for recruitment.
Previously, junior college trans-
fers only needed a 2.0 GPA.
The board also increased the
cutline for a team's Academic
Progress Rate - a number based
on retention and eligibility num-
bers over four years that serves
as an indicator of graduation
rates. After 2014, teams no lon-
ger will be eligible for post-sea-
son play if their APR is below
930. Before, teams needed a 900
to be eligible.
Furthermore, the board
approved a rule that allows con-
ferences to vote to add an amount
of up to $2,000 in scholarship
offers to compensate for out-of-
pocket costs of student-athletes.
Associate Athletic Director
David Ablauf wrote in a state-
ment to The Michigan Daily that
the NCAA is examining a variety
of proposed reforms from uni-
versities around the nation and
will continue to discuss poten-
tial changes in the future.
"There are a lot of sugges-
tions and opinions on what
reforms the NCAA should make
in the future," Ablauf wrote.
"Mark Emmert and his team at
the NCAA are working hard to
evaluate the governance of the
organization and look at propos-
als from institutions, conferenc-
es and outside groups. Change
doesn't happen overnight."
Though the NCAA panel
approved several of the Knight
Commission recommendations,
Ablauf wrote that the University
Athletic Department was not
ready to discuss specific reforms.
"We will wait until the pro-
posals make their way through
the NCAA legislative process,
are discussed at the highest lev-
els and pass through the approv-
al process," Ablauf wrote.
In an interview on Friday, Bill
Martin, who served as the Uni-

versity's Athletic Director from teams that still have a four-year
2000 to 2010, said he supports APR below 930 will ineligible
the reforms approved by the unlessatheir APRaveraged 940 in
NCAA. the two most recent years. After
"I think these changes are 2014-2015, teams that have four-
healthy, and I fully support year APR averages below 930
them," Martin said. "I think will not be eligible.
that we have gotten too lax and Martin said UConn needs to
lenient over the last few decades take its APR scores seriously.
in terms of academic rigor." "I think that sends a very
Martin said the changes didn't strong message to UConn to
come soon enough and have been strengthen their academic
issues longtroublinguniversities requirements and their aca-
in the NCAA. demic support program," Mar-
"I think this is certainly long tin said.
overdue," Martin said. "We have University Regent Andrea
seemed to have a double stan- Fischer Newman (R-Ann
dard for the general student Arbor), a member of the Knight
body and then for scholarship Commission, wrote in an e-mail
athletes." interview that teams should be
While the new policies may qualified both athletically and
hinder certain student-athletes academically to play in post-sea-
from playing, Martin said they're son events.
ultimately in the best interest of "It is a great privilege to
the academic integrity of college compete for a national cham-
sports. pionship," Newman said. "The
"I think kids will come bet- championship slots and the
ter prepared," Martin said. "And financial rewards that accom-
if they're not prepared to meet pany them should be reserved
these standards, they simply for teams that meet minimal aca-
won't be admitted." demic standards."
Martin said Michigan's APR She added that football and
has always been up to par with men's basketball teams across
NCAA standards, though some the country have particularly
teams have more difficulty than low graduation rates compared
others. to other sports, and the reforms
"We have some teams that will improve the academic integ-
graduate 100 percent of the kids, rity of the NCAA as a whole.
and others that don't," Martin "The Knight Commission has
said. commended the NCAA for the
He added that graduation new standards as they empha-
rates can often be skewed when size the 'college' in college
athletes with good grades get sports," Newman said.
drafted into professional teams. Martin also expressed his
According to the NCAA's web- support for conferences adding
site, the average APR for the out-of-pocket costs to scholar-
University's varsity sports teams ships.
for the 2009-2010 academic year "For a lot of kids who come
was about 984, with football rat- to college without family wear-
ing lowest at 928 and men's golf, with-alls, I think it's very appro-
men's gymnastics, women's bas- priate to do it," Martin said.
ketball and both tennis teams He added that the Big Ten
having perfect scores of 1,000 - Conference had already started
constituting 100 percent gradua- discussingthe additionof $2,000
tion among athletes. for out-of-pocket expenses
The University of Connecti- before the Knight Commission
cut's basketball team may be one suggested it. However, Martin
of the first teams to be affected said there are several questions
by the reforms. A UConn official that need to be asked regarding
estimated that the team's APR the out-of-pocket compensation,
for the current academic year like whether it would only apply
is 975. In the past 3 years, the to scholarship athletes. He said
team's rates in the past 3 years, this is a "Title IX issue" since
the team has a two-year com- some scholarship sports are
bined score of 900.5 and a four- exclusively for males or females.
year combined score of 888.5. Title IX is a federal law, which
Both scores are too low to be states that federally funded
eligible for the 2013 basketball teams require equal treatment
tournament. based on gender, including
In the 2012-2013 and 2013- scholarship money.
2014 academic years, teams "That's a significant bottle-
scoring below 900 on their four- neck on this, and I don't know
year APR would be ineligible to how it's going to be resolved,"
play in postseason tournaments Martin said.
unless they had an average APR
of 930 for the two most recent - The Associated Press
years of APR data. By 2014-2015, contributed to this report.


street and sidewalk improve-
ments - that are important
to her and would affect her c
life.
"I guess I feel like a civic
duty to go vote whenever W
there's an Election Day, even 3.5
if I don't necessarily know
all the candidates," Lang- W
horst said.."I try to find out 9.
as much as I can beforehand WA
and go make an informed 1.8
decision."
While precinct chairs on WA
campus said they attempted 6.!
to speculate why students
don't vote, they could not WA
come up with a concrete 6.5
answer.
"I'm not sure if they just
don't know about (the elections)
... (or) if it's an issue of them being
registered where they are from,"
Zellner said. "I have not had any-
body here to actually ask them."
Despite the low voter turnout
among students, precinct chairs
said they are still motivated to
work at the polls on Election Day.
John Yodhes, chair of Pre-
cincts 3-1 and 3-2 at the Michigan
League, is a former teacher.

VOTER TURNOUT
orparing election turnout by ward at 14
Ann Arbor precints near campus
ARD 1 (Precints 1-7)
, percent voter turnout
ARD 2 (Precints 1-4)
7 percent voter turnout
ARD 3 (Precints 1 and 2)
percent voter turnout
ARD 4 (Precints 1-4 and 8)
S percent voter turnout
ARD 5 (Precint 1)
S percent voter turnout
"So I feel it's kind of a civic
responsibility," he said.
LSA and Engineering senior
Daniel Smolkin said he does
not believe people should feel
required to vote.
"I don't think it's really a duty
for students here to vote here ...
It's their choice," Smolkin said.
- Daily Staff Reporter Jennifer
Lee contributed to this report.



topic.
OnOct. 3,theGraduate Employ-
ees' Organization sent MERC its
official position supporting that
GSRAs are employees. On Nov. 4,
the University submitted a clarifi-
cation document to MERC point-
ing out the University's Board of
Regents voted 6-2 on May 19to
classify GSRAs as University
employees. At the same meeting
University President Mary Sue
Coleman expressed her disagree-
ment with the regents on the issue.
The majority of University
deans are also against classify-
ing GSRAs as employees, and 18
current and former deans from
19 of the University's schools and
colleges wrote a letter to Univer-
sity Provost Philip Hanlon in June
expressing this view.
Caren Weinhouse, GSRA com-
munications chair of GEO, said
GSRAs swear a loyalty oath to
the University, receive W-2 forms
and are eligible for medical leave
under the Family and Medical
Leave Act, similar to all other
University employees. Wein-
house said MERC should consider
GSRAs as employees because of
these similarities, and GSRAs'
roles have changed dramatically
since the 1981 precedent MERC
used to make its previous decision.
Weinhouse and other GEO
representatives traveled to Lan-
sing yesterday morning to attend
MERC's meeting. Weinhouse said
she and others involved in the
campaign supporting GSRAs as

employees are excited to have the
chance to prove that GSRAs are
employees and not students.
"The campaign is very pleased
that (MERC) is reconsidering
their August decision, and we
hope that that reconsideration
will be expeditious as the timely
process is clearly a part of democ-
racy," Weinhouse said.
The Michigan Student Assem-
bly formally expressed its opin-
ion on the matter at its meeting
last night. MSA's legislative body
passed a resolution with a 16-3
vote supporting GSRAs' right to
vote on whether or not to union-
ize. Four MSA representatives
who were present at the meeting
abstained from the vote.
MSA President DeAndree Wat-
son said the resolution supports
the right GSRAs have to vote to
unionize. However, he said the
Rackham Student Government is
better suited to judge whether or
not GSRAs should actually union-
ize because it is an issue that most-
ly affects their constituents.
"I'm sensitive to the concerns
that were raised by ... one of the
students opposed to the union-
ization itself," Watson said. "But,
again, I think the resolution itself
is narrowly tailored (to only sup-
port the right to vote)."
However, not all GSRAs are
in favor of unionization. GSRA
Stephen Raiman, a representa-
tive from Students Against GSRA
Unionization, which has 371 mem-
bers, was present at last night's

BENEFITS
From Page 1A
bills, said he expects the Uni-
versity will take legal measures
against the bills ifthey pass.
"The first negative impact (if
the bills pass) is goingto be some
expensive lawsuits and a lot of
public money wasted on lawyers
on both sides of that issue," Irwin
said.
If the bills pass in the state
Senate and Republican Gov. Rick
Snyder signs them into law, Den-
nis's partner, Jim Etzkorn, will
lose his health benefits that he
receives as Dennis's dependent.
After working at the Univer-
sity's Counseling and Psychologi-
cal Services from 1994 to 2002,
Etzkorn started his a psychother-
apy practice in 2003 and doesn't
have his own health insurance
plan. Etzkorn and Dennis esti-
mate that it would cost Etzkorn
a third of his annual income to
afford health insurance.
"He's the kind of person we do
not want to drive away from the
state. I can say that as a native
Michigander," Dennis said. "He's

the kind of person we want to
attract here."
Thirty years ago, Andries
Coetzee, associate professor in
the University's Department of
Linguistics, came to the United
States from South Africa. Though
he has been working at the Uni-
versity for seven years, he has
been looking for a new place to
move to out of state in case the
bills are signed into law.
"I'm at the moment applying
for other positions," Coetzee said,
adding that his opportunities are
limited due to his narrow field.
Like Dennis, Coetzee's part-
ner would lose health coverage
should the bills pass. However,
Coetzee's partner is currently in
remission from soft tissue sar-
coma. Therefore, obtaining inde-
pendent insurance would be even
more difficult.
To advocate against the bills,
Dennis and six other University
faculty members wrote a letter to
Snyder, which was delivered on
Oct. 28. They have not yet heard
back. In the letter,-the faculty
members argued that the bills are
unconstitutional.
"(The faculty who wrote the

letter) believe it's unconstitu-
tional because the constitution of
the state of Michigan grants the
University rights to determine
... who works for them and what
their compensation will be," Den-
nis said. "Clearly, benefits offered
through employment are part of
compensation."
Irwin echoed these senti-
ments, saying he believes the
University will choose to con-
tinue funding health benefits to
domestic partners.
"I think in the end, the Univer-
sity is going to be able to protect
their constitutional authority
to continue compensating their
employees as they see fit," Irwin
said.
Dennis and Coetzee believe
the bills will have an impact on
the University's ability to hire and
retain employees should they pass.
"There are faculty who aren't
LGBT at all themselves, but
they want ... an employer that
they consider to be humane and
accepting of all people," Dennis
said. "People like to feel good
about who their employer is and
the values their employer sup-
ports."


meeting in an attempt to con-
vince MSA representatives to
vote against the resolution.
"We believe our research and
our lives as students are between
ourselves and our departments
and our advisors," Raiman said in
an interview after the vote. "We
don't believe that a third party
should be interfering in that."
At MSA's Oct. 26 meeting,
Raiman made his case why
GSRAs shouldn't be considered
employees. Because GSRAs get
paid for the research they do in
their degree-specific fields, their
academic and research pursuits
are intrinsically linked, he said at
the meeting.

In an interview last night,
Raiman added that he thinks
the MSA representatives were
too caught up in whether they
were pro-union or anti-union and
that representatives were voting
based on their preconceived ideas
about general unions rather than
the specific issue.
"We're not an anti-union
group, we are anti-GSRA union-
ization," Raiman said.
He said in the wake of the MSA
vote, his group will continue its
publicity campaign to prevent a
vote on unionization.
Meanwhile, Rackham student
Alix Gould-Werth, a GEO mem-
ber, said she is happy with the

resolution. She said she is sup-
portive of GSRA unionization
because she was previously a
GSRA but is now a graduate stu-
dent instructor. Gould-Wert said
since she experienced the ben-
efits of unionization, she would
like to see GSRAs represented in
the same way as GSIs, who are
represented by GEO.
"I think it's really helpful to
GSRAs, who may be nervous
about expressing their opinions,
to see that their student gov-
ernment stands behind them,"
Gould-Werth said.
- Meredith Reid
contributed to this report.

A



.6A --- Wednesday, November 9, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

V { Ohio overturns GOP-backed
collective bargaining law

AP PHOTO/The Citizens VOICE, MICHAEL R. SISAK
Penn State football coach Joe Paterno speaks briefly to reporters as he leaves for football practice yesterday. Paterno
said he wanted to speak about child sex-abuse allegations against a former assistant but could not at this time.
Paterno under scrutiny for
role in Sandusky scandal

Df
defee
COL
state's
ing law
after an
campai
ers, pol
against
lishmet
In a
Gov. Jo
ily rejec
have lit
ities of
worker
Labo
poured
into the
paign,o
an off-y
The
yet. Yes
state'sc
stand,;
control
mines i
House
der pre
more p
collecti
as higl
tions on
and per
revisite
Earli
of peo
house i

emocrats hope was being heard. The bill still
allowed bargaining on wages,
it energizeslabor working conditions and some
equipment but banned strikes,
movement scrapped binding arbitration and
dropped promotions based solely
UMBUS, Ohio (AP) - The on seniority, among other provi-
new collective bargain- sions.
was defeated yesterday Kasich and fellow support-
expensive union-backed ers promoted the law as a means
gn that pitted firefight- for local governments to save
[ice officers and teachers money and keep workers. Their
the Republican estab- effort was supported by the
at. Ohio Chamber of Commerce, the
political blow to GOP National Federation of Indepen-
hn Kasich, voters hand- dent Business-Ohio, farmers and
cted the law, which would others.
mited the bargaining abil- We Are Ohio, the largely
350,000 unionized public union-funded opponent coali-
a. tion, painted the issue as a threat
>- and business interests to public safety and middle-class
more than $30 million workers, spending millions of
nationally watched cam- dollars on TV ads filled with
and turnout was high for images of firefighters, police offi-
'ear election. cers, teachers and nurses.
law hadn't taken effect Celebrities came out on both
terday's result means the sides of the campaign, with for-
current union rules will mer vice presidential candidate
at least until the GOP- Sarah Palin and singer Pat Boone
led Legislature deter- urging voters to retain the law
ts next move. Republican and former astronaut and U.S.
Speaker William Batchel- Sen. John Glenn and the Rev.
dicted last week that the Jesse Jackson urging them to
alatable elements of the scrap it.
ve bargaining bill - such Labor and business interests
her minimum contribu- poured more than $30 million
worker health insurance into the nationally watched cam-
nsions - are likely to be paign, with the law's opponents
d after the dust settles. far outspending and outnumber-
er this year, thousands ing its defenders.
ple swarmed the State- Opponents reported raising
n protest when the bill $24 million as of mid-October,

compared to about $8 million
raised by the committee sup-
porting the law, Building a Better
Ohio.
Yesterday's result in the closely
divided swingstate was expected
to resonate from statehouses to
the White House ahead of the
2012 presidential election.
Ohio's bill went further than
a similar one in Wisconsin by
including police officers and fire-
fighters, and it was considered by
many observers to be a barom-
eter of the national mood on the
political conundrum of the day:
What's the appropriate size and
role of government, and who
should pay for it?
Kasich has vowed not to.give
up his fight for streamlining gov-
ernment despite the loss.
For opponents of the law, its
defeat is anticipated to energize
the labor movement, which large-
ly supports Democrats, ahead of
President Obama's re-election
effort.Read more: The Courier
- Your Messenger for the River
Valley - Official tells AP support
for Paterno is eroding
The location marked a diver-
gence from the past few years
when Assad held prayers in the
capital Damascus. The choice of
Raqqa, which has seen some anti-
government protests, appeared
to be an attempt by the regime to
show it remains in control there.
The Observatory said security
forces conducted raids in Raqqa
after Eid prayers.

0

Penn St. coach has no
plans to resign amid
new allegations
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) -
Support for keeping Joe Paterno
in his job coaching Penn State
football is eroding among the
board of trustees, threatening
to end the 84-year-old coach's
career amid a child sex-abuse
scandal involving a former assis-
tant and one-time heir apparent.
A person familiar with the
trustees' discussions and who
used the term "eroding".said
it-was unclear what the conse-
querces for Paterno will be and
that a decision could be ren-
dered before the board meets on
Friday.
Penn State President Graham
Spanier also has lost support
among: the Board of Trustees,
the person said, but again, how
much was unclear.
Paterno's son, Scott, said his
father hasn't spoken with Penn
State officials or trustees about
stepping down. Addressing
"reporters outside his father's
house, he said Joe Paterno plans
to nOt only coach in Saturday's

game against Nebraska, but for
the long haul.
"No one has asked Joe to
resign," Scott Paterno told The
Associated Press in a text mes-
sage.
Penn State administrators
canceled Paterno's weekly
news conference during which
he was expected to field ques-
tions about the sex abuse scan-
dal involving former defensive
coordinator Jerry Sandusky.
The former defensive coordina-
tor on Paterno's two national
championship teams in 1980s
was arrested Saturday on charg-
es of sexually abusingeight boys
over 15 years.
His lawyer has said Sandusky
is innocent.
Scott Paterno said the deci-
sion to cancel was made by
Spanier's office, and that his
father was disappointed.
"I know you guys have a lot
of questions. I was hoping I
could answer them today. We'll
try to do it as soon as we can,"
Joe Paterno said to a group of
reporters as he got into his car.
About a dozen students stood
nearby, chanting, "We love you,
Joe."
A second person familiar

with the board's discussions
said it was focused on the hor-
rific aspects of the charges
against Sandusky; two univer-
sity officials have also been
charged in the scandal, accused
of failing to notify authorities
when told Sandusky assaulted a
boy in a shower used by the foot-
ball team.
Trustee David Joyner said he
was unaware if any decision was
made on Paterno's future.
Authorities said Paterno, who
testified in the grand jury pro-
ceedings that led to the charges
against Sandusky, is not a tar-
get of the investigation. But the
state police commissioner chas-
tised him and other school offi-
cials for not doing enough to try
to stop the suspected abuse.
Meanwhile, another potential
victim has contacted authori-
ties.
The man, now an adult, con-
tacted the department on Sun-
day after seeing media accounts
of Sandusky's arrest, Lt. David
Young at the Montoursville sta-
tion said. Investigators took a
statement from him and for-
warded it to the Rockview sta-
tion for officers there to pursue,
Young said.

0

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@MichiganDaily
@MichDailyNews
@MichDailyArts
@MichDailySports
@MichDailyOpEd
@MichDailyFball
@MichDailyBball

!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-8115
RENOVATED CONDO: NEW crpt,
app, cab, paint. Stylish end unit no
tenets above/below. Quiet. 2 bdrm, 2
ba. Big basement: 2 unfnshd bdrms,
living area.Attchd garage. Super for ex-
ecutive or students. $1,500 ($1,750 fur-
nished). Short term lease available.
lsimpson006@columbus.rr.com.

*OCENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, November 9, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Lollapalooza 43 Something to step 53 Saling, say
1 It may be shown 6 Likesome angry on while driving 54 "Awake and
to an usher email, wisely 44 "Bye" Sing!"
5tlying Disney 7 Honeybeverages 45"LWtleWomen" playwright
riter 85Shut out author 58loas's
;O Semi 9. _Spice 47 Leader's syndrome
compartment aftershave exhortation 59 Party bowlful
13 Like afirelt room 10 Yucatn resort 48 Danish seaport 60 "All the news
on a cold night 11 Sharp as atack 49 Hadtoo much, that's fit to print"
14192-93 NSA t2 Most abjet bhefsly initials
Rooke oftheYear 15 Itseboten 52 Gogo'spal, in 61 Prohibitionist
l5 Apollo's org. 17 Mates for bucks "Waitingfor 62 Jazz combo
16 Reonmendtions 18 Didn't exactly Godoc' horn
t e ksalo answer,as a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Greatlysmacksed question
of 21tAdvertisement TANG S T I R E L E V
20 At the rightatime 22 Hawaii's _ Bay I S A A C A I D E L A C E
21 nticacsotocells 23 Births e after C H P A N D D I P P U R E
26 Gosstarget sapphie SERE N ADE LO1A DUP
27 Collector'sagoal 24 Pond plant E P
28 Roleoroller 25 It may be proper AIT E TAD S
29 Wordwith weight 31tOrg.for Bucsand D t N G D O N G S C H 00 L
or worth Jags A T S E A N A E S S A W
 30 :Bator 32 Biblical mount N E Y O H OA R D J OK E
32 Feverish fits 33 Biol.,.e.g. E R N F I R S F I L E T
34Attributesatthe 35Falsestart? S C R A T C H G O L F E R S
links 36 Wheelchair access A L A S E R A
41 Exams for future 37 Bluesman SPANKS E C S T A T I C
attys. Redding
42"As - saying ..." 38 "Man, thathurts!' L I S N t C K 0 F T t M E
43 Airport safetyorg. 39 Asian bread T ODD0 A R OO E T N A S
46 Brit. record label 40 Old red states?: S W A M G E L S E N A C T
47 Hugs, Abbr . xwordeditor@aol.com 11/0811
Symbolically 1a a 4 se 7 a 9 10 11 12
50 Crewtool
51 Vicissitudes of 13 14 s
cargo space
Spanish hero
56 Jacket material 1 e20
57 Miscellany of 21 2 a 23
benevolence?
64 Levels
65 Talk show host 3 31 32
Banks 3
66 LAPD rank
67 One in a black4
suit
68 Site of Charon's as 44 45 4 47 4as 49 s
ferry 5 2 3
DOWN 31-a
1 PTA meeting
place 57 so s9 60 81 $2
2__fault:
excessely 6365a
weapon 51 8
4"She Walks in
Beauty" poet Bark eiia I .11/09/11

5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2012
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
! 2 BLOCKS to Diag, 441 Hamilton !
$100,000 Renovation complete,
6 bdrm, study & 3 bathrooms! Sept '12
12 mo. lease. $3500/mo. includes ldry.,
furn., A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2
kitchens, living room, dining room,
free
laundry and parking, Central Air!
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com
(734) 332-6000
* wwwCarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing s
! 11 BDRM, great off campus frater-
nity house. Corner of Church and
Willard. 2 large sitting areas, 2 kitch., 3
showers/baths, wshr./dryer no charge, 8
prkg. spaces avail Aug. 2012-Aug
2013. CALL: 248-330-0396
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
...If Money can't buy happiness,
I guess you'll have to rent it!!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 primesh.com
2 BDRM APT. 1004 S. Forest #B1.
$975/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT. 1004 S. Forest #B3.
$1450/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT. 819 S. State #1 $1850/
mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM HOUSE. 1527 S. University.
$2627/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BDRM APTS. 819 S. State. $3200/
mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
5 BDRM HOUSE. 1206 Cambridge
Ct. Maple Kitchen Cabinets. Granite
Countertops. $3006/ mo. May lease.
734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com

17 Different
Locations !
Choose from Efficiencies,
1,2, and 3 bedrooms, Bi-
levels and Tri-levels tool
S T U D E N T H O U$S 4 N G , { N C.,
Call today for an appointment
and visit our websitel
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 947 Greenwood.
$3647/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BEDROOM HOUSE/ Campus, All
Amentities, central A/C, very nice, fur-
nished, off-street parking, laundry,
large front porch, 2 baths, $3600, 518
Linden St, Fall 2012. Jim at Spring Val-
ley Farm 734-426-4772
8 BDRM HOUSE. 1026 Greenwood.
$4226/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2012. dklemptner@comcast.net
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS!!
We are now taking Reservations for
Spring/Fall 2012
**For A Limited Time Only $100 OFF
Security Deposit + NO PROCESSING
FEE**
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
APARTMENTS GOING FAST....
for 2012-13!
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location

ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
lion of apartments sod houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2012 available
now!t Or call sod speak with our Leas-
ing Consuiltst, Pat at 734-663-4101.
FALL '12 RENTAL. 5 Bdrm, 2 bath.
at 811 Sylvan. 10 min walk to campus.
5 min to baseball field and track.
Major appliances. $2500/mo.
734.834.1680.
HOUSE FOR FALL. 7-8 Person. 1
Block from CCRB. 2 Baths. 7 Parking
Spaces. $4,150. (734) 996-8506.
f STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-Ms
best housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
blocksfrom Central Campus and down-
town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS.
(734)
418-
4115.
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM


0

COMMUNITY ORGANIZERS
WANTED!!! Working America/AFL-
CIO is hiring F/T staff to take our coun-
try back from the political forces that
favor the wealthy and corporate special
interests over your well-being! Diver-
sity is highly valued at Working Amer-
ica: Women, people of color, and
LGBT applicants strongly encouraged
to apply. $11.44/ Hour $457.60 week
base pay - Entry Level. Fun work envi-
ronment. EOE. Rapid advancement op-
portunities. Call Willie 734.222.6496,
www.workingamerica.org
DELIVER FRESH CUISINES from
the most popular restaurants in Ann Ar-
bor to local homes and offices! Great
tips, flexible scheduling, stress free
work environment.
Call 888-334-9675 Ext.0

A


A A 8 4


Wednesday, November 9, 2011 -- 7A

jj,, . {
.A-, ...- _._ -.

' The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 9, 2011 - 7A

The Mitch McGary you don't
know,through his parents' eyes

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Redshirt sophomore running back Fitz Toussaint has racked up.more than 220 yards rushing in two weeks as the lead back.
Toussaint dances his
way into the spotihght

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sports Editor
Junior Hemingway could hard-
ly contain his laughter describing
how well Fitz Toussaint could
dance.
"Fitz is a clown, man," Heming-
way said. "It's like we'll just be
playing a song, and we'll be like,
'Fitz, Fitz.'-"
Hemingway paused, letting out
another laugh.
"Wherever he is, he'll just bust
out dancing."
The Michigan locker room
is constructed in a rectangular
shape so that every player can see
everyone else. When Toussaint
starts dancing, all eyes are on him.
After practice, an upperclass-
man turns on music and then the
calls start.
"Everybody will be like, 'Hey
dance, Fitz. What's up, Fitz?"
Hemingway said.
Sometimes Michigan's lead
running back draws looks of
amazement, other times they
laugh. Hip-hop fans recognize
Toussaint krumping or pop-and-
locking.
"Fitz knows a lot of stuff,"
Hemingway said. "But one day,
we were practicing for Mock
Rock, and I saw him doing some
stuff standing up on his toes. I
was like, 'Man, Fitz, what you
doing?' I guess it was just some-
thing he picked up."
"He's amazing," added left
tackle Taylor Lewan. "Have you
seen the Mock Rock thing last
year?"
Toussaint was dressed head-
to-toe like Steve Urkel, complete
with a plaid shirt, taped glasses,
high socks, suspenders and hiked-
up pants. The football team had a
few other players dancing, includ-
ing Hemingway, for their skit in
last year's annual fundraiser. But
Toussaint's smooth moves stole
the show.
Around his teammates, he's
comfortable in his own skin.
When he's put in front of the
media, he's shy. His voice is quiet.
His answers are short.
But ever since he took hold of
the No. 1 running back job with
a 170-yard, two-touchdown per-
formance two weeks ago against
Purdue, he's been playing like he's
been dancing - shifting into open
creases around defenders.

"Basically I'm a little bit more
comfortable," Toussaint said.
"Just adjusting to the competi-
tion, just actually settling down,
reading things. Taking a fast
game and making it slow."
The past two weeks, he's been
getting more reps with the first
team in practice. Against Iowa,
he stepped into the field know-
ing he was going to get the ball.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke had
declared Toussaint his No. 1 back,
and that meant something.
Toussaint looked faster, his
cuts crisper, his moves smoother.
The bye week came at the
perfect time. Before the Purdue
game, Toussaint had reaggravat-
ed a right shoulder injury he suf-
fered in the season opener. With
the week off, he was able to rest
and get treatment on his shoulder.
"Got my body right," Toussaint
said. .
He had missed five games his
redshirt freshman season due to .
a shoulder injury. This time, the
pain in his AC joint didn't physi-
cally affect how he ran with the
ball. But he had to get his mind
right - he said it was slowing him
down mentally.
Between the ears, he'd been
preparing to be Michigan's next
lead back long before he got the
nod. One day, about a year and
a half ago, he decided to start
watching clips of all-time great
Michigan running backs - it's
a hobby he still does in his free
time.
"(I watch) their running abil-

ity," Toussaint said. "Just how
they built all aspects of their
game, maybe vision, speed, explo-
siveness."
Plus, as the Wolverines have
moved back to more of a power
running game, the plays he's
watching are similar to his own.
Toussaint attributed his improved
vision in recent weeks - a compli-
ment Hoke bestowed upon him
- to film study and watching how
other backs run the ball.
His favorite NFL running back
is Adrian Peterson, who is known
for his punishing running style.
As far as Michigan goes, Tous-
saint loves Anthony Thomas for
his toughness, which was a com-
mon trait for Wolverine backs.
"They (all) show major signs of
toughness," Toussaint said.
Mentally, he's working on
it. Physically, it's been there all
along.
"He's a tough kid - tough
blocker, tough runner," said offen-
sive coordinator Al Borges. "I like
kids like that. Because they repre-
sent the toughness of your team.
If the guy with the ball is tough,
it'll send a message.
"He's always been like that.
We've just given him more
opportunities.... And we're going
to keep giving him (the ball)."
With 648 career rushing
yards, Toussaint has a ways to go
to catch Thomas's 4,472 total.
All-time great? That's going to
take some work.
All-time great dancer? That's
all but guaranteed.

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
By now, everyone's heard
about Mitch McGary, the nation's
No. 2 basketball recruit in the
2012 recruiting class that plans
to sign his letter of intent to play
at Michigan on Wednesday. He
loves talking about rap music, can
shatter backboards and seems to
thrive in the limelight, taking in
national attention with relative
ease.
But the Mitch you don't know
loves classic rock, can ride a uni-
cycle and, shockingly, has always
disliked the fame and notoriety
that comes with being asuperstar.
"When he was at Chesterton
High School, he was the big man
on campus, and he didn't really
like it," said Tim McGary, Mitch's
father. "He was the tallest kid in
the whole damned conference,
and I don't think he was too com-
fortable with that. He wasn't
mature enough to handle it."
Added his mother, Valerie
McGary: "He is a very likable
kid and he has a heart of gold.
He thinks of others, sometimes,
before he thinks of himself."
Mitch also has a disdain for
being a bearer of bad news -
something he'd have to bring to
coaches that didn't make his final
list of potential suitors.
So instead of doing it himself,
he gave the difficult task to his
dad.
"When he cut it down to six
schools, he wanted me to do all.
the dirty work," Tim said. "I
called a lot of coaches and told
them. Mitch is a pretty darn nice
guy, and he doesn't want to bring
bad news."
On the surface, many fans and
analysts were surprised when
Mitch's cut-down list included
the Wolverines alongside Duke,
Florida, Maryland, North Caro-
lina and Kentucky- all tradition-
al basketball powerhouses. But
Michigan had things to offer that
no other program could match.
First, after Mitch spent the
last two years in far-away New
Hampshire, he'll be just two
hours away from the McGary's
home in Chesterton, Ind. Given
his parents hectic work sched-
ules - Tim often works 16-hour
overnight shifts - only the Wol-
verines could offer the McGarys
a chance to see their son play.
Second, Mitch already has well-
established connections inside
the Michigan program. When
Mitch was a freshman at Ches-
terton High School, senior guard
Zack Novak was the Trojans' star
player. The two have remained
close.
Mitch's AAU team, the SYF
Players, featured freshman for-
ward Max Bielfeldt and another
Michigan commit in the class of
2012, Glen Robinson I - the son
of former NBA player Glen Rob-
inson, Jr. and one of Mitch's best
friends.
"He's pretty darn good friends
with Glen," Tim said.
In the end, the Michigan
coaching staff won the family
over. e
"They were over (at) our house

COURTESY OF TIM MCGARY
Michigan commit Mitch McGary hopes to take his low-post prowess from the
AAU circuit to Ann Arbor next year.

for dinner in September and they
were great," Tim said of his din-
ner with Michigan coach John
Beilein and assistants Bacari
Alexander, LaVall Jordan and
Jeff Meyer. "Bacari, he's a great
guy. He's going to have his own
program someday - he's just fan-
tastic. And coach Beilein is just as
honest as the day is long. We hung
out all day with (director of bas-
ketball operations Travis Conlan)
and with LaVall."
Added Valerie: "They're down-
to-earth people - they make you
feel at home, they make you feel
like you're a part of their family."
But the McGary household
wasn't always for Michigan.
"I really liked Coach K," Tim
said, pausing, still in awe over
the Duke coach. "But I'm happy
with Mitch's decision. I mean,
I like John Beilein as well. He's
a genuine guy. My wife and I, at
first, really wanted him to go to
Duke, but we're very happy with
his choice."
Tim estimates it was about
three weeks ago that Mitch made
his final decision to go to Michi-
gan. While Mitch was at home
during fall break a few weeks ago,
Tim attempted to sit down with
his son and go over his options.
Mitch wasn't having much of it.
"I tried talking to him about it,
and he didn't want to talk about
it," Tim said. "He had made up his
mind, but he wouldn't let me say
anything.
"Once Mitch makes up his
mind, he's very - he's like my
wife,he'svery stubborn.You can't
change his mind. Sooncehe made
up his mind, it was a done deal."
While the Blue Devils were
the team Tim initially hoped his
son would pick, he once thought
Mitch would decide to play
another sport: baseball.
"I knew he had somethingspe-
cial in him a long time ago," Tim
said. "I really thought he was
going to be a great baseball player
because he was ahell of a baseball
player."
But as Mitch continued to

grow it became apparent that
basketball held a brighter future,
he was forced to quit after eighth
grade to accommodate the AAU
circuit's travel schedule.
"He was pretty disappointed
about it, but hey, it worked out
great," Tim said, laughing.
And baseball isn't Mitch's only
hidden ability.
"Iknow he can ride thehellout
of a unicycle," Tim said. "He can
ride a skateboard and a unicycle
like nobody I've ever seen - pret-
ty good for a kid that big."
Mitch's slow maturation. pro-
cess has been well documented.
It's no secret that he was forced
to leave Chesterton and enroll
in either a prep school or junior
college in order to have a chance
at academically qualifying for a
Division-I program. So he chose
to go to Brewster Academy, and
it's done wonders for him.
"He had to grow up," Valerie
said. "Moving away from home -
it's a college dorm setting is what
he lives in. He had togrowup and
do his own laundry and take care
of himselfbecause Imnot there."
Because of the extra year in
prep school - Mitch would've
graduated high school last spring
- he could qualify for the upcom-
ing NBA Draft. Although he's
ruled that out, many analysts
expect him to be a oneand-done
player. Tim acknowledges that
he's discussed the NBA with his
son, but it's premature at this
point.
"I think that he would have to
have an unbelievable year next
year for himtobe thinking about
going to the NBA, so we'll have to
cross that bridge when we get to
it," Tim said.
But even with the national
spotlight shining bright on Mitch
- whether it's his face plastered
all over ESPN or the blog he wrote
chronicling. his recruitment
behind it all is just a regular kid.
"He just wants to be Mitch,
you know?" Tim said. "That's just
the way he is. He just wants to be
Mitch and play ball."

Redshirt sophomore running back Fitz Toussaint stole the show with his dance
moves when the football team performed its skit at Mock Rock last spring.

Serious and stoic on the ice, Pateryn emerges as leader of young defense

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
Shawn Hunwick says that
everybody who plays for the
Michigan hockey team has two
personalities.
One is the everyday personal-
ity. For Hunwick, the fifth-year
senior goalie, that personality
manifests itself in self-described
"goofball-ness." He'll make a
light comment in an interview or
he'll joke around at home.
Hunwick says his roommate,
senior defenseman Greg Pateryn,
does the same.
"Away from the rink, Greg's a
pretty lighthearted guy," Hun-
wick said. "Likes to have fun,
likes to joke around."
You'll have to take Hunwick's
word for it because it's impos-
sible to tell otherwise. At Yost Ice
Arena - at a game, at a practice,
in an interview - Pateryn's other

personality, his hockey personal-
ity, is intense. And it's unwaver-
ing.
Others break character.
Junior forward Chris Brown,
for instance, can make a big hit
one minute and crack a smile the
next.
Not Pateryn.
"He takes hockey very seri-
ously," Hunwick said. "He takes
being a leader of this team very
seriously. So when he comes to
the rink, he's pretty much all
business."
Pateryn has emerged as just
that for Michigan: a leader.
"You can see the way he plays,"
said Michigan coach Red Beren-
son. "He's a bull out there. He's
a senior - he's a man. The way
he plays, he's a great leader on
defense."
A bull indeed. Hunwick said
that Pateryn doesn't lead much
with his word., but his play on

the ice is loud enough.
Late in the first period against
Western Michigan on Friday,
Pateryn continuously punished a
Bronco forward for about 12 sec-
onds during a penalty kill. He fol-
lowed each hit with a bigger hit
until the opposing skater fell to
the ice.
Then with just five minutes
remaining in the game, Pateryn
put a big hit on another West-
ern Michigan skater that had the
Yost crowd on its feet. Michi-
gan lost the game, 3-2, on a last-
minute goal, but Pateryn assisted
each Wolverine goal. The two
Michigan scorers? Sophomore
defensemen Kevin Clare and
Mac Bennett. Clare played with
Pateryn over the weekend and
Bennett is Pateryn's usual line-
mate.
Pateryn added two more
assists in Saturday's 5-2 win.
Just one other defenseman

on the Michigan roster, junior
Lee Moffie, has more than a
year's experience playing college
hockey. Pateryn's experience and
leadership have become invalu-
able for a young defensive unit.
"He leads by example," said
freshman defenseman Mike Chi-
asson. "Just those little plays on
the ice that he can make, whether
he holds onto the puck a little bit
longer or moves it to the middle
guy or hits the post guy on the
wall, just something that I can
pick up and maybe throw into my
game."
Pateryn's emergence as a lead-
er comes as a pleasant surprise
for Berenson. Pateryn floundered
early in his career, shuffling
into and out of the lineup as an
underclassman. As recently as
last year, Pateryn struggled. He
didn't even make the dress list
for the Big Chill at the Big House
in December.

"That's really what is the
rewarding part of coaching,"
Berenson said. "Seeing a kid like
Greg Pateryn. He might have
been a step slow, his weight, his
conditioning, his foot speed, and
his agility, and his puck handling
and on and on. And now look at
him.
"Our team won't win without
Greg Pateryn playing well."
With the suspension of sopho-
more defenseman Jon Merrill,
the defense hadtorelyonPateryn
as a leader and its best defender.
"This year, without Jonny
Merrill, Pateryn ... he has just
taken over," Berenson said.
But before the season began,
the team wondered whether
Pateryn could handle the load.
"When Jonny (Merrill) went
out, we were a little nervous,"
Hunwick said. "But then Mac
(Bennett) and Greg stepped up
and played unbelievable. Greg's

sitting there with 10 points, and
Mac's got nine, 10 games into the
season, which is kind of unex-
pected."
Bennett said that the two
make ideal linemates because
they have complimentary styles.
Bennett likes to attack.
Pateryn usually plays more
conservatively, so Bennett can be
free to create up the ice knowing
that Pateryn will be there to save
him, if necessary.
So far, it's worked. Pateryn's
10 points put him in a tie for sec-
ond most on the team, just three
behind junior forward Lindsay
Sparks, and Bennetthas recorded
just one less point than Pateryn.
Off the ice, Pateryn remains as
serious as ever.
Hunwick finds that funny.
"I'm his roommate, so I see his
joking side," Hunwick said. "He's
not always so serious - which is
nice back at the house."
A


- I

8A- Wednesday, November 9, 2411

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Wednesday, November 9, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

FILM REVIEW
Effortless 'Heist' lacks humor

THEATER PREVIEW
Last laugh
for 'Falstaff'

By MATT EASTON
DailyArts Wtier
"Tower Heist" wants to be
relevant, and maybe it is. Occupy
Wall Streeters march, the econ-
omy shakes
anedit seems
as 'though it 7
be time Tower Heist
for ;he little
guto scrape At Quality 16
some cash off and Rave
the ;top dogs. Universal
Tiig99 percent
ash to be given
sogsort of film, or even greater
cJNtural representation of its
members' common causes (how-
ev -ague those causes may be).
Arid "Tower Heist," directed by
BR atner ("X-Men: The Last
Sta "), could be that represen-
taid4n.
n. all accounts, "Heist"
a eag the likely candidate.
R6I uan takes from the poor,
hardworking folks, and a Robin
Hood-like plan emerges to steal
back what was taken. This plot,
while not original, is at least uni- "Yeah ... take it off."
versally appealing. So is this the
anthem of a movement, the call- "Heist" is com;
to-arms for the blue collar? to the gas station.3

cl
th

UNIVERSAL

parable to a trip
It's routine, and

Sti
Br(
the
Note
is more
every s
film bet
movien
kind of
you can
cussiow
in whic
skimmi
moneya

.afterwards, you have the taste of
oil in your mouth.
There is a paradox in this type
er, of movie. Ityearns to be relatable,
)derick: Not so it casts Ben Stiller ("Trop-
ic Thunder"), Eddie Murphy
99 percent. ("Shrek Forever After") and Mat-
thew Broderick ("Bee Movie")
- cheeky talents and honestly
appealing actors in certain ways,
exactly - "Tower Heist" but they're not blue-collar. We
a call to conformity. In know they make millions, they
;ense of the word, the know they make millions and
nds to classic Hollywood it shows in their performances.
manufacturing - it's the That's why Stiller was so effec-
produced movie in which tive in "Tropic Thunder," and it's
hear the roundtable dis- why he doesn't work in "Heist."
s of "creative" directors, In taking on "likeable" actors,
h you can see the actors the movie loses its ability to
ngthe script, sensingeasy connect with the audience. The
snd roles, three become a Hollywood wall

between the audience and the
message of the 99 percent. Casey
Affleck ("Gone Baby Gone") and
Gabourey Sidibe ("Precious")
give the film some believability,
but not nearly enough.
"Heist" reeks of superficiality.
Every frame is shiny. High defi-
nition. The cast and crew may be
shooting in New York City, but
it feels like a backlot. The film
slides away on its own glossy
surface - it could only have been
worse if its makers had opted to
shoot it in 3-D.
And ultimately, "Heist" lacks
effort. That's the very thing it
claims to be fighting against:
Big Hollywood hotshots giving
an innocent audience medio-
cre cookie-cutter flair with the
hopes of making a quick buck.
The people deserve better, that's

why they're asking for it.
In addition to this political and
cultural irrelevance, "Heist" com-
mits the ultimate crime: It isn't
funny. Everything would be fine if
in the end the audience had been
given a few moments of laughter.
They aren't, though, and while it's
possible to trash "Heist" for alack
a depth and forward-thinking
cinema, realistically this isn't the
goal of the picture. The goal is to
be funny, which "Heist" resound-
ingly fails at.
"Tower Heist" could be the
perfect crime. Likeable actors,
an accepting cultural climate
- some cheap popcorn fun. For
its producers, it must have been
thought of as a quick job, get in
and get out. Make the money and
run. And it's a great scam, but
only if America falls for it.

Th
the 1
the
joke,
born
and
laugh
laugh
- sig
laugh
every
of lif
chuck
gle, .
even
laugh
our of
Las
comp
"Falst
Musi
presei
day at
op
can c
tragec
nist
weepi
eleme
upon
by elir
to ap
viewe
Th
depic
bawd:
Sir J
acteri
Falsta
spear
and l
of W

Terdi's comedic tist Arrigo Boito combined scenes
from all of these works for the
assic to show at opera. The action proceeds at
a fast pace as Falstaff employs
e Power Center deceptive tactics to improve his
monetary holdings. He writes
By LAURA KAYE two letters of courtship to afflu-
Daily Arts Writer ent married women in Windsor,
but in the end he is hilariously
e legendary closing line to disgraced by the whole town.
893 opera "Falstaff" - "All The opera proves that a protag-
world's a onist does not have to be a typical
man is Falstaff hero - a rotund, jovial figure can
a joker, win over hearts, too.
he who Tomorrow "What makes him infamous is
s last, at 7:30 p.m., that he indulges in the pleasures
s best" Friday and of life," said Jonathan Lasch, a
nals how Saturday and 8 School of Music, Theatre & Dance
ter evades p.m. and Sun- doctoralstudent who willsingthe
portion day at 2 p.m. title role tomorrow and Saturday.
e. With a In' order to play the portly
le, a gig- Power Center hero, Lasch was fitted with a fat
a roar or From$10 suit. He had to work on how to
a shriek, sit, stand and move in this other
ter brings a reprieve from body. Though the training was
ften mundane world. demanding, he enjoyed the expe-
ughter becomes an essential rience of becoming someone so
onent in Giuseppe Verdi's unlike his actual self.
aff," which the School of "It is freeing because I can do
c, Theatre & Dance will things with my body and voice
nt tomorrow through Sun- that I wouldn't do in another
the Power Center. show," Lasch said.
eras, particularly Verdi's, Lasch said that though his
arry a stigma as dramatic character is morbidly obese,
dies in which the protago- he is very appealing and even
dies and the crowd is left charming, ^and always a source
ing. But in some ways, the of humor. Even as Falstaff is
nt of comedy improves depicted as the town drunk,
the opera-going experience he is greatly admired for being
minatingthe static moments carefree, reckless and notori-
peal to a broader range of ously exuberant. Despite some
rs. of his self-indulgent qualities,
e comedic opera "Falstaff" he brings forth an amusement
is the story of Shakespeare's and excitement to the town that
y and unordinary knight, would not exist without him.
ohn Falstaff, who is char- Verdi's opera questions what it
zed as a foolish, fat drunk. means to laugh, and this perfor-
aff first appeared in Shake- mance highlights how laughter
e's two "Henry IV" plays provides a means to release one's
ater in "The Merry Wives strains in order to revel in the
indsor," and Verdi's libret- pleasures of life.

IT'S A BIRD,
IT'S A PLANE
... ACTUALLY
IT'S A TWITTER
ACCOUNT
Follow us on Twitter
@michdailyarts

0

'The Pelican' is notable for its compelling plot, which is filled with deception and adultery.
'Pelican' flies into Basement Arts

o~ ~\~oun7
4-
A,
Vait unck at shesthefirst.org
and Q9oQow ua( @(s h est h e fi rst to Qeautn more

By DHRUV MADEKA
DailyArts Writer
Fledgling pelicans are seldom
fed by their parents. The new-
est Basement Arts production,
"The Pelican,"
draws a par- Pelican
allel between
this animal Tomorrow and
behavior and Saturday at7
human prob- p.m. and Fri-
lems. The story day at 7 p.m.
focuses on two and11 p.m.
siblings, Gerda
and Frederik, Studione,
whose mother Walgreent
has long forced aCenter
them to believe Free
they are in a
dire financial situation. Poorly
fed and forced to constantly fret
over monetary concerns, the sib-
lings slowly begin unveiling the
lies that define their lives.
The show, written by Swed-
ish playwright August Strind-
berg in 1907, alternates between
humorous and tragic moods.
Riddled with deception, intrigue
and adulterous love, it has been
noted for its compelling plot.
Doron Bloomfield, a senior
in the School of Music, Theatre
& Dance and the play's direc-

tor, believes the dysfunctional something Kendall Chappell,
nature of the family makes the a junior in the School of Art &
show more interesting than a Design, believes is something
generic domestic drama. everybody sees to a lesser extent
"A lot of theater focuses on in their own families.
family and domestic situations," "Everyone has a dysfunctional
Bloomfield said. "But this play family," said Chappell, who plays
shows family members who Margaret the maid. "Everyone
alternately relate to each other goes through the time in theii
like they're strangers and then lives where they think their
like intimate lovers, which is mother is the worst or their
probably an abstracted truth father is the worst. It's very o
about all families." relatable in the sense that (Gerda 19
and Frederik) band together .to
overcome their mother."
Bloomfield also believes"the
Lies and family parsimonious nature of the faid
dysfunction in ily and their concern with the
material is something every col-N
Studio One lege student will eventually have
to deal with, though it may not
this weekend. be to the extent of the issues in
"Pelican."
"They focus on problems of
money, especially heating and
This type of "abstracted electricity costs, and groceries,"
truth" may not be familiar to Bloomfield said. "In the cur-
some students except in pieces of rent economy especially, these
classic literature they may have are issues we all face every-
read, like "Oedipus Rex," that day - or we will soon. As col-
discuss similar traumatic famil- lege students, many of us have
ial issues to the those portrayed been paying bills and rent for a
in "Pelican." while now, and some of us are
The classic idea of a family just beginning to confront these
torn apart by lies and deceit is realities."
4t

I
44

i


*1 S a ~ ~ J~j _

0

8B Wednesday, November 9, 201/ The Statement
PERSONALSTATEMENT

the
Ntat m nt
NOVEMBER 9, 2011


THE LOVE OF POLITICS
HOW YOU CAN MAKE A
DIFFERENCE USING DEMC
BY BRANDON SHAW_

Bullets were fired. Blood was
lost. And a 5-year-old boy nearly
lost his life. Mine was changed
forever.
In August 1999, I was at sum-
mer camp at the North Valley
Jewish Community Center when
my five best friends were shot.
I was 10, entering fourth grade,
and had no idea what was going
on, why there was mass chaos or
what this man's motive was.
As what normally happens in
these situations, protocol was fol-
lowed and we were taken to a Los
Angeles Police Department cen-
tral station. That day, I learned a
lesson that I have not forgotten.
When I asked basic questions to
the authorities present, I learned
at that young age that this was an

act of pure, solid hatred. I decid-
ed at 10 years old that in some
way, in whatever means possible,
it was up to me to correct notions
of hatred and malicious acts and
replace them with a spirit of opti-
mism and a sense of connected
community.
Two years later, the worst
attack on American soil hit the
World Trade Center in New York
City, the Pentagon and United 93.
I lost a lot of family members and
many friends that day and recall
the aftermath all too vividly.
Again, hatred had acted, and I
decided I had to pursue a career
and life trajectory toward cor-
recting whatever form of hatred
I was presented with in whatever
ways I could - menial or signifi-

ting in touch with the headquar-
tered office, I travelled to Des
Moines, Iowa to work the Iowa
caucus in the last two weeks of
what had been an eight-month
)C RA C Y campaign, still in the nascent
stages of a national launch.
He won. I was hooked. I had to
do more.
In 2009, I began contribut-
cant. ing pieces on political and poli-
In late 2007, I became aware cy-driven issues for local news
that political activism was a way outlets. In writing and through
to become involved in my com- journalism, I found a way to com-
munity - at the city, state and bine the "do something about it"
nature of what I
"My goal in life is to send the had contributed
in Iowa, as well
world in an upward trajectory - as the distribu-
tion of informa-
in whatever means possible." tion I knew was

national levels. I began volunteer- spirit of
ing for charities, local campaigns commut
and any non-profit organizations Last:
I could get involved with. Greyhot
Against the counsel from Arbor t(
everyone around me, in Decem- many o
ber 2007 I sent numerous e-mails met inI
to then-Senator Barack Obama's had sin
campaign staff in Iowa. After get- The pu

a way to inject
f optimism and love in the
nity.
February, I took a 22-hour
und bus ride from Ann
o Washington D.C. to visit
f the campaign staffers I
Iowa three years ago and
nce remained in contact.
.rpose of the long jour-

ney, other than getting to see
the White House wa to interact
with policy professignals in every
arena of policy raking: health
care, violence prevention and
international affairs.
Conversations with this group
further revealed to me that each
of us, in our own way, can enact
change in our societies and com-
munities.
My goal in life is to send the
world in an upward trajectory
- in whatever means possible.
Whether this is on the campaign
trail as a strategist or a member of
the media, the notion of eliciting
change in the community excites
me. Whether it's my small home-
town or the country as a whole, I
hope to prevent racism and ste-
reotyping that stem from a lack of
accurate truth.
These various incidents in my
life have taught me that an opti-
mistic outlook and positive per-
spective usually win out in the
end.
- Brandon Shaw is an LSA
sophomore and Daily Staff Reporter
gogues and lecture halls.
While the University is not a
religious institution and has not
espoused religion for over a cen-
tury. It does espouse the open dis-
cussion of and exposure to varied
religious practices.
In the eyes of Reid Hamilton,
president of the Association of
Religious Counselors and chap-
lain of the Canterbury House, it's
not a question of what a student
chooses to study or practice when
it comes to religion. It's about fig-
uring out what's important and
then taking the next step and
making a logical choice as to how
students wish to spend their time.
"It's important for us to learn
as much as we can about as many
religions as we can discover and
know what feels like a natural
path for ourselves," he said.

U
I

,. DERBY
From Page 7B
momentum.
The 2009 movie "Whip It"
offered a first glance into the world
of roller derby for many moviego-
ers and also gave the sport a couple
hours of national attention.
In Michigan, "Whip It" struck a
chord with many kccal women and
resulted in the creation of several
leagues throughout the state. One
of these leagues was Ann Arbor's
-'Derby Dimes, headed by Coach J.T.
Slyde, who trained actresses Drew
Barrymore and Ellen Page dur-
ing the filming of "Whip It" in the
Detroit area.
Many of the women on the team
had been looking to play derby in
the Ann Arbor area, but the sports
wasn't something that was available
at the same time, Gruber said.
"I had heard about (roller derby)
happening in Detroit," Gruber said.
"I was interested in it after 'Whip It'
came out but Detroit was just too far
to go, but then the one in Ann Arbor
started."
The size of Derby Dimes's mem-
bership is steadily growing, but to
womenlike Whiskey, Biz,andK.G.B.
East, it has been an essential part of
their lifestyle and they're not giving
it up.

RELIGION
From Page 5B
One-third of New Life Church's
congregation serves in leadership
positions. One type of leader is
the residence hall prayer leader
- a student who leads fellow stu-
dents in scripture and spiritual
reflection.
"What we emphasize with stu-
dents is that they're going to be
leading in some capacity in their
lives, whether it be in the work
place or in the family," Stenson
said. "So we say even if you're not
going to lead in a formal capacity
in New Life, we'd still like you to
lead in some way because it'll be
good for your life regardless."
There are more than 50 stu-
dent groups sponsored by Hillel,
including an a cappella group, a
performance group and a literary
magazine. As Tilly Shames, asso-
ciate director of Hillel, explained,
this accompanies Hillel's mission
of promoting and contributing
to the vibrancy of Jewish life as
well as the greater campus com-
munity.
"There are many different ways
in which Judaism defines itself,"
she said. "One way is diverse and
the other is pluralistic. It's impor-
tant to span the spectrum, but we

first and foremost see ourselves
as being integral to the campus
community."
Hillel also collaborates with
the Muslim Students' Associa-
tion to improve Muslim and Jew-
ish students' understanding of
the other's religion. Events like
MuJew, a co-sponsored project
between MSA and Hillel, unite
Muslim and Jewish students in
comfortable settings to work on
strengthening ties between the
two faiths and ameliorating ste-
reotypes - both real and per-
ceived.
On its own, MSA plays a part
in educatingstudents about Islam
and creates a space for Muslims to
pray and practice their faith in a
safe and hospitable environment
on campus. From Dawah tables
in Mason Hall, where MSA repre-
sentatives make themselves avail-
able to impart knowledge about
Islam on campus, to reflection
rooms in the Michigan League
and the UGLi, MSA helps to make
Islam a visible and accepted pres-
ence at the University.
Muslim students say more
involvement with student orga-
nizations and increased ties to
academic programs such as Ara-
bic, Armenian, Persian, Turk-
ish and Islamic studies would be

welcome because of the guidance'
that Muslim professors could
provide for students in a minority
religion.
"It would be really great to
develop a stronger relationship
with Islamic Studies," said Annie
Sajid, LSA senior and MSA exter-
nal vice president. "There was
a professor of Islam, Dr. Sher-
man Jackson, who provided a lot
of guidance to students in MSA.
He was really helpful, but he's no
longer around. It would be great
to have someone to fill that void
and act as a religious adviser to
us, which is something we don't
have." ***
A continuing dialogue
The University has long aban-
doned mandatory chapel servic-
.es, yet students need only to visit
New Life Church on Washtenaw
Ave., the Islamic Center of Ann
Arbor on Plymouth Rd., Canter-
bury House on East Huron Street,
or Hillel on Hill Street to see first-
hand the thriving religious atmo-
sphere surrounding campus.
Campus religious groups and
religion classes may be exclu-
sive, but the need for and under-
standing between faiths connects
mosques and churches, syna-

Campus Faith

FOLLOW
@MICHIGANDAILY

C, he IWIC41,6,pan wily


" "

0

0

0

13 WensaNoebr9 2011 / heStteen

I WednsdayNovembr 9, 011 / heStteen

statement
Magazine Editor:
Carolyn Klarecki
Editor in Chief:
Stephanie Steinberg
Managing Editor:
Nick Spar
Deputy Editors:
Stephen Ostrowski
Devon Thorsby
Elyana Twiggs
Designers:
Maya Friedman
Hermes Risien
Photos:
Jed Moch
Copy Editors:
Hannah Poindexter
Cover by Arjun Manhati
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.
To contact The Statement e-mail
klarecki@michigandaily.com.
WANT TO
REPORT FOR
THE MICHIGAN
DAILY?
E-mail bethlb@
michigandaily.com
to get started.
HAPPINESS IS
ONLY A SCOOPn
AWAY.

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview by kaillin williams

Welcome to the random
student interview,
where we existentially
debate your validity as a person.
Thanks for stopping.
Sure, why not?
Hey, I ask the questions here.
(Laughs) OK.
Don't worry, all the pressure is
on me. There isn't much pres-
sure on you at all. I only I need
to know one thing before we get
into it: Are you a real person?
Oh, I would say most days, yes.
Most days? What about Mon-
days?
If I've had my coffee.
Good thing it's Tuesday. You're
ready to be a real person today?
Yes I am. It took a little while, but
you know I got there.
Good. I had to ask because it
just occurred to me that I could
completely make you up. I'm
glad you're here and with us,
but I'm not sure we have every-
one convinced. So to hit the
point home, what's one word
that's just emblematic of you
right now?
Sleep-deprived.
No wonder you stopped to do
the interview. You're just too
tired to say no.
Yeah, I'm a zombie.
No, you're a real person,
remember?

Oh, yeah.
So, since we're only publish-
ing your first name and you
could be anyone named Renee,
is there anything you've never
told anyone that you'd like to
broadcast to the throngs of
readers I have?
I have no idea.
How about something you
wouldn't want your parents to
know?
(Laughs)
Come on. Anything you want to
scream from the rooftops?
I've never kissed a boy.
Oh wow. Have you kissed any-
thing else? I mean, when you
qualify that with "a boy" I start
to wonder.
No.
Well like maybe it's a saying like
you don't kiss "boys" you only
kiss men with scruffy beards.
Or you only kiss women, if
you're into that.
No.
Puppies? Puppies are great
kissers.
Oh no, that's gross.
Yeah, they're kind of gross, but
so are boys.
Yeah.
So do you anticipate creating
a movie starring Drew Barry-
more about your never-been-
kissed life?

No. No, I'm not that dramatic.
So do you mind me asking why
you're holding out?
Umm... Probably because I've
waited so long. I don't know. You
want it to be special, but at the
same time it's probably just going
to happen one day, and I'm going
to be like, "Wait! Did you just steal
my moment? I hate you."
Oh man. That's intense.
Yeah, there's a lot of pressure on
that guy.
So what would be the ideal cir-
cumstances under which you
would experience your first
kiss?
Umm. I like the guy. The guy is
attractive because I'm superficial
like that...
I think the whole world is.
They'll probably think you're
unattractive, but I can assure
them that you aren't and you
are a real person.
Maybe. Let's give them the ben-
efit of the doubt. So, and after a
wonderful conversation with this
attractive guy ... This is stupid. I
don't even know. I just want it to
happen sometime.
OK fair enough. That's a very
realisticgoal for averyreal per-
son named Renee.
Thanks.
Let's ground this conversation
and see what we have in com-

mon. Do you like Christmas
music?
I like it at Christmas.
I hate it at all times. Is now too
early?
Now is too early. I have to get
through Thanksgiving first before
I can listen to it.
What do you want to say to the
big Christmas music lovers?
Oh, they can stuff it.
Oh that's fantastic! Until
you've eaten you're stuffed
turkey at Thanksgiving, they
can stuff it!
Yeah, exactly.
It's quite a slogan. Glad we have
that feeling in common. So how
do you feel about people who
"reply all" to e-mails sent to
e-mail lists?
Umm ... I want to kill them.
I think the feeling is yet again
mutual.
Well I guess it depends on what
the message sent to "reply all" is.
You know, if it's a message asking
for the destruction of all Christ-
mas music as we know it, then I'm
all for it.
Fantastic. Who would've
known I would have so much in
common with this real person
named Renee that I most defi-
nitely did not make up!
-Renee is an LSA senior

BELLEVILLE, Mich. - Quietly
nestled beyond a deserted
intersection outside of Bel-
leville, Mich. sits Rollers Skate
Park - home turf of the Ann Arbor
Derby Dimes, Ann Arbor's roller
derby league since August 2010. On
a Wednesday night in November,
middle school pizza parties linger
in the lobby under the
neon lights. But push
through another set of
double doors and the
energy heightens.
THE GAME
On the shiny wood
rink, painted lines
gleam and direct a
swarm of fishnets, leop- Assist
ard print kneepads and
neon roller skates in
continuous circles. The
sound of a whistle com-
mands skaters to jump
or stop - a warm-up to Ass
practice skills essential
for the team to win a
game.
In derby, the game
is known as a bout. It C
comprises two 30-min- C
ute halves, according As
to referee Andrea Gru-
ber, also known by her
derby name, Whiskey.
Each half is split up into
two-minute sections called jams,
which is the equivalent of a play in
football.
Looking out at the track, Gruber
noted the calls the refs were mak-
ing as the teams scrimmaged, while
explaining how a bout works.
According to Gruber, each team
has five skaters on the track at a
time. On each team, there are two
types of players: jammers and
blockers. When the first whistle
blows, the blockers start skating
around the track. They're called
the pack. When the pack moves
past the pivot line, the jammers are
released.
"What makes derby special is
that it's both offensive and defen-
sive at the same time," Gruber said.
"The blockers are trying to get their
jammer through the pack, but stop
the other one. The first jammer to
get through is called the lead jam-
mer. After passing through the pack
a second time, every opponent she
laps is one point she gains for her
team."
The Ann Arbor Derby Dimes
League is composed of two home
teams, the Tree Town Thrashers
and the Huron River Rollers, and
one travel team, the A2D2 Brawl-
stars. The Thrashers and the Roll-

ers are both made up of 15 to 20
members and often play each other.
For the Brawlstars, bouts are
always against teams from other
leagues throughout the state.
"The travel team is the best of the
best," Gruber said.
Brawlstars skaters practice at
least three times a week, bouting
Derby
Girls
Huron River Rollers
Captain: Jacky O'Bashes
.ant Captain: Harriet The T
Tree Town Thrashers
Captain: Lezzie Arnaz
istant Captain: General St
Browlstors
:aptain: Kandy Knocka-ho
ssistant Captain: Courtnas
at tournaments twice a month on
an almost year-round schedule,
according to Gruber. Tournaments
attract many of Michigan's 14 derby
leagues and often span entire week-
ends.
This Saturday, the Brawlstars
will be heading to Shelby Township
for the Mitten Kitten Tournament
where 11 teams hailing from Tra-
verse City to Port Huron will bout it
out for the tourney title.
This weekend the Brawlstars
are playing Floral City and then the
Motor City Disassembly Line.
"Each team is seated depending
on what their scores have been in
past bouts," said Brawlstars mem-
ber Dani Van Dusen, known as
Hermione Gank-Ya when bouting.
"You're guaranteed at least two
matches. If you win one and lose
one, you might get a chance to play
again. Like for us, if we lose against
Floral City we play the Killamazoo
Derby Darlins on Sunday."
THE TEAMS
For a skater new to the derby
world, there's a lot to learn before
she can set a skate on the track for a
real bout. Inexperienced Ann Arbor

skaters - often referred to as "fresh
meat" - must go through a three-
month boot camp and pass a skills
test before being drafted to the
Thrashers or the Rollers.
For a lot of the women on the
Derby Dimes, the learning doesn't
stop after they're drafted.
"All sorts of women are here,"
said Elizabeth "Biz"
Nijdam, a Rackham
graduate student and a
skater for the Thrash-
ers.
"There are some girls
who need parental con-
sent, but we also have
women like me who are
30, to women married
with children working
in libraries, to women
highs on the verge of retire-
ment, who are actu-
ally some of the sportier
ones."
According to Nijdam,
the range in ages and
;rike sizes often works to the
Derby Dime's advan-
tage.
"We have these
tiny little girls
who can skate
e so fast, and then
ty we have these
blockers who
can knock any-
body down," Nijdam
said. "It's the most
accepting environment I've ever
been in because you don't have to
be anything in particular."
Alaina Lemon, who skates
under the alias of K.G.B. East,
is an associate professor of
socio-cultural and linguistic
anthropology at the Universi-
ty. Though she recently started
skating for the Derby Dimes, she
already appreciates the camarade-
rie among the women.
"It just makes me happy," Lemon
said. "It gives me something to
think about, to get better at ... to fail
at. Just being with all these women
who are urging each other to be
better and better is really great."
Though Lemon wasn't new to
the roller world, she said the bouts
were tough to get used to.
"The game is the hardest thing,"
Lemon said. "Getting all the rules
down and not getting confused
about what to do is difficult. The
first bout I scrimmaged in, I made
every mistake you could make - I
got on the jammer line and fell as
soon as they blew the whistle. The
rulebook is 43 pages thick, and I
forgot it all out on the track."
Even for the referees, it's "defi-
nitely a work out," Gruber said.
"We do a lot of different drills to

build strategy, endurance and agil-
ity," Gruber explained. "I ran for
Eastern, but once you get on skates,
it's a completely different story."
For Nijdam, though it's chal-
lenging, roller derby has become an
integral part of her weekly routine.
"It pushes you to your absolute
limits," Nijdam said. "It's what gets
me through grad school. If I didn't
have derby, I don't know if I'd make
it. It's my outlet ... we do endurance
tests that can last anywhere from
five to 30 minutes where you skate
really hard and really fast. It's just
blissful; I've never been pushed so
hard."
According to many skaters, roller
derby is not only physically tax-
ing, but it can even be dangerous or
harmful.
Heidi Nicewander, a gradu-
ate student in the School of Social
Work who rolls under the alias of
Charm School Reject, has perma-
nent damage to her cornea because
another skater's wrist guard caught
the corner of her eye.
"A lot of people have gotten bro-
ken legs or broken ankles,"
Nicewander said. "One
of our refs broke her
leg in the first three
minutes of the first
bout we ever
played,
so

ball or rugby, but many aspects of
the game distinguish derby from
these contact-driven sports - one
of these is their costumes.
According to Nijdam, the knee
and elbow pads hardly get in the
way of the Derby Dimes' self-
expression.
"It's really neat that some girls'
names become their persona,"
Najdim said. "They dress up so their 4
'boutfits' match their character. I'm
'Biz' by day, 'Biz' by night and 'Biz'
by derby, but we have girls like
'Hermione Gank-Ya' who always
wears a Hogwarts tie around her
waist and uses that Harry Potter
font on her jerseys."
Sirene-Rose Lipschutz, a gradu-
ate student in the School of Social
Work, skates under the alias Kitty
N. Pink. She said that choosing
derby names is a process based on
the player's unique interests and
their amount of loyalty to the team.
Each Derby name must be reg-
istered to each player - A National
Derby database disallows anyone
to have the same name as another
player in the country.
"You have to go to a certain num-
ber of practices to show that you
are dedicated, and then you get to
choose it," Lipschutz said, a skat-
er on The Tree Town Thrashers.
"Numbers are important too. I'm
34A. It's my bra size."
"There's a big dramatic aspect to K
it," Mark Schaffer, an avid derby
fan and friend of a Huron River
Rollers skater, said.
"It really just draws the
crowd in. Everything
from the costumes
the girls wear,
to their aliases,
to the numbers
they choose for
their jerseys. It's
almost more like
watching a show
than watching a spectator sport"
Schaffer said. "It has the skills and
finesse of a hockey game but the
theatrics of pro wrestling in some
respects."
Because of derby's outland-
ish persona that Schaffer ref-
erenced, the sport has not
had a large following in
the past. But recently,
especially in Michi-
gan, derby has
begun gaining
See DERBY,
Page 8B

JUST LIKE YOUR
PARENTS, THE DAILY
IS ON FACEBOOK.
UNLIKE YOUR PARENTS, WE
WON'T COMMENT ON YOUR
DRUNK PHOTOS..
LIKE US!

DO YOU HAVE A
STORY THAT NEEDS
TO BE TOLD?
WE WANT TO HELP.
THE STATEMENT IS LOOKING FOR
REAL, PERSONAL STORIES TO RUN
IN PRINT.
E-MAIL KLARECKI@
MICHIGANDAILY.COM
TO GET PUBLISHED

now
she's
reffing
because
she doesn't
want to
play. Stuff
like this
just proves
that this
is definitely
an aggressive
sport, just like
football and rugby."
THE
SPECTACLE
The intensity of
roller derby is often
compared to foot-

/ aly



0M 6


0

IM WensaNoebr9 21 /Te ttmn

vednesday, November 9, 20// The Statement
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
After receiving a 30-day sentence Dr. Conrad Murray, the personal Former Penn State defensive Voters in Mississippi yesterday The United Nations' International
for violating the terms of her physician to Michael Jackson at coordinator Jerry Sandusky was rejected a proposed constitutional Atomic Energy Agency reported
probation, Lindsay Lohan spent the time of his death in 2009, arrested Saturday for allegedly ammendment to classify a yesterday it has information
less than five hours behind bars was found guilty of involuntary sexually abusing eight boys fertilized human egg as a living that indicates Iran has computer
on Sunday night before being manslaughter by a jury on between 1999 and 2009. Head person. If passed, Mississippi models that could trigger a nuclear
released. For Lohan, 25, this was Monday. Murray faces up to four coach Joe Paterno's knowledge of would have become the first state bomb. Iran says the program is
her fifth jail sentence. years in prison. the incident is in question. to define an egg as a person. only to generate civilian power.

0

j i
101 1 1 2 i 1 3 .+ 4

' r --------
S 161 171 -i 181 7 *1 1,01
1111111 111 1

m


quotes of the week
"I'm confident Giulia inherited her mother's looks
rather than herfather's."
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA, joking with French President Nicolas
Sarkozy at a G-20 press conference, referring to the recent birth of
Sarkozy's daughter.
"The fingerprints of the Rick Perry campaign are
all over this, based on our sources."
GOP CANDIDATE HERMAN CAIN, in response to the increasing number
of sexual assault allegations against him that have surfaced in the press in
recent weeks.
the rules

WVOMEN ONWHI EELS
ROLLING INTO ANN ARBOR'S DERBY SCENE
By Lucy Perkins

from the archives
FirstAmendment folly
No more writing exactly what you think
-
HANNAH DOW/Daily
series of satirical articles regarding student-athletes published in The Every
L.~Three Weekly in 2005 raised serious questions about First Amendment
rights in student publications. When the Athletic Department complained
about three articles concerning student-athletes, including a story about Olympic
swimmer Michael Phelps titled "Phelps to Major In Pussy," the University Activities
Center was brought into meetings to resolve the matter ("E3W content criticized"
3/31/2005).
Because the UAC provides funding from tuition to various campus groups includ-
ing the E3W, concerns were raised about possible censorship of the publication.
Though the UAC officials did not threaten to cut the E3W's funding, they stated that
they had the right to do so if they felt it necessary. However, Mark Goodman, the
executive director of Student Press Law center at the time, made it clear that any
such action would be a clear violation of the First Amendment.

No. 356:
Try to make your
food supply last
until your parents
take you shopping
after Thanksgiving.

No. 357:
If you are wearing
a coat, it is not
appropriate to wear
flip flops at the
same time.

No. 358:
It's acceptable to
listen to Christmas
music, but save the
decorations until
after Thanksgiving.

by the numbers COURTESY OF THE BBC
The number of times Lindsay Lohan has been In percent, the amount of sentenced jail In hours, the amount of community service
sentenced to jail since 2007, when she was time Lohan has served, equal to about six Lohan will have to serve at the county
arrested twice for drunk driving. days. morgue to avoid returning to jail.


_ .r ...

it i.

['

0

S S

0 0.

9 0

4B W

Wednesday, November 9, 2011// The Statement E

"r
. ,
r
k
t

espouse any religious preference, McGinn explained.
T This change marked the end of religious leadership in
administrative and academic positions, and as the University
grew, certain religious practices were forgotten. Chapel ser-
vices became optional and were eventually phased out once
the student body exceeded University Hall chapel's 500-per-
son capacity. Tappan's policies followed the changing con-
temporary attitudes in higher education around the country.
"I would say the University was right in line with the social
norms of its day about the role of religion," McGinn said. "As
these norms shifted over time, so did the University's prac-
tice."
Even as theology was on its way out from the curriculum,
Tappan and his successors still wanted theology schools to
be established in and around Ann Arbor for students to keep
up with religious studies outside of the University. Once the
faculty had expanded to 31 members and the student body to
652 students by 1863, religion and theology were combined
with other areas of study - notably philosophy - and theol-
ogy was no longer taught on its own.
Fast-forward to 2011. The study of religion still resembles
Tappan's model of the 1860s. Students wishing to study reli-
gion can do so in departments such as psychology or English.
Over the years, religious studies underwent many different
incarnations, one of which resulted in a Program on Studies
in Religion. However, the planned restructuring of the pro-
gram was suspended in 1999.
An academic perspective
Scholars from different departments came together to
head a Program on Studies in Religion, making the study
of religion a concentration readily available to students.
According to Ralph Williams, a former program director and
English professor, the void left by the program's discontinu-
ation now makes the field of religious studies a lonelier one
to embark upon. Without a set path for students to take, the
standard give-and-take among peers is lost.
"It's enormously useful to have others who are following
something of the same curriculum in classes with you, so you
can discuss areas of interest, be in seminars together and do
courses in methodology together," Williams said. "Students
can do Independent Concentration Projects, but indepen-
dence is often accompanied by isolation and it takes very
great effort on the part of the student and faculty adviser for
the ICP to overcome that isolation."
The program was halted because faculty members could
not afford to split time between the program and their home
departments. As Williams said, it takes tremendous support
on the part of LSA to continue such a program. Similarly,
once suspension is enacted, it's equally as difficult to reacti-
vate a program.
While the program's suspension may have been the right

decision for the University, it is still lamented by Williams
and former program scholars.
"I regret (the suspension) deeply," he said. "I was not
myself of the view that it should be suspended. Though given
the unwillingness of key faculty to devote their time and the
lack of appointments in key areas, the decision was not irra-
tional."
Over the years the University has struggled to find a bal-
ance between a commitment to religion and the study of
societythrough a religious lens, the latter of which, Williams
says, is essential for the well-being of any university.
On the other end of the spectrum, external parties have
raised questions about the liberal approach in classroom ped-
agogy. Relying heavily on students' freedom and understand-
ing, the approach can be construed as hostile by committed
religious people and groups outside the University.
"We're studying religion outside the question of asking for
or deriving from commitment," he said. "We do not attempt
to promote or condescend to religion, but simply to under-
stand it. That, for many, could be read as antagonism to it
because they are so deeply committed themselves, and they
want everyone to believe it too."
Williams said he believes any difficulties the University
encounters when talking about delicate matters like religion
correlate to nationally inherent problems. Americans have
yet to learn how to share the wisdom and strength of their
various traditions in order to live together in harmony, he
explained.
"It's precisely in the context of studies in religion that the
modes of our mutual living together can be so deeply impor-
tant," he said. "It's something that we can offer to the society
at large."
According to Williams, one should be wary when using
the term secular to describe the University's stance on the
study of religion because this could be interpreted to mean
"programmatically atheist." Such a position could poten-
tially alienate students of differing beliefs who wish to study
religion. He emphasized that the opportunity for students
to form their own beliefs is crucial, and should not be influ-
enced by the academic curriculum.
"We should be open to positions of Atheism and non-the-
ism, but we shouldn't adopt a position of already set against
one of the two," he said. "It's about learning to see things
through other eyes besides one's own and developing a form
of understanding and sympathy that may not have been there
before."
How externalparties view the study of religion
. -..-
Currently, it's unclear whether a religious studies program
will resurface any time soon, though courses such as Sociology
375: Intergroup Conflict and Coexistence: Religion, Ethnicity
and Culture, Islamic Studies 201: Introduction to World Reli-

gions, Arabic, Armenian and Turkish remain popular among
students.
Outside of academics, students and professionals work to
create a safe and hospitable environment for religion to be
practiced and investigated by all students. Many student reli-
gious groups are affiliated with, but are not directly tied to the
University.
"I think (the University) is a very hospitable place to reli-
gion," said Brendan Dailey, an Engineering senior and presi-
dent of the Catholic Students' Association. "I think it's really
easy to live your faith on campus, and it's remarkable to see
the great diversity of faiths here and how open everyone is to
everything."
While the lack of a formal religion department does not
directly affect campus organizations, classes do not have a
spiritual focus, which potentially limits students who wish to
study of theology after graduation. At other schools, namely
private institutions or those receiving religious funding, class-
es maybe offered with a more spiritual or theological perspec-
tive. On the other hand, the need to craft a personal major to
pursue these interests could lead to increased creativity with-
in the field, Dailey explained.
Students who undertake ICPs with a religious focus have
the chance to craft a tailor-made concentration. One is Reli-
gion and Sexuality, which ranges from sociology to women's
studies courses.
LSA's course offerings stay rooted in the socio-historical
perspective. But according to Gaia Stenson, a deaconess, at
New Life Church Ann Arbor, students who do their research
understand and accept thatthey can have a religious education
at the University. It just won't happen in the classroom.
"Because it is a secular University, we don't expect people to
teach things from a religious point of view," Stenson said. "By
the nature of religious studies courses here they have to take
the supernatural and the miracles out of the equation. And I
think students understand that."
Stenson also expressed a desire to see the University's reli-
gion courses collected in a single academic unit, due to the
difficulty of understanding a religion without the benefit of '
context. Similar to reading the Bible as literature to provide
an English major necessary context for further studies, a reli-
gious studies program could provide the tools to understand
religion on a macroscopic level.
A religious education outside of the classroom
Today, there are 84 different religious groups on campus,
offering everything from community outreach to guidance
and support. And for many students, the leadership and edu-
cational opportunities available through independent orga-
nizations serve as a balance to the more critical approach to
religious studies taught in University courses.
See RELIGION, Page 8B

By Jacob AxeIra dCOURTESY OF BENTLEY HISTORICAL LBRARY
C ast a gaze from State Street to the grand entrance A historical perspective services were at 6 a.m. in the now nonexistent University
of Angell Hall. Just above the Doric columns, the *** Hall and the services were overseen by the President of the
words inscribed in stone read, "Religion, morality The University currently boasts a strong curriculum in University.
and knowledge, being necessary to good government and religious studies, with renowned scholars in fields such as "In those days, non-sectarian was the progressive notion,"
the happiness of mankind, schools and he means of educa- Judaic Studies, Islamic Studies and courses in the New Tes- Sociology of Religion Prof. Terence McGinn said. "Private
tion shall forever be encouraged." Studnts likely walk past tament. Yet there is no formal department of religion, and the colleges might have been specifically Baptist or specifically
the words that originate from the Northwest Ordinance Program on Studies in Religion, which was founded in 1966 Methodist, so the public universities were distinguishing
of 1787 without noticing the inscription or thinking twice by Biblical Studies Prof. David Noel Freedman, has been in themselves from those sectarian colleges by saying they
about the underlying meaning. suspension since 1999. didn't support a specific denomination. But of course, they
Today, the University has no religious affiliation. During This minimalist approach to religious study contrasts with still believed in the importance of religion."
its early years, the University dropped its ties to Christian- the past when students attended compulsory chapel services, Tappan took office in 1852 as the first president who did
ity and emerged as a fledgling research university - striv- and the highest members of the administration were also not rise from the University's clergy and is widely regarded as
ing to establish a reputation. Religious dogma was removed members of the clergy, the University's first "official" president, though he himself
from the school's curriculum, and since the late 19th cen- Henry Tappan, the University's first president,lends his was an ordained Presbyterian minister, according to a study
tury, the University's religious con ons haye changed name to Tappan ,all ch houses the University's History of the University's first 50 years carried out by McGinn. Part
drastically in name and recognition. of Art Depart ment eas also a key figure in the gradual of Tappan's mission as president was to expand the Univer-
Despite a lack ofconcrete1affilia s, in practice and move towards e r n. sity's goals and prestige at home and abroad, and in doing so
thought religionpstillp Yitan imp nt role on campus, The Unive definition ofa the Universitybegan to move away from the Christian model.
whetheiu'thselgasro aia agoge mosque or church, and state on t only that the H began to establish the University as an institution
the fr ndrg te (ary rfectionart nation of Chris deted mre toward research and teaching than it was to
iv- ire school was nrisan rom spibng the individual. He abolished the University's non-
preachers loudly voice their beliefs. to 1852. The all-male student body woke at 5:30 a.m. Chapel sectarian stance on the basis that the University should not

Religious items adorn the altar at Canterbury House.


