E It iC tgan4,3allm

(i)N:-F i IIIv~i~ TLI' -()\ 'AI.iS OF l

.?EE")

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, April 12, 2011

michigandaily.com

STATE BUDGET
'U' officials:
Tuition hike
to be under
7.1 percent

DANIELLE TOLL/Daily
LSA senior Samantha Greenberg gets a free haircut from Douglas J Aveda hairdresser Ashley Overmyer in exchange for donating her hair to Locks of Love and
Pantene's Beautiful Lengths. The donation was part of the University Hospital's "Share Your Hair" donation drive in the hospital's Towsley Lobby yesterday.
UNIVERSITY FACULTY
SACUA passes motion for
polin fculon issues

Coleman says 'U'
to meet governor's
guideline regarding
tuition increase cap
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily News Editor
Despite Republican Gov. Rick
Snyder's proposed cuts to higher
education appropriations, Uni-
versity officials say they believe
tuition increases for the 2011-2012
academic year will be limited.
Snyder has proposed a 15-per-
cent cut in state funding to public
colleges and universities in Mich-
igan for the 2012 fiscalyear. How-
ever, schools may receive less
funding from the state if tuition
increases exceed 7.1 percent- the
state average of tuition hikes over
the past five years.
In separate interviews with
The Michigan Daily, University
President Mary Sue Coleman and
University Provost Philip Hanlon
said they anticipate the Univer-
sity's tuition increase will be less
thanthe 7.1-percentlimitsetforth
in Snyder's proposed budget.
"I think that we will be within

the tuition restraint that (Snyder
has) required to get the extra
piece of (the state appropria-
tion)," Hanlon said. "I think that
we are aware that his budget pro-
posal isn't the final budget, so we
are thinking about contingency
should the situation get worse,
but our main planning is around
the 15-percent cut."
If Snyder's plan is adopted
by the Michigan Legislature in
its current form, the University
would face an approximately
$47.5-million reduction in state
funding. The University was
appropriated $316 million from
the state for the current fiscal
year.
However, if the University's
tuition rate increase exceeds the
7.1-percent tuition guideline, the
fundingcut would increase by 5.2
percent, or about $14 million.
Coleman said the University
will maintain its commitment
to financial aid regardless of any
tuition increase.
"We have always tried to
match, with even more commit-
ment, financial aid than with the
tuition increase because we know,
that families are struggling ..."
Coleman said.
See TUITION, Page 3

Committee also
seeks advice on
recent FOIAs
By KAITLIN WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
The leading faculty govern-
ing body's authority came under
question by its own members at

the group's meeting yesterday
afternoon.
Members of the Senate Advi-
sory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs
discussed NOTEBOOK
whether con-
ducting a poll to ask faculty
members' opinions on extending
the tenure probationary period
would strengthen or undermine
democratic process. Though

the motion was ultimately
withdrawn, SACUA members
unanimously passed another
motion calling for polls would
be conducted in the future to
help decide SACUAs position on
issues.
The discussion arose when
SACUA member Rachel Gold-
man, a professor in the College
of Engineering, made a motion to
conduct the poll of the assembly

members.
"The 4ietion - remains,'
Goldman said, "are we going to
have democracy?"
But, she later withdrew the
motion because of concerns
about timing and the methodol-
ogy that would be used to con-
duct the poll.
The University Senate voted
last month to recommend the
See SACUA, Page 3

SPRING COMMENCEMENT PLAY ME A SONG, MR. PIANO MAN
35 percent of graduates
to wear recycled gowns N I

More students to
wear gowns made of
plastic bottles
ByHALEYGLATTHORN
Daily StaffReporter
Students filing into the Big
House to receive their diplomas
at this year's Spring Commence-
ment will receive one final lesson

from the University - go green.
Some graduates will be
dressed in gowns made of recy-
cled plastic bottles at commence-
ment on April 30 as part of a
collaborative initiative between
the University administration
and students in a Graham Envi-
ronmental Sustainability Insti-
tute course. About 35 percent of
graduates will don the recycled
gowns, according to a recent
Graham Institute press release.

Though the option to wear
recycled gowns has been avail-
able for the past two years, the
number purchased has signifi-
cantly increased this year. Mike
Shriberg, who teaches the course
"Sustainability in the Cam-
pus" which is sponsoring the
program, said the change was
prompted by a greater interest in
sustainability on the part of the
University administration.
See GOWNS, Page 3

UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL
* Ohio Sen. Portman to give Law
School commencement speech

ALLISON KRUSKE/Daily
Architecture junior Tim Yang plays the piano in the Duderstadt Center yesterday. Yang has been playing piano for five
years and said it is a way of escaping the stress of school.
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH ~
Engineering students testing balloons
to provide Internet in remote locations
Balloons may extend these balloons aren't for gazing design class taught by Lecturer
at beautiful landscapes. Darren McKague - are involved
Internet access after The students are part of the in the balloon technology
high-altitude balloon teams efforts. The dozen students in
natural disasters hit in the College of Engineering, the class, as well as other Engi-

Law School Portman (R-Ohio) will be this
year's Law School commence-
alum to speak at mentspeaker.
Portman wrote in a Univer-
May 7 ceremony sity press release issued yester-
day that he is looking forward
By MIKE MERAR to talking to students at his alma
Daily StaffReporter mater as they prepare to enter
the professional world.
The University Law School "The University of Michigan
announced yesterday that U.S. Law School is a model for aca-
Sen. and Law School alum Rob demic excellence, preparing our

best and brightest young minds
for challenging careers ahead,"
Portman wrote. "I feel honored
as an alum to speak to the future
leaders of our country as they
prepare to take their next steps
in life."
Law School Dean Evan
Caminker wrote in the press
release that Portman is a role
model for many students who
See PORTMAN, Page 3


By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily Staff Reporter
A group of University stu-
dents is working on sending bal-
loons to high altitudes, though

which are experimenting with
using the balloons to extend the
availability of the Internet to
rural areas and disaster zones.
Students enrolled in Atmo-
spheric, Oceanic and Space Sci-
ences 583 - a space systems

neering students, participate in
the teams, which experiment
with the basics of ballooning,
and aiming to use ballooning to
expand the availability of mobile
technology. The students will be
See BALLOONS, Page 3


WEATHER HI: 62 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Hagelin signs with New York Rangers Vol. CXXI, No.129
TOMORROW :, o:2 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME 02 The ichigan Daily
michigandailycom

AP NEWS .....................2 ARTS............................5
NEWS .........................3 CLASSIFIEDS......6........6
OPINION......................4 SPORTS.....................7

5'


2 - Tuesday, April 12, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com a

2 - Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Iw

I e Midi gan Bai1
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmai.com

PRESENTER ON PEACE

A healing hospital

While the majority of campus
denizens are here to live and learn,
there is a significant portion of
visitors who are here for a different
purpose - to be treated at the Uni-
versity of Michigan Health System.
Ranked as the 14th hospital in
the nation by U.S. News and World
Report, UMHS has top-ranked
specialties in both adult and pedi-
atric care.
In 2010, the health system facili-
tated nearly 1.8-million outpatient
visits, according to the UMHS
website. Of those who required an
overnight stay, the hospital hosted
44,665 patients in its 885-bed facil-
ity.
There were also 79,206 emer-
gency and urgent care visits to
UMHS in 2010 - 1,000 less emer-

gency room visits than the previ-
ous year.
Not only does the health sys-
tem provide care for millions of
patients a year, it also provides
training for thousands of medical
students. More than 22,000 staff
members and medical students
are currently involved in treating
patients at UMHS. This includes
those in office, research and medi-
cal care positions.
Additionally, UMHS embarked
on nearly 1,500 survival flight
missions in 2010, according to
the UMHS website. Among these
flight missions were organ trans-
ports and patient and medical team
transfers.
- DEVON THORSBY

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Fatih Celiker, an assistant professor of math at Wayne State University, gives a presentation
at the Heros of Peace Symposium in the Michigan Union yesterday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES


Phone jacked Fire safety gets Science in 15 Film screening
from student real messy minutes talk WHAT: "Reteaching Gen- study, coffee addictions
der and Sexuality," a film may be linked to genet-
WHERE: Shapiro Under- WHERE: Goddard House WHAT: Rosina Bierbaum, about LGBTQ youth, will be ics, TIME.com reported.
graduate Library WHEN: Tuesday at about professor and dean of the shown. Participants who had high-
WHEN: Monday at about 2 a.m. School of Natural Resources WHO: Spectrum Center consumption variants of one,
1:30 p.m. WHAT: An unknown and the Environment, will WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. of two genes studied drank
WHAT: A student reported subject discharged a fire talk about science in a 15 WHERE: School of Social more coffee than individuals
his cell phone was missing extinguisher in the hallway minute lecture. Work, room 2752
from the fourth floor study and stole the bracket for the WHO: Water Theme who had the low-consump-
area, University Police extinguisher, University Semester CORRECTIONS tio variants of the genes.

EDITORIAL STAFF
KyleSwanson ManagingEditor swanson@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber ManagingNews Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Joseph Lichterman,
Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Rachel Brusstar, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Mike
Merar, Michele Narov, Brienne Prusak,Kaitlin Williams
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editors
SENIOREDITORIAL PAGEEDITORS:AidaAli,AshleyGriesshammer,HarshaPanduranga
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Eaghan Davis, Harsha Nahata, Andrew Weiner
Tim Rohan and sportseditorsemichigandaily.com
Nick Spar ManagingSports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Mark Burns, Michael Florek, Chantel Jennings, Ryan Kartje,
Stephen J. Nesbitt, Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi, Ben Estes, Casandra Pagni, Luke Pasch,
KevinRaftery,MattSlovin
SharonJacobs MaangingArtsEditor jacobs@michigandaily.com
ASSSTANAST SETD n e Bcna na on e,GPnnmaKhosla,David Tao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch Managing Photo Editors
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:ErinKirkland,SalamRida,AnnaSchulte,Samantha Trauben
Zach Bergsonand design@michigandaily.com
HelenLieblich MantingDesientEditors
SENIOnDSNsEDIoooOMaredan
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS:Alex Bondy,HermesRisien
Carolyn Klarecki MagazineEditor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINEEDITORS:StephenOstrowski,ElyanaTwiggs
Josh Healy and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten CopytChiefs
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim sales Manager
SALESFORCEMANAGER:StephanieBowker
Hillary Szawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Alexis Newton ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Trevor Grieb and QUyVOcirculationManagers
Zach Yancer web Project coordinator
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is availablelfree ofcharge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptionsfor
fall term, starting in September, via U.s.mail are $110. inter term(January through Apri)is
$115,yearlong (September through Aprilis $19s.University affliates are subject to a reced
bsciptiorate O-campussubsciptonsfoerlltemaret$35 .uscripionsectbeprepaid.
The Mchigar eaily s na membeof Tie Associated Pess ard TheAssciated Collegiate Pens.

0

reported. There are no
suspects.
Boarder gets
the boot
WHERE: West Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
11:45 p.m.
WHAT: A subject was
issued a warning for skate-
boarding, University Police
reported.

Police reported. There was
no damage.
Lights out
WHERE: Lot NC-53
WHEN: Tuesday at about
1 a.m.
WHAT: A student told
police his locked car had
been broken into, University
Police reported. Nothing
was taken from inside the
car, but the driver's tail light
was stolen. There are no
suspects.

WHEN: Tonight at 5:30
p.m.
WHERE: Shapiro Under-
graduate Lihrary, Bert's
Study Lounge
Trombone
recital
WHAT: Students of Prof.
David Jackson will play
tromhone and give several
solo performances.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 8p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building,
Britton Recital Hall

* An article in the April
10 edition of The Michi-
gan Daily ("'U'Relay
for Life raises record
amount ofmoney")
incorrectly stated the
amount of money Relay
for Life exceeded its
goal by. It also incor-
rectly stated the amount
of money Phi Gamma
Delta fraternity raised.
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Michigan head football
coach Brady Hoke and
offensive coordinator
Al Borges still haven't named
a starting running back for
their newly-implemented
pro-style offense.
>o FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 7
New Mexico has
become the 30th state to
ban spanking children
in public schools, the Mother
Nature Network reported.
Opponents of the law argued
the threat of physical punish-
ment is needed to maintain
classroom discipline.

0
S

Former Libyan official pleads
with country to avoid civil war

Koussa devoted 30
years to serving
Gadhaffi and Libya
LONDON (AP) - The high-
est profile insider to break with
Moammar Gadhafi's regime
since Libya's conflict began
warned yesterday that the coun-
try risked becoming engulfed in
civil war like Somalia.
Ex-foreign minister Moussa
Koussa, making his first public
statement since he fled Tripoli,
quit his post and arrived in Brit-
ain on March 30, called on Gad-
hafi and the country's opposition
to show restraint.
"I ask everybody, all the par-
ties, to work to avoid taking
Libya into a civil war. This will
lead to bloodshed and make
Libya a new Somalia," said
Koussa, who has spent almost
two weeks at an undisclosed

location in interviews with Brit-
ish intelligence officers and dip-
lomats.
Britain's Foreign Office said
Koussa is not being detained by
authorities, but have repeatedly
declined to discuss the details
of his debriefings or comment on
his whereabouts.
The former Gadhafi loyal-
ist read a prepared statement to
the BBC's Arabic language tele-
vision channel and did not take
any questions. The BBC did not
disclose where it had filmed
Koussa.
Koussa did not make any
explicit criticism of Gadhafi, but
said he had quit after he became
increasingly concerned over
recent events. He confirmed he
now has no contact with the dic-
tator's Tripoli regime.
"My country lives in a difficult
time. It's the worst. When the
Libyans started to lose security
and stability I decided to resign,"


Koussa said.
Also an ex-Libyan intelligence
chief, Koussa said that for more
than 30 years had been devoted
to his work for Gadhafi and con-
fident he had been serving the
Libyan public.
"But after recent events
things changed and I couldn't
continue. That's why I took this
decision. Not because I'm wait-
ing for anything, but because I
know that what I did to resign
will cause me problems, but I'm
ready to make that sacrifice for
the sake of my country," Ioussa
said.
He rejected suggestions of
dividing Libya between the
rebel-held east and Gadhafi's
strongholds in the country's
west, calling instead for talks
between the regime and opposi-
tion.
"We refuse to divide Libya.
The unity of Libya is essential to
any solution and any settlement
in Libya," Koussa said, according
to a translation provided by the
BBC. "The solution in Libya will
come from the Libyans them-
selves, through discussion and
democratic dialogue."
Koussa also called on the
United Nations to help deliver
food, medicine and aid to the
Libyan people.
"We hope the Security Coun-
cil will take a humanitarian
responsibility," he said.
Last week, Scottish pros-
ecutors interviewed Koussa as
a witness over the 1988 bomb-
ing of Pan Am Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, Scotland, which
killed 270 people - most of them
Americans. Libya acknowledged
responsibility for the terrorist
attack in 2003, and opposition
leaders have long claimed Kous-
sa was closely involved.
Koussa acknowledged he had
previously worked closely with
overseas intelligence agencies as
the West sought to return Libya
to the international fold in the
1990s, following terror attacks
that tainted the North African
country's reputation.

ALBERTO TOMAS HALPERN/AP
A volunteer firefighter sprays a fire on April 9 which began outside Marfa, Texas, and was carried by winds to nearby Fort
Davis. The fire danger remains high in West Texas where firefighters are battling a blaze that's destroyed dozens of homes.
T exasWIldfires ravage
land, destroy 6 homes0

Fires total 654 this
year in wake of
severe drought
LUBBOCK, Texas (AP) -
Firefighters battled yesterday
to contain several large blazes
that have burned hundreds of
square miles of rural Texas
and destroyed dozens of homes
since last week, getting rein-
forcements from out of state as
they struggled against some of
the worst wildfire conditions in
state history.
One firefighter was in criti-
cal condition at a Lubbock hos-
pital with severe burns suffered
while fighting a Panhandle wild-
fire, officials said.
Powerful winds that sent
walls of flame through parched
ranchland in and around the
West Texas communities of Fort
Davis and Midland, incinerating
more than 60 homes during the
weekend and killing livestock
and horses, took pity by direct-
ing the fires to largely unpopu-

lated open spaces north and east
of the cities.
An overnight thunderstorm
- a rare occurrence of late, with
the state coming off its driest
March since 1895 - gave crews
the break they needed to begin
containing a wildfire that had
scorched about 110 square miles
of rolling prairies about 175
miles west of Fort Worth.
All of Texas is experienc-
ing drought, and conditions are
classified as extreme or excep-
tional in 60 percent of the state,
according to the most recent
U.S. Drought Monitor map.
Rain from last summer's Hur-
ricane Alex led to particularly
lush vegetation growth, said
Mark Stanford, the operations
director for the Texas Forest
Service. A cold winter and the
drought killed off much of that
growth, and with fewer cattle
grazing on Texas pasturelands,
the dried remains have provided
a perfect fuel for wildfires to
consume, he said.
Thus far this year, the Forest
Service and fire departments

have responded to 654 fires that
have burned 916 square miles of
land and destroyed 189-homes.
That's a far cry from March
2006 - when wildfires burned
more than 3,000 square miles,
destroyed 413 homes and killed
12 people in the deadliest wild-
fire month in state history. But
Stanford said current wildfire
conditions are even worse than
five years ago.
"We're in new territory
because it's drier than it has
been for '06, '08 and '09, but
there is more fuel to burn,"Stan-
ford said.
The parched conditions are
expected to last for several
days, at least, but the 30-40 mph
winds that have been fueling the
western blazes are expected to
drop into the teens and low 20s,
he said.
"And that makes a huge dif-
ference," Stanford said.
It'll be too late for those who
watched the terrifying, fast-
moving fires sweep through
their West Texas communities
on Saturday and Sunday.

9


10 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

T g m a .WY Tuesday, April 12, 2011- 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
0 Legislators unveil
plan to preserve
campground areas
Twelve Repubican legisla-
tors from northern Michigan are
proposing a plan that might keep
some forest campgrounds now
targeted for closure by the state
open for business.
The plan detailed yesterday
calls for giving local governments
in northern Michigan the option
to take over the 23 state forest
campgrounds that could be closed
by the state's Department of Natu-
ral Resources next month.
The lawmakers say they're
developing legislation that would
allow the land rights to be trans-
ferred for $1 if local governments
agree to keep the property open
for campground purposes.
The campgrounds targeted for
closing are seldom-used compared
to other campgrounds. Many are
near some of the other 110 state
forest campgrounds that would
remain open for the upcoming
season
DETROIT
Toyota warns of
car shortages due
to Japan quake
Toyota Motor Corp. is telling
U.S. dealers that new vehicles
could be in short supply this
summer because of production
slowdowns in Japan and North
America.
In a memo to dealers obtained
yesterday by The Associated Press,
Toyota's U.S. general manager
Bob Carter said Toyota is produc-
ingcars and trucks at significantly
reduced levels in April and hasn't
set its production schedule for
May through July.
"The potential exists that sup-
ply of new vehicles could be sig-
nificantly impacted this summer,"
Carter said in the memo.
Production has been hampered
by parts shortages after hundreds
of suppliers were damaged by the
March 11 earthquake and tsu-
nami in Japan. Even paint colors
have been affected. Carter said
in the memo that the company is
changing exterior colors on some
vehicles because of shortages of a
chemical produced by a supplier.
NASHVILLE, Tenn.
JQ scores deemed
unreliable evidence
for execution
Tennessee judges can no longer
rely on a standard IQ test score to
see if a prisoner is too intellectu-
ally challenged to be executed.
The Tennessee Supreme Court
ruled yesterday that testimony
from mental health experts also
must be considered.
Tennessee law bars the execu-

tion of intellectually disabled peo-
ple and an IQ score of 70 or below
is one of several factors that deter-
mine it. However, the court says
experts must also weigh in to say
if the test score accurately reflects
the defendant's functional IQ.
The decision comes from the
case of a prisoner sentenced to
death for a 1979 robbery and mur-
der of a Memphis man.
MINSK, Belarus
Subway explosion
* kill 11 civilians
An explosion tore through a
key subway station in the Belaru-
sian capital of Minsk during eve-
ning rush hour yesterday killing
11 people and wounding 126. An
official said the blast was a terror-
ist act.
President Alexander Lukash-
enko did not say what caused the
explosion at the Oktyabrskaya
subway station, but suggested out-
side forces could be behind it.
"I do not rule out that this gift
could have been brought from
outside," Lukashenko said. The
authoritarian leader, under strong
pressure from the West over his
suppression of the opposition, has
frequently alleged outside forces
seek to destabilize his regime.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

SACUA
From Page lA
tenure clock be subject to more
flexible guidelines to accom-
modate extenuating personal
circumstances. The body also
expressed its hesitancy about
changing the University's Board
of Regents bylaws to extend the
probationary period for each
school.
University Provost Philip
Hanlon discussed a change to
Regents bylaw 5.09 in January
that would add two years to the
maximum probationary period
schools and colleges can offer
its tenure-track faculty. Schools
and colleges are currently able to
offer tenure-track faculty up to
seven years probation and a ter-
minal period of one year.
Christina Whitman, the Uni-
versity's vice provost for aca-
demic and faculty affairs, said
at the meeting yesterday that
Hanlon hasn't decided what his
recommendation to the Regents
will be.
SACUA member Kate Barald,
a professor in the Medical
School and College of Engineer-
ing, submitted an amendment to
the motion for SACUA to con-
duct a poll, proposing the poll
be conducted by an uninvolved
third party.
SACUA Vice Chair Gina Poe,
an associate professor in the
Medical School, suggested the
use of a publication like The
Michigan Daily or The Uni-
versity Record, while others
suggested the Administration
Evaluation Committee, a com-
mittee of the Senate Assem-
bly that organizes faculty
evaluations of University offi-
cials. However, the AEC was
later removed from consider-
ation because it interacts with
SACUA.
The issue of whether to
extend the tenure probationary
GOWNS
From Page 1
"I think what you've got right
now is some strong interest from
the folks who run commence-
ment, and (they are) really look-
ing at the entire ceremony and
the-weekend that surrounds it
and looking at opportunities for
improving environmental per-
formance," Shriberg said.
The gowns are made of
100-percent recycled plastic
bottles, according to Oak Hall
Cap and Gown - the company
that makes the garments. Major
bookstores on campus includ-
ing Barnes & Noble, Ulrich's and
Michigan Book and Supply have
been selling the recycled gowns
in the last few weeks.
Students in Shriberg's
class considered the impact of
resources used at large Univer-
sity events before creating plans
for an environmentally friend-
ly graduation. The students
researched green initiatives
at other universities, analyzed
BALLOONS

From Page 1
launching the balloons later this
week.
"Starting in the fall of 2010,
the 583 group looked at balloons
from a more top-level perspec-
tive of how do we use these to
do something novel and cool
and what came out of that was
the Internet on balloon plat-
forms," said Rackham student
Kevin Drumm, who is taking
AOSS 583.
Rackham student and bal-
loon team participant Zahid
Hasan said the project is being
funded by Google and is one of
the most innovative of its kind
in the United States.
"We're being funded by
Google to try to create Inter-
net that's mobile, so this could
be used for disaster relief ...
but (also) later on to address
rural areas so they can have the
ability to have Internet with-
out costly architecture on the
ground," Hasan said.
Rackham student Alex Bogat-
ko, an AOSS student involved
with the balloon teams, said
many universities enjoy the
"educational benefit" of allow-
ing their students to experiment
with ballooning, but do not

period is on the agenda for the this juncture would undermine
Regents' April 21 meeting. SACUA's authority.
After Goldman withdrew her "We have done this by the
motion, Poe made a motion that book," Lusmann said. "A poll by
polls regarding other issues be us makes us look weak."
conducted in the future to gather
faculty members' opinions. SACUA TO ASK CIVIL
SACUA Chair Ed Rothman, LIBERTIES BOARD FOR
a professor of statistics, said ADVICE ON FOIA
the motion would result in the
creation of a subcommittee of SACUA members unani-
SACUA members that would mously passed a motion asking
prepare the polls. The motion the University's Civil Liberties
passed unanimously. Board for advice on a recent
Poe said it's always good to get Freedom of Information Act
more opinions, but she thinks it records request filed with the
is too late to do so for the tenure University.
probationary period issue. Rothman said SACUA is
Barald, too, said she thinks seeking recommendations from
the "train has left the station" the CLB about how to treat the
for conducting a poll at this late academic freedoms and First
stage in discussion of the issue. Amendment rights of faculty in
"I think we missed our the context of the recent records
moment of opportunity, and I request filed by the Mackinac
want to make sure we don't do it Center for Public Policy, a non-
in the future if possible," Barald profit organization based in
said. Midland, Mich.
SACUA member Kim Kear- The records request, submit-
fott, a professor in the Medi- ted at the end of last month,
cal School and College of seeks e-mails containing infor-
Engineering, said the disagree- mation about the public union
ment among SACUA members dispute in Wisconsin. Similar
was indicative of a "two-part requests have also been filed
dysfunction" - miscommunica- with Michigan State University
tion between faculty and SACUA and Wayne State University.
and miscommunication between The Mackinac Center
faculty and the administration. requested e-mails from fac-
Senate Secretary John Lehm- ulty who work in labor centers,
an, a professor of ecology and seeking e-mails with the words
evolutionary biology, said while "Wisconsin," "Scott Walker,"
SACUA followed internal pro- and "Maddow" - referring to
cedures "to the letter," SACUA Rachel Maddow of MSNBC.
members were largely unin- Last month, the Wisconsin
formed of the reasons for pro- Republican Party submitted a
posing changes to the tenure request for the e-mails of Uni-
clock. versity of Wisconsin Prof. Wil-
Goldman agreed, but made liam Cronon, who has expressed
the distinction that SACUA was criticism of Gov. Scott Walker
informed of potential implica- (R-Wisc.).
tions of changes to the policy. Rothman proposed the
"We have to be careful when motion at last week's meeting,
we say we're uninformed," Gold- expressing concerns about the
man said. search of employee e-mails. The
SACUA member Stephen Lus- passed proposal asks for a report
mann, an associate professor of back from the CLB advising fur-
music, said instituting a poll at ther action.
standard commencement prac- gowns, Shriberg said this year's
tices and then focused on areas Spring Commencement will
in which the University could save about 840,000 sheets of
best conserve resources. paper due to a different pro-
"They started by looking at gram design. The event will also
the entire commencement exer- feature more vegetarian food
cise, everything from people choices, and tips for environ-
getting here, to what happens in mentally friendly lifestyles will
the stadium, to all the auxiliary be projected on the Big House
events,"Shribergsaid. scoreboardsceisoporate sus-
While planning the changes, tainability education into the
students considered factors such event.
as cost of the adjustments, envi- Shriberg's course is part
ronmental impact and the prob- of a sustainability initiative
ability of success. The students launched by University Presi-
presented their ideas to admin- dent Mary Sue Coleman in Octo-
istrators who worked with the ber 2009 to encourage campus
students after choosing which community members to be more
of their proposed changes they environmentally conscious.
wanted to implement. "We're creating an increased
To promote the sustainability culture of sustainability on
effort, the Program in the Envi- campus in all kinds of ways -
ronment is offering free recycled everything from offerings in the
gowns to students graduating curriculum to how the Univer-
with a PITE degree, according to sity operates," Shriberg said. "So
Shriberg. Though the students having a more green commence-
may use the gowns at no cost, ment ceremony is just one way of
they must returnthe gowns after demonstrating this commitment
commencement so they can be that we're seeing increasingly
reused nextyear. and encouragingly pervading
In addition to sustainable the entire campus."
usually expand these projects ballooning teams, has also con-

beyond various trials. However, nectedthe projectto IMAGINE,
the University's balloon team is a University-affiliated endeavor
an exception, Hasan said. in which satellites are used to
"We're trying to push beyond bring Internet access to parts of
that," Hasan said. Africa. Drumm said he believes
Because of these efforts, the the work of the balloon teams at
University is ahead of other the University could prove to be
schools in ballooning innova- another resource for IMAGINE
tions. Bogatko noted that Mich- in providing Internet access.
igan Institute of Technology "is There are a variety of bal-
doing today what (the Univer- loon materials used for differ-
sity) did five years ago." ent conditions and length of
Using balloons to make Inter- flights, according to Drumm.
net access more widespread has The teams use latex balloons,
great potential, Hasan said. which typically last an hour
Launching balloons after nat- and a half to two hours, and are
ural disasters, such as the tsu- about 10 to 15 feet in diameter
nami in Japan last month or the before launching. The balloons
earthquake that hit Haiti in Jan- then expand to about 30 feet
uary 2010, would give victims after being launched, though
temporary access to cell phone some differ in size. The team
communication, Hasan said. hopes to use super pressure
As a part of their experi- balloons in the future, which
ments, the balloon teams per- are used by NASA and last lon-
form a series of launches. In ger than other types.
addition to AOSS 583, or the Even without some of the
Floating Point Operation, the more sophisticated balloon
High Altitude Solutions Team is designs, Drumm said it would
an integral part of the launches. be possible to launchballoons to
The HAS Team is responsible provide Internet access where
for operations that help launch many people are currently
the balloons, find the balloons without it, like Japan due to
when they land and track the the recent earthquake. It will
balloons while they are in the only be a few more years until
air. the technology can be used on
AOSS Prof. Thomas Zurbu- a larger scale, according to
chen, one of the advisers for the Drumm.

TUITION
From Page 1
Though the state's 2012 fiscal
year begins in October, Snyder
has repeatedly expressed his hope
that the Legislature will approve a
final budgetby May 3L The earlier
budget deadline would be "much
easier" for the University, Cole-
man said, since administrators
could calculate its budget based
on actual figures, rather than pro-
jections.
"We're very hopeful that the
Legislature will act and that
everything will get resolved in
May, which is what the governor
had hoped to "have happen, but
since we don't have any certainty
from the state yet that's what
we're modeling," Coleman said.
"We are modeling the 15 percent."
Until thebudget is passed, Cole-
man said the University is making
its budget plans based on Snyder's
proposal.
"Before, with the state, we've
just had to make a guess, and
though we have worked very, very
hard ... if we don't geta resolution,
it makes things much more dif-
ficult for us because we're basing
our tuition decision on a certain
level of expected budget cuts,"
Coleman said.
Traditionally, the University's
PORTMAN
From Page 1
are still considering various
career prospects after receiving a
law degree.
"With his broad base of expe-
rience, Senator Portman is sure
to provide an inspirational com-
mencement address for gradu-
ates who are curious about where
their new Michigan law degrees
can take them," Caminker said.
"Clearly, if Senator Portman's
experience is a guide, the answer
to that question is - anywhere."
Portman graduated from the
University in 1984 and has since
spent most of his life in publct
service. His career has included
serving as associate counsel and
director of the Office of Legisla-
tive Affairs, director of the Office
of Management and Budget, U.S.
trade representative and as a mem-
ber of Congress. He was elected to
his current senatorial position in
the November 2010 election.
In addition to his public service
positions, Portman has practiced
law at various firms in Ohio and
currently works for several non-
profit boards in the Cincinnati
area.
At last year's Law School com-
mencement, Senior White House
Advisor Valerie Jarrett, also a Uni-
versity Law School alum, was the
keynote speaker.
Students expressed mixed
opinions on this year's Law
School's speaker choice. Law stu-
dent Phil Zeeck said he thinks
Portman has recently had a key
role in American politics and will

Board of Regents approves the
University's budget - including
tuition rates - atits June meeting.
With that date still two months
away, Hanlon said he is pleased
with how the University's budget-
ing process is going.
"We've finished the budget
meetings with schools and col-
leges and with the administrative
units at this point, so the units
have all had their discussions
with us and we're still early in
the process in terms of talking to
the board about a tuition increase
..." Hanlon said. "But we're at the
point where we're beginning to
process all the information we've
received; we're beginning to
weigh allthe levers in ourbudget"
As the state plans to decrease
its funding for public higher edu-
cation institutions, the University,
has also been restsucturing its
costs. The University is planning
to eliminate $120 million from its
budget by 2017. However, Cole-
man insisted that regardless of
decreases in state appropriations
or internal spending cuts, the Uni-
versity is committed to a high level
of research and academics.
"We can't stand still on the
quality level because everyone
else is moving forward," Coleman
said. "So, if all those pieces come
together, I think we've got a sus-
tainable system here."
deliver an engagingspeech.
"I think he's played an impor-
tant part in a lot of the national
debates we've had over the last
several years, and I think there
are a lot of people in the graduat-
ing class who would be very inter-
ested in what he has to say," Zeeck
said.
However, Zeeck added that he
is ambivalent about completely
supporting Portman since he hails
from Ohio.
"I like the fact that he's a Michi-
gan alum, I don't like the fact that
he's from Ohio," he said.
Law student Wen Fa also
expressed dismay at Portman's
residential status, but said this
shouldn't be an issue among his
peers.
"I think it's fine," he said. "We
get a lot of our students from
Ohio, and he's a Michigan alum,
so I don't have any huge problems
with it."
Law student Jordan Rosenfeld
said though the University has
been striving to bring speakers to
campus who emphasize philan-
thropy, he doesn't think Portman
represents the values of the Law
School studentbody.
"I think Michigan is continu-
ing along a path of demonstrating
more commitment to public ser-
vice and more pride in its public
service alums," Rosenfeld said.
"I don't necessarily think that a
Republican Senator from Ohiobest
expresses the views of the student
body or the administration."
The Law School commence-
ment ceremony will take place on
Saturday, May 7 at 2 p.m. at Hill
Auditorium.


Tue dysAre SouthOfTheBoder
Sosdl cfeSpecighAlls AD
$2.50 Tequila Sunrise & Vodka. Drinks
'A) Of Mexican Fare All With N0 COVER

-appy our$4,99Wings&Pin

.


S b Pi % ' 3. i ,I f6 .Y e °" l :. z 6 r ,.1 a , W. >.t.L ,p0


fl-H,,

6 'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK


4 -Tuesday, April12, 2011,

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
E-MAIL ELAINE AT EMORT@UMICH.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY KYLE SWANSON
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
SF ROM ..
Connecting communities
North Campus needs to be more accessible
If only there was a way to move North Campus farther
south. That seemed to be the consensus of students who
attended "The North Campus Rant: The Good, The Bad
and The Dude!" last week at Pierpont Commons. About 15 stu-
dents attended the event, and they voiced their concerns about
everything from accessibility of transportation to social life
on North Campus. Some even called it a "satellite campus."

ELAINE MORTON

RO n w h s-i
Body image bluue

"

The consensus is clear - North Campus
needs to be more linked to the rest of the Uni-
versity. Many freshmen are assigned to live in
North Campus residence halls, and they often
struggle to feel connected with the rest of
campus. While the buses run fairly frequently,
students' reliance on them makes academic
and social life difficult. Among the proposals
discussed at the meeting was changes to trans-
portation to and from North Campus. New
transportation options, like a trolley system
or even a Disney World-esque tram, should be
considered to alleviate transportation woes.
But accessibility involves more than just
transportation. Currently, using computers,
printers or even getting into certain buildings
on North Campus is difficult for students who
aren't in the College of Engineering, School
of Art & Design, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning or School of Music, Theater
& Dance. Lack of access to resources is a sig-
nificant reason for students' dissatisfaction
with North Campus. The University needs
to expand accessibility to resources on North
Campus to all students, which will provide an
incentive for students to use these facilities
for schoolwork.
Students are also bothered by the lack of
social activities on North Campus. Most Uni-
versity-sponsored social events, such as UMix
and arts nights, take place on Central Campus.
While North Campus does hold drive-in mov-

ies at the North Campus Recreation Building,
there need to be more social activities on North
Campus so students who live there don't have
to travel to Central Campus each time they
want to attend a social event. Movie nights, art
exhibits and University-sponsored events like
UMix are great ways to make North Campus
more inviting.
Though North Campus feels like a "satel-
lite campus," it's a part of the University. Only
15 people showed up to last week's meeting,
which is indicative of the average student's
attitude toward North Campus: apathy.
Efforts to improve the North Campus commu-
nity, however, would likely spark enthusiasm
for students who either choose or are forced
to live there.
Many students go through their entire time
at the University without having any reason to
venture to North Campus. But if more students
actually take part in these discussions, maybe
North Campus doesn't have tobe a place that is
avoided at all costs. Students need to voice their
complaints and concerns about North Campus
because the University is listening. This is a
chance to turn North Campus into something
that feels like a part of the University.
Better accessibility and more social events
on North Campus are just a start to reconcil-
ing the estranged campus. The attitude and
interest toward the campus has to change bo
in order to revive its image.

ast week, I was practicing a
method of evasion typical for
most college students: pro-
crastination.
For me this
usually means
I wind up on
some health
or food relat-
ed website in
the process of
avoiding writ- MARY
ing a paper.
That night, I DEMERY
ended up on
Glamour's
website. I was drawn to the headline
"Shocking Body-Image News: 97%
of Women Will Be Cruel to Their
Bodies Today." Yikes.
After conducting a survey of
300 women (all, according to the
website, of varying sizes), Glamour
found that 97 percent of the 300 did
not like what they saw when they
looked inthe mirror. Theyexpressed
this distaste via thoughts like:
"You're fat." "osh, those jeans are a
bit too tight. Not doing great things
for your pudgy thighs." "Ugh, I hate
that band of fat that hangs over my
jeans." "I look fat." These are the
horrifying, damaging thoughts that
97 percent of those 300 women utter
to themselves every day. How many
of them would say those words to a
friend? Worse still, this wasn't just
a onetime occurrence. On the con-
trary, most women thought negative
thoughts about their body 13 times
each day.
After reading the survey results, I
wondered briefly whether I was one
of the 97 percent. Then I laughed. Of
course I am. Though I'm often a fan
of my body, I'm not yet a member of
the coveted 3 percent who are actu-

ally consistently kind to their bodies.
For the next few days, Glamour's
survey results bounced around
in my head. I thought about them
when I looked in the mirror as I got
dressed. They were certainly on my
mind when I readyet another shock-
ing article about women and health
a few days later. This one was on The
New York Times Well blog, called
"An Older Generation Falls Prey to
Eating Disorders." Apparently more
and more older women are seeking
treatment for eating disorders like
anorexia, bulimia and binge eat-
ing disorder. The typical individual
seeking treatment for an eating dis-
order is a young woman. So what do
the droves of older women seeking
treatment reveal about our society?
To me, they indicate that the pres-
sure to be thin is pervasive no matter
how old you are.
Perhaps naively, I hadn't real-
ized that this was the case. I always
assumed that my occasional body
image woes were a phase, some-
thing I lived through as a teenager
and young woman and would then
discard, easily and effortlessly, when
I entered adulthood. But The New
York Times article proved other-
wise. There's a very real possibility
that I will still be bothered by my
body when I'm 40 - that is, if I don't
take action now.
This all got me wondering: How
can I start loving my body? Even as
I write this it's hard not to roll my
eyes - it sounds very hippie-dippy.
But it shouldn't have to. Lately, I've
realized that constructing your body
image doesn't have to be a passive
activity. You don't have to be as thin
as the models iiVogue', nor dd you
have to feel bad about your body if
you're not that thin.

But it does take some effort to
remember this. In our society,
unlessyou'reverythin, it's not really
acceptable to love your body. Unless
you're a size two, some would have
you think that you shouldn't love
your body - that you should only
love it once you've whittled your
frame down to a sample size. Even
on Glamour's website, where the
results of this survey also include
ways to work against negative body
image, there's a link to an article
called "Exactly what to eat to lose
weight." Where does it stop?
Pressure to be
thin persists
at all ages.

I'm learning that body image is
something that can be avoided -
much like homework. All it takes is
a little initial procrastination. I've
learned to avoid fashion websites.
I've let my subscription to Vogue
run out. I'm trying to push away
those negative thoughts: "Don't
think about that now," I repeat to
myself. Sometimes, it works: I shake
my head vigorously, or tell myself
to stop. Other times, the thought
slips in anyway. So what have I been
doing the past few days? Practicing
another method of evasion. I just
don't think about it. When athought
comes to mind, I push it out and
move on. Have I joined that 3 per-
cent? Not yet. But I'm getting there.
-Mary Demery can be reached
at mdemery@umich.edu.

0


AIDA AtlI

Save our soldiers

The winner of the 2010 Academy Award
for Best Picture - "The Hurt Locker" - told
audiences that "war is a drug" and can be
addictive for soldiers. But war is also a drug
that can numb the senses and impair mental
capabilities. It impacts the human psyche in
unusual ways, traumatizing anyone exposed
to it, including our soldiers. On March 27,
Rolling Stone magazine published an article
about the "kill team" - a group of United
States soldiers in Afghanistan engaged in
killing innocent civilians, mutilating their
corpses, taking photographs and videos with
the corpses and, in one case, even cutting off
and carrying the finger of a dead civilian as
a memento. Disturbing, isn't it? How could
these soldiers be so cold-hearted and ruth-
less? Well, a soldier has to be ruthless in order
to be an efficient mercenary.
Corporal Jeremy Morlock and Private First
Class Andrew Holmesbegan, soldiers in the
military unit Bravo Company stationed near
Kandahar Province in Afghanistan, left their
team on one occasion "looking for someone to
kill" after a dry spell of encounters with the
enemy, the Taliban. They "picked" 15-year-old
Gul Mudin for "execution," killing him and
treating his corpse as a trophy, according to
the article. Morlock told the judge in trial that
he couldn't understand how he had lost his
moral compass. Horrifying images and vid-
eos of the killings have surfaced after being
passed on from soldier to soldier, including a
video showing soldiers attacking two Afghan
men by an airstrike while listening to cello
rock band Apocalyptica. While in many cases
- including this one - the victims were actual
enemies and not innocent civilians, soldiers
enjoying such encounters and documenting
them in photographs and videos is unethical
and against army protocol.
On the other hand, suicide rates among sol-
diers are extremely high. And frequently the
soldiers are not the only ones mourned. Time
magazine published an article in its March
issue discussing the story of Matthew Mag-
dzas, a soldier who shot his pregnant wife,
his 13-month-old daughter, the family's three
dogs and then himself on Aug. 18, 2010. He
was one of113 members of the National Guard
who committed suicide in 2010, according
to the article. Magdzas received insufficient
mental health care since his return from Iraq
in July 2007 after spending about a year there,
despite being flagged as a high suicide risk

case by the Department of Veteran Affairs.
Furthermore, the military asked him to leave
after an examination by a psychologist at Fort
Knox diagnosed his chronic post-traumatic
stress disorder. A soldier who went to Iraq
with Magdzas described this as'the reaction
of the army that believes it is "cheaper" to just
get rid of soldiers who are "broken" rather
than to rehabilitate them.
To end the life of another being is undoubt-
edly one of the most distressing human acts.
That is, if you have a normal human con-
science. A "guide" to political assassinations
published by the CIA as part of training files
during the U.S. coup in Guatemala in 1954
described murder as "not morally justifiable"
and said it shouldn't be attempted by "mor-
ally squeamish" persons. Committing mur-
der scars a person for life. There is no escape
other thanto switch off your moral conscious-
ness, as the CIA so thoughtfully pointed out.
So we have extremely traumatized soldiers
who couldn't handle the cruel face of war and
chose to end their lives along with their loved
ones, or soldiers who pushed their morals so
far away that it became difficult for them to
understand the monstrosity of their acts.
War is never good no matter where, for any
reasons or using any methods. It is also not
inevitable. But ifa war has to be fought, and
soldiers have to be trained and sent out to fight
in foreign lands, the least a country can do is
understand the plight of these soldiers and
have enough resources to take care of them
after they are exposed to terrifying environ-
ments. As we know from the case of Magd-
zas and hundreds like him, there clearly isn't
a strong enough support system for soldiers.
And by involving ourselves in more wars we
are increasing the number of individuals
treated as mere weapons - used, damaged
and discarded - in meaningless wars.
The greatest cost of war that the world will
continue to bear for at least an entire genera-
tion after it ends is its effect on the human
mind. For now, Corporal Morlock has been
sentenced to 24 years in jail for killing three
Afghan civilians, and Magdzas's family has
joined the hundreds of other families resigned
to move on from their loss. Writer Jose
Narosky rightfully said, "In war, there are no
unwounded soldiers." So why is it so difficult
to recognize and help the wounded?
Aida Ali is a senior editorial page editor.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Melanie Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Asa Smith, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
JOSEPH VARILONE I EWTINT
U should practice what it preaches

The University of Michigan is proud to have one of
the largest endowments of any university in the world.
It's able to obtain this endowment through investments,
mostly in stock. For example, the University may pur-
chase $100,000 worth of stock in the corporation JP
Morgan Chase, which entitles ittoa corresponding frac-
tion of the profits, known as dividends. This is one of the
primary ways the University sustains itself financially.
However, the University's investments aren't always
chosen with corporate social responsibility concerns in
mind, and as students, this concerns us. For example,
the Universityused to have investments in tobacco com-
panies and corporations that profited off South African
apartheid. In fact, these are the only cases in the Univer-
sity's history in which the administration has chosen to
divest, or sell our stock, due to concerns about socially
irresponsible actions these corporations are engaging in.
Unfortunately, the University is still invested in a
number of socially irresponsible corporations. A cam-
pus coalition, Practice What You Preach, has emerged
to address these issues. We find these investments
unacceptable and feel that it's inappropriate for a uni-
versity that values and preaches social justice to be
invested in socially irresponsible corporations. Last
week, we introduced a resolution to the Michigan
Student Assembly requesting the University to divest
from four corporations: Monsanto, British Petroleum,
HanesBrands Inc., and Northrop Grumman. These
four corporations exhibit particularly irresponsible
conduct, unbecoming of our university. However, these
aren't the only corporations the University invests in
that we feel act irresponsibly.
Monsanto, a biotechnology corporation, is respon-
sible for the manufacture of Agent Orange, the chemi-
cal that led to thousands of deaths, birth defects and
ecological destruction of thousands of acres of forests
when it was dispersed by air during the Vietnam War.
It is also responsible for massive leaks of toxic chemicals
into local communities, in one case causing the govern-
ment to order the evacuation of a city in Missouri. Addi-
tionally, Monsanto has facilitated the development of
genetically modified foods, which many scientists have
become concerned about due to their unknown impact
on human health and the environment.
We don't think we need to say much about BP, which
is responsible for the greatest environmental disaster in
U.S. history that killed 11 people-and caused irreversible

ecological damage.
HanesBrands, a clothing manufacturer, is known for
paying children in Bangladesh 6.5 cents per hour and
forcing them to work 12 to 14 hours a day, often seven
days a week, among other crimes.
Northrop Grumman, one of the world's largest weap-
ons developers and manufacturers has supplied military
apparatuses accused of being used for war crimes bythe
United Nations fact-findingmissions. An example of this
is the Israeli military, which used Northrop Grumman
parts for the Apache AH64D Longbow Helicopter, the
radar system for F-16 combat jets and Longbow Hellfire
II missiles. Israel's military has usedthese systems to kill
thousands of civilians, has violated numerous U.N. Secu-
rity Council resolutions and has been widely accused of
having committed war crimes by an independent, U.N.
fact-finding mission.
There's no doubt that any mention of Israel trans-
forms our resolution from a normal statement regarding
social justice into a document of intense controversy. As
stated in an article by members of J Street UMich (Invest
in peace, 04/05/2011), some believe that merely men-
tioning a corporation's military connections with Israel
unfairly places the blame for violence in the region on
Israel alone.
However, one cannot represent the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict asa relatively even match, since Israel is heavily
funded and has one of the most powerful militaries in
the world andthe biggest in the Middle East. In addition,
there are no direct ties that the University has with those
that make it possible for Palestinians to obtain weapons
- and if there were, the connection would likely be weak.
We don't approve of any violence in the Middle East, but
there's no financial connection the University has with
violence committed by Palestinians. If there were, we
would believe in divestment in those companies as well.
It's easy to dismiss this issue due to financial con-
straints. But when a family member was killed by one of
Northrop Grumman's weapons, or you lost your job on
the Gulf Coast after the BP oil spill, it's suddenly not so
easy to ignore. We feel that the University must acknowl-
edge the faults of and divest from the irresponsible cor- 0
porations it invests in if its claims to social justice are to
be taken seriously.
Joseph Varilone is a School of Public Policy junior.
He is a member of Practice What You Preach.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.comu

Tuesday, April 12, 2011 - 5

* TV's waning 'Light'
TV on the Radio

Lights, camera, fade out

loses the funk in
latest release
By JULIA
SMITH-EPPSTEINER
Daily Arts Writer
Nine Types of Light, TV on the
Radio's fourth studio album, is
the first time the band has ven-
tured out of its
creative Brook- * _
lyn haven and
recorded 10 TV on the
popular rock Radio
tracks in Los
Angeles. Yet Nine Types
the California of Light
breeze was no
agent for an Interscope
effervescent
product - at least, not this time
around. The intrigue of 2006's
Return to Cookie Mountain has
fallen by the wayside as TV
smooths out the crunch of its
sound.
A different sound from album
to album is typically impressive
and respectable. But Nine Types
of Light evokes a nostalgic desire
in the listener to re-explore the
funky intricacy of the quintet's
sophisticated past material,
which struck a worldwide audi-
ence.
TV's latest endeavor seems to
be missing one thing: grunge. For
the most part, the graffiti-timbre
was replaced on this record by
over-simplified chord progres-
sions. But as always, there are
exceptions to the rule.
One of these exceptions is the
unfittingly tenacious "New Can-
nonball Blues," which brings for-
ward badass chords and lyrical

How many hipsters can you find in this light?

ferocity - almost "DLZ" style.
Another success is the penulti-
mate "Forgotten," which thun-
ders with energy derived from a
whip-cracking bass drum, whis-
tles and indecipherable hush-
ings.
One slow croon that holds
allure is "Will Do," which con-
tains an elongated riff that
arches away from boredom with
banjo and layered vocal pitches
of lead singer Tunde Adebimpe
and vocalist Kyp Malone. Lis-
teners get a bite of verve as
Adebimpe howls between the
stinging down-beat, "We won't
know the actual if we never take
the chance / I'd love to collapse
with you and ease you against
this song."
The members of TV on the
Radio sport a hipster look - fresh
afro-inspired hair formations,
Delphian facial hair, square
glasses and sleek patterned coat
jackets dominate their style -
but on Nine Types of Light, these
men have produced music that
matches less with their contem-

porary bohemian appearance
and more with your average
25-year-old lover-boy band.
Though Tunde says there is
deeper meaning underneath
the album - particularly on the
track "You," which he haunts
with an eerie melody of deceiv-
ing love - there is still an absent
element that renders the record
forgettable.
"Keep Your Heart" and "Kill-
er Crane" lethargically spell out
dull and manage to keep bones
and extremities still. Becoming
desperate for some upbeat magic,
Malone's vocals in "No Future
Shock" cure a bit of rock depres-
sion. The rap beat "Caffeinated
Consciousness" concludes the
album with an '80s feel - the
title's trump over its content can
be measured by an extra-large
cup of Greenwich roast.
For the hope of future intrigu-
ing TV on the Radio albums,
it's comforting to think that
maybe the reason Nine Types of
Light didn't hold up the band's
See TV ON THE RADIO, Page 6

s we approach the end
of another school year -
for me, the final days of
my junior year - the time seems
right to reflect on what we've
learned. Not
to be vague,
but a year can ii
change alot of
things.
This is per- r
haps a little
too vague, I
know. But this ANKUR
is my last col- SOHONI
umn, so for-
give me if my
specifics are tapped out. What I
can say, though, is when it comes
to movies - and more impor-
tantly (my education in film - the
past two semesters have been a
long journey of breakingthrough
personal barriers and accepting
the barriers that sometimes won't
budge. Transcribing my usually
lucid ruminations on Hollywood
franchises, film criticism and
my love of the screen into this
column for the past eight months,
combined with diving headfirst
into the shallow pools of screen-
writing and studying film busi-
ness, have opened up the doors of
how I think about film.
These things have also revealed
me to be a cocky, procrastinative
and stubborn kid suffering from
perpetual senioritis. Film is my
passion and my motivation for the
future, but late nights working on
a column or a screenplay outline
(usually consisting of playing
"Snake" on Facebook for a few
hours and then proclaimingI'll do
my work tomorrow) followed by
extreme sleep deprivation have

been pa
rienceo
ButI
Every t
turning
and fin
protagc
thrusts
battle.I
man on
attenti
set and
I'm
out of S
devoid
a sign o
Maguir
And
learned
film, an
to findf
emulat
of Chan
charact
fectedc
your pl
accept:

ar in the course of my expe- Ina column last October,
as a junior. I lamented that screenwrit-
I still have time to dream. ing didn't feed off my previous
hree-act structure has a understanding offilm, but rather
g point before the third forced me to redefine my creative
al act - one that takes our emphasis in the art form and
onist from a low point and take on a new, story-centric cin-
him or her into a final ematic mentality.
Perhaps that's me. I'm the Everything is different now.
the screen, the center of And what's more, I've matured
on. The world is a movie enough to accept that change.
I'm the player. I've come to believe in the roll-
Truman trying to break ercoaster and the high emotional
eahaven, long trapped and tides that come with pushing
of effortbut renewed with myself to the limit. While I once
f what couldbe. I'm Jerry held tight to my character, I've
e looking to be complete. learned to reveal it, test it and
while I can say I've change it.
i much from watching ButI now have buta single act
d even studying it, I hope left in my story here at the Uni-
even greater lessons from versity. I have everything I need
ing it. The story isan agent - all the information and insight
ge, a chemical reaction of to continue my story - but like
ters that leaves none unaf- every third act, time is short. I've
or untouched. To accept got 20 pages and I better make
ace as part of the story is to it good.
your own transformation. Each of our passages through
this Universitybecomes like a.
film - the kind you don't want to
n ready for end. And while we wish it could
last forever, we should realize
yc s u that our film is importantbecause
it doesn't last forever.
It's what we do with the time
that is given to us.
's the insight I've gained Think of the audience. It's
ng screenwriting student what we leave in mind aswe walk
The Michigan Daily's film off the screen - when the credits
ist, and perhaps just in start rolling, it's the end they'll
creenwriting has tuned me remember. So let's please the
eaks and valleys of narra- crowd and make this tale a happy
d the necessary evils of any one. Some stories don't have
especially my own. My sequels.

F]
I

That
as a you
and as'
column
time. S
to the p
tive ant
story -

challenge in conquering screen-
play structure is mirrored by my Sohoni is playing "Snake."
reluctance to accept that struc- To distract him, e-mail
ture in life. asohoni@umich.edu.

F """"""".-

,. yy
f " T eD'
. ,
.. , .w.
Y
S
Ate'

Quality In EverythingWe Do

Dayone
and we're in this together
Bring your experience and ideas. Day one is waiting and so is your team.
At Ernst & Young, you'll find an open and diverse environment. You'll tap
into your life experiences. Give fresh perspective to your clients and
your colleagues. And you'll learn from others who share your goals
and aspirations.
Explore your career options in assurance, tax, transaction or
advisory services.
Want to learn more with a chance to win an iPad?
Download your OR code reader by texting EYOUIZ to 22333.
Then snap a pic of the code and take our quiz.



6 - Tuesday, April 12, 2011 TDi

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Albom vocal about local issues

Fan
Aib
t
Yesi
Mitch
"Morn
paperb
releas
New
Times
Seller
A
Faith.'
week
he
on
"The
ing ab
the N
lockou
Albom
premi
sandw
ally sy
Detroi

led writer Mitch not hard to argue that Albom is
one of the busiest people in the
om speaks prior country.
Despite these obligations,
to 'U' lecture Albom has found time in his
chaotic schedule to deliver a
By DAVID RIVA guest lecture for the Depart-
Daily Arts Writer ment of Screen Arts and Cul-
tures tonight.
terday morning, writer The lecture, which is open
Albom was on MSNBC's to the public, was prompted by
ing Joe" promoting the a request from SAC Prof. Jim
back Burnstein, who has worked
e of his Mitch Albom closely with Albom in advocat-
York ing the state of Michigan's film
Best Tonightat tax incentives.
"Have 8p.M. Albom's support for the
Little growth of the film industry in
The Angell Hall the area is partially justified by
before, Free the opportunity it offers college
appeared students.
ESPN's "I think (the incentives have)
Sports Reporters" talk- done a lot of good for young peo-
out topics ranging from ple in Michigan - particularly
HL playoffs to the NFL Michigan students and gradu-
t. Later this month, the ates - giving a lot of Michigan
-penned play "Ernie" will kids a reason to stick around
ere onstage. All this is here," Albom said in an inter-
iched between his nation- view with The Michigan Daily.
'ndicated radio show and According to Albom, the best
t Free Press column - it's way to reduce the so-called

"brain drain" is to provide grad-
uates with the option of working
in an industry that people actu-
ally want to work in. This desire,
he said, translates into an unde-
niable enthusiasm that has been
seen on sets in Ann Arbor and
across the state.
A seasoned participant and
observer of the film industry,
Albom has detected a notice-
able difference in the energy
and attitude of movie produc-
tions filmed in Michigan. He
describes them as friendly and
focused on teamwork, with little
emphasis on competition.
"I've been on sets in L.A.
where it's just another day at the
office," Albom explained. "Most
people are sort of aggravated
that traffic is being stopped.
"But here, it's like an event,"
he continued. "All the neigh-
bors come out and watch. I think
that's part of what people who
come here to make movies enjoy.
They like the fact that it's still a
big deal and it's not jaded here in
Michigan as it is in some other
places."

Republican Gov. Rick Snyder's media industries. He explained
proposed budget cuts would how even though his career dic-
greatly reduce the appeal for tates substantial traveling and
out-of-state filmmakers to move involvement in national and
their casts and crews to Michi- international endeavors, Detroit
gan, which lacks the resources serves as a worthy home base.
and infrastructure of larger cit- "I consider it as good a place
ies on the coasts. to live as any place in the world,"
However, film tax incentives he said.
or not, Albom will continue to Aware of the example he's
argue that Michigan is a great setting for future generations of
place to live and that more stu- entertainment and media indus-
dents should stay in the state try professionals both locally
after graduation. and nationally, Albom said he
"I would suggest that you can realizes just how important it
do very good work from here is for him to keep living in the
and you can be proud of help- Detroit area even though most
ing an area that really needs of his peers live elsewhere.
your help," he said. "New York "If I (move), then everybody
doesn't need any young writers, who comes after me is going to
young actors or young filmmak- do the same thing too, and we
ers, and L.A. doesn't need them won't have other creative people
either. living and working here," he
"But Michigan does." said.
A New Jersey native who Regardless of whether or not
has lived in Europe, Pennsylva- people are looking to him as a
nia, Massachusetts, Florida and role model, Albom is pleased to
New York, Albom has contin- remain a Michigan resident for
ued to thrive while living in the life.
Detroit area, specifically work- "I'm proud of living here and
ing in the entertainment and I'm happy to stay," he said.

TV ON THE RADIO
From Page 5
previously ambitious sound is
because the album was written
and recorded in a speedy three
months.
If the unintentional slip into
the safe zone can be mentally put
aside, it's important to know that
TV has embarked on an exten-
sive tour, headlining the day
after the album's release in Radio
City Music Hall. Also, keep your
ears perked for "All Falls Down,"
"Troubles" and stirring remixes
and instrumentals, which will be
available on the deluxe edition
of the album. Maybe these songs
will credit more smiles than their
titles allude to.
CAN'T GET
ENOUGH
DAILY ARTS?
READ MORE
ONLINE AT
MICHIGANDAILY.
COM/SECTION/
ARTS.

Tower Plaza Condominium
CalBriani ms c
"PRIME" PARKING 4 SALE 734-663-1530
Now & 2011-12
primesh.com !!DON'T MISS OUT!!
761-8000 BEST APTS. & LOCATIONS GO-
ING FAST
Prime Student Housing
761-8000
primesh.com

! FOR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY!
Sterling 411 Lofts has limited spaces
left in grad-only apartments for 2011-
12. New building, 2 blocks from cam-
pus, walk to downtown. Rates from
$660, great views, elevators, HDTV,
10-ft ceilings, all utilities at flat rate.
Single bedrooms avail. Ask how you
can receive a $300 Visa gift card.734-
998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
**FOR MAY & FALL 2011 LEASE.
1,2,3 Bdrm apt. on campus.
www.jmsprop.com (734) 222-9033.
2 BEDROOM FURNISHED Apart-
ments available for Fall 2011. Two
doors to CCRB. Great location for
Medical or Dental Students. Includes
Parking, Heat, Water, and Free Inter-
net. Starting at $1,529. Receive
$1,000
off your first month's rent. Call Cam-
pus Mgt. at 734-663-4101

Call today to see your new Home!
Apartments Going Fast!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State-1 Left
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
515 Lawrence-I Left
326 E. Madison - I Left
1000 Oakland-1 Left
520 Packard-I Left
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
1021 Vaughn
721 S. Forest
411 High
*Fully Furnished Apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* Atmost locations)
HUGE 6 BDRM house. 1028 Packard.
Reduced to $2590. hard wood floors.
Incl. cable & pkng on site. Mention this
ad & get $100 off first rent payment!!
Call PMSI 734-665-5552.
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State Idry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735


RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, April 12, 2011


I

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Like many a slick 50 Western dry
1 Poker Flat 1 Lambasted road lakes
chronicler Harte 2 Put to work again 37 Passe 52 How to turn
5 Syrup brand 3 Titillating 38 Lashflash? something into
9 Scatter 4 Singer with the 39 Suffix with cord nothing?
14 Planeopening? Mel-Tones 40 Scalefourths 53 Effect's partner
15 Farsi-speaking 5 Brick baker 41 Fictional Arabic 55 Go by bike
republic 6 George W.'sfirst woodcutter 58 Youngest to
16 Sportsvenue press secretary 45 Wall St. hedger reach 500 HRs
17 Where sea 7Attacked with 46Ares or Mars 59 Auto club offering
meets sand clubs and such 48 Stimulate 60 What mad
19 Like most attics 8 In thefuture 49 Uncle _: Berle people see?
p Mb enar er 9dm nickname 62 Pint contents
2! Op. concenned 10 Liar's andoing
withfluoride 11 Fact-finding ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
safety process T
23 Links elevator? 12 Understanding T A L 0
24 Old Great Lakes between nations T 0 0 0 A B C H M O L A R
natives 13 Method IB ISEN AM E A PR I CE
25 Behind-the- 18ltstretches from C O T E S I P C E N S E
scenesworker MainetoFlorida K O O K I A O L D T U B
28 Christmas mo. 22 Make better,as S T R E E T V AIL U E A P U
29 Water cheddar
temperature 25 Lord's laborer P E R I L D I S C
gauge? 26 Fallingobject's C I T Y S L I C K E R
31lPronvnte directian aBM OC OB OE S
32USPScarrier's 27 _ Spiegel: H I M S T A T E S EC R E T
assignment German O N E C O L TAP A L E
33 Wordsof magazine C U T O F F S S U S A N
sympathy 30 Stumblebum
35 Patatoncuten 33 Raadside rest Z I P 'Y'D U R L I P S H I P
37Lightcontrller- stay s S NORT E U R O MAN
either of itslfirst 34Clairvoyance, A G N E S D R A W A D E N
two words can briefly xwordeditor@aoL.com 04/11/11
precede either
atof 17-, 25-, 1 3 a 4 a a 8 9 10 11 12 13
t-1andit- 111
40 Floraeaters, 7 a1
perhaps
42 Brief and 21 a as
farceful
43 Pi's na. s 23 a7
44Toothedtool
47 Unused 29m 30 31 32
48 Rock guitarist's 33
aid
51 Distractrn 37 s
56 Place for a pint 49 41 42
57 Place for a cup
58Anatomical ring a3 as 44547 43 4 5
59 Steppes native s1 32 3 4
61 Sentry's job
63 Carrying a lot of " s7 "
weight
64 Cold capital? s so1 1 62
65 Largest
continent as364 s
66 Used hip boots
67 Feat aa7ii
68 Winemaking
wast By eroe Gudersn ^04/12/11

19 Locations To Serve You
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
'r entrai ampus 'r nnwntwn
rNorthCampus rWest Side
Let Our Family Take Care of Yours
Pr~naent Se-C-Imra¢ Fnbie
wwwa mbommapaweIsumefl
LEASING OPEN HOUSE
Saturday April 16, 2011 - l1am - 3pm
See any avail. property in our portfolio
All app. fees waived - Special incen-
tives offered. Check out
PMSproperties.com and call for more
details 734-665-5552
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2300
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Burns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT,INC.in-
ites you to visit www.CampusMgL-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
lag Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
FREE SUBLET APT FINDER!!!
Studio - 4 Bdrms. Call for a complete
list 734-274-6118 or visit
annarborapartments.net
FIVE BDRM DUPLEX. 1001 State
St. Available Sept. Reduced to $2390.
Incl. cable, pkng, Indry on site. Men-
tion this ad & get $100 off first rent
payment!! Call PMSI 734-665-5552.
GREAT CAMPUS APTS.!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff, Bi-level I and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815StateManagers@mich.ed
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
wwwv r itymonoementcom
625 ChurchSt.(734) 68-1100
One bedrooms
543 Church
911 S. Forest
917 Packard
Two bedrooms
1015 W. Huron
917 Packkrd
four bedrom house
305 Packard
Best Locations in town
Apartments are renting fasi Call Varsity
to schedule your tour today

Quit neighborhood
next to Huron River.
1 and 2 bedroom
opts for fall,
U of M discount,
walk/bike to
hospital and
North Campus
Now leasing for fall
734-663-8541
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet com
4 BDRM HOUSE as close tothe
Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cear Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
NEAR CENTRAL CAMPUS & B-
School, Pool. 1115 White St. 2 person
apt, furn, good beds, heat & water incl.
A/C, wshr/dryer, prkg, 12 mo. lease
Sept-Aug. $1060. Call 734-663-1639.
NEWER 6-BDRM furn. Units &
Rooms for Fall 11. Flex-Leases sublets
for May 11 -Aug 11. 734-418-2050 or
www.828greeneapts.com
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail Spring & Fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
734-274-6118
www.annarborapartments.net

WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

ATTENTION U OF M Students
HOLDAY HELP
1-5 week work program, flex sched,
$16,25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice,
no exp necessary, all ages 17+,
Apply now, start after finals!
734-975-7299
ATTRACTIVE FEMALES FOR
semi-nude, Victoria's S type lingerie
catalog photography. Flex hrs,
$40+/HR. Must be 18. For interviews
call: 734-678-4181 or email photos to
georgedl@provide.net
COLLEGE PRO IS now hiring
painters all across the state to work out-
doors with other students. Earn
$3k-$5k. Advancement opportunities.
1-888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
Get Marketing Exp & Free Tickets!
Be a Mich Theater StudentAmbassador!
MTSA@michtheater.org for more
details
MICHIGAN
STUDENTS
Good Pay, flexible schedules,
Customer sales/service, conditions
apply,
all ages 17+ call 734-975-7299
ONE YEAR LEGAL INTERNSHIP
position available at Birmingham
Michigan law firm. Perfect for highly
motivated graduating senior. Email
resume/cover letter/transript to
tss225@aol.com for consideration.
OPPORTUNITY UNLIMITED
FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS
Summer work available.
Internships and scholarships.
Variable work experience.
Up to $2000 per month.
Enjoyable atmosphere.
Flexible schedules.
Increase your people skills.
Increase your resume value.
Team atmosphere.
Flexible start dates.
INTERVIEWING NOW.
Call 734-389-0909
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now- $9.25/hour atMichigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu
SENIOR ADMINISTRATOR
non-technical, part-/full-time.
Tiny, highly successful biotech
company near campus. Send CV to
admin@eyelabgroup.com
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC justice
jobs. Turn your passion into action.
Working America Community Affiliate
of the AFLCIO is seeking motivated,
passionnate ppl w/ strong comm. skills
to educate voters to elect progressive
candidates who will fight for working
families. Hiringiimmed.F/TMon-Fri 1:-
30pm - 10:30 pm. Prev. candidates w/
fundraising exp. a plus. Paid training
and valuable campaign exp. $11.22/hr.
Please contact 734-222-6496 or
Annarbor@workingamerica.org. 210
Collingwood Dr. Suite 200 AA, MI
48 103
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.

BABYSITTER: DRIVING/AFTER-
SCHOOL supervision for two 15 year
olds. Part time May June, full time July
August. Must be non-smoker with car,
excellent drivingrecord, and references
rglick@umich.edu or 734-747-8949.
LOCAL COUPLE LOOKING for
student to nrovnide regular childcarnn

0
0

SPACIOUS RM. IN 2 bdrm. apt. at
1001 S. Forest. Personal prkg space
avail. Fully furnished. Apt. avail. May
1lst $550/mo. Please contact Elaina Sc-
mos 734-552-2175, esemos@umich.edu
SUBLET AT VARSITY
Studios, J, 2, 3, & 4 bdrms available
May 1st! Call Varsity for a complete
tenant list.
(734)668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
SUBLET AVAIL MAY-Aug.l bdrm.
apt., Forest Plaza. furnished, utilities
included $600/month. 810-385-8802.

THE LIFE OF Vada Murray was
wholeheartedly devoted to sharing his
many gifts with all those who knew
him, especially those he loved and ad-
mired. He was a loving husband, a
tremendously supportive father, a de-
voted friend, and a contagiously enthu-
siastic U of M fan. Perhaps best known
as a passionate and committed police
officer, Vada dedicated his career to
the pursuit of honor and justice. Above
all, he was a kind hearted and gentle
man who was committed to doing his
best at all times. Those who had the
good fortune to have crossed his path .
remember Vada as a man of great in-
tegrity with a kind and generous soul
and a genuine interest in helping peo-
ple reach their full potential. Vada was
a defensive back for the University of
Michigan football team from 1986 to
1990 and was deeply influenced by the
coaching of Bo Schembechler. Vada
played for the Wolverines in the Rose
Bowl in 1987, 1989 and 1990, and
from there took the many lessons from
his years on the field to his life and the
career off the field. Vada is survived by
his loving wife Sarah; daughters
Kendall and Harper and son Dec; his
mother Donna and husband Wiley
Akins of Cincinnati; his father Ed Mur-
ray of Cincinnati; his sisters Yvette
Murray and Tracy Murray of Cincin-
nati; and many beloved nieces and
nephews.
A memorial service honoring Vada's
life will be held on Thursday, April 14
at 11 a.m. at Cliff Keen Arena on the U
of M campus. Burial for police and
family only will follow.

I

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM

In lieu of flowers, donations ca
made to Bank of Ann Arbor, 1

My credentials: FifthAve, Ann Arbor, MI48104 o
-perfect 180 on LSAT half of Vada Murray. Vada
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA) strongly thatmore research was n
- licensed attorney for non-smokers diagnosed with
- 18 years of teaching experience cancer. Proceeds from the Bank o
- hundreds of delighted students Arbor account will be used to m,
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com Y M E NT donation to cancer research in thi;
cific area.
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
org ization, format 25 yrs. U-M exp.i -
996-0566 or wrileon@iaerv.net

in be
25 S.
on be-
felt
eeded
lung
fAnn
ake a
is spe-

0

(c)2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

u4/1"i ,

1

L



I:


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, April 12, 2011 - 7

- Borges won't name starting back soon

By TIM ROHAN ning style his offense covets
Daily Sports Editor last Tuesday. "As you ask that
question, I'm trying to put some
A year ago, Michigan running of our better runs in my mind
backs coach Fred Jackson boast- together. Cox has done it. Shaw
ed about how he couldn't tell his came back the other day, he did
backs apart. it. Stephen Hopkins is just that
They were interchangeable in kind of runner, period."
the offense and that's the way Then there's Fitz Toussaint,
he liked it - for Rich Rodri- who was rarely healthy enough
guez's offense it didn't matter, to see the field last season, but
the running back wasn't in the whom Jackson has also com-
spotlight. pared to former Michigan
Now that Rodriguez is gone, running back Mike Hart. And
that's a big problem - new don't forget Vincent Smith - a
Michigan football coach Brady 5-foot-6, 180-pound tailback
Hoke and offensive coordina- with quickness tailor-made for a
tor Al Borges are searching for spread offense.
a horse to which they can hitch The same guys were inthe mix
their wagon. And since Hoke's last year. No one overwhelmed
hiring, Jackson has repeatedly Rodriguez, though Smith and
mentioned how excited he is Shaw were almost exclusively
that the running back would Denard Robinson's wingmen in
be a factor in the offense once the backfield in 2010. In the new
again. offense, it's anyone's job to win
The physicality Hoke wants once again.
isn't lost on the running backs. "To say we have a frontline
It's the position that might back, a guy we're saying, 'This
epitomize the transition from guy's the guy' - we've had
Rodriguez to Hoke this fall. flashes of excellence from all of
During practice on April 5, them and that's not a decision
coaches yelled at each runner we have to make today," Borges
during the individual drills to said. "But I like those kids."
finish his run even after he was Smith led all of the backs with
down on the play. Each one had 601 rushing yards last season,
to continue on a sprint up the but his numbers were dwarfed
field after the play had ended. by Robinson's 1,700 yards on the
Their job description has ground. Borges' goal is to keep
been defined and expanded. But Robinson in games though and
who will get the carries? avoid injury by reducing the 256
"At one time or another, every times the quarterback carried
* back (has shown flashes)," the ball last season. That was
Borges said of the downhill run- 120 more carries than Smith,

who was the second-most used
runner, got in the ground game.
Of the running backs Borges
mentioned, Smith was the only
one who really inspired more
than a few words. Borges called
Smith a "true football player,"
adding that, despite his size,
Smith could be an effective
runner in the power offense,
and that Smith is highly coach-
able. Hoke called him a "tough
little guy," during the Michigan
coach's radio show on Monday.
Last year, there were times
Smith had to lead block for Rob-
inson on running plays. And
Borges has noted the Pahokee,
Fla. native's willingness to do
the dirty work.
"Vince is going to be involved
in any way you ask him to be
involved," Borges said. "If you
want him to run, he's broken a
long run in scrimmage before.
He has that to him. He has some
speed. He has some quickness.
"But what Vince (has) - he
has good football awareness.
I don't know how to explain it
sometimes - we coaches call
it football IQ. Vince has a good
football IQ. You tell him some-
thing and he understands what
you're talking about and he can
do it."
Though Borges spoke highly
of Smith, the offensive coor-
dinator said he won't name a
starter this spring.
Borges almost took offense to
the question of who would start,
saying it was too early, just eight

Junior running back Vincent Smith ran for 601 yards on 136 carries last season, leading all running backs.

practices in, to declare a leader.
After all 15 practices are com-
pleted with the Spring Game on
April 16, he will sit down each
back and go through their indi-
vidual evaluations.
They've all had their own
flashes. And the competition is

simple, really.
Impress Borges enough, and
the job is yours.
"He has to do more flashes,"
Borges said of what someone
must do to earn the starting gig.
"And be complete -block in pro-
tection, run the football (and)

be consistent. I think that's the
deal, the guy who demonstrates
the most consistency is going to
play the most."
Added Hoke: "At the end of
the day, we'd like to settle on
who that lead back will be. And
we're not at ihat point yet."

Michigan's big bats could carry
it past in-state rivals this week

By EMILY BONCHI
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 4 Michigan softball
team is coming off an impres-
sive weekend, having forced
the mercy rule twice in a pair
of blowouts
against Pur- Westem
due.
Now, Michi- MiChigan at
gan will take a Michigan
break from Big Matchup:
Ten competi- WMU 10-23;
tion and host Michigan 35-3
two in-state
rivals - West- When: Tues-
e Mihgn day 6 P.M.
ern Michigan
on Tuesday Where:
and Central Alumni Field
Michigan on
Wednesday.
Though the games won't
count toward the Wolverines'
conference record, Michigan
coach Carol Hutchins wants her
team to use its weekend surge as
fuel, while still taking the con-
tests one game at a time.
"We talk about putting every-
thing behind you because yes-
terday doesn't have anything to
do with today," Hutchins said
Sunday.
Michigan (5-1 Big Ten, 35-3
overall) has had a solid defense
this season as a whole, but the
recent resurgence in the batter's
box is what the Wolverines will

need in order to stay ahead of
their competition.
Junior third baseman Aman-
da Chidester ledthe way last
weekend with a grand slam to
earn this week's Big Ten Co-
Player of the Week accolades.
"It's the same approach every
time," Chidester said. "We just
have to see the ball, hit the ball,
have fun. It's all about our ener-
gy. When we have good energy
out on the field and in the dug-
out, it carries out to our hitting."
Sophomore second base-
man Ashley Lane and senior
first baseman Dorian Shaw also
made strides last weekend that
the team can put to use. Lane
knocked out her 13th home run
of the season. She leads the
Wolverines with 14 multi-RBI
games. Shaw snapped a seven-
game slump by earning her first
RBI since the end of March.
But games always seem more
intense when the competition is
local.
The Broncos (4-4 MAC, 10-23
overall) had a rough start to
their season after a 17-0 loss to
No. 3 Arizona State - the same
team Michigan edged 1-0 on
March 17. Western Michigan
enters Tuesday's matchup com-
ing off an extra-inning loss to
Buffalo to tally its fifth loss in
April alone.
The Chippewas (5-3, 20-12)

will pose a greater challenge for
the Wolverines on Wednesday.
Central Michigan is on a six-
game winning streak, having
taken each game by eight runs
or more.
.J th games.will hedecided at
the plate.
"It's all about confidence,"
Chidester said of Michigan's hit-
ting success. "So we can't look at
anything different. We just have
to go out there the same way
every time."
The Wolverine lineup cur-
rently includes six players with
batting averages of.300 or high-
er. Though the Broncos have just
two players batting over .300,
the Chippewas' lineup includes
six starters who hit over .300,
and four more players who've
chipped their way into that
bracket as well.
If Michigan doesn't stay con-
sistent at the plate as it did last
weekend and earlier in the sea-
son, it could very well havea loss
on its hands.
But Hutchins is confident that
if Michigan stays on its toes and
takes its in-state foes seriously,
the success will come.
"The season is a journey and
it's a long journey and you have
to stay even-keeled," Hutchins
said. "So I think we'll do a nice
job and stay within ourselves
and keep working."

Redshirt junior Garrett Stephens's solo home run gave Michigan a lead over Purdue in the 10th inning on Sunday.
Wolverines look to start
turnaround against

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Writer
Each time the Michigan base-
ball team earned a big win this
season, itfailedto followitupwith
a winning streak. The Wolverines'
inability to get
into a 'rhythm Bowling
this year can
be attributed Gn at
to these losses Michigan
that followed Matchup:
what otherwise Bowling Green
could have been 11-16; Michi-
momentum- gan 8-21
changingwins. When: Tues-
But Michigan day 6:05 P.M.
hopes to change
its luck this here Stadum
week when it
hosts two Mid-
American Conference opponents:
Bowling Green and Toledo.
The Wolverines (2-4 Big Ten,
8-21 overall) are coming off a 6-5
come-from-behind victory over
Purdue on Sunday. The Boiler-
makers led 5-1 for the majority of
the game, but Michigan scored
four runs in the eighth inning
before grabbing the lead in the
10th with redshirt junior Gar-
rett Stephens's solo home run.
Freshman Alex Lakatos staved
off Purdue's rally to lock down
Michigan's first win in more than
a week.
Michigan coach Rich Maloney
will look to carry the momentum
from the game into Ray Fisher
Stadium.
"We're feeling a lot better about

ourselves," Maloney said after
Sunday's win. "If we would have
lost those three games, that would
have been really hard. But what
an opportunity. We've got to get
some momentum. We've never
had any the whole year, and it sure
would be nice to win a couple ball-
games."
On Tuesday, Michigan will be
squaring off against the Falcons
(5-4 MAC, 11-16 overall), who
have lost six of their last eight
games. They are led by shortstop
Jon Berti, who is hitting .385 this
season with 11 stolen bases, and
catcher Ryan Schlater, whose four
home runs nearly rival the num-
ber of home runs the entire Michi-
gan team has.
Meanwhile, Toledo (7-2, 16-15)
is riding a nine-game winning
streak and leads the MAC West-
ern Division. The Rockets' top hit-
ter is center fielder Ben Hammer,
who is hitting .360 with 13 RBI.
Maloney said sophomore Ben
Ballantine will likely start on
Tuesday, but will not throw many
innings because he will be needed
for the weekend series. Freshman
Jake Engels is expected to take
the mound on Wednesday.
"Anytime you can knock off
Michigan, it's huge for MAC
teams," said Maloney, who
coached Ball State for seven sea-
sons. "They're going to come in
here and they're going to have
a good chance of beating us and
we're going to have to play well to
win."c
Michigan will be looking to

increase its production at the
plate. The Wolverines crossed
the five-run threshold for the first
time in nearly a month on Sunday.
Sophomore center fielder Patrick
Biondi had the big bat in West
Lafayette, going 7-for-13 in the
series with five stolen bases.
Biondi said he is starting to feel
more comfortable at the plate.
Lakatos, who was recently
moved into the lineup for his
offense, had recorded a hit in six
straight games before Sunday.
"I'm hopeful that our bats will
carryintothis week andhopefully
find a way to win and get some
more confidence," Maloney said.
Though the two wins would
have negligible significance since
they are not conference games,
they could make all the difference
in jump-starting Michigan's per-
formance in the Big Ten season.
Michigan is in a group of four
teams who are 2-4 and a game out
of the sixth spot - the final quali-
fying seed for the Big Ten Tourna-
ment.
And in the next three week-
ends, the Wolverines will be
squaring off against Illinois, Iowa
and Ohio State, who are all within
a game of Michigan.
"That nine-game stretch has a
good chance of determining the
fate of our season," Maloney said.
"Hopefully, we'll play better
this week and carry it over to the
conference series with Illinois.
Hopefully, we keep ourselves in
the middle of the pack so we have
a chance to make a playoff push."

Senior first baseman Dorian Shaw recorded her first RBI since March during last weekend's series.


8 - Tuesday, April 12, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 01

8 - Tuesday, April 12, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom ~

w

Not all goals created equal:
ly iks Yan 'Magic' hits 200 with game winner0

Some goals win games
When Michigan senior Alison
Mantel held the ball with less
than two minutes remaining in
the fourth quarter against Princ-
eton earlier this month, the Wol-
verineswere tied with the Tigers,
10-10.
It wasn't an optimistic tie.
Michigan had blown a 6-2 first-
quarter lead and barely man-
aged to recover from a two-point
deficit. The team had scored just
three goals in the last two-and-a-
half quarters.
Mantel quickly scanned the
pool. The Wolverines were on
the counterattack, and she saw
that her teammates had stayed
true to their lanes. All the Tiger
defenders were occupied, trying
to account for the players clos-
est to the cage, which meant one
thing: she was open.
Mantel took the shot.
Within milliseconds, the ball
struck the back corner of the
cage with a thwock. Point, Michi-
gan. The senior's only goal of
the game would be all the team
needed. While concentrating on
defense and bleeding time off the
clock in the remaining seconds,
the Wolverines would go on to
score once more..
But that goal, as they say, was
only insurance.
Some goals tewrite
the record book
The moment the ball left Man-
tel's hand, it was on its way to
making her just the third player
in Michigan history reach 200
goals in her career, puttingher on
an elite plateau with Shana Welch
and Julie Hyrne. But that wasn't
all. With her 200th goal, Mantel

breached even more exclusive
territory - the 100-200-300
assists-goals-points club.
Current membership: Mantel
and Hyrne.
"I would expect Alison to defi-
nitely be a member of that group,"
Michigan coach Matt Anderson
said several weeks ago when
asked about the record. "She's a
complete offensive player. That
shows how well-rounded you are,
to hit that category in assists and
goals. It's quite an accomplish-
ment."
Career numbers like Mantel's
are different from single-game
records or even single-season
records.
Those are easier to come by,
and the names change every
other season. Anyone can have a
stand-out game. Given the right
role and the right supporting
cast, anyone can have a stand-out
season, too.
But to perform at such a high
level consistently for four years
in a row is another story. In each
of the past three seasons, Man-
tel has broken the top three in
almost every offensive category.
That kind of accomplishment
requires a special kind of athlete.
"I think that a good portion of
(Mantel's) shooting, probably 75
percent, is natural talent, mean-
ing she obviously has a strong
arm and has the flexibility to be
a good shooter," Anderson said.
"Everything else - her mental
composure, her finishing and her
variety of shots - she's worked
for that."
Anderson added that it's not
just effort, either. It's also atti-
tude.
"During practice, when every-
body else is just going through
the motions and warmingup, Ali-

son is working like it's a game,"
Anderson said. "She takes a shot
in practice and she analyzes it
as if it were a sudden death shot
against Indiana.
"A lot of people have talent.
There are people out there more
talented than Alison, but there's
not one person that is more of a
studious worker than she is, and
that's why she's on her way to
being a three-time All-Ameri-
can."
It's also why "Magic," the
nickname Mantel got from assis-
tant coach Katie Card during her
freshman year, is somewhat of a
misnomer.
There's no trick behind all her
success. She earns it the old-fash-
ioned way.
Some goals redeem
struggling players
It's hard to picture the soft-
spoken Mantel, who fidgets shyly
and brushes her bangs out of her
eyes when she talks, without her
characteristic demure smile.
But when Mantel entered the
Princeton game during the sec-
ond half, she was pissed off.
The first half of the game
hadn't gone well for Mantel.
She had missed shots and made
mistakes only an inexperienced
freshman would make - mis-
takes unbefitting of the team's
senior offensive star. She played
so poorly she was pulled from the
game in the second quarter.
Anderson didn't mince words
on deck.
"Matt said some things to
me that kind of got me angry,"
Mantel recalled. "(He said) what
coaches need to say to players to
get them refocused."
Anderson's words hit home.

Driven by a renewed intensity,
Mantel was able to contribute
at her usual high level. With the
help of sophomore Kiki Golden,
she propelled the team back into
the lead.
If there had been a visible
change in the way Mantel played,
however, you probably wouldn't
have spotted it. A quiet player
who Anderson describes as an
implicit leader, Mantel often goes
unnoticed until she scores.
"Alison is not one to draw
attention to herself," Anderson
said. "It goes back to her mental
fortitude. She's not one to lose
focus. She's listening intently to
make sure she hears everything
correctly. She's thinking intent-
ly to see what the next option
should be if what she wants to do
is stopped.
"That's why she's as complete
a player as I'll ever have, because
she's always thinking and always
listening to try and find what the
next thing should be."
Some goals are
cosmically preordained
Sunday was Princeton's Senior
Night, and a large crowd stood
beneath the orange rafters at
Denunzio Pool to cheer on the
Tigers' seniors.
This was a class that had accu-
mulated two 20-win seasons in
2008 and 2010 and was lookingto
repeat as conference champions
in the CWPA Southern Division.
Princeton had crushed Buck-
nell on Saturday, and the team's
emotions ran high as the players
sought to pay tribute to their six
seniors by upsetting the seventh-
ranked Wolverines.
What the Tigers probably
didn't know was that the player

0

Senior Alison Mantel holds she program record for assists at144.

who obliterated their hopes with
her fourth-quarter goal was close
- really close - to being their
seventh senior.
"Alison and Italked about that
last week, about in eight grade,
when I first saw her at a camp,
she was wearing a Princeton
sweatshirt," Anderson recalled.
"I told her then, 'You're not going
to Princeton, so you might want
to get rid of that sweatshirt.'
"It is ironic that her 200th
goal was against the school that
she was mistakenly brainwashed
into wanting to go to when she
was in eighth grade."
Had Anderson not been pres-
ent at the camp, Mantel may have
ended up a Tiger. Or a Stanford
Cardinal.Either way,shecertainly
would not have been a Wolverine.

"I had been to camp at Princ-
eton and Stanford," Mantel said.
"I had never heard of Michigan
water polo before, so (Anderson)
being at the camp was my first
introduction to Michigan."
But some things are just meant
to be. The Florida native even-
tually learned more about Ann
Arbor and fell in love with the
school and the team. She became
the star of a group of seniors that
has never lost to archrival Indi-
ana and is set to become the win-
ningest class in the winningest
water polo program.
And after going scoreless for
three quarters, she scored her
200th goal to secure a comeback
win against the school she nearly
attended.
Some goals are magic.


Make a fast brek
How do your favorites rank? Shore your picks among friends an
and quality service from AT&T. Never miss a roment, white you
HTC inspire"" 4G
* 4G speeds'
* Android OS wifh Mobile Hotspot support
* 8 MP camera with 720p HD Video Recording
* Phone finder - locate lost phone and lock or wipe data from
the device remotely
S4.3" WVGA super LCD display

0

d colleagues with the new HTC device
talk and surf the Web at the same time.

Visit our web page to get your
discount. Download the FREE AT&T
Code Scanner at http://scan.mobi
or appropriate handset app store.

Get into the svings
University of Michigan Studonts sye tody
FAN Code 2899228
For a store near you visit: attcom/storolocato
or go to att.com/wireless/umich
40 speeds delivered by HSPA+ei th rinhned bvckhud A
network Mobile br1odbnd not nevn1b ( in ",liures.

RethinkPossible
. AvodbiSty inrs. sing wnhongoing o buI ioulymenL Requires 4G device. Learn more at :0 oif/

.r 41,A'A -1.i.ti ti tt.4 t d; t,.xt. {,1I, tltr° L Y, !.3!: . ,J 4. ;".":; y, ,t. pt..:e t.- 111,
.;.xllf v" riC[:;"4fI fi'. i.3-t,7i {.- t'txSi Yt>l.lF F43 {.Yi ii rY .t::. 4.. Z.{7:97. 1"t. -f"d tTFt ) - h+f 'f't}"
Y, 41 4 £14.. t4 £ 01 t5f df F, dtt*U {.tits r cS. }N 1..


