nCOMPLETE CONTROL TOO MUCH SKIN?
H After a weekend sweep, Blue hasn't lost MTVs remake of British 'Skins'
a game in regulation since playing boasts good acting b gets riqu
Minnesota over Thanksgiving break. for American audiences.
INSIDE PAGE 7A

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, January 24, 2011

michigandaily.com

SMOKE-FREE INITIATIVE
'U' officials
outline plans
to carry out
smoking ban

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Balloons direct passersby to the Fish Parade, which took place Saturday, Jan. 22, 2011 on South State Street. The parade has been an annual tradition that has
occurred in Ann Arbor since 1930.
UNIVERSITY FACULTY
Provost proposes to lengthen
faculty tenure period to 10 yrs.

Smoking to be
permitted on campus
sidewalks adjacent to
public roads ,
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily News Editor
Once the campus-wide smok-
ing ban goes into effect this July,
smoking on University property
will only be allowed on sidewalks
that are adjacent to public roads,
according to the Smoke-Free Uni-
versity Initiative Report released
today.
The report, prepared by the
Smoke-Free University Steer-
ing Committee, establishes how
the Smoke-Free Initiative will
be implemented across the Uni-
versity, including the campuses
in Dearborn and in Flint. The
Smoke-Free Initiative is Univer-
sity President Mary Sue Cole-
man's push to eliminate smoking
from the University's three cam-
puses starting July 1.
In Ann Arbor, the rule permit-
ting smoking only on sidewalks
next to public roads will be uni-
form across Central Campus,

North Campus and the Athletic
Campus on roads owned by the
University that the public travels
on, according to Robert Winfield,
the University's chief health offi-
cer and director of University
Health Services and co-chair of
the Smoke-Free University Steer-
ingCommittee.
"On Central Campus, that was
a pretty easy decision because
those sidewalks are joint jurisdic-
tion with the city, and we actually
don't have any right to prevent
smoking alongthe sidewalk along
a public thoroughfare," Winfield
said in an interview last week.
"On North Campus, all of those
thoroughfares are University
owned, and we decided for the
sake of consistency and respect
we would continue to allow
people to smoke along those
sidewalks adjacent to publicthor-
oughfares."
Smoking will be prohibited
on all other University owned
sidewalks besides those adjacent
to public roads - including, but
not limited to, sidewalks border-
ing driveways, loading docks and
parking lots or structures, Win-
field said.
"Basically, we're going to have
See SMOKING, Page SA

Hanlon mulls
extending maximum
tenure timeline
ByKYLE SWANSON
ManagingEditor
University Provost Philip
Hanlon will discuss a change to
restrictions on the University's
tenure process when he address-
es the University's leading fac-
ulty governance body later this
afternoon.

Inan exclusive interview with
the Michigan Daily on Friday,
Hanlon said he is evaluating a
potential change to bylaw 5.09
- a University Board of Regents
policy that governs the tenure
track process for faculty mem-
bers. If Hanlon decides to move
forward with the change he is
considering, faculty members
could stay on tenure track for a
longer period of time.
The bylaw, originally imple-
mented in 1944, currently allows
schools and colleges at the Uni-
versity to set their own time-

tables for tenure track faculty.
However, no school is allowed to
exceed seven years of probation
and a one-year terminal period
for faculty who don't receive ten-
ure.
"The limit that made sense
in 1944 makes less sense today,"
Hanlon said.
Hanlon's change - originally
proposed several years ago by an
advisory board that reports to
the provost - would extend the
maximum probationary period
a school or college can offer a
tenure track faculty member by

two years. This would result in a
maximum nine-year probation-
ary period and a one-year termi-
nal period.
But Hanlon stressed that the
change wouldn't mean a school
or college would be forced to
change their probationary peri-
od, only thatthey would have the
option to do so.
"This doesn't actually require
anybody to change anything, but
it enables the governing faculty
within each school and college to
go to a longer tenure clock if they
See TENURE, Page 5A

UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS
With Common App, 'U'
receives more applications

Provost: More
deferrals issued to
applicants this year
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
This past fall marks the Uni-
versity's first application cycle
using the Common Application
- a change that has resulted in
more high school seniors apply-

ing to the University and more
disappointments as acceptance
letters arrive inthe mail.
High school seniors applying
to college say they were more
encouraged to apply to the Uni-
versity of Michigan because of
the University's new use of the
Common Application. Conse-
quentially, according to Univer-
sity Provost Philip Hanlon, more
applicants are being deferred
because of a 20-percent rise in
application numbers this cycle.

In an interview earlier this
month, Hanlon said application
numbers have increased signifi-
cantly from out-of-state students.
However, he said even though
the University experienced an
increase in applicants, it doesn't
necessarily mean more students
will choose to enroll.
"(This year's extra applicants)
aren't, perhaps, as committed to
(the University)," Hanlon said.
"You always expect that when an
See COMMON APP, Page 5A

MICHIGAN STUDENT ASSEMBLY
Report reveals more anti-gay
attacks by Andrew Shirvell

TtERRA MOLENGIRAFF/Daily
Students work together to form businesses at MPowered's Startup Weekend that took place Jan.21 to Jan. 23, 2011.
In 54 hours, 'U' students, Ann Arbor
residents create 54 new businesses

Former assistant
AG made remarks
to ex-state rep.
By ANT MITCHELL
Daily Staff Reporter
A report produced by the
Michigan Attorney General's
office examining former Assis-
tant Attorney General Andrew

Shirvell's behavior last year
shed light on Shirvell's verbal
assaults on Michigan Student
Assembly President Chris Arm-
strong and a former state repre-
sentative.
The report, obtained last
night by The Michigan Daily
from Armstrong's attorney
Deborah Gordon, revealed that
Shirvell had targeted a former
state representative months
before he began verbally harass-

[_= See the report on
MichiganDailycom
ing Armstrong.
At 11:57 a.m. on Feb. 3, 2010,
Shirvell e-mailed former state
Rep. Leon Drolet (R-Clinton
Township) from a state-owned
computer before Drolet was
scheduled to lead a protest at the
State Capitol Building. Accord-
ing to the report Shirvell made
See SHIRVELL, Page SA

MPowered hosts
Startup Weekend to
form new companies
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
For the Daily
While some entrepreneurs
spend a lifetime creating a busi-
ness, Startup Weekend partici-
pants are doing it in just three
days.
This past weekend the Uni-
versity hosted Startup Weekend,

an event that unites students
and community members to cre-
ate a business together in just 54
hours. More than 125 members
of the University, the Ann Arbor
community and people from
around the United States par-
ticipated in the event to network
and pitch ideas.
The program, hosted by the
student entrepreneurial group
MPowered, began on Friday
night when a total of 54 pitches
were presented to the group. Of
those, 10 were voted on as the
top ideas tobe presented on Sun-

day evening. University students
presented five of the final 10
pitches to a panel of judges.
At the event's culmination
last night, Lrn2Txt- an Android
application that has kids answer
homework questionsbeforethey
can continue texting-won first
place and $500. Food Circles- a
mobile application to help indi-
viduals find friends with similar
tastes in food- and Fun Bun- a
Facebook game that provides
nutritional information- won
second and third places, earning
See STARTUP, Page 6A


WEATHE"R HI: 30
TOMORROW .'.LO: 21

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Beilein talks Crisler renovations
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX AP NEWS...............3A CLASSIFIEDS.........h....6A
VolCXXI,No. 78 OPINION.... ...4A ARTS.............7A
0201 TheMichigan Daily NEWS ... .. A SPORTSMONDAY....... .B
wichigondailycom A P R S O D Y....,1


2A - Monday, January 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG BRAD WILEY
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
ateinberg@michigandailycom sndbuainess@gmail.com

University of Conneticut cancels party weekend

The University of Connecticut is
canceling its usual pre-exam party
weekend in April in response to a trag-
edy chat occurred last year, accord-
ing to a Jan. 21 article in The Boston
Globe.
During last year's partying, called
Spring Weekend, 84 people were
arrested and one student died, accord-
ing to the article. Jafar Karzoun, a
junior at the university at the time,
was punched by a non-student and
died one week later.
Spring Weekend began in the 1960s
and has been carried on each year as a
series of parties at off-campus apart-
ments and a school parking lot. About
15S000 people have gathered for the
events in recentcyears, according to the
article.
As a result of last year's events,


the University formed a task force
to explore the university's options
regarding Spring Weekend. The task
force found that university-sponsored
events - meant to encourage activi-
ties besides off-campus partying -
didn't curb such behavior, according
to The Boston Globe.
Additionally, because most of the
people arrested last year weren't stu-
dents affiliated with the University of
Connecticut, visitors will not be per-
mitted in the dorms that weekend, the
article states. University of Connecti-
cut President Philip Austin consented
the new protocol designed by the task
force, accordingcto the Boston Globe.
The task force is also calling on
students this year to ban off-campus
parties during Spring Weekend to pay
respect to Karzoun, the article states.


EMORY ACKNOWLEDGES
PRIOR INVOLVEMENT
WITH SLAVERY
Emory University's Board of Trust-
ees has adopted a resolution acknowl-
edging the university's involvement
with slavery during the 19th century,
according to a Jan. 20 article in the
Emory Wheel article.
According to the Emory Wheel,
the resolution states that Emory
"regrets both this undeniable wrong
and the University's decades of delay
in acknowledging slavery's harmful
legacy."
In addition to the university's
upcoming 175th anniversary, the
Wheel reported that another reason
Emory's trustees decided to pass the
resolution is because Emory is hosting
a national conference on the history of

slavery in early February.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Police bust Skateboarders North Campus Health lectur(
party, give MIP stopped in lot bingo game WHAT: Rsac coa
Michael Gusmano will gi,
WHERE: Baits I Eesidence WHERE: Eackham Gradu- WHAT: A fast-paced game a lecture about different
Hall ate School of Bingo will be offered as global health care system
WHEN: Friday at about 9 WHEN: Friday at 3:15 a.m. a way to relax and take a WHO: Center for Ethicsi
p.M. WHAT: Three individuals break from studying. Public Life
WHAT: Staff reported that not affiliated with the Uni- WHO: University Unions WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
several students were con- versity were caught skate- Arts & Programs WHERE: North Quad E
suming alcohol, University boarding in a parking lot, WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. dence Mall
Police reported. one stu- University Police reported. WHERE: Pierpont Coin-
dent was issued an MIF. They were issued a verbal moosm777

U. OF COLORADO STUDENT
PAYS TUITION IN $1 BILLS
Increasing tuition rates motivated
University of Colorado sophomore
Nic Eamos to pay his spring semester
tuition, totaling more than $14,300, in
mostly $1 bills, according to a Jan. 15
article in The New York Times.
"...it's just an absurd amount of
money,' Eamos told The New York
Times. "I wanted to give the school a
different way to look at tuition."
In order to acquire what turned
out to be a 33-pound bag full of cash,
Eamos had to travel to several differ-
ent banks over a span of two days, the
article states.
- MARYHANNAHAN
AND JOSEPHLICHTERMAN
.3 3
V erizon appealed to the
kr Federal Communications
ye I Commission on Thursday
to challenge the FCC's
L5. recent ruling regarding net
in neutrality rules, CNN report-
ed. These regulations would
es- allow the FCC to regulate
Internet service providers.
al With its two wins over
2Alaska this weekend,
__the Michigan ice hock-
ey team has won nine of its
-ney past 10 games.
will >> FOR MORE,.SEE SPORTSMONDAY,.IB
gy
m 3 U.S. Senators are seek-
)m ing to restructure the
process of approving
presidential nominations for
a variety of posts, The Huff-
ington Post reported. Senior
ranking Senators from both
parties are hoping to stream-
line the process.

corecioons@micigandaily.como rnooi~k~geol~
Arts Section EioilPg
e'porte@michigosdoity.con m r~kigoal.o
Display SalestasileSls
display@michigandaily.com t~ie~hhgeol~o
Onine SalesFiac
onieaeds@micigandaily.com ioo~iheoot~o

730-10-415 o. ewso@mihigandaily.omo
CorretinsLetters to the Editor
o-rokhgoodily:oo opinion@michigandaily.omo
Spors Setion Photography Sectin

EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor swanson@nichigandaily.con
Nitole Aber sManaging NewstEditre aber@nichigandaily.con
SEOR NEsWS EDIORS:Bethany io, ylan Cis nti,lnHson,Josph Lichterman,
Deon Thorsby
ASSISTAN EWS50E 00IT Ob cel Brusstar, CaieGoscicki, Suzanne JScobs, Oiks
Mera,Michele5sNov, BienePrsk, Kitin Wiliass
MithellelDenitt and opinioneditor~michigandaily.como
Enily Orley Editorial rage Editor
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EITOS:Aid Ai, Aseyiebs,,n,,,Onsrsadoora
Tin tohan and sportsedios@michigandailyscom
Nick Spar ManagingogrtsEditor
SEOSORToSEDIToOS:Maksuros,icballore,Chaonl Jenigs,oyanoosois,
Seno esbtt , Zak0,1Pyzik,
ASSISTATSPRTS EDIT05ORS: miyonchi,oBn stess,,CasandraPagni, Luke Psc,
SharonlJatohs ManagingArtstEditoe Jacobs@nicbigandaly.on
SENIOR0ARTSEDITORS: LahsBurgi, KaviePany, Jennifers,,
ASSISTANT ARTS ED0T00: Joe Cadagi, EonaGse, Pra ossla, DavidTao
Marissa Mttlain and photo@michigandaily.com
led Moth Managin hototEditoes
ASSISTAT OTOITO Ei Kiklnd, Sala Ridos, hulte,SamnthalTrauben
Zath Bergson and design@micbigandaily.con
Helen Liehlith Managing Designotditors
ASSISTANT DESIGS 00ITO00: Alx BondyOBermesjRise
tarolyn Klaretki Magzine Editor ilarecki@nicthigandaily.con
DEOUTY MAGAZINEIO RS: ooSteOsrbo,ski, Elyan Twigs
Josh Healy and copydek®michigandailyomo
Eileen Patter topytChiefs
SarahSqaire WehsDevelopnent Maoogor squire@michigandaily.oom
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliannatrin salesrManager
SALES FORCE MANAGER:Stephnie Bowker
Hillary Szawala tlassifieds Manaeer
Jason Mahakianroduon Manauogee
Meghan Rooney Layout Mnasger
Nick Meshkin rinance Managee
Zach YancerWebhroec oordoinor
The Michign DailyISSN 0745967 ispublisbed Monday tbrough Friay dringto lblnd
winems bystnsat theUniversityof Miiga. One spyisavailable freeof charge
toal redes. Additoal opes ay b pickd p atheaiy'offie for $.Sbscipiosfor
fal er, strting inSeptembe, via US.nail are$110.OWin5te trm(Janay thouhpil) is
$11, yeog (Septeb throh Ar s 15.vri t affiltitsesbect to arducd
subscriptionrate. On-cusosubscripiosforfallterm are $35. Sscriptos mstbe prepaid.
The Michigan Daily s amoeber of The Assnoited Pes ad Thes socated Colgiate Pr,,s.

0ll

wamning and escorted out of
Drunk driver the area.
hospitalized Momdra

WHERE: 815 South Uni-
versity Ave.
WHEN: Friday at about
2:15 a.m.
WHAT: A female student
was arrested for driving
under the influence, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
student was taken to the

Environmental Teclogydi
justice lecture WHAT: Judit Emus,ato
WHAT: Richard Moore, and foreign law adviser,v
a senior adviser at the deliver a lecture on new
Southwest Network for Evi- medical technologies.
ronmental and Economic WHO: Science, Technolo
Justice will give a lecture as and Public Policy Progral
part of the Dean's Speaker WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
Series. WHERE: Weill Hall, rot
WHO!Offr f Arlademir,5,: 1110

WHERE: CS. MotE Chil-
dren's Hospital
WHEN: Saturday at 2:30
WHAT: The mother of two
patients was assaulted by
her own mother, the chil-
dren's grandmother, Uni-

Multicultural Initiatives
and the School of Natural
esources and Environment
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Amphi-
theatre

CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily~com.

::
,,,

0
a

0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 24, 2011 -3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Monday, January 24, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Midtown growth
encouraged by
employer incentive
Three of Detroit's largest
job suppliers are offering cash
incentives and loans to get their
employees to settle into the city's
Midtown area.
About 30,000 people work for
the Detroit Medical Center, Henry
Ford Health System and Wayne
State University which will invest
in the "Live Midtown" incentive
program.
Foundations will bolster or
match what the three institu-
tions put in. First-year funding is
pegged at $1.2 million.
Incentives include a $3,500,
two-year leasing allowance for
new renters; a $1,000 allowance
for lease renewals this year, and
a $20,000 forgivable loan for the
purchase of anew home.
CHARLESTON, S.C.
Prisoner updates
Facebook with
contraband phone
South Carolina prison officials
say they have seized a cell phone
from an inmate who was updating
his Facebook page from prison.
Corrections officials told The
Post and Courier of Charleston
that 22-year-old Quincy How-
ard is in disciplinary detention
and can't make collect calls or
have visitors after the contraband
mobile phone was taken from his
cell earlier this month.
Howard is serving a 30-year
sentence for manslaughter from
Marion County.
The newspaper reports Howard
spent most of his time on Facebook
last year playing the Mafia Wars
and Cafe World games. But he
occasionally gave status updates
like: "RAILROADED BY THIS
CROOKED A JUDICIAL SYS-
TEM IN SOUTH CAROLINA."
NEW YORKCITY
Two die as bitter
cold hits Northeast
An Arctic front is ushering in
some of the coldest weather the
Northeast has seen in two years.
The front will bring bitter cold
through this morning as a high-
pressure area builds over New
England. This will translate into
frigid daytime highs of about 10
to 30 degrees below average. The
coldest spots will dip to less than
30 degrees below zero.
Police in North Haven, Conn.,
say a woman apparently fell in a
driveway and froze to death Sat-
urday night, when temperatures
were close to zero. About 90 miles
northwest of Philadelphia, a man
died after spending a night in his
car.
The National Weather Service
says New York City could see a
high of 19 degrees today. That
would be the coldest it's been
there since Jan.16, 2009, whenthe

high was 16.
In Philadelphia, the city
extended an alert issued Thursday
that gives officials the power to
go out onto the streets and bring
in homeless people to shelters
because the weather conditions
pose a threat of serious harm or
death.
SANAA, Yemen
Hundreds protest
activist's arrest .
Yemeni police have arrested a
woman activist for leading anti-
government protests, setting off
a second day of street demonstra-
tions.
Police used tear gas and batons
to disperse hundreds of students,
activists and lawmakers who
demonstrated in the capital Sanaa
to demand the release of Tawakul
Abdel-Salam Karman, who was
arrested early yesterday.
Interior Minster Mouthar al-
Masri said on state television
yesterday that people have the
right to express their views but
demonstrations, gatherings and
marches should be staged within
the boundaries of the law.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

U.N. chides Iraqi
refugee deporters

FILE PHOTO/AP
Rock star Bono meets an unidentified boy suffering from heart problems at a health center in Mayange,;Rwanda in
2006.
Global ADShealth
fund fraud uncovered

About 2,000 Iraqis
flee homeland
each month
BAGHDAD (AP) - The head of
the U.N. refugee agency scolded
nations yesterday for deporting
Iraqis back into danger, deliver-
ing his criticism on a day when
insurgents rattled the Baghdad
area with a series of bombings
that killed 10 people.
Antonio Guterres, the U.N.
high commissioner for refugees,
said an estimated 2,000 Iraqis
have been fleeing their homeland
every month, including a "signifi-
cant number of Christians."
But some countries have
turned back dozens of refugees -
forcing many to return to some of
Iraq's most violent regions.
"There are still some areas in
central Iraq in which we believe
people should not be sent back
against their will," Guterres told
reporters after meeting withIraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari.
"And this is the position we have
very clearly expressed to some of
the counties that have been doing
that, against our opinion."
Guterres did not identify those
countries, but they are believed to
include Sweden, which accepted
thousands of Iraqis during the
height of the war.

Underscoring the continued
danger, a spate of bombs rocked
the capital and its suburbs Sun-
day, killing 10 people over a three-
hour span.
The bombs struck indis-
criminately, with the dead
including policemen, pilgrims,
farmers, commuters and even
young schoolchildren.
Police and hospital officials
said at least 34 more people were
injured.
Yesterday's assaults were the
latest in a series of bombings that
have killed more than 120 people
since Tuesday, shattering a two-
month period of relative calm.
The deadliest attacks includ-
ed a suicide bombing Tuesday
against police recruits in Tikrit
that killed at least 50 people and a
string of blasts near Karbala that
claimed 65 lives, many of them
Shiite religious pilgrims.
Yesterday, the Islamic State
of Iraq, an al-Qaida front group,
claimed responsibility for the
Tikrit attack as well as two bomb-
ings last week at security force
headquarters in Baqouba that
together killed 10 people.
Although the bombings have
killed mostly Muslims, the con-
tinuing violence has focused
attention on Iraq's dwindling
Christian community since an
Oct.31 assault by suicide bombers
against a Roman Catholic church.

AIDS fund
financed by Bono,
other celebrities
GENEVA (AP) - A $21.7 bil-
lion development fund backed
by celebrities and hailed as an
alternativetothe bureaucracyof
the United Nations sees as much
as two-thirds of some grants
eaten up by corruption, The
Associated Press has learned.
Much ofthe moneyis account-
ed for with forged documents or
improper bookkeeping, indicat-
ing it was pocketed, investiga-
tors for the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
say. Donated prescription drugs
wind up being sold on the black
market.
The fund's newly reinforced
inspector general's office, which
uncovered the corruption, can't
give an overall accounting
because it has examined only a
tiny fraction of the $10 billion
that the fund has spent since its:
creation in 2002. But the levels
of corruption in the grants they
have audited so far are astonish-
ing.
A full 67 percent of money
spent on an anti-AIDS program
in Mauritania was misspent,
the investigators told the fund's
board of directors. So did 36
percent of the money spent on a
program in Mali to fight tuber-
culosis and malaria, and 30 per-
cent of grants to Djibouti.
In Zambia, where $3.5 mil-
lion in spending was undocu-
mented and one accountant
pilfered $104,130, the fund

decided the nation's health min-
istry simply couldn't manage
the grants and put the United
Nations in charge of them. The
fund is trying to recover $7 mil-
lion in "unsupported and ineli-
gible costs" from the ministry.
The fund is pulling or sus-
pending grants from nations
where corruption is found, and
demanding recipients return
millions of dollars of misspent
money.
"The messenger is being shot
to some extent," fund spokes-
man Jon Liden said. "We would
contend that we do not have any
corruption problems that are
significantly different in scale or
nature to any other internation-
al financing institution."
To date, the United States,
the European Union and other
major donors have pledged $217
billion to the fund, the domi-
nant financier of efforts to fight
the three diseases. The fund
has been a darling of the power
set that will hold the World
Economic Forum in the-Swiss
mountain village of Davos this
week.
It was on the sidelines of
Davos that rock star Bono
launched a new global brand,
(Product) Red, which donates
a large share of profits to the
Global Fund. Other prominent
backers include former U.N.
secretary-general Kofi Annan,
French first lady Carla Bruni-
Sarkozy and Microsoft found-
er Bill Gates, whose Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation gives
$150 million a year.
The fund's inspector gen-
eral, John Parsons, said donors

should be reassured that the
fund is serious about uncovering
corruption: "It should be viewed
as a comparative advantage to
anyone who's thinking about
putting funds in here."
But some donors are out-
raged at what the investigators
are turning up. Sweden, the
fund's 11th-biggest contributor,
has suspended its $85 million
annual donation until the fund's
problems are fixed. It held talks
with fund officials in Stockholm
last week.
Swedish Foreign Ministry
spokesman Peter Larsson said
in a statement that his country
is concerned about "extensive
examples of irregularities and
corruption that the fund has
uncovered" in nations like Mali
and Mauritania.
"For Sweden, the issues of
greatest importance are risk
management, combating cor-
ruption and ultimately ensuring
that the funds managed by the
Global Fund really do contrib-
ute to improved health," he said.
The investigative arm of the
U.S. Congress also has issued
reports criticizing the fund's
ability to police itself and its
overreliance on grant recipi-
ents to assess their own perfor-
mance.
Fund officials blame the mis-
spending on the lack of finan-
cial controls among the grants'
recipients, many of which are
African health ministries whose
budgets are heavily supported
by the fund. Others are nations
or international organizations
without the resources to deal
with pervasive corruption.

Resorts attacked
across Zimbabwe

President Mugabe's
militants target
more than 20 clubs
As Zimbabwe tried to spruce
up its tourism image, militants of
President Robert Mugabe's party-
launched raids at boating clubs
and tourism lodges on the shores
of the capital's main fishing and
leisure area, tour operators said
yesterday.
A safari lodge about 18 miles
(30 kilometers) west of Harare
reopened after being sealed off
by more than 200 militants since
Friday, said owner Gary Stafford.
The seven-chalet Kuimba Shiri
lodge is a popular getaway for
locals, foreign visitors, diplomats
and U.N. staff.
Militants told witnesses more
than 20 clubs and holiday facili-
ties were being targeted on the
shores and hinterland of Lake
Chivero, a dam five miles (8 kilo-
meters) in length - bordered by a

wildlife preserve - that serves as
Harare's main water supply res-
ervoir.
Incidents began Friday, coin-
ciding with the launch of a new
campaign by Tourism and Hos-
pitality Minister Walter Mzembi
who branded Zimbabwe as "the
_woar.f wonders," during a con-
vention in Spain.
After collapsing during a
decade of political and econom-
ic turmoil, tourist visits have
crept upward since 2009 when
a coalition government between
Mugabe and Prime Minister
Morgan Tsvangirai, the former
opposition leader, abandoned the
hyperinflationary local currency
and adopted the U.S. dollar as
legal tender.
Tourists had been kept away
from the famed Victoria Falls in
northwestern Zimbabwe and the
country's animalreservesbecause
of recurring political violence
and acute shortages of gasoline
and the most basic goods during
the nation's economic meltdown.

As teenagers abuse bath salts,
lawmakers look to ban sales

Unregulated
chemicals facing
federal scrutiny
When Neil Brown got high
on dangerous chemicals sold
as bath salts, he took his skin-
ning knife and slit his face and
stomach repeatedly. Brown sur-
vived, but authorities say oth-
ers haven't been so lucky after
snorting, injecting or smoking
powders with such innocuous-
sounding names as Ivory Wave,
Red Dove and Vanilla Sky.
Some say the effects of the
powders are as powerful as
abusing methamphetamine.
Increasingly, law enforcement
agents and poison control cen-
ters say the advertised bath salts
with complex chemical names
are an emerging menace in sev-
eral U.S. states where authori-
ties talk of banning their sale.
From the Deep South to
California, emergency calls are
being reported over-exposure
to the stimulants the powders
often contain: mephedrone and
methylenedioxypyrovalerone,
also known as MDPV.
Sold under such names as
Ivory Wave, Bliss, White Light-
ning and Hurricane Charlie,
the chemicals can cause hallu-
cinations, paranoia, rapid heart
rates and suicidal thoughts,
authorities say. The chemicals

are in products sold legally at
convenience stores and on the
Internet as bath salts and even
plant foods. However, they
aren't necessarily being used for
the purposes on the label.
Mississippi lawmakers last-
week began considering a pro-
posal to ban the sale of the
powders, and a similar step is
being sought in Kentucky. In
Louisiana, the bath salts were
outlawed by an emergency
order after the state's poison
center received more than 125
calls in the last three months of
2010 involving exposure to the
chemicals.
In Brown's case, he said he
had tried every drug from her-
oin to crack and was so shaken
by terrifying hallucinations that
he wrote one Mississippi paper
urging people to stay away from
the advertised bath salts.
"I couldn't tell you why I
did it," Brown said, pointing to
his scars. "The psychological
effects are still there."
While Brown survived, sher-
iff's authorities in one Missis-
sippi county say they believe one
woman overdosed on the pow-
ders there. In southern Louisi-
ana, the family of a 21-year-old
man says he cut his throat and
ended his life with a gunshot.
Authorities are investigating
whether a man charged with
capital murder in the December
death of a Tippah County, Miss.,

sheriff's deputy was under the
influence of the bath salts.
The stimulants aren't regu-
lated by the U.S. Drug Enforce-
ment Administration, but are
facing federal scrutiny. Law offi-
cers say some of the substances
are being shipped from Europe,
but origins are still unclear.
Gary Boggs, an execu-
tive assistant at the DEA, said
there's a lengthy process to
restrict these types of designer
chemicals, including reviewing
the abuse data. But it's a process
that can take years.
Dr. Mark Ryan, director of
Louisiana's poison control cen-
ter, said he thinks state bans on
the chemicals can be effective.
He said calls about the chemi-
cals have dropped sharply since
Louisiana banned their sale in
January.
Ryan said cathinone, the
parent substance of the drugs,
comes from a plant grown in
Africa and is regulated. He said
MDPV and mephedrone are
made in a lab, and they aren't
regulated because they're not
marketed for human consump-
tion. The stimulants affect neu-
rotransmitters in the brain, he
said.
"It causes intense cravings
for it. They'll binge on it three
or four days before they show
up in an ER. Even though it's a
horrible trip, they want to do it
again and again," Ryan said.

We all make mistakes!
nakentta nth ePrinceton Review MCATCourse one of them
Overl105 Hours of LIVE In-Class1s truction
5 separateinstnctots, Fio.-Chem,G-Chem,PhysicsVerbal
*17Computer-BaedTestswithrealisicon-screentools
"Satisfaction Guaranteed
*FREE VerbalAccelerator-15Hours,a$299value
'FREE Soper Bio Review-5 flours,a$199vatue
*4,300 Pages ofMNaterials to'akelHome
Otnext MCAT Start day is February 8th
ONLY 10 days left to enroll!
H - -,mewe ramr, .


4A - Monday, January 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com.

4A - Monday, January 24, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

s

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St
AnnArbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

E-MAIL DANIEL AT DWGOLD@UMICH.EDU

DANIEL GOLD

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FRiM T H E kl
Bridging the gap
State legislators need to support the DRIC
L ast Wednesday, Republican Gov. Rick Snyder became the
most prominent Michigan lawmaker to express support for
the proposed Detroit River International Crossing - a second
bridge that would connect Michigan and Ontario, Canada. By almost
every estimate, the bridge would be a boon to the state's lagging econ-
omy, and the benefits of the bridge would also help the province of
Ontario. The Canadian government has even offered to cover Michi-
gan's share of the construction costs in the form of a $550 million
loan. Thousands of jobs and billions of dollars depend on this pro-
posal. The state legislature should take advantage of Canada's offer
and authorize the construction of a new bridge.

That Michele T-Mis 52
Bachmann Is pretty mnutes untill1
cute, for a Whack Job. Icannot believe, caihave a ecktalL
have to work with
theeidiots
THE STATE OF THE UNION
The prison state
I her final days in office, for- One result of this mentality was pris- And so it's that prisons are filled
mer Democratic Gov. Jennifer onsbecomingovercrowded bymostly with people serving life sentences
Granholm considered the final nonviolent offenders who would have regardless of whether they are cold-
few commuta- been better off in rehabilitation. But, blooded killers, or something far less
tion and pardon there's an even bigger problem here: culpable than that. Put that together
petitions that Michigan's penal system over time with the hundreds of thousands of
remained on her has abandoned lines of demarcation people imprisoned for petty, non-
desk. between different crimes based on violent drug offenses, and you have
As a student different levels of culpability. an unfair system and very crowded
attorney in the consider the following: Amanda prisons costing acaah-strapped state
University Law Knox, the American woman convict- far more than it can afford to spend.
School's Inno- ed in December 2009 of a gruesome
cence Clinic, I IMRAN murder and sexual assault in Italy,
nervously await- SYED received 26 years in prison. (Knox
ed her decision insists she's innocent, and if so, even Executive pardons
on our client, adayinprisonistoo much.)The Ital-
Thomas Cress - an innocent man ian system, while concluding that are not the
of limited mental capacity who was Knox is a killer of the most unspeak- only 1-si
wrongfully convicted of murder in able sort, still only sentenced her to prOlef.
1986. But it seemed that I was among 26 years. Thus, even stone-cold kill-
the few worried about the innocent ers have the chance to reform them-
lives that could be saved by Gran- selves in prison and emerge one day In light of all that, to criticize Gra-
holm's last-minute decisions. to reclaim their lives. nholm's pardons and commutations
The story in the local press was On the other hand, in Michigan, a isnto miss the point entirely. Perhaps
much different. When the Detroit person can be sentenced the same as a handful ofher 179 plus pardons and
Free Press reported that Gran- a first-degree murderer - automatic commutations were questionable on
holm was more liberal with the life in prison without parole - even some level. But she took seriously the
use of her pardon power than her if he was not the murderer. Accom small role she can play in correcting
recent predecessors (179 commuta- plices, even those who weren't at the a vastly flawed system, and I applaud
tions and counting: Granholm exits crime scene, can receive the same her for that.
as most merciful Michigan governor sentence as the personwho pulled the A real solution can come only
in decades, 12/20/2010), she was trigger. A robber, who may not even from the legislature, which must
criticized for politicizing and short- have been armed, can be charged amend the criminal code to reflecta
circuiting the system. People were withfelony murder (and sentenced to logical understanding of crime, not
outraged, but that's because they life without parole) if the person he just a blatantly political system that
weren't told the whole story. was robbing incidentally dies. This is throws people away. Above all, judg-
There's certainly something all quite problematic. es must have the freedom to decree
icky about executive pardons: Why I'm not saying that accomplices individual sentences for individual
should any one person, beit a gover- and robbers are not culpable: They people, as opposed to having their
nor (state convictions) or the presi- deserve to pay for their crimes. hands tiedbymandatory minimums.
dent (federal convictions), be able to What I am saying is that they are All this doesn't even begin to
play God by setting aside (commuta- less culpable than those who actu- address the innocent people who are
tion) or erasing entirely (pardon) a ally pull the trigger intending to kill, imprisoned and are denied mean-
judicial determination of guilt? But and it's crucial that our justice sys- ingful recourse, but such serious
the problem is that Michigan's penal tem recognize that. One of the most reconsiderations of policy and phi-
system, like many other states across basic tenets of criminal legal theory losophy are the first step. Short of
the country, is much more "icky" is that different levels of culpability that, Michigan is just a prison state,
and necessitates back-door solutions must be punished differently, or else whose leaders can't be bothered to
like executive pardons. we risk incentivizing the worst in do what's best for all of us.
Thisstate has been run for decades criminal behavior. Michigan's sys-
by a legislature that embraced the old tem, unfortunately, has blurred such -Imra Syed can be reached
school, tough-on-crime mentality, basic lines of demarcation. at galad@mih.edu.
She who must not be named

0

Snyder madehisappeal for moving forward on
building the Detroit River International Crossing
- one of the centerpieces of his State of the State
address last week. The construction part of the
project would create 10,000 temporary jobs and
maintenance of the bridge would create 25;000
jobs. According to a Jan. 19 Detroit Free Press
article, the United States Department of Trans-
portation will allow Michigan to use the Cana-
dian loan to leverage another $2 billion in federal
highway funds to fix roads and bridges through-
out the state. Last year, abill authorizing plans for
the bridge failed in the Michigan Senate.
Snyder's support of the DRIC proposal is
encouraging. This project has struggled to gain
support from the Republican Party in the past,
and backing this project solidifies Snyder's com-
mitment to bipartisan politics. He needs to con-
tinue to make a push for this important project
and emphasize that it will not happen on the
taxpayers' dime. The legislature needs to begin
to maleapush for this project to get underway
under the established payment plan.
Creating a new bridge between Michigan
and Canada will have many positive impacts
for people throughout the state. Simply start-

ing construction on the DRIC will create 10,000
jobs right away. Over the longterm, the proposed
bridge will bring an increase in trade and traffic
throughout the statethat could create as many as
40,000 jobs. The bridge will also benefit Michi-
gan businesses. The state government should
recognize all of the positives of this plan and
work to bring it to fruition.
Not only will the bridge help Michigan resi-
dents and businesses, it will also help create state
revenue. Unlike the privately-owned Ambassa-
dor Bridge, toll revenues from the new crossing
will accrue directly to the state government. For
the state, the DRIC is an incredible deal. By cre-
ating jobs, giving the government access to toll
revenues and bringing home billions of dollars in
federal money - all at no cost to taxpayers - the
DRIC is a rare win-win for the state. Michigan
lawmakers have a unique opportunity to invest
in the state's future at almost no risk, and it's
time for them to make it happen.
Snyder has many plans forrevitalizing Michi-
gan's economy, and his support of the DRIC is
one of the most exciting. The state legislature
needs to rally behind this project and give it the
momentumit needsto become a reality.

0
0
6

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga, Teddy Papes,
Roger Sauerhaft, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
BETH COPLOWITZ AND LAURA RAPOPORT I
Start 'U' program in Israel

Many prominent universities around the
country offer official study abroad programs in
Israel. These include Harvard University, Yale
University and the University of Pennsylva-
nia, as well as other Big Ten schools like Penn
State University, UniversityofWisconsin, Ohio
State University, Indiana University and the
University of Minnesota. Michigan State has
recently expanded its program from the sum-
mer semester to the academic term in order to
give more students the opportunity to study in
Israel. Even graduate schools here at the Uni-
versity of Michigan offer such programs. For
example, the Law School allows students to
spend a semester at the University of Tel Aviv
Law School. Yet the University of Michigan's
undergraduate program does not.
By not offering an "official" undergraduate
program - in other words, one in which stu-
dents can seamlessly enroll in an Israeli uni-
versity knowing that their grades and credits
will transfer when they return to Ann Arbor
- the University of Michigan lags behind its
rivals and its own graduate schools. This not
only reflects poorly on the University on acom-
parative level, but also deprives students of a
valuable learning opportunity.
Israel's rich history offers countless unique
academic and cultural opportunities, which
can't be found anywhere else in the world. As
withany study abroad program, the destination
offers many opportunities to enhance the learn-
ing experience outside the classroom. The state
of Israel is known for its rich and diverse histo-
ry. Israel is the birthplace of the three monothe-
ist religions: Christianity, Islam and Judaism. It
was also an epicenter of the Greek and Roman
empires and still has many remnants at archae-
ological sites around the country. Studying in
Israel would allow students who are studying
Hebrew or Arabic at the University to immerse
themselves in a society where these languages
are highly prevalent. A study abroad program
would offer students a taste of the unique and
lively culture of Israel. Given this, students
should be able to study there with an official
University study abroad program.

This University is no stranger to partnering
with institutions in Israel for a wide variety
of programs. In the area of life sciences, the
University of Michigan/Israeli Universities
Partnership for research has made significant
developments in cancer studies at the Tech-
nion School of Medicine in Haifa, as well as
in genomic ancestry of Jewish communities
around the world at both Hebrew University in
Jerusalem and Tel Aviv University in Tel Aviv.
In 2008, Dr. Amnon Rosenthal, a Univer-
sity pediatric cardiologist noted in an article
in the Detroit Jewish News that "[t]his sort of
research between the University of Michigan
and multiple academic institutions in Israel
will be a mutually beneficial and reward-
ing under-taking of cooperation". Research
cooperation is undoubtedly a meaningful first
step in fostering the relationship between the
University and Israeli academia. But research
isn't enough. Given the strength of these pre-
existing ties, offering an official study abroad
program for undergraduates would be a logical
next step for the University.
As sophomores here at the University, we
are eagerly anticipating the prospects of study-
ing abroad next winter. While we are currently
able to study in Israel through other programs,
we believe our experiences would be greatly
enhanced if we participated in an official Uni-
versity program. Such a program would not only
transfer our grades, but would also allow us to
establish a Wolverine community in Israel. We
believe this will also help the University strength-
en its relationships with the various Israeli insti-
tutionsthat provide so many great opportunities.
We have created a petition to encourage the
University to institute an official study abroad
program.Pleasesignourpetitionat:https://www.
msa.umich.edu/upetition/p/israelstudyabroad/.
Every signature matters in our grassroots effort to
create an official study abroad program in Israel.
Help us show the Michigan Difference.
Beth Coplowitz is an LSA sophomore
and Laura Rapoport is an LSA and
School of Art & Design sophomore.

Typically, February is known
for an array of historically
significant days. It's com-
prised of Black
History Month,
Valentine's Day,
President Abra-
ham Lincoln's
birthday, Presi-
dent George
Washington's
Birthday and
President's Day. EMILY
But according to ORLEY
his column, (I'm
declaring Feb-
ruary a Palin-free month. Join me,
01/21/2011), Washington Post col-
umnist Dana Milbank is trying to
declare a new "holiday" in February:
Sarah Palin-free month.
Milbank - who confessed that
he has written about former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin in 42 columns
since she was picked to be Ari-
zona Senator John McCain's run-
ning mate in August 2008 - urged
Americans to refrain from speaking
about her for an entire month in an
attempt to finally give her a much
deserved push off the media band-
wagon. His column even has a link
for readers who are willing to pledge
to not write or read coverage about
Palin for the month.
I've got to admit, I completely
agree with Milbank's plea. But I also
think it's harrowing that we have
come to this point. Palin hasn't held
a position in any public office for 547
days. How is it that someone so polit-
ically insignificant has continued to
captivate the media and our society
for this long?
In the 2008 presidential election,
Palin couldn't state one newspaper
she liked to read on a daily basis. She
also explained that being from Alas-
ka gave her an extensive insight into
Russian politics because "(Russia

is) our next door neighbor" - fail-
ing to remember that tiny body of
water separating her and Asia. But
the public seemed to forget these
factual errors when her autobiog-
raphy, "Going Rogue: An American
Life," was released in November
2009. It sold more than 1 million
copies within two weeks and was
placed on many bestseller lists next
to autobiographies by President Bill
Clinton and former President Barack
Obama.
While I no doubt believe in the
impact of political rhetoric, I find
it frightening that Sarah Palin has
been given the assumed authority of
being able to influence a 22-year old
in Tucson, Ariz. Within hours after
the news of the fatal shooting broke,
media outlets across the country
were discussing Palin's "crosshairs
map" and how she impacted this
tragedy. As New York Times col-
umnist Ross Douthat wrote in his
column, (Scenes from a marriage,
01/16/2011), "Forget a nation's grief
and Giffords's struggle to survive:
What America really needed, the
nation's pundits and TV producers
decided, was a noisy debate about
the possible link between Jared Lee
Loughner's crime and Palin's mar-
tial campaign rhetoric." And in true
form, Palin responded at an inappro-
priate time with a speech filled with
improperly used phrases. But the
media still continued its coverage of
her. As Douthat perfectly put it, the
relationship between Palin and the
media is "looking increasingly like
co-dependency."
In some twisted way, the relation-
ship makes sense. Palin is the epit-
ome of what the media craves. She
is definitely unconventional, very
outspoken and prone to beingcaught
looking like an idiot. But Palin needs
the media just as much as their rat-
ings need her. She has claimed that

she wants the media to respect her
right to privacy, but stating that the
paparazzi are being too intrusive on
your realty TV show is a situation
few will be sympathetic about.
Hopefully Palm's
15 minutes of
fame are over.
Perhaps Palin thinks that if she
continues to remain in the spot light
she will actually have a chance in
the 2012 election. But the more we
see of Palin, the more alarming she
appears. Even the Republican Party
is showing little support for her. In
a New Hampshire 2012 presidential
poll held over the weekend, Palin
came in fourth place - securing only
7 percent. And former NewYork City
Mayor Rudy Giuliani said last week
that he is more likely to run in 2012
if Palin announces her candidacy
in order to show "a contrast" to her
overly conservative ideologies.
We all know, regrettably, that
there's no way Palin will volun-
tarily remove herself from the
public eye. She will probably even
attempt to run in 2012. But here's
hoping that in the next year she
can create enough negative press
to diminish her chance of success.
I'd say it's a fairly easy task for her.
It has already been announced that
her reality show wasn't renewed
for another season. Hopefully Palin
will take this friendly hint from
TLC that her 15 minutes of fame are
running out.
Emily Orley is the co-editorial
page editor. She can be reached
ehorley@umich.edu.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Aft

Monday, January 24, 2011 - 5A

a

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomMonday, January 24,2011 - 5A

w

SMOKING
From Page 1A
smokers, who continue to cho
to smoke, move to the edges
campus space," Winfield sa
"Sidewalks across the Diag, si
walks across the Engineer
campus, the Music campus,
so on are all off limits."
Smoking will only be allow
in a University parking lot
structure if the smoker lig
up in a privately owned vehi
according to the report.
Thereportstatesthat there
"substantial discussion, and
ferences of opinion" about allo
ing smoking within vehicles.
committee agreed to review
measure in two to three years.
To discourage smoking
campus, the report recommen
no new smoking shelters, or ph
es to smoke outside, be instal
on campus. Additionally,
requested that all cigarette bi
containers be moved from outs
buildings to near public roads.
Implementation of the smo
free policy will cost appro
mately $240,805, according to
report. Included in the budge
the addition of a program coo
nator to help oversee and imp
ment the Initiative.
This individual, who has not}
beenhired, will report tothe m
TENURE
From Page 1A
want to," Hanlon said.
He added that the cha
wouldn't extend the time it ta:
a faculty member to gain tent
but rather the amount of ti
they have to build his or her ca
And while the governing bo
ies at schools and colleges n
decidetochangethe probation;
period if Hanlon moves forwa
with the proposal and the rege
approve the revision, Hanlon sa
he doesn't expect many chang
to occur.
"I don't expect there to be
big rush for people to cha
because right now there are v
few schools who are up agai
the current limit," Hanlon sai
"They rouldalready be chang
if they really wanted to push
limit."
Currently, most schools at 1t
University actually have less tin
the maximum eight-year ten
clock in place. The Law Scht,
for example, uses a five-year p
bationary period, and most otb
schools have a six-year probati
ary period.
However, a few schools
campus use a seven-year p
bationary period - includ:
the Medical School, the Der
School and the Ross School
Business - which places their
the limit once the one-year tern
nal period is included.
Hanlon said he expects 1
Medical School would be 1
most likely to take advantage
the longer probationary peri
if implemented. An informal pi
COMMON APP
From Page 1A
application process gets hardc
it's more committed people w

apply"
Hanlon said that last year 1
University overshot its targ
number of students by about 4(
students, and this year the targ
number of students is 5,970. In l
year's admissions cycle, the Ur
versityreceived 30,947 applicar
Of those applicants, 15,436 we
offered spots at the University.
The current freshman ci.
size - the largest to date at 6,41
students - is higher than w
University officials estimated la
year.
University President Mary Si
Coleman told the Daily in Si
tember that the freshman cla
size increase was not intend
and should be avoided this yeai.
The University will be esi
cially cautious this year, Hani
said, and more deferrals are beii
issued this cycle. Though t
admissions office uses a calculi
ed system to gauge the number
students to accept, Hanlon said,
is essentially a guessing game.
"You've got this decision-mi
ing process made by 18-year-ol
and that's pretty random alread
he said. "We do our best."
Hanlon said University of
cials weren't caught off guard
this year's jump in applicati
numbers.
"Everything is kind of

ager of the University of Michigan
Health System's Tobacco Con-
sultation Service and will be in
charge of education, training,
ose evaluation, data collection and
of enforcement of the smoking ban.
aid. In an interview last week with
de- The Michigan Daily, Coleman
ing said she is pleased with the com-
and mittee's report.
"I'm actually very happy with
ved it, and we'll move full speed
or ahead," Coleman said. "We really
hts needed time for preparation, and
cle, I like the fact that we're starting
now because I think campuses
was that tried to (ban smoking) from
dif- one day to the next with no prep-
aw- aration just didn't work. So this
The gives us some time, and we'll try
the to resolve the issues. I think it's
the right way to go."
on Though smoking will be pro-
nds hibited in unauthorized areas
ac- starting July 1, individuals caught
led smoking on campus after the ban
it is implemented won't be ticketed
utt or arrested. Instead, Winfield
ide said the rule will be policed by
peer pressure - comparing the
ke- ban to when seat belts were first
)xi- put in automobiles.
the "It's much like what I experi-
t is enced when seat belts came in,"
di- Winfield said. "They were put in
ple- every car by law, but you weren't
required to use them. There was
yet more and more mediaattention to
an- the safety that they gave you and

more and more people were using
them."
Changes to the University
Standard Practice Guide will be
made to reflect the new policy,
and signs will be posted through-
out campus to inform visitors and
guests of the smoke-free policy.
"We don't plan to make this
something where people get tick-
ets," Winfield said. "On the other
hand, there are ways to address
these issues. Let's say there is a
person who continues to smoke
right outside a residence hall.
Somebody could take that indi-
vidual through the OSCR'process
with the Office of Student Con-
flict Resolution as acomplainant."
Winfield said that if a Universi-
ty staff member is found violating
the policy, the person's supervisor
would go through "the standard
disciplinary process" outlined
in the Standard Practice Guide.
While Winfield said this process
"could include discharge," which
is the worst case scenario.
The committee's recommen-
dations were made with smokers
and non-smokers in mind, Win-
field said.According to the report,
focus groups were held and sur-
veys were conducted over the past
year and a half in order to gauge
how the University community
felt about the initiative.
Subcommittees made up of stu-
dents, faculty and staff were also

established to advise the com-
mittee in writing their report.
The subcommittees consisted of
smokers, nonsmokers and former
smokers.
While the Tobacco Consulta-
tion Service will be responsible
for overseeing the implementa-
tion of the initiative, a new advi-
sory committee - established
by the University's executive
officers, chaired by Winfield and
composed of students, faculty
and staff - will be in charge of
reviewing and potentially alter-
ing the policy after implementa-
tion.
Winfield said one of the issues
the committee may undertake is
to examinethe scope of the smok-
ing ban. For instance, properties
off campus that are owned by the
University, like Wolverine Tower
located on South State Street will
also be subject to the smoking
ban.
"Wolverine Tower is owned by
the University, but there's a Com-
erica Bank there," Winfield said.
"We haven't addressed (whether
Comerica employees are subject
to the ban), and I honestly don't
know how that's going to be set-
tled."
Winfield said the Chancellors
of the campuses in Dearborn and
Flint will enforce the smoking
ban in ways that are most prudent
for their individual campuses.

SHIRVELL
From Page 1A
anti-gay remarks in the e-mail.
The report describes the reac-
tion of Shirvell's two supervi-
sors, Assistant Attorney General
Joel McGormley and Michigan
Solicitor General Eric Restuccia,
who instructed him to "never
engage in this conduct again."
According to the report,
Shirvell agreed.
However, Shirvell's payroll
records, as well as the dates and
times of his Facebook posts,
show that Shirvell continued
using state resources to perpe-
trate such behavior - despite his
claim that he had stopped - the
report states.
According to the document,
Shirveli "verbally assaulted his
supervisor by screaming profani-
ties for which he was disciplined
... contacted a college student's
out-of-state employer in an
attempt to get him fired ... (and)
improperlyused state resources."
Shirvell called the office of
former U.S. House of Represen-
tatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-
Calif.) this past summer, when
Armstrong was an intern there,
to get Armstrong fired, according
to former articles in The Michi-
gan Daily.
When Shirvell was advised
by his superiors to change his
behavior - specifically to stop
producing his blog, Chris Arm-
strong Watch, which alleged
that Armstrong was pursuing
a "radical homosexual agenda"
among other things - Shirvell
responded by saying "he did not
care" if he was sued, according to
the report. The report also states
that Shirvell "provided evasive
and untrue answers during his
Disciplinary Conference."
The Attorney General's
office began an examination of
Shirvell's harassment of Arm-
strong on Oct. 4, 2010, the report
states. Shirvellwas fired for inap-
propriate conduct including anti-
gay harassment of Armstrong

on Nov. 8, 2010, according to an
article in the Michigan Daily on
the same day.
Gordon said in an interview
last night that she hopes the
contents of the report will help
the Michigan Attorney Griev-
ance Commission fully under-
stand Armstrong's case against
Shirvell. Gordon and Armstrong
filed a complaint before the com-
mission in October alleging that
Shirvell violated several eth-
ics and standards attorneys are
required to uphold.
Gordon added that she hopes
the report gives the commission
cause to take disciplinary action
against Shirvell or necessitate
that he receive counseling.
"Obviously even the Attorney
General's office's employer real-
ized some of the stuff he was
doing was inappropriate and had
asked him not to do it," Gordon
said. "I think this material that
I've received just really portrays
him as somebody completely
lacking in judgment, which does
support our argument to the
State Bar of Michigan, that until
he gets some counseling or some
assistance, he should not have a
'license to practice law."
The report also described
an incident in which Shirvell
waited outside Armstrong's
house in Ann Arbor at 1:36 a.m.
to take photographs of a party
Armstrong and his roommates
were throwing. According to the
report, Shirvell walked by the
house twice in order to "deter-
mine whether Mr. Armstrong
was following the rules govern-
ing underage drinking that as the
MSA president he espoused."
Shirvell later called the Ann
Arbor Police Department to
report the party. He took photos
and videos of the police at Arm-
strong's home in order to post it
later on his blog, according to the
report.
The report also states that
Shirvell was convicted for driv-
ing under the influence of alcohol
on June 8, 2009. He received six
months probation.


of about half of the faculty at the
Medical School showed 80-per-
cent support for extending the
probationary period to a 10-year
maximum, Hanlon added.
"Nationally, medical schools
have been leaders in moving to
longer tenure clocks," Hanlon
said.
Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine has no maximum pro-
bationary period for tenure track
faculty, and Mt. Sinai Medical
Center in New York City uses a
17-year probationary period. Sev-
eral other leading medical schools
use longer probationary periods,
often 10 or 11years in length.
The reason for the elongated
tenure probationary periods,
Hanlon said, is because several
factors have changed in recent
years, especially for medical fac-
ulty. These include increased
regulatory requirements for
research that involves humans
or animals. Additionally, Hanlon
said an increase in interdisciplin-
ary research has led many tenure
track faculty members to require
more time to adequately complete
their probationary periods.
The research constraints have
led to increases in tenure track
changes at the Medical School,
Hanlon said. A greater proportion
of tenure track faculty has been
opting for clinical appointments
because they don't have enough
time to complete work for their
probationary periods.
Outside of research con-
straints, Hanlon said he is wor-
ried about the amount of pressure
on tenure track faculty members.
Citing the increase in single-
parent families and the number

of households in which both par-
ents are working, Hanlon said he
believes faculty are feeling more
stress regarding how to strike an
adequate balance between work
and family. Furthermore, Hanlon
said, increases in life expectancy
also mean many faculty members
now face more extensive obliga-
tions to care for their parents.
Hanlon told the Daily he has
consulted with numerous constit-
uencies - including deans, assis-
tant deans, executive committees
and faculty groups - and that his
talk with the Senate Assembly is
the last group he needs to receive
feedback from. He said the feed-
back he has received has been
mostly positive.
Once Hanlon consults with
the Senate Assembly today, the
faculty group is expected to pass
a resolution to support or oppose
the change. It is unclear which,
side the Senate Assembly will
take, but the body's executive
committee, the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs,
is largely opposed to the change,
Hanlon said.
"It's likely to be a vigorous
debate," Hanlon said.
Hanlon said he expects to make
his final decision about how to pro-
ceed before the end of the week.
"If my decision is to propose a
change, it could be happening as
early as (this) week," he said.
If that happens, the proposed
revision, which changes "eight"
to "10" in the existing bylaw,
would be opened for public com-
ment before going to the regents
for consideration. The Univer-
sity's Board of Regents would
then make the final decision to

implement or ignore the proposed
change.
In an interview following last
week's Board of Regents meet-
ing, University President Mary
Sue Coleman told the Daily she is
happy with the proposal Hanlon
may submit to the regents.
"This has been studied pretty
extensively in the University by a
number of committees for a num-
ber of years, and I am very satis-
fied with the proposal because
it ultimately leaves it up to each
school or college to decide wheth-
er or not they want to go this
way," Coleman said.
Coleman also stressed she is
supportive of the change because
it leaves ultimate control over the
probationary timeline with the
faculty, which she said is where
the authority should lie.
If the change is passed, Hanlon
said he would continue to monitor
tenure rates to make sure tenure
track faculty are not adversely
affected by the change.
Asked whether the change
would have any other effects on
the University, Hanlon said he
couldn't foresee any financial
ramifications, but each school and
college would have to evaluate
whether a change might affect its
recruiting and retention abilities.
And while Hanlon appears
to be advocating for the change
prior to his meeting with the Sen-
ate Assembly, he said he won't
make a final decision until after
his meeting with the group today.
"I think there's alot of this that
makes sense, but I want to with-
hold final judgment until I hear
from the Senate Assembly," Han-
lon said.

Andrew Shirvell speaks at a Michigan Student Assembly meeting Sept. 7, 2010.
Thousands march at
Belgaian unity rally


track," Hanlon said. "We're not
surprisedby anything right now."
Erica Sanders, director of
recruitment and operations at
the University's Office of Under-
graduate Admissions, wrote in an
e-mail interview that it's too early
to tell whether the switch to the
Common Application is the rea-
son for the rise in applications.
The University made the
switch to the Common Applica-
tion, Sanders wrote, because the
University's contract with the
previous web application vendor
was set to expire this year.
"The Common Application
was a great fit for our needs," she
wrote. "Many of our common
cross-application schools also use
the Common Application."
The Common Application is a
standardized admissions process
that began in 1975 and allows a
college applicant to fill out a sin-
gle application that can be sent to
414 participating schools. Many
of the schools, including the Uni-
versity, also have supplemental
essay questions.
In addition to the University,
28 other schools joined the Com-
mon Application this year, includ-
ing Columbia University and two
international universities. As a
result, the number of students
applying to schools using the
Common Application rose by 27
percentthis year, accordingto the
Common Application website.
Robert Killion, executive
director of The Common Appli-
cation, Inc., wrote in an e-mail

interview that the Common
Application website is designed to
diversify the pool of applicants in
addition to lowering the cost and
easing the admissions process for
universities.
"We can offer both a more
sophisticatedtechnology at aless-
er cost than any single institution
could build and maintain on their
own," Killion wrote.
The Common Application
charges $65 per school for domes-
tic students to submit applica-
tions and $75 for international
students, according to the Com-
mon Application website.
Killion, however, wrote that
switching to the Common Appli-
cation doesn't necessarily guar-
antee an increase in applicants for
a university.
"Veryselective colleges get alot
more apps every (year) when they
use the Common App, and very
selective colleges get a lot more
apps every year when they don't
use the Common App," he wrote.
"Michigan did get a lot more apps
this year. But so did MIT, George-
town, and USC. None of them use
the Common App."
Julia Wiener, a high school
senior from Plainview, N.Y. who
was accepted to the Univer-
sity this fall, said she noticed an
increase in interest in applying to
the University among her friends
because of its new presence on
the Common Application web-
site. She said some students who
weren't sure if they were going
to apply to the University were

much more likelyto do sobecause
of the convenience the new appli-
cation system provided.
"A lot of my friends applied
to lots of different schools, and I
think the Common App played a
huge part in them applying (to the
University of Michigan)," Wiener
said.
Jessica Zank, also a high
school senior from Plainview,
N.Y., applied to the University but
was deferred. She said she was
surprised when she received her
deferral notice.
"It was shocking to me based on
students I knew in previous years
who were accepted and the gen-
eral accepted scores," Zank said.
High school senior Madison
Chaness of West Bloomfield,
Mich. said the switch didn't have
much of an effect on her admis-
sions process.
"I only applied to the Univer-
sity of Michigan and Michigan
State University, so it didn't have
a big effect on me," Chaness said.
"But it was a lot easier for my
friends applying to lots of differ-
ent schools."
LSA freshman Rachel Beck-
man said using Michigan's old
application was definitely more of
a hassle.
"I know a lot of people who
actually didn't apply to Michigan
(last year) because they didn't feel
like filling out the extra forms,"
she said.
- Daily News Editor Joseph
Lichterman contributed tothis report,

Rally aims to bring
together Flemish
and Walloon
BRUSSELS (AP) - Tens of
thousands of protesters marched
through the Belgian capital yes-
terday in support of national unity
and to demand that the rival polit-
ical groupings finally form a coali-
tion after seven months without a
government.
Organizers said the peaceful
rally in downtown Brussels - the
seat of the European Union - is
also meant to promote solidar-
ity among the country's Flemish
and Walloon communities and to
reject nationalism.
Police saidbetween 20,000 and
30,000 people took part in the
demonstration called by a group
of university students who say
they're fed up with the political
deadlock.
"We're sending a clear mes-
sage to the political leaders that
we want them to form a govern-
ment," said Felix De Clerck, one of
the organizers.
"We are sick and tired of the
enduring political impasse," said
Thomas Decreus, another orga-
nizer. He said the protest showed
"the people can act where politi-
cians fail: i.e. working together
across the language barrier" that
slices Belgium in half.
The demonstration - the result
of a Facebook campaign under the
banner "Shame. No government,
great country" - was the second
of its kind in just over three years.
On Nov. 18, 2007, around 35,000
people marched through the
capital to vent their anger about

a political deadlock that by then
was preventing the formation of a
government for 161 days.
Like in 2007, yesterday's pro-
test led demonstrators - Franco-
phones and Dutch-speakers - to
a vast stone arch in the Cinquen-
tenaire park. The arch marks
Belgium's independence from the
Netherlands in 1830.
Political parties representing
Belgium's two communities have
been unable to form a coalition
since parliamentary elections last
June - a record period of dead-
lock in postwar Europe.
Politicians have been try-
ing unsuccessfully to broker a
new constitution with increased
regional autonomy for the 6 mil-
lion Dutch-speaking Flemings
and 4.5 million French-speaking
Walloons.
The deadlock has sparked fear
that Flanders could secede from
the union formed in 1830.
Positions in Flanders have
hardened over the years, bringing
to the fore the center-right N-VA
nationalist party headed by Bart
De Wever. He is negotiating on
forming a government with the
socialist PS party, the dominant
political party in Wallonia.
In a reference to De Wever,
several demonstrators carried
pictures of cartoon charac-
ter Bart Simpson with his face
crossed out. Others carried signs
saying "Separation? Not In Our
Name," and "Less Bla-Bla, More
Results."
Many carried umbrellas, hats,
shawls and other items in the
black, gold and red colors of the
Belgian flag. "What do we want?
We want A government," they
chanted.


6A - Monday, January 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Monday, January 24, 2011 The Michigan Daily - mithigandailycom

STARTUP
From Page 1A
$250 and $100, respectively.
LSA senior Daniel Lee was one
of the students to come up with a
top 10 idea. He pitched Drunkor-
child.com, a website where users
post ambiguous stories and others
have to guess whether the person
posting is drunk or a child. The
team also launched a mobile app
for the website.
Lee said the website, which was
launched over the weekend, has
alreadybeen successful.
"We're getting posts right now,
and they're just coming in and it's
hilarious," Lee said.
Though Lee was the team lead-
er of 10 other members, he said the
project was truly a team effort.
"I didn't think of leading them,
I thought of working with them,"
Lee said. "As much as it was my
idea, I couldn't have done it with-
out them, realistically."
LSA sophomore Alex Perlman.

a member of Lee's team, said he'd
never participated in a Startup
Weekend, but was excited by the
results of his team's work.
"To leave here with a tangible
product that's operational that can
be used from now into the future
is pretty cool," Perlman said.
"Shocking, actually."
Startup Weekend was created
in June 2007 by Danny Newman
and Stan James, who felt they
needed a creative and collabora-
tive outlet to foster their inno-
vative ideas, according to the
company's website. In June 2009,
Marc Neger and Clint Nelsen took
ownership of the company, chang-
ing it to a non-profit organization.
Since its creation, Startup
Weekend has held events all
across the United States.
Last night's event also included
presentations by University alum
Michael Gaiss, senior vice presi-
dent of Highland Capital Part-
ners- a venture capital company
that guides start up companies-
and Ben Kazez. CEO of Mobiata -

a mobile software company based
in Ann Arbor. Both speakers also
served on the panel of judges.
LSA freshman Nancy Xiao, who
participated in the event, said she
had previously attended a Startup
Weekend in Seattle. As a member
of MPowered, she saidshe encour-
aged the organization to host the
event because she thought Ann
Arbor would greatly benefit from
its creative atmosphere.
"It's addictive ... I looked
around Ann Arbor and I thought,
'I have to bring it here. It is not a
choice,"' Xiao said.
While college campuses around
the country have hosted Startup
Weekend in the past, most of them
are focused on MBA students,
Xiao said. She said the University-
hosted event was unique because
it focused on undergraduates as
well as MBA students and profes-
sional entrepreneurs.
Looking toward the future,
Xiao said she hopes MPowered
can host another Startup Week-
end nextyear.

Israeli inquiry: Flotilla raid, blockade legal

I
def

JER
Israeli
the m
of any
year's
bound
the fin
repair
ing.
Nin
ists, e:
a Turk
as Isr
one of
the M
31. Th
defens
blocka

Report finds coastal strip was justified under
international law.
Srael's armed A wave of international con-
demnation of the raid forced
ense incident in Israel to ease the blockade.
The incident damaged rela-
tions with Turkey and led the
U.N. chief to order an interna-
IUSALEM (AP) - An tional investigation. Turkey
panel yesterday cleared swiftly condemned yesterday's
silitary and government report, shying it was "surprised,
'wrongdoing during last appalled and dismayed."
deadly raid on a Gaza- Israeli Prime Minister Ben-
international flotilla, but jamin Netanyahu praised the
ding appeared unlikely to inquiry.
damage to Israel's stand- "I hope all those who rushed
to judgment against Israel and
e pro-Palestinian activ- its soldiers will read this report
ight Turkish citizens and and learn the truth about what
ish American, were killed happened," Netanyahu said.
aeli commandos boarded "The truth is that our soldiers
f the ships in the flotilla, were defending our country -
lavi Marmara, last May and defendingtheir verylives."
e report said the armed The nearly 300-page report
e of Israel's maritime echoed an earlier military inves-
ide of the Hamas-ruled tigation that faulted thenplanning

and execution of the operation.
Even so, it said the blockade of
Gaza and the raid were legal and
justified.
"The actions carried out by
Israel on May 31, 2010, to enforce
the naval blockade had the
regrettable consequences of the
loss of human life and physical
injuries," read the report. None-
theless, "the actions taken were
found to be legal pursuant to the
rules of international law."
The flotilla aimed to bring
attention to the blockade of
Gaza, which Israel imposed after
Hamas militants captured an
Israeli soldier in 2006 and tight-
ened after Hamas seized control
of the territory the following
year.
Israel said the blockade was
needed to prevent Hamas, an
armed group that has fired thou-
sands of rockets at Israel, from
buildingun its arsenal.

"'KIIE" AKNGF OSK nale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000

7 BDRM. SEPT 2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 mis. walk. Free Wi-Ft.
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrn. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
cB
19 oatinsTe veYosu
Studio - 4 Bedrooms
-CentralCampus Y.Dontown
SNorth Campus rWest Side
Let Our Family Take Care of Yours'
24 hr Maint nm taf ligh Speedl nttet
734.741.9300
WWW.=Wb 10rpffbMWUt

*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
? SOLD OUT ? Don't wait to hear
these worda. Sign your lease today for
Best selection. "Spin to Win" Promo
ends on 1/31/11. Call or stop by
TODAY! 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
@ SPIN TO WIN at University Tow-
ers! FREE Internet, $$ OFF RENT, 1/2
off PROCESSING FEE AND MORE!
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
RIGHT ON CENTRAL CAMPUS.
Call us at 734-761-2680 *OFFER
1-31-
11 www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
APTS FOR FALLl2011-12!
Eff& I Bedrooms $675 - $1000; 2 bed-
rooms (3 left) $950 - $1250; Most units
include Heat and Water. Most have
Parking available for $25/m. Showings
Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm.
CapposMgmt 734-996-1991.
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE award-winning rentals in Kerry-
town, central campus, Old West Side,
Buns park. Now renting for fall. 734-
994-3157.www.arborprops.com
AVAIL Sept.'11 l&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State ldry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
AWESOME NEWER 6- Bed Rm
furn. Apts Rent 1to 6 bedrooms, per-
person leases for Fall 11. Also flex-
Leases sublets for June 11 thru Augll.-
Walk to Central Campus
www.828gree-
neapts.com 734-418-2050
CONDO AVAILABLE AT The
Ridge Tahoe, 400 Ridge Club Drive.
Sleeps 4, 1 bedroom, 1 bath, kitchen.
Apr. 3- Apr. 10, $1000. Contact
merchanj@umich.edu

RELEASE DATE- Monday, January 24, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 35 Coagule, as 50 "Out with it"
1 Where many 1 Adam'sasecond blood 51 Moscow money
knots are tied son 37 Lima's country 52 Filmdom's Flynn
6 Tabula _: blank 2 Refrain syllables 38 Get ready, briefly 53 Steakhouse
slate 3 Mouse catcher 40 British peer steak
10 Elmer's product 4 Golfer Palmer 42 Like a stroller at 57 Grimm
14 Ballerina's rail 5 Showing shame the shore, beginning
15 In _: stuck 6 Brand over shoewise 58 Oboe or bassoon
16 Bear with too-hot spaghetti 44 Movesout 59 Chief Norse god
porridge 7 Brand under the 45 Peacekeeping 60 Docs for doggies
17 Twisty-horned sink gp. since 1949 and dogies
antelope 8Spanish toans 41 Aimatian 61 Gaelic lunguae
18 Powerflwind 9 Palt USA collectile 63 Staubbed dgit
19 Tinyparmy 10 4.0, for nne:
macrm 1Abbr. . ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Comfortable 11Minnesota-based R E S ORIT A R E A A M T S
situationto live dairy cooperative I R I D E S C E N T G U R U
in, with "the" 12 Pulitzer author P
23 Anonymous Jane Sinclair
24 Research facility 13 Relaxed T A S S E D U E S CD E
25 SongwriterlNeil 21 Angle iron T A B S I N H A L E R
27 A deuce used as 22 NBA's _ Ming S I P L A M S D A R E R S
an ace, say 26 Glittery mineral C H R I S ROCK M E T O O
32 Store, as a hose 27 Breaker atthe R A I N S K 0 A L N O U N
33"Much_ About shore . ADM I T Y P S I L A N T 1
Nothin'" 28 People magazine T N O T E S E E R 0 E E C
H4 Beethsven's locus
Third 29 "Like that'slgoing C O R S E T S M A W S
36 Li'Abner's to work!" H I D D E M 9 B U S E Y
creator Al 30 Romeo or Juliet, A D I N R E D C A R P E T S
39 Went to the polls e-g. W-E A R E L E C T O R A T E
41 Cyberchuckle, 31Christian's L A L A S T o R M W A T E R
and a hint to this dresses? xwordedstorsauLcum 51/2211
puzzle's fourx
longest answers 1 2 3 45 6 1 8 s6 9 10r11 12 13
42 Cake maker
43 "Born Free" 14 15 16
lioness 17 1s 19
44 "Romeo and
Juliet"city or 21 22 23
46 Before, to
Shakespeare 24 25 26
47 "Free Willy" critter 2 24 2031 3
49 Turns on, as an
engine 3 or or o 37 n
51 What mirrors do
54 Golfer's support 39 40 41 42
55 Dot-com's
address o4 4 or or
56 Low-paying but
rewarding project 7 r a or
62Very dry, as 51 52 53 54
Champagne
64 Musical quality 55 or 5n u so o9 61
65 _ but wiser
66 Nuts 62 u3 64 6s
67 Endingforexist
68 Leavesnout 6 76
69Actressammer or n o71
70 Nat, e0g
71 Pa tor present .y chnLamn
(c)2011TribuneMediaServices,inc/2411

.TRLN 41 LUww rI aN has limited
spaces left for 2011-12. U-M's best
housing sold out early for 2010, reserve
your space today. I to 4 bedrooms, fur-
nished, per-person contracts, 2 blocks
from Central Campus and downtown.
Ask how you can receive a $150 gift
card from new ownership when you
sign for a loft by January 28th.
734-998-4400
www.4elevenlofts.com
! STERLING 411 Lofts is now offer-
ing summer only contracts from May -
August. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. Rates starting at $660.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
!! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
!!! YOUR MOM CALLED !!!
She wants you to call
Prime Student Housing!
Great Locations Still Available
For 2011-12
Fully Furnished & Free Internet
Heat, Water & Parking at most loca-
tions
(734) 761-8000 primesh.com
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11.1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM APT in house w/ bay
windows, furoiture and 2 pkg spots.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the
Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2400
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3600 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BDRM HOUSE, very nice, South
Forest & Cambridge, Fall 2011, free
parking, furnished, free laundry, large
porch, fireplace, 2 baths, new kitchen
with 2 fridges, dishwasher, etc., only a
10 minute walk to diag. $2800.
734-426-4772
7 BDRM. HOUSE. Newly remodeled
2008, top-shelf condition, MAY Lease.
2 kitch., 2.5 bath. Tons of common
space. Ldry on sight & some prkg.
oldtownrealty.net. 734-663-8989

SAVE AT LEAST
$500 PER MONTH
Why pay over $1200 per
month for a bed, when
you can pay $700 for
your ownbedroom
ON Central Campus!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1,2&3 BEDROOMS
Contact us for a tour today!
536 South Forest
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSIYrOWERS-MI.COM
"SPIN TO WIN, ASK US HOW
:AMPUSMANAGEMENT,INC.in-,
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
ractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdnms Spring and
Fall 2011. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
DO YOU LIKE FREE STUFF
WITH YOUR APARTMENT?
*Free Heat, Free Water,
Free Ethernet, Free Furniture
Free Parking, Free Maintenance!
PRIME STUDENT HOUSING
761-8000 pimesh.com
*varies by location
GREAT CAMPUS APTS!
608 Monroe - Behind S. Quad
Eff., Bi-level 1 and 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Katie at 989.666.3164 or email
608MonroeManagers@umich.edu
815 S. State - Between Arbor & Hill
Lg. 2 Bdrm. apts (over 1100 sqft. each)
Call Adam at 248.904.5562 or email
815StateMangers@umich.edu
711 Arch - Between State & Packard
1 & 2 Bdrm. apts.
Call Phil at 734.662.5270
Call above numbers or email for
showings or please stop by!
PRICED RIGHT
Reliable Maintenance
Internet Included
More for your Money
Exceptional Staff
734.761.8000
www.primesh.com
6 BDRM HOUSE + Bonus Room!
1608 Geddes. $3900. Furs. 3 Baths.
Newly renovated. Free prkg & ldry.
Dishwasher. A/C. Call 734-678-0122.
CALL US FOR ALL THE
DETAILS.
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2& 3 BEDROOMS
Contact us for a tour todaoy
536 South Forestd
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
UNIVERSmTOWERS-MI.cOM

e,
"Oro
SJ DENT Ot15I16, I MC,

www.primesh.com
Call today to see your new Home!
Apartments Going Fast!
Efficiencies:
726 S. State-1 Left
344 S. Division
1 Bedrooms:
726 S. State -2 Left
515 Lawrence- 2 Left
326 E. Madison
1000 Oakland-1 Left
520 Packard-2 Left
511 E. Hoover
2 Bedrooms:
726S. State-1 Left
1021 Vaughn
515 E. Lawrence-I Left
520 Packard-I Left
326 E. Madison
721 S. Forest
1320 S. University
411 High
819 Brown
*Fully Furnished apartments
*Parking Included
*Free Ethernet
* Free heat and water
(* At most locations)
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$595/month, water included, May
tease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
SPRING BREAK IS COMING SOON
Don't wait to hear these words....SOLD
OUT! We sold out early last year. To
get the Best Selection, NOW is the
time to secure your apartment home at:
UNIVERSITY TOWERS 734-761-
2680. www.universitytowers-mi.com
SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1 IN
STUDENT HOUSING
STUDIO - 4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail spring & fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net

0

!BARTEND! UP TO $300/DAY! We
train you! www.alliedbartenders.com.
or 888-575-TIPS (8477).
!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tiai. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 a 125.
ATTENTION U OF M Students
HOLDAY HELP
1-5 week work program, flex sched,
$16,25 base-appt, customer sales/ser-
vice,
no exp necessary, all ages 17+,
Apply now, start after finals!
734-975-7299
CHILD CARE TEACHER (fulltime)
Ypsilanti, MI provide direct care to pre-
school children of homeless families.
B.A. inearlychildhoodeducationorB.
A. in family life or education. Details
at www.soscs.org send resume and
cover letter to hr@soscs.org EOE
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @ 734-763-8773 or
tetefund.umich.edu
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2,
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
Tweet and Facebook for money to
help start-up ShoutOmatic.com, an
"Audible Status Update" form of
Social Networking.
Contact mlevy@shoutomatic.com

WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Belt Staff, Wait Staff,
Sates Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

BEST WISHES TO Brittany Duffy on
your semester abroad in Scotland! And
when you get there, can I have your #?
CONGRATULATIONS TO RYAN
Selley on your acceptance into U of M
Med School!! You're aMAIZEing!
IMMATURE MEN BOTHER-
SOME? 50-year old U-M grad (male/s-
ogle) looking for a mature fem. friend-
ship inAnn Arbor. Photo, optional. Re-
ply to thepropdrivein@gmail.com

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
Keeps BED BUGS out of sigh
Kills and Repels Bed Bugs
Non-toxic
Natural Cedar Oil Solution
WWW.SANABODY.COM

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, January 24, 2011 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, January 24, 2011 - 7A

Tuning in to show tunes

COURTESY OF MTV
"Oh wait, the zombie uprising is tomorrow?"
'Sk

Remake of British
teen show too much
for U.S. to handle
By CAROLYN KLARECKI
Magazine Editor
It seems like all teenagers do
these days is drink excessively,
have copious amounts of coitus
and overdose
on nondescript
narcotics. At *
least that's Si
what Brit-
ish teens are Pilot
doing, accord-
ing to the Mondays at10 p.m.
U.K. hit series MTV
"Skins." Over-
seas audiences just love those
deranged little narcissists, but
when MTV premiered an Amer-
ican version, people freaked out.
The American pilot is sur-
prisingly similar to its British
counterpart. Tony (newcomer
James Newman) vows to help
his best friend Stan (newcomer,
Daniel Flaherty) lose his virgin-
ity. They buy weed, they crash a
rich girl's party, someone ODs,
they steal a car and then drive
it into a lake. You know - regu-
lar, wholesome kid stuff. Clearly,
this, consequence-free shenani-
gans will be the U.S. version's
bread and butter.
When looking at the premise,
the show doesn't seem too dif-
ferent from "Degrassi," but after
only one episode, companies like
Taco Bell, GM and The Wrig-

ley Company have pulled their
advertising, claiming, "Skins"
isn't fit for their brands. Fur-
thermore, MTV execatives are
worried about potential child
pornography lawsuits that may
ensue after the third episode,
in which Tony runs bare-assed
down a suburban street. New-
man, at 17, is underage, along
with the rest of the cast.
Aside from the controversy,
though, the show isn't too ter-
rible.'The cast is almost entirely
made up of non-actors, but for
the most part, the kids deliver.
They're certainly not seasoned
professionals, and some of
the actors do simply suck, but
within the cast there are some
fresh-faced new stars emerg-
ing. Newman plays Tony with
a sinister coolness reminiscent
of Ryan Philipe from "Cruel
Intentions," Flaherty's Stan is
adorable and Michael Cera-
esque and it's not unfathomable
to imagine Rachel Thevenard,
(who plays Tony's girlfriend and
Stan's crush, Michelle) becom-
ingthe next Blake Lively.
However, the dialogue often
gets in the way of the acting.
The BBC has looser obscen-
ity policies than the FCC, so the
kids in the British version were
able to drop a "fuck" whenever
they wanted. The American
kids get bleeped out every now
and then, but mostly the writ-
ers were forced to come up with
cutesy euphemisms for sex like,
"tonight, we present Mr. Happy
with the keys to the furry city"
and "I'm gonna park my Chevy

in Michelle's garage." Nobody
talks like that - nobody.
The show has an aesthetic
unlike anything else on MTV.
Shot in Toronto, the tree-lined
streets of picturesque neighbor-
hoods and cookie-cutter subur-
ban start-ups contrast harshly
with the carpe diem lifestyle of
these teenagers. We're used to
the beaches on Jersey's shore
and L.A.'s palm trees and sky-
scrapers. Canadian suburbia
might be a teenager's prison,
but it's a nice change of pace.
Similarly, gone are the shaky
cameras and crappy sound of
MTV's reality programming as
it evolves with a scripted show.
The U.K.'s "Skins" launched
the music careers of many up-
and-coming bands and artists.
Consequently, the U.S. version
prides itself on a soundtrack
made up of songs by obscure,
underground artists, many of
which were viewer-submitted.
Should "Skins" make its way
past the controversy, it has the
potential to launch the indie
into the mainstream in thesame
way "The O.C.' once did.
The biggest problem with the
drugs and sex on "Skins" is not
that they're shocking, offensive
and immoral, but that they're
just plain false. Yes, teenagers
often make bad decisions, but
despite what MTV tells you,
most of them do understand
their actions have consequences
and they do care about things
other than themselves. But, that
just wouldn't make good televi-
sion.

have a confession to make.
I love show tunes. I've
loved them ever since I first
heard the soundtrack of Andrew
Lloyd Webber's "Joseph and the
Amazing
Technicolor
Dreamcoat."
I remember
my mother
putting the
disk in the '
family boom-
box while my
siblings and LEAH
I were wait- BURGIN
ing for the
bus one day
in elementary school. We had
never seen the musical, didn't
know the story and didn't under-
stand the difference between
a Beatles album and a musical
soundtrack - but we loved it. We
danced around in a circle chant-
ing "Go go go Joseph!" until the
bus unfortunately interrupted us.
Yeah, we were super cool.
From there, my love for show
tunes grew astronomically. I
became an Andrew Lloyd Webber
freak. I knew the words to every
song in "Cats," "Joseph," "Evita"
and "Phantom of the Opera." Not
satiated, I turned to other classics
like "Les Misdrables," "The Sound
of Music," "Fiddler on the Roof,"
"Godspell," "Hair," "Aida" and
"1776:' The list went on and on and
on. In fact, it's still growing.
As I eventually discovered,
knowing a show's music greatly
increased my enjoyment of seeing
that musical. I knew the songs
in "Hair" and "Aida" by heart
before I saw either show onstage.
Knowing the music makes per-
formances so much more familiar
and rewarding. It's like going to
a concert - if I don't know the
music, the concert doesn't always
have the same experience. When

I went,
band V
only lis
made u
band's
cert, I'
music]
or love
last yea
of theb
enjoyec
And
stand t
show ti
find th
the mo
- likes
or "My
dated,<
to cont
don't k
rey is o
conscic
shows
Plus

to see the indie hip-hop the story arc. But out of context,
Thy? a few years ago, I had it's not really listener-friendly.
tened to Alopecia, which Putting these concerns aside,
ip a small portion of the let me make my case for show
show. For most of the con- tunes and legitimize my obses-
was just bopping along to sion. First of all, "I love show
I hadn't come to appreciate tunes" is not an all-encompassing
. When I saw Why? again statement. If someone said "I love
ar, I had explored more rock music," I would assume they
sand's discography and meant "I prefer to listen to rock
d the show much more. music sometimes, but don't love
OK, OK, OK. Yes, I under- every band that falls within that
he ridiculousness of some genre or every track that bears
unes and why some people the rock moniker." The same goes
em annoying. Some of for show tunes: I like some of
re traditional show tunes them, but am definitely not mak-
songs from "Oklahoma!" ing a case for every single show
'Fair Lady" - are a bit tune ever.
and can be ... interesting For me, this genre of music
emporary listeners who - when done well - represents
now what the hell a sur- a marriage between two of the
r care about British class things I love most: music and fic-
ousness. I get that - those tion.
aren't my favorite either. When the musical's story-
, a lot of show tunes - line is good, I'm immersed in a
world completely different from
anything I will ever experience.
Listening to "Aida," I find myself
s what I sin transported back to a B.C. Egypt
chock full of love triangles, war-
S the rain. fare and an entiretrackdedicated
to underwear. "1776" takes me to
my favorite time in history, and I
can listen to the musical musings
lly the forgotten numbers of Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin
1 by the wayside in com- Franklin and other genius forefa-
n to show-stoppers like thers as they attempt to commit
mpossible Dream" - make the highest treason and declare
ely no sense out of context. independence from Great Britain.
vka," removed from the The 20th century Paris Opera
"Fiddler on the Roof" is House comes to life in "Phantom
and weird. What is Anat- of the Opera," complete with a
Why are these people nam- sexy, misunderstood, masked
dom things like hats and renaissance man.
'How is this music? The So, in order for me to appreci-
nly gains meaning within ate a musical's soundtrack, it .
text of the show's plot: It's has to have a good story. A lot of
ting and heart-wrenching famous shows - like "Annie Get
o a home that a community Your Gun," "West Side Story,"
s are being forced to leave "Wicked" and "Rent" - don't
e of anti-Semitism. In con- really hold an interest for me.
s a wonderful addition to See BURGIN, Page 8A

It's
i

especia
that fal
parisor
"The Ir
absolut
"Anate
plot of'
creepy
evka? V
ing ran
stoves?
song o
the con
a haun
adieu t
of Jews
becaus
text, it'

best of ann arbor 2011
vote online nowl
http://photo.michigandaily.comsurveysoft/index.php?sid=25161&Iang=en


8A - Monday, January 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TV Rs iEW
Harry's' is a crime

NBC's latest lawyer
show lacks logic
and realism
By JACOB AXELRAD
Daily Arts Writer
Ah, lawyer shows. It appears
that, regardless of the countless
number of courtroom dramas
strewn across
the screens of
the TV world,
our appetite Harry's Law
for characters
dueling it out Pilot
in trial will
never wane; or Mondays at1 p.m.
at least, pro- NBC
ducers will
never tire of shoving this tried
formula down our throats.
One of the latest in the genre
stars none other than the great
Kathy Bates ("Titanic") as Har-
riet "Harry" Korn in NBC's
midseason replacement "Har-
ry's Law." Created by David E.
Kelley ("Ally McBeal," "Bos-
ton Legal"), a seasoned veteran
when it comes to legal dramas,
the show denotes the strange
acts of fate that befall a recently
fired patent lawyer attempting.
to turn her life around.
Harry is unfulfilled with her
so-called "dull" life as a patent
lawyer, despite being one of the
best in the country. Evidently, her
boss senses this sentiment and
performs the gracious act of fir-
ing her. This is where things get
weird - like, absurd-plot-points-
weird.Within moments ofher fir-
ing, two near-death experiences
land Harry in the hospital (she
miraculously has no injuries or
broken bones), where she begins
to rethink her life. A few repeti-
tive voiceovers later, she has set
up shop as alawyer in a neighbor-
hood slum of Cincinnati with her
assistant Jenna (Brittany Snow,
"Hairspray") running a high-
end shoe store from the same
location. In short, she beconws a
"shoe store lawyer."
Harry subsequently decides
to lend her legal services to
the poverty-stricken individu-
als who comprise her new area
of residence. With her plucky
assistant at her side and a new-
found partner in Adam Branch
(Nathan Corddry, "United
States of Tara"), she's ready to
fight the good fight and give
a voice to criminals who, we
learn, are really just good peo-

Supernaturally boring
By PROMA KHOSLA selves an apartment that plays mal carcass a la Remus Lupin in "A
Daily TV/New Media Editor host to the.ghost Sally (newcomer Very Potter Sequel."
Meaghan Rath). She serves no real Aidan's backstory is also the
As painful as it is to admit, we purpose in the pilot other than to most compelling; by comparison,
live in the Age of the Vampire provide a third supernatural con- it looks like the writers barely
- the era of "Twilight," "True dition and a female influence in tried on behalf of the other char-
Blood" and a predominantly male cast. The acters. Josh left his family, Sally
"The Vam- ** * character starts out annoyingly misses her fianede ... boo hoo.Aid-
pire Diaries." bubbly, thrilled to finally be in the an's dark past includes a wedding
For the most Bn Human presence of beings who can see reception-turned-massacre facili-
part, the col- her. She's so annoying that when tated by a formidable Mark Pel-
lege genera- Pilot she actually cries about her condi- legrino, who does an excellent job
tion is just old d tion, the effect is too alarming to being the bad guy after trying to
enough to have Mnndays'a9 p. elicit audience sympathy. It comes keep evil at bayas Jacob on "Lost."

bypassed this -
obsession in
favor of wizards and superheroes
and other cool things. But it is this
age range that SyFy targets with
"BeingHuman," anAmericanver-
sion of the British show about a
vampire, a werewolf and a ghost
tryingto lead normal lives.
Vampire Aidan (Sam Witwer,.
"The Mist") and werewolf Josh
(Sam Huntington, "Superman
Returns") come off as an unequal
duo of male alpha and bumbling
sidekick. Josh's jokes are more
annoying than laugh-out-loud
funny, but at least his condition
allows Aidan a few deadpan one-
liners about his friend's irritability
and how lycanthropy - the ability
to transform into a werewolf - is a
"useless condition."
"Being Human" unfolds as a
bro-show for the first 10 minutes,
before Aidan and Josh find them-

off as self-pity instead of an actual
predicament. Sally and Josh both
feel too sorry for themselves to
be interesting characters, espe-
cially with Sally's mood swings
and Josh's perpetually worried
expression.
If the show is trying to send
a message about its fantastical
beasts, it's that vampires are sexy
and brooding, werewolves are
wily and unfortunate and ghosts
can't really do anything. After all
the hype about three fictitious
beasts living together, the vam-
pire takes priority. Aidan's voice
narrates the opening montage
and the episode focuses more on
him than on the other two leads.
He accidentally kills a girl in the
cold open, an incident that defines
his actions throughout the epi-
sode. This haunting crime almost
makes farce of the sight of Jpsh
waking up naked next to an ani-

Another
vampire show
with no bite.
Even though "dramedy" is
an accepted genre these days,
"Being Human" doesn't quite
know what it wants to be. Some-
where between the casually
teasing back-and-forth between
supernatural creatures and the
intense, self-pitying monologues,
it's easy to get lost between all
the characters and their baggage.
Even though we're given plenty of
backstory and suspense, there's
just too much to keep up with and
care about in the pilot. After all,
we're only human.

"Can you hear me now?"
ple who've been neglected by
society.
If the description sounds
confusing, that's because it is.
It seems that in the despera-
tion to create a somewhat-orig-
inal legal series, a variety of
gimmicks were thrown into a
blender. What came out was
a disjointed pilot that's more
likely to leave viewers gagging
than feeling any sort of emotion
toward the characters.
For starters, there are the end-
less speeches - monologue upon
monologue about life, morals and
fate is strewn about the episode,
with almost the same frequently
as Jenna's out-of-place shoe ref-
erences. Tirades about the state
of poverty and race in this coun-
try are unoriginal and take away
from any kinid of plot that could
possibly hope to develop. Harry
represents her clients in court
not, it seems, with any prior legal
knowledge, but with genuine
emotion and heart. This would
be fine for an audience that has
no idea what a courtroom is. One
only needs to watch an episode
of "Law and Order" to pick up at
least a few sentences of legal jar-
gon, while "Harry's Law" has vir-
tually none.
And sadly, Bates herself can't
save this sinking ship. While
her reputation on stage and in
film leaves no question about
her casting in the lead role, she

walks through the episode in
a stiff and stilted manner. Yes,
she's supposed to be playing a
curmudgeon, but this doesn't
excuse a lazy performance, espe-
cially from an Oscar winner.
The one saving grace comes
in the form of Corddry's Branch.
After accidentally hitting Harry
with his car, (again, the no-inju-
ries phenomenon goes unex-
plained) he, too, decides to turn
his life around - abandoning
his job as an up-and-coming
attorney at a high-powered firm
and joining Harry in defending
the downtrodden of Cincinna-
ti's streets.
Corddry easily steals every
one of his scenes with his ener-
gy, motor-mouth delivery and
sharp comic wit. Despite the
fact that he too is forced to give
sappy, unrealistic speeches, he
injects the episode with a level
of enthusiasm and candor that's
otherwise frighteningly absent.
The pilot opens with Harry
saying, "They say the moral of
the story comes at the end. But
ask me, sometimes it comes at
the top, in the middle and you
just don't get it until the end."
Unfortunately, all that we get
at the end of the "Harry's Law"
pilot is an unintelligent, unorig-
inal legal drama that haphaz-
ardly simplifies and steals from
its numerous predecessors of
court dramas.

NPeek-a-boo!"
NBCssupeherostiner

Altmans country covers shine

By ELIOT ALPERN
Daily Arts Writer
At the age of 63, Gregg All-
man has been through enough
trials and ordeals to make even
a professional
blues musi-
cian feel inad-
equate, filled Gregg
with petty Alman
problems. As a
founding mem- Low Country
ber of the '70s Blues
Allman Broth-
er's Band, he Rounder
has dealt with
the stereotypical rock star battle
with drugs and has struggled
through six divorces, including
a famous separation from Cher
after a four-year stint. His fel-
low bandmates Berry Oakley
and brother Duane Allman died
at age 24 in motorcycle accidents
(eerily, just blocks apart). In
2007, Gregg was diagnosed with
Hepatitis C, and earlier this year
he underwent a liver transplant.
Yet, through the illness, deaths
and personal problems, he found
the time and the perseverance to
concentrate his troubles into a
true-to-heart blues album.
Low Country Blues is a com-
pilation of 11 covers (including
songs originally composed by
Muddy Waters, B.B. King and
Skip James), along with one
written by Gregg Allman him-
self. None of them are fancy
or overly showy, as one might
expect from a rock god-turned-
blues veteran. There is a pure
grit and an honest vulnerability
to his approach that takes what
was once just a good voice and
makes it the weapon of a great
t I

singer. At times, Allman seems
a little in over his head (like in
R&B ballad "Please Accept My -
Love"), but it's nice to see him
stray outside of his comfort zone.,
And when he strikes the right
emotional chord, even the least
empathetic of listeners can feel
the suffering that emanates fromP
the southerner's classic blues
vocals.
From the first staggered
strums of guitar on the cover of COURTESY OF ROUNDER
Sleepy John Estes's "Floating "Blind Man," the ultimate
Bridge," Allman lets you know emotional test for any musi-
that Low Country Blues is exactly cian. Though Allman seems to
that - the blues courtesy of the hold back for the first minute,
Deep South. While the instru- he cuts loose once the music
ments generally remain constant picks up and gives the listener
throughout the album (drums, the chance to hear a singer at
guitar and piano, with the occa- his best. The following song,
sional horns and organ), it's All- "Just Another Rider," feels
man who conforms his voice to like it would fit properly in the
match the atmosphere of the Allman Brother's Band cata-
song. "Little by Little" harkens logue, but it also seems to find
a niche in Low Country Blues.
Co-written by Gregg Allman
A 11 a and bandmate Warren Haynes,
Gregg it's a clever inclusion of classic
p rsnal trials Allman Brothers in Gregg's solo
endeavor.
come through Allman seems to feel right
at home in the heartbreak and
in solo album. melancholy of a genre with roots
that date back almost to the
era of his own birth. His latest
album leads to the notion that
back to the early days of rock, he has finally found an effort in
with swinging piano and a train- which to pour his troubles. In
engine rhythm - both of which Low Country Blues, Allman has
Allman matches stride for stride. revived a sound that has limped
Yet, in the ensuing "Devil Got along since its glory days, much
My Woman," Allman is right in the same way he has revived
back with the patented torment his own solo career. Amid all his
that suits the similarly tortured troubles, Gregg Allman has cre-
instrumentation. ated something for both himself
Midway through the album, and his listeners to fall back on
Allman tackles Bobby Bland's during tough times.

By JAMIE BLOCK
Daily Arts Writer
"The Cape" is not the super-
hero show anyone deserves, nor
is it the superhero show anyone
needs right
now - or ever.
NBC has prov-
en once again The Cape
that it simply
can't handle the Pilot
supernatural Mondays at 9 p.m.
or the surreal NBC a m
"The Cape" falls
into place after
"Journeyman," all the seasons of
"Heroes" after the first, "Persons
Unknown" and "The Event" as the
network's newest terrible series
shamelessly pandering to a Com-
ic-Con fanbase.
The show's Palm City isteeming
with hero tropes: villains who talk
too much, secret societies of assas-
sins, handy sidekicks with impos-
sible technology and a band of
misfitswithheartsofgold. Thrown
into the mix isVince Faraday (Dan-
iel Lyons, "ER"), a cop framed as
being a supervillian called Chess.
After everyone in Palm City con-
veniently comes to think Faraday/
Chess was killed, the cop takes on
the hero persona of The Cape - his
son's favorite comic book hero - in
an attempt to exact vengeance on
the real Chess (James Frain, "The
Tudors") and his corrupt corpora-
tion, which threaten to turn Palm
City into a police state. There to
help is a literal carnival of bank
BURGIN
From Page 7A
Their stories are either too
bland or way over-the-top and,
just like bland or over-the-top
novels, they're not my first choice
for entertainment.
Furthermore, musicals
feature really, really talented

robbers led by escapist Max Malini
(Keith David, "ER"), and a corrup-
tion-exposing, sexy young blogger
who simply goes by Orwell (Sum-
mer Glau, "Firefly").
With all the crazy shit that goes
down in this awkward dystopian
setting; it's hard to say which is
more absurd: the implausible
events or characters' readiness to
accept it all as normal. Faraday
finds nothing strange in getting
knocked out by a trainyard explo-
sion and waking up in a distant
circus tent. He doesn't think the
idea of a bank-robbing carnival
is weird either. Masked supervil-
lains are simply accepted truths,
but a masked superhero is decid-
edly notable. And no one thinks
to ask how a random girl living
alone could amass all this impos-
sible technology nobody else has.
There's nothing wrong with pre-
senting an alternate reality for a
superhero story, but it has to be
consistent, believable and well
explained.
Throw on top of that the com-
plete lack of pacing. While comic
books are the obvious inspiration
for "The Cape," that doesn't mean
the story has to unfold like a pan-
el-by-panel barrage. It's just big
event after big event with no room
to breathe, as though the story
were written by an overeager,
comic book-reading child whose
concept of narrative structure is
throwing together as many explo-
sions, fights and one-dimensional
caricatures as possible with no
people.I can't listen to the
"Les Mis" soundtrack without
shivering when Javert and Jean
Valjean vocally duel. It still sur-
prises me that Mandy Patinkin
(who was Inigo Montoya in "The
Princess Bride") has such amaz-
ing pipes as Che in "Evita." It's
not just the orchestral portion of
the music that draws me to show
tunes - it's the vocal expertise
that these songs feature. If I

transitions beyond "and then."
Further supporting the
a-child-wrote-this theory is the
complete lack of subtext in the
dialogue. Every line is either just
a statement of what's happening
or a gimmicky, dumb joke meant
to establish character. But the
dialogue never reveals the char-
acters' inner feelings because it
would seem they have no inner
feelings. Everything is just out
on the surface, plainly stated.
And because there's never any
mystery about why these char-
acters change their identities,
forge their alliances or risk their
lives, there's nothing entertaining
about watchingthem do it all.
Capes are so
last season.
Whichever comic books the
creators of "The Cape" looked to
for inspiration did them a great
disservice. These days, com-
ics have subtext, mystery and
intrigue. They bring readers into
a potentially dark world with
complex problems and no simple
right answers. "The Cape" has no
subtext or mystery - it's a world
more goofy than it is dark - and a
boring,simplistic view ofmorality.
Not only is it a horrible TV show,
but it would make for a horrible,
comic book too.
want to listen to great guitar,
I put on Clapton, Santana or
the Dead. If I want to listen to
a great mash-up artist, I put on
Girl Talk. If I want to listen to
great classical vocals, I put on
show tunes. And I'm no longer
intimidated to admit that.
Burgin wants a castle on a cloud.
To suggest real estate options,
e-mail Irburgin@umich.edu.


: ti, ,
_ k, . ..
4'..
:.

.

f The Michigan Daily j michigandailycom ( January 24,2011
WA RM UP THE SLEDS

Michigan 2
Alaska O
Michigan 4
Alaska 3
Nanooks
si i sent back
to Alaska
empty-
handed after
\ weekend
sweep
SAMANTHA TRAUBEN/Daily
It's not always pretty, but
'M'is gutting out wins

The Michigan hockey team celebrates its ninth win in its last ten games Saturday night over Alaska.
Despite shoddy defense,
Ices grab weekend sweep

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
Ibo ten that the Wolver-
ines learn a lesson from the Spar-
tans.
Two weeks ago, Michigan
State scored back-to-back goals
with a two-man advantage to
beat the Michigan hockey team
in overtime. Michigan coach Red
Berenson tooknote.
And after No.6 Michigan's 4-3
victory on Saturday, in which it
killed off a five-on-three late in
the third period, the Wolverines
proved how much they learned in
two weeks.
"We had to do some serious
work on it a couple of weeks ago
to get our players to understand
how to handle that five-on-

three," Berenson said. "Then it's a gan territory - this time having
matter of a sense of urgency." just a five-on-four power play
with abottft inihiut~eft -and foundft s a
and Michigan clingig to aene- shooting Vine from thepoint.
goal lead Saturday, the crowd Senior forward Carl Hagelin
erupted. A day after the Wolver- charged out and dove to block
ines beat the Nanooks 2-0, the the shot. Langlais quickly found
student section jumped up and the loose puck and sent it down
down like a fishing bobber in the the ice - increasing the roar
water. of the already raucous Yost Ice
A slight rumble took over the Arena crowd.
building as the rest stomped "We were all pretty tired
their feet. The cheers weren't but when we heard the crowd
for a goal or a save: only a simple every time we dumped it in their
clear down the ice. zone, we went crazy just like the
Facing 57 seconds of a two- crowd," Hagelin said.
man disadvantage, the puck The body-flying, back-
squirted towards the boards against-the-wall defense was
near the faceoff circle. Senior the redeeming act of a team that
Chad Langlais dove and swat- struggled in their own zone the
ted the puck down the ice. The whole weekend. Michigan (14-
Nanooks came back into Michi- See SWEEP, Page 3B

Before boarding a plane
for Fairbanks, Alaska
in early November,
Michigan coach Red Berenson
compared the Alaska defense to
a pack of musk oxen.
Yes, those
very wooly
beasts from
the frozen
Alaskan
tundra.
Berenson
explained
that the STEPHEN J.
defense's
tendency to NESBITT
herd around
the net to
minimize the risk of an offen-
sive attack mimicked the strate-
gies of the musk oxen.

But by the time the Yost Ice
Arena student section finished
chanting "Warm up the sleds"-
after the Michigan hockey
team's 4-3 victory on Saturday,
the Nanooks had lumbered to
the dressing room dually defeat-
ed - both swept by the Wolver-
ines and knocked back to eighth
in the conference standings.
Michigan has sent several
teams home empty-handed
recently, including a pair of
sweeps against.Ferris State and
Alaska in the past two week-'
ends. More impressively, the
Wolverines are beating good
defenses - the Bulldogs and
Nanooks were Nos. 1 and 4 in
the conference, respectively -
picking them apart for 15 total
goals.

"They're a good team, boy,
they're a good team," Berenson
-said of Alaska. "I thought we
played pretty"well when we got
the puck in their zone. But they
really exploited us when they
got the puck."
Since the beginning of
December, the Wolverines have
gone unbeaten in regulation
with a record of 10-2-0 - the
two losses came in. overtime
fashion against Ohio State and
Michigan State. And just two of
those wins have been one-goal
victories.
After struggling to maintain
a cohesive attack from night to
night in the first half of the sea-
son - Michigan entered early
December with a 2-4-2 record
See NESBITT, Page 3B


ICE HOCKEY
Blue 'scoring
by committee'

Wolverines battle, but drop sixth-straight
game at the hands of No.15 Minnesota

W By CASANDRA PAGNI
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan coach Red Beren-
son dubbed it "scoring by com-
mittee," but senior forward
Scooter Vaughan simply tagged
it as "awesome." Call it what-
ever you want, but any way you
look at it, it's simple.
Couple the fact that the Wol-
verine defensemen have 20
goals so far this season with the
fact that three of Michigan's
four lines have been clicking,
recently, and it doesn't take a
rocket scientist to see the con-
nection between the Wolver-
ines' timely secondary scoring
and their recent victories.
In its back-to-back weekend
sweeps, No.6 Michigan received
offensive production from all
over the ice - with nine players

tallying at least one point in this
weekend's sweep.
In the Wolverines' 2-0 Friday
night shutout over the Nanooks,
sophomore defenseman Lee
Moffie and freshman defense-
man Jon Merrill scored the only
goals for the Wolverines.
Moffie's goal was his fourth
of the season and third in two
weekends - he earned CCHA
defensemen of the week honors
for his two-goal series against
Ferris State last weekend -
while Merrill carried over his
success into Saturday night's
contest.
Merrill scored just 1:15 into
the first period to get Michi-
gan (14-4-1-0 CCHA, 17-6-4
overall) out to the early lead.
Merrill's two-goal weekend
performance against Alaska
See COMMITTEE, Page 3B

By BEN ESTES stops, though, continually cut-
Daily Sports Writer ting into Minnesota's lead only
to see the Gophers respond
From the opening tip, it was immediately.
clear that the Michigan team It was a balanced effort that
that took the court Saturday downed the Wolverines. Four
night against Minnesota wasn't Gophers scored in double dig-
the same its, though none scored more
group that MINNESOTAN 64 than 13. Michigan had success
got blown against Minnesota (4-3, 15-4)
out at Indi- last season, finishing 2-0 in
ana and Northwestern in its last their season series, aided by the
two games. absence of Al Nolen.
But improved play didn't In Saturday's game, the
result in a win for the Wol- Gopher point guard sat out
verines. The Michigan men's the entire second half after
basketball team fell to the 15th- injuring his right ankle. This
ranked Golden Gophers, 69-64, time around his absence didn't
at Crisler Arena. matter, as the Wolverines suc-
The two teams' offenses cumbed to Minnesota's deep
struggled at times - Minne- lineup.
sota shot 63.4 percent from the "They got a lot of good play-
field but had 17 turnovers. Each ers," redshirt freshman forward
started trading baskets late in Jordan Morgan said after the
the game, as the Wolverines game. "They do a really good
scrambled to come back. job of finding the best shot for
Michigan (1-6 Big Ten, 11-9 everybody. It's not one person
overall) just couldn't get enough See MINNESOTA, Page 3B

ANNA ScHULTE/Daily
Juniorguard Stu Douglass had a team-high six assists and had two 3-point-
ers as the Wolverines dropped to1-6 in the Big Ten.


TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE
The Michigan men's basketball team
has found itself in a slump with the recent
performances of sophomore point guard
Darius Morris. Page 4B

BOILER DOWN
The Michigan women's basketball
team picked up its third-straight win
yesterday against a talented Purdue
squad. Page 2B


2B - January 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.con I

T A'M' rolls Boilermakers
for third-straight win

f

By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Writer
The last time the Michigan
women's basketball team played
Purdue, it_
lost by one PURDUE 45
after miss- MICHIGAN 57
ing a last-
second shot. That loss snapped
a three-game winning streak
and put the Wolverines in a bit
of a funk. That was a different
day, a different arena, and as
evidenced by Michigan's win
on Sunday, a different Michigan
team all together.
The Wolverines beat Purdue
57-45 on Sunday at Crisler Arena
in a resounding victory that
vaults them into a second-place
tie with Penn State in the Big
Ten. Michigan (5-2 Big Ten, 12-7
overall) harassed the Boilermak-
ers (4-4, 13-7) all night, leading
to 20 turnovers and countless
forced shots. The Wolverines
never let Purdue get comfort-
able - they controlled the game
in one of their best defensive
efforts of the year.
"They beat us, but it just didn't
seem right," senior guard Veron-
ica Hicks said after the game.
"We felt like we should have
won that game, but you have to
credit them, they did good on
their home court. We felt like we
needed to return that."
Hicks is the team's leading
scorer and rebounder, but she
had an off-night offensively,
scoring only seven points on

25-percent shooting. It didn't
matter though, as the Wolver-
ines found other ways to win.
Hicks played shutdown defense
and kept many possessions alive
with her hustle and offensive
rebounding. She grabbed seven
rebounds - four of them offen-
sive - and hounded the Boiler-
makers' post players all night.
"It's something I've been key-
ing on recently, just trying to
get to the boards," Hicks said.
"Coach says, 'You aren't going
to get the rebounds you don't go
for."'
Fortunately for Michigan,
other players stepped up on
offense, including Sam Arnold.
The sophomore forward
scored 13 points, including seven
straight to open up the second
half. Arnold had played a com-
bined 18 minutes in the Wolver-
ines' previous three games, but
Michigan coach Kevin Borseth
gave her an early opportunity
after Hicks quickly picked up
two fouls.
"The kid can obviously do
some things on the offensive end
of the court," Borseth said. "She
gets it."
Along with Arnold, Michigan
also got major offensive con-
tributions from its forwards.
Sophomore Rachel Sheffer and
junior Carmen Reynolds each
scored 11 points, to make the
Purdue defenders pay for leaving
them open from 3-point range.
They made two 3-pointers each,
which opened up the paint for

driving Wolverine guards, and
this space allowed junior guard
Courtney Boylan to tally si
assists.
But for the Wolverines,
defense was the key. Purdue
shot 38 percent from the floor,
including a paltry 15 percent
frombeyond the 3-point arc. The
Wolverine defenders, especially
sophomores Kate Thompson and
Jenny Ryan, consistently had a
hand in the face of Boilermaker
shooters. Michigan gave up very
few easy points and challenged
every Purdue shot, to the point
where the Boilermakers were
hesitant to shoot, even in the
rare event at an open shot. The
Boilermakers tried to pound the
ball inside almost every posses'
sion, but the Wolverines werd
having none of it.
"They were trying to throw
it inside at every imaginable
opportunity, just overload ant
try to throw it in," Borsetl1
said. "In the first half, they had
success with it, but I thoughi
defensively we made a good
adjustment."
Michigan has now reeled off
three straight wins, with contri
butions coming from all over the
court. The jury was out on how
the injury to starting sophomore
guard Nya Jordan would affect
the Wolverines, but so far, the
team has fared well. Many of
the team's unsung heroes have
stepped up, putting Michigan it
the driver's seat heading into the
heart of the Big Ten season.

0

Senior Shawn Hunwick has gone 8-1-0 since taking over the starting goalie position at The Big Chill at the Big House.
Hunwic not your
average underdog story

There's an awfully large
distinction that often
goes unnoticed when
it comes to underdog stories in
sports.
You know the general gist of
the story: An unlikely character
goes against the odds, whether it
be physically or mentally, works
extremely
hard and
makes the
best of his
or her one >
chance.
Last sea-
son, that guy d
was Shawn RYAN
Hunwick. A KARTJE
5-foot, 7-inch
goaltender on
the Michigan
hockey team who looked like be
had no business standing between
the pipes at Yost Ice Arena. At
times, I swore the net would just
envelop the pint-size goalie - a
hockey player who was on the
team simply because his brother
Matt had suggested he could fill
Michigan's final goalie spot.
Hunwick who barely reached
the height requirement for riding
all the roller coasters at Cedar
Point, had almost singlehandedly
jumpstarted a bottom-feeding
CCHA team all the way to the
NCAA regional finals. Michigan
coach Red Berenson, a man not
known to overstate anything,
called him "Rudy" on more than
one occasion.
The fact of the matter is that
after the charming, delightful
story ends, the tale of the under-
dog justisn't as cute anymore.
Underdogs tend to have a
limited shelf life. Take the bas-
ketball team a few years ago.
With Manny Harris playingthe
bestbasketball of his career and

DeShawn Sims doing nearly the
same, the Wolverines were a few
buckets away from the Sweet 16.
It was a feel-good story ... until
they stumbled the next season to
a sub.-500 record.
The NCAA is riddled with
underdogs-gone-wrongthe fol-
lowing season. Take everyone's
favorite college basketball story:
George Mason's 2005-2006 sea-
son. The Patriots made it all the
way to the NCAA Championship
game as a No.11 seed - the first
time that's ever happened. But the
Patriots faltered the next season,
barely finishing over .500 and
missing the tournament.
The story is not all thatuncom-
mon, and this year, I expected
nothing more than that same
underdog-turned-hero, second-
year slump from Hunwick.
But Hunwick has proved, ever
since his emergency start in The
Big Chill at the Big House, that he
is capable of breakingthatunder-
dog mold.
The senior goalie was the
unheralded hero of the event -
tallying his first shutout of the
season, on34 shots faced. It was
easily one of the most nerve-
wrackingstarts of his career,
and Hunwick's performance was
strikingly similar to his level of
play when Michigan caught fire
late last season.
Since then, Hunwick has been
the nation's hottestgoalie -
sounds familiar, eh? - winning
eight of his last nine starts, with
his only loss coming in overtime
to Michigan State.
And with Michigan's history
of backup goalies outperform-
ing starting goalies, it has to be a
breath of fresh air for Berenson
to see the guy performing up to
expectations.
When Billy Sauer couldn't per-

form in net two years ago, it was
Bryan Hogan who the Wolverines
rallied around. The next season,
Hogan faltered and Hunwick
came through in the clutch. It was
an anomalythat didn't even make
sense to Berenson himself.
Hunwick is breaking that mold
this year - albeit after starting
fairly slow - and it could mean
the difference between a regional
final loss like lastyear and a Fro-
zen Four berth in St. Paul.
You see, when your underdog
stories grow into full-on success
stories, then you know your team
is in good shape. Unearthing a
hidden success is one of the key
ingredients in many champion-
ship teams of the past.
After his 37-save effort against
Alaska-Fairbanks on Friday, a
game that he won on his own
merits, it's pretty clear that
Shawn Hunwick is no longer an
underdog or a cute story. He's a
hot goalie that teams will have to
startegameplanning for when they
play the Wolverines.
That's a dangerous weapon in
hockey, especially in the post-
season. And as Hunwick con-
tinues to play the best hockey of
his short career, his underdog
story is beginning to morph into
something a little different than
your run-of-the-mill, feel-good
tale.
That's whyI'm calling dibs on
the book deal right now. And if/
when Hunwick leads Michigan
to an NCAA Championship, his
story might be one of those you
tell your kids about 20 years from
now.
If that does happen, be sure to
pick up my book, slated for fall
2013.
- Kartje can be reached
at rkartje@umich.edu

0
0

Sophomore forward Sam Arnold scored a team-high 13 points off the bench in the Wovlerines' win over Purdue.
BIue finds a way to win,
despite poor shooting

GO TO MICHIGANDAILY.COM
for more coverage on this past weekend's games.
FOLLOW @MICH DAILYSPORTS FOR BREAKING NEWS AND
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE COVERAGE OF 'M' ATHLETICS

a I

 r

"Yost Ice Arena
anfd
PLizzcd Boba
prins~t

*LiveeConcerts
-VIP Parties
" Beautiful Beaches
" Cliff Jumping
" Spectacular Sunsets

By CAITLIN SMITH
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team shot just 35 per-
cent from the field in its 57-45
win over Purdue on Sunday.
Outside shooting is generally
a significant part of Michigan's
offensive game, but the Wol-
verines (5-2 Big Ten, 12-7 over-
all) found other ways to secure
a win - focusing on strong
defensive pressure, rebound-
ing and out-right aggression to
avenge a one-point loss to the
Boilermakers earlier this sea-
son.
Senior guard Veronica Hicks
was a dominant presence on the
court, but not just according
to numbers. Hicks - coming
off of two consecutive double-
doubles - struggled offensively
in the first half, as Purdue (4-4,
13-7) held her scoreless.
"I think that to start the
game I was just really trying to
find a rhythm," Hicks said after
Sunday's game. "I was getting
into the paint pretty easily, but
I wasn't really looking to score.
"I saw my teammates fan-
ning out and they had some nice

looks so I figured I'd pass the job on the post defense, mak-
ball around a little bit." ing sure they didn't get as many
But Hicks still managed lobs," Hicks said. "And I think
to contribute in other ways, on the perimeter side, we made
snagging seven rebounds. She sure we were active and played
said that she has recently been half the distance between our
focused on her effort to get to man on the ball and were able
the boards, and it has shown in to get our hands on some stuff."
the past few games - she has Michigan also forced 20 Boil
snagged more than 10 rebounds ermaker turnovers, which cul-
in each of the Wolverines' last minated in 14 points.
three games. "That's a huge thing for
us," Hicks said of the turn-
overs. "It's a big deal, espe-
cially because we are a little bit
"Any way that smaller sometimes and we get
beat on the boards. So anyway
we can get the that we can get the ball fron
them on the defensive end is
ball from them big."
s b." Michigan displayed aggres-
... 1i lg." sive play in both halves against
Purdue - a feat it has occasion-
ally struggled to do this season
- and hustle play proved to be
But Hicks wasn't the only successful.
aggressive Wolverine against As the Wolverines, who are
the Boilermakers. Michigan currently tied for second in the
increased its defensive pressure Big Ten with Penn State, con-
as a team, tallying seven steals tinue to notch wins and work
and four blocks. their way to the top of the con-
"I think that (sophomore ference, Michigan proved it
forwards) Rachel Sheffer and could rely less on shooting to
Samantha Arnold did a great secure a win.

ThursdLj, Januarj c27th
8:00 - c3:50 PM
~lVMzS F-st Pumpin Music
Prize-= for Best Drewsspd & Best Hcelil
cress up & visit our F:scebook
page to get cd F-ree Skate Rentat couponi
www.umich.edu/tiost


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

January 24, 2011 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom January 24, 2011 - 38

MEN'S BASKETBALL SWEEP
BIG TEN ROUNDUP From Page1B

Here's what's happened
in Big Ten basketball this
past week.
SUNDAY JAN.23
No. 18 Wisconsin78 at Northwestern 46
Indiana 77 at Iowa 91
SATURDAY JAN.22
No.1 Ohio State 73 at No. 23 Illinois 68
No.15 Minnesota 69 at Michigan 64
No.17 Michigan State 76 at No.14 Purdue
86
THURSDAY JAN.20
SIUE 55 at Northwestern 98
Indiana 60 at No.18 Wisconsin 69
WEDNESDAY JAN.19
Iowa 48 at No.1 Ohio State 70
Penn State 62 at No.14 Purdue 63
TUESDAY JAN.18
No.17 Michigan State 62 at No. 23 Illinois 71
Michigan 60 at Northwestern 74
BIG TEN STANDINGS
1) No.1lOhio State (7-0)
2) No. 14 Purdue (6-1)
3) No.18 Wisconsin (5-2)
4) No. 23 Illinois (4-3)
5) No.17 Michigan State (4-3)
6) No. 15 Minnesota (3-3)
7) Penn State (3-4)
8) Northwestern (3-5)
9) Michigan (1-6)
10) Iowa (1-6)
11) Indiana (1-6)
ICE HOCKEY
CCHA ROUNDUP
Here's what's happened
in CCHA hockey this
past week.
SATURDAY JAN.22
Alaska 3 at No.6 Michigan 4
No.8 Notre Dame 4 at Ohio State 1
No.12 Miami 4 at Michigan State 0
Western Michigan 4 at Lake Superior State 4
Ferris State 1 at Northern Michigan 3
FRIDAY JAN. 21
Alaska 0 at No.6 Michigan 2
No. 8 Notre Dame 1 at Ohio State 6
Western Michigan 2 at Lake Superior State 2
Ohio State 2 at Western Michigan 4
Ferris State 1 at Northern Michigan 2
CCHA STANDINGS
1) No. 6 Michigan (43 pts.)
2) No. 8 Notre Dame (41 pts.)
3) No. 12 Miami (36 pts.)
4) Northern Michigan (29 pts.)
4) Western Michigan (29 pts.)
4) Ferris State (29 pts.)
7) Ohio State (28 pts.)

8) Alaska (27 pts.)
9) Lake Superior State (22 pts.)
10) Michigan State (20 pts.)
11) Bowling Green (8 pts.)
WANT MORE
DAILY SPORTS
COVERAGE?
Visit
www.michigandaily.com
for daily updates on your
favorite Michigan sports.
AND FOLLOW US
ON TWITTER
@MICHDAILYSPORTS

4-1-0 CCHA, 17-6-4 overall)
gave up 76 shots during the
two games - the most in a two
game stretch this series. Senior
goalie' Shawn Hunwick was
forced to make a number saves
on odd-man rushes after the
Wolverines turned the puck
over when breaking out.
But in both games, Michi-
gan bailed itself out with other
aspects of its play - Friday
night it was Hunwick and on
Saturday it was the Wolverines'
offense.
After Friday's game Beren-
son said Hunwick had "earned
this shutout more than he
should have to."
With the game 0-0, Alaska's
Joe Sova jumped out of the
penalty box into an immediate
breakaway. Hunwick made the
second period stop to keep the
game scoreless. He followed it
up with a number of stops on
point-blank shots to preserve
the lead.
Saturday, the Wolverines
scored four goals in the first
two periods, before playing

more conservatively in the
third. After freshman defen-
seman Jon Merrill scored the
first goal of the game, the teams
alternated scoring. Every time
the Nanooks (7-9-4-2, 10-10-4)
scored, Michigan responded
within the next six minutes,
despite launching 17 fewer
shots on net.
Senior forward Scooter
Vaughan's shot off the faceoff
late in the second period'-
beating Alaska goalie Scott
Greenham far side - was the
deciding marker. The goal made
up for a shorthanded marker
given up, in which a turnover
allowed Alaska's Cody Kunyk
to takea pass and out-skate two
Wolverines to the net.
"We didn't come back hard
enough so they got some three-
on-twos," Hagelin said. "In
the second period we turned
the puck over a lot on our blue
line and obviously you're going
to get chances if you turn the
puck over."
Michigan also had its fair
share of luck. Alaska had a goal
called off in the third period
Saturday for goaltender inter-
ference and had a couple more
shots go through the crease.

Senior Louie Caporusso reaches for a loose puck against Alaska.

Early in Friday's game, another
turnover created a 2-on-O for
Alaska, but after Nanook for-
ward Kevin Petovello deked
Hunwick, he hit the side of the
open net.
The Wolverines extended

their winning streak to five
games, finding a way to win
both games despite poor play
in their own zone.
"I think it's a good thing,"
Berenson said. "You're play-
ing to win the game. You've got

to find a way to win and you
want all your players to play
well, but if enough of our play-
ers play well enough ... We had
a lot of guys playing hard, but
our team didn't play as well as
it needed to."


MINNESOTA
From Page 1B
looking for his shot - they're
trying to get the best shot for
theirteam."
Early on, Michigan took
control by taking advantage of
Minnesota's sloppiness - the
Gophers had four turnovers by
the first media timeout.
And the Wolverines
responded by firing from the
outside. Junior guard Zack
Novak made three 3-pointers
in the first half, the last giving
Michigan itsbiggest lead of the
night, 24-15.
But Minnesota slowed down
Michigan's attack by switch-
ing to a 2-3 zone on defense.
The Wolverines still managed
to shoot 46.4 percent in the
second half, but their offense
often stagnated against the
zone. Players struggled to find
openings and rarely got the
ball inside.
"We're not super quick,"
Michigan coach John Beilein-
said. "We really have trouble
getting into gaps sometimes ...
I liked some of the shots that
we got. Some other times, we
did not do very well.
"It's more than a schematic
issue. Man to man, they're
bigger than us, and it affected
us. We had those open ones
to start the second half, (but)
we didn't make them and they
did."
Minnesota held Michigan
scoreless for just over seven
minutes - from the 2:18 mark
of the first half until there was
14:44 remaining in the game.
The Wolverines didn't have
a field goal in the second half
until nearly seven minutes had
elapsed afterthebreak.
And while Michigan stayed
mostly on the perimeter, the
Gophers attacked inside, led
by rugged forward Trevor
Mbakwe's 10 points in the first
half. The Gophers scored 38
points in the paint, compared
to just 18 for Michigan.
And the Wolverines went
just 5-of-16 from deep in the
second period. By the time

COMMITTEE
From Page 1B
marked his first two lamplight-
ers since he scored two in The Big
Chill at the Big House on Dec.11.
"It's awesome (to see the defen-
semen score)," Vaughan said.
"Merrill, Pateryn, Burlon - I
think they're all above 10 points,
which is phenomenal for a defen-
seman. They're all playing well.
It's good when you can throw the
puck back to the (defense) off a
cycle and you know they're going
to get it through, it's not going to
get blocked. We have a lot of con-
fidence in our (defense) and they
are showing it on the ice."
While the defensemen have
chipped in 20 goals and 52 assists
this season, the Wolverine offense
has also been aided recently by
different contributors from each
of its four lines.
Senior forward Carl Hagelin
leads the team offense with 13
goals and 22 assists - a role that
many expected him to be in at the
start of this season. Hagelin has
been a consistent offensive threat
this campaign and is a big reason
why Michigan's offense is ranked
tenth in the nation. The Wolver-
ine captain is currently on a nine-
game point streak and earned an
assist on five of Michigan's six
weekend goals. But aside from
Hagelin, the Wolverines have
recently benefitted from a variety
of players' offensive production.
En route to Michigan's 4-3
victory over the Nanooks, senior
alternate captain Matt Rust got
the monkey off his back, scoring
with five minutes remaining in
the first period to give the Wol-
verines their second lead of the

game.
Rust plays on a line with Hage-
lin and sophomore forward Chris
Brown. While Hagelin has been
the scorer as of late, both Brown
and Rust picked up ' goals this
weekend. Rust hadn't scored
a goal since mid-November,
despite playingstrong during that
drought.
"(Rust) has a huge impact on
the top line, mostly defensively
but also offensively," Berenson
said after Friday's game. "They
were on the ice for both of the
goalsthat we scored. He's a part of
that. He was screening the goalie
on Jonny Merrill's shot. Rust is
doing a lot of things - faceoffs,
penalty killing. I mean, he's a
team player on our team and he's
playing like it."
The senior finished the week-
end with a 1-1-2 line and a plus-2
rating each night.
Also adding to the offense
this weekend was Vaughan, who
netted his ninth of the season
on Saturday. Vaughan's goal in"
the middle of the second period
proved tobe the game-winner.
For Berenson, the offense is
still a work-in-progress, but he
can't help but be pleased with the
load that some Wolverines have
put on their shoulders as of late
to help out their slumping team-
mates.
"I don't think we're consistent
enough to say that we rely on one
line anymore," Berenson said on
Saturday. "You've seen all year,
we're scoring by committee. Our-
defense is stepping up and they're
providing offense and they did
again (on Saturday). We have a lot
of guys that think they should be.
scoring that aren't, but that still
can."

ANNA SC
Freshman Tim Hardaway Jr. led all scorers with his 20 points
gan's loss to No.15 Minnesota.

they
with
to sco
was t
Addit
and f
Smotr
ble, M
middl
i"
n
a
An
seeme
answe
duo h<

started getting inside, "Now that (Smotrycz and
Minnesota continuing Morgan) are up against bigger
re with ease, the deficit bodies, people just see it and
too much to overcome. get us right away," Beilein said.
ionally, with Morgan "We've been over this. We
reshman forward Evan showed it in film today. It's just
rycz again in foul trou- habits. We've done everything
Michigan was thin in the that I can imagine and we just
e. got to stay with it."
Michigan fought until the
end, finding itself down by just
five points with 18 seconds
[e just really left. But the young Wolverines
could only watch as the Golden
eed to take Gophers sealed the game from
the free-throw line.
rood look at "We're never satisfied with
a loss," Smotrycz said. "It
ourSelVeS." doesn't matter whether it was
one point or in overtime. It
doesn't matter.
"We just really need to take
exasperated Beilein a good look at ourselves in the
ed to be running out of mirror, and say the season can
ers to teach the young either turn from here, or keep
ow to avoid silly fouls. going the same way."


U-M Computer Showcase
Michigan Union - Pierpont Commons
http://showcase.itcs.umich.edu - www.apple.com/education

NESI
From
on Fr
on Sa
ines
trend
can p
series
It
SCC
key
t
Gra
well c
saw b
Saturc
goal
perio
senior
But it
has k

around and current five-game
BITT winning streak. On Saturday,
Page lB it was senior forward Scooter
Vaughan - the surprise per-
idays compared to 7-0-2 former of the season so far
turdays - the Wolver- - who played hero. His ninth
have finally broken the goal of the season late in the
and proven that they second period was the Wol-
ut together a complete verines' fourth and final goal
y. of the night.
Any way you look at it,
Michigan is a different team
than the 26-man squad that
's the clutch faltered in a season-opening
tie with Mercyhurst. And the
ringthat has program is light years ahead
red the team's of the where it was a year ago
- a CCHA bottom feeder at
urnaround 9-9-1-0 before making a late-
season turnaround.
This team has learned how
to win, and the bandwagon
anted, Michigan very isn't slowing down. They
ould have lost the see- aren't necessarily blowing
'attle against Alaska on teams away, but the Wolver-
day. The Nanooks had a ines are gutting out victories
disallowed in the third with quick, gritty, physical
d and threw 40 shots at Michigan hockey.
'goalie Shawn Hunwick. In addition, Michigan is
's the clutch scoring that winning largely without the
eyed the team's turn- expected offensive production

from the likes of Louie Capo-
russo, Matt Rust and Chris
Brown - three of the top four
returning goal scorers from
last year - who have added a
combined 15 goals this season,
well below their 47 goals last
season.
But the Wolverines have
Carl Hagelin and Shawn Hun-
wick, and you couldn't ask
for much more. Hagelin has
tallied 19 points over the past
nine games, while Hunwick
has returned to last postsea-
son form, making 73 saves
against the Nanooks.
With just nine conference
matchups remaining, the
Wolverines are in first place
in the CCHA, and couldn't be
hotter.
This weekend, Michigan
took care of a pack of musk
oxen. Next up, a mob of Spar-
tans.
- Nesbitt can be reached at
stnesbit@michigandaily.com and
wants you to look for Quick Hits
with Chris Brown later this week.


4B - January 24, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ANNA SCHIL
Sophomore point guard Darius Morris has struggled during Big Ten play this season after a stellar non-conference start.
The question or opposing
Big Ten coacheS has changed

In loss, four post
players fail to
record rebound
By ZAK PYZIK Smotrycz - who is found much
Daily Sports Editor more on the perimeter than in
the paint - had one rebound.
Michigan men's basketball After the Wolverines shot
coach John Beilein walked out 12-for-35 from beyond the arc, it
of the locker room afterthe Wol- wasn't as though they had noth-
verines' 69-64 loss to Minnesota ing to rebound. Michigan shot a 0
on Saturday earlier than normal. measly 34 percent from 3-point
Assistant coach LaVall Jordan range and 43 percent from the
stayed with field.
the players, NOTEBOOK "we had some kids that
holding his stepped up and rallied for
own team meeting - one that the team and did some good
didn't involve Beilein. things," Minnesota coach Tubby
Media waited outside the Smith said. "The good things -
locker room longer than usual rebounding the ball. I thought
for this meeting to end, and we dominated the boards."
when the doors finally opened LINEUP LIMBO: As the season
every Michigan player was has progressed and as Michigan
stone-faced. has continued to lose games,
"He didn'tgonegative,"junior Beilein has been experimenting
guard Stu Douglass said of Jor- with his rotations more often.
dan's locker room speech. "He Regardless of whether the
did not go overboard. Coaches reason for the lineup changes
are telling it how it is. They are is foul trouble or experimen-
not going to sugarcoat anything. tation, in Michigan's contest
They said we really have to take against Minnesota, the Wol-
pride in the jersey andtcome verines fiddled with some new
together as a team ... He said looks.
were just not playing together." At one point during the first
The Wolverine offense has half, Michigan had just one
most recently struggled to play starter - freshman Tim Hard-
consistently. Missing shots and away Jr. - on the floor. Hard-
making mistakes in transition away Jr. was accompanied by
have haunted them. Douglass, McLimans, Christian
"I don't think we're playing and sophomore Matt Vogrich,
entirely selfish, but I do think who had only seen the floor as
sometimes we are not playing Hardaway Jr.'s substitute.
for the team," Douglass said. "We see everything in prac-
"That's what we talked about." tice," Vogrich said: "At practice
With the loss to the Golden we mess around with all types
Gophers, Michigan (1-6 Big Ten, of lineups, it doesn't matter. You
11-9 overall) has dropped its last never know what we'll have to
six games. Its next contest will do if we get in foul trouble, or
come against Michigan State on maybe just something else is
Thursday in East Lansing. working against what they're
BIG MEN BLUNDERS: doing."
Despite the fact that at least But seeing Vogrich and Hard-
one of the Wolverines' four away Jr. on the floor simul-
post players - redshirt fresh- taneously was not the only
men Jordan Morgan and Blake oddity. Against the Golden
McLimans and freshmen Jon Gophers, McLimans and Chris-
Horford and Colton Christian tian were in the paint together,
- was on the floor at all times, also.
each of them failed to collect a "We had foul trouble," Beilein
single rebound. said after the game. "Blake
"(The Gophers are) just a big, (McLimans) had played pretty
physical team, and they just well in practice, so we wanted
asserted themselves," Morgan to give him a shot in there. We
said. "It's a whole team effort. had some guys in foul trouble
It's not just down low. That's and Zack (Novak) needed a rest
a large part of it, but we need at that time. We couldn't go with
everyone tryingtheir best to just Evan (Smotrycz) because Evan
clean up on rebounds." (Smotrycz) was already in foul
Minnesota outrebounded trouble, so Colton (Christian)
Michigan, 38-13, which marked played. (I) thought he did a good
the firsttime all season that none job. What he could do, only three
of the Wolverine forwards had a or four minutes, couldn't really
single rebound. Freshman Evan have a big impact."

All the hype at the begin-
ning of this year was
about how good of a sum-
mer sopho-
more point
guard Darius
Morris had.
Everyone
said he was
going to be the
glue to bind
the Michigan
men's bas- CHANTEL
ketball team JENNINGS
together -
which was
fine, because that's what a point
guard should be. He should be
the coach on the floor, the guy
that makes everyone around lPnh
better.
And at the beginning of the
season, that's how it looked.
Then he was left off the Cousy
Award Watchlist - an award
given to the top point guard in the
country - and everyone inAnn
Arbor was up in arms.
But Morris didn't pay attention.
He said he didn't care aboutthe
personal accolades as long as the
team was winning.
Then the team stopped win-
ning and that little nugget of
doubt began to creep up in every-

one's minds - maybe he's not
as good as we thought, maybe
he only plays well againstlesser
competition, maybe his summer
wasn'tthatgreat.
Once the Big Ten schedule
started, his numbers took a hit -
he didn't appear to be the same
player on the floor, he looked
more reckless and less effective.
In the open court he appeared to
be as good as any point guard in
the conference, but once the Wol-
verines slowed down and tried
to run an offense, Morris wasn't
Morris anymore.
Yes, Morris was still scoring
and distributing the ball, but he
didn't do it with the same flair
evenly throughout the game. I
began looking back at my game
notes that once praised the player,
but now the scribbles read: Dar-
ius, turnover. Darius, bad pass.
Darius, missed shot. Darius, wtf.
And that's kind of how his first
half performances went. Morris
has averaged just two points and
two assists in each firsthalf since
conference play began, but in the
second halves he has put up13
points and dished out four assists.
His shooting percentage jumps
nearly double from the first to the
second half But it's not just that.

Forty-three percent of his scor-
ing comes in his final five minutes
on the floor. And when you have a
guy thatplays more than 30 min-
utes a game, it's not productive
to have his scoring burst come at
the end - especially in games that
have already been decided before
the final five minutes.
It's important to have your best
players produce in the final min-
utes. It just can't be the only min-
utes they're productive, especially
when you're playing quality com-
petition. Because unless you're
Steve Nash's coach, normally it's
a bad thing for your pointguard
to lead the team in points and
assists.
Unless that point guard is sur-
rounded by an immense amount
of talent, other teams can key in
on a single player - whetherthat
means double teaming or forcing
him into early foul trouble - and
essentially debunk the catalyst of
the team.
And those surrounding Morris
have the potential to be incredibly
talented, butthey haven't pro-
duced as consistently as would be
necessary for a winning record.
Because time and time again (six
times straight, to be exact) Mor-
ris has been contained by other

teams and not enough players
have stepped up enough to win.
Big Ten coaches have realized
the proper question is not, "How
do we stop the Wolverines?" but
"How do we stop Morris so the
Wolverines stop themselves?"
Essentially, get rid of the gen-
eral and see how the troops do on
their own.
This weekend against Minne-
sota, they fared decently. Junior
guard Stu Douglass stepped up
and led the team with six assists
and attacked the Gophers' 2-3
zone with precision and court
vision.
Morris, on the other end,
looked lost. His one shot of the
first half was a drive against three
Minnesota players. Then when
senior Al Nolen suffered an ankle
injury and it was time to attack,
time to be a pointguard, Morris
didn't react and only passed the
ball around the perimeter.
In the time the Wolverines
need him the most, Morris has
been forced to retreat and Michi-
gan has found itself ina precari-
ous position asking itself, "How
do we stop beating ourselves?"
-Jennings can be reached
at chanjen@umich.edu.


MEN'S TENNIS
'M' drops heartbreaker to
fifth-ranked Longhorns

WRESTLING
Blue tops Northwestern

By MATT RUDNITSKY
Daily Sports Writer
Every eye in the record-set-
ting 687-person crowd focused
intently on Michigan freshman
Shaun Bernstein, who had just
recovered from a first set loss to
take the second.
Sophomore Evan King had
just won his match at No. 1 sin-
gles in the Michigan men's ten-
nis team's match against No. 5
Texas, leaving the Wolverines
in a 3-3 tie with the Longhorns.
The fate of the match rested
solely on Bernstein's 18-year old
shoulders.
This was no ordinary, polite-
ly-clapping tennis crowd, either.
The audience cheered on Ber-
nstein with constant "Go Blue"
cries and rousing choruses of
claps, reminiscent of those heard
in the Big House.
After being shut out by Texas
just a couple of weeks ago at the
Key Biscayne Invitational, No.
25 Michigan put up a fight in
Saturday's dual-match against
the Longhorns, with the match
coming down to a decisive third
set at No. 5 singles.
But Bernstein just wasn't at
his best, as he was broken in the
first game and never recovered.
He battled throughout and
the crowd cheered him on until
he walked off the court, but it
wasn't enough - he lost to No.
100 nationally-ranked Ben Chen,
6-2, 2-6, 6-2.

Chen's win gave Texas (3-0) as Michigan lost the doubles
the 4-3 dual-match victory. point with three straight, con-
"I really didn't play my best," vincing losses to the Longhorns.
Bernstein said. "I missed a few "In doubles, I thought they
opportunities and didn't execute were better than us today,"
very well. Michigan coach Bruce Berque
"ButI don't think the pressure said.
got to me, it was just a couple of "I wish we had played a bit
bad mistakes here and there that better, but we would have had
decided the match. When it's to play great to win in doubles.
that big of a match against that I think they're just a little better
good of a player, you just can't than us there."
make those types of mistakes. But then in singles play, the
But it was a great atmosphere. Wolverines made an impressive
comeback, with King winning at
No. 1, senior captain Jason Jung
at No. 2 and freshman Barrett
"I couldn't Franks dominating his opponent
at No. 6.
believe it, how "We definitely fought back,"
Berque said. "Everyone fought
great the really hard, but it just didn't go
our way in that end.
crowd was." "To have three freshman, two
sophomores and one senior play-
ing, with our team MVP from
the last two years out of the line-
"I couldn't believe it, how up, and come that close to beat-
great the crowd was. I can't ing Texas is an indication of the
thank them enough. They really things we can do this year if we
got behind me every point I won, continue to improve."
even when I was down. That The team MVP Berque is
really helped me keep my com- referring to is senior Chris Mad-
posure and stay excited even den, who made a name for him-
when I was losing. That was self last year by clinching five
unbelievable." matches for the Wolverines.
The match's attendance shat- He's been sidelined all year with
tered the previous Varsity Ten- a wrist injury and is nearing a
nis Center attendance record by return to the court.
136 fans. Michigan could have benefit-
But the crowd didn't have an ed from his experience in such a
impact at the start of the match, tightly contested match.

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The crowd in Cliff Keen Arena
sat in angst, waiting for some-
thing to cheer for. And for the
second time in two weeks, it was
freshman Eric Grajales who ignit-
ed them.
In the end, Northwestern was
no longer undefeated.
Michigan's wrestlers had
already dropped their first two
matches, and despite a win from
junior Kellen Russell - albeit in
boring fashion - the Wildcats
seemed to have control of both the
crowd and the match.
Northwestern's 11th-ranked
Andrew Nadhir stepped to the
mats to face Grajales with the
chance to give the Wildcats a
commanding lead. But by the time
the clock struck zero, the young
Wolverinehad capturedthe upset
- and the momentum - propel-
ling No. 11 Michigan (2-0 Big Ten,
7-2 overall) to an eventual victory
Friday night, 22-12.
"We knew we were going to
have some struggles," Michigan
coach Joe McFarland said after
the match. "But I'm pleased with
our effort, because I knew, com-
ing into this match, those guys
were undefeated, they're 14-0,
they were feeling good abouttheir
wrestling and they had a lot of
confidence. So Iknew it was going
to take a great effort to get a big
victory here tonight."
McFarland also took note of
the difference between this year's
match with the 19th-ranked
Wildcats (2-1,14-1), and last year's
match in Evanston, when Michi-

gan let an early deficit take them
mentallyout of it.
"No question about it, these
guys are alittlescrappier,"McFar-
land said. "It's a whole different
team, whole different chemistry
from last year. And I think we're
getting better week-to-week and
the guys are working hard, excit-
ed. We've got some challenges
ahead of us, so we've got to keep
building off this."
Russell - ranked No. 1 in the
141-pound weight class - got the
Wolverines on the board after
they'd fallen behind early, 7-0.
With the win, he improved to
23-0 on the year to extend his win
streak to 24.
Next came Grajales. The
youngster fell behind early in the
match to his highly ranked foe,
but went on the offensive to spark
a furious rally - angering North-
western coach Drew Pariano to
the point of kicking over his chair.
"That kid can just wrestle,"
McFarland said. "He's coming
along. His mat sense is a lot better
and he's feeling a lot better when
he's out there. Everything's com-
ing together for him and we're
starting to see what kind of wres-
tler this kid really is."
And Grajales - now with back-
to-back impressive weekends
- can feel the momentum on his
side.
"My confidence is huge,"
Grajales said. "I think in the
beginning I was hoping I'd just
scramble my way out of any posi-
tion, so I was letting people in my
legs too much.
"Now, when I put people on
their heels and when I'm going

after people, attacking, it'sputting
people in positions I want to be in,
rather than what they want to
be in. I've just got to keep things
going, keep the ball rolling."
The Wildcats took the next
match to extend their leadto 12-6,
but that would be their last vic-
tory.
Sophomore Dan Yates con-
trolled the final half of his match
to earn a victory, and then junior
Justin Zeerip returned in style
from a knee injury, which had
held him out the previous two
weeks.
Zeerip's 10-1 win was the Wol-
verines' biggest of the night and
also gave them one bonus point,
pushing Michigan into a lead it
hung onto for the remainder of
the match.
"It was killing me the last two
weeks not being able to wrestle,"
Zeerip said. "It makes you feel
left out not being able to practice.
It definitely felt great getting out
there and wrestling tonight. And
I was happy with the way my knee
felt outthere today, too."
Senior captainAnthonyBiondo
and sophomores Hunter Collins
and Ben Apland closed the dual
out for the Wolverines. The five-
match win streak to close the
meet sent the Cliff Keen Arena
crowd home happy.
But next week the atmosphere
won't be as supportive, as Michi-
gan heads south for two confer-
ence matchups. The Wolverines
first head to Columbus for an
eagerly awaited dual with rival
Ohio State on Friday, before head-
ing to Bloomington for a Sunday
dual with Indiana.


