THE A2 BALANCE
How the city has maintained its traditional
charm while staying relevant in today's
world. 9 SEE THE STATEMENT, INSIDE
ON HNDE TE& Y N Y46 F EE(RA RE))

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, September 21, 2011

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
U.S. patent
reform bill
could aid
inventors

University President Mary Sue Coleman meets students outside her home on South Univeresity Avenue during her annual open house yesterday.
Coleman greets hundreds of
students. at annual open house

Changes could have
positive impact on
'U' entrepreneurs
By ANDREW SCHULMAN
Daily StaffReporter
A legislative overhaul of the
nation's patent system, signed
into law en Friday by President
Barack Obama, could foster
innovation and entrepreneurship
at the University and throughout
Michigan.
The America Invents Act will
create a new, fast-track option to
shorten the patent review pro-
cess from three years to one year.
This comes as a part of an effort,
to reduce the current backlog of
700,000 patent applications and
synchronize the American pat-
ent system with systems in other
countries. University experts
said the new system will increase
patent quality and minimize pat-
ent litigation, which could sig-
nificantly aid entrepreneurs and
small businesses.
The changes - which Obama

praised ina Sept. 16 White House
press release as "the most sig-
nificant reform of the Patent Act
since 1952" - were "overdue,"
said Doug Neal, managing direc-
tor of the University's Center for
Entrepreneurial Programs. Neal
said the three-year wait time
between patent filing and issu-
ance was not reasonable amid
today's fast-changing innova-
tions.
"That's sort of a lifetime
for entrepreneurs," Neal said.
"Everything is very urgent, and
we're dealing with real-time
competitive issues and real-time
innovation in customer needs ...
I can't underscore enough the
value of time to an entrepreneur."
The reforms could also poten-
tially spur job growth and inno-
vation by discouraging patent
litigation among inventors, Neal
said. In the past, legal disputes
over the rights to patents have
inflicted a "big cost" on entrepre-
neurs and inventors, he said.
Prior to the reforms, two
inventors who submitted similar
patent applications at the same
See PATENT, Page 5A

President talks to
students an extra
hour at South
University home
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Daily News Editor
University President Mary
Sue Coleman smiled and greet-
ed students, including one who

told her he wanted Facebook
founder Mark Zuckerberg to
speak at Spring Commence-
ment, at her on-campus home
yesterday. Two other students
representing student entrepre-
neurial group MPowered gave
Coleman a T-shirt, which she
said she'd wear while riding
her bike.
The students were among
the hundreds who waited in
line for more than an hour yes-
terday afternoon for the oppor-

tunity to spend a few moments
with Coleman at her annual
open house. Coleman fielded a
wide array of questions from
students who wanted to know
everything from whether she
actually lives in the President's
House at 815 South University
Ave., where the open house was
held (yes, she does), to whether
Coleman received a note left
at her front door last winter in
which the writer asked for a
snow day. (Coleman got the let-

a See avideo piece about this
story on Mchtgaa~algto
ter, but there was no snow day.)
The event was scheduled
to last an hour, but Coleman,
standing on the patio in her
lush backyard, continued to
greet students an hour after
the open house was scheduled
to end. In an interview with
The Michigan Daily after the
See COLEMAN, Page 5A

GREENING THE 'U'
Ann Arbor 350 petition calls -
for solar panels on Big House

Office of Campus
Sustainability:
Installation on
stadium unlikely
By CHELSEA LANDRY
For the Daily
The Big House might be one
of the largest stadiums in the
country, but one group wants
to also make it one of the most
environmentally friendly.
The Ecology Center, an Ann

Arbor-based nonprofit group,
started a project called Ann
Arbor 350, which aims to con-
vince the University to install
solar panels on Michigan Sta-
dium. Though the project has
been met with a mixed response
from the University, the group
started a petition calling for the
installation and has collected
more than 530 signatures as of
last night.
A similar petition was also
started on www.change.org
and has garnered about 3,000
signatures in 15 days. Ann
Arbor 350 has a goal of reach-

ing 10,000 signatures on its
petition, according to the proj-
ect website.
University alum Monica
Patel, who organized the Ann
Arbor 350 petition, said though
the Ecology Center cannot
determine the exact feasibil-
ity of the project, Patel is urg-
ing University officials to show
support for using solar energy.
"(We want) to use the Big
House as a tool for education
about the industry," she said.
Though many of the sup-
portive comments on the online
See SOLAR, Page 3A

UNIVERSITY ALUMNI
Recent University alumni beginning start-
up ventures without business degrees

LSA freshmen Haley Monaghan, Alexis Cobau and Michael Maas eat lunch in the North Quad dining hall yesterday.
Cobau said lunch time is very busy at North Quad, and she often has trouble finding an open seat.
North Quad dining hall
lacks lunch time seating

Alum starts websit
for free streaming
of movies, shows
By K.C.WASSMAN
Daily StaffReporter
University alum James Nor
man knew most of his life that h
wanted to be an engineer. But h
was also certain that he wante
to run his own business.

Though these might seem like
different career choices, for Nor-
man they aren't exclusive. Nor-
man, who graduated from the
College of Engineering in 2005,
is one of an increasing number
t of students decidingto pave their
own way without a traditional
business education - a trend the
- University has also recognized.
e Erik Gordon, associate direc-
te or of the Zell Lurie Institute
d for Entrepreneurial Studies at
the Ross School of Business, said

the institute encourages gradu-
ates with different degrees to be
entrepreneurs.
"If there's one message that
students should get is that we
don't care what school you're
in," Gordon said. "Most of our
(programs are) for anyone who's
interested in entrepreneurship."
Amy Klinke, assistant director
for small business initiatives in
the Center for Entrepreneurship
at the College of Engineering,
See STARTUPS, Page SA

Students sit
on floor due to
overcrowding
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
DailyStaffReporter
Sitting on the floor of the
North Quad dining hall during
lunch one day last week, Engi-
neering freshman Matt DeFore
dipped his spoon into a bowl of
soup by his feet.
DeFore, who sat on the floor

after an unsuccessful search
for a seat at a table, bemoaned
the challenge of eating off the
ground without spilling his
soup. The dining hall staff told
him the area was over capacity
and that he would have to sit
on the floor - a recent problem
at the bustling dining area in
North Quad, which debuted last
fall.
DeFore said he is disappoint-
ed with North Quad's handling
of the occupancy of the dining
room, which has a maximum
capacity of 197 patrons.

"I think it's very poor, espe-
cially because how new this
place is," DeFore said. "I feel
like they should expand it."
In a statement released to
The Michigan Daily yesterday,
University Housing spokes-
man Peter Logan responded to
concerns that the dining hall
is often overcrowded. Logan
wrote that throughout most
of the week, about 700 to 800
people eat lunch in North Quad
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Dur-
ing dinner service each day
See NORTH QUAD, Page SA


WEATHER H: 68
TOMORROW LU: 49

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
'U entrepreneurial institute ranks among top five
MIcHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX AP NEWS. 3A ARTS.............6A
Vol. CXXIINo.12 OPINION.................4A SPORTS...........7A
2011TheMichigan Daily N EW S ..............SA THE STATEMENT.,......1.1B
michigandaily.com

A*


0

News

2A -- Wednesday, September 21, 2011

_ The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

N tw s The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY: TUESDAY: ENSA
In Other Ivory Towers This Week in History Campus_______
STUDEN ROTARY CHAPTER
Serving tecm uiY

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles Photos of the Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHIANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg michigndailycom zancer@michigandailycom

6

Members of Rotaract - the
University's student chapter
of Rotary International - are
dedicated to community ser-
vice near and far.
LSA sophomore Sophie
Zhao, the club's social and,
publicity chair, described
the organization as a service
group that helps students net-
work and enhance local and
international communities.
The group organizes various
community service activities,
including volunte'er work with
Habitat for Humanity, local
nursing homes and homeless
shelters,
The club is also dedicated
to international service and

annually plans a volunteer
trip during spring break, Zhao
said.
"We have a lot of local ser-
vice events throughout the
months, and then last year
during spring break we orga-
nized a trip where we went to
Nicaragua to help build water
filters because they don't have
clean water there," she said.
The club's 50 active mem-
bers meet biweekly to hear
from guest speakers and to
plan upcoming ventures,
according to Zhao.
LSA senior Louis Albertini,
Rotaract's president, stressed
that the club operates on local
and international levels.

"Our four pillars - the
main tenants of our organi- ;
zation - are community ser-
vice, fundraising, professional
development and internation-
al service," he said.
Albertini added that RotaryY
International's involvement.
helps facilitate Rotaract's
dedication to service by allow-
ing chapters the freedom to
choose their own projects.
"We have this incredible x r' r p
relationship with Rotary, so4
we have the capability and the 3k-eore ocet u rar ',
nization based on what ourF
membership wants," he said. CU~tR~ec
Roteract members participate in local and international service.
- SABIRA KHAN tach year, the club plans a service trip during spring break.

Newsrsn
734-418-4115 apt.3
Corrections
corecations@michigandailyome
Ants Sectin
a@michigandaily.com
Sports Sectien
sparts@eichigandaity.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com,
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
lettenstn thetEditor
tthedaily@nichigndaily.om
tditorial Page
apieion@michiandaily.oam
Photography Sectin
photo@michigandailycomn
Classifiled Sales
claified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

CIME NOTES

Mnmm.
stolen
WHERE: Quizno's at Pier-
pont Commons
WHEN: Monday at about
8:45 am.
WHAT: A man entered
Quiznoos and stole food,
University Police reported.
The suspect was wearing a
Michigan sweatshirt.
Reverse
job hunt
WHERE: Chemistry
Building
WHEN: Monday at about
2 p.m.
WHAT: Two people were
found soliciting students
for possible jobs in a no
soliciation zone, University
Police reported. The
subjects left.

You shall not
pass
WHERE: Fletcher Carport
WHEN: Monday at about
10:30 am.
WHAT: A gate arm fell on
the top of avehicle enter-
ing the carport, University
Police reported.
Locker room
raiders
WHERE: West Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
7:30 am.
WHAT: Lockers in the
men's locker room were
found fiung open, and
items were strewn about
the room, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES THREE THINGS YSHUDK OU OA
SHOULDaKNOW TODA
Law Dy at ADUDThe Justice Department
the Union Awareness Day reportedly overpaid for
Efood, serving $16 muffins
WHAT: Representatives WHAT: ADHD Coach and $5 meatballs at various'
from more than 100 law Kevin Roberts will discuss conferences, Bloomberg
schools will be available cyber addiction and its reported. In 2009, the Justice
to answer questions and warning signs. Department spent $73.3
give tips about writing WHO: Services for Students million on conferences in
personal statement and the with Disabilitiesficlya209
anplication nrocess. WHEN: Todav from noon sciya209

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEnditore nickspar5michgadaily.com
Nicole Aber Mnaines Enditor aber@michiandailycoam
SENIORNEWnS DTOR:tan y Berni , DylaCini, Cainstn,,JosphLichterman,
SSISANNWSsDITORSsarleyGlthr,,ClaieGscicki, Suz,,ann acobsSabira
Kahn, Mihle ar,, Paigercydm ubefi , aitlwin llam
Michelle Dewitt and opieionditors@nichigandaily.cam
tnily OrleyEditorial Page Editors
SE15 nNIOsITRAL AEEDITRS:nsAida Ali, AshlyGrsame, Adesa,w inr
ASnSIANT DITORIAL A EDIR:rs,,h Nahn a s, mtyRbb
Stephen J.Nesbitt and sporsedirsramichigandaily.com
Tin Rnban ManagingeSporntditoes
sSENRSPRSEDITR:Tn n stes, Miche ork,Zachselfnd~, Luk Pash, Zak
Pyik,tKevinRaftery
SSSTNTru SPRTnnS EIOS:nsEserettCook, NealsRothschild,raatnRuditsky,ratt
Sharonniacobs ManaeingArntsEditnr jacob,@nichtgandaity.can
sn~SEN nRSEDIOS LahnBurgi, Kai Pan, enifr X
ASSSTAN TSnDITSaco,,bAelrad, Cssi af,sJoeacdgi,,EmmaGae,
PromaKsla, David Tao
Marissa Mctlain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Mnch ManagingrbPhtditors
ASISTNTPHOTEDITRS:rn Kn~~irkand, Chi,s aa culte, Sm,,an ren
Zach Bergsonnand design@nichigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich MnginDesigntEditors
Carolyn Klarecki M aaine Editor klareki@michigandaily.cam
DEPUTY MAGAI sN DTRaS:Stehn strwki, DevoThorb, lana T,,igs
Josh Healy CopyrChief copydek~mitigaedaiyom
SarahbSqaire WebsDevelapnentnMannere squine@michigandailyrcam
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliana CrinAssociate BsinessManger
Rachel Greinetz sales Manager
Alexis Newton Productonaneaer
Meghan RoneynLayout Manaer
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Qay VniculatinManaer
The Michigan Daiy (ISN 014.5%7 ispublishedMoneday throuh Fiaydung thefall ad
wneterm byasudents at the University of Michigan. Oenapy is available free oftchrge
toaallreaders. dditional copies may bpikedaupat theDalys offiefor$2. Subitiontsfor
fall term, starting in teptemer, va U .S. mail are $110. Wite teem(January through April) is
Th McghiaeDail isanmember of TheAcatedPessaadnTheAssoated ClleeiatePres.

WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 3 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
second Floor
'La Mission'
film screening
WHAT: A free screening
of the film "La Mission" in
honor of the Spectrum Cen-
ter's 40th anniversary.
WHO: University Unions
Arts & Programs
WHEN: Tonight from 6:30
p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
League, Henderson Room

to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Graduate School
Eilen Jewell
concert
WHAT: Eilen Jewell will
perform in concert. General
Admission tickets cost $15.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michni-
gandaily.com.

2 Downtown Ann
Arbor's retail sector
has declined since the
'80s - from 30.29 percent
in 1982 to 20.40 percent in
2011, according to data from
the Downtown Development
Authority.
FORMOtCSEtTH STATEMET, fINSDE
3 Aprivate company in
Transylvania, Roma-
nia is selling bargain
coffins in an effort to make
death more affordable, the
Boston Globe reported. Cof-
fins are an important com-
modity in Romania, which
has an aging population.

6

MORE ONLINE LeveCime Notes? Shareltnem with yoarL
followers onTwitter @CrineNesor find them netheir new bldg.


0

0

VtoU' can feel better about
the way it ended
The HTC Tablets featuring HTC Scribe TechnologyT
Innovation inspired by YOU'"

I

44


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wedn6sday, September 21, 2011- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednlsday, September 21, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Many lose food
assistance with
new requirements
An undetermined number of
Michigan's nearly 2 million food
assistance recipients will lose
the help under new eligibility
requirements the statewill begin
using in October.
Michigan has determined food
assistance eligibility based only
on income for roughly a decade.
A new policy will include a
review of certain financial assets
starting Oct 1. The requirements
will affect new applicants right
away and existing recipients
when their cases come up for
review, which typically happens
once every six months.
Those with assets of more
than $5,000 in bank accounts or
some types of property would no
longer be eligible for food assis-
tance. Other assets that would
count against the cap include
vehicles with market values of
more than $15,000 and second
homes, depending on how much
is owed on the properties.
JUNEAU, Alaska
Alaskans receive
$1,174 check from
state's oil wealth
Most Alaska residents will
soon be getting a check for $1,174
simply because they live there.
Each person'sshare ofthestate's
vast oil wealth was announced
with much fanfare in Anchorage
yesterday, with Gov. Sean Par-
nell ripping open a gold-colored
envelope to reveal the number.
This day is so widely anticipated
in Alaska that the announcement
of the Permanent Fund Dividend
amount was carried live on televi-
sion statewide, and dozens tuned
in to watch a live webcast by the
governor's office.
This year's check is the small-
est sinc ' X006 and $10 Iess
than last year's amount, which
was 1;2$1. Parnell warned the
amount could diminish more in
the future, given market vola-
tilities and the fact that oil pro-
duction in the state is declining.
Nonetheless, he called this year's
amount "healthy."
MEXICO CITY
Mexican army
captures key drug
cartel figure
The Mexican army captured a
key figure in the cult-like Knights
Templar.drug cartel that is sow-
ingviolence in western Mexico, a
top officer announced yesterday.
Saul Solis Solis, 49, a former
police chief and one-time con-
gressional candidate, was cap-
tured without incident Monday
in the cartel's home state of
Michoacan, Brig. Gen. Edgar

Luis Villegas said during a pre-
sentation of Sols to the media.
Solis is considered one of
the principal lieutenants in the
Knights Templar, which split
late last year from La Familia,
a pseudo-religious drug gang
known as a major trafficker of
methan phetamine.
KAMPALA, Uganda
Police arrest
writer critical of
Uganda president
Ugandan police say they've
arrested a man who wrote a book
criticizing the longtime presi-
4dent and the ruling party.
Police spokeswoman Judith
Nabakooba said yesterday that
police arrested Vincent Nzaram-
ba on Saturday.
Policeman Ronald Ogen says
Nzabara was arrested over sus-
picions that his book is inciting
the public.
Ogen says there are legal pro-
visions that allow suspects to be
held beyond the constitutional
limit of 48 hours without charge.
Nzaramba's wife Gloria says
police confiscated copies of his
book and his laptop when they
arrested him.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

GREGORY BULL/AP
Two men kiss shortly after midnight during a celebration for the end of'the "don't ask, don't tell" policy yesterday in
San Diego. After years of debate and months of final preparations, the military can no longer prevent gays from serving
openly in its ranks.
U.S. military milestone
ends ban on gay service .
Obama says DADT known as "don't ask, don't tell," forth "our armed forces will no
under which gays can serve longer lose the extraordinary
repeal will enhance as long as they don't openly skills and combat experience
acknowledge their sexual ori- of so many gay and lesbian ser-
national security entation - took effect yester- vice members."
day at 12:01 a.m. EDT. Later yesterday, at a New
WASHINGTON (AP) - The Appearing with Panetta for York City Democratic fund-
U.S. military passed a historic what was probably his final raiser, the president said he
milestone yesterday with the news Pentagon conference as had met backstage with some
repeal of the ban on gays serv- chairman of the Joint Chiefs young Americans who had
ing openly in uniform, ending of Staff, retiring Navy Adm. been discharged from the mili-
a prohibition that President Mike Mullen said that with the tary because of the "don't ask,
Barack Obama said had forced new law allowing gays to serve don't tell" policy.
gay and lesbian service mem- openly, the military is a stron- "As of today, that will never
bers to "lie about who they ger, more tolerant force with happen again," Obama said.
are." greater character and honor. "As of today, no one needs to
Defense Secretary Leon "I still believe that it was hide who they are to serve the
Panetta pledged: not to. allIawI.first and foemost a matter of rountry thatthey.loe," . ,
other issues of equal opportu- integrity, that it was funda- The head of Pentagon per-
nitysuch as allowing women mentally against everything sonnel policies issued a memo
to serve in combat roles, to be we stand for as an institution to the work force at a minute
ignored or set aside. to force people to lie about who after midnight yesterday. "All
"I am committed to remov- they are just to wear a uni- service members are to treat
ing all of the barriers that form," Mullen said. "We are one another with dignity and
would prevent Americans from better than thatL" respect regrdless of sexual
serving their country and from Some in Congress still orientation," the memo from
rising to the highest level of oppose the change, arguing Clifford Stanley said.
responsibility that their tal- that it may undermine order Gay advocacy groups cel-
ents and capabilities warrant," and discipline, but top Penta- ebrated across the country.
Panetta told a Pentagon news gon leaders have certified that At a San Diego bar, current
conference. "These are men it will not hurt the military's and former troops danced and
and women who put their lives ability to recruit or to fight counted down to midnight.
on the line in the defense of wars. "You are all heroes," Sean Sala,
this country, and that's what Obama issued a statement a former Navy operations spe-
should matter the most." saying he is confident that lift- cialist, said. "The days of your
Repeal of the 18-year-old ing the ban will enhance U.S. faces beingblacked out on the
legal provision - commonly national security, that hence- news - no more."
SOLAR - mated to take at least 70 years, panels have come up at the
SOLAR Alexander said. University. In 2005, solar pan-
From Page 1A Despite the unlikelihood of els were installed on the roof
the implementation of the proj- of the University's renovated
petition are from University edf, some students are in sup- Dana Building.
students, alumni and faculty, port of installing solar panels
Patel said, the Ecology Cen- d6ithe Big House.
ter has not received a direct Rackham student Devi Glick
response from the University said she thinks the installation
administration. would greatly affect ecologi-
Terry Alexander, executive cal activism on campus. But she'
director of the Office of Campus noted that there are other ways
Sustainability, said the Univer- topromote energy conservation.
sity has considered an invest, "Putting solar panels on the
ment in solar panels for several Big House would look amaz-
years, but the plan might not ing,'and it would send a strong
be feasible because the initia- message that the University is
tive won't result in significant serious about campus sustain- " Top Michigan La
cost-savings for the University. abflity," Glick said. "However, * Best Value Law S
It would take about 70 years to covering the Big House with * Best Standard of
recover the original costs of the solar panels is not the only way
project because there isn't ade- toraise awareness about cam- * Top Green Scho.
quate roof space on the stadium pus sustainability." " Top 32 Part-time
for panels to garner a sufficient Glick,who is a board mem-
amount of energy, according to ber of the Student Sustain-
Alexander. ability Initiative on campus,
"Solar (energy) isn't efficient suggested environmentally
in this part of the country," he friendly alternatives like hav-
said. ing the University implement
Alexander added that even "zero waste" football games
without a solar-powered foot- and allow students to bring
ball stadium, the University is reusable water bottles into the
committed to energy conser- stadium.
vation efforts. Seventy campus Despite the Office of Campus
buildings have undergone ener- Sustainability's apprehension
gy conservation updates, gen- toward the solar panel project,
erating $2.5 million in savings the Ecology Center still hopes
that has been invested back to garner more support for the W AY A

into University departments. cause, Patel said. To boost the 5'IV S
These savings are "incentive number of supporters, she said
(for schools and colleges) to do Ann Arbor 350 plans to talk @
even more energy conserva- with students and community
tion," Alexander said. members at upcoming football
The sustainable projects games.
typically, earn back their origi- "As long as there is interest,
nal costs' over a 6 to. 10 year we will move forward," Patel
period, which is more feasible said.
than Ann Arbor 350's plan esti- This isn't the first time solar

Condemned
Ga. inmate has
much support,
but little hope
After years of bringing it to an end."
Georgia initially planned to'
debate, convicted execute Davis in July 2007, but.
the pardons board granted him
killer denied a stay less than 24 hours before
lasta a l he was to die. The U.S. Supreme
PPea Court stepped in a year later and
halted the lethal injection just
ATLANTA (AP) - Yet anoth- two hours before he was to be.
er appeal denied, Troy Davis executed. And a federal appeals
was left with little to do yester- court halted another planned
day but wait to be executed for execution a few months later.
a murder he insists he did not This time, state officials,
commit. are confident this lethal injec-
He lost his most realistic tion will be carried out. Geor-
chance to avoid lethal injection gia's governor 'does not have
yesterday, when Georgia's par- the power to grant condemned
dons board rejected his appeal inmates clemency. Davis sup-
for clemency. As his scheduled 7 porters are calling on Chatham
p.m. today execution neared, his County District Attorney Larry
backers resorted to far-fetched Chisolm to block the execu-
measures: urging prison work- tion. But the prosecutor said in
ers to strike or call in sick, ask- a statement yesterday he's pow-
ing prosecutors to block the erless to withdraw an execution"
execution - even considering order for Davis issued by a state-
a desperate appeal for White Superior Court judge.
House intervention. "We appreciate the outpour-
He has gotten support from ing of interest in this caset how
hundredsofthousandsofpeople, ever, this matter is beyond our
including a former FBI direc- control," Chisolm said.
tor, former President Jimmy Spencer Lawton, the prosecu-
Carter and Pope Benedict XVI, tor who secured Davis' convic-
and a U.S. Supreme Court ruling tion in 1991, said he has no doubt
gave him an unusual opportu- he is guilty.
nity to prove his innocence last "What we have had is a man,-
year. State and federal courts, ufactured appearance of doubt
however, repeatedly upheld his which has taken on the quality'
conviction for the 1989 killing of legitimate doubt itself. And all
of Mark MacPhail, an off-duty of it is exquisitely unfair," Law-
police officer who was working ton said.
as a security guard in Savannah MacPhail was shot to death
when he was shot dead rushing Aug. 19,1989, after comingto the
to help a homeless man who was aid of Larry Young, a homeless
being attacked. man who was pistol-whipped
Davis' attorneys say he was in a Burger King parking lot.
convicted based on flawed tes- Prosecutors say Davis was with
s,timony that'has'been i'aglyataoher man who was demand
recanted by witnesses, but pros- ing that Young give him a beer
ecutors andMacPhil's relatives wHeii Davis pielleduiuta hand7
say they have no doubt the right gun 'and bashed Young with it.
man is being punished. When MacPhail arrived to help,
"Justice was finally served for prosecutors say Davis had a
my father," said Mark MacPhail smirk on his face when he shot
Jr., who was an infant when his the officer to death.
father was gunned down. "The Witnesses placed Davis at
truth was finally heard." the crime scene and identified
As Davis' attorneys consid- him as the shooter. Shell casings
ered filing another appeal, his were linked to a shooting hours
supporters planned vigils and earlier that Davis was convicted
rallies around the World. Near- of. There was no other physical
ly 1 million signed a petition evidence.
seeking clemency, according to No blood or DNA tied Davis to
Amnesty International. the crime and the weapon was
"We've been praying about never located.
it and with God on our side Davis' attorneys say seven of
anything can happen," DeJaun nine key witnesses who testified
Correia-Davis, the condemned at his trial have disputed all or
man's 17-year-old nephew, told a parts of their testimony.
rally of hundreds in front of the Quiana Glover, who did not
Georgia Capitol late yesterday. testify at the original trial, said
"Let this be a case that not only one of the witnesses who did not
highlights the death penalty but recant told her he was the real
will hopefully be a big part in shooter.

£

. A


4A -Wednesday, September "21, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A -ednsday Setembr 2, 201 Te Mchign Dily mihigadaiyco

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St,
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
- Ptothedaily@michigandaily.com

SUMMER KRINSKY

E-MAIL SUMMER AT SKRINSKY@UMICH.EDU.

SUMMER KRINSKY E-MAIL SUMMERAT SKRINSKY@UMICH.EDU.


Who wants a
^ piece of us?
That's right, we're
nationally ranked.
Welcome to the
Big House.
\i
\


STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

NICK SPAR
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F ROM T HE DAILY
Shape up, Michigan,
Gov. Snyder's health care plan shows promise
Michigan was named the 10th-most obese state in the
nation in July. In light of this staggering ranking
and other alarming health statistics, Republican
Gov. Rick Snyder unveiled a health care plan that aims to
promote overall wellness for Michigan citizens.



Flexing conservative muscle

6

The obesity rate in Michigan are among
the highest in the nation - almost 70 per-
cent of the state's residents are overweight or
obese - and this number has steadily risen
for the past 15 years. But Snyder is taking
realistic action to combat this statistic. His
plan includes providing healthier cafeteria
choices to schoolchildren, improving exer-
cise programs and keeping track of cases of
childhood obesity by putting the data into a
state registry.
A primary aspect of the proposal is the
plan to require pediatricians to report their
patients' body mass indices. While monitor-
ing children's BMI may seem invasive, the
practice should ultimately prove beneficial.
Based on their BMI, 12.4 percent of children
in the state are considered obese and obtain-
ing information to track obesity data can help
communities form comprehensive plans to
combat childhood health issues. Efforts like
providing healthy, affordable school lunches
and ensuring children see a doctor regularly
will help Michigan children develop positive
habits for the future.
Another aspect of Snyder's proposal is to
ban smoking on beaches- a measure compa-
rable tothe University smoking ban that went
into effect in July. Smoking poses widely
known health risks, and health care modifi-
cations should promote statewide education
and assistance in curtailing these risks. But
the decision whether or not to smoke should
ultimately reside in the hands of individual

citizens, not the government.
In addition to attempting to curtail smok-
ing, his "4x4" plan emphasizes the impor-
tance of a balanced diet, regular exercise and
yearly physicals. These efforts are appropri-
ate and beneficial because they promote well-
ness while simultaneously allowing residents
to make positive choices for themselves.
Snyder's plan also seeks to combat autism
in children. Believing that those with the dis-
order are best treated early in development,
Snyder proposed to help families with autis-
tic children by providing them with better
health coverage aswell as treatment options.
In his statement, he explained that Michigan
is one of the worst states to raise an autistic
child. Improvements in care for young chil-
dren are important in combating autism.
The proposal also called for a new meth-
od for health insurance in the state - the
MIHealth Marketplace. With an unofficial
start date of Jan. 2014, the plan would cover
upwards of 500,000 Michigan citizens and
be overseen by a nonprofit firm. Unlike many
conservative governors who are fighting
President Barack Obama's health care ini-
tiative, Snyder is showing bipartisanship by
developing an insurance program that is in
line with the federal government's plan.
Many alterations in Snyder's health care
reform plan are common sense. The state
should get behind the changes and show a
commitment to improvements in the overall
health and wellness of Michigan's citizens.

f you've everhappenedtowatch
a professional ~ bodybuilding
competition, you might agree.
with this assess-
ment: The con-
testants don't
look human
with their bulg-
ing muscles and
grossly-propor-
tioned bodies.
You might ques-
tion whether DARWEI
engaging in CHEN
such an activ-
ity is healthy, as
bodybuilding requires insane diet-
ing, extreme training regimens,
unhealthy steroid use and other
unnatural behaviors. I'm not even
sure if most bodybuilders would be
able to perform basic athletic acts
like running an eighth of a mile.
The point here is that bodybuilding
is almost functionally useless and
serves only to fulfill a misguided
notion about the "ideal" man.
So how is bodybuilding compa-
rable to the current Republican field
of presidential candidates, and what
can it tell us about the upcoming pri-
mary seasontA striking similarity is
the extent to which both are extreme
and ideological. When bodybuilders
traintheytake an activitythatmany
people do to some extent (working
out and getting in shape) and carry
it out to absurd extremes - conse-
quences be damned.
Sounds like the GOP. Many
around this country consider them-
selves to be politically conservative,
and nothing is wrong with that.
However, being moderately conser-
vative is not enough to run for pres-
ident in today's Republican Party.
The modern Republican Party has
an unspoken conservative purity
test that every candidate must pass.
One of the criteria on this test
is being anti-science, presumably
because scientists are liberal elit-
ists. Top-tier candidates, Gov. Rick
Perry and Rep. Michele Bachmann

have unequivocally denied the sci-
ence of climate change, which is a
message that runs counter to the
opinions of every major scientific
body of national and international
standing. Former Gov. Mitt Romney
has been slightly more accepting of
the science, but not by much. The
only GOP candidate to embrace cli-
mate science is Gov. Jon Huntsman,
who has actuallycalledoutthe other
candidates for being anti-science.
However, his position on science is
very unpopular and the criticism he
has received for it as well as his poll,
numbers indicate as much. In terms
of evolutionary theory, the situation
is similar, as Huntsman is the only
major candidate to openly accept
evolution.
And just like in bodybuilding
competitions where the most mus-
cular contestant is rewarded with
the grand prize, the GOP candidates
who exemplify the most extreme
forms of conservatism are rewarded
with public support. In the Fox News
debate held this summer, all eight
contenders onstage raised their
hands when asked whether they
would reject a deal that contained
$10 of spending cuts for every dollar
of revenue increases. Of course, the
audience applauded enthusiastically
as this scene unfolded. For refer-
ence, former president and conser-
vative saint Ronald Reagan accepted
a deal with a 3:1 ratio of spending
cuts to revenue increases.
Why do these candidates show
such deference to the politics of the
far-right wing if the views are so
extreme? The answer is simple: The
candidate, by taking these absurd
stances, shows thathe or she is ideo-
logically pure. In bodybuilding, the
competitors chase the "ideal" bodys
in the modern GOP, candidates want
to be the "ideal" conservative. How-
ever, we know that in both cases,
these notions. of what is ideal are
very wrongbecause extreme conser-
vatism (like professional bodybuild-
ing) is unhealthy. But in today's GOP,

the farther right you are, the more
ideal you are.
For example, let's look at the
MSNBC Republican debate held
a couple of weeks ago, where the
audience cheered when moderator
Brian Williams talked about Rick
Perry's record-breaking execution
record as governor of Texas. Fur-
thermore, the audience applauded
when Perry denied ever struggling
with the possible innocence of any
of the executed. I don't think I am
being unreasonable when I say
that most people would rather not
live in a country where the death
penalty is recklessly and unapolo-
getically applied. How about last
week's debate sponsored by the Tea
Party and CNN, where the audience
apparently agreed with the idea that
uninsured patients should be left
to die if they have life-threatening
illnesses, and Ron Paul insinuated
that churches should be responsible
for the uninsured, not government.
These views are literally unhealthy.

S

GOP should stop
being extreme
and ideological.

The current Republican candi-
dates do not seem to understand the
consequences of their stances and,
more disturbingly, they do not seem
to care. For them, the ideal image
is being ideologically and purely
conservative, regardless of wheth-
er governing the country in such a
way is functional. But in the sport
of governing, the country needs
an athlete, not a bodybuilder. Let's
hope for some reasonable options
from the GOP.
-Dar-Wei Chen can be reached
at chendw@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
PATRICK MAILLET T
Reignite political passion

Regulate gases, regulate health

During one of my classes last week, my pro-
fessor decided to take a quick poll. The ques-
tion he asked was whether you A) approved of
President Barack Obama's performance thus
far as president B) disapproved of Obama's
performance thus far as president or C) did not
care. The response was that 26 percent of the
class approved of Obama's performance thus
far, 34 percent disapproved and 40 percent did
not care. The problem isn't the fact that more
kids disapproved than approved of Obama's
job - it's that 40 percent simply didn't care
enough to express an opinion.
Normally this breakdown would not be that
odd consideringthattheAmericanyouth rare-
ly devotes much attention to politics. How-
ever, this poll was taken in a Ford School of
Public Policy class - a class in which students
are almost unanimously interested in politics
and government. Also, let us not forget that
we go to the University of Michigan - one of
the more liberal and politically affluent public
universities in the country. So here isthe prob-
lem: If young people in a public policy course
at the University of Michigan do not care
about what the president has or has not done,
then who does?
During the 2008 presidential campaign,
Obama was able to harness the youth vote bet-
ter than any candidate in recent American his-
tory. His undeniably exceptional oratory skills
captured young audiences across America,
and students organized in record numbers to
support him. On his platform of "hope" and
"change," Obama was ableto convince my gen-
eration that he represented an alternative to
the status quo. And sure enough, we believed
him. According to Civicyouth.org, an organi-
zation that promotes raising youth voter turn-
out, 51 percent of people ages 18 to 29 voted in
the 2008 election, which is the highest voter
turnout for this demographic since 1972. Fur-
thermore, 66 percent of these young people
voted for Obama and volunteered more exten-
sively than any other age group. These young
people not only gave Obama their vote, but
many of them worked painstakingly to lobby
other people to do the same. It's almost impos-
sible for one to deny the colossal effect that

young Americans had on securing Obama's
2008 election victory.
Unfortunately, times haven't changed.
We're still at war with Afghanistan and Iraq,
Guantanamo Bay is still open and tuition pric-
es have only continued their ridiculous climb.
These issues, among many others, are the rea-
sons young people have given up on American
politics. This compounded by the seemingly
daily fiasco of watching our politicians stub-
bornly refuse to work together has turned
so many people in my generation away from
politics. Many people believed Obama would
represent a new era in modern politics. More
specifically, young people supported Obama
because they believed he was the first major
presidential candidate that actually under-
stood and cared about the problems of Ameri-
ca's youth. Sadly, the "hope" and "change" we
were promised simply wasn't as drastic as we
would have liked. The worst part about this is
that it's not entirely Obama's fault. In reality,
it's ours.
Obama has made some fantastic strides
during his time as president. Allowing kids
to stay on their parent's health insurance
until age 26, reforming credit card law and
hunting down Osama bin Laden all benefited
Obama's young voters terrifically. However, to
put it bluntly, we were promised more. Many
of the young people who supported Obama
expected everything to be fixed after he was
elected. After all, we were promised 5 million
green jobs, an effective health care system and
financial reform that benefit those who need
it, not those who need another yacht. Call it
naivete, call it just plain stupid, but unfortu-
nately we set our sights way too high.
The mesmerizing and electric 2008 presi-
dential campaign simply cannot be recre-
ated for the 2012 election. These young voters
aren't going to vote for the Republican nomi-
nee. They just aren't going to vote at all. And
that is where the problem lies. Obama, in order
for you to be re-elected in 2012, you must reig-
nite the passion within America's youth, and
unfortunately, this might just be impossible.
Patrick Maillet is an LSA sophomore.

Revisions to the Clean Air
Act were again delayed ear-
lier this
month. For those
of you who may
be a little rusty .
on Environmen-
tal Protection
Agency guide-
lines, the Clean
Air Act, intro- JOE
duced in the SUGIYAMA
1970s,isdesigned
to reduce the
amount of pol-
lutants - known to have adverse
effects on humans - from being
released into the atmosphere. Much
like the Safe Drinking Water Act -
whichisn't just a clever name - the
CAA is designed to protect the over-
all health of Americans.
The CAA is a success story of
the EPA, and our country is bet-
ter for it. But with any regulation,
the name of the game is adapt or
die. That's why in 2009, the EPA
was given the go-ahead to regu-
late greenhouse gases (GHGs) after
years of research indicated that
the six gases - including carbon
dioxide - are detriments to human
health as well as the environment.
After the controversial ruling
to regulate greenhouse gases, I
thought the EPA would have a great
deal of power to tweak the CAA to
provide a healthier environment
for Americans and rule the air with
a zero-emissions fist. Not so. Ear-
lier this month, stricter regulations
on acceptable levels of smog in the
atmosphere, and the execution of
regulating GHGs were delayed for
the second time in three months.
If you're sitting there thinking
that I'm just another hippy, who only
stops hugging trees long enough to
spew out some global warming non-
sense, hear me out, These stricter
guidelines would reduce acceptable

amounts of smog in the atmosphere
from 75 parts per billion to some-
where between 60 and 70 ppb. These
new rules are the result of years of
scientific investigation of the effects
of smog on humans. Experts have
estimated that this reduction would
prevent nearly 2,200 heart attacks
and 8,400 emergency room visits in
the next eight years. It isn't the trees
that the EPA is trying to save, it's the
lives of thousands of Americans.
The steps taken to improve the
quality oflife aren'tsolely because of
the EPA. A Sep. 15 blog post by the
New York Times explains that the
U.S. Supreme Court has mandated
the regulation of emissions to be "a
threatto human health and the envi-
ronment." The EPA has provided
proof that the current acceptable
levels of smog and GHG under the
CAA are just that.
The backlash of increasing these
regulation levels. comes from the
expected industrial parties who
argue the new regulations will cost
them money they don't have. And,
though EPA officials have said the
delay is a result of "agency consider-
ations and not by political pressure
from the White House," it's apparent
that this isn't the case.
President iBarack Obama is a for-
ward-thinking man when it comes
to decisions that could jeopardize
his re-election in 2012. Sen. James
Inhofe (Ok.-R) seems certain,
according to a press release, that
the price of these new regulations
could "cost hundreds of thousands
of American jobs, [as well as costing]
President Obamahis own job, and he
knows it all too well."
On the flip side of this are experts
who argue the lack of regulations are
more costly to Americans than the
actual employment of these guide-
lines. Mark Jacobson, a greenhouse
gas expert at Stanford University,
told the Huffington Post that "the

EPA is well aware that controlling air
pollutionhas abenefit-to-costratioof
about four to one" due to the health
care expenses of hospitalvisits.
These academic endorsements on
the new regulations are to be expect-
ed with as much certainty as indus-
trial companies' opposition on the
matter. We've come to an impasse-
one that certainly won't be resolved
until after the 2012 election.
Act needs to
provide cleaner
air for Americans.

0

Though it's clear thattaking away
a person's job is the quickest way to
create a straight Republican ticket,
Obama should have a little more
pride when it comes to following up
on promises. I can't even begin to
imagine the pressures of running
for office, and I'm not so naive that I
turn everything a president says into
gospel. But I do sense a certain trend
of actionsby the current administra-
tion. Think big. Act small.
These new regulations will
undoubtedly create a healthier
environment and save lives. The
research and plans for implemen-
tation are there, yet the courage to
stand behind an unpopular decision
is not. If every president's decisions
came down to a popularity con-
test, Obama would certainly not be
in office. Though the CAA is a far
cry from emancipation, they both
require courage by our country's
leader. Courage that I hope is dis-
played soon.
Joe Sugiyama can be reached
at jmsugi@umich.edu.

'" 4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 21, 2011- 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 21, 2011 - 5A

PATENT
From Page lA
time would undergo litigation
called patent interferences, said
Rick Brandon, an associate gen-
eral counsel in the University's
Office of Technology Transfer.
But the interferences were often
so costly - sometimes upwards
of $200,000 - that one or both
investors would concede the pat-
ent.
The new reforms resolve that
dilemma through guaranteed
one-year patent reviews and ini-
tiatives, strengthening the qual-
ity of the patents, Brandon said.
"I think that overall we'll find
that it gives a lot more predict-
ability to patents," he said. "And
once you have more predictabili-
ty in the patent system ... it makes
it just a little bit easier for folks
to invest in businesses that are
dependent upon technology and
patent rights."
University students and other
young entrepreneurs could be
among the beneficiaries of the
COLEMAN
From Page 1A
stream of students ceased, Cole-
man said she enjoyed meeting
students from every corner of
campus.
"Everybody that I talked to
really expressed delight at being
at Michigan," Coleman said.
"The new students were really
excited to be here and to find out
about campus, and the senior
students got nostalgic about
their last year."
LSA freshman Anthony
Keilani said his brother, a Uni-
versity alum, spoke highly of
Coleman and recommended that
he go to her open house.
"(It's) great that I'm con-
nected to the president of a huge
university and that she wants to
get to know me," Keilani said. "I
appreciate that, and it makes me
feel comfortable to be here."
E. Royster Harper, the Univer-
sity's vice president for student
STARTUPS
From Page 1A
echoed Gordon's sentiments. She
said success doesn't necessarily
come with a business degree.
"If you look at some of the
major entrepreneurs that came
from (the University), I would say
they're from all parts of the Uni-
versity," Klinke said.
Though Norman didn't pursue
a business degree, he did start sev-
eral companies throughout high
school and college and developed
his latest venture in 2008. The
business, UBI, launched last week
and gathers free streaming mov-
ies and television shows onto one
comprehensive website, www.
myubi.tv.
"I realized there were lots of
different videos available online,
but it was spread across the entire
Internet so it was hard to have a
comfortable viewing," Norman
said. "So I started trying to build a
tool that would bring that into one

place, so you could watch videos in
one simple interface."
Five days after UBI launched, it
had 200 users, according to Nor-
man, who noted that the free web-
site is not yet available globally.
"One thing to bear in mind
is that our data is landlocked to
Michigan," Norman said. "If it
was a global site I'm sure it would
have already gone to 2,000 people,
but that's just done because our
publishers don't necessarily want
us throwing their video across
the world before we've proven our
model."
In addition to UBI, Norman
has another company called First
Motoring Apparel, which special-
izes in clothing customers can
wear while driving. Norman had
the idea for First three years ago,
but officially started selling prod-

probable uptick in investments,
Brandon said.
"Because students are at least
as likely to need outside money -
outside investors - as any other
business, I think it's going to help
them the same, if not more," he
said. "They may be even more
sensitive to the need for predict-
ability."
But while Neal and Brandon
expressed optimism that the act
could benefit entrepreneurial
University students, Erik Gor-
don, a clinical assistant professor
in the Samuel Zell and Robert H.
Lurie Institute for Entrepre-
neurial Studies, said the bill
would be of little benefit to the
"little guys." Instead, he said, it
panders to the interests of large
corporations.
By not mandating that appli-
cants publicly disclose their
applications until a year after
they file for a patent, the act
betrays entrepreneurs who may
be working on inventions already
submitted by corporations, Gor-
don said. He added that legal dis-
putes over patent rights would

favor large corporations over
small businesses and entrepre-
neurs, which would hinder the
growth of small companies and
therefore limit job expansion.
Still, others touted the over-
haul as an initiative that will
encourage innovation and entre-
preneurship at the University
and in the region. In addition to
the reforms of the patent system,
the act calls for the building of
the first satellite patent office in
Detroit, a milestone that Bran-
don and Stephen Forrest, vice
president of research at the Uni-
versity, called important to the
state's economic growth.
"University research is at the
core of our nation's competitive-
ness," Forrest wrote in a Sept. 16
University press release. "This
legislation clarifies and simpli-
fies the process by which many of
the most promising ideas arising
in academia are transferred to
the marketplace. It also provides
for the opening of the first satel-
lite office in Detroit, the heart of
a region that manufactures prod-
ucts for America and the world."

Assembly passes resolution
supporting Proposal 2 repeal


affairs, also attended the event
and mingled with attendees. At
one point, she handed out cook-
ies to students waiting to chat
or get their picture taken with
Coleman.
In an interview at the event,
Harper said occasions like the
open house allow University
administrators to remain in tune
with students' needs.
"It's important, in part,
because one of the things we
want to be careful that we don't
ever do is to get so distant from
our students that we don't know
what's going on or know what
they're experiencing," Harper
said.
Michigan Student Assembly
President DeAndree Watson said
in an interview at the open house
that there has been a long history
of University presidents reach-
ing out to students. Watson, who
greeted students as they mingled
in the first level of Coleman's
home, said it's important for stu-
dents to know they can commu-

nicate with Coleman and other
administrators.
"A lot of times the highest
level of leadership at a college
level can seem distant to stu-
dents, and these types of events
- where the president takes time
to interact with students on an
individual basis - helps bridge
that gap," Watson said.
Some students said they went
to the open house to share their
views on campus issues with
Coleman, while others said they
went to tell her more about their
student organizations.
LSA junior Charlotte Rath
said Coleman's home was "sim-
ple, but nice" and was thank-
ful for the opportunity to speak
with Coleman, even if it was for
just a few seconds.
"I came out to thank Mary Sue
for everything she's done for the
University and just for serving as
an awesome female role model,"
Rath said. "And you don't get this
opportunity very often, so it's
nice that she's doing it."

MSA backs
court decision
to overturn
affirmative action
By AUSTIN WORDELL
Daily StaffReporter
Members of the Michigan Stu-
dent Assembly showed their sup-
port for race and gender-based
considerations in college admis-
sions at a MSA meeting last night
in MSA Chambers.
MSA passed a resolution at the
meeting in support of the Sixth
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeal's
decision in July to uphold affir-
mative action in Michigan.
Because of Proposition 2 - a
2006 statewide ballot initiative -
the University is prohibited from
considering race and gender dur-
ing the admissions process.
The resolution reads, "The
Michigan Student Assembly has
held a long-standing commit-
ment to defending affirmative
action and maintaining diversity
on our campus." The resolution
cites statistics on the drop in
minority enrollment at the Uni-
versity since affirmative action
was banned through Proposal 2.
In July, the Sixth U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals voted to over-
turn Proposal 2. However, the
courtannounced on Sept. 9 that
it will rehear its decision.
NORTH QUAD
From Page 1A
and on Fridays all day, the din-
ing hall does not see as many
patrons, according to Logan.
Sitting next to DeFore on
the ground was Engineering
sophomore Andy Pekala, who
expressed safety concerns
about people eating on the
floor.
"They're blocking the exit
door, and they're blocking the
tray return," Pekala said. "That's
got to be against fire code."
Logan wrote that even
though the students eating on
the floor aren't actually violat-
ing a health code, it's "not the
kind of experience we want for
diners." He added that Univer-
sity Housing doesn't believe the
dining area reaches full capaci-
ty on a regular basis or presents
any fire hazards.
"There are ample exits from
the dining hall for those seated
plus additional patrons," Logan
wrote.
However, in an interview
after the statement was released,
Logan said students occupying
floor spaces could constitute a
tripping hazard whether in an
emergency or not. If students
seated on the floor are block-
ing emergency exits, dining hall
managers are supposed to ask
them to move to a different area,
according to Logan.
"From the standpoint of the
health code and the standpoint
of the fire code, we don't see a
violation," Logan said. "But no,
we aren't happy with the fact

that students are sitting on the
floor."
Mike Lee, director of Resi-
dential Dining Services, said
North Quad's dining hall man-
agers try to alleviate the capac-

MSA TALKS CAMPUS
WATERBOTTLE BAN
At its meeting last night,
members of the assembly were
also faced with the decision to
repeal a prior resolution to ban
water bottles on campus. How-
ever, this was rejected in a 16-10
vote, which reinforced MSA's
prior decision to move forward
with its support of banning the
sale of plastic water bottles at the
University.
The resolution to repeal MSA's
prior decision stated the ban was
"unbecoming of this Assembly in
that representatives presented
no objections to such an other-
wise contentious resolution."
MSA Vice President Bren-
dan Campbell disagreed with
the language and said the mer-
its of the water bottle ban have
already been properly discussed
by the assembly. Wavering from
the original stance would be a
poor precedent to set, Campbell
said.
He also reinforced his support
for the ban because of its goal to
make the University more envi-
ronmentally friendly.
"Sustainability is one of the
biggest issues on campus,"
Campbell said.
He added that while other
college campuses have imple-
mented plastic water bottle bans,
the student populations at these
schools are not as large as the
University's.
"The University of Michigan
ity problem by asking students
who are no longer eating to
vacate tables.
When asked whether North
Quad dining hall staff have a
protocol that requires them
to limit the number of people
entering the dining hall, Lee
said there is currently no such
procedure.
"They're trying to work
around that by the managers
going out and moving people
out of seats and moving stu-
dents off the floor," Lee said.
Only 23 percent of lunch-
time diners and 43 percent
of evening diners are North
Quad residents, according to
card swiping data provided by
Logan. There are only about
450 students living in North
Quad.
Logan said this might be a
factor in the dining hall's occu-
pancy problem since North
Quad's dining hall was intena-
ed to primarily serve the com-
plex's residents rather than
students from other halls or
non-residents with meal plans.
"I think when North Quad
was planned and designed, the
sense was that this would be
essentially a dining facility for
the residential community in
North Quad, and that its suc-
cess probably wasn't debated to
this point," Logan said. "I think
it has been a little eye-opening
for us to see how successful and
popular North Quad has been."
He added that officials
determined the size of North
Quad's dining hall based on the
space available for the building
and the need for academic and
residential areas in addition to

the dining hall.
"We made due with the
space available to us for a din-
ing facility as best as we could,"
Logan said.

has an incredible opportunity
to - and the Michigan Student
Assembly by extension - has an
incredible opportunity to lead
a movement," Campbell said.
"The idea behind this resolution
is to jumpstart the conversation
about sustainable efforts."
Despite the majority of MSA
members' views to uphold the
assembly's previous decision to
support the ban, some members
felt that not debating the original
water bottle ban resolution was a
mistake. They argued that new
MSA representatives may not
have been fully engaged in the
process because they may have
been too intimidated to object to
the resolution.
The drafted resolution stated
that the repeal would not have
been a statement on the merits
of the original resolution but
rather only a statement of desire
for more assembly discussion on
the water bottle ban. However,
the assembly widely debated the
benefits of the water bottle ban
last night.
MSA Public Health Rep.
Adam Behroozian was among
the assembly members who
advocated for MSA to retract its
support of the water bottle ban
resolution.
"Students should have the
right to choose between going
green or not ..." Behroozian said.
"I think repealing the previous
resolution would be good (and
to) kind of revise it. It seems a
little extreme."
Looking toward solutions to
the problem, Logan said Uni-
versity Housing does not want
to turn students away from the
dining hall.
"Right now, what we're try-
ing to do is manage the amount
of students in the dining hall
at the time we've got them,"
Logan said. "I don't think we
would want to get into a situ-
ation where we are restricting
some students from using the'
dining hall at certain times."
Lee noted that every aca-
demic year, Residential Dining
Services monitors the use of
the dining halls and determines
each cafeteria's peak times. He
said they are carefully watch-
ing the North Quad situation.
"We have to be very cau-
tious not to have a knee-jerk
reaction to something that may
work its way as students settle
into their patterns," Lee said.
"We're always trying to moni-
tor it, find ways to address it,
which is why the managers
spend time in the dining room
at those times when we typi-
cally get a large number."
Lee added that the Hill Din-
ing Center located in Mosh-
er-Jordan Residence Hall
experienced similar problems
to North Quad when it initially
opened in 2008, but numbers
have since settled to a more
desirable level.
However, Residential Dining
Services will examine the prob-
lem at North Quad more thor-
oughly and brainstorm more
solutions if the overcrowding
does not subside soon.
"The staff has really been
working hard, managers have

been working hard, to tackle
this situation," Logan said.
"It'll be interesting to see how
this shakes out over the next
few weeks."


ucts earlier this year.
Engineering junior Dhruv
Sekhri, who is working with
Norman at UBI, said he thinks a
degree isn't necessary to succeed
in business, but the correct atti-
tude is.
"There's just certain people
who have that mindset that you
can go out there to have your own
business and get it done," Sekhri
said. "You have to believe in your-
self. You haveto do everythingyou
can to make it work. You can learn
the skill sets, but it's just all about
that mindset."
Norman said he doesn't think
earning a traditional degree in
business was necessary for him to
launch his startup.
"An MBA is just a piece of paper
that tells someone else to pay you
more," Norman said.
But for people who do want a
degree to precede their business
launch, the University is starting
a master's in entrepreneurship
program next fall. Like Norman's
areas of expertise, the master's in
entrepreneurship will be a joint
program between the College of
Engineering and the Ross School
of Business.
Some recent University alumni,
however, have started their own
businesses in fields other than the
sciences.
University alum Greg Caplan,
who graduated in the spring, co-
founded oBaz, a website compa-
rable to sites such as Groupon and
LivingSocial that offer members
deals on local merchandise. How-
ever, instead of site administra-
tors choosing the deals, members
tell oBaz what they want, and a
team of employees then negotiates
deals with companies on the items
members request.
A month after launching oBaz
on Aug. 9, the site has more than
4,000 users, said Caplan, adding

that he believes it will continue
grow. Caplan said oBaz is looking
to gain more members by add-
ing specialized sections - called
aisles - to the website. Currently
there are two aisles - one for
moms and one for college stu-
dents.
Caplan has another Univer-
sity alum on his team - Andrea
Lewandowski, who also gradu-
ated in May and is the head of
marketing for the company.
Caplan, who majored in business,
and Lewndowski, who majored
in English and communications,
knew they wanted to go into busi-
ness when they left college.
Though Lewandowski and
Caplan started their business a
few months after graduating, they
don't believe their age will have an
effect on the success of oBaz.
"Age is just a number. It's not a
qualifier for what you can or can't
do," Lewandowski said.
Age certainly didn't play a
role in Caplan's view about start-
ing businesses. Like Norman, he
launched companies - includinga
T-shirt store - while he was still
in high school. Though he had
experience starting a business
before he began college, Caplan
said the things he learned while
at the University helped him start
oBaz.
Lewandowski said she didn't
originally plan to join a start-up
right out of college, but she knew
she would do with business.
"It was always my intention to
go into business, but I
didn't go through the
typical Ross route,"
Lewandowski said.
"When I started col-
lege I didn't ever
think of joining a
start-up, but now I'm
here, and it's a great
environment."

FOLLOW THE DAILY NEWS
EDITORS' TWITTER ACCOUNTS:
@nicoleaber, @dylancinti,
@brienneprusak, @hustonca,
@ylichterman, @bethanybiron

I

p


higandaily. com

6A - Wednesday, September 21, 2011

The Michigan Daily - mic


Agents' a steady fling
By KAVI SHEKHAR PANDEY
Senior Arts Editor

It's an unavoidable truth: All
people will face some terrible,
horrible, no-good-very-bad event
at some point in
their lives. What gj
really matters
then, is how one Free Agents
reacts to that
circumstance Pilot
- either be a Wednesdays
Charlie Brown- at 8:30 p.m.
esque ball of NBC
despondency for
eternity or smack those negative
emotions into oblivion and find a
way to move on with your life. In
the case of the new NBC sitcom
"Free Agents," the two sad-sack
main characters are churning
around in their respective emo-
tional blenders until they finally
decide to pour themselves out into
each other's arms.
Our male lead is Alex (Hank
Azaria, "The Simpsons") a chron-
ic crier who's lost custody of his
kids following a recent divorce.
His path to solace begins after a
one-night stand with co-worker
Helen (Kathryn Hahn, "Cross-
ing Jordan"), who's been trying
to bury her grief over the death of
her fiance in bottles of wine and
microwavable dinners. The tale of
Alex and Helen is awkward at first
(sleeping with a colleague tends
to do that) and Helen is initially
resistant, but their natural chem-
istry soon becomes obvious - both
to each other and to the audi-
ence. Their sharp, nonstop ban-
ter, unleashed by the remarkably
gifted Azaria and Hahn, is what
makes the show a surprise success.
The relationship between
Alex and Helen is the crux of
"Free Agents," but the show is
as much a workplace sitcom as it
is a romantic comedy, bringing

. I I~ /


along
bolster
(Mo M
sleazy
one wi
the pr
Office
(Natas
Standi
with e
Streep
Wears
a
The
stando
kalike
Show"
of Ken
piercin
and to
than
ness q
overbo
of crer
("Supe
unfunr

an appropriate ensemble to sary as a creepy security guard.
the laughs. There's Dan Another disappointing failure is
dandel, "Love Bites"), the Alex and Helen's boss, played by
"B-school bro" type every- Anthony Stewart Head ("Buffy
ill love to hate, always on the Vampire Slayer'"), who is
owl for his next hookup. reprising his role from the origi-
executive assistant Emma nal British series. Head's char-
ha Leggero, "Last Comic acter is instantly forgettable,
ng") is a pint-size maneater following the trope of an aloof,
nough sass to make Meryl filthy rich, filthy-joking execu-
's character in "The Devil tive who really has no business
Prada" blush. running a corporation.
"Free Agents" spreads the con-
tent of its humor nicely, ranging
BC's hum from the lowbrow (God save the
sex joke) to the mildly highbrow
lay answer. (Willy Loman zingers) to the
absolutely random ("Scooby Doo:
Monsters Unleashed" references),
all managingto be funny. Note the
show's clear supporting usage of the relatively tame adjec-
ut is Fred Armisen-loo- tive "funny" - the pilot of "Free
Al Madrigal ("The Daily Agents" is never uproarious, just
) as this office's version a steady stream of chuckles and
neth "The Page" Parcell, guffaws that lacks any true gut-
sg scenes with his foibles busting moments.
:mfoolery. Madrigal more Still, with the bubbly chemistry
enough fills the weird- of its charming leads and a (most-
uotient, so the show goes ly) solid supporting cast, the foun-
ard with the inclusion dation has been laid for something
epy actor Joe Lo Truglio potentially great. Let's hope NBC
rbad"), embarrassingly will sign "Free Agents" to a long-
ny and utterly unneces- term contract.

The perfect meeting space for Dumbledore's Army.
North Quaid's digs

The 'U' has its
own Room of
Requirement
By VERONICA MENALDI
Daily Arts Writer
Imagine a place that changes
and adapts to the needs of the
students - a place so moldable
it can go from a yoga session to
an intensive interactive study
session within minutes. Now
imagine it being easily acces-
sible on campus.
This magical space exists
inside of North Quad under the
name of "Creative Commons
Atelier" - a name that mixes
creativity and a touch of inter-
national flavoring, with the
French word meaning "studio"



RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, September 21, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Heart-to-heart 34Ye_ Shoppe 45 Giveethe creeps
1 Its median score 4 Gardnerof 35 Bog fuel 46 Sonnetline
is100 mysteries 37Big name in fivesome
7 Weapon for Tyson 5 Shrewd online poker 47 Maritimebirds
11 Christmas choice 6 When strokes 38 March,__: Carroll 50 Footsteps-in-an-
14 Formerdrug giant begin to count character empty-hallway
n5 Sans empleyment 7Rsleetf 40Sondat ae sound
ne E iy Cahrs 8 Couch potato's shearng 51 Blunder
d1 eves, say ftioen 41 Stormyweather 52 BMWrieal
17 Ttleerle inothe 9 Paeement gear 53 "eea, sorer"
2009 Tonywinner waming 43 USC athlete 56 Shizuoka sash
1 rBest Mseal 10 Gamewith 44 Cold weather 57 Phone no.
n9 Drpeoffriely lummling blocks wear addition
20Shoewitha 11'Unauthorized w
sw2osh1 go storiswrittenby ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Tex-Mesnack devstees
22M-16, e.g. 12AuthorCalvino S T p M 0 5 5 C S P A N
24'Advantage of 13 Cfine again, as H A I R A N N E A L I V E
some military salnes A BLIE I T A L T ONED
goggles 1Trailsg F L I P F L O P F L A P
26 Bottlsnecks 230"D4 we get thes
30 Nothardtograsp bd?"
31 Plaza Hotel imp 240Orin Mams S T R A F E R I 0 C E 0
3 qWriequmipkly missongE. P I N G P O N G P A N S
33 Sports car roof 25 Acidecontainer A F R O O U T I D E A
options n 26Somearena C L I P C L o P C L A P
36 SkyMilsairline displays, briely M A C A I D O P E N E R
37 Make, as a 27 Barom a dairy
sandwichr ease EXHALE GL]UE EL
38 Ethiopia's 28*Proshop D t N G D 0 N G D A N G
Selasse freese ts A ZT EC AR USG U R IS
39 Lie flannel and 29 Pre-speech T E M PO L 0 P E ME N U
fleece obstacle E D111T. S A M E S P R OP
40Crepy-crawly 32St. Patrick's Day
41 TeredtAsian dance xworeditor5@aol.com t9/20/11

CHILD CARE NEEDED for 3 girls
ages 8, 10, & 15. Starts at 2:45pm. In-
volves driving to after school activities.
Must own car & be safe driver. Salary
negotiable. Email: mpmortell@aol.com
CHILD CARE NEEDED for 9 year
old twin boys-one evening per
week/weekend. Must have car/non-
smoking. Email:rslone@umich.edu
EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com
FART TIME TUTORS needed fee
math & scieece. Call (734) 434-1220.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY P0-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! n . Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
!! BIG 10 BED CAMPUS HOUSE!!
4 baths, 2 living, open basement, new
carpet, large screen TVs, great yard,
free laundry, free parking, May to May.
www.nancylat.com (734) 663-1370
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Fireplace/cool hitch,
prkg. Must see! $3800 (313)215-8115.
(734)332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
**3 BEDROOM HOUSE** Newly
renovated. Near Yost. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE**Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
AVAILABLE FALL 2012. 5 bedroom
2 bath houses. Call 610-952-5269 or
Email louisbreskman@gmail.com.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
5 & 6 BR Houses
2011
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

or "artist workshop." Resource Center and instru-
The name itself helps rep- mental member in the creation
resent the image North Quad of the CCA.
wants to portray, one of origi- There's also almost a sense of
nality and a cross between the mystery in the room - it never
foreign and the familiar. looks the same from day to day.
Jamie Vander Broek, for- "What I like about it is that
mer North Quad Programming every time I walk in, I never
Coordinator, said that though know what it's going to look
the room itself hasn't been like," Evershed said. "I really
around for long, the idea has love the flexibility. Sometimes
been in the works for years. you walk into a soft casual set-
This has resulted in a place ting and sometimes it'll be divid-
completely student-, faculty- ed up where you can go into a
and staff-made, with the intent little corner and feel secluded
of providing a common room but still in an open space."
unlike others, where those The common room is also
inside are free to color outside home to many events, like
of the lines. pilates, yoga and even ticketed
"Oftentimes students are sort events like puppeteers or dan-
of shoehorned into classroom ers. These events in particular
space that isn't as flexible," can take advantage of the multi-
Vander Broek said. "In North media speaker systems that are
Quad, the (common spaces) can a key characteristic of the CCA.
be shaped by the people who All the technology in the
are in it. The architecture of the room is designed to be easily
room isn't dominant." accessible, but help is still avail-
Cosirng othQuad is able Upon request 22
home to a variety of schools "The room is meant for pre,1
and programs - including sentations, lectures or othgr
the Communication Studies, events and groups that can
Screen Arts and Cultures, the use more advanced techno
Language Resource Center, the 'ogy designed for self seftvite
Sweetland Center for Writing, and showcases a rich variety o
the School of Information, the content," said Matt Rubinstein,
Global Scholars Program, the North Quad's-technology coor-
Max Kade house and North dinator.
Quad Residential Community Beeutse it's only been ope
- the placement of the CCA since March of this past wintr
serves as the unification of semester, students ape stilljn
many of their disciplines. the 'process of discoveringita4.1
Vander Broek said the com- unique qualities.
mon room gives those inside "It's a great place for people
the freedom to do absolutely to go and work collaboratively,"
whatever their imagination lets said Chris McNamara, a Screen
them. She particularlyloved the Arts and Cultures lecturer who
flexibility of the room itself as also helped create the space.
well as its furniture and num- "It's turned into somethingthat
ber of different LCD screens. could be a laboratory or incu-
The feelings the room gives bator for all kinds of creative
those who enter is comparable endeavors."
to the feeling a child gets when Though access to the build-
presented with an empty page ing for those not residing in
along with crayons and mark- North Quad is limited, the CCA
ers - they just want to let their never closes, and therefore can
creativity shine. be particularly appealing for
There are moveable walls those students who want to
that are both magnetic and dry- study later in the evenings.
erase, which allows a personal Its main campus location is
touch and division of the room also ideal for drawing in more
along with digital banners dis- students and events, since a nice
playing news feeds. The room walk or bus ride up to North
itself is narrow with an incred- Campus wouldn't be necessary.
ibly high ceiling, a large array McNamara said the quality
of windows and three smaller of the projection and sound sys-
private conference rooms in the tem is phenomenal and allows
back. those inside to experience qual-
"It gives off the sense of this ity sight and sound while at the
enormous room, while on the same time not feeling isolated
other hand because it's very from the outside world, thanks
narrow and long, it gives the to all the windows.
ability to have very intimate "It sort of feels very acces-
meetings," said Julie Ever- sible to the street and not closed
shed, Director of the Language in a box," he said.
PROVE YOUR BEER
IS BEST!
Enter The Michigan Daily's
third annual home brew competition.
Bottles are due Oct. 16.

E-mail klarecki@michigandaily.com0
for more details.

temple
42 Buttey'sperh
44 Noble headpiece
45 *Freetown is its
capital
48 Response to a
dare
498,11 razor
5 ActrMorales
54 Film buff's
channel
55 "That's exactly
how Ifeel"...or
what eachstre
clue's frstnerd
r ando?
s8aStatnfor Ryan
Heward
59 Havingthe krack
60Toghlsather
61 pubj.thathelps
people assimilate
62 Niggling things
63 "Enough already!"
DOWN
1 Publisher's ID
2 Royally named
liner, briefly

13
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 t23
14 16 17 18 20 21 24 25
30
26 27 28 29
31 32 33 34 36
38 37 38
39 40 41
42 43 44
45 48 47
48 49 50 51 62 63
84 55 58 57
58 59 60
61 62 63
By Julian Lim 09/21/11
(c)2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

ONLINE AUTO INSURANCE. Call
Anytime for a quote (734) 944-9393.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 21, 2011-- 7A

TV REVIEW
Stars make 'Night'

COURTESY OF FX
The wine-in-a-can shortage hit the Gang particularly hard.
Sunny keeps shining

By KELLY ETZ
Daily Arts Writer
There's just something about
"It's Always Sunny in Philadel-
phia." It's that over-the-top, noth-
ing off limits,
how-far-can- *****
they-possibly-
go quality. And ItS AIWayS
the new season Sunny in
really runs with
it. Philadelphia
It all starts Season Seven
at Paddy's Pub Premiere
with Charlie
(Charlie Day) Thursdays
and Dee (Kait- at1 p.m.
lin Olson) try- FX
ing to adopt a
stray junkyard dog for the bar.
Enter Mac (Rob McElhenney),
or more appropriately "Fat Mac,"
with a garbage bag full of chimi-
changas and an extra 50 pounds
or so. That leads to Dennis (Glenn
Howerton) lamenting how
they've ended up as "the gross
crew" All that's left is for Frank
(Danny DeVito) to announce that
he's going to marry the prostitute
Roxy (Alanna Ubach, "Hung") in
24 hours. And "Sunny" is off and
running.
It's as if each scene attempts to
top the one before, and it's work-
ing. Each new twist feels almost
too outrageous, even for "Sunny,"
but it manages to all come

togeth
shocki
priaten
Now
sevent
in som
season
"Sunny
ongoin
reeme
star G
Show"
TigerV
YetD
guests
stealst
Roxy.S
ing, an
spoofc
Robert
the fin
lying i
sings h
is the p
The
it thei
memoi
tends t
then c
amoun
date (a

er in the perfect amount of of blood capsules) while yelling,
ngly selfish, crass inappro- "I think I've been poisoned by my
sess. constituents!" Oh, Charlie.
that "Sunny" has hit the And who knows commitment
h season mark, it has added like Rob McElhenny, who gained
se throwbacks to previous a very real 50 pounds for the sea-
s, a delight for longtime son just for the hell of it. The com-
y" fans. There's Dennis's edy generated by "Fat Mac" is a
ig love of crack and the feather in McElhenny's cap, and
rgence of previous guest thankfully he's lost most of the
eoffrey Owens ("The Cosby weight since wrapping filming.
) as the very obviously fake As for the other regulars, DeVi-
Woods. to's comic timing is perfect. While
it's Alanna Ubach, the other Charlie is vomiting blood on his
star for the premiere, who date, Frank's in the front (posing
the show as the prostitute as the limo driver) trying to offer
She's unflinchingly disgust- her a hard-boiled egg he found
id Ubach goes all out. The in "perfect" condition under a
of the Richard Gere/Julia bridge.
:s romance is hilarious, and As for Olson and Howerton,
al scene, with a dead Roxy they'll have more chances to
n the hall as Roy Orbison shine in upcoming episodes, but
is classic "Pretty Woman," both did throw out some memo-
perfect "Sunny" ending. rable lines in the premiere. Most
notable are Howerton's assess-
ment of Mac ("You look fat as
M a et shit") and Olson's admission that
she "smoked a little crack on the
Big M ac. way over" at Roxy's makeshift
funeral.
All in all, "Sunny" has proven
it's willing to go just about any-
series regulars also give where for the sake of a laugh. And
r all in the premiere. In a while it's crude, disgusting and
-able scene, Charlie pre- filled with characters that lack
to be a Texan millionaire, any sense of morality at all, we
oughs up an astonishing still love it. Here's to the new sea-
it of fake blood all over his son - every glorious, ridiculous,
fter swallowing a boatload unseemly moment.

Applegate and
Arnett's chemistry
brings the laughs
By SAM CENZHANG
For the Daily
NBC's foray into Wednesday
night comedy begins with "Up All
Night." The premise of the show
is simple: Chris-
tina Applegate ***
("Samantha
Who?")hand Up AllNight
Will Arnett Pilot
("Arrested
Development") Wednesdays
are a happy, NBC
carefree couple. NBC
They have a
baby. Hijinx ensue.
"Up All Night" is a show that
shouldn't fail, considering its
impeccable pedigree. Lorne
Michaels is the executive pro-
ducer, and the showrunner
Emily Spivey is a former "Satur-
day Night Live" writer who also
wrote an episode of "Parks and
Recreation." Christina Applegate
has comedy chops to spare, and
on an unrelated note, she has an
Emmy. Basically, if the show can
stay out of its own way, it'll be at
least a solid half hour every week.
The "Up All Night" pilot large-
ly lives up to its promise. Arnett
and Applegate have a great rap-
port, and Maya Rudolph ("Sat-
urday Night Live") hamming it
up is always fun to see. Spivey is
a sharp writer, as her "Parks and
Rec" episode, "Eagleton," demon-
strated. There weren't too many
laugh-out-loud moments, but the
incisive and observational stuff is
there. Chris and Reagan Brinkley
(Arnett and Applegate's charac-
ters, respectively) have a lengthy
one-up contest over who slept
less, and while most of us have
never raised a baby, the bit is reso-
nant enough. The show also gives,
Will Arnett a chance to be a nor-

t sh h
"Eh ... well, it's cuter than the one I had with Amy Poehler."

COURTESY o NBC

mal human, or at least one who
doesn't ride around on a Segway
performing illusions. His reaction
mugs are great, and the high point
of the pilot is probably his cheese-
finding frenzy in a supermarket.
There's a lot of embryonic stuff
here, and it augurs well for the
show.
. All that said, "Up All Night"
is by no means a can't-miss. The
"busy new parents find balance
between work, life and adorable
baby"premise has the potentialto
be cloying, and we see a glimpse
of how saccharine this dynamic
can be during the end of the epi-
sode, when Reagan makes her "I
choose work and family" stand.
But Spivey doesn't write with too
heavy a hand; the hangover scene
("You know who doesn't have a
hangover? That baby!") is enough
to assuage any doubts about that.
Another potential worry is
the incongruity between what
is a fairly grounded home life
for Chris and. Reagan and a
workplace environment that
seems almost cartoonish. Maya
Rudolph is a bit of an "it girl" at
the moment, and her success in
"Bridesmaids" led NBC to greatly
expand her role. While Rudolph
is a gifted comic actress who can
do full ham and sardonic subtle-
ty with equal aplomb, it doesn't

seem like the show knows quite
what to do with her. Her scenes
are very different tonally from
the low-key domesticity we get
in the Brinkleys' home scenes.
To be sure, Rudolph is the funni-
est part of the pilot, in the "elicit-
ing audible laughs" sense. But it's
not entirely clear how the show
will mesh her Jack Donaghy-like
crazed mentor role with the wry
and observational tone of the
baby shenanigans. This is some-
thing to keep an eye on.
Comedy pilots don't have to be
transcendent, fully formed piec-
es of television. All a pilot needs
to do is establish that, hey, the
premise has potential and the
characters are enjoyable. After
that, would it be too much trou-
ble to ask you to plop yourself on
the couch for another pleasant
half hour next week? In the case
of "Up All Night," the answer is
a resounding "yes." There are
laughs, both belly-laughs and
"heh, yeah, totally" laughs. It's
sentimental, but it also features
Arnett and Applegate calling
their baby "f***ing beautiful."
The pilot is good, and really,
that's more than a pilot needs
to be. It's an encouraging begin-
ning from an excellent cast and
crew. Keep this one on the DVR
schedule.

EMBARK: NASSAU, BAHAMAS
ROSEAU, DOMINICA
MANAUS, BRAZIL
TAKORADI, GHANA
CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA
PORT LOUIS, MAURITIUS
COCHIN, INDIA
SINGAPORE. .
HO CHI MINH CITY, VIET NAM
HONG KONG, CHINA
SHANGHAI, CHINA
KOBE, JAPAN
YOKOHAMA, JAPAN
HILO, HAWAII
DEBARK: SAN DIEGO, CA USA
ITINERARY I5 S8ECT TO CHANGE.

NO DEADLINE FOR UNIV. ...

Space is Limited: Apply Now! * Financial Aid is Available

APPLY FOR SPRING 2012
San ihe cod fn the SA$ Fant
Appki tor appiy by phone!
Menteon thls ad Onoe i wiaive
your applcation fee!
Ia 800.854.0195

tmix

Ir

p k


0

c
1;:
fi .F,'..
C. w ,^,, thy., t -
. .t

8A - Wednesday, September 21, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *

'Epiphany' inspires Roh to play better defense

By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan football team
had just defeated Western Michi-
gan in the season opener and
Craig Roh couldn't help but cry.
The junior defensive end was
used to being one of the Wolver-
ines' main weapons - he'd start-
ed every game of his collegiate
career and had been a rock for the
Michigan defense. But after this
game, the only rock he felt was
rock bottom. He recorded zero
tackles and seemed invisible on
the field.
"I didn't perform that great
(against Western Michigan),"
Roh said on Tuesday. "I just had a
breakdown after that game."
But it was more than just his
poor performance against the
Broncos that triggered the "emo-
tional release." It was the culmi-
nation of a difficult few weeks.
Roh had been taking a lot of
heat from defensive coordinator
Greg Mattison, who is making
it his priority to shape Roh into
a great player. Mattison knows
Roh's potential and is not afraid
to let himknow when things need
to improve.
"I've been pretty hard on him,"
Mattison said. "I think at one
point he said, 'Coach, I don't think
I've ever heard that everything I
did wasn't good before.'
"And I just said, 'Well, it isn't.
Not for the level that I want you
at. "
Not exactly what Roh had been
used to hearing.
"I'm a perfectionist," Roh said.
"I would like to think that every-

thing I do is perfect, and football
is one area where I could be per-
fect. And once Mattison came in, I
wasn't perfect anymore. I was just
completely un-perfect in every
way, shape or form."
It was during camp when Roh
first realized how different this
season would be than years past.
He was still adjusting to playing
defensive end - he played line-
backer all of freshman year and in
eight games his sophomore year.
Roh had only five games at
defensive end under his belt
enteringthis season. The position
change, along with a new coach-
ing staff, challenged Roh to his
breaking point.
"(I was) breaking down, like
with my parents probably," Roh
said. "After games, or just during
camp. Camp was tough. We went
almost every day in full pads. Peo-
ple would be lying if they told you
(camp) was fun. But it's necessary,
and it's made this whole team
mentally tough. But sometimes
it's not always fun."
Following the Western Michi-
gan game, Roh once again didn't
post any statistics in a 35-31 win
over Notre Dame. But during that
game, he felt something change.
"The Western game I felt like
I didn't play well," he said. "The
Notre Dame game, I felt energet-
ic, had fun.
"That was like the epiphany."
Epiphany?
"I just kind of had an epiphany
about football and life," Roh said.
"That's kind of what I detected.
It was just a change, and I thank
Mattison, I thank God for it. It
entailed something that just real-

6

ly relates to Christian belief that But the game against the Fight- him to maintain a more posi-
I'm not perfect, that it's OK to ing Irish was just the beginning. tive attitude in practice and has
be not perfect because God has a Roh saw the game, and life, in a helped him become a better foot-
plan for me. different light. He started having ball player.
"It's like God has put football fun playing football again. And never was that more evi-
into my life because He wants me And he wasn't the only one who dent than midway through the
to play. He wants me to enjoy it, noticed. third quarter against Eastern
and after that, it was like any crit- "All of the sudden, he just kept Michigan last Saturday.
icism I get from Mattison doesn't working andw kept working, and Roh was positioned on the left
tear down my entire world. (Mat- you could see it happen I think a side of the line as Eagles quarter-
tison) is just trying to make me a week ago in practice," Mattison back Alex Gillett faked a handoff
better player, and because of that said. "I saw a different guy. A guy and rolled out to the right, looking
I came in with a much more posi- that said, 'Okay, I'm gonna buy to pass.
tive attitude, even when he does into everything.' " Gillett never had a chance. Roh
get down on me." Roh said his epiphany helped read the play perfectly and busted

through the line. He grabbed hold
of Gillett's shoulder and ripped
him to the ground for his first
sack of the year.
Finally, a sense of relief. Roh
raised both fists in the air as
teammates ran over to congratu-
late him.
"That was a release for sure,"
he said. "I'm just having so much
fun playing football right now."
Despite the epiphany, Roh
remains focused on what lies
ahead.
"It's a journey," he said.

WANT TO JOIN THE DAILY SPORTS STAFF?
Smart move.
COME TO OUR SPORTS MEETINGS EVERY SUNDAY AT 1 P.M. ON 420 MAYNARD STREET.

C

Rethink Possible

* Click and share. The first U.S. phone
with a dedicated Facebook share button.
SApp packed. The HTC Status comes
preloaded with all the applications
you need to stay connected.
* Work and play Manage multiple email
accounts and calendars. Browse the Web
and stay up to date on all the news that
matters to you.

* All the latest social networking apps.
* Unlimited usage on the nation's
largest Wi-Fi network.1
* Simultaneous use of voice and
data on the nation's fastest mobile
broadband network.2
a The power of the Internet in the palm
of your hand.

0

0I

Visit your local AT&T store at
att.com/storelocator/

hTC StatusTM

Or go to: att.com/wireless/univofmich
Mention FAN: 2899228

0
S

7ail ~~a

h



0

0:


'0

0r

0

0W

8B3 WenedySetmbr- 1 2011 / heStteen

N

ANN ARBOR
From Page 5B
doesn't neccessarily translate into
an awkward community fit.
"Residents are good, traffic is
good, 24 hours is very convenient
for all of the students around here
... So it makes everyone happy over
here," said owner Vipul Patel of his
recently opened 7-Eleven on South
Main Street.
"I'm very confident that over
some time we'll be very welcomed
by the community," Patel added.
' on Up
Though the tally between chain
and local businesses might be hard-
er to detect, more noticeable within
recent years has been the city's ver-
tical expansion encompassing the
addition of Zaragon Place on East
University Avenue (with its sequel,
Zaragon West, already under con-
struction) and Sterling 411 Lofts on

Washington Street. This develop-
ment marks a rash of "mixed-use"
- a combination of retail and resi-
dential space - real estate in the
city.
According to Pollay, previous
zoning restrictions forbade devel-
opments of the buildings' respec-
tive heights. But while working on
a "Green Belt" initiative in 2003,
the city realized that developing
its "core" - the more central area
of downtown, and not its outskirts
-helped combat urban sprawl by
providing increased downtown
residential options.
"The zoning was changed to
enable mixed use and residential...
both of which are seen to be assets
to downtown," Pollay said. "The
more people that live here, the
more likely our retailers are to sur-
vive and thrive."
The efforts culminated into a
six-year rezoning process, accord-
ing to Hieftje.
Unsurprisingly, the development
had its detractors: In particular,
the construction of Zaragon Place

required the demolition of the
84-year-old Anberay Apartments
complex - a move which, accord-
ing to a February 2007 article in
The Michigan Daily, struck a nerve
with those attached to the historic
building.
Even today, a few years after the
project's completion, not all are
pleased. For some, low-rise devel-
opments are preferable.
"That's what Ann Arbor was,"
said Ann Arbor resident Don
Danyko. "If you want a big city, go
to New York. This isn't New York,
it's Ann Arbor."
Pollay concedes that there are
those "not comfortable" with
high-rises. However, she thinks
the project's completion signals an
understanding toward the impor-
tance of density, sustainability and,
with the presence of ground-floor
retail to grab individuals' attention,
a pedestrian-friendly city.
Also, she feels that mixed-use
high-rises contribute to the diver-
sity and character of Ann Arbor.
"That's downtown's strength,"

she said. "Same way that you have
an older building next to a new
building. Same way that you have
a tall building next a smaller build-
ing."
Still, similar to a distinct, small
business, the historical low-rises
further cement the city's welcom-
ing appeal.
"I think maybe from the gen-
erational standpoint it's a remem-
brance of good times or 'that's the
way things always used to be,"
Shaffran said. "Not that we want to
freeze dry everything."
While the city cannot legally
block any development that meets
zoning requirements, the mayor
noted that developers must adhere
to aesthetic criteria outlined in
the Downtown Ann Arbor Design
Guidelines. The extensive report
dissects the style of each area,
encouraging developments to
"reflect the design context and tra-
ditions of its character districts,
blocks and streets on which it is
located."
"It makes me feel pretty com-

fortable about some taller buildings
going in downtown also knowing
that we have 14 historic districts in
the city so there are some parts that
are never going to change," Hief-
tje said. "So when you get back to
it, how can we have this economic
activity going on in the city and also
protect this culture and heritage
that we have? That's part of the way
we're doing it - parts of the down-
town will be preserved."
Looking forward, Hieftje
remains focused on, among other
initiatives, continually strength-
ening the city's green identity
- through, for example, improv-
ing public transit to eliminate the
number of automobiles entering the
city - and, by extension, its overall
diversity.
Ultimately, any strand of
downtown evolution highlights a
complex intersection of policy, eco-
nomics and identity preservation.
"What we can do is plan for
(change) and try to direct that
change in a good direction," he said.
"And hopefully we're doing that."

OW"NTOWN.

THINK YOUR HOME BREW IS BETTER THAN PBR?
WE DO TOO.
Enter the 3rd annual Michigan Daily Home Brew Competition
in association with the Ann Arbor Brewer's Guild
BOTTLES DUE ON OCT.16. E-MAIL KLARECKI@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFORMATION.

GET YOUR A 1
DAILY RSSSO
ON YOUR- The Ross BBA
T W IT TER. action-based/team-oriented/great careers

@MICHIGANDAILY
AND
FACEBOOK
LIKE US.

1nterested? Thursday, September 22
Attend an Information Session Tuesday, October 11
to learn about the program, Wednesday, November 9
application, and where the
Ross BBA can take you. Tuesday, January 10
Reserve your seat at 4:10-5:00pm at the
www.bus.umich.edu/bba Ross School of Business

poetry series presents
An Evening with Pulitzer Prize-winning Poet
Franz Wright
September 23, 2011, 7pm
Reading from his newest work
Reception and book-signing
to follow.
CONTACT: Sarah Messer LOCATION: 7101 W Liberty Rd. Anse Arbor
Capper Colored Mstuntain Arts All Readings and Conversations are FREE
Emait: sarahtttec'arts.org and open to the public.
Telephone: 734-904-7487
One Pause Poetry and its prograins
-re-:pe- ccmarntsrt rg

F=
.
Y ;t
ty
F
j
C
g
i
i
w
M
[j
F


..j

Amik A~kk AM

-4

0

S-

2B3 Wedesdy, eptmbe- 2, 211 /S Te Sateen

Wednesday, Septemeber 21 2011 // The Statement 7B

statement
Magazine Editor:
Carolyn Klarecki
Editor in Chief:
Stephanie Steinberg
Managing Editor:
Nick Spar
Deputy Editors:
Stephen Ostrowski
Devon Thorsby
Elyana Twiggs
Designers:
Maya Friedman
Hermes Risien
Photos:
Jed Moch
Copy Editor:
Hannah Poindexter

THEJUNKDRAWER

The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year
To contact The Statement e-mail
klarecki@michigandaily.com.
Cover photo courtesy of The
Bentley Historical Library
DAILY HOME
BREW
COMPETITION
Bottles due on
Oct. 16.
E-MAIL KLARECKI@
MICHIGANDAILY.COM

PE . . mmrmmmmrmmlmlrm =

party for the planet!
Tuesday, September 27
Central Campus Diag
Noon - 4pm


I

WIN AN IPOD
SHUFFLE !
FILL OUT OUR OFF-
CAMPUS HOUSING
SURVEY! YOU'LL BE
GLAD YOU DID.
PLEASE AND THANK YOU!
Go to www.michigandaily.com/
housing-survey to find glory.

to Dainc Lhe statCebudget. tu
limiting the number of students
sessing a card played no part in b,
ing the state budget
since SNAP is funded
entirely by the federal
Department of Human it
Services. The stricter +
qualifications simply 1
save money for thefed-
eral government. a
University alum
and State Rep. Jeff e
Irwin (D-Ann Arbor)
opposed the legisla- -
tion change. He said he
believes the boost the Aget
cards provided for the
state economy should
have been further con-
sidered before reaching a decision
"I didn't think it was a good is
rush into turning down money
Washington D.C.," Irwin said
doesn't save the state any mon
fact, more food stamp-eligibleind
ala bring more money into our st
buy food and support our econom:
State Rep. Dave Agema (R-C
ville), who voted in support o
qualification change, said in a M,
Michigan Daily article that the for

wever, ana wC naa tnusanas, Uo n uige
s pos- Card because some were coming from
alanc- wealthy mes. People were getting
a Bridge Card that
weren't financially
needy and didn't qual-
was too easy ify by other standards."
Rackham student
to get on, Sarah Himes was the
director of Michigan's
.n~d tCoo Coordinated Access to
a to ie. Food for the Elderly
asy . for the last three years.
MiCAFE is a private,
State Rep. Dave non-profit organiza-
tion that advocates for
mia (R-Grandville) the elderly in getting
food assistance, and
Bridge Cards if needed.
Himes said the Bridge
1. * Card serves as a direct stimulus to the
dea to state because it is federal money being
from spent.
I. "It "For every $5 spent in food stamps,
ey. In $9 is generated in the economy, and
ividu- that's because they're spending it at
:ate to local stores," Himes said. "They're
y. keeping those stores open, and keeping
rand- people employed and they're support-
if the ing Michigan farmers."
arch 7 Though the change was not part of
merly balancing the state budget, the Michi-

gan Department of Human Se 3
which oversaw the qualification cha
for the state, explained in a Feb. 9 press
release that it was done to stop college
students from abusing the federally
funded card.
Himes said while she was working
with people seeking the card she didn't 3 gove
knowingly experience fraud, however
she said she never knew if everyone she 2,808,76
worked with was 100% truthful. I
"I think that the majority of people a
are really hard-working people who areMichigan resIdents
using this to supplement their budget,"
Himes said. 3
Irwin said qualifications should have * February 2010:
only targeted those abusing the card
instead of all students. I 1,945,982 people in
"It probably would have been a better Michigan receiving 
policy to target the change toward peo-
ple who were abusing itrathercthan just cards. Of those,
say, We're going to cut all students off
regardless of what your financial need 20000 are
is,' " he said. "It would be my preference 0are
if the policy was tailored towards peo-
ple's bona fide needs - not these broad
categories that don't have a great corre-
spondence to the need."
Irwin also said it is not impossible to 1,924,272 people in 1
still possess or apply for a card as a col-
lege student, as Oudersluys exemplifies, I Michigan receiving
so long as the new qualifications are cards. This is 20,000
met. cad .Tu s2 ,0
"If you're a student, and you're also less than in 2010.
caring for small children or caring 0
for a disabled family member, then:A
you can still apply for a Bridge card ource: Food Research and Action
under those circumstances," Irwin Center
said. .------------ --------.


0

0,4v 000

6B3 WenedySetmbr 1 2011 / heStte en

Wednesday, September 21, 2011// The Statement 3B
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance
f F
5'i

Cryos International, the largest
sperm bank in the world, reported
on Monday that it is turning away
sperm donors with red hair due to
a lack of demand. The director of
the sperm bank said the only real
demand is in Ireland.

Full Tilt Poker, an online gambling President Barack Obamaannouced Troy Davis was denied clemency Afghan Peace Council Chief and
website, was accused yesterday of on Monday his plan to cut $320 on Tuesday from the Georgia State former Afghan president Burhan-
stealing $440 million out of online billion of proposed spending on Board of Pardons and Paroles in uddin Rabbani was assasinated in
users' winnings and filtering the Medicare and Medicaid over the attempts to thwart death row Kabul yesterday night when a sui-
funds to the board members and next decade. This is a part of his by lethal injection. Davis was cide bomber infiltrated his home.
owners of the website. The site new deficit-reduction package to convicted in 1989 of shooting Rabbani was trying to negotiate a
has been stealing since 2007. reduce the deficit by $3 trillion. poilce officer Mark MacPhail. peace agreement with the Taliban.

ersiuys mace ner meals as arroraaw cas
possible.
"I know how to make the cheapest
macaroni and cheese," Oudersluys said.
"It's a package of Ramen noodles and a
slice of American cheese."
A part of the federally funded Sup-
plemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram, the Bridge Card is the most
recent and modern form of govern-
ment-issued food stamps. Food stamps
originated with the anti-poverty Food
Stamp Act of 1964 signed by President
Lyndon B. Johnson when crop sur-
pluses coincided with high levels of
hunger in the country. The government
could give food to the needy and help
farmers move their crops. Since then,
food stamps have gone through many
reforms to become the Bridge Card,
but still serve the purpose of providing
food to those who may otherwise not be
able to get it.
Oudersluys has had a Bridge Card
since February and feels she can eat
healthier because of it - abandon-

Recipients of Bridge Cards have
money deposited into their Bridge card
accounts by the federal government
every month on a scheduled date. Gen-
erally. for students like Oudersluys, the
amount is $200. However, the amount
is dependent on how many people the
card is supporting. The card is similar
to a debit card except funds can only be
used to purchase food - not prepared
meals, cigarettes or alcohol. When the
card is used at the checkout, if any of
the prohibited items are being pur-
chased, the card will recognize those
items and not allow the funds to pay for
them.
Oudersluys said she heard about the
Bridge Card Program through a friend
who also had the card.
"It's extremely helpful because I
don't have to worry about when I'm
going to be able to buy groceries or
when am I actually going to be able to
eat food," Oudersluys said. "It's one less
thingI don't have stressing me out any-
more."
In 2009, The New York Times col-

lected information about Bridge Card
usage in every county. In Washtenaw
County, 9 percent of the population,
or 30,224 people, were SNAP recipi-
ents compared to neighboring Wayne
County, which had 427,676 people, or
22 percent of its population receiving
food assistance.
According to the Food Research and
Action Center, the state of Michigan
received more than $2.8 billion for the
SNAP program from the federal gov-
ernment in 2010. In February, about
1.8 million people in Michigan were
recipients of the money. About 20,000
of them were students.
Previously, status as a college stu-
dent deemed many students eligible for
the program. The federal government
put optional work requirements in the
qualifications for the program. How-
ever, it is up to the state to enforce the
requirements - something Michigan
previously chose not to do. But when
a state bill revisiting the qualifications
passed last spring, the work require-
ments were added to Michigan's pro-
gram qualifications.
Additionally, when state legislators
voted to change the qualifications to
become a part of the SNAP program in
February, the state cracked down on
the number of college students able to
obtain a Bridge Card. Currently, college.
students looking to enter the SNAP pro-
gram must either claim a child as their
dependent or work at least 20 hours
each week, and they may also not be
declared a dependent to their parents.

0 i 1 2 3 i 4 7 5 6 i 7 181 91w10
1 I I I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 , , , l , , . , , , , I I , , , , , , | , , , I I I I, ,
quotes of the week from the archives
"I have more power than anybody other than the Sugar cones of spirit
president, in the sense that I can get things changed,
quickly"
BILL O'REILLY, describing himself during an interview with Newsweek,
promoting his new historical thriller about Lincoln's assassination.
"Men loving women and women loving men and
men loving men and women loving women - you all
know we like to watch that. But what I'd like to say
is, God Bless America, y'all!"
DAVID GROHL, FOO FIGHTERS LEAD SINGER, yelling from a truck
during a counter-protest concert against an anti-gay hate church group. cOURTESY OF LONDON DAIRY FARM
Translating an epic rivalry between two schools into innocuous, but scrump-
tious ice cream flavors was a lucrative business eaten up outside the Big
the rules House. In 1987, The Michigan Daily reported on the innovative idea conjured
by London Farm Dairy. ("School's War has spread to ice cream," 10/9/87) The
farm wanted to market their company through rival game day ice cream samples:
No. 317: No. 318: No. 319: Spartan Mint Fudge and Maize n' Berry. At the time, the Spartan flavor was pre-
Avoiding eye If you are in Ann If you're making ferred by most - though Wolverines were embarrassed to admit that they favored
the chocolate-y mint taste.
contact when your Arbor and you him Cookies and The real showdown happened in East Lansing in an intense "Lick Off" on Oct.
professor is cold- have flu-like he's still not dating 9 when the two schools rallied around the opposing ice cream flavors, gauging
calling doesn't symptoms, you're you, stop making which one would disappear at first. This rally in 1987 was the first joint pep rally
between Michigan State University and the University of Michigan. Who knew
Work anymore. screwed. him cookies. school pride could be so delicious!

I

- . - - _O _,"Ww_ _" - -
my tax status. They did ask if I had any
supplemental income from things like
family or friends."
He said he applied for the Bridge
Card because he doesn't earn enough to
pay for all the expenses in college.
"I'm working 17 hours a week and
taking 18 credit hours of class, and I'm
still not making enough to pay tuition
and rent and I needed a little break
somewhere," he said.
To get the card, he had to fill out an
application online and then participate
in a half hour phone interview. After
that, the card was mailed to him with
the funds already in his Bridge Card
account and ready to be used. The last
step in the process will be for him to
send photocopies of official documents,
including his paycheck, to validate the
information he submitted on his appli-
cation.
"It wasn't obvious (what the qualifi-
cations were)," he said. "The fact that I
got the card in the mail surprised me.

by the numbers

COURT ESY OF MSNBC

O° Liters of semen that Cryos International Percent of Scotland's population that is Donors that are on the waitlist at Cyros
can hold at one time. The company recently redheaded. There are approximately 6 to International Sperm Bank because of the
reached capacity at 14,000 donations. 18 million of redheads in the U.S. recent influx of donations.



.

09

9 0

S 9 9

4B Wednesday, September 21, 2011 // The Statement

Weneda, epemer21 211//Th Satmet B

How Ann Arbor balances old with new

By Stephen Ostrowski

t could be called Ann Arbor's odd
couple.
On the 200 block of South
Main Street, two unlikely retailers rub
shoulders: eclectic gift shop The Peaceable
Kingdom and a Wireless Zone, retailer of the
cellular phone titan Verizon Wireless. The
former boasts Sarah Palin action figures,
Juvenile Delinquent Mints ("Wild depraved
youth with minty fresh breath!") and other
culturally aware tchotchkes. The latter sells
cell phone paraphernalia. According to its
website, there are 34 Wireless Zone stores
in the state of Michigan. There is only one
The Peaceable Kingdom.
In premise, the idea that such cultur-
ally different brands share a wall is starkly
incongruent. But observe Main Street on
a crisp September evening when it bursts
with night crawlers kissed by the ambient
,,low of shop lights, and the seemingly oil-
and-water union of chain-and-local shops
appears to coexist harmoniously.
In a town known for its eclectic charac-
ter, this blend is to be expected.

"What makes Ann Arbor great is that it
combines the character of a college town,
a place you come to when you go out to
school and fall in love with, with the access
... that perhaps a bigger city has," said Andy
LaBarre, vice president of government rela-
tions for the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti Regional
Chamber. "It's a perfect mix."
Navigating economic waters while pre-
serving a city's identity is a difficult bal-
ance to strike - a feat that, according to
Ann Arbor Mayor John Hieftje, requires
dedicated maintenance and a well-reasoned
approach.
"It's always a challenge to keep moving
forward economically while maintaining
the culture and character of the city," Hief-
tje said.
Susan Pollay, executive director of
the Ann Arbor Downtown Development
Authority, believes the city's presence of
chain and local businesses has long been
well-balanced - labeling this mix one of
Ann Arbor's "great strengths."
"It's valuable to think of downtown like

a forest or an ecosystem," Pollay said. "You
need old buildings and new buildings. You
need big things and small things. You need
national tenants who have the big advertis-
ing budgets, and you need the small inde-
pendents to give you an identity. In a forest
... it supports itself better by having a vari-
ety."
According to Maura Thomson, the execu-
tive director of non-profit merchant orga-
nization Main Street Area Association, this
identity is integral for attracting traffic
downtown.
"Throughout this region I think Ann
Arbor has the distinction as being known as
the place where you're going to see and do
something different ... I don't think you can
overstate the importance of keeping Ann
Arbor different," Thomson said.
A 6 F Face .
Brick streets, neatly tucked low-rises
and a bustling farmer's market coalesce for

a pleasant dose of small town charm. The
Kerrytown aura is inescapable.
So to hear Fourth Avenue, home to
the neighborhood's People's Food Co-op,
described as once akin to a "red-light dis-
trict" is nothing short of surprising.
"In the '70s when malls became the rage,
downtown became a shell ... You didn't want
to walk down here," said Ingrid Ault, the
executive director Of independent business
advocate Think Local First.
Hieftje echoes Ault's sentiments, explain-
ing that major retailers left en masse follow-
ing the construction of Briarwood Mall in
1973 - rendering the Ann Arbor of the'70s
and '80s a "pretty dead place."
But according to local real estate devel-
oper Ed Shaffran, who helms The Shaffran
Companies, a firm specializing in historic
units, locally-owned businesses were able to
take advantage of the void.
"When Briarwood came that's when all
the big boys left," Shaffran said. "That gave
an opportunity for small mom-and-pops
and local businesses to establish themselves

and nurture and grow." Bureau of Labor Statistics, as of August the
Ault credits the formation of the Down- state of Michigan -had the third-highest
town Development Authority with helping unemployment rate in the nation at 11.2 per-
to injectvitalityinto the city. Createdin 1982 cent.
by the state of Michigan, the organization is
described on its 2011 Annual Report as striv- An of Scales
ing to "undertake public improvements that -
have the greatest impact in strengthening
the downtown area and attracting new pri- "In 1971, I sold used blue jeans, for prob-
vate investments." ably $5 to $10 - they had companies who
Main Street has evolved into a stretch of would go to all the Goodwill stores and col-
polished dining - spurred by the addition of lect Levis, and then you'd buy them. Now
The Real Seafood Company in 1975, one of I'm selling jeans that the manufacturers
a bevy of restaurants under the Main Street make to look used for over $100."
Ventures conglomerate - populating what Ed Davidson isthe owner of popular State
Thomson describes as a previously retail- Street outfitter Bivouac. Next month, his
heavy block. store will celebrate its 40th year of business.
"Downtown if anything has shrunk from In his time serving the community, David-
the perspective of retail ... Less retail, more son's key to longevity is simple.
restaurants and more arts and entertain- "We've been here 40 years because we've
ment," Shaffran said. changed with the time," Davidson said.
Similarly, South University Avenue has Change is integral to an industry that he
experienced a significant facelift. perceives as cloudy.
"When I first came here, South U really "(Nationally) there are not many inde-
felt like a village," Pollay said. "There was pendents left," Davidson said. "This street
a gas station on South U, there was a movie is the same."
theater on South U, I could buy all my An even older bastion of retail shares
clothes on South U, bookstores ... anything the block with Bivouac - Nickels Arcade
you needed was there." staple Van Boven, established in 1921. Like
The DDA's State of Downtown Ann Arbor Bivouac, not only has the men's retailer sur-
Report - sampling hundreds of businesses vived through expanding its repertoire of
from the Polk Directory -published last offerings, but it also benefits from a loyal
July, highlights an upswing in downtown customer base.
dining: In 1982, "restaurants, cafes & tav- "They walk through here and just look at
erns" accounted for just 7.11 percent of the the walls," said Hank Schoch, a Van Boven
city's commercial sectors. Now, in 2011, it is salesman of 13 years. "I don't know if they
18.07 percent. breathe the air to see if it still smells like an
But just as it is crucial to temper chain old attic or whatever we smell like to people.
with local, so too is it to provide variety in It's part of who they are."
developments. Even if well-established, long-time Ann
"We fortunately have some really great Arbor stores are cognizant ofthe tepid econ-
landlords in our community who believe omy. According to Carol Lopez, the owner
strongly in retail and won't lease out their of The Peaceable Kingdom, established in
space to coffee shops and restaurants," Ault 1973, scuttling economic times are a source
said. "If you don't have the mix we're not of apprehension.
interesting anymore, and we become a food "They aren't a bit more tough - they're
court and nobody wants to be a food court." off badly," Lopez said. "I don't know how it's
Staying within that mix, regardless of going to shake out."
scale (as underscored by the recent liqui- Still, even though the state of Michigan
dation of longtime Ann Arbor-based book might have encountered a sputtering econ-
chain Borders Inc.) is hardly an easy feat. omy since the economic crisis in 2008, Hief-
And in a down economy - according to the tje dates the state's decline back to the early

2000s. Comparative to the state, though,
Ann Arbor seems to "be keeping our head
above water," Hieftje said.
Pollay points to a handful of trends
explaining tight times for retailers. Chiefly,
the advent of e-commerce no longer neces-
sitates a brick-and-mortar business for the
consumer. Furthermore, Pollay suggests
that consumers, being more "targeted" in
their purchases, are.not spending as much
as decades past.

"It's valuable to
think of downtown
like a forest or an
ecosystem."
-Susan Pollay,
DDA executive director
The same State of Downtown Ann Arbor
Report highlights the declining presence
of retail downtown: as of 2011, it accounted
for 20.4 percent of Ann Arbor's commercial
sectors - compared to 21.99 percent in 1999
and 30.29 percent in 1982.
Not only are retailers at the mercy of
consumer spending habits, but landlords,
as well - according to Thomson, mom-and-
pop shops lack the "corporate money and
deeper pockets" boasted by bigger competi-
tors.
But what local ventures lack in backing,
they can make up in branding - a compo-

nent essential to the makeup of downtown.
"We've branded ourselves as an interest-
ing, fun, socially open place to be," Ault said.
"And that is because of the identity we've
developed because of the small businesses."
As per its website, Think Local First
strives "to support and cultivate local-
ly-owned, independent businesses in
Washtenaw County, Michigan." As the
organization's executive director, Ault is
quick to extoll the virtues of independents.
According to Ault, not only does support-
ing independents better incubate money
within the local economy, but it forges a
stronger community-retailer connection -
to purchase local is to experience a labor of
love.
"When you go into a small business,
you're walking into someone's passion,"
Ault said. "They care very deeply about what
they do."
Nevertheless, Ault openly champions the
value of competition in a business commu-
nity, and cites Grand Rapids-based super-
market chain Meijer as an example of a large
company that has bettered its community
through philanthropic efforts.
"We're not 'think local always,' we're
Think Local First," Ault said. "All we're say-
ing is it's a big pie, and we deserve a slice of
it."
Despite the arrival of a CVS Pharmacy to
State Street last March and a pair of 7-Elev-
en stores on State and Main Streets last Jan-
uary and September, respectively, coupled
with the addition of the Sterling 411 Lofts
on Washington Street in 2009 and Zaragon
Place on East University Avenue in 2008
(and with Zaragon West currently under
construction), Hieftje does not think the
city has strayed from traditionalist roots.
"There are folks in Ann Arbor that, so to
speak, would like to see the city kind of fro-
zen in amber," Hieftje said. "Like, 'Wow, I
want it like the way it was in 1966 or some-
thing.' I've been here a long time, and it
never was that way. It's always changed, and
it's going to continue to change. We can't
keep it from changing."
And while a leviathan chain might lack
the typical Ann Arbor imprint, this factor
See ANN ARBOR, Page 8B




