0 IN)I 1 aN1) - t 1 W NTY 1 *I 'SX\ ) A1 , 1 1)I 11 \1I F

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, November 2, 2011

CALLING ALL STORIES

michigandaily.com
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
Program
focused on
diversity
gets funds

LSA freshman Tara Lanigan adds her story to Brandon Doman's collection of more than 4,000 anonymous journal entries outside Espresso Royale yesterday.
CITY CONSTRUCTION
After four years of debate, City
Plae constirucion set to begin

African American
Alumni Council
donates $250,000 to
LEAD Program
By CHARLENE LERNER
For the Daily
Since Michigan's ban on affir-
mative action in 2006, members
of the University community,
including alumni, have spear-
headed a variety of programs
to encourage underrepresented
minorities to attend the Univer-
sity.
One of these programs is the
Leadership Excellence Achieve-
ment Diversity Program, which-
received a $250,000 donation
from the University's chapter of
the African American Alumni
Council in October. Created by
the Alumni Association of the
University of Michigan, the
LEAD Program grants under-
represented minority students
accepted to the program a mini-
mum of $2,500 and up to $10,000
or $15,000, depending on state
residency, per year. The new
donation funds will be distrib-
uted among 10 students.
In addition to providing LEAD
Scholars with money to help

cover tuition, the purpose of the
program is to connect students
with alumni and enhance diver-
sity at the University. Currently,
there are 113 LEAD Scholars.
In an interview at an event
for the 35th All Class Reunion
of Black Graduates this past
weekend, University alum Rich-
ard Stacy, national chair of
AAAC, said his experiences at
the University as a young black
man inspired him to help other
minorities.
"I am a strong believer in the
University as an opportunity to
expand one's mind and I think
that there are a lot of youngsters,
particularly underrepresented
minorities, whose view of the
world is pretty narrow because
they simply haven't had the
exposure and the experience,"
Stacy said.
He added that Proposition 2,
or the Michigan Civil Rights Ini-
tiative - the ballot initiative in
the 2006 election that outlawed
affirmative action - wasn't the
only factor in the organization's
decision to make the donation,
which came from its Martin
Luther King Jr. Scholarship
Fund. However, the affii-mative
action ban was "a big part of the
equation," Stacy said.
The percentage of underrep-
See DIVERSITY, Page SA

Council members, apartment buildings and a park-
ing lob.
residents tried to After almost four years of
Ann Arbor City
historicize district Council dis-
cussion on the Z
By JENNIFER LEE development of O
Daily StaffReporter City Place - a
proposed hous-
Despite some city officials' ing complex
attempts to historicize the to be built on
area, seven preserved homes on the 400 block of South Fifth
South Fifth Avenue will soon be Ave. - City Planning Manager
torn down and replaced by two Wendy Rampson said the site's

construction preparation has
begun. The seven houses that
will be torn down have been at
the forefront of debate among
council members and the
residents living in the neigh-
borhood, many of whom are stu-
dents.
After a 7-4 vote at last
week's City Council meeting
that approved the project, tree
removal is underway and util-
ity installation will take place on
William Street and Fifth Avenue

this weekend. Rampson said the
next steps are to demolish the
seven houses and start excava-
tion once construction permits
have been processed.
The two flat, rectangular-
shaped apartment buildings
that will replace the houses
will have 144 units divided into
six-bedroom units. Rampson
said the cost to rent the units is
unknown at this time and will
depend on costs the developer,
See CONSTRUCTION, Page 5A


ACTIVISM IN ANN ARBOR
Famous 1960s
activists visit
Occupy A2site
SDS founder audience.
In addition to Haber's role
Alan Haber SDS, he was involved in oth

1~

in
her

discusses strengths
of movement
By CHELSEA LANDRY
Daily StaffReporter
More than 30 students, com-
munity members and activists
huddled together last night in
Liberty Plaza as the tempera-
tures dropped into the 40s to
listen to international activists
and University alumni Alan
Haber and Odile Huguenot-
Haber.
Haber, best known for found-
ing the activist group Students
for a Democratic Society in
1960, and his partner Huguenot-
Haber visited Ann Arbor's divi-
sion of the Occupy Wall Street
movement and discussed their
experiences before offering the
microphone to members of the

humanitarian causes of the
1960s including the civil rights
movement and resistance of
apartheid in South Africa. How-
ever, he said he doesn't believe
Occupy Ann Arbor could have
existed during his time at the
University because of the move-
ment's controversy.
"There would never be a gath-
ering of this kind at that time,"
Haber said. "It would be too
controversial."
He added that he believes
there are similarities between
the movements of the 1960s and
the activity surrounding Occupy
Ann Arbor and encouraged stu-
dents to be aware of their rights.
"We are beginning again such
an endeavor, and you all are
invited," Haber said.
Huguenot-Haber echoed
Haber's passion.
"We need to create an all
See ACTIVISTS, Page SA

LOCAL BUSINESSES
Liberty
St. sees
changing
stores
Several spots left
vacant after recent
business closures
By ALYSSA ADLER
Daily StaffReporter
Though once bustling with
heavy foot traffic, East Liberty
Street has recently lost much of
its usual crowd.
With the recent closures of
several local stores including
Borders, Inc., much of the south-
east corner of South State and
East Liberty streets has been left
vacant. With the empty store-
fronts, many business owners
have mixed feelings about the
area.
Ralph Welton, chief develop-
ment official of the city of Ann
Arbor, said he has seen a vari-
ety of businesses come and go
throughout the years, but the
See STORES, Page 5A

Olympic athletes Apolo Ohno and Alana Nichols speak atlan event at the Michigan Union yesterday.
Olympic medalists give talk to
inspire students' career pursuits,

SPE
Oh
Th
spoke
inspii
letes

eed skater Apolo for career advice.
Eight-time Olympic medal-
no emphasizes ist Apolo Ohno and four-time
Paralympic medalist Alana
sitive mindset Nichols were among the three
athletes who gave speeches in
By ANGELA SON the Michigan Union Ballroom
For the Daily last night at an event titled "It's
Your Race, Take the Lead."
ree Olympic medalists The event was part of a multi-
on campus yesterday to campus tour started two years
re not only aspiring ath- ago by Deloitte, a financial
but also students looking advising company and sponsor

of the U.S. Olympic Commit-
tee.
In her presentation, Nichols
explained how her aspiration
to participate in the Olym-
pics did not subside after she
was paralyzed in 2000 when
she broke her back in a snow-
boarding accident.
"You must believe you have
done everything you can in
order to be at your best," she
See MEDALISTS, Page SA


WEATHER H1I 49
TOMORROW LO: 35

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX A P NE WS.
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Four players earn Big Ten season honors Vol. CXXII, No. 40 O P I N I O N ..
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME d2011 The MichiganDaily N E W S....,
rnichigandaily.com

............3A ARTS. . ..........7A
............4A SPO RTS.......................8IA
. 5A THE STATEMENT..........1B

4


4

2A - Wednesday, November 2, 2411

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A~~~~ - ededaNoeme.2.01 heMJhgaaiy-_iciana .yo


The Hebrew word,
means magic - exact
the non-profit, Universi
ter of Camp Kesem s
deliver to children with
battling cancer.
The student organ
main event is a week-lo
mer camp for almost 1
dren in Michigan wh
parents fighting cancer
survivors of the disease
Established as a S
University project in
Camp Kesem now has
lege chapters across th
try, including the Univ
whichbegan fiveyears
Engineering senior
Payne, co-chair of the
sity's Camp Kesemc

A week of magic
Kesem, said the camp strives to create for counselors and campers.
ly what a fun escape for kids. Camp "It is powerful how the kids
ty chap- Kesem offers a variety of tradi- and students that come from all
eeks to tional camp activities, including walks of life transform into a
parents canoeing, rock climbing, bon- close, supportive family in just
fires and group activities. six days," Arcori said.
ization's "We do not provide therapy," LSA sophomore Anna Myers
ng sum- Payne said. "Camp is meant experienced what she calls the
00 chil- to be a week of fun away from "life-changing camp" for the
io have home where kids can meet, first time this past August.
r or are other children who they can "The strength thatthe camp-
. relate to." ers show despite the adversity
Stanford Payne added that the camp in their lives is unbelievably
2001, also provides college students inspirational," Myers said. "I
38 col- an opportunity to give back to have pictures that some of the
e coun- the community and develop girls in my cabin drew for me
'ersity's, professional skills. Echoing during camp on display in my
ago. Payne's sentiments, LSA senior dorm room to remind me of
r Nick Leann Arcori, co-chair of the their strength and courage."

(The filtgan ador
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.om
SporlSlesion
sports@mihigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@chigasdsiiy.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Univer-
chapter,

University's chapter, said the
experience is equally beneficial

Kids at Camp Kesem partake in canoeing, rock climbing and
bonfires. The camp is for kids who have parents battling cancer.

- ALEXANDRA MODALEK

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Caught in the Drive, park, The Civil Symphony
smoke get smashed Wars concert performance

WHERE: Lane Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
11:20 a.m.
WHAT: An unknown man
was seen smoking a ciga-
rette in the basement, Uni-
versity Police reported. This
is against the University's
smoke-free policy.
X-tremely
busted
WHERE: Catherine Car-
port
WHEN: Sundayat about
3 p.m.
WHAT: An individual
received a citation for
skateboarding in the
structure, University Police
ren.rteda

WHERE: 2300 block of
Hayward St.
*WHEN: Tuesday at about
4:15 a.m.
WHAT: A University
vehicle was hit by another
vehicle while parked,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.
No longer an,
acquaintance
WHERE: Stockwell Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about
5:05 p.m.
WHAT: A student said he
was punched in the face by
an acquaintance who is not
a student, University Police
reported. The student did
not n-ai tnAdi a gninn^

WHAT: Folk band, The
Civil Wars, will play songs
from their album "Barton
Hollow."
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30
p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Theater

WHAT: Guest conductors
Scott Boerma and John
Pasquale will lead a per-
formance by the Symphony
Band Chamber Winds.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center Stamps Auditorium

Author's forum Dance

Two former members
of Pakistan's national
cricket team were
convicted of conspiracy
to cheat in a game against
England last summer, The
New York Times reported.
The men are expected to
spend time in prison.
Tim Rabb spends Fall
Break taking in the
sights, sounds and
smells of the Occupy move-
ment in Zuccotti Park in New
York City.
*> FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT,
INSIDE
Since the revolution in
Egypt, many different
weight loss resources
have been popping up around
Egypt, the Los Angeles Times
reported. About 48 percent of
Egyptian women are obese,
and nearly 76 percent are
overweight.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar Managing Editor nickspar@michigandaily.com
NicoleAber ManagingNewsEditor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:BethanyBiron,DylanCinti,CaitlinHuston,JosephLichterman,
Brienne Prusak
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Sabira
Kahn, Michele Narov,Paige Pearcy,Adam Rubenfire,KaitlinWilliams
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
EmilyOrley EditoriaPage Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Naham, Timothy Rabb
Stephen .Nesbitt and sportseditors@michigandaiy.com
Tim ROhan Managing sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
SSATS SDITORS: Steven Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
SharonJacobs ManagingArtsEditor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: LeahBurgin,KaviPandey,Jennifer Xu
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jacob Axelrad, Cassie Balfour, Joe Cadagin, Emma Gase,
Proma Khosla, David Tao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch ManagingPhoto Editors
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:ErinKirkland,TerraMolengraftAnnaSchulte
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich MasagingDesignEditors
ASSISTANTDESIGN EDITORS:Kristi Begonia,Corinn Lewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor ktarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTYMAGAZINE EDITORS:StephenOstrowskiDevonThorsby, ElyanaTwiggs
Josh Healy CopyChief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS:ChristineChun, Hannah Poindexter
SarahSquire webDevelopmentManager squire@michigandaily.com
Imran Sayed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
JuliannaCrinAssociate Business Manager
RachelGreinetz Sales Manager
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan Rooney LayoutManager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
QUy VOncirculationManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University ofMichigan One copynisavailable free of charge
toallreaders. Additionalcopiesmay be picked up at the Daily'soffice for $2.Subscriptionsfor
fall term, starting in september,. via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term January through April) is
$115, yearlong (September through April)is $195.University affiliates are subject toa reduced
sbsriptin rate. On-campus subscriptionss or fall ternaretti. Subsciptions eatsbeprepaid.
The MichiganDaily is ammrof Tthe ssoiatedtPress adTheoiatolleiateress

0

WHAT: University alum
Lawrence Joseph and
Univeristy Prof. Laurence
Goldstein will discuss
Joseph's new book, "The
Game Changed: Essays
and Other Prose," which
focuses on his life in
Detroit and Manhattan
and his Middle Eastern
heritage.
WHO: Author's Forum
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library, room 100

screening
WHAT: Prof. Peter Sparling
will screen videos of his
dance performances.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Center
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.


U.S. schools show improvement
but have not reached federal goals
Higher math scores on math and reading shows every child in America be pro- The figures were from the
fourth- and eighth-graders ficient in math and reading by National Assessment of Educa-
reported for fourth scoring their best ever in math 2014. tional Progress.
and eighth graders making Just a little more than one- "The modest increases in
and eighth graders some progress in reading. But third of the students were pro- NAEP scores are reason for con-
the results released yesterday ficient or higher in reading. In cern as much as optimism," said
WASHINGTON (AP) - Some are a stark reminder of just how math, 40 percent of the fourth- Education Secretary Arne Dun-
progress. Still needs improve- far the nation's school kids are graders and 35 percent of the can. "It's clear that achievement
ment. from achieving the No Child eighth-graders had reached that is not accelerating fast enough
The nation's report card Left Behind law's goal that level. for our nation's children to com-
pete in the knowledge econo-
my of the 21st century."
There were few notice-
able changes in the achieve-
ment gap between white and
black students from 2009.
While the gap is smaller
than in the early 1990s, the
new test results reflect a
25-point difference between
white and black fourth- and
eighth-graders in reading
and fourth-graders in math.
However, Hispanic stu-
dents in eighth grade made
some small strides to narrow
the gap with white students
in both math and reading. In
reading, the gap was 22 points
in 2011 compared to 26 in 1992
and 24 in 2009.
The reading test asked stu-
dents to read passages and
recall details or interpret
them. In math, students were
asked to answer questions
about topics such as geometry,
algebra and number proper-
ties and measurement.
The Education Depart-
\ 40u ment's National Center for
C et 9aEducation Statistics admin-
49,isters the test. On a 500-
0 4.point scale, both fourth- and
- eighth-graders scored on
average one point higher in
math in 2011 than in 2009 and
o o more than 20 points higher
x:3 l UA0 than in 1990, when students
were first tested in math. In
., reading, the score for fourth-
graders was unchanged from
two years ago and four points
a , -11L J higher than in 1992, when
4_7-d T that test was first admin-
istered. Eighth-graders in
%i 4at shesthefirst.orgreading scored on average
\Vilt UI t.one point higher in 2011 than
and Qoggow uz ©shesthefi rst to earn moiie in 2009 and five points high-
er than in 1992.

0

Protesters dressed as prisoners outside the Greek parliament in Athens yesterday.
Greece to vote on
new economic plan

Financial reform
expected to affect
U.S. stock market
NEW YORK (AP) - A wave of
selling swept across Wall Street
and stock markets around the
world yesterday after Greece's
prime minister said he would
call a national vote on an unpop-
ular European plan to rescue
that nation's economy.
The Dow Jones industrial
average finished down nearly
300 points. It swung in 100 point
bursts throughout the day as
investors reacted to sometimes
conflicting headlines about the
next steps in Greece's long-
running debt crisis. Treasurys
and other assets considered
safe surged. The stocks of major
banks, including Citigroup and
JPMorgan Chase, were hit hard.
Intense selling roiled mar-
kets in Europe. Italy's main
stock index dropped 6.8 percent.
France's fell 5.4 percent and Ger-
many's fell 5 percent.
The value of the dollar rose,
and bond prices jumped so dra-
matically that analysts said they
were stunned. Analysts said the

bond action reflected fears that
the turmoil in Greece would tear
at the fabric of Europe's financial
system and create a crisis that
could engulf the entire European
Union, which together forms the
world's largest economy.
"This brings all of the con-
cerns about Europe back to the
front burner," said Scott Brown,
chief economist at Raymond
James. "If this ends up turning
into a financial catastrophe in
Europe, then no one will escape
it."
The prime minister of Greece
said unexpectedly Monday that
he would put the European res-
cue plan to a popular vote, the
first referendum to be held in
Greece since 1974.
The plan requires banks that
hold Greek national bonds to
accept 50 percent losses to help
keep the Greek economy afloat.
It also beefs up a European bail-
out fund and requires banks to
strengthen their financial cush-
ions.
There were also late reports
that Greek lawmakers dissented 0
from the plan, raising the possi-
bility that Greece's government
would not last until a confidence
vote on Friday.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 2,2011.- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, November 2, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WILLIAMSTON, Mich.
14-year-old boy,
killed when wall
collapses at school
Hundreds of people have gath-
ered for a memorial program
for Gabriel Corbett, a 14-year-
old who was killed when a wall
collapsed at Williamston High
School
An 8-foot cinderblock wall
collapsed in the locker room last
Wednesday, killing the freshman.
Police Chief Bob Young tells the
Lansing State Journal that Cor-
bett was doing chin-ups on the
wall when it crumbled and fell on
him.
Balloons were released at the
memorial ceremony, which was
held yesterday afternoon at the
school's football stadium.
AIKEN, S.C.
Trick-or-treater
pulls handgun after
candy theft joke
South Carolina officials say
a 10-year-old trick-or-treater
pulled a handgun on a woman
who joked that she'd steal his
Halloween candy.
The Augusta Chronicle report-
ed yesterday that a 28-year-old
woman told authorities she rec-
ognized some youngsters Monday
evening and she joked she'd take
their candy.
Aiken Public Safety Lt. David
Turno says a 10-year-old in the
group said "no" and pointed the
handgun at her.
Turno says the gun wasn't
loaded but the boy had a clip of
ammunition. He was taken to
the police station and was turned
over to his parents.
Turno said the boy's brother,
who is also 10, told officials he
also had a gun and both weapons
were recovered by police. Turno
says the boys got them from their
grandfather without his permis-
sion '
TUSCALOOSA, Ala.
New Libyan PM
was Alabama prof.
for 20 years
For 20 years, Abdurrahim el-
Keib taught electrical engineer-
ing at the University of Alabama,
:helped lead the area's Muslim
'community and talked little
about his home country of Libya.
With Moammar Gadhafi's regime
deposed, the professor now has a
new role as prime minister of his
homeland.
El-Keib was elected to the post
late Monday by Libya's National
Transitional Council and will
replace outgoing interim Prime
Minister Mahmoud Jibril, who
had promised to step down after
victory over Gadhafi's dictator-
ship. His selection suggests the
country's interim rulers may be
* seeking out a government leader
palatable both to the West and to

Libyans who distrust anyone con-
nected to the former regime.
TOKYO
Despite concerns,
Japanese officials
restart reactor
Officials have restarted a
reactor in southern Japan after
a monthlong shutdown despite
strong public opposition to nucle-
ar power since the country's
March11 disaster.
Kyushu Electric Power Co.
says it restarted the reactor at
the Genkai plant late yesterday.
It shut down Oct. 4 because of a
steam condenser problem that
did not cause any radiation leak
or injuries.
About 40 of Japan's 54 reactors
remain halted, mostly for regular
inspections but some because of
damage from the March earth-
quake and tsunami. That disaster
caused massive radiation leaks
at a plant in northeastern Japan,
and many people near halted
reactors now oppose their reac-
tivation because of safety con-
cerns.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

FRANt FRANKLIN/AP
Catherine Talese, left, and George Pingeon, right, pedal bicycles to charge batteries at Occupy Wall Street in Zuccoti
Park Monday, Oct. 31 in New York. With the temperature dropping, protesters are stockpiling donated supplies.
Occupy movement accepts
mo est help from the left

Lawsuit slain
stripper's family
dismissed
Judge points to judge said past wrongs don't nec-
essarily fit new cases.
lack of sufficient Rosen said there is a "dearth
of evidence" connecting Kilpat-
evidence as reason rick or any of his allies to any
interference with the homicide
for dl~iniSSal investigation.
Kilpatrick repeatedly has
DETROIT (AP) - A federal denied interfering with Greene
judge dismissed a civil lawsuit case and that there ever was a
yesterday that claimed the city party.
of Detroit and ex-Mayor Kwame "For what it is worth, it seems
Kilpatrick, a convicted felon, unlikely that it will ever be
impeded a police investigation established with any degree of
into the shooting death of a strip- certainty whether this rumored
per. party, or something like it, actu-
U.S. District Judge Gerald ally took place," Rosen wrote.
Rosen said in his opinion thatthe "The witness accounts pro-
attorney representing Tamara duced by plaintiffs lack speci-
Greene's three children failed ficity, rest to some extent on
to prove the city or Kilpatrick .inadmissible hearsay, and con-
interfered with the probe into tradict one another in various
her slaying. respects."
Greene, who performed "On the other hand, it seems
under the name Strawberry, fairly well documented at this
was rumored to have danced in point that .Defendant Kilpat-
2002 at a never-proven party rick kept an active social calen-
at the mayor's official Manoo- dar during his days as mayor of
gian Mansion residence. She Detroit. Nonetheless, whether
was shot multiple times in April this particular party occurred at
2003 while sitting with a male this particular locale at this par-
acquaintance in a car outside ticular time is likely to remain an
her Detroit home. The man was unsolved mystery."
wounded but survived. The court gave the Greene
Rosen agreed with lawyers family's attorney, Norman
for the city and Kilpatrick that Yatooma, every opportunity to
there was "no evidentiary basis" prove his case, said James Thom-
for a legal finding that Kilpat- as, Kilpatrick's attorney.
rick obstructed or interfered "There was not one bit of evi-
with the investigation into the dence, after 41 depositions and
murder. tens of thousands of pages of
Kilpatrick resigned as mayor discovery," Thomas said. "There
in 2008 after pleading guilty to clearly are no facts, and as a
obstruction of justice in state result, all these years of specula-
court. He served time in a coun- tion, all these years of wondering
ty jail but later spent 14 months now come to the culmination that
in state prison for violating his ... the decision is there is no case.
probation in the earlier case. He "We're happy that, at least at
was paroled Aug. 2, but faces a this stage that it's over."
federal corruption trial in 2012 John Schapka, supervising
on fraud, tax and racketeering assistant corporation counsel for
conspiracy charges. the city, also said Yatooma lacked
Rosen said lawyers for evidenceto support his claimthat
Greene's family seem to believe Kilpatrick, his aides and others
that Kilpatrick must have inter- interfered with the Greene probe.
fered with the murder inves- Yatooma, who was on vacation
tigation because he regularly when Rosen released his ruling,
meddled with top police brass said he already is working on an
when he was mayor. But the appeal.

Progressive group
promotes protest
on websites, e-mail
NEW YORK (AP) - With its
noisy drum circle, meandering
parades of bandanna-clad youth
and disdain for centralized lead-
ership, the Occupy Wall Street
encampment sometimes has
the ragtag look of a group that
is making things up as it goes
along and discovering its own
purpose along the way.
But from the start, the move-
ment has also gotten support
from a long list of experienced,
well-funded organizations,
unions and political committees
- sometimes to the discomfort
of more radical protesters who
worry about their message being
co-opted-or watered down.
After an initial hesitation to
get involved, unions from Bos-
ton to Los Angeles have sent
members to march in the dem-
onstrations and donate air mat-
tresses, food and other supplies.
In Oakland, unions representing
teachers and government work-
ers are encouraging members
to take a day off from work to

march with protesters Wednes-
day.
MoveOn.org, a group that has
given millions to liberal Demo-
crats, has promoted the demon-
strations relentlessly on its Web
site and in blast emails.
To most of the youthful radi-
cals at the movement's heart, all
this help is welcome, but with a
caveat..
"This is a movement of indi-
viduals, not managed political
coalitions," said Alexa O'Brien,
one of the many early organiz-
ers who helped get the New York
occupation started on Sept. 17.
Unions can be great, and their
supportis "critical," but they can
be corrupt, too, she said. And the
Democratic Party, she added, is
part of the problem.
"If you are going to ask cor-
porations to get out of elections,
you have to ask all special inter-
ests to get out of elections," she
said. "This movement is about
building civic infrastructure for
regular citizens."
Today, the group that has
now occupied a city park for six
weeks shows few signs that it is
allowing outside organizations a
substantial role in planning its
marches, making decisions, or

deciding what issues to embrace.
But it has also turned to a net-
work of left-leaning organiza-
tions for help, some of which
have been around since before
most of the protesters were
born.
The group of activists who
began meeting to plan the dem-
onstrations in mid-summer
included several people who had
been involved in an organization
called US Uncut, which is affili-
ated with the Institute for Policy
Studies, a Washington think
tank that cut its teeth opposing
the Vietnam War.
When Occupy Wall Street
needed an established nonprofit
group to help handle incom-
ing donations, which have now
topped $500,000, they turned to
the Alliance for Global Justice,
an entity originally founded
in 1979 to build support for the
communist Sandinista govern-
ment in Nicaragua.
The National Lawyers Guild,
whose members have been rep-
resenting dissenters, peace-
niks, and civil-rights activists
since1937, has set up Occupy
legal hotlines in 19 cities and
been representing protesters
arrested across the country.

Widow of victim in fatal Reno air
race crash files $25 million lawsuit

Plai
LAS
ily ofa
racing
tators
ship A
millioi
the pi
the w
and th
hosted
The
Count
the fir
16 cra
ward's
air rac
Eleven
Leewa
least 7
"Sol
accide
attorn
filed t]
behalf
sician
tator
two cI
it seer
they c
inevita
Lee
declin
suit,
mecha
Jr., the
tion, a
Leewa
and fa
da, an(
craft p
state.
Ren
chief e
ton sa
it

intiff's attorney suit but offered "condolences to
the families and fans that were
ays crash was affected by this devastating
tragedy."
'inevitable' "We fully expect a number of
lawsuits to be filed," Houghton
VEGAS (AP) - The fam- told The Associated Press. "This
a Texas man killed when a is the first."
aircraft crashed into spec- Shanholtzer did not immedi-
in the National Champion- ately respond to messages. Attor-
ir Races in Reno filed a $25 ney Kenneth Shepperd in Seattle,
n lawsuit yesterday against representing Aeroacoustics, said
lot's family, a mechanic on he had hot yet seen the lawsuit
Vorld War II-era aircraft and couldn't immediately com-
e Nevada organization that ment.
 the event. Salerno, 50, of Friendswood,
lawsuit filed in Collin Texas, was a dispatcher for Con-
y, Texas, is believed to be tinental Airlines and a lieutenant
st stemming from the Sept. for a volunteer fire department
sh of pilot Jimmy Lee- who also volunteered at an annu-
P-51D Mustang during al Houston air show and was an
es at Reno-Stead Airport. avid racing pilot. He attended the
people died, including Reno event with a friend who was
trd, 74, of Ocala, Fla. At hospitalized with critical injuries
4 were hurt. after the crash.
me people say this was an Speaking for Salerno's family,
nt," said Houston-based Buzbee said in a telephone inter-
ey Tony Buzbee, who view that no amount of money
he civil liability lawsuit on could fix the "huge gaping hole
of Dr. Sezen Altug, a phy- ripped from their lives."
and widow of dead spec- The attorney said he wanted
Craig Salerno, and their to hold "two groups of wrong-
hildren, ages 6 and 8. "But doers" accountable: "Those who
ns to me the formula that pushed the limits of physics on
reated made an accident the plane, being risk takers and
able." reckless without regard for the
ward's son, Kent Leeward, people who might be watching
ed comment on the law- them, and those who promoted
which names Texas-based and profited from hosting the
nic Richard Shanholtzer show."
e Reno Air Racing Associa- Buzbee also raised questions
nother Leeward son, Dirk about the independence of the
ird, Leeward Racing Inc. National Transportation Safety
mily corporations in Flori- Board investigation, pointing to
d Aeroacoustics Inc., an air- evidence that the Reno-Tahoe
arts maker in Washington Airport Authority has lobbyists
in Washington with ties to the
o Air Racing Association NTSB. Neither the airport nor the
rxecutive Michael Hough- federal investigative board was
id he hadn't seen the law- named in the lawsuit.

"A NTSB investigation should
not be subject to the efforts of
lobbyists," Buzbee said in an Oct.
25 letter to Howard Plagens, the
chief NTSB investigator in the
Reno crash. "Who will be the lob-
byist for the victims?"
NTSB officials denied the
board could be lobbied. Spokes-
woman Kelly Nantel emphasized
the agency's role as an indepen-
dent and nonpartisan investiga-
tor "separate and distinct from
regulatory agencies, carriers,
service providers, and industry
groups."
Records show the Reno air-
port authority paid $62,000 in
2011 to three Washington lob-
bying firms - Gephardt Group,
Porter Group and Akerman,
Senterfitt & Eidson - to handle
transportation funding issues
before Congress. Gephardt
Group is headed by former Dem-
ocratic House majority leader
and presidential candidate Dick
Gephardt of Missouri. Former
Nevada Republican Congress-
man Jon Porter, is a former
member of the Akerman firm
and now heads his own Porter
Group.
Reno-Tahoe Airport director
Krys Bart said the airport no lon-
ger has a contract with Akerman,
Senterfitt & Eidson.
Airport spokesman Brian
Kulpin said the Nevada law firm
Jones Vargas hired Peter Goelz,
a senior executive at the O'Neill
and Associates in Washington
and former NTSB official, as
a consultant "to interpret the
NTSB process."
"There is no lobbying taking
place in regards to the air race
crash issue at all," Kulpin said.
"They're seeking guidance in the
NTSB investigation process."

Syrian soldiers stand with a Syrian villager on their country's border with
Lebanon in the village of Arida, north Lebanon, on Monday, Oct. 31.
Syria plants mines
on Lebanese border

Devices placed to
prevent weapons
smuggling,
according to gov't
SERHANIYEH, Lebanon (AP)
- Syria has planted land mines
along parts of its border with
Lebanon, further sealing itself
off from the world and showing
just how deeply shaken Bashar
Assad's regime has become since
an uprising began nearly eight
months ago.
Although Assad's hold on
power is firm, the 46-year-old
eye doctor is taking increasingly
desperate measures to safeguard
his grip on the country of 22 mil-
lion people at the heart of the
Arab world. A Syrian official con-
firmed to The Associated Press
that troops were laying the mines,
saying they were aimed at stop-
ping weapons smuggling into the
country during the uprising.
"Syria has undertaken many
measures to control the borders,

including planting mines," a Syr-
ian official familiar with govern-
ment strategy told The Associated
Press, speaking on condition of
anonymity because of the sensi-
tivity of the matter. Witnesses on
the Lebanese side also told the
AP they have seen Syrian soldiers
planting the mines in recent days.
But the verdant mountains
and hills along the frontier are
used by refugees fleeing Syria's
deadly military assault on pro-
testers and by Syrians who have
jobs and families on the Leba-
nese side. The decision to plant
mines - terrifying weapons
that often maim their victims if
they don't kill them - suggests
the regime is trying to contain
a crisis that is spinning out of its
control.
The mines also are the lat-
est sign that Syria is working to
prevent Lebanon from becoming
a safe haven for the Syrian oppo-
sition as the uprising continues
and the death toll mounts. The
U.N. says about 3,000 people
have been killed by security forc-
es since March.
,,*


0

4A -Wednesday, November 2, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

V_ .! ... ...v .. ... . ...

y ipian atly
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandailycom
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views ofttheir authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
F ROM T HE DA ILY
Decreasing degree debt
Loan forgiveness benefits students and economy
The familiar image of recent college graduates struggling
under a pile of debt is being recast. A new student loan
policy recently announced by President Barack Obama will
lower the percentage of annual income debtors have to pay on their
loans and shorten the loan repayment period by five years. College
is becoming increasingly expensive, but a college degree is a neces-
sity in today's job market. Obama's new plan is a great relief for stu-
dents with loans and shows his dedication to students and higher
education.

The most racist day of the year

et me preface this column by
saying that I don't care about
Hallow-
een. I can appre-
ciate the fact that
this faux holiday
gives people a "
reason to have
parties, and -I
certainly enjoy
free keg beer as
much as the next JOE
guy. But after SUGIYAMA
my elementary
school years that
were filled with Power Ranger cos-
tumes and sugar-highs, I came to the
realization that the whole concept of
playing dress up is stupid. Iam rarely
seen dressed in anything other than
Michigan T-shirts and basketball
shorts, so a weekend that revolves
entirely around what one is wearing
isbasicallymyworst nightmare.
I've spent every Halloween of my
adult life trying to resist the societal
notion that I have to put an incred-
ible amount of thought and time
into a costume. But despite my ever-
growing disdain for Halloween, I
have to admit that the holiday does
create a good forum to discuss larger
societal issues that may otherwise
be neglected.
I don't think I'm alone in describ-
ing some of the female costume
choices around campus as some-
what, ahem, risque. I've never really
given the tradition of bearing it all
on Halloween a second thought. It's
as American as apple pie. But some
don't see it that way. In an Oct. 26
article in Consider magazine, Katie
Sauter pointed out a few reasons
why racy costumes for women are a
result of a male dominated society.
Sauter places the blame mainly
on the male CEOs of various cos-
tume hot spots for their patriarchal
tendencies that serve to "police the
acts of women." Though Sauter
does have a point that many cos-

tume stores offer an overwhelming
variety of sexy nurse/nun/teacher/
angel/devil outfits, young women
who purchase these costumes ulti-
mately, for one reason or another,
make their own decision to do so.
The question is, why?
I don't have the answer, but the
danger in this discussion is to over-
simplify these decisions by making
them solely about a patriarchal soci-
ety or to oversimplify issues of femi-
nism by making them exclusively
about how women dress. There are
issues facing women all around the
world, such as wage disparities and
sexual violence, that don't get half
the attention that sexy kitten cos-
tumes get on Halloween.
And feminism is not the only
social issue that gets its moment in
the sun on Halloween. Racist cos-
tumes are also a hot button issue.
Most would agree that costumes
like dressing in blackface is racist
and nothing else, butstudents at The
Ohio University have brought other
cultural insensitivities to light.
In a recent movement by an orga-
nization called Students Teaching
About Racism in Society, advertise-
ments have been created that show
minority students holding pictures
of racist costumes with captions
reading, "We're a culture, not a cos-
tume." One of the flyers displays a
disheartened Asian student holding
a picture of a caricature-like Geisha.
Another shows a Middle Eastern
student holding a picture of a sui-
cide bomber with a detonator in one
hand and a beer in the other. These
are just two examples of a seemingly
unlimited supply of racist outfits.
Halloween is supposed to be a fun
and harmless holiday, but many who
don offensive costumes will use this
mentality as an excuse to defend
their bigoted choices.
As a Japanese American, I find
it difficult to write off these racial
insensitivities as harmless cos-

tumes. Racist Halloween costumes
cause a once a year regression into
our segregated past. They magnify
our country's inability to move for-
ward, while putting our cultural
ignorance on full display.
Halloween is a
forum for
societal issues.
The STARS flyers aren't the first
brush with racism that I've experi-
enced, nor do Iexpect themto be the
last. But such strong images high-
light that racism is a problem that
still exists in the country. While the
flyers were successful in generat-
ing conversation, it shouldn't take
costumes to make people acknowl-
edge true racial issues. Issues such
as minority underrepresentation
in government, deep-seeded racial
divides in the South and economic
inequality should be a part of a
daily dialogue.
I don't think that everyone who
dresses up for Halloween is a racist,
anti-feminist idiot -- the idiots of the
world certainly don't need costumes
to show their ignorance. However,
I do take issue with how the old
Celtic celebration of summer's end -
which everyone knows is where the
celebration of Halloween originates
from - seems to be one of the only
times that certain issues are brought
to the forefront of conversation.
Racism and feminism are issues that
arise in our daily lives, not just our
costume selection, and young people
need to think about them in a larger
context, not just once a year.
-Joe Sugiyama can be reached
at jmsugi@umich.edu.

0

0

The reforms tothe income-based repayment
program, which the president announced last
week as the "Pay-As-You-Earn" plan, will take
effect next year. They reduce the percentage of
annual discretionary income that debtors have
to pay from 15 percent to 10 percent. Student
loans will be forgiven after 20 years under the
new policy - five years earlier than the old
system. The new policy will also ease the debt
burden for the 450,000 borrowers currently
enrolled in the loan program nationwide.
Tuition rises every year, and with the dif-
ficulty in finding jobs, it is becoming increas-
ingly challenging for students to pay off their
loansontime.Accordingto the College Board,
college tuition and fees have risen by an aver-
age of5.6 percent each year in the past decade.
Protests have taken place at many universi-
ties,:yet tuition continues to climb. At the Uni-
versity, in-state tuition increased 6.7 percent
this year.
Rising tuition'costs have forced many stu-
dents to borrow money with the hope that
their decision will pay off in the future with a
good job. Under the former policy of 25 years
of loan repayment before forgiveness, student
borrowers could still be paying off their debt
when sending their kids to college.
With a nationwide unemployment rate of
9.1 percent, students with large loans face even

greater .challenges after graduation. Many
recent graduates take low-paying jobs, attend
graduate school or simply face unemployment,
which makes it hard for them to make timely
payments on student loans. These recent grad-
uates need assistance, or many will be forced
into dire financial straits.
Some criticize Obama's relief policy
because there is a concern that unpaid loans
could greatly increase other taxpayers' bur-
den. While these are valid concerns, the real-
ity is that if a massive number of graduates
default on their loans, the results could be
economically disastrous. However, the reform
will monitor payments to ensure this doesn't
happen. Student loan repayment reform will
greatly relieve struggling recent graduates
and will ultimately help the ecorAomy because
these individuals will be able to contribute
positively to the economy after they pay back
their debts.
As students, we appreciate the president's
new policy. It lessens the burden on borrowers
who are struggling with increased tuition and
a poor job market. The policy also encourages
more students to attend college who otherwise
may not have because of the large financial
burden. Obama's policy shows a commitment
to the future of young people in America and
will likely prove tobe economically beneficial.

0


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Sims, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner

ALLIE GOLDSTEIN I

a

The next billion women

ALEXANDER HEPPERLE |VEWPONT
Stay classy, Ann Arbor

6

The University was fortunate enough to host
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor on Monday
for a lecture on his view of the problems the
nation faces, especially our economic hard-
ships, and how best to address them in today's
day and age. I was excited to see a speaker of
this magnitude in person. Not being a very
political man myself, I went in pretty much
unbiased. I don't define myself as a Democrat
nor a Republican, but rather a middleman who
sways with the wind of respective issues based
on my own personal issues.
As soon as I approached the Michigan
League, I saw what was unmistakably a mob
of protesters picketing and yelling things like
"R.I.P. Middle Class!" Generally being a pretty
level-headed, non-aggressive person, I felt a
bit uncomfortable. I prefer to avoid a fight if
I can, so I began wondering just what kind
of political tension I was getting myself into.
I absolutely support free speech, however,
even in its most extreme forms, and it's noth-
ing new to see people voicing their opinion in
every kind of venue you can imagine on and
around the campus.
Though on this day, I can't say I was too
supportive of what I saw take place. Let's start
with a short biopic: At first sight, Cantor looks
like your average political guy. He's white,
middle aged, Ivy League educated, Southern
and conservative. But one can't Sparknote this
man and get the full story. He's not your aver-
age white, Southern lawyer.
To begin with, Cantor is Jewish. He repre-
sents a vastly under-represented religion in
terms of the political spectrum in this country.
In fact, Cantor is the only Jewish Republican
member in all of Congress. Does he come from
old Southern money? No, that'd be assum-
ing too much. Cantor's grandparents escaped
religious persecution in Hungary at the turn
of the 20th century and came to the U.S.
with few possessions but high hopes - like so
many other families in search of the American
Dream. Oh yeah, and his daughter is a student
here. Just like us.
Now let me say I consider this University to
be a classy school. A school of gentlemen and
ladies, alike. This event was sponsored by the
Ford School of Public Policy, which is named
after a certain alum who we refer to today as
the late, great President Gerald Ford. While

attending this school, not only did Ford make
it work coming from a local, broken family -
he rose through the ranks of the social strata,
became captain of the football team, state
politician and, of course, later the President
of the United States. A man of class. A true
Michigan victor.
The behavior I witnessed at this event was
generallynot classy or respectful, and certainly
not behavior Ford would condone. We already
know why, don't we? It's pretty much undeni-
able that Ann Arbor, on occasion, is simply too
liberal for its own good. Too much of anything
turns into a bad thing. Students cheered on
every cutting, far-left-leaning question like
"How is the American dream alive in Scandi-
navia?" and "Do charter schools mean the end
of public education?" with whistles and yells
before the congressman was even given the
chance to respond.
People, can you imagine how this man must
have felt? He is a Republican politician from
Richmond, Va. who took the time out of his
insane schedule to talk to us. Before you make
some snide comment at a public speaking event,
think about what you're really saying. Yes, I
know how smart you are with your sophisticat-
ed Philosophy 400 level class. But do you hold a
J.D. from William and Mary Law? How closely
doyou work with President Barack Obama?
This isn't a question of right and wrong,
demented opinions or even corrupt politicians
who could be interested in hurting national
interest. This is a question of tolerance. Please
do voice your opinion, but do it appropriately. It
is simply not OK to invite a middle-aged father
of three, who is far more educated and more
experienced than most of us will probably ever
be, to speak at your school and then attack him
for expressinghis ideas on how bestto help this
country. That is not only rude and disturbing,
it's downright embarrassing conduct for any
Michigan Wolverine.
Expect Respect. Give it. Get it. That state-
ment is the University's new motto, so follow
suit. Voice your opinion, but in the words of
Eric Cantor himself, "It is a fact that at some
pointswe must agree to disagree to get through
this life together." Watch your words guys, and
please continue to stay classy Ann Arbor.
Alexander Hepperle is an LSA sophomore.

The human population was set to hit the 7 billion
mark on Halloween this week, and for many, the timing
is appropriately spooky. Demographers are projecting
the world population will level off by the 21st century,
but in the meantime, 2 billion people will join us on the
planet. The media has long been equating population
growth with apocalypse - employing the logic that
more people means resource scarcity which means con-
flict. And, until recently, I had more or less been drink-
ing that Kool-Aid.
The "slice of the pie" metaphor is a captivating pne:
In a world of finite resources, it makes sense that more
resource users would deplete the metaphorical pie,
which would lead to fighting over the scraps. What's
the solution? Women, of course! If women have fewer
babies, there will be fewer pie gobblers and more scraps
to go peacefully around. Right?
Well, not quite. The metaphor is superficially logical
but, as I will explain, fundamentally flawed. Though
women are indeed keyto preventing population chaos, it's
for an entirely different reason than you might assume.
Let's tear down the equation piece by piece. First,
stating more people leads to resource scarcity ignores
the reality of per capita consumption. According to the
New York Times, Americans consume 32 times more
than those living in the developing world. Also, as geog-
rapher William Moseley points out, the conception of
people as a drain on resources ignores much of the truth
on the ground. In Machakos, Kenya, agriculture has
flourished rather than perished as population density
increases, since more people are working the land. The
same is true in many other parts of the world.
As for the second part of the equation - resource
scarcity leads to conflict - real world examples indicate
that resource abundance leads to conflict just as often
as resource scarcity does. Oil conflict in Nigeria didn't
exist until the oil started flowing. In many cases, it is the
production of resources that channels violence. The can-
cer that runs rampant in 48217, the zip code in Michigan
home of a Marathon oil refinery, among other polluting
industries, is an example of resource production leading
to slow but brutal suffering. As is the recent earthquake
in Japan, which released radiation in the landscape.
So, despite its glaring flaws, why is the assumed equa-
tion still so hypnotizing? Perhaps it's because the other
option - more rich people leads to resource overpro-
duction/overconsumption leads to conflict - hits too
close to home.
When it comes to driving conflict, how people pro-

duce and consume resources is a lot more important
than how many people there are, which iswhere women
come back in. Conflict - whether driven by resource
scarcity, abundance or production - is often perpetu-
ated by men and endured by women. As the United
Nations' 2010 State of the World's Population reports,
"Women rarely wage war, but they too often suffer the
worst of its consequences," from rape to economic hard-
ship to the inability to go to school.
A recent study by political scientists Mary Caprioli
and Mark Boyer found that nations with greater
domestic gender equality were less likely to resort
to violence in an international crisis. And women's
organizations - though often excluded from formal
negotiations - have been critical in peace-building
processes both post and during conflict, according to
the Peace Research Institute.
When I think of female peacekeepers, I think of Sil-
via Ventancourt, the woman I lived with this summer in
Intag, Ecuador. Silvia is one of 10 children; her partner
Jos4 is one of nine. They have a single child, Mattias, and
plans for exactly two more. Following the trajectory of
many developing countries, Ecuador's fertility rate has
declined significantly in recent decades, and many par-
ents are finding themselves in nuclear families a fraction
of the size of the ones they grew up in.
But Silvia's peacekeeping power is not derived from
her skillful family planning. It comes from her promi-
nent role in her community. She is a leader in Mujer y
Medioambiente, a women's group that makes handbags
out of a local Andean plant and sells them to interna-
tional markets.
There are several women's groups in Intag, all of
which work on creating alternative economies to min-
ing - an industry that has caused contamination and
conflict in their subtropical forest home. As one man
admitted to me, while the men are busy plundering
nonrenewable resources, the women of Intag "are more
interested in having water for their children." Put-
ting women like Silvia at the helm will lead to savvier
resource use and mitigated violence on an increasingly
populated planet.
Women are still a pivotal variable in the conflict equa-
tion, but because of their value as people, rather than
vessels for population growth. We should all keep this
in mind when deciding to lament - or celebrate-the 7
billion milestone.
Allie Goldstein is a first-year Rackham student.

6
6

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, November 2, 2011- 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomWednesday, November 2, 2011 - 5A

DIVERSITY
From Page 1A
resented minority students at
the University has declined since
the affirmative action ban took
effect in December 2006. Admit-
ted to the University before
the ban, the class of 2010 had
12.6 percent underrepresented
minority students. This year,
10.5 percent of the freshman
class is comprised of underrep-
resented minorities. Last year's
freshman class had slightly
more underrepresented minori-
ties at 10.6 percent. This was an
increase from the 9.1 percent in
the 2009-2010 freshman class,
though the augmentation could
partly be a result of changes to
ethnicity data reporting guide-
lines of the Higher Education
Opportunity Act.
Social Work student Matthew
Jones, treasurer of the AAAC,
was one of the first members of

the LEAD mentor team. He said
he became a mentor since he has
been part of an underrepresented
minoritygroup atthe University.
"I think it's critically impor-
tant for African Americans to
give back to the younger genera-
tions because we are standing
on someone's shoulders, and it's
important for them to under-
stand their responsibility in one,
getting an education and two,
being a responsible member of
the community," Jones said.
Through mentorship, the
LEAD Program intends to create
a network of students and alum-
ni that future students can turn
to for support.
"We hope that the students
will get an appreciation of giving
back and the appreciation of con-
necting with multigenerational
people," Stacy said. "(They'll)
start to realize they're not on an
island as a student because many
African American and under-
represented minority students

are first generation college stu-
dents."
Art & Design freshman Chris
Ford, a LEAD Scholar, said he
is making new connections
through the program, which he
called a "wonderful experience,"
and could see himself being a
future mentor.
"I'd love to talk to a mentee
and help them out with their
transition," Ford said. "I defi-
nitely have a strong connection
with my mentor."
He added that since neither of
his parents graduated from col-
lege, he is especially determined
to obtain his undergraduate
degree.
"Coming from a background
where my mother and my father
(didn't graduate) kind of pushed
me to do better, strive better
in life," Ford said. "At U of M...
everyone wants to come here
because it's a really well-known
school or has intelligent students
and great opportunities."

Engineering junior Kyle Summers, an Engineering representative on the Michigan Student Assembly, dressed up as Pac-
Man for MSA's weekly meeting in the Michigan Union last night.
MSA to vote on GSRA
resolution n week

-o

Resolution supports
. possible GSRA
vote to form union
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily StaffReporter
Even though the Michigan
Student Assembly won't vote
on a resolution regarding the
unionization of graduate student
research assistants until next
week, members of the campus
community voiced their opinions
on the issue at last night's assem-
bly meeting.
Graduate students of many
different disciplines spoke at the
meeting in the MSA Chambers
about the assembly resolution,
which would support GSRAs'
ability to vote to form a union.
MSA representatives consented
to send the resolution onto the
resolutions committee and the
assembly vote is expected to take
place next Tuesday.
* About 10 members of the Grad-
uate Employees Organization, a
labor union that represents gradu-
STORES
From Page 1A
most successful establishments
on East Liberty Street are the
ones that appeal to students and
Ann Arbor residents.
"I think that it's vital that
(business owners) understand
that..they have to perform their
business to the local population
as well as the students."
Tom Yon, owner of Tomukun
Noodle Bar at 505 East Liberty
St., said he turned the challenges
of his business into opportunities
for improvement and vitality.
"As a business owner, you can't
just sit back and relax and think
people are just going to start
pouring into your door and buy-
ing your stuff," Yon said. "You've
got to keep fresh and be on your
toes all of the time."
Yon, who opened Tomukun in
spring 2010, said he thinks for a
business to be successful in the
area, it needs to be "unique and
fresh."
"People want something that
they like and something unique
- not just the same old burger
place or Middle Eastern res-
taurant, or the same old candy
shop," he said.
Two stores on East Liberty -
clothing store Poshh and candy
store This & That - closed with-
in the last week. Poshh owner
Wendy Batiste-Johnson identi-
fied her desire to spend more
time with her family as the main
reason for the store closing. How-
ever, Andrea Graef, owner of This
& That, cited an increase in pan-
handling on the street and near-
by competition as factors in her

ate student instructors and gradu-
ate student staff assistants at the
University, attended the meeting
to show support forthe resolution.
In an interview after the meet-
log, MSA president DeAndree
Watson said he likes the language
of the resolution because it dem-
onstrates MSA's intention to sup-
port the GSRAs' right to vote to
form a union.
"We agree it is important for
GSRAs, as a group, to be able to
have that choice," Watson said. _
He added that the assembly's
vote on the resolution is important
to members of the campus com-
munity since MSA has an impact
on the decisions made by Univer-
sity administrators.
"I actually think this is a reso-
lution that's going to have some
significant effects on this issue on
campus," Watson said.
Rackham student Samantha
Montgomery, president of GEO,
said she is in favor of the resolu-
tion because its passage would
show that the assembly recogniz-
es GSRAs' right to vote to form a
union.
"As the president ofthe GEO, we

stand with the tens of hundreds of
graduate student research assis-
tants who want to vote to form a
union," Montgomery said in an
interview after the meeting.
The University's Board of
Regents voted on May 19 to clas-
sify GSRAs as University employ-
ees, giving them the ability to
unionize. But the decision isn't
valid because of a 1981 ruling by
the Michigan Employment Rela-
tions Commission that says stu-
dents are not public employees.
Rackham student Stephen
Raiman also attended yesterday's
meeting as a representative of Stu-
dents Against GSRA Unionization.
"We believe that all GSRAs
should be able to decide for them-
selves, not as a group, whether
they want to be able to join a union
or not," Raiman said in an inter-
view after the meeting.
Raiman and Montgomery said
they expect representatives from
each of their groups to be at next
week's meeting when the vote will
take place.
- Alex O'Connor and Damiana
Sorrell contributed to this report.

CONSTRUCTION
From Page 1A
Jeff Helminski, will incur during
construction.
Among those against the con-
struction of City Place is City
Council member Mike Anglin
(D-Ward 5), who tried to make
the homes part of a historic dis-
trict to halt the development of
the complex.
Anglin said he pushed against
the demolition because he feels
the neighborhood already has ade-
quate studenthousing -one of the
goals is to increase student housing
options - and constructing two
large buildings would be detrimen-
tal to the surrounding area.
"I just feel that putting that
many people in that small area is
not going to help the community
very much nor will the physical
appearance of the buildings be
very attractive," Anglin said.
He added that City Place

wouldtake awayfromthecurrent
diversity the neighborhood fos-
ters, since many older residents
rent out the upper levels of their
homes to University students.
Anglin had planned to call for
an emergency moratorium that
would temporarily stop all demo-
lition and construction if the pro-
posal passed. But as a result of
last week's vote, he withdrew the
resolution.
Anglin, who represents the
ward in which City Place will
be built, said the majority of the
neighborhood's residents are
against the construction, and
many believe it is a historic dis-
trict.
"When you walk through it,
you see all these little homes
and you kind of get the impres-
sion that, wow, someone took
the effort to keep these around,"
Anglin said. "And yet that wasn't
true."
City Council member Christo-
pher Taylor (D-Ward 3) said he

is disappointed with the council
and the neighborhood residents'
inability to reach a compromise
on the issue of City Place. The
Heritage Row project was pro-
posed as an alternative to City
Place and would have preserved
the old homes by constructing a
new building behind them. How-
ever, that project never came to
fruition.
"I think when folks on coun-
cil and in the neighborhood
approach an issue with an all or
nothing approach, sometimes
you get nothing," Taylor said.
He said the demolition of the
houses and the construction of
the apartment complex will be
unfortunate and expressed a
common concern about the aes-
thetics of the new development.
"I think that it's a shame
that the houses will be demol-
ished," Taylor said. "I think that
the buildings are going to be
unsightly and a detriment to the
neighborhood."


store's closure.
Batiste-Johnson, whose store
closed on Oct. 30 after 10 years
of business, said when she trav-
eled to New York and Los Ange-
les to buy clothes for her store,
she would specifically look for
unknown designers and unique
brands to keep shoppers' inter-
est.
"My goal was to find the new
designer," Batiste-Johnson said.
"And I can honestly tell you that
over the 10 years we have been
here, we have been one of the first
retailers in Michigan, and in the
country, to sell certain designers
who have completely blown up."
Batiste-Johnson added that a
friendly staff and high-quality
customer service are important
parts of having a successful busi-
ness.
"(Something) that is known at
Poshh is we really pride ourselves
on making sure all of our custom-
ers are happy," Batiste-Johnson
said. "If you provide customers
with that type of dedication to
their service, then they will in
turn give you dedication."
Batiste-Johnson added that she
has been more than happy hav-
ing her business on the "vibrant
street" that is East Liberty.
"For me, it was a bridge
between the University and the
city," she said. "I think it's the
connector street so that you can
attract a larger clientele."
Abraham Hejazi, owner of
Allure Boutique located at 607
E. Liberty St., echoed these sen-
timents and said creating a loyal
customer base keeps the business
afloat even when the economy
suffers.
"In order to be successful

in business, you have to have
friends," Hejazi said. "You have
to get the students to like you
because if the students don't like
you, (you) suffer because this is a
student town."
Yon added that being located in
the working district of Ann Arbor
attracts more customers to his
restaurant.
"Being next to Google, being
next to a lot of the offices, it defi-
nitely helps out," he said. "When
I thought about opening in Ann
Arbor, this was where I wanted to
open. I can't complain."
Hejazi said one of the reasons
stores have been closing on East
Liberty Street is the high rent
rates.
"What happens is every year
it goes up 1 or 2 percent," he said.
"With this economy and the lease
going up so much, if you think
about it, it's really not worth it."
Hejazi, whose boutique has
been a part of the East Liberty
Street community for 11 years,
said he plans on relocating his
business to somewhere on State
Street in the future.
"Liberty is a great location
because of the Michigan The-
atre," he said. "It was a good
location because of Borders, but
I don't think Liberty is really a
great location anymore. If I could,
I would move tomorrow to State
Street."
Welton said Borders is current-
ly trying to sell its lease, which
stretched into the next decade.
He added that it is possible the
space could be split into three
business areas. In terms of the
businesses that will occupy the
empty space, Welton said there is
no definite interested party.

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
1960s activists Odile Huguenot-Haber and Alan Haber speak about revolutionary thought and action at the OccupyWnn
Arbor site at Liberty Plaza yesterday.

ACTIVISTS
From Page 1A
together different structure
with more imagination," she
said. "We need to take the
money out of politics."
Huguenot-Haber added that
one of the best aspects of the
Occupy Ann Arbor movement
is the sense of community it is
fostering.
"We are outside together
instead of alone in front of (our)
computer," she said.
Huguenot-Haber spoke at
length about her activism while
living in France, where she pro-
tested on behalf of exploited
workers and fought against a
system that she said put the
lower and middle classes at a
disadvantage.

Haber and Huguenot-Haber
were interrupted periodically
by audience members, and the
speakers welcomed them to
voice their opinions on social
matters. Some people called for
an end to privatized education,
while others voiced support for
the re-election of public offi-
cials and asked for a peaceful
end to current wars.
Haber welcomed the inter-
jections and told the audience to
"continue to challenge the rul-
ing powers" to create change.
"People need to meet togeth-
er and talk to see eye to eye," he
said. "Make this a political fam-
ily seeking to transform Ann,
Arbor and the world."
Larry Horvath, a local com-
munity activist and former
school teacher, said that while
he is not a frequent visitor to

the Occupy Ann Arbor site,
he attended the event to hear
Haber's speech because he was
involved in activism in the 1960s.
"(The revolution) that Alan
Haber was part of was at the
jumping-off point for a genera-
tion," Horvath said. "(Haber)
will help you build the barri-
cades, even if you can't climb
them anymore."
Alexandra Hoffman, who has
been living in a tent in Liberty
Plaza for the past two weeks,
expressed her excitement about
hearing Haber's speech. His
visit is one of several events
happening at Occupy Ann Arbor
this week to raise awareness of
the movement, she said.
"We try to do something
every day to draw people here,"
Hoffman added. "It's exhaust-
ing, but it's rewarding."


0
FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@MichiganDaily
@MichDailyNews
@MichDailyFball
@Mich DailyArts
@MichDailyOpEd

MEDALISTS
From Page1A
said.
Ohno, a short track speed
skater, emphasized the impor-
tance of dedication, a positive
mindset and preparation in his
speech.
"Four years of your life is
dedicated to 40 seconds in short
track," Ohno said, pointing out
that such a long training period
keeps him in shape to skate at his
best.
In response to an audi-
ence member's question about
switching careers, Ohno said a
high-performance mindset can
be applied in any job. He said the
reason he visits campuses is to
help "motivate younger genera-

lions to work at their best abil-
ity."
"Mindset is applicable to any-
thing you choose," Ohno said.
Deloitte Managing Director
Robert Coury, a graduate of the
Ross School of Business, said
the University of Michigan was
an important stop on the tour.
In addition to listening to the
athletes, attendees met with
Deloitte recruiters to discuss
career aspirations and potential
job opportunities.
Business graduate student
Julie Chen, who attended a simi-
lar event hosted by Deloitte last
year, praised its unique format.
She said Nichols' story resonated
with her.
"This is my favorite recruiting
event because it's less about sell-
ing the company and more about

the athletes (sharing) with you
their strategies and how to apply
themto your ownlife," Chensaid.
Business graduate student
Dorothy Greg said she attended
because she wanted to hear from
some of the most inspiring ath-
letes of the day.
"I came to the event because
I was a track athlete in college,
so for me it was a great way to
revisit that mindset in a different
page of my life," Greg said.
Business graduate student
Patrick Lord said the talk made
him consider the importance of
setting small goals every day.
"Sometimes we set very high
goals for ourselves, ... (but)
it's actually remembering the
mechanics and making sure that
we do the preparation," Lord
said.


0

6A - Wednesday, November 2, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A -Wednsda, Noembr 2,2011TheMichganDail - ichiga nilomli
Jobs,corporatetax
policy take center
stage at Idaho debate

Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain speaks at the National Press Club in Washington on Monday. The Georgia
businessman has repeatedly denied allegations of sexual harassment.
Woman accusing Cain
wants opportunity to talk

Two women have
reportedly accused
Cain of harassment
The lawyer for one of two
women who reportedly accused
Republican presidential can-
didate Herman Cain of sexual
harassment in the 1990s said yes-
terday he had asked their former
employer to waive an agreement
and allow her to talk openly about
her allegations.
Joel P. Bennett, a Washing-
ton lawyer who specializes in
employment cases, said in media
interviews that his client wants
the National Restaurant Asso-
ciation to waive confidentiality so
she can respond to Cain's claims
that the complaints were "totally
baseless and totally false."
A spokeswoman for the'res-
taurant association, Sue Hensley,
said last night that the group had
not been contacted by Bennett.
Cain, a Georgia businessman
best known as the former CEO
of Godfather's Pizza, was head of
the association at the time of the
complaints
Bennett told The Associated
Press he would have more to say
after he meets with his client

Wednesday. In an interview last
night on CNN, he said he stood
behind his client. "I know her
very well," he said, "and I'm sure
she would not make a false com-
plaint."
The New York Times reported
last night that the National Res-
taurant Association gave a female
employee a year's salary in sever-
ance pay, $35,000, after she said
an encounter with Cain made her
uncomfortable working there.
The newspaper cited three peo-
ple with knowledge of the pay-
ment to the woman, who was not
Bennett's client.
One of Cain's rivals, Rep.
Michele Bachmann of Minneso-
ta, appeared to take a jab at Cain
when she met last night with
supporters at a Baptist church in
Marshalltown, Iowa.
Though not mentioning Cain
by name as she stood in the pul-
pit, Bachmann said: "This is the
year when we can't have any sur-
prises with our candidate. We
have to have a candidate that we
can know, when we put them into
office, we can trust them with
their record of what they have
done and who they are."
Cain, meanwhile, spent yester-
day much as he did Monday, going
from interview to interview to

defend himself. There was time
for politicking, too: He met last
night with Republican senators
at a restaurant near the Capitol as
part of a meet-and-greet strategy
with lawmakers whose support
he is seeking.
Cain's contradictory expla-
nations - he also denies he has
changed his story - have raised
questions about details of the
allegations and about his current
ability to manage a crisis in the
national spotlight. The accusa-
tions surfaced just as had risen in
national polls in the GOP nomi-
nation fight two months before
the leadoff Iowa caucuses.
He said last night on Fox News
that he believes there are some
Democrats who want him defeat-
ed because he's an unconven-
tional candidate "achieving some
unexpected, unconventional
results," and there could be some
on the right "who do not want
to see me because I am not the
establishment candidate."
Cain, who is black, said he
believes race is also involved
"but we don't have any evidence
to support it." He added: "Rela-
tive to the left, I believe that race
is a bigger driving factor. I don't
think it's a driving factor on the
right."

Romney, Cain
absent from
Republican debate
One by one, five Republican
candidates for president took
the stage yesterday in the state
that holds the first presidential
contest to pitch themselves as
the strongest to challenge Dem-
ocratic President Barack Obama
on voters' top issue: jobs.
Absent from the forum was
the one Republican who has
made that argument central
to his second campaign for the
White House: Mitt Romney.
The former Massachusetts gov-
ernor, sitting atop most polls
and a pile of cash, was in New
York raising money.
And businessman Herman
Cain took a pass, too, staying
in Washington to deal with
the fallout of the disclosure of
sexual harassment allegations
from the 1990s while he was the
head of the National Restaurant
Association.
So Rick Perry, Rick Santo-
rum, Michele Bachmann, Ron
Paul and Newt Gingrich looked
to fill that vacuum, jockeying for
relevance on corporate tax pol-
icy in hopes of gaining an edge
with economic conservatives
two months before the Iowa
caucuses. In a GOP primary
campaign with few major poli-
ty distinctions, the 90-minute
forum illuminated incremental
differences as the candidates
worked to demonstrate savvy
on voters' top concern.
Of those on stage, only Perry
said he favored maintaining a
tax on reintroducing corporate
profits held offshore to the U.S.
"I would put a five-and-a-
quarter percent rate on that
money for one year, to allow it
to be brought back in, to be able
to create jobs," the Texas gover-
nor told the audience of about
400 at Vermeer Manufacturing,
an agricultural plant, in Pella.
Today the money is taxed at the
35-percent corporate rate.
Santorum, the former Penn-
sylvania senator, favors requir-
ing no tax on the money if it is

spent on a manufacturing plant
and equipment. And Bachmann,
Gingrich and Paul saidthey sup-
port a zero-percent tax, without
strings.
"Without a doubt, it's their
money," said Bachmann, a Min-
nesota congresswoman. "Prof-
its are stimulus. That's the true
stimulus."
All the candidates on stage
called for vastly cutting federal
regulations and overturning
the health care law. They also
support incentives - to varying
degrees - for U.S. companies to
bring money generated overseas
back into the country on the
argument the infusion of cash
will spark expansion and hiring.
Estimates range from $1.2 to 1.7
trillion in off-shore profits.
Studies have shown, howev-
er, that a similar holiday under
President George W. Bush and
a GOP-controlled Congress in
2004 and 2005 had little effect
on job growth.
The forum was one of sev-
eral this year in Iowa and New
Hampshire, where the vot-
ing begins in January. The
appearances are important for
lesser-known candidates to
meet voters in key early-voting
states. Most of the multicandi-
date events in Iowa so far have
been sponsored by social con-
servative groups, a potent force
in Iowa's GOP caucus elector-
ate. This one was put on by the
National Association of Manu-
facturers in hopes of giving
Iowans a better sense of where
candidates stand economically.
But the meeting's value was
unclear, considering Romney,
who is stressing his decades as
an investment capital firm exec-
utive as proof of his economic
savvy, and Cain, who is running
on his record as a businessman,
weren't there. Both are running
ahead of the others in national
and state polls.
"The ones that weren't here
were the ones that missed out,"
said Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad, a
pro-business Republican elect-
ed again last year after a dozen
years away from the office and
who co-hosted the event.
Romney chose to stick with

his policy not to appear with his
rivals on stage, except at nation-
ally televised debates, even
though he's competing more
aggressively in Iowa than he
had earlier this year and is try-
ing to win over the pro-business
segment of the GOP that lifted
Branstad to victory last year.
"In my book it hurts him,"
said undecided Iowa Republi-
can Connie Richards, a nurs-
ing home administrator who
attended the Pella forum. "If
they have an economic plan to
present, I want to hear it, and I
didn't today."
Of all of Romney's rivals,
Perry is working the hardest to
emerge as Romney's chief chal-
lenge on the economy - and he
has the money to do it.
But even though he had
the opportunity, Perry took a
pass on jabbing at Romney and
focused on promoting his own
plans.
"In Texas, or in Iowa, or
whatever state it is, we know
that the way you create jobs is
not by overtaxing, overregu-
lating or overlitigating," Perry
said.
Paul, a libertarian Texas
representative, ignited laugh-
ter when asked what he would
like to hear Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben Bernanke say at
a scheduled Wednesday meet-
ing on interest rates. "He was
resigning," said Paul, who has
called for the elimination of the
Federal Reserve Bank.
Bachmann stressed open-
ing international markets and
declaring a moratorium on fed-
eral regulations. "We need the
federal governmtent to get off
our back."
Santorum pitched his plan to
eliminate the corporate income
tax for companies that make
products in the United States,
saying: "We need to make more
things in America again."
Although all the candidates
sharply criticized Obama's
approach to the economy, Gin-
grich was most aggressive,
calling the president, "a left-
wing radical," and arguing that
unemployment compensation
should require job-training.

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, November 3, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 7 Three Lines": 37 Preparestoredo, 49 Englishjellytu
1 Like gates, at oldaTV arama as aquiltsectin 5O tstablishes, aith
times 8 Champagne 38 Courtstandard "down"
5 Wide-brimmed designation 40 Ready-to-plant 51 Ballpoint pen
hat wearers 9 Diiehbreakfast plot brand
1 g-A.ross, e.g tare b 41 Augmented 52 cell research
14 Pasture gait 10 Convent 43 "Crack a Bottle" 53"Timequake"
15 Archaeologist's address rapper author Vonnegut
prefix 11 Mideastchieftain 44 Scott in an 1857 54 Hipster's
16 Chatroom "Just a 12 Mid-20th-century case "Gotchal"
thought... Chinese premier 45 Dough maker? 55 Word sung on
17 Much-feared 13 Scads 48 Modern optionfor New Year's Day
economic 18 Lays in a grave sellers 57 Bigger than med.
situation 19 Where it's at ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
2nAoLlfeetures 23 Brand in a ranty AS E PEIU UZE
21 Like grapefruit apartment? P A t P L U G A M U S E
22C w2ss4shape 2Ball O L D E G A R Y MP A R E R
23sltnenhastwn 25nWWIIinvestment G O L D M A N S P A R T N E R
dlashes choice
24 Sightseer'snoption 26 Povich S T E E R G A S P I S P S
32Despises co-anchor Y E S U P O N
33Angst 27Heyerdahl's"_.- F I R E S F R O M T H E J O B
34 Egyptianthreat Tiki" R T E S POT M E A R A
35 Bell, book and 28 Basketball Hallof E S S DOT E D M A Y
candle eFamecenter OMAHA E T A D A T E
3ttReunion since208 N E W YO R K R E T A I L E R
attendees 29 BaocaratamPcryA A
37 Humeri 30 Carrier renamed P LEA A B S
attachments in 1997 A R T E F R E D B O R G E
39 Former station for 31 Shell out W O O D W I N D d N A B A N D
26-Down 36"The__AreAll A L O U DN A G R A EGA D
40 Goastray Right":2014 YELPS KEEP Y E W S
41 Advi Oscarnominee xwordeditor@aol.com 1102/11
42 Itboth aidnand
hinders 1 2 3 4s s o 7 a 10 11 12 13
46 Mil. field rations
47 Fruity suffix 1
48 Noted 17 181
51 Cold ones
56 Optimal design 20 21
lor clinical trials
58eTops22 3
59 Wading bird
60 Yeats's homeland a 252930 31
61 Huck Finn-like s s so
assent
62 Golden, south of 3663n37 is
the harder
63 Something on the s 4u 41
house?: Abbr.
DOWN a4
1 Tough guy actor
_ Ray 4 49 s s1 S5 s s46B
2 Maeone
3 Laundryproom isB7
item: Abbr.9
4 _-Tea: White "
Rose product 1 2 - 3
5 Manifests iself
6 Emulate a By Julian Lim
conqueror (c)2011 Tribune Media services,Inc. 11/3/11

FALL 12 REALTY (2) 6 bedroom
houses on White St. (1) 5 bedroom
house on S. Forest. Updated Kitchens/
Hardwood Floors. 734-564-2125,
www.keysmanagement.net

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
! Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
best housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. 1to4 bedroom, private
baths available. Rates from $660.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
!! BIG 10 BED CAMPUS HOUSE!!
4 baths, 2 living, open basement, new
carpet, large screen TVs, great yard,
free laundry, free parking, Mayto May.
www.nancylat.com (734) 663-1370
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-8115
YOU'VE PASSED this house many
times, corner of Church and Willard.
Great off campus fraternity house. 11
bdrm., 2 large sitting areas, 2 kitch., 3
showers/baths, wshr./dryer no charge,
8
prkg. spaces avail. Aug. 2012-Aug
2013. CALL: 248-330-0396

5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2012
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
WE HOLD THE KEY.....
To Your New Home!
Now Showing & Leasing
For 2012-13!
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
primesh.com
-NOW SHOWING
APARTMENTS-
For 2012-13!
17 great locations
Efficiencies, 1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
Furnished, Heat & Water Included,
1 Parking Pass & FREE Internet.
Call today to see your new home!
734-761-8000
primesh.com
*Amenities Vary By Location
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2012 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour! WE ARE NOW
TAKING RESERVATIONS! For
best selection come in today, we sold
out early last year. Avail. Rooms, Stu-
dios, 1, 2, 3 bdrm furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2012. Don't miss out on
the Best of Central Campus! Call
(734) 761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit www.UniversityTowers-MI.com

FALL '12 RENTAL. 5 Bdrm, 2 bath.
at 811 Sylvan. 10 min walk to campus.
5 min to baseball field and track.
Major appliances. $2500/mo.
734.834.1680.
(734) 332-6000
www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
RENOVATED CONDO: NEW crpt,
app, cab, paint. Stylish end unit no
tenets above/below. Quiet. 2 bdrm, 2
ba. Big basement 2 unfnshd bdrms,
livingarea. Attchd garage. Super for ex-
ecutive or students. $1,500 ($1,750 fur-
nished). Short term lease available.
lsimpson006@columbus.rr.com.
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE**Beautiful
home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
AVAIL FALL '12: 717 Dewey Ave.
5bdrm/2bth $2850/mo. Call (610) 952-
5269. Email louisbreskman@gmail.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2100/month. Avail
Fall 2012. dklemptner@comcast.net

STUDENT REPS NEEDED for new
startup Believe Athletic Gear. Call
Phil Cafferty at 312-498-5560
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

COMMUNITY ORGANIZERS
WANTED!!! Working America/ AFL-
CIO is hiring F/T staff to take our coun-
try back from the political forces that
favor the wealthy and corporate special
interests over your well-being! Diver-
sity is highly valued at Working Amer-
ica Women, people of color, and
LGBT applicants strongly encoaraged
to apply. $11.44/ Hour $457.60 week
base pay - Entry Level. Fun work envi-
ronment. EOE. Rapid advancement op-
portunities. Call Willie 734.222.6496,
www.workingamerica.org
VIE FITNESS & SPA is seeking a
smart and energetic receptionist. Perks
include free fitness classes and dis-
counted spa services. Please send re-
sume to careers@viefit.com

0


Wednesday, November 2, 2011 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FILM REVIEW
Mismatched 'Lulu'

Lou Reed and
Metallica hit a sour
S note together
By ANDREW ECKHOUS
Daily Arts Writer
Lou Reed's (The Velvet Under-
ground) signature growl and
5 candid, poetic lyrics. Metallica's
sinister riffs
and aggressive b
sound. These
characteris Lou Reed and
tics have sent MetalflCa
rock in two
vastly differ- Luu
ent directions.
Reed's hon- Warner Bros.
esty and con-
troversial topics have influenced
generations of avant-garde and
creative musicians, and Metallica
is considered one of the best metal
bands of all time.
Both have influenced countless
musicians to pick up a guitar and
wear a lot of black, but when Lou
Reed and Metallica announced
they were making the album Lulu
together, no one was sure how the
end product would sound. These
legends have captained the ever-
growing, never-changing cruise
ship known as rock'n'roll for
decades, but would their sounds
complement each other like gui-
tar and bass, or would ego prevail?
"Brandenburg Gate," the
opening track, quickly answers
all questions with a resound-
ing groan. Singing stream-of-
consciousness lyrics over naked

chords for a brief moment, Reed's
wistful ruminations are endear-
ing and lighthearted. However,
powerful Metallica guitars quick-
ly break his pensive concentra-
tion, drowning out Reed's words
with a thunderous riff and Metal-
lica lead singer James Hetfield's
dramatic background vocals.
After listening to "Brandenburg
Gate," it becomes clear Lulu is
going to be worth less than the
sum of its parts.
Simply put, Lulu doesn't do
either act justice. Lou Reed and
Metallica recording together
sounds like a misguided Girl Talk
effort, and it's hard to listen to.
Neither seems comfortable with
the other's style, as they often
impose themselves unnaturally
and play over each other. The con-
cept is noble - both seem eager to
expand their musical horizons -
but itcjust doesn't work.
Upon first hearing Lulu, it
seems neither group can divorce
itself from its ego, but in reality,
they just don't know how to make
their styles sync. The album runs
an absurd 90 minutes over only
10 tracks, and combines elements
that should never meet. On "Cheat
On Me," an 11-minute ramble,
Reed spends the first five minutes
pontificating quietly about his
self-destructive tendencies but is
rudely interrupted by Metallica's
out-of-place anger. Not only does
the metal cause Reed's thoughts
to become secondary, but also
Hetfield's over-the-top backup
vocals turn "Cheat On Me" into
a joke. Reed's soft yet powerful
voice cannot match the domi-

WARNER BROS.
nance of thrash metal, a constant
flaw on Lulu.
Though rare, there are
moments when Reed and Metal-
lica's techniques intertwine
smoothly. "Frustration" alter-
nates between harsh, metal gui-
tars and eerie feedback, suiting
Reed's roars of aggravation and
conviction. However, the album
quickly returns to delusions of
grandeur. Hetfield and Metal-
lica are relegated to thrash metal
backup singers, and Lou Reed
seems disoriented to be around so
much noise.
Reed and Metallica have been
called geniuses, visionaries and a
bounty of other compliments they
fully deserve. However, when
someone finally gets around to
building them the shrines they
rightfully merit, make sure to put
some distance between the two.
Lulu is not a complete failure,
and it shouldn't deter either art-
ist from more experimentation.
But for future reference, putting
two titans of music on the same
album doesn't necessarily make
for an instant classic.

"You meowin' at me? You meowin' at me? Then who the hell else are you meowin' at?!"
'Puss' barely lands on feet

By SEAN CZARNECKI
DailyArts Writer
Just as the blockbuster sum-
mer walks out of Hollywood
conscience and Oscar season pre-
pares to swag-
ger around the * *
corner, "Puss
in Boots" is Ptg ji
creeping into B
theaters. After
the fourth film At Quality 16
in the "Shrek" and Rave
series displayed
its impressive Columbia
ability to copy
its own downtrodden formula,
original fans started to wonder if
it would be possible to shoehorn
another entry into this fairy-tale
universe.
Well, no - it's not. That cash
cow was led tothe slaughterhouse
a long time ago. So what'd the
"Shrek" makers do? They made a
prequel spin-off: "Puss in Boots."
Fortunately, this cheap idea
cashes in with lavish, big-budget
animation and charm. But while
"Puss in Boots" is able to evoke
an adequate amount of laughter
from its audience, it never fills the
shoes the first two "Shrek" films
gleefully wore when they stormed
the world 10 years ago.
Still, "Puss" is able to provide
an interesting mythology behind
its titular character (Antonio

Banderas, "Spy Kids"). As it turns
out, Puss was not always a phi-
landering feline. A long time ago,
isolated in a small town, he was
just another orphan with dreams
and only one friend to share them
with - Humpty Dumpty (Zach
Galifianakis, "The Hangover Part
2"). After being alienated from
each other for many years, they
reunite with the seductive thief
extraordinaire, Kitty Softpaws
(Salma Hayek, "Frida") on a quest
to find the "golden goose."
It's a familiar fairy tale, but
like its predecessors, "Puss" puts
a twist on the storytelling. While
director Chris Miller ("Shrek the
Third") is at the animation helm,
executive producer Guillermo del
Toro ("Pan's Labyrinth") lends
the film some of that essential
Spanish heritage. And of course
the sexual innuendos and refer-
ences remain, tactfully placed and
wittily written.
But it just isn't the same as the
original. The cat puns wear out
their welcome the instant they
strut into the picture. They bra-
zenly make an appearance and
simply refuse to leave. In "Shrek
2," the "catnip" reference was
hilarious, but here in "Puss" that
sharp wit is a dull glow of its
original splendor. The lovable,
cuddly hero trope also loses its
appeal quickly, which is unfortu-
nate since a good deal of the film's

comedic success floats on this
boat.
By all counts, this film should
have indeed sunk. The story is
convoluted, the supporting char-
acters are steeped in the usual
adventure film cliches, no voice
work truly stands out and the cli-
max is unremarkable - leaving
the viewer with a shrug. Alas, the
bignamesbehindthe heroes rare-
ly light up the screen. Banderas's
charm can only carry the film so
far before Galifianakis's passion-
less work weighs him down.
Not quite
purrrr-fect.
That said, the film still delivers
its laughs with vibrant animation.
Though its wit is not as inspired
as one might hope, it definitely
exceeds the expectations its fans
were left with after the last two
"Shrek"films.
So how will the world speak
about "Puss" 10 years from now?
Simple: It won't. In the meantime,
children will laugh at the charac-
ters' colorful antics - while their
parents smile knowingly and
hope the youngones won't asktoo
many questions - and it'll be a fun
night for the family.


FILM NOTEBOOK
My super Bollywood experience

ABC
"Wait, it's no-shave November!"
amily starting to tire

By SAM CENZHANG
DailyArts Writer
Since its premiere, "Modern
Family" has been one of the
most lauded shows on television.
This speaks
to the value ***
of sharp writ-
ing and execu- Modem
tion in sitcoms. .i
There have F y
been plenty of Season Three
comedies about Midseason
big, pleasantly
dysfunctional Wednesdays
families before. at 9 p.m.
But with a ABC
few "modern"
tweaks to the formula (a gay
couple, a May-December mar-
riage) and fresh, well-written
material, "Modern Family" has
always managed to say stuff
that's funny and meaningful,
despite the fact that it's really
just a big-family sitcom with
jokes about texting and Justin
Bieber. Unfortunately, season
three of the show has brought its
flaws into focus, while stepping
back from a lot of the things that
made it great.
"Modern Family" has always
hung its hat on structural cohe-
sion. The writers are good enough
that almost every episode will
feature funny storylines for the
three families. The very best epi-

sodes of the show, though, bring "Modern Family" has never
plotlines together seamlessly for exactly been subtle, but this sea-
big payoffs (season one's "Fizbo" son has featured a lot more come-
and "Family Portrait"; season dir broadness than the first two.
two's "Manny Get Your Gun"). The Phil and Luke storylines
There hasn't been any of that this have long been among the best
season. The best episode, "Door the show has to offer, but when
to Door," comes the closest, with the payoff is literally just Luke
a little door-closing montage that throwing a ball at Phil's head,
ties together Manny's, Gloria's it's hard to help thinking the
and Claire's storylines.But even in writers could have stretched a
that episode, the characters were little more. Gloria's portrayal has
all just doing their own thing. turned troublingly stereotypical,
and she rarely has much to do
other than be difficult to under-
stand and drop lines about how
m aybe they violent Colombia was.
should go Season three of "Modern
g to a Family" hasn't been bad. The
dude ranch. show has never been about being
groundbreaking, and some of the
old joys are still there. Phil, afore-
mentioned "America's Funniest
The biggest problem with Home Videos" turn aside, is still
"Modern Family," and one that's one of the funniest characters on
been significant since at least the television, and Luke is right there
second half of season two, is the with him. But one klutz dad and
gay couple, Cam and Mitchell. crazy kid can't carry a show -
For a show aiming for human and increasingly, they've had to.
depth rather than high-concept When a third of the show is
innovation, "Modern Family" dead weight, the big set pieces
dips into the trope well a great that defined its first two sea-
deal for these two. Cam is shrill, sons become impossible to pull
over the top and touchy. Mitchell off, and it's telling that the writ-
is anal, controlling, and ... touchy. ers haven't even tried. "Modern
Take stereotypical bitchy girl- Family" is still enjoyable, but in
friend character, split personality the oversaturated sitcom land-
in two, and voila, you have your scape that is fall 2011, it's not spe-
own modern gay couple. cial anymore.

By MATT EASTON
Daily Arts Writer
Three martial artists, called
"the daughters of Bruce Lee,"
spin across the screen toward the
hero, Shah Rukh Khan, wailing
with blades drawn. A few sword
slashes later, Khan defeats them
all. Around me the theater hoots
atthescreen.Wide-eyed, Iglance
over at my guide, Daily TV/New
Media Editor Proma Khosla.
"Their names are Iski Lee,
Uski Lee and Sabki Lee," she
whispers as the audience laughs
loudly at a new character's arriv-
al. "They mean, 'for him,''for her'
and 'for everyone' in Hindi."
I don't get the joke, but I real-
ize I probably wasn't the audi-
ence the film's writers had in
mind, so I nod anyway.
"Who is this guy?" I motion
toward the man on screen whose
entrance caused such a stir.
"He a big, tough-guy actor in
India," Proma responds (I would
later find out he's the "T.I" of
the Indian film industry, in that
he was big, was arrested for gun
possession, went to jail and then
came back bigger and better). I
nod again, laughing more at the
situation than at the jokes.
Proma leans in one last time,
"You have to understand - they
know this is cheesy, they are jok-
ing right now."
So why was I here, watch-
ing a Bollywood blockbuster?
My experience with Indian film
extends just about to "Slumdog
Millionaire," a movie as Western
as McDonald's. My knowledge of

Indiat
dhartl
by a
fit in a
writer
So wh
The
to see
about,
ture
anyth
hindsi
small
lef
W
lov
"A
genre,
car ri
action
merci
romar
PSA a
misse
"Tran
Shia
Optim
into tI
audier
It M
times
ated a
night
film,
the s
actres

n culture comes from "Sid- responds to jokes with sarcastic
ha," but that was written "oh"s and jokes of their own.
German. In this theater I The fourth wall doesn't exist
ibout as well as a Pitchfork in the Bollywood world. Shah
at a Justin Bieber concert. Rukh, the hero of the film and an
y? actor of God-like status in India,
answer is that I wanted is a notorious chain smoker in
what Bollywood was all real life. So what do they do?
to learn about a film cul- They have scenes where he liter-
completely different from ally pulls outa cigarette, glances
ing I've seen before. In at the audience and says, "Terri-
ight, "different" was too ble for you, no nutritional value."
a word. The world comes to a standstill
for a shot of the lead actress. She
stands smiling at the audience,
Or howvI wind fluttering her hair, light-
ing perfect. Suddenly, she has a
arned to stop guitar and they are singing about
love. People in the audience
rorrying and know the words, and sing along.
The actress isn't singing to some-
re Bollywood. one onscreen - she's singing to
us, the people in the dark. It's a
moment with more cheese than
a plate of nachos, but somehow,
Bollywood movie is every in the peculiar way movies work,
Proma explained on the it's genius.
ide home. "Ra.One" was The film ends two-and-a-half
, comedy, drama, car com- hours later. It seemed like 60
al, music video, slapstick, minutes. Somehow, I'm smil-
ntic comedy, anti-smoking ing - a little bewildered, a little
nd martial arts. I probably shocked, but really, honestly
d more than a few. It was happy.
sformers," but instead of "Ra.One" was bad, or good-
LaBeouf staring grimly at bad, or maybe just good. It was
ius Prime, he looks straight an almost three-hour declara-
he camera and winks at the tion that movies don't have to be
nce. so serious. They don't need the
was "The Matrix" with five writing, the acting and the spe-
as many front flips. It cre- cial effects. They just need the
in aura similar to the mid- fun. That's something that can be
showing of a bad horror lacking in Hollywood films now-
where the audience yells at adays, the sense of fun. Maybe
creen, swoons at the sexy Terrence Malick should watch
ses and actors, dances and some Bollywood.

TWITTER'S STILL COOL. FOLLOW @MICHDAILYARTS FOR UPDATES.


t \.
,'4

8A - Wednesday, November 2, 2011,

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

- Douglass, Novak alleviate worry
about letdown for Wolverines

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily

Fifth-yearsenior Troy Woolfolk has been moved to safety for the second time in his career.

Woolfolk on the move again

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
'Troy Woolfolk is a man who's
been kicked in the face. But that
barely squeaks into the top five in
painful things that have happened
to him over the past two years. The
fifth-year senior's football career
has gone in circles. Recently, he's
traveled the carousel unusually
often with one constant turning
the wheel: injuries.
As a starting cornerback, he
broke his ankle before the start of
last season and missed the entire
year. Healthy and back to com-
peting for playing time, Woolfolk
won back the cornerback job. But
he sprained his ankle in the sea-
son opener, then fell awkwardly
in practice before the Notre Dame
game and broke a bone in his hand.
On Saturday, another malady
allowed the fifth-year senior to
show that he's back to competing
for playing time. Luckily for Wool-
folk, it had nothing to do with his
face. Or hand. Or ankle.
With redshirt junior safety
Jordan Kovacs out with an a knee
injury, Woolfolk made his season
debut at safety. Freshman Blake
Countess had replaced him at
cornerback, so Woolfolk willingly
moved to safety during the bye

week, a position he played for six
games his junior year.
The Purdue game was the first
game Kovacs missed in his entire
career. Itwas the healthiest Wool-
folk had been all season.
"I'm so happy I had that (bye
week)," Woolfolk said. "It was a
time for me to start fresh. No ankle
injuriesnothing. Ifeel great, likea
regular person for once."
Having previously played the
position, Woolfolk didn't need
much adjustment time. He prac-
ticed at the position the previ-
ous two weeks and was ready for
kickoff. But he wasn't ready for
the fifth play of the game. Wool-
folk couldn't get off a block and
then lost a race to the endzone on
a 48-yard screen pass that turned
into Purdue's first touchdown.
Even with the error, Michigan
coach Brady Hoke thought Wool-
folk played well enough.
"I'd like for him to be a tad more
physical at times, but I thought he
did a good job," Hoke said after
the game. "(But) he did a good job
of getting us in and out of what
we needed to be looking like back
there."
Though Hoke said during his
Tuesday conference call that
Kovacs "was going to be fine,"
Woolfolk is at safety permanently.

According to the coaches, he was
going to move there before the
injury to Kovacs due to the emer-
gence of Countess at cornerback.
Woolfolk's great make-up speed is
an aspect the Wolverines had been
missing at the position.
Woolfolk is fine with the
change. He's been back to square
one before. He's just mad he
couldn't showcase his speed.
"Right now, I just like the ver-
satility and being able to cover
more ground at safety than I do at
corner," Woolfolk said. "I feel like
I can make a better impact on the
team.... They didn't really test me
deep, so I wish they would have
done that so I could show it and
ensure a spot."
Kovacs, Woolfolk and redshirt
sophomore Thomas Gordon will
compete for the two safety spots.
But Gordon has also played as
Michigan's nickel back in certain
situations, which allows opportu-
nities for all three to see the field
at the same time.
"We kind of look at it like all
three of them being in there," said
defensive coordinator Greg Mat-
tison. "It's just when they play....
You've got to have more than four
guys, so they'll all get a lot of play."
All this barring injuries, of
course.

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
With expectations mounting
and an already solidified buzz on
campus, the Michigan basketball
program is attempting to reach
the NCAA Tournament in back-
to-back seasons for the first time
since 1995 and 1996.
Crisler Arena received a make-
over, student ticket sales have
skyrocketed from a season ago.
Fans who still can'tget over losing
four straight games to Michigan
State's football team are begin-
ning to remember that the Wol-
verines have won two straight on
the hardwood against their in-
state rival.
But there's still the skeptic,
who will point out that this year
feels a lot like two years ago,2009,
when the team - and all of its
preseason glory - proved to be an
utter disappointment.
That year, Michigan - led by
guard Manny Harris and forward
DeShawn Sims - returned four
starters and its statistical leader in
every major category.
This year, the Wolverines
return four starters, including
their leading rebounder, shooter
and scorer during conference
play.
That year, Michigan entered
the season ranked No. 15 in both
national polls.
This year, the Wolverines are
ranked No. 18 in both polls.
That team was coming off a
season that began with minimal
preseason expectations, but for a
half it looked like they might upset
Blake Griffin-led Oklahoma in
the NCAA Tournament's second
round.
This year, the Wolverines are
coming off an improbable run to
the tournament that nearly saw
them knock off Duke and advance
to the Sweet 16. But that's where
the similarities end.
that year, Michigan lost its
leaders - the heart and soul of its
team - senior guards C.J. Lee and
David Merritt.
This year, the Wolverines bring
back their senior leadership, for-
ward and three-time captain
Zack Novak, as well as guard and
two-time captain Stu Douglass.
That year, Michigan finished
15-17, failing to qualfy for postsea-
son play.
This year, Novak and Douglass
promise that what happened two
years ago won't happen under
their watch. Novak and Doug-
lass's veteran leadership repre-
sent everything that was missing
from the 2009 team.
"We had a lot of talent on that
team, but that team and that year
was evident that talent doesn't
equate to wins," Douglass said.
"You've got to bring the leader-

0

a

Senior guard Stu Douglass will be a vital team leader for the Wolverines.

ship, you've got to bring the moti-
vation to stay hungry. I think with
this team, we don't really have to
say much. These guys are moti-
vated and ready for the season to
start."
Although Michigan coach
John Beilein partially blames a
hamstring pull to Harris early in
the 2009-10 season, it's no secret
- to anyone inside or outside the
program - that the team's chem-
istry was lacking at times.
"C.J. Lee and David Merritt
were the missing components
from the team that went to the
NCAA Tournament to the team
that didn't," Beilein said. "I don't
know if(Novak and Douglass) can
make sure (sophomore forward)
Tim Hardaway doesn't have a
hamstring pull like Manny Harris
did. ... They can't do everything,
but I feel good going to practice
everyday with those guys out
there."
The Wolverines' basketball
program has fallen accustomed
to producing surprising results -
good and bad - in recent years.
Former Michigan coach
Tommy Amaker's teams often
entered seasons with high expec-
tations but could never seem to
live up to them.
Three years ago, lowly Michi-
ganupset two No.4 teams (UCLA
and Duke) on its way to the pro-
gram's first tournament bid in
11 years. And after the following
year's disappointment, last year's
squad - picked by some to fin-
ish last in the Big Ten - proved
that strong leadership, coaching
and chemistry, sprinkled in with
enough talent, could be a missed
floater away from a Sweet 16
berth.
As the comparison between
the two teams has drawn a great
deal of attention, both Novak and
Douglass have been cautious with
their words.
"Dave and C.J. just were so
good at what they did," Novak
said. "I think guys just never
really had to lead at all - they just
took it all under control. When
they left, there was just this mas-

sive void and no one really knew
what to do.
"I'd hate for (our younger play-
ers) to go through something like
that."
To make sure that year doesn't
happen this year, the duo has
preached the values of winning,
and to a greater extent, not los-
ing. Novak, in particular, made
a lesson out of several open-gym
practices throughout the sum-
mer, in what he called the team's
most competitive offseason in his
career.
"My team would lose and it'd
be stupid mistakes, we really
shouldn't have lost that game so
I'd just go nuts, like off-the-wall,
way more than I needed to for an
open gym - but I'd just lose it,"
Novak said. "I just wanted them
to see that passion for winning."
Coaches and players inside the
program aren't the only ones tak-
ing notice of Michigan's senior
leadership, though. Even the
Spartans' head coach, Tom Izzo,
had high praise for Novak.
"I love the kid," Izzo said. "I
would think Zack Novakisstillthe
most important player on Michi-
gan's team because some of those
guys - (Hardaway Jr.) doesn't
know what it's like to through the
bad times. Zack Novak does and
I think that makes you a bigger
commodity."
Led by Hardaway Jr. - a
Wooden Award watch list player
- the Wolverines have the tal-
ent to match the 2009 team, but
thanks to Novak and Douglass,
have the leadership of the 2008
team. But even for the skeptics
that are still out there, when
Michigan opens against Wayne
State on Friday, two familiar
faces that were absent two years
ago willbe back in the building.
Merritt, Michigan radio's color
commentator, and Lee, who sits
behind the team's bench and
stands inside the huddle as the
program's administrative spe-
cialist, will be with the Wolver-
ines as a constant reminder for
just how far senior leadership can
carry a team.

ICE HOCKEY
Di Giuseppe off to quick start

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 3 Michigan hockey
team had multiple players to
thank for the nine goals it scored
against Ferris State in last week-
end's series. The CCHA, though,
thought one stood out.
Freshman forward Phil Di
Giuseppe was named the CCHA
Rookie of the Week and Rookie
of the Month after he tallied four
points in the Wolverines' sweep
of the Bulldogs.
Not bad for a freshman who
was uncertain about how well the
transition from the non-confer-
ence games to the more aggres-
sive style.of CCHA play would go.
Di Giuseppe's stats certainly
set him apart. So far this season,
he's tallied nine points - the
third highest number for any
freshman player in the country.
His five goals tie him for second
most in the country for a rookie
and third on the Wolverines' ros-
ter.
"Anytime you have a good
weekend, you're susceptible to
being named something," said
Michigan coach Red Berenson.
"Good for (Di Giuseppe)."
Berenson did not seem all that
surprised at the recognition, and
he was quick to point out that
many Michigan players before Di
Giuseppe have been recognized

by the conference - the honor
isn't particularly exceptional.
But no one can deny that the
Wolverines (2-1-1 CCHA, 6-1-1
overall) have something special
in Di Giuseppe. His presence
has been a welcomed surprise
for a team that wasn't certain
about where its scoring would
come from after the graduation
of last year's seniors. Berenson
has known about Di Giuseppe's
potential since before the season
even started - he mentioned Di
Giuseppe as a freshman who he
thought was "flying out of the
gate."
At times, Di Giuseppe does
appear to fly. He characterizes
himself as someone who "plays
with speed, takes the puck to
the net and (tries) to do simple
things."
"The games at Northern
(Michigan) were a little big of a
wake-up call for a lot of players,"
Berenson said. "I thought this
weekend (against Ferris State)
was (Di Giuseppe's) best week-
end. He really responded well."
Part of Di Giuseppe's success
is due to his line pairing with
junior forwards Chris Brown
and A.J. Treais. The trio's com-
bined 28 points are the most
amond of Michigan's lines, and
Di Giuseppe suggests that their
success comes from the unique
strengths of each of its members.

"Treais is a playmaker
and (Brown) is a finisher," Di
Giuseppe said. "I'm a little of
both, so (our line) has a good
variety."
But chemistry can only carry a
player so far.
"Chemistry is intangible,"
Berenson said. "Some nights it
might be a factor in a game and
other nights it might not. But just
playing well with good team-
mates is half the battle."
Berenson said the hardest
thing for any freshman is to keep
the consistency level up each
week and expressed that it may
prove to be a challenge for Di
Giuseppe.
But Di Giuseppe has a unique
sense of humility to help him
along. He immediately dismisses
his personal success on the ice
and credits Brown and Treais
with making him look good night
after night.
Take the Ferris State game
as an example - when Brown
passed the puck to Di Giuseppe
on a breakaway to give him the
chance to score on an open net,
Di Giuseppe immediately wanted
to give it right back. It was only
after Brown curled away from
the crease that Di Giuseppe took
the shot.
"I think he's grounded,"
Berenson said. "He doesn't get
too carried away with himself."


0 *'

0

0

Aff - AM mmqmmp

0-

-W

8B Wednesday November 2,2011 The Statement

the
statement
NOVEMBER 2, 2011

OCCUPY
From Page 5B
it to his hoodie. It read: "DANGER:
EDUCATED BLACK MAN."
Rick turned out to be a great addi-
tion to the group. He was humor-
ous, outgoing, intense and full of
great quotes, and he even offered to
ride to a nearby corner store to get
food and gave me a quick tour of the
park when Iasked him where to get
water.
"There's the medical tent, the
pantry, buffet, water jugs, Wi-Fi
antenna and the library," he said.
Restrooms were a notable omis-
sion. Rick tells me Porta-Potties
are prohibited in the park so people
have to go to Burger King on the
park's west side, or McDonald's to
the east.
Crinkling my nose, I asked him
about the smell of pot that was still
lingering around the park.
"It usually makes its way around,
man."
On cue, Ralph, a 22 year-old in
our circle with a black hoodie and a
devil-may-care demeanor, thrust a
lit spliff toward Rick.
Taking it, Rick smiled at me and,
before a quick toke, added:
"Like I said, it gets around."
In addition to Rick and Ralph,
there was Will, a bearded college
student who was always smiling,
and Dillon, a stand-offish charac-
ter who had a death grip on a bottle
of cheap wine and was constantly
monitoring his friend's hyperac-
tive pit bull (he was watching it for
a friend) tethered to a nearby tree.
THE
DAYLIGHT
I got a taste of the "Occupy"
movement's daytime antics when I
ran by Zuccotti on Saturday to join
the march. But the stories Rick Hu
shared with me later that night
were rife with celebrity appearanc-
es, pedestrian hecklers and zealous
speeches, which were way more
exciting than what I gathered from
first glance.
So when I returned to the park
three days later at 1 p.m., my antici-
pation was tempered by the fear
that I might have missed the best of
theprotests. Howlongcanthe show
go on?
Luckily, if you occupy it, they will
dome.
Tourists had already filled the
dark from corner to corner, tripping
over air mattresses and lunging

over slumbering occupants to wit-
ness one of several "attractions."
To the west, the arrhythmic,
24-hour drum line continued to
play. To the north, New York City
Councilmember Brad Lander advo-
cating for Jewish welfare. To the
east, Harry Braun, a human livewire
with ghost-white hair who is appar-
ently running for president, erected
three easelswith visual aids - rem-
iniscent of a poorly-made science
fair project - which he occasionally
pointed to while yelling angrily at a
crowd of onlookers. To the south,
two topless women stood covered
in body paint, a hybrid of Ozzfest's
boob art and Avatar's Na'vi tribes-
women.

- I tried to ask him once more what
he would do to restructure. His
expression stiffened.
He mentioned the "bank's
bailouts" and emphasized their
responsibility to "reinvest" in Amer-
ican companies, but my time was up
before he could finish. A bevy of anx-
ious arms holding recorders from
reporters were soon held to his face.
Hoping for more concrete
answers, I avoided celebrity inter-
views the rest of the day and sidled
over to the "People's Library" that
Rick pointed out. After politely
declining a copy of the "Bhagavad
Gita" from a man soliciting dona-
tions, I approached a small table
manned by Bob Broadhurst, a union

located the source of the uneasiness
I had been feeling since Saturday's
march.
I noticed that the Occupy Wall
Street movement has two common
patterns: for one, the movement's
older members have a far better
handle on our country's political
and financial problems than its
younger members, likely because
these problems directly affected
their job security.
Second, in spite of the older gen-
eration's awareness of the corrupt
banks, lobbyists and politicians, no
one I spoke to conceded any person-
al responsibility for the recession.
Wasn't the average Joe complicit
in any of this?
In the early 2000s, low-to-mid-
dle income mortgage applicants
with bad credit forged income
documents and defrauded lenders
so they could borrow more money
for bigger houses. Bank reports
of suspected mortgage fraud rose
1,411 percent between 1997 and
2005. Predatory lenders and invest-
ment banks didn't cause the credit
crunch alone; in fact, they had plen-
ty of help from average Americans.
And we still didn't learn our les-
son. Americans owed nearly $1 tril-
lion in revolving debt only two years
ago, a symptom of the "spend now,
worry later" approach we've come
to know and love.
Occupy protesters demand tax
reform and claimed to represent
the average taxpayer, but they don't
think about the $5 million the pro-
test has cost city taxpayers in police
overtime pay. They claim "solidar-
ity," yet can't agree on how to spend
their money, rally around a few
common demands or even settle on
how a general assembly should be
run and who should run it.
Troubled by an odd mixture of
anger at the protests and guilt with
myself, I sat down to unwind a bit
before I leave. That's when Patrick
Creasey, astocky20-somethingwith
a close crew cut, saw part of my voice
recorder jutting from my shoulder
bag and spoke up in his thick Jersey
accent.
"Hey, you should interview me
for your article, man."
He laughed at the stark contrast
between the spiffy tourists and the
haggard sleepers they step over.
"Look at this girl, walking
around like she's in some tourist
attraction," he said, pointing out
a pre-teen, walking alongside her
parents. They shot him a dirty look
while they passed by.
"Walking through here like it's
the goddamn Empire State Build-
ing," he yelled after them.

He turned back to me and
launched into a convincing impres-
sion of a tourist family.
"Come on now Jimmy and Sally,
let's go have a look at the bums."
I asked him why he came to Zuc-
cotti Park.
"Why else? To look at the bums!"
Rick's view of the protests was
almost idealistic. He saw them as a
reflection of New York, "a city so big
and so great it brings the best peo-
ple together with the worst people,"
he said.
But Patrick soon took back his
"bum" comment, let his guard down
a little and hung his head, ashamed
at his own lack of candor. He chose
his next words carefully, the weight
of his disappointment now made
obvious.
"I came because I really thought
there was something, but there's
nothing."
DEPARTU RE
I thanked Patrick for his time
and left Zuccotti, stopping short
to look the park over once more.
When I descended the park steps
to the sidewalk, I saw an important
work of street art that I missed my
last night here, a bronze statue cast
by John Seward Johnson II in 1982.
"Double Check" depicts a mid-
dle-aged businessman peering into
his open briefcase, sitting on one
of Zuccotti's granite benches next
to the capitalists who eat lunch
there. Ten years ago, famous photos
showed his head and torso poking
through the ash and rubble of the
fallen World Trade Center towers.
For weeks after Sept. 11, mourners
laid flowers at his feet to honor the
businessmen who walked to work
on an ordinary morning and never
returned.
Now, trash is scattered on the
sidewalk all around him and
stuffed in his briefcase. A small,
stained American flag is roped
around his head like the trademark
bandanna of a cranky Vietnam vet.
There's a piece of paper taped to his
briefcase quoting SoHo street art-
ist James De La Vega: "The game of
capitalism breeds dishonest men."
Turning to leave, I found that
I could no longer distinguish
between the drums, whistles,
speeches and chants. All I heard
wasissnne.~

the

And standing somewhere in the electrician in the IBEW Local 103.
middle was Reverend Jesse Jack- Broadhurst was a busy man:
son with his bodyguard in tow. The When I interviewed him, he had
two men turned their figures for a just returned from a weeklong trip
panorama of the park, expecting a to Occupy Boston. He paused to rest
frenzy of reporters. Instead, they his voice frequently - it was hoarse
got a college kid with a cheap pock- from two weeks of chanting. He
et recorder. told me he has been at the park peri-
To take advantage of precious odically for the past few weeks, and
time, our interview was short and that he was among the 700 protest-
sweet. I told him where I'm from ers arrested onthe BrooklynBridge.
and asked him why he was. there. He talked at length about possi-
He paused a moment to think, then ble solutions to the Wall Street issue
gently rested a hand on my shoulder including the restoration of the
and guided me down a narrow path Glass-Steagal Act, which was first,
between two sleeping occupants. instated in 1933 as a response to the
"I'm here to talk about a lack of stock market Crash of 1929, only to
economic security - the kind that's be repealed in 1999 by the Gramm-_
manifested in Michigan," he said. Leach-Bliley Act.
"Some people there have no place "I just want us to end the flow of
to go. We've been a part of that fight Wall Street's money into Washing-
in Michigan because the poorest ton," he said.
people are going to take the biggest I felt overwhelmed by the pro-
hit there." testers' diverse backgrounds and
I asked again, more directly, shared frustrations. I spoke with
"What do you hope to accomplishby breast cancer survivors, World
coming?" War II veterans, burnouts, home-
He gave me a very brief list of less people, artists, communists
what he deems America's toughest and people of numerous races, reli-
issues - "malnutrition" and "eco- gions and political factions. I heard
nomic restructuring," in that order opinion after opinion, and I finally

'
A

the IrtchinanBilm



AM All V VV

Am Ah A Ak

w

a

0

a

0

a

2B Wednesday, November 2 2011 // The Statement

Wednesday Novemeber 2 2011 // The Statement 7B

the
statement
MagazineEditor:
Carolyn Klarecki
Editor in Chief:
Stephanie Steinberg
Managing Editor:
Nick Spar
Deputy Editors:
Stephen Ostrowski
Devon Thorsby
Elyana Twiggs
Designers:
Maya Friedman
Hermes Risien
Photos:
Jed Moch
Copy Editor:
Hannah Poindexter
The Statement is The Michigan
Daily's news magazine, distributed
every Wednesday during the
academic year.
Ta cantact The Statement e-mail
klarecki@michigandaily.com.
LIKE US.
ON
FACEBOOK

THEJUNKDRAWER
random student interview by kaitlin williams

Welcome to the random
student interview,
where we hold one
student hostage for four min-
utes for your enjoyment.
Do you have a minute?
How long is this minute really?
Oh, you caught me. I actually
need four minutes.
OK that's fine.
Great thanks. First off, do I
have any chocolate on my face?
No.
Teeth?
No.
Thanks. So, did you go trick-or-
treating last night?
No I did not.
Why not?
Well, my friends and I already
went out all weekend, and I didn't
want to wear my costume again.
Where do you live?
West Quad.
Where do you plan on living
next year?
Not sure.

Not sure? Or has no one asked to
live with you? It's OK, you can
tell me.
I really haven't thought about it.
OK. Well, just an insider's note
here, people tend to pair up
by early November. And it's
November so...
OK. Well I'll probably live in a
dorm.
What dorm? Do you aspire as
high as to live in North Quad?
No.
Pretty fond of West Quad?
Yeah. It's fine with me.
How you you like your room-
mate?
Not bad.
Medium well?
He's not my best friend but...
What's the weirdest thing
you've heard about that's hap-
pened between roommates in
the dorms?
Like involving me?
No. Just the weirdest story. I'm
sure there's something floating

out there.
Oh. Like does it have to be appro-
priate?
I don't really care. Preferably
inappropriate.
So, one of my friends, well they're
both my friends, one had a girl
spend the night with him and
apparently the other one woke up
and heard-them having sex while
he was in the room.
Oh. That's very Jersey Shore of
him.
He didn't say anything, but I bet
that was horrible for him.
Awkward. So are you 18?
Yes.
Are you registered to vote?
Yes.
Do you plan on voting Nov. 2?
No.
Why not? Those campaigns
about voting being sexy must
not be working. Is it because
there isn't a presidential race
this year?.
Yeah, it's kind of an off year. I

haven't voted yet, and it isn't really
high up on my list of things to do.
My dad is really into politics. He's
trying to rub it off on me.
Do you think anyone has ever
gotten laid for voting?
I'm sure it's happened, but I don't
know.
Do you think it's appropriate to
call voting sexy?
Umm, it's kind of weird.
Weird. Well, if getting laid
and your dad can't get you to
vote, I'm not going to try. What
would your voting slogan be if
you gave a damn?
Umm... "Vote for what you want."
Even if that means not vot-
ing at all. That's pretty good.
Very free attitude. What's your
favorite snack?
Flaming Hot Cheetos.
Oh. Spicy. So it's been four min-
utes. You're free to go.
Thanks.
- Austin is an LSA freshman

first flights.
"There is no more colorful, adventurous chapter in the
history of aeronautical engineering at the University of
Michigan, than the one recounting student efforts to fly,"
wrote Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., professor emeritus of aero-
space engineering at the University, in his 2002 history of the
department.
Had Adamson, Jr. not expelled aviation outside of the
Department of Aeronautical Engineering from his survey,
the early years of the University of Michigan Flyers might
have challenged the 1910s as the most illustrious flying
chapter by University students in Ann Arbor.
The Flyers, founded in September 1969 by five students
as a flying instruction club, remained unaffiliated with the
University unlike previous flying groups. However, like the
Aero Club before it, the club also matured during a turning
point in the history of aviation atop the postwar boom in
the field when the prevalence of local airports was excep-
tionally high and the costs of aircraft and fuel were rela-
tively low.
For the young founders of the Flyers, the confluence of
circumstances was both helpful and harmful. As two of
the club's founding fathers, David Fradin and Mark Wag-
ner, recounted, gas prices as low as 43 cents per gallon kept
operating costs low during a start-up period when the club
flitted between McKinnon, Willow Run and the Ann Arbor
airports to save money.
"In the 1970s you could (fly) on a newspaper boy's sal-
ary," Wagner said. "Nowadays, it's like the cost of a college
education."
Fradin especially appreciated the affordability of fly-
ing. During his time at the University, he logged more than
600 hours with the club and worked at a sandwich shop to

finance his hobby. For every nine hours he worked, he esti-
mated, he earned enough to fly for one hour.
"Today, I think the ratios are a little bit worse than that,"
he said.
"If I hadn't found the Michigan Flyers, I probably would
not have learned because of the cost," added Ray Wallman,
who served as the Flyers' second president from 1974 to 1975.
"Back then it was as cheap as goingto a health club today."
According to Wallman, from his freshman year in 1971
to when he graduated in 1975, the club's membership grew
from a few dozen to more than 350 active members. The
figure was, by all accounts, the Flyers' highest ever, yet they
still maintained a personal atmosphere, said fellow found-
er Dick Hoesli.
"It was a social organization as much as technical or pro-
fessional organization," Hoesli said. "People would come
out to the club justto talk about flying or whatever the topic
of the day was."
As ideal as the Flyers' early years seemed, the club con-
fronted its share of troubles in the beginning, and the hur-
dles were more than financial. A lack of affiliation with the
University proved unsettling for Fradin, who discovered
the University had forged a pact with The Ohio State Uni-
versity in which its aerospace engineering program would
focus on space flight while OSU's would focus on aeronau-
tics, with an implicit understandingthat the two would not
compete for students in those areas.
"That's part of the reason why the University gave luke-
warm support to the flying club," Fradin said. "I always
wondered why we couldn't get more help from them over
the years.
"We trained 4,000 pilots and leaders of aviation world-
wide not because of the support of the University of Michi-
gan, but almost in spite of it."
Apart from inter-university schemes and the lack of sup-
port from colleges, the most worrisome threats to aviation
today, Fradin said, are affordability and the aging of the
profession. The two are correlated. With fuel prices esca-
lating to more than $6 a gallon, the cost of airplanes open-

ing at the price of a luxury car and the starting salary for
a co-pilot stuck at $18,000, it's little wonder young people
are less inclined to learn to fly now than they were in the
1970s, he said.
For all the problems besieging aviation, however, the
University of Michigan Flyers seem to have no conscious-
ness of them. Though the club's membership statistics are
down, currently it now has 200 to 300 members - of which
60 to 70 are active and 20 to 30 are University students -
and its officials admit they are as much a relic of the club's
1970s glory as flour-bombing itself.
Whether the narrative holds up or dwindling student
turnout augurs a poorer ending, evidence for the former is
not out of reach (or, at least, no further than the latter). At
the Flyers' Fall Festival on Oct. 22, where Robine and the
other flight instructors flour-bombed for only the second
time, Flyers Vice President Bruce Williams could recall
since he joined in 1998 that the young generation mingled
with the old guard over barbecue, "hangar flying," as Hoes-
li joked about the club in the 1970s because socializing was
cheaper than actually taking off.
For now, the Flyers seem content to hangar fly, teach and
learn - their only tasks since 1980 or 1981, when the club
stopped taking part in intercollegiate flying competitions.
From as many as 25 planes during Fradin's reign to only
five now, the amount of flying the club does has dimin-
ished, too, as the club only gives about six lessons a day.
But at least in one respect - the social one - the club has
remained unchanged since its founding.
"Everybody has a common interest, and we certainly
all like to talk about it," Williams said. "Learning to fly is
quite an event in all of our lives. And when you're out there
and somebody else is kind of going through what you went
through when you were a student, everybody just kind of
thinks back and smiles and then wants to help that person
out."


LOOKING FOR A
SCOOP?
WE DON'T HAVE PRESS CARDS TO
PUT IN OUR HAT BRIMS, BUT WE
THINK WE DO OK.
JOIN MICHIGAN DAILY NEWS AND
FALL IN LOVE WITH JOURNALISM.
E-mail biron@michigandaily.com and
apply today!

THE DAILY LOVES TO TWEET.
FOLLOW ANY ONE OF OUR MANY.
TWITTER ACCOUNTS:
@MICHIGANDAILY
@MICHDAILYNEWS
@MICHDAILYSPORTS
@MICHDAILYOPED
@MICHDAILYARTS
@MICHDAILYFBALL
@CRIMENOTES

DO YOU HAVE A PERSONAL STORY TO TELL?
WE WANT TO HEAR IT.
THE STATEMENT IS ACCEPTING NON-FICTION ESSAYS TO PRINT.
E-MAIL KLARECKI@MICHIGANDAILY.COM TO FIND OUT MORE.

cHRIS DZOMBAK/Daily

The University has been home to an aviation club since 1911, when most colleges deemed aeronautical engineering insignificant.


0

0

0

0

i _~5

6B Wednesday, Novemeber 2,2011 The Statement

Wednesday, November 22011// The Statement 3B
news in review
Five of the most talked-about stories of the week, ranked in ascending order of actual importance

4
C'
9+
Ih

iPJM~FUG HI

Kim Kardashian filed for divorce
from New Jersey Nets player
Kris Humphries on Oct. 31 after
72 days of marriage. Humphries
was unaware his wife filed for
divorce until the morning of the
announcement.

After a 17-month investigation, U.S.
authorities busted a Mexican drug
cartel's drug-smuggling operation
in Arizona on Monday. Authorities
seized marijuana, cocaine and
heroin from the $2 billion operation
and arrested 76 suspects.

Internet hackers cut the main Republican presidential candid
telephone network for Gaza and Herman Cain denied claims tI
the West Bank and Internet service he sexually harrassed two fem
for most of Palestinian territory employees in the 1990s. Cain s.
yesterday. Officials questioned charges were brought agai
if the attack was related to him, but the allegations w
Palestinians joining UNESCO. "baseless."

ate
hat
ale
aid
inst
ere

An early-season snowstorm on
the East Coast left millions without
power over the weekend, and 2
million people are still without
electricity. Snowstorm hazards
like down power lines have led to
23 reported deaths.

or

/

The University of Michigan Flyers have been
giving Wolverines the opportunity to earn
their wings over the past 100 years.

Midway across a field in the northwest corner of Ann
Arbor Municipal Airport, where the hangars of
the University of Michigan Flyers butt up against
the gated communities off Ellsworth Road, Kathryn Robine
opened the window ofher 1977 Cessna152 and dropped three
brown paper lunch bags packed with flour. The bags fell 200
feet to the ground, settling more than 100 feet from their tar-
get - an aluminum trash can in the center of the field.
"She's on the right line," said Will Lawler, a fellow flight
instructor for the Flyers, as Robine's aircraft darted over-
head. "But she's letting go too early."
From the ground, where Lawler was standing 10 yards
from the bin ("The closer you get, the safer you are," he
joked), the observation was plain, enough - a straightfor-
ward calculation, as he explained it, of the plane's speed,
altitude and the wind. Yet on that placid Saturday afternoon
Robine had been battling more than the winds. Her task,
flour-bombing, was an all but retired practice, rarely in the
four decades since the Flyers competed for national titles in
the sport in the early 1970s.
The genesis of the University's aerospace engineering pro-
gramming - and, according to the Flyers' current officers,
the club as well - was a letter from the Polish emigre Felix
Pawlowski to 18 of the United States's most prominent col-
leges.

An electrical and mechanical engineer by training,
Pawlowski left Poland for Paris shortly after the Russian-
Japanese war and just as Orville and Wilbur Wright were
beginning to experiment with flight. Enthralled by the
fledgling pastime, he enrolled in flight training at the Uni-
versity of Paris. Under the tutelage of Prof. Louis Marchis, he
earned his Certificate d'Etude in 1910 and set out to build an
airplane by the mold of the Wright brothers'.
Eager as Pawlowski was to inscribe his legacy in aviation,
his lack of funds, the shortcomings of aviation technology
and of his own knowledge slowed his progress. After emi-
grating to the U.S. later in 1910, he settled into a job as an
automotive designer when the Wright brothers declined to
hire him.
But the fame and fortune he sought in comingto America
began two years later, when he penned letters to the deans
of 18 prestigious engineering colleges imploring them to
offer courses in aeronautical engineering. Most replied to
ask if the letter was a joke, with one stating, "Aviation will
very likely never amountto anything!" But Mortimer Cooley,
the dean of the College of Engineering at the time, offered
Pawlowski a position as a teaching assistant in mechanical
engineering with the promise of courses in aeronautical
engineering in 1914.
Pawlowski accepted, and in the fall of that year he began
teaching courses that Cooley "hid" in the Department of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering because, as he
wrote in his autobiography, "aeronautical engineering was

not considered important enough to make it conspicuous."
By 1915, Pawlowski had orchestrated a curriculum of 14
aeronautical engineering courses from the introductory
Theory of Aviation to the more arcane Design of Aerodromes
and Hangars. By 1916, this curriculum formed the basis of
a four-year program for the new bachelor's in aeronautical
engineering - the first of its kind in the nation.
Without Prof. Pawlowski, who took a leave of absence
in 1917 to accept the position of aeronautical engineer for
the United States Army, the University may not have man-
aged to start a successful program so early in the history of
aviation. Pawlowski's courses and the lectures of Marchis,
who he persuaded to come to Ann Arbor in 1913, proved to
be indispensable in the eventual birth of the Department of
Aeronautical Engineeringin 1930.
As athird conduit for University students to express inter-
est in flying, Cooley looked into forming a program: Uni-
versity of Michigan Aero Club. After Prof. Herbert Sadler
founded the club in 1911 for students to fly aircrafts - though
they were as much kites as planes - Pawlowski assumed
supervision of the club upon his arrival in 1913 and nursed
it to maturity.
Under Pawlowski, the club met weekly to discuss avia-
tion and the principles of aerodynamics and to study such
principles in the wind tunnel Sadler constructed in the West
Engineering hall. It also built two planes and received one
by means of a donation by two wealthy Detroit residents,
which the club crashed into Barton Pond during one of its

0 1 2 3 4m 5 6 7 0 8 9 10
quotes of the week from the archives
« Bikges break news
Let me tell you that Herman Cain never sexually
harrassed anybody, period. End of story."
MARK BLOCK, CHIEF OF STAFF FOR HERMAN CAIN, in response to
allegations that Cain sexually harrassed two female employees while
working for the National Restaurant Association in the 1990s.
"Its different here. Ifind myselfgetting sleep.
Interesting conversation. ButI haven'tfigured out
how to do laundry."
ROBERT GAFFNEY, A HOMELESS MAN who has joined protesters in the
Occupy Los Angeles camp outside city hall.
HANNAH DOW/Daily
W hether they are abandoned on a lamp post or dodging between students
on the Diag, bicycles of any size, shape or color are visible at all hours of
the rules the day on campus. The bike racks outside University buildings display
every kind of bicycle available, from homemade motorbike to cutting edge racing
cycle. But in 1989, the emergence of a bicycle style now standard for any Uni-
No. 353: No. 354: No. 355: versity bike rack was front-page news. Fall 1989 welcomed the mountain bike to
As dictated by the It's OK to forfeit Holding hands in campus after becoming more widely popular among bikers throughout the 1980s
("Part dirt bike, part 1-speed, mountain bikes hit campus," 9/28/89).
Starbucks coffee all your classwork a coffee shop on a The new presence of mountain bikes on campus brought about new options for
cups, Nov. 1 marks to look at the new first date is weird. students looking to get a bit more exercise on two wheels by exploring the off-
the start of the winter 2012 course Anywhere else and road trails around Ann Arbor. Still, for students looking for a simple way to get to
and from class, they stressed convenience and cost as the deciding factor when it
holiday season. guide. it's maybe OK. came to choosing a mountain bike over any other style at the time.
by the numbers
COURTESY OF THE BBc
In millions, how many homes are without In inches, how much snow was on the The number of days snowfall has been
power on the East Coast after a rare October ground by the time the snowstorm moved reported in Central Park in October during
snowstorm this weekend. away from the East Coast on Oct. 30. the last 135 years.

I


V V V V V V V V

i

0

"

0

i

a

0

0

0

4B Wednesdy November 2 2011/ The Statenent
IS THIS WHAT DEMo ACY L
What I saw, heard and learned while occupying Wall'
By Timothy Rabb

Wednesday, November 2, 2011 /5/ The Statement 5
OOKS LIKE?
Street.

W Y O RK - Pangs of anxiety struck me as soon
as I stepped off the PATH train from
Newark and gaped at the bottom half of the incomplete Freedom Tower, a
huge edifice of brilliant glass. The sight of it was so humbling that I toyed
with the thought of booking it back to Jersey. Three blocks short of my first
glimpse of Zuccotti Park, the hotbed of the Occupy Wall Street protests,
I couldn't help but ask myself: What the heck am I going to say about the
movement that hasn't already been said?
In the past month there was a constant stream of news articles, blog
posts, photo reels and video clips about the Occupy Wall Street protests in
Lower Manhattan. Since the first tough-minded youth first carpeted the
park's granite sidewalks with their tarps on Sept. 17, anyone with half an
opinion tried to define the protests' origin, structure, and most of all, its
elusive "list of demands."
Dozens of ideas compete for the movement's attention, but they are not
easily categorized. So, the media's attempts to do so were not convincing to
me. I had to see it for myself.
The Occupy Wall Street protests are especially relevant to college stu-
dents, who face the increasingly difficult prospect of paying student loan
debt and finding jobs after graduation. The current economic situation has
furthered the steady privatization of education, causingthe economic bur-
den of college to be shifted more and more onto the backs of students.
Recent statistics show that the net costs of college are rising, the aver-
age student's credit card debt has hit record levels and asa result, students
are graduating with exorbitant amounts of debt that could take decades to
repay.
Students at the University are no exception. The University is known for
having one of the highest out-of-state tuition rates among public universi-
ties in the United States, which was increased by 4.9 percent this year, and
the price of student housing in Ann Arbor isn't cheap either.
A significant number of college students are participating in the Occupy
Wall Street protests, and they are pushing the government to forgive some
or all student loan debt and increase financial aid contributions to put the
responsibility for college fees back in the public sector.

President Barack Obama recently addressed this segment of OWS by
proposing legislation that would cap student loan payments at 10 percent
of a graduate's annual discretionary income. The effectiveness of such a
measure remains to be seen, but one thing remains certain: The financial
burden on students isn'tgoing away any time soon.
Closing in fast on Zuccotti, I mulled over the impossibility of a new angle.
But before long, my senses were on red alert, my train of thought derailed.
First, I caught a nasty whiff of raw sewage rising from the storm drains. It
mingled with the reek of cheap incense, traces of weed and tobacco smoke
and the acrid stench of unwashed bodies - all the smells of occupation.
Then as I passed the enormous Century 21 flagship store and rounded
the final corner, I could more clearly hear the racket: detuned drums -

I checked the time, certain I arrived in time for the 11 a.m. "March on
Chase Bank." But as I soon found out, the movement rarely sticks to the
agenda on its official webpage, and relies instead on spontaneity.
As I sprinted past the park to head off the march, I glanced at the peo-
ple lingering behind. The stone partition that guards the park's north face
was bordered by a long line of malcontents, each holding up an attempt at
a witty slogan.
A man with an uncanny resemblance to the Comic Book Guy from
"The Simpsons" held a scrap of cardboard with "Fuck Mayor Bloomberg,"
scribbled on it. The cheeky sign was a reminder of the tension between the
protest and the city of New York the previous week. That Wednesday, the
mayor ordered the protesters to leave by Friday morning for a temporary
park clean-up, citing a month of "unsanitary conditions and considerable
wear and tear on the park."
The protesters saw the mayor's order as a flimsy attempt to oust the
movement from the park. Had Bloomberg been successful, I might have
arrived to an empty square with nothing to report on buta leftover pile of
joint roaches and crinkled communist literature. But the occupiers chose
to risk arrest and stared down the NYPD until the clean-up was abruptly
"postponed."
Still, the protesters' assertive attitudes didn't make the park's beefed-up
police presence any less intimidating. A steel barricade ran the length of
the road along the north side's medley of poster board and blocks of con-
crete. Standing on the road behind the barricade, two dozen NYPD officers
watched the commotion and traded furtive glances, unsettled by the threat
of violence that rose with the crowd's numbers.
As I reached the northeast corner of the park and prepared to flank the
column of marchers, I turned back and viewed the same scene again from
a new angle. Police were lined up single-file on the shoulder of the road,
the protesters cluttered the adjacent sidewalk and the meager barricade
sat between them, not much of a reassurance - it was a classic "us against
them" faceoff.
THE MARCH
As I joined the marching protesters at the crossing of Liberty and
Broadway, I had no trouble distinguishing between the diehards
and the fly-by-nighters. The Zuccotti squatters looked grungy,

FRtANI KANKLIN l/AP
disheveled and fatigued to the point of delirium.
Save for the incessantdrumming, the crowd was docile forthe first three
blocks, more like Relay for Life than revolutionaries. But as the "Occupy"
phalanx approached some of the banks on Broadway, a handful of instiga-
tors pointed at the glass windows of each branch they passed, screaming
"shame on you!" at the tellers inside.
The volume rose with each step until the clamoring crowd drowned out
the sounds of the city, the sergeant's bullhorn and even the wailing sirens
of a nearby fleet of police cruisers.
While the protesters walked past the banks, their improvised chants
ebbed, flowed and evolved - from the generic "Bloombergsold out!" to the
vulgar "Bloombergsucks cock!" and the trusty call-and-response.
Leader: "Tell me what democracy looks like!"
Crowd: "THIS is what democracy looks like!"
I sized up the crowd from my vantage point. Most protesters were in

their early-to mid-20s, and aside from the weary overnighters, everyone
looked a little too smiley and satisfied for comfort. Is this the next Arab
Spring or more of a Spring Break?
I decided to skip most of the movement's planned 5 p.m. convergence on
Times Square. Instead, I spent a few hours at Father Demo Square, a tiny
park lined with fancy Greenwich boutiques and restaurants. I later learned
that 74 protesters were arrested by day's end - some for cloggingthe lobby
of a Citibank branch, some for charging the barricade in Times Square and
still others for refusingto disperse after halting pedestrian traffic.
MY FIRST NIGHT OF
OCCUPATION
When I returned to Zuccotti at 10 p.m., the squatters were still celebrat-
ing their march on Times Square. A group of ecstatic dancers armed with
glow-sticks rocked back and forth to the slow groove of steel drums and
shakers - a rave with a tropical flavor.
After a quick listen, I began to look for occupants who stayed awake
amid the sea of blue-green tarps and travel bags.
At the park's southern fringe, I introduced myself to a group that looked
welcoming.. The five of us sat together and chatted until Rick Hu, a 31-year-
old parcel courier, rode up on his Razor scooter. He introduced himself
with a question:
"Is it true Wall Street's trying to take all our money? There aren't many
intellectuals here and I want to have an opinion on this."
I told him what I knew: post-Reagan deregulation of the financial sector,
the burst of the dot-com and housing bubbles, misused bank bailouts and
rogue traders like Kweku Adoboli, who caused United Bank of Switzerland
to lose $2 billion in amatter of days. Atthe mention of UBS, his face lit up.
"I deliver their packages! Thanks for the facts, man. I've been here for
three days, and no one's told me why we're all here," he said. "I think I've
finallyearned the right to put this on."
I could tell by his grin that the last bit was facetious, but I didn't know
whathe was referringto until he retrieved apin from his pocket and pinned
See OCCUPY, Page 8B
the happiest
re been
in years

thunderingand out-of-sync - the police bullhorn's piercing treble, "Please
continue marching in an orderly fashion;" the muffled chants of a crowd on
the move, "Banksgot bailed out, we got sold out!"


