(betAidlian &II
- - - - IIUNDPIA XW EIN TY I XWOYEA RS F ELI)ITIO I RLEi 7M
Ann Arbor, Michigan Monday, December 12, 2011 michigandailycom

MICHIGAN DAILY EXCLUSIVE
Misunderstood.
In 2008, walk-on running back Mike Milano was suspended from the Michigan football team
for allegedly attacking hockey player Steve Kampfer outside of a bar. Milano told the Daily
his account of what happened that night as described in his recent book "Michigan Men?"

S TATE APPROPRIATIONS
Budget director:
Funding model
rewards schools

'U' leaders say
formula funding
may be unfair
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily StaffReporter
Despite objections from
University leaders, the state is
moving toward implementing
a new funding mechanism for
higher education that's aimed
at increasing the amount allo-
cated to school throughout
Michigan.
The planned release of the
state budget in January will
create a new process for fund-
ing state higher education
institutions. Before the over-
haul, money was distributed
on a school-by-school basis,
but the new budget could pro-
vide a formula that will decide
the amount of money given to
each of the state's public uni-
versities.
This year the state allo-
cated about $268.5 million to
the University, a 15-percent

decrease from last year, but
that amount could change
with the implementation of
the new policy.
Despite the difficulty,'
designing a fair allocation
system, State Budget Director
John Nixon said in a telephone
interview he's developing the
formula in hopes of increasing
funding for higher education.
"There hasn't been a sys-
tematic approach, so there's
really no rhyme or reason to
why universities are getting
funding," Nixon said. "Moving
to a formula really will allowus
to bring all the 15 institutions
together, establish a baseline
and then really be able to mark
our improvements, and show
our improvement over time
which I think will hopefully
justify more funding going
into the system."
The University has spoken
out against the new formu-
la because of the variations
between the state's public uni-
versities. In a communication
to the University's Board of
See BUDGET, Page 3A

ByLuke Pasch

As you climb to the Cho La pass of the Himalayas, your
body tells you to stop every few steps to catch your
breath. You lift your face to inhale, and a gust of freez-
ing wind smacks you in the cheeks. Then the exhale feels like a
vacuum sucking all remaining oxygen from your lungs.
At 20,000 feet, it's one of Mother Nature's cruelest tricks.
After three weeks of climbing, a beatenup Mike Milano finally
made it to Cho La. He had clambered up snow-covered boulders
and balanced himself alongside narrow cliffs as the wind bullied
him around. He slept on floors that felt, like ice, and because he
couldn't breathe the cold air through his nose, he consistently
woke up with a burning tongue.
His head pounding and his body bone-tired, he realized that
not a whole lot exists at 20,000 feet. No phones, no roads, no
electricity. Not even the occasional dinging cowbell of local yaks
he had heard closer to base camp - once a sporadic assurance
that maybe he wasn't alone.
Milano had teased death every day of the climb, and his only
companion was a hired Sherpa who spoke broken English at
best. Hewondered ifanyone wouldknowifsomethinghappened
to him.
Who would tell his family if something went wrong? How
long would it take for news to travelto quaint Rocky River, Ohio?
He worried, but only briefly. He was far from his family. His
body ached. His stomach longed for something that tasted like
home. Yet deep within, Milano has always possessed a stabiliz-
ing sense of calm.

It certainly came in handy half a year earlier, as he stood in
front of a jury, awaiting a decision on his felony charges.
From the middle of the pass, Milano looked up at the Himala-
yas, and he smiled.
I am not perfect. I have manyflaws, some I have confronted,
and some I still deny. I have made mistakes and done things that
I am flat-out embarrassed of or ashamed of doing. Though what
happened in the early morning ofOct.12,2008, is not one ofthem.
Mike Milano isn't a particularly imposing figure. He's stocky,
with a natural, athletic build. But at 5-foot-6, it's hard to believe
the guy was once a running back for the Michigan football team.
Then again, maybe former head coach Lloyd Cafr just had an
affinity for tailbacks with a low center of gravity, as Milano
played alongside the runty Mike Hart.
Milano met with me last month to relive the events of Oct.12,
2008 - a morning that, for better or worse, changed the course
of his life.
It's not a story Milano enjoys telling, though he has spent
years composing a book on the event. In some ways, getting his
words on paper was a solution to avoid discussing it.
"I don't talk about the book," Milano said bluntly. "Since I've
written it, I hate when people ask questions about it because.
what it is is reaching into the most painful memories I have and
reliving theminvivid detail."
See MILANO, Page 5A

UNIVERSITY TECHNOLOGY
'U' purchases adult
Internet addresses

.xxx domain
names bought to
protect reputation
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily StaffReporter
The University now owns a
number of adult web addresses.
On Dec. 6, the University
bought 21 domain names regis-
tered under the new ".xxx" suf-
fix - an alternative to the more
common .com and .org suffixes
- that was created to distin-
guish between pornographic
sites and others on the Inter-
net. The University decided to
purchase these domain names

to protect the University from
affiliations with pornographic
websites, according to Univer-
sity officials.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the Univer-
sity, like many other schools
around the country, decided
to buy .xxx domain names for
University-associated terms
like "MGoBlue" to protect the
school's name from exploita-
tion.
"In one way it's kind of a
routine step, but a very impor-
tant one," Fitzgerald said. "We
think that in order to take the
right steps to protect the repu-
tation and the good name of the
University, (we) kind of look at
See DOMAINS, Page 3A



ANIMAL RIGHTS
PETA says cats killed after research

SINGING OUT LOUD

FOIA data shows
unreported
euthanizations
By KATIE WILLIAMS
Daily StaffReporter
People for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals revealed
through documents obtained
by Michigan's Freedom of
Information Act Thursday
that cats used for intubation
training for the University's
Survival Flight program were
euthanized, though University
officials claimed they had been

adopted.
Mark Lowell, associate pro-
fessor of emergency medicine
and medical director of the
Survival Flight Course - a
University program that trains
flight nurses on efficient meth-
ods of medical treatment while
under pressure during emer-
gencies - originally claimed in
a Michigan Daily viewpoint in
January that three cats used in
laboratory experiments in 2010
were adopted.
However, information
obtained by PETA through the
state's open records law and
given to The Michigan Daily
indicates that two of the three

cats used in 2010 were eutha-
nized after training instead
of adopted, unlike previously
reported.
In a statement of response
on Friday, the Office of the Vice
President for Research said
the University had previously
corrected an "unintentional"
error on its Animal Research
site in August that incorrectly
detailed the number of cats
euthanized since 2002 - seven
of 23 total were euthanized,
and 16 were adopted.
"The cats were adopted out
whenever possible, but medical
conditions, behavioral prob-
See PETA, Page 3A

Members of the Out Loud Chorus, an LGBT singing group, perform Christmas carols in Nickels Arcade Friday night.

WEATHER HI:39 GOTANEWSTIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ..................2A SUDOKU.....................5A
Call 734-418-4115 ore-mail Student robbed across from School of Ed. building Vol. CXXII, No. 66 OPINION...................4A CLASSFIEDS ...............6A
TOMORROW - LO: 32 news@michigandaily.comandlet us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THEWIRE 20 TheMichiganSouy ARTS............. A SPO RTSMONDAY. 1


4

2A - Monday, December 12, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.corn

2A~~~. -.ModayDeembe12,201 ThMiciga Daly michieandailv c

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

OCCUPY WALL STREET MOVES INTO ACADEMIA
NYU offers class on OWS

SL.A MNUA

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

With New York University's
proximity to the Occupy Wall
Street movement, the univer-
sity plans to offer an under-
graduate and graduate course
this spring on the movement
through its Department of
Social and Cultural Analysis,
according to a Dec. 8 article in
the Washington Square News.
Susquehanna University
professor Angelique Nixon, a
member of the People of Color
Caucus of Occupy Wall Street,
will be a guest speaker in the
class, according to the article.
"(Students) should study
the movement to get a bet-
ter understanding and know
about perhaps the largest

social movement of the time,"
Nixon said in the article. "It
should matter to everyone. It's
currently happening within
student movements."
U. OF FLORIDA A&M
PRESIDENT
REPRIMANDED
Following the death of Flor-
ida A&M University student
and drum major Robert Cham-
pion, reported to have resulted
from alleged hazing, the uni-
versity's Board of Trustees
decided last Thursday to pub-
licly reprimand FAMU Presi-
dent James Ammons instead of
placing him on leave from the

university, according to a Dec. YALE PRESIDENT
8 Associated Press article. HIGHEST PAID
"I'm concerned about a IN IVY LEAGUE
knee-jerk reaction until we
have the results of an investi- Yale University President
gation," FAMU Board member Richard Levin was the high-
Karl White said in the article. est paid Ivy League president
"There has not been an oppor- for the 2009-2010 school year,
tunity to have a discussion of according to a Dec. 6 Bloom-
what would be put in place if berg News article.
we decided to put the presi- Data released by the Chron-
dent on administrative leave." icle of Higher Education
Though Ammons initially reported that Levin made $1.63
fired FAMU Band Director million in 2009. At the 50 uni-
Julian White after the inci- versities with the largest bud-
dent, White has now been gets, the median compensation
placed on administrative leave for presidents was $876,792
until a decision can be made during the 2009-2010 school
after the investigation. year, according to the article.
- PAIGE PEARCY

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaity.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaiy.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editonial Pate
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@omichigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

4

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
School of tducation gradu-
ate student Coort Ambro-
sino performs poetry Friday
at Rackham Auditorium.

CRIME NOTES
The grate drain Laboratory
WHERE: 631 Oxford Rd., larceny
Lot E-13
WHEN: Friday at about WHERE: Natural Scie
10:15 p.m. Building
WHAT: A drain grate in WHEN: Friday at abot
the parking lot was stolen 4:35 p.m.
between 4 p.m. and 9:30 WHAT: A laptop and I
p.m., University Police were stolen from a lab,
reported. University Police repo

:ence
ut
purse
rted.

Hit and run
while at Weill
WHERE: 700 South State
St.
WHEN: Friday at about
2:10 p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle was
damaged while parked
near Weill Hall, University
Police reported. There are
no suspects and no injuries
were sustained.

The value of the stolen
items is unknown.
Face loses fight
WHERE: South Forest
Parking Structure
WHEN: Saturday at about
2:25 a.m.
WHAT: Individuals
not affiliated with the
University were fighting,
University Police reported.
One person sustained
a facial injury and was
treated at the University
Hospital.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Holiday concert NELP meeting
at The Ark WHAT: The English
Department's New England
WHAT: Raul Malo, Literature Program will
former lead singer of host an informational
"The Mavericks," will session to field questions
perform a Christmas- before the January
themed show incorporating application deadline.
jazz, country, rock and WHO: English Department
Latin American musical WHEN: Tomorrow at 6
influences. Tickets are $40. p.m.
WHO: Michigan Union WHERE: Angell Hall,
Ticket Office room 3222
WHEN: Tonight at 8p.m. at Hillel
WHERE: The Ark Yogaat ile
WHAT: Hillel will host
Video game its weekly yoga session. It
costs $5to attend, and mats
stress relief will be provided.
WHO: University of
WHAT: A free workshop to Michigan Hillel
teach students how to use WHEN: Tonight at 6:30
the Xbox Rinect gaming p.m. University of
system to relieve stress Michigan Hillel
and irar-oe their mood~ Mihga ile

Snooping on others
using technology may
lead to weight gain and
insomnia, MSNBC reported.
The stress caused by
investigating other people
may alter eating habits and
disrupt sleep schedules,
psychotherapists suggest.
The Michigan hockey
team came home from
East Lansing with four
points after a near-sweep
this weekend at Munn
Arena.
D FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY,
INSIDE
Starbucks will soon
open a store in Seattle
made from steel
shipping containters once
used to transport goods, The
New York Times reported.
The store will provide only
drive-thru and carry out
services.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aher Managingoews rEditor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS 5D1T OSBehany Bion, Dylan Cinti,CaitlinHus oo osph Lichteman
Brienne Prusak
SISTANTNEWSEDIORS:HalerlatthornClaireGscici,SuzanneJacobs,Sabira
Icahn,,MiceNr vaig e eaar, Adooam ubefr,aiin Wiliams,
Michelle Dewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial PagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali, Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb
StephenJ. Nesbitt and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tim Rohan ManagingSports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, MichaelFlorek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
Raftery, Neal Rothschild
uSSISTNSOTSEDs0800ORS:teven Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Waseran
SharonJacobs Managing Arts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
^,ISAIToTARTSEDITORS:JacobAxelrad,CassieBalfour,JoeCadagin,EmmaGase,
PromasKhosl, aid Tao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch ManagingPhoto Editors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Terra Molengraff, Anna Schulte
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen ieblich Managing Design Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Anna Lein-Zielinski
ASSISTANTDESIGN EDITORS:Kristi Begonja, Corinn Lewis
Carolyn Klarecki MagazineEditor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTYMAGAZINEEDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Devon Thorsby,Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy Copy chief copydesk@michigandaity.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:ChristineChun,HannahPoindexter
Sarah Squire WebDevelopmentManager squire@michigandaily.com
lmran Sayed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna CrinAssociate Business Manager
Rachel reinetz salesManager
Alexis Newton ProductionManager
Meghan RoonepLayout Manager
ConnorlByrd FnanceManager
Quy VO Circulation Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) isipublished Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fail term, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (January through April) is
$115, yearlong(September through April)is $195.University affiiates aresubject toa reduced
s "b"ipto" rate. On-campussubscriptiosorflterm o ae$5. tabsciptiostbe prpaid
The MicigsanDaily is a mamber of The Assoitdress and TheAssocaiated Cologiate Press.

i

through exercise.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 3100

CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily
to corrections@
michigandaily.com.


WOLVERINE WEB SERIES
'U' alum documents dreamers

Romney doesn't
disavow $10,000
bet made at debate

1 0

And
crea
To
In ti
sodic v
Maio p
a wind
ing pas
quest t
who've
they kn
fortabli
leap an
followi
A fi
and 'U'
of these
outside
dictable
by attet
series o
Origi
Maio fo
series i
ern par
branchi

rea Claire Maio ventures but didn't necessarily
have experience in agriculture.
tes series 'Back Two of Maio's interview subjects,
Jen and Nic Welty, kick-started
Your Senses' their own shared agriculture
venue, 9 Bean Rows, and are cur-
By KELLY ETZ rently trying out biodynamic
DailyArts Writer farming. Winemaker Shawn Wal-
ters, another interview subject,
he pilot of her new epi- worked to start his own winery
ideo series, Andrea Claire near Northport, Mich.
lans to give her audience "I spent some time with them
low into what engross- and found it really inspirational
sion looks like. She's on a and realized this kind of thing
o shadow regular people was happening, not just in food
decided to forgo the life and wine and agriculture, but
ow, the life they are com- happening in every sector,"
e with, in favor of takinga Maio said. "People were - either
d doing the unthinkable: because they had to or because
ng their dreams. they dreamed about doing it, and
ilmmaker, teacher, artist sometimes both - having to find
alum, Maio herself is one ways to make jobs for themselves
e passion-seekers stepping and be, in the process, a little more
the bounds of the pre- responsible for their own well-
. She's taking a chance being."
mpting to develop a video But Maio's series, "Back To
n viewer funds alone. Your Senses," won't just focus
inally from Michigan, on agriculture. She said it will
und her inspiration for the encompass many people who are
n families from the north- doing something unexpected
rt of the state who were in the search to find and create
ing out into agricultural meaning in their lives.

The series will feature men
and women who are looking
to control their own fortunes,
either because of the shaky
state of the current economy or
because their previous ventures
haven't panned out in the way
they expected. Her subjects are
entrepreneurial citizens who
are moving forward in the hopes
that they come "back to their
senses" and figure out how to
do what they love and love what
they do.
"If I can find people who are
doing it here (in Michigan), then
there are people who are doing it
everywhere," Maio said.
The pilot episode of the doc-
umentary-style series will focus
solely on Michigan residents,
but in later episodes she wants to
include people from around the
country.
"It's kind of tricky to find the
kind of stories I want to find
because they are about people
who are really in the middle of
what they're doing and aren't nec-
essarily highly visible yet," Maio
saidonexpandingtheseriesto the
rest of the U.S. "So, it's going to be

a bit of a challenge."
She added: "But I'm excited by
that challenge and I really want
to find those people, and I believe
that they are everywhere in this
country."
The series has yet to be filmed,
as Maio is currently raising funds
on Mobcaster.com. Created by
Aubrey Levy, another 'U' alum,
the website is a new crowd-fund-
ing platform that allows viewers
to help fund independent TV and
then streams it.
If the pilot is funded by Janu-
ary, Maio plans to film the first
episode and then go on to create
the rest of the first season, each
installment focusing on a dif-
ferent region around the United
States. Maio envisions the series
becoming a catalyst for viewers
to question their own motiva-
tions and to ask what they can
accomplish that might be more
satisfying in the long run.
"I believe that when you find
work that you love, it allows-you
to work harder and it allows you
to be more of an asset to your
community," she said. "Ultimate-
ly, I want people to be inspired."

car
tou
HUI
ocrats.
accusit
out of
ing th
he wo
with I
lions c
make,
econor
Rom
Comm(
he's b
good g
"Aft
Ann c
kiss,"]
his wi
are a 1
Bettinj
Rom
that re
month
with
has ig
wheth
busine
estima
millior
challet
of str
Ameri
ble prc
in an a
"I w
$10,00
Mitt,"
ernor,
Iowa y
$10,00
seems
Dem
the r
ing ou
can bt
Comm
bie W
the re
touch

far - offering to bet Rick Perry
$10,000 as casually as if it's
ldidate is out of something he does all the time,"
she said in a statement,
ch with average The remarkislikelytobecome
an issue in a general election
Americans campaign, that President Barack
Obama has begun to define as
DSON, N.H. (AP) - Dem- a fundamental philosophical
and Republicans alike are struggle between fighting for
ng Mitt Romney of being shared sacrifice and curtailing
touch after he said dur- government to let people fend
is weekend's debate that for themselves.
uld make a $10,000 bet "Their philosophy is simple:
Rick Perry even as mil- We are better off when every-
of Americans struggle to one is left to fend for themselves
ends meet in a troubled and play by their own rules,"
my. Obama said of the GOP at a
tney shrugged off the major speech in Osawatomie,
ent yesterday - but says Kan., lastweek, invoking former
een reminded he's not a President Teddy Roosevelt. "I'm
ambler. here to say they are wrong."
er the debate was over, Romney's campaign has
same up and gave me a spent most of the year focused
Romney said, referring to on Obama instead of on his GOP
fe. "And she said, 'there rivals. And while former House
ot of things you do well. Speaker Newt Gingrich has
g isn't one of them."' risen to the top of polls in sev-
nney's bet - for a sum eral early states, Romney says he
epresents more than two still believes he'll be the Repub-
s' salary for Americans lican nominee.
mid-range incomes - "I'm going to get the nomina-
nited a discussion about tion," he told reporters here last
er Romney, a wealthy night.
ssman whose worth is When pressed about how he
ted at more than $200 came up with the $10,000 bet
n, is out of step with the figure, Romney wouldn't say.
nges facing the millions "That's all I got," he said,
uggling or unemployed laughing with the audience of
cans who are having trou- supporters standing behind him.
oviding for their families Romney tried to make the bet
iling economy. with the Texas governor after
could suggest to you that Perry accused Romney of mak-
0 is pocket change for ing changes to parts of his book,
said Perry, the Texas gov- "No Apology."
who was campaigning in "You've raised that before,
esterday. "Having an extra Rick. And you're simply wrong,"
0 to throw down on a bet Romney said. Perry said it was
very out of the ordinary." true as Romney laughed and
nocrats have seized on then said: "Rick, I'll, I'll tell
emarks, eagerly point- you what. Ten thousand bucks?
t just how much $10,000 Ten thousand dollar bet?" He
uy. Democratic National stuck his hand out to Perry, who
ittee Chairwoman Deb- wouldn't take it.
asserman Schultz called Romney made his millions at
mark "the most out-of- Bain Capital, a venture capital
moment in any debate so firm.

a

4

Campus Mind Works Groups
FREE drop-in education and support
groups for any U-M student with
Depression, Bipolar, or Anxiety
Seasonal Affective Disorder
and Depression
When: Tuesday, November 29.
from 5:30-7:00 p.m.
Where: Psychological Clinic, 2nd Floor
530 Church St., East Hall
Visit www.campusmiindworks.org
for more information.
Presented by the U-M Depression Qi I
Center in collaboration with
the College of Engineering and
Universiyof Michigan Psychological Clinic. Q
Depreansion Center yogc

4

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 12, 2011-- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December12, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WATERFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich.
Township employee
spent stolen funds
on lottery tickets
The Oakland County Sheriff's
Department says a bookkeeper
embezzled $110,000 from a sub-
urban Detroit electrical contrac-
tor and used the stolen money to
buylotterytickets.
The department says 47-year-
old Waterford Township resident
Steven Sharrard was arraigned
Friday in Pontiac District Court
on embezzlement charges and
freed on a $50,000 bond. He's due
back in court on Thursday.
The sheriff's department says
Sharrard worked as a bookkeeper
at Moote Electric in Pontiac and
had been employed there about 12
years.
The department says its detec-
tives found that he took $110,000
over the past year.
BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK, Texas
U.S. proposes new
border regulations
with Mexico
The U.S. is proposing its first
unmanned border crossing with
Mexico in a remote stretch of
West Texas.
Federal officials tout the port
of entry in Big Bend National
Park as a security upgrade, not-
ing that wading across the shal-
low Rio Grande undetected is all
too easy.
By the spring, kiosks could
open up allowing people from the
tiny Mexican town of Boquillas
del Carmen to scan their identity
documents and talk to a customs
officer in another location, at least
100 miles away. Authorities say
extra Border Patrol agents would
be stationed in the park if the
crossing is approved.
A public comment period runs
through Dec. 27 on the estimated
$2.3 million project, which has
support from both countries.
SACRAMENTO, Calif.
* Calif. psychologist
accused of faking
her own rape
Authorities allege a woman
was so determined to convince
her husband of a need to move to a
safer neighborhood that she faked
being raped.
She split her own lip with a pin,
scraped her knuckles with sand-
paper, had her friend punch her in
the face, and even wet her pants to
give the appearance she had been
knocked unconscious, authorities
said Friday.
Charges filed by the Sacramen-
to County district attorney allege
Laurie Ann Martinez, a prison
psychologist, conspired with the
friend to create the appearance
that she was beaten, robbed and
raped by a stranger in April in her
Sacramento home.

MEXICO CITY
Mexico hit by
6.5-magnitude
earthquake
A magnitude-6.5 earthquake
struck in Mexico's western Guer-
rero state, shaking buildings and
causing panic in the nation's capi-
tal and the Pacific resort of Aca-
pulco. Officials said at least three
people died, but there were no
reports of widespread damage.
The U.S. Geological Service
initially estimated the quake at
magnitude at 6.8, but downgrad-
ed it to 6.7 and then 6.5. A quake
of that magnitude is capable of
causing severe damage, although
the depth of this temblor lessened
its impact.
The USGS said the quake
occurred at 6:47 p.m. Saturday at
a depth of 40.3 miles (64.9 kilo-
meters). It was centered about
26 miles (42 kilometers) south-
west of Iguala in Guerrero and
103 miles (166 kilometers) south-
southwest of Mexico City.
Mexico's Interior Department
said the quake was felt in parts of
nine states.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

RELAXATION STATION

PAUL SHERMA
LSA junior Patricia Haslinger and LSA freshman Holly Eschenburg recieve massages at the Trotter Multicultural
Center as a part of the 72 Hour Study Break on Friday night.

BUDGET
From Page 1A

do harm to institutions right
now by saying, 'OK, suddenly
we're going to have a formula
that seems wills-nill."

very specific in those measure-
ments.
"We're not at all opposed to
performance-based funding.

yia bcii 1 y-11 . pc v iai~-ac ui lg,
Regents last month, University Coleman suggested using the Hanlon said. "How the formu-
President Mary Sue Coleman Carnegie Classification of Insti- la's constructed is really impor-
wrote that the state should put tutions of Higher Education to tant, and an important piece is
more emphasis on academic decide the state's appropriated that it captures performance
performance, rather than just funds. The system groups com- and not activity."
fulfil criteria like graduation parable universities and has Last month Coleman and
and retention rates. controls for institutional differ- Hanlon sent a letter to Nixon's
In an interview with The ences, making it a useful tool in office voicing their concerns
Michigan Daily last week, Cole- analyzing various universities. regarding the formula.
man echoed her previous state- Because the state's formula Nixon told the Daily he's
ments and said she's worried is still being developed, Nixon "not offended by the letter,"
about the equality of the new said he wasn't able to comment but added the formula's devel-
funding plan. on specifics details. However, opment is based on realistic
"I've never seen a formula he said the formula will include options for the state.
that could be fair," Coleman performance-based metrics "We are dealing with a cer-
said in her office-on the second like graduation rates. tain set of realities as we put
floor of the Fleming Admin- In an interview with the together the budget and those
istration Building. "I'm very Daily last week University Pro- realities are that we aren't flush
concerned since the funding vost Phil Hanlon said though with cash," Nixon said. "So as
level in the state is the bottom the University supports perfor- you look at the resources we
10 percent in the nation among mance metrics, the construc- have, you have to take great
states, that somehow we would tion of the formula must be care in allocating them."
U.S. Postal Service cuts
jobs amnidfinncialstrife


PETA continues to use pigs in intuba-
PTagetion training.
From Page lA In an e-mail sent to the Daily
on Friday, David Perle, senior
lems or the inability to find a media coordinator for PETA,
new home prevented some adop- wrote that PETA was pleased
tions," the statement said. with the University's decision
The statement added that to replace cats with intubation
while the University's main pri- simulators.
ority has been to provide quality "Lost, stolen and homeless
training to flight nurses through pets will no longer have hard
the Survival Flight course, it plastic tubes repeatedly forced
aims to reduce the number of down their delicate windpipes,
animals used in research and before finally being killed," Perle
educational initiatives. wrote.
"(The University) is commit- He added PETA will continue
ted to the principles known as to campaign to stop the use of
the "3 Rs" - reducing the pigs in intubation training at the
number of animals used to the University.
minimum necessary, replacing LSA junior Akshay Verma,
the use of animals with director of the student organi-
other options whenever pos- zation Michigan Animal Rights
sible and refinement of practices Society, said while she was glad
to ensure the most humane to hear that the course will no
conditions possible," the state- longer be using live cats intrain-
ment said. ing, she is disappointed that the
Howeverthe FOIA data shows use of pigs will persist.
that the University uses cats "For me, I think the grossest
from R&R Research, an animal injustice is that it was unneces-
dealer currently under inves- sary," Verma said.
tigation by the United States He added he believes the med-
Department of Agriculture for ical problems the cats endured
criminal charges of selling stolen that led to their eventual eutha-
and undocumented pets. nization were likely a result
"The records show that (the of their use in the University's
University) obtains the cats training.
from R&R Research - a notori- In May, more than 100,000
ous 'Class B' animal dealer that signatures were compiled for a
obtains lost, stray and aban- petition to end the use of cats in
doned cats and dogs from animal Survival Flight training. MARS
shelters as well as from undocu- and PETA have campaigned
mented 'random sources,' the against the use of animals in
PETA release states. the Survival Flight training pro-
According to the University's gram for years, garnering sup-
statement, no cats have been port from the Michigan Student
used in intubation training since Assembly and appealing to the
July. However, Survival Flight University Board of Regents.
domain names for any purpose.
DOMAINS "The University has absolutely
From Page 1A no intention of creating web-
sites in this new .xxx domain,"
Fitzgerald said.
it as a bit of an insurance policy The University owns a total
on the Internet." of 470 domain names, but 50 of
The .xxx domain names those names only protect the
became available for purchase institution from being used by
last Tuesday, the same day the another entity. For example, the
University filed for a number of University owns michigandif-
the names it ultimately procured. ference.org, michigandifference.
"By opening up this new sort com and michigandifference.net,
of new section of the Internet, but only michigandifference.org
if you will, it kind of reopens is a functional website. The oth-
the whole naming convention," ers direct users to the website.
Fitzgerald said. "So that's the According to Fitzgerald, this
reason that we took these sort of avoids confusion for users decid-
additional steps, just to protect ing which website to visit to find
the reputation of the University." University-affiliated content.
The University acquired the A number of universities in
domain names in two phases. Michigan have also taken similar
The first was in October, when precautionary measures. Central
the University and other corpo- Michigan University purchased
rations were given the opportu- three domain names, and other
nity to buy the domain names of universities around the country
phrases for which they had reg- have also followed suit.
istered trademarks as of Sept. 1, Michigan State Univer-
2011. At that time, the University sity chose not to buy any .xxx
acquired 14 names at the price of domain names and instead plans
$200 per name for a 10-year peri- to closely monitor the use of xxx
od. Some of these included wol- websites under the university's
verines.xxx, mgoblue.xxx and name.
michigandifference.xxx. MSU spokesman Kent Cas-
On Tuesday, the University sella told the Detroit Free Press
had the opportunity to bid on there are too many potential
domain names for which no reg- domain names for the school
istered trademark exists. In this to buy, so it doesn't make sense
phase, the University purchased financially for MSU to buy them.
an additional seven names such Should MSU's legal copyrights
as umich.xxx and leadersand- be infringed upon, the school
best.xxx. These were purchased would take legal action, accord-
at the cost of $99 each for a one- ing the Detroit Free Press.
year period. While Fitzgerald acknowl-
Fitzgerald said while he is edged that the University cannot
unaware if a decision has offi- protect every name, he said the
cially been made as to whether or decision was the right call finan-

not the University will renew the cially.
one-year holds on the websites, "It was the University's judg-
he believes it most likely will. ment that these costs were rea-
He added that the Univer- sonable, and (it) just seemed
sity does not plan on using these to make sense to go ahead and
EVER WONDER HOW
A MICHIGAN DAILY
STORY IS CREATED?
VISIT THE VIDEO PAGE ON
WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM
See how a news article is
crafted from start to finish and
meet the editors who produce
these pages each day.

Upward of 28,000
mail positions to be
slashed
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -
The U.S. Postal Service's plan to
close 252 mail processing facili-
ties and cut 28,000 jobs by the
end of next year may help the
agency curb its mounting finan-
cial problems, but it faces big
practical obstacles.
Deciding which plants to
close will be difficult and face
opposition from community
leaders. Actually closing all of
them could take a few years, and
most workers will stay employed
under union rules. The bulk of
the job cuts will actually come
from attrition and retirements,
not layoffs, while the remaining
work force is shuffled into new
locations and positions.
What's about to unfold in cit-
ies from Reno, Nev., to Chicago
will illustrate the complexity of
cutting a work force protected
by strong union contracts and
shrinking operations dependent
on intricate logistics.
"The downsizing or the
demise of the postal service, it's
going to be a mess and it's going
to bea mess for a long time," said
John Zodrow, a retired Denver
attorney and former Postal Ser-
vice arbitrator who wrote a book
about its labor relations. "It's a
huge undertaking."
The proposed closures are
among several moves aimed at
helping the agency avert bank-
ruptcy and adjust to declin-
ing mail volume as customers
migrate to the Internet to com-
municate and pay bills. Delivery
changes announced Monday
would virtually eliminate the
chance for stamped letters to
arrive the next day for the first
time in 40 years and pave the
way for closing more than half
of the 461 plants where the mail
gets processed and sorted.
Postal officials say they can
save up to $3 billion by 2015 by
following through with the cuts
- getting rid of buildings, run-

ningequipment more efficiently,
operating fewer mail trucks and
cutting employees.
The postal service's man-
ager of collective bargaining
said Monday that the agency
foresaw the "potential for sig-
nificant attrition" given that
more than 20 percent of postal
workers were eligible for early
retirement. Managers and non-
career employees could be laid
off while no decisions have been
made on how any early retire-
ment incentives will be offered,
said the official, Kevin Rachel.
For most workers and com-
munities, the uncertainty is ter-
rible but the economic impact
might not be as catastrophic
as feared. Most workers in the
facilities are represented by
the American Postal Workers
Union, which reached a four-
year contract in May guarantee-
ing that its 220,000 clerks and
maintenance employees cannot
be laid off or transferred more
than 50 miles away.
Employees in plants that are
closed will have to decide wheth-
er to relocate to the places where
work is consolidated, which will
need to rapidly expand in size. If
they stay behind, they will fight
for remaining jobs in the area
and will likely have to switch
duties. Many post offices, for
instance, have deliberately left
open retail clerk and letter-car-
rying jobs.
"It's, 'grab a job before there
are no more jobs left to be
grabbed.' It's the proverbial
musical chairs," Zodrow said.
Zodrow said the turbulence
could motivate more workers
to take early retirement, which
he warned would be a mistake
for some. Postal workers do not
have skills that transfer well to
the private sector and are mak-
ing more than they would else-
where, he said.
The outcome of negotiations
between the postal service and
unions representing mail han-
dlers and letter carriers, which
both have deadlines of next
week, could be crucial in deter-
mining how cost-cutting plans

are carried out. Mail handlers,
who are represented by a union
of 47,000 members, are bargain-
ing about job protections and
reassignment rules.
Kate Bronfenbrenner, direc-
tor of labor education research
at Cornell University, said she
wonders whether the postal ser-
vice will get as many retirements
as it is counting on. "Nobody in
this economy is retiring unless
they are really ready. There has
to be some incentive," she said.
The agency first has to decide
which plants to close.
While they have had a list of
252 prospective targets since
September, postal officials say
final decisions will not be made
until they assess the potential
savings, the impact on mail
delivery and whether other
plants in the area could handle
the volume.
There will be intense local
opposition. The city council in
Reno, Nev., passed a resolution
Wednesday protesting any plans
to close its processing facility
and move 177 jobs to West Sac-
ramento, Calif., one of the pro-
posals under review. Members
of Congress in Iowa, Illinois and
elsewhere are already going to
bat for local plants. Businesses
that rely on speedy mail delivery
are fighting, too.
Once a closing decision is
made, it could take a year or
longer to wind down operations
and transition work elsewhere,
postal service spokesman Rich-
ard Watkins said in a phone
interview from Kansas City.
The closing of the mail pro-
cessing center in Sioux, City,
Iowa, in October illustrates
what may be awaiting other
postal workers.
Some mail handlers and
clerks moved 90 miles north
to the facility in Sioux Falls,
S.D., where their operations
were transferred. Some union
employees filled vacant posi-
tions for letter carriers in Sioux
City and are now walking routes.
Others have been performing
temporary assignments while
they wait for permanent jobs.


4A- Monday, December 12, 2011

4
The Michigan Daily -michigandaily.com

4A MoaD e r 20T haDy mha ilycm i


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
FROM THE DAILY
A tough pill to swallow
Plan B should be an option for women of all ages
Last Monday, the United States Department of Health and
Human Services publicly overruled the Food and Drug
Administration for the first time in history. The FDA found
Plan B One-Step to be suitable for women of all ages to purchase over
the counter. Currently a woman must be 17 or older to buy the pill
without a prescription. HHS disagreed with the FDA's ruling and is
refusing to allow women under age 17 to purchase the emergency
contraceptive without a prescription. Though HHS can legally over-
rule the FDA, HHS overstepped its bounds in doing so, and it should
respect the FDA's decision.

HANNAH DOW

E-MAIL HANNAH AT HDOW@UMICH.EDU

Oh man that's What will you be thinking of
anwrong the night before Christmas?
Please let me get
an A on my Calculus ffinal
A non-objective press

0

Plan B is an oral contraceptive that can be
taken after sex. According to the FDA, the
contraceptive is capable of reducing the risk
of unplanned pregnancy by more than 50
percent. Plan B purchasing procedures have
been debated for years. In 2006, there was a
push to make the contraceptive only avail-
able with a prescription. The Bush adminis-
tration eventually compromised and allowed
18 year olds to purchase the drug over the
counter. The law was eventually amended to
include 17 year olds in 2009.
According to a report by FDA commission-
er Margaret Hamburg, the FDA has "deter-
mined that the product was safe and effective
in adolescent females." If the FDA found that
Plan B is safe for young women, HHS should
support that finding. The FDA's purpose is
to research pharmaceuticals and protect
citizens from drugs it deems unsafe. Because
it's the FDA's job to investigate drugs, HHS
should trust the FDA when it says Plan B is
safe for all women.
HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius over-
turned the FDA's ruling due to the possible
side effects if a young woman were to take
Plan B improperly. However, there are many

other over-the-counter drugs with long lists
of possible side effects that are sold with-
out any debate. Consumers should be aware
of the possible side effects of a drug before
taking it, and the pharmaceutical companies
need to make sure this information is readily
available. But Plan B should not be prevent-
ed from being sold over the counter solely
because of possible side effects, especially
when many other drugs with adverse side
effects are already available for purchase.
The FDA has established a strong societal
trust. Since its formation in 1906, the FDA
has objectively performed countless scientific
studies to determine the safety of medicine.
The HHS should continue its legacy ofsupport-
ing the FDA and not allow any politics regard-
ing contraception to refute scientific data.
While HHS may not support sexual rela-
tionships for 17-year-old women, itcannot ban
them from doing so or ban medicine thathelps
to prevent unexpected pregnancies when con-
traceptives aren'tused or don't work properly.
HHS needs to understand the importance of
accessible contraceptives, and the FDA's rul-
ing should stand so all young women can pur-
chase Plan B without a prescription.

n eulogizing - andI use that
word as loosely as possible -
the death of President Rich-
ard Nixon in
1994, Hunter
S. Thompson
wrote:
"He was scum.
Let there be no
mistake in the '
history books
about that. Rich- NEILL
ard Nixon was
an evil man - MOISAMMAD
evil in a way
that only those
who believe in the physical reality of
the Devil can understand it ... Some
people will say that words like scum
and rotten are wrong for objective
Journalism - which is true, but they
miss the point.It was the built-in blind
spots ofthe objective rules and dogma
that allowed Nixon to slither into the
White House in the first place ... You
had to get Subjective to see Nixon
clearly, and the shock of recognition
was often painful."
Many of the problems facing
American journalism are structur-
al. The emergence of 24-hour cable
news channels and the explosion in
online publishing have eroded news-
papers' traditional authority over
"hard news." People are consum-
ing more news than ever before but,
because news is more plentiful than
it ever has been in the past, they are
also less willing to pay for it. The
consequence is that there are more
arenas in which to publish journal-
ism than ever before, even while
making money doing so has become
incredibly difficult.
But the most important prob-
lems facing American journalism
are self-inflicted. Consider the
notion of an "objective media." In
most senses of the word, objectiv-
ity refers to a lack of bias, meaning

that journalists ought to report the
"facts of the case" as closely and
as accurately as they can. In most
cases, however, that's simply not a
practical requirement. Mostreport-
ers have to cover such a breadth of
topics that they cannot be expected
to have expertise in each and every
one of them, and they may not be
able to discern what the true "facts
of the case" actually are. With that
in mind, journalists usually rely on
a second, weaker sort of objectiv-
ity: simply reporting every point of
view they can find on every issue.
These are not the same thing. A
few weeks ago, Republican presi-
dential candidate Mitt Romney's
campaign aired a television ad in
New Hampshire that included video
footage of President Barack Obama,
who claimed that, "If we keep talk-
ing about the economy, we're going
to lose." But that ad was a clear, if
particularly audacious, lie-by-omis-
sion. The full, un-edited clip that
the Romney campaign used showed
Obama quoting a campaign advis-
er to Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.),
whose grim assessment of McCain's
chances in 2008 had been leaked to
the New York Daily News. Romney's
advisors released a statement to the
press conceding thatthe ad was mis-
leading, but that disclaimer was not
included in the ad itself, and thus,
presumably, most of the ad's New
Hampshire audience would have
taken it as a legitimate criticism of
the administration. 1
With a truly objective press, the
fallout from this flap would have
been straightforward. Romney's
ad, even by the standards of politi-
cal advertisements, was a lie. The
objective press would have called it
a lie, and Romney's campaign would
have suffered whatever backlash
voters thought was appropriate. But
we don't have an objective press. We

have a sort of objective press, which
meant that reporters writing about
this story had to outsource criticism
to other sources. To wit, no report-
ers writing about the Romney ad
said that Romney's campaign had
lied; they wrote that some Democrats
claimed that the Romney campaign
had lied. The distinction is subtle
but powerful and reduces the lie in
Romney's ad to a difference in opin-
ion between political parties rather
than an objective reality.
Problems with
U.S. journalism
are self-inflicted.
The brilliance of Hunter S.
Thompson's political journalism
was that his subjective, intensely
emotional writing frequently got
much closer to important truths
than any of his objective counter-
parts in the traditional media. At the
end of a year that has seen Repub-
lican presidential candidate Newt
Gingrich claim the mantle of social
conservatism among Iowa Republi-
cans (Gingrich's first wife, of three,
was his high school geometryteach-
er; he divorced her while she was in
the hospital fighting uterine cancer)
and Michigan's Democrat Sen. Carl
Levin sponsor a bill that will give
the White House the authority to
put any American citizen it wants
into indefinite military detention
without trial, that's a lesson worth
remembering. Sometimes scum
is scum, as painful as it may be to
admit it.

6
0
I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Kaan Avdan, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
KAAN AVDAN|j WOI
Aim of artificial intelligence

-Neill Mohammad can be
reached at neilla@umich.edu.

NOOR HAYDAR AND BAYAN FOUNASI WP
It's time to talk about Palestine

Robots are not taking over any time soon,
enough with that.
The humanoid robot industry, which aims
to build robots that can interact with humans
and use made-for-human tools, is rapidly
growing. It is astonishing and perplexing
that developing humanoid robots can change
how we see ourselves and the world.
Recent developments in artificial intel-
ligence and robotics include robots that can
play table tennis and violin, bring and serve
drinks, run as fast as nine kilometers per
hour and interact with humans by speech.
The way robots are increasingly becoming
human looks promising. So the first ques-
tion is: How human can they get? The goal of
artificial intelligence also brings up various
philosophical and ethical questions.
Initial questions in this field include: What
makes us human? Or, if robots have intelli-
gence rivaling man's sapience, what makes
them less human? If - or when - artificial
intelligence is achieved, will robots be able to
have a conscience? Will they feel? We are sci-
entifically called "homo sapiens" - knowing
man - and there are recent theses that pro-
pose we have become "homo empathicus" -
empathizing man. Our uniqueness is derived
from gaining and advancing knowledge, hav-
ing feelings and being able to empathize with
fellow humans. If science grants robots the
same abilities we have, in what way are the
robots to be discriminated?
For the sake of the argument, consider
that man was created in the image of God.
In the same parallel, scientists build robots
in the image of humans. They want robots
to be bipedal, have human gestures, be able
to integrate into a human environment and,
most importantly, have a mind similar to
humans.
While I do not want to offend anyone, this
logic leads to the question: What was God's
initial need to create humans? What's more,
should we become masters and expect robots
to be our perpetual servants? Even though
robots are of our own making, how can we
deny equality to an entity thathas a mind, feel-
ings and a sense of self-determination?

At this point, scientists are working on
humanoid robot technologies for the sake of
science and they are reaching cornerstone
advancements in a quicker fashion than they
should be. The utmost goal is artificial intelli-
gence. However, critical existential questions
are overlooked. What will be the social role
of robots? How will robots be defined in the
social sphere? With task-completing mecha-
nisms and instant Internet usage that would
make them as knowledgeable as one can get,
will robots not question man's superiority?
In addition, homo sapiens will have an iden-
tity crisis since the sacred definition of our
uniqueness would be matched.
Of course, all these questions are based on
ideas that are mere elements of fiction today.
I find questions about how we see our con-
nection and relation to God, how we give our-
selves a role in the world and how we can raise
the bar of being a human very constructive.
It is also important to note that techno-
logical advancements come with setbacks
like spending too much time in front of the
TV or becoming addicted to computer games.
These problems are addressed by the gov-
ernment, but lawmakers came up with solu-
tions to problems after these problems had
already caused serious damage to individuals.
Humanoid robot technology is still in its early
days, and we have the chance to take preemp-
tive measures. However, this should never be
done in a way that would curb or limit scien-
tific curiosity. Rather, the philosophical and
ethical dilemmas that artificial intelligence
brings should be debated more frequently.
Throughout history, science led us to rede-
fine humanity in a better and more compre-
hensive way. The integration of humanoid
robots into social life will surely be a part of
this perpetual redefinition. This is unique in
the way that humans are developing some-
thing that is similar to us and something that
has the potential to challenge the notion of
being a human. Hence, developing robots will
be essential in answering the question of what
it is to be human.
Kaan Avdan is an LSA freshman

Over the pastcouple ofyears,therehas beenincreased
curiosity and speculation about SAFE - Students Allied
for Freedom & Equality - and what it stands for. Simply
put, SAFE is a diverse group of student activists at the
University organized to promote justice, human rights,
liberation and self-determination for the Palestinian
people, as well as other oppressed people. We are com-
mitted to standing with the disenfranchised and are
staunchly against the sugarcoating of oppression. Fur-
thermore, we don't approve of allowing representatives
of a government that is currently using their military to
occupy another nation and imposing an apartheid sys-
tem on people whom it claims as citizens to come speak
on our campus.
When Ishmael Khaldi, a top adviser to Israeli For-
eign Minister Avigdor Lieberman came to campus,
many student activists were offended by the fact that
the University, which prides itself on social justice,
openly provided a platform for Khaldi to speak. Lieber-
man, Khaldi's boss, has blatantly employed his racism
on more than one occasion, and according to the Israeli
newspaper Haaretz, Lieberman said that Palestin-
ian prisoners should be drowned in the Dead Sea, and
he would provide the buses to take them there. In an
interview with The Sunday Telegraph, Lieberman said
Arabs and Jews must be separated in order to achieve
peace in the Middle East. "Israel's 1.25 million Arab
minority was a 'problem' which required 'separation'
from the Jewish state," according to an article in The
Sunday Telegraph. Interestingly enough, Lieberman
believes, in his own words, that minorities are "the
world's biggest problem," despite being a minority him-
self. In his speech on campus, Khaldi spoke about Arabs
in Israel and the greatprivileges they enjoy, yet the peo-
ple who Khaldi claims to represent (Arab Bedouins) are
being expelled from their land. Khaldi seems to travel
as a mouthpiece for Lieberman, and his fallacious and
racist remarks are all reasons why we walked out of his
speaking engagement in protest.
When we used a similar protest method against two
Israeli soldiers who visited campus last year, we were
faced with criticism for not "dialoguing." This call
for dialogue is inappropriate in a situation where the
power disparity between parties is so immense. Dia-
logue can only work when two parties are on the same
playing field and have significant differences between
them. In the case of Israel-Palestine, we have one party,
Israel, that boasts the Middle East's most powerful
military and enjoys a lot of material and diplomatic

support from the world's lone superpower, the United
States. The Palestinians, on the other hand, are state-
less and without basic human rights. They are also vic-
tims of the worst of crimes. They've had their history
and existence denied by those who continuously assert
that Palestine was "a land without a people for a people
without a land." Though Palestinians have received
overwhelming recognition internationally, Israel and
the United States have yet to recognize the Palestinian
struggle, much less push for their right to self-determi-
nation and freedom from a brutal occupation.
Our mission statement emphasizes that we are a
student organization contributing to the campus com-
munity as social justice advocates. Nowhere within
our mission statement will you find that we are anti-
Semitic or anti-Jewish. We, as an organization, don't
endorse or ally ourselves with any political platform,
organization or politician. We don't advocate for a one-
state, two-state or no-state solution. We don't support
the Palestine Liberation Organization, Hamas, Fatah or
any such entity. We simply believe in the self-determi-
nation of the Palestinian people.
In October, 30 SAFE members attended the first
national Students for Justice in Palestine conference
at Columbia University. The conference was endorsed
by many national activists, including Ali Abunimah,
Noam Chomsky and Cornel West. Members from the
more than 140 schools represented voted on points of
unity:
Students for Justice in Palestine is a student orga-
nization that works in solidarity with the Palestinian
people and supports their right to self-determination.
It is committed to:
1. Ending Israel's occupation and colonization of all
Arab lands and dismantlingthe Wall.
2. Recognizing the fundamental rights of the Arab-
Palestinian citizens of Israel to full equality.
3. Respecting, protecting and promoting the rights of
Palestinian refugees to return to their homes and prop-
erties as stipulated in UN resolution 194.
We believe it's time to bring Palestine to the forefront
of our conversations at the University. Next semester,
we will be launching our PalestiMe campaign - acam-
paign meant to bring Palestine to the forefront of the
campus community by spreading awareness on various
facets of the situation - as it is time for Palestine.

Noor Haydar is an LSA senior
Bayan Founas is an LSA sophomore


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, December 12, 2011- 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, December12, 2D11 - 5A

From Page 1A
The following story is Milano's account
of what happened in mid-October of his
senior year, when he found himself in an
altercation with Steven Kampfer, then
a junior defenseman on the Michigan
hockey team who now plays for the Bos-
ton Bruins.
The Kampfer family declined to com-
ment for this article. Though his voice is
not included in this story, much of it is,
indeed, backed by witness testimonials on
both sides of the case.
Every year in October, Milano and his
housemates in Ann Arbor would throw
an annual Halloween-themed party. His
senior year would be no different. It didn't
matter that the football team had lost to
Toledo and dropped to a humiliating 2-4
record earlier that day - tradition was
tradition.
There were costumes, decorations and
organized competitions that culminated
in a tricycle race. And of course, there was
booze. Lots of booze.
Milano said he spent much of the night
with Tatjana Thuener-Rego, a former
Michigan gymnast. Though he admitted
their interactions were often flirtatious,
their relationship was purely platonic.
"We had a class together: Evolution
of Communism in China, 8:30 in the
morning," Milano said. "We sat next
to each other, we studied together, we
were spending a lot of time together.
We watched the McCain-Obama debate
together."
Late in the night, after the party had
mostly fizzled out, Milano, Theuner-Rego
and others headed to the ever-popular
Rick's American Cafe to keep the night
alive. Milano recalled how they drank
and danced away the disappointment that
follows any Michigan loss on the gridiron,
and they stayed until last call.
When the lights came on, the group
went up the stairs and loitered on Church
Street, wondering where to head next.
That's when Kampfer arrived with his
friend Mike Anderson.
Kampfer and Theuner-Rego had had
an on-again-off-again relationship, and
Milano suggested Kampfer was upset that
Thuener-Rego didn't return his phone
calls that evening.
Thuener-Rego's housemates, then-LSA
seniors Melissa Karner and Katie Smith,
said in witness reports that Thuener-Rego
was purposefully flirting with Milano in
frontofKampfer outside ofthebartomake
Kampfer jealous. They also mentioned that
this was not uncommon for her.
Several interview requests to Theuner-
Rego were not returned.
Reports say Kampfer approached
Thuener-Rego and pulled her aside to have
a discussion across the street from Rick's.
Most of Milano's friends - including
Thuener-Rego's housemates - walked
home during the exchange. Milano, his
brother Chris and his friend Brandon
Hahn were left, and they decided to wait
for Thuener-Rego before going home.
Anderson also waited with them.
Moments later, the group looked back
across the street. According to later
testimonies - including Anderson's -
Kampfer had Thuener-Rego's shoulders
pinned up against the vinyl fencing on the
left side of 624 Church St., just I00 feet
north of the intersection of Church and
Willard Streets. In the next instant, wit-
ness reports said she was on the ground,
though none could confirm how she
ended up there.
"We saw Steve being really aggressive
toward Tatjana," Chris said in an inter-
view last month. "From where I saw, she
was on the ground crying, obviously not
comfortable with what was going on. He
was kind of standing over her."
Milano added that Kampfer "had her
by both wrists, kind ofyanking her off the

ground." Milano decided he must inter-
vene, despite warnings from Anderson to
not get involved.
As he walked across the street to con-
front Kampfer, who had also been drinking
heavily that night (medical records state
he had a blood-alcohol content of about
.15 at 3:55 a.m.), Thuener-Rego reportedly
escaped and fled through a parking lot
behind the house. All reports confirm that
she did not witness the ensuing events.
Though none of the witness accounts
match up on exactly how the exchange
followed, reports were clear that Milano
approached Kampfer out of concern for
Thuener-Rego, and language escalated
between the two until expletives were
exchanged.
After about a minute, it didn't appear
that a physical altercation was developing,
and all five decided to walk home, head-
ing south on Church Street. Reports con-
firm that Kampfer and Anderson walked
in front, while the Milano brothers and
Hahn were behind them. Their houses
were in the same general direction.
They didn't get too far. Just a couple
hundred feet south from Kampfer's origi-
nal confrontation with Thuener-Rego,
along the east wall of East Quad Resi-
dence Hall, the jawing between Milano
and Kampfer resumed.
Milano said he doesn't remember what
the trigger was, but Kampfer was fed up
and turned around to confront Milano
face-to-face, calling him a "cocksucker"
as he turned. Anderson later confirmed
that as well.
Thegapbetweenthe twoclosed quickly.

Anderson's testimony, as well as inde-
pendent witness reports of Ann Arbor
residents Nick Nedick and Zach Plachety,
concur that Kampfer and Milano were
facing each other before making physi-
cal contact. It did not appear that Milano
had instigated a physical confrontation by
attackingKampfer from behind.
Milano, his brother and Hahn claimed
they saw Kampfer cock his arm to take a
swing. But he never landed it, and within
seconds, Kampfer laid on the ground con-
cussed.
"He lunged at me," Milano said last
month. "For me, I just lowered my level
and wentcright through his hips. A double-
leg takedown, or a football tackle, if you
don't know wrestling."
All reports said Milano stood up and
immediately leftthe scene with hisabroth-
er and Hahn, unaware of the extent of
Kampfer's injuries. There was no further
fighting.
Kampfer, who was hospitalized with
a concussion and occipital skull fracture
from hitting the back of his head on the
sidewalk, faced a daunting road to recov-
ery. And Milano, who had spent countless
hours training to walk onto the Michigan
football team, would soon see his hopes
and dreams crushed.
The thing about Michigan is when you
get there, the level of accomplishment and
excellence you must have achieved in high
school becomes mundane, the stardom
experienced in your youth becomes ordi-
nary and you yourself begin to view your
life as ordinary when you sink into a crowd
of extraordinary people. ... There are few
atmospheres that I have found that elicit
this type ofpersonal desire to achieve.
Milano grew up near an erosion gully
in Cleveland that he and his friends fit-
tingly dubbed "the Devil's ass crack."
In preparation for football and wres-
tling seasons in high school, they often
drove to the gully, and Milano would run
sprints up the hill. It was frighteningly
steep, and sometimes he would lose his
footing as mud slid down the gully from
under his cleats.
He loved training in the elements, out-
side gym walls.
"We were creative," Milano remem-
bered. "We had this one idea where I was
going to run through the woods, and it
was like I had to get from point A to point
B. And my buddies were going to do what-
ever they could to stop me. They could
tackle me, beat me up, punch me. One
dude wanted to bringpaintball guns."
Milano's motivation was an eerily
Rudy-esque determination to be the best
in the midst of adversity.;
"When we were younger,'Chris and I
would always play sports together, and
Mike would tag along," said Nick, the
oldest Milano brother, now a neurosurgi-
cal resident at the Cleveland Clinic. "We
would sort of just beat him up a little bit
- I think he used that."
Mike would never grow to the height of
his brothers or father, but he was reward-
ed for his hard work with a scholarship
to wrestle for coach Joe McFarland at
Michigan. He was the first of the Milano
brothers to receive a Division-I athletic
scholarship.
Early in his sophomore season at Mich-
igan, Milano met with Mary Passink, who
worked in the offices of Schembechler
Hall, to discuss the remote possibility of
walking onto the football team.
A sluggish Lloyd Carr walked past her
desk, and Passink introduced the two,
explaining that Milano intended to tryout.
"Hope it works out for you," Carr said.
And he returned to business as usual.
Milano didn't tell his family about the
meeting. He was afraid they wouldn't
approve - that they'd remind him he's
on a wrestling scholarship, and he should
stay focused. He was afraid they would

tell him he couldn't do it, that this was
Michigan football, not just any program
he wastalking about.
Only his younger sister knew what he
was up to. The rest of the family didn't
learn of it until he was invited back to
springcamp weeks later.
"In high school I was his number one
fan - literally wore his jersey to every
game," said Mike's sister Jessica. "I
remember he texted me and told me, and
he was like, 'You can't tell anyone. You
can't tell mom and dad. I haven't told
Chris or Nick.' I thought it was so cool."
By day, Milano trained for wrestling.
By night, he drove over to Crisler Arena,
where he and a friend snuck in after hours
to run sprints up and down the bleach-
ers. They even figured out how to use the
PA system and blast their workout music
through the arena.
In mid-January 2007, Brad Labadie,
then-director of football operations, told
Milano the coaching staff was impressed
with his high school highlight tapes and
wanted to see more.
Labadie laid out the map for walking
onto the Michigan football team.
First, he had to make it past the
strength coach, and then the speed coach.
If he succeeded, he would try out during
spring practices. If he made the grade
there, he'd get the opportunity to play in
the springscrimmage on March14.
And if he impressed coaches in the
scrimmage, then Carr might grant him
the opportunity to play on the scout team
come fall practice.

Milano passed every stage with flying
colors, and Carr invited him back for fall
practices, where he had his own locker
in the varsity locker room, his own cleats
(at first, the equipment room didn't have
a pair small enough for his 8.5 shoe size)
and his own jersey - No. 38.
"He was a hardworking kid," Mike
Hart remembered. "He was a good kid to
be around, and we all liked Mike. He used
to make some big plays in practice, some
big runs, and we'd all get excited for him."
The day after the last practice of fall
camp, Labadie called Milano into his
office for an impromptu meeting. The
coaching staff decided to give him schol-
arship No.85, which was the last remain-
ing football scholarship for that season. It
was an honor Milano had neither expect-
ed nor dreamed of.
After profusely thanking Labadie and
walking down the hall to thank Carr
as well, Milano immediately called his
father.
"When Coach Carr ultimately gave him
a scholarship, Ie-mailed my friends," said
Mike's father, Jay. " I said, 'The little turd
has once again bent the world to his will.
The University of Michigan just gave a
5-foot-6 running back a full ride!"'
The morning of Sept. 1, 2007, Milano
suited up, winged helmet and all, and pre-
pared to run out of the Big House tunnel
in front of 109,000 fans for the first time.
His family and friends from Rocky River
made the trip to watch the town's favor-
ite son make his college football debut
against Appalachian State.
Standing in the tunnel, former Michi-
gan tight end Mike Massey turned to
Milano and asked, "You ready forthis?"
Milano had been ready for it his whole
life. But he suddenly felt nervous.
"My biggest fear is that I wouldn't be
able to hit the banner," Milano laughs. "I
mean, maybe that banner is built for peo-
ple who are 6-foot-3."
On a national scale I was made out to
be a mindless thug, someone just looking
for a fight. I was abandoned by an athletic
department that I was very loyal to. I was
lied to by some ofthe men whomIrespected
the most, and I was threatened with expul-
sion from school. Friends and acquain-
tances were suspicious of me, wondering
constantly ifIwas lying to them.... Worst of
all, my family wasput through hellfor over
a year.
On the Monday morning following the
incident between Milano and Kampfer,
the snowball began to roll.
Without full knowledge of the situa-
tion, and before the Athletic Department
could confer about the details, Michigan
hockey coach Red Berenson began com-
mentingto the media.
"I can'ttell you that (Kampfer) did any-
thing bad," Berenson said. "He just was a
victim."
At the time, one anonymous eyewit-
ness account was willing to speak to the
Daily on record anonymously, detailing
the scene of the previous Saturday night.
Now identified as Neil Patel, then a senior
in the College of Engineering, he claimed
he saw someone attack Kampfer from
behind, pick him up and slam him onto
the sidewalk.
Nobody else would speak on the record,
though others confirmed that Mike Mila-
no was the student who tackled Kamp-
fer. Patel's story became the prevailing
account of the incident.
Milano said last month that the Daily
had asked him to comment beforecthe story
ran, but he wanted to hold off until he dis-
cussed the matter with his coachingstaff.
That was an opportunity Milano wish-
es he could have back.
Before he even had a chance to discuss
the situation with his coaches, Milano
was portrayed as a villain in the media,
and venerable 25th-year coach Red

Berenson was the only voice the Athletic
Department directly or indirectly offered.
Today, it appears that Patel's account
doesn't match other witness reports. He
claimed that the "attacker was accom-
panied by two other men with athletic
builds and blonde hair."
Chris Milano is bald. Brandon Hahn is
African-American, with very short, black
hair.
Independent reports from Nedick and
Plachety that surfaced later also stated
that the attack was a face-to-face encoun-
ter. Milano said Patel was the only one
who portrayed his actions as an attack on
Kampfer from behind.
It didn't matter. Early that week, The
Detroit News and Ann Arbor News picked
up the story. The situation was getting
ugly for first-year football coach Rich
Rodriguez, who was already a media tar-
get upon suffering four losses in just six
games.
It didn't help that Kampfer had been
seriously injured either. In a paper he
wrote for a class and revealed earlier this
year by University Prof. and author John
Bacon, Kampfer detailed the extent of his
recovery process following the incident. It
disclosed how difficult it was for him to eat,
shower or carry out a typical daily routine
while living life in a head and neck brace.
Many believed that his future in hock-
ey was finished.
Still, in a meeting the Monday after the
incident, Milano explained himself to his
coaches, and he said Rodriguez informed
him and his father, Jay, that everything

COURTESY OF MIKE MILANO

Milano atop the Cho La passof the Himilayan mountains.

would be fine. He assured them that
Mike's senior season was not in jeopardy.
Milano said Rodriguez told him not to
come to practice that Wednesday because
the media would be present, and the
coaches didn't want the incident to be a
topic of discussion. After initial objection,
Milano complied and stayed home.
Reporters showed up to practice ask-
ing questions about Milano's absence, and
when Rodriguez declined to comment,
they assumed he'd been suspended indefi-
nitely.
"More bad news for Michigan," report-
ed ESPN.com's Adam Rittenberg in a blog
post that Wednesday evening. "Football
player Mike Milano has been indefinitely
suspended after being investigated for
an alleged assault on a Wolverines hock-
ey player last weekend. ... Head coach
Rich Rodriguez cannot comment on the
alleged violation until the investigation is
completed."
It was just four days after the inci-
dent. On the heels of Kampfer's injury,
Berenson's comments, a single witness
testimony and a questionable decision
by Rodriguez, Milano had all the cards
stacked against him.
To the world, he was a monster.
Milano recalled how Rodriguez
approached him when he was warming
up for the team's 6 a.m. workout the next
morning. The coach told him that he had
to pack up and leave, and until he heard
better news from the investigation, Mila-
no could no longer be a member of the
football team.
"Why don't you ask the team if they
want me around or not?" Milano sug-
gested.
Rodriguez apologized and reiterated
that he had no choice. Milano said it was
the last time they would ever speak.
Several interview requests for this arti-
cle to Rodriguez - now the head coach at
Arizona - went unreturned.
I am ashamed to admit at that point I
even considered just folding and saying I
did everythingthey saidI did. Just so those
close to me would not continue to think I
was lying, andI could begin making it up to
them. That was my weakest moment.
Milano never thought he'd read his
name in the same sentence as "felony."
Yet there he sat, helplessly watching the
ESPN ticker at the bottom of the screen:
"Michigan running back Mike Milano,
charged with a felony - indefinitely sus-
pended from the Michigan football team."
Milano was charged with intent to
do great bodily harm less than murder,
as well as a misdemeanor of aggravated
assault. The prosecutor initially offered
a plea deal of six months in prison upon
admission of guilt.
Still, Milano stayed calm, maintain-
ing that he did the right thing getting
involved between Kampfer and Thuener-
Rego, and that he tackled Kampfer out of
self-defense. He claimed he never intend-
ed to injure Kampfer in the altercation.
"I ended up driving home (one) night
and telling my dad, 'I don't care what they
do to me,' " Milano said. " 'They can do
whatever they want to me. There's noth-
ing they could do to hurt me."'
At the time of the trial in a Washtenaw
County Circuit Court in October 2009,
Milano had a solid case. Nedick and Pla-
chety had countered Patel's initial story
as reported in the Daily. Kampfer's friend
Anderson also testified that the physical
confrontation was face-to-face, not an
attack from behind.
Anderson did not agree that Kampfer
wound up to punch Milano before being
tackled, but there was enough evidence
to suggest that either Milano or Kampfer
could have been injured in the exchange
- that it was essentially a fair fight and
Kampfer wasn't as innocent as everyone
had believed.

Thuener-Rego's housemates, Karner
and Smith, also testified in court on the
volatile relationship between Thuener-
Rego and Kampfer. They mentioned that
Kampfer often yelled at Thuener-Rego,
and on multiple occasions, his bouts were
turned on them as well.
And during the trial, the Athletic
Department produced new voices.
Michigan wrestling coach Joe McFar-
land and former football coach Lloyd
Carr testified in court on what they knew
of Mike Milano. Both made it clear that
they don't give scholarships to students of
questionable character, and they believed

in Milano's integrity.
Milano broke down and cried during
their testimonies.
"I think he felt a combination of grati-
fied and upset that he had to lean on two
men that meant a great deal to him," said
John Shea, Milano's attorney. "To come to
his aid, to come to his defense ... that was
important to Mike. And I think that he
was a little overwhelmed that they actu-
ally did it and did it as well as they did it"
During Milano's testimony later in the
trial, when asked why he was so emo-
tional, Milano said he was ashamed that
two great Michigan Men would always
remember him in the courtroom, rather
than on the field or the wrestlingmat.
Ultimately, he was acquitted ofthe felo-
ny charge and convicted of misdemeanor
bythejury. If any consolation was needed,
Circuit Court Judge David Swartz looked
at Milano after the decision was read and
told him that he would have acquitted him
of both charges.
"I think Mike was more gratified when
the judge, at sentencing, didn't even place
him on probation," Shea said. "The judge
also said, 'In five years when you're eligi-
ble for expungement, make sure you come
back to me and apply for it."'
After the trial, former Michigan Ath-
letic Director Bill Martin presented
Milano with the 'M' ring that's typically
awarded to graduating football players, a
privilege that Martin had said he would
grant if Milano was acquitted of felony.
But that was a private matter. The Ath-
letic Department never commented on
the situation publicly, and it still won't
today.
In an e-mail to the Daily last month,
Associate Athletic Director David Ablauf
wrote that the Athletic Department
wouldat comment on Milano's book,
"Michigan Men?" released in November,
and that the department was not willing
to "rehash the past."
There is a war we can fight and win, and
that is pain and suffering dealt not by the
hands of nature, but by the hands of men.
A war against injustice. That is what this
book is about, injustice.
After sitting down with Milano, it's
hard for me to believe the whole country
thinks this guy is a punk.
When the media reported that he was
acquitted, many accounts made it seem
as though he had gotten off easy. Most of
them never delved into the details of the
case, and enraged readers continued to
blast Milano on comment threads.
Since the trial, he has traveled to
South Africa to work with underprivi-
leged youth. He spent two months in
Nepal teaching English at an orphanage.
And he's now a volunteer with Teach for
America, based in New Orleans. Bill Mar-
tin wrote his recommendation for the
program.
Is this really the guy that was ostra-
cized by nearly everyone in Ann Arbor?
Sure, it always takes two to tango, and
Milano probably could have taken mea-
sures to avoid whahappened on that fate-
ful October night. If he had just walked
home in a different direction, maybe
Kampfer wouldn't have been left on the
sidewalk with a cracked skull.
But Milano claims that he did the right
thing by getting involved in the middle of
what appeared to be an abusive relation-
ship. He would still make the same deci-
sion today. And in his book, he includes
a compelling appeal for people to always
do the right thing, particularly those in
positions of power whose decisions have
a profound impact on the lives of others.
The title "Michigan Men?" targets Rich
Rodriguez and other members of the Ath-
letic Department who he feels did not act
for the rightreasons, or for the right causes.
"I think we can do a lot better for the
people around us," Milano said. "And if I

could use my story as an example of say-
ing how people didn't do what's right for
the people around them, maybe people
will at least think aboutthat."
Today, with the incident in his rear-
view, Milano seems to be a genuinely
happy person. Just before leaving his
photo shoot with the Daily, he told me
he'd prefer if we could use a photo of him
smiling, instead of a serious one.
"I don't know. It's kind of a serious
story, Mike."
"I'm a smiler," he replied without hesita-
tion. "Use as many smiling pictures as pos-
sible."


6A - Monday, December 12, 2011

a

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Now, th
a boyv
favorit
the one event t
choice but to ke
it's "Arrested

An arresting development in my TV habits
e column about With the help of a Blockbuster "Arrested Development" midway season, banishing the final four way, once I recognized the joy nowhere, and they
who lost his within biking distance, I was through its first season on air episodes to a cold Friday night in of saving episodes, I started sometime.
:e TV show, and already on top of my cinematic (who knew middle schoolers had February. I had to tape the finale applying the philosophy to every Forget my midd
hat gave him no game in middle school. A "Fight such good taste?). One episode because of a conflict (Motherboy show I loved and was about to viewing habits. TI
ep it together - Club" here, a "Desperado" in, and I was hooked like Buster XIV was rolling through the lose - season three of "Dead- arrested develops
there - I could recite Ezekiel Bluth's seal-assailed hand. UP.), buta mishap prevented wood," season two of "Rome," inahilitv to crow

y had to end
dle school
he actual
ment was my
up and watch

Development."
Feel free to
read this in
the voice of
Ron Howard.
Saying
goodbye is
the worst.
Everything KAVI
inevitably SHEKHAR
comes to an PANDEY
end, but once
you utter that
vile word, you actually have to
accept the fact that it's all over -
be it precious time spent with a
friend or a significant chapter of
your life (one semester of college,
left - taste the sadness). As I bid
farewell with my final column,
here's the story of my struggle
to let go of "Arrested Develop-
ment."

25:17 with every Sam Jackson
inflection when seventh graders
should be thinking of Tarantino
as the guy who made frozen
pizza rolls.
But when it came to televi-
sion, my viewing habits were
stuck in a perpetual state of
adolescence. One could call it
... arrested development. (Hey,
that's the name of the show!) I
still clung onto Chuckie Finster
and Arnold of football-shaped
cranium lore, filling the rest
of my airwaves with Disney
Channel powerhouses "Even
Stevens," "Boy Meets World"
and "Smart Guy," and when
I was feeling especially bold,
the occasional episode of "The
Simpsons."
Because of a friend's recom-
mendation, I started watching

BI

Beyo
show w
stronge
father(
ed Dev
the woi
televisi
splendi
for "Sc
of the o
I've see
FOX
on "Arr

the episodes from recording. Mr.
Eko would only have one thing
* ou to say about that - "Do not mis-
aving our take coincidence for fate."
uths 'til the Once the season three DVD
was released, I re-watched the
very end. entire series as a grand sendoff.
But when I reached the final
four episodes, I couldn't go on.
Finishing those episodes would
nd its own virtues, the mean the end - no more huge
'as my gateway drug, mistakes, never-nudes, chicken
er than anything uncle- dances or cracks at Egg Veal. I
Oscar ever toked. "Arrest- pictured a world where I'd never
elopment" showed me see new shenanigans from Bluth
rld of primetime network and company and refused to live
on, shining, shimmering, in it. No, Kitty Sanchez, I wasn't
d. It was the springboard readyto say goodbye to those.
rubs," "24" and the rest For five years, I carried that
bscene number of shows hugely satisfying feeling of
M since. knowing there are more Tobias
dropped the guillotine Funke flubs and Gob dumbshit-
ested" during its third tery for me to enjoy. Along the

the last few episodes of "Twin
Peaks" and the series finale of
"Outsourced" are all waiting
for me to press play. Through
an accidental trick (illusion!),
I've even been able to save part
of "Lost" - I watched through
"The End" but skipped the sea-
son two episode "Collision,"
meaning there's another furious
glare from Sayid, another joke
from Hurley that I've got in my
pocket.
Then came the whopper
last month that Netflix will
be producing new episodes of
"Arrested Development" to put
everything into perspective.
Now would I finish season three
and not watch the new batch? If
there's a movie, doI avoid that
and watch the new episodes?
The steps on this staircar led to

these shows to completion. It's
grim to admit the end of an era,
but clinging to the strands of the
past advances nothing. College
is going to end and I'm going to
have to leave all my friends - so
when I go home for Christmas,
I'll start by saying goodbye
to "Lost," "Outsourced" and
"Arrested Development" (for
now).
If you haven't noticed, this is
my final paragraph asa colum-
nist for The Michigan Daily. I'm
glad you didn't pull a pre-reve-
lation Kavi Shekhar Pandey and
save this piece of impeccable
prose for eternity. Thanks for
reading until the end.
Pandey plans to invest his money
in horse racing. To understand,
e-mail kspandey@umich.edu.

6
0

NEED A "COMMUNITY" FIX NEXT SEMESTER?
WRITE FOR COMMUNITY CULTURE. #sixseasonsandafeature
E-mail join.arts@umich.edu for information on applying.

60

6

670S MICHIGAN KNIT TAM lost at
OSU game. Seeking replacement for
sale or if found contact 734-546-8636

! ! ! www.varsitymanagement.
com !
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments avail-
able
for fall 2012
Two Bedrooms
1039 Baldwin
911 S. Forest
1001 S. Forest
1015 Huron
801 W. Madison
539 Packard
917 Packard
1015 Vaughn
521 Walnut
Apartments are renting fast! Call
Varsity to schedule your tour today!

S T U DENT HoOUSI1N G , I N C .
Parking for Sale
2412-13
Limited spaces remaining!!
909 Church/Abbey
726S. State/Forum
5101 Lawrence
.520 Packard
721 S. Fores/Foest Place

! ! ! www.varsitymanagement.
com .!
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments avail-
able
for fall 2012:
One Bedrooms
543 Church
801 W. Madison
848 Tappan
1015 Vaughn
515 Walnut
521 Walnut

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.
411 HIGH STREET APART-
MENTS
2 Bedrooms
Kerry Town-North Campus!
Quiet Neighborhood!
Heat & Water Included
Cover Parking Available
$895-$925
734-761-8000
primesh.com

RELEASE DATE- Monday, December 12, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5Apple heart 35 Make _: rake it 54 Rain gutters run
1 Brewpub choices 6 Turkish tite in under them
5 Bottle tops 7 Doctor'sself- 37 Sign anew, as a 55 System of belief
9 Newly hatched employment, and contract 57 Bannancovering
pige4 n a hint tfthe 40Thirtyfeet u O58Like"lo"'in Fr. or
14 Lower Caltaomia, startssofttetfive 41 SnldieoflSeul Sp.
amiliasr y sngesacross 4 Sighs of relief 59 Ouartack
15 Mather Goose answers 48uODiffiut Manning
baddie 8 Hombre's title 50 "The Chronicles 60 Likemany lifelike
16 Hearing-related 9 Low-crime of Namia" lion museumdisplays
17 r tof sect ootwn 52 the Greek" 61 Opposite of WSW
readingin poor t0 Sine-nn: ~ as tO alrn
light essntial 3Handle, as a 63 Buffalo Sabres'
19 Magicwand 11 Ocean Statesch. baton org.
welder 12 River tothefRhine ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 PC go-to type 13 ActivistNellie B
21 Usethe ballot 18 Addums Family UIRL 0FF MINTS
23 Mes.,inSpain Fckname ACUE NRA TAMARA
24 Drive-thru 22 Howard Hughes's D ESC BID ESP i E D
cleanings airline E T H A N O L H A S S L E S
29Checkpoint"Hold 24Scale, as Everest G E T R E A L O S H E L O
itr 25 Improvises like
31 Little-known Armstrong GAO CRY KEYEDIN
information 26 Welcomes tothe S E D B U R S T I N G
32SPrefixnmeaning penthouse E A TS TOMET OTE S
"bilon 27 Bog piece TE SH EOTW E E N
36 Harbor landing 28Freelance writers' K RAT I ON AP H O P
38 Bridge positions ends.
O Rangetforindoor 30Zooswinger APP T E HI RA
comfort 32zHoldaughtly U ARHM A I D T R A I L E R
42 Tm row"title 33 AnentGreeks P I A T E S A C P L S
inger region tat was N E C K E R 0 0 I A M S 0
43 High spirits home to G R E E D R P M S E E N
441974 Heraditus
Sutherland/Gould 34 One with no hope xwordeditorSaol.com 12/10/11

511 E. Hoover
418 E. Washington
Apartments are renting fast! Call
734.761.8 00ytoaVarsity to schedule your tour today!
www.primesh.com ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2 ! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
kitchens, living room, dining room, now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
free best housing sold out early for 2010
laundry and parking, Central Air! and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
WW W.CAMPUSREALTY.COM blocks from Central Campus and down-
WW 34M66RALY25 M town. 1to 4 bedroom, private baths
734-665-8825 available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
*!!!!4 BDRM CONDO N. Campus 4400 www.4eleenlofis.com
area. Free utilities, air cond., laundry,!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
cable, int. Loaded w/extran. !CLSY &7B/-A HM
$598/pp/mo. 4 pax min. 313-838-2629. GreatsLoc. Updated! Fireplace/ kitch,
prkg. Mast see! $4500 (313) 215-8115
***! 5 UNIT/6 UNIT HOUSE. Corner
of Church & Willard. Across the street CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
from Pizza House. 2 large sitting areas, invites you to visit
2 kitch., 3 showers/bths, wshr./dryer no www.CampusMgt.com
charge, 8 prkg. spaces avail. Aug. the best local website for a wide'selec-
2012- tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
Aug 2013. CALL: 248-330-0396 cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS, tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
One, Two, Three bedrrom apartments utilities. Contact us for details. Con-d
locted near the U/M Medical Cam- lete listing for Fall 2012 available
pus. now! Or cull and speak with our
Two blocks to Central Campus. Call Leasing Consultant, Pat at
Michigan Commercial Realty. 734-663-4101.
734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com FULLY FURNISHED DOWN to
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE linens private keyed room and share ap-
bedroom house loctaed near the U/M pointed kitchen, larger bathrooom, fur-
Athletic Campus and Band Field. nished lining room with two other ten-
Parking and Laundry. Call Michigan ants. Quiet private house. No smoking
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500. or pets. $450/mo. Call 734-478-5730
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
FANTASIC THREE BDRM FLAT. bedroom duplex ina quiet neighbor-
Main floorprivate house. Beautiful cus- hood. Walk to football games and
tom wood burning firerplace, full laun- Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
dry, larger prinate fenced yard and sun- Realty. 734-662-5500.
deck, hardwood floors and new carpet- www.michcomrealty.com
ing throughout. Freshly painted. $1300/
month w/ lease. Call 734-478-5730. AVAILABLE FALL. FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
BEAUTIFUL 5 BEDROOM cated on Central Campus near the
HOUSE Busi-
Near the Law School! ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
Totally remodeled with hardwood www.michcomrealty.com
floors, updated kitchen, & 2 full baths!
The apt is extremely spacious with AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
large bedrooms great for sharing. One, Two, Three bedroom apartments
Two parking spaces included and loctaed on UM Campus. Call Michigan
on-site laundry. Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
For More Information
Call (734)668-1100 (734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
www.varsitymanagement.com Now Leasing!

THINKIOUTSIDE THE 0X X(DORMS)
THINK U. TOWERS
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
WHY PAY OVER $1500
FOR A BEDIII
OUR ONE BEDROOMS
START AT $589
"FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
FREE PROCESSING FEE, $150.00 VALUE"
HURRY IN FOR BEST SELECTION
WE AREtRENTING
FOR SPINEFALL2012
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND
DRINK COUPON WITH
EVERY NEW TOUR**
ViST US AT
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MLCOM
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME
S. FOREST AVE.
ANN ARBOR, MI 48160
734-781-2680
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM/2 BATH House
Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
Avail. Sept. 2012. 734-395-6823
7 BDRM HOUSE 1129 White St.
6 prkg spaces. 3 bth. Some recents Up-
dates. $4200 plus utlities. 734-996-
1991. www.cappomanagement.com
8 MONTH LEASES!!!
HUGE TOWNHOUSES w/ 3 1/2
Baths
4 FREE Parking Spaces
9 1/2 foot ceilings throughout
Call for details (734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2012 dklemptner(&comcastnet

! ! I www.varsitymanagement.
com !
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
Best Locations in town
Fully furnished apartments avail-
able
for fall 2012
Studio Apartments
1039 Baldwin
331 Packard
418 E. Washington
Apartments are renting fast! Call
Varsity to schedule your tour today!
LIMITED 1 BED Apts. Remaining
1 @ 326 E. Madison $925/$945
2 @ 515 E. Lawrence $880
Fully Furmished
Heat & Water Included
Covered ParkingAvailable
Free Internet
734-761-8000
primesh.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

A

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE
organization, format. All disciplines.
25 years' U-M experience.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net.

I

.0

spoof
45 "Bumf crayon
color
47 Egyptian moss
49 ntaunhpoii
group member
51 Montezuma
56 Admin.aide
57 Hawkish
58 Notanomany
62 Solid baseball hit
64 African antelope
65 Muscular woe
H6 Bomnand...
t7 Prepares, as
cocktails
68 "Little" Dickens
girl "
69 "Besides that..."
DOWN
1 Helps illegally
2 Hen, vis-&-vis
eggs
3 Kick out
4 Olympic skater
Cohen

1 2 3 4 ; 14 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 16
17 19
20 21 22
23 18 25 26 7 26
29 39 31
32 33 34 36 36 37 38
39 40 41
42 43 44
45 46 47 48
49 50 51 52 53 54 55
56 57
58 59 66 61 62 63
64 65 66
87 68 69
By Me! Rosen ...,...,..

Al
W
FR
Vis
ARI
TIV
tow
Bart
734,
Va
I

l .-1. -l ~.iV-..'.. . . .IT/COMPUTER SCIENCE PAID
INTERNSHIP/JOB starts at $t2.00/br
FFORDABLE APARTMENTS: Email resame to
/HY PAY $1500 FOR A BED??? hr@synergybroadband.com
Our 1 bedrooms start at $589. for excellent opportunity with local IT
e are now Renting for Spring/Fall firm www.synergybroadband.com
2012 Part thme during school year, full time
sammers and permanentplacementpos-
*FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY, sible. International work permits wel-
.EE PROCESSING FEE, $150.00 come.
VALUE**
it us at uni.ersitytowers-mi .comPAID INTERNSHIP W/ local wealth
management firm. Please send resume
to alla@affinitywealthsolutions.com
BOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
E Award-Winning rentals in Kerry- STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
n, Central Campus, Old West Side, Paid survey takers need in A2.
7s Park. Now Renting for 2012. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
-994-3157. wwnw.arborprops.com _______________
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
ON CAMPUS LOCATIONS! Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
arsity Management has Studios, Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Bedroom, & 2 Bedroom Apart- Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
ments Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
Available on Campus! 847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
Locations close to the Business, "BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
Law School, & more! TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
For Locations & Prices training avail. 800-965-6520x125
Call
(734)668-1100R eT M ICll1cQ nl aI
www.varsitymanagement.com9 y

I

11

c211 TbneMediaServices,Inc.

12/12/11

4


t


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomModyDembr22D1-7

TEXT tUM2 TO 22022
TO GET AN EXTRA $10 WHEN
YOU SELL $50 IN BOOKS*
"Offer valid 0n buybacks of $50 or more. Eopires 12/31/2011. No valid with any other offer.

ULRICH'S
549 East University Avenue
ulrichs.com
MICHIGAN BOOK
& SUPPLY
317 S. State Street
michbook.com
PoweBy

,,

/7 ( f ,
J O "4 /

BEST PRICE GUARANTEE
Eociudes Student-to-Student deals.

t t 4


8A - Monday, December 12, 2011

0
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


6

Check the
trade-in
value
Ship to
us for
free

I
I
I


Go
shopping

4

4

amazon.Com /sell books

Download the Amazon
Student app and check
trade-in value instantly

I

E a I ,


The Michigan Daily I michigandaily com I December12, 2011

T

TT T 7 7

0

PAUL SHERMAN/DAILY
Senior forward David Wohlberg emerged from a one-month point slump to tally four points in Michigan's win and tie against Michigan State. Michigan coach Red Berenson predicted the breakout weekend for his alternate captain Wohlberg.

By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Writer
EAST LANSING - One of the
biggest issues for the Michigan
hockey team this season has been
a lack of scoring production from
its veteran players. The Wolver-
ines have been relying on rook-
ies and unheralded players to
score, leaving the offense mired in
inconsistency and question marks.
But against Michigan State this
weekend, upperclassmen stepped

up and delivered Michigan's best
hockey of the year.
The Wolverines won on Friday,
4-3, and tied, 3-3, before losing in
a shootout on Saturday. Michigan
played a home-and-home - so Fri-
day's game was at Yost Ice Arena
and Saturday's game was in East.
Lansing.
The biggest veteran catalyst for
the four-out-of-six-point week-
end? Senior forward David Wohl-
berg.
The alternate captain went

almost a month without a point,
but a switch from wing to center
two weeks ago has had a revital-
izing effect. He also switched to a
line with junior Chris Brown and
freshman sensation Alex Gup-
till on what Michigan coach Red
Berenson has called his "power
line."
Before this weekend, Berenson
said Michigan fans would see the
"real David Wohlberg" against the
Spartans, and his hunch was spot
on.

Wohlberg scored the first goal
of the game for the Wolverines
on Friday, wristing a beauty of a
shot into the top right shelf to give
Michigan (5-6-3 CCHA, 9-8-3
overall) the early lead.
"I think the guys we needed to
stepup tonightsteppedup,"Wohl-
berg said Friday. "We knew what
needed to be done."
Wohlberg wasn't the only
upperclassman to step up on Fri-
day, though. After junior forward
Chris Brown left the box follow-

ing his team-leading 13th penalty,
he bolted up the left side of the
ice and gave Michigan a lead it
wouldn't relinquish.
Brown used his size and lower-
body strength to box out a Michi-
gan State defender in front of
the net, then slid the puck right
between the legs of netminder
Will Yanakeff to take a 2-1llead.
Even junior forward Kevin
Lynch, somewhat of a forgotten
comrade, got in on the action.
Lynch had had just three points

entering the weekend but had two
on Friday, including a goal that
turned out to be the deciding tally.
That power line - whose aver-
age height is 6-foot-2 - has not
only helped the two veterans, but
also the youngster. Guptill scored
his team-leading ninth goal on
Friday, and that line has sparked
the inconsistent Michigan offense.
"You never know what two or
three guys are going to play well
together," Berenson said. "From
See MSU, Page 3B

ICE HOCKEY
Michigan icers have been
' missing hunger, dri

EAST LANSING -
Judging by the faces of the
Michigan hockey team's
players and coaches fol-
lowing Saturday night's thriller
against Michigan State, you
would've thought the Wolverines
had justbeen swept.
Senior defenseman Greg
Pateryn dejectedly iced his shoul-
der, wincing when asked to recall
the waning moments of regula-
tion when Michigan surrendered

its late 3-2 advantage.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
said "it's too
bad" a shoot-
out had to
determine the
game, which
along with
Friday night's
contest in
Ann Arbor MATT
resembled, SLOVIN
the rivalry's

hard-hitting of yore.
Referees igno -: eir whistles
and, for the mo rt, allowed
the teams to Ot out without
interruption
But despite the long faces and
bruised egos that darkened the
visitors' locker room at Munn Ice
Arena, it wasn't all bad for the
Wolverines. In fact, they won the
series.
Michigan clinched the series
See HUNGER, Page 3B

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Junior quarterback Denard Robinson wore a wrap on his right arm in a 58-0 win over Minnesota this season.
Robinson reveals he played through
staph infection during 2011 season

MEN'S BASKETBALL
'M' pulls away late at the Palace

By TIM ROHAN hand.
Daily Sports Editor When Robinson wore a wrap
on his right forearm before
Evidently, a "boo-boo" is Michigan's game against Min-
another term for staph infec- nesota in October, Hoke and
tion. Robinson dismissed it asa "boo-
Michigan coach Brady Hoke boo." In reality, it was a staph
revealed Friday - while defend- infection that lingered for two
ing Denard Robinson's up-and- to three weeks.
down season - that his starting "Turns out you didn't have
quarterbackhad battled through a boo-boo," a reporter asked
a midseason staph infection in Robinson on Friday. "You had a
addition to an abdominal injury staph infection?"
and issues with his elbow and Robinson threw his head back

and laughed.
"It was a deal," Robinson
said, repeating another popular
Hoke-speak phrase.
"I was a little sick - had a
staph infection. But I went out
there and still played. I did it for
my team."
Then the details started
to emerge. It was diagnosed
sometime soon after the season
opener, possibly after the Notre
Dame game. Robinson and Hoke
See ROBINSON, Page 3B

By BEN ESTES
Daily Sports Editor
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -
Having lost his balance after
getting bumped by a defender,
freshman point guard Trey Burke
went hur-
tling to the MICHIGAN 90
ground OAKLAND 80
underneath
Oakland's basket, chucking the
ball in desperation toward the left
corner.

But Burke's pass managed to
find a wide-open Tim Hardaway
Jr. And his shot found the net.
Hardaway Jr.'s 3-pointer with
3:40 left in the game extended the
Michigan men's basketball team's
lead back to double digits, and
an emphatic fast-break dunk by
senior guard Stu Douglass after
a Golden Grizzly turnover on the
next possession effectively iced it.
The Wolverines rode it out the rest
of the way en route to a 90-80 win

over Oakland (6-4) at the Palace
Auburn Hills.
"(Douglass) has pretty go<
lift, (and) I think he's had acour-
(dunks) in his career here, but jt
score the two points," joked Mic
igan coach John Beilein. "I'm jt
happy we scored the two points.
Douglass came alive in ti
game's final minutes. Shooti
just 27.8 percent from long ran.
coming into Saturday, the co-ca
tain followed his breakaway jam
See OAKLAND, Page 1


EAGLE ATTACK
U For the second time in two seasons,
Easte ri Midhigan upset the Wolverines,
* this time paced by Tavelyn James's 38
points. Page 4B

HEISMAN HOPEFUL
E If Denard Robinson is going to boost
himself into the 2012 Heisman Trophy
race, he'd be smart to take lessons from
dual-threat RGIII. Page 2B


2B - December 12, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SPORTFSMONDw COLUMN
Following B GI

Moments before the 2011
Heisman Trophy win-
ner was announced
Saturday night; the dual threat
Robert Griffin III was seated
next to Andrew Luck, who's
widely considered the perfect
NFL prospect.
History
said it would
be either Luck
or Griffin r .
who heard his
name called, j
as 10 of the"
last12 win-
ners hadbeen TIM
quarterbacks. ROHAN
Some-
where,
Denard Robinson was watching.
Griffin looked cool and calm.
He was the odds-on favorite,
though Luck's team won more
games and made a BCS bowl.
Earlier, the Baylor quarter-
back's stats flashed across the
screen. Half of his 36 touchdown
passes were 36 yards or longer.
His 11 yards per pass attempt
were third-best in Division-I
history. And his 192.31 passer
efficiency rating - if maintained
in his bowl game - would be the
best of all time.
"A quarterback first, (but) fast
and agile enough to also be a
world-class hurdler," said ESPN
announcer Chris Fowler, asa
montage of Griffin's highlights
rolled. "Attacking obstacles full-
speed is innate.
"Magnetic, always positive,
Griffin lifted the Bears through
their low points. With toughness,
he took more hits and provided
heroics. Dynamic - and con-
fusing for defenders who had
no answer for Griffin's arsenal.
Mistake-free precision to slice
with screen passes, then deliver
daggers deep with stunning
unmatched marksmanship."
Across the board, Griffin's
numbers were more impressive
than Luck's. His story was bet-
ter too. Taking a mediocre Big12
team to the brink of a BCS game
while beating Oklahoma, Texas
and Texas Tech in November
built Heisman momentum.
Signature momentsbuilt Grif-
fin's legend. He downed Okla-
homa on a beautiful touchdown
pass with eight seconds left, and
for the first month of the season
everyone loved to talk about how
he had more touchdowns than
incompletions. The All-American
hurdler became known as a lethal

quarterback who could run,
instead of a lethal runner who
could throw.
His nickname "RGIII" became
part of the college football lexi-
con.
Then he declared, "I think
Baylor just won it's first Heis-
man," after he accounted for four
touchdowns in the Bears' season-
ending win over Texas. Stories
emerged about the 6-foot-2, 220-
pound signal caller. Everyone
formed an opinion. And everyone
liked RGIII, the congenial and
electrifying Baylor Bear.
Griffin's 3,998 passing yards,
72-percent completion rate and 36
total touchdowns may have been
enough to win the Heisman, but
he added more than 600 rush-
ing yards and nine more rushing
touchdowns for good measure.
Luck's stats couldn't compare.
Luck was the first to start
applauding beforethe Heis-
man trustee could even finish
announcing Griffin's name as the
winner. When she did finish, she
shouted, "RGIII!"
She, too, had fallen for his
allure.
A SUPERSTAR OFF THE FIELD
Michigan quarterback Denard
"Shoelace" Robinson said Friday
he planned on watching the Heis-
man Trophy ceremony. He may
have witnessed Griffin, a speed-
ster who's two inches taller and
a more prolific passer, hoist the
Heisman.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
said he thought Shoelace deserved
to be considered for the award.
"I can't sit here and rattle off
statistics, but in the Big Ten con-
ference he took ateam to 10-2,"
Hoke said. "I'm not a bigstats guy
- but what he did (for this team)."
To be clear, Robinson's sta-
tistics didn't sing. He threw 14
interceptions - just a handful
of quarterbacks threw more. He
topped 200 yards passingtwice.
Griffin passed that mark in all but
one of his games.
But Hoke saw Heisman-like
intangibles and talent in Robin-
son.
"I knew he would say that,"
Robinson responded. "He knows
what kind of player Iam. And I
think I should be there, one day.
Hopefully. We'll see."
He already has a Heisman-
worthy smile and a personality
that the nation is begging to fall
in love with. Plus, his nickname,

stiff-arm pose was captured by
Daily photographer Sam Wolson?
Robinsonplayed out of his mind
for those four weeks. For four
weeks he was the Heisman favor-
ite. To win the Heisman, he has to
play that way all season.
He doesn't have to be perfect.
Griffin wasn't. But he was close.
Somewhere alongthe way,
Griffin learned that his athleti-
cism was best suited as a comple-
ment to his arm. He followed the
lead of Auburn's Cam Newton,
Ohio State's Troy Smith and Flor-
ida's Tim Tebow as dual-threat
quarterbacks who ran and threw
their wayto the Heisman.
Robinson could do the same,
only if he continues to flourish -
as he did down the stretch against
Nebraska and Ohio State - in Al
Borges's offense.
The coaches say Robinson's
starting to get "it." He's starting
to go through his progressions.
He's starting to read defenses bet-
ter. He's startingto make better
decisions.
At first, Robinson admitted
he was confused about the right
time to take off and run. Now, it's
becoming second nature, once he
first stays true to his progression.
"Don't force the ball - that's
the biggest thing," Robinson said.
"I've been forcing it. I got good
legs and I've got to use them when
I need to.... Sometimes, I forced
it and I'd run it when I didn't
have to run it. So I learned how to
progress, go through everything,
and do what I have to do."
After the bye week, fifth-year
senior wide receiver Junior
Hemingway saw a different
quarterback emerge the last five
weeks of the season. Borges said
there would be growing pains and
Robinson had endured the worst
of them.
"I wasn't really worried about
it," Hemingway said. "Like every-
body else, I knew: Denard's still
learning. Coming from the spread
to actually dropping back and
reading - one read, two read -
and then coming back.
"And I knew he was still learn-
ing. It just came down to a point
where he was going to go where
he needed to go with the ball -
what he thought was best."
Next year, it'll be time to make
plays, not strides.
TIME IS PRECIOUS
Robinson has only his senior
year left to realize his dream.

Of the last (now) 11 quarter-
backs to win the Heisman, only
Eric Crouch had less-than-stellar
passingnumbers. Minus Crouch,
the dual-threat winners have
averaged 3,200 passing yards,
a 68-percent completion rate,
803 rushingyards and 45 total
touchdowns. All four - Griffin,
Newton, Smith and Tebow - were
talented rushers,yet averaged just
six interceptions in their Heisman
seasons.
The statistical expectation is
daunting, and it may have cost
Luck the trophy.
Robinson's 2010 season, his first
under Borges: 2,056 passing yards,
a 56-percent completion rate, 1,163
rushing yards, 34 total touch-
downs and 14 interceptions.
Robinson's trek to improve will
be all uphill, opening the season
against Alabama at Cowboys Sta-
dium before playing on the road at
Notre Dame, Nebraska and Ohio
State - all of which have an axe to
grind with Michigan. The sched-
ule could swallow him whole or
provide the spotlighthis Heisman
campaign needs.
He'll have to put it all together
like Griffin did. The Baylor quar-
terback posted similar numbers
the year prior to his Heisman
year, but in2010 he threw fewer
touchdowns (22 compared to 36),
more interceptions (8to6) and
the Bears had a worse record (7-5
compared to 9-3), losing their final
three regular season games.
His coaches raved how he then
took his proficiency and accuracy
to heights previously reserved
only for Luck.
Griffin seems to have been fur-
ther along than Robinson at that
point, but it's possible Robinson
follows Griffin's path.
Then their stories will sound
the same: a dual-threat quarter-
back with one-of-a-kind speed
that decided to throw first, run
second.
Both withstood their program's
doldrums to carry their teams to
national prominence.
If we get ahead of ourselves for
a second, imagine Fowler reading
off a similar description during
Robinson's montage in 2012.
Griffin's personality and legs
bought him attention. His arm
won him the Heisman.
Robinson will have to do the
same.
-Rohan can be reached
at trohan@umich.edu or on
Twitter @TimRohan.

KELLY KLEIN/AP and ALDEN REISS/DAILY
Baylor quarterback Robert Griffin 11l (top) won Baylor's first-ever Heisman Tro-
phy on Saturday. Michigan's Denard Robinson is a 2012 Heisman hopeful.

"Shoelace," is ready-made for the
spotlights.
"I bring an energy every time
you see me," Robinson said Fri-
day, when asked to describe what
kind of player he is. "I bring a
smile and I want to bright up
everybody Isee."
WHAT ROBINSON MUST DO
TO BECOME A 2012 HEISMAN
CANDIDATE
How much more improving
does Robinson need to do?
He needs to become a lethal
quarterback who can run, instead
of a lerhal runner who can throw.
For Robinson to win, he better
have watched Griffin closely this
season. '
Robinson's team is going to

have to win at least nine games,
beating a few rivals along the way.
Robinson must be the star.
Griffin was Superman for the
Bears, and so losing three games
became acceptable because every-
one assumed Griffin had no help.
Robinson must continue to cre-
ate those signature moments he
has already authored - like the
comeback wins over Notre Dame
and Northwestern this season. He
must limit the disastrous shake-
your-head moments, like when
he couldn't figure out Michigan
State's cornerback blitzes or when
he couldn't produce one last
touchdown in Iowa City. If Michi-
gan slips, it can't be his fault.
Remember the first four games
of his breakout 2010 season?
Remember when his Heisman

4


VOLL E YBAL
In Gainesville, Gators
boot 'M' from Sweet 16

Michigan rallies to top Badgers

By LIZ NAGLE
Daily Sports Writer

By MATT SPELICH
Daily Sports Writer
On Friday, the Michigan wom-
en's volleyball team's fan boat
ran out of juice on the Florida
bayou. Sinking ever deeper into
the murky
swamp MICHIGAN 0
brush of FLORIDA 3
the Ste-
phen C. O'Connell Center, the
Wolverines were down two sets to
nothing, against a pack of hungry
Gators, chomping atthe bit as they
came into the third set.
As premonitions of the season's
end crept over Michigan, the team
came out swinging for its life.
The Wolverines played with the
unwavering conviction that their
season was not about totend in
Gainesville, Fla.
Senior outside hitter Alex Hunt
fought back the hardest, racking
10 kills in the final set, including
the tying game point, 25-25. But
the Gators took a one-two chomp
outofthe drowning Wolverines to
dash their hopes of reaching the
NCAA Championship.
No. 17 Florida swept No. 22
Michigan in three sets in the
Sweet 16 round of the NCAA
Tournament.
"Florida played phenomenal,"
said Michigan coach Mark Rosen.
"In talking with some of their fans
and coaches after the game, they
said that's the best game Florida
played all year. After watching
them fall to Illinois, it became
clear thatthey had saved their best
game for us.
"I don't think we played poorly,
I just think that we didn't do a very

good job of stopping them. I know
we're not happy to have finished
our season, but I think we over-
came a lot of adversity this year
and found a way to get deep into
the tournament. I'm proud of our
team."
In many ways, Rosen should be
proud of his team's performance.
Walkingaway fromNo. 6 Stanford
with the win - let alone getting
all the way to the Sweet 16 - was
far more than anyone could have
expected from Michigan, a team
that could barely manage to pull
out three wins in the first half of
Big Ten play back in October.
"Winning only three games
in the first half of the season was
something I've never experienced
before with Michigan volleyball
before," Hunt said. "The whole
thing was an identity crisis. We
had a lot of doubt in ourselves. It
was the first time our team ever
looked at itself and said, 'Wow, we
are really bad.'
"I think we reallyturned every-
thing around in the second half
of the season. I'm really proud
of how it all came together, and
I'm thankful for the people that
stuck by us through our rough
and darktimes. They are the one's
who helped us flip it and get us to
the Sweet 16, something no one
thought we'd be able to accom-
plish."
Senior middle blocker Courtney
Fletcher, who, like many of her
teammates, has devoted her entire
life to this sport, feels the engulf-
ing void of a world without volley-
ball. It's a reality she knew would
one day come for her, like it comes
for every athlete, but its definitive

yet freeing nature is indescribable
to someone who hasn't experi-
enced it first hand.
"This whole process has been
really disorienting," Fletcher said.
"I don't have anything left now. I
don't have practice, there's noth-
ing I can change about my perfor-
mance. It's over. But at the same
time, I feel like I've had a great
career, and I have no regrets. It's
been a bittersweet ride. It wasn't
always easy, it wasn't always fun,
but it's made me a better person
overall. I've made some great
friends, played some great volley-
ball, but now it's time for the next
chapter."
As the team traded in its fan
boat for a more suitable form of
transportation back to Ann Arbor,
the image of that final Florida kill
hung heavy in the air. But that
wasn't all the seniors were think-
ing about.
Thoughts stretched as far back
as the first kills of their careers and
spanned as far forward as the next
three years - imagining what lies
in store for teammates like fresh-
man setter Lexi Dannemiller and
all the new hitters she'll be setting
for in the coming seasons.
Rosen, a little more focused on
the here-and-now, kept his intro-
spections confined to this season.
"We had major doubts about
that season during that slump in
mid-October when we were really
struggling," Rosen said. "It's hard
to evaluate your team when you're
right in the middle of it all, but
looking back at some of the choic-
es our players made to continue to
fight and push through it, I really
am proud of them all."

Michigan wrestlers of past,
present and future visited Cliff
Keen Arenaon Sunday, before the
home
opener WISCONSIN 12
against MICHIGAN 21
Wiscon-
sin. And before squaring off with
the Badgers, the eighth-ranked
Wolverines hosted a free wres-
tling clinic.
Olympic hopeful and Michigan
alum Josh Churella, along with
Illinois' Jimmy Kennedy, led the
clinic. Michigan wrestlers not in
the lineup against Wisconsin also
participated.
As the clinic concluded, the
children flocked to the bleachers
to watch the main event. Michi-
gan was expecting an easy win
handed to them on a silver plat-
ter. But after a few early lower-
weight wrestlers struggling to
score early on, it was up to the
Wolverines' last four wrestlers to
claim the 21-12 win.
Redshirt sophomore Grant
Pizzo earned the first points
on the board in the 125-pound
match with a 9-1 major deci-
sion. He stole an early advantage
on Wisconsin freshman Austin
Hieptas with a takedown, near
fall and almost two minutes of
riding time in the first period
alone.
"Individually, I feel I did really
well," Pizzoasaid. "I was on my leg
attacks and got the major for the
team."
But after Pizzo's victory, Mich-
igan lost four of the next five
matches -'matches they should
have won. The lone win came
from 141-pound fifth-year senior
Kellen Russell.


Russell fell to No. 4 in the ered by redshirt junior Hunter
nation after his 46-match win Collins. In the 184-pound bout,
streak came to an end last week- Collins found a late takedown
end. But his champion nature after being awarded a technical
was notquestioned as he attacked violation on Wisconsin redshirt
Wisconsin redshirt freshman freshman Timmy McCall.
Thomas Glen. "He was very strong physi-
Wisconsin isn't a ranked team, cally," Collins said. "I knew I had
whereas Michigan was No. 8. So, to wear him down and eventually
why were the Wolverines trailing through the match that's what
by four points after six matches? happened."
At intermission, Michigan was Collins pushed Michigan into
down 12-8. But when the team the lead with his 4-3 finish, but
emerged from the locker room, redshirt freshman Max Huntley
after the coaches reassured them and redshirt junior Ben Apland
that they were capable of more, secured the victory.
they wrestled with a different Huntley, at 197 pounds, faced
spirit. Fifth-year senior Justin sophomore Badger Jackson Hein.
Zeerip rallied for a10-2 win in the After a scoreless first period,
174-pound contest against Badger Hein scored an escape in the sec-
Frank Cousins. He catalyzed the ond and Huntley found a reversal
team's comeback with his final in the third to tie the match 2-2.
takedown to earn a major deci- They went into sudden victory
sion. overtime. His thought through-
out the match: "Winning."
It was his first match at the
Cliff Keen Arena and the spec-
"I wanted to tators were eager to witness his
firsthome win.
score. I w'anted "I could hear, 'Let's go Max,'
and I wanted to score," Huntley
to win for the said. "I wanted to win for the
crowd." crowd."
Following Huntley was heavy-
weight Ben Apland, who sealed
the deal. But it was another
comeback story. Tobin stole the
"He's a fifth-year senior; he lead in the second period, and
should be doing that," Pritzlaff Apland had to wrestle his way
said. back to an 8-4 win.
As a former Wisconsin associ- The coaches walked into the
ate head coach, Pritzlaff had a arena with high expectations but
different perspective than any- walked out with a bittersweet
one else in the arena. He knew taste in their mouths. The team
how both teams operated on the won, but it seemed as if it was
mat. Pritzlaff left Wisconsin's resting on its laurels.
coaching staff to join Michigan "I didn't think we competed
this season. as hard as we should have." Prit-
Michigan was in desperate zlaff said. "We have a lot of work
need of a win, which was deliv- to do."


a The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

December 12, 2011- 3B

mv -

x h ihgnDiy-mciadiyo eebr2 D1-3


Guptill drives Michigan offense

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
EAST LANSING - Questions
hung in the air when the news
came that freshman forward Phil
Di Giuseppe would miss Satur-
day's game against No. 14 Michi-
gan State.
It was unclear where the
offensive drive would come from,
since Di Giuseppe has proven
himself as one of the Michigan
hockey team' s most consistent
scorers.
But this weekend, it was a dif-
ferent freshman - forward Alex
Guptill - who stole the show.
Guptill ensured that Di Giuseppe
wasn't missed at all. Over the
course of the series, Guptill
racked up three points and now
leads Michigan in goals scored
(nine).
"(Guptill) is doing the little
things right," said senior defen-
seman Greg Pateryn. "That's
what it comes down to. Less is
more in college hockey, and he's
doing the simple things."
Michigan coach Red Beren-
son has been preaching about
the importance of Hockey 101 for
months: not getting too fancy with
the puck and making the most of
the opportunitiesgiventoyou.
This series, it became clear
that Guptill has been paying
attention.
Going into Saturday night's
shootout loss, senior forward
David Wohlberg stressed the
importance of scoring the first
goal to establish momentum in
Michigan's favor. Though Gup-
till didn't score on Saturday, he
set up his teammates and gave
the Wolverines (5-6-2-1 CCHA,
9-8-2 overall) the all-important
first lead.
Six minutes into the first stan-

ALDEN REISS/Daily
Freshman forward Alex Guptill scored a goal against Michigan State to become the Wolverines' leading goal scorer.

OAKLAND
From Page 1B
with a 3-pointer a couple plays
later (one of two he hit on the day)
to put Michigan (7-3) up 82-69,
removing any doubt about the
final outcome. Oakland did out-
score the Wolverines 5-0 in the
final minute in alate push, but by
then it was too late.
Though Michigan did manage
to pull away, for most ofthe second
half, the Golden Grizzlies refused
to be left in the dust. The Wolver-
ines came out firing after halftime
- as they did in the first half -
and plenty of times, it appeared
that a big3-pointer would give the
team the momentum it needed to
make agame-clinchingrun.
Oakland, though, had an
answer almost every time, usually
fromguardReggie Hamilton,who
finished with 28 points to lead all
scorers. The game was tied until
the 11:53 mark, as Michigan was
forced to adapt to the Grizzlies'
high-powered offense and its up-
and-down style.
But the Wolverines began to
chip away at the Grizzlies, build-
ing a smalllead until finally break-
ing through in the final minutes.
The late run capped by Douglass's
dunk was part of an 11-4 Michigan
run. The team shot 57.4 percent
from the field in the second half,
including a scorching 15-for-28
performance on 3-pointers.
Going in, the Wolverines knew
that they would have opportuni-
ties from long range.
"We saw their tendencies (on
film)," Beilein said. "We knew
we weren't going to get to the
rim (and) get some backdoors.
We knew it was, particularly, the
two corner shots were goingto be
open, so we practiced them, but
we practice them all the time. We
needed that."
Early on, it appeared the Wol-
verines were going to run the

Golden Grizzlies right out of the
Palace. After a slightly shaky start
on offense, Michigan's shooters
gothot. Onthe otherend,Oakland
struggled to score despite getting
open looks.
With 10 points by the 9:31
mark, sophomore forward Evan
Smotrycz almost topped the Griz-
zlies' output himself for a while,
and the Wolverines led 25-11 at
one point. Smotrycz finished with
20 points and nine rebounds,
leading Beilein to say it was "prob-
ably his best game since he's been
here." With Hardaway Jr. finish-
ing with 21 points and Burke with
20, Michigan had three players
top 20 points for the first time
since 2002.
But the refs were forced to stop
the actionwith6:49 leftinthehalf
for several minutes, as the score-
boards above each basket ceased
to work - the main scoreboard
hadn't been working since the
beginning of the game, so none in
the arena were functioning at that
point.
After that, Michigan's offense,
too, suddenly had a power outage.
The Wolverines got careless with
the ball, turning it over seemingly
almost every other possession.
They finished with 10 turnovers
for the half, allowing Oakland to
creep back into it.
"Both teams had to deal with
(the scoreboard)," said senior
guard Zack Novak. "I will say
it was strange, I've never really
experienced anything like that
before. ... (But) really, the differ-
ence was we just got shaky with
the ball. That was really it.
"You just can't do that."
Travis Bader's game-tying
3-pointer as the half ended knot-
ted it up for the first time since it
was 2-2 in the opening minute.
The Grizzlies carried that
momentum into the back-and-
forth second half, until Michigan
eventually took control late in the
affair.

za, Michigan State (6-5-0, 10-6-
1) was working the puck around
its zone in an attempt to clear it.
Guptill stole the puck from the
Spartans and dished it to junior
forward Chris Brown, who took
the shot and scored on his own
rebound off of Spartan netmind-
er Drew Palmisano.
Guptill's second assist of the
night came midway through the
third period when he took the
puck from the blue line to the
net. Palmisano blocked the shot,
but Wohlberg capitalized on the
rebound.
"I thought (Guptill) was
opportunistic," Berenson said.
"When he gets the puck, he's
dangerous. He's young and he's
playing against the other team's
top lines too, but he's holding his
own."
Guptill has moved up to the

first line with Wohlberg and
Brown, and the unit has not dis-
appointed - the trio amassed a
total of 10 points over the week-
end.
Whereas Guptill has been
pretty consistent throughout the
season, Brown and Wohlberg
have not.
"I think (Guptill) complements
(Brown and Wohlberg)," Beren-
son said. "(He) has a knack for
getting open, getting into right
spots and making good plays."
Guptill is one of Michigan's
biggest players at 6-foot-3 and is
playing on the Wolverines' big-
gest line.
It's easy for him to use his size
to maneuver the puck down the
ice and out-physical the oppo-
nent.
But it's still his knack for main-
taining possession of the puck

that allows Guptill to capitalize
offensively.
That was the case Friday night
in Michigan's 4-3 win, when
Guptill notched his ninth goal
of the season to become Michi-
gan's leading scorer. He eased
his way from around the back
of the net to the crease, where
his backhand shot whizzed past
Michigan State goaltender Will
Yanakeff.
After registering his first goal
of the season against Bentley on
Oct. 7, Guptill face-planted on the
ice following an overzealous cel-
ebration. This weekend, though,
he kept his skates firmly on the
ground.
Considering how much Gup-
till had to rejoice throughout the
weekend, it's probably best that
he's learned how to keep his bal-
ance.


MSU
From Page 1B
the minute we put them together,
there was something going on
there. It's been good."
Added Wohlberg: "Those two
guysthat I amplayingwithare big
boys. I think we are just grinding
it out downlow and that the chem-
istry is there."
On Saturday, the power line -
and the veterans - did it again,
scoring two of Michigan's three
goals. Brown and Wohlberg
scored, and Guptill assisted both
of their goals.
Di Giuseppe missed Saturday's

game to be in Alberta, Canada, for
the Canadian junior national team
tryouts, but Michigan was able to
replace his usual production with
other spots in the lineup.
Wohlberg now has 17 points in
17 career games against Michi-
gan State, and ina tough, physical
game, he and Brown stepped up
to be two of the biggest factors on
the ice.
"It's huge to get those guys
going," said senior defenseman
Greg Pateryn. "They are a big part
of this team, and having those
guys scoring gives everyone else
some momentum to get going."
But it wasn't just the offensive
veterans that stepped up. Pateryn

had perhaps his best game of the
year on Saturday night, flying
around the ice and single-hand-
edly blocking a couple open-look
Spartan goals.
"Pateryn was a rock," Berenson
said. "He is one of the top defense-
men in our league. Without (sus-
pended defenseman) Jon Merrill
out there, he has really taken over.
You can tell he is the anchor of our
defense."
And senior goaltender Shawn
Hunwick gave Michigan a chance
to win both nights. He made
more than 30 saves both nights,
and on Saturday, he made at least
three one-on-one saves when the
defense was caught out of posi-

tion.
Though the weekend was suc-
cessful, Michigan was still pain-
fully close to sweeping its biggest
rival on Saturday.
Wohlberg put the Wolverines
ahead, 3-2, with a little over six
minutes to go in the game, closing
in on their first weekend sweep
since before Halloween.
Then junior forward Lee Mof-
fie attempted a no-look, backward
flip of a clear with four minutes
left on a penalty kill that was easi-
ly intercepted by Spartan forward
Lee Reimer, and Hunwick was left
out to dry.
"It's a bad play and a panic
play," Berenson said. "You can't

panic when you are under pres-
sure. Good players take their time
and do the right thing."
But it looked like Michigan was
going to get a great chance to win
the game with less than a minute
left in the game, when Michigan
State forward Anthony Hayes was
called for interference.
But the potential man-up
opportunity was thwarted when
Brownwas called for cross-check-
ing during the delayed Hayes call.
"I can't tell you if it was a good
call or not, but that penalty real-
ly got them back in the game,"
Berenson said.
In overtime, Michigan outshot
the Spartans 8-0 and had a few

good looks, but couldn't capital-
ize.
The Wolverines continued
their shootout slump by missing
on all three attempts. They are
now an abysmal 1-for-9 on the
season in shootout attempts.
"The shootout can come down
to anybody scoring, and it's too
bad it comes down to that," Beren-
son said. "It was a good effort by
our team and a good game, but not
a good finish."
But Michigan never would have
been in position to win without its
horses. Michigan needed the vet-
erans tostep up in one of the most
important series of the year, and
they responded, right on time.


HUNGER
From Page 1B
when it grabbed an extra point
after overtime ended with
the game still tied. Ironically
enough, Michigan State coach
Tom Anastos instituted the
shootout rule as commissioner
of the CCHA, a role he served
from 1998 until this spring.
"Who was this crazy guy
who came up with this shootout
thing?" Anastos joked in his
post-game press conference.
On Friday night in Ann Arbor,
there was no shortage of thrills.
For the first time in over a
month, Michigan looked like an
NCAA Tournament team in its

4-3 win. The untimely sloppi-
ness that had characterized the
Wolverines' fall to the basement
of the conference vanished. And
in the second period, something
bigger appeared in its place.
Junior forward Chris Brown
had barely left the penalty box
- his home away from home -
when he picked up a loose puck
and beat the Spartan netminder
in a one-on-one. Four minutes
later, freshman forward Alex
Guptill picked a pocket of his
own and, after a quick deke,
finished easily with a backhand
- one of the prettier goals the
Wolverines have produced all
season.
But fortunately for Michigan,
you can save those style points

for the intermission acts. The
Wolverines aren't known for
highlight-reel goals this season.
Instead, if Michigan is to make a
run in the second half of the sea-
son - and this weekend showed
it can - it's going to be about
staying hungry.
"Our team's a better team
than we were two weeks ago or
two months ago," Berenson said.
"We're having the chance to play
better. We're doing some things
better."
And that driving force has
the greatest potential to nudge
Michigan up the CCHA stand-
ings as it heads down the
stretch.
You know that quote from
James Gammon's character in

"Major League"?
"We won a game yesterday. If
we win one today, that's two in
a row. If we win one tomorrow,
that's called a winning streak. It
has happened before."
That's probably how Berenson
had been beginning to feel. And
he probably had a similar mes-
sage for his team in the locker
room Friday night.
With the disappearance
of "want to" - a want to play
"Michigan hockey" - came the
seven-game winless streak.
And now that it finally might
be coming back, how do you
make sure it sticks around, espe-
cially with an extended break
before the Great Lakes Invita-
tional on Dec. 29-30?

That's something Berenson
can't possibly coach. It has to
come straight from the Wolver-
ines' hearts. That "want to" has
to consume them daily - while
they're practicing, on game days,
even when they're "writing
exams," as Berenson says.
And it starts with the lead-
ers. Ignore the fact that this
team has two freshmen as its
two leading scorers. Guptill
and freshman forward Phil
Di Giuseppe have never stood
before four CCHA Tournament
series and known they need
to win all of them to make the
NCAA Tournament like in 2010.
Senior forward David Wohl-
berg has.
And this weekend, Wohlberg

was finally "the real David
Wohlberg" that Berenson prom-
ised us all week we'd see.
How did Berenson know he'd
finally break out against the
Spartans?
Well, through Wohlberg's
caged facemask, you can still
clearly make out his eyes. Beren-
son must have finally seen that
hunger in his team.
It's a shame it took a 4,000-
mile trip to Alaska for it to final-
ly come back, but the important
thing for this senior class is that
it just might be here to stay.
Maybe.
- Slovin can be reached
at mislovin@umich.edu or
via Twitter @MattSlovin.

I

ROBINSON
From Page 1B
weren't sure.
No, Robinson didn't spread
the infection to other teammates.
Hoke credited his staff for their
careful handling of the situation.
Yes, it was painful. And Rob-
inson admitted he was scared.
But the doctor's reassurance that
he was going to be OK put him at
ease.
The doctor explained that he
probably got it from the field turf,
and said that he was allowed to
play but only if he took adequate
care of it.
But the infection was serious
enough that he spent a night in the
hospital. Hoke wasn't sure Robin-
son if would have to miss at least
one game. Robinson said "it got
close," but added that there was no
doubt in his mind.
"(I'm) going to play regardless,"
Robinson told the doctor the day
he found out.
Against Minnesota, he generat-
ed his third-highest passer rating
of the season (188.4), completing

1S-of-19 passes for 169 yards. He
accounted for three touchdowns
in Michigan's 58-0 win.
"It affected me a lot in the
games and practice, but I kept
pushing it because I knew my
teammates would do the same for
me," Robinson said. "I had to be
accountable.
"It was (affecting my throwing)
a little bit, but I can't make any
complaints. I was playing with it."
The wrap was exchanged for
a bandage the next week against
Northwestern. The bandage was
there again the next week when
he completed just 38 percentofhis
passes and struggled mightily in
Michigan's first loss of the season
against Michigan State.
The week after, against Purdue,
his forearm was free of any wraps
or bandages - as it would remain
the rest of the season.
For three weeks, it was clear
something was wrong. Yet not all
of his teammates knew what was
going on with their quarterback.
Redshirt junior safety Jordan
Kovacs found out Friday, when the
media asked him a question about

"I guess he was quiet about it,"
Kovacs said.
Fifth-year senior wide receiver
Junior Hemingway said Robinson
made a concerted effort to keep
the injuryunder wraps.
"He tried not to let everybody
know," Hemingway said. "He just
came out and tried to be the same
Denard because we know that if
he's down that could affect the
rest of the team."
Around his teammates, Robin-
son was his same bubbly self. But
Hemingway noticed Robinson
couldn't do certain things in prac-
tice - that's how he figured out
something wasn't right.
"Plus, he's got a big bandage on
his arm," Hemingway added.
Robinson's silence didn't stop
the questions. When Hemingway
approached Robinson in the train-
ing room one day, the quarterback
wouldn't admit anything was
wrong at first.
"I know Denard's a competi-
tor," Hemingway said. "So when
it's time to play, he'll go out there
and put it on the line. That's some-
thingI knew I didn't have to worry
about.,"

Added senior defensive tackle
Mike Martin: "He's the type of guy
that, we see him everyday, but we
can't even tell because of the type
of guy he is and the energy and
enthusiasm he comes out with.
"That's something that makes
him special as a leader and as a
quarterback."
once the staph infection
healed, more injuries popped up
- Robinson was knocked out of
several games including both of
Michigan's losses to Michigan
State and Iowa. His passing came
under attack in each those games
too.
The questions grew louder, but
Robinson stayed silent.
"I didn't want to explain (the
injury)," said Robinson, adding
that it was his decision to keep it
quiet. "I mean, I'm out there play-
ing so there's no excuses. ... I feel
if you go out there and play, there
shouldn't be any excuse why you
lost or why you're this way or why
you're that way.
"(There) was. a lot going on this
season. But we had to fight through
it. I just kept fighting through it."
All season Robinson said he felt

MARISSA MCCL
Junior quarterback Denard Robinson played through a staph infection.

much better than he had a year
ago, when he didn't know how to
best treathimself. Still,the injuries
piled up again - as it became clear
Friday.
He says he's100 percent healthy
now, and his last three games - all
wins against Illinois, Nebraska
and Ohio State - were arguably
his best all season.
Hoke also made clear there
were no excuses for Robinson's

midseason swoon. He brought
up the staph infection merely to
explain why he thought his quar-
terback's final three games were
the rule and not the exception.
"He's a tough guy," Hoke said.
"I just think he was so much more
healthier and confident, probably
at the same time.
"Everybody's beat up. Still,
there are no excuses for perfor-
mance."


4B - December 12, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

James drops 38 points on
Blue in Eastern victory

0

By COLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Writer
YPSILANTI, Mich. - When
an eagle seeks out its prey, it's
stealthy and quick to attack, leav-
ing its victim defenseless.
And that's exactly how Eastern
Michigan's
star senior MICHIGAN 64
guard took E. MICHIGAN 77
down the
Michigan women's basketball
team on Sunday afternoon.
"It was the Tavelyn James
show," said Michigan coach Kevin
Borseth. "(She)single-handedly
heat us, that's the bottom line.
She's an absolute nightmare to
guard. Our kids didn't realize how
good she was."
The third-best scoring defense
in the Big Ten had no answer for
James, who tallied 38 points for
the Eagles to become the all-time
leading scorer in Eastern Michi-
gan history. Nineteen of those 38
came in the first 10 minutes of the
first half to give the Eagles (6-3) a
commanding 27-13 lead. She also
was a threat from behind the arc,
making 5-of-13 three-point shots.
And the Wolverines (9-2) just
couldn't respond, falling 77-64.
None of Michigan's players
ever got into a rhythm. Senior for-
ward Carmen Reynolds, who is 23
points away from breaking 1,000
for her career, went 0-for-2 from
the floor.Juniorguard Jenny Ryan
struggled as well, shooting 4-for-
10, and fouled outof the game with
less than a minute to go.
Though shooting was rough,
Michigan somehow found ways
to score. Four of its players broke
into double figures, with junior
forward Rachel Sheffer leading
the team with 16 points and six
rebounds.
Besides failing to stop James
offensively, Michigan couldn't
break the Eagles' tough defense.
They played a high 2-3 zone
that kept senior guard Court-
ney Boylan contained above the
3-point line, which EasternMichi-
gan coach AnneMarie Gilbert
noted was their primary goal,,
Feeding the ball in the paint

0

Sophomore forward Evan Smotrycz added 20 points against Oakland, but took a few poor fouls on the defensive end
M' wins the wrong way

Junior forward Rachel Sheffer scored 16 points against Eastern Michigan

was also difficult at the beginning
for the Wolverines, but eventually
they found a way to get inside and
score 44 points in the paint.
"Their pressure was unbeliev-
able at the top, but once we broke
it, we got layup after layup," Shef-
fer said. "It was just getting the
ball down, finding people, and fin-
ishing."
Rebounds were a huge factor in
the game. The Eagles outrebound-
ed the Wolverines, 37-26, despite
a significant height advantage
for Michigan. Borseth noted that
when his team focused its defense
on James, the rest of Eastern
Michigan's players were left open
for rebounds and second-chance
points.
"Offensive rebounds and turn-
overs, that's how they won the
game," Sheffer said. "All year,
emphasis has been on offensive
rebounding, and it's just coming

together as ateam and being con-
sistent with (rebounding)."
The Eagles were also a quick
team, and Michigan had trouble
stopping them in transition. The
Wolverines committed 18 turn-
overs, which resulted in 30 points
for Eastern Michigan, and 15 were
off fast breaks.
"It's not typical of our team (to
commit lots of turnovers)," Boylan
said. "If we don't take care of the
ball, we're not a good team. When
(we) take care of the ball, (we) get
more possessions, and (we're) able
to get more shots at the basket.
And we definitely needed to do a
better job of that today."
This is the Wolverines' second-
straight loss to Eastern Michigan,
as the Eagles knocked off heav-
ily-favored Michigan in the first
round of the Women's National
Invitational Tournament last year
to end its season.

By LUKE PASCH And Oakland capitalized by tal-
Daily Sports Editor lying 20 points from the free-
throw line - Grizzly point guard
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. - Reggie Hamilton was an impres-
Midway through the second sive 12-for-12 from the charity
half of the Michigan basketball stripe.
team's matchup with Oakland on "(Hamilton) has almost made
Saturday afternoon, freshman as many foul shots as our whole
point guard Trey Burke reached team has made," said Michigan
in on an Oakland ballhandler coach John Beilein. "So he's very
and picked up his third foul of good at getting to the foul line.
the contest. Our foul trouble in the first half
Following the whistle, sopho- let them sneak in."
more forward Evan Smotrycz The Wolverines also strug-
ran over to have a small talk with gled to hold onto the ball, turn-
the frustrated youngster. ing itover a season-high17 times.
"I was just telling him that With eight minutes to play in
I have a bad habit of reaching, the first half, Michigan held a
too," Smotrycz said after the commanding 14-point lead and
game. "I'll play great 'D,' and all of the momentum. But sloppy
then start reaching toward the play led to seven turnovers in
end of the game, and that's what those final eight minutes, allow-
he did on that possession." ing Oakland to tie the game,
And Smotrycz proved that he's 32-32, by halftime.,
still not past committing unnec- "It wasn't Michigan basket-
essary fouls. Though he fouled ball," said senior guard Stu Dou-
Oakland just twice in the 90-80 glass. "We had that bad stretch
win, one of them came just 30 there in the first half. It was just
seconds after consoling Burke, not a complete game like we
when he wound up awkwardly wanted. ... A win is better than a
bear-hugging an opponent going loss, but at the same time, we're
for a rebound. going to learn a lot from this
"Personally, I've had some game."
trouble with fouls, and I've been Added Beilein: "I'm going to
trying to make a point of that on look at the film on that ... but I
defense," Smotrycz said. was really disappointed with a
By the end of the game, Michi- couple of shots and some turn-
gan (7-2) had committed a sea- overs in the first half.
son-high 24 fouls, with Burke "We felt in transition offense,
and senior guard Zack Novak we would look for one thing, but
leadingthe way with four apiece. if it wasn't there, we were going

to bring the ball back and make
them guard us a little bit. Whe'n
we didn't do that, that's a thing
we've got to shore up."
Not all of the season highs
from Saturday's game were dis-
appointments. Michigan scored
a season-high 15 3-pointers,,en
route to a season-high 90 points.
The 58 points in the second half
were a season high as well.
Smotrycz and Burke notched
their career-high scoring marks,
each registering 20 points.
But the Wolverines would"pre-
fer not having to score 90 points
to beat opponents. Indeed, the
outcome of the contest could
have been entirely different had
Michigan not shot a blistering
63 percent from 3-point range in
the second half.
"If we weren't so careless, we
probably would have been up 8
or 9 (at the half), and maybe it
was good," Beilein said. "It really
woke us up to what it's like to
play in a game like this where
it's up and down, up and down, if
you don't value your possession;"
Michigan returns to Crisler
Arena to open up a five-game
homestand on Tuesday. The
first three of those games will
be the final tune-ups before the
Wolverines open Big Ten play
against visiting Penn State.
For those three games, Beilein
will look for his team to practice
the fundamentals and return to
"Michigan basketball."


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Turnovers key in
Wolverines' loss

Secondary must improve before bowl

By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
YPSILANTI, Mich - Turn-
overs were the difference.
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team fell to Eastern
Michigan, 77-64, tallying 18
turnovers in the process. The
Eagles had 19 turnovers, one
more than the Wolverines.
But it's what Eastern Michi-
gan did with their turnovers that
was the difference. The Eagles
were able to convert 30 points off
the Wolverines' miscues.
"(Turnovers) were where we
went wrong in the game," said
junior forward Rachel Scheffer.
"We had 10, 11 turnovers in the
first 10 minutes of the game."
Michigan converted just 17
points off Eastern's turnovers
and had just six fast-break points.
Part of the problem for the
Wolverines was the speed of the
Eagles. Eastern Michigan's abil-
ity to run the floor and score in
transition was the direct result
of its proficiency at forcing
turnovers, scoring 15 fast-break
points.
"(Eastern Michigan) is a very
athletic team," said Michigan
coach Kevin Borseth. "We knew
that, coming in, transition was a
key part."
Later in the first half, Eastern
Michigan went on a 13-2 run, and
the Wolverines turned over the
ball on consecutive possessions
during that stretch.
Michigan looked flustered on
offense with the Eagles' zone
defense swarming the ball, espe-
cially in the paint. The result was
difficulty in holding onto the ball.
"(Turnovers) are not typical
of our team," said senior guard
Courtney Boylan. "When we
don't take care of the ball we're
not a good team. When we take
care of the ball, we're a very good
team."

When the Wolverines went
into the locker room at halftime,
they trailed by just seven points,
but their 11 turnovers were glar-
ing.
In the second half, any chang-
es they made didn't seem to work.
After a Wolverines basket to open
up the half, Eastern Michigan
went on a 10-0 run, giving it a
15-point lead - the biggest of the
game for the Eagles.
"I think it came down to which
team was going to come out with
energy and they came out with
tons of energy," Scheffer said.
Michigan's struggles on
offense to keep the ball and not
turn it over have to be attributed
to the tenacious Eastern Michi-
gan defense.
"(The defense) was very
swarming," Boylan said. "Their
hands are on you, they're pres-
suring the ball, but that's on us.
We've handled teams that have
pressured us before. Eastern is
no different than teams we have
played, The onus is on us. We got
to take care of the ball."
Added Borseth: "We knew
exactly what we wanted to do,
but they had us pressed around
that perimeter moving the ball
instead of attacking the rim."
The impact of the quick perim-
eter defense was seen in the
Wolverines' inability to score
from behind the arc. This sea-
son, Michigan has averaged six
3-pointers per game, and has shot
32 percent. On Sunday, it only
had two makes and shot a mere
17 percent.
When the Wolverines lost to
Maryland on Nov. 30 - their
only other loss on the season -
they faced similar problems. As
the season progresses, it will
be important for Michigan to
address these issues and figure
out a way to solve the problem
that a pressing zone defense has
posed for it.

Backfield's missed
assigments in The
Game nearly cost
M' the victory
By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Editor
The secondary.
Last season, Michigan foot-
ball fans cringed at the mention
of it. It was the worst in the Big
Ten and No. 112 in the nation,
giving up an average of 262 pass-
ing yards per game.
This season, it's been a differ-
ent story.
Under new defensive coordi-
nator Greg Mattison, the sec-
ondary improved to sixth in the
conference, giving up an aver-
age of 188.5 yards in the air per
game - a 143-yard improvement
from last year.
But in No. 11 Michigan's
40-34 victory over Ohio State on
Nov. 26, the secondary seemed
to jump in a time capsule back
to 2010.
The Wolverines gave up 235
yards in the air to the Big Ten's
worst passing offense. Ohio State
freshman quarterback Brax-
ton Miller, known more for his
legs than his arm, carved up the
Michigan secondary with ease.
"We weren't necessar-
ily expecting them to come out
throwing like they did," said
redshirt junior safety Jordan
Kovacs. "Obviously they saw
something that they liked, stuck
with it, and I think they had a
good game plan. You gotta give
them a lot of credit."
The game plan played a key
role in the Buckeyes' 34 points,
the second highest point total
recorded all season. The only
other game in which they scored
more was in a 37-17 blowout win
over lowly Colorado.
Another big part of Ohio
State's success came from its
ability to make big plays -
something the Wolverines have

stressed all season that they
need to stop.
"I don't think you can play
any opponent like we did Ohio
State," Kovacs said. "We didn't
do a good enough job keeping
the ball in front of us. We gotta
do that, and we just can't give up
big plays."
The first big play of the game
came on Ohio State's opening
drive, when Miller found a wide-
open Corey Brown 54 yards
down the field for the score.
Brown was so open that he
could've caught the ball, done
15 back flips and given a lecture
on the importance of The Game
before any Michigan players
even touched him.
And on Ohio State's final drive
of the game, the Wolverines just
barely escaped giving up a dag-
ger.
With less than two minutes
to play and Michigan up by six,
Miller saw receiver DeVier Posey
streaking down the left sideline.
Posey had beaten redshirt junior
cornerback J.T. Floyd by at least

a step,
overthr
harmleE
TheA
let, butt
stoppin
it"
exp
t
"A bi
munica
aren'tc
guy thi
and an(
gonna b
munica
same p
techniq
Acco
Brady F

but Miller just barely secondaryto stop big plays.
ew him and the ball fell "We didn't get enough pres-
ssly to the turf sure (up front)," he said. "We've
Wolverines dodged abul- got to play better throughout a
to Kovacs, the remedy for whole play.
g the big play is simple. "You have to hold your cover-
age a little longer, you have to
be a little more disciplined with
your eyes, and we didn't do that
ie weren't ... as well as we needed."
Regardless of who's to blame,
)ecting them the Wolverines have just over
three weeks to fix their prob-
) come out lems in the secondary before
they take on No. 11 Virginia Tech
hrowing." in the Sugar Bowl.
The Hokies feature a solid
pass game led by 6-foot-6 quar-
terback Logan Thomas, who
ig play starts with com- threw for 19 touchdowns and
ltion," Kovacs said. "If you just nine interceptions this year.
communicating and one "They've got a big quarterback
nks you're in a cover four who can throw the ball around,"
other guy cover two, it's Kovacs said. "They have big
be a big play. If you com- receivers. They're fast, they're
te and everybody's on the athletic, everything that you
age and you play proper want in a receiver.
ue, you can't get beat." "We've got our hands full, and
rding to Michigan coach we've got a lot of adjustments to
toke, it's not justup to the make."

I

MARiSSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Redshirt junior safety Jordan Kovacs and the Michigan secondary allowed 235 passing yards to Ohio State.

A


