46F 4#0
46F 43ailm
Illic I an
{_lNEA I 1}e )-r '9, . $i' ',)r'o ,M

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 7, 2011

michigandaily.com

ELECTION 2012
'U' students,
profs. weigh in
on presidential
election 2012

Experts, campus
groups agree
economy will
be primary issue
By PETER SHAHIN
For the Daily
With Election Day less than a
year away, the national conver-
sation on the 2012 presidential
election is buzzing, and Univer-
sity students are joining in.
While Republicans are still
in the process of nominating
a candidate to face President
Barack Obama, Democrats are
laying the groundwork for the
president's re-election bid.
Despite conflicting views on the
outcome of the race, University
professors and members of cam-
pus political groups all agree on
one aspect of the election - the
economy will be the deal break-
er.
Michael Traugott, a research
professor at the University's
Institute for Social Research,
said public opinion polls this
early before the election are not
good indicators of the chances
of the president's re-election
bid, but give insight into trends.
"There's two main contest-

ing theories about reelection
prospects," Traugott said. "One
of them is that the incumbent
president's
chances are office
highly corre-
lated with how MONK
the economy is
doing, and of course there, the
president would be in trouble I
think."
Similarly, Traugott said polls
for the Republican nomination
are not reliable at this point
since most polls are taken at a
national scale for the presiden-
tial election, not primaries. If
candidates are not successful in
the Iowa and New Hampshire
primaries, for example, they
may run out of funds and begin
receiving negative press cover-
age, according to Traugott. As a
result, support for the candidate
wanes, and his or her chances
decrease.
Polls fail to account for candi-
dates' "relative standing" in the
early states and are "quite mis-
leading," Traugott said.
Traugott noted that while
Obama may struggle with re-
election because of the eco-
nomic climate, he may prevail
depending on who is chosen as
the Republican candidate.
"An election is not a refer-
See ELECTION, Page SA

New hospital designed
with families in mind

Open house offers
entertainment,
games and demos
By MICHELE NAROV
Daily StaffReporter
With less than one month
until its official opening, the
two-story atrium, shining new
equipment, brightly lit patient
rooms and 348 beds in the new

C.S. Mott Children's Hospital
and Von Voigtlander Wom-
en's Hospital building remain
untouched.
However, the halls of the
1.1 million square-foot facility
bustled with activity yesterday
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. as hun-
dreds of visitors explored the
building during the hospital's
open house.
The event was designed to
show off the new building and
allowed patients to tour the

12-story inpatient tower, which
is slated to officially open Dec. 4.
The new facility cost $754 mil-
lion and took five years to con-
struct.
Yesterday's event featured
musical entertainment, dog
visits with patients and an eco-
friendly green station to educate
visitors about the sustainable
aspects of the hospital. Children
were also kept busy with a trea-
sure hunt, a giant version of the
game Operation in the operat-

ing rooms, obstacle courses and
visits with Ronald McDonald.
Those who entered the lobby at
11 a.m. were also met by a flash
mob, designed to set the joyful
tone for the day.
The open house was intended
to showcase one of the goals for
the development of the new hos-
pital - a commitment to patient
care and creating positive expe-
riences for families who regu-
larly stay in the hospital.
See HOSPITAL, Page 5A


CAMPUS ORGANIZATION
Blood Battle.
against OSU
in 30thyear
on campus
Drive aims to
collect 2,550
pints of blood
By CHELSEA LANDRY
Daily Staff Reporter
Rackham student Nathan
Mueting sat munching on
graham crackers and sipping
orange juice in a School of Edu-
cation lounge on Friday morn-
ing. It was a well-earned snack
for the blood drawn from his
arm.
Mueting was donating blood
as part of the 30th annual Blood
Battle, a blood donation compe-
tition between the University of
Michigan and The Ohio State
University. As part of the com-
petition, there will be 36 blood
drives held across campus until
Nov. 18 and this year's goal is to
* collect 2,550 pints of blood from
campus community members.
The University has beat
OSU in the Blood Battle more
often than it has on the football
See BLOOD BATTLE, Page 5A

CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS
UMHS, nurses reach
contract agreement
after seven months
New contract health insurance premiums,
among other changes, accord-
contains changes to ing to a Nov. 6 UMHS press
release issued yesterday. Prior
wage system, health to the agreement, the nurses
were concerned that UMHS
premiums wanted to cut benefits includ-
ing reducing paid vacation
By CLAIRE GOSCICKI allotment, limiting overtime
Daily Staff Reporter pay and establishing require-
ments stating they must con-
The University of Michigan tribute increased funds for
Health System and the Univer- health insurance.
sity of Michigan Professional The contract will also pro-
Nurse Council reached a con- vide nurses a "significant
tract agreement yesterday after voice" on issues such as staffing
more than seven months of bar- and nursing practice, according
gaining over nurses' compensa- to a separate press release from
tion and benefits. the Michigan Nurses Associa-
Members of the Professional tion also issue yesterday.
Nurse Council and the Michi- In April, the University and
gan Nurses Association voted nurses engaged in disputes
to approve the new three-year following anticipated changes
agreement last night, which to six nurses' schedules. The
applies to more than 4,000 changes violated the Michigan
nurses at the University. Public Employees Relations Act
The agreement succeeds the and the collective bargaining
University's former contract agreement between the Uni-
with the Professional Nurse versity and the nurses' union.
Council that expired on June Since then, University officials
30 and includes a revised wage and nurses have assembled more
program and modifications than50 times to discuss negotia-
to retirement eligibility and See CONTRACT, Page 5A

Janior quarterback Denard Robinson walks off the field after a 24-16 loss to Iowa on Saturday.
Wolverines can't count
on goodfortune to win

OWA CITY - Head down,
play sheet still tucked into
his pants, Greg Mattison
walked up the longslope of
the Southeast tunnel at Kin-
nick Stadium. He walked by
two stone-faced Michigan
equipment managers shortly
after watching the Wolverines'
offense fail to score a touch-
down with four chances from

the three-
yard line.
There
were no
overtime
blitzes to
call, no
opportu-
nity for his
defense to
give Mich-

MICHAEL
FLOREK

igan's offense another chance.
Mattison was one of the rea-
sons the Wolverines were here,
sitting at 7-1 before playingthe
Hawkeyes.
He was one of the first
pieces in Michigan coach
Brady Hoke's reign of doing no
wrong. Hoke snagged an NFL
defensive coordinator. Recruits
See FLOREK, Page 2A

WEATHER E HI: 62 GOTANEWSTIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX AP NEWS................ 3A CLASSIFIEDS..............6A
TMOR Call 734-418-4115 ore-mail 'U' Dearborn business dean named EMU provost Vol. CXXII, No. 43 OPINION.....................4A ARTS.................7A
TOMORROW LO: 51 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE x2011 The Michigan Daily NEWS....................I5A SPORTMONDAY.........18
michigondily.com+


2A -'Monday, November 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A" Mndarovmbe.7.211.heMihign.aiy_-mihiadlco

Jersey Shore' star talks bullying

A WONDER-FUL SONG

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@nichigandaity.com

Students in Columbia Uni-
versity Prof. Diane Vaughan's
sociology class called "Mistake,
Misconduct, Disaster" were in
for a fist-pumping surprise when
guest lecturer Vinny Guadagni-
no from "Jersey Shore" spoke to
their class on Wednesday, accord-
ingto a Nov.3 Gothamist article.
Guadagnino, who is a part
of the anti-bullying group "Do
Something," spoke about bully-
ing to the class, the Gothamist
reported.
According to the article, after
the class, students left posts on a
blog for Columbia students. One
student wrote, "The thrust of his
speech in Vaughan's class was
about how we can all set good

examples in the world, stop vio- foundation, which works with
lence before it escalates, and be at-risk children, according to the
models for polite society. article.
PENN STATE DEFENSIVE THIEL COLLEGE RECEIVES
COORDINATOR BAILED OUT $25 MILLION DONATION

Newsroom
734-418-4s15 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@miuhigandaily.com
Display Sales 1
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
ontineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
toth edaily@michigandaily.om
Editonial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
tlassified.Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Jerry Sandusky, former defen-
sive coordinator for Per1n State
University, was arraigned last
Saturday and later released on
$100,000 bail for multiple counts
of sexual abuse, according to a
Nov. 5 New York Times article.
The grand jury's report stated
that Sandusky had made sexual
advances or assualts toward eight
boys between 1994 and 2009, the
Times reported. He met all of the
boys through his Second Mile

Administrators of Thiel Col-
lege, located 80 miles north of
Pittsburgh, announced Thurs-
day that the estate of recently
deceased steel executive William
Dietrich II will donate $25 mil-
lion to the college, according to
a Nov. 3 Associated Press article.
The $25 million donation is
equivalent to the school's annual
budget, according to theAP.
-PAIGEPEARCY

McKENZIE BEREZN/Daily
The Compulsive Lyres, a student a capella group, per-
forms "Superstition" on Saturday.

CRIME NOTES
Nuisance in Laptop lifted
the library from Quad
WHERE: Law Library WHERE: North Quadrangle
WHEN: Thursday at about Residence Hall
9:45 p.m. WHEN: Thursday at about
WHAT: A group of girls 7 p.m.
entered the library two WHAT: A student's laptop
separate times, screamed was taken between 5 and
and fled the scene, 7 p.m., University Police
University Police reported. reported. The laptop has
The area was mostly empty not been recovered.
at the time.
Look out below! Case of the

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Religious film Job interview New York City Mayor
screening tips session Bloomberg spent $5.64
Smillion this ye ar on a pub-
WHAT: The Library WHAT: Career Center staff lic image campaign despite
Diversity Committee will will host an interactive not re-running for office, The
screen "Seven Passages: the workshop covering New York Post reported. He
Stories of Gay Christians" presentation strategies for spent more than $100 mil-
in honor of the Spectrum resumes, CVs, cover letters lion during his re-election in
Center's 40th anniversary. and interviews. 2009.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar Managing Editor nickspar@nmichigandaily.com
Nicole Aber Managing News Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS:BethanyBiron, Dylan Cinti,CaitlinHuston,JosephLichterman,
ASSSTANT NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs, Sabira
Kahn, Michele Narov, Paige Pearcy, Adam Rubenfire, Kaitlin Williams
MichelleDewittand opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali,Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb
StephenJ..Nesbitt and sportseditors@michigandaily.com
Tim Rohan Managing Sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
uSSIOuT SPOR TSDnO sSteven Braid, Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Sharonnacobs ManagingArtsEitor Jcobs@michigandaily.com
SEOR AROTS EDITORS: Lah urgn,,Kavi Pey,JrunnifernX
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jacob Axelrad, Cassie Balfour, Joe Cadagin, Emma Gase,
Proma Khosla, David Tao
Marissa Mctlaingand photo@michigandaily.com
led Mach ManegingPhototEditors
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Terra Molengraff, Anna Schulte
Zach Bergsonand design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich Managing Design Editors
ASSISTANT DESIGEGDITRSristiegona, Corinn Lewss
tarolyn Klanecki Magaeine Editor klareki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MGZINE EDITORS:Stepen Ostrowski, Devo'are by mElanawigy g
Josh Healy Copy chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Christine Chun, Hannah Poindexter
Sarah Squire WebDevelopment Manager squire@michigandaily.com
Imran Sayed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliann Crim Associate Business Manager
RachelGreineto sales Manager
Alexis Newton Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Qay Vo circulation Manager
The Michigan Daily (IssN 0745-967) is published Monday through Fridayduring the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is aval5able free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, viaU.S.mailare $110. Winter term( anuary through April)is
$115, yearonn(September through Aprilt is $195universitynf filiates are subject td a reduced
subripionrate.On-cmpusubiptonfeorllteArnre$n Teuscipdosusterepe
The MicignrDtely s a member of The Associated Pess and TheAsociuated Collegate Pess.

WHERE: South Quadrangle
Residence Hall
WHEN: Thursday at about
7:45 p.m.
WHAT: A subject was
seen throwing water
balloons out of a window
at passersby, University
Police reported. No
damage was caused.

missing clothes
WHERE: University
Cancer Center
WHEN: Thursday at about
3:15 p.m.
WHAT: Clothing was taken
from a patient ina locker
room area, University Police
reported.

WHO: Spectrum Center
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Graduate
Library
Politics lecture
WHAT: Roy Norton, the
Canadian consul seneral,
will discuss the 235-year
relationship between the
U.S. and Canada and the
significance of the state
of Michigan in Canadian
policymaking. Admission
to the event is free, and a
reception will follow.
WHO: Gerald R. Ford
Presidential Library
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Gerald Ford
Library

WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Graduate School
Organ recital
WHAT: Students of
Professor of Music James
Kibbie will perform a free
showcase.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

For the third-straight
year, Iowa knocked
Michigan's starting
quarterback out of the game,
and for the third-straight
year, Iowa won The Wolver-
ines lost on Saturday 24-16.
>o FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY,
INSIDE
Republican presidential
candidate Herman
Cain said he would not
answer more questions about
his alleged sexual harassment
incidents, the Huffington
Post reported. He blamed
the media for "nit-pickiness"
regarding the issue.


FLOREK
From Page 1A
started running to Ann Arbor.
In a game where the Michi-
gan defense forced just three
3-and-outs, it made sense that
one of them came with just
under four minutes left when
Iowa could have put the game
away. It made sense that despite
not playing well for three quar-
ters, the Wolverines were going
to march down the field on the
final drive and tie the game. It
was a foregone conclusion.
"We thought for sure we were
goingto go into overtime," said
redshirt junior safety Jordan
Kovacs. "But it didn't work out
like that."
Except this time, Jeremy Gal-
lon wasn't inexplicably wide
open on a wheel route. The
Wolverines had two touchdown
plays go to review on that final
drive: Vincent Smith's he's-
down-but-he's-not-really-down
play and Junior Hemingway's
catch that wasn't a catch. Nei-
ther was called in Michigan's
favor.
The referees could have
called pass interference on the
final play of the game, when
it appeared Hawkeye corner-
back B.J. Lowery wrapped up
redshirt junior Roy Roundteee
before the ball arrived. They
didn't. The officials also could
have called pass interference on
the deep pass to Roundtree in

the second quarter, when it was
still an eight point game. One
threw the flag, then picked it up.
"There are always six to eight
plays in a game that are really
going to define when you're
playing a good football team,
when you're playing ateam on
the road," Hoke said.
Those past plays were four.
Whether they were the right
calls isn't important when look-
ing at the fact that Michigan
didn't get the breaks.
As for play No. 5, how about
Robinson's interception at the
end of the half, when Iowa's
Micah Hyde got an arm on the
ball to tip it into his teammate's
waiting hands?
And No.6? Robinson's fumble.
He did the hard part in avoiding
a sack. Then he didn't just drop
the ball, he swung his leg and
accidentally kicked right to the
Hawkeye defensive lineman.
Back in the tunnel, about
20 feet ahead of Mattison was
Hoke, surrounded by a gang of
police officers. It may have been
the first time he actually needed
them this season. That Midas
touch is gone.
On the field Michigan has
few long-term injuries. For all
the bad interceptions junior
quarterback Denard Robinson
had thrown, he won games.
Then there is the Notre Dame
game, which still doesn't make
sense.
It hasn't been magic because
that implies some form of

deception. Michigan came
into Saturday at 7-1 because
nearly everything has just sort of
worked out in its favor.
For the first time all season
Hoke seemed like a regular
coach who had to go through
regular channels, not some sort
of fairy-tale creature who bleeds
toughness and creates winning
with his mind.
It's obvious now that Michi-
gan's season isn't going to be a
fairy tale either. Its outside shot
at the Big Ten Title game likely
ended four days into November.
The Wolverines will have to
finish the season without rely-
ing on ridiculous turnovers and
every questionable call going
their way. Even when they got
beat by Michigan State, Michi-
gan had its good fortune, recov-
ering two fumbles that were
dropped by the Spartan player
and not forced.
Now, they'll simply have to be
better than the opposing team.
And through all the non-catches,
non-pass interference calls and
tweets from Junior Hemingway
about how he caught that ball,
did the Wolverines actually play
better than Iowa?
No. Why does it feel like
Michigan should've won?
- Florek predicted 8-4 at the
beginning of the season. He feels
pretty good about that prediction.
Send him hate mail at florekmi@
umich.edu. You can also yell at
him on twitter: @michaelflorek

I
I

JOSE LUIS MAGANA/AP
Howard University alumni and students march by the Treasury Department in Washington on Oct. 28, 2011.
olice, D.C. protesters differ
on accounts of car collision

Slaying plunges rebels in
Colombia into uncertainty

Motorist struck three his vehicle struck the three at
around 10 p.m.
people near Occupy "The protesters were appar-
entlytryingto block the roadway,"
DC demonstration Micciche said. "It was essentially
an accident where three individu-
District of Columbia police and als were injured but they were in
Occupy DC protesters are offering violation by being inthe roadway."
conflicting accounts about a week- Micciche said witnesses told
end incident in which a motor- police that the three pedestrians
ist struck three protesters near a "either ran toward or jumped in
downtown demonstration. front of the moving vehicle.". He
Police said Saturday that a driv- said one pedestrian jumped on the
er will not be charged for striking hood of the car.
the three people Friday evening. But the demonstrators said that
Assistant Police Chief Lamar wasn't true.
Greene said at a Saturday eve- Heidi Sippel of Vandalia, Ohio,
ning press conference that police said that she, her 13-year-old son
concluded from talking to two and her wife Brandy Sippel were
witnesses that the collision was taking part in the demonstration
unavoidable. But the three people when a silver Lexus sped toward
involved in the crash gave a differ- them. The driver slowed down,
ent story. threw up his hands in appar-
Hundreds of protesters affili- ent frustration and then drove
ated with Occupy DC shut down forward, hitting them, she said.
streets Friday night near the city's Brandy Sippel, who is six months
convention center in downtown, pregnant, was grazed by the car's
where a conservative group was rearview mirror. Heidi Sippel said
gathering. The two adults and one she and her son were both hit by
teenager who were struck were the front of the car.
taken to the hospital after the col- "He just threw his hands up
lision and later released. and hit the gas," Heidi Sippel said
Lt. Christopher Micciche of the driver.
(MITCH'-ih-kay) of the D.C. She said none of them had
police said the driver was not cited thrown themselves in front of the
because he had a green light when car.

"We weren't trying to get in
front of the cars. We would have
very happily, given the opportu-
nity, stepped out of the way and let
him pass by," she said.
Sippel said all three members of
her family were cited by police for
obstructing traffic and walking
against a do-not-walk sign, both of
which carry fines. A police report
confirms the citations.
A man identified in a police
report as the vehicle driver, Shawn
Valentine of Clinton, Md., said he
was at work when reached bytele-
phone Saturday night and could
not speak about the incident.
According to a police report, he
told officers he observed a clearing
between the protesters and tried
to pass between them when the
demonstrators jumped "onto and
in front of his vehicle."
Other individuals affiliated
with the Occupy DC group said
the same driver struck another
demonstrator nearby before hit-
ting the Sippel family. Greene,
the assistant chief, said he did not
know about another incident.
That all changed in 1955, when
Legendary GM design head Har-
ley Earl created a car known for its
beauty and speed. The Bel Air had
chrome accents and was powered
by a small, V-8 engine.

6
6
6
6

Insurgents will
name new leader
after death of Cano
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -
President Juan Manuel Santos
on Saturday called on fighters
of Latin America's only major
rebel force to accept the killing
of their top leader as proof the
movement is doomed and to sur-
render.
"This is the moment to decide

to lay down your arms because,
as we've said many times, the
alternative is prison or a tomb,"
Santos told combatants of the
Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia a day after troops
killed their 63-year-old chief.
But analysts don't believe
Cano's death will lead the drug-
funded rebels, known by their
Spanish initials FARC, to crum-
ble. While it's a body blow to the
insurgents, the rebels remain
potent. They have depth in their
leadership and resilience steeled

in a half century of armed revolt.
Santos expressed satisfac-
tion but said it's "not a moment
for triumphalism" after meeting
Saturday with the military high
command behind closed doors
in Popayan, the southwestern
provincial capital where Cano's
body was taken.
He said Cano's ranks were
infiltrated by rebel defectors,
but refused to discuss details.
Santos added that "my eyes
moistened" at the news of Cano's
death, "a few tears of emotion."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 7, 2011 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 7, 2011 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
WARREN, Mich.
Obama campaign
to open two offices
in Michigan
Michigan campaign workers
for President Barack Obama are
openingtwo offices this weekend.
Campaign officials said in a
statement that yesterday marks
the openings of the Macomb
County headquarters in Warren
and the Washtenaw County head-
quarters in Ann Arbor. They join
offices in Detroit, Pontiac, Flint,
Lansing and Kalamazoo.
State campaign spokesman
Clark Pettig says a Grand Rapids
headquarters is expected to open
by the end of the month.
MEDFORD, Ore.
Man indicted for
alleged sniper
attack on school
A federal grand jury has indict-
ed an Oregon man who authori-
ties fear may have been plotting
a sniper attack on a high school
football game.
The indictment filed Friday in
U.S. District Court in Medford
charges 26-year-old Raphael
Enrique Amoroso, of Grants Pass,
with two firearms counts. One
alleges he took a loaded .45-cali-
ber pistol onto the grounds of
Grants Pass High School. The
other alleges he is an illegal mari-
juana user in possession of fire-
arms.
He is scheduled to be arraigned
today.
A judge ordered Amoroso held
without bail after the prosecution
argued that the case raised red
flags suggesting he posed a dan-
ker to the community.
SEATTLE
Professors host
classes at Occupy
Seattle site
University and college instruc-
tors are leading free classes and
lectures at Occupy Wall Street
protests in different cities.
In Seattle, the teachers union
for community colleges orga-
nized an overnight set of lectures
when Occupy Seattle moved into
the campus of Seattle Central
Community College.
Instructor Karen Strickland
says the teachers wanted to show
support through lessons. The
teachers were also worried about
clashes between police and the
occupiers. Strickland says les-
sons included how to photograph
human rights abuses, the history
of labor movements and writing a
"position statement."
"Teach-ins" as the classes are
called have also been held in San
Diego and Albuquerque, N.M.
LAGOS, Nigeria
U.S. warns of sect

* bomb attacks in
Nigeria capital
After a weekend of violence
and fear, U.S. officials warned
yesterday that luxury hotels fre-
quented by foreigners and Nige-
ria's elite may be bombed by a
radical Muslim sect as the death
toll from attacks in the country's
northeast rose to more than 100.
The warning by the U.S.
Embassy shows how seriously
diplomats take the threat posed
by the outlawed Islamist group
known locally as Boko Haram,
which previously bombed the
Pnited Nations headquarters in
the capital, Abuja, killing 24.
The unusually specific warn-
ing from the U.S. Embassy iden-
tified possible targets in Abuja
ks the Hilton, Nicon Luxury and
Sheraton hotels. With popular
restaurants and bars, the hotels
draw diplomats, politicians and
S even reformed oil delta mili-
tants.
Theembassysaid anattackmay
tome as Muslims in the oil-rich
nation celebrate the Eid al-Adha
holiday and that its diplomats and
staff had been instructed to avoid
those hotels.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Pot possession
constitutes most
crimes in NYC

A
pe

IVAN SEKRETAREV/AP
Muslims pray yesterday on a street outside a mosque during celebrations of Eid al-Adha, a feast celebrated by Muslims
worldwide, which Muslims in Russia call Kurban-Bairam.
."."
80,000 Muslims pray in
celebrat ion of Eid al-Adha

On religious holiday,
Russians call for
more mosques
MOSCOW (AP) - Tens of
thousands of Muslim men knelt
shoulder-to-shoulder in prayer
on the freezing streets of Mos-
cow yesterday to celebrate the
religious holiday of Eid al-Adha.
Estimates of the number of
Muslims living or working in the
Russian capital run from 2 mil-
lion to as high as 5 million, but
the city only has a few mosques.
Police said 170,000 people
celebrated the holiday in Mos-
cow, including80,000 who gath-
ered on the street outside what
was once the main mosque.
The 100-year-old pastel green

Cathedral Mosque was torn
down in September and a new
mosque being built next to it is
still under construction.
Many of those who braved
temperatures of minus 8 degrees
Celsius (18 degrees Fahrenheit)
to pray on Sunday morning were
migrant workers from countries
in Central Asia that were once
part of the Soviet Union.
"Of course new mosques are
needed," said Maruv, a shop
worker from Tajikistan who
gave only his first name. "Look
at how many people are in the
street and it's cold. They have
been standing here waiting for
the beginning of prayers since 6
a.m. and there are no facilities."
Police cordoned off the area
and set up metal detectors
to screen worshippers. The

mosque is located next to the
Olympic Stadium, where this
weekend women tennis play-
ers from Russia and the Czech
Republic played the Fed Cup
final.
Muslim prayers also were
held at three other mosques and
in three city parks.
Eid al-Adha, a feast celebrat-
ed by Muslims worldwide, is
known as Kurban-Bairam in
Russia.
Russia's Council of Muftis said
that for the first time this year
the ritual slaughter of sheep was
performed at 10 slaughterhouses
on the outskirts of Moscow. In
past years, Muscovites have com-
plained angrily about the kill-
ing of sheep in the courtyards of
apartment buildings in the city
center.

NEW
nation's
threatsc
of violen
bit of ma
There
level po
City - a
any oth
about on
turn up:
It's a
persiste
toward i
loosene
laws mo
Critic
driven i
Police I
stopping
whom p
pects' d
half a m
and His
last yea
ics say..
result in
Thed
strategy
guns of
crime, a
savingt
looking:
often fin
law says
be in o
arrest -
anyway.
In re
sioner I
reminde
arrests1
in peopl
can't tri
ing peo
empty t

bout 50,000 "No one has showed me any evi-
dence that this is how alarge num-
ople arrested ber of arrests are being made,"
he said. "But the allegation was
each year made. So, in order to clear up any
confusion that may exist, we put
YORK (AP) - As the that order out to make certain that
biggest city deals with officers know that they cannot be
of terrorism and a variety the reason for someone displaying
it crimes, carrying a little (marijuana) publicly."
trijuana is still a big deal. Kelly said the vast majority of
are more arrests for low- pot arrests come from undercover
t possession in New York officers who witness hand-to-
bout 50,000 a year - than hand drug transactions or people
er crime, accounting for smoking pot in public. And, the
ie of every seven cases that department says, as low-level
in criminal courts. arrests have risen, violent crime
phenomenon that has has decreased dramatically.
d despite more leniency But many New Yorkers, most-
marijuana use - the state ly black and Hispanic men, say
d its marijuana-possession they're being targeted in the name
re than 30 years ago. of keeping the city safe.
s say the deluge has been Bronx community organizer
n part by the New York Alfredo Carrasquillo, 27, estimat-
Department's strategy of ed he's been arrested on marijua-
people and frisking those na possession charges more than
olice say meet crime sus- 20 times, starting when he was 14
escriptions. More than a and police ordered him to empty
illion people, mostly black out his pockets outside his high
panic men, were stopped school. He says he was arrested,
r - unfair targets, crit- but was never found smoking the
About 10 percent of stops drug or holding it out in the open
arrests. - though a 1977-state law says
department says that the those with25grams of the drugor
's main goal is to take less in their pockets or bags should
T the street and prevent onlybe ticketed. Legally, it'savio-
nd that the tactic is a life- lation that doesn't result in a crim-
ool. But critics say officers inal record.
for guns in pockets more "We weren't stupid enough to
id pot and - though state smoke it in the middle of the day,"
s the drug is supposed to he said.
pen view to warrant an Gabriel Sayegh, the New York
- lock up the possessor director of the Drug Policy Alli-
ance, a group critical of the
sponse, Police Commis- national war on drugs, said the
Raymond Kelly recently department benefits from the
d officers they can't make arrests.
for small amounts of pot "Every year, they're bringing
e's pockets or bags - and 50,000 people into their system,"
gger an arrest by search- he said. "A significant portion
ple or telling them to of whom have not been arrested
heir pockets. before.

---I

Oklahoma rattled by
largest earthquake
in state's history
State has Kansas State. Fans were still
leaving the game.
experienced spike "That shook up the place,
in ehad a lot of people nervous,"
Oklahoma State wide receiver
since 2009 Justin Blackmon said.
The temblor sent Jesse
Richards' wife running out-
SPARKS, Okla. (AP) - side because she thought their
Clouds of dust belched from home was going to collapse.
the corners of almost every The earthquake centered near
room in Joe Reneau's house their home in Sparks, 44 miles
as the biggest earthquake in northeast of Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma history rocked the could be felt throughout the
two-story building. state and in Arkansas, Kansas,
A roar that sounded like a Missouri, northern Texas and
jumbo jet filled the air, and some parts of Illinois and Wis-
Reneau's red-brick chimney consin.
collapsed and fell into the roof Richards estimated it lasted
above the living room. By the for as much as a minute. One
time the shaking stopped, a of his wife's cookie jars fell on
pantry worth of food had been the floor and shattered, and
strewn across the kitchen and pictures hanging in their liv-
shards of glass and pottery ing room were knocked askew.
covered the floor. "We've been here 18 years,
"It was like WHAM!" said and it's getting to be a regular
Reneau, 75, gesturing with occurrence," said Richards,
swipes of his arms. "I thought 50. But, he added, "I hope I
in my mind the house would never get used to them."
stand, but then again, maybe Geologists now believe a
not." magnitude 4.7 earthquake
The magnitude 5.6 earth- Saturday morning was a fore-
quake and its aftershocks still shock to the bigger one that
had residents rattled yester- followed that night. They
day. No injuries were reported, recorded 10 aftershocks by
and aside from a buckled high- midmorning yesterday and
way and the collapse of a tower expected more. Two of the
on the St. Gregory's University aftershocks, at 4 a.m. and 9
administration building, nei- a.m., were big, magnitude 4.0.
ther was any major damage. "We will definitely continue
But the weekend earthquakes to see aftershocks, as we've
were among the strongest yet already seen aftershocks from
in a state that has seen a dra- this one," said Paul Earle, a
matic, unexplained increase in seismologist with the U.S.
seismic activity. Geological Survey in Golden,
Oklahoma typically had Colo. "We will see aftershocks
about 50 earthquakes a year in the days and weeks to come,
until 2009. Then the number possibly even months."
spiked, and 1,047 quakes shook Brad Collins, the spokesman
the state last year, prompting for St. Gregory's University in
researchers to install seismo- Shawnee, said one of the four
graphs in the area. Still, most towers on its "castle-looking"
of the earthquakes have been administration building col-
small. lapsed in the big earthquake
Saturday night's big one and the other three towers
jolted Oklahoma State Univer- were damaged. He estimated
sity's stadium shortly after the the towers were about 25 feet
No. 3 Cowboys defeated No. 17 tall.

Deutsche Bank
Agile
minds
explore all
possibilities

Taking your first steps with a global
leader will give your career a real head
start. Here at Deutsche Bank, we can
give you direct access to some of the
greatest minds in banking - people who
are setting the pace and shaping the
future of the entire industry.
We hope to see you at our upcoming
Summer Internship Program.
Date
Tuesday, November 8th, 7:00pm
Venue
Ross School of Business Colloquium
Learn more at db.com/careers/umichigan

2io-zste .'fo~'w-


4A - Monday, November 7, 2011

4

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
FROM T I
No excuse for bullying
Bill must protect students from all attacks
B efore last week, Michigan was one of three states without an
anti-bullying law. Now, a bill passed by the Michigan Senate
B would require Michigan public schools to put anti-bullying
measures in place. However, the new bill will likely do more harm
than good because it includes a provision that prohibits restric-
tion of statements of "sincerely held religious belief(s) or moral
conviction(s)." This clause is unacceptable and could potentially
excuse certain types of bullying. The Michigan House should not
pass the bill and should instead put in place a policy that protects
students from all types of bullying.

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAIL ,JEFF AT JEFFDZ(0UMICH.EDU

The bill, which is named after Matt Epling
- a 14-year-old boy who committed suicide
after being bullied by classmates in 2002 - is
called "Matt's Safe School Law." It was passed
in a party-line vote by the state Senate on Nov.
2. Senate Republicans added the concerning
clause before the bill went to a vote, and many
people, including the father of the student
after whom the bill is named, have spoken out
strongly about the potentially negative effects
of the legislation.
The bill is especially concerning for students
in the LGBT community. Religious beliefs are
often citedas rationale behind bullying gay or
transgender students. With the proposed law,
students- could claim bullying is OK because
they are simply expressing a religious belief that
is opposed to homosexuality. But that is never an
excuse for harming another student, and a law
that justifies that defense is shameful.
The decision by the Legislature to enact an
anti-bullying law is certainly progress. There
have been multiple students who have com-
mitted suicide in Michigan in the past decade
becausetof bullying at schools. Anti-bullying
laws and policies can help to protect these stu-
dents by clearly outlining what bullying is and
how it is handled.
While bullying legislation is needed in the
state, an anti-bullying law should prohibit all

kinds of bullying and contain no legal excep-
tions or excuses. School should be a safe envi-
ronment where students learn to be tolerant
and respectful toward all students, regardless
of one's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
But the proposed bill could make it easier for
students and their parents to defend bullying.
Anti-bullying legislation should be aimed at
protecting all students from bullying in school
and teaching students who bully that target-
ing other students is not an acceptable course
of action. Like most government debates, the
anti-bullying bill came down to a partisan vote.
But bullying is not a debatable issue. It's a safe-
ty issue that should not be minimized by petty,
partisan disputes. Bullying can be extremely
harmful and dangerous, and the state Legisla-
ture needs to show a commitment to combating
it by putting aside political disagreements and
passing a comprehensive anti-bullying law.
The proposed bill began as a positive attempt
to fight bullying in Michigan, but the addi-
tion of the controversial amendment seriously
derailed the effort. There is never a moral or
religious justification for students to bully one
another, contrary to what the writers of the bill
may think. The state House needs to vote down
the bill immediately and go back to the draw-
ing board to protect Michigan students from all
types of bullying.

Mr Cain, in add tion to yor dubious *rumble* WarnigiveI.lsapproachincrtcl
pl tical qualifcations,certain question *rumble* Candidate selfdestruct sequence
about sexual harassment charges iiitd
have recently come to light. 'rumble* nialed
Any --
comments? LLBO.no
run!
*rumble*'-
FROM THE PUBLIC EDITOR|
Improving columns
I wouldn't quite support ban- on much anymore. And it's a shame will get more than 20 words into
ning the words "Democrat" because without columnists writ- that thing.
and "Republican" (or the ing creatively about local issues My basic rule is this: If your
euphemisms often interchanged for that matter to students, this page column practically writes itself
them), from Michigan Daily opinion loses what makes it special. If col- after 15 minutes of Googling, you
columns, but I'd come very close. umnists choose only to write about haven't done your job. Either you
Of several themes I've picked up the idiocy of Texas Gov. Rick Perry, picked a topic that's too easy (and
from becoming a full-time read- the hypocrisy of President Barack has therefore been written about
er of this paper for the past two Obama or the fallacy of Republican in every other paper), or you have
months, among the most disturb- rhetoric, this page is nothing more not thought enough about a topic to
ing is the trend of one-dimension- than a weak, inconsequential imita- craft a unique, illuminating view-
al columns that provide general, tion of a national newspaper. point that rises beyond tired cable
unoriginal commentary on nation- It's true that the Daily should news diatribes.
al political issues. Many opinion aspire to be like a great nation- This is a college paper, and we are
columnists seem to have either lost al newspaper - The New York all students. While writing for the
sight of, or never been advised of, Times, for example. However, Daily is not coursework, it is still an
the unique character of the Daily's what is to be valued and emulated educational experience, and opinion
editorial page - and the wealth of is the Times's strong, passion- columnists are in a better position
possibilities it provides, beyond ate editorial voice, its top-notch than any other staffer at this paper
just stale talking points gleaned reporting and its clean, straight- to try something new and grow as
from some MSNBC primetime forward writing style. The Daily writers. There are many interest-
news commentary show. should focus on improving those ing things happening in Lansing,
Since about the late 1980s the same basic tools and apply them Detroit, Ann Arbor - even on the
Daily's editorial page has had an to the topics it is best positioned Diag or North Campus - that are
unwritten policy of avoiding inter- to cover. It does no one any good, fodder for exceptional commentary.
national issues, except in very however, for the Daily to copy the If you must write about national
rare, special situations. National Times to the level of writing about politics once in a while, at least do
issues are addressed often, of precisely the same issues covered us all the service of thinking about
course, but editors are reminded in national newspapers. As well- the issue enough to find a unique or
every year that the Daily's focus informed and creative as Daily col- local ideological component.
is local, campus and state issues umnists may think they are, there Whatever you write about and
that students are unlikely to learn is no Paul Krugman here. howeveryou do it, the main purpose
about elsewhere. I do not mean to imply that Daily of a Daily columnist's work should
While that policy mainly targets columnists are incapable of writ- be to add something worthwhile
the Daily's unsigned editorials, ing interesting and noteworthy col- to the jumble of words floating in
columnists are also encouraged to umns. My point is only a bit ofadvice our general discourse. And to do
think locally. Simply put: However to columnists who I think will really so, I recommend you take the easi-
interesting the esoteric issues you improve their work: Don't stack the est path, and use the advantage you
learned about in some international deck against yourselves. have in being close to andfmost qual-
relations lecture might be, most You want to write a great col- ified to comment on local issues.
of that is not what readers of this umn? You want to show your
paper care about, or what you are friends, parents, readers and poten- -The public editor is an independent
really qualified to write about. tial employers that you are a capa- critic of the Doily, and neither the editorial
Columnists used to also be pushed ble thinker and skilled advocate? board nor the editor in chief exercise
away from writing about national That's great, but believe me, you control over the contents of his colurPns.
political issues with no local hook or aren't going to accomplish that by The opinions expressed do not necessarily
consequence. But judging by what writing yet another column bash- constitute the opinion of the Daily.
I find on the editorial page these ing the Republicans in Congress. Imran Syed can be reached at
days, apparently that isn't harped It's very unlikely that most readers publiceditor@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
SEAN WALSER |
Learn about MForward's goals

4
4

LETTERS TO T" [ E DITOR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Let GSRAs make their own
decisions on unionization
TO THE DAILY:
Graduate student research assistant Ste-
phen Raiman misinterprets what the Michi-
gan Student Assembly resolution regarding
the rights of GSRAs to form a union is all
about. (QSRA group against union asks assem-
blyfor support, 10/26/11).
The resolution does not take a position on
how GSRAs should vote inan election. Instead,
it supports holding an election and requests
that the election campaign take place in a way
that keeps GSRAs free from intimidation as
they make their choices.
We also wish to clear up confusion sowed by
Raiman's statement that GSRAs "already have
the right to form a union in which membership
is voluntary and no election is required."
This statement is incorrect. Before a union
is recognized, a large portion of the potential
bargainingunit (usually amajority) must either
formally vote to joina union or sign cards indi-
cating that they wish to form one. An election
is the process that GSRAs and the Graduate
Employees' Organization are currently nego-
Analyze the bullying issue,
andfind a suitable solution

tiating with University administrators and the
Michigan Employment Relations Commission.
Raiman also thinks that current procedures
in place provide adequate protection for GSRA
pay, benefits and other on-the-job concerns.
However, the mediation process he suggests is
available at Rackham Graduate School does not
carry the force of law that arbitration under a
collective bargaining agreement provides.
Currently, the University can unilaterally cut
pay or health-care benefits for GSRAs at any
time, whereas administrators would have to
bargain for any cuts under a union contract.
Those protections are well worth union
dues, as the recent experience of graduate
employees at the University of Wisconsin
shows. After anti-worker legislation eliminat-
ed the right to collectively bargain for health
care for public employees in the state, health-
care premiums for graduate students nearly
tripled - a cost shift that roughly equals dues
payments in itself.
Overall, we know that tens of hundreds of
GSRAs support unionization. All we ask is
that they have the freedom to vote without
interference.
Samantha Montgomery
Graduate Employees' Organization president
adult world.
In alliance with what Levy says about the
ineffectiveness of the "zero-tolerance theo-
ry," bullying is not something that can eas-
ily take on a black-and-white definition. Of
course, it is often quite obvious if bullying is
occurring or not. Yet, we must remember how
frequently bullying is seen in the adult world
(politics, sports, etc.) to which we expose
children to incessantly and often encourage
them to look up to. Also, the way in which
celebrities are employed to help prevent bul-
lying is not beneficial to the cause. Instead of
using non-expert celebrity figures we should
be using experts who actually have an edu-
cated background on this issue.
Anti-bullying legislation is a huge prog-
ress for our society. But if something is obvi-
ously not working we must take the time to
sit down and analyze why. Let's start pushing
for quality anti-bullying legislation. Bullying
is something that no one should ever have to
suffer through, especially when we have the
power to put an end to it, as we do now.
Leela Denver
LSA freshman


TO THE DAILY:
I am writing this in support of the recent
Michigan Daily article by Jeremy Levy,
(Change Anti-Bullying Attitudes, 10/25/11).
There has been much legislation in recent
years in an attempt to put an end to bullying.
Yet, this legislation does not seem to make
the powerful impact we are looking for. In
his article, Levy takes the time to logically
question the reasons why many anti-bullying
initiatives are not effective.
With an issue like this, it is easy to assume
that, because the goal is to get rid of bully-
ing, there is nothing that can be changed
and revised in order to make it more effec-
tive. But Levy lists in his article five main
arguments against anti-bullying tactics
used today. He refutes the effectiveness of
the "zero-tolerance theory," avoiding social
media, using celebrity figures to address
bullying, punishing children like adults and
forgetting how prevalent bullying is in the

In less than two weeks, the Michigan Student
Assembly will be holding its fall elections to fill college
vacancies. On Nov.16 and 17 students will have a choice
of who they want to represent them on their assembly.
They will decide who will be their voice in arbitration
with the University. Since its creation a year and a half
ago, MForward has been proud and grateful for the
opportunity to advocate on behalf of all students.
So just what is MForward? MForward is more than
just a political party - it is a mindset, a way of thinking
and an approach to addressing student problems, both
big and small, more effectively and creatively than any
student party before it. At its core, it is a diverse set of
leaders and representatives, bound together by a com-
mon goal of both aggressive and progressive policy, a
strong ideal of transparency and inclusiveness and a
foundation of advocacy for student interests.
MForward has worked hard to continually better
the relationship between individual students and the
University. Our numerous accomplishments have spo-
ken for that. We have implemented the recently ratified
MSA constitution - solidifying three distinct branch-
es and bringing greater efficiency to the structure
of MSA. In a collaborative effort with other student
organizations, we have worked toward making open
housing a reality and creating University policies that
are more accommodating and fair to transgender and
gender non-conforming students. We have also taken
our advocacy abroad and fought for student interests in
Lansing and Washington D.C. in collaboration with the
Student Association of Michigan and other organiza-
tions.
But MForward doesn't confine itself either. We work
to address every spectrum and range of student issues.
Under MForward's leadership, student organizations
have not only been able to sponsor assembly resolu-
tions, but will also see a rolling funding process that
encourages creativity and creating convenience for
student groups. Dining halls became open Saturday

nights, giving more options to cash-strapped students,
and Lupe Fiasco was brought to campus to celebrate
the 50th anniversary of the Peace Corps. Finally,
MForward members developed a new MSA website
and online petition software at no cost to students.
For this election, we have selected another fantastic
slate of candidates who we feel will adequately repre-
sent the needs and desires of students across campus
and uphold our values of ideas, action and community.
We believe these candidates will be a wonderful addi-
tion to our current representatives and executives as
we continue to enact the actions and reforms promised
in March. We've also worked diligently to identify can-
didates who represent students whose voice often goes
unheard in student government. For example, for the
first time, we will be running a School of Information
candidate since the school has not been adequately
represented on the assembly in the past.
As you see our candidates campaigning around cam-
pus in the coming weeks, I encourage you to stop them
and ask them why they are running for a position on
the assembly. Start a conversation with them regarding
what student government can do for you. Too often, stu-
dents choose not to actively engage in the activities of
their student government, and that is bad for everyone
involved. MSA and MForward grow stronger together
with the constant feedback of students across campus.
While more issues lie ahead, most importantly,
MForward sees solutions to these as well. We want
to work with campus leaders and organizations to
hear your concerns and your ideas. We want to make
sure that the innovative ideas from our students and
our candidates are acted upon and realized and that
the Michigan Student Assembly isn't a useless or inef-
fective institution. With your help and your vote this
month, MForward will continue to make the Univer-
sity of Michigan a stronger, better community.
Sean Walser is the MForward chair.

i
r


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 7, 2011 - 5A

Graduate student Kaitlin Phelps watches as volunteer Marlene South draws her blood in the School of N
first day of the annual UM vs. OSU Blood Battle on Friday.

BLOOD BATTLE
From Page 1A
field with 17 wins in the past 30
years. Iast year, Michigan beat
OSU with a total of 2,615 pints
of blood over OSU's 2,515. LSA
senior Carrie Burgess, Blood
Battle co-chair said while there
is an emphasis on donating more
pints than OSU, there are other
goals to the Blood Battle.
"Our main goal is to get as
many people involved as pos-
sible," she said. "We save tens of
thousands of lives each year."
In its 30-year history, the
Blood Battle has undergone
significant changes, Burgess
said. TheA event began in 1982
with eight, small drives and has
grown rapidly since then.
"We expand every year," Bur-
gess said. "Each year, we're look-
ing at getting new locations on
campus."
Mark Huizenga, the Blood
Services coordinator at the
Washtenaw County chapter of
the American Red Cross, said
students can make a huge differ-
ence in saving lives.
"It's a really wonderful com-
petition," Huizenga said. "We
look forward to it every year."
Huizenga added that the goals
for the Blood Battle are higher
than average blood drives. In one
Red Cross-sponsored drive, the
ELECTION
From Page 1A
endum - it's a matchup, and ...
the president's chances really
depend more on who the Repub-
lican nominee is," Traugott said.
"By that criteria, he is not in as
bad a shape."
In terms of congressional
races, Traugott said he doesn't
see big changes on the horizon,
but hypothesized that Demo-
crats may lose more seats to
Republicans. The new redistrict-
ing resulting from the 2010 U.S.
Census will also play a role in the
election.
"The recent history of redis-
tricting has been that more and
more seats are homogeneous and
safe for one party or the other,"
Traugott said. "So redistricting
is not going to be able to radi-
cally alter that particular part of
the calculation. There has been a
continuation of population shifts
from the North and the Midwest
down to the South and the South-
west, and these areas have gener-
ally become more Republican."
Democrats are more vulner-
able in the Senate because more
of them are up for re-election
in this cycle than Republicans,
Traugott added.
Political Science Prof. Vincent
Hutchings said the core of the
coalition that brought Obama to
power in 2008 will essentially
stay faithful, but the electoral
map will change noticeably from
the 2008 election. This will
make it difficult for Obama to
regain the support of states such
as Virginia and North Carolina.
However, Hutchings said the
assessment that the electoral
map "has been permanently
redrawn" since 2008 is "vastly
overblown."
Hutchings echoed Tragott's

sentiment that the economy is
the dominant issue going into
the election. He said the Obama
campaign will likely try to steer
the conversation away from eco-
nomics, while the GOP candidate
will probably focus almost exclu-
sively on it.
"If I'm Obama, I try to focus
on the bad qualities of my oppo-
nent, and if I'm the GOP candi-
date, I focus on the inability of

HOSPITAL
From Page 1A
According to Pat Warner,
executive director of the new
hospital, C.S. Mott emphasizes
patient and family centered
care. Unlike other children's
hospitals, the new hospital was
designed specifically with fami-
lies in mind, Warner said.
"We decided we would design
the facility from the patient and
family perspective wherever
possible," she said. "Tradition-
ally hospitals have always been
designed from the (health care)
provider's perspective."
Marie Lozon, director of pedi-
atric emergency services, said it
was important to look beyond
a typical clinical perspective
because caretakers have a dif-
ferent experience in the hospital
than their patients.
"If I need to do a spinal tap
on a child, I'm focused on get-
ting it just right and doing the
procedure correctly," Lozon
said. "What are the child and the
family focused on? They're terri-
fied."
To ensure visitor comfort,
amenities such as a meditation
space, family exercise room,
indoor playground and dining
area were included in the design
plan. Lozon said these spaces are
helpful to a family enduring a
long hospital stay.
"When you're suffering over
the pain and discomfort of your
child, you're worried and you're
fearful," she said. "But then if
you don't have the amenities, if
you don't have the proper food,
or if you don't have a place to get
clean, it's much worse."
Artwork by former patients
and professional artists fills the
brightly colored halls to create a
welcoming environment. Other
displays inspired by nature, like
large backlit photographs of
plants on campus, decorate the
building and highlight the prox-
imity to Nichols Arboretum just
a short walk from the facility.
Melanie Manos, curator of the
new Mott art collection, selected
the pieces that adorn the walls.
More than 200 works are fea-
tured and are valued collectively
at $1.8 million. Manos said it was
important to not only choose
typical children's art.
"We were trying to create an
environment that could reach

multiple generations," she said.
"We wanted parents, teenagers
and children of all ages to be able
to enjoy it."
Manos said people often find
it difficult to handle the hospi-
tal environment when spending
so much time by the bedside of
a sick loved one. To try to allevi-
ate some of the emotional stress
of the process, Manos and her
team tried to make the building
look a little less like a traditional
hospital.
"Sometimes you just need to
get away," she said. "And this
way, patients can feel like they're
somewhere else."
Photographer Edda Pacifico
contributed a special exhibit
to the museum in the new-
born intensive care unit. The
wall, titled "Wall of Hope," is
designed to reassure worried
patients and families by por-
traying stories of success. It
features small black and white
photos of infants born prema-
turely next to larger color pho-
tographs of them at an older age
doing an activity they enjoy.
The snapshots feature chil-
dren horseback riding and skate
boarding, among other favorite
childhood pastimes. In one shot,
twins born prematurely, who are
now in their teens, reach for a
basketball in mid-air during an
intense one-on-one game.
The project was especially
important to Pacifico because
her twin daughters were born
prematurely at the original Mott
hospital.
"My daughters were patients
here, and it's just an amazing
feeling to be able to give some-
thing back to the hospital," she
said.
Now they are 8 years old, and
a picture of them is included in
"Wall of Hope," in which they
embrace while barefoot and
smile at the faces of future anx-
ious parents.
Warner said the commitment
to create a positive atmosphere
for patients was the driving
force behind every choice on the
building's aesthetics.
"We were committed to create
an environment that would be
supportive, restful, healing and
fun," Warner said.
It might surprise some to hear
a hospital described as fun, War-
ner said. But she explained that
when administrators thought
about which rooms to include in

the new building, they decided
that play facilities were impor-
tant.
"Even when our children are
sick they still want to play," War-
ner said. "They still want to have
fun. You can't forget that when
you're taking care of children."
The playroom was designed
with an athletic theme, featuring
a mural and a light fixture that
plays "Hail to the Victors" when
activated. Warner said the room
is a reflection of the hospital's
close relationship with the Uni-
versity's Athletic Department.
In recent years, student-ath-
letes on a variety of University
teams have visited children at
the hospital on Thursday nights.
Warner said children staying in
the hospital love the visits, and
the playroom was a way to build
on that excitement.
She added that one of the
beloved aspects of the University
is its commitment to athletics,
and the hospital wanted to draw
on that attraction that brings so
many people to Ann Arbor.
"If we were in Orlando, maybe
Disney would be the focus,"
Warner said. "But here at the
(University), it's about athletics."
Many of the families who
spent time in the former hospital
buildingand those who are going
to move into the new building
were present at the open house
to celebrate the space. One par-
ent, Scott Newport, project assis-
tant for the hospital's Patient &
Family Centered Care Program,
began working in the Univer-
sity of Michigan Hospital Sys-
tem after spending time in the
former Mott building when his
son Evan was sick. After his son
passed away, Newport became
committed to the C.S. Mott com-
munity and continued to provide
support for other parents.
"The hospital has always had
a great staff, loving nurses, sup-
portive doctors and great leader-
ship. But they didn't havea place
like this," Newport said of the
new facility.
Newport added that he
thinks the hospital administra-
tors followed through with their
promise to make sure families
were included in the redesign
process.
"I think they really realized
4hey)needed to take (that inclu-
sion) to the next level," he said.
"And they're puttingtheir money
where their mouth is."

goal is typically 25 to 30 pints.
During the Blood Battle, many
of the individual drives bring in
200 pints or more.
While the Blood Battle is the
biggest partnership with the
Washtenaw County American
Red Cross, Huizenga said the
"partnership lasts all year" since
students continue to donate
blood outside of the competition.
Burgess acknowledged stu-
dent's anxiety about giving blood
as an obstacle to receiving more
donors, but she urged students
not to be nervous.
"It's really not as bad as you
think," she said. "Think of the
end result. Ultimately, that
should be enough to overcome
that initial state of fear."

For Mueting, he had no con-
cern about donating blood, and
he feels all eligible students
should participate. He added that
taking advantage of the rivalry
with OSU encourages students to
donate.
"I think it's a really good idea
(to donate) ..." he said. "It helps
people that need it because you
never know when you might
need it too."
Huizenga encouraged poten-
tial donors to hydrate properly
the day they give blood, avoid
caffeinated drinks and eat
healthy, iron-rich foods to "help
the experience go smoother."
"It only takes an hour, but you
can help someone for the rest of
their life," Huizenga said.


the current administration to
solve the economic problems,"
Hutchings said.
For Republican students on
campus, the nomination process
is not about endorsing one can-
didate. According to LSA junior
Brian Koziara, vice chair of the
University's chapter of College
.Republicans, the organization's
members have formed subgroups
within the group to campaign for
their favored GOP candidates,
including former Massachusetts
Gov. Mitt Romney, Minnesota
Rep. Michelle Bachmann and
Texas Gov. Rick Perry.
"These are interest groups,
they talk about the candidates
and they've done grassroots
stuff for those candidates here
in Michigan," Koziara said. "It's
just the mobilization stage, get-
ting people involved, getting
people recruited for next year."
After the primaries, Koziara
said the College Republicans
will begin registering voters,
canvassing door to door and tak-
ing trips to other districts in the
state to campaign not just for the
presidential race, but for "races
down the ticket."
"The presidential candidate is
like the general in the battlefield,
and he or she will help to rally
the troops and turn out the vote
for those tickets farther down
the ballot," Koziara said.
For politically active Demo-
cratic students, the procedure is

and motivate its members. For
Caldwell, issues such as health
care and student loans play into
the broader economic debate,
and she believes Obama can win
on those issues.
"History has shown us that
Democrats do better when
the economy is the top issue,"
Caldwell said.
In the 2008 election, more
than 70 percent of Univer-
sity students voted for Obama,
according to Public Policy senior
Joe Sandman, spokesman for
College Democrats.
Sandman said issues that were
important in the 2008 campaign,
such as the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, are receiving less
attention. While these issues are
still important to some voters, he
said domestic economic issues
have overshadowed them.
However, both Caldwell and
Sandman said they are optimis-
tic about the chances of the Dem-
ocrats in congressional races,
particularly in Michigan. Mem-
bers of the organization plan to
work for Democratic candidates
and assist to register voters at
the University in a program
called District Invasions.
"Our number one issue is reg-
istering students to vote and
making sure that everyone has
all the correct information about
what they need to go to the polls,


CONTRACT
From Page 1A
tions to the contract, according to
the UMHS press release.
Amid ongoing negotiations,
Ora Pescovitz, the University's
executive vice president for medi-
cal affairs, praised the work of
University nurses and supported a
resolution to the bargaining nego-
tiations in her State of the Health
System address on Sept. 28.
"Our nurses are really on the

front line of seeing our patients,"
she said in her speech. "Our nurs-
es are criticalto creatingthe ideal
patient care experience."
Last month marked a mile-
stone for both parties when
UMHS and the Professional
Nurse Council reached their first
tentative agreement - which
came just over a week after hun-
dreds of nurses and supporters
rallied in downtown Ann Arbor
for a finalized contract.
UMHS nurse Katie Oppen-
heim, chair of the University of

Michigan Professional Nurse
Council, said at the time that the
nurses were "unanimously rec-
ommending" the ratification of
the tentative agreement.
In the Michigan Nurses Asso-
ciation press release, Oppenheim
called the finalized agreement a
"win" for all parties.
"Our nurses came together to
stand up for what they believed
she wrote. "It was the strength
and unity of our union that has
allowed us to push forward to
such a successful settlement."

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@MichiganDaily
@MichDailyNews
@MichDailyArts
@MichDailySports
@MichDailyOpEd
@MichDailyFball

r-.

the same, but the goal is differ-
ent - campaigning to keep the
president in office and spreading
the word about what they see as
the administration's successes.
LSA senior Amanda Caldwell,
chair of the University's chapter
of College Democrats, is leading
her group to promote the presi-
dent's policies as a way to secure
re-election.
"We had record-breaking
phone banks with students on
campus making calls in support
of health care reform," Caldwell
said. "We've also been out on the
Diag handing out some informa-
tion about the stuff that (Obama
has) done for student loan
reform."
The College Democrats also
held an event called the "Youth
Launch Campaign" to form a
general plan for the campaign


Campus Mind Works Groups

sO
a a
. 0
a 8c
c 3 c.-

FREE drop-in education and support
groups for any U-M student with
Depression, Bipolar, or Anxiety
Seasonal Affective Disorder
and Depression
When: Tuesday, November 8
from 5:30-7:00 p.m.
Where: Chrysler Center, Room 133,
North Campus
Visit www.campusmindworks.org
for more information.

0 '!IQ

'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK m0



6A - Monday, November 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4

Mayor Bloomberg avoids
action against protests

Bloomberg named
30th richest person
on planet by Forbes
NEW YORK (AP) - It would
seem that Mayor Michael Bloom-
berg would be a natural foe for
protesters now in their seventh
week on Wall Street's footstep.
He is not only the 1 percent, he
was named the 30th richest per-
son on the planet, according to
Forbes magazine. He is aman who
has used his fortune to achieve
vast political influence. A former
trader and CEO who ardently
defends the big banks against
those who would blame the insti-
tutions for the nation's economic
woes.
But the billionaire mayor has
thus far avoided taking decisive
action against the encampment
protesting economic inequality
and corporate greed.
Bloomberg may not be able to
keep that distance for long, how-
ever. Local officials displeased
with noise and sanitation com-
plaints atthe site havebeen notch-
ing up the pressure on City Hall.
And park owners may yet choose
to clear out the group on trespass-
ing charges, causing a potential
showdown with police.
The mayor has said the situ-
ation is the city's responsibility
- but has yet to explain how his
administration mightstep in.
"It is the city's problem and
we'll make a decision," he said
recently. "But, you know, it's just
not so easy. You can't just walk in
and say, 'Hey, you're outof here."'
As the protests have grown to
include encampments around the
country, some mayors are taking
that exact approach, while oth-
ers are publicly pondering similar
action. Results have been mixed.
In Oakland, Calif., police in riot
gear fired tear gas and bean bags
to disperse protesters who had
been camping in front of City Hall

- a move followed by confronta-
tions that have led local business
leaders and residents to question
Mayor Jean Quan's leadership. In
Atlanta and in Sacramento, Calif.,
police arrested dozens of people
to clear out park encampments.
The mayor of Providence, RI.,
has threatened to ask a court to
evict protesters, and Los Angeles
Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa has
said an encampment outside City
Hall "cannot continue indefinite-
ly."
But in New York, a decision to
forcibly evict the protesters could
prove unpopular for a mayor
already coping with a third-term
decline in public approval. Two-
thirds of New York City voters
polled recently by Quinnipiac
University say they agree with the
protesters' views, and 82 per-
cent believe the group should be
allowed to continue the protest,
which is costing the city millions
of dollars in ramped up security.
"Bloomberg is in a bad spot,"
said 61-year-old protester Aron
Kay, standing with the help of a
cane amid the tents at Zuccotti
Park. "He knows he's damned if
you do, damned if you don't....
They will look very bad if they
come in here like gangbusters."
Still, patience with the move-
ment is wearing thin with some.
The New York Post embla-
zoned the word "ENOUGH!"
on its front page Thursday and
accused the mayor of refusing
to take action on what the news-
paper said was a public nui-
sance. Politicians representing
Wall Street-area residents have
asked the city to crack down on
protesters' loud drumming and
public urination, even while
sayingthey value the protesters'
message.
So far, Bloomberg's dealings
with the protesters have been a
balancing act.
He has expounded at length
about the group's free-speech
rights - repeatedly saying that he

has been their biggest defender.
But he has also openly mocked
Occupy Wall Street and his state-
ments have harshened in recent
days.
"Increasingly you're seeing
that communities, businesses and
residents in Lower Manhattan
feel that they are the ones that are
being occupied ... and it's really
hurting small businesses and fam-
ilies," he said Wednesday. "No one
should think that we won't take
actions that we think are appro-
priate when we think they are
appropriate."
A day later, he said he was con-
cerned about crime at the camp
and unwillingness among some
protesters to report crimes to
the police, but declined to say
whether that could be reason to
evict the group. He later said the
city wouldn't tolerate "some of
the things that have gone on," and
vowed to do something, but said it
was also important to understand
laws and implications.
Bloomberg, who gets daily
updates on the protest in a meet-
ing with senior aides and agency
heads, has said the police depart-
ment won't move to evict the pro-
testers unless there's a threat to
public health or safety - or unless
Brookfield Office Properties,
which owns the park, asks the city
for help removingtrespassers.
The administration remains in
constant contact with Brookfield.
But the mayor has said repeat-
edly his administration has tried
to identify representatives among
the protesters with whom it could
negotiate - but the leaderless
nature of the protesters' organiza-
tion has made it impossible.
The city called progressive
politicians, political organizations
and labor groups - some of which
have worked with the group at
Zuccotti Park - in an attempt to
identify protesters who would talk
to city officials, said Bloomberg
spokesman Marc La Vorgna. But
no names have surfaced, he said.

I

Syrian immigrants and supporters shout slogans as they wave the revolutionary Syrian flag and a Kurdish flag during a
rally against the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in front of the Syrian embassy in Sofia, yesterday.
Syrian troops kill 11 despite
peace plan b Arab League

I

Killings occured on
the first day of Feast
of the Sacrifice
BEIRUT (AP) - Syrians in
the restive region of Homs 'per-
formed special prayers for a
major Muslim holiday to the
sound of explosions and gunfire
as government troops pushed
forward their assault on the
area, killing at least 11 people
yesterday, residents and activ-
ists said.
The violence on the first day
of Eid al-Adha, or Feast of the
Sacrifice, added to fears that a
peace plan brokered by the Arab
League last week was unravel-
ing and prompted Qatar's prime
minister to call for an emergen-
cy meeting Saturday to discuss
the Syrian government's failure
to abide by its commitments.
Egypt's official news, agen-
cy MENA reported that Sheik
Hamad Bin Jassem Bin Jabr Al
Thani called for the meeting "in
light of the continuing acts of
violence and the Syrian govern-
ment's noncompliance" with the
terms of the Arab plan.

Violence has continued
unabated, though Damascus
agreed to halt its crackdown
on the 7-month-old uprising
that the U.N. says has left some
3,000 people dead.
Under the Arab League plan,
Syria's government agreed to
pull tanks and armored vehicles
out of cities, release political
prisoners and allow journalists
and rights groups into the coun-
try.
"It is a very painful situation
here in Homs," said a city resi-
dent reached by telephone and
speaking on condition of ano-
nymity for fear of government
reprisals. "The holiday will
come for us only when we are
free from this regime."
Activists said government
forces yesterday killed at least
nine people in Homs, which has
turned into one of the main cen-
ters of protest and reprisal dur-
ing the revolt against President
Bashar Assad.
Bloodshed linked to the mili-
tary crackdown on dissent and
what appear to be sectarian
revenge killings have engulfed
Homs in recent weeks, killing
scores of people in the country's

third-largest city.
The British-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights
said troops killed one person in
the city of Hama during raids
there and another in the north-
ern Idlib province.
Majd Amer, a local Homs
activist, said people performed
morning prayers to the sound
of explosions that sometimes
shook the mosques. "Nobody
can tell what the explosions are, 4
it's been like this for days now,"
he said of the military assault on
the city.
Elsewhere, troops fired live
ammunition to disperse protest-
ers near Damascus and in the
country's north as worshippers
emerged from prayers to stage
protests calling for Assad's
ouster. There were no immedi-
ate reports of deaths but activ-
ists said several people were
wounded in the northern prov-
ince of Idlib.
Assad, who is trying to fend
off the greatest challenge his
family's 40-year-old regime,
attended Eid prayers at the al-
Nour- Mosque in the northern
town of Raqqa, according to the
official SANA news agency.

4

! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
best housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
blocks from Central Campus and down-
town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
WWW.CA MPUSREALTY.COM
734-665-8825

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.

RELEASE DATE- Monday, November 7, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 65 Mends with 33 Automtune-up item 49 Persistently
1 Magician's bird of thread 34 Camp Pendleton bothered
choice 66 FBI personnel letters 50 Allegation
5 eae's Sent 35 LAX inoming hrs. 51 Missouri river or
product, slangily 1At DOWN 37 Jazzalichs tritbe
9 Fall faller 1 Autbor Roald 38 Approves 52 Cavity filler's
3Pubp s nt 41 Amusement park org.
14SecitFores 3 Presiden 1Aueent pasae
weapon racers 54 Blissful sighs
15 Fairytale starter 4 Station with game 43 Longtime Dodger 55 Camping shelter
16strike gold reposand sipperTommy se60-digit lIs
18OGivee.o:ar highlghts '15 Briany brothers 59 Deviate tram a
appve 5 Clampett 48 Sluglike "Star course
19 Cendian coin patriarch Wars" crime boss 60 DJs stack
nicknamed for the 60Onassispantarch ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
ardon it 7 Brink
25land-waoingsor sDeclare to be true W I F I F I N 1 E R A M T
finger-pointing 90Despise T I M M A C H I N E N O W
22Foreach Oredo NDLESSL OOP A L i
23MyhiEalIgyptian 11 Pieceothesky E N O L S A R E S
ridle IChioken Lite E OLA RE
25Comfieldbird 12Shipping giant N E N A L O S T Y A ,C H T
27Smallestprime 14"Sayonara" R E S O U R C E C H I T
number 17 It's roughly 21% P I N O N C H I L i
2827-Acrossplus Unygen TRAPEZ I U S M U S CLE
onein Ity 11 21 nitfpersley HCE TRCI E S
29 unesuof theater 23 Tinkerwith E
seas 24 Franks ASHE HELI PAD S
30 Goes down in the 25 Hook nemesis, for T E A 5 5 O D E R R E A P
32 bebatable point 26 Cyindrical ADD S AR BA E A EN
36 Encouragement caramel candy G E L EJECTOR S E A T
forematador 27OGeneralnl OEoA EH R E
37 L staddler Chinese cuisine O Q E R A R S E S
39 LAX hrs. 31 Loud call xwordeditor@aol.com 11105/11
40 Welshbdog 1 2 3 4 s 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
42 Screwball -
43 Dalai __ 13 a 1s
44 A bit amiss
46 Milk"director Van ' 8 1
47 Oval segments " 2 21
48Guy"nippingat 22 a
yournose," in a
holidaysong 2 a 2n a
52 snquire
53 Rend McNally 2 a 31 32 " 35
references
54 Takeshome from " 6 n a3
the pound a 24
57 Yogi forne 42 42
58 Singer of the a as 4 en
1961 #1 song
found in the s a 4a aso 1 2
nf t6-23- 7-
and 48-Across 53 54 ss se
61 Can of worms, e.g.
62 "Drett sa 52 60
3Brmks country 62 " a2
music partner e a
amed cash
Aby.l
(c211ibusne Meda aServices, inc.

5 & 6 BR Houses
May 2012
www.COpiprOpertieS.COm
734-663-5609
2 BDRM APT. 1004 S. Forest #B 1.
$975/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT. 1004 S. Forest #B3.
$1450/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
3 BDRM APT. 819S. Stale #1 $1850/
mo. May lease. 734-332-61111
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM HOUSE. 1527S. University.
$2627/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
' Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2
kitchens, living room, dining room,
free
laundry and parking, CentralAir!
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
! 2 BLOCKS to Diag, 441 Hamilton !
$100,000 Renovation complete,
6 bdrm, study & 3 bathrooms! Sept '12
12 mo. lease. $3500/mo. includes ldry.,
furn., A.C., prkg. Call 734-649-0190.
...If Money can't buy happiness,
I guess you'll have to rent it!!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 primesh.com
8 BDRM HOUSE. 1026 Greenwood.
$4326/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. Allare attrac-
lively priced, most include parking,
many are famished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2012 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.

FOR BEST SELECTION,
RESERVE TODAY!
SPRING & FALL
ON CAMPUS,
FURNISHED STUDIO,
1, 2,3 BEDROOMS
DON'T MISS OUT ON
THE BEST OF
CENTRAL CAMPUS
FOR 2012/2013
536 SOUTH FOREST
ANN ARBOR, MI 48104
734-761-2680
!UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
INFOjU-TOWERS.COM
AVAIL FALL '12: 717 Dewey Ave.
5bdrm/2bth $2850/mo. Call (610) 952-
5269. Email louisbreskman@gmail.com
FREE BUBBLE ISLAND TEA, with
every new tour! WE ARE NOW
TAKING RESERVATIONS! For
best selection come in today, we sold
out early last year. Avail. Rooms, Stu-
dios, 1, 2, 3 bdrm furnished apartments
for Spring/Fall 2012. Don't miss out on
the Best of Central Campus! Call
(734) 761-2680 for your appointment.
Visit www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
APARTMENTS GOING FAST....
for 2012-13!
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms!
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call today for an appointment!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
5 BDRM HOUSE. 1206 Cambridge
Ct. Maple Kitchen Cabinets. Granite
Countertops. $3106/ mo. May lease.
734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BDRM APTS. 819 S. State. $3200/
mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
6 BDRM HOUSE. 947 Greenwood.
$3747/ mo. May lease. 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com

FALL '12 RENTAL. 5 Bdrm, 2 bath.
at 811 Sylvan. 10 min walk to campus.
5 min to baseball field and track.
Major appliances. $2500/mo.
734.834.1680.
RENOVATED CONDO: NEW crpt,
app, cab, paint. Stylish end unit no
tenets above/below. Quiet. 2 bdrm, 2
ba. Big basement: 2 unfnshd bdrms,
living area. Attchd garage. Super for ex-
ecutive or students. $1,500 ($1,750 fur-
nished). Short term lease available.
Isimpson6@columbus.rr.com.
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winningrentals inKerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Barns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
YOU'VE PASSED this house many
times, corner of Church and Willard.
Great off campus fraternity house. 11
bdrm., 2 large sitting areas, 2 kitch., 3
showers/baths, wshr./dryer no charge,
8
prkg. spaces avail. Aug. 2012-Aug
2013. CALL: 248-330-0396
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/kitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-8115

COMMUNITY ORGANIZERS
WANTED!!! Working America/AFL-
CIO is hiring F/T staff to take our coun-.
try back from the political forces that
favor the wealthy and corporate special
interests over your well-being! Diver-
sity is highly valued at Working Amer-
ica: Women, people of color, and
LGBT applicants strongly encouraged
to apply. $11.44/ Hour $457.60 week
base pay - Entry Level. Fun work envi-
ronment. EOE. Rapid advancement op-
portunities. Call Willie 734.222.6496,
www.workingamerica.org
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

4

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE
organization, format. All disciplines.
25 years' U-M experience.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net.

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
418-
4115

i

DELIVER FRESH CUISINES from
the most popular restaurants in Ann Ar-
bor to local homes and offices! Great
tips, flexible scheduling, stress free
work environment!
Call 888-334-9675 Ext.0
SCOREKEEPERS IS LOOKING to
hire servers, floormen & cooks. Please
have a great personality, shar image,
willingness to be extremely busy &
handle high volume with Saturday
availability. Apply in person at 310
Maynard 48104

a

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
FINE ARTS COLUMN
Exit throi
the pop
B anksy has garnered gobs Heck, Ban
of media attention ever first guy to
since he began using painting w
stencils and spray paint to leave and cultur
his iconic images on public Don't be
canvasses Google im
- walls, Le Rat" -
streets, side- Done? N
walks and results are
even port- turns up h
a-potties that are so
have been would swe
ambushed by across a hi
this mysteri- wiring. Th
ous crusader LAUREN stenciled b
of creativ- CASERTA torical, po]
ity. His eye- figures inc
catching well, a sym
graffiti art is a series of satirical uted to Ban
symbols that address issues like Banksy
capitalism, war and hypocrisy, Xavier Pro
often utilizing contradictory who paint
imagery to get his point across. "Blek Le R
But while Banksy's creations working si
are hailed as the uniquely has inspire
perceptive ideas of an artistic And Prou h
lone wolf, the vehicle for his enthusiast
satire is far from unique and is another ar
instead strikingly reminiscent style in an,
of a much larger movement that with owne
dominated the art scene of the laws is aki
'50s and '60s. 'm talking, of Still, their
course, about Pop Art. in stone. B
Most Banksy fans would rowed" in
probably balk at the idea that self-expre
their socially conscious and Lichtenste
politically opinionated idol fell under
could be associated with people their suspi
who painted soup cans and actual com
movie stars in their snooty artist is ce
minimalist lofts, but their line betwe
similar focus on consumerism what is pla
and popular culture are unmis-
takable. Both enjoy taking
everyday items or scenes out of
context and allowing the viewer V
to see them in a different, often Ban
revealing light - only Banksy's
penchant for utilizing juxta- COM
position as blatant irony hints
at the evolution that Pop Art a 5(
has undergone since its 20th-
century heyday.
His images of crucified
Christ holding shopping bags Still, it's'
in his outstretched arms and Warhol to
a group of children saluting a often publi
Tesco grocery bag that's being artistic int
hoisted like a flag are perfect ures like M
symbols for a new generation of Queen Eliza
pop artists and culture critics different, I
who have emerged en masse to isolation a
pick up where Warhol and Dine of popular
left off. Ironic and deadpan some fasci
humor are the means by which between ti
Pop Art's newest incarnation profession
has emerged, producing works 2007, Pollo
of varying craftsmanship and up with th
seriousness that now fill every- arts venue,
thing from modern art galleries exclusively
to the vast corners of the web. ing the wo:
Accordingly, Warhol's paint- ists side-by
ing of Marilyn Monroe becomes studio.
North Korean defector Song But outs
Byeok's portrait of his dictator's Banksy's s

smiling face superimposed onto imagery st
the actress's body in her famous hurricane-
updraft pose. Meanwhile, New Orlea
Lichtenstein's comic book Bank wall.'
girls become popular Internet tional meth
images of'50s housewives strongly w
whose brilliant advertisement driven by t
smiles are rendered neurotic by of pop cult
an accompanying quote about remember
their hidden desire to tear you a son to call
new one. mercializa
Interestingly, like the Pop the human
artists before him, Banksy also this new ge
fits into an artistic movement The reviva
whose boundaries regarding of Pop Art
originality and ownership are satire and
blurred by the use of material only its late
that is both copyrighted by which has
companies and used by his fel- with us for
low artists. Artists of the '50s ue to quest
and '60s were known for their motives -
sense of openness when it came
to using other people's ideas, C
even if that meant that inspira- a
tion came from a fellow artist. e-m


Monday, November 7, 2011 - 7A


ugh
irt
ksy wasn't even the
orun around spray-
alls with political
al iconography.
elieve me? Do a
age search for "Blek
go on, Il wait.
Votice anything? The
eerie - the search
undreds of images
Banksy-esque you
ar you'd stumbled
ccup in Google's
ese hundreds of
lack-and-white his-
litical and cultural
lude many rats as
nbol usually attrib-
nksy's repertoire.
has admitted that
u, the street artist
s under the moniker
at" and has been
nce the early '80s,
ed much of his work.
has been surprisingly
ic about allowing
tist to imitate his
age where messing
rship and copyright
n to playing with fire.
relationship is not set
anksy may have "bor-
the spirit of artistic
ssion, but just as
in's comic book girls
intense scrutiny for
cious resemblance to
ic panels, the street
rtainly skirting the
en what is art and
giarism.
hat does
sy have in
mon with

Holy'Arkham City Batman
New video game featuring the Dark Knight
combines enthralling gameplay and story
By Shin Hieftje I Daily Arts Writer

Batman has a lot of things
going for him. He saves and
protects people. He's a million-
aire with a ton
of awesome ****
gadgets. He's
got a catchy Batman:
name. But mostA
importantly, Arkham City
Batman is Xbox 360,
pretty badass. PS3, PC
Developer
Rocksteady Rocksteady
recognizes and
celebrates all these things in
"Batman: Arkham City." What
makes "Arkham City" stand out
is how much it embraces the Bat-
man fiction and incorporates it
thoroughly into both the game-
play and story.
"Arkham City" takes place in
a sectioned-off neighborhood of
Gotham that functions as a mega-
prison for criminals. As Batman,
the player uncovers a number of
mysteries being caused by a wide
range of villains. One of the most
impressive aspects of the game is
how many major characters from
the Batman universe it weaves
into the story while still having
a cohesive narrative: "Arkham
City" includes face-offs with
Joker, Hugo Strange, Two-Face,
Catwoman, Mr. Freeze, the Pen-
guin and many more.
Getting around Arkham City is
made simple through the Batclaw
grappling hook and Batman's
cape, which let the player attach
to any building and glide through
the air. While getting from place

to place is easy, the city itself is
so big that it's still a little tedious
moving all the way across the
map to the next objective. Bat-
man is free to go anywhere in the
city, but the game is still fairly
linear. There's always a primary
area for Batman to go to advance
the story, and a couple side mis-
sions along the way to take part
in, which are usually better than
expected. Outside of these mis-
sions, though, all there is in the
city are random thugs to beat up
and scattered collectible trophies
hidden by the Riddler.
Once the player reaches a des-
tination, beit a dilapidated police
building or Joker's hideout, get-
ting from place to place becomes
more of a puzzle. One might use
detective vision to track down
footprints, take a zip line across a
chasm or use a remote-controlled
Batarang to trigger a switch. Bat-
man has a wide variety ofgadgets,
and it's impressive how the game
requires the use of almost all of
them. Defeating enemies will
net experience and let the player
unlock abilities, which allows
access to previously unreachable
areas as well.
When Batman isn't busy fig-
uring out where to go, he's busy
taking people down. The melee
portions pit him against a group
of thugs that the player can take
down primarily through a series
of punches and counters. While it
can be a little button-mashy, the
animation in the fights makes the
combat visceral and satisfying.

And that's why you always leave a note.
Taking down 20 thugs feels a lit-
tle too easy in the beginning, but
the enemy types becomes more
difficult, which makes for a fair
challenge.
Stealth combat happens when
Batman runs into a room full of
thugs armed with guns. Guns
can rip up Batman pretty badly,
which is a refreshing change of
pace from most games, where
bullet damage hardly matters.
Thus, the player has to sneak-
ily pick off enemies in strategic
ways: Throw a Batarang to dis-
tract other guards while silently
taking out an isolated one, or use
an electronic disruptor to make
the enemies' guns go haywire for
a short time. Batman's large arse-
nal of gadgets and moves mean

these armed enemies can be
taken down a different way every
time, providing much leeway for
creativity.
"Batman: Arkham City" can
be seen as a perfect example of
how to integrate a beloved fic-
tion into a new medium. The
story has great twists, the music
stands out (with a very "Dark
Knight" inspired score), it looks
sharp, the boss fights are cre-
ative and over-the-top and
there's more gameplay variation
than expected. Some of the com-
bat scenarios can feel contrived,
and getting around the city can
drag a little. But at the end of
the day, it's nearly everything
one would want from at Batman
game.

ompcan? A vampire show with more bite than'Blood'

'50s art legend Andy
whom Banksy is most
icly compared. Their
erpretations of fig-
larilyn Monroe and
abeth II may be very
but their focus on the
nd re-interpretation
cultural icons form
nating parallels
he two, even in the
al art community: In
'ck Fine Art teamed
e Hospital, a creative
to run an exhibit
'devoted to gather-
rks of these two art-
y-side into the same
ide art galleries,
savvy and powerful
retches from the
ravaged houses of
ns to the Israeli West
While his unconven-
hods may resonate
ith a generation
he use (and misuse)
ure, it's important to
he isn't the first per-
into question com-
tion and the state of
condition, even from
eneration of artists.
1 and transformation
into a medium for
self-examination is
est incarnation, one
the potential to stay
as long as we contin-
ion our values, our
and ourselves.
aserta is spray-painting
wall. To steal her ideas,
ail caserta@umich.edu.

By KAYLA UPADHYAYA
Daily Arts Writer
I'm going to make a rather bold
statement: If you are not con-
vinced "The Vampire Diaries" is a
drama worthy of your time, then
I am not convinced you have ever
actually watched "The Vampire
Diaries." I know. It's about vam-
pires, it's on the CW, it's adver-
tised as a teen drama full of love
triangles and beautiful people.
But don't let the promos - which
are created by networks to gener-
ate viewers and don't necessar-
ily convey the true nature of the
shows they represent - fool you.
"The Vampire Diaries" features
strong writing and dynamic char-
acters portrayed by a cast with
impressive range.
Many people like to refer
to "The Vampire Diaries" as a
watered-down version of HBO's
"True Blood," but this is an unfair
claim. "True Blood" takes place in
a world where people know vam-
pires exist. The concept is intrigu-
ing and decently executed in the
first season, but beyond that,
"True Blood" is nothing but self-
indulgent, mindless television.
The writers never seem to know
where they're going, and none
of the characters ever undergo
significant change or show any
multi-dimensionality.

The main thing "True Blood" moment, she explains to Caro-
had going for it at first was that line that not all vampire-hunters
the show featured an overarch- are monsters - it's just the way
ing, thinly veiled metaphor for they've been taught. This furthers
gay people in our society. This the allegory, suggesting that not
allegory worked for a while but all homophobes are inherently
became overstated with heavy- bad people, but products of their
handed lines like "God hates time. If I ever saw something this
fangs" and vampires "coming out poignant on "True Blood," I'd be
of their coffins." shocked.
"The Vampire Diaries" suc-
ceeds on many other fronts that
The CW pulls "True Blood" can't seem to pull
off. Most notably, the characters
off vamps better are always growing. The good-
versus-evil dichotomy is fasci-
than HBO. nating, as no one is completely
evil or purely good. Each new
villain initially seems like a mon-
ster but quickly develops relat-
Three episodes into its third able, human flaws. Even Klaus
season, "The Vampire Diaries" (Joseph Morgan, "Immortals"),
proved it could beat "True Blood" who has been the show's main vil-
at its own game. In a wonderfully lain since the end of last season,
constructed subplot, Caroline shows a moment of vulnerability
(Candice Accola) is kidnapped in a recent episode when his sister
by her ironically gay father (Jack Rebekah asks him if his loneliness
Coleman, "Heroes"), who tortures is his primary motivating force.
her in an attempt to cure her of These characters may be super-
vampirism. The metaphor is much natural, but they have very real,
more subtle than it is on "True mortal problems.
Blood" and the finesse makes it all "True Blood" has received
the more powerful. critical attention for its actors, but
Caroline's mother, Sheriff Liz those performances are one-note.
Forbes (Marguerite MacIntyre), On "The Vampire Diaries," Nina
who only recently accepted her Dobrev has managed to balance
daughter's vampirism, saves her. playing two divergent characters,
And in another beautifully subtle succeeding to the point where

I almost forget Katherine and
Elena - the Petrova Doppelgang-
ers - aren't played by two differ-
ent actresses. Ian Somerhalder
has effectively conveyed Damon's
inner turmoil and existential cri-
ses. Candice Accola always leads
me on an emotional roller-coaster
and Paul Wesley has convincingly
embodied Stefan in his innocent
days and his transition into a psy-
chopathic killer this season.
"The Vampire Diaries" is the
only show that has been able to
continually shock me episode after
episode. The "WTF" moments
lead to great payoffs. "True Blood"
tries to be shocking, but instead
relies on gore and gratuity to get
the job done, rarely incorporating
satisfying twists that play into the
character arcs or plot. And even
when the writers do try this kind
of plot twist, they end up lost in
their own mythology.
I used to call "The Vampire
Diaries" my guilty pleasure show,
but why should I feel guilty for
watching a series that has few
flaws and proves that genre tele-
vision can be thought-provoking
and emotional? When it comes
down to it, this is a show about
family, not teen love or vampire
adventures. "The Vampire Dia-
ries" will be around for a while,
even if it never receives the criti-
cal attention it deserves.

BIRDS DO IT,
BEES DO IT ...
AND WE DO IT.
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@MICHDAILYARTS.

Interested in Health in a post-conflict setting?
r- The Center for Global Health in partnership with the Center for Education of Women, r-
m the Center for Human Growth & Development (MHIRT Program), the Institute for
=3 Research on Women & Gender, and the Office of Global Outreach, School of Nursing, =3
o invite you to join us at the
3rd Annual Student Global Health Day
November 11, 2011. Events from 9:30am - 4:30pm
More info
http://www.globalhealth.umich.edu/tudentglObalhealthdaY2O11 html =
Register
http://www.cew.umich.edu/progevents/third-annual-student-global-
health-day-and-symposium/20110926
Watch Student-led presentations and view their posters


8A - Monday, November 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

BA - Monday, November 7, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michiganduilycom


FILM REVIEW
Series getting blunt

ALBUM REVIEW
Wale gets too ambitious

Only NPH brings
it in 'Harold and
Kumar' threequel
By AKSHAY SETH
DailyArts Writer
There has and always will be
something magical about watch-
ing people get baked on screen
and then do
something ***
intensely stu-
pid. Why? The AVery
answer has alot Harold and
to do with the
fact that many Kumar 3D
of us know Christmas
the feeling
and can relate. At Quality16
And even if it's and Rave
crappy reality
TV, the ability WarnerBros:
to relate allows
for a connection with the audi-
ence despite the utter stupidity
or inanity of the content.
Some of the greatest stoner
flicks, like "The Big Lebowski"
and "Dazed and Confused," were
grounded by the implausibil-
ity of every major plot develop-
ment. Underlying themes of the
struggle to confront immaturity
and obscurity added the per-
sonal touch' that made the films
worthwhile. Falling within these
expected bounds is "A Very Har-
old and Kumar 3D Christmas,"
the latest in a franchise that has
now spanned eight years.
In those eight years, nothing
in particular has changed except
the age of the two leads. The
movie still features an assorted
selection of racial jokes, sexual
innuendo, rampant drug use and,
of course, Neil Patrick Harris
(TV's "HowI Met Your Mother").
That's not to saythat anything
about this movie is predictable.
Viewers still get to experience
the same "WTF" moments from

"Santa-suit up."
the first two movies, all stem-
ming from the worst kind of deci-
sion-making possible. The jokes,
no matter how crude in taste they
may be, are still hilarious.
But what made the first movie
more than just another funny
stoner comedy was the way it
questioned racial stereotypes.
Harold (John Cho, "Star Trek")
and Kumar (Kal Penn, "The
Namesake") are still very likable
characters,butbynowtheir antics
are so identifiable that it's notsur-
prising to seethem responsible for
so much drug-induced mayhem.
The mayhem here ensues
when Kumar accidentally burns
down the 12-foot Douglas fir tree
grown by Harold's Christmas-
obsessed father-in-law (Danny
Trejo, "Machete"). The rest of
the movie is spent trying to find
a replacement tree before the
father-in-law returns from mid-
night mass on Christmas Eve.
Along for the ride are Adrian
(CollegeHumor's Amir Blumen-
feld), Todd (Thomas Lennon,
TV's "Reno 911") and Todd's five-
year-old daughter Caren (new-
comer Isabella Gielniak) who, as

the film progresses, gets exposed
to marijuana, cocaine, ecstasy
and other drugs.
At times, the convoluted
nature of the plot, which also
involves Ukranian mobsters
and Santa Claus, takes the edge
away from what could have been
the funniest jokes of the movie.
Though the humor is as vulgar
as it's ever been, it doesn't catch
the audience off guard because
too much time is spent thinking
about all the stupid little details
that make the storyline function.
The one performance that
brings excitement to the screen is
Harris's, who reappears as the fic-
tionalized sex- and drug-crazed
version of himself. The thing that
elevates his character is that he's
erratic. Because the dramatized
NPH is capable of every imagin-
able monstrosity, the audience
can never really tell what insane
thing he'll think of next.
Unfortunately, the same can't
be said for Harold and Kumar,
who, like this movie, end up
being funny but are all too lost
within unoriginal, unnecessary
character details.

By EMMA GASE
Daily Music Editor
There are a few key takeaways
from Wale's sophomore album,
Ambition, that allow for a tidy
synthesis of his
message. One,
for the sake of
being obvious, Wale
is that he is
from Washing- Ambition
ton, D.C. (If you Maybach Music
haven't figured
this out from
Attention: Deficit, please see an
audiologist). The second is that
he really, really loves women. A
third is that he wasn't famous,
and now he is. And perhaps the
most resounding of all: Wale
has recently made quite a lot of
money.
After Attention: Deficit stoked
the flames of Wale's hype (per-
haps prematurely) he more-
or-less dropped off the map.
Ambition does little to restore
the same interest in the Capi-
tol's emcee. His flow is at times
disappointingly arid (think blase
luxury car references, excessive
braggadocio involving female
consorts), and his bottom-shelf
beats are doused in lethargic
R&B instrumentals and convo-
luted backing tracks.
At its worst, Ambition is wan
and directionless. "No Days
Off" is a repetitive, synthesizer-
heavy dirge with no hook and a
trite chorus: "No days off / No
days off/ Heard they comin' for
a nigga / Bitch, I'm Ray Charles."
The portentous melody blindly
circles itself until the drone liter-
ally becomes a piercing strain to
the ear.
To be fair, there are some aus-
picious moments. Leadoff track
"Don't Hold Your Applause" has
a jazzy piano riff, treble fills and
sensual female vocals. Wale's
quick-tempo verses almost trip
over the count, but they hang
tight on the backbeat. "Miami

MAY BACF(MUSIC
"Hey, everyone - it's pronounced Wale, not Wall-E!"
Nights" has a meaty arrange- abundant platitudes concern-
ment that rides on staccato horns ing post-Hennessey fornication.
and calls to mind the old-school Nope, the most irksome part is
"chipmunk soul" of College Drop- the female robot baying "May-
out-era Kanye West. bach music" bookending almost
It's hard to think of what's every track. Yes, Wale, you are
worse: superficial humility from signed to Rick Ross's Maybach
an overconfident yet success- Music Group. Granted, rap-
ful rapper or an unproven, smug pers like to rep their labels (like
Young Money ... often), but this
takes gratitude from charm-
' bitio ' isn't ingly loyal to downright irritat-
ing. Rick Ross plays the doting
everything Daddy Warbucks, as he hounds
the album with guest spots on
probably a third of the album, un-
credited and otherwise.
rapper prematurely arrogant In this rising crop of rappers
from his rather limited sip of looking to be the next self-con-
fame. Wale wades somewhere scious-yet-douchebaggy-Every-
in between these two inclina- bro, the cream is beginning to
tions. For a relatively successful rise to the top (J. Cole, Drake) -
guy, Wale sure finds a lot to com- and Ambition does little to buoy
plain about. He whines about the Wale's chances. Per usual with
travesties of shopping in public many rappers who have garnered
("I ain't finna wait in line!"). He any semblance of mainstream
spouts offensive epithets about recognition, Wale's lyrics have
his haters ("What the fuck are morphed from sharp, self-aware
you, retarded?"). He plays the witticisms to sterile invectives
hopeless romantic ("Let's roll a J detailing his rise to fame (with
and pretend we in love"). He even the occasional sports reference).
offers up some advice about per- Ambition may be rife with
sonal hygiene ("Yo bitches should hard-to-relate-to truisms, but
buy a loofah!"). mostly it stinks of pure, over-
But the most annoying thing blown confidence: "I deserve
about entire record isn't the praise / I deserve applause." Not
listless R&B burners or Wale's quite,'Wale.

I

4

I
I


4

4

Located 3 Minutes from the Diag @ S. University & S. Forest
Private Balconies & Exclusive 14th Floor Penthouses _

I

4


U The Michigan Daily ( michigandaily.com I November 7, 2011

'FS ANDS
OR BUTS~
OR g owa 24, Mic'higan 16
COURTESY OFLON HORWEDEL PHOTO
Fifth-year senior wide receiver Junior Hemingway attempts to catch a pass from Denard Robinson on Michigan's final drive of the game. The Wolverines had the ball on the Iowa three-yard line with four chances to score and 16 seconds remaining.
Hemingway's would-be TD overshadows loss

By TIM ROHAN The reality was Michigan lost He sat there in his first game
Daily Sports Editor to Iowa on the road, 24-16. What back from a knee injury, answer-
could have been was harder to ing questions about the same prob-
IOWA CITY - Did Junior swallow. lems that plagued Michigan's first
Hemingway make the catch? Did "I thought it was a touchdown," loss, against Michigan State. Poor
he just become the hero? What did Iowa linebacker James Morris said tackling. Missed assignments. Not
, la w s a ;1 . .,.
A snapshot of his catch, frozen "sli" rea s;'y aid Rc igan Befo e p aying owa, chat-
in time, shows both of his hands safety Jordan Kovacs. "I think ter grew louder that Michigan's
cupping the football, his knee the whole defense was ready. We defense was "back." It had caused
down in bounds in the back of the thoughtforsurewe weregoingtogo 20 turnovers in eight games,
endzone. into overtime. But it didn't work out allowing an impressive 14.6 points
But the referees were watching like that." per game.
the replay, asking: Did the ball hit Kovacs's face was expression- Saturday, the Wolverines
the ground as he landed? less. swarmed Iowa running back Mar-

cus Coker on most of his carries.
Seventeen of them went for four
or fewer yards. But it was those
few instances they relapsed -
Coker had 94 yards on his other
eight carries - that doomed the
defese - - -
Coker ran untouched for a
13-yard touchdown late in the
third quarter, extending Iowa's
lead to 24-9. It was the same pow-
er-I running play Coker repeated
all day, but that time the lineback-
er got lost in the shuffle.
While Coker romped, Iowa

quarterback James Vandenberg passing game. As a result, Iowa
was deadly accurate in the play- punted on four of its five posses-
action pass game. Michigan was sions after the break.
hesitant rushing the quarterback Yes, Michigan forced a key
in the first half, afraid of being three-and-out with about two
burned by Coker. minutes remaining. Had redshirt
Iowa's final offensive num ers-4eshman .4ieebfee Jake Ryan
weren't devastating: 24 points, not gotten off his block and tack-
302 yards. led Coker for a loss on 3rd-and-
But the opinion of those who short, Hemingway would've never
played was that the defense hadn't had his chance.
done enough. And yes, it all could've been
Yes, the Wolverines made half- much worse.
time adjustments, increasing the That's how the defense played
pressure on Iowa's play-action See HEMINGWAY, Page 3B

Questions linger about Robi son, Gardner

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
IOWA CITY - At the close of
the third quarter at Kinnick Sta-
dium, with the Michigan football
team trailing Iowa, 16-9, head ref-
eree Dan Capron walked over to
the umpire.
"I wonder how come Denard
Robinson wasn't playing?" Cap-
ron said, his voice booming
through the press box speakers.
It wasn't scripted - Capron
hadn't hit the "off" switch on his
microphone. The Chicago-based
attorney was just curious about
the Big Ten's most fascinating
quarterback, Michigan junior
Denard Robinson.
in the IS years "since Capron
arrived in Urbana-Champaign
for his freshman year at Illinois,
he has had plenty of exposure to
the Big Ten. In the past decade
as a referee, Capron has stood
behind nearly every quarterback
in the conference. And Robinson
isn't like any of them.
The reason Robinson was
standing on the sideline - watch-
ing sophomore quarterback
Devin Gardner flail around in a
key drive in the Wolverines' 24-16
defeat - was a bit unclear.
Robinson was blindsided on a
third-down pass late in the third
quarter. The lame-duck pass was
completed short of a first down,
and Robinson didn't come back

ALOEN REISS/Daiiy
The Michigan offensive line performed well on Saturday without starting left
guard Ricky Barnum, who missed the game due to an ankle injury.
Battered offensive line
persists without Barnum

Junior quarterback Denard Robinson threw for 194 yards, completing just 17-of-37 of his passes against Iowa.
for the next drive. With four minutes left in the receiver Roy Roundtree and into
"I just got a little hit to the first half, Robinson left the ball the arms of Hawkeye linebacker
elbow," Robinson said. on the ground while trying to Mike Kirksey for a drive-killing
Michigan radio reported that scramble away from an inevitable interception.
trainers were working on Robin- sack. Hawkeye lineman Tyler It was Robinson's 12th inter-
son's right shoulder. Nielson recovered the fumble. ception of the season - at least
"It was really his hand's deci- Iowa went three-and-out but still twice as many as every Big Ten
sion (to stay out)," said Michigan got a field goal. quarterback not named Nebras-
coach Brady Hoke. On Michigan's next drive, ka's Taylor Martinez. Robinson
Elbow, shoulder or hand? knocking on the Iowa doorstep had just 11 picks all of last season.
Regardless, Robinson was at the tail end of the first half, The two turnovers in a three-
roughed up. Despite his playmak- Robinson forced a pass into tight minute span were the difference
ing abilities, Robinson has also coverage at the goal line. The ball in the game.
been Michigan's biggest liability. deflected off redshirt junior wide See QUESTIONS, Page 3B

By KEVIN RAFTERY
Daily Sports Editor
IOWA CITY - While the Mich-
igan football team battled Iowa
on Saturday, Ricky Barnum sat at
home in Ann Arbor.
Barnum, the
regular starter , NOTEBOOK
at left guard,
has dealt with injuries to both
ankles this season and wasn't
healthy enough to go against the
Hawkeyes.
His absence left an alreadythin
group even thinner - the Wolver-
ines have just six offensive line-

men, including Barnum, who have
played in meaningful situations.
Redshirt sophomore left tackle
Taylor Lewan, playing with a
heavily taped left knee and hand,
started in Michigan's 24-16 loss to
the Hawkeyes. In a normal situa-
tion, there's a good chance Lewan,
who suffered leg and wrist inju-
ries last week against Purdue,
wouldn't have played on Saturday.
But the Wolverines simply didn't
have any other options.
Redshirt sophomore Michael
Schofield started in place of Bar-
num, leavingredshirt junior Elliot
See OFFENSIVE LINE, Page 3B


STREAK SNAPPED
* No.3 Michigan saaged a weekend split
against No. 6 Western Michigan, but
the Wolverines dropped their first home
game in 20 tries on Friday. Page 2B

TIM'S GOT THE TOUCH
* Sophomore forward Tim Hardaway Jr.
was Michigan's leading scorer with 20
points Friday in Michigan's exhibition win
over Wayne State. Page 3B


2B - November 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com A

28 - November 1, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom ~

Be sure to keep an eye on the kids

IOWA CITY -
ake your eyes away from
the screen for just a
minute. Stop rewinding.
Junior Hemingway isn't going to
get his hands under the ball any
more on the eleventy-first replay
than he did live.
It was
a messy
weekend for
Michigan's Big
Three - foot-
ball, basketball
and hockey.
Brady
Hoke and Co. STEPHEN J.
dropped (or NESBITT
did they?) a
comeback
chance
in Iowa City. John Beilein's
boys narrowly escaped witb a
eight-point exhibition win over
Division-II Wayne State. Red
Berenson and the hockey team
ended the program's longest
home winning streak, a span of
20 straight games inAnn Arbor.
It ended as a 2-2 weekend for
the banner Michigan teams.
Nothing to write home about -
though plenty of grievances to
Facebook or tweet - but there
was plenty of silver lining on this
cloudy weekend.
At Kinnick Stadium, an eleva-
tor ride changed everything.

When the Wolverines lined up
to punt with four minutes left in
the game, the media made its way
to the elevator at the back of the
press box. One Marcus Coker first
down and the game was over.
By the time the elevator car
descended from the fourth floor
to the third - where a pair of
pleased Iowa fans stood waiting
- then down to ground level, the
game was suddenly back in reach.
Maybe you forgot about it.
Rewind a little further back, past
the uncalled pass interference
and the two official reviews.
There it is.
Lost in the middle of the
would-be heroics and officiating
antics of the Wolverines' final
drive was the precedingthree-
and-out forced by the Michigan
defense.
Ninety seconds off the clock,
wasting only one Michigan time-
out. Denard Robinson and the
offense suddenly had new life.
And they almost made it count.
Without that stop, there would
have been no photo finish. What
you should note, though, is that
without four freshmen playing on
defensive coordinator Greg Mat-
tison's shutdown defense, there
wouldn't have been that stop.
Mattison started three fresh-
men - linebacker Desmond Mor-
gan, cornerback Blake Countess

McGary, on Thursday cemented
Michigan as a risingtitle con-
tender next season.
For a Michigan basketball
fan, anything after the McGary
announcement was just a bonus.
In the exhibition against
Wayne State, sophomores Tim
Hardaway Jr. and Jon Horford
were the first- and third-leading
scorers for Michigan. They were
also the leading rebounders.
The basketball team boasts
a lineup so youngthat only one
upperclassman - senior guard
Zack Novak - is expected to
start. The youth, some which isn't
even on campus yet, is driving
this movement.
Michigan basketball isn't
selling a team, it's sellingthe
expectation of a long-standing
program.
At Yost Ice Arena, the home
winningstreak is over.
But the 21-year NCAA Tourna-
ment berth streak doesn't appear
to be in jeopardy. Despite losing
eight seniors after last season's
run to the national title game, the
Wolverines are ranked third in
the nation.
Berenson replaced the depart-
ing seniors with fresh faces
from places like Ontario and Las
Vegas. Through 10 games, the
underclassmen have scored 20 of
Michigan's 46 goals.

The dynamic trio of freshmen
forwards Phil DiGiuseppe, Travis
Lynch and Alex Guptill round
out the team's top-five goal scor-
ers, combining for 13 goals. Last
season, the entire seven-man
freshman class scored just 17 total
goals.
The point is this: At Michigan
we are on campus with a Frozen
Four contender, a Final Four con-
tender and a warm-weather bowl
contender. And no team is in its
prime.
Michigan football will be back
when it has a true quarterback
- maybe De La Salle (Warren,
Mich.) junior Shane Morris in
2013. Michigan basketball will
be back after consecutive NCAA
Tournament appearances and
a big-name recruit on campus
in 2012. Michigan hockey will
be back when, well, they never
really budge. But this is a heck of
a young team. So go ahead and
grovel at a down weekend, but
maintain perspective. Michigan
athletics aren't going anywhere
but up, but the real talent lies in
its youth.
Alright, rewind one more time,
Hemingway may have cradled it
better the eleventy-second time.
- Nesbitt can be reached
at stnesbit@umich.edu or on
Twitter: @stephenjnesbitt.

4
4

Freshman Blake Countess has become a starting cornerback under Brady Hoke.

and defensive end Brennan Beyer.
On the final drive, he had the
confidence to add linebacker Jake
Ryan to that mix.
Beyer kept contain on first
down, forcing Coker into a short
gain. Morgan fought off a block
and pulled Coker down a yard
short of the marker on second

down. And Ryan broke off the
edge on the decisive third down
and caught Coker in the backfield.
Don't see this cup half full?
Look at the 2012 recruiting class.
Behold the future. At Crisler
Arena, it was Mitch-igan week.
The commitment of the
nation's No. 2 recruit, Mitch

Across-the-board scoring salvages split Hustle must carry 'M' hockey

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
When the No. 3 Michigan hock-
ey team entered thethird period of
its game against Western Michi-
gan tied on Saturday night, there
was a feeling of deja vu.
Twenty-
four hours WMU 3
earlier, the MICHIGAN 2
Wolverines
were in the
WMU 2
exact same MICHIGAN 5
position.
The game
was tied 2-2 entering the third
stanza, with both teams desper-
ately searching for a way to come
out on top.
Michigan couldn't find an ave-
nue on Friday, falling to the fourth-
ranked Broncos, 3-2. But Saturday,
Michigan rectified its problems
and salvaged the weekend with a
resounding 5-2 win - with help
from some unfamiliar faces.
"Our team came out tight," said
Michigan coach Red Berenson of
Saturday's game. "We played bet-
ter (defense), with a little more
sense of urgency. We're just trying
to pay more attention to details."
After losing in the final 30 sec-
onds on Friday, Michigan changed
the trend the next night when
sophomore forward Derek DeBlois
found a rebound that clanked off
the post and scored for the Wol-
verines midway through the first
period.
Michigan's goal went unan-
swered for the remainder of the
first stanza - the only other good
look the Broncos had was saved
by fifth-year senior goalie Shawn
Hunwick just as the buzzer sig-

ADAM SCHNITZER/Daily
Freshman forward Alex Guptill scored a goal in Michigan's 5-2 win Saturday.

naled the end of the period. But
what Western Michigan couldn't
find in the first period, it made up
for very quickly in the second. The
Broncos' equalizer was followed
by another goal 10 minutes later.
Once it was wired, Michigan kept
cruising at a comfortable speed,
with help from a previously quiet
source - the power play.
Freshman forward Alex Gup-
till started the trend for the Wol-
verines when he scored after the
Broncos took a holding penalty,
and sophomore defenseman Mac
Bennett followed suit in the third
period.
"I think we just worked harder
to get to the loose pucks," said
Guptill. "On that one goal Mac
Bennett scored, we chased hard,
had pressure. It's little plays like
that which end up in the goals."
The power play goals put Mich-
igan up by one. But the insurance

A(Universtyof MichiganSIchoolof
MusicTheatre &Dance
Antonio Berardi isn't himself today...
but someone else Is.
y D
pTi
a comedy by Dario Fo

the Wolverines needed to put
away the game came from junior
forward A.J. Treais in the third
period.
Junior forward Kevin Lynch
had a clear shot on goal. But
instead, he took the puck behind
the net and patiently waited
for Treais, who was skating up
towards the crease. A quick dish
from Lynch was all Treais needed
to tuck the puck in the corner of
the net. Lynch's empty-net goal
with two minutes left in the game
rounded out Michigan's scoring
for the night. But what impressed
Berenson wasn't the number of
goals scored, but where the scor-
ing came from.
Lynch replaced sophomore for-
ward Luke Moffatt to skate with
Treais and freshman forward Phil
Di Giuseppe.
Treais and Di Giuseppe com-
pose two-thirds of the Wolverines'
most productive line. It seems like
whenever Berenson wants a player
to rack up some points, he puts
them with the duo.
"I just felt a little better with
Lynch up there," Berenson said. "I
think it was good for our team. We
needed a change. That line strug-
gled (Friday) night."
That line wasn't the only one
that struggled on Friday - most
of the Wolverines played slug-
gishly. Once again, Michigan spent
too much time in the penalty box.
Though the Broncos didn't score on
any of its seven power play oppor-
tunities, the offensive momentum
was huge for Western Michigan.
As the game wound down and
the Broncos scored, Michigan
couldn't find any opportunities for
an equalizer. That's why Berenson
decided to change all of the for-
ward lines for Saturday.
The swap wasn't just beneficial
for Lynch. DeBlois, Guptill and
sophomore defenseman Kevin
Clare, who have all been towards
the lower end of Michigan's point
tally, were impact players over the
course of the weekend. And that's
comfortingfor the Wolverines.
"(Having lots of people score)
has been huge this year," Guptill
said. "Everyone's been chipping in,
it's huge like that."

f you want to know why the
Michigan hockey team lost
on Friday against Western
Michigan and won on Saturday,
don't look at the box score.
Sure, if you just want to know
what hap-
pened,go
ahead and
look.
You'll see,
the scores - ,
a 3-2 defeat
and a 5-2 vic-
tory for the
Wolverines. ZACH
You'll see HELFAND
that Michi-
gan outshot
the Broncos on Friday, and out-
shot them in the third period, too.
You'll see that the Broncos did
the same to the Wolverines on
Saturday.
But if you want to know why,
don't waste your time. If you
want to understand why, catch
the end of a Michigan hockey
practice.
There, you'll see something
more. You'll see players skating
lines - back and forth, back and
forth - to exhaustion.
Maybe you'll see A.J. Treais
beating his linemates. More
likely, you'll see him in the back,
trying to close the gap. If you
watched the way Michigan works
on hustle or what Red Berenson
just called "the details," then you
would've seen a familiar sight on
Saturday.
Treais sprinted down the
length of the ice with five min-
utes remaining as Michigan led
3-2 just like he was trying to
catch his teammate in practice.
Treais had skated up to center
ice when Kevin Lynch took the
puck up the right side of Western
Michigan's goal, one-on-one with
a defender.
"I was really far back in the
play," Treais said. "I thought he
was just going to shoot it."
So did everyone else in Yost Ice
Arena. But Lynch pulled up, and
Treais kept on coming. Show-
ing patience, Lynch skated with
the puck behind the net, then
snapped a pass to the speeding
Treais for an easy goal.
Michigan took a 4-2 lead with
five minutes remaining.

Game over.
Hockey, more than any other
sport, is about work. The most
common remedy to cure a loss is
not "we need to play better," it's
"we have to work harder."
Skaters work on literal shifts.
Players clock in and clock out on
the fly - the only thing missing
is the lunch pail. Hockey isn't
basketball where one player can
dominate. It isn't football, where
the team that executes best wins.
Life as a hockey player is life as
a worker. Sometimes, you catch a
bad bounce. Often, you fight. And
you could have all the skill in the
world, but if you don't hustle you
won't win.
Legendary hockey writer Bob
Verdi once wrote of the Stanley
Cup-contending Bruins of the
late 1970s that, "They show that
the greatest ability is the ability
to work. Their insignia shouldbe
a droplet of sweat."
Sweat decided each game for
Michigan. The teams entered the
final frame in both games with
the scored tied, and in each, one
team asserted itself in crunch
time.
On Friday, the Broncos beat
the Wolverines to each loose
puck, won each fight in the cor-
ner and put more pressure on
fifth-year senior goalie Shawn
Hunwick.
"They just kept on pounding us
down in our zone and outwork-
ing us," said senior defenseman
Greg Pateryn. "That's just hustle
and effort, it has nothing to do
with skill."
When the Broncos finally
cracked the Michigan defense
with one minute remaining, they
didn't do it through any set plays
or dekes or fancy skating. They
fought in front of the crease so
they could ram the puck into the
net.
"In the last 10 minutes of the
game when the game was on the
line, I thought we got outplayed
and outworked," said Michigan
coach Red Berenson.
Little separated each team
this series. The shot total for the
series? Dead even.
Western Michigan commit-
ted one more penalty. On Satur-
day, Michigan worked harder.
Worked harder than it had Fri-

day. Worked harder than Western
did Saturday.
Sophomore forward Derek
DeBlois fought his way through
defenders to score on a rebound
for Michigan's firstgoal. Fresh-
man forward Zach Hyman dove
to keep the puck in the attack-
ing zone. Treais created his goal
through hustle.
"We just worked harder to the
get to the loose pucks and that
kind of thing," said freshman for-
ward Alex Guptill, who scored a
goal of his own on Saturday. "It's
little plays like that that end up
into goals."
At No. 4 in the nation, West-
ern Michigan might just be the
toughest CCHA team Michigan
will face all season. Miami (Ohio)
- Michigan's next opponent -
has struggled early and Notre
Dame has lots of talent, but no
team has asserted itself as the
conference's best.
So this weekend's series was a
good test for Michigan. The Wol-
verines aren't any more skilled
than Western Michigan, nor will
they be against any of the nation's
other top teams.
When Michigan scores, it
won't score using stars. It will
score using balance.
The Wolverines found goals
from players like Guptill and
Mac Bennett - who scored his
first two goals of the season this
weekend - or Kevin Clare, who
scored his first career goal simply
because he had the awareness to
take a shot after the goalie fell.
Berenson said that the game
of hockey isn't really aboutskill.
He would know. Berenson estab-
lished himself as one of Michi-
gan's greatest scorers ever, but
he'd rather be known as an "hon-
est" two-way player.
"I know there's a little bit of
physical talent and strength and
conditioning and everything,"
Berenson said. "(But) it's all men-
tal. The whole game is mental."
Michigan won't dominate any
other quality foe. The Wolverines
can go far, but only go as far as
their hustle and work ethic take
them. And those are qualities you
won't find in a box score.
- Helfand can be reached
at zhelfand@umich.edu

(
5'

Directed by Malcolm Tulip
Dept. of Theatre & Drama
November 17 - 20
Arthur Miller Theatre
General Admission $26
Students $10 with ID
League Ticket Office
734-764-2538
tickets.music.umichedu

ADAM SCHNITZER/Daily
Junior forward A.J. Treais and the Wolverines did the dirty work they needed to on Saturday to beat the Broncos.

i 1 l---


k The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 7, 2011 - 3B

~ The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom November 7, 2011 - 38

GAME
STATISTICS

Michigan picks up sloppy win over Wayne State in exhibition

Team Stats
First Downs
Rush/Yds
Passing Yards
Offensive Plays
Total Offense
kreturms/Yds
Comp/Att/Int
Punts/Avg
Pealties/ards
Time of Poss

MICH
22
37/127
75
323
5/90
2/17
18/38/1
5/39.4
2/1
3/20
30:06

IOWA
15
35/131
56
302
3/56
2/28
14/21/0
5/40.0
0/0
5/29
2954

For
exhibi
prettie
the br
court.
christE
the ne
refur-
bished
Arbor,
agains
coach
how h
depart
point1
NBA.I
The W
47-39,
end w

By LUKE PASCH half, the Wolverines committed
Daily Sports Editor seven turnovers, and the War-
riors committed 11. Neither team
much of Friday night's shot the ball well either, as Michi-
tion basketball game, the gan finished the half just 3-for-16
1st thing on the floor was from 3-point range, and Wayne
and new block-M at half- State finished 2-for-11.
To "We came out really excited,
en WAYNE STATE 39 I think," Beilein said after the
wly MICHIGAN 47 game. "Almost too excited to
make simple plays - base hits."
Crisler Arena in Ann To open the contest, Beilein
No. 18 Michigan tipped off started senior guard Stu Douglass
t Wayne State, and it was at point guard over freshman stud
John Beilein's first look at TreyBurke,asexpected.Butwhen
is team would handle the Burke took the floor, he wasted
ure of former Wolverine little time getting involved. On a
guard Darius Morris to the fast break early in the game, he
And it didn't look too great. showcased his speed, outrunning
Volverines won the contest, his opponents up the floor. When
but play on the offensive he got into the lane, he dished to
as very sloppy. In the first center Jordan Morgan under the

M I C H I G A N
PASSING
Playet C-A Yds TDa nt
Rbnson, D. A73 T94 2 1
Gardner, D. 1-1 2 0 0
Totals 1838 196 2 1
RUSHING
Player Att Yds Avg Lg TO
Toussaint 16 58 3.6 11
Robinson 12 55 4.6 22 0
Srnith 4 14 3.5 11 0
Gardner 5 0 0.0 5 .
Totals 37 5 3.4 22 0
P ly G No. Yds Avg Lg TO
Hemingway 5 64 12.8 19
Roundtree 2 37 18. 1 0
Grady 2 22 11.0 13 0
Smith 2 12 6.0 7 0
Va~8,,g~ 2 0
Gallon,, 1 10 13 0
Adm 1 1 230 1
Daieo 1 1 1. 1 0
Toussaint 1 5.0 5 1
Totals 18 196 10.9 19
PUNTING
Player No. Yds Avg Lg
KICKOFF RETURNS
Plyr No. Yds Avg Lg T
Galon 1 13 13.0 13 1
Koger 1 8 8.0 8
Totals 5 90 16.0 28
PUNT RETURNS
Player No. Yds Avg Lg TDO
TACKLES
Playe Solo Asst Tot
Kovacs 4 2 6
Countess 4 2 6
Morgan 2 4 6
Floyd 4 0 4
Van Bergen 2 0 2
Hawthorne' 1' 1 '2
Cavanaugh .1 1 2
Avery 1 1 2
IHeininger 1 1 2
Schofield 1 0 1
Simmnons 1 0 1
Fitzgerald 0 1 1
Hollowell 0 1 1
Totals 32 38 70

'D
0
0
0
0
0
1
20

Ls
TD
0
0
0

QUESTIONS
From Page 1B
"Trying to make a play and
put the ball on the ground,
that led to a field goal," Hoke
said. "And then the intercep-
tion down there going in. You
know-"
Hoke stopped and chuckled
to himself.
"It does swing (the game),
when you havethe ball and don't
score," he said.
Gardner fared no better as
Robinson's replacement.
He completed a two-yard
pass earlier in the game but
also fumbled a snap. Spell-
ing Robinson, Gardner rushed
three times, threw an incom-
plete pass and handed off
twice.
Gardner topped off his inglo-
rious drive with a 12-yard sack,
and expanded the bad situation
by hurling the ball toward the
sideline as he fell to the ground.
Intentional grounding.
The quarterbacks weren't
really Hoke's biggest concern

when he started at Michigan
11 months ago. That concern
was the defense. But there's no
question what the Wolverines'
biggest liability is today - Rob-
inson has the 97th-ranked pass-
ing percentage in the nation.
"(Robinson) keeps growing as
a quarterback," Hoke said.
It's a process - not what
Michigan fans want to hear.
There's hardly a quarterback
controversy brewing at Michi-
gan, but neither has consistently
proven he deserves the spot.
But as the referee standing
behind each play, Capron didn't
think Robinson and Gardner
were tA and 1B. He saw a clear
No. 1 and No. 2.
The performances may not be
pretty, the numbers may not be
as gaudy as in the past - Robin-
son finished 17-of-37 passing for
194 yards - but still, Robinson
holds himself responsible for
directingthe offense.
"No matter what, we just kept
fighting," Robinson said. "That's
just the biggest thing we'll take
away from this game.
"Learn from my mistakes."

basket, who slammed it home. But
as the crowd erupted, Burke com-
mitted his first rookie mistake,
taking his momentum into the
Wayne State defender and picking
up the offensive foul. The points
were erased, but the crowd still
had its first taste of the exciting
style of play Burke brings to Ann
Arbor.
"I was going full speed," Burke
said after the game. "I was just
kind of excited, really. All my
coaches have been telling me, 'It's
college now, they're going to be
taking charges.' There it was."
The excitement didn't stop
there, though. Six minutes into
the second half, Burke led anoth-
er fast break charge up the floor
and tossed an alley-oop dunk to
a streaking Tim Hardaway Jr.
HEMINGWAY
From Page 1B
all season. It gave the offense a
chance to win the game. But this
time, it didn't win the game itself.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
was disappointed his defense
couldn't stop one of Iowa's three
redzone trips, allowingthree easy
touchdowns. And those magic
turnovers - those that always
seemed to come at the most
opportune time - never came.
"We didn't cause any turnovers,
I don't think," Kovacs said. "That
was the turnover battle. That was
the difference in the game."
They had done all they could,
yet not enough. But Michigan still
had a chance to tie the game.
"Yeah, (Hemingway) caught it,"
Robinson said after the game. "Of
course I thought my teammate was
in (bounds)."
"I thought he caught it," added
Iowa linebacker Tyler Nielsen.
"I thought his feet were in, and I
thought he caught it."
Nielsen was the Hawkeye
who blitzed Denard Robinson,
untouched, in the second quarter.
Robinson escaped Nielsen briefly,
and then dropped the ball while
scrambling. Nielsen fell on it.
The miscue gave Iowa a field
goal and a17-6 lead. Bad gotworse
on the next drive, as Robinson
threw his 12th interception of the
season, in the red zone no less.
"Trying to make a play and put
the ball on the ground - that led
to a field goal," Hoke said after the
game. "And then the interception
down there going in. You know-"
Hoke chuckled to himself,
lamenting in his own way.
"It does swing (the game),
when you have the ball and don't
score."
The slow start stung more,
against a middle-of-the-pack
Iowa defense that had a leaky run
defense and the Big Ten's third-
worst pass defense.
"Turnovers always hurt," he
continued. "The thing that we
missed today though was - we
didn't get any (turnovers) back."
Two turnovers could've bur-
ied the Wolverine offense, but
inexplicably, they wouldn't have
mattered if the call went Heming-
way's way in the final seconds.
"You know, I've got the worst
seat in the house," said the winning
coach, Kirk Ferentz. "It lookedfrom
where I was standing, it looked like
(Hemingway) came down on the
white and then seeing the replay

made mefeel a little bit better."
"I don't have a great seat," said
the losing coach, Brady Hoke. "But
the one (referee) in the back thought
he did and the other (referee)

to awaken an ice-cold Michigan
offense.
"In practice, we usually don't
get chances like that," Burke said.
"But he looked at me, I looked at
him, and I knew he was going to
catch it. That kind of gave us a
spark."
In 28 minutes of play, Burke
finished the game with seven
points on 3-of-7 shooting, and,
he had four assists. Hardaway
Jr. finished with a team-high 20
points on 7-of-17 shooting. Along
with the new look in the back-
court, Beilein decided to switch
things up in the paint as well,
starting sophomore Jon Horford
at center over last year's every-
day starter, redshirt sophomore
Jordan Morgan. But both big men
got their fair share of minutes,

and both cleaned up the boards
nicely, finishing with 10 rebounds
between the two of them. Of the
two, their teammates don't really
know who's going to start in next
week's season opener against Fer-
ris State.
"Jon (Horford) has been work-
ing really hard," Douglass said.
"He deserved to start tonight.
Who knows what's going to hap-
pen - I don't really know what
goes on in (Beilein's) head."
All in all, the game would have
ended in a much larger margin of
victory if they could just get their
shots to fall. The team finished
just 33 percent from the field,
and until Hardaway Jr. starting
knocking down shots at the end
of the game, the Warriors had an
upset bid in the works.

ALDEN REISS/Daily
Fifth-year senior junior Hemingway had five catches for 64 yards, but most will
remember his missed opportunity from the three-yard line.


PASSING
Player C-A Yds
Vandenbeg 141 17
Totals 14-21 171
Playr Att Yds Avg
Coker - 29 132 4.6
McNutt 1 7 7.0
Totals 35 131 3.7

TD Int
t 0
1 0

Lg
27
7
27
Lg
24
44
1
44

TD
2
0
0
0
2
TD
0
0
0
0
1
1

Payer N.
Matin-Maley 1

Yds
s
1
171

Avg
112
0.0
10
12.

PUNTING
Player No. 94, Avg Ig
Guhrie 5 200 400 44
Totals 5 .200 40.0 44
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player No. Yds Avg Lg
Canzer 2 33 16.5 19
ernstine 1 23 23.0 23
Totals 3 56 18.7 23
TACKLES L
Player Solo Asst Tot
Morri d yr4 4
Nardo 2 6 8
Miller 4 3 7
Kirksey 2 3 5
Hyde 4 0 4
Alvs 2 1 3
Binns 2 1 3
Sleeper 1 1 2
Lowderrmilk 1 0 1
Aln 0 1
Daniel 0 1 1
Lowery 0 1 1
Totals 39 40 79
FOL LOW US ON
TWTTER
@q-miChdailysports
@miCh da ilyf ba||
@WmiChd ailyhoCkey
@m ichda ilybba||

OFFENSIVE LINE
From Page 1B
Mealer as the only backup line-
man with experience.
Though the offense struggled
at times on Saturday, the line's
play was solid throughout the
game.
"I think they did some good
things," said Michigan coach
Brady Hoke. "As we look at it,
I think there'll be some things
they did real well and there'll be
some things we have to go back
and fix."
More often than not, the line
gave junior quarterback Denard
Robinson plenty of time to find
an open receiver.
On 2nd-and-goal from the
five-yard line during Michi-
gan's first scoring drive of the
game, the Wolverines lined up
in I-formation. Robinson faked
the handoff to sophomore run-
ning back Fitzgerald Toussaint
and dropped back to pass.
He looked right. He ran left.
He looked to the middle of the
end zone, then danced left again
before ultimately scrambling
back right. He scanned the end
zone and finally fired a pass into
the belly of a wide-open Tous-
saint for the score.
Robinson held onto the ball
for 10 seconds before letting it
fly, and he was never touched by
an Iowa defender.
A quarter later, Michigan
was knocking on the Hawkeyes'
door again. From the 11-yard
line, Robinson took the snap in
shotgun formation. Once again,
he had plenty of time and no
defenders in his face. But on that
play, he threw the ball into traf-
fic, and the ball was tipped into
the air before falling into the
arms of Iowa linebacker Chris-
tian Kirksey.
Robinson finished the game
just 17-for-37 for 197 yards, but
he was the first to say that his
struggles weren't due to a lack of
time to throw.
"(The offensive line) played
great," Robinson said. "Hats off
to them. And I love them."
KOVACS RETURNS: After
missing last weekend's game
against Purdue with a knee inju-
ry, redshirt junior safety Jor-
dan Kovacs returned to action
against the Hawkeyes.
Kovacs, who started along-
side fifth-year senior Troy
Woolfolk, didn't appear limited
because ofthe injury. He record-

ed six tackles against Iowa.
"(The coaches) were work-
ing me into the lineup all week
and I could tell they wanted
me to play," Kovacs said. "I felt
like I could play. (The knee) felt
great."
Even though his knee felt
alright, Kovacs was still hurting
after the game.
"(This loss) hurt," he said. "It
still hurts. But we've just got to
remember the taste, get better,
watch the game film tomorrow,
learn from it but move onto the
next one.
"We can't let Iowa beat us
twice."
DILEO'S DISASTER: If Michi-
gan had scored at the end of the
fourth quarter, the Wolverines
still would've needed to convert
a two-point conversion in order
to force overtime - they were
down 24-16 at the time.
Sophomore receiver Drew
Dileo's miscue was the reason
a two-point conversion was
needed.
After Robinson's touchdown
pass to Toussaint made the
score 7-6 Iowa, Dileo jogged out
on the field - he's been the hold-
er on field goals and extra points
all season.
Until that point, Dileo had
been sure-handed. But for one
reason or another, he couldn't
handle the snap by fifth-year
senior Tom Pomarico.
The ball hit him square in the
hands, but he simply lost con-
trol of it. Realizing there was no
chance for redshirt sophomore
kicker Brendan Gibbons to get
the kick off, Dileo grabbed the
ball and tried to run but was
immediately brought down by
a swarm of Hawkeye defenders.
After the game, Hoke defend-
ed his receiver.
"He's caught probably a thou-
sand of (those snaps)," Hoke said.
"Like anything else, it was prob-
ability. It's going to happen."
NOTES: Iowa wore special
helmets to honor all of the men
and women serving in the mili-
tary.
They were the same tradi-
tional black head pieces but
featured a red, white and blue
tigerhawk on the right temple.
... Fifth-year senior receiver Kel-
vin Grady had two receptions
on Saturday, matching his sea-
son total. ... Gibbons converted
a 32-yard field goal in the third
quarter. He's now 7-for-9 on
field goals this season after fin-
ishing1-of-5 last season.

thought he didn't."
During Hoke's halftime inter-
view, he thought Iowa's corner-
back had hit the intended receiver
before the pass arrived on Rob-
inson's interception, which could
have prompted a pass interference
call.
"Yeah, we want the call, we
want them all," Hoke said on TV.
After the game, he looked like
a man who had lost faith. His eyes
were glazed. Like something had
been taken from him - either
the game or his confidence in his
team.
Before Hemingway's play, the
officials had already called off a
would-be touchdown on Michi-
gan's final drive. Junior running
back Vincent Smith appeared to
have run for an 82-yard touch-
down on the first play, but replays
showed his elbow was down. The
group had also picked up a pass
interference call onIowa that came
the play before Robinson fumbled
the ball in the second quarter.
But Robinson still had his
chance at redemption, having
orchestrated another heroic final
drive. The ball was at Iowa's
three-yard line, and Michigan
was down 24-16 with 16 seconds
left. Robinson had four chances
to tie the game, pending the two-
point conversion.
His first attempt at Heming-
way sailed out of the endzone.
On second down, 12 seconds
left, Hemingway drifted down-
field. Iowa cornerback Micah
Hyde had his back turned to Rob-
inson, who lofted the ball towards
the back of the endzone, again
heading out of bounds. This time,

Hemingway shifted his body,
nudging Hyde aside.
The rest is fuzzy.
The call on the play was an
incompletion. In the eye of the
beholder, Hemingway either
caught the ball in that frozen
snapshot, end of story, or the
catthwas nullifiedbecausethetip
of the ball touched out of bounds
when he landed.
"I caught that (one) no ifs ands
or buts about it!!!!" Hemingway
tweeted after the game.
The only opinion that mattered
was that of the replay official
who confirmed the incompletion,
sending Kinnick Stadium into
frenzy.
Chatter after the game cen-
tered on Hemingway's missed
opportunity, rather than Robin-
son's two incompletions after that
- the second of which could've
been called pass interference
on the defensive back covering
Roundtree.
Say Hemingway did catch it.
Michigan would have still needed
a two-point conversion, because
holder Drew Dileo's dropped PAT
earlier still hung over its head.
And what about overtime? The
Wolverines' problems in regula-
tion, in both red zones, could've
spoiled it.
Yet, all anyone wanted to talk
about was Hemingway's would-
be catch.
"The referee said he wasn't
in," Robinson said, for once pre-
venting his smile from shin-
ing through. "Man, there's no
- there's no. We can't (put) the
game on the officials. We've got
to do it ourselves."

I I

Take one presumptuous
seducer and two married women.
What could possibly go wrong?
MUsIC BY SUNG IN ITALIAN
GIUSEPE VRDI 84 - WITH PROJECTED
f TRANSLATIONS


LIBRETTO BY
ARRIGO BOITO

fnrst f cigaon 5C6aSchool o

NOVEMBER 10 AT 7:30 PM "NOVEMBER 11 & 12 AT 8 PM * NOVEMBER 13 AT 2 PM *
PoWER C ENTER * UNIVERSITY OPERA THEATRE & SYMPHONYORCHESTRA
REsERVED SEATING: $26 & $20 * STUDENTS: $10 w/ID
LEAGUE TICKET OFFICE: 734-764-253 8 TICKETS.MUSIC.UMICH.EDU


4B - Novernber 7, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com {l

4B~~~V_ _.Nvebe.7.211Th MchganDaly- ..cignd_. co ..1 .4

.

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN
I Z E G /L G E The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Denard-o-Meter measures the success of quarterback Denard
Robinson, the Beef-o-Meter judges how emotional (positive or negative) Brady Hoke was following the game, and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

DENARD-O-METER

BEEF-0-METER
2/ The defense showed up in the later quarters and Tous-
saint had a decent game running between the tackles.
But Iowa out-powered Michigan with Coker. Maybe
Brady Hokes that's why he was so cranky at the press conference.

i4

2/4
Denards

He had the long runs that reminded us all of the
Denard of old. He was decent in the air, going17-of-
37. But when Michigan needed Denard to Denard
all over some fools, he couldn't get it done.

HYPE-O-METER
I don't know if you know, but it got a little crazy
in the final minutes. The fans knew it and went
nuts. Even wit 30,000 less people, Kinnick
Big Houses Stadium was louder than the Big House.

E


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

HERKY THE HAWKEYE: Michigan
could have had a player here but
Saturday was undoubtedly Herky's
most honorable entrance of his
career. It was military appreciation
day at Kinnick Stadium. The PA
announcer told the crowd to stand
to honor the fallen veterans and
remain standing for the national
anthem. Honoring the fallen
veterans went off without a hitch,
but the national anthem didn't .
follow. Both teams weren't even
on the field yet. Instead, in what
felt like a 20-minute introduction,
Herky came out standing on a slab,
carried by some Iowa cheerleade s.
As the whole press box and most of
the crowd stood watching, Herky
was slowly lowered at midfield and
carried his flag into the endzone.
Eventually people sat down, but it
wasn't until Herky had finished his
routine. Postgame, long after the
fans had left, Herky was getting
chauffeured around the stadium,
giving salutes to the remaining
stragglers. He lives the good life.

SOPHOMORE QUARTERBACK
DEVIN GARDNER: With rumblings
of Gardner being a better passer
than Robinson, and ultimately
a better fit at quarterback,
Gardner had his opportunity
Saturday. Robinson went out
with an injury at the end of the
third quarter, leaving Gardner to
lead the Wolverines' next drive.
After waiting for two years to
be "the guy," Gardner did alot
more waiting on the field. He was
indecisive and when he finally did
take off running, it was into two
Hawkeyes. Gardner's grand total
for his drive at the helm ended
with three rushes for nine yards.
As he was thrown to the ground
by Iowa's Broderick Binns on
third down, Gardner just hurled
the ball underhanded towards
the sideline, which was obviously
intentional grounding. Gardner
has the potential to be a good
quarterback someday, but it wasn't
Saturday. Everybody calling for
Gardner to start needs to relax.

0

4

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily

ALDEN REISS/Daily


NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
I thought
his feet
were in,
and I
thought he
caught it."
-Iowa linebacker Tyler Nielson on Junior
Hemingway's controversial non-catch with
seven seconds left in the game

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP-10 POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10
points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on.
1. LSU (9): Somehow the 6. OREGON: The Ducks may
Tigers are the unanimous be the last team to stand in
L No.1 despite notscoring a * the way of Luck's Heisman.
touchdown last week. Lame.7.KA M:Thywr
7. OKLAHOMA: They were
2. OKLAHOMA STATE: favored by 16.5. They won by
What we know: they can 16. A lot of our money was
score points. Whatwehdon't lost. Not that we gamble.
know: Can theybeat the
Honey Badger? 8. CLEMSON: I'll take

3. ALABAMA: Five words.
Find. A. field goal kicker.
S4. STANFORD: Stanford-
Oregon doesn't have much
to liveup to afterSaturday's
SEC showdown.


Clemson's bye week to ask
a question. Why does Tajh
Boyd spell his name with
an "h"?

:1

S. BOISE STATE: Kellen
Moore threw five touchdown
passes. Boise dominated
another terrible team. This
schtick is getting old.

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily


STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what
happens in the 2011 football season.

Michael
Florek

I

No.13 Michigan (-3.5) atIlowa
No. 2 Alabama(-4.5) vs. No.1Louisana State
No.3OklahomaState(-21.5) vs.No.17 KansasState
No. 4Stanford (-21) at Oregon State
No. 5 Boise State (-41) at UNLV
No. 6 Oregon (-16.5) at washington
No. 7 Oklahoma (-16.5) vs. Texas A&M
No.8 Arkansas (-4.5) vs. No.10 South carolina
No. 9 Nebraska9-19)vs.Northwestern
No. 14 Houston (-24) at UAB
No.15 Michigan State (-28) vs. Minnesota
No.18 Georgia(-37) vs.New MexicoState
No.19 Wisconsin (-26.5) vs. Purdue
No. 20 Arizona State (-13.5) at UCLA
No. 21aUSC (-21) at Colorado
No. 23 Cincinnati (-) at Pittsburgh
No. 24 west virginia (-14) vs. Louisville
Ohio State (-29) vs. Indiana
This week
Overall

Iowa
Louisana State
Okahoma State
Stanford
Boise State
Oregon
Oklahoma
Arkansas
Nebraska
Houston
Michigan State
New Mexico State
Wisconsin
UCLA
USC
Cincinnati
west viriginia
Ohio State
9-8-1
126-100-4

Stephen J.
Nesbitt 0
Michigan
Alabama
Oklahoma State
Stanford
UNLV
Oregon
Oklahoma
Arkansas
Nebraska
Houston
Michigan State
New Mexico State
Wisconsin
Arizona State
USC
Cincinnati
westvirginia
Ohio State
7-10-1
128-98-4

Kevin
Raftery
Michigan
Alabama
Kansas State
Stanford
UNLV
Oregon
Oklahoma
South Carolina
Nebraska
Houston
Michigan State
Georgia
Purdue
UCLA
USC
Pittsburgh
WestwVirginia
Ohio State
8-9-1
124.102-4

Tim
Rohan .,
Michigan
Louisana State
Oklahoma State
Stanford
Boise State
Oregon
Oklahoma

9. ARKANSAS: How do the
Razorbacks feel being 8-1
and havingno shot at the
SEC title game?
10. HOUSTON: How do we
get a Houston vs. Boise State
championship game? Force
LSU to quit football?
Sam Sedlecky,
Maize Rage
President
Michigan
Alabama
Oklahoma State
Stanford
UNLV
Oregon
Oklahoma
South Carolina
Nebraska
Houston
Michigan State
Georgia
Wisconsin
Arizona State
USC I
Cincinnati
west Virginia
Indiana
8-9-1
95-66-4

- Nebraska
Houston
Minnesota
Georgia
Wisconsin
Arizona State
USc
Cincinnati
West Virginia
Indiana
10-7-i
136-90-4

i

i


To apply to be a guest picker, e-mail trshan@umich.edu. If you're chosen and can beat at least two of us, you'll Stay on for another week. The longest-tenured guest picker will get a prize at the end of the season.


