ENEWA :CULT CLASSIC
" of U~ran 'Martha Marcy May Marlene'
explores the re-socialization of
An The Game.v a former cult member.
PAGE 7 PAGE 8
)N EB I l i )HLr VI EN T XV( Y) W EA1 S F 1 1211 To ( l \L F1 1 ,IA )N1
Tuesday, November 29, 2011

Ann Arbor, Michigan

michigandaily.com

COLLEGE EXPENSES
eTextbook
deal could
reduce costs
for students

Rackham student Mostafa Bedewy holds an Egyptian flag during a rally on the Diag yesterday condemning Egyptian military brutality. The Egyptian Student
Association planned the event, and members of the organization discussed the importance of democracy in Egypt and the United States.
dents support Egyptian
protesters rally on Diag

'I-
to
eTe.
pi
if
If
Angry
access
hasn't
dents
saving
books
Uni
ies Pu
Camp
in fro
Comn
yester
is a co
of the
ies an
nologi
lower:
for lec
age en
studet
The
negoti
book

T' officials plan trators hope to launch a pilot
program in the fall 2012 term,
launch Campus Courant said. Currently, the plan-
ners are looking for several hun-
xtbook Initiative dred professors to participate in
next year's program.
lot in fall 2012 Courant called the rising cost
of college textbooks a "public
By JOSH HEALY textbook crisis," noting that some
Daily Copy Chief students pay up to $1,000 a term
for their books.
the prospect of playing "Candidly, we want to go after
Birds or having instant those profits on behalf of our stu-
to thousands of books dents," Courant said, speaking
already convinced stu- about the money textbook corn-
to invest in e-readers, panies make off student sales.
money on University text- Courant told the lead faculty
might do the trick. governing body that if the initia-
versity Dean of Librar- tive is implemented, a student
ul Courant introduced the registered for a lecture would
us eTextbook initiative pay a $45 fee to gain access to the
nt of the Senate Advisory class's texts, with the option to
nittee on University Affairs buy a hard copy of the text for an
day. The initiative, which additional $20 to $35. By charg-
llective effort of the Office ing a fee, the University would
Provost, University Librar- be able to sell e-textbooks to stu-
td Information and Tech- dents at about 35 percent of the
cal Services, is focused on regular price. Students would be
ing the cost of textbooks able to download the books onto
cture courses with an aver- an e-reader or print the pages out,
trollment of more than 100 Courant said.
nts. University Provost Philip
e University is currently Hanlon said at yesterday's meet-
iating a deal with e-text- ing that the plan might save the
providers, and adminis- See ETEXTBOOKS, Page 5

Egyptian Student taking a stand in Ann Arbor.
The grassroots activism that
Association holds ignited the Egyptian revolution
also appeared on the Diag yester-
demonstration to day afternoon, as about 20 stu-
dents from the Egyptian Student
promote awareness Association led a protest to raise
awareness about military brutal-
By ALEXANDRA ity against unarmed civilian pro-
MONDALEK testers in Egypt.
Daily StaffReporter Members distributed flyers
that read, "stop sales of tear gas
In response to Egyptian citi- to the Egyptian military" as they
zens' protests against their gov- chanted phrases like "from the
ernment, University students are desert to the sea, all of Egypt will

be free."
Since last January, anti-gov-
ernment protests in Egypt have
exploded, and the reactions of
the government have become
increasingly aggressive. The
military used rubber bullets and
tear gas against civil protesters.
About 40 civilians have died, and
at least 2,000 have been wound-
ed in this month's protests alone.
ESA members said they hoped
to bring awareness of the mili-
tary brutality in Egypt to the
University.

"We don't want our U.S. tax
dollars to go towards tear gas,
bombs and repressive weaponry
against peaceful protesters,"
Rackham student Atef Said, a
member of ESA, said in an inter-
view at yesterday's event.
Though Egyptian citizens
have made considerable gains
toward a more democratic gov-
ernment since January, Said said
there is still much to overcome,
including a resilient military and
questionable police force that
See RALLY, Page 5

LEGAL DISPUTE
ACLU files lawsuit against
AATA over rejection of ad

A2 Transportation against the Ann Arbor Trans-
portation Authority concerning
Authority declines the company's
refusal to sell
ad boycotting Israel advertising
space to an Ann
By HALEY GLATTHORN Arbor activist O
Daily StaffReporter who promotes
boycotting
The Michigan chapter of Israel.
the American Civil Liberties Following AATA's refusal of
Union filed a lawsuit yesterday activist Blaine Coleman's ad,

which was intended to read
"Boycott Israel, Boycott Apart-
heid," the ACLU lawsuit claims
AATA's advertising policy,
which requires all ads to be "in
good taste" and bans advertis-
ing that is "likely to hold up to
scorn or ridicule a person or
group of persons," is in violation
of the First Amendment due to
its "vague" nature. The ACLU
See ACLU, Page 6

UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS
To professors' dismay, students
still use RateMyProfessors.com

Astronaut John Herrington speaks about how he joined NASA in the Chrysler Center yesterday.
First Native American astronaut speaks
about time in the Space Shuttle Endeavour

Faculty push for
greater visibility of
'U' evaluations
By PHOEBE BARGHOUTY
For theDaily
A red chili pepper that indi-
cates the "hotness" of a professor
maybe a deciding factor for some
students currently registering

for classes next semester.
The pepper represents a cat-
egory on RateMyProfessors.com
- a popular website many Uni-
versity students visit to preview
the 3,178 University instructors
profiled on the site. Some pro-
fessors, however, prefer stu-
dents use the University's course
evaluations because they say the
evaluations are a more accu-
rate judgment of their teaching
styles.

Rossie Hutchinson, a commu-
nication studies lecturer at the
University who received an over-
all quality of 4.8 on the site, said
she believes students are inclined
to use RateMyProfessors.com as
a resource because the Univer-
sity does not make official pro-
fessor evaluations available to
students soon enough.
"The moment I turn grades
in, I can see my evaluations,"
See PROFESSORS, Page 6

John Herrington Earth.
Herrington, a retired Navy
motivates students officer and NASA astronaut,
spoke to tiore than 120 stu-
to pursue passions dents at the Chrysler Center on
North Campus yesterday about
By JOSH QIAN his journey as an astronaut and
For the Daily encouraged University students
to follow their passions.
In the fall of 2002, John B. During his 40-minute
Herrington, the first Native speech, Herrington described
American astronaut, flew on his unforgettable travel to space
the Space Shuttle Endeavour in the Endeavour and his stay at
and spent 330 hours orbiting the international Space Station.

"Space shuttles are a beauti-
ful winged vehicle," Herrington
said. "Hanging outside in space
and seeing the Endeavour right
there is remarkable. It is an
amazing engineering achieve-
ment. I don't think people in
this country realize how dif-
ficult it was and what a unique
platform it is to fly around the
Earth every 90 minutes."
During the mission, Her-
rington performed three extra-
See ASTRONAUT, Page 6


WEATHER HI 37
TOMORROW - +-LO:19

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX A P N E W S ..........
Call 734-418-4115or e-mail Mattison named finalist for 2011 Broyles Award Vol. CXXII, No. 57 OPINION.............
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME ©201The Michigan Daily N E W S..........
michigondaily.com

3 CLASSIFIEDS ...............6
.....4 SPO RTS ........................7
......5 ARTS................ . 8


4

2 - Tuesday, November 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


GROOVING

ght Mich-loan DAMh
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

i
3
l
1
t
1
t
1
c
t

Receptionist was University expert
30 years ago this week (Dec. 60 years ago this week (Nov. 100 years ago this week (Dec. 1,
1, 1981): Colleen Conquergood, the 29, 1951): WEQN, the radio station 1911): According to G.A. May, direc-
receptionist at the LSA Building based in East Quad Residence Hall, tor of the University's Waterman
information desk at the time, was a and WQRS, West Quad Residence Gymnasium, the 1911 freshman class
resource for students and provided Hall's radio station, reunited after a had a "more perfectly developed
information on all topics pertain- rift arose between the two organiza- anatomy" than the previous year's
ing to the University - from what tions. freshman class, The Michigan Daily
classes to take to where to eat in Ann The East Quad and West Quad reported.
Arbor. stations, along with a third station May examined 780 incoming
Conquergood, who had worked at housed in the South Quad Residence freshmen and found that the aver-
the University since 1969, told The Hall, formed a radio co-operative. age age of the incoming students
Michigan Daily in an interview at The stations split after the East was 18.9 years old, the average
the time that she filled a notebook Quad station announced a plan to height was 67.8 inches tall and the
with facts about campus to assist form one station for all three resi- average weightwas 140.1 pounds.
students. The only downsides of the dence halls. Mayalso reported that 204 fresh-
job, she said, were the "miserable" Bill Gerson, WEQN's station men wore glasses, compared to 185
summers and dealing with "stupid manager, apologized to the West students in the previous freshman
questions" from students. Quad radio station and said the split class. Additionally, 269 of the stu-
"You'd never guess some of these between the stations was based on dents consumed tobacco and 555
students go to a university," Con- "erroneous reports" from a repre- knew how to swim.
quergood said. sentative from West Quad. - JOSEPHLICHTERMAN

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
corrections@nichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
ntews@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaity@michigandaity.com
Editorial Page
opinion@nmichigandaily.com
Photography Section
photohmichigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classifiedn@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

LSA freshman Vinny Sheu sits on the shoul-
ders of tngineering freshman Dan Hiemstra
while drumming yesterday with Groove. The
student group will have a concert Dec. 2.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Pooped, passed Pretty crime Film screening Blues concert
A 20-year-old student
out, ilfered WHERE: Michigan League WHAT: A screeningof"City WHAT: A concert with at Lawrence University
WHEN: Sunday at about of Sadness" by director Hou John Primer, a Chicago in Appleton, Wis. was
WHERE: Michigan Sta- 10 p.m. Hsiao-Hsien. The Chinese- blues musician known for arrested for allegedly steal-
dium WHAT: A white male, language film was the first his slide-guitar playing, ing a rabbit from a daycare
WHEN: Sunday at about between 5-foot-8 and to show the "228 Incident" Primer was a former mem- center in a local church,
1:30 p.m. 5-foot-9, with brown hair, of 1947 and has won several ber of bands like Willie WLUK reported. Twinkle
WHAT: A spectator at the wearing blue eyeshadow awards. Dixon's Chicago All-Stars. the rabbit had been missing
football game reported and red lipstick and wear- WHO: Center for Chinese WHO: Michigan Union
that she was missing $160 ing a puffy red coat stole Studies Ticket Office since Nov. 13.
in cash, University Police several food items from WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m. WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
reported. The woman Ugo's, University Police WHERE: Michigan Theater WHERE: The Ark
passed out in a stadium reported. Police are still A Hold' A new exhibit at the
restroom. investigating the incident. eXU 111 em1 les--lha~ hUiest fMcia

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@michigandaily.com
NicoleAber ManagingNewsEditor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWS EDITORS:BethanyBiron,DylanCinti, Caitlin Huston, JosephLichterman,
ASSISANTNEWS EDITORS: HaleyGlatthorn, Claire Goscicki, Suzanne Jacobs,Sabira
Kahn, Michele Narov, Paige Pearcy, Adam Rubenfire, Kaitlin Williams
Michelleewitrand opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Enilylnrley tditorialtPagetditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali,Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASISTANTEDTORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Harsbahata, imot h ady~
StepheniJ. Nesbitt and sportseditorseicnhigandaily.com
Tim Rohan ManagingsportsEditors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Kevin
Raftery,s.Ne5al hcild
AuSSISsN SPRTSEDITORS: Everett Cook, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt Slovin, Liz
Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
SharonJacobs ManagingArtsEditor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Leah Burgin, Kavi Pandey, Jennifer Xu
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JacobAxelrad,CassieBalfour,Joe Cadagin,EmmaGase,
PromaKhosIa,David Tao
Marissa McCain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed MOth anagingrPhoto Editors
SSISTANrHOOnaEDITORS:EriKikland, Allison Kruske, Terra Molengraff,
Anna Schulte
Zach Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen Lieblich ManagingDesign Editors
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Anna Lein-Zielinski
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS: Kristi Begonja, Corinn Lewis
Canolyn Klanecki MatazinetEditor ktarecki@michigaedaity.com
D a GY ZINEEDITORS:Steen Ostrowski, DevonThosbya lns wigs
Josh Healy copy chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS:ChristineChun,Hannah Poindexter
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
JuliannaCrim Associate Business Manager
RachelGreinet: sales Manager
Alexis NewtonProduction Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
QUy Vo circulation Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during thetfall and
winter terms by students at the university of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to allreaders. Additional copies may be picked up atthe Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, start in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (January through April) is
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscriptionrate. On-carpussubscriptionsfor alltetiare$3.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The AssociatedaCollegiate Press.

Stacks stealing Skater hater poker event discussion

WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
10 p.m.
WHAT: A female student
reported that her laptop and
cell phone were taken from
the stacks between 4 p.m.
and 4:05 p.m, University
Police renorted.

WHERE: Palmer Drive
Parking Structure
WHEN: Sunday at about
4:20 p.m.
WHAT: Four skateboard-
ers were spotted on the
fourth level of the parking
structure, University Police
reproted. An officer couldn't
find the skatehoarders.

WHAT: A poker event
where poker chips are
replaced with condoms
and group leaders talk
about safe sexual practices.
Beginners are welcome and
will be taught how to play
poker. The Safe Sex store
will hand out prizes to the
winners.
WHO: Phi Beta Sigma Fra-
ternity
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Trotter Multicul-
tural Center

WHAT: A discussion about
topics impacting student
health like depression.
WHO: Depression Center
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall
Psychological Clinic
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Museum J of Art fea-
tures a display of tiny tables
by abstract-expressionist
Mark di Suvero.
FOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGE 8
A woman at Thurgood
Marshall Airport in
Baltimore gave birth to
a baby boy minutes after step-
ping off her flight, The Daily
Mail reported. The woman
gave birth on the floor of a
bathroom in Concourse D of
the airport.

Kosovo protest wounds
NATO peacekeepers

I

Bullets from crowd
of protesters hit
officer and solider
ZUBIN POTOK, Kosovo (AP)
- A German NATO officer and a
soldier were shot and wounded
in a clash with Serb protesters in
northern Kosovo yesterday after
the military alliance's troops
used heavy machinery to remove
trucks and buses blocking a main
road in the tense region, an offi-
cial said.
The shooting near the town of
Zubin Potok, some 60 kilometers
(40 miles) northwest of Pristina
come after months of tensions,
following a decision by Koso-
vo's authorities to extend their
authority in the areas under de-
facto Serb rule.

For months Serbs have used
soil, rock and concrete barriers
to block any such moves. NATO
has threatened to remove them
because it cut off land supply to a
military base in the north. NATO
has ultimate authority over secu-
rity in Kosovo.
German and Austrian peace-
keepers involved in yesterday's
operation fired rubber bullets
and tear gas and used water can-
ons and pepper spray to disperse
the crowd of Serb protesters
trying to stop the soldiers from
removing the roadblock.
"The commander of the battal-
ion was shot and another soldier
was also wounded," said NATO
spokesman, Lt. Col. Uwe Nowit-
zky.
In Berlin, a German military
spokesman Lt. Col. Manfred
Baumgartner told The Associ-

ated Press that the wounded offi-
cer and the soldier serve in the
Bundeswehr. He said they were
shot from the crowd of Serb pro-
testers.
The two were sent at the U.S.
military base in eastern Kosovo,
Camp Bondsteel, for treatment,
NATO said.
At NATO's headquarters in
Brussels, the alliance said it was
concerned about the violence
and that it would carefully moni-
tor developments in the northern
country's north.
"The use of violence against
(NATO) troops is unacceptable,"
spokeswoman Oana Lungescu
said. "We urge all parties to
exercise restraint and cooper-
ate fully with all international
actors on the ground to ensure
freedom of movement without
delay."

4

Republican presidential candidate former House Speaker Newt Gingrich speaks to supporters yesterday in Charleston, S.C.
Gingrich criticizes Romrney
as his campaign gains speed

I

Euro in danger as Europe
attempts to solve debt crisis

World markets
rally in expectation
of progress
PARIS (AP) - European
leaders rushed yesterday to
stop a rampaging debt crisis
that threatened to shatter their
12-year-old experiment in a com-
mon euro currency and devastate
the world economy as a result.
One proposal gaining promi-
nence would have countries cede
some control over their budgets
to a central European authority.
In a measure of how rapidly the
peril has grown, that idea would
have been unthinkable even
three months ago.
World stock markets, glimps-
ing hope that Europe might
finally be shocked into stronger
action, staged a big rally. The
Dow Jones industrial average

in New York rose almost 300
points. In France, stocks rose 5
percent, the most in a month.
More relevant to the crisis,
borrowing costs for European
nations stabilized. They had
risen alarmingly in recent weeks
- in Greece, then in Italy and
Spain, then across the continent,
including in Germany, the stron-
gest economy in Europe.
The yields on benchmark
bonds issued by Italy and Germa-
ny rose, but only by hundredths
of a percentage point. The yield
fell 0.1 percentage point on bonds
of France, 0.14 points for those
of Spain and 0.22 points for Bel-
gium.
Allowing a central European
authority to have some control
over the budgets of sovereign
nations would create a fiscal
union in Europe in addition to
the monetary union of the 17
countries that share the euro

currency.
Some analysts have said would
be a leap toward creating a Unit-
ed States of Europe. More deli-
cately, it would force the nations
of Europe to swallow their
national pride, cede some sover-
eignty and agree to strengthen
ties with their neighbors rather
than fleeing the euro union dur-
ing the crisis.
"The common currency has
the problem that the monetary
policy is joint, but the fiscal pol-
icy is not," Germany's finance
minister, Wolfgang Schaeuble,
said in a meeting with foreign
reporters in Berlin.
The monetary union has
existed since the euro was cre-
ated in 1999, but the European
Union, which includes the 17
euro nations and 10 others that
use their own currencies, has no
central authority over taxing and
spending.

Romney's historically
fickle political
stances called into
question
CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP) -
Presidential hopeful Newt Gin-
grich acknowledged yesterday
that he isn't the perfect candidate
but contends he's "a lot more con-
servative than Mitt Romney and a
lot more electable than anybody
else."
Gingrich, a former House
speaker whose presidential cam-
paign is on the rise just weeks
before the first nominating con-
tests take place, offered sharp
criticism of Romney. For months,
the Georgia Republican has
refused to criticize his rivals and
instead has kept his focus on Pres-
ident Barack Obama.
That all seems to be over.
Branding the former Massa-
chusetts governor as a political
opportunist, Gingrich said it is
one thing to change positions if
new facts become available and
quite another to shift positions for
political gain.
"It's wrong to go around and
adopt radically different positions

based on your need of any one
election, then people will have to
ask themselves, 'What will you
tell me next time?"' Gingrich told
WSC-FM radio yesterday morn-
ingahead ofathree-day campaign
swingthrough South Carolina.
Romney has changed his posi-
tions on gay rights and abortion
since his first political campaign
in 1994. Since that unsuccess-
ful effort, he has publicly shifted
rightward.
It isn't enough to convince,
some, including Gingrich.
"We think there has to be a
solid conservative alternative to
Mitt Romney," Gingrich said dur-
ing a morning interview.
By evening, he seemed to tem-
per that.
"I don't know of a single person
who is running who would not
be a very effective member of my
administrative team," Gingrich
said at the College of Charleston.
At times Gingrich has blamed
the media for stoking the divi-
sions among the contenders in
an attempt "to get Republicans
fighting with each other," as he
put it during an NBC debate. "You
want to puff this up into some
giant thing," Gingrich said then.
Gingrich has seen his politi-
cal standing rise as he has posted

solid debate performances and
laid the groundwork for a tradi-
tional campaign. In South Caro-
lina, for instance, he has five
offices and his supporters are
making thousands of phone calls
every day.
Gingrich packed a town hall-
style event yesterday night at the
College of Charleston. Support-
ers who couldn't get in lined up
around the block in the hopes that
organizers would let more people
inside and out of the pouring rain.
While Gingrich's two divorces
and admissions of infidelity are
unlikely to endear him to Chris-
tian conservatives who have a
great sway here, he is pitching
himself as the candidate who can
best challenge Obama, who is
deeply unpopular among Repub-
licans.
He questioned Obama's alle-
giances, saying that the admin-
istration had sided with other
nations in challenging tough ille-
gal immigration laws in South
Carolina and other states.
"No American president has
the right to side with foreigners
against the people and laws of the
United States," he told the College
of Charleston audience.
But Gingrich knows his own
shortcomings.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
KALAMAZOO, Mich.
$30 million spent
in 6 years on
scholarship fund
An anonymously funded free
college tuition program for high
school graduates of the Kalama-
zoo Public Schools that was
launched six years ago has spent
more than $30 million on higher
education for more than 2,300
students.
Data provided by The Kalama-
zoo Promise program show that
about one-third of the students
who started college on Promise
scholarships have dropped out, at
least temporarily, and another 10
percent of eligible students didn't
take advantage of the scholarship
program, the Kalamazoo Gazette
reported yesterday.
"Those numbers tell the story
of what still needs to be done,"
said Janice Brown, the program's
executive director.
NEW YORK CITY
Stocks soar on big
shopping weekend
A weekend of strong holiday
shopping in the U.S. and radical
proposals for stanching Europe's
debt crisis sent stocks soaring
yesterday. The Standard & Poor's
500 index broke a seven-day los-
ing streak and the Dow Jones
industrial average jumped 291
points, itsbiggestgain in a month.
Markets in Europe also surged
as leaders there discussed previ-
ously unthinkable approaches
for containing the region's debt
troubles, such as joint bond sales
and much tighter fiscal controls.
France's CAC-40 jumped 5.5 per-
cent. Indexes in Germany and
Italy rose 4.6 percent. The bat-
tered euro rose against the dollar.
European finance ministers
discussed aggressive measures to
stop the debt crisis from destroy-
ing the 17-nation currency union.
CARACAS, Venezuela
Columbian drug
trafficker captured
A top Colombian drug traffick-
er reputedly responsible for ship-
ping tons of cocaine to the United
States through Central America
and Mexico has been captured in
Venezuela, officials said yester-
day.
The U.S. had offered a $5 mil-
lion reward for information lead-
ing to the arrest of Maximiliano
Bonilla Orozco, also known as
"Valenciano," who was also on
Colombia's most-wanted list.
Colombian authorities told
The Associated Press that Bonilla
was captured Sunday. The infor-
mation was later confirmed by
Colombian President Juan Man-
uel Santos, who was in Venezu-
ela meeting with President Hugo
Chavez.
"He's one of the most recog-
nized drug traffickers, who has
caused terrible harm to our coun-

try," Santos told Chavez at the
presidential palace.
TRIPOLI, Libya
Libyan clerics urge
leaders to disarm
rebel fighters
Dozens of Libyan religious
leaders yesterday urged authori-
ties to disarm former rebels and
form a national army, backing
the transitional government's
struggle to exert control over the
militias that overthrew dictator
Moammar Gadhafi.
The fighters are widely
admired for their role in bringing
down the Gadhafi regime, but the
clerics' statement reflected con-
cern over the militias' refusal to
submit to the central authority.
Dozens of militias have held on
to arsenals of heavy weapons and
sometimes clash among them-
selves.
"We advise speeding up the
process of establishing a national
army and the collection of arms,"
said a statement from the 250
imams and other clerics gathered
for a conference in Tripoli, the
first of its kind after the fall of the
Gadhafi regime.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

GM to offer loaner
cars to Volt owners

TAREK FAWZY/AP
Egyptian women walk past a banner and poster in Arabic that both read, "Nour Party," on the first day of parliamentary
elections in Alexandria, yesterday.
Conservative Nour Party
praised b Egyptian voters

Islamist parties
expected to do well
in first elections
after revolution
ALEXANDRIA, Egypt (AP)
- Egypt's first parliamentary
elections since the fall of Hosni
Mubarak brought the political
debut of a. potentially power-
ful new player on the scene,
the ultraconservative Islamist
movement known as the Salafis.
At several voting stations in
this Mediterranean coastal city
yesterday, Salafis packed the lines
as early as 7 a.m., an hour before
the polls opened, clearly dis-
tinguishable by the long, mous-
tache-less beards of the men and
the blanketing robes and veils of
the women leaving nothing of
their bodies visible but their eyes.
Their presence in the lines
only grew throughout the day,
as women in veils and gloves
passed out campaign fliers for
the Nour Party, the main Salafist
entry in the race.
"Anybody who is afraid of the
Salafis doesn't know who we
are," said Um Ibrahim, 43, who
wore a face veil and had dragged
her children to the polls with
her. "The Nour Party under-
stands religion the way that God
intended and they will lead us
properly."
Islamic parties in general are
expected to do well, likely to win
a plurality or even a majority in

the next parliament, raising the
likelihood that Egypt will see
an increased melding of religion
into its politics. Strongest is the
Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's
most organized political force,
in existence for 80 years with a
network of activists and chari-
ties nationwide.
After the lifting of Mubarak's
autocratic hand, newly created
Salafi parties have flooded onto
the scene. They are challenging
the Brotherhood's near monop-
oly on the religious bloc and are
likely to push even harder than
the Brotherhood for religious
rule.
They bring an ideology that
makes the Brotherhood look
moderate in comparison. Salafis
advocate a Saudi-style hard-
line interpretation of Islam that
brooks no compromise in a lit-
eralist interpretation of Shariah
law and advocates a staunch
segregation of the sexes. They
have long shunned the concept
of democracy, saying it allows
man's law to override God's.
During the election cam-
paign, their bluntness startled
many in Egypt, where even the
pious usually have a relatively
easygoing view. During an Alex-
andria rally, Salafis covered a
public statue with cloth because
it included mermaids. One Salafi
leader refused to appear on a
TV political talk show until the
female host put on a headscarf;
another insisted a partition be
put between him and a female
host. A sheik recently burst into

a concert at a Nile Delta uni-
versity, took to the stage and
shouted that music was "haram"
- religiously forbidden.
But the Salafis also highlight
why Islamists appeal to some.
In a nation where poverty is
widespread, Islamists - unlike
liberals - have taken the lead
in providing charity work and
social programs, including free
medical and educational ser-
vices for the poor. While liberals
fear imposition of Islamic law,
some in this intrinsically reli-
gious society look on an Islamist
candidate and see a moral per-
son who is less likely to be cor-
rupt.
"I am a divorced woman and
the Nour party candidates have
always helped me financially
to stand on my feet," said Hor-
reya Attia, a 52-year old mother
of two. "The least I could do is
return the favor at the polls."
In downtown Alexandria,
Amira Salah, 19, sat with her
friends talking about who to
vote for. She was dressed in a
way Salafis consider improper -
makeup on her face, jeans and a
colorful headscarf - but she sur-
prised her girlfriends when she
said she wanted to vote for the
Nour Party.
"They'll be able to run the
country in the right and God-
fearing way," she said. "They
will use the correct traditions of
the prophet to rule Egypt. Even
if they made me cover up from
top to bottom and wear a face
veil, I would be OK with it."

Safety agency
investigating Volt's
lithium-ion battery
amid fire concerns
DETROIT (AP) - General
Motors, concerned about the
image of its Chevrolet Volt, is
offering free loaner vehicles to
owners who are worried about
the electric cars catching fire.
The move comes after a gov-
ernment safety agency said on
Friday that it is investigating
fires involving the Volt's lithium-
ion battery packs following crash
tests. Thus far, the Volt tests have
not raised concerns about the
safety of other electric cars, the
agency has said.
GM said yesterday that the
vehicle is safe. But it will contact
owners of the more than 5,000
Volts sold in North America since
December2010 toreassure them.
It will also offer loaner cars to
ensure that owners are satisfied
and confident in their purchase.
GM has not put a time limit on
how longcustomers can keep the
loaners, but said the offer is not
a response to demands from cus-
tomers.
The National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration said a
Volt battery pack that was being
monitored caught fire on Thurs-
day, a week after it was hit in
a side-impact crash test. The.
agency said another battery that
was crash-tested recently gave
off smoke and sparks. The latest
fires are in addition to a battery
fire ata test facility in Wisconsin
back in June.
The Volt, which can travel
about 35 miles on electric power
before a small gasoline generator
kicks in to run the car, has helped
Chevrolet's public image, and
GM is eager to protect that good
will. The company has promoted
the car extensively as a first step
toward independence from for-
eign oil, and the Volt has helped
counter a gas-guzzling image left
over from years of GM selling
mainly pickup trucks and ineffi-
cient sport utilityvehicles.
Mary Barra, GM's senior vice
president of product develop-
ment, said both fires reported by
NHTSA occurred seven days to
three weeks after the crash tests,
and could have been prevented
if the battery charge had been
drained as GM has called for in
its post-crash procedures.
She said only a few Volts have
crashed on public roads. None
have caught fire, nor have the
battery packs been compro-
mised.

"We don't think there's an
immediate fire risk," said GM
North American President Mark
Reuss, who addressed the media
in a conference call along with
Barra. "This is a post-crash
activity."
NHTSA wasn't aware of the
post-crash procedures at the
time of the June fire, GM officials
have said. In the U.S., GM is noti-
fied of any severe Volt crashes
through its OnStar safety sys-
tem, and it sends a team to the
car within a day to drain the bat-
tery charge to prevent any fires.
In the Volt's system, Lithium-
ion battery cells, which essen-
tially are a single battery, are
assembled into a pack of cells,
and coolant is pumped between
the cells to keep them from over-
heating. In the June fire ata test
facility in Burlington, Wis., cool-
ant leaked from the battery and
crystallized, and that could have
been a factor in the fire, GM has
said. The fire came three weeks
after a side-impact crash test and
was severe enough to cause sev-
eral other vehicles parked near-
by to catch fire as well.
Barra said that in all the Volt
incidents, the battery cells were
not involved in the fires, only the
electronics within the battery
pack. But she would not be more
specific until NHTSA's investi-
gation is over.
Reuss said GM won't sell any
Volts in other countries until it
makes sure emergency respond-
ers, salvage yards and dealers
have been trained to discharge
the batteries after a severe crash.
The Volt and Nissan's Leaf,
with a total of more than 8,000
cars on the road in the U.S., are
among the first mass-marketed
plug-in electric cars. They went
on sale in the 2011 model year.
Other automakers are also work-
ing on electric vehicles.
The safety testing hasn't
raised concerns about electric
vehicles other than the Volt, but
NHTSA is asking manufactur-
ers who have electric cars on the
market, or who plan to introduce
them, for more detailed infor-
mation on battery testing. The
agency also is asking for the
companies' procedures for dis-
charging and handling batteries,
including recommendations for
reducing fire risks.
Lithium-ion batteries, which
are rechargeable, have been the
subject of several recalls of con-
sumer electronics. Millions of
laptop batteries made by Sony
Corp. for Apple Inc., Dell Inc.,
Lenovo Group Ltd. and other PC
makers were recalled in2006 and
2007 after it was discovered that
they could overheat and ignite.

Police choose not to
clear Occupy LA camp

Law enforcement
surrounded camp
for six hours
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Wall.
Street protesters declared a
minor victory yesterday when
they defied a midnight dead-
line to leave their tent city
encampment around City Hall
and police withdrew after
surrounding the camp for six
hours without moving in.
Four people were arrested
as police cleared downtown
streets to make way for morn-
ing rush hour traffic, but police
said the event was largely
peaceful.
Police Chief Charlie Beck
said it remains unclear when
the nearly two-month-old
Occupy LA camp would be
cleared. About half of the 485
tents hadbeen taken down as of
Sunday night, leaving patches
of the 1.7-acre park around City
Hall barren of grass and strewn
with garbage.
"There is no concrete dead-
line," Beck told reporters yes-
terday morning after hundreds
of officers withdrew without
moving in on the camp. The
chief said he wanted to make
sure the removal will be done
when it was safe for protesters
and officers and "with as little
drama as possible."
Protesters chanted "we won,

we won" as riot-clad officers
left the scene.
"I'm pretty much speech-
less," said Clark Davis, media
coordinator for Occupy LA.
Police turned back after
hundreds of Occupy LA sup-
porters showed up at the camp
Sunday night as the midnight
deadline for evacuation neared.
As the night drew on, many
demonstrators left.
Protester Julie Levine said
she was surprised that police
did not move in as the numbers
dwindled. "We were fearful,"
she said. "But we held our num-
bers and police were on their
best behavior."
A celebratory atmosphere
filled the night with protest-
ers milling about the park and
streets by City Hall in seeming
good spirits. A group on bicy-
cles circled the block, one of
them in a cow suit. Organizers
led chants with a bull horn.
A police tactical alert was
called that kept officers on
overtime. Officers reopened
the streets at around 6:30 a.m.
"Let's go get breakfast," said
Commander Andrew Smith as
he removed his helmet.
The protest was largely
peaceful but there were some
skirmishes.
Four people were arrested
for failure to disperse and a
few protesters tossed bamboo
sticks and water bottles at offi-
cers, Smith said.

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Behind every real estate development project
there is a'creative, well-networked visionary.
M.S. in Real Estate Development
In New York, across the country, and around the globe, to be successful in real estate development you need to be
creative, flexible, well-networked, and business savvy. The M.S. in Real Estate Development delivers the practical
expertise, the visionaty and strategic thinking, and the industry connections required not only to survive, but thrive
in today's challenging marketplace. Learn to value and create opportunity, identify strategic partnerships, take
advantage of technology, and negotiate through all phases of the development process. Day and evening class
schedules are available.
scps.nyu.edu/msredlb NYUSCHACK
212-998-7100 Institute of Real Estate
NewYork University is an affirmativeaction/equalopportunity insttution:2011NewYork University SchoolfContinuing and Professional Studies.


4

4 - Tuesday, November 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

: ..

e ic igan at
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
i 420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MICHELLE DEWITT
STEPHANIE STEINBERG and EMILY ORLEY NICK SPAR
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
Consolidating safety
Merging police departments can be successful
T hough city safety departments have not been safe from
statewide budget cuts, there may be a way to save money
without cutting these crucial services. In line with Gov.
Rick Snyder's plan to cut down on Michigan's spending, the Pontiac
Police Department was absorbed by the Oakland County Sheriff's
Office last August. The overall positive results of the consolidation
indicate that the change, especially in areas with a high crime rate
may increase departmental efficiency while also reducing Michi-
gan's heavy financial burden.

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAIL JEFF AT JEFFDZ@UMICH.EDU

Beat it, kid.
You must b
Is see
Santa
Focus on what you believe

i
t

Though the decision to close the Pon-
tiac Police Department may have shifted the
department's .workforce, the move has saved
an estimated $2.2 million in state money. By
combining the expenses into one department,
the Oakland County Sheriff's Office was able
to hire 73 additional officers, many of whom
worked for or were previously laid off by the
former Pontiac Police Department.
The consolidation was initially planned as
a cost-saving measure, but the decision has
resulted in more action that targets crime.
Pontiac has seen a 400-percent increase in
arrests in the first four months following the
decision, according to a Detroit Free Press
article, which shows that the change has not
affected the ability of safety officials to do
their jobs.
While property crime has decreased in Pon-
tiac over the past several years, violent crime
is still on the rise. The city's violent crime rate
is drastically higher than the national average.
The hiring of the additional officers was only
possible because of the money saved through
the consolidation and was an important factor
in the 400-percent increase in arrests. Though
this method may not work in every jurisdic-
tion, the numbers show that the change has
been particularly effective in Pontiac.
Ann Arbor has recently suffered cuts to the
fire and police department budgets that have
resulted in a reduction of the number of per-
sonnel the departments can employ. Looking
into a potential consolidation of the two orga-
nizations could prove cost-effective and ben-

eficial for the city.
Snyder has long favored consolidations
like the one seen in Pontiac. The proven suc-
cess of the consolidation has stirred debates
in other areas of Michigan as to whether ser-
vices traditionally offered by cities should be
expanded into countywide jurisdictions. The
push for countywide consolidation of ser-
vices allows for greater oversight and stan-
dardization of worker compensation that the
current system lacks.
Regions in other states have discussed the
combination of police and fire departments
into a larger department that would cross-
train employees to respond to both fire and
public safety emergencies. Still others have
suggested combining non-safety depart-
ments such as parks and recreation and
water and sewage.
Opponents of these measures are concerned
that this would result in a public workforce
that has many skills, but fails to be experts in
one specific task. Regardless of whether these
policies are implemented, discussing different
options is crucial for arriving at a decision that
would be beneficial to Michigan's economy
and the safety of residents.
While more research is necessary to deter-
mine which services and regions would gain
the greatest benefit from consolidations like
the Pontiac-Oakland move, the increase
in arrests and the money saved by Pontiac
shows that these measures are a viable option
to save the state money without compromis-
ing public safety.

hen I told my grandfa-
ther this summer that
I wanted to become a
rabbi, I expected
he'd be excited
about it. I won-
dered which
of my relatives
he'd call first to
kvell about how
proud he was
that I wanted to MATTHEW
devote my life GREEN
to the continu- _
ity of our people.
But right when
I said the words, he turned to me
cantankerously and said, "What are
you? Nuts?" Hardly the delightI was
expecting. He's since come around,
but just last week at Thanksgiving
dinner, my aunt earnestly asked me,
"Why don't you want to do some-
thing more...fun? Like law, maybe,
or real estate?" I guess that's what
passes for fun in some circles.
In the past few months since I've
made the decision to pursue rabbini-
cal school, I've heard a wide range
of responses to it. Though most of
my relatives, friends and acquain-
tances are for the idea, a substantial
number are not. Some people seem
to think it's a joke or a waste of my
potential, as if the rabbinate were
some frivolous pursuit. Others sug-
gest that I'm limiting myself exclu-
sively to a small group of people orto
the study of ancient, irrelevant texts.
Many more don't know how to
respond at all. Religion can be a
tremendously uncomfortable sub-
ject, particularly between two indi-
viduals of different faiths. For those
steeped in the language of tolerance
and multiculturalism, it's sometimes
awkward to discuss religion with-
out stepping on anyone's toes. And a

huge proportion of people, particu-
larly in our generation, don't have
any use for spirituality whatsoev-
er- or they can't find meaning in an
organized faith. For what it's worth,
I'm noteven sure of how Ipersonally
connect to God or if I connect at all.
That's at least part of why I'm going
to rabbinical school.
In high school, many of my friends
weren't religious, but the few who
were felt that people judged them
for being devout Christians. They
said most of our friends excused my
interest in religion since being Jew-
ish carried with it a sort of mystique,
but looked at them as if they were
crazy and retrograde. In some ways,
I'm beginning to understand how
they must have felt. Religion often
feels like something of the past. Not
many people talk about becoming
clergymen and women in the 21st
century, and indeed it can sound a
little crazy. Even the word "clergy"
sounds old fashioned. And "rabbi"
sounds old country.
But the judgment I've perceived is
not just because I plan on becoming
a man of the cloth.
The reality is, if I said I was plan-
ning to go to law school that would
carry its own set of baggage and
stereotypes. From certain people I
could expect rolling eyes, comments
about slim job prospects or maybe
some snide remark about lawyers.
Take the business school senior
who, when asked about her plans
for next year, says: "Well, I got a job
with Goldman, but I'm only gonna
stay for a few years before I do my
own thing." Or the education major
who feels compelled to constantly
joke about how he's not in it for the
money. Or more poignant still, take
the unnamed University senior who
hasn't the foggiest idea of what he

intends to do next year and says he
plans to travel or take time off.
It's a common chorus, particu-
larly for those of us in our last year
at the University. Judgment abounds
as we publicly ponder our futures,
and from time to time, the voices
around us become voices inside our
heads. This job won't be lucrative
enough. That career might seem too
self-serving. This choice won't get
me where I should be in 10 years. It
sounds a lot like choosing a college.
And just like college, our careerswill
only be exciting or meaningful if we
make them that way. Fortunately, as
future University alumni, we have
that luxury.

Do we live to
work or work
to live?

1

While the judgment I face may be
about my faith as much as it's about
my career choice, fundamentally,
both forms are judgments on my
beliefs and ideals. As we try to figure
out what steps to take next, it would
probably behoove us all to figure
out what we actually believe before
we take the leap. We need to block
out all the other voices and ask our-
selves: Do we live to work or work to
live? And what is the point of living,
anyway?
Maybe you'll never answer those
questions, or at least not right now.
But it's worth taking a study break to
ask them.
- Matthew Green can be
reached at greenmat@umich.edu.


EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Caroline Syms, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
JESSE KLEIN
Keep student protests safe

SEND LETTERS TO: T
Students should reduce and reuse purchase and the t
means they need ti
in addition to recycle where students can
They can make sure
functioning so that
TO THE DAILY: bottles. They shoulc
I recently visited the Materials Recycling Facility, trash bins and recyc
where the tons of recyclables that we accumulate at the of both receptacles.I
University are sent after collection. I'll start by saying it tional tools to be kn
wasn't pretty. After all of our cardboard boxes, plastic However, there i
water bottles and glass pasta sauce jars get picked up by can do before indi
the city, they get dumped into a pile in the MRF ware- action. I'm not askin
house. Subsequently, the large pile is crudely sorted by waste. I'm just aski:
machine and by hand in more uniform piles. These uni- one more time. May
form piles turn into bundles of material to be sent off for change that will di
reuse. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but what I saw or recycling plant.Z
definitely was not a picturesque scene of a healthy envi- reusable water bott
ronment. Sure, recycling is better than sending trash to be buying some ofy
a landfill, but maybe we should be focusing on "reduce" simple as purchasii
and "reuse" in addition to "recycle". provided us with m
To fulfill the University's sustainability efforts, it will them go to waste.
take collaboration between the administration, staff
and students to make changes. This means University Bridget Callahan
officials need to be more cognizant of the things they Public Policy junior

'OTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
hings they throw away. This also
o provide a more effective system
do their part in waste reduction.
water fountains are accessible and
we can fill up our reusable water
Id realize that physically separating
ling bins can prevent contamination
And they can provide us with educa-
iowledgeable about waste diversion.
s only so much that the University
viduals become obligated to take
ng you to completely stop producing
ng that you think about your waste
ybe there is one thing that you can
ivert some waste from the landfill
This could mean carrying around a
le, coffee mug or tote bag. It could
your food in bulk. Or it could be as
ng less "stuff." The University has
any resources, so we shouldn't let

Watching the videos of the University of
California, Davis police brutality gave me
the shivers. More than that, it made me want
to cry, scream with rage and yell for change
to anyone who would listen, no matter if they
had any power to change what was happen-
ing or not. Iam from Palo Alto, Calif. and have
43 friends and classmates at UC-Davis. I was
planning to visit them over the absurdly long
summer. Now I am not so sure. Do I want to
go visit a place that sprays its students with
pepper spray as they scream and cry?
The videos are disturbing to say the least.
The screams and choked cries of the 17 to
23-year-old students make y hands shake
as I type this. My heart rate kicked up, and
my breathing became shallow. How could a
police officer, probably with children or at
least nieces and nephews, do this to a group
of young people? In the video, the students
watching the scene yell through pepper spray
induced coughs, and shout their support for
protests and disbelief of the police. Camera
phones are pulled out of pockets to capture
irrefutable proof of these outrageously cruel
acts. Students look out for each other. The
spectators warn protesters of the incoming
pepper spray. And after students are dragged
from their peaceful circle, knelt on, hand-
cuffed and driven away, chants of "shame on
you" and "this is our university" reverberate
around the quad.
As police officers at a public university,
the officers involved in the UC-Davis inci-
dent have likely been around young adults
each day of work. Their job description is to
protect students as they make the difficult
transition from adolescence to adulthood.
College can be a confusing time in which
experimentation and boundary pushing can

go wrong and in some cases cause extreme
harm. Campus police are supposed to pre-
vent these problems, not cause them.
At the University of Michigan, the Univer-
sity's Department of Public Safety has made
it clear that the students are the number one
priority. The blue light emergency buttons
on campus and safe walk programs are clear
indicators that they take student safety seri-
ously. During orientation a DPS officer came
to speak to incoming freshmen, which, in a
day full of boring speeches and PowerPoints,
was the one thing that really stood out. The
officer told the group that he would rather
get a call and have it be nothing, than not
get a call and have it be something. Even
though DPS can be a pain - busting parties
and searching dorm rooms - I know that if
I was feeling uncomfortable I could call and
they would be there. But it's possible that
UC-Davis officers put the same emphasis on
safety to their freshman, and instead of abid-
ing by the policy, they turned on their own
students.
Protests and demonstrations have long
been a part of university life. College stu-
dents are outspoken people, and their schools
give them the freedom to express their opin-
ions. Most universities value that in their stu-
dents. The University of Michigan has shown
respect for peaceful student protests, which
can be interpreted as their commitment to
the Leaders and Best among their student
body. Universities are supposed to encourage
peaceful protests, but instead, UC-Davis, or
at least some of its police, decided that elimi-
nating an annoyance was more important
than encouraging students to act as leaders.
Jesse Klein is an LSA freshman.

0

I

There are easy ways for students ronmental consciousness. In the end it will benefit our
posterity, our Earth and, most obviously, our pockets.
to adopt an eco-friendly lifestyle With all of the enthusiasm surrounding Kill-A-Watt - a
student competition focused on reducing energy use in
residence halls - I find it appropriate to show you how
TO THE DAILY: being conscious of your energy consumption, although
As a student studying environmental sciences, I am knowingly beneficial for the Earth, directly profitsyou.
constantly exposed to information about recycling, By turning off your lights, you have the potential to
waste reduction and energy consumption. Yet after talk- save 10 to 20 percent of a total household electricity bill.
ing to my non-environmental studies friends, I realized Cutting back your daily shower by five minutes for a year
that this information, although seemingly omnipresent, saves you almost $10 (imagine if all your roommates
never fully permeates the brains of University students. did this) and more than 4,562 gallons of water. Here are
You see signage on light switches about turning offlights some other creative solutions for college students: Turn
or advertisements asking you to "Go Green." University on energy-saving settings for your laptop and turn your
President Mary Sue Coleman even addressed the student laptop off at night, use a power strip and turn it off when
body saying, "Sustainability defines the University of not in use, replace incandescent light bulbs with energy-
Michigan. Combine maize and blue, and you get green." saving fluorescent lights, use the microwave instead of
We know everyone wants us tobe 'green,' but how do we the stovetop whenever possible, wash clothes with cold
achieve a sustainable lifestyle? More importantly, why water and use natural lighting during the daytime. These
do we want to be sustainable? What's so wrong with de- are just a few pertinent energy-saving suggestions, but
stressing with a 30-minute shower or having the TV on most importantly, spread the word. Let's make it trendy
as background noise when studying? to care.
Noticeably, the atmosphere we inhabit directly limits
the decisions of college students, but there are very easy Lauren Beriont
choices we can all make to start this culture shift to envi- LSA junior


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November 29, 2011 - 5

4
I
I

L2L
A2shops see strong
sales on Black Friday
Local store ue to support small businesses He said Black Friday was suc-
downtown, especially during cessful for the store, though the
owners say they're the holiday season," Elias said. shop was not overwhelmingly
She said it is too soon to know packed.
not affected by East how the cbos- "It was good; we made our
Liberty closures ings of Borders, NAI6 goal," Down said.
yclosures Poshh and This $ Down added that students,
& That - which j' who make up the largest portion
By CHELSEA LANDRY were all on East of American Apparel customers,
Daily StaffReporter Liberty - will 6 were mostly out of town for the
impact her busi- holiday, and their absence likely
Neon colored tags indicated ness. As of now, affected sales. While the store
50 percent off sales as part of a Elias said she is "crossing (her) had a promotion in which con-
price slashing promotion that fingers" that the recent closings sumers could buy one item and
packed Orchid Lane with shop- will not negatively affect Orchid receive a second item at half-
pers this past holiday weekend. Lane. price, Down said many shop-
Manylocalbusinesses,includ- "It really remains to be seen pers did not know about the
ing Orchid Lane on East Liberty how that's going to affect us," sale when they came in. Still,
Street, experienced strong sales she said. the hype of Black Friday helped
last weekend as shoppers flood- Similarly, Rhonda Gilpin, American Apparel's profits.
ed the stores to start their holi- owner of The Caravan Shop in "Having a shopping day
day shopping. Nickels Arcade and The Arca- makes people more willing to
Leif Elias, co-owner of Orchid dian Antiques Boutique on spend money," Down said.
Lane, said sales on Black Friday Main Street, said it is too soon Down added that he doesn't
were up approximately 20 per- to observe the effects of the believe the East Liberty store
cent from the same day last year. recently closed stores on her closures have negatively impact-
She added that she thinks one businesses. ed American Apparel sales
of the main factors that drew "It's been such a short period because the store attracts differ-
in customers was the pleasant of time that those (stores) have ent customers.
weather. been gone," Gilpin said. "I don't "It's such a different dynamic
"It was 60 degrees (and) think (the closings) have neces- of clientele that comes (into
sunny," Elias said. "It was defi- sarily affected my business in a American Apparel)," Down
nitely the kind of day you'd want negative way." said.
to be out and about. Being down- Gilpin added that it might Down couldn't speculate what
town, the weather affects a lot of be easier to observe the effects kind of business would fill the
our business." after the holiday season, which void of Borders on East Liberty
Elias admitted that the sales is always a busy time for her Street, but said he would "like
on clothing were "a big motiva- stores. something nice, local or some-
tor" that drew crowds over the American Apparel, also on thing inspired to go into Bor-
weekend. The shop specializes East Liberty Street directly ders."
in one-of-a-kind clothing and across from the former Borders He added that the new Zara-
accessories. space, has not experienced a gon West leasing office that
Elias added that she has been noticeable loss of business due to opened recently in the former
extremely happy with the sup- the storefront changes, accord- This & That space is "one of the
port of the local community. ing to Jacob Down, an in-store least thrilling things that could
"I hope Ann Arborites contin- merchandiser at the retail chain. happen on Liberty Street."
'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK [u
The Michigan Daly i michigandaly.com IAN0,mb'2','2011
MICHIGAN 40, OHIO STATE 34

ETEXTBOOKS
From Page 1
University money since financial
aid packages, which factor in the
cost of textbooks, would shift to
reflect the lower cost.
In addition to saving students
money on textbooks, the ini-
tiative would include an open
courseware component. Open
courseware allows Internet users
to view the content of a course,
which would alleviate the cost of
some course materials for Uni-
versity students, Courant said.
Several universities, including
Yale University and Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology,
already offer open courseware
content.
Courant added that the initia-
tive would allow students to have
continued access to course texts
and lectures even after they grad-

uate. SACUA Chair Kate Barald
asked if students would have
access to updated texts, which
Courant said was an option the
planners would explore.
Beside benefiting students
and the University's budget, the
program poses advantages for
faculty, according to Courant.
With access to a wider range of
materials, professors could tailor
course content to better achieve
their pedagogical goals, he said.
By linking pre-recorded lectures
to the online books, Courant said
professorswouldbe able to diver-
sify the content of their course
since they could spend less time
lecturing.
The initiative would encour-
age University professors to con-
tribute their excess materials,
like lecture notes for anintroduc-
tory course, to the open course-
ware, Courant added.
In winter 2011, the eTextbook

Working Group tested a similar
pilot program - a forerunner to
the Campus eTextbook Initiative
- that gathered feedback from
students and professors. Student
participants had mixed reactions
to the program, and Courant said
the planners took the students'
concerns into account when they
were creating the new initiative.
The planners of the initiative
took many cues from Indiana
University when designing the
program, according to Courant.
In fall 2009, IU began to imple-
ment an e-textbook model simi-
lar to the University's proposed
initiative.
Courant added that he hopes a
consortium of universities - like
the Committee on Institutional
Cooperation which includes the
universities in the Big Ten and
the University of Chicago - will
be involved in negotiations with
e-textbook companies.


RALLY
From Page 1
holds extensive power over daily
bureaucratic activity.
"There is worry that the
future of Egypt will remain a
military state (and) not a demo-
cratic civilian state," Said said.
"Street politics must continue to
put pressure on the military."
While Egypt and the U.S. are
geographically distant, mem-
bers of ESA along with other
University students argue it is
the responsibility of U.S. citi-
zens to support international
issues of democracy.
"This does affect you," LSA
junior Sarah Awad-Farid, an ESA
member, said. "We do not live in

a secluded world anymore. We
are all interconnected."
ESA members urge students
to get involved by contacting
their U.S. representatives and
the Egyptian embassy in Wash-
ington, D.C. The organization's
members also believe voicing
their opinions through these
outlets will promote universal
democracy that benefits interna-
tional and domestic affairs.
LSA senior Daniel Hast, a
passerby at the protest, said he
has noticed similarities between
Egyptian goals for democracy
and the existing democratic
ideals in the U.S. Hast said he
feels controversies including the
University of California-Davis
pepper-spraying incident - in
which a police officer sprayed

a nonviolent group of students
- and the Occupy Wall Street
movements are related to what
is going on in Egypt.
"The parallels are disturb-
ing ... the tear gas used against
unarmed protesters in Egypt.
That sounds familiar," Hast said.
"They're using the same tactics.
It's just a matter of degree."
Despite the controversies over
civil protests, LSA junior Amre
Metwally, a member of ESA, said
he is thankful for democracy in
the U.S.
"Don't take things for grant-
ed," Metwally said. "Assembling
in a square could mean the end
of (Egyptian citizens') lives.
They could be shot by police.
Be thankful and be politically
active."

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@Michigan Daily
@MichDailyNews
@MichDailyArts
@MichDailyOpEd
@MichDailySports
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WHAT DO A
RHODES/MARSHALUMITC 4
SCHOLARS".: ---
DO AFTER THEIR STUDIES
Well, this woman got her own
prime-time TV show.

What will you do?
Anything you want.
You've written your own game
plan so far in life. Why not take
it one step further and become
a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell
Scholar?

11.26.11
THOSE WHO STAY

1L00()
Robinson and Toussaint each
top 1,000 yards rushing - the
first duo to do so since 1975.

1() 2,926 8-0
Wins. List 'M' coach with Days since Michigan last beat Home record. First 8-0 home
that mark in his first year: Ohio State in 2003, a 35-21 record since Michigan
Fielding H. Yost in 1901. final in Ann Arbor. Stadium opened in1927.

Come to a Rhodes/Marshall/Mitchell Orientation Session:
Monday, January 23, 2012 * 5:00-6:00pm
Henderson Room, Michigan League, 3rd Floor
Thursday, January26, 2012 . 5:00-6:00pm
Anderson Room ABC, Michigan Union, 1st Floor
Tuesday, January 31, 2012 . 5:00-6:00pm
Pierpont Commons, East Room
SPECIAL SESSION:
How to Write a Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell Essay
Thursday, March 1, 2012 . 5:00-6:00pm
Vandenberg Room, Michigan League, 2nd Floor
To learn more, please contact the Provost's Council on Student Honors at
734-763-8123 or visit the website at
www.provost.umich.edu/scholars/


I

6 - Tuesday, November 29, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


PROFESSORS
From Page 1
tions available for students online
are from two years ago."
Hutchinson pointed out that
many students don't know they
can access course evaluations
online. The Michigan Student
Assembly also offers an online
tool called Advice Online, but
Hutchinson said it's not useful
because it's not updated.
"Some students might not even
be aware that they can access
past course evaluations online."
Hutchinson said. "The problem
is (University's tool is) two years
behind."
Engineering junior Kyle Sum-
mers, MSA chief of staff, says MSA
is aware of the site's obsolescence
and is working to make it more
timely and user-friendly.
"It's a very manual and some-

what technical process to update,"
Summers said. "Ideally, whether
or not we have something new,
(the site) will be updated by the
end of the semester."
Summers added that MSA
wants to ensure that the informa-
tion is distributed with students in
mind.
"We'll be having more meetings
throughout the semester to dis-
cuss more possibilities," Summers
said. "We are really interested
in keeping (the site) very student
'focused and student feedback ori-
ented."
In addition to the University's
and MSA's websites that display
course evaluations, www.maiz-
eandbluereview.com, a Michigan
Daily-sponsored website offers
students course evaluation results
and grade distributions for class-
es.
Mika LaVaque-Manty, an
Arthur F. Thurnau professor of

political science and philosophy
who also received an overall qual-
ity of 4.8, said he thinks Univer-
sity-distributed evaluations are a
better indicator of instructor and
class characteristics than Rate-
MyProfessors.com.
"The official teaching evalu-
ations we use here, they are not
perfect," LaVaque-Manty said.
"They are in fact very far from
perfect, but I take those more seri-
ously because they are a better
representation of the students."
LaVaque-Manty, who some-
times reads the comments on
RateMyProfessors.com for feed-
back, said the numerical rat-
ings are not reliable. However,
LaVaque-Manty acknowledged
that students have no one to turn
to but each other for advice on
classes during registration.
"The University is actually
working on providing teaching
evaluation data to students more

effectively," LaVaque-Manty said.
"Obviously, it satisfies an impor-
tant need. We just need to provide
the information better."
Several years ago, LaVaque-
Manty was approached by mtvU
- the company that owns Rate-
MyProfessors.com - to be part of
a "Professors Strike Back" video
-a segment featuring videos in
which professors respond to stu-
dent comments. LaVaque-Manty
told mtvU that the website isn't
particularly helpful because most
of the reviews are based on how
much students like the professors,
rather than the professors' teach-
ing quality.
"Its obvious problem is selec-
tion bias," he said in an interview
with The Michigan Daily. "It's
either people who totally love you
or totally hate you - usually, the
ones who totally hate you."
On the site, instructors are
rated on helpfulness, clarity,

easiness and overall quality. Uni-
versity of Michigan instructors
received a professional average of
3.28. Hutchinson said she thinks
the rating categories on the web-
site are not useful because they
are too vague and generalized
to offer accurate insight about
courses and professors at the Uni-
versity.
"What does 'easiness' even
mean?" Hutchinson said. "If I give
my students the tools and materi-
als to succeed in my class, does
that make me an 'easy' teacher?"
Still, many University students
find the website to be a useful
resource. LSA sophomores Ash-
ley Nestorovska and Mandy Bro-
milow said they use the site as a
reference during registration to
read about prospective instruc-
tors. Nestorovska added that
though the subject of a class is
important, students' opinions of
a professor could also serve as a

determining factor when selecting
a class.
"Mostly, (I use it) to see if any,
classes are worth taking," Nesto-
rovska said.
Engineering senior Jared Slay-
baugh said the rating system on
RateMyProfessors.com is more of
a reference tool than an indica-
tor of whether the class is worth-
while. Though he said he often
checks the site during registra-
tion, the ratings only occasionally
affect his decision to enroll in a
course.
"I definitely take other things
into consideration other than just
the professor," Slaybaugh said.
"It depends on what I'm looking
to take the class for, too. If it's a
class for my major, I definitely try
to consider the interest level, how
(the professors) are with students,
stuff like that, because I'll put
more effort into it and care about
it more."

I
I


ACLU
From Page 1
is calling for a judge to rule the
policy unconstitutional.
The lawsuit also states that
Coleman's ad should not be dis-
criminated against because of
its controversial nature. Dan
Korobkin, staff attorney of the
Michigan chapter of the ACLU,,
wrote in a press release yester-
day that the case is pursuing the
protection of free speech.

"In a free and democratic
society, we cannot allow the
government to suppress political
speech, even if it is controversial,
makes some uncomfortable, or
stirs our emotions," Korobkin
wrote. "The solution is never to
censor unpopular speech, but to
allow others the same opportu-
nity to speak."
In the press release, AATA
:maintains that Coleman's pro-
posed advertisement breaches
the company's advertising pol-
icy. AATA officials could not be

reached for comment about the
lawsuit as of last night.
According to the ACLU press
release, AATA has previously
run advertisements regarding
race, religion and politics with
messages such as, "In Washt-
enaw County, black babies are
three times more likely to die
than white babies." Korobkin
wrote that AATA's acceptance
of the advertisements suggests
that Coleman's ad should also be
deemed appropriate.
"Once a public agency decides

to allow some people to speak, it
can't pick and choose between
the speech that it likes and the
speech that it doesn't," Korobkin
wrote. "By allowing some mes-
sages, yet censoring Mr. Cole-
man, AATA is doing exactly what
the First Amendment is designed
to prohibit."
In the release, Coleman wrote
that he chose to create the adver-
tisement to "empower" Pales-
tinians and increase awareness
regarding the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.

"For generations, boycotts
have been an effective tool
to raise awareness and effect
change, and I personally believe
that a call to boycott Israel is the
best way to empower the Pales-
tinian people," Coleman wrote.
"However, you can't have a boy-
cott if the government won't
allow you to speak like everyone
else."
AATA CEO Michael Ford
wrote in an e-mail interview
last week that the ACLU had
acknowledged that Coleman's

advertisement maybe offensive.
"The standard is viewpoint-
neutral, and is designed to.
achieve the judicially-approved
objective of ensuring 'a certain
minimum level of discourse that
is applicable to everyone,' " Ford
wrote.
The ACLU initially contacted
AATA in August regarding its
advertising policy, and the press
release states that the company
did not respond positively to
attempts to resolve the issue
without litigation.

4


ASTRONAUT
From Page 1
vehicular activities, including
spacewalks, and spent 19 hours
and 55 minutes in the ISS. He
said being in the ISS is like being
in a regular house, except the
astronauts can use the walls and
ceiling in creative ways.
"You could be, sleeping on
the ceiling, and someone could
be working on the floor doing
work," Herrington said.
Herrington also described the

collaborations between the U.S.
astronauts and Russian cosmo-
nauts at the space station.
"The Russian side feels more
like home; you have meals there,"
Herrington said. "I had Thanks-
giving dinner there, and we had
pork and eggs. The American
side is very pristine and very
laboratory-like. I enjoyed being
trained by the Russian Air Force
officers. There is bonding to it."
Herrington holds degrees in
aerospace engineering, elec-
trical engineering and applied
mathematics and is currently

working on his Ph.D. in educa-
tion. However, during his fresh-
man year of college, he earned
D's in several classes and was
subsequently asked to leave the
University of Colorado. Her-
rington explained in an inter-
view with The Michigan Daily
yesterday that he took that time
off to discover himself.
"I started college not know-
ing what I wanted to do." Her-
rington said. "The year I took
off, I worked in the mountains
as a surveyor on a civil engineer-
ing crew. I was hanging off cliffs

and holding a prism to reflect an
infrared beam of light from my
distance measuring device. The
practicality of math and the guy
I worked for convinced me to go
back to school and major in engi-
neering. And I did."
The University's chapter of
the American Indian Science
and Engineering Society invited
Herrington to speak on campus.
Engineering sophomore April
Yazzie, president of the Univer-
sity's chapter of AISES, said the
reason she joined the organiza-
tion is because Herrington is a

registered member of AISES.
"He's so down-to-earth,"
Yazzie said. "I'm so glad that
John was willing to come out
here and share the importance
of his Native heritage. He's one
of the only two Native astronauts
in the galaxy. We need somebody
like him to share his experience
and spread his success. "
Rackham student An Cao,
who is studying engineering,
said Herrington's address taught
her the importance of following
one's dreams and passion.
"The keynote speech has also

made me realize that I need to
think more positively about chal-
lenges with a better attitude,"
Cao said.
Kurt Hill, an academic adviser
in the College of Engineering,
described Herrington as a per-
sistent motivator who followed
his dreams.
"These heroes who have made
it can teach us that we could take
almost nothing and (make) some-
thing out of it," Hill said. "Persis-
tence and spirituality - that's
what they bring to the table, and
we need to take advantage of it."

SIGN UP TO RECEIVE THE DAILY'S E-NEWSLETTERS AT MICHIGANDAILY.COM/SUBSCRIBE

! ON NICHOLS ARBORETUM. Rus-
tic setting. Two room efficiency in pri-
vate home. Semi-private entrance. Wi-
fi; cable. $610. 734 662 7924
FANTASIC THREE BDRM FLAT.
Main floor private house. Beautiful cus-
tom wood burning firerplace, full laun-
dry, larger private fenced yard and sun-
deck, hardwood floors and new carpet-
ing throughout. Freshly painted. $1300
month w/ lease. Call 734-478-5730.

***CENTRAL CAMPUS 6&7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great Furnitue/
Decor. Wireless/Cable. Free Laundry,
Parking. FOR RENT NOW MAY
2012. www.horvathproperties.com or
Call 734-972-7368.

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, November 29, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 70 Murderous 28 GI's address 46 Sung syllables
1 Postseason Stevenson 33 Entrepreneur- 47 Francia neighbor
gridiron game, character aiding org. 49 Bartlett or Bosc
and a rintte 35 Makes believe n50Chicago Fire Mrs.
puzzle theme DOWN 36 Memorial 51 In asty, say
foundin starred 1 Moistens in the structure 52 Examltaker
answers pan 37 Peewee 54 Family matriarchs
5 Baseball card 2 Many John 38 Eucharistic plate 59 Fable
brand Wayne movies 39 Farming prefix 61 Sad
10 Young men 3 President Harding 40 "Look before 63 911 response
14 Tiny battery 4Lion's den you_" initials
15 Well-honed 5Taoist Lao-_ 43 On a pension: 64 Ottoman
1t Vininty 6Well, lookee Abbr. govermor
17 *Sign ofa typing here!"
mistake 7 Road repair ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Dogpatch worker CAL F A T E D Y S
possessive 8 Future do's O R O D I N G R A M
20 Country singer undergrad
Gibbs concentration MANX T B O N E G E N E
21 Ostrich cousins 9 Smarten(up) A T T I N G A V E R A G E
24efore, before 11Desertfeatre U p F O E B A C K A L E Y
25*Indigent's 12 Fashion world T O F D I N O M A
request VIP1
29 Nine-digit ID 13 Los Angeles bay
30 Ready namedforan F L t P R O T T A C K E D
31 Not a good area apostle ODY A R M O R NOS E S
fornonswimmers 18Smooch Y T D H A Z E
32Rehabwoes, 22Turtle'sprotection S A C H E L O R O FA R T S
briefly 26 Salon service I S A O A V A N 7 C A K E
34Al-n oftenpairedwith ATTN G A R D E E XIT
35 Littedemon a mani
38 *Wizard's game in 27 Memo-routing S A S S L E A n 0 I P S
the rock opera abbr. xwordeditoriaol.com 11/28/11
"Tommy" 1 2 3 4 6 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
41 owaysellkots
42 SheareruoftThe a4rs 1
Red Shoes"
44 ID checker's 17 1
concern 20 21 22 23
45 Ano iginal
Mouseketeer 2 s 29 27 28
48 Sance sound
50 Make a choice 29 o 31
53 *Street urchin
55 "To Kill a 32 33 34
Mockingbird'
au Ian rpe _" " 3 3 " " *
56 AOL chats 42 a3 4
57 California wine
valey a 8a7 e 49 as 51 5
58 Chuch chorus
60 Playwright Simon 34sa "
62*Chainfor plus-
se woemen's 7 I sa 59
fashion so 81 82 83--I-- ---4--+---I--I----
65 Automaker
Ferrari 66 87
66 "What's in _?":
. Juliet 8 6970
67 Orchard grower
68 Fret By Kelly Clark 11/29/11
69 Pert (c)2011 Tribune MediaServices,Inc.

THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (DORMS)
THINK U. TOWERS
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
HURRY IN FOR BEST SELECTION
WE ARE NOWTAKING RESERVATIONS
FOR SPRING/FALL 2012
**FOR A LIMITEDTIME ONLY
$100 OFF SECURITY DEPOSIT
+ N0 PROCESSING FEE**
VISIT US AT
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.CM
YOUR ROME AWAY FROM HOME
53R S. FOREST AVE.
ANN ARBOR, MI 48160
734-761-2680
1;rcerity
CENTRAL CAMPUS LOCATIONS
543 Church
Best location in town! Right across
from East Hall. Spacious 4 bdrm
bi-level apts. Updated kitchens
w/dish-
washers, heat & water included,
and all apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
! 11 BDRM HOUSE. Corner of
Church and Willard. Across the street
from Pizza House. 2 large sitting
areas,
2 kitch., 3 showers/baths, wshr./dryer
no charge, 8 prkg. spaces avail. Aug.
2012-Aug 2013. CALL: 248-330-0396
***LIMITED LOCATIONS
REMAINING**a
2012-13
1 Bedrooms
515 Lawrence $880
326 E. Madison $925/$945
2 Bedrooms
326E. Madison $1365-1 Left!
411 High $875-$925
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
cated on Central Campus near the
Busi-
ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Incl. Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
best housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Look and lease on the same day
to receive a $50 "Dinner on Us". 2
blocks from Central Campus and down-
town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $660. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofis.com
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Loc. Updated! Fireplace/ bitch,
prkg. Must see! $4500 (313) 215-8115
!!HISTORIC KERRYTOWN
HOME!! 7 bedrooms, 3 baths, 2
kitchens, living room, dining room,
free
laundry and parking, Central Air!
734-663-1370, www.nancylat.com
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
*!!!!4 BDRM CONDO N. Campus
area. Free utilities, air cond., laundry,
cable, int. Loaded w/extras.
$598/pp/mo. 4 pax min. 313-838-2629.
*BIG HOUSES: 7 Bdrm Housel129
White St., 5 Bdrm House 1024
Packard. 734-996-1991.
www.cappomanagement.com
2-BD APTS. Great for 4 People!
515 Walnut
2 bdrm, 2 bath bi-levels w/ roof top
pa-
tios near the CC-Little & CCRB! The
apartments are fully furnished and in-
clude heat, water, & parking. Contact
Varsity Management at (734)668-1100
www.varsitymanagement.com
FALL '12 REDUCED RATE!
5 Bdrm, 2 bath. at 811 Sylvan. 10 min
walk to campus. 5 min to baseball field
and track. Appliances. $2200/mo.
734.834.1680.
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 20110
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2012. dklemptner@comcast.net

AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedrrom apartments
loctaed near the U/M Medical Cam-
pus.
Two blocks to Central Campus. Call
Michigan Commercial Realty.
734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. THREE
bedroom house loctaed near the U/M
Athletic Campus and Band Field.
Parking and Laundry. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
wtw.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furmished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2012 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS:
Why pay $1500+ for a BED in a
2 bedroom when you can pay $710??
We are now taking Reservations for
Spring/Fall 2012
**ForA Limited Time Only $100 OFF
Security Deposit + NO PROCESSING
FEE**
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winningrentals inKerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
FULLY FURNISHED DOWN to
linens private keyed room and share ap-
pointed kitchen, larger bathrooom, fur-
nished living room with two other ten-
ants. Quiet private house. No smoking
or pets. $450/mo. Call 734-478-5730
ON CAMPUS HOUSING
AVAILABLE!
Varsity Management
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Bd apts. & 6 Bdrm Houses
www.varsitymanagement.com
(734)668-1100
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS,
One, Two, Three bedroom apartments
loctaed on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com

JOB HUNTING? PAID BUSINESS
INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITY.
Paid Business Internship. $15-18 / hr.
Deadline to Apply Dec. 6 Visit ads.
tel-
legeworks.com/applynow2 OR Call
College Works At 800-716-6489
OCCASIONAL BABYSITTER
NEEDED for two boys ages 6 and 3.
E-mail: ababysitterghyahoo.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.:
**BARTENDING** S300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+. No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125
AD!
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
4IFIEDS
(734)
418-
4115

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 29, 2011 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November 29, 2011 - 7

Meyer hire changes the game

STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
It took him 23 years, but Urban
Meyer finally found his way back
to Columbus.
This time, Meyer isn't the Ohio
State football team's wide receiv-
ers coach and graduate student,
he's the head man. Meyer signed a
six-year contract to replace Luke
Fickell as the Buckeyes' head
coach on Monday.
Meyer returns to Columbus
as a bona fide commodity, hav-
ing captured two BCS national
championships in six seasons at
Florida, his last coaching stop. He
boasts an overall 104-23 record
And has gone 7-1 in bowl games.
Meyer's only bowl loss came to
Michigan in the 2008 Capital One
Bowl, the only time he faced the
Wolverines.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke,
coming off a 40-34 victory over
Ohio State, sees Meyer's arrival as
a welcomed challenge.
"He's not going to play a down
and neither am I," Hoke said.
"Me, knowing Urban, he's a good
football coach, good guy, going to
welcome him in.
"But this is still Michigan and
Ohio, and it's still going to be that
rivalry and neither one of us is
going to play a game."
Hoke and Meyer have never
faced each other or coached in the
same conference before, but both
are Ohio natives that began their
head coaching careers in the Mid-
American Conference - Meyer at
Bowling Green in 2001 and Hoke
at Ball State in 2003.
But as a native Ohioan, Meyer
understands the magnitude of
The Game.
"That's the game of games,
and the one I grew up watching,"
Meyer said. "It's also true that the
next game is 362 days away, so I
understand the significance of it.
"The one thing I know about
that game (is that) as much as
there is dislike and hatred across
college football rivalries, there's
a share of that, but there's also a
lot of respect in that rivalry. I'm
really looking forward to coach-
ing in it."
It was a short reign for Fickell.
After taking over as head coach
when former coach Jim Tressel
was dismissed on May 30, Fick-
ell was tasked with monitoring
a program already hindered by

'M' travels east in
first true road test

DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
In the past week, the Michi-
gan men's basketball team has
become familiar with leaving
the friendly confines of Crisler
Arena. But in its first true away
game, a matchup with Virginia in
Charlottesville, the Wolverines
won't have the benefit of a split
crowd - or mid-80s and sunshine
- like Maui had to offer.
And if Michigan (5-1) shows
early signs of any remaining jet
lag, watch for the Cavaliers and
their unconventional pack-line
defense to pounce.
"It's just so good," said Michi-
gan coach John Beilein of the
defense. "It's not like pressure
defense, where you can get back-
doors or something. It's just real-
ly difficult to score against them."
The pack-line defense, used
almost exclusively by Virginia
coach Tony Bennett, empha-
sizes on-ball pressure, while the
other four defenders sag inside
the 3-point line to form a mock
perimeter. The objective is to take
away any penetration or backdoor
cuts - both of which flourished
for Michigan at the Maui Invita-
tional last week. Penetration was
key in freshman point guard Trey
Burke's success, as he was able to
drive into the lane with ease and
create scoring opportunities. The
Wolverines had an unusual week-
end after returning to the main-
land. After flying back on a Friday
red-eye flight and having Satur-
day off, the team's preparation
time for Virginia and its defense
has been limited.
Like Michigan, the Cavaliers
(5-1) have a young roster, featur-
ing just three seniors. But one of
those seniors, All-ACC forward
Mike Scott, is the main reason
Virginia was the preseason pick
to finish fourth in a strong ACC
field this year. After an ankle
injury sidelined Scott last sea-
son, the big man is going to be the
toughest post matchup the Wol-
verines have faced so far.
Scott, who was recruited by
Beilein at West Virginia, is aver-
aging 15 points and 10 rebounds
per game. Virginia's second
offensive option, guard Joe Har-

ris, poses a major threat from
beyond the arc. Though the soph-
omore is shooting just 32 percent
from 3-point range this year, his
presence must be respected after
he shot 42 percent last year.
"I'd seen them way back, and
they've gone through a transi-
tion, now (in their) third year
with Coach Bennett," Beilein
said. "They're very much play-
ing like the Wisconsins and the
Wisconsin-Green Bays. Just a
difficult, difficult team to play
against, both offensively and
defensively."
Heading into Maui, the offense
and particularly the play of Burke
were major question marks. But
in just one week, Michigan's situ-
ation looks brighter.
"I do see some things that are
very promising," Beilein said. "I
liked how we played with great
passion and energy and confi-
dence against some really good
teams. Biggest question was Trey
Burke, how is he going to do now
that he's out there. I think he per-
formed fairly well."
However, the Wolverines' post
play continued its inconsistency
in the Maui Invitational. While
sophomore forward Jon Horford
showed glimpses of the potential
Beilein has raved about, sopho-
more forward Evan Smotrycz
and redshirt sophomore forward
Jordan Morgan struggled.
Morgan found himself in early
foul trouble in two of the three
games in Maui.
Meanwhile, Smotrycz was held
scoreless in each of the tourna-
ment's games and has been criti-
cized for forcing shots.
"When he lets the game come
to him a little bit more, he's a far
more efficient player," Beilein
said. "He knows it. And he's just
got to continue to work at it.
When you're out there, it's a dif-
ferent thing. So he's adjusted a lot
in the past, he'll adjust again."
Aside from continuing its
momentum after a third-place
finish in Maui, Michigan will
again look to pick up a win in the
Big Ten-ACC Challenge.
Last year, the Wolverines went
on the road and knocked off
Clemson, a key factor in gaining
confidence.

TERYGILIMAP ND MM A SMCCLAIaly
(Top) Urban Meyer, who boasts an all-time 104-23 record as head coach, will replace Luke Fickell (left) as Ohio State
football coach. Fickell dropped The Game to Michigan coach Brady Hoke (right) and the Wolverines on Saturday.

pending NCAA sanctions and
allegations.
A week later, starting quar-
terback Terrelle Pryor withdrew
from the university and began
training for the NFL's Supple-
mental Draft. Fickell was left
with a tattered program head-
lined by a promising young fresh-
man quarterback, Braxton Miller.
The resulting season wasn't
pretty. After losing to the Wolver-
ines for this first time since 2003
on Saturday, Ohio State crawled
to the finish line at 6-6 for a
fourth-place finish in the Big Ten
Leaders division.
The end was ominous for Fick-
ell - Hoke sensed that. When he
came to midfield after Saturday's
victory, Hoke gave the first-year
coach a few words of support.
"I just thought he did a heck of
a job all year," Hoke said. "Tough
situation."
Fickell will coach the Buckeyes
in their bowl game, after which
he will remain on staff at Ohio

State. His job description has not
been determined.
The three head coaching
changes between Michigan and
Ohio State in less than a calendar
year qualify as the most in the
rivalry's history.
Meyer's last game was a 37-24
win over Penn State in the Out-
back Bowl on Jan. 1, 2011. He
stepped away from Florida citing
family and health concerns and
spent the past season as a college
football commentator for ESPN.
At one point this spring, Meyer
toured the country visiting major
college football programs for
ESPN. He took in a Michigan
practice on March 30on the side-
lines at Schembechler Hall.
Does Hoke regretletting Meyer
inside the walls?
"No," Hoke said. "Nope."
A month later, rumors swirled
about Meyer as a replacement
for Tressel. His daughter, Nicki,
quickly quelled those rumors.
"HE IS NOT repeat NOT,

GOING TO OHIO STATE," she
tweeted on April26.
Seven months later, her father
stood at the podium in Columbus
as Ohio State's new head coach.
As for the effect the hiring has
on Michigan, Hoke says his sin-
gular focus is on recruiting. That
focus won't waver.
"Recruiting is the lifeblood of
the program," Hoke said.
The ability to close Ohio's bor-
ders to outside recruiting was a
point of emphasis for Ohio State
Athletic Director Gene Smith in
his coaching search.
"We wanted a football coach
who ... will create an environment
here with an aspiration for every
single football player in the state
of Ohio is to be a Buckeye and
come to the Ohio State Univer-
sity and have no other thoughts,"
Smith said.
Michigan's 2012 recruiting
class of 23 commits includes nine
players poached from the state of
Ohio.

Michigan icers'problems aren't an easy ix

The last time the Michi-
gan hockey team won
a game, the Wolverines
were the third-ranked team in
the nation, the football team was
headed towards a late season
slide after losing to Iowa and I
was not passing Spanish.
Now, more
than three
weeks later,
Michigan has
tumbled all
the way down
to 19th in the
rankings, the
football team EVERETT
beat Ohio COOK
State and my
 Spanish grade
es bueno, gracias.
Michigan will travel an ungod-
ly amount of miles this weekend
to play Alaska-Fairbanks and
try to snap its six-game winless
streak. The Nanooks are com-
ing off two shutout victories in a
row, but they were against lowly
Bowling Green. The hardest part
about playing Fairbanks (3-7-2
CCHA, 6-8-2 overall) is not the
team, but the travel.
But it doesn't matter who
Michigan (3-5-2, 7-7-2) is playing
anymore.
The issue isn't the other team.
Senior forward Greg Pateryn
has said that if this team is run-
ning on all cylinders, it's unbeat-
able. He might be exaggerating,
but to a certain extent, he's right.
Michiganhas one ofthebestgoal-
tenders in the nation in Shawn
Htunwick, one of the most excit-
ing young players in all of college
hockey in Phil Di Giuseppe and
one of the most respected coach-
es at any level in Red Berenson.
This is a team that should have
no problem making the NCAA
Tournament for the 22nd con-

secutive season. It's not the most
talented team Berenson has ever
coached, but it's good enough to
make some noise in the tourna-
ment.
But the thing that the Wol-
verines are missing right now is
something that Berenson can't
coach. He can coach the pen-
alty kill, the faceoffs and the line
changes, but he can't teach pas-
sion.
Michigan's issues aren't talent-
based. They are based off the one
lesson, the most important les-
son, that every kid hears on day
one. It's the lesson of hustle, hard
work and grittiness. It's the les-
son of not getting outworked by
anyone, anywhere, because the
minute you stop working is the
minute you let the other team
into the game.
The Wolverines haven't won
a game since Nov. 5 because
they haven't played like a team
that wants to win. They aren't
doing the little things - dig-
ging the puck out of the corner,
hustling out of line changes and
flying to loose pucks - that all
teams, even talented ones, have
to do to sustain success.
In some respects, it would be
easier for Berenson if he could
point to the defense, the special
teams or the goaltending and
definitively say, "This is what
we need to work on."
If it were that easy, junior
forward Chris Brown wouldn't
walk into a press conference
with his head in his hands,
mimicking the pose that senior
captain Luke Glendening struck
a week earlier. If Michigan's
problems were an easy fix, there
wouldn't be much of a concern.
Berenson has had teams in
the past that have looked like
locks to break the NCAA Tour-

nament streak. Two years ago,
the Wolverines finished seventh
in the CCHA and were relying on
the walk-on Hunwick to win the
CCHA Tournament and keep the
streak alive.
That team had no business
making the tournament, but
they did. That team had what my
high school football coach called
"want-to." They wanted to win
more than anything else, and did
whatever it took to become team
No. 20.
This team doesn't have that
- yet. Berenson and the older
players know it, but you can only
teach so much. You can't teach
want-to, that has to come from
within.
"We have to work harder,"
Brown said. "I know that's cli-

che an
the pa
how it
thing
our go
nothin
l
a:
to win
don't h
On I
game

d we've been saying it for freshman defenseman Brennan
st three weeks, but that's Seville tried to clear the puck by
has to be. We can't do any- taking his man one-on-one. The
different. It's not systems, puck was stolen from him, but
alie, or coaching. ... It's not then he stopped skating, turned
g. It's just the will to want around and watched Dutchman
forward Kevin Sullivan skate
uncontested towards the net.
t Hunwick never had a chance.
Those type of plays aren't skill
to grow up or talent. Those type of plays are
pure hustle, something any play-
nd play like er is capable of doing.
Those are the types of plays
a m an." that decide games.
"It's time to grow up and play
like a man," Brown said. "It's
time to start playing hockey.
a game. And right now we Michigan hockey, and this is not
ave it." Michigan hockey."
Union's second goal of the You can .never count a team
in Sunday's 6-3 blowout, out. Not in November and not at

Michigan.
But the Wolverines are dan-
gerously close to being the first
team in 21 years to miss the
NCAA Tournament. Yes they
are young, and yes it's early, but
this team has no drive right now.
The schedule is only going to get
tougher.
Michigan is missing some-
thing that can't be coached. If the
players don't find it soon, they'll
be on the outside looking in,
despite riding high with the No.
1 ranking just over a month ago.
In the last month, something
was lost in translation - just like
my Spanish skills.
- Cook can be reached
at evcook@umich.edu or on
Twitter @everettcook

Do you know a GSI whose teaching and mentoring are
outstanding? If so, tell your department about it!
Provide your department chair or administrator with the
names of GSIs who deserve to be recognized.
The nomination deadline is January 23, 2012, 12PM EST.
More information: Pat McCune at phmccune@umich.edu
http://www.rackham.umich.edu/umogsia12

RACKHAM GRADUATE SCHOOL - UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ENE
}'p


8 - Tuesday, November 29, 2011

I

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


MUSIC COLUMN
Disco is stayin alive in
today's pop music scene

FILE PHOTO/Daily

Mark di Suvero's 'Tabletops' exhibit complements his sculpture Orion, located outside of UMMA.

UMMAs tiny tables

Mark di Suvero's an interview with The Michi-
gan Daily. "That's not to say the
'Tabletops' explores medium is not vital to the work,
but for me, the artistic thought
size and art translates from steel to pen, from
giant landscapes to canvas."
By JONATHAN ODDEN That is why the show brings
For the Daily together tabletops - his smaller
sculptures - in the gallery, paint-
Dwarfing students as they ings on the walls and his larger
pass, two prodigious, almost landscaped sculptures outside.
alien frames tower over the lawn The tabletops are small, no larg-
of the Univer- er than several feet tall, and are
sity of Michigan Tabletops made of cut stainless steel and
Museum of Art. other materials that rotate, swing
The gigantic Through Feb. and pivot around on axes.
orange arms of 26,2012 "One of the main ideas is to
Orion stretch study the tabletops, which are
immensely UMA lesser known and very beautiful,
toward the sky, Free and to relate the intuitive forms
and the huge of these smaller sculptures to the
welded bucket of Shang swings giant structures on the lawn,"
with ease above the concrete. Rosa said.
These sculptures are not only The relationships between
iconic to campus, but they epito- the tabletops and di Suvero's
mize the fusion of abstracted steel larger works not only speak to
and public space that has become the breadth of his talent and
synonymous with abstract- scales of his sculpted form, but
expressionist Mark di Suvero. they also express the aesthetic
Like many artists, di Suvero considerations that drive di
is known for one particular style Suvero artistically.
but not necessarily his consid- "Literally, these tabletops
erable work in other mediums give Shang and Orion a history,"
and scales, as UMMA director Rosa said. "In many instances
Joseph Rosa explained. "Table- you will see a piece of art you
tops," the newest show to open like and you just see the object,
in the Irving Stern Jr. Gallery but then when you see the other
at UMMA, brings out the depth pieces the artist has made, it
of di Suvero's aesthetics and his brings the person to life who
diverse imprint on the art world made that piece. You understand
for more than 50 years. the family of gestures that one
"Art is driven by idea, cre- makes as an artist."
ativity, aesthetics and not by These gestures even translate
a medium," di Suvero said in into the most rare di Suvero piec-

es - his three murals that sur-
round the gallery. Rosa explai'ned
that the pieces are distinct in the
cues they take from di SuveroW
interest in calligraphy, which is
rarely seen in the construction of
pieces like Shang or Orion.
"I'd become fascinated with
calligraphy from a young age,
which in part stemmed from my
childhood in China," di Suvero
said. "There is a fluidity in callig-
raphy, regardless of which scrip
which I began trying to capture
in my painting."
Equally intriguing is the lay-
out of the exhibition, which,
though numbered chronologi-
cally, fights against the museum-
goer walking a simple timeline
through the show.
"When you install, you never
install in the chronology of the
art, especially with sculptural
pieces," Rosa said. "When you
look at art three-dimensionally,
or even two-dimensionally, you
want people to feel moved by the
pieces, by forms and not by time."
Moving through the gallery,
the sculptures eventually lead
to a final project called Cumon,
under which is written, "touch
this piece." Gently spinning the
work, one becomes aware of the
intriguing power of these little
tabletops. More than just flesh-
ing out di Suvero's works with the
artist's aesthetics or highlighting
the diverse mediums of a great
artist, "Tabletops" actually allows
visitors to take the place of Shang
or Orion and tower over Mark di
Suvero's dynamic forms.

According to the Bill-
board Hot 100, Rihan-
na's "We Found Love"
currently holds the number
one spot and has held it, uncon-
tested, for
nine weeks.
It's Rihanna's
11th number
one single,
the first
from another
number one
album (she's JOE
put out six in DIMUZIO
the last six
years) and
another swipe at keeping us
from forgetting her name (oh
na na) for more than a couple
weeks - a very necessary tenet
for a modern pop star.
I'm not sure it's anywhere
near her best singles ("Umbrel-
la," "Rude Boy") or somewhere
far above them. Produced by
Calvin Harris (of whose "I
Created Disco" I admire for
cockiness and nothing else),
it's simple, stupid and huge in
all the right ways. Deploying
Rihanna's vocals like an after-
thought, the song's two-note
melody progresses like a seven-
year-old's annoyance tactic -
turninga volume knob down for
a bit (verse) and then blasting it
all the way up (chorus).
This style of big-dumb-club
music now dominating top-40
pop thumps like the attention-
deficit descendant of disco - at
its best and worst.
And at its best, disco was an
alternative reality. In its origin,
disco was a liberation for the
disenfranchised - the intoxi-
cated soundtrack to queerdom's
incessant struggle becoming

public.'
is revel
rhythm
ing ecst
relentle
able abo
music.
Once
out ever
disco, A
choreog
inhibite
fice and
be subst
childrer
jungle..
Butt]
tion ofd
in songs
howeve
and fun
LoN
In th
nomic d
for man
from th
global e
social h
of a mot
positing
now, in
period,
ing, esc
free of r
being bl
ever.
But"
its man
cally su
is beaut

The best disco music vague. The refrain, "We found
atory - worshiping love in a hopeless place," makes
, occasionally achiev- nothing clear. Is this reminis-
atic release and being cence or a new discovery? Are
ssly, deliberately dance- we allowed to sing along?
ve all else. It is moving And in its gorgeously stupid
indefinity, "We Found Love"
white culture washed defies codification. A-sensibly,
'ything funky about it creates its own reverie logic,
merica was left with with a few very real signifiers.
;raphed dances (for the We can live in a hopeless place.
d and rhythmless), arti- We can create a hopeless place
cheese; leaving disco to for ourselves. We can be trapped
umed by its innumerable by a hopeless situation beyond
n - house, techno, IDM, our control, beyond us. We found
. the list goes ever on. love, big fat capital-L love. The
he courageous abstrac- idealistic dream-stuff. We may
disco is, to me, very alive not have money or a future, but
s like "We Found Love," for just a moment, we can create
r shorn of contour, color our own reality in which all the
k. big dumb dreams come true. No
amount of drinking, drugs and
sex can bring us closer to it. This
We Found hope, God-free, is its damned,
tragic pop religion. it is faith.
*e'in a dsc And that is very disco.
However obscured, the
dystopia heartbeat tempo of 4/4 - and
my left foot's inability to remain
still upon feeling it - lives
on. I hear it in Ke$ha's "Shots
e midst of the '70s eco- On The Hood Of My Car" in
lepression, disco was, which she imagines the "whole
y, more than an escape world about to end," inviting
e harsh realities of her friends over for a bottle of
conomy, politics and "the finest scotch there ever
atred - it was a vision was" and watching it "blow into
re accepting society, . oblivion." Ihear it in Britney's
g a whole new truth. And "Til The World Ends," where
an even worse economic dancing hurtles us straight into
our pop stars like party- apocalypse. I-hear it all over pop
aping and being fucked these days. And my heart, head
esponsibility (or at least and feet are going to keep tap-
lunt about it) more than ping to it, no matter how hope-
less things get.

4
4

We Found Love," with
tric chorus, practi-
rrendered by Rihanna,
ifully, surrealistically

Dimuzio is dancing 'til dawn.
To give-him a rest, e-mail
shonenjo@umich.edu.

FILM REVIEW
Cultivating beauty in unsettling
'Martha Marcy May Marlene'

ALBUM REVIEW
Cornell back to basics

By ELLIOT ALPERN
Daily Arts Writer
Picture the scene: Tendrils
of smoke drift idly up to a hot
spotlight, which concentrates
its beam on
a single man *
perched upon
his stool. The Chris COmell
small crowd,
hidden by the Songbook
darkness of the Unoersal
venue, is anx-
ious but hushed
in restraint. In the silence a note
rings out, followed by another
and another until they blend
together into pure acoustic
enlightenment. But this isn't
Clapton picking away the first
strums of "Tears In Heaven" or
Bob Dylan getting ready to ren-
der the audience stunned. No,
this is Chris Cornell, his raw
voice building a sultry monu-
ment to Soundgarden's "Fell On
Black Days."
For a man who's done so
much, it's surprising to see that
Cornell has anything new to
offer - after all, his last three
solo albums commercially
flopped (and each garnered
more negative criticism than the
last). But Songbook is different:
The album consists of acoustic
covers that span Cornell's entire
career, from the grunge pioneer
Soundgarden to the supergroup
Audioslave and everywhere in
between. Songbook seems to
have found exactly the target to
which it must pander - the nos-
talgia of longtime fans filtered
through a fresh acoustic lens.
The end product - a smat-
tering of 16 live-recorded tracks
from nine different shows - is

quite easily Cornell's best solo
work since 1999's Euphoria
Morning. The divine rock idol
pushes an already impressive
vocal range early and often. In
"Call Me A Dog," a cover from
Cornell's early'90s tribute band
Temple of the Dog, the man's
emotive howl treads ever so
softly on the toes of modern
blues masters. His guitar melo-
dies reach comparable levels of
emotion and are all but eclipsed
by the singer's powerful vocal

belting
dent to
like Au
Highw,

G
be
'

tioned
Yet a
venue,t
the aud
is occas
the s
betwee
point tr
change
one hap
for a w
crowd
and cot
"And th
you're 1
then yo
Change
cheers,
what m
sioned t

- listeners would be pru- one that'sbeen colored with some
pay attention on tracks context by Cornell's vague yet
dioslave cover "I Am The revealing anecdote.
ay" and the aforemen- Songbook isn't just a summa-
tion of Cornell's body of work,
even if its title suggests other-
wise. In addition to one lonely
runge god new studio track tacked onto
the record's end ("The Keeper"),
'its it out on Cornell tackles Led Zeppelin's
"Thank You" and John Len-
5ongbook.' non's "Imagine." The former
seems like it's always been beg-
ging to be re-done by a true-to-
heart rock'n'roller, and Cornell
"Fell On Black Days." knocks it out of the park. How-
imid the many changes of ever, while the latter is well exe-
Cornell's connection with cuted, the change of style is a bit
Bence is well preserved and too abrasive.
sionally depicted through Ultimately, Songbook allows
inger's various asides Chris Cornell to do what he does
n songs. "You at some best: scream sometimes, lilt
y to be a better person and softly at others and altogether
your ways to make every- flex his vocal muscles. Every
ppy, and then that goes on cover is carefully reinterpreted
hile," Cornell says to the or redefined, and the transition
before one performance, from the expanse of instruments
ntinues to the punch line: of his booming power rock to a
en you get to a point where single acoustic guitar is magnifi-
ike, 'Fuck it, I'm me!' and cently smooth. Cornell's latest
u write a song called 'Can't shows that the man who used to
Me.' " Over the crowd's lead entire arenas in choruses of
the rocker launches into his hits can just as easily bear his
tight be the most impas- heart from a wooden stool - and
tune on the record - and possibly even do it better.
A 4

By PHILIP CONKLIN
Daily Arts Writer
"Do you ever have that feel-
ing where you can't tell if
something's a memory or it's
something you
dreamed?"
Posed by the
film's titular maltfi
main charac-
ter (newcom -MaMy MaY
er Elizabeth g g
Olsen), this is
one of the cen- At the State
tral questions FoxSearchlight
behind "Mar-
tha Marcy May
Marlene," the excellent feature
debut from director Sean Dur-
kin. In this elusive psychological
drama, nothing is ever certain -
the audience drifts through time
and space isolated from the out-
side world, piecing together the
lives of the characters - and it's
entirely captivating.
The film opens with a mon-
tage of wide, grainy and static
shots of an unidentified rural
landscape, where anonymous
youths languidly work the field.
From this agrarian existence,
Martha (here called Marcy
May) escapes and is rescued
by her older sister Lucy (Sarah
Paulson, "Serenity"). Here the
narrative splits, telling the story
of Martha's readjustment into
normal life with Lucy and her
husband (Hugh Dancy, "Adam"),
a young couple trying to start a
family, in parallel with Martha's
time in a sinister, bohemian cult
in the wilderness.
While Martha tries to assimi-
late herself into her sister's life,
her behavior becomes progres-
sively stranger. She reveals socio-
pathic tendencies in her reticence
and detachment, as well as her
inability to behave and interact
appropriately with people. These
scenes are seen alongside the
story of Martha's involvement in
a cult led by the rugged, creepy
Patrick, played brilliantly by John
Hawkes ("Winter's Bone"), a mes-
merizing man who rules over his
cult's members (mostly young
women) completely - physically,
emotionally and sexually.

I'l show you, Mary-Kate!
As the title suggests, Martha
is an enigmatic, almost unknow-
able character. But thanks to a
powerful, nuanced performance
by Olsen, Martha comes beauti-
fully alive onscreen. Yet hers is a
complicated beauty - as the pas-
sive camera shows Martha mat-
ter-of-factly skinny-dipping in
broad daylight, or almost being
raped by Patrick, her sexuality
is a constant source of tension,
alternately alluring and disturb-
ing. Martha herself seems con-
fused by it, and this confusion
results in some of the film's most
compelling scenes.
Late in the movie, when Mar-
tha is becoming disillusioned
with the cult and wary of its
brutality, one of her fellow cult
members says, "There's no such
thing as dead or alive; we just
exist." It's a principle that the
movie mimics. Martha's past is
hazy, and her future uncertain
- she only exists in the present
moment. She and the rest of the
film's characters inhabit a time-
less, placeless isolation. As the
movie progresses, a crushing
loneliness bears down, guided
by the sure directorial hand of
Durkin, whose probing camera
never reveals a complete picture,
forcing Martha's feelings of iso-
lation on the audience.
"Martha" forces the viewer

to think, to engage with the
film intellectually and emotion-
ally. And though it's confusing
at points, the characters and
their relationships are fascinat-
ing. Durkin, for such a young
director, has complete control
over his film and an already fully
developed visual style.
Who even
knew there's
a third Olsen
sister?
As the film goes on, the lines
between Martha's life in the
cult and her time with her sis-
ter begin to blur. The transi-
tions between her memories and
the present become more fluid, E
so that sometimes it's unclear
which we're seeing. The events,
too, begin to mirror each other,
Lucy's behavior toward Martha
becoming eerily similar to her
treatment by Patrick and the
cult. It's a poignant comparison, '
but one that is at times heavy-
handed. However, it's a small
flaw in an otherwise perfect
film.

A


