S -M-c-g--n'-b'bak'n--ba OSU
Michigan won't be 'back' until it beats OSU


i

w

ww

IRW

w

qw

ast Saturday, the Michigan
football team didn't come
into Michigan Stadium to
win. It came to make a statement.
The Nebras-
ka game was
one the Rich
Rodriguez
Michigan
team s lo st:
a big game
against a team
that was just MICHAEL
as talented.
Instead, the FLOREK
Wolverines
dominated a
ranked team and a traditional
power.
Junior quarterback Denard
Robinson kept scooping imagi-
nary food into his mouth because
"this program has been starving
for a while ... It's time for us to
eat."
National writers, like Sports
Illustrated's Stewart Mandel were
tweeting things like, "Yeah, I
think Dave Brandon did all right
in that coaching search."
It all added up to one overrid-
ing feeling: Michigan was back.
"I think that there are aspects
of Michigan that we there in the
past that are showing up now
and I think that's why people
get excited about it," said senior
defensive lineman Ryan Van Ber-
gen.
He's right. The Wolverines ran

wrenching loss that would derail
another season. After 11 games, it
hasn't come.
Losing to the worst Ohio State
team in recent memory would
deliver it.
A loss means little has changed.
It means the Class of 2012 leaves
as an extreme outlier, never hav-
ing beaten Michigan State or Ohio
State. Michigan would still be a
bit of an imposter, wearing the
winged helmets, but never really
finishing the season like the pic-
ture of past teams in Michigan's
minds.
The collapse won't come
because it is the last game of
the season, but it would feel the
same: high hopes that ultimately
concluded in another season of
missed opportunity.
"I wouldn't say the whole
season rests on this game as far
as Michigan is back or not," Van
Bergen said.
But until Michigan beats Ohio
State and breaks the streak that
feeling will never go away. It may
not be fair or true for other sea-
sons, but right now, for Michigan
to truly be "back," it has to beat
the Buckeyes.
-Florek thinks the only rivalry
that comes close to Michigan-Ohio
State is Gordon Bombay's Ducks
vs. Jack Reilly's Hawks. He can be
reached at florekmi@umich.edu,
or on twitter, @michaelflorek

the ball and played suffocating
defense. They are within reach
of a BCS Bowl Game. They have
returned to protecting the Big
House with a perfect home record
so far.
Does that mean Michigan is
back?
Those who stayed won't be
champions this year. Michigan
coach Brady Hoke says his goal is
to win the Big Ten Championship
this season. He missed that goal.
But more so than that, and more
so than the Wolverines teams of
the last couple years, the Ohio
State count looms over this team's
head.

It's been 2,923 days since Mich-
igan beat Ohio State.
The stretch spans a lot longer
than the time the Wolverines
spent as the disappointment of
the conference. Yet, for a team
that has exceeded nearly every
expectation so far, not clearing
the final hurdle would derail the
progress made. For Michigan to
fully be back, it needs to beat its
rivals.
Being back in the top half of the
conference is nice.
A return to 9-3 might mean a
return to a more representative
record of Michigan's past, but
when there is talk of being "back"

that's not what people think
about.
"Back" means warm and fuzzy
feelings. It means singing The
Victors in Pasadena. It means
Charles Woodson with the rose in
his mouth. It's that one time when
you were 10 and some Michigan
player everybody else has long
forgotten had a ridiculously good
game so you remembered his
name forever.
After the past three years,
those fuzzy feelings won't return
just because Michigan goes to
a Capital One Bowl or Outback
Bowl. For the entire season, fans
braced themselves for the gut-

BO TO BRADY
From Page 7
with those same two words: "Beat Ohio."
"He explained that this is what I do every
meeting, and this is what you need to say,"
Koger recalled. "And after that, we caught
on"'
On Saturday, the clock will say "2,926."
But the four days leading up to Saturday
will decide what the clock says on Sunday.
On Monday, Hoke and a few Michigan
players were met by the biggest contingent of
media members since Hoke's opening press
conference. They were bombarded with ques-
tions about the rivalry for more than an hour
- questions about what this rivalry meant,
how this year could be different, what this
game will do for their legacy.
The players remained poised.
Koger remembered the feeling of losing

in Columbus last year in an embarrassing
37-7 drumming - and in Ann Arbor the year
before, and in Columbus again the year before
that.
"It's heartbreaking," Koger said of losing to
Ohio State. "It's a lot of motivation. It's defi-
nitely a driving force."
Martin, one of the co-captains along with
Koger, put it plainly.
"This week has to be one of our best weeks
of preparation, period," Martin said. "That's
what it needs to be."
If you granted me just one more week as
Michigan's head coach, I wouldn't hesitate.
I know exactly what I'd want...Give me one
more week of coaching in preparation of the
Ohio State game.And make it against the great
Wayne Woodrow Hayes.
The game would be icing for me, because if
you're a real coach, a real leader, the prepara-
tion is the thing.

Then on Friday night, when I've finished
handing out the hot chocolate and cookies dur-
ing the bed check with allmyplayers, andIknew
we were ready-andImean ready-I'd return to
my room, I'd sit on the corner of the bed and I'd
just go,'Ahhhhh.'AndI'd be satisfied.
-Schembechler, as told in John U. Bacon's
"Bo's Lasting Lessons."
Looking back on that 1969 game, Brand-
statter recalled how he and his teammates
prepared.
"We understood that when you practice
on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, that's
when you're preparing for the football games
on Saturday," Brandsatter said. "You get ready
by taking care of the details, by practicing
with great intensity, by focusing on what you
have to do so there's no mental mistakes, no
missed assignments"
The preparation started in January when
Hoke was first hired. But no three days are
more important than the Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday before the Ohio State game.

The Michigan players know that.
"There's definitely gonna be some differ-
ences in this week," Koger said. "I expect
practice to be very intense."
With Hoke at the helm, there's no question
Michigan will be ready to play on Saturday.
"The last Saturday in November, at 12
o'clock, that ball being kicked off, there's
nothing like it," Hoke said in his opening press
conference. "If you play at Michigan and you
wear that maize and blue, that's gotta be per-
sonal."
It was personal in 1969.
But now, after seven straight losses to the
Buckeyes and with a possible BCS berth on
the line, it's as personal as ever.
"When Brady gets them up to win this
game, everybody will say he's the next Bo
Schembechler," Taylor said.
"He'll be the next Bo Schembechler if he
wins this game."

Oll

8 FootballSaturday - November 26, 2011


w w w w w w w


w

w w

w w

w

w

w w

Well, it all come down to this. All the questions about Denard
Robinson as a quarterback could be answered. Fitz Toussaint
could define the trajectory of his last two years. The defense
could make a definitive statement. Everything is defined by how
you play against Ohio State. The seniors could leave 0-8 against
Michigan State and Ohio State, or they could complete one of the
most remarkable turnarounds in Michigan history. Ohio awaits.
Michael Florek, Stephen J. Nesbitt, Kevin Raftery, Tim Rohan
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preview: The Game will be defined by
its two QBs: Michigan's Denard Robin-
son and Ohio State's Braxton Miller.
From Bo to Brady: How one win against
Ohio State can propel a first-year coach
into Michigan lore.
Column: Michael Florek says Michigan
won't be officially 'back' until the
Wolverines beat Ohio State.
Cover illustration by Arjun Mahanti


2011 Schedule

Western Michigan (Sept. 3): Good thing the
rain came. And the blitzes, too. Looked like Greg
Robinson was coaching until the second quarter.
Notre Dame (Sept. 10): Nothing to see here.
Michigan rallied with a 28-point fourth quarter
to stun the Fighting Irish and get the victory.
Eastern Michigan (Sept. 17): Another meeting
with another inferior neighbor: may be Michi-
gan's only shot to hang 50-plus points ina game.
San Diego State (Sept. 24): Hoke said it was
hard leaving his players behind at San Diego
State. They were mad he didn't say goodbye.
Minnesota(Oct.1): MarQueis Gray played wide
receiver last year - now he's the quarterback
and the only thing exciting about the Gophers.
Northwestern (Oct. 8): Good thing Kain Colter
didn't play the entire game, because Dan Persa
did Michigan a few favors.

4 \

Michigan State (Oct. 15): Edwin Baker and
LeVeon Bell ran over and through Michigan,
and Kirk Cousins ain't too shabby either. Little
Brother's growing up.
Purdue (Oct. 29): It was the Fitz show at the Big
House. Toussaint took over as Michigan's lead
running back, rushing for 170 yards.
Iowa (Nov. 5): An eight-point loss hurts a bit
more when you've got four shots at the end zone
from the three-yard line.
Illinois (Nov. 12): Michigan's got its formula:
a steady defense and a load of Fitz. Toussaint
rumbled for 192 yards in a 31-14 victory.
Nebraska (Nov.19): Denard had 263 total yards.
Fitz ran for 138. The defense suffocated Taylor
Martinez. Welcome back, Michigan football.
Ohio State (Nov. 26): No Tressell? No Pryor?
Ohio State's still deeper than Michigan, and
Boom Herron is one scary back.

painting Michigan slogans and fight songs Anybody who saw a practice that week
throughout. could tell something special was happening
The Buckeyes had won 22 straight games in Ann Arbor.
and were one win away from completing "The practices were insane," Caldarazzo
their second consecutive undefeated sea- said. "We were just hitting and knocking
son. people out. The poor demonstration team,
Michigan was the only roadblock left. they were carrying these guys off because
But in Ann Arbor, confidence never fal- we were drilling them.
tered. Ohio State had beaten the Wolver- "We were blocking and tackling like it
ines 50-14 the previous year on its way to a was game day, and the hits that were going
national title. Coach Woody Hayes elected on were enormous."
to go for two with his team already up by Hanlon recalled telling Schembechler
36 points and the game well out of reach for that they should slow down a little bit so
Michigan. that the players don't peak too soon.
Asked after the game why he went for "And Bo said, 'You let 'em go. You can't
two, Hayes reportedly said, "Because I peak too soon for this team,' " Hanlon said.
couldn't go for three!" "So we just kindalet them go."
"Itwas one of the most humiliating expe- And on game day, they were ready.
riences of my life," Caldarazzo said. "I have
yet to return to Horse Shoe Stadium. I've
never been treated so rudely by fans and There was an electricity that I have never
everybody else." felt in any football game since. It was as if all
Michigan didn't forget. the energy from a season's worth of tackles
On the walls in the locker room, Schem- and body-slams hadjust been released.
bechler put signs that read, "Ohio State 50, -Schembechler, from "Bo."
Michigan 14." He even taped pictures of
Ohio State players to each of his players'
lockers. December 1,1969. No. 12 Michigan vs. No.
In practice, the number "50" was plas- 1 Ohio State.
tered on each scout team member's jersey. Ohio State featured three All Americans,
And it wasn't just on the jerseys. including running back Jim Otis, and five
"It was everywhere," Caldarazzo said. All-Big Ten selections.
"It was on everybody's locker, it was on The Buckeyes were world-beaters. They
the shower curtains - the shower had a hadn't played in a close game in almost two
'50' that was about six feet tall. It was just years. No one gave Michigan a chance.
everywhere. No one except Michigan, that is.
"Bo told us, 'Woody put 50 on you guys "The papers were saying the day of the
last year, and I'm not gonna let you forget game that Michigan had two chances of
it.' " winning: slim and none," said running back
Added Brandstatter: "Believe me, we Billy Taylor.
took notice, and the intensity ratcheted up "And Bo said, 'Bull shit.' And we said the
from Tuesday to Wednesday to Thursday to same thing. We knew we were gonna beat
Friday, 'til we were ready to go on Saturday. them."
"Ohio State was not gonna get that vic- Inside the locker room before the game,
tory." the players were excited - but not too excit-

COUTtyY OF n dTLtYs HISTORICAL LIBRARY
Schewbechler pushed his players harder than anyone. hut he had a special way of uniting them.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers pick
against the spread to predict Michaelph .
scores in the 2011 football season. FlorekN Stephen J.

No.7Michigan(-8.5) vs.OhioState
No.1 LSU(-4)vs No.3 Arkansas
No.2Alabama9.5) atAubur
No. 4Stanford (-7.5)vs No. 22 NotreDame
No. 6virginiaTech(-4.5)atNo.24Virgini
No.7 Boise State (-32.5)vsWyoming
No. 8Houston (-4.5)at Tulsa
No.9Oregon (-29.5)vsOregon State
No. to USC(-18.5)vsUCLA
No. 11 Michigan State (-7) at Northwestern
No.12Oklahoma(-29)vsIowaState
Go 13 Georgia )-.5 Nat No. 25 Geortia Tech
No.t4 S.Caroiinat(-2.5s. No.t8Ciemtson
No. 15 Winconsint-l8.5)vs No. 20PenrSt.
No.lt1 Baior t-9.5)vs Texas Tech
No. 22 lebraska010.5)vslowa
Purdon I-9.O) at Indiana
Ilinois(-3) atMinnesota
Last Week
Overall

Michigan
Louisana State
Alabama
Stanford
Virginia
Boise State
Houston
Oregon
UCLA
Michigan State
Iowa State
Georgia
Ciemson
Wisconsin
Bayior
Nebraska
Purdue
inois
1s5-116-4

Michigan
Lousiana State
Alabama
Stanford
VirginiaTecb
Wyoming
Houston
Oregon
USC
Michigan State
towaState
Geotgia
South Carolina
Pete State
Nebraska
Purdue
11-12
152-119-4

Kevin
Raftery
Michigan
Arkansas
Alabana
Stanford
Vieginia
Boise State
Houston
Oregon State
USC
Northwestern
Oklahoma
Georgia Tech
Sosth Carolina
Ptnn State
Bavior
Nebraska
Purdue
Illinois
13-10
151-120-4

Tim'
Rohan a
Michigan
Lousiana State
Auburn
Stanford
Virginia Tech
Boise State
Houston
Oregon
USC
Michigan State
Oklahoma
Georgia
Clemson
Nebraska
Purdue
1-2
1s9-112-4

Lloyd Brady,
Michigan
Legend

Lousiana State
Alabama
Notre Dame
Virginia Tech
Wyoming
Houston
Oregon
USC
Northwestern
IowaState
Geortia
South Carolina
Pete State
Baylor
Nebraska
Purdue
Mirnnota
11-12
11-12

ed.
"It was an intense room, but it was most-
ly internal," Caldarazzo said. "I don't really
recall a lot of guys shouting and screaming.
We had waited that entire week of practice,
we had waited a season, we couldn't wait
to get this thing done and go out there and
kick their ass.
"It was the perfect storm waiting to
explode."
Taylor recalled a short speech given by
Schembechler in the locker room.
"Men, we've had a great week of practice.
I'm not gonna talk much, but I'm gonna tell
you what we're gonna do. We're gonna kick
their ass," Schembechler said.
Schembechler hit the chalkboard with
his fist, and everybody exploded.
"It was so loud and thunderous in the
locker room, and everybody was hittin' and
pushin' out the door," Taylor said. "That's
what he said, and that's what we did."
Added quarterback Don Moorhead:
"Going down the tunnel, it was so much
more intense than going down the tunnel
any other game day. You could sense it.
"We were like a thoroughbred that they
just put in the gate. Everybody wanted to
go" '
After three rushing touchdowns - two
by fullback Garnie Craw, one by Moorhead
- and a field goal, Michigan went into half-
time leading 24-12.
No other team had scored more than 21
points on the Buckeyes all year.
"Ohio State was stunned," Schembechler
recalled in 'Bo.' "The crowd was going
crazy. You absolutely could not hear your-
self think! We left the field to an ovation
that was still ringing in our ears when we
poured into the locker room."
In the locker room, the Wolverines could
taste victory.
Defensive coordinator Jim Young's voice
stood out above the rest.
"You guys (the offense) gave us the lead,
and they will not score," he said. "I guaran-
tee, THEY WILL. NOT. SCORE!"
And they didn't.

The Wolverines held the Buckeyes score-
less in the second half and forced a total of
seven turnovers en route to the 24-12 vic-
tory.
As the final gun sounded, fans rushed the
field.
"It was mayhem," Caldarazzo said. "We
couldn't wait to celebrate. I remember run-
ning over to the sidelines, and we began
to carry (Schembechler) off the field. And
there was just a rush that came from behind
with the student section and the band.
"Bo goes up, and then at midfield, he just
goes down, because we were just pushed
over. We weren't angry at all. We just got
up, dusted ourselves off and got right back
in there. It was one of those times where
you didn't want to leave the field."
That magical day did finally end, but its
legacy didn't.
As Schembechler wrote, "Michigan was
back as a national football powerhouse."
It was Schembechler who started the
return back to prominence in 1969.
Now, it's Hoke's turn.
November 21, 2011
You can see it in the weight room and
scattered about Schembechler Hall. You
can hear it at the end of eachteam meet-
ing. And you can sense it in each and every
player.
This team is salivating in anticipation of
noon on Saturday.
In the weight room, a huge sign on the
wall rings loud and clear: "Beat Ohio."
Throughout Schembechler Hall, there
are two special clocks: One counts down
the time until kickoff against the Buckeyes,
and the other reads the number of days it's
been since Michigan's last victory over its
biggest rival.
"It's a reminder every time you walk in the
building," said senior tight end Kevin Koger.
"You can't miss it."
But Hoke does more than just visually
remind his players about Ohio. Since his first-
ever team meeting, Hoke began his address

OHIO STATE
WEEK
THESE PHOTOS
I MIG HT MAKE
r$ YOU NOSTA LGIC

Running back Billy Taylor is eighth on Michigan's all-time rush list and was a key player on the 1969 team.

2 1 FootballSaturday - November 26, 2011

TheMichiganQaily - www.michigandaily.com 1 7


Bo that really melded us into notjust agood IowatCity first.
football team. We formed a lot of lifelong After 60 minutea of physical, hard-nosed
friendships, and they continue to this day." football, Michigan had not only beaten
Dick Caldarazzo, a senior left guard on Iowa - it had bulldozed right through the
the team, is in charge of emailing the for- Hawkeyes en route to a 51-6 pounding.
mer players and setting up reunions. And the Wolverines could sense the
"What was the class I believe (Schem- Buckeyes all the way from Iowa City.
bechler) was closest to," Caldarazzo said. "I "We were really happy we won that
think it was the fact that he introduced this game, but the next thing, we just wanted
concept, this way of playing football, way of Ohio State," Caldarazzo said. "We would've
practicing, that we all bought into." left our clothes on and played Ohio State
It's a camaraderie that began with that afternoon if we could come back on the
Schembechler and was carried out by the field."
seniors on that 1969 team.
And if Michigan does this year what it
did in 1969 during Schembechler's first sea- November 19, 2011
son at the helm, it's a camaraderie that can There were over six minutes left, but
be cemented in the legacy of Brady Hoke. already the chants had begun.
No. 20 Michigan led No. 17 Nebraska,
45-17 - the Wolverines had dominated in
November 15,1969 every facet of the game.
It was one of those days in November "Beat O-HI-O! Beat O-HI-O!"
when you yearned to have warm summer The cheer started in a small corner of the
days back, one of those days where it hits student section but grew like wildfire. As
you: "Winter is here." the clock wound down to zero, Michigan
Or, for a Michigan football player: "Ohio Stadium echoed the words of former coach-
State week can't be far off." es and players alike.
"It snowed like crazy," recalled Jerry Beat Ohio.
Hanlon, who was an assistant coach under The players heard it.
Schembechler from 1969-89. "I think that as the game winded down
"We had a motel we stayed at, and there and we were kneeling the ball, everyone
was so much space under the door that was thinking that in the back of their head,"
snow came halfway into my room." said redshirt junior safety Jordan Kovacs.
In those days, there were no snow blow- "Like all right, that was a big win, but it's on
ers, no easy ways out. to the next one."
So they innovated. The cheers only grew louder as the clock
"They got a helicopter on Saturday morn- hit zero and the players ran to the student
ing and just blew all the snow off the field," section to sing the fight song with their
Hanlon said. "And then the sun came out, peers, like they do after every home win.
and it was a beautiful day." Senior defensive tackle Mike Martin led
No. 14 Michigan, 6-2 at the time, was the charge, jumping into the front row of
playing unranked Iowa, who was 4-4 and in the student section, holding his winged hel-
desperate need of a win. met high in the air, singing the fight song.
It was the perfect trap game. No. 1 Ohio But Martin's work wasn't done.
State - which had been deemed "The "We know we're getting better, but the
Greatest Team in the History of College season is far from over," he said after the
Football" - loomed a week away. With just game. "(Ohio State) is a huge game for our
one Big Ten loss, the Wolverines were in legacy as a team, for this senior group, for
line for a Rose Bowl berth if they could win Team 132, and we just gotta make sure we
their last two games. finish this season out the way we want to,
But they had to beat the Hawkeyes in and the way we envisioned the whole sea-

0

w w

w

w

w

w

w

W-


Robinson and Miller share the spotlight

Bo Schembechler is carried off the field after No. 12 Michigan's 24-12 victory over No.1 Ohio State in 1969.

son."
It was a vision started in the early 1900s
by Michigan's Fielding H. Yost, a vision car-
ried out bycoaches like Harry Kipke, Fritz
Crisler, Bennie Oosterbaan. It was a vision
restored by Schembechler.
And now, it's in the hands of Hoke.
Bo Schembechler, an Ohio native, came
to Michigan in 1969 after serving as head
coach at Miami University, his alma mater,
from 1963-1968.
In six seasons with the Redskins (now
the RedHawks), Schembechler won two
conference titles and finished second three
times.
At Michigan, he took over for the retired
Bump Elliot, who, in10 years as head coach,
posted a mediocre 51-42-2 record.
Schembechler's mission was simple: get
Michigan back into national prominence.
And his first ingredient was simple, too.
"Coach Schembechler said it in the first
meeting," said Jim Brandstatter, an offen-
sive tackle and now Michigan's radio color
commentator.
"The seniors have to have their best year
of football. He puts that responsibility right
on their shoulders, and every one of them
took it to heart. When practice got too hard,
when Bo was on us too much, those guys
stood there and took it. Those guys made
everybody aware that this is what it takes
to win."
From there, the rest of Schembechler's
formula fell into place. Toughness. Disci-
pline. Respect.
"Seldom can you have a successful season
unless your seniors are having their great-
est year," Schembechler said on Nov. 25,
1969. "That's an especially important factor
in transition because they're the hardest
guys to sell. They're the nucleus."
From 2003 to 2008, Brady Hoke served
as head coach at his alma mater, Ball State.
In 2008, he led the Cardinals to a perfect

12-0 season before losing to Buffalo in the
MAC Championship. The season propelled
him into the national spotlight for the first
time.
The next season, he took the head-coach-
ing job at San Diego State, and in 2010, he
turned a sputtering program into a compet-
itor, finishing the season 9-4.
In January 2011, Hoke took over at Mich-
igan for the departed Rich Rodriguez. And
at his opening press conference, he had a
message.
"We're gonna coach for our seniors,"
Hoke said. "Because seniors have been
through those struggles. We're always
gonna play and coach for our seniors in this
program."
It seemed almost clich6 at the time.
Every new coach has to say that. But as is
clear now, Brady Hoke isn't your average
new coach.
"The thing about him is that he is what
he is," said Hanlon, who went to school
with Hoke's father and has known Brady
for years.
"There's not a phony bone in his body.
What you see is what you get, and I think
that goes a long way for kids to believe in
somebody."
Hoke has stuck to his word.
"This is a group of (seniors) who have
been through a lot," Hoke said on Monday.
"They've hung together well and they've
done a nice job of preparing weekly.
"There are seniors that have done a tre-
mendous job of understanding you start
with the fundamentals, you start with the
technique, you start with discipline."
November 18,1969
It was the start o= Ohio State week, and if
you didn't know it, you either lived in a box
or didn't care about sports.
Everybody was talking about it.
In Columbus, an abundance of "pro-
Michigan" newspapers flooded the city two
weeks before the matchup, and Michigan
students invaded the Ohio State campus,

By TIM ROHAN Miller's talent was undeniable.
Daily Sports Editor "He's a great quarterback,"
Robinson said. "He's got a lot of
"It's going to be a physical fight, growing (to do), but I think he's
because that's what it is - like Joe going to be good. And we've got
Frazier versus to be prepared for him Saturday
MuhammadAli." because he can run around and
-Junior quar- OhiO State he can throw it."
terback Denard at Michigan Michigan coach Brady Hoke
Robinson Mth- defended Robinson's perfor-
MOhio State mance in the middle of the sea-
Two quarter- 6-5; Michi- son, saying he too was "growing."
backs will carry gan 9-2 Robinson looked all grown up
the weight of The When: Sar- against Nebraska last weekend,
Game on Sat- day 12 P.M. accounting for 263 total yards
urday. One is a and four touchdowns in what can
junior, adapting Where: Michi- be considered his best all-around
to a new offense. gao Stadium game of the season.
The other a true TV/Radio: The nagging mechanical issues
freshman, tasked ABC or ESPN that hurt him earlier in the sea-
with stabilizing a son are less worrisome now, said
program shaken offensive coordinator Al Borges.
by scandal. Instead, Borges has created a
Both can change the game with monster - one that listened too
their dynamic abilities. Both face well, stays in the pocket too long
an elite top-20 defense. and doesn't scramble as much as
Both are Muhammad Ali, float- he should.
ing like butterflies, stinging like "They want to prove that they
bees. can throw the ball, but there's a
Michigan junior Denard Rob- point where you have to use your
inson can single-handedly keep skills," Borges said.
the Wolverines' offense churning A few weeks ago, Robinson's
if he executes, or he can drown it father felt the need to call his son,
all if he turns the ball over. whose rushing numbers dimin-
Last Saturday, as Robinson was ished with each Big Ten game.
coming off the field after scoring "If nothing's there, just make a
a touchdown, his hands waved play," his father told him. "You've
wildly in front of his face as he got that ability to do it, so just do
trotted back to the sidelines. He it."
motioned an imaginary spoon Borges talks to Robinson about
towards his mouth. how his best check down may be
"This program has been starv- himself. To that point, footwork is
ing for a while," Robinson said key. Robinson's feet scream what
Monday. "It's time for us to make he's going to do with the football,
something happen this year." whether he's sliding in the pocket
If No. 17 Michigan plans to get still looking to throw or moving
its fill, it'll have to do so riding to an open space to run it.
Robinson into battle with Ohio Hoke said Robinson ran with
State. On the line: the Wolverines' more "authority" against the
first 10-win campaign and first Cornhuskers. The junior signal
BCS bowl berth since the 2006 caller seemed less hesitant as he
season. ran for 83 yards - his highest
Robinson's counterpart in total since Oct. 8 against North-
Saturday's heavyweight bout is western.
equally as maddening, nearly as What may help Robinson most
amazing, Braxton Miller. is heeding the advice Borges gave
Two weeks ago, down six him during spring practice, when
points on the road against Purdue, the two were still getting to know
the Ohio State freshman quarter- each other: "Make plays and let
back faced a 4th-and-3 with only the good Lord make miracles."
a minute left. In true Robinson Ohio State coach Luke Fick-
fashion, Miller scrambled to his ell said he'd offer similar advice
right when the pocket collapsed, to his dual-threat quarterback
jumped over a defender, and with before The Game.
two more Boilermakers in his "We don't need anything
face, he threw off his back foot superhuman, we just need you
and hit an open receiver in the to be who you've been and have
endzone. Ohio State missed the some confidence in what you do,"
extra point and lost the game, but Fickell said.

Miller's signature moment
so far may have been when he
launched a 40-yard touchdown
pass on the run with less than 30
seconds left to topple then-No. 15
Wisconsin.
It was Robinson-like, making
the impossible play out of noth-
ing.
But Miller shares Robinson's
pension for poor passing. Albeit,
his kryptonite is accuracy, not
turnovers.
In the eight games Miller has
started, he has completed just
46 percent of his throws and has
topped 100-yards passing only
once.
Miller's youth, multiplied by
suspensions to key contributors
running back Dan Herron and
wide receiver DeVier Posey, have
the Buckeyes' offense ranked
108th in the Division I.
"I'm disappointed right now
in the way we've played the last
three weeks as a team," Fickell
said. "With the type of people
we're dealing, with the youth and
the different things we have ...
you can't just point a finger."
Now, Miller will be fed to a
Wolverine defense coming off
their best two games of the sea-
son.
Having Mattison dialing up
exotic blitzes and disguising cov-
erages will only exaggerate Mill-
er's problems.
Considering everything sur-
rounding The Game - Ohio
State's series streak on the line,
the departures of Jim Tressel
and Terrelle Pryor amidst pro-
gram strife and the resurgence of

Michigan - Fickell thinks Mill-
er's youth may help him in this
fight.
"Sometimes the best thing you
can be as a young guy and not
realize exactly the magnitude,"
Fickell said.
"Sometimes the younger guys,
they're almost oblivious. ... Hope-
fully that's the way he continues
to attack it."
Robinson, meanwhile, is com-

pletely aware. He remembered
how he felt walking off the field
at Ohio Stadium last year, los-
ing Michigan's seventh-straight
game in the rivalry.
"Everybody hates that taste,"
Robinson said. "We still have that
taste in our mouth, losing last
year. We want to change that.
"We've been starving. This
program's been starving. So it's
time for us to eat."

In 1969, the Michigan defense held Ohio State's offense, one of the best in the nation, to just 12 points.

Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson did a better job of scrambling when he's supposed to against Nebraska.
TheMichiganDaily - www.michigandaily.com 3

6 FootballSaturday - November 26, 2011


A
O
0

4

I

m-3
W i7O p"
3- O
W NCC G CC
m3C C
CC oC 3
CC 0-C :
~. 0-3q 0o
'(C CC . 0 (D 3L-Q
O m Cm O G'Cm G C
CC0 G G 3
(DCC CC C L
X C 0CC p C
CC'CCCL
m y o" 07
w'w aa
E O CCC O
-G
a m 0o
Ia,
xmrn o
0CC - "" c
00mC
0a 0-m CC
m w C C
vw, G A. C ti -

0
cu
.0
3
5r)
cD C
C
CD
CDq

'1
0
0)

4

4

0

0

0:L

a

a

a

I


