ie £iigyan 401aiIj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, September 20, 2011

michigandaily.com

FACULTY GRANTS
Three'U'
professors
awarded
fellowship
Profs. to receive ulty member at the Universitylast
earned a MacArthur Fellowship
$500,000 as - nicknamed a Genius Award
- in 2005. Twenty-four Univer-
MacArthur fellows sity faculty members, including
Miles, Sanford and Yamashita,
By CAITLIN HUSTON and have been named fellows since
JOSEPH L ICHTERMAN the MacArthur Foundationbegan
Daily News Editors naming them in 1981.
University President Mary
Three University professors Sue Coleman wrote in a Univer-
were awarded MacArthur Fel- sity press release sent today that
lowships worth $500,000 by the the fellowships awarded to the
John D. and Catherine T. MacAr- University professors marks "a
thur Foundation to further their remarkable day in the life of the
research through any means of University of Michigan."
their choosing. "The exceptional contributions
Tiya Miles, director of the of professors Tiya Miles, Melanie
Department of Afroamerican & Sanford and Yukiko Yamashita
African Studies, Melanie Sanford, deepen our understanding of life
an Arthur F. Thurnau professor of - from a single molecule to the
chemistry and YukikoYamashita, sweep of human history," Cole-
an assistant professor in the Life man wrote.
Science Institute and an assis- Miles, Sanford and Yamashita
tant professor of cell and devel- each said they plan to spend their
opmental biology in the Medical grants inways that differ as much
School, were among 22 research- as their specialties.
ers nationwide to be awarded the "It's an awful lot of money,"
prestigious fellowship. Miles said in a telephone inter-
The University of Michigan view last night.
tied Harvard University for the The $500,000 is paid out to
most recipients this year. A fac- See FELLOWSHIP, Page 2

University President Mary Sue Coleman addresses UMHS surgeons at a question-and-answer session in Rackham Auditorium yesterday-
Coleman 'U' management
similar oprivate in i tio

'U' endowment
worth $7.8 billion
for FY 2011
By HALEY GLATTHORN
DailyStaffReporter
S The University's endowment
fund and fundraising efforts
were among the primary top-
ics University President Mary
Sue Coleman discussed during

a question-and-answer session
with University of Michigan
Health System surgeons yester-
day.
Coleman said the University's
endowment is currently worth
approximately $7.8 billion - up
from its 2010 fiscal year value
of $6.6 billion. State-allocated
funding continuously dropped
throughout Coleman's 10 years
at the University, she said. When
Coleman took office in 2002,
state contributions to the gener-

al fund came in at $368 million
- a number that has since fallen
to $240 million for this year.
"We have lost a pretty sub-
stantial amount of money each
(year)," Coleman said. "I'm not
under any illusion that we're
going to go back to wonderful
funding from the state."
Coleman explained that the
general fund's "unrestricted
money" allows for the pursuit
of faculty innovation and entre-
preneurship. Most donations to

the University can be used only
in the method prescribed by the
donor, and nearly 96 percent of
the"endowment is limited in its
use by donors or grant regula-
tions, according to Coleman.
Though Coleman said man-
agement of the University is
becoming increasingly similar
to a private institution, she said
it will always be a public univer-
sity.
"We made some very, very
See COLEMAN, Page 5

UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES ___
'U' halts Orphan Works
Project in light of lawsuit

Mistakes made in
HathiTrust Digital
Library
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
DailyNews Editor
After acknowledging ' that
its Orphan Works Project
is "flawed," the University
announced Friday that it decid-
ed to suspend the pilot program
indefinitely.

The Orphan Works Project
is an initiative to identify books
that may have unsuspectingly
become part of the public domain
after their original copyrights
lapsed. The suspension of the
program comes just days after a
lawsuit was filed against the Uni-
versity claiming that the institu-
tion doesn't have permission to
use digital scans of more than 7
million copyrighted books.
Before halting the program,
the University was scheduled
to make 27 orphan works avail-

able for download through the
HathiTrust Digital Library on
Oct. 13 and another 140 books
were planned for release in
November. Any member of the
University community with a
uniqname would have access to
the scanned books.
The lawsuit against the Uni-
versity was filed by the Author's
Guild, the Australian Society
of Authors, Quebec Writers
Union and eight other individual
authors. The suit was also filed
See LAWSUIT, Page 5

FACULTY GOVERNANCE
VP of research warns faculty of

HANNAH CHIN/u
Ann Arbor City Council members discuss city funding for public art at a council meeting last night at City Hall. The
council is delaying a proposed ordinance until November.
With new A20penBook website, city
aims to increase financial transparency

future cuts to federal

Forrest tells faculty
to limit spending,
number of hires
By MARY HANNAHAN
Daily StaffReporter
In a meeting before the Uni-
versity's leading faculty gover-
nance body, Stephen Forrest,
the University's vice president of
research, said the University will

have to make significant changes
in the coming months to remain a
top research institute.
Though the University receives
federal funding for research -
particularly from the National
Institute of Health, the National
Science Foundation and the U.S.
Department of Defense - Forrest
said budgets from those institutes
are shrinking and told the Uni-
versity's Senate Assembly yester-
day that he's not yet sure how this
will affect the University.

funding
"2012 is looking at signifi-
cant budget cuts across all agen-
cies, and we don't know what
that's going to mean or how deep
they're going to be," Forrest said.
Forrest suggested that
researchers plan ahead for
research funding reductions by
being efficient in their work and
only hiring people they will really
need and can afford.
"This is what we have to be
aware of so we can position our-
See RESEARCH, Page 2

Residents can view
city expenses,
revenue on site
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily StaffReporter
For students and Ann Arbor
residents, city financial data
now reads like an online open
book.
At a press event before yes-
terday's city council meeting,
Tom Crawford, the city of Ann

Arbor's chief financial offi-
cer, introduced A20penBook,
an-interactive website, www.
a2gov.org/a2openbook, that
will give users a daily in-depth
look at the city's expenses and
revenue sources.
People who access the web-
site can look at expenditures
and revenue for any vendor that
received city funds. The infor-
mation can be viewed for dif-
ferent areas including expense
type, department or service
area, or by a specific budgeted
fund such as the city's water and

sewer fund.
Joshua Baron, senior appli-
cations specialist for the city,
explained that financial data
will be automatically uploaded
to A20penBook every 24 hours
from the city's internal financial
database.
"It will give you some
insights into our financial status
... in ways that have been harder
for citizens to see before," said
Crawford, who was formerly
the interim city administrator.
The site also has a system
See WEBSITE, Page 3


* WEATHER HI: 75
TOMORROW - LO: 51

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
New UMHS CFO named
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX
Vol. CXXII, No.11
@2011 The Michigan Daily
michigandaily.com

AP NEWS ....................3 CLASSIFIEDS...............6
OPINION .....................4 ARTS....................6
N EW S .................... 5 SPORTS............... ......7

I


2 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Tower!

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Photos of the Week

C ie Michigan 1aI(
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIE STEINBERG ZACH YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
steinberg@michigandailycom zyancer@michigandaity.com

'U' launches male calendar

30 years ago this week: (Sept. 24,
1981) - After a Michigan State Uni-
versity calendar featuring scantily
clad male students sold more than 700
copies over three days in EastLansing,
students at the University of Michigan
tried to replicate the success of their
in-state rivals.
Wearing gym shorts and strategi-
cally placed towels, men from frater-
nities and varsity sports teams at the
University posed for the calendar free
of charge in hopes of upstaging the
Spartans.
Nancy Anderson, the calendar's
creator, told The Michigan Daily at
the time that the product was "clas-
sically suggestive" and that she found
all the models through recommenda-
tions from sororities and bar manag-
ers.

"When girls told me about some
really sharp guys, I trusted all those
votes of confidence," Anderson said
at the time, hinting that the models
were "really good-looking with good
bodies."
50 years ago this week: (Sept. 21,
1961) - Zeta Beta Tau became the first
fraternity to move its house to North
Campus.
Fifty-one men moved into the
house on the corner of Broadway and
Hubbard streets. ZBT made special
transportation arrangements to pick
up potential new members and drive
them from Central Campus as they
began the rush process.
"The new house is really not much
further away than our old one," ZBT
President Art Rosenbaum told the
Daily at the time. "It's just a bit more

secluded."
80 years ago this week: (Sept. 22,
1931) - New rules governing the
fraternity rush process, conceived by
the Interfraternity Council and Dean
of Students Joseph A. Bursley, went
into effect at the beginning of the new
academic year.
Several new restrictions were put
in place limiting the amount of inter-
action fraternity members could have
with the potential recruits.
For example, unless employed by a
fraternity, freshmen couldn't visit any
of the houses during the fall semester.
If a fraternity was holding an open
house, potential recruits and estab-
lished fraternity members were only
permitted to speak outside the event if
they were actually familial brothers.
- JOSEPH LICHTERMAN

Newsroom
734-418-4ts opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

TERA MOLNGRAF/Dail
A student walks through the Law Quad
rangle in the rain yesterday.

CRIME NOTES

Pocket fumble
WHERE: Michigan
Stadium
WHEN: Sunday at about
3 p.m.
WHAT: A man said he
was pick-pocketed at about
noon during the Michigan
football game on Saturday,
University Police reported.
Unauthorized charges
were made to his credit
card.
Bike rides away
WHERE: 2300 block Stone
Road
WHEN: Sunday at about
5 p.m.
WHAT: A bicycle was
taken from a residence
between 6 p.m. on Saturday
and 4:30 p.m. on Sunday,
University Police reported.
There are no suspects.

Dog bites man
WHERE: The Diag
WHEN: Sunday at about
5:40 p.m.
WHAT: A man was bitten
by a dog, University Police
reported. He was treated in
the emergency room at the
University Hospital. Reper-
cussions for the dog and its
owner are currently under
investigation.
Sketchy sketch
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ite Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
11 p.m.
WHAT: A pencil drawing
of swastikas was found on
a basement wall, Univer-
sity Police reported. The
reportee said this was the
second time in two weeks a
similar drawing was found
on the wall.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
DADT repeal
celebration

WHAT: Several campus
groups will celebrate the
official end of the military's
"don't ask don't, tell policy"
by handing out free goodies
on the Diag.
WHO: The Spectrum
Center, Michigan Student
Assembly and Stonewall
Democrats. .
WHEN: Today from 11 a.m.
until 2 p.m.
WHERE: The Diag
President's
Open House
WHAT: University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman will
hold her annual open house.
WHO: Office of the Presi-
dent
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: 815 South Univer-
sity Ave.

CORRECTIONS
. A Sept.15 article in
the Daily ('LibertySt.
Borders space could be
split into three areas')
incorrectly stated
the status and future
use of the Borders
space. The space may
have been bought and
could potentially be
subdivided into three
different build-outs. The
story also incorrectly
misquoted Rachel Pastiva
and misidentified her.
Pastiva is the manager
of Crazy Wisdom
Bookstore & Tea Room.
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

A Florida funeral home
now offers its customers
an alternative to burial or
cremation - body liquifica-
tion, the Daily Mail reported.
The corpses are dissolved
in under three hours and
remaining bones can be
returned to the survivors.
Junior running back
Vincent Smith will
start Saturday's game
against San Diego State.
Smith rushed for 118 yards
on nine carries last weekend
against Eastern Michigan.
D FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 7
An 81-year-old Flor-
ida woman who per-
forms as a volunteer
clown shares her stage name
with one of pop music's big-
gest sensations, WTSP.com
reported. The woman, who
goes by Gaga, says she has no
plans to sue the more famous
Lady Gaga over the name.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Nick Spar ManagingEditor nickspar@michigandaily.com
NicoleAber Managing NewsEditor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIR NEWSEDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Joseph Lichterman,
ASSISTANTNEWSEDITORS:HaleyGlatthorn,ClaireGoscicki,SuzanneJacobs,Sabira
Kahn, Michele Narov, Paige Pearcy, Adam Rubenfire, Kaitlin Williams
MichelleDewitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial PagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali,Ashley Griesshammer, Andrew Weiner
ASSISTANTEDITOIALPAGE EDITORS:Harsha NahataTimothyRabb
Stephen J. Nesbitt and sportseditor-swmichigandaityxcom
Tim Rohan Managing Sports Editors
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Ben Estes, Michael Florek, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch, Zak
Pyzik, Kevin aftery
ASSAnS S EDITORS: Everett Cook, Neal Rothschild, Matt Rudnitsky, Matt
Slovin, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
SharonJacobs ManagingArts Editor jacobs@michigandaily.com
SENRsATnS EDITOS:Lah Brgn, Kavi e,enn~ifer Xu
ASSISTANTAR S EIORS: Jacob taCa ni or, JoeCadagin, Emma Gase,
Proma Khosla, David Tao
Marissa McClain and photo@michigandaily.com
Jed Moch ManagingPhoto Editors
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:ErinKirkland,ChrisRyba,AnnaSchulte,SamanthaTrauben
Zach Bergsonand design@michigandaily.com
Heer Lieblich ManagingDesigntditors
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS: Kristi Begona, Corinn Lewis
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTYMAGAZINEEDITORS:Stephen Ostrowski, Devon Thorsby, Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy copy chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPYEDITORS: Christine Chun, Hannah Poindexter
Sarah Squire Web Development Manager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Julianna Crim Associate Business Manager
Rachel Greinetz Sales Manager
Alexis Newton ProductionManager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
ConnorlByrd Finance Manager
QUy VO Circulation Manager
The Michigan Daily OSSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
faltermstartinginSeptember,viaU.S.malare$110.Winterterm(JanuarythroughApriOlis
$115, yearlong (September through Aprilis $195.University affiliates are subject to areduced
su ,*sciption rale."On-p*ub ,iptionsIo r f al te rmretS. a mubsciptions"ma*t be pepaid.
The Michgan Daily i a emer of IThe Associated Pess and Tesoinated Collegiate Pess.

0
"

MORE ONLINE love Crime Notes? Share them with your
followerson Twitter @CrimeNotesorfind them on theirnew blog.


FELLOWSHIP
From Page 1
the recipients quarterly over five
years. Miles said she plans to split
her grant among several projects,
including research about the his-
tory of slavery in Detroit and
throughout the state of Michigan.
"It's a really fascinating story
that I look forward to having time
to delve into," she said. "And, of
course, having fellowship funds
helps to create time."
Miles also said she will devote
some fundstoenhance ECOGirls, a
program she developed to enhance

environmental awareness and
cultural diversity among elemen-
tary and middle school age girls in
Michigan's urban communities.
Yamashita wrote that she
will continue to study the biol-
ogy of stem cells, focusing on the
asymmetric division of the cells.
She said asymmetric division is
believed to generate tissue homeo-
stasis - or a stable condition -
and when it malfunctions, it can
become a causing factor of cancer
or tissue degeneration.
Sanford, who researches
organic and inorganic chemistry,
will work on the development of
metal catalysts to cause a reac-

tion in carbon-hydrogen bonds.
Though the bonds are found in
many chemicals ranging from
DNA to shampoo, Sanford wrote
that the bonds are typically unre-
active. If the metal catalysts can
be used to cause a reaction, San-
ford wrote, the bond could be
made into new atom groups used
to make pharmaceuticals greener
and could also become possible
natural gas convertors.
The MacArthur Fellowship has
no application process. Recipients
are nominated anonymously by a
group of people who, also anony-
mously, submit recommendations
to a selection committee of about

a dozen leaders in fields ranging ative efforts and promise of each
from the sciences to the arts. Fellow," Daniel J. Socolow, director
The committee reviews each of the MacArthurFellowsProgram
nominee and then makes recom- wrote in a MacArthur Foundation
mendations to the MacArthur press release sent today. "It comes
Foundation's president and board out of the blue and offers the new
of directors who make the final Fellows the gift of time and the
decision. The foundation typically unfettered opportunity to explore,
awards between 20 and 30 fellow- create and contribute."
ships each year. Miles said she received the call
Fellows, including those at the about 10 days ago and, like the
University, don't know they are other fellows, said it came out of
nominated until they receive a "the clear blue sky."
phone call congratulating them "It was a complete and total
for receiving the grant. shock to get this news," she said.
"The call from the Foundation Sanford wrote in an e-mail
is the culmination of an intensive interview that she was boarding
year or longer review of the cre- a plane to Scotland as she got the
RESEARCH
From Page 1
selves to pilot our way through
turbulent times," he said. "Pro-
fessors who are working in an
area thatrequires alot of external
funding need to think about how
to manage through these times,
which are going to be extended."
In comparison to other
research institutions, however,
Forrest said the University is in a
better position than most.
MACART HUR FOUND2ATION; SCOTT sontERBRa W'rtcuno ut lcy"
rd, Siya Miles, Department of "We're actually quite lucky,"
and Yukiko Yamashita, assistant Forrest said. "We're sitting at the
d assistant professor of cell and devel- top of the pile in'terms of research
ru "ig:

l
l

call from the foundation. Initially,
she thought it was a practical joke.
"As you can imagine, I did not
sleep much on the flight," Sanford
wrote.
According to Yamashita, the
MaCarthur Foundation told the
recipients that until today, they
could only tell their spouses about
the award. When she first told her
husband, he thought it was a hoax.
Yamashita wrote: "He seri-
ously warned me, 'Okay, if you
get a second phone call asking
(for) your bank account and the
PIN number, saying they need it
for award money transfer, don't
give them away."'
STUDENTS RECEIVE
FACULTY-FUNDED
SCHOLARSHIP
Earlier in the meeting, Semyon
Meerkov, a professor of electri-
cal engineering and computer
science, gave an update on the
first two student recipients of a
faculty-supported, need-based
fellowship called University Fac-
ulty Undergraduate Scholarship
Foundation, which he proposed
to SACUA in May 2007.
Meerkov said that 102 faculty
members donated money and
raised $66,760 for the students.
That amount was then matched
by the Office of the President and
the scholarship fund reached a
total of $121,514.
Because $6,000 is needed each
year to maintain the program,
Meerkov said additional funds
will be needed. To provide the
funding, Meerkov said the foun-
dation will have a campaign to
raise more money, and he urged
assembly members to make a
donation of $10 each month.
- The two recipients of the
scholarship, LSA senior Lama
Bandar and Engineering fresh-
man David Thompson, who each
receive $3,000 per year they're
in school, gave a brief speech to
the assembly about what theyS
have done or plan to do as under-
graduates.
Barald said she hopes more fac-
ulty members will donate to the
faculty Undergraduate Scholar-
ship Foundation.
"The faculty are only as good
as the students and vice versa,"
Barald said. "It's a real symbiotic
relationship."

CoURTESY OF THE JOHN D. AND CATHERINET. N
From left: Chemistry Prof. Melanie Sanfo
Afroamerican & African Studies director,
professor in the Life Science Institute an

CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS,
2010-11:
THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT
POPULATION LIMIT ON CALIFORNIA'S PRISONS
AMERICAN MILITARY ACTION IN LIBYA
BIG BROTHER AND THE FOURTH AMENDMENT
University of Michigan Law School
Hutchins Hall, Room 250
Tuesday, September 20
4:10-5:40 i'M.
Refreshments Immediately Following
SPONSORED BY U-M OFFICE OF THE PROVOST

opmental biology.
poetry series presents
An Evening with Pulitzer Prize-winning Pet
Franz Wright
September 23,2011, 7pm
Reading from his newest work
Reception and book-signing
to follow.
COMPACT: Sarah lMessee LOCATION: 7101 W. y Li Rd. Ann Arbor
CopperColored Mountain arts A Readings and Conversations are FREE
twail-saraa cmars org anod PensOtre pablic,
Telepane e p73.-stO 7407
SA IT-. ..-
:.. .~~~~ ,-77 CCmart.O9

funding."
In an interview after the meet-
ing, Kate Barald, chair of the
Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs and aprofessor
of cell and developmental biology
and biomedical engineering, said
she's worried about the future of
research with the possible fund-
ing cuts.
"Universities like Michigan
have a very large contingent of
people who are dependent on out-
side funding, and that means that
fewer people could be supported
if that funding stream dries up,"
Barald said. "Unless we can gar-
ner more philanthropy, we're in
trouble because the federal rev-
enue stream is drying up."
In addition, Barald said that
without grants, principal inves-
tigators wouldn't be able to sup-
port workers in their laboratories,
which means research techni-
cians and graduatestudents could
losetheir jobs. She addedthatthis
is the worst climate for federal
funding she's seen in 30 years.

ft

--_.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 20, 2011- 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 20, 2011 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif.
Helicopter crash
kills two in Calif.
The Marine Corps says two
crew members have been killed
in a helicopter crash in a train-
ing area at Camp Pendleton in
Southern California.
A Marine statement says an
AH-1 Cobra belonging to the
3rd Marine Aircraft Wing went
down at about 1 p.m. yesterday.
The statement says the two
personnel aboard were pro-
nounced dead by emergency
responders.
A fire is burning at the site in
the southeast corner of the base,
near the community of Fall-
brook, and firefighters are work-
ing to contain it.
LOUISVILLE, Ky.
Evangelist to
serve four years in

auS-AN vALSH/e
President Barack Obama walks away from the podium after making a statement in the Rose Garden of the White
House in Washington D.C., yesterday.

prison for fraud Obama unveils combative

A traveling evangelist has
been sentenced to four years
in prison in a case in Louisville
in which he pleaded guilty in
an oil and gas scheme. In some
cases, he met potential investors
through church.
The U.S. attorney's office says
60-year-old Ernest Cadick of
Elizabethtown was ordered to pay
almost $720,000 in restitution.
Court records say from 1994
through 2008, Cadick fraudu-
lently solicited money from 17
people, representing himself as
owner and operator of Kingdom
Oil. He met potential investors
at church functions or through
contacts with churches.
Cadick pleaded guilty in June
to 17 counts of wire fraud.
BUJUMBURA, Burundi
Congolese men kill
36 in Burundi pub
Armed merr from Congo burst
into a pub in the central African
nation of Burundi and killed
36 people, an official said yes-
terday. One wounded man said
an attacker yelled: "Make sure
there's no survivors."
Burundi, a tiny nation still
reelingfrom a civil war thatkilled
more than 250,000 people, is
awash inweapons but attacks like
the one Sunday night are rare.
Still, the region borders eastern
Congo, which is wracked by vio-
lence from myriad rebel groups.
Bujumbura province governor
Jacques Minani said the attack-
ers targeted the pub in Gatumba,
west of Burundi's capital, after
crossing the river from Congo.
He said 36 people were killed.
Survivor Jackson Kabura, who
was shot in the stomach, said the
men entered wearing military
fatigues.
"One of them said, 'kill them
all, kill them all. Make sure
there's no survivors,"' he said.
Congolese military spokes-
man Col. Sylvain Ekenge said
officials were "astonished" by
reports that the attackers were
believed to be from his country.
MOGADISHU, Somalia
Islamist radio
station to offer
weapons as prizes
in Quran contest
An Islamist insurgent-run
radio station in Somalia says it is
awardingguns, bombs and books'
to three children in a Quran
recital contest.
Andulus radio station is run
by the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab
militia.
The station announced yes-
terday that the first prize win-
ner in the contest received a rifle
and $700, the second prize win-
ner got a rifle and $500, and the
third prize winner received two
bombs.
All three children also
received religious books.
Al-Shabab is battling Soma-
lia's weak, U.N.-backed gov-
ernment. The militants have

recently been weakened by fam-
ine in territory they control.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

U.S. deficit reduction plan
GOP calls Obama which he challenged Congress to recommending deficitreductions
approve, would predominantly of up to $1.5 trillion.
plan to tax the hit upper-income taxpayers and Defending his emphasis on
would also target tax loopholes new taxes rather than only
richest Americans and subsidies used by many spending reductions, Obama
w r e larger corporations. It would said: "We can't just cut our way
class warfare spare retirees from any changes out of this hole."
in Social Security, and it would The Republican reaction was
WASHINGTON (AP) - direct most of the cuts in Medi- swift and bluntly dismissive.
Drawing clear battle lines for care spending to health care pro- "Veto threats, a massive tax
next year's elections, a combat- viders, not beneficiaries. hike, phantom savings and
ive President Barack Obama Benefit programs wouldn't punting on entitlement reform
demanded yesterday that the be unscathed. Obama's plan is not a recipe for economic or
richest Americans pay higher would reduce spending for those, job growth-or even meaningful
taxes to help cut soaring U.S. including Medicare and Med- deficit reduction," said Senate
deficits by more than $3 trillion. icaid, by $580 billion. But with Republican leader Mitch McCo-
He promised to veto any effortby Republicans calling for massive nnell. "The good news is that the
congressional Republicans to cut cuts in entitlement programs, Joint Committee is taking this
Medicare benefits for the elderly Obama said he would veto any issue far more seriously than the
without raising taxes as well. legislation that cut Medicare White House."
"This is not class warfare. It's benefits without raising new rev- The president announced
math," Obama declared, antici- enue. his deficit reduction plan in a
pating Republican criticism, His plan also would count sav- 20-minute speech from the Rose
which was quick in coming. ings of $1 trillion over 10 years Garden at the White House. But
"Class warfare isn't lead- from the withdrawal of U.S. even as he called for Congress:
ership," House Speaker John troops from Iraq and Afghani- to act and tackle the nation's
Boehner said, in Cincinnati. stan. escalating debt, he gave greater
Obama's speech marked a new, The deficit-reduction plan urgency to his separate, short-
confrontational stance toward represents Obama's longer-term term jobs proposal. "I'm ready to
Republicans after months of follow-up to the $447 billion in sign a bill," he said. "I've got the
cooperation that many Deno- tax cuts and new public works pens all ready."
crats complained produced too spending that he has proposed as Indeed, the White House is
many concessions. While the a short-term measure to stimu- determined not to let the presi-
plan stands little chance of pass- late the economy. The new pro- dent get trapped in a debate over
ing Congress, its populist pitch posal also inserts the president's austerity measures at a time that
is one that the White House voice into the legislative discus- the economy is sputtering and
believes the public can support. sions of a joint congressional unemployment doesn't appear
The president's proposal, "supercommittee" charged with to be budging from 9.1 percent.

Detroit Council
member Jenkins
talks importance of
Semester in Detroit
Participants can make a comeback in Detroit,
and that is what keeps me going
share experiences each and everysingle day."
There has been a recent
working in city influx of employment in Detroit,
according to Jenkins. She noted
By BRANDON SHAW that health insurance company
DailyStaffReporter Blue Cross Blue Shield added
300 jobs in the city over the past
For the winter semester, some six months, and mortgage broker
students are gearing up to study Quicken Loans recently added
on a different continent, some 2,200 jobs.
are lookingahead to a term in the Jenkins also highlighted ini-
nation's capital and others will tiatives in the city, such as envi-
be a little closer to Ann Arbor - ronmental clean-ups and the
in Detroit. , addition of healthier food stores,
Participants and prospec- aimed at improving the city's
tive members of the University's image.
Semester in Detroit program Craig ,Regester, associate
gathered in Weill Hall last night director of Semester in Detroit,
to hear Detroit City Council described the program as an
member Saunteel Jenkins speak "academic immersion experi-
about the city's economic condi- ence" that takes students from a
tion. Past participants discussed variety of schools in the Univer-
what they learned through the sity to spend either a winter or
program, how it affected them spring semester living in Detroit.
and how those lessons could "Just as we remain connect-
impact their future. ed to Detroit's glories, there is
Jenkins told the crowd of much to be learned about its
about 50 people that the Semes- problems," Regester said. "We
ter in Detroit program is impor- need to look past the ruins and
tant because it brings students connect with the people and
from different backgrounds issues at hand."
together and engages them in LSA senior Emily Dabish
a variety of projects in the city, spoke to the group about her
including ventures focused on participation in the Semester in
the revival of Detroit's economy. Detroit during the spring and an
Quoting a recent article internship she had in Jenkins's
in TIME magazine, Jenkins office over the summer. She told
described Detroit's population those in attendance last night
boom in the early 20th century that Detroit is a fulfilling place
when people of all races moved to work.
from the South to the Midwest "I can assure you, Detroit is
to work in the automotive indus- open for business," she said.
try. Now, however, many people In an interview prior to
compare the industry to the the event, Kinesiology senior
city's downtrodden economy, Rashard Haynesworth, another
Jenkins said. participant in the Semester in
Though many have equated Detroit this past spring, said he
Detroit with an austere out- wanted to find a way to give back
look, Jenkins said she remains to the city, where he is originally
optimistic abouttheeity's pros..from- ====
pects. Jenkins added that with "The main thing I took away
the right minds and dedication was that I learned a lot about
toward rebuilding the city, she local startups (and) local busi-
believes it can be healed. nesses," Haynesworth said. "... I
"Although the picture painted learned a lot about things I never
may seem bleak, I believe whole- knew - opportunities that exist-
heartedly in the city of Detroit," ed in my city I never knew about
she said. "I do believe that we - because I did this program."
COME TO OUR LAST
MASS MEETING TONIGHT
7:30 p.m. at the Student Publications
Building, 420 Maynard St.

WEBSITE
From Page_1
of colored indicators that will
show whether a specific service
area has met, come close to or
exceeded its budgeted amount
of funds. For example, the city's
Police Services Area has spent
99 percent of the $40,417,657 it
was allotted in the city's 2011
budget, according to the web-
site.
Karen Lancaster, accounting
services manager for the city,
said the city was looking for a
way to combine budget infor-
mation that has been previously
available to citizens with real
financial data about the city's
latest revenue gains and expen-
ditures that hasn't been readily
accessible before.
Lancaster added that
A20penBook should not be con-
fused with extensive, detailed
financial reports that the city
already provides on request.
Rather, it should be thought of
as a more user-friendly way to
monitor city finances.
"It's meant to give people
an interactive, more high-level
look," Lancaster said.
According to the site, the
University has paid the city
$327,382 for services related to
football games, though the city
was listed as budgeted to receive
$218,000 from the University in
fiscal year 2011.
A2OpenBook also shows
that the city has paid the Uni-
versity $372,819.64 in the fiscal
year 2011. The majority of the
money - more than 89 percent
of it - was spent on "land and
improvements," according to the
website.
City Council member Sabra
Briere (D-Ward 1) said she is
happy Ann Arbor residents

will be able to view city finance
information that will be updated
every day. Briere also praised
the city forbeingmore transpar-
ent through A2OpenBook and
said it sets a model for other cit-
ies.
"Technology is allowing for
more transparency, and the city
is taking advantage of it," Bri-
ere said. "I think we've really
come a long way in the almost
four years I've been on council
with getting information out
to the public."
COUNCIL DISCUSSES
PUBLIC ART FUNDS
At yesterday's city coun-
cil meeting, Briere expressed
concern about the allocation
of city funds for public art.
She sponsored an ordinance
on yesterday's agenda that
would amend the city's public
art laws by specifying where
funds for public arts should
come from.
The first reading ofthe ordi-
nance was tabled until after
council's work session regard-
ing public art in November.
Mark Tucker, a lecturer
and arts director in the Lloyd
Hall Scholars Program, spoke
in the public commentary sec-
tion of the meeting about pub-
lic art funding. Though he said
the living-learning program
receives no funding from the.
city, he expressed concern
about the future of public art.
In an interview after the
meeting, Tucker said LISP's
Festifools event- an annual
parade in which giant puppets
made by students are paraded
down Main Street - is the
primary way the program is
involved in public art in the
city.
Tucker said he doesn't
A

believe Briere's ordinance will
pass and he is concerned that
vocal members of the commu-
nity won't want taxes to go to
public art.
"(Some taxpayers) always feel
like, for some reason, they don't
want a penny of their money to
go to anything that is called
'art,' Tucker said.

Sultan Sooud
Al-Qassemi
Founder and Chairman, Barjeel Securities
Nonresident Fellow, Dubai School of Government
Co-host of Business Tonight, a weekly Dubai
radio show
Wednesday, September 21, 2011
4:00-5:30 p.m.
Free and open to the public.
Reception to follow.
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Annenberg Auditorium 1 1120 Weill Hall
735 S. State Street I Ann Arbor, MI 48109
Gerald R. Ford .
School of Public Policy
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

He "wrote the first draft of
Middle East history in short
sentences tapped out on his
computer and his cell phone."
- NPR

4


0

4 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

HANNAH DOW

E-MAIL HANNAH AT HDOW UMICIo.E)U

STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

NICK SPAR
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Dome stic dispute
Same-sex partners should get employee benefits
The Republican-led Michigan House is again attempting to
ban domestic partner benefits. The House passed two bills
last week, both of which seek to prohibit public employ-
ees from extending their benefits to live-in companions including
unmarried partners and roommates. These bills further demon-
strate Michigan Republicans' disregard of domestic partnerships,
and the state Senate should not pass them.

Though the legislation labels unmarried
heterosexual partners of state employees as
individuals who may not receive benefits, the
spirit of the law specifically targets same-
sex couples. The proposed bills would make
it impossible for same-sex partners of public
employees to receive benefits, since gay mar-
riage was banned in Michigan in 2004. If the
legislation passes in the Senate, unmarried het-
erosexual couples have recourse to obtain state
employee benefits. Same-sex couples - as leg-
islators well know - will not have that option.
After a series of recent, high-profile legisla-
tion recognizing the rights of homosexual men
and women - notably the state of New York -
it's unfortunate that the Michigan Legislature
continues its efforts to constrain what many
consider to be basic, equal rights. However,
that is exactly what the House did this week in
passing the pair of bills. The state Legislature
doesn't have the authority to define morality
and individual behaviors of consenting adults.
The passage of the legislation by the state Sen-
ate would limit access to benefits for people in
domestic partnerships.
This vote makes Michigan a particularly
unfriendly place for the gay community. If
t is bill does pass, Michigan could drive
homosexuals and the greater LGBTQ com-
munity out of the state. Analysts predict that
the ban could save the state about $8 mil-
lion in the upcoming year, but they neglect
to examine what could potentially be lost if
lawmakers push the LGBTQ community out
of Michigan. If the legislation truly stems

from economic considerations, then the Leg-
islature would be cutting partner benefits
across the board, instead of isolating a spe-
cific group. Since only domestic partnerships
are being targeted, the legislation is clearly
based on social considerations.
Though the proposal extends to universi-
ties, schools and local governments, Democrats
say public universities have the constitutional
power to establish their own rules regarding
partner benefits. The University should assert
its autonomy and allow for domestic compan-
ions to collect benefits regardless of the Senate
vote outcome. This cannot be a subject of col-
lective bargaining-the University should defy
the tentative ban and maintain its commitment
to diversity and equality.
The Michigan Civil Service Commission
also has the authority to decide on the types
of benefits given to state employees. A vote
already took place earlier this year to allow
domestic partner benefits for certain state
employees beginning in October. The Univer-
sity should follow the group's precedent and
offer the same benefits forlive-in companions.
As citizens of an open democracy, we
shouldn't be trying to restrict the practices
of individuals. The House should spend its
time working on bills pertaining to jobs and
the economy, rather than individual lifestyles.
Michigan can't afford to become an unfriend-
ly state to any community and should strive to
be a welcoming place. Senators should ensure
that this bill is thrown out when it reaches
their floor.

Season student football tickets: $210.00
Posters to decorate your new dorm room: $40.00
New North Face backpack: $75.00
Paying 400 dollars for books you will never use again:
PRICELESS
A balancing act
T hose who know me would school thespian. So I didn't. I diver- of pushing a radical gay agenda,
not be surprised to find out sified my portfolio and I wrote on a it's because they feel they couldn't
that I did theater in high host of topics that often had nothing push any other sort of agenda if they
school. Some- to do with Jews or anythinggay. came out. Other minority groups
thing about the out of the seven articles I wrote experience the same rigid charac-
glint in my eye, during my last semester as a col- terization, even if they don't have
I suppose. Nor umnist, one focused on Israel and the curse or blessingof being able to
would it shock one discussed a matter of gay iden- hide in the closet. The woman politi-
them to hear tity. And among the eight columns cian; the black television anchor; the
that I played I wrote during the semester before disabled political correspondent.
most of my roles that, not a single one centered on
as Jews, even - anything specific to the Jewish or
when the script MATTHEW LGBTQ communities. Yet upon my
didn't call for it. GREEN return from a semester abroad, I I don't w ant to be
(I once played a heard from multiple people, "We
Christian mis- missed all of your gay, Jewish col- pigeonholed into
sionary with a Yiddish accent. "Chas umns when you were gone."
v'sholom, Sergeant Sarah, they're These remarks were surely meant any one category.
going to close the mission!") Most to be kind or lighthearted, and I
of the time I did this to ham up a only took them as such. But as I sat
comic role for even bigger laughs. down to write this week's column,
Sometimes my directors specifical- I couldn't help but get a little self- We fit people and ideas into neat
ly asked me to do so. And I suspect conscious. I initially considered little boxes that don't accurately rep-
there were times when they cast me writing a column about the Pales- resent them as abstract entities. And
in roles they thought would be par- tinian statehood bid, until I decided while there are surely times to focus
ticularly humorous with an added oy I didn't want to advance an overly on race, gender or sexuality, we have
here and there. Jewish image. Then I contemplated to be careful about reducing people
I never got any lead roles. Apart writing about Jane Lynch hosting to what - in some contexts, anyway
from being a lousy actor, I knew the Emmys this weekend and what - are ultimately just adjectives. It's
this had something to do with the it implied for the gay rights move- obvious, perhaps, but this lesson
fact that I always played each part ment. But wait, another gay column? is something we need to remem-
the same way. A lesson was to be I could just imagine the eyes begin- ber particularly at a time when our
learned. ning to roll, national political discourse increas-
Fast forward four years.. The So in my neurotic attempt to ingly follows the logic of: I am this.
scene has changed, I'm somewhat come across as neither overtly gay You are that.So we are enemies, and
more able to grow facial hair and nor Jewish, I'm presenting myself as I won't listen to you.
I've traded scripts and costumes for both. Don't get me wrong, I think it's In my columns I have strived
the opinion page of my college news- terrific to have a Jewish, gay voice as to find a balance, in content and in
paper. When I started writing my part of The Michigan Daily. And I'm style, between the various elements
own column, I attempted to use the proud to be that person, from time that make up my voice. I accept as
medium to find my voice as a writ- to time, when it's relevant. But I'm a a published writer that I have little
er. Naturally, my Jewishness again little concerned by howsome people control over how I am perceived. I
came to the fore. This time, how- pigeonhole me and refuse to see me can only hope that readers view me
ever, it was coupled with a burgeon- in any other light. as more than just "the gay, Jewish
ing desire to explore my gay identity Even today, there are actors in columnist." Even if I have to write a
through columns. Somewhere along Hollywood who refuse to come out gay, Jewish column to get there.
the road, my parents warned me that as gay because if they did, audiences
I ought not typecast myself again, struggle to see them as anything but. -Matthew Green can be reached
lest I suffer the fate I met as a high It's not because they'd be accused at greenmat@umich.edu.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300
words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print anonymous
letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com
VANESSA RYCHLINSKI |
Punishing patients,

0
0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Patrick Maillet,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley,
Teddy Papes, Timothy Rabb, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
CAROLINE SYMS I
Many steps for health reform

Republican Gov. Rick Snyder recently pro-
posed his "revolutionary plan" to create a
healthier state - one that is free of obesity
and full of wellness. Snyder aims to grant
children better access to healthy foods and
exercise, regulate childhood obesity through
routine body mass measurements and create
an exchange for citizens and businesses to buy
health insurance. Snyder also wants Michigan
to join the 27 states that provide coverage for
autism. In addition to these governmental reg-
ulations, Snyder calls upon Michigan's citizens
to take control of their own lifestyles through
a new "4x4" fitness program that encourages
citizens to make healthier food choices, exer-
cise more frequently and take initiative to visit
their doctors regularly.
It's commendable that Snyder wants to
promote health throughout Michigan since
obtaining a healthy lifestyle should always be
a number one priority for all individuals. Sny-
der's decision to provide health coverage for
people with autism is also incredibly impor-
tant; it's time the government acknowledges
the severity of the disorder and does its best to
aid those affected. I am finding, however, that
Snyder has not thought through the logistics
of this new health reform as thoroughly as he
should.
For starters, it doesn't.seem plausible that
the government alone will be able to afford
to implement these drastic changes. So, what
does that mean for Michigan citizens? Taxes.
While Snyder does call upon federal funding
and grants to meet the requirements for his
plan, what will the source of that funding boil
down to? My best guess is taxpayers. Michi-
gan families will be the ones spending their
hard-earned dollars on Snyder's reforms, but
how are low-income families supposed to par-
ticipate?
This leads me to believe that it's not the
right time for Michigan to begin these numer-
ous health care modificaions. Why is Snyder
trying to turn obesity around right now? Yes,
changes need to start somewhere at some

time, but Americans across the country have
been struggling with obesity and health care
coverage for a long time with no real improve-
ments resulting. Similarly, engaging in Sny-
der's plan for an exclusively healthy diet seems
to be a leisure of the wealthy, since they are the
ones able to afford large supplies of organical-
ly grown foods and healthier products on the
whole. Low-income families don't have this
luxury, so Snyder's "4x4" plan isn't exactly
realistic for the entire state.
There certainly are alternative, more
affordable measures that the government
can implement for promoting healthy living
throughout the state. We know exercising
is one of the best things you can do for your
body, so why doesn't Snyder focus on organiz-
ing campaigns at local schools, events or busi-
nesses to relay the importance of engaging in
daily exercise? After all, walking or running in
the fresh air doesn't even cost a penny. If indi-
viduals of all ages are educated about the ben-
efits of exercise and the difference it makes in
creating healthy lifestyles, then everyone wins
and economic pressures are put to rest.
First and foremost, however, the local
government should place an emphasis on
childhood education in general, so children
can become intellectually capable of mak-
ing healthy choices and will have a chance to
overcome poverty by securing employment in
the future. This will help low-income families
overcome poverty. Then the state can focus
on these drastic reforms. By first controlling
unemployment and poverty, the state will
be much better off at actually succeeding in
health reform.
If Snyder uses smaller, tactful steps to
emphasize the sheer importance of both edu-
cation and simple exercise, it will go a long
way in leveling the economic playing field so
that everyone has equal opportunity to par-
ticipate in turning Michigan into a health-
conscious state.
Caroline Syms is an LSA sophomore.

The Michigan Court of Appeals ruled medical mari-
juana dispensaries in Michigan to be unconstitutional
Wednesday, Aug. 24. The following day, two dispensa-
ries in Ann Arbor were raided by the Livingston and
Washtenaw Narcotics Enforcement Team. State police
officers, in head-to-toe black outfits complete with face
masks, stood in front of MedMar on Packard and A2 Go
Green Corp on Main Street. Officers loaded cardboard
boxes into white vans, likely containing thousands of
dollars in assets. Three staff members were arrested.
With the entire hubbub, it is important to look at other
recent events before speculating about the future of
medical marijuana.
The Oakland County Narcotics Enforcement
Team conducted another raid almost exactly a year
ago. Spearheaded by Oakland County Sherriff Mike
Bouchard, more than $750,000 worth of medicine and
plants was seized from two dispensaries in Waterford
Township and Ferndale, Michigan.
Voters sent a strong message in Nov. 2008 when they
approved the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act by a 63
percent majority. As Chuck Ream, co-owner of MedMar,
said on Thursday in an AnnArbor.com article, "I real-
ly didn't think that they (federal police) would do this
because we have so much support from the voters here."
Unfortunately the lack of clarity in the legislation
allows for many to take advantage of the system, from
those participating in the industry to moralists who
wish to shut it down. This latest attack on local Michi-
gan businesses was not altogether unforeseeable. This
past June, the U.S. Department of Justice stated in a
public memo that people involved in cultivating, sell-
ing or distributing marijuana may be subject to federal
enforcement action and potential prosecution.
When Isabella County filed the complaint that the
Compassionate Apothecary in Mount Pleasant, Michi-
gan was a "public nuisance" that violated the pub-
lic health code, it was easy for the Michigan Appeals
Court to rule* the sale of pot between persons with
state-issued cards unconstitutional (i.e. virtually all
entities who make the MMMA possible).
Former Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox
blocked previous Drug Enforcement Administration-
issued subpoenas for patient records, which demanded
everything from state-issued identification cards to
payment information. Cox rightfully cited the attempt
as a violation of patient confidentiality. Bill Schuette,

his successor, handed over the documents to the DEA
after less than a week of being in office.
The MMMA has never been succinct and has never
protected the people that it was supposed to empow-
er - allowing only the "delivery" and "transfer" of
medicine rather than explicit sale by a business. If the
law had included some mention of dispensaries, then
Michigan businesses would have had something legiti-
mate to stand behind. Dan Riffle, legislative analyst for
the Marijuana Policy Project, has stated the state ought
to have provided a control model for dispensaries, pro-
viding a legislative base that has been lacking thus far.
The law would be clear from either side of the fence,
and all dispensaries would be responsible for adhering
to a set of standards. Furthermore, the state could also
tax businesses, generating much-needed revenue fo- a
depressed economy.
It seems that such legislation will be necessary if the
medical marijuana industry hopes to continue. Opera-
tion within the "gray area" of the law will no longer
be possible. The bottom line is marijuana used for
medicinal purposes is legal - cardholders have a right
to their medication. Schuette and the DOJ clearly wish
for patients to look on the streets for their needs, since
in two short days they have simultaneously delegiti-
mized a process that has been approved by the people
of Michigan and deprived sick people of their rights.
Schuette's job is to protect and oversee laws, not make
new ones based on the fact that he's in the pocket of
pharmaceutical companies.
It's hard to say how the industry can rebound from
this setback. The day before the raids when dispen-
saries were ruled illegal, an intern at OM of Medi-
cine in Ann Arbor pointed out to me, this event only
serves to make any pro-pot organization that much
more difficult to exist. Many small business owners
saw their livelihoods literally dismantled before their
eyes because of the raids, losing funds and assets as
well as spirit. Despite President Barack Obama's prom-
ises regarding medical marijuana, his administration's
DOJ has interfered more than that of former President
George W. Bush. What's even more disheartening?
That in this economic downturn, a Michigan official
would be willing to halt a source of revenue instead of
accommodating it.
Vanessa Rychlinski is an LSA junior.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 20, 2011 - 5

W LAWSUIT
From Page 1
against the HathiTrust Digital
Library - of which the Univer-
sity is an inaugural member -
the University of Wisconsin, the
University of California, Indiana
University and Cornell Univer-
sity.
In a statement released Fri-
day on the University Library's
website, the University acknowl-
edged that there were "a number
of errors, some of them serious"
with the Orphan Works Project.
"Having learned from our mis-
takes - we are, after all, an edu-
cational institution - we have
already begun an examination
of our procedures to identify the
gaps that allowed volumes that
are evidently not orphan works
to be added to the list," the state-
ment said. "Once we create a
more robust, transparent, and
fully documented process, we
will proceed with the work."
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily last week, Paul
Courant, the University's dean of
libraries, said the library's use of
COLEMAN
From Page 1
important decisions about the
endowment and how to manage
the endowment," Coleman said.
"(We've been) smart about the
investments made, but this envi-
ronment is going to force us to act
like a private institution."
Coleman reported an aver-
age 9-percent annual return on
investments for the endowment
over the past 10 years, despite
suffering a negative 23-percent
return in 2009. In fiscal year
2010, the University experienced
a 12.3-percent return on invest-
ments.
Coleman emphasized the
importance of a strong endow-

the scanned books was not in vio-
lation of copyright law.
"We're not using these books
in any way that competes with
the use of the marketplace," Cou-
rant said.
However, the Author's Guild
- a non-profit organization
that supports the legal rights of
authors - published a blog post.
on its website last Wednesday
that said the guild had located one
of the authors included on the list
of orphan works to be released by
the University.
The author, J.R. Salamanca, is
a professor emeritus at the Uni-
versity of Maryland. The Author's
Guild wrote in the blog that Sal-
amanca wrote two successful
books that were made into mov-
ies - starring Elvis Presley and
Warren Beatty - and will soon
have one of his books rereleased
as an e-book.
The Author's Guild reached out
to Salamanca's son and his liter-
ary agent, neither of whom knew
that his work was to be included
in the Orphan Works Project.
"(Salamanca's son) told us
that he, too, hadn't heard of the
HathiTrust Orphan Works Proj-

ect and was stunned to learn that
his father's first book was set to
be released online to hundreds of
thousands of students," the blog
states.
The University Library state-
ment said the University will con-
tinue to work with the authors
and publishers to ensure the proj-
ect is a success.
"The widespread dissemina-
tion of the list has had the intend-
ed effect: rights holders have
been identified, which is in fact
the project's primary goal," the
statement reads. "And as a result
of the design of our process, our
mistakes have not resulted in the
exposure of even one page of in-
copyright material."
Paul Aiken, executive director
of the Authors Guild - the lead
plaintiff in the lawsuit - said in
an interview with the Daily last
week that the authors are asking
for an injunction to remove the
copyrighted works off the Inter-
net until Congress establishes
a firm policy regarding digital
libraries.
"Security is a top concern,"
Aiken said. "These works do not
belong to the universities."

1960s activist, SDS president
Carl Oglesby dies at age 76

Oglesby known for
anti-Vietnam
War speeches
By HALEY GLATTHORN
Daily StaffReporter
Renowned 1960s activist and
University alum Carl Oglesby,
who was best known as an orator
and a leader in protests against
the Vietnam War, died last week
at the age of 76.
Oglesby's friend, Todd Gitlin,
told The Associated Press that
Oglesby was battling lung can-
cer that had expanded into other
parts of his body. He died last
Tuesday in his home in Mont-
clair, N.J.
Oglesby attended classes at
the University in the early 1960s
while working for a defense con-
tractor. He came into contact
with University activist group
Students for a Democratic Soci-
ety in 1964 and was so passion-
ate about its message that he
soon became the organization's
president.
Tom Hayden, a University
alum, activist and former Michi-
gan Daily editor in chief, said
Oglesby joined SDS when the
Vietnam War was beginning to
garner greater national atten-
tion.
"He was an important fig-

ure in the anti-war movement,"
Hayden said. "He was not just an
activist but a serious intellectual
(and) a serious writer. More than
anything else, (he was) a special-
ist in words."
On Nov. 27, 1965, Oglesby gave
one of the mostly widely recog-
nized speeches of the era at an
anti-war rally in Washington
D.C. During his speech, titled
"Let Us Shape the Future,"
Oglesby criticized American
political leaders by saying,
"good men can be divided from
their compassion by the insti-
tutional system that inherits us
all."
Oglesby was 30 years old
when he joined SDS, and Stephen
Selbst, a former Daily writer who
wrote an article on former SDS
leaders in the 1970s, said many of
the organization's members con-
sidered Oglesby a mentor.
"He was like the older states-
man," Selbst said. "Most of the
people he was dealing with
were students, so he was half a
generation older. Many of the
students sort of looked up to
him as the grandfather (of the
group)."
Hayden said 1965 marked the
start of Americans "questioning
the draft and questioning the
war," and Oglesby captured that
doubt in his speeches during his
term as SDS president and after.
The anti-war movement that

SDS began at the Univelsity in
1960 later spread throughout the
country and pushed SDS into the
national and media spotlight as
a symbol of student empower-
ment. However, Hayden said
by 1968, the organization had
become irreconcilably divided
and came to an end shortly
thereafter.
"People like Carl were wound-
ed by that because they had
invested their lives and their
careers by taking years of time
and devoting it to a cause that
was embodied by an organiza-
tion," Hayden said. "So when
the organization fell apart, they
were wounded. It took a long
time to recover."
Oglesby's later accomplish-
ments include teaching at
Dartmouth University and
Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and publishing sev-
eral books, including a memoir
in 2008. Hayden said Oglesby
will be most remembered for his
speeches that compassionately
encompassed the anti-war per-
spectives of the time.
"I don't think he'll be remem-
bered for an organizational
contribution or having changed
public policy. I think he'll be
remembered and referred to as
a voice of a generation," Hayden
said. "Not the only voice, but the
particular voice of SDS and its
opposition to Vietnam."


ment to fund faculty projects.
"What keeps me awake at
night (is) generating the money
that we have to have to fund fac-
ulty ideas,"Coleman said. "The
faculty always has more great
ideas than we have the (money
to fund). That's the end all, be all
for me."
Coleman added that the state
cannot regulate the organization
of the University's endowment
- unlike funding regulations at
other institutions like the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. The
endowment at UNC is regulated
through "35 budget lines" that
manage funding for various ben-
eficiaries within the university.
Additionally, the number of
out-of-state students admitted to
the University is unrestricted by

the state, which Coleman said is
unusual for a public university.
The ratio of in-state to out-of-
state students at the University
has traditionally been 65 percent
to 35 percent since 2004.
Full-time undergraduate LSA
students from out-of-state are
paying $18,794 per semester this
academic year, while Michigan
residents with the same provi-
sions are paying $6,220, accord-
ing to the University's Office of
the Registrar website.
"Our hands are not tied," Cole-
man said. "(However), there may
be political realities. We wouldn't
want to go to 70 percent out-of-
state because that would be seen
as an affront to the state, but right
now I think we're in a very advan-
tageous position."

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@MichiganDaily, @MichDailySports, @MichDailyFball,
@MichDailyArts, @MichDailyOped

'LIKE' THE DAILY ON FACEBOOK 06


party for the planet!
Tuesday, September 27
Central Campus Diag
Noon - 4pm

THEY TOOK IT TO
THE SUPREME COURT AND WON!

Join us for free food, giveaways, activities, and

-5

Our students shepherded a case through the lower courts and on
to the nation's highest, stunning the immigration world with a
unanimous decision. Hands-on training is a large part of what we
do at the University of Houston Law Center. But it's just part of
what we offer. The Law Center combines the best of all worlds:
. Excellence in education with multiple "Top Ten" specialty
programs
. Reasonable tuition and fees
. A campus recognized as one of the most diverse in the United
States
We are a Tier One law school in a Tier One university. In addition,
our home is Houston: the nation's fourth largest city with a robust
legal employment market and an affordable cost of living to make
the most of your budget. There's a lot to like about our school.
Find out more at www.low.uh.edu.

I A&A

i


6 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Don't care 'How She Does It'

No Oscars for
movie magic

Sarah Jessica
Parker in another
self-centered film
By LEAH BURGIN
Senior Arts Editor
"I Don't Know How She Does
It" is to movies what White Peo-
ple Problems is to the Internet:
The meme can
be funny, it can **
be poignant,
but in the end, I Don't
it gets annoy-
ing. Similar Know How
to the endless She Does It
Tumblr streams
bemoaning how At Quality16
far away a com- and Rave
puter charger is The Weinstein
or how someone Company
had too much
food for lunch,
"I Don't Know How She Does It"
focuses on the seemingly endless
day-to-day "problems" in Kate
Reddy's (Sarah Jessica Parker,
"Sex and the City 2") perfectly
normal life.
Like most people in this world
who have multiple commitments,
Kate struggles to find a way to
juggle the different spheres of her
life, be it her fast-paced financial
career, planning birthday parties
for her two adorable children or
finding time for romance with her
equally adorable hubby Richard
(Greg Kinnear, "Baby Mama").
While the film explores these
realistic issues most people have
to deal with, it does so in an unre-
alistic way.
"I Don't Know How She Does
It" takes away the universality
of balancing one's life and makes
it a feat only Kate can perform
successfully. In addition to Kate

"You didn't see me in 'Mamma Mia!,' did you?'

bizarrely popping out of frozen
scenes to address the audience
with cheesy remarks on situa-
tions, the fourth wall is broken
frequently and disjointedly by
"Office"-esque asides. These bar-
rages come from Kate's babysit-
ter Paula (Jessica Szohr, TV's
"Gossip Girl"), assistant Momo
(Olivia Munn, "Iron Man 2"), best
friend Allison (Christina Hen-
dricks, TV's "Mad Men"), work
enemy Chris Bunce (Seth Meyers,
TV's "Saturday Night Live") and
rival Wendy Best (Busy Philipps,
"Made of Honor"), who all gush
over how unbelievable Kate is and
how they can't understand how
she keeps it all together.
These asides are apoor artistic
choice, as they rely on a heavy-
handed approach to discuss the
film's key themes without any
attempt at subtlety. They empha-
size the one-dimensional nature
of the supporting characters but
can also be quite amusing - espe-
cially those delivered by Meyers

- or impactful, like the points
Hendricks's character brings up
to demonstrate the inequality of
women in the workplace.
One particularly illustrative
example Hendricks uses is the
difference between a man and a
woman leaving work to pick up
a sick child - a man is hailed as
a loving, caring hero of a father
while a woman in the same situ-
ation is considered unorganized,
disobedient and too emotional.
For 20-something females who
may soon enter the workplace
and start a family, this is scary to
think about. This commentobrings
into sharp relief that these are
issues all working moms face, and
they face them every day. Even
though everyone else in the movie
thinks Kate is special, she isn't.
It's because of the unfairness
of these double standards that
the relationship between Kate
and her project partner Jack
Abelhammer (Pierce Brosnan,
"Mamma Mia!") is so refreshing.

While there is, initially, some
sexual tension between the two,
Kate and Jack ultimately develop
a friendship - with Jack call-
ing her Bill for who knows what
reason - during their long hours
spent together working on a pro-
posal. In an uncommonly por-
trayed dynamic, Jack and Kate
are equals, not a Good Old Boy
treating a female colleague like
a secretary or sex object. Their
relationship doesn't go the other
way either, with Kate losing her
femininity to become a "bro."
While Kate and Jack have an
enlightening friendship, their
interactions can't save the rest of
the film from the trite dialogue,
overused situational humor and
general blandness that perme-
ate the story's my-life-is-hard-
so-pity-and-revere-me attitude.
If anything, "I Don't Know How
She Does It" really only proves
one thing - Pierce Brosnan is the
only human alive who can make
bowling look sexy.


This summer, the
"Harry Potter" film
series came to its
dramatic conclusion with the
much-anticipated final install-
ment _
"Harry
Potter and
the Death-
ly Hallows:
Part 2."
Maybe
you heard
about it. PHILIP
Since its CONKLIN
release, the-
film has
been the subject of a certain
amount of 2012 Oscar buzz,
which is warranted consider-
ing its critical and commercial
success.
The film performed bet-
ter at the box office than its
seven predecessors. It holds
the record for biggest opening
weekend, is the third highest-
grossing film of all time world-
wide (the next highest-ranking
Potter film is 2001's "Sorcerer's
Stone") and holds the all-time
record for highest-grossing
opening day. It was also widely
heralded by critics, earning
a score of 96 percent on the
popular online film review
aggregator Rotten Tomatoes
("Prisoner of Azkaban" is next
highest at 91 percent).
To add to the film's Oscar
chances, the Academy has a
penchant for awarding Oscars
for sentimental reasons. Al
Pacino's Best Actor win in 1993
for "Scent of a Woman" and
Hal Holbrook's Best Support-
ing Actor nod for 2008's "Into
the Wild" were both recogni-
tions of brilliant careers, not
necessarily brilliant individual
performances. And no film
could be more sentimental than
the conclusion to the cross-
geherational, culture-defining
"Harry Potter" series.
Despite all this, "Deathly
Hallows: Part 2" will not win
the Best Picture Oscar. It will
probably be nominated, but
it won't win. And even those
critics who praised it so highly,
even the diehard fans of the
film, surely would admit that
it's hard to imagine a film like
this one winning Best Picture.
It just doesn't seem right.
It's because the Academy
doesn't give awards in the
major categories to films that
aren't "serious," in their stuffy,
conservative definition of
that word. "Serious," to them,
means films that aren't ani-
mated, comedies or targeted at
a young audience. And "Harry
Potter" is a prime example of a
film that the Academy doesn't
find to be "serious," and doesn't
take seriously. If "Harry Pot-
ter" were an eight-part series
about the Holocaust, it would
be a shoe-in for every major
award this Oscar season.
Take the 2011 Oscars. "The
Social Network" and "The
King's Speech" had battled
pretty evenly in the awards
shows leading up to the Oscars.
But when it came to Oscar
night, "King's Speech" beat
out "Social Network" in every
major category in which they
were both nominated - Best

Picture, Director and Actor.
This didn't happen because
of either film's relative quality.
I think "The Social Network"
was a better film than "The
King's Speech" (and so did the
Golden Globes, if that legiti-

mizes my opinion at all). It's
because "King's Speech" fits
the model of what the Acad-
emy considers a "serious" film
better than does "The Social
Network." It is an uplifting
story of a man overcoming
overwhelming odds, starring
well-established actors, with a
conventional narrative struc-
ture. "The Social Network," on
the other hand, is a film about
and for the youth, with an edgi-
er visual style and more adven-
turous narrative structure.
This misappropriation of
Oscars can be summed up thus-
ly: Regardless of a film's artistic
merit, the Academy will not
consider films outside of their
aforementioned narrow-mind-
ed, arbitrary notions of what is
"serious." Films within these
strict parameters are compared
based on merit, but anything
,outside of them is ignored.
This is the reason animated
films are not given their due at
the Oscars. While the Best Ani-
mated Film category assures
that animated films will be rec-
ognized at the Oscars, it also
marginalizes them, implying
they are inferior to live-action
films. In the history of the
Academy Awards, only three
animated films have ever been
nominated for Best Picture:
"Beauty and the Beast" (1991),
"Up" (2009), and "Toy Story
3" (2010) - a fact that is even
more shocking when you con-
sider the number of great ani-
mated films that have come out
just in the last 20 years (all the
Pixar films, "The Iron Giant"
and Hayao Miyazaki's films).
While the recent increase in
animated film representation
in the Best Picture category
seems encouraging, it becomes
less so when you consider the
increase two years ago to 10
nominees.
The Academy
is probably full
of Slytherins
anyhow.
Comedies also fall short of
the Academy's strict conditions
for approval. A comedy, clearly,
cannot be "serious." The only
comedy to win Best Picture
in the last 30 years is "Shake-
speare in Love" (1998).
To name all the worthy
candidates since then would
be an undertaking too ambi-
tious for this column. Suffice
it to say that comedy gets no
respect. No matter how funny,
well-crafted or well-written
a comedy is, it will still be an
underdog to every halfway
decent drama.
Clearly, many worthy films
are not getting their due at
the Oscars. We can only hope
that, preferably in the next few
years, the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences will
remove itself from the stuffy,
narrow-minded rut it has
become stuck in, and, disre-

garding a film's genre or target
demographic, judge films only
on their value as a work of cin-
ematic art.
Conklin is sitting on his couch
waiting for Oscar season. To join
him, e-mail conklin@umich.edu.

0
6
0
0

EARN $1000-$3200 A month to drive
our brand new cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
**BARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. AGE 18+ No exp. nec.,
training avail. 800-965-6520x125

0

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, September 20, 2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Organ whistle 51 Cause of odd
1 Word on a red 1 Great Pyramid 37 High point weather
octagon passages 38 Source of linen 52 Equipsfor use
5 Tree-trunk 2 One ofntwo 39 Yummy but 54 Highlycapable
greenery Commandments fattening 55 PC data disk
9 Channel covering holders 43 Parti-colored 56 Gem grader's aid
Capitol Hill 3 More greasy cats 59 Festive event
14 Coif makeup 4 Make ready, 44 Bank's claim 60 Trash destination
15 Queen Boleyn briefly 45 Sprawls, as by 61 Ended a fast
16 Partner oftwell 5 Letter carriers the pool 62 Alphabet ender in
17 Partner ofwilling 6 Winning 46 Take down England
18 Like tited Itrs. 7 Velcro humble 831979 Pa
19 Moderated. with alternatives 50 Less remote meltdown site
"down" 8 Note to -- ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Hullabaloo over a 9 Book of available
sudden policy products W W W O B A M A D A Z E S
reversal? 10Hillside A H A P R I E S A R O M A
23 Ball supporter 11 Exemplar of L E T I T A L L H A N G 0 U T
24 Little mischief- neatness T A C T B A G G Y
makers 12 Hail, to Maria T H E MIT H A R H I L L S
25 Legendary 13 Composer MA YO P A T E L L A
Chicago caw Sorem
owner 21Fido'spoodle MIZ CROC S O O N
29Atacktmrm amie U SE EA TC R OW Y MA
above 22 Pork cut C A L F S O D A D e To
31 __Grande 26 Military sch. H A D A B I T LOW S
32 Co. bigwig 27 Actress Russo C A K E D E C O R A T O R
33 Sign ofttable 28 Class using mats E V E N A Y S E R
tennis tendonitis? 30OFor each one M A R I E A N T o I N E T T E
37 Bushy coif 31 Campus military L E N D L I C A R E E R N
40 Half of a double gp B
play 34 __Samaritan
41 Inventor's germ 35 Little Lab xwordeditoraol.com 09/19/11
dBoapas ra e 56s7 86 96 1 172 '3
4or an equestrian
event? 14 17 76
47 Big thing at
McDonalds?
'B Samaritan's offer 20 2 2
49 Game one
53 Meditation 23 24 2526 27 26
instruction
55 Crossword hint 29 30 31 32
57 Inventor 33334 3s 6
Whitney
58 Cry of frustration 37 38 3 40 a1
about a Hostess
61 Montezuma, e.g. 47 48as .0 s1 52
64 Snug .h ug
80 Exdus' author
66 Musicalpace 5 66 6
87 Cusp pame
68 Waiter's handout 61 c62c cc c 6
69 Cuts and pastes, s 67 66
say
70 IowaState's city s 70 71
71 Stage
accessory BJon edrLampsi .09/2011
(c2181 TnibunecMda Sices, cInc,. 0/0

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Incl. leat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
!! BIG 10BED CAMPUS HOUSE!!
4 baths, 2 living, open basement, new
carpet, large screen TVs, great yard,
free laundry, free parking, May to May.
www.nancylat.com (734) 663-1370
!!CLASSY 6&7-BR/3-BA HOME
Great Location! Fireplace/coot kitch,
prkg. Must see! $3800 (313) 215-8115.
(734) 332-6000 ;
* www.CarlsonProperties.com a
AVAILABLE FALL 2012.5 bedroom
2 bath houses. Call 610-952-5269 or
Email louisbreskman@gmail.com.
5 & 6 BR Houses
220111
www.copiproperties.com
734-663-5609

AD
VER
TISE
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS
(734)
418-
4115
MICHIGAN
DAILY
.COM

0

ONLINE AUTO INSURANCE. Call
Anytime for a quote (734) 944-9393.

PROVE YOUR BEER
IS BEST!
Enter The Michigan Daily's
third annual home brew competition.
Bottles are due Oct. 16.
E-mail klarecki@michigandaily.com
for more details.

CHILD CARE NEEDED for 9 year
old twin boys-one evening per
week/weekend. Must have car/non-
smoking. Email:rslone@umich.edu

t'

A A

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, September 20, 2011 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, September 20, 2011 - 7

Pankratz benefits
from local talent

Junior running back Vincent Smith rushed for 118 yards on nine carries in Michigan's 31-3 victory over Eastern Michigan at Michigan Stadium on Saturday.
Smith emerges as Michigan's
third featured runnng back

ByLIZVUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
Birthday parties aren't usually
ironic.
But sophomore Ainsley McCal-
lier can't help laughing whin she
thinks back to a celebration she
attended in elementary school.
The theme was Michigan field
hockey. And when a picture of
the attendees was taken on Ocker
Field that day, McCallister never
imagined that she would later
return to that same turf not as a
party guest, but as a midfielder
for the Michigan women's field
hockey team.
The photo is still on McCal-
lister's wall, acting as a memento
of her earliest field hockey days.
And she's not alone on the team as
one who grew up surrounded by
Michigan's field hockey program.
Like Pioneer High School
alumnae freshman Emy Guttman
and redshirt sophomore Haley
Jones, McCallister - who wentto
Huron High School - grew up in
Ann Arbor. And all three decided
to stay in their hometown for a
chance to playforhe Wolverines.
If yuu had asked any uf them
a few years ago if they imagined
coming to Michigan, the answer
is a resounding no.
But Michigan coach Marcia
Pankratz isn't surprised that each
player changed her mind.
"A lot of these players grew
up with Michigan," Pankratz
said. "They bleed maize and blue.
They've dreamed of wearing the
uniform their whole lives. They
love it and want to win champi-
onships for Michigan."
McCallister echoed those sen-
timents while recalling the day
she committed.
"Once I came on junior day and
got the offer, it was eye opening,"
McCallister said. "I saw what a
great school it was,and fell in love
with the program. It makes you
want to represent the block 'M."'
These attitudes aren't surpris-
ing considering the University
is located in a field hockey hot-
bed. Both Huron and Pioneer are
consistently the top-ranked high
school programs in the state. Ann
Arbor Community Recreation
and Education offers club teams
for players as young as eight. Pan-
kratz cites this "rich tradition of
field hockey" as a reason she's
always eager to recruit local play-

ers.
"There are some great coach-
es in this area," Pankratz said.
"There are wonderful athletes
and we love having players out
of this particular area because
they're' all well coached and
strong players."
This strong sporting com-
munity not only builds relation-
ships between the local athletes
- Guttman, Jones and McCallis-
ter have all played together since
middle school - but also forges
early relationships with Michi-
gan's program.
Jones defeated McCallister on
Ocker Field for the 2008 MHSAA
State Championship title. Gutt-
man remembers frequenting the
Michigan games as a child. While
these circumstances seemed to
have foreshadowed the futures of
the three athletes, it is these early
interactions that prove advanta-
geous for Pankratz when itcomes
to recruiting.
"(Recruiting) rules prevent
you from having any communi-
cation with players before their
junior year unless they're on
yuur campus," Pankratz said.
"Because they're here and cme
onto campus, we get to establish
relationships early, which is nice.
"We get to know their fam-
ily, get to know them and know if
they're a good fit."
More than anything, the play-
ers appreciate the support from
family members when playing for
the Wolverines.
"I like being close to my fam-
ily," McCallister said. "It's nice
that they can come and see me
compete, whereas if I went some-
where else they wouldn't have
had the same opportunities."
For highly recruited high
school athletes, the appeal of leav-
ing their hometown is a big draw
when deciding where to commit.
When convincing Ann Arbor's
talents to stay local, Pankratz
emphasizes the possibility to
maintain independence and have
new experiences despite living in
the town theyhave always known
- something Guttman, Jones and
McCallister all attest to.
"Living in the dorms and being
downtown, I rarely go home,"
Guttman said. "I don't feel like
I'm in my hometown. I feel like
I'm away.
"I would not want to be any-
where else but here."

Junior moves from
third-down back
to Hoke's main
halfback weapon
By MICHAEL FLOREK
DailySports Writer
Despite standing at just
5-foot-6, Vincent Smith isn't
looking up to others anymore.
After the junior rushed for
118 yards on just nine carries
in the Michigan football team's
win over Eastern Michigan,
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
announced him as the new fea-
ture back on Monday.
"I think Vince right now
has earned that right, his per-
formance and his production,"
Hoke said. "He played good
with his vision on where to go
and listening to (running backs'
coach) Fred (Jackson) as we go
through the game about press-
ing the ball more on the line of
scrimmage and then reacting
off the center's tail end."

But Smith is looking side-
ways. In the running back
battle during fall camp, he was
beat out by both senior Michael
Shaw and redshirt sophomore
Fitzgerald Toussaint.
While Smith won the third-
down running back spot, which
Hoke said Monday kept him "in
the picture," he had just three
total carries in the first two
games.
Despite Hoke saying Smith
was the lead back, both Shaw
and Toussaint remained ahead
of Smith on the 22nd-ranked
Wolverines' depth chart.
After Hoke and offensive
coordinator Al Borges both
insisted they wanted to find a
lead running back to take about
20 carries per game, it appears
Michigan is headed for a run-
ning back-by-committee sys-
tem.
"We don't want it that way,
but I think we're there at this
point in time," Hoke said.
Whether it's alone or not,
Smith is leading the charge, at
least for next Saturday's game
against San Diego State. His

first two carries against the
Eagles went for 38 and 27 yards,
respectively.
He had three more rushes for
mere than 10 yards throughout
the game.
Meanwhile, Toussaint is
coming off a shoulder injury
that caused him to miss the
Notre Dame game, and Shaw's

against San Diego State, Smith's
third-down duties - and obvi-
ously his height - won't change.
The two are more related than
it initially appears.
Smith won the position
mainly because of his superb
blocking abilities.
Counterintuitively, his stat-
ure gives him a bonus in that

hl
a

area.
"You can't see him," fifth-
year senior center David Molk
'He likes to said. "No one can see him."
But his blocking relies on
it, that's the more than a sneak attack. On
a team that finds a way to slip
veird thing "toughness" 'into nearly everya
press conference, it's fitting
LbOut him. that Hoke's shortest non-place-
kicker on the team is one of the
leaders in the category.
"He likes to hit, that's the
ad has declined each weird thing about him,' Molk
Freshman running back said. "As a little guy, you'd think
as Rawls had one more he'd shy away from it or cut-
than Shaw last Saturday. block some guys to get away
aint came back for 11 car- from heavy contact.
id 46 yards against East- "But he will seek out and
chigan. , go find the biggest guy on the
no matter how many defense and just nail him. I love
s he gets as the lead back that about him."

worklc
game.
Thoma
carry t
Toussa
ties an
ern Mi
And
carries

Michigan eyes the curse of an AP top-25 ranking

By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
It took the voters an extra
week this season, but the Michi-
gan football team is ranked in
the AP top 25 once again.
After starting each of the last
three seasons unranked, the
Wolverines climbed onto the
board after
second-week NOTEBOOK
victories over
Notre Dame in 2009 and 2010.
Michigan jumped to No. 22 on
the charts after a 31-3 win over
Eastern Michigan on Saturday.
And while the rank might be a
confidence boost, the players
feel like it pins a target on their
backs.
"I think it's a curse," senior
defensive tackle Ryan Van Ber-
gen said Monday. "I would rath-
er not be ranked until the end of
the season when it goes down
to bowl games. When you're
ranked, all it does it is put some-
thing on a chalkboard for the
other team. ... That's a big stat, if
you can get a win against a top-
25 team. People notice that."
With a 3-0 record, the Wol-
verines now sit atop the Big Ten,
tied with Nebraska in the Lead-
ers division and Illinois and Wis-
consin in the Legends division.
But the wins haven't been so
impressive. It took a 28-point
fourth quarter to topple Notre
Dame, 35-31, on Sept. 10. And
Michigan still hasn't scored a
point in any first quarter.
"I think we're vastly over-
rated," senior tight end Kevin
Koger said. "I mean, that's just
how it is. We have so much stuff

to work on. We have alot of time
to get it fixed, but for us to be in
the top 25 right now is kind of
ridiculous."
Michigan'coach Brady Hoke,
whose all-time record reached
50-50 with Saturday's victory,
said he didn't vote for his team in
the USA Today poll - the Wol-
verines are No. 21 on that poll.
But did Hoke talk'to the team
about the ranking?
"Does it matter?" Hoke asked.
Well, no.
"Exactly."
RED ZONE RULERS: While
Michigan may spurn the No. 22
ranking, the Wolverines have to
be pleased with what both the
offense and defense have done
inside the 20-yard lines this sea-
'son.
The defense has struggled to
slow opposing offenses down
through three games. But once
teams enter the red zone - inside
the 20-yard lines - Michigan's
defense has been a brick wall.
Defensive coordinator Greg
Mattison's corps have been
world-beaters in defending
against red-zone offenses. Oppo-
nents have emerged with points
just six times in 10 red-zone trips
- two of those scores being field
goals - good for second in the
Big Ten.
"Coach Mattison emphasizes
the red zone as being one of the
most important things," Van
Bergen said.
"Everybody thinks the offense
gets better in the red zone -
that's not our perspective. The
field gets shorter and there's the
same amount of guys out there.
We think that we have better

odds in the red zone, when it
comes down to it."
Michigan has come away with
four takeaways in the red zone,
with two fumble recoveries and
two goal-line interceptions.
The team's turnover margin
of plus-six ranks fourth in the
nation - Michigan was minus-32
over the past three years.
Van Bergen attributed the
turnover turnaround to added
emphasis in practice.
"We're constantly going after
the ball in practice against our
own guys, regardless of if it's
tackle or not," Van Bergen said.
"The main emphasis is strip the
ball no matter what. We jump
on incomplete passes every time
like it's a fumble."
Added Hoke: "Tight cover-
age, pressuring the QB, effort
and guys getting to the football.
Those four components usually
turn into turnover opportuni-
ties."
And on the offensive side of
the ball, Michigan has feasted in
the red zone.
The Wolverines have scored
on each of their 10 trips inside
the opposing20-yard line - with
only one field goal. Their near-
perfect red-zone touchdown
percentage sits at seventh in the
nation and first in the Big Ten.
NO GOOD WAY TO LEAVE:
Mass texts are rarely the answer
to anything.
But that's just how Hoke left
San Diego State's football pro-
gram - Michigan's opponent
this Saturday.
Hoke, who coached the Aztecs
for the past two seasons, was
hired to replace former Michi-

ERIN KIRKLAND /Daily
Michigan coach Brady Hoke and the Wolverines will face San Diego State, the team he coached last year, this Saturday.

gan coach Rich Rodriguez on
Jan. 11 this year.
Since his transition occurred
over San Diego State's win-
ter break, Hoke was stuck. He
couldn't gather his players to
meet one final time like he did
when he left Ball State. The way
he notified the Aztecs, though,
was nothing short of unortho-
dox. Hoke's decision to leave the
Aztecs created a buzz across the
nation, but it also set off a buzz in
each of his players' pockets.
"I texted them all, just a mass
text," Hoke said.

"I don't know how you tell
people. We were on a little bit of
a schedule, time-wise."
Before leaving, Hoke was
involved with scheduling the
game between Michigan and San
Diego State. He never thought
he'd be coaching on the home
sideline during that game at
Michigan Stadium.
When he arrived at Michigan,
Hoke stood just nine months
away from playingthe same play-
ers he'd recruited, made promis-
es to and brought to the national
platform. And the same players

he'd texted his goodbyes to.
"I told Dave Brandon, 'Let's
buy that (game) out,"' Hoke said,
laughing. "The game's sched-
uled, you've got to play it. It
would have been way too hard
for both teams to try and find
new opponents."
But that wasn't sentimental.
"Because they're good," Hoke
said.
Hoke eventually tried to
downplay the matchup.
"It's San Dieg State playing
Michigan, that's all it really is."
But it's so much more.


i

L


8 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, September 20, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

i

0

0

Ouk-
/ j
/ ,q
I govt y0(/-
Ommek. )h h ,s . a ea f
b f w Sh
ak'e-Borne yeavl a
Youj-,- a
cofl S
GaP e

60K 6 k eo~
Sh:7 a a

0

f

I .A


