e political Responsible shoe
th oshopping
tar get's real aboutJulian Toles supports companies
ant corruption in the that donate their goods and
PGservices to the less fortunate. ) PAGE 4
UAbE 13fidPAyan&i4

Ann Arbor, Michigan
YOUR EDUCATION
Students sit
in on classes,
" few choose to
officially audit

Friday, January 14, 2011

michigandailycom

Even without credit,
students attend LSA
classes to learn
By CLAIRE HALL
Daily Staff Reporter
Imagine taking a University
course, completing all the required
* work, paying tuition and receiving
a grade, but earning zero credits
toward a degree upon finishing
the class.
This is what LSA's official audit-
ing option offers students, though
few participate. However students
choose to audit popular classes on
campus without officially register-
ing, thereby avoiding the financial
and academic demands of taking
the class.
According to Cathleen Con-
way-Perrin, director of Academic
Standards and Academic Oppor-
tunities at the Newnan Academic
Advising Center, only a small num-
ber of students have expressed
interest in auditing a course dur-
ing her 15-year tenure.
"To be frank, we really don't
know why the option even exists
because it doesn't seem practi-
cal for most people, and it doesn't
seem to be very attractive," she
said.
Conway-Perrin explained that
it is usually students experiencing
academic difficulty who consider
auditing in order to refresh their

knowledge of the material rather
than actually retake a course, but
auditing for this reason is "not
usually encouraged."
"We want the student to talk
with the professor and either
retake the class officially if they
need to or seek some other assis-
tance or tutoring," she said.
But retired University English
Prof. Ralph Williams, who is a for-
mer Arthur F. Thurnau professor,
wrote in an e-mail interview that
he feels the presence of auditors
in his classes created a positive
learning environment.
"What the visitors bring to
class is their intellectual energy,
their various experiences of life,
the sense of differing viewpoints
associated with different places
and disciplines," Williams wrote.
"In my view, it is wonderful that
the University allows its faculty
to leave the door to the classroom
ajar while preserving the intel
rity of the experience of students
enrolled for credit."
And some students, like LSA
senior Lauren McGlothlin, find
auditing classes a pleasurable
experience rather than a tedious
one. McGlothlin, who's unoffi-
cially auditing two of her courses
this semester, said it gives her the
opportunity to learn without hav-
ing to worry about homework or
exams.
"I think auditing is a really good
idea especially if you're a second-
See AUDIT, Page 5

Sophomore quarterback DenardRobinson points to newly-hired Michigan head football coach Brady Hoke during a timeout in a Michigan men's basketball game against
Ohio State at Crisler Arena on Wednesday, Jan.12. Michigan lost the game 68-64.
Hokequells rmors,,
Q B Robinson to r Ieturn

Former coach:
Robinson 'really does
love the University of
Michigan'
By RYAN KARTJE
Daily Sports Editor
After accepting the job as
Michigan's head football coach
just yesterday, Brady Hoke
wasted no time ensuring that

his team's most explosive player
would remain a Wolverine.
Hoke said yesterday on 107.3
WBBL's The Huge Show that
sophomore quarterback Denard
Robinson will return under cen-
ter for Michigan next season.
"Yes, yes," Hoke said when
asked by host Bill Simonson
whether Robinson would remain
in Ann Arbor. "We've had great
conversations. I'll tell you, he is a
tremendous young man, and the
humbleness that he has shown
is something that we're proud to

have him, obviously."
Athletic Director Dave Bran-
don confirmed last night as well
via his Twitter account that Rob-
inson will be returning for his
junior season.
The most important conver-
sation may have came yesterday
when Hoke was supposed to meet
one-on-one with Robinson to dis-
cuss his place in Michigan's new
offense, accordingto Robinson's
former high school coach Art
Taylor.
"Just the time I've got to spend

with him and his personality and
everything about him, I really,
really am impressed with (him),"
Hoke said ina separate this morn-
ing on WTKA-AM10SO. "There's
no question he believes in Michi-
gan, he loves Michigan and he'll
be a big part of our program.
I've seen enough of him to know
he can be the quarterback of the
Wolverines."
Hoke is bringing his offense
coordinator, Al Borges, from San
Diego State. Borges has a history
See ROBINSON, Page 5


STORYTELLING TIME

Street Outreach Court
assists homeless in A2

Program gives the
homeless tools to
find jobs, housing
By BRIENNE PRUSAK
Daily StaffReporter
Renee Blaze was faced with
drug and alcohol-related offenses
in the city of Ann Arbor two years
ago, but instead of facinga district
judge, she got to appear before a
court that was a little less intimi-

dating.
Instead of having to go through
the city's traditional court system,
Blaze was allowed to participate in
Street Outreach Court-- a program
that allows homeless individuals
an alternative court experience
and guides them on the path to
recovery.
Developed in October 2005,
Street Outreach Court was
designed to provide the home-
less population of Ann Arbor with
more of a welcoming court sys-
tem and also give a helping hand.

Spearheaded by Ann Arbor District
Judge Elizabeth Hines, the court
tries disadvantaged citizens with
unpaid tickets, fines and arrest
warrants.
Blaze said the program pre-
vented her from getting "lost in the
system," and inspired a sense of
self-motivation and responsibility.
"If I wanted to be successful
in it, then I had to put in the foot-
work," Blaze said. "The process
makes you still be accountable and
keeps a closer eye on you."
See HOMELESS, PageSV

University students share their experiences during MothUP Ann Arbor's "Out of the Ordinary" story slam in the University of
Michigan Museum of Art yesterday.
CAMPUS COMMUNITY

UNIVERSITY RESEARCH


Site aims to facilitate'missed connections' 'U' researcher confirms link

Students use
LikeALittle.com
to express love for
others on campus
By LIANA ROSENBLOOM
Daily StaffReporter
In the classroom, around cam-
pus and in the gym, someone is
watching you. And they think
you're cute.
This kind of attention is famil-

iar to people who frequent the
Internet in search of "missed
connections" with a person they
thought they had a spark with.
And now, a new website called
LikeALittle.com is making a sim-
ilar opportunity available specifi-
cally for University students.
Launched on Oct. 25, the web-
site has pages for more than 200
colleges and universities in the
United States, Canada and China.
The University of Michigan
joined on Nov. 5, becoming the
second college in Michigan, after
Hope College, to have a Like A

Little page.
Ryan Reas, CEO and co-found-
er of LikeALittle.com, said last
month that a similar website at
another university sparked the
idea for Like A Little. He said
the goal of the website is to bring
people in the same community
who may not know each other
together.
"We can actually make this
into a social network where
people around each other can
connect," said Reas, a Stanford
Graduate School of Business
See CONNECTIONS, Page 5

between stress and depression

People with serotonin
gene react differently
to stressful events
By SUZANNE JACOBS
Daily StaffReporter
A recent University analysis
points to a possible link between
stress and an increased risk for
depression.

The findings released last
week by Srijan Sen, an assistant
professor of psychiatry at the
University's Medical School, and
his colleagues - were based on
a comprehensive analysis of 54
published studies that examined
the possible genetic correlation
between depression and environ-
mental stressors, including health
and financial problems.
Sen said he decided to do the
analysis after a 2009 report ques-

tioned the findings of a study in
2003 that showed a genetic link
between the two. The 2003 study
was considered a medical break-
through at the time.
The results of the 2003 study
showed that people with a par-
ticular version of a serotonin
transporter gene, called 5-HTT
exhibited more symptoms of
depression, diagnosable depres-
sion and suicidal tendencies in
See DEPRESSION, Page5


WEATHER HI: 31
TOMORROW LO: 15

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-763-2459 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Justin Meram drafted by Columbus Crew No.15
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE GAME

INDEX
Vol CXXI, No. 73
(2t The Michigan Daily
michigondoilycom

AP NEWS.. . . . 3 C.LAS.SIFIS............ . . ..........6
OPINION....4 ARTS... ..7
NEWS.. . . . SPORTS... ... ..I.8

A


2 - Friday, January 14, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, January14, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers Questions on Campus Professor Profiles
TOP LEFT Michigan Athletic
Director Dave Brandon at a pressT
conference Wednesday, Jan. 12,
2b11. Brandon used the confer-
ence'to announce the hiring of
hew head football coach Brady
Hoke, who was the previous head
coach at San Diego State Univer-
sity. Brandon's announcement
came one week after former
coach Rich Rodriguez was fired.
(MARISSA MCCLAIN DAILY)
BOTTOM LEFT Five-year-old
twins Johnathon and Ashton
Gaden came to the University's
Natural History Museum on
Thursday, Jan. 13, 2011 to see the
dinosaurs exhibit. (ERIN KIRK-
LAND/DAILY) ,
RIGHT Sophomore guard Darius.
Morris (4) plays against Ohio,
State at Crisler Arena on Wednes-
day, Jan. 12, 2011. Michigan lost
the game 68-64. (JAKE FROMM/
DAILY)

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
STEPHANIESTEINBERG BRADWILEY
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4tt5next. 1241
steinberg@michigandaily.com tmdbusiness@gmail.com
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom office hours: Sun.-Thurs. 11a.m.- 2 a.m.
734-418-4t15epi,3
News Tips news@michigandailyvor
Corrections corrections@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Photography Department photo@michigandaily.corn
Arts Section artspage@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section sports@michigandailycom
Display Sales display@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales classifed@michigandaily.com
Online Sales onlineads@michigandaily.com
Finance finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Kyle Swanson Managing Editor swanson@michigandaily.com
Nicole Aber Managing News Editor aber@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Bethany Biron, Dylan Cinti, Caitlin Huston, Joseph
Lichterman,Devon Thorsby
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: RachelBrusstar,ClaireGoscicki, Suzanne Jacobs,Mike
Merar, Michele Narov, Brienne Prusak,Kaitlin Williams
Michelle DeWitt and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Emily Orley Editorial Page Editor
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aida Ali,AshleyGriesshammerHarsha Panduranga
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:EaghanDavis,HarshaNahata,AndrewWeiner
Tim Rohan and sportseditors@mivhigandaily.eom
Nick Spar ManagingSports Editor
SENIORSPORTSEDITORSMarkBurns,MichaelFlorek,ChantelJennings,RyanKartje,
StephenJ. Nesbitt,Zak Pyzik
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Emily Bonchi, BenEstes,CasandraPagni,LukePasch,
Kevin Raftery, Matt Slovin
SharonJacobs ManagingrtsgEdiyor jacobs@michigandaily.com
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Joe Cadagin, Emma Gase, Proma Khosla, David Tao
Marissa McClainEand d photo@michigandaily.com
ted Moch Managing PhetoEditers
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Erin Kirkland, Salam Rida, Anna Schulte, Samantha
Trauben
Zath Bergson and design@michigandaily.com
Helen ieblich ManagingDesignEditors
ASSISTANT DESIGN EDITORS:Alex Bondy, HermesRisien
Carolyn Klarecki Magazine Editor klarecki@michigandaily.com
DEPUTYuMAGAZINEEDITORS:StephenOstrowski,Elyana Twiggs
Josh Healy and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Eileen Patten copychiefs
Sarah Squire WebDevelopmentManager squire@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
JuliannaCrimsales Manager
SALESFORCE MANAGER:Stephanie Bowker
MARKETING MANAGER: GjonJuncaj
Hillary Szawala classifieds Manager
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANT MANAGER: Ardie Reed
Jason Mahakian Production Manager
Meghan Rooney Layout Manager
Nick Meshkin Finance Manager
Zach YancerWeb Project Coordinator
The Michigan Daily(ISSN0745-%7)is publishedMonday through Friday duringthe fail and winter
terms by studens atthe University of Michigan.One copyis avalablefree of chargetoallreaders.
Additionalcopieshmaybepicked upattheOaly'sofficefor f2.Subscriptionsforfallterm,staringin
september,vias.Smalare110.Winter term(January throughApril)is$s15,yeariong(September
through April is $195.University affiliates are subject to areduced subscription rate.On-campus
bsaritionsforfall rem s st3. Subscrition s must be p repaid.The Michigan Daily is amember
ofThe Associated Presad The Associated Collegiate Press.

I0

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS
BB gun damages Pissed drunk Memorial lecture
window years ago WHERE: Mary Markley WHAT: Civil rights activist
Residence Hall Shirley Sherrod will deliver
WHERE: Oxford Housing WHEN: Thursday at about the keynote address at the
WHEN: Wednesday at about 3 a.m. University's 25th annual
10 p.m. WHAT: A University under- MLK Symposium. Her
WHAT: Staff noticed dam- graduate student was arrested lecture will commemorate
age to a window in Goddard for possession of alcohol, the life and work of Dr.
House, University Police University Police reported. A Martin Luther King, Jr.
reported. The damage complaint was filed after he WHO: Office of Academic
appeared to be from a BB gun. was observed urinating in the Multicultural initiatives
'rhere are no suspects at this hallway. WHEN: Monday, Jan. 17 at
time because the damage was 10 a.m.
likely incurred years ago. Exit sign stolen WHERE: Hill Auditorium
Students arrested from West Quad .e
for marijuana WHERE: West Quadrangle prormanc
Residence Hall p ror a c
WHERE: Vera Baits t1 Resi- WHEN: Wednesday at about
Oence Hall 10 a.m- WHAT: Performing art-
WHEN: Wednesday at about WHAT: An interior exit sign ist Laurie Anderson will
12:30 a.m. was stolen from the second combine music, technol-
WHAT: Two students were floor of Lloyd House, University ogy, visuals and storytell-
arrested for possession of Police reported. The sign has ing in her new multimedia
narijuana in Conger House, not yet been recovered, and work "Delusion."
University police reported. there are currently no suspects. WHO: University Musical
Society
MORE ONLINE WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
Love Crime Notes? Get more online atmichigandaily.com/blogs/The Wire WHERE: The Power Center
for the Performing Arts

& NOTES
Drawing class
WHAT: A drawing class
to teach fundamentals of
art, including proportion,
perspective and
composition. The drop-
in session cost is $10.
WHO: Ann Arbor Art Center
WHEN: Today at 11 a.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art
Relaxation
seminar
WHAT: CAPS is offering
a seminar on relaxation
as part of their student
mental health resources.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 12:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Union, room 3100
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Astronomers have recal-
culated the dates for the
12 zodiac signs and added
one more, called Ophiuchus,
The Huffington Post reported.
The signs changed because of
changes in the Earth's align-
ment.
Ann Arbor's second annu-
al Restaurant Week starts
on Sunday. Lunch and
dinner specials will be offered
at 41 restaurants in the city.
" FORMORE,SEE ARTS, PAGE 7
Archaeologists have dis-
covered a sword casing
thought to have belonged
to the notoriously feared
pirate Blackbeard, National
Geographic reported. The cas-
ing was found in the wreckage
of Blackbeard's Queen Anne's
Revenge ship in North Caro-
lina.

rI. As unemployment apps.
n p rse, stock market dips

Report: First-time
applications for
unemployment
benefits up by 35,000
NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks
dipped yesterday after a report
found that more people applied for
unemploymentbenefits last week.
The Labor Department said
first-time applications for unem-
ploymentbenefits rose 35,000 from
the week before to 445,000. It was
the highest level since October and
above what economists had pre-
dicted.
"It was a disappointingnumber,"
said Kim Caughey Forrest, an ana-
lyst at Fort Pitt Capital.
Merck & Co. fell 6.6 percent to
$34.69 after announcing that clini-
cal trials of its cardiovascular drug
vorapaxar would be discontinued
for some patients. Merck fell the

most among the 30 stocks that
make up the Dow Jones industrial
average. Home Depot Inc., which
gained 1.3 percent, led the index.
The Dow fell 23 points, or 0.2
percent, to 11,731.9. The Standard
and Poor's 500lost2,or0.2percent,
to 1,283.76. The Nasdaq composite
lost 2, or 0.1 percent, to 2,735.29.
Losses were spread across the
market. Seven of the 10 company
groups that make up the S&P 500
fell. Materials companies had the
largest move, falling0.8 percent.
Whole Foods Market Inc.
jumped 4.6 percent to $52.31 after
an analyst said that the company's
shares would continue to rise
because its customers are willing
to pay higher costs for food. The
company is up nearly 80 percent
over the last year.
The Labor Department also
reported yesterday that wholesale
prices in December rose by the
largest amount in nearly a year, as
a result of higher energy and food

costs. Most other prices rose only
slightly, suggesting inflation isn't
spreading through the economy.
A decline in the dollar helped
limit stock losses. The dollar lost1.1
percent against an index of six cur-
rencies after successful bond auc-
tions by Spain and Italy pushed the
euro higher. The dollar's slide helps
U.S. companies that rely on exports
by making their prices more com-
petitive overseas.
After the market closed, Intel
Corp. reported that its income rose
48 percent last quarter. That easily
beat analyst estimates.
Bond prices rose, pushing their
yields lower. The yield on the
10-year Treasury note fell to 3.30
percent from 3.35 percent late
Wednesday. That yield is used to
set interest rates on many kinds of
loans including mortgages.
Four shares rose for every three
that fell on the New York Stock
Exchange. Consolidated volume
came to 4.4 billion shares.

0
0

JACQUELYN MARTIN/AP
Caroline Kennedy speaks yesterday about the launch of the JFK Digital Archive, as part of the 50th anniversary of the inaugura-
tion of former -President John F. Kennedy, at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
JFK library opens $LOM
online presidenti al archive

Online archive is the
first of its kind among
presidential libraries
WASHINGTON (AP) - Caroline
Kennedy unveiled the nation's first
online presidential archive yester-
day, a $10 million project to digitize
the most important papers, photo-
graphs and recordings of President
John F.Kennedy's days in office.
Users can sort through the drafts
of Kennedy's "Ask not what your
country can do for you," speech and
see how he tinkered with the words
of that most famous line from his
inauguration. Or they can listen to
his personal phone calls and read
his letters.
In advance of the 50th anniver-
sary of Kennedy's inauguration
Jan. 20, Caroline Kennedy visited
the National Archives, saying it
reminded her the nation was built
bn words and ideas - and that her
father's call to service was more
relevant than ever.
"His time is becoming part of
history, not living memory, and
we need to reach across the gen-
erations in new ways," Caroline
Kennedy said, noting many young
people are disillusioned with poli-
tics. "He inspired a generation
who inspired their children. They

transformed America, and that's
why 50 years later, his legacy still
resonates."
Kennedy himself broached the
ideaofmakinghis records available
to the masses in 1961.
At a news conference, a reporter
asked if he would consider putting
his papers in Washington, rather
than his hometown, to make them
more accessible to scholars.
"Through scientific means of
reproduction ... and this will cer-
tainly be increased as time goes on,
we will find it possible to reproduce
the key documents so that they will
be commonly available," the presi-
dent responded.
After four years of work, the
Kennedy Presidential Library in
Boston has made that a reality.
Archivists digitized over 200,000
pages, 1,200 recordings and 300
museum artifacts, as well as reels
of film and hundreds of photo-
graphs.
Library Director Tom Putnam
said they started with all of Kenne-
dy's oval office files - everything
that went across his desk - along
with his personal papers, official
White House photos, audio of all his
public remarks, video of his famous
speeches, and home movies. Archi-
vists knew the most requested items
in their research room in Boston
and used them as a guide.

Private partners - including
AT&T, EMC Corp., Raytheon Co.
and Iron Mountain Corp. - con-
tributed $6.5 million in equipment
and technical services to digitize
thousands of records. Iron Moun-
tain will store backup copies of
all the digital files about 200 feet
below ground at its facility in west-
ern Pennsylvania.
Original files will remain acces-
sible at the Kennedy Library, Put-
nam said. The digital records,
though, will help preserve the orig-
inals because they will be handled
less frequently, he said.
The library will continue digi-
tizing about 100,000 pages a year,
along with thousands of photos and
recordings. At that rate, it would
still take more than 100 years to
digitize all records from the Ken-
nedy administration.
For students across the country,
the online archive will mean access
to primary documents for school
research. They could examine Ken-
nedy's correspondence with Mar-
tin Luther King Jr. from the time
they first met to the time King was
jailed in Birmingham, Ala.
Drafts of Kennedy's speeches
show how he was writing and edit-
ing along with speechwriter Theo-
dore Sorensen, giving people a sense
of the president's power as a writer,
Putnam said.

vory Coast: Mobs, security
ally to attack U.N. vehicles

0

Violence comes after
West African leader
refuses to accept
Nov. election loss
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (AP) -
Mobs and security forces allied to
Ivory Coast leader Laurent Gbagbo
attacked at least six U.N. vehicles
yesterday, setting some ablaze and
injuring two people in the latest
round of violence sparked by this
West African nation's disputed
election.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon strongly condemned the
attacks by loyalists of Gbagbo,
who the U.N. says lost the Nov. 28
poll to longtime opposition leader
Alassane Ouattara.
Ban said the attacks by "regular
and irregular forces" constituted

crimes under international law,
and warned that those respon-
sible would be held accountable.
Other officials with the global body
sounded an alarm, warning they
were being prevented from protect-
ing civilians.
Gbagbo has refused to accept the
outcome of the November poll and
has ordered the U.N.'s 9,000-strong
peacekeeping mission to leave. The
U.N. has refused, and its troopshave
increasingly come under attack,
including earlier this week when
gunmen wounded three peacekeep-
ers after their car crashed, said
spokesman Kenneth Blackman.
In the violence yesterday, Ban
said one military vehicle belonging
to the U.N. peacekeeping mission
was burned, and a doctor and driver
of an ambulance targeted in one
attack were injured.
An Associated Press reporter
saw a U.N. vehicle smoldering, its

U.N. insignia charred, as a crowd
of men gathered around. Witnesses
said the vehicle had been stopped
by young men in the Riviera II
neighborhood, near a university
campus packed with Gbagbo sup-
porters. Two international journal-
ists that attempted to photograph
the car when it was still in flames
had their cameras confiscated by
security forces.
Also Thursday, a spokesman
for the U.N. human rights office in
Geneva, Rupert Colville, said the
U.N. has been trying to investigate
an alleged third mass grave in Issia
in central Ivory Coast, but hasn't
been able to confirm it.
The U.N. has already been
blocked from the site of two other
alleged mass graves in the lush,
cocoa-producing country. Colville
wasn't immediately able to say
whether the investigation into
those two sites has progressed.

0


TheMichigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Friday, January 14, 2011 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January14, 2011 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Jury clears ex-
Delphi official of
fraud charges
A jury in Detroit has cleared the
former head of Delphi Corp. of the
most serious charges in a civil trial
tied to allegations of financial fraud
at the auto-parts maker in 2000.
J.T. Battenberg III was found lia-
ble yesterday on three of the seven
charges relating to how Delphi
accounted for a $237 million trans-
action involving warranty costs
with its former parent, General
Motors Corp. The case was filed by
the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission.
The jury cleared Battenberg of
fraud but found him responsible
for bookkeeping errors and mis-
representations to accountants.
Separately, former Delphi accoun-
tant Paul Free was found liable on
many charges regarding precious
metal and battery transactions
and a $20 million payment from
EDS.
WASHINGTON
New school lunch
plan proposes more
fruits and veggies
School cafeterias would have to
hold the fries - and serve kids more
whole grains, fruits and vegetables
- under the government's plans for
the first major nutritional overhaul
of students' meals in 15 years.
The Agriculture Department
proposal announced yesterday
applies to lunches subsidized by
the federal government. The guide-
lines would require schools to cut
sodium in those meals by more
than half, use more whole grains
and serve low-fat milk. They also
would limit kids to only one cup
of starchy vegetables a week, so
schools couldn't offer french fries
every day.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vil-
sack said the new standards could
affect more than 32 million chil-
dren and are crucial because kids
can consume as much as half of
their daily calories in school.
OAXACA, Mexico
Mayor shot to death
in southern Mexico
The mayor of a remote mountain
town in southern.Qaxaca state was
shot to death yesterday, the third
municipal leader to be slain in Mex-
ico in a week.
Oaxaca state prosecutor Manuel
de Jesus Lopez said authorities
were investigating possible motives
in the latest killing, which occurred
when Mayor Luis Jimenez Mata
was visiting the state capital.
His largely Indian town of San-
tiago Amoltepec has been locked in
a decade-long land dispute with a
neighboring town that has resulted
in about a dozen deaths.
More than a dozen of Mexican
mayors were killed in 2010. The
country has about 2,440 mayors.

BAGHDAD
VP Biden: U. S.
to continue Iraqi
training past 2011
Vice President Joe Biden said
yesterday that the U.S. should make
sure Iraq's stability and democ-
racy are strong enough to make it
"a country that was worthy of the
* sacrifices" the American military
suffered during eight years of war.
Biden, speaking to some 400
soldiers in Baghdad, also said the
U.S. would continue to train and
equip Iraqi forces beyond 2011.
His remarks highlighted continu-
* ing uncertainty about whether all
American troops will head home by
the end of the year as required by
a security agreement between the
two nations.
"The Iraqi people for the first
time, I suspect, I would argue, in
their history are on the verge of lit-
erally creating a country that will
be democratic, sustainable and, God
willing, prosperous," Biden told the
troops at the military's headquar-
ters on the outskirts of Baghdad.
"It could have a dramatic impact on
this entire region, and God knows
the Iraqi people deserve it."
The White House has promised
to end the war responsibly. "By that
we meant we were going to end this
by bringing you all home within
a time certain, but leaving behind
a country that was worthy of all
the sacrifices that so many of your
brothers and sisters have made,"
Biden told the troops.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Former Florida Gov.Jeb Bush speaks toa Republican group as it kicksoff its efforts to improve the party's outreach to Hispanic
voters yesterday in Miami. The new Hispanic Action Network began a two-day policy conference that started last night.
Former Gov. Bush facilitates
Republican outreach to Latinos

Jeb Bush commits to
improving rapport
with Hispanic voters
MIAMI (AP) - A Republican
group that includes former Florida
Gov. Jeb Bush last night kicked off
its efforts to improve the party's out-
reach to Hispanic voters, many of
whom have criticized Republicans
for using harsh rhetoric to attack
illegal immigration.
The new Hispanic Action Net-
work is holding a policy confer-
ence featuring several well-known
Republican speakers. It will focus
on issues such as trade, immigra-
tion, media outreach and educa-
tion.
Bush, who met his Mexican-born
wife Columba when he taught Eng-
lish in her homeland, said the party
needs to become more engaged in
the Hispanic community - and not
just duringelectionyears.
"Typically what happens in poli-
tics is you're working hard and you

say, 'Oh gosh, we better start work-
ing at campaigning in the Hispanic
community,' and it's like Sept. 15,"
he told the crowd last night. "This
is not about politics. This is about
the conservative cause. If you look
over the horizon over the next 10 or
20 years...without an active involve-
ment of Hispanics, we will not be the
governing philosophy."
The group is among a growing
number of Republican organizations
reaching out to Hispanicsin advance
of next year's presidential election. It
is backed by former Minnesota Sen.
Norm Coleman, whose American
Action Network funneled more than
$30 million in campaign funds to
Republicans in about 30 congressio-
nal races last year.
With the Latino population grow-
ing in swing states such as Nevada,
Colorado and Florida, Republicans
need, to chip away at Hispanics'
overall 2-1 preference forDemocrats
to have any hope of capturing the
presidency.
Democrats are confident their
party's efforts on health care, educa-

tion and the economy will appeal to
Hispanic voters, whom they believe
have been turned off by some of the
GOP tactics.
But Bush and other Republicans
have long maintained their party
is a natural fit for Hispanics, par-
ticularly recent immigrants. They
cite the party's social conservatism,
anti-abortion stance and support for
private school vouchers and lower
taxes. Voters last year elected Lati-
no Republicans to prominent posts,
including Florida Republican U.S.
Sen. Marco Rubio and New Mexico
Gov. Susana Martinez.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich,
a possible 2010 presidential can-
didate, announced a similar effort
in Washington, D.C., last month
with his Americanos group. The
conservative Heritage Foundation
also now has a Spanish Web site,
Libertad.org. Meanwhile, Alfonso
Aguilar, former President George
W. Bush's first citizenship and
immigration czar, runs the Lati-
no Partnership for Conservative
Principles.

Brazil mudslides kill almost 500

Mud sweeps turned inside out, their plumb-
ing and electrical wires exposed.
through country, Children's clothes littered the
earth, cars were tossed upside
entire villages down into thickets. An eerie quiet
prevailed as people searched for
destroyed life. The sounds of digging, with
sticks and hands, were occasion-
TERESOPOLIS, Brazil (AP) - ally punctuated by shouts as
The power was out, but lightning another corpse was located.
flashes illuminated the horror Conceicao Salomao, a doctor
as villagers watched neighbors' coordinating relief efforts at a
homes vanish under a wall of mud makeshift refuge inside a gymna-
and water, turning neighborhoods sium in central Teresopolis, said
into graveyards. Survivors dug at about 750 people were staying
the earth barehanded yesterday, there yesterday and about 1,000
but all they found were bodies. people had sought treatment in
It was a scene of muddy the past day. One danger she wor-
destruction in mountain towns ried about was leptospirosis, a
north of Rio, where at least 464 waterborne bacterial disease.
people were killed when torren- "The hospitals around here are
tial rains unleashed mudslides in overflowing. The army and navy
the pre-dawn hours Wednesday, are setting up field hospitals to
burying people alive as they slept. help," she said.
Officials would not venture guess- "The worst is the feeling of
es onhowmany people were miss- impotence. We do what we can,
ing - but fears were high that the but there are so many people."
death toll could sharply rise. Rio state's Civil Defense
In the remote Campo Grande department said on its website
neighborhood of Teresopolis, that 210 people were killed in
now accessible only by a peril- Teresopolis, 214 in nearby Nova
ous five-mile (eight-kilometer) Friburgo and 40 in neighboring
hike through mud-slicked jungle, Petropolis. It said about 14,000
family members pulled the life- people had been driven from their
less bodies of loved ones from homes.
the muck. They carefully laid the Another 37 people have died in
corpses on dry ground, covering floods and mudslides since Christ-
them with blankets. mas in other parts of southeastern
A young boy cried out as his Brazil - 16 in Minas Gerais state
father's body was found: "I want north of Rio and 21 in Sao Paulo
to see my dad! I want to see my state.
dad!" Nineteen-year-old Geisa Carv-
Flooding and mudslides are alho and her mother were awak-
common in Brazil when the sum- ened at 3 a.m. Wednesday by a
mer rains come, but this week's tremendous rumble as tons of
slides were among the worst in muck slid down a sheer granite
recent memory. The disasters rock face onto their Teresopolis
unduly punish the poor, who often neighborhood of Caleme.
live in rickety shacks perched per- The power was out, but by
ilously on steep hillsides with lit- lightning flashes they could see
tle or no foundations. But even the the torrent of mud and water
rich did not escape the damage in rushing just a few feet (meters)
Teresopolis, where large homes from their home - and the rem-
were washed away. nants of their neighbors' houses
"I have friends still lost in all that were swept far down a hill.
of this mud," said Carols Eurico, "We were like zombies, covered
a resident of the city's Campo in mud, in the dark, digging and
Grande neighborhood, as he digging" Carvalho said.
motioned to a sea of destruction "I don't even have the words to
behind him. "It's all gone. It's all describe what I've seen," said the
over now. We're putting ourselves teen's mother, Vania Ramos. "Ablot
in the hands of God." of our friends are dead or missing.
In the same area, Nilson Mar- There are people we may never
tins, 35, carefully held the only find."
thing pulled out alive since dawn: Carvalho and Ramos said they
a pet rabbit that had somehow ran out of their home moments
remained pristinely white despite after the mudslide and joined
the mud. neighbors in digging for survivors
"We're just digging around, with bare hands and sticks. They
there is no way of knowing where quickly located a family of four
to look," he said. "There are three who had died under the rubble
more bodies under the rubble over of their home - and said another
there. One seems to be a girl, no neighbor's 2-month-old baby was
more than 16, dead, buried under washed away in his crib and has
that mud." yet toube found.
The hundreds of homes washed Nearly all the homes in their
away in the neighborhood were neighborhood were swept to the

bottom of a hill.
Only a few rescuers had man-
aged to hike to Caleme by yester-
day and they only had shovels and
machetes - not the heavier equip-
ment needed to hunt for survivors.
Residents said they had no food,
water or medication, and many
made the long walk for help to the
center of Teresopolis, about 40
miles (65 kilometers) north of Rio.
Morgues in the cities were full
and bodies covered in blankets
were laid out in streets.
Officials said the area hit by
slides had seen 10 inches (26
centimeters) of rain in less than
24 hours. More rain is forecast
through the weekend.
Survivors across the region
were seen wading through waist-
high water, carrying what belong-
ings they could, trying to reach
higher ground. Many tried des-
perately to find relatives, though
phone service was out in the
region and many people were
still missing hours after the rain
stopped.
The floods tore out most of the
steep cobblestone road leading
to the Campo Grande neighbor-
hood, creating a ravine about 16
feet (5 meters) deep and 65 feet
(20 meters) wide. In many areas,
pedestrians were forced to walk
through muddy, slippery jungle.
President Dilma Rousseff flew
by helicopter over the region yes-
terday and the Health Ministry
said it was sending seven tons
of medications, enough to treat
45,000 people for a month.
Rousseff said the destruction
was an act of God - but she also
said people died because homes
were illegally built in areas prone
to slides.
"We saw areas in which moun-
tains untouched by men dis-
solved," she told reporters in Rio
after the flyover. "But we also saw
areas in which illegal occupation
caused damage to the health and
lives of people."
Teresopolis Mayor Jorge Mario
Sedlacek decreed a state of emer-
gency, calling the calamity "the
worst to hit the town." About 800
search-and-rescue workers from
the state's civil defense depart-
ment and firefighters were dig-
ging for survivors, but hopes were
dimming.
The cost to rebuild the city of
Teresopplis alone was estimated
at $60 million, said the city's civil
defense secretary, Flavio Luiz
Castro in a report carried by the
Terra news portal website.
The federal government said it
was making available more than
$400 million to the states affect-
ed by the rains, and officials said
they would work closely with Rio
de Janeiro state authorities to
provide support.


4 - Friday, January 14, 2011

4 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Al Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com

SIMON BORST

E-MAIL SIMON AT SIMKAL@UMICH.EDU


STEPHANIE STEINBERG
EDITOR IN CHIEF

MICHELLE DEWITT
and EMILY ORLEY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS

KYLE SWANSON
MANAGING EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board. All other signed articles
and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A lesson in kindness
Michigan should enact anti-bullying legislation
School bullying is by no means a new issue. But the age of
technology has made tormenting students outside the class-
room a bigger concern than ever before. And as more stu-
dents identify themselves with the LGBTQ community, factors of
gender identity also come into play. Ann Arbor recently held a sum-
mit that attracted politicians, educators and students from around
the nation to discuss bullying, specifically pertaining to LGBTQ stu-
dents. This summit is an important step for combating bullying of
LGBTQ students in schools, but promoting tolerance and kindness
for all students should be a priority. Public schools need to work to
instill these ideas in their students and teachers, and the state needs
to formulate concrete anti-bullying legislation.

1
ity 0


Flaunt huma

According to a Jan. 9 article by Ann
Arbor.com, Michigan is one of only six
states without an anti-bullying law. There
has been discussion over whether the issue
should be handled locally, with school
administrators instituting anti-bullying
policies specific for their district, or at the
state level. Many of the summit's attendees
voiced concerns that education of LGBTQ
lifestyles is missing in local schools and
the lack of awareness contributes to bul-
lying directed at LGBTQ students. At the
summit, attendees also discussed how the
increased role of social media among stu-
dents has impacted bullying.
One of the bestways to combatbullyingis
with open dialogue and education. Among
the concerns discussed at the summit was
students' ignorance about the LGBTQ
community, which leads to intolerance
and bullying. If accurately informed of the
about LGBTQ lifestyles, students would
likely become more tolerant and kind to
their peers. Teachers also need to be bet-
ter trained on how to handle bullying in
school. With better education and train-
ing, teachers would be better equipped to
stop future instances of bullying.
Though this wasn't the principle point
of the summit, college students - includ-
ing student body leaders - are in danger

of being bullied. The recent onslaught of
cyber-bullying has shown that a bully can
target essentially anyone - like Michigan
Student Assembly President Chris Arm-
strong, who was verbally harassed on a
blog by former Michigan assistant attor-
ney general Andrew Shrivell. The anonym-
ity of the Internet is a breeding ground for
intolerance that can seriously threaten
students' safety. Schools need to recognize
the danger of cyber bullying and the harm
it can cause for all students, and actively
campaign against it in the classroom.
As a state, Michigan is behind the curve
in terms of anti-bullying laws. Michigan
needs to pass legislation addressing issues
of bullying, with an emphasis on LGBTQ
students and cyber-bullying. Though this
wouldn't completely solve issues of bully-
ing, a law would likely deter students from
engaging in hurtful behavior and encour-
age parents to get involved. This needs to
become a priority for legislators to keep
all students safe and promote awareness
about the dangers of bullying.
While bullying may not be new, for
today's students it can pack an even big-
ger punch. But with increased anti-bully-
ing education in schools and anti-bullying
laws, Michigan can begin to work toward
ensuring students' safety.

T OMS Shoes pioneered the
socially-conscious business
platform and implementation
of this success-
ful model is rising
steadily. The idea is
simple: With each
purchase, compa-
nies donate goods'
or services to those
in need. And, bestof
all, there's no catch
- you don't have to
sacrifice your sense JULIAN
of style or original- TOLES
ity in the name of
altruism. Compa-
nies like TOMS
offer goods that are just as trendy and
durable as their mainstream counter-
parts. As responsible consumers we
have a duty to seek out and support
these attractive alternatives.
It's easy to become immersed in the
virtual microcosmic utopia that is Ann
Arbor - forgetting that there are mil-
lions of people who are much less for-
tunate. TOMS-esque merchants make
life-changing impacts on people half-
way across the world. Known as the
one-for-one model, for every pair of
shoes bought, TOMS donates an addi-
tional pair to people in need in under-
developed countries. Feet are often
the only mode of transportation in
these places, and as the TOMS website
says, bacteria transmitted through soil
is a leading cause of disease in devel-
oping countries.
Ironically,thecountries thatreceive
the bulk of donations are also the pri-
mary location of sweatshops, which
often use inhumane labor tactics. Nike
- the world's leading shoe and sports
apparel manufacturer - has been crit-
icized for its involvement with these
factories since the early 1970s. Just
last April, two Honduran workers at
a factory contracted by Nike brought
their case before the public forum,
Portland Area Worker's Right's board
in Oregon, after being laid off with no
notice or legally mandated severance
pay. GAP, Inc. - the largest clothing

retailer in the United States-has also
come under recent fire for exploitative
practices in places like India, where
labor laws are virtually non-existent.
Patronizing socially responsible com-
panies decreases the demand for this
exploitative labor.
TOMS and similar companies guar-
antee that the production of their
goods adhere to labor standards at
each step of production. While TOMS
still contracts factories in China and
Ethiopia, it certifies that these manu-
facturers obeya "strict code of human
rights conduct (and the factories) are
audited regularly to ensure that these
standards are met." Ethical labor prac-
tices are a necessary component of an
ethically-based business plan. It would
be hypocritical for a company to disre-
gard workers' rights while at the same
time donating the final products to
similarly disadvantaged people.
A sense of personal gratification
is associated with items bought from
responsible companies. There is the
intrinsic sense of having done a good
deed for the sake of humanity. But
there is also pleasure in knowing that
your product is a status symbol with
social meaning. Too often, logos and
insignia represent nothing more than
a person's disposable income.
Why not flaunt your status as a
humanitarian? The sense of compas-
sion that these products convey is a
selling point for one-for-one condom
company Sir Richard's. After all, feet
are not the only appendages that go
bare for lack of access to proper means
of protection. Founder Matthew Ger-
son states that the "global demand
for condoms is huge, and only 10 per-
cent of that need is met each year."
For every Sir Richard's condom sold,
one condom is donated to a country in
need. The company's phrase is "doing
good never felt better," and Gerson
says that using a pack of Sir Rich-
ard's indicates a more tender, intimate
and caring lover. This is assuming, of
course, that the person didn't buy the
product for the sole reason of sending
this message.


One of the biggest incentives to
shop responsibly is the price fac-
tor. Both Sir Richard's condoms and
TOMS shoes are comparably priced
with their mainstream competitors.
Other similar companies promote
mainstream quality even at a discount.
Warby Parker is another one-for-one
company, whichprovides apairof eye-
glasses to a child in need for every pair
purchased through its website. The
eyeglasses are fashion forward and
can be bought for less than the $300
benchmark that has been "artificially"
set for prescription eyewear - selling
for $95 a frame. And Warby Parker
cuts out the middleman by maintain-
ing its operation online.
TOMS makes it
easy to impact lives
around the world.
While the TOMS-inspired one-for-
one model has taken off, there are
other ways to allow your product to
speak to your beliefs and values. One
such example is the I Miss You Brand,
founded by University alum and for-
mer Michigan Men's basketball team
captain David Merritt. The company
that sells T-shirts dedicates itself to
spreading happiness through service
and encourages customers to actively
give back to their own communities.
IMU's unique service component
offers customers a25 percent discount
for those who volunteer one hour of
community service with IMU.,This
gives customers a tangible connection
to the effects of their patronage.
Now that we have alternatives
to corporate juggernauts - socially
responsible alternatives - it's incum-
bent upon each of us to seek them out
and spread their collective messages.
- Julian Toles can be reached
at jaytoles@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Will Butler, Eaghan Davis, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer,
Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Harsha Panduranga,
Teddy Papes, Roger Sauerhaft, Seth Soderborg, Andrew Weiner
TIMOTHY RABB I
Too much credit card control


podium

Healthy, Happy Women: Anny Fang encourages resisting
temptation and building lasting relationships.
Go to michig'andailycom/blogs/ThePodium

01


Broaden your horizons

Despite the drop in sales that every retailer
experiences post-holiday, the inception of a
brand new decade is likely to usher in crowds
of college-age shoppers hungry for the latest
in brand name merchandise. However, others
(including myself) may be equally likely to balk
at their astronomical credit card summaries -
the unfortunate result of a season of charitable
gift-giving.
According to a recent study by Sallie Mae,
the average college student has four credit
cards and a debt of $3,173. That's well over the
national average reflected by the entire credit
card-carrying public.
To help quell the rising debt, the Obama
administration passed the Credit CARD Act of
2009, which - among other restrictions - bars
non-working young adults under age 21 from
obtainingeredit cards. Evenworking18 to21year
olds are now required to prove that their income
is sufficiently high before they're considered eli-
gible to own a card.
This has already led to a significant decrease
in the use of credit cards among college students
and older consumers alike. But even as a 21-year
old who's exempt from this particular statute, I
take issue with its unreasonable imposition on
fiscally responsible students.
Let's face it - at some point after gradua-
tion, the vast majority of college students will
be forced to make several large purchases to
prepare for their first years in the work force.
The necessary investments could range from
the manageable - like a car - to the downright
overwhelming -like a condo, house, or four-year
graduate program. Most of us won't have suffi-
cient savings to foot the full bill for any of these
necessities and will likely have to apply for a size-
able loan or mortgage.
That said, we can't ignore the importance
of the credit card. Granted, it's a convenience
that we don't absolutely need in our day-to-day
lives, but it's the only means by which creditors
can determine our ability to pay the larger, more
essential debts that we'll inevitably encounter
down the road.
Generally, an ideal credit score requires an
individual to have several open lines of credit
with an average of at least three years. This

allows creditors to verify a consumer's financial
means, not only to pay off debt, but to pay it off
consistently. This is understandable, considering
the risks a bank takes when it approves a sizeable
mortgage that won't be paid back for anywhere
from 15 to 30 years. A well-established credit
history is a vital means to ensure credit-creditor
trust and a low interest percentage on subsequent
loans.
Aside from simply establishing a history with
creditors, credit cards give students an opportu-
nity to learn important financial lessons the hard
way - without burdening ourselves with massive
debts. If an average debt of $3,173 seems astro-
nomical to you as a college student, imagine the
following scenario: You've just completed gradu-
ate school and are now looking for a house. Inex-
perienced with the mores of credit-lending, you
go well beyond your means and put 10 percent
down on a $200,000 mortgage. Ten years later,
you've paid $60,000 on the house when an unex-
pected financial deficit causes you to default on
the mortgage. Now, your entire $60,000 invest-
mentbelongs to the bank, along with your exces-
sive house.
I'm not suggesting that this is a common sce-
nario, but isn't it better to learn tough lessons
with a $3,000 credit line? Sure, you might have
to ask mom or dad to help with the bill when all is
said and done, but it's better to gain this valuable
experience with small lines of credit so you don't
carelessly accrue massive amounts of debt as an
inexperienced consumer.
Most facets of the new credit card law pro-
vide numerous protections against consumer
exploitation by creditors, but I've never been
a fan of age-specific restrictions for those over
18. Liberal government may equal big govern-
ment, but why not simply adopt the "harm
reduction" approach espoused by liberals
who disapprove of the country's strict drug
laws? It's more effective to teach college stu-
dents how to properly use credit cards, rather
than ban them outright. It's not fair to deprive
responsible young adults from their right to a
credit card, even if they're a small minority in a
population of swipe-happy shoppers.
Timothy Rabb is an LSA junior.

For many Greek Life students
returning to Ann Arbor, the
beginning of the New Year is
the perfect time to
get more involved
on campus. While
September might
be the right month
for many Michi-
gan students to
seek out new clubs
and organizations,
Greek students
often face time SARAH
constraints in the SMITH
fall semester -
like recruitment
and acclimating to
life in a chapter house - that make
it difficult to seek out new activities.
Consequently, many students in the
Greek community decide to get more
involved on campus in the winter
instead.
A problem exists, however, when we
look at "campus involvement" as a syn-
onym for "Greek involvement." Many
of us - myself included - find our-
selves taking on new roles in our frater-
nities and sororities instead of seeking
out other opportunities to get involved
on campus. Now, Greek involvement
is certainly not a bad thing - we're all
proud of our chapters and our commu-
nity, and fraternity and sorority lead-
ership can be very enriching. But by
limiting our extracurricular involve-
ment to the Greek community, we're
overlooking the larger community
that we all belong to as students - the
Michigan community.
And the Michigan community clear-
ly has a lot to offer. With nearly 1,210
student organizations listed on Maize
Pages, I'd wager that any student could
find a group that interested him or her
outside of Greek Life. Whether it's club
sports, service organizations, political
or religious groups, or clubs tailored

around specific interests like Quidditch
or ballroom dancing, the Michigan
community offers so much that it's sim-
ply wasteful not to take advantage of
the opportunities. At the risk of sound-
ing like your orientation leader from
freshman year, I want to encourage
you to seek out these opportunities on
campus. Browse through Maize Pages
the next time you're bored, or check out
a couple of mass meetings this month.
You're bound to find something that
you'll enjoy.
In addition to enriching the college
years of students in the Greek com-
munity, getting involved in non-Greek
organizations willhave several benefits
post-graduation. For one thing, seeking
out specific campus groups forces us
to define what our interests are. While
you may have always enjoyed getting
down at campus bars or participating
in the Variety competition, it may take
involvement in a campus dance troupe
to illuminate your passion for dance -
same goes for athletics, philanthropy,
creative hobbies and the like. Further-
more, non-Greek organizations enable
us to meet new people outside of our
chapters. We obviously spend a lot of
time with our brothers or sisters, and
we get to know them very well, but
sometimes this comes at the expense
of getting to know other students on
campus. In addition to expanding our
social circles on campus now, joining
a campus-wide organization can also
teach us how to interact professionally
with new groups of people and provide
us with a new network of people with
similar interests, which could definite-
ly come in handy in the future.
Beyond these personal benefits,
however, involvement in non-Greek
organizations can actually enhance
our experiences in Greek Life. By
showcasing our interests outside of
Greek Life, we add another dimen-
sion to our membership in the chap-

ter. In my house, for example, we
have several girls involved in an a
capella group on campus. Many of
my sisters regularly attend their con-
certs, and the a capella members also
put together our Sing ensemble for
Greek Week and lead our members
in song at various chapter events.
Their a capella membership makes
my chapter better, as my sisters have
the opportunity to learn from their
talents and become more cultured
members of society. Moreover, when
we as Greeks get involved on cam-
pus, we positively represent Greek
Life as a whole. We often lament that
as Greeks, we're stereotyped or mis-
understood by some non-Greeks on
campus. But if the people that per-
petuated those stereotypes played
with us on a club basketball team or
worked alongside us during a Circle K
service project, they might form a dif-
ferent opinion about Greek Life.
Students in Greek
Life should join
other clubs too.
Joining a non-Greek organization
makes us more well-rounded as stu-
dents and as people. It also provides
many benefits for the future while
making our time as Michigan Greeks
even more rewarding. So if you're look-
ing to get more involved this semester, 5
consider joining campus-wide organi-
zations as well as the Greek community
to make the most of the opportunities
available at Michigan.
- Sarah Smith can be reached
at smisarah@umich.edu. _


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 14, 2011 - 5



HOMELESS
From Page 1
To be eligible for the court, the
defendant must first be referred
by a social service agency like
Ozone House, SafeHouse or the
Shelter Association of Washtenaw
* County-Ann Arbor. A community
agency then has to sponsor and
work with the defendant to create
a plan to find housing, alcohol and
drug rehabilitation services and
jobs before utilizing the Street Out-
reach Court.
Courtsessions areheldbimonth-
ly at the Washtenaw County Annex
located across the street from the
Washtenaw County Courthouse on
North Main Street.
Hines said she thinks the pro-
gram is an effective way to let the
city's homeless population know
there is support for them in the
community and that there are ways
to improve their difficult situations.
"I like to think that with this
program, people get hope and
see that if they're actually help-
ing themselves, there are a lot of
other people who will help them
to get back on their feet and off the
street," Hines said.
The Street Outreach Court
receives no grant funding and is
run solely by volunteers. According
DEPRESSION
From Page 1
reaction to stressful life events
than people with a different ver-
sion of the same gene.
The 5-HTT gene is involved in
the reabsorption of serotonin at
brain synapses. Seratonin, known
as the "happiness hormone," con-
tributes to general feelings of
well-being. And while the gene
may not be directly associated
with depression, the report states,
it could impact the "serotonergic
response" to stress.
The researchers hypothesized
that variations in the 5-HTT
explain why some individuals
show have a higher risk of depres-
sion after going through stressful
experiences while others seem to
handle stress relatively easily.
To test their prediction in the
2003 study, the researchers sepa-
rated 847 men and women into
three groups depending on which
of the three versions of the 5-HTT
gene they had. The researchers
asked them to report any stressful
experiences such as employment
issues, financial troubles, health
problems or relationship issues

to Ann Savickas, probation super-
visor for the city of Ann Arbor, it
is the only court of this kind in the
Midwest. The court has closed 479
cases and cleared 88 bench war-
rants.
Savickas added that the Out-
reach court's intervention has
saved the city 3,656 jail days,
or days that homeless residents
would have been required to spend
in jail if they were unable to pay
fines. The time in jail is equivalent
to approximately $310,760 in court
fees.
Hines said the court is an impor-
tant resource for homeless indi-
viduals because it helps relieve the
burden of court fees and fines and
alleviates worrying about daily
survival.
"They may have been more con-
cerned with where they were going
eat, or where their kids were going
to sleep that night," Hines said.
Anthony Shall, a client of the
Street Outreach Court, said the
program guided him out of what
seemed like a dire situation and
helped him move forward.
"If they weren't there, I don't
know ifI would have made it," Shall
said. "I've never had so much help."
While the people who go
through the court don't have to pay
fees, Hines said there is a tradeoff
because they are more likely to find

jobs and pay taxes in the future,
therefore financially contributing
to the city.
"They pay in a different form
of currency," Hines said. "If (the
money) could be used to keep their
housing and support their families,
and they can get a job, that's just so
much better for the community."
Hines said she was inspired to
implement the program after hear-
ing about a similar court system in
San Diego, Calif. The program is an
addition to Ann Arbor's Blueprint
to End Homelessness - the city's
plan to help the homeless in the
community.
Hines said she wanted to devel-
op a fair legal system for home-
less individuals, since many of
the cases she'd heard in the past
involved quality of life offenses
and minor misdemeanors like
indecent exposure for urinating in
public - offenses that people who
have houses and private bathrooms
don't often receive.
Everyone in the community has
been extremely supportive of her
"collaborative community proj-
ect," Hines said, including the Ann
Arbor Police Department, who she
said has enjoyed helping the home-
less.
"(The police) like not just giv-
ing a ticket to someone but actually
helping that person," Hines said.

ROBINSON
From Page 1
of running the pro-style offense
and there was some concern that
Robinson wouldn't be utilized to
his full potential. Considering Rob-
inson became the first ever quar-
terback to ever throw for 2,000
yards and run for 1,500 yards, the
question of whether Hoke would
play to his strengths was one that
caused some speculation that Rob-

inson may transfer..
Taylor told The Michigan Daily
yesterday that he thought the idea
of a transfer might be "in the back
of (Denard's) mind." With yester-
day's announcement, however,
Michigan fans can rest easy that
their superstar quarterback will
be back in Ann Arbor for at least
another year.
Taylor said yesterday that two
main factors had to have played a
part in Robinson's decision.
"I think the big thing is he really

does love the University of Michi-
gan," Taylor said. "And he really
doesn't want to sit out a year.
Taylor also acknowledged that
Robinson's beloved status among
fans in Ann Arbor definitely solidi-
fied his decision to stay. During
the basketball team's loss to Ohio
State last night, fans gave Robin-
son a thunderous ovation when he
appeared on the big screen, chant-
ing "Hail to the Victors."
"It's clear he's just really wanted
there," Taylor said.


AUDIT
From Page 1
semester senior who doesn't have
much to do but still wants to learn
from the best professors at Michi-
gan," she-said.
Business sophomore Casey
Goldman considered unofficially
auditing a course on entrepreneur-
ial finance this semester since he's
not permitted to officially enroll
due to his underclassman status.
"It was a class that ties in with
my future career goals that was
highly recommended by my peers,"
Goldman wrote in an e-mail inter-
view.
But because of the amount of
projects and group work involved
in the course, he decided against

auditing. He wrote that he would
consider auditing a similar course
if it was more based on reading
textbooks or attending lectures.
More often, people who are not
students choose to audit classes,
Conway-Perrin said.
Linda Gregerson, the Caroline
Walker Bynum Distinguished Uni-
versity Professor of English - who
is currently teaching one of the
University's popular Shakespeare
courses - said older members of
the University community fre-
quently sit in on her classes. These
members include retired clinical
faculty at the Medical School and
people affiliated with the Univer-
sity like administrators and visit-
ing scholars.
For those who do want to audit
a class, the process of registering is

"pretty straightforward," Conway-
Perrin said. The student simply
meets with a member of the Aca-
demic Standards Board at Newnan
to request the audit. The board
later notifies the office of the Reg-
istrar, and the student is granted
visitor status for the course.
Conway-Perrin said some stu-
dents ask the instructor's permis-
sion to attend the class while others
just sit in on large lecture courses
assumingno one will notice or care
that they're not officially regis-
tered.
"From a University perspective,
if they're going strictly by the letter
of the law, I'm sure (the University)
would prefer that people register
and pay tuition if they're going to
be gaining something from the
course," she said.

they had between ages 21 and 26. about 41,000 people participanted
The researchers then evaluated in the studies.
the participants for symptoms of While the analysis was a great
depression at their current age undertaking, Sen said the real
of 26 and found that those with a work was done in the original data
particular version of 5-HTT had collection. For example, he said
an elevated risk of depression. the researchers who conducted
Sen said he and many other the 2003 study worked on it for
scientists in his field felt that the about 20 years.
2009 analysis of the 2003 study Sen said he spoke with the
was incomplete and biased since researchers of the 2003 study, and
it only looked at 14 of the 54 con- they were very pleased with the
ducted studies. Ten out of the 14, results of his team's analysis.
he added, were negative - mean- "They were convinced that the
ing they didn't find evidence of an 2003 study was wrong and incom-
interaction between the gene and plete," he said. "So they were
an increased risk of depression. happy that somebody was trying
Sen estimated that of the to look more completely at the
remaining 40 studies omitted research."
from the 2009 analysis, only about Sen emphasized that the 5-HTT
eight were negative. gene only accounts for a small per-
Another shortcoming of the centage of variance in symptoms
2009 analysis, Sen said, was its of depression and that this is only
narrow focus. It only considered the beginning of what he hopes
studies that looked at stressful will turn into a genome-wide sur--
life events, while other studies on vey of genetic factors that affect
the same genetic interaction have stress.
investigated triggers such as abuse "I think it's important to note
during childhood and the first that this isn't the depression gene,"
year of medical school. he said. "And that there's going to
Over the course of about be dozens of other genes like this,
nine months, Sen and his team so I don't think people should go
looked at all 54 studies published out and find what genotype they
between 2001 and 2010. In total, have at this gene."


CONNECTIONS
From Page 1
alum.
Reas said he and his co-founders
went to work to create a site that
provides users with "location-
based communication."
Users can go to the website,
select their college or university,
identify their location on campus
and make an anonymous post about
someone around them. Other users
can then' respond to the author,
either publically or privately.
No account is required to make
or respond to a post. Accounts
are available to users who wish to
receive notifications when a com-
ment is made on their posts or want
information about posts in certain
locations across campus.
When responding to a post,
users are randomly assigned the
name of a fruit as their username.
Reas said this anonymity distin-
guishes people in a lighthearted
way. He said he is very focused on
keeping the website's atmosphere

positive and encourages feedback
from users.
Reas also said complimentary
or flirty posts are welcome on
LikeALittle.com. People on the
website often make comments
admiring other students' physical
appearances.
But Engineering junior Dan
Forhan, the University of Michi-
gan's Like A Little page founding
moderator, is able to comment on
or take down posts that may be
inappropriate.
Forhan said there will be "offen-
sive or racist or overtly sexual posts
once in a while." But he said Like
A Little employees are all actively
working to remove any distasteful
material to keep the atmosphere
positive.
Forhan said it is hard to tell how
many actual connections are being
made through the site.
"Judging by the content of the
site, it looks like they're happen-
ing," he said.
He added that it is also possible
that the exchanges between some
users are just jokes.

LSA freshman Saloni Godbole
said a friend told her about the site.
She said she mentioned to a friend
that she saw a cute guy in the
Shapiro Undergraduate Library,
and her friend suggested she post
about him on Like A Little. God-
bole said she never actually posted
anything, but did check out the
website.
Godbole said she thinks many
people are just joking around in
their posts but that "it could really
open up a new way to meet some-
body."
LSA sophomore Rachel Weston
said she thinks the website is
appropriate for a college environ
ment.
"That's the way college is,"
Weston said. "You'll meet. some
one and talk to them and never see
them again, so I think it's kind of a
product of that atmosphere."
LSA freshman Louise Colo
said she recently started visiting
the website. She said she doesn't
believe people are too serious
about what they post but said "it's
definitely a fun social thing."


Biden discusses possible
stay of U.S. troops in Iraq

Sunday Al.amba/APr
President Goodluck Jonathan arrives for the ruling party primary in Abuja, Nigeria, Thursday, Jan. 13, 2011. Delegates so Nige-
ria's ruling party began voting yesterday night to pick its presidential candidate,
igerian president
w ins

Jonathan Goodluck
wins presidential
election after death
of former leader
ABUJA, Nigeria (AP) - Presi-
dent Goodluck Jonathan, who
became leader of Africa's most
populous nation only after the
death of its elected president, won
the endorsement of Nigeria's rul-
ing party this morning, clinching
a victory that makes him the over-
whelming favorite to win April's
presidential election.
Jonathan cast himself as the
leader able to change a nation
blessed by natural resources but
cursed by years of military dicta-
torships. However, the regional
and religious tensions that flared
up during the presidential primary
exist across a country troubled by
violence and extremism more than
40 years after the end of its brutal
civil war.
As the candidate of the People's
Democratic Party, Jonathan can
expect the party to use its political
connections, money and muscle to
propel him to victory in Nigeria's

unruly and corrupt electoral sys-
tem. Since the handover in 1999
from military rule to a civilian gov-
ernment, politics in the West Afri-
can nation have been dominated by
the party.
"We have a chance to transform
ourselves to bea great nation in the
years ahead," Jonathan told del-
egates gathered for the convention
last night in Nigeria's capital, Abuja.
He offered a promise that won a
cheer from the crowd: "Goodluck
Ebele Jonathan and (Vice Presi-
dent) Nnmadi Sambo will never,
never, never let you down."
The president, dressed in the
traditional black caftan and bowl-
er hat of his Niger Delta home,
focused on issues his young admin-
istration hopes to improve over the
next four years. Top among them
is a plan to privatize the nation's
decrepit state-run power compa-
ny. As of now, only those who can
afford private generators have con-
stant electricity.
His main challenger, 'former
Vice President Atiku Abubakar,
hammered the president in a
speech over rising debit and grow-
ing insecurity in a country divided
between a predominantly Chris-
tian south and a Muslim north.

Jonathan ended up taking more
than two-thirds of the vote.
The choice between Jonathan
and Abubakar highlighted the reli-
gious and ethnic fault lines running
through the nation of 150 million
people. Jonathan, a Christian from
the south, became president only
after last May's death of Nigeria's
elected leader, Umaru Yar'Adua,
a Muslim from the north who had
only served one term. For that rea-
son, some within the party believe
its presidential candidate should be
another northerner.
Abubakar repeatedly brought
up the arrangement, saying tossing
it aside would cause "lawless and
anarchy."
The primary results could mean
that the party appears willing to
forget about the arrangement. Del-
egates began voting after the two
men's speeches, dropping marked
ballots into see-through glass bal-
lot boxes as observers from the
Nigeria's Independent National
Electoral Commission looked on.
The small-scale primary elec-
tion offered warnings of what
might come in the April general
election. Some complained that
the ballots, bearing serial numbers,
allowed their votes to be tracked.

VP meets with Iraqi
officials in first visit
since formation of
new government
BAGHDAD (AP) - Iraqi politi-
cians face the contentious ques-
tion this year of whether to ask
U.S. troops to stay beyond an end-
of-2011 deadline for their depar-
ture. That decision has become far
more complicated with the return
to Iraq of anti-American cleric
Muqtada al-Sadr.
The future of U.S. troops in
Iraq was a topic of talks between
Vice President Joe Biden and
Iraqi leaders yesterday during the
first visit by a senior U.S. official
since Iraq's new government was
formed.
The case for an extension cen-
ters around concerns that Iraqi
forces may not be ready -to keep
security. Many Sunnis want U.S.
troops to stick around for their
protection, fearirig domination by
the Shiite majority. Kurds see the
Americans as a guarantee of their
autonomous region in the north.
And some in the party of Shiite
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki
also want the U.S. forces to stay.
But al-Sadr, a Shiite who came
home last week from nearly four
years in voluntary exile in Iran, is
a formidable obstacle. He imme-
diately put the government on
notice that he and his movement,
which is a pivotal member of the
ruling coalition, will not toler-
ate any lingering American troop
presence.
"We heard a pledge from the
government that it will expel the
occupier, and we are waiting for it
to honor its word," he said during
a speech.
No decision on an extension
will come at least until al-Maliki
has chosen a defense minister.
If Iraq requests an extension,
the overriding question will be
whether al-Sadr is willing to risk
bringing down the government
over it.
Under a deal agreed upon in
2008, the approximately 47,000
American troops still in the coun-
try must leave by the end of 2011.

Privately, many in Iraq and the
U.S. long assumed that the two
sides would, re-negotiate for an
American troop presence in some
form past that deadline. Iraq's
top military commander has said
U.S. troops should stay until Iraq's
security forces can defend its bor-
ders - which he said could take
until 2020.
The U.S. officially doesn't rule
out an extension. Biden told Amer-
ican troops yesterday that the U.S.
should make sure Iraq's stability
and democracy are strong enough
to make it "a country that was
worthy of the sacrifices" Ameri-
can troops have undergone.
He also said the U.S. would
continue to train and equip Iraqi
forces beyond 2011, highlighting
the continued uncertainty about
the future of America's troop pres-
ence.
An aide to Biden said the vice
president reiterated Washington's
longtime position that the U.S.
would listen to any request by the
Iraqi government for troops to
stay longer but that Baghdad has
not asked. The official spoke on
condition of anonymity because of
the sensitivity of the talks.
Biden met yesterday with al-


Maliki, Iraqi President Jalal Tala-
bani and other officials, but not
with al-Sadr, in keeping with long-
standing practice on both sides.
The topic had been sidelined
for most of the past year, with
Iraqi politicians deadlocked after
national elections in March failed
to produce a clear winner. Butwith
al-Maliki's formation of a govern-
ment, the issue is now under dis-
cussion.
Publicly, al-Maliki has rejected
an extension, telling a November
news conference and then The
Wall Street Journal last month
that there is no reason for U.S.
troops to stay past the deadline.
But a lawmaker from al-Maliki's
bloc said an American troop pres-
ence is likely to remain past 2011.
He did not have specific informa-
tion on how many, but said any
remaining forces would help with
specific tasks such as protecting
Iraqi airspace, training Iraqi forc-
es and logistics.
He acknowledged that such an
extension would be "embarrass-
ing" for the government, espe-
cially after al-Sadr's return. The
lawmaker did not want to be iden-
tified because of the sensitivity of
the issue.

Are you a sophomore with a passion for the environment?
Apply for the Graham Institute's Undergraduate
Sustainability Scholars Program by January 19, 20111
Each year, 25 high-achieving undergraduate students from
diverse majors are accepted to this 11-credit, interdisciplinary
sustainability leadership program. In addition to earning
a sustainebility certificate, scholars enjoy special access
to, and funding for, field-based sustainability experiences.
Details and application at www.graham.umich.edu.
 u]GRAHAM INSTITUTE


6 - Friday, January 14, 2011

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Friday, January14, 2011 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Gates: North Korea must
show good faith for talks,

Japan to reshuffle
Cabinet to push for
economic reforms

Defense Secretary:
U.S. wants 'freedom
of navigation' in
Chinese waters
SEOUL (AP) - New internation-
al disarmament talks with North
Korea are possible only if the North
backs off recent aggression against
South Korea and demonstrates it is
willing to bargain in good faith, U.S.
Defense Secretary Robert Gates
said today.
Gates said diplomacy is worth-
while, starting with direct talks
between the North and South.
South Korea has rejected new talks
for now, reflecting intense anger
and impatience over North Korean
attacks.
Gates attached no conditions to
possible new discussions between
the North and South beyond an end
to attacks like two in the past year
blamed for killing about 50 South
Koreans.
He insisted on "concrete steps"
by the North for new talks involving
the United States.
"When or if North Korea's
actions show cause to believe nego-
tiations could be productive or con-
ducted in good faith, then we could
see a return" to dormant six-nation
disarmament talks, Gates said.
Those talks include the U.S.,
China, Japan, Russia and the two

Koreas.
Gates made a brief stop in Seoul
for crisis talks on North Korea to
close a week of military discussions
in Asia cloudedby the threat of new
war on the Korean peninsula.
South Korean Defense Minister
Kim Kwan-jin told Gates that his
country feels under attack.
South Korea sees recent North
Korean aggression as the worst
since the close of the Korean War
six decades ago.
"Many expect North Korea to
conduct more provocation this
year," Kim said.
South Korea must answer "from
the basis of strength," he added.
The U.S. is urging patience but
is worried that rising frustration in
the South may force its leaders to
retaliate if the North attacks again.
Gates was in Tokyo earlier today,
where he said North Korea was less
able to invade South Korea now
than it was a decade or more ago but
has become a more lethal threat to
Asia and the world.
"The character and priorities of
the North Korean regime sadly have
not changed," Gates said.
"North Korea's ability to launch
another conventional ground inva-
sion is much degraded from even
a decade ago, but in other respects
it has grown more lethal and more
destabilizing," Gates said in an
address to students at Keio Univer-
sity.
North Korea's pursuit of nuclear

weapons and missile technology
"threaten not just the peninsula, but
the Pacific Rim and international
stability," Gates said.
Regarding China, Gates said that
even as the U.S. military relation-
ship between the two countries
improves, at least one area of dis-
agreement continues: "freedom of
navigation." That's a euphemism for
the U.S. view that it has the right to
sail its ships in waters that China
claims as restricted.
Freedom of shipping and com-
merce have been basic principles for
the United States since its founding,
Gates pointed out.
He also told students that China's
military sometimes does things
without telling the country's senior
politicalleadership. The communist
party has firm control over the mili-
tary, but "sometimes there are dis-
connects," Gates said.
"'In the larger sense of who con-
trols the Chinese military and who
has the ultimate authority there
is no doubt in my mind that it is
President Hu Jintao and the senior
civilian leadership of that country,"
Gates said, adding the wider U.S.
engagement with China he seeks
could help cut through the commu-
nications problemsbetween China's
military and political spheres.
"I believe we've seen instances
where specific events take place
where the Chinese senior leader-
ship may not have known about
them," Gates said.

He mentioned this week's flight
test of the new J-20 stealth fighter
as one such example. Gates said Hu
did not appear to know about the
test until Gates asked him about it.
"But on the whole, I do think this
is something that is a worry," Gates
said.
He also made the case for the
continued presence of tens of thou-
sands of U.S. forces in Japan. U.S.
military bases on the southern
island of Okinawa have become
increasingly unpopular because of
noise, crowding and the percep-
tion that the U.S. takes Japan for
granted.
Most of the 49,000 U.S. forces in
Japan are based on Okinawa.
But without those forces, "North
Korea's military provocations could
be even more outrageous," Gates
said.
"China might behave more
assertively toward its neighbors,"
he added.
The United States fears that the
risk of war is rising between U.S.
ally South Korea and the heavily
militarized and increasingly unpre-
dictable regime in North Korea,
which the Pentagon also considers
a looming threat to the mainland
United States.
North Korea allegedly sank a
South Korean warship in March,
killing 46, and shelled front-line
Yeonpyeong Island in November,
killing four. The islandsits in waters
the North claims as its own.

Prime minister
to try to tackle
problems of aging
population, debt
TOKYO (AP) - Japan's Cabinet
resigned en masse today as the
prime minister reshuffles his line-
up in a bid to revive the struggling
economy and open up the country
to stay globally competitive.
Prime Minister Naoto Kan said
yesterday that the new Cabinet
is aimed at pushing for reforms
as Japan faces a string of daunt-
ing problems, including a rapidly
aging population, growing nation-
al debt and an anemic economy -
the world's third-largest.
The Cabinet that will be
announced later today will be
Kan's third since he took office in
June. The one that just resigned
was formed in September in an
earlier reshuffle.
"I will have the most powerful
Cabinet," Kan said yesterday at
the annual convention of his rul-
ing Democratic Party of Japan
held in Chiba, near Tokyo. "The
changes will reflect how best we
can push for reforms for Japan
and tackle the problems."
The reshuffle is largely seen as
an attempt to increase chances
of passing key legislation, includ-
ing the 2011 budget. Distracted

by personnel issues and a scandal
involving a party veteran, Kan's
government has been unable to
make much progress in parlia-
ment.
Kan didn't specify what chang-
es he will make, but media reports
say he will replace Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshito Sengoku, who
has come under fire from opposi-
tion parties for controversial com-
ments on diplomatic and defense
issues.
The opposition bloc had
threatened to boycott parliamen-
tary sessions if Sengoku is not
replaced.
Yukio Edano, the ruling party's
acting secretary general and Sen-
goku's close ally, is among the top
candidates for the job as the top
government spokesman, accord-
ing to Japanese media reports.
Kaoru Yosano, a 72-year-old
veteran lawmaker known as a
staunch advocate of fiscal reform
and supporter of raising the sales
tax to meet the country's climb-
ing social security costs, is also
expected to serve as minister of
economic and fiscal policy, replac-
ing Banri Kaieda.
Kaieda, an economist and sup-
porter of free-trade zones, is
reportedly shifting to economy
and trade minister, reflecting the
prime minister's push to achieve
his goal of opening the country,
one of his key reform agendas this
year.

"PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
We are working the rates....
Parking available Now at
520 Packard & 511 Hoover!
Also, 2011-12 Parking for Sale
Many "Prime" locations
throughout central campus.
Call 734-761-8000

Studio - 4 Bedrooms
r Central ca1pus r a Downtowl
rNorth Campus rWest idclr
Let Our Family ' ake Care of Yours
ww"a lv nsitutor affleat~
BEST LOCATION IN TOWN
543 Church! Right across from East
Hall! Spacious 4Br bi-levels, 2Br, 1 Br,
& Studios! Updated kitchens w/dish-
washers, heat & water included, and all
apts. are fully furnished!
www.varsitymanagement.com
CONDO AVAILABLE AT The
Ridge Tahoe, 400 Ridge Club Drive.
Sleeps 4, 1 bedroom, 1 bath, kitchen.
Apr. 3- Apr. 10, $1000. Contact
merchanj@umich.edu
IF MONEY CAN't buy happiness,
I.guess you'll have to rent it!!
Prime Student Housing-Call today!
761-8000 primesh.com
THESIS EDITING- LANGUAGE,
organization, format. 25 yrs. U-M exp.
996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

www.vars!!tymanagementcom

! AWESOME 3 bdrm house on
Dewey. Free prkg, Indry, water incl.
734.223.7777.
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Incl. Heat/Water/Parking.
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992.
BEAUTIFUL SPACIOUS APTS!
1039 Baldwin. 4 br, 2br, & studios!
Available in a gorgeous converted
house. High ceilings, bay windows,
fireplace, hardwood floors, & screened
in porch!! Large backyard, heat, water,
& parking included!
734-668-1100

RELEASE DATE- Friday, January 14,2011
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 66 With composure 35 Employee using 52 Battery
1 lltustrative words 67 "_Waldo?" a word acronym
7 Burst processor? 54 Magnalium,
15 Casual top DOWN 36Auspicious e.g.
16 Intimate meeting 1 Make way 37 Sends, 55 Papier--.
17 Baroque 2 Dept. ofthe Navy obsolescently 57 Pluck
composer component 40 Dallas suburb 59 Captain's
Cavalien 3 Movie with style? 43 Hyundai model underngs
18 Apple delivery 4 Black... 47 Cricket violation 60 Step oniti
vehicle? 5 Luyendyk of auto 50 Family 62 _ du Diable:
19 Lobbying gp. racing nicknames former French
bigwig? 6 Greek colonnade 51 Carol opening penal colony
21 Great Seal 7 Rival of Paris ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
symbol 8Takes pieces
22 Lab complaints from? SWAB A L AR M E C H O
23 CD-_ 9 Workout target I O W A M A-G I C P H O N
25 Hardy's "Pure 10Carry T R A N S FORMAT ION S
Woman" 11 Like some films A S I D E S t S A G R E E
26''S"on an 12Compact item R E T I R E S U R E S T
invitation 13 Things with Itrs. T A D A D A T A
27 Labelfor many 14 Hockey ploys ODDFS iI ED M U C K
Elton John hits 20.Pipe cleaner P E I B E L L J A R N IFL
29 Ready-to-mail 24 Wrapped garment T V VCR D E A H B E A M
Item: Abbr. 27 Prefix with V O I L A V I O L A
31 Ristorante suffix economics S A I N T L Y U N D E R G O
32 Pittypat, in "Gone 28 Insertion point P R E S T O P O S T E R
With the Wind" indicator O R S O YODEL S H E D
34 Aiming aid in 30 Biologicalbristles R A U L DON N A E L S E
some gun sights 33 Mountain West TYPE SHADY D Y E R
38 Fourth-qtr. month Conf. team xwerdedlurfaat.cam 01111
39 Trap for large
reptiles? 1 23 a 5 u 7 7 0 10 11 12 13 14
41 Reveal, poetically 15 18
42 Glacial ridges
44 it paralels the 17 18
radius 19 20 21
45 Radar's rank:
Abbr. .22 23 24 25
46 Fish-eating bird
48 Pollster's query 26 27 29 30
49 Heartache 31 032 4 s35 s 37
50 Homer
Simpson's mom s us a 41
53 Chestnut horse 42- 43 a a5
55 Cartoonist
Walker 4 7 48 49
56 Nailing, as a test
58 Coalition 51 52 s3 5a 55
celebration? s on s 5 s
61 Court dispute
overfootwear? 613
63 Preparefora 6
break
64 Texas city on us887
-40
65 Colorlessagas By Dan Naddor 01114J11
(c)211 Tribune Media Services, In0/1

Looking for housing for fall 2011?
Studios, 1, 2, a,. a s BedroomsNow noiebale
Fully funished
Neat, water, and parkingincuded most oc.loons
Many newly remodeled
Call to schedule a tour todayl
Varsity Management
625 Church St.
(734) 668-1100
7 BDRM. SEPT.2011- $3700 Kings-
ley & State. Call Alex: 248-910-2286.
AWESOME NEWER 6-Bed Rm
furn. Apts & rooms for Fall 11. Also
flex-Leases sublets for June 11 thru
Aug11. www.828greeneapts.com 734-
418-2050
GREAT LOCATIONS!!!
Outstanding Service!!!
Best Rates Around!!!
Leasing Now...
Utilities Included*
Even comes Furnished!!
(And HAIL to the Victors!)
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
*Varies by location
RIDDLE OF THE Day...
Has the top customer service around.
Best rates & locations on campus.
It's a positive number that's not divisi-
ble without a remainder by any positive
number other than itself and one.
Call (734) 761-8000 to get your answer
& so much more!!
WELCOME BACK! Only a few
days left to bea Wiuner in the "Pick a
Winner" promotion. You can win up to
One Month FREE! !
**This offer ends January 14, 2011**
Call or stop by Today for Best Selec-
tion. Sold out early in 2010, so don't
wait any longer.
SEE WHY WE'RE STILL #1
734-761-2680
www.universitytowers-mi.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
5 BDRM, 2 Bath, heat included, laun-
dry, parking, May-May, $3395, 815
Arch, 665-6895, renewalco@aol.com
6 BDRM HOUSE across from IM
Building at 605 E. Hoover. 2 Bath-
rooms, 2 on-site parking, 3rd space
nearby, Washer/Dryer. Tenants Pay All
Utilities. $3600 for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
6 BEDROOM HOUSE, South Forest.
Sept. 2011, furnished, parking, laundry,
fireplace, 2 baths, lovingly maintained,
$2800 + utilities, only a 10 minute
walk to diag. 734-426-4772.
6 BR, 3 bath house, available Septem-
ber. 903 Sylvan, fully remodeled, fur-
nished. $3400/mo. Call 248-798-4755

QQ
a""
?SOLD OUT? Don't wait to hear
these words. Sign your lease today foi
Best selection. "Pick A Winner" Promo
ends on 1/14/11. Call or stop by TO-
DAY! 734-761-2680
universitytowers-mi.com
APTS FOR FALL 2011-12!
Eff& 1 Bedrooms $675 - $1000; 2 bed-
rooms (3 left) $950 -$1250; Most units
include Heat and Water. Most have
Parking available for $25/m. Showings
Scheduled M-F 12pm-4pm
Cappo Mgmt 734-996-1991.
7 BDRM HOUSE 948 Greenwood,
$4300/month, May lease, 332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
917 PACKARD
Huge 2br apts. that can easily fit
4 people! Close to central campus, the
' athletic campus, and restaurants at
State, Packard, & Hill!! New kitchens
w/dishwashers, large bedrooms w/
double closets and balconies. All apts
are fully furnished, heat, water,
and parking included!
www.varsitymanagement.com
! CENTRAL CAMPUS 6 & 7 BED-
ROOM HOUSES. Great furni-
ture/decor. Wireless/cable. Free laun-
dry/parking. FOR RENT NOW FOR
MAY 2011. HorvathProperties.com or
call 734-972-7368.
*AVAILABLE FALL 2011*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking distance
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
1 BDRM APT, 715 Arbor #2,
$650/month, water included, May
lease, 734-332-6000,
www.carlsonproperties.com
2 BDRM APT 1004 S. Forest #B1 or
B2, $950/month, free heat&water, May
lease, 734-332-6000
www.carlsonproperties.com
4 BDRM APT in house w/ bay
windows, furniture and 2 pkg spots.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM BI-LEVEL house near
Kerrytown avail 6/29/11. 1.5 baths,
washer/dryer & covered porch.
741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
4 BDRM HOUSE as close to the Medi-
cal School and North Campus as you
can get. Across from Fuller Field/Park
at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive. Garage,
washer/dryer, new carpet, A/C, large
common areas, big backyard. Avail
Fall 2011-12. Asking $2200 + Utilities.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.

4 BDRM HOUSE off Packard btw
McKinley and Sylvan at 827 Brook-
wood. 4 parking spaces, washer/dryer.
Tenants pay all utilities. Asking $2400
+ Utilities for Fall 2011-12.
Deinco Properties 734-323-6937.
! EXCELLENT 6-BR, 2 Bath colonial
on Central campus(1143 S.Forest Ave).
5 mins walk to college with 2 Refriger-
ators/Microwave/Toaster/Sink/Free
laundry/Private deck/Free parking.
(MAY.2011) Call 734 578 4625
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC. in-
vites you to visit www.CampusMgt.-
com, the best local website for a wide
selection of apartments and houses. We
specialize in houses and apartments
very close to central campus. All are at-
tractively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing - for Fall 2011 available
now! Or call and speak with our Leas-
ing Consultant, Pat at 734-663-4101.
MY NEW YEARS Resolutions...
Exercise...At least until my
spring break trip
Study more for my classes...Maybe
No more drinking...LOL
Find my apartment
for the fall...Definitely
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
CORNER HOUSE APTS, next to
North Quad. 2 & 3 bdrms Spring and
Fall 2011. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
APTS, SUBLETS & RMS For Rent
http://www.sublet.com
STUDIO -4 BDRMS apts and houses
avail spring & fall 2011. 18 locations
to choose from. 741-9300
www.annarborapartments.net
AVAIL Sept.'11 1&2 Bdrm. furn.
apts.402 Hill St.&1313 S.State idry
prkg,heat,& H20 incl. 734-904-6735
APARTMENTS GOING FAST.....
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms/
Furnished, heat & water included,
FREE parking and Ethernet!
Call todayfor an appointment to see!
Prime Student Housing
761-8000 primesh.com
wVnrac by Ir-ti

0

WORK ON MACKINAC Island -
Make lifelong friends. The Island
House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge Shops:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

!!!BARTENDING!!! $300 /day poten-
tial. No exp. nec., training available.
AGE 18+ OK. 800-965-6520 x 125.
PHD or candidate, any field. Part-
time in tiny, highly successful biotech
company near campus. Send CV and
past writing samples (redacted).
admin@eyelabgroup.com
RAISE FOR MAIZE! Start your ca-
reer now - $9.25/hour at Michigan Tele-
fund. On campus, flexible hours. Stu-
dents only, apply @734-763-8773 or
telefund.umich.edu
SEEKING AN ENERGETIC and en-
thusiastic person with an understanding
of child development. We have three
children 7, 5 and 18 mths. References
and child care experience required.
Teaching background preferred. Days
and times flexible. Walking distance
from U of M campus. Contact us at
farmerjordan@mac.com or 769-6264.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed in A2.
100% FREE to sinn. Click on Surveys.

LOOKING FOE EXPERIENCED
Sitter Wed. afternooX (appx. 3-6).
Must have carto drive kids to/from
activities. Email gsein@umich.edu

01

SERVICES
GET GROCERIES DELIVERED to
your door. . Geneva Grocery Delivery.
734-274-2484.
PRIVATE-TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
- perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law graduate (3.85 GPA)
- licensed attorney
- 18 years of teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
Keeps BED BUGS out of sight!
Kilts and Repels Bed Bugs
Non-toxic
.. Natural Cedar Oil Solution
~~ ~ ~ ~ ^ A r A r^~' " ~~t

IMMATURE MEN BOTHER-
SOME? 50-year old U-M grad (male/s-
ingle) looking for a mature fem. friend-
ship in Ann Arbor. Photo, optional. Re-
ply to thepropdrivein@gmail.com
AD
V1E
WITH
THE
CLASS
IFIEDS

BmuARTEND ! uAY rOuEN-
TIAL! No experience required.We
train you! 888-575-TIPS (8477).
BENEFIT ADMINISTRATORS
NEEDED work from home full time or
part time training provided 734-922-
3435

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 14, 2011 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 14, 2011 - 7

Fleming graces Hill

In "Casino Jack," Jon Lovitz plays Jack Abramoff's fall guy.
Lovitz talks Jack

By JOE CADAGIN
Daily Fine Arts Editor
Soprano Rende Fleming is a bit
of an overachiever: She has nearly
60 roles under her belt, over 40
CD and DVD
recordings to Rende
her name and
a mountain of Flerniig
awards and
honors that Sundayat 4p.m.
include three Hill Auditorium
Grammys. This From $10
Sunday, the
operatic super-
star will add yet another prize
to the pile when the University
Musical Society presents her with
the 2011 Distinguished Artist
Award before her recital at Hill
Auditorium.
Despite her myriad accom-
plishments, there's something
overwhelmingly magnetic about
Fleming. Since her Metropoli-
tan Opera debut in the early '90s,
Fleming has won over thousands
of fans to opera with her engaging
smile and down-to-earth persona.
"She seems to have everything
all together," said Naomi Andr,
an associate professor of musicol-
ogy and women's studies at the
University. "She has this beautiful
silky voice. She's very compelling
on stage - a good actress. And
there's something about her per-
sonality where she seems to
be everybody's sweetheart."
Andre went on to praise
Fleming's voice and f
technique, which she
described as "almost
too perfect" -
another mark
of the soprano's
overachieve-
ment.
"Nobody
thinks it's not
beautiful,"
Andre said.
"But some
people

'Cas
on h
fil

Just
mer lo
release
ing tit
cal and
multi-b
and e
tion th
things
so, it on
Abramo
is bein
near-my
one of
individu
Washin
greed a
"Cas
today
details,
Abramo
"Ameri
ing a sit
in over
mately
this is
it's told
Jon
Abram(
mention
explain
with th
of deve
a pote
evolved
"(Dir
er ... ha

ino Jack' co-star Abramoff about five times and
he found him to be very charm-
onest making of ing and very funny," Lovitz said.
"One time, Kevin Spacey went to
lm about fraud meet Jack Abramoffinprisonwith
George, and that changed Kevin's
By DAVID RIVA opinion a lot. And they decided
Daily Arts Writer to put a lot of the humor into the
script."
over a month ago, for- Despite the comical undertones
bbyist Jack Abramoff was of "Casino Jack," Hickenlooper
d from prison after serv- had no intention of making a
ne for fraudulent politi- movie that lacked substance.
d business practices. His "This was the biggest scandal
illion dollar transactions since Watergate and (Hickenloop-
xtensive FBI investiga- er) was really political himself,"
at ensued are the kinds of Lovitz explained, adding that one
only seen in movies. And of the main motivations of the
ly seems fitting that just as movie was to tell this unbelievable
off re-enters society, a film story as a way to educate people on
g released recounting his the corruption that exists in gov-
ythical rise and fall from ernment and politics.
America's most influential Lovitz described the produc-
uals to the epitome of why tion of the movie as an especially
gton is synonymous with positive experience, because the
nd corruption. relationships forged between
ino Jack," which premieres actors and filmmakers was unusu-
at the Michigan, initially ally strong. More specifically,
the extravagant lifestyle of Lovitz held his director,,as well as,
sff (played by Kevin Spacey, lead actor Spacey, in the highest
can Beauty") before reveal- regard.
uation that found Abramoff "(Hickenlooper) made inde-
his head and would ulti- pendent movies ... and he was just
lead to his demise. Though starting to get hired for main-
an intensely serious story, stream films," Lovitz explained.
in a subtly humorous way. Tragically, however, Hicken-
Lovitz ("Rat Race") plays looper passed away in late October
off's partner in the afore- before "Casino Jack" was released.
ned deal gone wrong and "Instead of ("Casino Jack")
ed in a phone interview becoming the start of a new career
re Daily how this process in mainstream films for him, it's
loping the "bad guy" as become his swan song," Lovitz
ntially likable character said.
*over time. However, the film did allow
ector) George Hickenloop- Lovitz and Spacey - friends of 25
d gone and met with Jack years - to grow closer on set.

"(Spacey)'s a very giving actor,"
Lovitz said. "When he's doing his
part, he's really looking at you
right in the eyes, and making you
feel like you're supposed to feel
with what's going on in the scene."
Lovitz particularly appreci-
ated Spacey's attention to detail,
because it's something that he
himself values in his variety of
creative endeavors. Whether it's
acting in a movie, a TV show or on
Broadway; recording voiceovers or
singing; or performing stand-up
comedy, Lovitz is always keeping
busy.
"I enjoy the variety," he
explained. "I've had training in
all these different areas: I was a
drama major at the University of
California-Irvine.
"I took a class with Tony Barr
called Film Actor's Workshop, for
film for a year and a half, and I was
in the Groundlings, which is an
improv group. I trained myself so
that I could know how to do drama
and comedy and theater and mov-
ies,,ad everything, so thatJcould-
be working all the time."
One endeavor that Lovitz has
never undertaken is directing a
movie. He leaves that to individu-
als like Hickenlooper who he con-
siders to be immensely gifted.
"I said to George when I saw
him in Austin ... 'Thanks for let-
ting me be in a great movie and
believing in all my scenes,"' Lovitz
said. "I would just say the movie is
really a tribute to the talent of the
filmmaker."
"(Hickenlooper) would say, 'I
really think it's 95-percent the
actors,' but you know it's a col-
laboration."

wish that it were a little more dis-
tinctive, that it had a little more of
an 'edgy' character."
Andre also compared Fleming
to the late great soprano Beverly
"Bubbles" Sills. Like Sills, Flem-
ing has demystified the bewilder-
ing world of opera for a new era of
classical music audiences.
"She's well known internation-
ally, but particularly in America
because she's in this generation
where it seems like she's trying
hard to make opera accessible to
people," Andre said. "I think the
most visible way is with her host-
ing the HD Metropolitan (Opera)
broadcasts, where she's been one
of the main hosts to introduce (the
productions) and interview the
singers.
"She kind of seems like the face
of America - bringing opera to
the people."
Staying true to her nick-
name, "the people's diva," Flem-
ing increasingly finds new ways
to reach audiences. Earlier last
month, she was given the invented
position of "Creative Consultant"
at the Lyric Opera of Chicago.
Andre compared Fleming's new
role to that of Plicido Domingo,
who serves as General Director
of the LA Opera and continues to
perform lead tenor roles.
"We've got great examples with
Domingo," Andre said.
"He does a lot of dif-
ferent things with
the LA Opera ...
And he's such
an intelligent
singer to still
be singing
and mov-
ing into
different
repertory.
S I would.
love to see
that trans-
late to a
female
singer
and to
Renee."
"She
does
seem to
be reaching a
point of omni-
presence," Andret
added.
Indeed,
Fleming's
work and
influ-
ence

have permeated American soci-
ety far beyond the operatic stage.
Fans of "The Lord of the Rings"
will recognize her voice from the
soundtrack of "The Return of the
King." Guests at the New York City
restaurant DANIEL can order a
desert called "La Diva Renee,"
named for you-know-who. There
is even a Fleming fragrance (La
Voce by Renee Fleming) and a
Fleming flower (the Renee Flem-
ing Iris).
The soprano has also recently
made an uncharacteristic - yet
critically applauded - move with
her recent foray into indie rock.
In her newest album, Dark Hope,
she covers songs by Death Cab For
Cutie, Muse and Arcade Fire.
At Sunday's concert, however,
Flemingwill returnto heroperatic
roots, performing a program that
includes works by Schoenberg,
Korngold and Richard Strauss -
Fleming covers
popular indie
artists besides
singing opera.
a composer whose work she has
championed over the years.
Fleming will also perform
works from her 2009 album Veris-
mo, which showcased the music
of Italian turn-of-the-century
composers like Giacomo Puccini,
who pioneered a gritty and true-
to-life style of opera. In addition
to an aria from Puccini's beloved
"La Boheme," the soprano will
present selections from Ruggero
Leoncavallo's rarely heard opera
of the same name and based onthe
same story.
While Fleming is no stranger to
Ann Arbor - Sunday will mark her
fourth UMS concert - her visits
have become less frequent over the
past two decades. Her last-appear-
ance was a performance of Rich-
ard Strauss's "Daphne" in 2005
- just over five years ago. Sunday's
concert will therefore be a rare
opportunity for Ann Arbor to hear
Fleming's highly theatrical style of
singing in a local setting.
"She has a very dramatic pres-
ence onstage," Andre said. "And
when the drama and the voice
come together - that's what's
really amazing."

Restaurant Week a boon
for Main St. dining scene

By LUCY PERKINS
For the Daily
The cold night air echoes with
the scratches and clicks of shoes on
pavement, creating a rushed per-
cussion beneath
choruses of res- Ann Arbor
taurant-bound
Ann Arborites. ReStaUralt
Inside, waiters WE
pronounce the
evening's courses Jan.16
to packed tables. through 21
Full glasses and Various locations
steaming plates around Ann Arbor
warm up diners
amid clinking $12 lunch,
silverware and $25 dinner
conversation. It's
Restaurant Week in Ann Arbor.
"It's one week of one priced
dining," said Maura Thomson,
the executive director of the Main
Street Area Association. Begin-
ning Jan. 16, the biannual event
will showcase 41 restaurants,
each offering a menu that includes
a fixed lunch price of $12 and a
three-course dinner menu for $25.
Sava's, The Chop House and The
Blue Nile are among the partici-
pating restaurants offering spe-
cialized menus.
Although it's well established,
the event has been around for
less than two years. According
to Thomson, the first Restaurant
Week was held in June 2009 when
a local restaurateur who had vis-
ited San Diego during its own Res-
taurant Week wanted to use the
concept in Ann Arbor.

"It was sortof a grassroots effort
- no budget," Thomson said. "The
first time around we had every-
thing donated - printing services,
graphic design services ... We got
22 restaurants to participate.
"The point of Restaurant Week,
for us, was using it as a vehicle
to give people another reason to
come downtown," Thomson con-
tinued. "And as it turns out, it was
a win-win, because not only did
it bring people downtown - we
filled tables."
For some, the event serves as a
first impression of what local res-
taurants have to offer. According
to Hope Mleczko, a manager at
Seva, the fixed price menu attracts
people who may not otherwise
dine at Ann Arbor restaurants.
"Sometimes people decide they
really like it here and come back
quite a bit," she said.
But Thomson also sees Restau-
rant Week as something impor-
tant for those who frequent the
area.
"In a way it's like saying thank
you to those regular, local down-
town supporters," she said. "We
want the people who are always
coming to these restaurants to
come in and say, 'Hey, this is a
great deal and I appreciate this."'
As eager foodies swarm down-
town Ann Arbor next week, res-
taurants plan to carefully maintain
a worthwhile dining experience.
"We just want to make sure that
the dishes are delicious and repre-
sentative of the food we usually
serve, but also things that don't

take a lot of effort on the spot,"
Mleczko said.
To create this experience,
there is an artful balance between
upholding quality service while
still infusing dishes with flavor
one can relish. The focus on this
equilibrium is what makes Res-
taurant Week successful.
"It's not just about coming
down and having dinner or com-
ing down and purchasing some-
thing," Thomson said. "It's about
coming downtown, walking on
our sidewalks, under the lights,
amongst other people ... it's all
about this entire experience ver-
sus just one interaction."
The only time
you'll ever get a
$25 dinner on
Main Street.
In the future, Thomson would
like Restaurant Week to be simi-
larly attractive to participants on
a larger scale, reaching visitors
from Indiana and Chicago.
"I'd like Restaurant Week to
become a week where Ann Arbor
really becomes a destination," she
said.
But for now, Restaurant Week
is focused on showcasinglocal fla-
vor and providing savory experi-
ences for those who attend.


8- Friday, January 14, 2011

The Michigan Daily - mieh gandaily.com

Blue to face rowdy crowd

Michigan coach Red Berenson leads his team into a weekend home-and-home series against a tough Ferris State team.
' ready for physical play

By MICHAEL FLOREK
Daily Sports Editor
In the Michigan hockey team's
series this weekend, maize and
blue will likely turn into black and.
bruised.
With No.7 Michigan facing Ferris
State in a home-
and-home series,
the Wolverines Ferris State
know one thing: t Michigan
they are going to
get hit. Matchup:
The defensively Ferris State
minded Bulldogs 1a8-4, ichi-
have made a habit 1
of using their size When: Friday,
- they have 10 7:35 P.M.
players. who are Where: Yost
6-foot-2 or taller Ice Arena
- and strength to TV/Radio:
intimidate oppo- CBS College
nents this season,
which in turn has vaulted them to
top in the nation in goals against.
Ferris State is the only program in
the country team giving up less than
two goals per game this season.
"They're really good at playing
man-on-man," senior forward Carl
Hagelin said after practice Wednes-
day. "They're not going to give up
(on) any hits. You know you're going
to get hit at least 10 times that game.
It's just hard toget to the net."
Ferris State's hit-first-

count-how-many-later attitude was
on display when Michigan (10-4-1-0
CCHA, 13-6-4 overall) played the
Bulldogs in late October. The Wol-
verines split the home-and-home
series, needing a goal from junior
forward David Wohlberg with 13
seconds left to tie the first game in
Big Rapids before losing in over-
time. Michigan came back with a
3-2 victory at home the following
night.
"Itfelt like we were almost scared
to play against them," Hagelin said
after the series' first game. "We're
thinking too much about how they
play."
The five total goals scored by the
Wolverines are tied for their low-
est in a series all season. And while
Wohlberg's late goal stole a point
back in October, Michigan coach Red
Berenson and his players have men-
tioned that the most important goal
scored in the games this weekend
probably won't be the lastone. It will
be the first.
If Michigan can score the open-
ing marker, it forces Ferris State to
pull out of their collapsing defensive
style slightly in an attempt to garner
the equalizer. In the two teams' past
eight meetings, the team who has
scored first has won the game. The
Wolverines are also 10-0-3 this sea-
son when scoring first.
"You don't want to make too much

of it because whether you do or you
don't, itcdoesn't guarantee anything,"
Berenson said. "We know the first
goal has been a factor in most of our
wins, but you could have four first
goals and four wins and say, 'Well
every time we score first, we win,'
but then the fifth game you might
score first and not win."
The teams will be familiar with
each other from their last meeting,
but the stakes have changed. Fresh
"You know you're
going to get hit
at least 10 times
that game."
off a sweep of Bowling Green last
weekend, the Bulldogs (8-6-3-2,
11-8-4) have jumped into third place
in the conference. Michigan sits in
second, just four points behind Notre
Dame, though the Fighting Irish
have played one more game than the
Wolverines. .
And if Michigan can pull any
closer to the top of the CCHA as the
season winds down, then maybe all
the pain this series is sure to bring
will be worth it.

By CHANTEL JENNINGS
Daily Sports Editor
Junior guard Stu Douglass said
it's never easy to win in Indiana's
arena, Assembly Hall.
In his two years on the team,
the Wolverines have gone 1-1 on
the road against Indiana. But
they've never competed against
the Hoosiers
when the stu- Michigan
dents were on at Indiana
campus.
"It's a tough Matchup:
environment," Michigan 11-6;
junior guard Indiana 9-8
Zack Novak When: Sat-
said on Wednes- urday 8 P.M.
day. "I know I Where:
haven't played Assembly Hall
there when their TV/Radio:
students have BTN
been there, so
it'll be kind of
a new experience for me, but it's
a loud place to play. (Their) fans
bring it. I think we'll be ready to
go. Our fans the last two games
got us ready for a loud crowd,
they've definitely done that."
.The fans at Crisler Arena have
been rowdy the past two games,
which will prepare the squad for
the noise inside Assembly Hall.
And if the on-court play against
No. 3 Kansas and No. 2 Ohio State
is any kind of sign, the Wolverines
(1-3 Big Ten, 11-6 overall) may be
on track to pick up their second
Big Ten win of the season.
The Hoosiers (0-4, 9-8) started
the year 9-2 but have struggled
recently - losing their first four
conference games and their last
six games overall.
The Hoosiers are led by sopho-
more forward Christian Watford,
returning after an impressive
freshman campaign where he was
named to the All-Big Ten fresh-
man team. This season, he's estab-
lished himself as Indiana's most
reliable scoring option, averaging
16.9 points a game.
Michigan has done a good job
containing opposing teams' top
post players this season by throw-
ing a mixture of defensive looks
and plenty of weak-side help at
each big man. Redshirt freshman

4 '1
JAKE FROMM/Daily
Sophomore guard Darius Morris leads Michigan with 15.4 points per game.
Jordan Morgan and freshman thing to do than people think.
Jon Horford have rotated well for "(Ohio State) was a tough team,
each other this season and held and I don't think it's going to be
their own against some of the best any easier now when we go to
post play in the country. Indiana and play. It's the same
Most recently, Michigan was deal right now."
able to hold Ohio State's fresh- Novak and sophomore guard
man sensation Jared Sullinger to Darius Morris have been the most
well under his season averages in consistent players for the Wol-
points and rebounds. The Wol- verines this far into the Big Ten
season. The 6-foot-4 Novak leads
Michigan with seven rebounds a
game and has been clutch when
"To get over the the Wolverines needed him.
Morris's numbers have dropped
hump, you have slightly since entering conference
t be better play, but he's still dishing out an
to thean impressive seven assists per game
the bad breaks" and putting up nearly 14 points
t every time out.
After losing three in a row, the
Wolverines are looking to get over
the hump and snatch a win in the
verines played Sullinger so effec- Big Ten schedule.
tively that he fouled out the game, "We want to win, we wanted
the first time that's happened this to beat them," Morgan said of the
season. Wolverines' close loss to Ohio
"We're close, but to get over the State on Wednesday. "It's not like
hump, you got to be better than it's okay. (We're going to) go for-
the (bad) breaks," Michigan coach ward - we got two road games,
John Beilein said. "You got to be Playing in the Big Ten - one of
better than the other team. You the best conferences in the coun-
got to be so focused, you got to be try - (we) just want to be playing
better than any calls that don't go our best basketball come Big Ten
your way - and that's a tougher Tournament time."


2_ _
r*

L.

Want professional experience in...
Advertising Sales
Account Management
Finance
Accounting
Communications
And MORE?

0

There attend the Michigan Daily
Business Department Mass Meeting
Thursday, January 20th at 6:30pm
The Student Publications Building 420 Maynard
(next to the Student Activities Building)
Currently seeking hard-working, detail
oriented, charismatic students to fill
Junior Account Executive positions for Winter 2011

40


