

. Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
First seen on
-the game
Carrick de-commits,
will play in OHL
By MATT SLOVIN via a trade with Guelph, stirring
Daily Sports Editor rumors that he may be considering
signing with the Whalers.
The Michigan hockey team has Michigan will return six of its
lost a crucial part of its future blue seven regular defensemen from
line. last season in 2012-13, in addi-
Incoming freshman defense- tion to highly touted recruit Jacob
man Connor Carrick announced Trouba, who was drafted ninth
via Twitter on Friday morning overall in the NHL Draft. Greg
that he will sign with the Plym- Pateryn was the only graduating
outh Whalers of the Ontario senior from the 2011-12 squad,
Hockey League, rather than begin who saw an early exit in the NCAA
his career as a Wolverine this fall. Tournament.
"Excited to still pursue my An OHL scout told the Daily
degree while chasin my hockey that ice time would be the largest
dream playing for the Plymouth factor in Carrick's decision, and it
Whalers," Carrick said on Twit- appears that the prospect felt he
ter. "Decision wasn't easy, but its would receive more playing time
the right one." in the OHL.
Carrick was recently selected Michigan coach Red Berenson
by the Washington Capitals in offered no comment on the third
the fifth round of the NHL Entry former United States National
Draft. Earlier this week, Plymouth Team Development Program play-
picked up Carrick's OHL rights er to de-commit from Michigan.

First seen on
the game
Despite original statement,
Trouba unsure of future

Ann Arbor, MI

ONE-HUNDRED-TWENTY TWO YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

Weekly Summer Edition

- By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Editor
An Ontario Hockey League
source told the Daily on Thursday
that Jacob Trouba may not be as
set on coming to Ann Arbor in the
fall as he has stated publicly.
The source, speaking on con-
dition of anonymity, placed the
chances that Trouba, the ninth
pick by Winnipeg in this year's
NHL Entry Draft, honors his
commitment to Michigan at

"50/50."
Trouba's OHL rights belong
to the Kitchener Rangers who
drafted him in the third round of
the OHL's 2010 draft.
. Regardless of where Trouba
ends up, Kitchener or Michigan,
the source says the defenseman
will spend two years before pro-
gressing to the NHL, where he
will be an "elite player."
Prior to last week's NHL Draft,
the source said the odds were
stacked heavily in Kitchener's

favor.
But Trouba's promise that he
will be playing for Michigan this
season makes it a coin flip.
Trouba, skating for the United
States National Team Devel-
opment Program in 2011-12,
recorded the nation's first goal of
the world championships in the
Czech Republic.
In the United States Hockey
League, he skated in 50 games,
scoring nine goals and recording
22 assists.


Monday, July 2, 2012
LAND BEFORE TIME MEDIA MAT T ERS
@UmichStudents
-omlaunched b U

Not at the Olympics? Want to write
about Michigan athletes in London?
Email sports@michigandaily.com for more info

Erth's 'Dinosaur Petting Zoo' introduces Leaellynasaura to the audience on Saturday on the lawn outside of the Power Center.
Obama'sAffordable CareActupheld

Miller aims to
lead social media
platform across
nation's universities
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily News Editor
Four months after the University
hired Social Media Director Jor-
dan Miller, she's launched what is
thought to be a one-of-a-kind social
media platform among American
universities.
Miller recently launched @
UmichStudents, a Twitter account
that will be hosted by a new Uni-
versity student every week.
With @UmichStudents, Miller
wanted to ensure not only that
the administration's message was
injected into the Twitterverse, but
also that of the University's stu-
dents.
"We exist for our students and
because of our students, and we
need to give our students avoice the
same way that we do (administra-
tors)," Miller said. "You shouldn't
hear only from the administration
- you should hear right from the
students."
Miller said the idea for the
account was hatched from a meet-
ing between Lisa Rudgers, the Uni-

versity's vice president for global
communications and strategic
initiatives; several Twitter execu-
tives including Twitter CEO Dick
Costolo, who is a University alum,
and herself.
Though administrators
expressed no problems with the
idea, Miller said some Twitter
users were concerned that giving
students an open microphone could
lead to image problems for the Uni-
versity, similar to issues the Swed-
ish government had with its similar-
@sweden account.
Miller emphasized that the
account is intended for students to
have the freedom to tweet about
their experiences at Michigan but
acknowledged that it will be moni-
tored for inappropriate or profane
tweets.
"I don't know why we have this
assumption that we're going to put.
them on a pulpit and they're going
to do foolish things," Miller said. "I
think (with) our students, you put
them on a pulpit and they really say
great things."
Miller's inaugural Tweeter on
@UmichStudents was her summer
intern, LSA senior Taylor Davis.
Davis said that it was exciting to
be the first user on the account. She
added that it was empowering to be
able to engage with followers about
the University and echoed Miller's
See @UMICHSTUDENTS, Page 2

Supreme Court
votes in favor of
health care reform
By JACOB AXELRAD 1
Editor in Chief +
June 28's landmark decision to i
uphold President Obama's 2010 ;
Affordable Care Act ensured stu-1
dents won't need to worry about
health care coverage in their first
job out of college - they can now +
remain on their parents' plans
until the age of 26, as specified by
the law.1
V .X 05 . 14 20 ai12Th1 hMichign Dii2y
NEWS ...................................2
OPINION ...............................4
CLASSIFIEDS......................... 6
AROS.W. ......... 6
ARTS ......................................8

In a statement issued last
Wednesday, Ora Pescovitz, the
University's executive vice presi-
dent for medical affairs, said the
University's health system must
now "move forward" as it con-
tinues to make health care more
cost-efficient for students.
"We look forward to working
in partnership with the federal
government and local partners
to create a better national health
care system," Pescovitz said.
In theS5-4 rulingbythe Supreme
Court, the majority faction com-
prised Chief Justice John Roberts
Jr. and Justices Ruth Bader Gins-
berg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Soto-

mayor and Elena Kagan.
The ruling upheld the con-
stitutionality of the individual
mandate, "which requires most
Americans to maintain 'minimum
essential' health insurance cover-
age."
The law says that Americans
who do not have health coverage
by 2014 will have to pay a penalty.
A journal entry by Evan Camink-
er, the dean of the University's
law school, was also cited in the
Supreme Court's decision.
Another provision the
Supreme Court ruled on is the
expansion of Medicaid.
See AFFORDABLE CARE, Page 3

K2, synthetic drugs The final frontier A life in the movies Art of recruiting
outlawed Michael Spaeth explains Remembering renowned Matt Slovin provides
'U' police officers may have why investing in NASA can screenwriter Nora Ephron's updates on two Michigan
to change protocol. spur innovation. achievements. hockey prospects.
SEE PAGE 3 2'SEE PAGE 5>SEE PAGE 10 >SEE PAGE 12




Monday, July 2,2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Port Huron Statement mary were University students
- principally Ann Arbor resident
AlnHsber, who reconstituted
celebrates 50 years SDS in 1960, and Tom Hayden,
then-editor in thief of The Michi-
gan Daily and the manifesto's
Student protest whole society root and branch, main author.
from top to bottom, into a genu- When SDS members gathered
manifesto continues inely democratic society." for a convention at a United Auto
That notion of participatory Workers retreat in Port Huron,
to make impact democracy, as both a means Mich., on June 11, 1962 to draft
and an end, galvanized tens of the Statement, it had been a small
By ANDREW SCHULLMAN thousands of students to protest group with a few hundred mem-
Daily Staff Reporter nationwide. By the mid-1960s, bers and several chapters since
SDS had printed 60,000 copies 1960.
Before the winter iced over of the manifesto and was flour- But the group, headed by
Occupy Ann Arbor's encampment ishing on college campuses from Hayden, had more than a half-
in Liberty Plaza last October, a the University of Michigan to the century of radical socialist move-
small but sworn group of members University of Chicago to the Uni- ments, the burgeoning civil rights
gathered there for the local move- versity of Texas at Austin. and peace movements and a cur-
ment's third meeting. For an ach- Guiding a generation of stu- rent of intellectuals railing against
ingly deliberate two hours, they dents through a national protest what they saw as the post-war con-
ground out their decision-making movement, the principles codified' centration of power and wealth to
procedures, dwelling on even the in the Statement became not just rest on for inspiration.
hand signals used to approve or those of the movement but of the "When SDS came to write its
disapprove motions. young students' generation, the manifesto, it had all those ele-
But if the exercise was tedi- historian Kirkpatrick Sale wrote ments in its backpack," Brick said.
um to some members, who filed in his book "SDS: The rise and "It's that long socialist heritage,
out before long, it was also the development of the Students for a the new critics, the intellectu-
embodiment of the principles out- Democratic Society." als and the civil rights and peace
lined in the Students for a Demo- "The Port Huron Statement movements - all of that together
cratic Society's manifesto, The so thoroughly plumbed and provided the stimulus and the
Port Huron Statement. The mani- analyzed the conditions of mid- clues for SDS for the manifesto."
festo, which turned 50on June 15, century American society, and What emerged from the con-
called to action the most active so successfully captured and vention on June 15, 1962 was a
generation of student protestors shaped the spirit of the new stu- 70-page agenda for action that
through what its authors termed dent mood, that it became not at once waxed disenchanted and
"participatory democracy." only a statement of principles for professed hope through the par-
"They viewed it as an agenda for the few hundred students around - ticipatory democracy of grassroots
action, and participatory democ- SDS, not only a political expres- movements aimed at overturning
racy was both their goal and their sion for the hundreds who were the social order from below.
message," said History Prof. How- to come into the organization in While Haber and Hayden
ard Brick. "They wanted their own succeeding years, but even more a drove to Washington after the
organizations and the movements summary of beliefs of the student conference hoping they could
that they joined to be models of generations as a whole," Kirkpat- seize President John F. Ken-
participatory democracy and at rick wrote. nedy's attention with the State-
the same time aim to change the Among the authors of that sum- ment, they never intended to ply

Monday, July 2. 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

the Statement through official
channels, Brick said.
" The whole Statement was
geared to the idea that they were
engaged in promoting social pro-
tests and grassroots movement to
change society, not that they were
goingtoget the ear ofthepresident
and getofficials to change things,"
Brick said. "It was mass movement
that they saw changing things, not
a benevolent leader."
In fact, one of the hallmarks
of the manifesto was that it saw
universities as pivotal hosts of the
insurgent social movements.
"We believe that the universi-
ties are an overlooked seat of influ-
ence (in pursuit of social change),"
the manifesto read. "They must
make debate and controversy, not
dull pedantic cant, the common
style for educational life. They
must consciously build a base
for their assault upon the loci of
power."
The Statement and its prin-
ciples still reverberate, even after
SDS dissolved due to internal frac-
tures in 1969.
Brick said Occupy Wall Street
and its local offshoots, the Arab
Spring and the student pro-
tests in Quebec, among others,
are similar to the protests car-
ried out in the 1960s by the New
Left - the collective name of the
activists who in the 1960s sought
a "new left" that fought for social
justice and equality.
"The Occupy movement, by
advocating dramatic social change
for the purposes of equality and
justice, has something of the spirit
of the old New Left, and its com-
mitments to democratic practice
resembles the New Left," he said.
what (higher education) is doing in
social media based on what Michi-
gan is doing."
The University has a wide array
of social media accounts, including
a Facebook, a Twitter, a Pinterest,
a Tumblr, an Instagram and a You-
Tube channel.
Miller has also been hosting
Spreecasts, or online seminars,
about social media in higher edu-
cation to discuss strategies with
other higher education profession-
als.
Miller said her office is cur-
rently in the process of overhaul-
ing the University's YouTube
channel and is working on several
other major projects that should
come to fruition in the near
future.
"There is so much that you'll
see coming out of the UMSocial
office," Miller said.

Atidian &DAM
4211 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.miehigandaily.eom
JACOBA)EURAD MEM LIULTENG
axet5,dni,5gndaoi~oo. mhuttengOOmihiguodailom,
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsomafic ous
734-763-2459 opt.a
News Tips news@michigandailyeoom
Cetioe5ns corec~tons@michigandailyeoma
Ltters tnthe tditor nohdaity~micie0adailyom~
or iunsitmcadailyoacomlletters
PhotonDepartment photo@michigandailyuoom
Ats ection ars@michigandailyom,
tditoial Page oeinion9ichigandailycom'
SportsSection sportsomichigandaiyecom
Advertising ehne:73-764-0554
Department displayOmichigandaily.com,
tlassifieds s'sone: 74-76-055
Department classifid ch ,igtzn daily o to
EDITORIAL STAFF
Giacmo Bologna Managing Edtor,
gblna,..,,,uOgndily,,o
An,,Roznbrgts anaing NewEd'o r~,,
tsnlloz@ n ch a dil o
SINaESv EDITOya Steve oi,5nEtio
AudeRob erts EdiorialdPae Edito
adnri oeaimsichngraf e,,a,,ge,,,com
Saria oalnb.ch ael Spaneth jn~"~
Collen Toms MaagngSors dio

B akich introduced as
baseball head coach

First seen on
-the game
Mikulak makes US
Olympic squad

1 1 

41

By LIZ NAGLE and
MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Writer and
Daily Sports Editor
On Wednesday, the University
athletic department announced
that Erik Bakich will be the 19th
Michigan baseball head coach in
the program's history, following a
nationwide search that began when
former coach Rich Maloney and the
Wolverines parted ways on May 22.
Bakich, 34, is widely regarded as
one of the brightest young minds in
college baseball, as well as one of its
strongest recruiters. He will leave
Maryland after three seasons as
head coach. The Terrapins failed to
qualify for the NCAA Tournament
in each.
Bakich, who is the youngest head
coach among BCS schools, expects
his youth to help him, especially on
the recruiting trail.
"I've been very fortunate to get
an early start to a coaching career
and get opportunities at a very
high level, spending 11 years in the
ACC and the SEC," Bakich told The
Michigan Daily on Thursday. "And
not many people can say they've
had those opportunities."
Prior to Maryland, Bakich served
as an assistant coach for seven sea-
sons at Vanderbilt, under esteemed
head coach Tim Corbin. As the hit-
ting coach for the Commodores,
Bakich helped Vanderbilt rise to
prominence, where it advanced to
the NCAA Tournament five times
during his time in Nashville.
"(Bakich) will transition well,"
Corbin said in an exclusive inter-
view with The Michigan Daily.
"He fits my image of what a coach
at Michigan is, and that is a blue-
collar personality, but one that
respects the values of the student-
athlete and understands that aca-
demics (are a) premium, much like
they are here atVanderbilt"
Known as a tireless recruiter,
Bakich emphasized how much easi-
er it is to sell a recruit on a program
that has sound academics. Bakich
agreed with Corbin that it's no coin-
cidence his three stops have all been.
solid academic institutions.
"I've been very fortunate to
be at great institutions, and I feel
like those institutions have really

@UMICHSTUDENTS
From Page 1A
idea that University students won't
want to tarnish the University's
reputation.
Davis added that she and Mill-
er agreed students should feel
free to tweet about their con-
cerns and how to improve cam-
pus life.
LSA senior Mark Chou tweeted
for the account last week. Like
Davis, he said what he enjoyed
most was the power of the account
to engage with individuals about
the University.
Chou tweeted often about the
Development Summer Intern-
ship Program, which he is a par-
ticipant of. Tweeting about D-SIP
even got the attention of Athletic
Director David Brandon.

So far, the account has reached
more than 580 followers in just
one week of existence. Miller said
she attributes the success to the
talent behind the account.
"Taylor and Mark have both
been incredible," Miller said.
"Honestly, I couldn't have asked -
or prayed - for better people. But
it kind of proves this point I have
- we talk about being (the) leaders
and best,, and our students really
are the leaders and best."
Miller said student demand
to tweet on the account is high.
She currently encourages anyone
who's interested in tweeting on the
account to direct message or tweet
@UmichStudents.
Business junior Maggie Chang
will be taking the reins of the
account this week. Chang, a blog-
ger on The Podium - The Michi-
gan Daily's opinion blog - -is

currently a social media intern for
the sports apparel company Under
Armour.
Miller noted that there has'been
a "visible surge" in the social media
presence in many of the Universi-
ty's specific units and departments
as well.
Though she declined taking full
credit for this so-called surge in
the University's social media exis-
tence, she did acknowledge that
her new post may have sent a mes-
sage to the University's many sub-
units.
Miller added that with the
help of people like Davis working
toward the same goal, she intends
to make the University a leader in
social media for higher education
institutions.
"We want to be the leader on
these social media sites," Davis
said. "We want everyone to (see)

Kendra Furry
copydesk*michiga"da"ly'co

Copy Chief

BUSINESS STAFF
Brett Bergy Sales Manager
Joe Crim Classified'sAccountExecutive
Connor Byrd FinanceManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is
published Monday through Friday during
thn fall and wintnr tenms by students at the
University 01 Michigan. ne coyy is aoaiable
free of charge to all readers. Additional
copies may be picked up at the Daily's office
tor $2. Subscription fon tall term, starting
in Septemhe,via U.S. mail are 1115. Wintnr
term (Januarythrough April)is$115, yearlong
(September through April)is$195. University
affiliates are subject to a reduced subscription
rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall term
ann $35. Subscniptions mst be yrepaid. The
Michigan Dailyisamemberof TheAssociated
Pressand The Associated Collegiate Press.

helped with the recruiting process,"
Bakich said. "And the highlight of
that will be here at Michigan and
with all the tremendous assets that
this university has academically
and athletically.
"Our focus is always going to be
on recruiting. There are some very
good players that are committed
to be here this fall. There are a few
that are committed to be here the
following fall. We're certainly going
to identify those guys and start a
relationship with them with our
new coaching staff immediately."
The new coach stressed that the
Michigan job is quite the "opportu-
nity" for him and went on to state
his lofty goals for the program,
which has struggled mightily in
recent seasons.
"Being in the ACC and the SEC,
I've been able to see some of the
best programs and the best teams
and how they recruit and how they
build a program and how they build
a team," Bakich said. "Coming to
the Big Ten, I think there's oppor-
tunity to win championships. And

we're certainly going to try to use
the blueprints of places that I've
had the opportunity to be in the
past, build the program, develop
our players with the recruiting and
development approach and bring
championships back to Michigan."
Bakich played collegiately at East
Carolina.
"For us, the focus is always
going to be the process orientated
approach on everybody getting bet-
ter every single day and improving,
even if it's one percent, every single
day in striving to reach whatever
their maximum potential is in all
areas of their life," Bakich said.
One member of Bakich's Mary-
land staff, pitching coach Sean
Kenny, is an Ann Arbor native.
Though the University's job board
lists an opening for an assistant
coach as well, it hasn't yet been
announced whether Kenny, with
his local ties, might follow Bakich
to Michigan. The Michigan staff
already includes assistant Wayne
Welton and pitching coach Steve
Merriman.

4





Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Famed producer memorialized

Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Synthetic drug laws affect
University policy review

Nora Ephron leaves sible considering the sheer mul-
titude and expansiveness of her
behind important writing. Though aging became her
go-to 'theme in much of her later
legacy through film work, Ephron has written about
everything imaginable - from fine.
By KAYLA UPADHYAYA dining, to presidential debates, to
SeniorArtsEditor raising (and eating!) children, to
being the only White House intern
Last week, novelist-director- J.F.K didn't make a pass at.
screenwriter-playwright-producer- The common thread? An unfail-
all-around-badass-feminist-her- ing, super-ability to make me laugh
oine Nora Ephron died following and laugh and laugh. And think.
complications from acute myeloid And cry. And laugh some more.
leukemia. For a celebration and For somewhat obvious reasons
remembrance ofher most acclaimed (two, to be exact), "A Few Words
work, you won't read anything bet- About Breasts" remains a personal
ter than the obituary published in favorite, and I think I'll always be
the NewYork Times. searching for the opportunity to
This is not anobituary. I wouldn't end an essay with "They are full of
even call it a eulogy. No, this, I shit."
believe, is the closest I've ever come Though I have a strong attach-
to writing a love letter. ment to Nora Ephron's essays and
I can't remember where I was short stories, they are not where
or what I was wearing or how old our relationship began. No, it was at
I was when I read my first Nora a sleepover in middle school when
Ephron essay. Dammit, I can't even I was first introduced to her work
remember which one it was. I think - her movies to be exact. And it's
I might have an even earlier-onset her movies that first came to mind
case of severe forgetfulness, which when I heard of her passing, mov-
« Ephron once wrote - in an essay, ies that influence - more than any
part of her "I Remember Nothing: other work by anyone else - my
And Other Reflections" collection own attempts at screenwriting
- has plagued her since her thir- (emphasis on "attempts"), movies
ties. "I know this because I wrote I've fallen for despite all odds.
something about it at the time," she My relationship with the roman-
wrote. "Of course, I can't remember tic-comedy genre is not an easy one.
exactly where I wrote about it, or I tend to pass over feel-good for-
when, but I could probably hunt it mulas like "Definitely, Maybe" and-
up if I had to." "He's Just Not That Into You" in
In any ease, it doesn't really mat- favor of "Vicky Cristina Barcelona"
ter which one I read first; because and "American Beauty", which I'm
by this point, I feel like I've read told don't really make the rom-com
them all ... which is probablyimpos- cut.

In fact, when I found out the
theme of Crystal City's (where
I'm currently living) summer film
series would be romantic comedies
this year, I was disappointed. That
is, until I saw the schedule and was
reassured by the presence of Eph-
ron's rom-com trifecta: "You've Got
Mail," "Sleepless in Seattle" and
"When Harry Met Sally."
I love these movies. Yes, all three
of them, though "When Harry Met
Sally" takes the cake (or pie) as not
only my favorite of the three, but
as one of my favorite comedies of
all time. It's the one that I saw at
that middle-school sleepover, at
a time when my parents probably
wouldn't have permitted me to
watch such a raunchy, grown up
film. And fittingly, it's the very last
film scheduled for the Crystal City
film series.
I'm constantly told "You've Got
Mail" isn't a good movie - that
it's trite and clumsy. And while
that's probably true, I don't care.
I still secretly dream of bouquets
of sharpened pencils and not so
secretly quote the movie as often as
the others,'" 'The Godfather' is the
answer to any question" are wise
words to live by. I'd be lying ifI said
I've never walked into a Starbucks
and ordered a "Tall! Decaf! Cap-
pucino!" And I really do love New
York in the fall.
Ephron's rom-coms are far
from perfect representations of
real-life romance: impossible
in the unwavering wit of their
characters, too-neat in their con-
clusions and about as subtle as a
super symbolic butterfly on a sub-

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Ann Arhar residents enjoy Ramyage Swine on Satarday oatside of Rackham Aaditorium.

AP

Ephron was known for her realistic portrayals of women in cinema.

way. Her worlds - in which two
strangers can fall in love atop the
Empire State building thanks to a
persistent 12-year-old, or where
a random chat room meeting can
develop into a wonderfully com-
plicated relationship - certainly
exist within the grander rom-com
universe, where love at first sight
and happy endings are bountiful.
And let's face it, try as I might, nei-
ther I nor anyone in the real world
speaks with the eloquence and
cleverness of an Ephron-penned
character (I'm still waiting for the
right time and place to order a pie
Sally-style and also to meet a Shel-
don, soI can tell him that humpin'
and pumpin' just aren't his strong
suits).
But it's the honest (sometimes
brutally so) moments, themes and
character quirks that populate
her films that I love so dearly, so
unconditionally. "When Harry
Met Sally" gives love a beautiful
specificity - "I love that it takes
you an hour and a half to order a
sandwich," while also treating the
subject as a nebulous, changing
force.
Her screenplays capture the
complexity of friendship, dat-
ing, falling in and out of love, and
ring with a sense of unmistakable
sincerity, the result of influences
from her own experiences. Mar-
ried three times, divorced twice,
she once wrote: "People always
say that once it goes away, you for-
get the pain ... I don't happen to
agree. I remember the pain. What

you really forget is love."
But her rom-coms never forget
love, nor do they forget the thing
that the genre just never seems to
get right: dimensional, developed
women. "I try to write parts for
women that are as complicated
and interesting as women actually
are," Ephron once said.
Romantic comedies like "Morn-
ing Glory" and "I Don't Know
How She Does It" claim to have
"strong" female characters, while
actually perpetuating sexist ste-
reotypes. If I have to watch one
more film that represents career
women as desexualized and
unfeminine ... well, as Sally might
ask: "Why is this necessary in-
life?"
Ephron's women, on the other
hand, are as complex, smart and
empowering as she was herself.
In her 1996 commencement
speech at Wellesley, Ephron urged
the young women to understand
that attacks on Hillary Clinton are
also attacks on them and impart-
ed: "Above all, be the heroine of
your life, not the victim."
The strong female characters
she wrote were indeed heroines.
They're women I can relate to or
who remind me of the women in
my life. I am Sally Albright, I once
insisted to a friend.
But I also see parts of myself in
"Sleepless in Seattle" 's Annie. I
don't want to be in love. I want to
be in love in a movie.
A Nora Ephron movie, to be
exact.

AFFORDABLE CARE
From Page 1A
"(The provision) expands the
scope of the Medicaid program
and increases the number of indi-
viduals the States must cover,"
according to the decision.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald wrote in an e-mail
interview that multiple aspects of
the act are already being carried
out by the University.
"Those (aspects) include such
features as no lifetime limit on
health care benefits; coverage for
adult children until age 26; and
elimination of co-pays on most
preventive health care," he wrote.
"U-M health care did not have a
provision to deny coverage because
of a pre-existing condition."
Kara Gavin, a spokeswoman
for University of Michigan Health
System, wrote in an e-mail inter-
view that UMHS is already taking
steps to lower costs in reaction to
the passage of the law.
"We have been very focused on
using 'lean thinking', a concept
borrowed from the auto industry,
to optimize clinical and support
functions for better efficiency,
quality and patient experience,"
she wrote. "We also continue to
find ways to save money through
energy efficiency improvements
- 15 projects completed in 2011
are expected to save $528,000 in
energy costs this year alone."
Law Prof. Samuel Bagenstos
stressed the law's importance for
young people because its reforms
will grant extended coverage to
people on parents' health care
plans as well as the ability to buy
insurance without a pre-existing
condition.

"(The law) is important to peo-
ple in their twenties in particular,
because that had been a moment
when people lost health cover-
age," Bagenstos said. "They lost
the ability to be on their parents'
health coverage, and now they
will retain that ability."
"A. Mark Fendrick, co-director
of the University's Center for Val-
ue-Based Insurance Design, said
he thinks the age limit change
will benefit millions of students.
"That's one of the most attrac-
tive elements of the Affordable
Care Act," Fendrick said.
But according to Vincent
Hutchings, an associate profes-
sor at the Univeristy's Institute
for Social Research's Center for
Political Studies, the law pro-
vides some good benefits but does
little to change core issues, such
as resolving racial and socio-eco-
nomic disparities.
"The issue is whether it
addresses the fundamental prob-
lem with health care and helps to
address longstanding health care
inequities across class and racial
groups in this country - and I
think the answer there is prob-
ably no," he said.
Hutchings added that Ameri-
cans spend significantly higher
amounts on healthcare than
citizens of other nations, but
he doesn't see that decreasing
because of the bill.
"I don't think this is going to
significantly address those dis-
parities," Hutchings said. "To
the extent that that imbalance
remains, we may have only suc-
ceeded in kicking the can down
the road and not solving the fun-
damental problem."
Lauren Coffman, the commu-

nications director for the Uni-
versity's chapter of the College.
Democrats, said she's happy with
the law currently standing.
"I think there were a lot of great
suggestions from members of
the House and Senate before this
bill was passed," Coffman said.
"I think it really ensures a bright
future for our health care industry
and our nation's citizens."
Rachel Jankowski, chair of the
University's chapter of the College
Republicans, said the court's deci-
sion was disappointing because
it allows for an "unprecedented
extension" of federal power.
She explained that college stu-
dents will be unfairly targeted
due to the mandate's requirement
for people to either purchase
health insurance or pay a penalty.
"(Young people) are now forced
into paying for something that they
don't want," she said. "And if they
don't pay for it then they have to
pay minimally a $600 fine in order
to not participate in this system."
She added that Chief Justice
Roberts showed that he under-
stands the predicament this poses
for young people by his use of
the term "targeted class" in the
Supreme Court's majority opinion.
According to Jankowski, while
young people would typically have
lower premiums on health care,
they will now be forced to pay an
estimated 35- to 45- percent more
than they otherwise would have.
"We have to basically make up
for the cost of insurance compa-
nies who now have to cover peo-
ple who maybe impose a greater
cost on them," she said.
Managing Editor Giacomo
Bologna contributed to this report.

Alcohol and Other
Drug Policy and.
Prevention Program
to change
By KATIE BURKE
Daily StaffReporter
Synthesized marijuana and
other synthetic street drugs
bearing the label "not for human
consumption" will no longer be
common items found on Michigan
retail inventories.
On June 19, In the wake of vio-
lent controversies in different parts
of the country alleging the use of
designer drugs, Republican Gov.
Rick Snyder signed a group of bills
banning the sale of synthetic drugs,
including K2, Spice and bath salts
into law. The law is set to go into
effect July 1, influencing the bien-
nial review of the University's Alco-
hol and Other Drugs Policy.
. State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) said the publicly support-
ed legislation is an attempt by the
state to improve regulation of the
evolving culture of drugs.
"It's really a cat-and-mouse
game between the state and the
manufacturers (of synthetic
drugs)," Irwin said. "The state
wants to stop K2 in its tracks."
Irwin said previous legislation
has yet to be effective in preventing
drug activity in the state, and these
laws plan to aid the ongoing efforts.
"The laws the state has enacted
to crack down on (synthetic drugs)
haven't really worked," Irwin said.
Diane Brown, spokeswoman
for the University's Department
of Public Safety, explained that
prior to the passing of the bill, the
sale of substances like K2 in pub-
lic markets was legal for purposes
other than consumption. The con-
sumption of such substances has

already been outlawed.
Brown said establishments
under University security juris-
diction such as stores in the Union
and Palmer Commons haven't sold
the substances included in the leg-
islation.
"What we would have been
adjusting as University police offi-
cers are those people who might
possess something or who are still
dealing with the effects of use of it."
The current University Alcohol
and Other Drugs Policy prohibits
the consumption or sale of illegal
substances.
The policy reads, "Employees,
students, faculty and campus visi-
tors may not unlawfully manu-
facture, consume, possess, sell,
distribute, transfer or be under
the influence of alcohol,- illicit
drugs or controlled substances on
University property."
Mary Jo Desprez, administra-
tor of the Alcohol and Other Drug
Policy and Prevention Program,
said the policy is currently under
review and will be sent out to the
University community in October.
Desprez explained that the
revised policy will include infor-
mation on the health hazards syn-
thetic drugs pose to those who
consume them.
"One of the things we'll do
in response (to the legislation
involving) K2 and the synthetic
drugs that we're hearing more
about is to put the health risks
right in the policy so that people
know," Desprez said.
Brown said the presence and
consumption of synthetic drugs
on campus is not high on the list
of commonly encountered illegal
activities, but will continue to be
monitored with the new laws.
"Quite frankly, I think if our
students are going to use or abuse
some kind of (substance), they're
going get the real thing," Brown
said.

Try our NEW specialty salad! I
Made fresh daily with: Romaine Lettuce, Dried
Cranberries, Gorgonzola Cheese, and Walnuts
I Special with this Coupon: $3 (regular $5.69)I
Limit One offer per customer with coupon. I
Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Bagels
I ~Westgate Shopping centerI
2515 Jckson Ave, Ann ArborMi 40103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.comw
Expires: July 8, 2012J

a

99.5% INSURANCE IS ACCEPTEED
AND
OUT OF STATE. REFILL

1112 South University Avqnue
Ann Arbor, M 48104

(734) 663-5533




Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
The irc(Jimn A M ai

JEFF SORENSEN I VIEWPOINT
Pure beauty

Monday, July 2, 2012 T
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 7
TV NOT E BOOK
Old-fashioned ideas in new' Girls'

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.-
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB AXELRAD
EDITOR IN CHIEF

GIACOMO BOLOGNA
MANAGING EDITOR

ADRIENNE ROBERTS
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorialboard.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solelythe views of their authors.
Victory isn',t enough
Michigan needs to set up health insurance exchanges
A ccording to the World Health Organization, the U.S. ranks 37th
in the world for its health system but spends more on it than any
other country. For years, this deficit has been apparent through
sub-par health care, leaving millions of Americans disheartened with
their health insurance companies. President Barack Obama has been
working to change this, and with the help of the Supreme Court on June
28, he has gotten one step closer. It's now imperative that states take
action to bring the benefits of the Affordable Care Act to their citizens. In
particular, the state of Michigan must take action to set up health insur-
ance exchanges because they have the potential to benefit many citizens,
especially those who are lower-income.

I don't want to protect Michi-
gan's environment because of
political leanings. The part of me
that wants to protect the Sleeping
Bear Dunes doesn't particularly
care whether our nation's next
president is Barack Obama or Mitt
Romney or whether taxesshould
be raised or lowered. Of course,
decisions of that kind are some-
times relevant for the prospects
of vital environmental protec-
tions, and it's important for con-
servationists to understand any
connections that truly exist. Still,
the heart of my desire to protect
Michigan's natural beauty cannot
exist within the political realm. In
fact, it can't exist in any realm of
inherent conflict.
Think about this: each of us
spends a significant portion of our
time in some realm of conflict.
Take an hour to walk through a
city. Surely, there will be beauty.
There will be seemingly impossi-
ble feats of engineering. But there
will also be conflict - lots of it.
Even our greatest developments
don't quite know how to exist nat-
urally in nature. The same goes
for our brains. Moments of soli-
tude or reverence are all too rare.
Michigan's protected nature
areas provide an escape from all
of the conflict. I can walk through
Nichols Arboretum by my home in
Ann Arbor and observe life in har-
mony. I could plan a weekend - or,
if I was lucky, a week-long - trip
through Michigan and experience
a vast array of natural beauty that
is simultaneously halcyon and
exhilarating. During such a trip,
I could witness as much natural
beauty as any person could at any
location in the world.

Having recently visited north-
ern Michigan with a group of
friends from Brazil, Austria, Ger-
many and Colombia, I was not
surprised to see Facebook pho-
tos of the area receive numerous
comments in Portuguese, German
and Spanish. And though the lan-
guages varied, the messages from
all over the world were strikingly
consistent: I want to go there.
It's shocking and sad that our
legislators cannot see what people
from around the world perceive
so clearly. Michigan's natural
beauty is world-class. In the past
month alone, our state repre-,
sentatives have passed multiple
bills eroding protections on sand
dunes and placing harmful lim-
its on nature areas. In a time of
immense struggle for many parts
of our state, areas such as Sleep-
ing Bear Dunes, Tahquamenon
Falls and Mackinac Island serve
as a sort of fallback. These places
- along with various state parkss
inland lakes, beaches and nature
areas - have always been there
for us. They provide an escape for
Michiganders and serve as much-
needed tourist attractions. The
world wants to see Michigan.
This is why I love my state.
This is why we all love Michi-
gan. This is why we should join
hands across the political aisle
in hopes of preservingnatural
beauty so stunning it transcends
all political barriers. Our legisla-
tors apparently don't understand
this. So we should ask ourselves
one question: If our "representa-
tives" don't value our state's most
precious resources, why should
we let them represent us?
Jeff Sorensen is a LSA senior.

Gritty, realistic
moments in HBO's
20-something drama
By JACOB AXELRAD
Editor in Chief
Recently, my friend Nick and I
discussed HBO's "Girls" over ham-
burgers.
"I really like it," he said, his voice
trailing off. "But my parents, they
hate it. Any time I watch it with
them they go on, like, a 30-minute
rant about how it's not supposed to
be that way."
"Not supposed to be what way?"
I asked.
"Your twenties. They're always
talking about how they loved their
twenties and how it makes them
sad how miserable the people are
on that show." He paused. Then,
as though guilty about something,
he said, "And then I'll notice simi-
larities between me and people on
'Girls'... man, if I'm ever living like
those characters, it'll be the worst.
The absolute worst."
After a moment of forced laugh-
ter where we both likely thought
about the dreaded possibility of a
post-collegiate life that in any way
resembles that of Hannah Horvath,
he added, "And my parents'll kill
me."
I've heard that Lena Dunham -
series creator and star - is the voice
of our generation. Hailed as "raw"
and "real," "Girls" which recently
completed its first season, is sort of
like "Sex and the City" aged down
about 10 years with a cast of charac-
ters more likely to make you cringe
thanogle at their sexual and roman-
tic exploits: They are, as one critic
points out, diametrically opposite
to the "sleek eye candy" typically
seen on cable television.
While it's true these characters
are at times cerebral to the point of
paralysis, I can't help but wonder
if this is really what one's twen-
ties looks like circa 2012. Do those
of us entering the work force today

actually belong to a generation so
trapped in our heads that some-
thing as visceral as sex becomes a
platform for over-intellectualiza-
tion? "Girls" (supposedly) presents
life as we truly live it, complete with
the job-interview screw-ups, the
college friendships that can't sur-
vive past graduation, the endless
worry of paying rent. But it seems
important, I think, to remember
that when talking about such a
phenomenon, we're still looking at
heightened reality, albeit one that
glorifies the ironic and the absurd
over the glamorous.
Though the young Manhat-
tanites' lives do bear a kind of
resemblance to the awkwardness
of my own experiences, these char-
acters are still fundamentally cine-
matic, archetypes drawn to compel,
to draw you in and make you feel
something toward the people on
screen that you also, see in yourself.
It's good art, but it's not the banali-
ties of our day-to-day encounters.
Which means this so-called ultra-
modern, post-feminist cable show is
in fact old fashioned; the stuff that's
always filled our very best dramas.
Take Hannah's boyfriend Adam
(a wonderfully endearing Adam
Driver, "J. Edgar"). In many ways
he plays like the traditional Holly-
wood brute with a sensitive heart
lodged beneath a hard-edged exte-
rior. In the first episode we find him
shirtless in his apartment, working
on his carpentry - a profession he
describes as "honest." Between his
casual scorn for Hannah and her
inexplicable attraction to him, it's
hard not to be reminded of a young
Marlon Brando as Stanley Kowal-
ski in "A Streetcar Named Desire"
as he toys with a Vivien Leigh who
is simultaneously repulsed and
entranced by his charm. Adam
ignores Hannah's texts until she
arrives at his doorstep, offeringher-
self to him and his creepy bedroom
deviances.
Is this how it goes? Possibly. Yet
I propose that Lena Dunham could
also have us fooled. By creating a

'I don't know how to break this to you, but there's a medical-grade scale in your living roon.'

look for her show that's just a bit he
grainy, and just a bit on the low- Bu
budget side - similar to Dunham's by
film "Tiny Furniture", which one my
critic called a serious film posing
as an amateur one; and by writing ser
dialogue that sounds just a bit more ho
natural than the canned aphorisms the
sometimes heard on television, she wb
has produced powerful realism. un
Except realism is still a type of fic- ho
tion, like the difference between a th
painted portrait and a candid photo- ha
graph - one is premeditated while so:
the other captures the moment as it go
truly happened.
In episode eight, when Adam
freaks out at a car that almost hits
him and Hannah after storming
out of his own play rehearsal, I
half expected him to yell, "I'm
walking here!" invoking Dustin
Hoffman and Al Pacino before
him in "Midnight Cowboy" and
"Scarface", respectively. It's
worth noting that both actors
were also playing the outcast in
their movies.
But the big difference between a
character like Adam and the clas-
sic Hollywood misfit is just how
explicit he happens to be about
his magnetism. "You don't know
me and you don't know yourself,"

yells at Hannah after a party in
ushwick shortly before getting hit
a car. "I'm a beautiful fucking
ystery to you!"
"Girls" dives deeplyinto the most
rsitive and squeamish moments,
lds there for a beat too long and
en lets its characters talk about
hat they're thinking, which is
comfortable, but probably very
nest about our times. So maybe
e reason Nick's parents claim to
Ite the show is because there's
me sort of generation-divide
ing on. Maybe when you're any

older than Generation Y you're
just accustomed to letting certain
things go unsaid.
Dunham's story of New York-
hipsterdom does in fact ring of
modernity - the characters' lives
are lived out loud, like the endless
stream of an instant feed gener-
ated from friends' computers. It
just so happens that the characters'
and the story's foundation can be
found in characters dating back to
our parents' and grandparents' gen-
erations; the real disparity between
then and now is only on the surface.


On Thursday, June 28, the
Supreme Court and Chief Justice
John Roberts Jr. ruled that the
individual mandate in the ACA
was unconstitutional under the
Commerce Clause but is constitu-
tional as a tax. His ruling proved
to be the key vote in a 5-4 major-
ity decision. Many of Obama's
reforms in health care can now
take place, including the require-
ment for insurance companies to
allow young adults up to the age
of 26 to be included on their par-
ents' health insurance policies.
Other provisions include increas-
ing access to Medicaid and pro-
hibiting discrimination based on
gender or pre-existing conditions.
Given the current state of
the job market, allowing young
adults to remain on their parents'
health insurance policies under
the age of 26is very beneficial for
many graduating students. Those

struggling to find work shouldn't
be punished by having their
health insurance taken away. In
such a tough economy, it's likely
that many students today find
themselves unemployed and
without health care - a terrify-
ing combination. In a country
that prides itself on its freedoms,
our young citizens shouldn't feel
trapped by inadequate health
coverage as soon as they leave
the safety of their university.
This provision will greatly help
to alleviate this problem.
The establishment of health
care exchanges within the state
of Michigan is crucial for stu-
dents whose parents don't have
health insurance. The ACA pro-
vides a more affordable insur-
ance option for individuals aged
19-25. Estimates report that 2.5
million young adults will gain
coverage because of this new

option. The only way citizens
can obtain this care, however,
is if the state sets up a program
through which we can purchase
the insurance. Though the dead-
line for the creation of the health
care exchanges isn't until 2014,
legislators in Lansing will be
shortchanging their constituen-
cies - and future workforce - if
they don't enact this reform as
soon as possible.
A strong and well-run govern-
ment is one that takes care of its
people. One of the best places
to start is making sure that its
citizens are physically healthy
enough to perform the tasks that
keep the country moving. The
Obama administration and the
Supreme Court have laid down
all the tools to create a health
care system that actually cares.
It's now time for the state gov-
ernments to put them to use.

NOTfA BLE QUTBL
According to producers,
the individual mandate is
NOT valid."
- CNN reporter, Kate Bolduan, speaking on CNN as the health care
decision was released. CNN later corrected itself.

Affordable Student
Co-op Housing
2. 4 and 8 Month Contracts
on North and Central Campus
All utilities, High-speed Internet
itHomemade Meals
4.Shared Work, Shared Fun
4@Leadership opportunities
Single/Double rooms
o Parking available
WWW.ICC.COOP (4) INFO@ICC.COOP
The Inter-Cooperative Council
337 E. William St., Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
Phone:(734) 662-4414 (ext.100)


KORRA
From Page 9
The same can be said of council-
man Tarrlok, whose role demands
total reevaluation after the back-
story revealed in the finale. The

rushed storytelling can be for-
given in his case, if only-because
the flashback was so utterly rivet-
ing. It humanized Amon, who, like
Ozai (Mark Hamill, "Star Wars")
in the original series, is made all
the more terrifying by his absence
and mystery.

But at its heart, "Korra" -is
everything it' promised to be and
more. It is an ambitious show that
succeeds on multiple levels, driven
by creators as dedicated as their
most devoted fans. If the first sea-
son is any indication, "Korra" is
poised to become a legend.

I

I




81

Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

'The Legend'
continues

Typical MacFarlane
humor evoked in 'Ted'

Reach for the stars

Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
The value o soul

15

Four years after
AtLA, creators craft
another hit show
By PROMA KHOSLA
Daily Arts Writer
If every TV writer took notes
from "Avatar: The Last Airbender"
and its new spinoff "The Legend of
Korra," the world
would be a better
place. It's been *
four years since L
the flawless AtLA
series finale aired of Korra
on Nickelodeon,N
and in the interim Nickeladean
creators Michael
Dante DiMartino and Bryan Koni-
etzko have been hard at work tanta-
lizing fans with whispers of a new
series. Expectations for "Korra"
were through the roof by the April
14 premiere, and by the season fina-
le last week, the show proved every
bit as epic and calculated as its pre-
decessor.
"Korra" showcases superb evo-
lution by the creators of the AtLA
universe. Republic City is modern,
complete with tall buildings and
early 20th century cars, but it's still
clearly part of the spiritual world
introduced in the original series.
The rise of pro-bending is the per-
fect illustration of life in the ele-
mental nations during peacetime;
bending becomes a sport instead
of just a tool for survival and com-
bat. Even the weekly episode recap
- with black-and-white animation
and narration that sounds like an
auctioneer in the '50s - is a decid-
edly modern (and charming) inno-
vation.
Perhaps DiMartino and Konietz-
ko are aware of the resonance their
series had with audiences across
age demographics. In "Korra," the
characters are older, the moral
dilemmas greater and the political
allusions more overt. Amon, (Steve
Blum, "Lilo & Stitch") like many a
madman of historical significance,
wants to "cleanse the impurity" of
his society. Of.course this is sense-
less; different kinds of people
should be able to coexist. Yet there'
are moments in the show - such as

councilman Tarrlok (Dee Bradley
Baker, "Adventure Time") arresting
innocent protesters - when bend-
ers abuse their power and you see a
shadow of Amon's point.
Similar to AtLA, almost every.
single character on "Korra" is com-
plex and absurdly likable. Most
notably: Lin Beifong (Mindy Ster-
ling, "iCarly"), chief of Republic
City's metalbending police force.
Like her mother Toph (Kate Hig-
gins, "Naruto: Shippuden"), Lin
likes to stay emotionallyuninvolved
- but when she cares, she will risk
everything in her power to do the
right thing. At first, she opposes the
Avatar, seeing Korra (Janet Varney,
"Judy Moody and the Not Bum-
mer Summer") as an entitled hot-
head, but takes her side in the fight
against Amon. Her heroic deeds in
the penultimate episode are more
poignant than most primetime
dramas - between that and the
fact that Zuko's grandson is called
General Iroh (and both are voiced
by Dante Basco, "The Debut"), you
may just tearbend.
The characters of the original
series make appearances, but only
where appropriate. An elderly
Katara (Eva Marie Saint, "North by
Northwest") sends Korra off as she
embarks for Republic City from the
Southern Water Tribe. Aang (D.B.
Sweeney, "The Event"), Sokka and
Toph appear in flashbacks as seen
by Korra while she meditates - it's
a pretty awesome way o: making us
forget that they're dead. There are
also a few ingenious nods to AtLA,
like "Flameo Instant Noodles" and
the fantastic organization known as
CabbageCorp.
If there's one complaint to be
made about "Korra," it's that the
show had to be a miniseries. Ten
episodes in a season isn't enough
for the kind of undetectable and
masterful character development
in AtLA. Asami's (Seychelle Gabri-
el, "Falling Skies") transformation
from I-want-to-hate-her-but-she-
has-no-flaws to pouty girlfriend is
not only abrupt, but mildly disap-
pointing; after introducing a bad-
ass non-bender with brains and
beauty, reducing her to stock jeal-
ous female is unfair to the character
and the audience.
See KORRA, Page 9

'These bath salts are amazing. Actually, I'm getting hungry, I'll call you back, John.'

By AKSHAY SETH
Daily Arts Writer
Sitting through a Seth MacFar-
lane movie, the very first of itskind,
was a lot more straight-forward
than expected:
full of crude *
jokes, foul lan-
guage, idiotic TEd
behavior and
man-children. At Quality16
Even the titu- and Rave
lar vulgarity
spouting teddy Universal
bear is noth-
ing unexpected given MacFar-
lane's series "Family Guy". To be
completely honest, there's nothing
really new about this movie. It has
the look and feel of a two-hour long
"Family Guy" episode because, at
the end of the day, it is.
And if you're not particularly
fond of the unique brand of humor
MacFarlane popularized through
his TV shows, steer clear of this
film because chances are you're
not going to have a good time. As
for the rest of us MacFarlane fans,
buckle up because "Ted" really is a
hilariously entertaining ride.
The movie starts off in the
suburbs of Boston where a lonely
kid, John (Mark Wahlberg, "Con-
traband"), wishes for a unique
Christmas present - one that will
be "truly alive," keeping him com-

pany for the rest of his life. In clas- At times, that hilarity is
sically unexplained fashion, the stemmed by a slightly inconsistent
cute little teddy bear, Ted, comes script, but the faults in the writ-
miraculously to life and everything ing are outweighed by material
starts to look up. John finally has a that is largely original and funny.
friend he can count on and Ted, the MacFarlane, who also provides the
first living, breathing stuffed ani- voice of the vulgar teddy bear, does
mal in history, becomes an interna- an excellent job of writing around
tional celebrity. the banality of the plotline. It's the
typical man-child story we've seen
so many times over the past few
* t d years - a man bitching and moan-
ing for two hours before finally
bearybecomes a coming to terms with his age and
responsiblity.
world-wide hit. But MacFarlane finds a way to
use the beaten down nature of the
story to his advantage - some-
thing he's done on his TV shows by
But of course, life takes its crafting detached-yet-intelligent
unavoidable toll and the two bud- dialogue that always manages to
dies end up becoming beacons of maintain an air of self-awareness.
mediocrity, taking bong hits while In effect, MacFarlane is taking
eating Cap'n Crunch on John's a step back and telling us "yeah,
couch. The only thing keeping the I know this crap's been put on.
two, well at least John, remotely screen before. I'm here to tell you
attached to everyday responsi- why it's stupid." His approach
bility is his girlfriend Lori (Mila never appears as heavy handed
Kunis, "Friends With Benefits"), as, say, the "Scary Movie" fran-
who eventually gets fed up with chise because he genuinely tries to
his cannabis-fueled lifestyle and imbue his work with those cliches
offers him an ultimatum - kick out we see every year.
Ted and move forward with their Once we're hooked in and
relationship or find someone else expecting what we've been trained
to sleep with. Consequently, the to expect, MacFarlane catches us
grown man and teddy bear finally with the punchline that reminds
attempt to unlatch and hilarity us why he really is more a satirist
ensues. than a comedian.

In April, astr:
deGrasse Tyson gave
Launch Keynote add
National Space
Symposium in
Colorado Springs,
Colo. Though it
didn't receive
extensive news
coverage, Tyson
passionately andI
eloquently present-
ed a clever solution
to some of the cur-
rent problems in
our country: dou-
ble NASA's budget.
In the middle of,
times and a heated
funding for NASA pr
high on the priority l
and average Amer
Tyson argues that
ment in NASA could
spirit of innovation t
economy grow in the
now, according to Ty
get is only half of o
U.S. tax dollar - a ve
compared to the amo
government is spend
grams and services.:
budget to one penny
lar, which is still ave
Tyson claims that
for space exploratio
expand tremendousl}
With an expander
Tyson has called for
fleet of many differer
craft and other tech
serve a variety of u
"Whatever the need
they geopolitical, mili
space becomes that f
Tyson also used the it
system put in place by
hower in the 1950s as
need for a diverse to
craft. "The interstate
everybody in whatev
That's how you grow:
An increased NA;
also benefit our econ
nearer future. "The.
drivesthe culture ofli
the culture of innovat
economies of the 21st
declared emphaticall
be more innovative t
waysto explore the fin
has captured the ima
Americans at some pc
Instead of investing i
or industries that ma
invest in something t
to be innovative and
imagination of a nati
could use some inspir
More importantly
projects conducted-1
have important psycl
for the country. "Not,
vate, these innovati
lines," Tyson said."

ophysicist Neil
the Symposium
ress at the 28th.

work their way down the educational
pipeline. Everybody in school knows
about it. You don't have to setup a pro-
gram to convince people that being an
engineer is cool. They'll know it just by
the cultural presence of those activi-
ties. You do that, and it'll jump-start
our dreams."

MICHAEL Let's dream
SPAETH
~AETHagain.
tough economic,
election season,
'obably isn't very I doubt politicians are going to cre-
ist for politicians ate responsible and lasting solutions
icans. However, to larger national and international
a small invest- issues anytime soon - issues involv-
spark a renewed ing much greater sums of money from
hat will help the the government and throughout the
long-term. Right rest of the economy. Therefore; why
son, NASA's bud- not give a small amount of money in the
ne penny on the budget to some of the few people in the
try small amount entire country who aren't restrained
unt-of money our by political or business considerations?
ing on other pro- Scientists at NASA are interested in
If we double that expanding scientific knowledge and
'on the tax dol- exploring new frontiers. I fully trust
ry small amount, people who are drivenbypurescientific
the possibilities curiosity, not the next election cycle.
o and discovery And besides, politicians should
y. be eager to increase NASA's fund-
d NASA budget, ing because when we clearly lead the
the creation of a world once again in space explora-
nt types of space- tion, we inject new life into the spirit
inology that can of American exceptionalism, which
ses for humans. has been on life support.as our politi-
s or urges - be cal atmosphere has become more toxic
itary, economic - and polarized. Yet, at the same time,
rontier," he said. we also promote a globalized perspec-
nterstate highway tive focused on our common human-
President Eisen- ity. Tyson claims that several events
an analogy for the in 1970 - the passage of the Clean Air
llection of space- Act, the creation of Earth Day and the
system connects establishment of the Environmental
er way you want. Protection Agency - Weren't just coin-
a system." cidences. After seeing the first photo of
SA budget could Earth from space in 1968, we began to
omy in the much focus on the planet we share. This kind
culture of NASA of benevolent, globalized perspective
nnovation, and it's is sorely needed in this era of con-
ion that drives the stant division and hostility, and this
t century," Tyson perspective is also well-suited for an
y. And what can increasingly globalized economy and
han finding new interconnected Internet culture.
ial frontier? Space As college students, we already
ginations of most have big dreams about our individual
oint in their lives. and collective futures. We're going to
n new businesses be the innovators of the future, so we
ay fail, we should havea responsibility to spark that spirit
:hat is guaranteed of innovation right now. Let's tell our
also captures the friends, neighbors and elected officials
on that definitely that a small investment in innovation
ation. and our ability to dream is worth the
, an increase in short-term political inconvenience.
by NASA would Let's show the rest of the world why we
hological benefits should dream again.
only do you inno-
ons make head- Michael Spaeth can be reached
"Those headlines at micspa@umich.edu.

I can't count how many
times I've heard it: "When I
graduate, I'm getting out of
Michigan."
As the first
half of sum-
mer draws
to a close,
many stu-
dents have
fled Ann
Arbor - and VANESSA
the state of RYCHLINSKI
Michigan
altogether
- to other
economic and cultural epicen-
ters, and not just the class of
2012. The ever-more impor-
tant internship, by many con-
sidered vital to the undergrad
experience, has drawn many
students to greener pastures.
The allure is understandable.
Exodus is all too easy - espe-
cially when your state has
been one of those hit hardest
since the recession.
Despite Republican Gov.
Rick Snyder's opponents pre-
dicting a continued spiral
downward, however, things
have begun looking up. The
film industry is set to thrive in
2012, and Michigan recently
grabbed the 25th rank in eco-
nomic outlook on the State
Economic Competitiveness
Index put out by the American
Legislative Exchange Coun-
cil. Detroit's increased hiring
market also was the topic of a
June 12 Forbes article. Despite
these encouraging signs, how-
ever, May's unemployment
tally is a depressing 8.5 percent
and sits at the unlucky spot of
13th-worst in the nation. Luck-
ily, many talented students
have found options outside
the mitten. Cities such as New
York, Washington D.C. and
San Francisco have all beck-
oned with the promise of a bet-
ter work experience - one you
can't get anywhere else.
They're not the only lucky
ones, though, and there are
some experiences here that you
definitely can't get anywhere
else.
I attended the Semester in
Detroit student showcase dur-
ing the second-to-last week
of June to speak with stu-
dents who had volunteered to
learn and work in Michigan's

once-glorious metropolis. The of urban revitalization. Claire
University's Detroit Center is noted that working in Detroit
located in Midtown, housed is a definite future prospect.
blocks from historical build- "Just being here is so inspir-
ings such as the Fox Theatre, ing," she said. "When I look at
the Detroit Institute of Arts Brush Park ... there's so much
Museum and the Detroit possibility in those vacant lots
Opera House. I was both sur- and that's just beautiful."
prised and impressed by the
students who participated
in this year's program in an Detroit's culture
array of organizations run- -
ning the gamut from theater can'tbe found
and community outreach to
city and state government to anywhere else
law and social justice. a
For LSA junior Erin Kirk-
land, an aspiring journalist
and managing photo edi-
tor at The Michigan Daily, Alana Hoey is a senior in the
it all started with "the same School of Art & Design with
stories that you hear at every a second independent study
family party." These were major in Urban Planning.
all connected in some way to Alana felt that her intern-
Detroit, the place where her ship at Pewabic Pottery was a
parents were born and raised unique opportunity. Pewabic
before settling in Farmington. is known locally for commu-
After hearing so much about nity outreach. When asked if
the "good old days," she won- she would consider returning
dered how to connect to the to the city to work, Alana's
history of the city - without response was simple: "I'm
any undue dewy-eyed nostal- me here." Alana is one of two
gia - and of her family before in this year's program who's
moving forward. Though she native to the city and has many
doesn't feel entitled to the ties to the community. Her
designation of "Detroiter" grandfather came to Detroit
after one semester, she told during the automotive boom
me she plans to apply to the at the turn of the century,
Detroit Free Press and other when Henry Ford was offer-
non-profit organizations after ing $5 a day to new workers.
graduating. "I still do dream Her mother also helped found
of working for the New York an inner-city school in 2001.
Times," she admitted, "but Though often protective of
I've re-evaluated, and I think Detroit, Alana expressed the
there's a lot going on here." wish that friends would see for
Originally from Washing- themselves as some of her fel-
ton D.C., LSA junior Claire low students had done.
Jaffe interned for The Hub of Certainly it would be inter-
Detroit, a program in which esting to observe if the number
participants learn to assemble of students investing in Detroit
a bike they may keep upon was closer to 200 rather than
completion. Part of her intern- 20. But' it's still invaluable
ship included making and that these 20-odd students
traveling her own bike routes have seen same of the spirit of
throughout the city. One of Detroit - beit in a bike shop or
her favorite neighborhoods is a health center or girl's shelter,
Brush Park. "There are these in a councilwoman's office or
amazing mansions, and then on a wall mural. That spirit is
you turn your back and it's indicative of a special culture
a completely vacant lot with flavored with innovation and
grass up, to your waist and tenacity that you just can't find
the skyline behind it - incred- anywhere else.
ible," she said. An Urban Plan-
ning minor, Claire believes Vanessa Rychlinski can be
it's important to study urban reached at vanrych@umich.edu.
sprawl and re-inhabitation and
approach the puzzling problem



Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
The first part of summer is over...but it's not too late
to ge involved with The Michigan Daily.
E-mail axelrad@michigandaily.com for more information.
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

CORRECTIONS:
* Please report any error in
the Dailyto corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Monday, July 2, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

L E T TER TO T HE EDITOR
The Big Ten needs new division names
TO THE DAILY:
Like many other people, I disliked the Big Ten division names "Leaders and Legends" from
the beginning. To me, it reeks of arrogance, while humility is an important part of what's spe-
cial about the Midwest, the home of the Big Ten.
Now, after the Ohio State University and Penn State University scandals, the division names
are absurd. The violations at Ohio State took down one of the most popular and respected
coaches in college football, a rare occurrence that indicates the seriousness of the violations.
The Penn State scandal is the worst in the history ofsports. It is a scandal thatgoes far beyond
matters such as cheating or gambling. The Penn State scandal is the worst in the history of
sports - all sports, all levels, all places. It might be the worst in the history of American aca-
demia.
The.Big Ten needs to get back to basics, back to its roots. If some of the key people at Penn

State hadn't thought of themselves and their head coach as legends, and if certain people at
Penn State hadn't been concerned with their own image and greatness, perhaps they would
not have handled the allegations as badly as they did. Whether this whole thing turns out to
be "guilty as charged" or not, the allegations were handled as if the last thing in the world that
mattered was the welfare of children. What seemed toimatter just as little was how it would all
look to the world. That is hubris. I learned in my Classics class long ago of the Greek adagethat
hubris is followed by nemesis, pride cometh before the fall. Declaring oneself to be a leader or
a legend qualifies as hubris, no matter how you spin it.
I suggest some new names for the divisions. "Erie and Huron" sound good to me. Honor the
Great Lakes that have been fundamental to the success of the Midwest. These names offer
imagery, unlike "Leaders and Legends" which are abstract. Everybody loves lakes. It's time
for the Big Ten to take a dip in the waters.
Scott Kashkin
1984 University alum


Over-stepping boundries

RELEASE DATE- Monday, July 2,2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 39 Stage in a bug's 51 Drop aline
1 Nie slitherers 1 Perform on stage life 52 Affinnas true
eis 2 Hod'bladle 41 Head-and- 53 Mullen
ealrn ,sits Fe perng, shoulders 552Baistars"li bl
15 0!' rifl soulpture 57HWithin
4Es os1m1gm 4S bntin 3Ink-fillnedtoo SuIxDswithpoj
1itlDappear wiy 5 Faasltoan" AE5s P.APyGsAhZhEns
hbutrey updaed2iebsd O 4sn 7 sI E L eGnE N6 t:barely
164Softithrosw 6 GlaTirsCrealin Uam V aEage
17 Ocanaion 7 Ainseil d8eRizutolfbte 61 Snc-yr-inns
8 Winuermod"l 258Ppayl to CEYankenslde Y
W 2do "Fae tararie 5B 0L oWUme 2laristrfield
atot 11 M eastchssd piownr 63 Sffixwith pnrc
20 Venrbl i2"Ain't sena ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
nin 13 HaehssteLan A 0 P A P W A0 A Z E 0
23 Wtrk24-Ac psins I P A N A 0 R A C E N 0 T N
vogis woman 21lHairltamers Li TEL W KENT LEMA N
f ibridal raiondail 4 22Bi llsn E TAin
24 e 3Ass EnTrs S br U BG E T I H ER TA S BDISE
42 Coffeaessel 27 asweaponAROSEN WART1ME
33Hat null 29 Rnacsee's
pln s endurascelinit R A I N 0R P NO 0 5 I N
conecios 0 ccstom (to)l O0S5SA CA N AST A
3Minirmum-range315lalminures USTE W A KE TH ED EA D
17-A cross 34tCa r a 4ne
41 A/C unis "ur GETOSH OR TY IZ OODS
42 Finalize,as a 36Eerosolfbrro, OP EL S SAS DOENS E
44Jas anCd ran
Beetlestuorus 4p 12 3 4 f S 0 11 12 1
tl 44or7thisp
5 PMoain 1 oan
ec'cestrid til
48Gsanruli ey ain a e a or
crowd, sayasevceIc 0/2/
fame
52 Bar ore
54 "SNL" alu h eri 3a 3 a no
56 Once existed
woman o stagea7 4
64 Call to md 4 50 1
65sPobeminol
66 o-or-diepoker
bet 59 s1o as
67 College dinner
stae in6a a
69lJins wath a
torch B Jef hn0/2
(x)2012 Tine Media Senetac. 721

Join the Michigan
Soiling Club
and learn to sail this
summer!
Windsurf, Conoe.&
koyok too!

michigansaiCing lub.org
PARKINGSERVICES
ANN ARBOR CLEANING Service -
SUMMER PARKING BEHIND We clean vacant apartments. http://a2-
420 Maynard St. $100/Mo cleaningservice.com/ text/call 340-7087
Call 734-418-4115 ext.1246
_________________ THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE
organization, format. All disciplines.
F 1 E T 25 years'U-Mexperience.
734-996-0566 or www.writeona2.com
'NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Riverfrontlleat/Water/Parking. __
!mwww.HRPAA corn 996-4992'
!!LG. RMS., Hill St. off State. Prkg. HELP WANTED! LOCAL company
For Male. $275/mo. 845-399-9904 looking for self motivated people 1o fill
ARBORPROPRTIES DISINC- par ine or toll line positions. Bene-
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC fits include flexible scheduling. no ex-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry- perience required! earn $10-$30 per
towe, Central Campus, Old West Side, hour. Call 616-644-0659to setup an in-
Horns Park. Now Reeling for 2012. terview
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
LOOKING FOR SERIOUS, fiercely
BNTD Ne nlX rY AT - loyal indiv. with either journalism
ments have State of the Art Kitchens and/or legal background, willing 10 do-
meeBtsave Satfuofuhertihensad naeknowledge, skills. and tine 10 help
and Baths, Beautiful furnishings and former journalist move to another coun-
great views of the campus. Located . try, find a meaningful job and get
nrit on CenT Campus, o Sou nI health care. Responses will be carefully
BEST SERVICE & BEST PRICES! screne.________________
Call us for a tour today734-761-2680 NURSERY/PRESCHOOL CARE-
or email us The2ndFloorSU@aol.com GIVER AT the 1st Congregational
Church of AA, 608 E. William St..
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED Curriculum, activities & snacks pro-
rooms for students, shared kitch., Idry-, vided. Sundays 9:30 - 12:30. $10 per
bath., internet, summer from $325, fall . hr, experience w/children necessary.
from $480. Call 734-276-0886. holly@fccannarbor.org.

From the headlines of morning
newspapers to casual lunchtime
discussions,
the huge con-
troversy sur-
rounding
Thursday's
Supreme Court
decision is evi-
dent almost
anywhere
you go. The SARAH
5-4 ruling to SKALUBA
uphold most
of the 2010
Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act
has caused Americans to speak up.
"Obamacare," PPACA, health care
reform - it all means the same
thing. Regardless of political affili-
ation, annual income or social class,
this decision will affect each and
every one of us.
It's pointless for me to whine
about President Barack Obama's
new policy or the socialist under-
tones that many conservative lead-
ers have been babbling about. I
find it interesting, however, that
the Supreme Court upheld this law
when over 70 percent of Americans
believe that an individual mandate
is unconstitutional, according to a
Gallup Poll conducted before the
. ruling. Even though opposition to
the law has diminished slightly
since the ruling, 52 percent of all
registered voters and 62 percent of
Independents still oppose the law.
Don't get me wrong- - I agree
that the cost of health care in our
country has become excessive and
unreasonable. Not to mention that
health care as a whole can be com-
pletely unavailable to many Ameri-
cans. But does this make it right for
the highest, most powerful court in
our nation to mandate individual
health insurance when so many of

us feel it's unconstitutional?
In case you've been hibernat-
ing from society for the past few
days, some of the main compo-
nents of Obama's health care
reform include extending health
insurance to 30 million uninsured
Americans, banning insurance
companies from turning away cli-
ents with pre-existing health con-
ditions and requiring everyone to
purchase individual health insur-
ance. Those who refuse to buy
their own health insurance will
be forced to pay a "penalty" or tax.
under the new policy.
Praise should be given where
praise is due. We commend ourgov-
ernment for finally recognizing the
problems that the American health
care system faces. No one should be
turned away from health insurance
because they've been diagnosed
with cancer, nor should we be pay-
ing obnoxious fees for life-saving
surgeries and treatments. We
deserve the right to affordable and
accessible health care, regardless
of income or insurance policy. Yet,
there are other ways to do this rath-
er than mandating health insur-
ance to each and every American.
Not only does the government
appear to be drastically overstep-
ping its constitutional authority
with PPACA, but also the strain it
puts on small businesses will force
many of them to close their doors.
In a time when our economy is still
struggling to recover, the, govern-
ment should not be placing addi-
tional stress on entrepreneurs and
small business owners.
Our health care system needs
to change, but mandating health
insurance is not the right way to do
it. Whether it's phrased as a "pen-
alty" or a tax, it isn't fair to force
Americans to purchase insurance
and then fine them if they refuse

to do so. According to Time.com,
underthe newhealthreformpolicy,
young Americans will actually be
paying more for health insurance
than they are paying now. Under
the PPACA, younger, relatively
healthy individuals will be paying
to subsidize the surgeries and nec-
essary treatment that ailing Ameri-
cans require.
The individual
mandate should not
have been upheld.
The United States never seems to
lackinnovative,freshideas.Ibelieve
other options do exist that don't
mandate individual health insur-
ance. Though the Obama admin-
istration may have pure intentions
by establishingthe Affordable Care
Act, this time the government has
overstepped its boundaries and dug
too deep into our personal lives. In
a country that values its Constitu-
tion so highly, I'm astonished our
Supreme Court would uphold this
individual mandate as constitution-
al. There shouldn't be winners and
losers when it comes to the health
care debate in this country - there
should only be winners. And with
the current political atmosphere
surrounding the Supreme Court's
decision, this is most definitely not
the case.
Sarah Skaluba can be reached
at sskaluba@umich.edu. Follow
her on Twitter at @ SSkaluba.

JOIN THE MICHIGAN DAILY'S EDITORIAL BOARD
Interested in campus, state and national affairs?
Enjoy writing and debate? Participate in a weekly
meeting to dicuss the Daily's editorials.
E-mail adrirobe@umich.edu for more information.
As University of Michigan Alumni
We've been supporfingfthe
UM Communityasince 7939...
By Appointment
304 112 S. STATE ST.
Above Ben & Jerry's
734 668 9329
WWWDASCOLABARBERS.COM
WALK-INS WELCOME!


