SwWm C igandaiIytCm/news/get-out-and-vote

be Lid jigan 4&i)ajj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, October 9, 2012

michigandaily.com

-AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BEFORE THE COURT -
Precedent
weighs on
Supreme
Court case

Natalie olb/ I ne State News

Republican Vice Presidential nominee Paul Ryan speaks at Oakland University on Monday.
RyCan i
Ryancampaigns atOakland
GOP VP nominee Paul Ryan was introduced to a the crowd, and after waves to seem more willingto testus. And
packed basketball arena at Oak- attendees, he spoke out against we're showing more daylight
emphasizes land University by Detroit-native President Barack Obama's for- between ourselves and our allies,
Kid Rock. eign policy, discussing his plans and they are beginning to ques-
foreign policy, auto "I want to be real clear that for fostering a stronger nation, tion our resolve. And the reason
I'm very proud to say we elected and echoing the comments Rom- is America is projecting weak-
industry our first black president," Kid ney made in a speech earlier in ness right now."
Rock said. "I'm sorry he didn't the day that focused on his for- The visit to Michigan was
By MATT JACKONEN do a better job. I really wish he eign policy goals. Ryan's second since becoming
Daily StaffReporter would've. I really do, butthe facts "When you turn on your tele- the nominee in Aug. It's also a
are the facts." vision, what you are witnessing sign that Romney that the Rom-
Standing behind a podium Republican presidential nomi- on TV is the unraveling of the ney campaign thinks Michigan
bearing the words "We can't nee Mitt Romney's running Obama foreign policy," Ryan may be in play following Rom-
afford four more years," Repub- mate took the stage as AC/DC's said. "Our enemies are becom- ney's debate win last week.
lican Vice Presidential nominee "Thunderstruck" rang out over ing more brazen. Our adversaries See RYAN, Page 6

'U' cases form
basis of arguments
in Fisher v.
U of Texas
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily StaffReporter
On Wednesday, the U.S.
Supreme Court will again
review the role of affirmative
action in higher education. The
latest case, Fisher v. Univer-
sity of Texas has the potential
to completely reshape the way
affirmative action programs
are used in the United States,
and it all comes down to how
broadlythe court interprets the
issue.
In 2003, the University was
a party to two landmark cases
that will largely form the basis
of the court's consideration
of affirmative action's use. In
these cases, bearing the name
of former University President
Lee Bollinger, Grutter v. Bol-
linger and Gratz v. Bollinger,

the court found that certain
forms of affirmative action are
indeed legal, as long as they
are autonomously approved by
states.
At issue is the University of
Texas' "10-percent rule" that
automatically admits every
student in Texas who ranks
in the top 10 percent of their
high school class. According to
Residential College Prof. Carl
Cohen, Texas high schools still
face de facto segregation, even
if the 1954 Supreme Court rul-
ing in Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation outlawed segregation as
an official policy. Enrollment
of black students doubled and
enrollment of Latino students
increased by 50 percent since
the state's Legislature created
the 10-percent rule in 1997.
Due to the segregation with-
in K-12 education, the Universi-
ty of Texas' plan was successful
at creating a more diverse cam-
pus. However, the plaintiff
22-year-old Abigail Fisher, con-
tends since the university used
the 10-percent rule to achieve
See SUPREME COURT, Page 7

t
,
-
-n
-s
-g



SENATE ASSEMBLY
SACUA discusses
general counsel
search committee
Assembly mittee members embody the val-
ues of the faculty members.
seeks to help SACUA member Scott Mas-
0 ten, a Business professor, said
replace Suellyn SACUA was not fully involved
.a h in choosing members for the
Scarnecchia search committee for the next
general counsel, which consult-
By DANIELLE ed over the summer, thus limit-
STOPPELMANN ing SACUA's involvement in the
S Daily StaffReporter process.
He added that he regrets that
At its meeting Monday, the SACUA was not consulted earlier
Senate Advisory Committee regarding the committee.
on University Affairs debated "I think that it was really
concerns regarding SACUA's important for us to make a point
involvement in designating a of the fact that ... we did not
search committee for the Uni- have our own representatives on
versity's next general counsel that committee who could have
and vice president. assured that (the faculty values
Law School Prof. Suellyn Scar- represented) were true," Mas-
necchia, former vice president ten said. "We did not appoint our
and general counsel resigned own representatives, (the com-
from her position effective last mittee members) are not people
May. Scarnecchia was appointed that we approved and appoint-
to the position in 2008. ed."
Though some members of the Kearfott said at the meeting
University's lead governing body that she met with Sally Churchill,
expressed frustration with the the University's vice president
lack of transparency and par- and secretary, and researched
ticipation in choosing the next the general counsel selection
search committee, SACUA Chair committee members in order to
Kimberlee Kearfott, a professor choose a competent team.
in the College of Engineering "For example, they were want-
and the Medical School, said she ing policy creation to be based on
is confident that the chosen com- See SACUA, Page 7

Grupo Tucandira, a group of Colombian performers, gives a show in the Michigan League ballroom on Monday.
SP EAK E RS ON C A M PUS
Atorney:T GOP senators
block critical treaties

ELECTION 2012
SOS drops
citizen
checkbox
on ballot
Federal judge
issues injunction
against Johnson
By KATIE BURKE
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan voters will have
one less checkbox to fill when
voting on Nov. 6. with the
removal of the state's contro-
versial citizenship status ques-
tion from the ballot.
Federal Judge Paul Borman
issued a preliminary injunction
Friday against Michigan Sec-
retary of State Ruth Johnson's
enforcement of a citizenship
checkbox on voting ballots. The
decision came after a lawsuit
filed by the American Civil Lib-
erties Union on Sept. 17, which
deemed the checkbox unconsti-
tutional.
According to an ACLU press
release, Borman's decision
stated that the checkbox would
prove to be an unnecessary
obstacle to voters and "create
chaos" and "irreparable injury
to the voting process."
Voters are already required
See CHECKBOX, Page 6

Chief counsel to
Senate Foreign
Relations Cmte.
speaks on campus
ByAUSTEN HUFFORD
Daily StaffReporter
In a wood-paneled room
in Hutchins Hall with brick-
outlined doors and pane glass

windows, Andrew Keller, the
head lawyer for the U.S. Senate
Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, spoke against the Sen-
ate's anti-treaty behavior at a
gathering of University Law
School students and professors
on Monday.
Keller said a group of 36
Republican senators recently
signed a letter refusing to con-
sider any international treaty
until at least 2013. Since a
two-thirds majority of the 100

senators is required to pass
most treaties, the group of GOP
senators is enough to block any
treaty that is put up for a vote.
Keller said he had a conver-
sation with a "high-ranking"
member of the Obama admin-
istration in January 2011 who
told him the administration
wanted to focus on three
important treaties during the
two-year congressional ses-
sion. These treaties which focus
See TREATIES, Page 7


WEATHER HI: 50
TOMORROW 34

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4tS or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Revenge' RECAP: Return of the Graysons
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS ......................... 2 ARTS .................5
Vol. CXXII, No.4 AP NEWS ...................3 CLASSIFIEDS ...............6
22Theician Daily 0 P I N ION..............4 S P O R T S.................8
michigandaily.com

A

i

0


2 - Tuesday, October 9; 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 01

2 - Tuesday, October 9, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-419-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
tichterman@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michnigandaily.com

Event excludes female students

75 years ago this week (Octo-
ber 10,1937): The Union Execu-
tive Council announced the start
of coffee hours at the Michigan
Union for the year, The Michigan
Daily reported.
The coffee hours were open
to "all men students and faculty
members," and hostesses at the
event were "wives of faculty
members," the Daily reported.
The Daily listed the names of
the wives that were appointed as
hostesses.
50 years ago this week
(October 9, 1962): The Univer-
sity announced its plans to cre-
ate a "residential liberal arts"
college within LSA, the Daily

reported. Over-enrollmen
University led to the idea
smaller college, as it would
an expansion in the Univ
literary college. The newc
would have its own living
ties and curriculum.
25 years ago this
(October 8,1987): A lawy(
the American Civil Li
Union addressed a letter ti
University PresidentI
Shapiro stating that excl
sending the all-male che
ingsquad to away football
was a "sexist tradition," th
reported.
ACLU lawyer Jean Kit
in his letter to Shapiro tI

t at the University "violated both fed-
for the eral and state law" by restricting
[create female cheerleaders from travel-
ersity's ing to away games.
college Don Triveline, then-athletic
facili- administrative assistant, said
the custom of sending only male
cheerleaders to away games since
week the 1940s justified the rule. Todd
er with Berlent, then-LSA junior and
berties male cheerleading team member,
o then- agreed that the policy was not
Harold sexist.
usively "We are the Michigan foot-
erlead- ball cheerleaders," Berlent told
games the Daily. "We cheer football
e Daily and football only, and this is our
time."
ag said
hat the - HALEY GOLDBERG
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTEE

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlinoods@michigandaily.on

News Tips
oews@michigoodoily.coo
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classited@michigandaily.com
Finance
fiance@michigandaily.com

Local Ann Arbor band Jack and the Bear perform on
South State Street near the Diag on Monday.

CRIME NOTES: LAPTOP EDITION

Loose laptop
WHERE: Markley Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about
1:30 p.m.
WHAT: A female resident's
laptop was taken from her
room, University Police
reported. The scene did not
indicate a forced entry. The
resident initiallythought
the laptop was just missing.

Fifth floor
filching
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
5:50 p.m.
WHAT: A silver Macbook
Pro and charger were also
taken from a study area on
the fifth floor, University
Police reported.

Beez in the trap Show us

A bilingual Aback breaker

bandit
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
3:20 p.m.
WHAT: A MacBook Pro
with a Korean-Engligh key-
board was taken from the
fourth floor north stacks,
University Police reported.
ThPnr. nn i m,-r-

WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
11:40 p.m.
WHAT: A Macbook Pro
laptop and charger were
stolen from the fourth floor
south stacks, University
Police reported. The victim
hid the laptop under a back-
pack but it was still taken.
Tn.,. nr..n ciic,-r..

WHAT: Ann Arbor Back-
yard Beekeepers will lead
a discussion regardingthe
proper treatment of bees,
beehives and honey.
WHO: Matthaei Botanical
Gardens & Nichols Arbo-
retum
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Matthaei Botani-
cal Gardens
Big bang or
big belief?
WHAT: A debate will
address whether atheism or
theism best describes real-
ity. The debaters are Frank
Turek, a Christian apolo-
gist, and Eddie Tabash, a
member of the Council for
Secular Humanism.
WHO: Secular Student Alli-
ance
WHEN: Tonight from 7
p.m. to 9p.M.
WHERE: Rackham Audi-
torium

your Kwan
WHAT: The public is wel-
come to skate on the same
ice as the Michigan hockey
team. Entry is $3 and skate
rentals are $2.
WHO: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Today from noon
to 12:50 p.m.
WHERE: Yost Ice Arena
CORRECTIONS
A An article in the Oct.
8 edition of The Michi-
gan Daily ("Students
celebrate Gandhi day
in Ann Arbor")incor-
rectly spelled the sur-
name "Gandhi." It is
Gandhi, not Ghandi.
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Felix Baumgartner, an
Austrian skydiver, will
attempt today to become
the first person to ever
break the speed of sound in a
free fall, NBC News reported.
Baumgartner will jump from
22 miles above the Earth to
try and set the record.
The deadline to regis-
ter to vote is today. Go
to michigandaily.com/
news/get-out-vote for more
information, and make sure
to vote on Nov. 6.
A student at a high
school in Charlotte,
N.C. spiked a teacher's
morning coffee with Glu-
teBoost, a butt-enhancing
drug, WLBT reported. The
pill is described as an "All
Natural Buttocks Enhance-
ment Supplement."

EDITORIAL STAFF
AndrewWeiner ManagingEditor anweiner@michigandaily.coin
Bethany Eiron ManagingNewsEdiHor biroonmiigandaily.com
SORs NES wEDIT O~RMaey Glatth,or, le oldberg, Ryaoldsi,
PaigePearcy, AdamRubenfire
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
PeterShahin,K.C.Wassman
Timothy Rabb and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:MelanieKruvelis, Harsha Nahata,VanessaRychtinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:JesseKlein,SarahSkaluba
Stephen Nesbitt ManagingSportsEditor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Everett Cook, Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch,
ASISAT POT EIORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Matt Spelich,
Colleen Thomas, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
Leah Burgin Managing Arts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, David Tao, Kayla Upadhyaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jacob Axelrad, Laren Caserta, Matt Easton, Kelly Etz,
Anna Sadovskaya, Chloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss ManagingPhototEditors
nSIORP nOO nRS:TrraMolengraff,ToddNeedle
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Adam Glanzman,Austen Hufford, Allison Kruske
Marlene Lacasse, Adam Schnitzer
Alicia Kovalcheck and design@michigandaily.com
Amy Mackens ManagingDesigntEditors
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
JenniferX u Magazine Editors
DEPUTYMAGAZINEEDITOR:ZachBergson,KaitlinWilliams
Hannah Poindexter copychief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Josephine Adams, Beth Coplowitz
BUSINESS STAFF
AshleyKaradsheh Associate Business Manager
SeanlJackson Sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum ProductionManager
tonnor Byrd Finance Manager
Meryl Hulteng National AccountManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to alreaders.Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through April) is
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195.University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscriptionrate. On-camposubscriptionsfor faltermare $35.Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated CollegiatePress.

*I

IMF offers bleak appraisal
of stalled world economy

Forecast: U.S.,
Europe causing
economic concerns
worldwide
TOKYO (AP) - Plagued by
uncertainty and fresh setbacks,
the world economy has weakened
further and will grow more
slowly over the next year, the
International Monetary Fund
says in its latest forecast.
Advanced economies
are risking recession, the
internationallendingorganization
said in a quarterly update of its
World Economic Outlook, and
the malaise is spreading to more
dynamic emerging economies
such as China.
The IMF forecasts that the
world economy will expand 3.3
percent this year, down from the
estimate of 3.5 percent growth
it issued in July. Its forecast for
growth in 2013 is 3.6 percent,
down from 3.9 percent three
months ago and 4.1 percent in
April.
Underpinning that bleaker
scenario are the assumptions
that Europe will continue to
ease monetary policy and that
the U.S. will avert a crushing
blow to growth by fending off a
so-called "fiscal cliff" that could
result from a failure to reach a
compromise on its budget law
and tax cuts.
Conditions could worsen if the
United States doesn't deal with
its budget crisis soon, the IMF
said.
"Downside risks have
increased and are considerable,"
the fund said. It said its forecasts
arebased"oncriticalpolicyaction
in the euro area and the United
States, and it is very difficult to
estimate the probability that this
action will materialize."
The IMF has urged the U.S.
to raise the ceiling on the level
of debt the government can
issue, which is capped by law.
In August 2011, a battle between
the Obama administration and
Congress over raising the. limit

wasn't resolved until the U.S.
almost defaulted on its debt.
Global efforts to ease credit
and increase the amount of
money available for lending are
helping, but appear to be yielding
diminishing returns, as are
fiscal stimulus policies, the IMF
warned.
"Because uncertainty is high,
confidence is low, and financial
sectors are weak, the significant
fiscal achievements have been
accompanied by disappointing
growth or recessions," it said.
Among other things, it says
governments need to do more to
relieve the burden of household
debt that is constraining
spending power and thus
crippling demand.
While large corporations
pay record low rates for credit,
households and small companies
struggle to obtain bank loans, it
said.
Fortifying domestic demand
is all the more crucial given
weakening trade trends. The
IMF forecasts that growth in
world trade volume will slump
to 3.2 percent this year from 5.8
percent last year and 12.6 percent
in 2010.
"Low growth and uncertainty
in advanced economies are
affecting emerging market
and developing economies
through both trade and financial
channels, adding to homegrown
weaknesses," the IMF's chief
economist, Olivier Blanchard,
said ina statement.
Still, the IMF raised the
U.S. growth forecast slightly,
to 2.2 percent this year from 2
percent in July. For 2013, though,
it expects U.S. growth of 2.1
percent, down from 2.3 percent.
Among the 17 nations that
use the euro, low growth in the
major "core economies," such
as Germany and France, will be
offset by outright contractions in
the smaller economies, leading
real gross domestic product to
fall by about 0.4 percent in 2012,
the IMF said.
It forecasts growth in the
euro area will stay flat in the first
half of 2013 and tick up to about 1

percent in the second half of the
year, the IMF said.
The report was released
just ahead of the World Bank-
IMF annual meeting, which is
being held in Tokyo this week.
The gathering of some 10,000
bankers, executives and officials
will likely refocus attention on
Japan's failure to escape its own
economic slump two decades
after its own financial implosion
in the early 1990s.
The IMF said it expects
growth in Japan to hit 2.2
percent this year but to slacken
further as reconstruction from
the March 2011 disasters winds
down, falling to 1.2 percent in
2013.
Japan, whose population is
both shrinking and aging faster
than elsewhere, is confronting
problems of high debt and
stagnation, it said.
As usual, the bright spots
are developing economies that
were less affected by the global.
financial crisis, where rising
employment and strong demand
will help support growth, the
IMF said.
China's economy will likely
expand 7.8 percent this year,
down from July's 8 percent
forecast, though a pickup
in construction projects is
expected to spur growth late
in the year. India's economy
will grow 4.9 percent, down
from 6.1 percent. And Brazil's
growth will be only 1.5 percent,
compared to 2.5 percent.
The IMF advised policymakers
to devise stronger medium-term
fiscal and structural reforms
to shore up confidence in the
growth potential of the advanced
economies.
Only then, will investor
confidence in markets and public
debt be restored.
"Unless governments spell
out how they intend to effect
the necessary adjustment over
the medium term, a cloud of
uncertainty will continue to
hang over the international
economy, with downside risks
for output and employment in
the short term," it said.

Workers inside the State Health Operations Center in the Tennessee Department of Health on Monday. Health officials in
Tennessee are reviewing recent deaths that were not initially linked to a deadly fungal meningitis outbreak.
Deaths of 2 Mich. women tied
to fungal meningiis outbreak

Deaths linked to of Community Health. Another
person developed a non-
outbreak from meningitis fungal infection after
.r so being injected in a joint, not the
back, the department said.
George Cary, 65, said it
DETROIT (AP) - A Michigan
man whose wife's death was
linked to the national outbreak
of fungal meningitis said
Monday that he, too, was treated
with steroids that may have
been contaminated.
"Not only have I lost my wife, 5 9 7
but I'm watching the clock to
see if anything develops. I'm 8 3 2
waiting for results," George
Cary said as friends and family
gathered for his wife's wake in
Howell, 60 miles northwest of
Detroit.
Lilian Cary, 67, of Howell died
Sept. 30. She had been ill since 9
late August, but meningitis I
wasn't detected until Sept. 22,
her husband said. 7
Michigan has reported 21
cases of meningitis, including
two deaths. Officials have tied
the outbreak to steroid shots 5
for back pain, which were made t
by a specialty pharmacy in
Massachusetts.
Michigan's second death
involved a 56-year-old woman,
but no other details were
released by the state Department

appeared Lilian would pull
through at University of Michigan
hospital.
"She was responding to
medication. Her spirits were up.
Her fever was broken," he said.
5-m

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 9, 2012 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 9, 2012 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
HS football player
detained after
punching a coach
A 16-year-old high school
football player was detained by
police in suburban Detroit after a
67-year-old assistant coach on an
opposing team was punched fol-
lowing agame.
The Detroit News reports
Monday that Oakland County
sheriff's deputies took the West
Bloomfield Township player into
custody after Friday's game at
Rochester Hills Stoney Creek.
The Stoney Creek coach was
knocked to the ground after
coaches from both teams argued
following the 50-28 victory by
Rochester Hills.
Sheriff's Capt. Mike John-
son says "there was a disagree-
ment (about) the play of the game
between the two staffs" and that
witnesses saw the punch that
felled the Stoney Creek coach.
MIAMI
Man dies after
live roach-eating
contest in Fla.
The winner of a roach-eating
contest in South Florida died
shortly after downing dozens of
the live bugs as well as worms,
authorities said Monday.
About 30 contestants ate the
insects 'during Friday night's con-
test at Ben Siegel Reptile Store in
Deerfield Beach about 40 miles
north of Miami. The grand prize
was a python.
Edward Archbold, 32, of West
Palm Beach became ill shortly
after the contest ended and col-
lapsed in front of the store, accord-
ing to a Broward Sheriff's Office
statement released Monday. He
was taken to the hospital where
he was pronounced dead. Authori-
ties were waiting for results of an
autopsy to determine a cause of
death.
LON[ 3
UK police: Elderly
couple unwittingly
grew marijuana
British police say an elderly
couple unwittingly grew a mon-
strous cannabis plant in their yard
after buying what they thought
was an innocuous green bush at a
flea market.
Police in Bedford, a commuter
town 90 kilometers (55 miles)
from central London, posted a
picture of a luxuriant cannabis
plant growing as tall as the fence
in v4hat appeared to be someone's
back yard.
In a message posted to Twitter
Friday the force said the plant had
been "seized today."
"Elderly couple bought shrub
at car boot sale, tended carefully-
biggest cannabis plant we had

seen!!" the message exclaimed.
SARCELLES, France
French Jews fear a
wave of attacks
The gunshots outside a syna-
gogue and the grenade that shat-
tered the windows of a kosher
groceryspreadfearintothestreets
- but caused little surprise.
Jews across France say anti-
Semitic threats have escalated
since a deadly assault on a Jewish
school in the southwestern town
of Toulouse this spring. The attack
on the grocery store in the Paris
suburb of Sarcelles came several
weeks ago, and the synagogue in
nearby Argenteuil was this week-
end.
In all cases, police suspect
Muslim extremists. The Toulouse
attacker was a Frenchman trained
by Islamist paramilitaries. And
anti-terrorist police killed one
man and arrested 11 in raids this
weekend against an Islamist cell
suspected in the Sarcelles attacks.
French Jews believe the dan-
ger comes from radical messages
that appeal to young Muslims
in France who are unemployed,
angry, alienated and looking for
someone to blame.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Republican presidential candidate, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt tRomney gestures during a campaign rally on Mon-
day in Newport News, Va.
Romne: U.S. must help
Syrian rebels oust Assad

In foreign policy
speech, presidential
challenger proposes
different course
LEXINGTON, Va. (AP) -
Mitt Romney declared on Mon-
day the U.S. must join other
nations in helping arm Syrian
rebels to oust Syrian President
Bashar Assad, casting Presi-
dent Barack Obama's efforts as
weak and part of a broader lack
of leadership in the Middle East
and around the globe.
Hoping to bolster his own
foreign policy credentials, the
Republican presidential chal-
lenger said the would identify
and organize those in the Syrian
opposition who share American
values, them work with Ameri-
can allies to "ensure they obtain
the arms they need to defeat
Assad's tanks, helicopters and
fighter jets."
"It is essential that we devel-
op influence with those forces
in Syria that wilkone daylead a,
countfy that sits at the heart of
the Middle East," Romney said.
In a wide-ranging address at
the Virginia Military Institute,
Romney attempted to establish
an image for voters of himself
as a man who would be a strong
commander in chief. In his
remarks, he criticized Obama's
policies toward Iraq, Afghani-
stan, Iran and Israel.
Nowhere did he emphasize a
different course as strongly as in

Syria. Romney cast the civil war
there as a proxy conflict with
Iran - and said it's in America's
interest to court an opposition
likely to play a key role in lead-
ing a future Syria.
Activists say more than
32,000 people have died in
Syria's conflict, which began
19 months ago with Assad's
government cracking down on
protests. That crackdown was
followed by armed rebellion in
many parts of the country and,
eventually, a full-scale civil war.
Obama's administration still
seeks a peaceful political transi-
tion, even though the president
acknowledged in August that the
likelihood of a softlandingfor the
conflict "seems pretty distant."
Romney aides said he wasn't
calling for the U.S. to directly arm
the rebels.
Nor has Obama. The presi-
dent's re-election campaign dis-
missed Romney's remarks as
"saber-rattling" and accused the
Republican of refusing to outline
just how his policies would differ
from the incumbent's.
The administration hasd en
quietly coordinating with part-
ners in the region who want to
provide military assistance. But
Obama has opposed directly pro-
viding weapons to the rebels or
using U.S. air power to prevent
Syrian jets from flying.
The U.S. role in coordination
is currently aimed at maintain-
ing some measure of control over
which groups receive weapons.
Administration officials have
been pressing America's Arab

allies for months about the danger
of equipment such a§ shoulder-
launched rockets and other heavy
weaponry falling into the wrong
hands. The official line is that any
arms assistance to the rebels only
further militarizes a conflict that
should be solved through a peace-
ful transition strategy.
Privately, officials concede
that countries such as Saudi
Arabia and Qatar have made dif-
ferent decisions, and the U.S. is
working with them so that con-
cerns about extremism and the
proliferation of certain types of
weapons are taken into account
in their decision-making.
The head of the Turkey-based
Syrian National Council, the
main Syrian opposition group,
said Romney's comments were
the "right statement." Abdelba-
set Sieda said he was not disap-
pointed in the U.S. president,
but added that "Obama must do
more to stop the killing."
When pressed, Romney pol-
icy advisers refused to say if
the Republican would support
or encourage allies to deliver
heavier weaponry, including
shoulder-fired rockets, to the
opposition forces in Syria.
Romney's comments come at
a critical time in part because
the violence in Syria has spilled
over the border and into Tur-
key, with fighting continuing
Monday for a sixth straight day.
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
warned Saturday the conflict
between those neighboring
countries could embroil the
broader region.

Detroit Police
chief steps down
amid sex scandal
Search begins for Robinson posted a photo on
Twitter of her with a police
fifth chief in four gun in her mouth. Her attor-
ney, David gtobinson, said the
years after chief's photo was posted, after she
«y,, learned Godbee was at a police
retirement conference a week ago in San
Diego with another woman. He
DETROIT (AP) - Detroit's said Godbee had other officers
police chief stepped down Mon- locate Angelica Robinson and
day after a week of embarrass- put her under surveillance.
ing revelations about a sexual There was no mention of the
relationship with a subordinate, scandal in an eight-paragraph
forcing the city to search for a letter Godbee sent to Mayor
fifth leader in four years for a Dave Bing announcing what
department dealing with one was described as a "retirement."
of the nation's highest violent- Bing insisted he didn't push the
crime rates. 25-year veteran to leave but
Ralph Godbee was hired two called it the "right decision."
years ago to replace a prede- "He was very contrite, I
cessor fired following an affair think embarrassed," Bing said
with a female officer who alleg- at a news conference. "He felt
edly also had a relationship he had let me down. He felt he
with Godbee. His departure had let the department down.
extends the revolving door of He felt he had let the citizens of
leadership in a cash-strapped Detroit down. We're not perfect
city. Detroit's next chief will be individuals, and a lot of us make
its 10th since 1991, and several mistakes. This one was very
of those were forced out amid costly."
allegations of wrongdoing. As the city begins its search,
"Not having a stable head police rank-and-file are becom-
makes the rest of it unstable," ing more vocal about a 10-per-
former Detroit Police Chief Isa- cent pay cut and 12-hour work
iah McKinnon said of the musi- shifts enacted near the end of
cal chairs in the city's top cop's Godbee's tenure. Bing's office
office. "The officers are going to contends those cuts and others
go out and try to do their jobs, are necessary to help reduce a
but you need a stable head." budget deficit of more than $200
Godbee stepped down after million and to help keep Detroit
married internal affairs officer out of state receivership.
Angelica Robinson said she and McKinnon, who led the
the married chief had a year- police department for four
long sexual relationship. It was years in the mid-1990s and
the second alleged tryst with a resigned to teach at a local uni-
subordinate to surface against. versity, said the city should also
Godbee since he became chief look outside the ranks for its
in 2010. new chief.
Sandusky, victims to
speak at sentencing
Former Penn friends and family members
- including his wife, Dottie -
St. coach will be have written letters of support.
Dottie Sandusky plans to attend
sentenced on 45 the hearing, he said.
ca eGiven the number of charges,
charges the serious nature of his crimes
and his age, the 68-year-old
BELLEFONTE, Pa. (AP) - Sandusky faces the likelihood
Jerry Sandusky and at least some of a sentence that will send him
of his victims plan to address the to state prison for the rest of his
judge at his sentencing, a pro- life. Sandusky was convicted in
ceeding that may last less than June of abusing 10 boys over 15
two hours, lawyers said after a years, including some attacks
closed-door meeting to iron out inside Penn State athletic facili-
logistics ahead of the Tuesday ties.
hearing. "The important thing for us
Sandusky lawyer Joe Amen- is, it starts the appellate pro-
dola said "it's as certain as cer- cess," Amendola said.
tain can be" that the former One element of the appeal
Penn State assistant football is expected to be a claim that
coach will speak to Judge John the defense did not have time
Cleland and assert his inno- to adequately prepare for trial.
cence before he is sentenced on Sandusky was charged in
45 counts of child sexual abuse. November, following a lengthy
"What I anticipate he'll say is investigation.
he's innocent," Amendola said Tom Kline, lawyer for a
outside the courthouse Monday young man who said Sandusky

afternoon. groped him in a shower when
Amendola said he did not he was 12 or 13, said his client
expect any others to speak on plans to read a statement Tues-
Sandusky's behalf, although day.
Did somebody say
MOAE TRIPIP9
We're headed your way! See you at the
grad fair on your campus.

Nobel prize in Medicine awarded
for innovative work on stem cells

V
by

ST
scien
eratio
medic
break
the b
to be
kinds
door,
sues f
Th
John
entist
was b
his di
of de
to tre
and d
a ne,
tory
incluc
may l
Ba
way t
embr
ethico
cells I
"TI
tioniz
how
op,"
Stock
said i
krono
was t
Prize
be an
Gu

Researchers' that the DNA from specialized
cells of frogs, like skin or intesti-
uork separated nal cells, could be used to gener-
ate new tadpoles. That showed
more than four the DNA still had its ability to
drive the formation of all cells of
generations the body.
At the time, the discovery had
OCKHOLM (AP) - Two "no obvious therapeutic benefit
tists from different gen- at all," Gurdon told reporters in
ns won the Nobel Prize in London. "It was almost 50 years
cine Monday for the ground- before the value - the potential
ing discovery that cells in value - of that basic scientific
ody can be reprogrammed research comes to light."
come completely different In 1997, the cloning of Dollythe
potentially opening the sheep by other scientists showed
to growing customized tis- that the same process Gurdon
or treatments. discovered in frogs would work
e work of British researcher in mammals.
Gurdon and Japanese sci- More than 40 years after
Shinya Yamanaka - who Gurdon's discovery, in 2006,
torn the year Gurdon made Yamanaka, 50, showed that a
scovery - has raised hopes surprisingly simple recipe could
veloping transplant tissue turn mature cells back into primi-
at diseases like Parkinson's tive cells, which in turn could be
liabetes. And it has spurred prodded into different kinds of
w generation of labora- mature cells.
studies into other diseases, Basically, the primitive cells
ding schizophrenia, that were the equivalent of embry-
ead to new treatments. onic stem cells, which had
sically, their work paved the been embroiled in controversy
o making the equivalent of because to get human embryonic
yonic stem cells without the cells, human embryos had to be
al questions the embryonic destroyed. Yamanaka's method
pose. provided a way to get such primi-
heir findings have revolu- tive cells without destroying
ed our understanding of embryos.
cells and organisms devel- "The discoveries of Gurdon
the Nobel committee at and Yamanaka have shown that
holm's Karolinska Institute specialized cells can turn back
n announcing the 8 million the developmental clock under
r ($1.2 million) award. It certain circumstances," the com-
he first of this year's Nobel mittee said. "These discoveries
s, with five more awards to have also provided new tools for
nounced by next Monday. scientists around the world and
rdon, 79, showed in 1962 led to remarkable progress in

many areas of medicine."
Just last week, Japanese scien-
tists reported using Yamanaka's
approach to turn skin cells from
mice into eggs that produced
baby mice.
Gurdon has served as a profes-
sor of cell biology at Cambridge
University's Magdalene College
and is currently at the Gurdon
Institute in Cambridge, which
he founded. Yamanaka worked
at the Gladstone Institute in San
Francisco and Nara Institute of
Science and Technology in Japan.
He is currently at Kyoto Univer-
sity and also affiliated with the
Gladstone Institute. Yamanaka is
the first Japanese scientist to win
the Nobel medicine award since
1987.
Gurdon said he first thought
someone was "pulling my leg"
when he got the call from the
Nobel committee. He said he
planned to celebrate with a drink,
but expected tobe back in the lab
Tuesday morning and thathe had
no plans to retire.
Yamanaka told Japanese
broadcaster NHK that he was at
home doing chores on Monday
when he got the call from Stock-
holm. "Even though we have
received this prize, we have not
really accomplished what we
need to. I feel a deep sense of duty
and responsibility," Yamanaka
said.
Choosing Yamanaka as a
Nobel winner just six years after
his discovery was unusual. The
Nobel committees typically
reward research done more than
a decade before, to make sure it
has stood the test of time.

I

j A

4

A i


4 - Tuesday, October 9, 2012

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, October 9, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A prisoner's dilemma
Discrimination highlights problems in correctionsa
T here's been a recent wave of court cases in Michigan in which
inmates are suing prisons on the premise that their rights are
being restricted. Specifically, in Jackson and Kent County,
Mich., three prisoners have filed lawsuits against Michigan correc-
tional facilities stating their basic rights to the freedom of religion and
speech have been violated. These men (all part of minority groups in
the United States) are blatantly being denied basic rights that other
prisoners are allowed. Michigan prisons should look to implement
cost-effective solutions into their systems to eliminate this Aiscrimi-
nation that not only affects prisoners, but also minorities.

I enjoyed it so much I might throw a
keg party for the Ryan-Biden debate."
- Kid Rock on Wednesday's presidential debate. The Michigan native introduced Republican
vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan at a rally on Monday in Rochester, Mich.
For more on the rally, check out Gus Turner's viewpoint this afternoon at michigondoilycom/section/opinion.
Two parties, no winners

0
0

Bahaa Iswed, an Arabic prisoner at a cor-
rectional facility in Jackson, Mich. is suing the
Michigan Department of Corrections for refus-
ing to allow him to call his family and friends
in Jordan and Romania. The MDOC's defense
is that they limit foreign language calls for
security purposes. Iswed complained about the
lack of communication but was instructed by
authorities to write to his family instead. Ulti-
mately, prison officials rejected his family's let-
ters because they were written in Arabic.
Two inmates are separately suing the Kent
County Correctional Facility for refusing
to accommodate religious dietary requests.
Saabir Abdullah unsuccessfully, sought an
Islamic vegetarian diet, also called halal,
with accommodations for fasting during
Ramadan. Bradley Keith Sleighter wants to
be served kosher meals, a Jewish tradition.
Abdullah's jail refused to give him a "no-meat
diet." However, they provided a Seventh-Day
Adventist - a form of Protestant Christian -
the same request.
Many other states have also recently
encountered issues with prisoner rights -
especially concerning meal systems - and
found economic solutions that don't burden
taxpayers. In California and Massachusetts,
packaged kosher and halal meals are provid-

ed to inmates at a slightly higher price than
regular prison meals. Other states, like Texas
and Arizona, offer regular meat-free or pork-
free meals to their inmates in order to accom-
modate religious dietary restrictions.
Michigan and other states with similar
problems need to follow suit in order to cre-
ate equality. In the case of the restriction of
foreign phone calls and letters, many cost-
efficient solutions exist: The facilities may
hire multi-lingual translators or use other
inexpensive technological translating pro-
gramsalready available.
All prisoners, regardless of their minority
status or religious affiliation, deserve equal
rights. Though some freedoms are limited
upon entering prison or jail, the right to the
First Amendment is retained. Freedom of reli-
gion and speech shouldn't be undermined in
these facilities. Prisoners shouldn't be discrim-
inated against based on their status as mem-
bers of minority cultures in the United States.
They are citizens of this country and deserve
to be treated as such. Correctional depart-
ments throughout the country need to re-work
their systems in order to promote equality and
eliminate discrimination. This is one small
step towards ending the extremely unjust con-
ditions prisoners face on a daily basis.

ike a lot of Americans this
year, when I fill out my
absentee ballot later this
month, I'll be
holding my nose
as I do it. This
really is the year ,
of disappointing
presidential can-
didates. On the
side of conserva-
tives, Republi- JAMES
can presidential BRENNAN
nominee Mitt
Romney is a
Massachusetts
moderate who invented the very
health care system he has prom-
ised to repeal. On the left, we find
another major shortcoming. Presi-
dent Barack Obama passed a stimu
lus package and a signature health
care overhaul, but has continued
to perpetuate much of the previous
administratiop's failed policies.
It's hard for me not to cast my bal-
lot for Obama. He's the only of the
pair capable of winning who is close
to my views (much like Romney for
conservatives) but he really won't do
a lot of what I'd hope for in a Demo-
cratic candidate. My main obligation
in voting for Obama really seems to
be preventing a Romney presidency.
Similarly, the conservatives have
such a disdain for the president,
they'll elect someone they don't like
if it means beating someone they
absolutely despise. Here we find our-
selves in a paradox: we can vote and
support the election of someone who
we believe will do wrong, or we can
refuse to vote and indirectly help
someone who will, in our opinion,
do even more wrong.
Damned if we do, slightly more
damned if we don't.
Why is this how we choose a

president? So many people affiliated
with both parties (not to mention the
40 percent or so of Americans in nei-
ther) are choosing between the less-
eroftwo evils,notthe candidatethey
really want. Because our elections
are what are known as "first past the
post" we elect every office individu-
ally, giving the seat to whomever
garners the most votes. In this sys-
tem, we getto vote for a specific per-
son, but we also allow for the rise of a
two-party monopoly that dominates
virtually every vote. Not only is our
presidential election between two
people (and two parties), but so are
all the others. In America, only two
members of Congress don't identify
as Democrat or Republican, despite
almost half of the country refusing
either party label.
What our country needs is a new
election system - one where people
are properly represented and not
forced into a dichotomy. A system
called proportional representation
may help guide us out of this mess.
In proportional representation,
people vote for parties rather than
candidates. When the votes are tal-
lied, the percentage of votes totaled
for a certain party will be given
roughly that percentage of seats in
government. This gives a great deal
of power to parties when choosing
who will represent them. And if the
party commits to a platform before
the election and doesn't stand by it,
there are other parties - more than
just two - that the voter can choose.
Proportional representation is
certainly not perfect, as no system is.
Althoughgettingrid of"firstpastthe
post" for this new system takes away
voting for an individual - something
I'm sure many Americans relish - it
would allow for a more diverse leg-
islature that better represents our

country's diverse political views.
Imagine a legislature that doesn't
only offer two solutions to every
problem: one where people owe
no -allegiance to massive organiza-
tions, but only to a smaller, more
focused party's platform. voting
proportionaly couldn't work for
the presidency, given that there's
only one seat, but Congress break-
inginto several parties could inspire
us to look beyond Democrats and
Republicans for president. How nice
would it be to see a liberal, a conser-
vative, a libertarian, a socialist and
an independent all on stage, all with
a legitimate shot at becoming our
chief policymaker? I don't mean to
paint proportional representation as
our country's savior, because clearly
any election reform we pass in this
country will have its setbacks.

S

"First past
the post" isn't *
working as
we'd like.
But hey, it's a start, isn't it? The
two-party system has failed Ameri-
can voters, and it's time for people
to realize it. Democrats and Repub-
licans, liberals and conservatives,
independents and party affiliates,
we can all recognize that this isn't
working. People talk about the two-
party system constantly, saying
they're sick of it. If so, perhaps it's
time to look at other alternatives.
- James Brennan can be
reached at jmbthree@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
JACOB LIGHT
Don't be (American) idle

JEFFREY MCMAHON
Commitment is fulfillment

I'm excited to finally vote in my first presi-
dential election. It's always been a dream of
mine to'wake up on the morning of Election
Day, go to the polls with alist of the candidates
whom I feel best represent my values, and
leave with the "I Voted" sticker prominently
displayed on my shirt. Michigan's voter reg-
istration period ends today and it's extremely
important that every University of Michigan
student registers to vote before the day's end.
We've seen them all month: student orga-
nization after student organization - the
American Civil Liberties Union includ-
ed - with clipboards in hand, encourag-
ing every student to register to vote. So is
the nature of our democratic system, built
upon the philosophy that a government is
only truly representative of its constituents
when each eligible citizen votes. This phi-
losophy has been recognized time and again
when throughout history the right to vote
has expanded so that our governments are
truly representative of those who they serve.
From the 15th and 19th Amendments, which
granted suffrage rights to African Americans
and women, respectively, to the 24th Amend-
ment, which abolished the poll tax that'pre-
vented otherwise eligible voters from voting,
the United States has shown its commitment
to its democratic institutions.
As students, it's critical that we register to
vote. Students are one of the most underrep-
resented groups at the polls. When a group
isn't represented at the polls, politicians do
not hear its voice. How will politicians know
what students want if we don't send a clear
message on Election Day? Earlier this year,
the Michigan legislature attempted to pass a
series of bills that would have weakened the
voices of targeted voters. Among those who
would have been most directly affected were
college students. Though the bill was not
signed into law, such actions are frightening.
As student voters, we must make sure that
our voices are heard.
Allow me to explain the registration pro-
cess. If you want your voice to be heard in
Michigan, you must register to vote today.
University students come from all over the
country, which means that they are eligible

to vote all over the country. If you choose to
register at your permanent home address,
then you will need to apply for an absentee
ballot through your local Secretary of State,.
and other conditions may apply. For students
from the state of Michigan, for example, you
must either register in person or vote for the
first time in person. You can't vote absentee if
you have not previously voted.
Fortunately, both in-state and out-of-state
students are eligible to vote in Michigan. As
long as you are a current resident of the state
of Michigan, which includes anyone living in
a dorm, house or apartment, you may register
to vote here. In fact, the only guidelines for
voter registration in Michigan are that you
are at least 18 years old, a citizen of the United
States, live in Michigan and - in order to vote
at your local polling place - live in the city in
which you are registered to vote. Using your
dorm, apartment or house as your perma-
nent residence, you can easily register to vote
online at www.Michigan.gov/sos. If you have
registered to vote in the past but have since
moved, you must re-register. If you have any
other questions on how to register, visit acu-
mich.org/studentvoting, a site dedicated to
making this confusing process easier.
The time has finally come for me to real-
ize my dream of voting in my first presidential
election. It's a dream I've had since my mom
took me.to watch her vote in the 2004 elec-
tion. Now that I've become old enough to vote,
however, I've learned that the process begins
long before I receive my ballot; it begins when
I register to vote. The voter registration pro-
cess is certainly the less glamorous side of vot-
ing, but it's just as important. It's the first step
in the path toward fulfilling your civic duty.
As a registered voter, you will have the ability
to exercise the right that was won for you by a
group of Americans who recognized just how
important it was that a government be repre-
sentative of the people whom it serves. Thus,
if you haven't registered yet, I implore you to
take a few minutes out of your day to do so.
In an election as historic as this November's,
every vote will count.
Jacob Light is an LSA sophomore.

While reading Bethany Biron's
latest article in The Statement, one
issue seemed particularly absent.
Where are the men in this story?
Admittedly, I subscribed to this
so-called "Hook-up Culture." As
an underclassman, if you found me
out on a Saturday night, I'd be the
one holding a Gatorade bottle full
of vodka coming home drunk and
trying to remember the name of the
girl that I just made out.with. I slept
with four different women during
my first three years on campus and
rarely made the claim that any of
them were my "girlfriend." I bought
in to all of the hype, but did so with-
out ever reading the fine print. I
wasn't ever told that I would cause
a young girl to cry her heart out in
front of me while feeling complete-
ly numb myself. The world kindly
left out the deep emptiness I could
always feel the morning after, the
same feeling that I'd just pretend
wasn't there. There was no mention
of the walk up to a pharmacy coun-
ter hoping for the best, but fearing
my luck had come to an end. This
is the reality that comes with the
bright lights and shining glory of
"hooking up."
I've been there. I've experi-
enced that life and I know how it
feels. Having been through it all, it
pains me to hear women on campus
resigning to that lifestyle or even
choosing it. But, at the same time,
I can't blame them. Take a look
around campus and it's hard to find
any real men. Sure, they do exist,
but they're all hidden behind the
swath of boys equipped with a few
pick-up lines and a fifth of -liquor.
So, my beef is with the boys on
campus. My issue is with the boy I
once was, the one I constantly fight
against becoming again.
Where are the real men while
this is happening to women? What
are we up to while girls are pushed
to look for fulfillment shot by shot,
wearing barely more than a bath-

ing suit? Sure, we can claim that parents to look up to. It's likely that
it's not all our fault. Popular media some of them do have a father, but
tells us that using women and put- one who might have been absent
ting notches on our bedposts make or even abusive. In this case, we
us real men. It's no longer honor- all have the opportunity to be real
able for men to consider women men. The opportunity is there to
precious and something to be hon- show her what it means to be a man
ored and cherished rather than pos- of strength, integrity, compassion
sessed and used. Commitment is for and conviction.
fools and old-fashioned folks. Who Women in current culture are
needs commitment when we can 'becoming more independent and
have it little by little each weekend? empowered. As women continue to
Are we so void of hope for a consis- work hard for degrees and careers,
tent love that we'll settle for scraps it becomes increasingly difficult to
from the table? consider the idea of marriage. This
Men, the women on campus are difficulty is greater when finding
all vulnerable. They're away from a good man means having to sift
their homes and families and are through all of the boys who prowl
now in our care. So far we've done around campus. Where will they
nothing but put them in harm's way find security, support and comfort?
and exploit them. It's time to take a Are there any men who will com-
stand and become real men. What mit themselves to providing these
will happen when this college life things for a woman? Without real
is over? Will we continue chasing men to stand up and take on this
women for sex? Excuses like, "I'll responsibility, our women are left
stop once I settle down and have a to find their fulfillment here and
family" are all too familiar. Do you there, but ultimately left objectified
really think that all of a sudden we and used.
can change our hearts? What's next Girls, each-of you is amazing and
... we're so attached that we look worthwhile. Each of you deserves
at pornography with actors our to be treated with love and respect
daughter's age, or we leave our fam- from the men around you. There are
ilies and wives for younger models? true men in the world, even on cam-
Carrying this mentality only results pus. College certainly doesn't have
in broken families and more fathers to be a place to find a husband, but
who aren't man enough to show you can still surround yourself with
their daughters how treasured and friends who cherish your heart. If
incredibly important they are. Let's you're looking for a relationship,
become the men that we want to be find someone who will protect you.
in the future. - If you're going out with the girls,
Men, think 10 or 15 years ahead wear something that forces a man
when a young girl will capture your to get to know your heart and not
heart and look up to you as her just your body. You're treasured
hero, the only man in her life who and there's a man who will call you
will ever matter. This little girl will his princess, who will protect you
look you in the eyes and call you and keep you safe. Don't settle for
"Daddy." You will do everything anything less. Beauty will fade, but
in your power to protect this little the desires of the heart last a life-
precious heart from anything that time and can only be fulfilled by the
may threaten it. Each woman on same kind of lifetime commitment.
this campus is someone's princess.
Sadly, not all of the young women m - Jeffrey McMahon is
on campus grew up in a home with an Engineering senior.

0

A

0


The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 9, 2012 - 5

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, October 9, 2012 - 5

Annual concert
celebrates Lennon

A sexual awakening
through film

B
On
birthd
ans fo
the 5
"John
Birthd
efit
at Th
Tuesd
As
organ
focuse
ing a
of the
war,
for P(
to rai
for the
Since
fund
assist
0 prefer
course
peace
Th:
fund fi
goals
says ti
that o
future
promo
educa
The
arship
a sho
degre

irthday benefit versities was acknowledged.
"We used to initially go to all
funds peace sorts of high schools and things
like that and talk about Veterans
scholarship for -Peace," said Chapter 93 Vice-
Coordinator Bill Shea. "And then
By TYLER BAILEY one day we got thinking about it:
DailyArts Writer Wouldn't it be grand if we could
support people who are doing
what would be his 72nd peace studies asa degree?"
lay, chapter 93 of the Veter- Though still fairly new, the
r Peace will be presenting fund has already impacted the
th annual Ann Arbor community signifi-
Lennon John Lennon cantly.
day Ben- "A veteran by the name of
Concert" David Flores just wrote his dis-
e Ark this Benefit sertation at U of M. We awarded
lay. Concert him $5,000 to cover the expenses
a national of his research, and we'll have
ization The Ark that on display at the show on
ed on rais- Tonight at Tuesday night," Shea said.
awareness The scholarship would not be
costs of 7:30 p.m. possible without money raised
Veterans From $15 from the John Lennon Birthday
eace hope Benefit Concert, though the con-
se money cert is as much a statement of
eir Peace Scholarship Fund. peace as it is a fundraising effort.
its inception in 1985, this The artists featured will be play-
has raised over $20,000 to ing Lennon's music in addition
Michigan college students, to other peace-themed songs
ably veterans, who take in tribute to a man who had an
es focused on the spread of extreme impact as a peacekeep-
. ing advocate. They have also
is concert and scholarship had some support from a famous
its the Veterans for Peace's name - Yoko Ono helped to make
well. The Ark's website this project a reality with an ini-
heir members "feel strongly tial donation of $10,000 and the
ne of the best ways to stop blessing of allowing John Len-
armed conflicts is to help non's name be attached to the
ote peacemaking through event.
tion." "It's a real good chance to hear
e idea for the peace schol- some top-shelf musicians. It's
fund came about when open, it's a family event ... it's a
rtage of "peace studies" good musical event and it's a good
es at many Michigan uni- opportunity to support Veterans

for Peace," Shea said.
The chapter works diligently
to get excellent local artists will-
ing to demonstrate their art in
tribute to a legend. Chris Buhalis
is one of the people whose help
was instrumental to putting the
concert together.
"He has a long history of put-
ting together peace concerts,
so we're very fortunate to have
him." Shea said of Buhalis. "He
knows the talent, (and) he gets
first-rate guys from Detroit and
other places to come to play."
In addition to the concert,
Veterans for Peace continu-
ously strives to raise community
awareness of the costs of war.
"What we often do is a thing
called Arlington Midwest," Shea
said. "We started to make mark-
ers, crosses and stars and other
markers, reflecting the war dead.
We did this a number of times out
at Vet's park and it's a stunning
display. Now we do a little bit (of
a) different display. We memori-
alize the fallen in Michigan."
These displays may not raise
money as much for the cause, but
they give a visual representation
of the sometimes forgotten casu-
alties of war - something that
Veterans for Peace believes is
just as important as fund raising
efforts.
Whether people go for the
music, the legacy, the charity or
just another reason to eat birth-
day cake, the "Birthday Benefit
Concert" is a visual display of
peace and community support
of which John Lennon himself
would surely be proud.

'Warning: This column
may contain lan-
guage, sexual content
and cheeky puns unsuitable for
children.
Let it be known: "Bring It
On" is the
gateway drug
of PG-13 films.
By 11 years
old, I was
addicted - I
thrived on the
thinly veiled,
homoerotic BRIANNE
innuendo JOHNSON
(Hello, Sexy -
Leslie and
Jan-Jan the Cheerleading Man!);
I cheered along to the chorus of
"B-E AGGRESSIVE" and I coast-
ed on the high of my growing
vocabulary of expletives, none of
which I put to use (or even under-
stood).
Stepping into junior high
school, Ihad expected to achieve
juvenile delinquency before trad-
ing in my retainer for big-girl
braces. Suffer no misunderstand-
ing; I wasn't the steal-your-
neighbor's-GameBoy bully, nor
the Head Bitch of the Big Wheel .
gang. While I had been known to
don an orange jumpsuit (albeit
as a life-size jack-o-lantern for
my ninth Halloween), my life of
crime began with a slip of the
remote control and an ABC Fam-
ily "Bring It On" special.
Charged with third-degree
underage viewing of a PG-13
movie (The boner jokes, the
blasphemy!), and sentenced to
years of shame, Iam a hardened
ex-cinema criminal, with noth-
ing to show for it but memories
of Kirsten Dunst ina scrunchie
chanting about a gas pump.
What mesmerized me most
was not scenes of bitter cheer
rivals, nor the snappy one-liners
and signature '00s belly shirts
that drew my spirit fingers to the
VCR's.pause-and-rewind.
It was the sex. Obviously.
"But, Brianne," you argue,
"There's about as much sex in
'Bring It On' as in.the twin bunks
of a Betsy Barbour double."

Per
the es
slingi
across
Warra
from
Thrill
the se
pretee
stash{
thing:
that I,
been f
discov
hillfr
floode
my pa
unearl
"Amer
(more
10 mi
week
street
crossi:
safety
from
DVDc
belly
floorb
hall a:
small'

haps, but instead I speak of no-good, perverted clutches of
sence of sex: the raw, hair- the media, providing them with
ng, back-arching crawls a shining example of a good
s audition room tables as girl-gone-bad seed? Am I made
ant's "Cherry Pie" growls rotten by graphic afternoons,
a background boom box. by leaving "Barney & Friends"
ed (and a bit terrified) by behind for what some may deem
conds-longclip, I felt like a soft-core porn?
en boy discovering his dad's Nah. I prefer the term
of Hustler mags, feeling "biased-social-psychology-
s (figuratively, mind you) experiment-gone-awry" for -
maybe, shouldn't have take a seat, you may want to sit
eeling. down for this one - I turned out
As most great tales of sexual just fine.
very say, 'it all went down- Ask me if the media was my
om there.' My infatuation go-to source of sexual educa-
d the dustier shelves of tion, and I won't hesitate to nod
rents' movie collection, fiercely; "You bet your ass it
thing R-rated gems like was." When schools distribute
rican Pie" and "Bad Santa" sex-ed pamphlets explaining no
coal than gem). Sneaking more than abstinence and "Hair
nutes of "Old School" per in Funny Places" and when
paved my road to Hell, a adults underestimate a child's
on which no after-school ability to comprehend the con-
ng guard could lead me to cept of sex, where else could I
. Soon I would scramble have turned for the taboo topic
the bus stop to my bedroom, but Hollywood?
case smuggled against my It's easy to forget one's men-
button. I strained to hear tality as a child, to dismiss the
oards creaking down the immature mind as innocent
s my finger hovered over the and oblivious chaos. Denying
"Off" dotting my TV. that sex could have invaded
your naive thoughts at 11 years
old - too simple. But my mother
could clasp a hand over my eyes
for only so long; I began to won-
wer been this der what I'd been missing. Sex,
its not something I considered
R-rated. doing - I was still batting at
negative third base, flirting with
a creased Aaron Carter poster
and making Barbies kiss. But
arned what it truly meant to deny that I was aware of sex
"life on the edge:" Starring would be a lie, proven by my
eyed at a muted "American fourth grade punishment for
scene as your mother cooks disrupting the class for a good
r rooms away. laugh at the dictionary's most
this point, reader, you interesting word: "breast."
t me to indulge you in sto- Maybe my mind was a sponge
f my downward spiral into at 11 years old, but does that
1 addiction, an unaired make me a submissive audience,
documentary and an my brain soaking up the sexual
able libido comparable to imagery like Little Bobby's post-
endowed men with well- Playboy Kleenex? No. Sex in the
wed mustaches. media: It sells (heck, it excites),
se, but no cigar (do I sense but it doesn't corrupt. Bring it on.

ne

I le
to live
wide-
Pie 2"
dinne
At;
expec
ries of
sexua
MTV
insati
well-e
endom
Clo

Success for 'Lonerism'

By KATIE STEEN
Daily Arts Writer
Remember in 2010, when Aus-
tralian neo-psychedelic band
Tame Impala came out with "Sol-
itude is Bliss,"
and Kevin
Parker taunted, *** y
"There's a pah-
ty in my head Lonerism
and no one is Tame Impala
invited?" Yeah,
we're still not Modular
quite invited
to Tame Impala's party - the
group's latest work is actually
called Lonerism. And Parker's
still making it clear that he's
quite Acomfortable strolling his
local beach in Perth without you
or anyone else. But if you're still
doubtful of the joys of isolation,
just listen to the album - being a
loner soundsgreat.
Lonerism starts off with the
misleadingly simple track "Be
Above It." The song begins
with sounds of a person walk-
ing and a crescendoing whisper
of "gotta be above it." A quick
drumbeat is added, and the song
takes off with an inspirational
refrain. There's a tide through
this song, at times drawing back
so you can hear the self-moti-
vating whispers, but also inter-
mittently met with upsurges
of warm instrumentals. The
footsteps in "Be Above It" are
an actual recording Parker took
from an unsuspecting passerby
walking by his hotel. Several
other songs also feature record-
ings of people, giving aspects of
the album a peeping tom feel -
rather than engaging with soci-
ety, Parker is recording it.
Much of the album is more
complex than "Be Above It" and
as a result, more difficult to pin
down as having a single sound.
This isn't to say that Lonerism
doesn't have that initial draw
to it like many of Innerspeak-
er's beauties. "Mind Mischief,"
for instance, kicks off with an
unforgettable guitar line, dis-
torted but clear, that layers with
a dreamy chorus. Eventually the
song floats off into this lovesick
disbelief, with Parker singing,
"She remembers my name" and
evoking some post-high school
dance memory - basking in a
glow of a social event magically

a phallic symbol?).
Have I proven the over-
zealous censorship councils
right in the'ir tirades against the

Johnson is smuggling movies
from the library. To help her,
e-mail briannen@umich.edu

Up and comig group
better on 'Numbers'

The night is dark and full of loners.
turned successful. "Mind Mis- point of Lonerism - to let your-
chief"-eventually beams off into self get lost in the noise? In
phasered reverberating guitars "Keep on Lying," the song even-
while Parker's voice become tually drifts into what sounds
muffled and incoherent. The like a party, created again by
dude's left the planet. Kevin's recordings of unknow-
ing subjects. You begin to feel
like you're dozing off on the
W ho says that couch in the corner while the
party continues to buzz around
loners have it you, the voices and music tom-
bining and extending into a
bad? Not bizarre semiconscious haze. If
you were planning to get fucked
Tame Impala, up beyond speech this weekend,
spare yourself the hangover and
just listen to someone else expe-
rience it for you.
"Feels Like We Only Go Back- But nothing argues for the
wards" is another song that has sake of voyeuristic wander-
instant appeal, but nothing on ing like the closing track,
Ldnerism has as strong a pull "Sun's Coming Up (Lambing-
as "Elephant," which kicks off tons)." The song begins with a
with a hard-hitting rock 'n' roll delightfully melancholy piano
sound not too far from the likes and Parker's strangely barren
of an AC/DC intro. The song vocals devoid of psychedelic
enters the album like, well, an embellishments. He offers the
elephant crashing through all ominous line "I disconnect
the psychedelic mush, and if it completely, see how that works
sounds out of place on such a out," after which the song drags
floaty, cool-headed, Lonerism, on despondently until he sighs,
that's because it was originally "I guess it's over." Cue hugely
created during a pre-Inner- distorted guitar, rippling over
speaker jam session. But even the end of the album as we hear
"Elephant" avoids being too recorded footsteps walking on a
straightforward - about a min- beach, eventually reaching the
ute in, the song morphs into water. And then, there it is, the
an intermission of fuzzy jams irony of Lonerism - the entire
that don't hit and punch - they album unraveling as a girl's
glide. Then the song returns to voice pops up on the recording
the same heavy, crunchy sound. at the end of "Sun's Coming Up,"
Some songs like "Music to quickly cut off with the press of
Walk Home By" and "Keep on a button. While Parker insists
Lying" might get lost in the mix upon his lonerism on a beach, at
due to their tendency to melodi- a party, in a hotel room - well,
cally wander, but isn't that the he's not quite alone, is he?

By JOHN LYNCH
For the Daily
Odd Future - a Los Ange-
les hip-hop collective of young,
talented and deviant rappers,
singers and
producers -
emerged in
2010 and capti- Numbers
vated the Inter-
net world with MellowHype
its assemblage
of charismatic Cslumbia
personalities
and diverse musical sounds. The
majority of the group's spotlight
has focused on Tyler, The Cre-
ator, the deep-voiced rapper/
producer and ringleader of the
crew; Earl Sweatshirt, a young
and gifted wordsmith who spent
most of his time at a Samoan
boarding school for at-risk boys
during OF's ascendance; and
Frank Ocean, the Stevie Won-
der of his generation. There are,
however, many underrated cre-
ative forces in the outfit that have
quietly been producing quality
music since the group's incep-
tion - chiefly MellowHype, the
duo of rapper Hodgy Beats and
producer Left Brain.
MellowHype's latest album,
Numbers, is the duo's strongest
bid for OF prominence thus far.
Since 2011's BlackenedWhite,
MellowHype has evolved soni-
cally in a remarkable way. Left
Brain, arguably OF's best pro-
ducer, seems to be working
with a whole new set of tools
on Numbers. While many tracks
still feature the sinister, mini-
malist beats that are prominent
throughout all of OF's music,
there are songs on this album,

such a
are in
dense.
Num
marked
skills o
rapper
flow th
mark.
songs,l
reckles
be imp
tracksl
he rel
out-of

IV
S
0

s the haunting "666," that and Earl Sweatshirt. Frank han-
ncredibly cinematic and dies the chorus on the fantas-
tic "Astro," singing alongside a
nbers also represents a soulful piano about how Prince
d improvement in the has inspired him to "wear a yel-
if Hodgy Beats, an intense low tux at the Grammy's and
with a lightning-quick rock out with (his) cock out."
hat doesn't always hit its In the most compelling moment
In the majority of these of the album's second half, Earl
Hodgyrestrains his verbal contributes his best verse since
ss abandon just enough to returning from Samoa to the
ressively effective, but on song "P2," describing in a diz-
like "Monster" and "Gnt," zying fashion how, despite being
apses and spits muddled, "far from Harvard," he has found
control verses. success in the world thanks to
his OF crew.
There are many songs on
11o Numbers, however, that are
IellowHype either disastrously out of place
;teps out of or entirely worthless altogether.
- With a run time of nearly 60
FW GKTA's minutes, the album is riddled
with filler tracks, including the
shadow. pointless nonsense of "Leflair"
and the dreadful "Snare," which
features a chorus that sounds
like Hodgy doing his best Pas-
gy's best performance is sion Pit impression - with chil-
/Breakfast," which is the dren's choir and all - and falling
's standout track and pos- flat on his face.
he greatest MellowHype Although it rambles on toward
date. The song's first half, the end and lacks consistency
eatures a bright, piano-led throughout,Numbers is certainly
imilar to the warm, boun- worth a listen.
duction of Pharrell Wil- With "65/Breakfast," Hodgy
and pointed rhymes from and Left Brain have crafted one
, including a boast that his of the best rap songs of 2012, and
as "contagious as a herpe overall, the album is formidably
tip of a Slurpee straw." entertaining and an excellent
cond half, "Breakfast," is representation of MellowHype's
nospheric cloud of synths talents.
ngelic background vocals Numbers is certainly flawed
nds Hodgy ruminating on and occasionally frustrating, but
s, the next chapter of his nonetheless, it is a solid release
and death. that will earn MellowHype a spot
nbers is enhanced signifi- in the top tier of Odd Future's
by performances from fascinating and ever-expanding
F members: Frank Ocean music catalogue.

Hod
on "65
album'
sibly t
song to
"65," f
beat, s
cy =pro
liams
Hodgy
flow is
at the
The se
an atn
and a;
that fi:
success
career
Num
cantly
two 0.

I

f

4 4

A


6- Tuesday, October 9, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

6- Tuesday, October 9, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Harvard Law professor talks
campaign finance corruption

L

In I
Mond
Lawre
thougl
tackle
tion, i
root o:
At
the Fo
and t
Finan'
knowi
copyri
ernme
issues
Les
by sta
cycle,
electio
and t
eligibl
mer, b
"fundt
the pc
the m
gressi
gible t
The

Lawrence sig, is that in order to be suc-
cessful in the general election,
essig discusses a candidate must also do well in
the money election.
challenges of Lessig argued that the elec-
torate and government form an
Congress exclusive dependency, though
the government has now also
By BEN ATLAS formed a reliance on funders,
Daily StaffReporter fostering conflicting ideals and
spurring corruption within
his lecture on campus on Congress.
ay, Harvard Law Prof. Since those who contribute
once Lessig argued that to campaigns have such dispro-
h Congress has begun to portionate control over who can
campaign finance corrup- get elected, Congressional can-
t has failed to get to the didates spend 30 to 70 percent
f the problem. of their time fundraising for
the event, sponsored by re-election, according to Les-
rd School of Public Policy sig. This dynamic also allows
he Michigan Campaign for a Congressman's views to be
ce Network, Lessig - best heavily influenced by financial
n forhis views on reducing contributors, and any reform
ght restrictions by gov- that angers funders is highly
nt reform - expanded on unlikely to pass.
plaguing Congress. "(Funders are) driving public
sig began his argument policy not in a way that aims at
ting that in each election public interest but at their pri-
the United States has two vate interest," Lessig said.
ins: the general election Lessig said the people who
he "money" election. All comprise the group will shift
e citizens vote in the for- based on prominent issues com-.
ut in the latter only the ingto the forefront in Congress.
ers" - the 0.05 percent of He said that as a result there is
opulation who contribute a vast discrepancy between
aximum amount to con- congressional policy outcomes
onal campaigns - are eli- and what would best serve the
o vote. majority, concluding that the
catch, according to Les- congressional agenda is driven

not by the needs of the public,
but by issues that will result in
campaign donations.
This dynamic has also led to a
fractured relationship between'
Congress and the public, Les-
sig said. In a poll Lessig con-
ducted for his book, "Republic,
Lost: How Money Corrupts
Congress - and a Plan to Stop
it," he found that 75 percent of
Americans believe that con-
tributions to campaigns have
a visible affect on Congress,
leading to positive results for a
party. He said that core belief
erodes trust in Congress, which
results in less participation in
the system.
Lessig used the rise in child-
hood obesity as an example of
Congress's conflicting depen-
dency. Since 1980, the number
of obese children in the United
States has tripled, resulting in
annual direct care costs of $147
billion.
Lessig noted how the preva-
lence of high fructose corn
syrup has exacerbated the obe-
sity epidemic. Due to tariffs
that protect the domestic sugar
industry, corn, which serves
as a sugar substitute, is heav-
ily subsided by the government
and thus much cheaper, leading
to the rise in high fructose corn
syrup use.
According to Lessig, the rea-

son these economic and nutri-
tional situations persist despite
the harm they have on the public
is campaign finance. Food pro-
cessing company Archer Dan-
iels Midland Company has spent
millions of dollars in campaign
donations to protect the subsidy
on corn and the high price of
sugar, Lessig explained.
Though Lessig said he
believes this conflicting depen-
dency is corrupt, he acknowl-
edged that the behavior is in no
way illegal and thus will be dif-
ficult to reform. Lessig proposed
that the United States create a
voucher system, and suggested
that citizens rebate Federal
Treasury contributions in the
form of a "democracy vouch-
er." If a candidate accepts that
voucher, they will also be able to
accept additional contributions
of $100.
Law student Andrew God-
deeris said he was impressed
by Lessig's lecture and felt it
was "useful to have a deepened
understanding of the issue."
Goddeeris added that he
thought Lessig emphasized the
urgency of the issue, but was
surprised the event was held
in an auditorium with so little
capacity.
"It seems like a more impor-
tant event for our democracy,"
he said. '

CHPCKBOX
From Page 1
to confirm U.S. citizenship
when registering to vote in the
state of Michigan. Dan Korob-
kin, an ACLU staff attorney,
said the checkbox created
major delays during the prima-
ry elections, and the injunction
will help speed up the process
on Election Day.
"When extra steps are added
to the voting process, lines
become longer and the voters
get more and more frustrat-
ed," Korobkin said. "We know
there will be millions more
people trying to cast a ballot
during the general election."
Korobkin added that the
checkbox has been a source of
aggravation among voters in
Michigan.
"We've gotten a tremendous
amount of support and posi-
tive feedback from voters all
over the state who were really
disturbed the Secretary of
State would impose this kind
of voting requirement after it
had already been considered
and vetoed by the governor,"
Korobkin said.
According to a transcript of
the motion for an injunction,
the checkbox could be consid-
ered an infringement on voting
rights.
"Members of the public
... have a strong interest in
exercising the fundamental
political right to vote (and)
that interest is best served by
favoring enfranchisement and
ensuring that qualified vot-
ers' exercise of their right to
vote is successful," the motion
read.
According to a Sept. 8 Gon-
gwer News Service poll, 73
percent of Michigan voters
approve of the measure to
ensure voters on the ballot
application are citizens.
Gisgie Gendreau, a spokes-
woman for Johnson, said that
non-citizen voting is a sub-
stancial problem for voters in
Michigan, noting that an esti-
mated 4,000 ineligible voters

voted in the last election.
"Anytime someone who is
not a qualified voter gets the
ballot, they disenfranchise
people who are qualified vot-
ers because they cancel out
their vote," Gendreau said.
She added that Johnson has
been woking to clean up the
voter rolls and has already
removed 30,000 names of indi-
viduals who no longer reside in
the state of Michigan.
Political Science Prof.
Vincent Hutchings said the
injunction could be highly
influential in determining the
number of voters who show up
for the election.
"I think this may turn out
to be a consequential decision
because it's possible that the
decision that was put in place
would have had the effect of
discouraging some people
from voting," Hutchings said.
Hutchings called the check-
box "a solution in search of
a problem," noting that legal
American citizens not voting
is more of an issue than illegal
immigrants filling out the bal-
lots, making the citizenship
checkbox inefficient.
He added if implemented,
the measure could have result-
ed in an exclusion of voters
with any ties to immigration,
legal or illegal.
"I think one likely conse-
quence of these policies is to
create something of a chilling
effect for voters who have an
immigrant background, or at
least a recent immigrant back-
ground, in order to try and
discourage them from partici-
pating," Hutchings said.
Korobkin said in an ACLU
press release that he hopes
to collaborate with Johnson
in the future to create a more
efficient voting process for
Michigan.
"We are encouraged by the
decision and hope to work with
the Secretary of State on ini-
tiatives that will truly ensure
that voting is convenient and
open to every eligible voter in
our state," Korobkin said in the
release.

6

FOLLOW THE DAILY
ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
@michdailynews
@theblockm
@michdailyoped
@michdailyphoto
@michdailydesign
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

6
6
6


RELEASE DATE- Monday, October 8, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Infs 36 Ferris wheel, e.g. 47 Touchscreen-
1 Fermented Sings like Ella 37 Speed trap touchingrrol
honey drink Fitzgerald setters 49 Expect loyalty
5 Put in the pantry 6 Synagogue 38 Under-the-gun from
10 Prepare email reading situations 50sIn pursuit at
1t Fairly large fair 7 Poland-Germany 39 Company doctor 51 Las tord
15 Symphonic border river 40 Comfort from 54 Georgia was a
wrap-spa 8 Saunded the bell mom, briefly partof it: Abbr.
te Fuel toratfirepit 9 Biblical hwin 43 WWIllfliers 55 Emcee's need
17 Take an ax to 10 Many a junior 45 Produce 58 Leone
18 Placefor high student
sparing enents 11 Violin-playing producer 57 Sprinter's goal
19 Money in Milan cnmedian 48 h orealis 50 Jazz genre
20 It makes sense 12 Rogues' gallery ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
23 Roses-red link item
24Firepitresidue 13Shogun'scapital P A T I a o E 0 I E J U D 0
25sSeeing red It In thehbuff D R aA GoQu E E a a E e I a
27 __ au poivre 22 English Lit. A N N O U N C E R S M A S T
29 Takesa maors'degree a S O A R E F E E S N T H
downturn 28 Over there, hack S A S UIRE
32 "Little Red Book" when ITT AMAR S U ARE
chairman 28 Act the
33 Nightstand spot accessory MR A NAZ4 RAAMCO
38 Camping trip 29 Opera headliners P I E C H T
dampener 30 Foreboding E XET OL A DO RE3 h R EOS
37lt makescents March day C R 2 W E 0 0 U a o E D E8
4t Restedonone's 3rnisticstyled a e T A T a N O F A T
laurels the EmpireState Be L TRIAN S C R I BtE
42 Parking facility 3Oilding L I H Y T E R R 0 R
43 Lines at pews 35 Hoped-ton
44 Painter of Christmas ET E S P D D E M O N
ballerinas weather xwordeditorwaot.com 10/08/12
48 California's __ 1 2 3 4 a ar 10 11 12 13
Mesa
50 "Just _ 14 15 16
thought!"
52 Wagon wheel 1
groove 2to 21or
53 It makes scents
58 Boyfriend 23 24 25 26
59 Threescore
60 GI sought by 27 2a 290 so 31 32
MPs 33 34 35 36
81 Uneaten morsels
62 They're hluew 3on38at
when they'refair
63 Incaterritory 41
4Hi "Hey" 42 3 4 4 47
dated s 49 a a1 52
66 Periods in history
DOWN
1 Popular tourist5
destinations er a ts
2 Caution
earnestly 4 at s
3 Highest point in a
satellite's orbit Byacverr oia s10/08/12
c)2012 Tribune Media Services,tInc.lt//1

CENTRAL CAMPUS
6and 7bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2013

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.

! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2013 (Spring or fall). U-M's
BEST housing sold out early 2012. Re-
serve your space for 2013 today. 2
blocks from Central Campus anddown- THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
town. I to 4 bedroom, private baths organization, format. All disciplines.
availahle Rants fmrm '%665734-99a-
HELP WANTED
!!LARGE CENTRAL
CAMPUS HOMES!!
(734) 332-6000
www.CarlsonProperties.com * $$BARTENDING$$ $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. No exp. nec., training

RYAN
From Page 1
In a poll conducted between
Sept. 8 and Sept. 11 by EPIC-
MRA - a professional survey
firm - Obama's Michigan lead
among likely voters fell from a
10-point lead to a three-point
lead within the last month.
Along with the emphasis put
on foreign policy, Ryan spent
a large portion of his speech
addressing domestic economic
issues, particularly in compari-
son to the economic policy of
European countries.
"The problem is all of these
ideas, all of this agenda that the
president put in place, more bor-
rowing, more spending, more
regulating, more money print-
ing, more taxing - it does not
create more jobs," Ryan said. "If
you want to see what that story
looks like at the end of the day,
go home again and turn on your
TV and look at Europe. If you
want European results, you copy
European policy, but we don't
want European results."
Ryan also addressed the auto
industry, a topic particularly
salient to Michigan and other
Midwest states, including Wis-
consin, his home state. The
largest General Motors plant in
operation was located in Janes-
ville, Wisc. when it closed in
2009.
"We lost four auto factories
from the area I represent in just
four years," Ryan said. "Trust
me, I come from Detroit west. We
know we need a healthy auto sec-
tor. "
Ryan then explained the
Republican Party's plan is to rec-
reate a successful auto industry.
"The way we do that is we stop
sending all of our decisions to
Washington with a government-
driven economy," Ryan said.
"That's what our manufacturing
agenda is all about: strong manu-
facturing, lowtax rates, good reg-
ulations, and good energy policy."
Ryan also addressed what he
called a sign of the clear failure
in Obama's economic policy, and
America's slipping to other inter-
national powers.
"China just beat us as num-
ber one nation in manufacturing
just two years ago, and we were
on top for 100 years," Ryan said.
"The good news is, if we put the
right people in place and get the

right policies in place, we can
turn this around."
Elaborating on his plans to
salvage the sector, Ryan said the
United States needs trade agree-
ments that put the country on a
"level playing field" with other
nations in order to save our man-
ufacturing industry.
"Let's also not forget that
most people who buy products
are outside of this country,"Ryan
said. "We need to make sure we
have trade agreements that work
for us, so they don't take advan-
tage of us."
In closing, Ryan reiterated his
party's stance and alluded to the
Obama administration's recur-
ring blame on the Bush admin-
istration for current ailments to
the country.
"We're not going to spend the
next four years blaming other
people; we are going to take
responsibility," Ryan said. "We
are not going to try to transform
this country into something it
was never intended to be. We are
not going to replace our founding
principles. We are going to reap-
ply our founding principles."
Other prominent Michigan
political figures also spoke at
the event, including former U.S.
Rep. Pete Hoekstra, who is the
Republican nominee for U.S.
Senate. Hoekstra turned to the
crowd to garner support for his
campaign against Senator Deb-
bie Stabenow.
"30 days," Hoekstra said.
"Dump Debbie."
Hoekstra focused on foreign
affairs, and how he believes
Obama and the Democratic plat-
form have failed in Middle East-
ern affairs.
"When I was in the Middle
East, this is what I saw: an Israel
that was isolated, an Iran that is
12 months away from a nuclear
weapon, an Egypt that is con-
trolled by the Muslim Brother-
hood," Hoekstra said. "This is
not my vision of national secu-
rity. It's not what Israel's looking
for. It's not what America's look-
ing for."
Other speakers included Don
Volaric, the Republican candi-
date for U.S. Representative in
Michigan's 9th district, U.S. Rep.
Candice Miller, Kerry Bentivo-
lio, the.Republican candidate for
U.S. Representative in Michi-
gan's 11th district, and Pastor
Kent Clark of Grace Centers for
Hope.

0
0

AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6bdrm houses
www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
YOU'VE SEEN all the rest, NOW
rent
with the BEST!
This is where Ubelong
Affordable ON Campus Apart-
ments
We Start taking RESERVATIONS
OCTOBER 15, 2012
Visit us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
HAVE YOU HEARD...?
We have BRAND NEW LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
The 2nd Floor
We start reservations for 2013/2014
on 10-15-12.
The 2nd Floor apartments are
Right on Central Campus with the Best
amenities, the Best service and the
Best
prices!

BABYSITTER NEEDED:
weekday/weekend evenings, two active
boys: 7 & 12. Needs car & references.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.

6


I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, October 9, 2012 - 7


SUPREME COURT
From Page 1
diversity, it wasn't fair when the
allocating of the remainder of the
seats included race as a factor.
"The change in Court member-
ship may well determine the out-
come in Fisher as Justice Alito,
who is expected to be firmly
opposed to affirmative action, has
replaced Justice O'Connor, who
wrote the majority opinion in
Grutter," Law Prof. Richard Lem-
pert wrote in an e-mail interview.
The two landmark cases
involving the University began
in the fall of 1997 with the admis-
sions systems for undergraduates

and the Law School. Jennifer
Gratz and Patrick Hamacher,who
were denied admissiontothe Uni-
versity as undergraduates in 1995,
claimed they were the subject of
racial discrimination due to affir-
mative action and that their rights
to equal protection under the 14th
Amendment were violated.
In 1997, Barbara Grutter, a
white applicant to the Universi-
ty's Law School, filed suit claim-
ingthat she, too, was subjected to
racial discrimination since race
was used as a predominant fac-
tor in her admissions review. She
also sued under the protections
provided bythe 14th Amendment
and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
In 2003 Supreme Court drew

a careful distinction between
mechanical and holistic review
processes. The University lost
Gratz v. Bollinger, because the
Court ruled that LSA's use of a
"points based" admissions cri-
teria - in which admission can-
didates were given bonuses for
being an ethnic minority - as
unconstitutional. However, in
Grutter v. Bollinger, the court
held that the Law School's use of
race in a holistic perspective -
rather than a mechanical award-
ing of points - was permitted,
on the condition that race is to be
considered along with the aca-
demic record and other achieve-
ments of the candidate.
"In the court's view, the Uni-

versity's prior practice of 'pro-
tecting' or 'reserving' seats
for underrepresented minor-
ity applicants effectively kept
non-protected applicants from
competing for those slots," then-
Chief Justice William Rehnquist
wrote in the majority decision
from Gratz v. Bollinger, citing
policies used by the University.
"This system, the court conclud-
ed, operated as the functional
equivalent of a quota."
In the wake of the Gratz rul-
ing, the University reformed its
undergraduate admissions poli-
cies to conform to the court's
opinion.
"Make no mistake - we will
find the route that continues our

commitment to a richly diverse
student body," University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman said in
2003.
In 2006, 58 percent of Michi-
gan voters elected to adopt Pro-
posal 2, which banned the use
of race as a consideration for
admissions into institutions
of higher education. Before
Grutter v. Bollinger, African-
American students comprised
more than 10 percent of the stu-
dent body. After Grutter v. Bol-
linger, black students comprised
between 7 and 8 percent of the
student body. After Proposal 2,
it fell to just more than 5 per-
cent. Today, the percentage of
African-American students on

MAGOIA ; a AkAA-HEK
campus has stabilized at about
5.5 percent.
Though Proposal 2 prevents
the Supreme Court's action
from having a direct effect on
the state of Michigan, Proposal
2 is itself under review by the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the
6th Circuit en banc - where all
of the judges will hear the case
- after a smaller subset of the
Sixth Circuit's judges ruled that
Proposal 2 was a violation of the
14th Amendment and the spirit
of Gratz v. Bollinger and Grutter
v. Bollinger.
The court's final decision in
Fisher v. University of Texas is
not expected until April 2013, at
the earliest.


TREATIES
From Page 1
on the Law of the Sea, the rights
of disabled people and women's
I rights, have already been ratified
by other countries. None of them
have been passed so far, more
than a year and a half into the ses-
sion, and Keller said none of them
will likelypass this term.
Throughout the speech, Keller
was visibly frustrated with the
resistance of the Senate regarding
foreign treaties.
"Senators have a constitutional
duty to at least consider treaties
for advice and consent, and here
36 senators - over a third of the
senate - are saying they are not
going to think about any treaties
prior to next year regardless of
urgency, regardless of importance
to national security and, really,
regardless of any subject matter,"
Keller said.
Keller said his office caters to
the needs of the majority party
of the committee, in this case the
Democratic Party, and the main
senator Keller works with is the
chairman, U.S. Sen. John Kerry

(D-Mass.). Keller noted he was
speaking only for himself and that
his views did not necessarily rep-
resent the views of Kerry or other
senators.
Republican senators have
been responsible for much of the
treaty obstruction, but this par-
tially reflects their vocal constitu-
encies, Keller asserted. Seemingly
non-controversial treaties have
become subjects of public con-
demnation and attack ads, he said.
"Senators have been accused
of being anti-American for sup-
porting treaties and some have
even been compared to Osama bin
Laden for their support of trea-
ties," he said.'
Keller said an important mul-
tilateral tax agreement has been
stopped for months by a single
Republican senator. The combina-
tionofnormal Senatesluggishness
combined with current anti-treaty
sentiment means itis very difficult
to pass any treaties, he added.
According to Keller, treaties
are very complex and don't gain
senators many political points,
so they are often put on the back-
burner.
"They are fairly wonky and

don't necessarily have lots of
domestic appeal," Keller said.
Keller said the difficulty of
passing treaties is negatively
impacting the country and its
position in world politics. He says
negotiations with other coun-
tries are hurt because they point
out that we haven't ratified sev-
eral important treaties and thus
should not tell them what to do.
Keller doesn't think a short-
term solution is likely, but hopes
the importance of treaties can
become a larger part of the public
discourse that could then change
the political equation.
"There are many senators who
simply feel there are basically no
costs to opposing a treaty and that
there is a cost to supporting one,"
Keller said.
Law student Joseph Flynn said
hethoughtKeller did agood job of
explaining the difficulties of get-
ting treaties passed and felt it was
an important topic to discuss.
"He was very thorough and
very candid about the fact that
these issues do affect the direc-
tion we are moving as a country
and the ways we are perceived
internationally," Flynn said.

SACUA
From Page 1
data and research, which I think
is a value that we hold very dear-
ly," Kearfott said. "After that,
I was briefed in a very candid
manner concerning the search,
which I consider to have been
participation."
Kearfott added that she was
pleased with an outside firm
that is assisting in determining
the general counsel.
"The search firm is a firm that
is very experienced at finding
general counsels for universi-
ties, so I was pretty satisfied
with that information," Kearfott
said. "I listened very carefully
and heard a number of Univer-
sity values being put forth as
well as being looked for in the
general counsel's position."
Overall, Kearfott said she
felt there was an inclusion of
SACUA in choosing members for
the search committee.
"I can say as much as pos-
sible that I am confident that
the search committee is a good
search committee for this par-

ticular task, and I have con-
fidence given that we can't
guarantee any outcome, the
choice for general counsel will
be a good one," Kearfott said.
SACUA member Finn Larsen,
a physics professor, said process
and principle should be consid-
ered in makingthe decision.
"It's not just what happens,
it's the appearance of how it
happens," Larsen said.
Kearfott said though SACUA
can't make any changes on pre-
vious decisions, she is content
with the last-minute input she
was able to contribute to the
search committee. She added
that it is SACUAs responsibility
to campaign for the future presi-
dent search committee.
"The ultimate decision is
President Coleman's, which is
hers to make and ours to sup-
port," Kearfott said. "That said,
I think it is incumbent upon
SACUA to lobby heavily around
the issues of inclusion in the
upcoming search for president
of the University of Michigan for
which the search committee has
not yet been constituted. I think
the principle was embodied by

the particular mix of people on
the committee."
After the meeting, Kearfott
appeared visibly upset from the
discussion and was not available
for comment on the issue.
SACUA also discussed the
need to elect members to hear
grievances and appeals. Mem-
bers discussed electing internal
SACUA members or selecting
an external committee of five
members, which they ultimately
speculated would be most effec-
tive.
The appeal board is separate
from the grievance hearing
board. Karen Staller, the vice
chair of SACUA and an associ-
ate professor of social work,
summed up the possibility of
selecting a hearing board, each
member with different roles and
one focusing on appeals. Kear-
fott said she will write a propos-
al to deliver to SACUA.
SACUA has not yet imple-
mented the grievance process
completely, but agreed that once
policy is set, they need tobe eas-
ily accessible to the public in
a central location, such as the
Internet.

WANT TO JOIN DAILY NEWS?
E-mail Rayza Goldsmith at rayzag@michigandaily.com to get started today.


4

4

I.


0

8 - Tuesday, October 9, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Purdue bottles up Toussaint but
springs Robinson in Michigan rout

By LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Editor
On Saturday, in the first min-
ute of the second quarter against
Purdue, redshirt junior running
back Fitzgerald Toussaint fell
into the end zone from the one-
yard line for the second time in
the game.
It was already his fifth-career
two-touchdown game, and the
day was still young.
But it wasn't all sunshine and
roses for the struggling tailback,
who finished with a meager 19
yards rushing on 17 carries.
"He got two touchdowns -
if that's not a good day, I don't
know what is," joked senior
quarterback Denard Robinson
after the game. "He played well,
and the offense played well. They
kind of keyed on him a little more
because lastyear he had a break-
out game. They kind of upped the
ante on that one."
Indeed, Toussaint must have
been licking his chops as he trav-
eled to West Lafayette last week-
end. In last season's homecoming
game against the Boilermakers,
Toussaint picked up 170 yards
on 20 carries. On one play, he
took the pitch from quarterback
Devin Gardner and made the
Purdue defenders look like a pee
wee squad as he cut to the side-
line, then back to the middle of
the field on a 59-yard touchdown
run.
"They weren't going to let him
do that (again)," said Michigan
coach Brady Hoke. "I mean, they
were very concerned with tak-
ing that part of our offense away.
Denard rushed for 235, so some-
thing's got to give, and what gave
was Denard."
Robinson definitely benefited
from the Purdue defense's pre-
occupation with Toussaint in
the backfield. The quarterback
dashed for 9.8 yards per carry
on Saturday, and his 235 rushing
yards were second-most in his
career and in Big Ten quarter-
back history, behind his legend-
ary performance against Notre
Dame two seasons ago (258 rush-
ing yards, in additionto 244 pass-
ing yards).

ICE HOCKEY
Wolverines start year
with home exhibition
By LIZ NAGLE Highly touted freshman
Daily Sports Writer defenseman Jacob Trouba has
impressed his teammates thus far
Heading into its first exhibition with his physical play. On June
game of the season, expectations 22, the Rochester, Mich. native
are running high for a Michi- was the ninth-overall pick by the
gan hockey team with preseason Winnipeg Jets in the NHL Entry
rankings singing its praises. Draft.
On Oct. 3rd, "He's got a really high hockey
the CCHA idsor t IQ," Bennett said. "I think you're
released its going to see him destroy guys....
polls, with the Michlgan When we let him loose against
media ranking Matchup: another team, I think you'll be
the Wolverines Windsor 0-0; able to see some exciting hits."
first in the con- Michigan 0-0 With Hunwick's graduation in
ference, and the When: Tues- the spring, the Wolverines were
coaches poll day 7:35 p.m. left with a question mark in the
perching Mich- Where: Yost crease. Rutledge remains the
igan at No.3. Ice Arena hopeful favorite, but recovery
The CCHA from eye surgery and missed ice
also named sev- Comado00 time delayed the netminder deci-
eral players to omcas9 sion.
the preseason He started taking shots late
all-conference teams. Junior last week, but Berenson was left
defenseman Jon Merrill earned uncertain as to who would stop
eight first-place votes. Sophomore pucks between the posts against
forward Alex Guptill and senior the Lancers. But Rutledge's timely
defenseman Lee Moffie were return keeps him in the forefront
voted to the second team, and of goaltending options.
senior forward A.J. Treais was an "My hope is that if he feels
honorable mention. really good after (the Blue/White)
"No one's played a game yet," game and he feels good tomorrow S
said junior defenseman Mac Ben- and looks good in practice then
nett. "We don't know how we we'll decide tomorrow," Berenson
stack up against other teams, so is said Sunday. "Butthat's the direc-
it nice to have a number one rank- tion we'd like to go."
ing? Yeah, sure. Does it mean any- A healthy goalie will be neces-
thing? No." sary against Windsor, with for-
Michigan will face off against wards Evan Stibbard and Ryan
Windsor in the newly-renovated Green, who led the Lancers last
Yost Ice Arena in an exhibition season with a combined 55 points
Tuesday night. The Wolverines --26 goals and 29 assists.
hold a perfect 3-0-0 record in the The Lancers have already
all-time series against the Lanc- seen a fair amount of competi-
ers, capped by their last meeting tive action in the preseason with
in 2009. three wins and lone loss to Michi-
Three years ago, Michigan gan State. On Monday, Windsor's
coach Red Berenson compared streak snapped, dropping a 6-1
the Windsor exhibition to pre- decision to the Spartans.
vious matchups with Canadian The Wolverines opened the
teams, noting the Lancers' "bet- season with their annual intra-
ter" performance. squad game on Sunday, when
Treais, then a freshman, Guptill recorded a hat trick in
opened up the scoring with a sec- the fast-paced two-period scrim-
ond-period goal against Windsor. mage.
He notched an assist in the same With the majority of offensive
frame en route to the Wolverines' standouts returning this year -
6-2 win. But with a handful of seven of the top 10 scorers - and a
freshmen stepping into the grad- strong defensive anchor, the Wol-
uated seniors' big shoes this year, verines main concern rests in the
anything goes. goal cage.

Redshirt junior running back Fitzgerald Toussaint managed just 19 yards on 17 carries last Saturday vs. Purdue.

"That game needed to be that
way," Hoke said. "That was the
plan - get (Robinson) back run-
ning the football, feeling good,
and then go from there."
Still, there was at least some
indication that coaches are con-
cerned with the running backs'
lack of production in the offense
so far this season. The only really

day there."
The offensive line was rela-
tively happy with the way they
played, regardless of Toussaint's
lack of production on the ground.
"Like I said, we obviously
want to get (Toussaint) more
yards," said fifth-year senior cen-
ter Elliott Mealer. "He's a great
player, andweneedtogethimout

solid game the
tailbacks have
produced was
against FBS-
newcomer
Massachu-
setts, when
Toussaint
picked up 85
yards on 15
carries, and
senior Vincent
Smith and

in space and let
him show off
his skills. But at
"We obviously the same time,
307 (total)
Want to get rushing yards
. - I think that's
(Toussaint) doing alright
The fact that
more yards." we were able to
let Denard do
his thing, like
I said, we have

Saturday.
"We always block for the
tailback," Mealer said. "Other
than that, you never know what
Denard's going to do. So whether
it's a pass or read option, he's able
to kind of make his own magic
happen. I'm sure you've heard
it before, but he makes us look
good."
If Robinson is making his
own plays and Toussaint is still
not producing, perhaps there
is room for improvement along
the offensive line. But redshirt
junior tackle Taylor Lewan said
he was proud of how the offen-
sive line played lastweekend, and
he praised its play more than he
typically does.
"This offensive line is special,
and we're capable of doing all the
things that we did on Saturday,
and better," Lewan said. "Ricky
Barnum is a very athletic guard.
Patrick Omamaeh - this is his
fourth year starting. Schofield -
he's been playing guard, and now
he's exceling at tackle. Elliott
Mealer, stepping up to the chal-
lenge of (replacing) Dave Molk.
"These guys want ,to be the
best they could possibly be."

sophomore Thomas Rawls also
got into the mix.
"I'd be lying if I said I wasn't
(concerned)," Hoke said. "But I
think up front, I thought those
guys played pretty solid when
you look at it. Their best game?
No. But they played solid. We
just have to keep making some
improvements, you know, every

that luxury."
At some points in the Monday
press conference, though, Mealer
contradicted himself.
After saying he thought the
offensive line did alright, he also
mentioned that the goal of the
offensive line is to block for the
tailback, which the offensive line
did not do particularly well on

Defensive line pressured to create more pressure

0

By BEN ESTES what he liked about No. 25 Michi-
Daily SportsEditor gan's pass defense, he instead
responded with his biggest con-
Given two days to watch the cern.
film and reflect some more on his "Number one, at this point in
team's performance against Pur- the season, I don't think we're
due, Michigan coach Brady Hoke getting enough pressure on the
had the same refrain on Monday quarterback," Hoke said. "I think
as he did on Saturday: Michi- that helps those guys in the back
gan's defensive line isn't creating end. ... I think we keep searching,
enough pressure. as coaches, for different ways to
Some might find such a criti- manufacture some pressure, and
cism curious after a game in at the same time have good cover-
which the Wolverines gave up just age with it."
13 points and 213 total yards. But This isn't a new issue, either.
it appears Hoke was focused more Hoke has mentioned the same
on the two sacks that the defense thing in recent weeks, even spe-
produced against the Boilermak- cifically calling upon the front
ers. In fact, when Hoke was asked four to step it up.
Majora Carter
Peabody Award-Winning
Radio Broadcaster
Eco-Entrepreneur
Environmental Advocate
"HoME(Toww) SEC URITI"
October 18th (5:00 pm)
Hill Auditorium
How one woman mobilized a South Bronx
community to create ecological and economic
change when few were talking about sustainability.

The numbers are rather grizzly
- the Wolverines have produced
just five sacks this season, plac-
ing them 107th nationally. If their
pace remains the same, they'll
end up with around 12 sacks at
season's end, far off the 30 they
produced last season, which was
good for 29th in the country.
And just half of those five sacks
have come from defensive line-
men, with senior defensive tackle
Will Campbell tallying one and
senior defensive end Craig Roh
notching one and a half.
It's notable that the line actu-
ally produced more pressure
against Purdue than it had in
recent weeks. Boilermaker quar-
terbacks Caleb TerBush and Rob-
ert Marve were chased out of the
pocket a number of times, and the
two sacks tied a season-high. But
even that improvement isn't up
to Hoke's, nor the players' them-
selves, liking.
"I agree with (Hoke) 100 per-
cent," Campbell said Monday.
"We do need to get more pres-
sure up front just with a four-man
rush. We don't need to blitz every
down to get to the quarterback.
Me being a senior, me and Craig
Roh, we take that on us."
Though the line production
in itself hasn't been up to par, it's
been mitigated somewhat by the
impact of blitzes, with Ryan mak-
ing a big impact from his strong-
side linebacker spot.
The second-year starter has
always been explosive, and this
season he's displayed an ability
to play with better control, keep-
ing him in position to make plays

0

more often. Ryan was especially
good - "doggone good," in Hoke's
words - againstPurdue, notching
that one sack to go along with two
other tackles for loss.
And the return of defensive
end Brennen Beyer should help
the line as well. Hoke said that
the sophomore, who hasn't played
since he injured himself against
Air Force in the second game of
the season, is "important to (the
team)." He'll help keep fellow
weakside end Frank Clark fresh,
perhaps allowing the duo to gen-
erate more pressure between
them.
The good news for the defen-
sive line is that it's been steadily
improving against the run, even

if it continues to struggle to attack
quarterbacks.
In Michigan's last two games,
the defense has allowed a total of
150 rushing yards and averages
just 2.6 yards-per-carry. The line,
namely redshirt junior Quinton
Washington and Campbell in the
middle, has done a better job of
clogging the line of scrimmage.
That's allowed the linebackers to
flow to the ball more freely.
"Again, you got some signifi-
cant guys who have got real snaps
where they haven't had near as
many before, so there's a learning
that they go through," Hoke said
ofthe defensive line's progression.
"I think it's better.... I think we're
playing a little tighter on offensive

linemen, which means we're get-
ting hands on them a little more."
Now, the challenge for the
defensive line isto improve in the
passing game as much as it has in
defending the run.
When asked what he likes best
about Michigan's defense to this
point, Campbell pointed to the
unit's work habits, especially its
preparation.
"We're communicating, we're
getting in and watching our film
together, we're doing everything
together," Campbell said.
So far, that off-the-field dili-
gence hasn't translated to sacks
on the field. Under Hoke's watch-
ful eye, the line feels the urgency
in needing to change that.

Meet Coach Carr
Come to our book signing Thursday, Oct. 11, from 7 p.m.- 8 p.m.
The M Den on campus. (303 S. State St.)

t

t i

I

a


