BURKE SUSPENDED: Michigan's point guard was suspended for Michigan's exhibition game against Northern Michigan tonight " PAGE 5A
AJ

40 46F
a 22
A .
1 an
(( 11 iitt T}T} iitr ... iF a v -' t rr" '

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, November 1, 2012

michigandaily.com

ELECTION 2012
Bernstein,
Diggs differ
over how to
lower tuition

Local attorney,
dermatologist
are Democrats
running for regent
By TUI RADEMAKER
Daily Staff Reporter
With Regents Olivia May-
nard (D-Goodrich) and S.
Martin Taylor (D-Grosse
Pointe Farms) not seeking re-
election to the University's
Board of Regents, Democrats
are hoping to retain their seats
and maintain a decisive major-
ity on the board.
Attorney Mark Bernstein
and dermatologist Shauna
Ryder Diggs are the Demo-
cratic nominees for regent.
Though they're both cam-
paigning to lower tuition
rates to lower student debt,
each candidate has different
approaches for keeping costs
down.
Bernstein estimated that
if the cost of attendance con-
tinues to grow at the rate of
recent years, a baby born today
will have to pay more than
$300,000 for a University
degree. Still, he said the Uni-
versity must figure out how to

lower costs without relying on
state funding.
In the past decade, the
University's state appropria-
tion has fallen $108 million, a
26-percent decrease.
"Although the state should
be giving more money to
the University of Michigan
because it's a great investment
in the future of Michigan, we
can't assume that," Bernstein
said. "So all the ideas that I
propose are sovereign to the
University - we don't rely on
the state to give the University
more money."
A University alum, Bern-
stein is a partner at the Sam
Bernstein Law Firm, of which
his father is the principal. Ber-
nstein previously worked in
the Clinton White House and
he now sits on the Michigan
Civil Rights Commission.
Bernstein suggested that
the University utilize its AAA
credit rating and its borrow-
ing rate of 2.3 percent to create
"Go Blue Bonds" that would
allow students to borrow
money at a lower interest rate.
He said the average student
would save $5,000 in tuition
costs over the course of their
college careers.,
While most of the Univer-
See REGENT, Page 3A

A student carves a pumpkin in the Ambatana Lounge in South Quad Residence Hall in celebration of Halloween on Wednesday.
UMH :ollaora ion
conti-nue despit e merger,

Be
F

aumont, Henry on the University of Michigan
Health System, experts say.
ord to combine Beaumont and Henry Ford
Health Systems signed a letter
operations of intent on Wednesday to com-
bine their operations into a single
By KASEY COX $6.4-billion non-profit organi-
Daily StaffReporter zation to prepare for the antici-
pated economic stress of fully
announced merger of two implementing the Affordable
utheast Michigan's largest Care Act in 2014.
icare systems Wednesday The new entity will unify
iected to have little effect executive leadership as well as

all assets, liabilities and opera-
tions by combining 10 hospitals
and 200 other patient care sites.-
According to the new partner-
ship's website, the merge is a
response to the dramatic change
and shift in the way health care
is measured, financed and sought
after as it moves toward outpa-
tient services.
The University of Michigan
Health System said in a state-
ment that it expects collabora-

tion between UMHS, Beaumont
and Henry Ford to continue
despite the merger.
The statement acknowledged
the strength of Beaumont and
Henry Ford's reputations and
added that in the past the three
hospitals have worked together
on "clinical quality improvement
projects, research studies, disas-
ter preparedness and some spe-
cialized clinical services."
See MERGER, Page 8A

The
of Sot
health
is exp


SPEAKERS ON CAMPUS
AMA
head
" makes
case for
reform
Lazarus says the
ACA is the start
of big changes in
health care
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily StaffReporter
With the public still bitterly
divided over President Barack
Obama's health care reforms, a
small audience in the Univer-
sity's Ford Auditorium gath-
ered to hear Jeremy Lazarus,
the president of the American
Medical Association discuss the
future of the Affordable Care
Act.
Lazarus, an emphatic sup-
See REFORM. Page 8A

CAMPUS SAFETY
University Police
urge participation in
advance of emergency
alert system test

Ruth Rosen, who helped draft The Port Huron Statement, discusses women's rights on Wednesday,
Port Huron conference
starts with focus on women

Only 33 percent of
campus signed up
for notifications
By STEPHEN YAROS
For theDaily
University Police want your
phone number, but don't worry
- you're not in trouble.
On Friday, the University
will conduct a test of the Uni-
versity's Emergency Alert sys-
tem, which is designed to notify
students, faculty and staff of
emergencies on campus via text
message, phone call or e-mail.
Before Friday's test, public
safety officials are encouraging
individuals to register for the
alerts.
The system warns of sig-
nificant emergencies, including
tornado warnings, hazardous
material spills, bomb threats
and active shooters on campus.
The University automati-
cally registers all fatulty, staff
and student University e-mail

addresses for e-mail alerts.
Individuals are encouraged to
sign up for voice and text mes-
sage notifications so they are
immediately informed of emer-
gencies even without e-mail
access.
Despite the importance of
the EAS, only 33 percent of the
student body, or 17,000 stu-
dents, are registered for alerts
beyond e-mail, DPS spokes-
woman Diane Brown said.
Additionally, only 37 percent
of faculty and staff, or 26,000
people, are registered for text
and voice alerts.
To receive the alerts, stu-
dents, faculty and staff should
visit the Wolverine Access
website and click on "U-M
Emergency Alerts." In order
to be included in Friday's test,
individuals must be registered
in the system by no later than 7
p.m. Thursdayevening.
Brown particularly pushed
text and voice alert registration
as they are the most immedi-
ate response methods in case of
See EMERGENCY, Page 8A

Rosen discusses
activism in the
women's movement
By DANIELLE
RAYKHINSHTEYN
Daily StaffReporter
While some students donned
1960s garb for Halloween cos-
tumes Wednesday night, the

acvitism of the decade was
brought to life by key individu-
als in social movements that
shaped American policy in com-
meration of the 50th anniversa-
ry of the Port Huron Statement.
The Port Huron Statement,
published by Students for a
Democratic Society, a 1960s
student activist group, in 1962
in Port Huron, Mich., was a
70-page statement designed to
encourage student participation

in social reform and distributed
to aboutb60,000individuals dur-
ing the Vietnam War. The group
was led by Tom Hayden, a Uni-
versity alum and former editor
in chief of The Michigan Daily,
and spurred activism around
the country.
As part of the three-day
event, titled "A New Insurgen-
cy: The Port Huron Statement in
its Time and Ours," Ruth Rosen
See PORT HURON. Page 8A


WEATHER HI: 45
TOMORROW Lo:31

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHPIGANDAItYCOM
#michlinks
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS............. .........2A SPORTS...................A
Vol. CXXIII, No. 37 AP NEWS ...................3 A CLASSIFIEDS.A..............6A
©20t2TheMichiganDaily OPINION.....................4A THE B-SIDE..................18
michigondailycom


2R -Thursday, November 1, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, November 1, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

At Aidlian Dailg
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 rot. 1241
lichtrerman@michigandailycom rmgrein@michigandailycom

The language of Economics

THE HEIR OF SLYTHERIN

What classes do you teach my.
here?
I teach three undergraduate How have your interna-
courses. The first is Econom- tional experiences shaped
ics 330: American Industries your teaching style?
and it is an in-depth study of I have taught in several dif-
six or seven specific industries ferent French universities. I
in the American economy, like have also taught in a Swiss
the pharmaceutical indus- university and in an Italian
try, the automobile industry, university. The teaching style
banking, the beer industry, the and the learning style are
milk industry and so on ... The very different in those set-
second course that I teach is tings from what they are in the
Economics 432: Government United States. They have con-
Regulation of Industry. That vinced me of the importance
is a course essentially about of maintaining a classroom
treatments by government that is active, a classroom*
of market power ... The last where students and faculty are
course that I teach is Econom- actively engaged in dialogue
ics 453: The European Econo- with one another. I think of

teaching and learning as a con-
tact sport, where people really
do actively engage in dialogue.
What is your biggest
piece of advice to economics
and business majors?
All majors, whether inter-
ested in economics or busi-
ness or pre-med or anything,
is to (try not) to specialize
too soon, not to think that
because you want to go into
business that you're best
off doing only business or if
you're interested in going into
medicine, you're best off only
studying biology or chemistry.
-STEVENZENG

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales'
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlinead,@oehigasdaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classifed@michigandaily.com
finante
finance@michigandaily.com

I
6

LSA freshmen Steve Chamas and Heather Gonring dressed up
for Halloween Wednesday. Chamas, dressed as a dog, chased
Gonring, dressed as a cat, around the Diag.

CRIME NOTES

Lights out
WHERE: Oxford Housing
WHEN: Tuesday at about
10:40 a.m.
WHAT: A light pole was
damaged some time in the
last two weeks, University
Police reported. The pole
was dented and paint
removed. The damage is
valued at about $2,500, but
police say they are unable to
determine the cause.
Desktop envy
WHERE: Wyly Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
8:30 p.m.
WHAT: A University
computer was stolen
sometime between Oct.
27 and Oct. 28, University
Police reported. There are
no suspects.

Smile for the
camera
WHERE: North Quad
Residence Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
noon
WHAT: A document cam-
era was removed from a
room sometime between 5
p.m. on Oct. 26 and 10 a.m.
on Oct. 29, University Police
reported. There are no sus-
pects.
Fender bender
WHERE: 2250 State Street
lot
WHEN: Tuesday at about
4:25 p.m.
WHAT: An accident
occured between two cars,
University Polite reported.
There were no injuries and
damage was unknown.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Tom Hayden Election forum
speech WHAT: Opponents and
proponents of each of the*
WHAT: As part of the "A six proposals on the ballot
New Insurgency: The Port in the state of Michigan.
Huron Statement in its Local and state candidates
Time and Ours" conference, will be present to speak
Tom Hayden, a University with attendees.
alum who wrote the Port WHO: Rackham Student
Huron Statement will give Government, The Michigan
a keynote address discuss- Daily, Students of Color of
ing "The Future of Partici- Rackham and the Center
patory Democracy." for Local, State and Urban
WHO: Port Huron 50 Policy
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 WHEN: Tonight from 7
p.m. p.m. to10 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall, room WHERE: Rackham Audi-
1324 torium
Marge Piercy
WHAT: The author will M ilk Carton
read her own poetry and
fiction as part of The Port Kids
Huron Statement conferece.
She is a New York Times WHAT: The well-reviewed
bestselling author. folk music duo will perform.
WHO: Port Huron 50 WHO: Michigan Union
WHEN: Tonight at7 p.m. Ticket Office
WHERE: Rackham WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
Auditorium WHERE: The Ark

The parents of a 4-year-
old boy in India who
was bornwith13 fingers
and 12 toes do not want
him to have surgery to
correct the genetic disorder,
the Daily Mail reported. The
young boy said he enjoys the
attention.
The culture of fantasy
football at the Univer-
sity is pervasive and
expanding exponen-
tially. Dreams of football
glory come to life through
online gaming.
>o FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE, INSIDE
In the wake of
Superstorm Sandy,
New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie, officially
moved Halloween to Monday,
the New York Daily News
reported. Christie said he
wanted to protect trick-or-
treaters from floodwaters and
fallen trees.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrew Weiner ManagingEditor anweiner@michigandaily.com
BethanylBiron Managing News Editor biron@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: HaleyGlatthorn, Haley Goldberg, Rayza Goldsmith,
Paige Peary,Adam Rubenfire
AIST ANNWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman
Timothy Rabb and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MelanieKruvelis,HarshaNahata,VanessaRychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein,Sarah Skaluba
Stephen Nesbitt Managing Sports Editor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Everett Cook, Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch,
Neat Rothschild, Matt Slovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Matt Spelich,
Leah Burgin Managing Arts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: Elliot Alpern, David Tao,Kayla Upadhyaya
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS:JacobAxelrad,LarenCaserta,MattEaston,KellyEtz,
A""a Sadovskaya, Chloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandafly.com
Alden Reiss Managing PhototEditors
SEORPOO E TORSerra olengraff~, TddsNedle
ASSIneSTNPOOoEDITOS:Adm Glanzman, AutenHfod, AionOraske
MareneLacasse,AdamSchnitzer
Alicia KOvaktheck and design@miehigandaily.com
Amy Mackens Managing Design Editors
DylanCinti and statement@michigandaily.com
JennifernXu MagainetEditors
DEPUTY MAGAZNE E eITORZach Bergson,KaitlinWilliams
Hannah Poindexter copyChief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Josephine Adams, Beth Coplowitz
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate Business Manager
SeanJackson sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Meryl HultengNational Account Manager
The Michigan aly c(IssN 0745-967> is publishedMonday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additiona copies may be picked up at the aly's office for $2.Subscriptions for
faln term, starting in Septembervia U.S.mail are $110. Winter term (January through Aprileis
$115,yearlong(SeptemberthroughApri)is$19s.Universityaffiiatesaresubjecttoareduced
subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fal term are$3s. Subscriptions mustbe prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The A ssociated Collegiate Press.

,6

I.

ROSS SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
ELL LURIE INSTITUTE
for Entrepreneurial Studies

0

Congratulations Mayleben Venture Shaping and Dare to Dream Grant Recipients
Zell Lurie Institute Awards $28,500 in Start-up Grants to U-M Student Entrepreneurs
The Zell Lurie Institute's grant program annually awards up to $100,000 to U-M student entrepreneurs to develop their busi-
nesses. Applications for the next cycle of grants will be accepted January 2012. See: www.zli.bus.umich.edu.

VENTURE SHAPING $500'per team
1MDReview.com A website enabling consumers to make
more informed choices about medical tourism.
Jason Harr (MBA '13), Cole Johnson (Ph.D. Biology '13), Paul
Robichaux (MBA/MPH '14)
A2Cribs A website for aggregated off-campus Ann Arbor
rental property information.
Evan Dancer (CS '13), Tim Jones (CS '13), Jason Okrasinski
(BBA '13)
Andean Berries A U.S. import company of berries from Peru
during U.S. supply scarcity September-December. Orson Ker-
rigan, Juan Carlos Loyo, Norberto Montenegro and Alejandro
Pirron (MBAs '13)
BendOptic Creating a slit lamp attachment to enable easier
eye examination of the very young, elderly, disabled and
obese. Courtland Keteyian (MD/MBA '11) and David Lorch
(MSE '03, PhD '09 Biomedical Engineering), Medical Innova-
tion Fellows '13
*Cafe Esperanza Addressing the lack of resources for creating
a sustainable premium coffee industry in Honduras.
Stephen Ahn (MBA/MS Erb '15)
*ContainEarth A go-to market solution to address the issue of
single-use takeout container waste.
Richard Grousset, Raphael Meyer and David Yang (MBA/MSs
Erb '13)
Focus Solutions A combination device and application for
physical therapy and training.
Cavan Canavan (MBA 12), Grant Hughes (MBA '13)
Heapst Creating a tool to track product warranties allowing
consumers to be notified of any product recalls.
Marcin Fracz (PTMBA '14), Filip Fracz (BSE '05)
J-Ro Productions A company enabling musicians to network,
represent and promote their brands globally.
Josh Ross (BBA '14)
Juxtaway & Company A kiosk rental system to allow consum-
ers to enjoy books-on-the-move.
James Yin-Chieh Chou (MBA '14)

Manmade A membership based E-commerce platform targeting
young professional men for home delivery of ready-to-cook
meals.
Patrick Lord (MBA/MS Erb '13), Tyrell Robertson (MBA/MHSA
'15), Brandon Tirrell (MBA '14)
Mutable Vaccines Enabling technology for creating 'universal'
vaccines that develop broad protective immunity in individuals.
Marilia Cascalho (MD 1986, PhD 1998), Arjun Gupta (MsE
'13), Jeffrey Platt (MD 1977)
OraGen An accurate simple test to detect any susceptibility or
early existence of oral cancer.
Brijesh Dutta (MBA '13), Mahua Ghoshal, Cody Powers (MBA
'14), Smita Singh
Oasis An online trial matching platform to facilitate patient
recruitment in China.
Gang Su and Jie Sun (PhDs '12)
P2MD Communications A messaging system to notify pa-
tients when a physician will, be late.
Jinyong Kim (PhD Mechanical Eng '13) and Marius Tijunelis
(MD '01, MBA '09), Medical Innovation Fellows '13)
Park-n-RentAn alternative car rental service utilizing owner's
cars for service while the owner is traveling.
Anmeen Leong and Dave Wheeler (MBAs '14)
Reveneyes.com A platform to join data across healthcare
institutions to provide a single profit per visit for every patient
encounter.
David Vanker (MBA '13)
SISTAH Butters Development of natural hair care products for
African American women.
Juliet Lawrence (MBA '13), Itanza Lawrence, Elaine Lyles
SMRT Delivery A patent pending (full-utility) technology which
can prevent premature replacement of pipeline infrastructure.
David McGrail and Justin Silpe (MSEs '13)
Swadesh Clinics Mobile health clinics for people in rural
areas of India.
Rocio Cardenas (MBA '13), Sandhya Kambhampati (MBA/
MHSA '13), Vinita Vishwanarayan (MBA '13)
TBD Analytics Provides a comprehensive management tool
for large scale infrastructure projects.
Matt Liberatore (MBA/MENG '14)

UniSprout A crowd funding website for university alumni to
donate to student ideas and ventures.
Saam, Aghevli (MBA/MENG '14), Frank Koziara (BBA '14),
Jigar Majmundar (BBA '14)
*Wintergreen Stone Aggregate technology to refine and
normalize fly ash in Shanxi.
Yanning Li (MBA '14), Julia Ruedig (MBA/MS '15)
Yearney An online market place enabling small tourist busi-
nesses to effectively market to travelers.
Udayan Gupta, Ari Leviatan and Nakul Uppal (MBAs '14)
*Venture Shaping - Erb Institute
ASSESSMENT $1,500,per team
Dinner With An online volunteer and fundraising platform for
charities to connect with a broader donor base.
Jillian Badanes and Sam Chen (MBAs '14) and Catherine Fish
(MSW '13)
INTEGRATION up to $10,000 per team
Exo Dynamics Creating the next generation of spinal ortho-
ses to improve treatment processes.
Maren Bean (MBA '13), Sam Beckett (BSE ME '12), Jorge
Sanz-Guerrero (M Eng) Manufacturing '11),
Daniel Johnson (PhD '12), Pat Milligan (Mat Sci Eng '14)
PhotoSocial Offers free photo gallery software for mobile
devices to simplify photo management, trading and ordering.
Jeff Bargmann (PTMBA '13)
Real Good Food A food sharing platform that allows custom-
ers to enjoy the best food in their community.
Raffi Garabedian (MPP '12), Devin McIntire (MBA/MS Erb
'13), Justine Williams (UNC Anthropology)
Torch Hybrid A software service provider for marine hybrid-
electric powertrain development and energy management.
Justin D'Atri (MS Sustainable Systems '12), Nate Henschel (BA
Comm & Poli Sci '14), Matt Lankowski (MS Naval Architecture
& Manuf. '12), Sid Menon (MS Energy Systems '12), Sammit
Nene (BS EE '13), Swapna Potluri (MS EE '13)

6
6

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Mich. police have
many obstacles in
shooting spree
Clues appear to be few: slugs
and bullet fragments embedded in
cars, metal casings on roadways,
a simple black and white sketch
of the shooter and vague descrip-
tions of the car he drove.
Investigators searching for a
man responsible for shooting at
two dozen vehicles along free-
way corridors in four counties
are up against anonymity and a
100-mile-long crime scene that
slices through suburbia, shopping
malls and Michigan farm pas-
tures.
Fear has prompted some to
drive along side streets rather
than heavily used thoroughfares.
In Wixom - where 10 of the 24
shootings have been reported -
police planned special Halloween
patrolstoprotecttrick-or-treaters.
From Oakland County, northwest
of Detroit, to Shiawassee County,
northeast of Lansing, authorities
are stopping cars resembling the
shooter's.
HUNTSVILLE, Texas
Louisiana ex-con
executed for 2003
Texas killing
Donnie Lee Roberts, convicted
in his girlfriend's 2003 slaying in
Texas, was executed Wednesday
for fatally shooting the woman
and taking items from her home
to sell or trade to support his drug
habit.
Roberts, 41, became the 12th
inmate to be put to death this year
in the nation's most active capital
punishment state. He was given
a lethal injection for the killing
of Vicki Bowen at her East Texas
home.
"I'm really sorry. I never meant
to cause you all so much pain,"
Roberts said to Bowen's father,
who was seated in a chair close to
the glass surrounding the death
chamber. "I hope you can go on
with your life.
"I lovedyour daughter. Ihope to
God he lets me see her in Heaven
so I can apologize to her and see
her and tell her."
Roberts took several deep
breaths a the lethal drug began
taking effect, then began snoring
briefly. He was pronounced dead
23 minutes later - at 6:39 p.m.
CDT.
LONDON
Town to burn
Lance Armstrong
in effigy
His career is in ruins and now
an effigy of Lance Armstrong is
about to go up in smoke.
The disgraced American cyclist
has been chosen as the latest celeb-
rity to be burned 'in effigy dur-
ing an English town's nationally
famous Bonfire Night celebrations.
Edenbridge in southeast Eng-

land has built a 30-foot (9-meter)
model of Armstrong, who was
stripped recently of his seven Tour
de France titles for doping offens-
es.
The effigy, to be burnt Saturday,
sports a sign saying "For sale, rac-
ingbike, no longer required."
PARIS
Israeli, French
leaders push for
Iranian sanctions
Israeli Prime Minister Ben-
jamin Netanyahu won pledges
Wednesday from France's presi-
dent to push harder for new sanc-
tions against Iran to keep it from
developing nuclear weapons -
but no sympathy for any possible
Israeli militarystrike againstIran.
In a visit to Paris, Netanyahu
praised French pressure on Iran
and called for "even tougher sanc-
tions" than the ones currently in
place.
"The sanctions are taking a bite
out of Iran's economy ... unfortu-
nately they have not stopped the
Iranian program," he said.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

'+ , Y
f ~ f
-

Greece'outlines
new austerity plan
Painful cuts and tax Healthcare spending will be
trimmed by a further 4455 mil-

FRANK FRANKLIN II/
Anthony Rivera, right, hands out bottled water to residents of Rockaway Beach while they wait in line for pampers, socks aFdgoe roie l
The Legacy Center, after hurricane Sandy Wednesday, Oct.31, 2012, inthe Queens borough of New York.
New Yorkers searc for
food,water and power

Residents try to find
basic necessities
after Sandy
NEW YORK (AP) - The
people gathered around the
side of a building on Third
Avenue looked like refugees
huddled around a campfire.
But instead of crackling flames,
their warmth came from more
advanced technology: a power
strip that had been offered to
charge cellphones.
It was a sign of just how des-
perate for electricity some New
Yorkers have become since
Superstorm Sandy darkened
parts of the city.
Among the crowd was Pat-
rick Dugan; who resorted to
using a pay phone Wednesday
as he trekked uptown from his
powerless apartment, seeking
electricity.
"How much does a pay phone
cost?" asked Steve Breslawski,
who had been watching his
phone charge up for nearly an
hour.
"It's still 25 cents for local, 75
cents for long distance," Dugan'
explained.
Most people scraped by with
resilience and good humor in
the storm's aftermath, navigat-
ing a city without stoplights
or subways. Many residents in
dark downtown neighborhoods
headed north to stay with
friends. Others stayed home

with canned goods and candle-
light.
In an urban landscape of
shuttered bodegas and board-
ed-up restaurants, they roamed
in search of food, power and a
hot shower.
The demarcation line of elec-
tricity was clearly drawn on
certain streets, with buildings
alight on one side and dark on
the other. Life was remarkably
normal uptown, albeit slower
and quieter without public
transportation. But downtown
was a different matter entirely.
Street corners were chaotic
below the general vicinity of
30th Street as people tried in
vain to catch taxis. Without
traffic lights or police officers
to maintain some semblance of
order, most intersections were
treacherous for pedestrians.
As a fire hydrant spouted
water on West 16th Street,
9-year-old Shiyin Ge and her
brother, 12-year-old Shiyuan
Ge, stood in line to fill up buck-
ets of water. But unlike the
adults,-the two kids held plastic
Halloween candy pails painted
with grinning jack-o-lanterns.
"There's no water in our
house," said Shiyin Ge, who had
planned to dress up as a lady-
bug for Halloween. She did not
know if she would get to trick-
or-treat at all this year.
Rachel Booth sat outside of
the Tribeca Treats bakery sell-
ing bags of colorful Halloween
cookies, brownies and cake

pops decorated to look like eye-
balls. The bakery, still without
lights, was also selling a few
treats indoors.
"We wanted to bring a little
bit of Halloween to people," she
said.
In ghostlike lower Manhat-
tan, Nancy Yates picked up
canned chicken noodle soup
at a bodega that was lit by
flashlight and candlelight on
Wednesday morning. Although
her building was mostly dark,
the superintendent had set up
power strips on every floor in
single outlets linked to a gen-
erator.
"The freezer's gone," Yates
said. "I'm worried about the
coming days. I'm alone."
Herneighbor, NormaFontane,
has been running an extension
cord from the hall to her apart-
ment to read by lamplight.
"We've all been in the build-
inga longtime," she said. "We're
kind of looking out for one
another.",
Nick Maenhout lives on West
37th Street, about six blocks
above the blackout zone and
can see the darkened section
of Manhattan from his win-
dows. He was stocking up on
orange juice and chicken at a
nearby supermarket to help feed
friends who are crashing at his
apartment.
"In case people come over
and want something to eat,
there'll be something in the
fridge," he said.

increases implented
as debt load rises
ATHENS, Greece (AP)
- Greece's government on
Wednesday outlined the new
austerity measures it intends to
take over the next two years, a
series of painful spending cuts
and tax hikes that its inter-
national bailout creditors, are
demanding in exchange for res-
cue loans.
The country's finance min-
ister also submitted a revised
draft budget for 2013, with fig-
ures predictingthe debt load will
increase sharply as the recession
deepens into a sixth straight
year.
Unions responded by
announcing a 48-hour general
strike for next week, when the
new measures are expected to be
voted on in Parliament.
The 413.5 billion ($17.5 bil-
lion) worth of cutbacks for 2013-
14 include a two-year increase
in the retirement age, from the
current average of 65, salary and
pension cuts and another round
of tax increases, including rais-
ing taxes for the interest on bank
deposits from10 to 15 percent.
The vast majority of the mea-
sures, about 49.2 billion, are to
be taken next year. They include
a 4.6 billion cut in pensions and
a 41.17 billion cut from salaries.
REGENT
From Page 1A
sity's $7.8-billion endowment
can't be accessed, Bernstein
suggested implementing a pro-
gram that would automatically
allocate 5 percent of the Uni-
versity's funds to finance finan-
cial aid. He also said he thinks
10 percent of any growth in the
endowment should go toward
this fund,
Conversely, Ryder Diggs said
the regents and University lead-
ership must lobby more strongly
for state appropriations.
"I think there are ways to
make U of M just as financially
attractive as other institutions
around the country," Ryder
Diggs said. "I do think that the
regents and the administra-
tion ... could have a leadership
role in trying to encourage the
Legislature to continue to pay
appropriations (to the) Univer-
sity."
Ryder Diggs, who graduated
from the University's Medical
School before starting a private
general, cosmetic and laser
dermatology practice in Grosse
Pointe Farms, emphasized
the importance of encourag-

lion.
Parliamentary approval of the
measures is essential if Greece is
to receive the next installment
of its bailout loans - this time
a hefty 431 billion. Without the
funds, the country has said it will
run out of money on Nov.16.
Greece's three governing par-
ties have spent' months nego-
tiating these measures with
international debt inspectors,
who have yet to formally approve
them. The talks have severely
strained ties in the already
uneasy coalition of conserva-
tives, socialists and a small left-
wing party.
With just days to go before an
expected Parliamentary vote on
the measures, the Democratic
Left has insisted it cannot back
them. Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras has warned that the
country will face financial chaos
if they are not passed.
Finance ministers from the
other 16 countries that use the
euro said after a telephone con-
ference Wednesday that they
hope to decide on Nov.12 wheth-
er to give Greece its next bailout
installment, provided the coun-
try agrees to the reforms.
German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble, however,
warned it was unlikely for that
deadline to be met since the Ger-
man Parliament would have to
vote on the issue.
ing donors to give directly to
a tuition fund that would help
fund grants instead of loans.
Both candidates suggested
the University should also con-
tinue to lower operating costs.
The University eliminated
$235 million from the general
fund budget between 2003 and
2012, and by 2017 the Universi-
ty plans to reduce or reallocate
costs by $120 million.
Bernstein advocated for a
plan that would offer more
classes during spring and sum-
mer months to better utilize
space at the University. He
would also like to reduce costs
per credit during less popular
.times to takes classes.
With University President
Mary Sue Coleman's contract
expiring in 2014, Ryder Diggs
and Bernstein also emphasized
that one of the most important
roles of the regents in the com-
ing years will to be to select the
University's next leader.
"Electing'the leadership of
the University I think would
probably be the number one"
challenge, Ryder Digg said.
"Because that encompasses
everything else and the leader-
ship will then make a decision
about"

Syrian regime intensifies attacks,
United Nations-backed truce fails

Thrkey distances
itself from calls for a
no-fly zone
BEIRUT (AP) - Syrian war-
planes fired missiles at oppo-
sition strongholds around
Damascus and in the north on
Wednesday as Turkey, a key
backer of the anti-regime rebels,
appeared to distance itself from
an earlier call to impose a no-fly
zone.
The Syrian regime has inten-
sified airstrikes in recent days
following the failure of a U.N.-
backed holiday truce over a four-
day holiday that never took hold.
Activists said at least 110 people
were killed nationwide in air-
strikes, artillery shelling and
fighting Wednesday.
Wednesday's casualties
pushed the death toll since the
conflict began in March 2011
to more than 36,000, accord-
ing to Rami Abdul-Rahman, the
head of the Britain-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights.
Much of the violence took
place in rebellious suburbs of
the capital Damascus and in the
northern provinces of Idlib and
Aleppo. The Observatory said
government jets carried out mul-
tiple strikes in the eastern Ghou-
ta district, a rebel stronghold
close to the capital.
Airstrikes also hit the rebel-
held city of Maaret al-Numan,
according to Observatory, which
gathers reports from a network
of activists on the ground. The

city straddles a key supply route
from Damascus to Aleppo and
has become a main front in the
civil war.
In the past weeks, the regime
has intensified airstrikes on
rebel positions and strongholds,
particularly Maaret al-Numan,
a city of 180,000 people that fell
to rebel forces on Oct. 10. A for-
mer resident of the city said more
than 70 homes have been leveled
as a result of air bombardments
this week alone.
"The Syrian air force doesn't
leave the skies. When the war-
plane goes, the helicopter
comes," the resident who iden-
tified himself as Ahmad told
The Associated Press in a phone
interview. He spoke from a near-
by village and would only give
his first name for fear of reprisals
from the regime.
Most of the city's inhabitants
have fled due to heavy fighting,
Ahmad said.
"Everyone has fled, you can't
live here anymore," Ahmad said,
adding that rebel groups, includ-
ing the al-Qaida inspired Jabhat
al-Nusra, had flocked to the area
to defend it.
A bomb hidden in a garbage
bag exploded in an area near
Damascus that is home to a Shiite
Muslim shrine, killing 11 people
and wounding 39, state-run news
agency SANA said. The blast was
in a suburb of the capital hous-
ing the golden-domed shrine
of Sayeda Zeinab, the Prophet
Muhammad's granddaughter,
which is popular with Iranian
worshippers and tourists.

SANA also reported a car
bomb explosion in the Damascus
suburb of Moaddamiya and said
it said caused several casualties.
By late Wednesday, the Obser-
vatory had reported more than
130 casualties nationwide, more
than 40 of them government sol-
diers.
The U.N. refugee agency,
meanwhile, said it delivered
badly needed humanitarian aid
to internally displaced Syrians in
the northern cities of Aleppo and
Idlib, as well as in Homs in the
center of the country and Has-
sakeh and Raqqa in the north-
east.
Speaking in Jordan,
UNHCR's regional spokesman
Ron Redmond said cooking
materials, blankets, mattress-
es, and sanitary supplies were
delivered to almost 3,000 Syr-
ians who fled the fighting in the
past weeks and have been left
homeless.
The international community
remains at a loss about how to
stop the war in Syria. The U.S.
and other Western and Arab
nations have called on Assad
to step down, while China and
Russia have stood by the regime
and blocked moves to censure
Syria at the U.N. Security Coun-
cil. Iran also backs the regime.
Internationally sanctioned
cease-fires have failed and
world powers appear to have
stepped away from previous talk
of imposing a no-fly zone or set-
ting up a safe area in the coun-
try's north for civilians fleeing
the violence.


4A - Thursday, Novernber 1, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

4A - Thursday, November 1, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
System of a down
Polarized politics limit democratic process
T he 2012 election is a time of big money and small sound bites
- two parties and a single choice. Though our world is grow-
ing ever more complex, the way we think and talk in public
arena is, increasingly crass and simple. Nuance has been replaced by
talking points, subtlety by catchphrases. Our democracy is broken.
It has been broken by a system of polarizing campaigns from two
major parties satisfied w ith winning elections rather than push-
ing our nation forward.

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
I had to go to the wine cellar and
find a good bottle of wine and
drink it before it goes bad."
-Murry Stegelmann, founder of investment-management firm Kilimanjaro Advisors LLC,
after he lost power in Darien, Conn. due to Hurricane Sandy.
It's how good you look

I
I

Historically, candidates have had two
main routes to successfully win an election:
money and incumbency. Over the last decade,
more than 80 percent of Senate races and
more than 90 percent of House seats were
won by the candidate who spent the most
money campaigning, according to website
Opensecrets.org. Combined with the fact
that in 50 years, the re-election rate for the
House has yet to dip below 85 percent for an
election cycle and the average rate for Senate
during the same period exceeds 80 percent,
one can understand it's difficult to hear for
new voices and new ideas to be heard.
It's a self-sustaining cycle in which candi-
dates get themselves elected with expensive
initial campaigns, fueling re-elections with
incumbency and money from larger donors
interested in investing in the winningest
candidates, to advocate their interests. More
money is being spent to see the same people
do the same things over and over.
Neither of the two major parties have a
significant problem with this current situ-
ation, as it benefits each. As a result of only
addressing one another in debates, speeches
and platforms, the two parties marginalize
third parties, further increasing their own
odds of winning. From a candidate's per-
spective it's better to share 50/50 odds with

a single opponent than admit there may be
more than two choices. Dividing issues into
two answers forces the public to take one of
two sides - us against them - which only
propagates further divisions. Our parties
have become the teams we root for, rather
than the ideals to which we aspire.
There's no conspiracy forcing our system
to be this way. It's the stability of the low-
est common denominator. Candidates want
the populace to believe there are only two
choices.
It's a cycle that needs to change, because
if politicians can get us talking about only
two strict platforms, they do so at the
expense of all the other issues we face. This
explains why every major campaign is con-
tent to focus merely on the topic of the day
in a series of pivot-point discussion. Big
Bird and empty chairs shouldn't even mat-
ter in a world of endless wars and indefinite
detention, of Arab Springs and falling dicta-
tors. In a world where rights are limited by
sexual orientation and pay is discriminated
by gender, we need more than tired, duel-
ing slogans. We need a system that encour-
ages input from a greater variety of sources.
Disagreeing with both major candidates is
a legitimate position to hold and it is about
time we respected that.

t's almost the end of freshman
year, and I'm treating myself
to a complimentary coffee in
the back of the
lecture hall'fol-
lowing a gruel-
ing presentation.
While stirring
in my sugar, I
feel a hand on
the small of my
back - a place
I wouldn't nor- HEMA
mally expect KARUNA-
to feel one. KARAM
Startled, I turn
around.
My glance falls to the Cartier
watch, the perfectly polished shoes,
the well-tailored suit and twin-
kling eyes, all belonging to the most
attractive guy in the class. "Good job
on your presentation," he says with
a wink, his face a little too close to
mine. All the hallmarks of a Class-A
creep, but instead of feeling uncom-
fortable, I'm elated.
All our lives we're told that
appearance shouldn'tmatter.We still
remember the singsong voices of our
elementary school teachers remind-
ing us "it's what's inside that counts."
But somehow, the more we experi-
ence "the real world," the more this
notion falls apart.
A borderline creep has been noted
as nothing more than a charm-
ing classmate in my book because
I've got a weakness for his chiseled
jawline and perfect teeth. Physical
attractiveness shouldn't, in theory,
affect our perceptions of others, but
it's a glaring fact that it does.
In fact, the effect of attractiveness
on social perception also extends
into the political arena. Opponents
of the women's suffrage movement in
the early 20th century claimed that
women, incapable of educating them-
selves on important issues, would
simply vote for the more attractive

candidate. Even today, jokes and
memes have sprung up across the
Internet commenting on the attrac-
tiveness of the 2012 Republican ticket
andthe influence itmayhave. Politics
may be dirty at times, but is there
anything wrong with unintention-
ally appealing to an inherent human
desire for physical attractiveness?
This bias isn't limited to men. A
2011 study showed that women who
wore makeup appeared more com-
petent than those who didn't. Con-
versely, attractiveness may also be
perceived as a negative trait, espe-
cially for women. As anengineer, I've
certainly heard that female students
who appear to spend more time car-
ing abouthow theylook are probably
less intelligent as a result. Whether
positive or negative, the evidence of
these instinctual judgments we all
make is everywhere. But should its
prevalence make it OK?
Furthermore, should it affect our
actions one way or another? As men-
tioned previously, the bias swings
both ways for women - making
yourself appear more attractive may
help, or it may harm. And while some
men may reap professional benefits
from an attractive face or body, the
reverse holds true for them too. After
all, aren't the most attractive guys at
any college party assumed to be the
biggest d-bags? Regardless of what
we've been taught, it's a fact in the
real world that looks do matter. But
it seems that changing how we look
for others won't always produce the
intended result.
So the fear of other people's judg-
ment shouldn't make a difference in
how we present ourselves, fine. But
we learned that in kindergarten.
That can't be nearly nuanced enough
of an answer for us today.
Many of us feel our self-worth
judged by our appearance - wheth-
er positively or negatively - for the
first time while we're in college.

No kind of appeal will make people
stop judging physical appearance.
And while we may reprimand those
who speak out about the appear-
ance of others, we can't control
people's inward thoughts. To some
degree, bias associated with attrac-
tiveness is simply human instinct,
and it shouldn't be seen as some-
thing wrong. So perhaps the best
we can do is recognize that this bias
exists, and simply strive to remem-
ber that underneath everyone's skin
is a real person.
Appearance
matters in the
real world.

4

Sure, maybe you think Rep. Paul
Ryan is more attractive than Vice
Presidential Joe Biden. And as long
as you don't forget about their poli-
cies, that's okay. Maybe a touch of
lipstick will make your interviewer
take you-more seriously - or maybe
they'll judge you more. Just remem-
ber that it could go either way, and
strike a balance.
And finally, perhaps we should
all take things a little less seriously.
To that guy in my freshmen class:
Your musky cologne may have sent
me reeling into over-analysis, won-
dering how I would have reacted
if that had been anyone else in our
class. But in all honesty, you could
have been just genuinely trying to
be nice. So for now, hey - I'll just
take the compliment.
- Hema Karunakaram can be
reached at Khema@umich.edu.
Follow her @HemaKarunakaram.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata,-Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
LET TER T THE EDITOR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
'U'must promoteprivacy and political e-mail lists - deserved privacy.
After the new MCommunity directory made
TO THE DAILY: this problem more visible, it took the Univer-
The Michigan Daily article "Accidental sity's IT department months to acknowledge
grade leak a breach of federal law" failed to and fix the problem. When I contacted the IT
mention a little-known but key fact about department July 2011, I met a wall of intransi-
these regulations. It also provides an impor- gence, and only after significant pressure from
tant opportunity to consider the University of the faculty senate were improvements made.
Michigan's failure to establish a culture that Worse yet, these problems had been known for
values student privacy. almost a decade.
The Family Educational Rights and Pri- A second example of the University's fac-
vacy Act, which governs the privacy of edu- ile attitude to student privacy occurred when
cational records, is a largely toothless piece it released GSI evaluations under a FOIA
of legislation. If a university violates FERPA, request from the Daily in winter 2011. The
it's up to the Department of Education to university had an obligation to protect the
ensure the university modifies its behavior. privacy of its graduate student instructors,
It can do so only by threatening to remove whose teaching often forms a crucial part of
federal funding, which it can do only if the their education as future professors.
university refuses to comply. Many of these evaluations should have been
What are the chances the federal govern- protected from an FOIA request by FERPA,
ment is going to deprive a university of funding since they constituted educational records for
for biomedical research and student financial those who teach as part of their educational
aid over a privacy violation? According to the program. When I contacted the University's
Student Press Law Center, there hasn't been a legal counsel about this last year, they admitted
single case of a university losingsuch funding. that they failed to screen for this. Had FERPA
Courts have ruled that students whose privacy been stronger - if, for example, the University
rights have been violated have no right to sue would have been liable to lawsuits from GSIs
their educational institutions. This removes - or, more importantly, if the University had a
the University's strongest incentive to ensure culture that truly respected privacy, these mis-
privacy rights are protected - liability. takes might not have been made.
We already live in an educational system A slightly stronger FERPA might help mat-
too encumbered by bureaucracy and fears of ters more than it hurts, but universities like
liability. To add to this would be dangerous. Michigan should hold themselves to a higher
This isolated accidental disclosure of students' standard than the federal regulations any-
grades in a single course, while unfortunate, way. We don't need more red tape or more
shouldn't lead to hundreds of lawsuits against antagonism between the various members of
the University. But the weakness of these laws the community.
does encourage a perfunctory and often cava- Rather, we need a culture where all parts
lier attitude to privacy, as two other recent of the university work together to uphold the
incidents show. University's core values, values that must
For many years, the University's online include privacy along with academic freedom,
directory publicly revealed students' mem- education and the pursuit of knowledge.
berships in e-mail lists. While some list mem-
berships were relatively innocuous, others Rafe Kinsey
- such as memberships in LGBT, religious Ph.D. student
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do
not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.
BRAD FINGEROOT I VIEWPOINT
S 'no' to Prop

a

A

On Nov. 6, Michigan residents will
vote on a constitutional mandate
requiring electric utilities to provide
a quarter of our states'electric power
from renewable sources by 2025.
This seemingly progressive amend-
ment appears to be a noble pursuit,
but appeals to thoughtless pathos
and would place an insolventburden
on the backs of Michiganders.
Contrary to the arguments set
forth by special interest groups
poised to financially gain by its
passage, Proposal 3 is anything
but a rational, forward-thinking
policy. If approved, this proposal
would mandate that Michigan's
energy providers meet the 25-per-
cent standard, regardless of cost,
changes in technology or energy
needs. It would require the imple-
mentation of roughly 3,100 new
wind turbines across half a million
acres of land to meet this standard.
And that doesn't take into account
the $12-billion cost, directly hit-
ting Michigan residents and
Michigan-based businesses, nor
the steep expected increase in our
energy bills, estimated at roughly
25 percent.
The proponents of Proposal 3
have advanced this cause and tar-

geted our wallets, yet they don't
have a plan with which to imple-
ment their irresponsible policy.
Michigan already has a compre-
hensive energy policy, and studies
show that our air and water are the
cleanest they've been in more than
two generations. Energy providers
in our state are on target to meet
the 10-percent renewable goal by
2015. In fact, Consumer Energy
plans to spend $600 million in
harvesting renewable technology
in the next five years, while DTE
Energy will invest $1.5 billion dur-
ing this time span.
A "yes" vote on Proposal 3 not
only threatens Michigan's sus-
tainable energy outlook, but puts
the competitiveness of our state
economy in jeopardy. After Repub-
lican Gov. Rick Snyder ushered in
the replacement of the job-killing
Michigan Business Tax with a
flat, 6-percent corporate income
tax, Bloomberg Economic Evalu-
ation of States rated Michigan's
economic health growth as sec-
ond best in the nation. Our state is
moving toward once again being
the epicenter of the global econ-
omy, as we were at the height of
the auto industry's strength. Pas-

sage of Proposal 3 would stop this
forward momentum in its tracks.
According to the Mackinac Cen-
ter for Public Policy, a free market
think tank, the "25x25" mandate
will cost our state 10,540 jobs. As
of September 2012, Michigan's
unemployment"rate is 9.3 percent.
This isn't the time to dampen our
state's already fragile recovery.
On the surface, Proposal 3 may
seem like a positive step for our
statebutit's awolfinsheep's cloth-
ing. There's a reason that none of
the other 49 states set their ener-
gy policy through constitutional
mandates - it's a dangerous abuse
of constitutional law. Proposal 3
would tie our own hands behind
our backs, limiting the state's abil-
ity to pursue practical solutions
in an ever-changing technologi-
cal world. This is reckless policy
that's bad for our energy future
and bad for everyday Michigan-
ders. Tell the out-of-state special
interest groups funding this pro-
posal that our constitution is not
for sale. I strongly urge voters to
reject this proposal and vote "no"
on Proposal 3.
Brad Fingeroot is an LSA freshman.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 5A

The ichganDail - ichgandilyom hursayNovmber1, 012- 4

Taylor shines as starter

By LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Editor
Raymon Taylor is still a little
uneasy speaking to the media.
Tuesday, he felt the need to
fill the silence before reporters
started asking questions with an
uncomfortable, "Um, hi every-
one!"
The reporters gave a little
chuckle and the interview got
underway. The spotlight is still
pretty new for the sophomore
cornerback, who has been doing
exceedingly well in replacing
sophomore Blake Countess, who
suffered a season-ending knee
injury in the opener against Ala-
bama.
Countess was supposed to
be the rising star of Michigan's
secondary this season, which
experts agreed was the Wolver-
ines' strong suit on the defensive
side of the ball. Very suddenly,
question marks arose over who
would fill in and play the second
corner position opposite fifth-
year senior J.T. Floyd.
Junior cornerback Courtney
Avery earned significant expe-
rience last season and had the
first crack at the job. But a cou-
ple weeks later, it was apparent
coaches had more faith in playing
Taylor, and they named him the
starter.
"Well, I think he gets better
each week," said Michigan coach
Brady Hoke. "I think the one
thing about Raymon, he's pretty
physical. He's tough. I think he's
making progress."
Taylor's physicality makes a
lot of sense because of his back-
ground as the boundary corner,
meaning he plays more on the
shorter side of the field where the
ball is closer to the sideline.
The boundary cornerback
needs to be a good tackler because
he's oftentimes left on an island in
man coverage while safeties are

Sophomore cornerback Raymon Taylor has been a surprising success as Michigan's replacement cornerback.

Haley Jones vital
to Blue's success
By MAX COHEN success this season.
Daily Sports Writer "When they're having a good
game, I'd like to say I'm having a
When traveling to a daunting good game too," Jones said. "I'm
opponent's home field, the most comfortable with the defense
comforting thing for a team can that we have in the backfield
be turning around and seeing right now so it lets me step up
a stalwart goalie in its own net. and be a little bit more aggress
The Michigan field hockey team sive."
has relied on junior goalie Haley Pankratz said she feels that
Jones to be all that and more as having a dependable goalie has
she earned Big Ten Defensive a great effect on the rest of the
Player of the Week honors last team.
week for her performances at No. "The players in front of her are
12 Iowa and Central Michigan, playing with a lot of confidence
which culminated a successful because they know she's back
regular season. there playingsolid, and that mat-
Against the Hawkeyes, Jones ters alot," Pankratz said.
recorded 10 saves while setting in addition to her success in
the tone for Michigan's key con- the net, Jones plays a large role
ference victory. She followed up off of the field as a team captain,
that performance two days later earning praise from Pankratz for
by recording the team's fifth her leadership abilities.
shutout of the season against the "She works hard every day,"
Chippewas. Despite her personal Pankratz said. "She's responsible
success, Jones views the recog- and she's a good person."
nition as a part of the team's suc- Jones's stellar play couldn't
cess. have come at a better time for
"It shows that our program is Michigan as it enters the Big
doing well this year," Jones said. Ten Tournament with a poten-
"There was a lot of skepticism tial NCAA Tournament bid on
coming in because we're young." the line. Jones views the Big
The Wolverines will enter Ten Tournament as a chance to
the Big Ten Tournament against showcase the team's improve-
Ohio State on Thursday riding a ment throughout the year.
six-game winning streak, thanks "We've come a long way from
in large part to Jones. our first games to where we
"She's been keepingus in every are now," Jones said. "I think
game, making the saves that she we've grown a lot. Our ultimate
needs to make and then making goal is to show how much we've
some spectacular saves to help improved and get the wins."
us win the game," said Michigan If Jones continues her recent
coach Marcia Pankratz. streak of play that earned her
The Wolverines finished the Big Ten Defensive Player of
their regular season with a 12-5 the Week award, the potential
record, and Jones allowed just is limitless for the Wolverines,
27 goals on the season, only Pankratz said.
averaging 1.67 goals against per' "When she's playing well- like
game. Jones chooses to credit she is, our team can do amazing
the defense for a great deal of her things," Pankratz said.

helping more in the middle and
to the other side of the field. The
reason safeties tend to help less
on the boundary side is because
boundary corners, like Taylor,
can use the sideline as an extra
defender, forcing his man out of
bounds. Opposite the boundary
corner is the field corner, where
Floyd has been playing in Count-
ess's absence. The field corner
doesn't have the same luxury of
pushing his man toward the side-
line because there's more space
for the receiver to work with. So
he'd be more inclined to funnel
his man to the inside of the field,
where safeties are there to help.
It's crucial that the field cor-
ner's technique is solid because
coverage there is key. But Hoke
says that sometimes he has a
harder time finding .a physical
corner who could play the bound-
ary.
"I think they all want to be
cover corners," Hoke said. "So any
time it comes to physicality, that's
always difficult."

Taylor claims that he has
since been learning to play on
both sides of the field, which has
allowed him to become a more
versatile defender.
"The corners can stay on each
side now, we don't have to keep
running back and forth from one
side to the other," Taylor said. "So
that's great for me and J.T. and
Courtney."
Essentially, from play to play,
the short side of the field could
be on either side, depending on
where the ball is spotted on the
line of scrimmage. So, closer to
the beginning of the season, Tay-
lor and Floyd had to keep switch-
ing sides between plays based on
where the short side of the field
was. According to Taylor, now
they can stay put for the most
part, with the understanding that
their responsibilities may change
from playto play.
"I could play both sides of the
field now," Taylor said. "The first
game, I was just boundary, and
now I could play field and bound-

ary, so that's the biggest part."
Taylor's qualityplayhas helped
Michigan's pass defense become
one of the best in the country -
the best, according to the stingy
145.3 passing yards it surrenders
per game. Part ofthat statistic is a
byproduct of opponents running
more against the Wolverines' rel-
atively weak front seven.
Still, coaches say they are
excited about Taylor's develop-
ment, especially as they look to
the future, when he and Countess
will presumably play together for
the next couple of years.
And Countess hasn't been
totally absent during his rehab.
He has been helping Taylor.
"Blakehe makes surehecomes
to all the meetings, so we still still
sit down. It's like he's playing, he's
just not on the field," Taylor said.
"Like he told me before we went
to Nebraska, because he played
against them last year, they were
running double moves.
"He just said, 'Your technique
will set you free.'"

Burke suspended for season-
opening exhibition vs. NMU

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Junior defenseman Kevin Clare has returned to the defensive corps after missing some time with a right arm injury.
injuries set defense back

By LIZ NAGLE son.
Daily Sports Writer After skating with the U.S.
National Team Development
The Michigan hockey team's Program's under-18 team from
defensive corps has lost a little 2008-10, Merrill enjoyed a stellar
depth since the beginning of the rookie campaign. With the recent
season. injury, Merrill can't contribute to
The ranks began to slim on the struggling defense that has
Oct. 9 with Jon Merrill's injury surrendered 3.20 goals per game,
in the Wolverines' 7-3 exhibition the third-highest average in the
win over Windsor. The junior CCHA.
defenseman was checked into the Berenson originally anticipat-
boards and cracked his seventh ed a recovery time of six weeks,
vertebrae. Locked in a brace that but that frame remains uncer-
immobilizes his neck and armors tain. Merrill has spent his time
his torso, Merrill watches prac- watching film on the power play,
tice every day from the bleachers strengthening his lower body and
in Yost Ice Arena. Due to an exten- taking a more vocal role on the
sive recovery process, he won't be team.
back in actionfor several weeks. "He'll maximize his time off
Before he was injured, Merrill the ice," said Michigan coach
was named to the all-CCHA pre- Red Berenson. "He's been great.
season first team with 44 points, He's into the team. He's into the
including eight first place votes. school. He's into the program.
The defensive standout, however, He's had some tough setbacks, but
is on a limited timetable to "leave he's handled every one of them
a legacy" as Michigan coach Red with a lot of class."
Berenson expressed in the pre- Merrill skated with freshman
season. Merrill also missed a large defenseman Jacob Trouba while
portion of last season due to a sus- the lines were healthy and intact.
pension. But Berenson was forced to make
Merrill was suspended for the alterations when the plague of
first 22 games last year after an injuries struck without warning.
undisclosed violation of team Junior defenseman Kevin
rules. In his return, he helped Clare, who recorded the second-
lift the team to reach the NCAA most blocks on the team last
Midwest Regional and posted 11 season with 50, was paired with
points on a pair of goals and nine Trouba in the opening series
assists in the last half of the sea- against Rochester Institute of

Technology. But during the 7-2
win on Oct. 12, Clare was escorted
off the ice with a trainer support-
ing his right arm.
Fortunately for the Wolver-
ines, Clare was back in the lineup
with a timely recovery, justbefore
splittingtheCCHAscuffle against
Miami (Ohio) last weekend.
But almost as soon as he
returned to the action, another
defenseman found his way to the
disabled list. Sophomore Brennan
Serville suffered a "facial con-
cussion," according to Berenson,
against the RedHawks that kept
him off the ice all week. -
Though, Berenson was hope-
ful for a quick recuperation, he
announced on Wednesday that
Serville will not make the trip to
Northern Michigan after showing
lingering symptoms.
Sophomore Mike Szuma will
be the sixth defenseman dressed
for the series against the Wild-
cats, paired with sophomore Mike
Chiasson, to replace the sidelined
Serville.
"He's played a tough role,"
Berenson said. "Every week, he
works hard and with the idea that
he's probably not going to play."
Because the injury-prone Wol-
verines have substituted healthy
players in and out of the lineup,
the remaining pieces of the defen-
sive corps have struggled to adjust
accordingly.

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
Better an exhibition game than
a regular-season game, but prob-
ably best not at all. .
Preseason All-American Trey
Burke is suspended for the No. 5
Michigan bas-
ketball team's N .
first exhibition N.MiChigan
game Thursday at Michigan
against North- Matchup:
ern Michigan NMU 0-0;
for a "violation Michigan 0-0
of team stan- When: Thurs-
dards," accord- day 7 p.m.
tog to a team
statement. Where: Crisler
tt wasn't Center
the sophomore Radio:
point guard's MGoBlue.com
first early-sea-
son infraction. Last year, Burke
was late to a team walkthrough,
and ended up coming off the
bench after it was announced he'd
start the season opener against
Ferris State.
"Trey's a good kid and obvious-
ly, as we talked about, he's going
to sit out this game and he'll learn
a very valuable experience," said
Michigan coach John Beilein.
Freshman Spike Albrecht will
start in Burke's place, and will
account for a portion of the 30
minutes Burke was expected to
play. Senior Eso Akunne may also
see time at point guard.
Beilein announced that junior
Tim Hardaway Jr., redshirt junior
center Jordan Morgan and fresh-
man Glenn Robinson III will also
start. He didn't indicate who the
fifth starter would be.
That fifth starter may indicate
whether the Wolverines prefer
to go "big" or "small." If 6-foot-10
freshman Mitch McGary - who
is recovering from a foot injury
but will play tomorrow - gets the
start, Michigan will have McGary.
and Morgan in the frontcourt,
with Robinson and Hardaway
playing as off-the-ball guards.
If senior guard Matt Vogrich or
freshman guard Nik Stauskas
gets plugged into the starting five,
then Robinson may play as an

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Sophomore guard Trey Burke is suspended for Michigan's exhibition opener.

undersized power forward mak-
ing for a smaller, but quicker and
better-shooting lineup.
Jon Horford will be out due to a
knee sprain. The redshirt sopho-
more center missed almost all of
last year because of a foot injury.
Though disappointed in his
point guard's violation, Beilein
was excited to see what some of
the others could do in Burke's
stead, particularly Albrecht, a
Crown Point, Ind. native with a
knack for hittingthe hardwood.
"It must be in the water in that
area of northern Indiana because
he takes charges, Glenn takes
charges, Mitch takes charges,"
Beilein said. "It says a lot about
their whole upbringing and that's
been good. Spike's led us so far."
The exhibition will give the
coaching staff an opportunity to
see how players who may be red-
shirted react to game situations.
"I think we have necessities in a
lot of areas that would be tough to
redshirt some," Beilein said. "But
if we feel somebody's not going to
get significant playing time, and
we really feel he'd be a great one
to have in a fifth year, we make
sure we have all the information
to make that decision."
The player most likely to be
considered for a redshirt is fresh-
man Caris LeVert. The long, rail-

thin guard from Pickerington,
Ohio was the last recruit in the
class to sign, but has impressed
nearly the whole team.
With a logjam of talent at
guard among freshmen though,
and with the other non-starting
guards being seniors, LeVert may
be hard-pressed to find minutes
this year.
"Just watching him play and
how he can use his body, his
frame isso small," Hardawaysaid.
"It's ridiculous how he can get to
different spots on the court."
Beilein also offered a couple
other hints at what this year's
installment of Michigan basket-
ball would look like.
As with last year, Beilein
intends to go mostly with man-
to-man defense, with the pos-
sibility of sprinkling in a few
zone-defense looks. He empha-
sized that the Big Ten was a "man
league."
Beilein also pointed out his
comfort with Albrecht on the
court, noting that he's seen plenty
of time in practice with the first
and second teams.
"He's been very good," Beilein
said. "He's very clever, great
vision, makes some plays that'
make us smile. I'm sure he's going
to make a lot of mistakes along the
way."


6A - Thursday, November 1, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

6A - Thursday, November 1, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Hein, Ezurike lead Michigan to victory

Michigan advances
to face Ohio State
in semifinal match
in Indiana
By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
Daily Sports Writer
When the Michigan women's
soccer team faced then-No. 14
Wisconsin on Sep. 23, it rode a
dominating defensive effort to
pull off the upset. Wednesday
night, that same formula worked
again as the
Wolverines WISCONSIN o
(8-2-2 Big MICHIGAN 2
Ten, 14-4-
2 overall) defeated the Badgers,
2-0, in the Big Ten Tournament
quarterfinals in Bloomington.
The Michigan defense -
which has struggled of late
- shut out Wisconsin (5-6-1,
12-7-1) for its 12th clean sheet
of the season. Senior goalkeep-
er Haley Kopmeyer made four
saves for a program-record 26th
individual shutout of her career.
On the day that she also earned
Big Ten Goalkeeper of the Year
honors.
Kopmeyer said it was becom-
ing routine to blank opponents.
'It's nice to see us getting
back into the swing of things
and playing the way we should,"
Kopmeyer said.
Neither goalkeeper was very
active in the first half, as each
team managed only one shot
on goal. The best early scoring
chance for either side came in
the 14th minute, when Wiscon-
sin goalkeeper Lauren Gunder-
son misplayed a free kick. Junior
forward Nkem Ezurike corralled
the ball, but her short-range shot
sailed just wide of the goalpost.
The Badgers and Wolverines
remained deadlocked into the
second half.
Both sides produced more
offensive opportunities after
halftime. In the 52nd minute,
McKenna Meuer ended a well-
executed Wisconsin counterat-
tack with a shot that missed the
crossbar by inches. The Wolver-
ines then peppered the Badgers
with three corner kicks and five
shots in under two minutes, but
hit the post twice.
In the 56th minute, red-

shirt junior defender Holly
Hem broke thescoreless draw
for good. After the Wolverines
earned their third consecutive
corner kick, Hein pushed for-
ward to provide an extra offen-
sive body. Junior forward Shelby
Chambers-Garcia took the set
piece, and Hein stood near the
far post while her teammates
all broke towards the opposite
side of the net. The Wisconsin
defenders lost their marks, and
Hein was unguarded as she
launched a header on goal. The
shot hit a defender but bounced
right back to Hein, who quickly
buried the rebound for her sec-
ond goal of the season.
"It's a good feeling," Hein
said. "(Chambers-Garcia) put
in the perfect ball to the back
post."
Down a tally and facing tour-
nament elimination, the Badgers
began sending more players for-
ward. When they did, Ezurike
and the Michigan offense took
advantage of the extra space. In
the 75th minute. uinior midfield-

er Meghan Toohey lofted a long
through bali past the Wisconsin
defense. Ezurike settled the pass
and tapped it past Gunderson-to
double the Wolverines' lead.
It was her 12th goal of the
season in as many conference
games.
The Badgers nearly answered
in the 82nd minute when Wis-
consin midfielder Monica Lam-
Feist dribbled into the 18-yard
box, but her powerful shot was
kept out of the net by a diving
Kopmeyer.
Neither side threatened
again, and the Wolverines held
on forthe victory.
"We pressured them better
throughout the entire game,"
said Michigan coach Greg Ryan.
"We went into halftime know-
ing that ... we were going to
get enough chances to win the
game."
Michigan advances to the
semifinals where it will face
Ohio State on Friday afternoon.
The Buckeyes defeated Nebras-
ka. 1-0, on Wednesdav.

MEN'S CRO SCOUJNTRY
Beams and
Rayyan:
walk-ons to
co-captains
ByNATE SELL
Daily Sports Writer
Two then-freshmen runners
sat next to each other on the bus
back to North Campus - legs
sore and exhausted. Neither was
recruited by the Michigan cross
country team, but both found
their way onto the team as walk-
ons and were feeling the strug-
gles that come with collegiate
running. Both had success at
small high schools in Michigan,
but not enough to draw interest
from Michigan.
Three years later,juniors Mark
Beams and Morsi Rayyan are still
side by side and have become the
driving force of the Michigan
cross country team.
In 2010, with Michigan tempo-
rarily without.a head cross coun-
try coach, Beams walked into the
track coach's office during sum-
mer orientation to talk about the
possibility of running in college.
Based on his high school perfor-
mances, Beams got a spot on the
roster. Rayyan had a similar story,
but he just waited until closer to
the season after Michigan had
decided on a coach.
"I talked to the new coach,
which was Alex Gibby, and I
guess he just decided to give me
a shot and bring me to camp,"
Rayyan said. "I got here not
knowing what I was doing as far
as running. It was a whole new
world with a much higher level of
training."
Now that they had gotten a
chance to be on the team, it was
up to them to prove that they
belonged there. They put in the
work during practice every day to
keep up with the rest of the team
and overcome the looming pres-
sure of getting cut.
"My freshman year, I was defi-
nitely not one of the most gifted
guys on the team," Beams said. "It
was a struggle every day."
But every day it was Beams
and Rayyan making the trip back
to their dorm rooms on North
Campus when practice ended.
They stuck together because they
had similar stories. They became
closer because of their isolation
from the rest of the recruited
teammates in South Quad Resi-
dence Hall and West Quad Resi-
dence Hall.
This helped them improve as
runners and in their first year
they each had a breakout perfor-
mance. For Rayyan, it was a 'B'
team race in Wisconsin halfway
through the season.
"He was the only guy out of
the 12 I brought there that was
remotely competitive," said
Michigan coach Alex Gibby. "He
didn't do things perfectly, but you
could tell he had no fear and he
just went out and did his best."
Beams had to wait a little lon-
ger for things to click, but they
did near the end of his freshman
year, when he ran a 10,000-meter

race unattached at Hillsdale Col-
lege.
Running unattached meant
that he was not representing
Michigan even though he was in
a collegiate race - he was run-
ning as an independent athlete.
He finished as one of the top-20
freshmen in the race.
"That really had an impact on
me, and I thought at that point
that maybe I could be a helpful
and productive collegiate runner
and help bring Michigan back to
where it should be in running,"
Beams said.
Their successes came with
help from the newly hired Gibby
who was looking to get Michi-
gan's running program back on
track. Over the past three years,
he has done just that.
At this year's Big Ten Champi-
onships last weekend, Beams and
Rayyan were side by side once
again, except this time it was on
stage as they received All-Big Ten
honors - Beams finished 14th,
while Rayyan finished 13th with
only two seconds separating the
two.
"Now we are co-captains with
three other runners," Beams said.
"It's kind of cool that we started
in a similar place and followed a
similar path and landed on the
Big Ten stand together."

,i

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
(Top) Junior forward Nkem Ezurike capped the scoring by poking a shot past Wisconsin goalie Lauren Gunderson late in the second half. (Bottom) Redshirt
junior defender Holly Hein scored early in the second half to give Michigan a 0- lead early in the second half of its victory in the Big Ten Tournament.
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, November 1, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Imam Khomeini 37 Professional org. 52 Pequod sinker
1 That-funny link Intemational 39 Kitchen utensil 53 Paymentoption
6 Assistance Airport locale 40 Tough rowto 56 Short range
9 Tread heavily 6 Speed skater _ hoe 57 Creditcard name
14 Namee sn Antonr O m di High deg. with a red arc
mosmetics 7 Pastoral poem 47 Hot-blooded oernit
15 Droid, e.g. 8 Marx's ". 'BOne ot H8Onewhogets
16 Sine or secant Kapital" Caliornia's whatnscoming
17 "All Summer 9 Oscar's place Cantas 59 Business sign
Long" singers 10 Fireside chat 48Sanctioned abbt.
19 Name of two medium
presidents 11 Hokkaido seaport 50 Prove useful 61 Uniform item,
20 Footthe bill for 12 Actress Rogers 51 Teary-eyed perhaps
21 Egyptian et al. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
underworld 13 Western party
boss? 18Barrio foodnstore C H I M E R A C E N T A U R
22 lbsen classic 21 Munchen-to- R A V E L E D I D B A D G E
24Steep-sided Wien heading I N E X I L E T W A D D L E
valley 23"The Maltese B A S I C K E Y S Y
28 Available without Falcon" actor C I RCA N R C
an Rn 24 Stinkers M! N 0 TIA U R N E S S I E
29 Electron hnme 25 Working away
30 Paraphernalia 26Swing _ AMA H T T P L I N D A
33 Tough watchdog 27 "Hand me a bat!" S H I A T S U E L Y S E E S
38 Early 31 Film composer K I S S Y P A R A L A Y
Shakespearean Morricone S P H I N X G O D Z I L L A
tragedy 32Country Time S E T U N D I D
41 Process start suffix A C E R C A P I E T Y
42 Note'en once 34Taruan G A L I L E O P A G O D A S
42 R I G A M I I N U T I L E
44 Wire service 35Works on a cake 0 R E N A M N I T E L
abbr. 36 "Fantasia"" G R E NiDEL MO0NS T ER
46 Fairlady hipponwsear xwordeditor@aol.com 11/01/12
automaker 1 2 3 4 s0 0 a 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
48 New England
order 14 15 16
i4 Imposed 17,9
55 Bothersometype
60 Visibly stunned 20 21
61 Wirelfasteners,
and a hinttothis 22 23
puzzle's circled
letters 20 2n26 27 2
02 Indian yogurt dip 2 no 31 32 a o a 37
63 Rhyming boost
64 Tag line? 38 aa
65 _ & Bacon:
textbook 01 00 00
publisher no4nos on
66 Favorite
67 "Fun, Fun, Fun" 449 5 523a
ridefor the 17-
Across 4 55 56 57 s8 59
DOWN 60 s
1 Friday on the air s2 s3 64
2 On a steamer,
say n no e
3 Getz of jazz
4 Get romantic, in ByDavir.ooire s
a way (0212 Triune Mei ervices,Ie, 11/Q1/12

! FALL 2013- -3000/MO 945
Greenwood - 5 bdrm 2 bath, pking,
washer/dryer, large
living rm. David Cole 734-834-4010.
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
t Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve.
now for 2013 (Spring or fall). U-M's
BEST housing sold out early 2012. Re-
serve your space for 2013 today. 2
blocksfrom Central Campus and down-
town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $665. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
!!LARGE CENTRAL
CAMPUS HOMES!!
www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
(734) 332-6000
a www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!.
4 BDRM/2 BATH House
Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
Avail. Sept. 2013. 734-395-6823
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2013. dklemptner@comcast.net
AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6 bdrm houses
www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
or email louisbreskman@gmail.com
FALL 2013 HOUSES
#Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4600
7 1129 White St $4200
6 605 Catherine $3720
6 711lArbor $4200
716 E.Kingsley $3700
6 829 Packard $3900
5 910 Greenwood $3600
4 505 Sauer (May) $2440
4 507 Sauer Ct $2300
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2280
4 1010 Cedar Bend $2200
4 1037 Packard $2400
Tenants pay all utilities.
Leasing starts Nov. 9th.
Reservations Accepted.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991

CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
insites you to visit
www.CampusMgt~com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS
6 and 7 bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368
FALL 2013 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 S FourthAve, furn., dwshr., dis-
posal, /dry., parking, central A/C, high
speed internet, hardwood floors, alarm
system, heat and water included.
$3300/mo. 734-662-7121 or
gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2013 HOUSES:
6 & 8 bedroom, call 734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
WWW.HOUSING.UMICH.EDU
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
H ELP WANTED
MODELS NEEDED. EMAIL at
globalphotographya2@gmail.com
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILL
& pub at310 Maynard is pleased to an-
nounce they are currently hiring for
punctual, proficient COOKS that pay a
great attention to details. Apply within.
No phone calls.
VETERINARY RECEPTIONIST/
ASSISTANT Part Time. No experi-
ence required. Apply in person a
Arbor Hills Animal Clinic or
Call 734 668 1466.

SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRIL '
& pub at 310 Maynard is pleased to an-
nounce they are currently hiring fo
punctual, proficient FLOORMAN tha
pay great attention to details. Appy
within. No phone calls.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeonliservnet

Check us out and get
A FREE INSOMNIA
COOKIE with
all new tours!
Best Apartments
ON Central
Campus!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
BRAND NEIL LUXURY
APARTENTS ON
THE e FLOOR
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
Univer ity
Towe


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 7A

Afghans set date for elections;
Taliban denounces efforts

President Barack Obama, left, embraces Donna Vanzant, right, during a tour of a neighborhood effected by superstorm Sandy.
Vanzant is an owner of North Point Marina, which was damaged by the storm.
Obama tours storm damage,
Romne mutes rhetoric

Spring 2014 election
crucial for country's
security, stability
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP)
- Afghans will elect a new
president in the spring of 2014
in a ballot considered crucial
for their country's stability
and security after more than 11
years of war.
Afghan politicians and the
country's foreign backers hailed
Wednesday's announcement
as a step . toward a peaceful
transition of power. The
Taliban, who could make or
break the.poll, denounced it as
meaningless and vowed to keep
on fighting.
The government-appointed
Independent Electoral
Commission set polling day
as April 5, 2014, the same year
that most troops in the U.S.-led
NATO coalition will have left in
a withdrawal that has already
begun.
The date i§ in line with the
Afghan constitution adopted
after the coalition ousted
the Taliban in 2001. But the
Taliban claimed the vote was an
American ploy.
"These are not elections, they
are selections," said spokesman
Qari Youssof Ahmadi. "The U.S.
wants to select those people it
wants and who will work for
the purpose of the enemy. The
Afghans know the country is
occupied by the enemy, so what
do elections mean?"
The Taliban are the country's
main opposition group, and
President Hamid Karzai has in
the past asked the insurgents
to lay -down their weapons

and join the political process.
But they have vowed to keep
fighting.
Still, despite their rhetoric,
it remains unclear what the
insurgents will do ahead of the
elections.
Prospects appear bleak.
Peace talks are stalled and
the Taliban show no signs of
relenting in their fight. During
Karzai's decade in office they
have never recognized him as
president and consider him an
American puppet.
The 2009 poll that gave
Karzai a second term were
marred by allegations of
massive fraud and vote-rigging,
while violence and intimidation
in the Taliban-dominated east
and south helped limit overall
turnout to 33 percent, and more
than one million of the 5.5
million votes cast were ruled
invalid.
The constitution limits
Karzai to two terms, and he
has said he will not try for a
third. But Afghans generally
consider his government to be
corrupt and to have favored his
political allies and members of
his family, and although many
of the allegations have not been
proven, there are concerns he
might seek a way to remain
in power or appoint a family
member to run as a proxy in the
2014 election.
Although no one has openly
declared a candidacy, possible
contenders mentioned so far are
mostly members of the former
Northern Alliance, which
ousted the Taliban after the
American invasion in late 2001.
They include former Foreign
Minister Abdullah Abdullah,
who lost to Karzai in 2009,

and Quayum Karzai, one of the
president's brothers.
The International Crisis
Group, an independent think
tank, warned this month of a
"precipitous slide toward state
collapse" unless steps are taken
soon to prevent a repeat of the
"chaos and chicanery" of the
2009 election.
"Plagued by factionalism
and corruption, Afghanistan
is far from ready to assume
responsibility for security when
U.S. and NATO forces withdraw
in 2014," the Brussels-based
group said.
U.S. Ambassador James
Cunningham said the election
date represented "more than a
day on a calendar. It is symbolic
of the aspiration of Afghans
for elections which will be
crucial.for Afghanistan's future
stability. This will be an Afghan
process, with. the U.S. and
the international community
prepared to provide support and
encouragement to millions of
Afghans who, on April 5, 2014,
will make their mark on history
with a peaceful transition of
political authority."
In Brussels, NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh
Rasmussen called it a "historic
opportunity."
Free and fair elections
are also a key condition for
delivering more than $16 billion
in aid that was pledged at an
international donor conference
last May.
Provincial elections will
be held on the same day as
the presidential poll, and
parliamentary elections will
follow in 2015, said Fazel
Ahmad Manawai, the election
commission's chief.

Romney's newest
ads in Ohio speak for
candidate
BRIGANTINE, N.J. (AP)
- President Barack Obama
soberly toured the destruction
wrought by superstorm Sandy
on Wednesday in the company
of New Jersey's Republican
governor and assured victims
"we will not quit" until cleanup
and recovery are complete. Six
days before their hard-fought
election, rival Mitt Romney
muted criticism of Obama as
he barnstormed battleground
Florida.
Forsaking partisan politics
for the third day in a row, the
president helicoptered with Gov.
Chris Christie over' washed-
out roads, flooded homes,
boardwalks bobbing in the ocean
and, in Seaside Heights, a fire still
burning after ruining about eight
structures.
Back on the ground, the
president introduced one local
woman to "my guy Craig Fugate."
In a plainspoken demonstration
of the power of the presidency,
Obama instructed the man at the
head of the Federal Emergency
Management - Agency, a

7,500-employee federal agency, to
"make sure she gets the help she
needs" immediately.
Despite the tour and Romney's
own expressions of sympathy for
storm victims - a break on the
surface from heated campaigning
- a controversy as heated as any
in the long, intense struggle for
the White House flared over the
Republican challenger's new
television and radio ads in Ohio.
"Desperation," Vice President
Joe Biden said of the broadcast
claims that suggested automakers
General Motors and Chrysler
are adding jobs in China at
the' expense of workers in the
bellwether state. "One of the most
flagrantly dishonest ads I can ever
remember.".
Republicans were unrepentant
as Romney struggled for a
breakthrough in the Midwest.
"American taxpayers are on
track to lose $25 billion as a result
of President Obama's handling
of the auto bailout, and GM and
Chrysler are expanding their
production overseas," said an
emailed statement issued in the
name of Republican running mate
Paul Ryan.
The two storms - one inflicted
by nature, the other whipped
up by rival campaigns - were at
opposite ends of a race nearing its

end in a flurry of early balloting
by millions of voters, unrelenting
advertising and so many
divergent polls that the result was
confusion, not clarity.
National surveys make the
race a tight one for the popular
vote, with Romney ahead by a
statistically insignificant point or
two in some, and Obamain others.
Both sides claim an advantage
from battleground statesoundings
that also are tight. Obama's aides
contend he is ahead or tied in all
of them, while Romney's team
counters that his campaign is
expanding in its final days into
what had long been deemed
safe territory for the president
in Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Minnesota.
The storm added yet another
element of uncertainty, as.
Obama spent a third straight day
embracing his role as incumbent
and Romney tried to tread lightly
during a major East Coast disaster.
The president received a
briefing at the Federal Emergency
Management Agency across town
from the White House before
flying to New Jersey, where
the shoreline absorbed some
of the worst damage in a storm
that killed 50 and laid waste to
New York City's electrical and
transportation systems.

Mexico's Day of Dead brings
difficult memories of missing

Escalating drug
violence increases
disappearances
MEXICO CITY (AP) - Maria
Elena Salazar refuses to set
out plates of her missing son's
favorite foods or orange flowers
as offerings for the deceased on
Mexico's Day of the Dead, even
though she hasn't seen him in
three-and-a-half years.
The 50-year-old former teacher
is convinced that Hugo Gonzalez
Salazar, a university graduate
in marketing who worked for a
telephone company, is still alive
and being forced to work for a
drug cartel because of his skills.
"The government, the
authorities, they know it, that
the gangs took them away to use
as forced labor," said Salazar of
her then 24-year-old son, who
disappeared in the northern city
of Torreon in July 2009.
The Day of the Dead - when
Mexicans traditionally visit
the graves of dead relatives and
leave offerings of flowers, food
and candy skulls - is a difficult
time for the families of the
thousands of Mexicans who have
disappeared amid a wave of drug-
fueled violence.
With what activists call a mix
of denial, hope and desperation,
they refuse to dedicate altars on
the Nov. 1-2 holiday to people
often missing for years. They
won't accept any but the most
certain proof of death, and
sometimes reject even that.
Numbers vary on just how
many people have disappeared in
recent years. Mexico's National
Human Rights Commission says
24,000 people have been reported
missing between 2000 and mid-
2012, and that nearly 16,000
bodies remain unidentified.
But one thing is clear: just as
there are households without

Day of the Dead altars, there
are thousands of graves of the
unidentified dead scattered
across the country, with no one to
remember them.
An investigation conducted by
the newspaper Milenio this week,
involvinghundredsofinformation
requests to state and municipal
governments, indicates that
24,102 unidentified bodies were
buried in paupers' or common
graves in Mexican cemeteries
since 2006. The number is almost
certainly incomplete, since some
local governments refused to
provide figures, Milenio reported.
And while the number of
unidentified dead probably
includes some indigents or dead
unrelated to the drug war, it is
clear that cities worst hit by the
drug conflict also usually showed
a corresponding bulge in the
number of unidentified cadavers.
For example, Mexico City, which
has been relatively unscathed by
drug violence, listed about one-
third as many unidentified burials
as the city of Veracruz, despite the
fact that Mexico City's population
is about 15 times larger.
Consuelo Morales , who
works with dozens of families of
disappeared in the northern city
of Monterrey, said that "holidays
like this, that are family affairs
and are very close to our culture,
stir a lot of things up" for the
families. But many refuse to
accept the deaths of their loved
ones, sometimes even after DNA
testing confirms a match with a
cadaver.
"They'll say to you, 'I'm not
going to put up an altar, because
they're not dead," Martinez noted.
"Their thinking is that 'until they
prove to me that my child is dead,;
he is alive."
Martinez says one family she
works with at the Citizens in
Support of Human Rights center
had refused to accept their
son was dead, even after three

rounds of DNA testing and the
exhumation of the remains.
"It was their son, he was very
young, and he had been burned
alive," Martinez said by way of
explanation.
The refusal to accept what
appears inevitable may be a
matter of desperation. Martinez
said some families in Monterrey
also believe their missing
relatives are being held as virtual
slaves for the cartels, even though
federal prosecutors say they have
never uncovered any kind of drug
cartel forced-labor camp, in the
six years since Mexico launched
an offensive against the cartels.
But many people like Salazar
believeitmustbetrue."Organized
crime is a business, but it can't
advertise for employees openly,
so it has to take them by force,"
Salazar said.
While she refuses to erect an
altar-like offering for her son,
she does perform other rituals
that mirror the Day of the Dead
customs, like the one that involves
scattering a trail of flower petals
to the doorsteps of houses to
guide spirits of the departed back
home once a year.
Salazar and her family still
live in the same home in Torreon,
though they'd like to move, in
the hopes that Hugo will return
there. They pray three times a day
for God to guide him home.
"We live in the same place, and
we try to do the same things we
used to," said Salazar, "because
he is going to come back to his
place, his home, and we have to be
waiting for him."
Mistrust of officials has risen
to such a point that some families
may never get an answer they'll
accept.
The problem is that, with
forensics procedures often sadly
lacking in Mexican police forces,
the dead my never be connected
with the living, which is the whole
point of the Mexican traditions.

Europe takes on Google, looks
to instate "Google tax" on info
Effort aims to limit
U.S. dominance on
Internet
PARIS (AP) - European news
organizations bleeding money ________
and readers are trying to avoid
exinctionbyaskinggovernments
in France, Germany and Italy
to step in and charge Google for
using their content in its search
results - something the Web
giant has always done for free.
Critics - including,
unsurprisingly, Google - say
the strategy is shortsighted
and self-destructive, and the
search engine warns it will stop
indexing European news sites
if forced to pay. But publishers
advocating a "Google tax" aimed
at benefiting their industry point
to the example of Brazil, where
their counterparts abandoned In this Dec. 6, 2011 file photo, cups bearing the Google logo are displayed at
the search engine and say Google France offices before its inauguration, in Paris.
repercussions have been minimal.
The dispute underscores a copyright laws, such as Britain Web traffic, the Brazilian papers
fundamental question facing and Ireland. say.
media agencies around the world: Google's post-meeting Brazilian newspapers haven't
Who should benefit from links statement said the discussions ruled out reopening talks with
to online content that is costly dealt with "the contributions of Google, if the company whose
to produce and yet generates a the Internet to job creation and name is synonymous with
fraction of the ad revenue that the influence of French culture in "search" agrees to pay for their
once allowed newspapers to the world." content. Unlike in Europe, the
flourish? Adding to the pressure on Brazilian publishers have not
Europe has tried to sidestep Google in France, a French turned to their goverment to act
Google before. Six years ago, newspaper reported Wednesday as a mediator or impose a tax as
then-French President Jacques that French authorities are partoftheir dealingswithGoogle.
Chirac unveiled plans for Quaero threateningGoogle with albillion "Newspapers live off
(Latin for "I search") as the euro tax bill and investigating advertising revenues, like Google.
answer to U.S. dominance of the alleged financial wrongdoing. They're our competition and
Internet. The multi-platform Google France denied being they have billions and billions in
search and operating system was notified of such a taxbill and said revenues globally," said Ricardo
supposed. to work with desktop it will "continue to cooperate Pedreira, executive director of
computers, mobile devices and with the French authorities." Brazil's National Association of
even televisions. Government spokeswoman Najat Newspapers.
Despite millions spent to Vallaud-Belkacem wouldn't Still, Pedreira is not convinced
develop Quaero, it went nowhere. comment on the report in the Brazil is a good model for
This week, implicit threats weekly Canard Enchaine, except European nations. "Every
hovered over a meeting between to say that if there were a tax country has a specific reality, and
current French President probe, it would be coveredby laws I think there will probably evolve
Francois Hollande and Eric on fiscal secrecy. different models in each nation,"
Schmidt, Google's executive French publishers, along with he said.
chairman. counterparts in Germany and Others in Brazil have warned
Hollande demanded Google Italy, are hoping Brazil will be about long-term consequences of
reach a deal with publishers the proof that there is a successful the boycott.
over the 'copyright dispute and way to confront Google. Carlos Castilho, a media critic
also address the French taxes it After failing to come to and TV journalist, writing on
escapes by basing its European terms with Google in the past the press watchdog website
headquarters in Ireland. Google year, Brazil's biggest papers Observatorio da Imprensa,
essentially reiterated a point it - representing 90 percent of argued that the boycott was
made in a recent letter to French circulation - decided to boycott a backward strategy, because
publishers: Paris' latest attempt to Google News by essentially "news is everywhere today and
impose itself would force readers making their content unavailable to surround it with walls of
to "Anglo-Saxon" sites based in to anyone usingthe search engine. copyrights is like trying to dry
countries with more favorable The result? Negligible losses in ice."


8A - Thursday, November 1, 2012 '

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Thursday, November 1, 2012 INXX The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Shirvell to start receiving
unemployment benefits
After initial denial 17 decision by Ingham County rather than misconduct.
Judge Paula Manderfield. Shirvell said he is unclear
former assistant In August, Armstrong won to how the state will react to th
$4.5 million in a defamation Oct.17 ruling, but there is a po
attorney general to suit against Shirvell, who had sibility the Attorney General
allegedly harassed Armstrong office will appeal it.
receive funds for being openly gay on his "I'm going to say the decisit
blog "Chris Armstrong Watch," speaks for itself." Shirvell sai
By TUI RADEMAKER claiming he had a ,"radical "It's the correct decision, it
DailyStaffReporter homosexual agenda." Shirvell's right on point. You can't den
original request for unemploy- someone unemployment ber
Despite being fired for mis- ment benefits was denied due to efits because it violates the
conduct in March of this year for the fact that he was dismissed constitutional rights and in th
allegedly stalking and harass- for misconduct. case the state's denial of unen
ing former student body presi- According to Michigan ployment benefits clearly vi
dent Chris Armstrong, former Radio, Lansing Judge Paula lates my constitutional rightst
Michigan assistant attorney Manderfield granted Shirvell freedom expression."
general Andrew Shirvell will unemployment benefits, claim- The Attorney General's offic
begin receiving unemployment ing that he "was fired for con- did not return requests for cot
benefits as the result of an Oct. stitutionally protected speech" ment.

'U' begins construction of
North Campus solar panels

as
he
s-
l's
on
d.
:t's
ny
m-
ir
is
m-
io-
to
ice
m-



MERGER their markets.
He said insurance negotiations
From Page lA are driven by the number of "cov-
ered lives" a health system has,
Beaumont had been discuss- meaning that the more people
ing a merger or affiliation with a hospital serves the greater its
several different health systems, bargaining power with insurance
including UMHS, Crain's Detroit companies. This allows health
Business reported Wednesday. systems to lower their service
According to the partnership's costs.
website, employees will no lon- Because the two hospitals were
ger be considered employees of spending a significant amount
Henry Ford or Beaumont Hospi- of money in the other's markets,
tal, but will become the staff of the merger allows them to com-
the newly combined health care bine their forces and collaborate
system, though the name is not instead of compete, DeGraff said.
yet determined. "There is a political and moral
Business Prof. Jeff DeGraff reasoning behind it," DeGraff
said a merger between the two said. "I can't imagine five years
hospitals was inevitable, and the out that this cross penetration of
entities developed the collabora- markets would go anywhere."
tion to improve their ability to . Henry Ford and Beaumont
negotiate with insurance compa- executiveshave promised to avoid
nies, reduce redundant costs and big layoffs or closures due to the
eliminate the growing overlap in merging process, according to the
PORT HURON movement, the divisions between
FroPORT eURmen and women were distinct:
From Page 1A banks denied married women
credit, women began a continued
- a history professor emeritus tren of receiving subtancically
at the University of California- less pay than men and between
Davis, author and a veteran activ- 1950 and 1970 all hurricanes were
ist - gave a keynote address on named after women. She said this
Wednesday evening focused on was due to the fact that women
the Women's Liberation Move- were looked at as "chaotic" and
ment of the 1960s in commemora- undeservingofequality.
tion of the anniversary of the Port Through the movement and
Huron Statement. peaceful protests, such as sit ins
Rosen said the late 20th-centu- at libraries and coffee houses,
ry women's movement stemmed women began to enact a change
largely from the statement's ideas, in policy.
and began with men's sexual "Rape, once the subject of great
freedom and women's desire for shame, became redefined as phys-
equality. Rosen said women felt ical assault, which has very little
it was unfair that men could leave to do with lust," Rosen said. "Date
their traditional family role for a rape, for which there was plenty
life of "rotating lovers" and the of evidence but no name, opened
"pleasures of sex without the bur- up a brand new national conversa-
den," but women were required to tion."
take care of the children. She added that as the move-
"(Women) were really, really ment progressed, white women
hungry for a new world," Rosen joined forces with gay men, lesbi-
said. "Hugh Hefner began pub- ans and women of other ethnici-
lishing Playboy, which encour- ties to fight not only sexism, but
aged bachelors to enjoy a sybaritic, other civil rights issues as well.
sexual life." "Once they saw inequality, they
According to Rosen, before the saw it everywhere," Rosen said.
THE NEW LINE CHINESE CUISINE
7(iGarden S I
SPECIALIZING IN HONG KONG, TAIWANESE,A
SZECHUAN & HUNAN STYLES
734-995-1786
116 S. MAIN STREETO
(BETWEEN W. HURON AND WASHTENAW)t
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBORF
WWW.KAIGARDEN.COMS
HU

Detroit Free Press. Patient access
to clinicians and their insurance
coverage plans are also expected
to remain untouched bythe merg-
er.
However, DeGraff said it is
likely employment will be altered.
"Usually when there is a merg-
er, they always say there won't be
a loss in employment," DeGraff
said. "But there always is."
The partnership's website
states that the Beaumont-Henry
Ford entity will keep medical
education as a remaining prior-
ity and mission for the system by
continuing their independent
residency and fellowship pro-
grams. The new organization is
also expected to better coordi-
nate patient care, increase acces-
sibility, attract medical talent
and keep electronic records that
will allow for readily accessible
patient information.
In a question-and-answer
session after the event, Rosen
addressed the provocative fash-
ion choices of today's women. She
referred to the annual SlutWalk
in Ann Arbor, where women dem-
onstrate how risque clothing is
not designed to encourage uncon-
sented sexual relations.
"Although it does sometimes
bother me to see young women
going on SlutWalks, at the same
time, they are organizing and say-
ing, 'We'll do whatever we want,"'
Rosen said. "It's not what I would
want, but they are organizing and
they are saying 'We will take our
sexuality into our own hands."'
Robert Ross, a sociology pro-
fessor at Clark University, a
private liberal arts college in
Massachusetts, and a panelist for
Thursday's speech, was one of
the original drafters of the Port
Huron Statement. He agreed with
Rosen's sentiments that the state-
ment helped encourage the wom-
en's movement.
"I agree that the values and
spirit of the Port Huron Statement
set a background and a direction
from which the women's move-
ment grew," Ross said. "I think
that she's got that part of the
argument right."
LSA senior Karlie Gulley came
to the speech for an essay she's
writing for her AMCULT 301
course on politics and culture in
the United States since 1945.
"We've been reading out of a
textbook, but it's interesting,"
Gulley said. "Especially looking
around, seeing all these people
who were probably here when it
was going on."

After year of
planning, project is
underway
By ARIANAASSAF
Daily StaffReporter
Students soaking up the sun
this spring will be joined by new
solar panels on the grassy hills
by the North Campus Research
Complex.
On Sept. 27, 2011, the Univer-
sity announced its plans to work
with DTE energy in construct-
ing solar panels outside the
NCRC. After about a year of dis-
cussions, the project has started
to become a reality when ground
was broken last week at the com-
plex near Plymouth Road.
Terrance Alexander, the
executive director of the Office
of Campus Sustainability, said
the time between the announce-
ment and construction of the
solar panels was necessary to
finalize contract negotiations
and find a suitable spot for the
panels.
According to Alexander, in
addition to ensuring a spot in
which the panels would receive
ample sun exposure, contac-
tors had to make certain that no
REFORM
From Page 1A
porter of the healthcare
reforms, said with So million
uninsured Americans and ever-
increasing healthcare costs, the
preventative and wellness sys-
tems outlined in the law are
critical for why the Affordable
Care Act is necessary.
"The Affordable Care Act
seeks to address many of those
problems and is a historic first
step in reforming the health
care system," Lazarus said,
adding that 75 percent of all
healthcare costs are used to
treat chronic conditions.
Lazarus's lecture primarily
focused on the AMA's efforts to
increase the quality of health
care, lower costs to patients
and physicians and provide
better physician satisfaction.
The American Medical Associ-
ation is the largest professional
association for physicians and
medical students in the United
States.
He also referenced the need
for medical education reform
that will train the next genera-
tion of doctors willing to meet
the complex challenges of the
current system, emphasizing
the changing ethical challeng-
es that doctors face.
"In the past, the majority
of ethical questions in medi-
cine have revolved around the
bedside," Lazarus said. "While
many of these challenges still
persist today, we are also faced
with a new set of ethical chal-
lenges."
He specifically called for
greater collaborative care
and teamwork, representing
a major shift in the methods
current physicians use to treat
patients compared with previ-
ous techniques.
"In those days, it really did
make sense for physicians to

existing infrastructure would
be disturbed when the panel
supports were implanted into
the soil. He also said the Univer-
sity wanted to be sure that these
solar panels would not conflict
with any future building plans.
DTE spokesman Scott Simons
said the selected location need-
ed to be capable of supporting
installation of the panels while
also being "highly visible to the
public." He said he expects the
whole project to be completed
in about three or four months,
and reported the total amount
invested in the project as $2.2
million.
University President Mary
Sue Coleman presented the
undertaking in 2011 as part of
the University's sustainability
goals. Coleman also announced
a $14 million University invest-
ment in sustainability projects,
which included new hybrid Uni-
versity buses.
The panels are part of DTE's
SolarCurrents project, in which
DTE purchases land from vari-
ous owners to assemble solar
panels. The contract details
that DTE has full ownership of
the equipment and the energy it
produces, and will pay the Uni-
versity a certain amount to use
land, depending on the size of
value things like autonomy,
independence and self-suffi-
ciency, but today those values
really don't suffice," Lazarus
said. "Whether it's in medi-
cal homes, accountable care
organizations, or systems like
we have here at the Univer-
sity of Michigan, collaborative
care models are the way of the
future."
However, Lazarus recog-
nized the numerous roadblocks
in implementing this collabora-
tive system.
"In order for team-based
models to work, there needs to
be a shift in some of the fun-
damental values we have," he
said. "No one person can pro-
vide all the answers or all the
care a patient needs."
Lazarus was in Ann Arbor
to speak at the 17th annual
Waggoner Lecture, which is
named after the late Raymond
W. Waggoner, a former chair
of the University's psychiatry
department.
Philip M. Margolis, a pro-
fessor emeritus in the Depart-
ment of Psychiatry, said the
annual lecture is intended
to highlight current ethical
issues in the medical commu-
nity and emerged as a way to
honor Waggoner, who person-
ally attended two of the lec-
tures before passing away at
the age of 98.
"(Waggoner was) very inter-
ested in ethics and values. He
was a real M.D. in the sense
that it was all of medicine he
was interested in," Margolis
said.
Margolis, who sits on the
committee that organizes
the lecture, said Lazarus was
considered a good fit given
his background in psychia-
try, Waggoner's primary area
of focus. Margolis went on to
say that the lecture coincided
nicely with next week's elec
tion.

the solar panel array.
Alexander said the University
will benefit from DTE's solar
panels, explaining the power
purchased from DTE by the
University will now have more
alternative energy "in the mix."
DTE began SolarCurrents in
response to Michigan's Renew-
able Portfolio Standard, which
requires 10 percent of the ener-
gy conducted by any individual
energy company to be generated
from renewable sources by 2015,
according to DTE. Upon com-
pletion, these panels will have
the capacity to conduct 430 kilo-
watts of energy, Simons said.
Alexander said he hopes hav-
ing a working renewable energy
source on campus will be ben-
eficial to students working in
related fields.
University alum Justin
Moyer, a member of the Sustain-
able and Alternative Energy Stu-
dent Council, said he supports
the solar panels, adding that
renewable energy is something
the entire country should strive
to utilize.
"It seems like a good sustain-
ability effort from the Univer-
sity," Moyer said. ".. The U.S.
should be making efforts to
source electricity from renew-
ables."
"The AMA was very posi-
tive about Obamacare, so we
thought it would be kind of
fun, especially right before the
election," Margolis said.
Lazarus recognized that
in comparison to other large
health systems, the University
of Michigan Health System
has made recognizable efforts
to implement collaborative
care systems. He added that
the AMA is working on major
reforms of their health care
delivery system and its struc-
ture to allow for cooperation
between physicians, insurance
companies and patients.
"In both the public and pri-
vate sectors, there is a .con-
sensus," Lazarus said. "The
current (delivery) system no
longer meets the needs of phy-
sicians and patients in this
country."
In regards to medical edu-
cation, Lazarus said the AMA
is working to implement more
competency-based systems,
replacing the current calen-
dar-based systems. With these
changes, students would prog-
ress through medical school
at a rate proportional to how
quickly they master certain
skills, rather than a set time
frame.
Lazarus said students could
potentially combine the fourth
year of medical school with
their first year of residency,
thus reducing the need for stu-
dent loans and extra time in
school.
Lazarus added that the
magnitude of these goals make
them inherently long term, but
promising as a revolutionary
alteration to medical educa-
tion.
"It took us a long time to get
to the moon, and it's going to
take us a while to get to these
big goals also," Lazarus said.
"The quest to engineer a better
health care system has begun."


EMERGENCY
From Page 1A
emergency.
When universities throughout
he East Coast were threatened
by Superstorm Sandy earlier this
week, many universities used
similar systems to alert their
campus communities.
The University of Pennsylva-
nia used the UPennAlert Emer-
gency Notification System to
send university-wide text mes-
sages and e-mails warning stu-
dents of the impending storm.
Similarly, Princeton Univer-
sity utilized its Princeton Tele-

phone and E-mail Notification
System to warn students of the
storm, according to the Daily
Princetonian.
"Once severe weather begins,
travel may be extremely haz-
ardous, ill-advised or impos-
sible," an alert sent to Princeton
students stated. "High winds,
power outages, fallen trees,
downed power lines and flooding
are very possible."
Other institutions, such as
American University, used social
media websites such as Facebook
and Twitter to inform their stu-
dents of necessary precautions in
preparation for Sandy.
AU also created a resource

page for students with updates
on building closings and other
instructions.
Though a hurricane will like-
ly never impact Ann Arbor, the
Emergency Alert System has
been used to prepare individu-
als for a potential tornado. In
the event of a tornado warning,
the Emergency Alert System
alerts students, faculty and staff
of the approximate time and
proximity of the tornado, and
encourages users when to find
shelter.
In March, the University acti-
vated the system to warn stu-
dents of a tornado that ravaged
Dexter, Mich. Ann Arbor was

near the tornado's path. The
system sent four different mes-
sages detailing developments
regarding the storm.
Brown emphasized that the
Emergency Alert System is only
used in dire situations, which
does not include tornado watch-
es, thunderstorms, blizzards or
other forms of severe weather.
, Engineering junior Lucas
Liuzzo said he has signed up
for the alerts and appreciates
the speed at which he receives
important information for his
safety.
"In case anything happens
I would like to know quickly,"
Liuzzo said.

WANT TO JOIN DAILY NEWS?
E-MAIL RAYZA GOLDSMITH AT RAYZAG@MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR
INFORMATION ON GETTING STARTED

;1


't;
:
.Y..
_° , ;
_. ;F
[a
",


.-

°rThe M~ichigan Daily I mic -gandailycon.
Sz
Sz

.. '
F;
j + °+.
_
r
3 ,'+r. :.. ,
o:.
:t
.
1
.
. ..

,;ti
w- x.
.
h H
t f
1 -.k r i
1 ? 3'

_ : ¢:
. ai
rte.
, I t

}
"

w

L _
a
.~ vk
! '
y i F .. . .. .
{X' .
i rcy
. f ; 1A
..:'Cr I ..

41
% t h


H
z Y
0
_ S I

ENW
N NM NUZ

' S''.
I fq'P: ' .

GN
E
-rn t


2B - Thursday, November 1, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ARTS RECOMMENDS
In this feature, Daily Arts writers will give their endorsements
for the arts you need to experience to help you deal with current events.
"The Sorrows of Young
The
Werther"
Sorrows
f Yo n Ah, true love. It's cause to rejoice. Unless, of
course, your name happens to be Werther, in
erther which case romance is more likely to leave you
paralyzed with obsessive paranoia. Goethe's "The
Sorrows of Young Werther," first published in 1774,
is still the most moving reminder out there of the
NORILANA dangers of this crazy thing we call love.
ls is -Yeah Yeah Yeahs
The Yeah Yeah Yeahs' third EP Is Is is one of
the lesser talked about albums released by the
indie-punk, Karen 0-led group. Sexually charged
and full of turbulent riffs, Karen 0 puts on a
haunting show of vocals and noise. Plus, the third
track "Kiss Kiss" was featured in the Halloween
masquerade episode of "Gossip Girl" 's first sea-
IS S son.
NTERSCOPE
"Alien"
Forget about this summer's disappointing "Pro-
metheus." Let's go back to a time when Ridley Scott
films were of a much higher caliber. Released in
1979, "Alien" was a crossover hit, superbly combin-
x. ing elements of sci-fi and horror to make a truly
chilling, staggering film that's both an adventure
and breathtaking work of cinematic art. It's not
your typical scary movie, but "Alien" is a perfect
20TH CENTURY FOX way to continue the Halloween spirit this weekend.
"Mirror's Edge"
Let's face it: Not all of us are made for park-
our. But 2008's first-person platformer, "Mirror's
Edge," lets you see through the eyes of free-run-
ningbadass Faith as she jumps, climbs, slides and
crawls through a futuristic and dystopian city.
Realistic and fresh, the acrobatic gameplay and
split-second decision making necessary to sur-
vive makes this game a standout adrenaline rush.
ELECTRONICARS

JUDGING
A BOOK
BY IT
COVER

4

Daily Arts writers go
against the famous
idiom, choose a
random book and
make assumptions
about its contents

Not to be outdone by O.J.
Simpson's "fake" account of
murder, "If I Did It," Bill O'Reilly
outlines how he would've
"mowed down that liberal pussy
J.F.Gay" in his latest book, "Kill-
ing Kennedy."
The book starts out with
O'Reilly's claim that he bedded
Marilyn Monroe before Presi-
dent Kennedy even got to second
base: "Marilyn was a hell of a
lady. Real thick waist, a face that
got me hotter than Ann Coul-
ter's dominatrix underpants and
she really knew her place. A true
pioneer in anti-women's rights."
As the book continues,
O'Reilly's senility gets the best
of him. His words become unfo-
cused, and at one point he for-
gets how to use punctuation:
"french people are all pussies

the world was a better place
when 'Welcome Back Kotter'
was on Jon Stewart is a terrible
racquetball player."
After calling out Wolf Blitzer
for cheating in their weekly
mahjong game, O'Reilly returns
to that whole "killing Kennedy"
thing in the style of esteemed
Western author Eli Cash: "So
everyone knows that Lee Har-
vey Oswald killed JFK. What
this book presupposes is ...
maybe he didn't. Maybe a hand-
some young neocon, working
in conjunction with some true
American heroes, stopped JFK
from committing the ultimate
evil: voter fraud."
In an unsettlingly candid
account of hypothetical murder,
O'Reilly describes howthe afore-
mentioned "American heroes"

based on the cover art.
taught him well: "Cheney is the
guy that taught me how to shoot.
Real cold-blooded jabroni. Not
only did he shoot his dumbass
hunting partner in the face, he
got him to apologize on national
television."
In the final chapter, O'Reilly
stops asking questions like "how
do I check my voicemail?" and
"what the heck is a dang VCR!?"
and finally gets to the good stuff.
His assassination attempt is a
little different than one shot to
the bead: "First, I would have
Condy seduce all of the Secret
Service. Then, once the entire
parade is watching Condy and
her boys get down, I would walk
up slowly to the car, and put JFK
in a headlock until he suffocat-
ed. You're welcome America."
-ANDREWECKHOUS

4

EPISODE REVIEW

"The'Mindy Project" essen-
tially promises a romantic com-
edy every
week. This
premise
hasn't really The Mindy
been done
before, and Projet
even though "Halloween"
the series is
still trying to FOX
find' its voice,
"Mindy" so far feels fresh.
"Halloween," unfortunately,
doesn't deal a whole lot with
the holiday. Mindy frantically
tries to find a costume that will
blow people's minds - specifi-
cally, the latest guy she's seeing,
sports lawyer Josh, who's smug
and jerky in a way that is almost
Jeff Winger levels of charming
(but not quite). Her hunt yields a
fewhumorous moments - Dirty
Harry Potter and Tinkerbell
Tailor Soldier Spy are true gems.
When done well, Halloween
episodes allow sitcoms to high-

F

For fans of any franchise, it's
always painful to see the series
overstayitswelcome. Fewknow
this pain
more than any
fans of the
"Die Hard" A Good Day
saga. As much
fun as it once to Die Hard
was to watch 20th Century Fox
Bruce Willis
fuck shit up,
2007's "Live Free or Die Hard"
was but a shade of the pulpy
thriller's past glory.
Confusingly set to the Ger-
man, Beethoven-composed
"Ode to Joy," "A Good Day to
Die Hard" takes place in Rus-
sia. The story is simple, as "Die
Hard" details tend to be: John
McClane (Willis) travels to
Moscow to help his son Jack (Jai.
Courtney), and coincidentally,
gets tied up in a terrorist plot.
The most important thing
about this trailer is that things
explode, and they explode in a

I

light their strengths. "How I Met
Your Mother" 's "Slhtty Pump-
kin," "Parks and Recreation" 's
"Greg Pikitis," "Friends" 's "The
One With the Halloween Party"
- all are hallmarks of their
respective comedies. /
"Mindy" doesn't have as

much fun with the holiday as
it could. It's a well structured
episode, with Kaling hitting
enough jokes to make it work.
But it's certainly not something
to remember or revisit when All
Hallows' Eve comes again.
-KAYLA UPADHYAYA

glorious fashion. Willis took a
breather from the action scene
to play the humorously pathetic
island sheriff in Wee Ander-
son's "Moonrise Kingdom" this
year, but he's back with a gun in
hand and all is right.
"A Good Day to Die Hard"

looks like it could be a thrilling
summer blockbuster, despite its
February release date.
Whether it will be enough
to prove this series deserves to
keep on breathing is a whole
other question.
-KAYLA UPADHYAYA

4

I

TRAILER REVIEW

SINGLE REVIEW

Tarantino's fascination with
setting continues in "Django
Unchained." His previous,
almost wildly
imagina-
tive works
have always ngo
belonged to
whatever real Unchained
or fictional Columbia
world he put
them in, from
Hitler'sGermanytothe astound-
ing scenarios of "Kill Bill."
This time, he's serving us a
kind of Western we've never
been served before - a Taranti-
no WesternAnd it looks as if it's
got every dish Tarantino serves
best. We have the wronged-but-
never-vulnerable protagonist
seeking revenge from wrongdo-
ers, played by Jamie Foxx. Djan-
go is a slave freed by a bounty
hunter (Christopher Waltz)
who's on a mission to free his
wife from a viciously conniv-
ing plantation owner (Leonardo


Turn to A$AP Rocky's single to
find the answer to a vital question:
"Exactly how many bitches does 2
Chainz have?"
"F**ckin'
Problems,"
the second F**ckin'
single from Problems
A$AP Rocky's
LongLiveA$AP, A$AP Rocky
is coated in ICA
lavish swagger
and unneces-
sary levels of misogyny by verses
from Rocky, Drake and Kendrick
Lamar, as well as an amusingly
ignorant 2 Chainz hook - one
that will likely kill the song's radio
potential with explicit content.
In addition to its glaring musi-
cal shortcomings - including a
beat that sounds like a half-hearted
retread of the harder tracks from
Drake's Take Care - this Noah
"40" Shebib-produced track suf-
fers severely because its only com-
pelling features are its features.
Rocky took the "strength in

U

COLUMBA
DiCaprio). Foxx's character has comes out on Christmas. But
a reason to kill - we see a lot of times are a-changin', and "It's
him doing it in the trailer, and a Wonderful Life" has spent far
we'll undoubtedly see a lot more. too long at the forefront of go-to
Which is why Tarantino has holiday season movies. It's time
a wicked sense of humor the Tarantino conquered that illu-
bloody and unforgiving gore- sive territory, all in good style.
fest that's bound to be "Django" -ADITIMISHRA


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, November 1, 2012 - 3B

Witn tne 2012 presidential
election just a few days away,
all eyes are on President Barack
Obama and Republican presi-
dential nominee Mitt Romney.
While the candidates' stances on
the economy, jobs and civil liber-
ties are what many Americans
consider the most divisive issues,
. there's an aesthetic element to
campaigns that often goes unno-
ticed.
"Images play a key role in poli-
tics," Rackham student Caitlin
Brown said. "Images have the
ability to bypass critical thinking
and connect to citizens' emotions.
The emotions evoked can be posi-
tive or negative."
Brown, whose studies focus on
political communication, noted
that art car be a useful form of
propaganda.
Politicians spend millions of
dollars on advertisement cam-
paigns and, in the case of this
unprecedented election, billions
- a record-busting $l.7 billion has
been spent as of Saturday, thanks
to the Supreme Court's deci-
sion in Citizens United v. Federal
Election Commission that allows
unlimited donations to techni-
cally unaffiliated SuperPACs.
Campaigns hoping to appeal
to the greatest variety of voter
 demographics pore over count-
less designs for posters, fliers,
pamphlets and logos to ensure
they're sendingthe right message.
The focus group thought Rom-
ney's tie wasn't patriotic enough?
The red didn't test well with this
audience? Back to the drawing
board.
As The Michigan Daily report-
ed last Wednesday, even campus
political groups feel the pressure
to brand themselves. University
students are likely familiar with
the circle logo of the University's
chapter of the College Democrats
- posters and fliers hung across
campus boast the image, a blue
and maize donkey with its bottom
half in the shape of a Block 'M'.
Now, the University's chapter of
the College Republicans plans to
overhaul its image in the vein of
the opposing party.
"Democrats have a great brand
name," LSA senior and chair of
the College Republicans Rachel
Jankowski told the Daily. "When
you see their stuff, you know it's
the College Democrats. That is
what the College Republicans
have been focusing on and it's
what we're pushing."
Images through history
Advertisement campaigns are
nothing new. From the 1840 elec-
tion's "Tippecanoe and Tyler
Too" to the iconic "Hope" poster
from the 2008 presidential elec-
tion, politicians have used images
for centuries to disseminate their
message.
Rebecca Zurier, an associate
history of art professor, said poli-
ticians believe art and images will
make a difference in their cam-
paigns, because they tend to stay
with people longer than some-
thing written or spoken.
"Images can get to people in a
direct way, or can propose things
that aren't there in the literal
words," Zurier said. "It can make
possibilities imaginable with peo-
ple."
Zurier said one of the most
prominent examples of the power

of imagery occurred in the Ken-
nedy-Nixon presidential debate
in 1960 - the first ever televised
debate. Because television was
a brand new medium, the cam-
paigns had no precedent to follow
to prepare their candidates for the
focus on their appearance. In the
end, this proved disastrous for
Nixon.
Today, candidates are more
familiar with how various images
play on TV or in print and are able
to manipulate their image in a
positive way.
Lookingathow candidates pose
and what props they use, such as
the American flag, is an aspect of

politics that has always interested
Zurier. And then there's always
the question of what a president or
politician "should" look like.
"They all face that 'looking
presidential' thing, don't they?"
Zurier mused. "We saw plenty of
that in the presidential debates
and then the pundits went right
for it, 'Who looks more presiden-
tial?'"
Even something as seemingly
unobtrusive as a pin can make a
world of difference.
When then-candidate Obama
didn't wear an American flag pin
on his lapel during the 2008 elec-
tion, voters noticed, and were not
pleased.
After major backlash, Obama
began to wear the pin because,
as a presidential hopeful, he
had to conform to what a candi-
date "should" look like, Zurier
explained.
"Would people have to learn
more (without images)? Maybe
not because we have soundbites,
slogans," Zurier said. "But the
complicated process through
which an image helps you imag-
ine something is possible, (like)
'This guy could be a leader."'
Zurier illustrated her point
with mailings encouraging her
to vote against certain ballot pro-
posals in this year's election. She
said a particularly bizarre image
of Lady Liberty and Uncle Sam
made her take a second look at the
mailing, but didn't sway her opin-
ion on the issue.
"Somebody's putting thought
into creative use of imagery in
an effort to get Michigan voters
to take these initiatives seriously
enough to vote on them," Zurier
said.."Whether it persuades peo-
ple or not, I don't know."
She said the one use of art that
may have made an impact in U.S.
politics was the federally funded
art program during FDR's New
Deal, when artists were paid to
create murals across the coun-
try. But, as Zurier pointed out,
the murals weren't endorsing a
candidate or promoting a certain
agenda.
Though it's difficult to point
to any one image as profoundly
impactful, images and politics
continue to go hand in hand.
Cartooning politics
Josh Neufeld, a narrative car-
toonist and a trrent Knight-Wal-
lace fellow at the University, calls
art a provocative, personal format
that can illicit strong reactions
from observers.
"Art is a subjective interpre-
tation of reality, and the artist
intends for it to have an effect,
create an emotional response,"
Neufeld said.
In the wake of Hurricane
Katrina, Neufeld produced a
graphic novel titled "A.D.: New
Orleans After the Deluge,"
detailing the aftermath of the
disaster. Though not intended to
be political, the book was critical
of the government's response in
a way that people were able to
relate to and understand.
In this way, he explained, art
will always play a role in politics.
"I think there's still something
special about a demonstration or
a hand-held sign that's sort of
pretty similar now as it was 100
years ago," he said.
Neufeld noted that comic
strips, such as "Doonesbury," are

often placed on the editorial pages
of newspapers because of their
underlying political commentary.
Public Policy senior Natalie
Berkus, a member of the Ann
Arbor Obama campaign team,
also pointed to the power of polit-
ical cartoons to connect to audi-
ences.
"When you see a drawing of a
gnarled George Bush on a flam-
ing background with the words
'READ MY APOCALIPS' in the
center, that has an impact, distin-
guishable or not," Berkus wrote
in an e-mail in reference to a criti-
cal poster of the former president
by Robbie Conal, an American
guerrilla poster artist.
"I think that it is an interesting

juxtaposition: art and politics,"
she continued. "While both things
seem to come from completely dif-
ferent worlds, it's interesting to
note the close symbiotic relation-
ship that both things share."
Rebranding with new media
Today, most campaigns and
political groups have moved away
from physical mediums like post-
ers, to online messaging.
"Effective design has become
an essential part of campaigning
and Obama's 2008 campaign truly
changed the landscape because
of how good the design was," said
Business sophomore Kyle Smith,
a member of the College Republi-
cans.
Smith said art and graphic
design have become intrinsic
parts of campaigns, citing Presi-
dent Obama's first campaign as the
precedent for subsequent efforts.
"In campaigns - and the
evolution of social media and
other methods of image shar-
ing - graphic design can play a
big part in a candidate's success,"
Smith said. "The way people are
getting information is moving to
the virtual world and our atten-
tion spans are shrinking.
Smith said the current elec-
tion hasn't produced a campaign
- on either side - that used arts
and graphics as well as in 2008.
As a result, both candidates are
suffering.
"I can guarantee you that the
next presidential campaign to
match or exceed how effective-
ly Obama used imagery to help
create his theme will win by as
much of a landslide as he did in
2008," Smith said.
Public Policy senior Tessa
Wick, fellow member of Obama's
Ann Arbor campaign team,
wrote in an e-mail that much
of the president's ability to con-
nect to the younger generation is
a direct result of his campaign's
ability to weave art, media and
technology together in a refresh-
ing way.
"He has used art to create a
style and finesse in all aspects
of his campaign that have differ-
entiated it from any other presi-
dential campaign I know of,"
Wick wrote. "His use of art and
his commitment to detail in his
emails, website and in the over-
all look of the campaign, have
created an unparalleled visual
experience for his followers."
At the University, both the
College Democrats and Repub-
licans hope to create a similar
cohesive campaign.
LSA junior Alexandra Brill,
chair of the University's chapter
of the College Democrats, said
the group's logo has made it easi-
er for other students to approach
the organization with questions
about important issues.
Brill has received e-mails
about voter registration from
unaffiliated individuals who rec-
ognize the group as a resource.
Jankowski said the College
Republicans are seeking a "uni-
fied look" on the club's clothing,
posters and other materials, sim-
ilar to College Democrats.
"We're working hard to put
together that look about us,"
Jankowski told the Daily. "We're
trying to really build a presence
on campus, and build a solid look
about us so that you know, when
you see an advertisement, that's

the College Republicans and not
a different club."
Smith said the College Repub-
licans hope their image becomes
synonymous with a more inclu-
sive GOP.
"Our brand is pretty strong
as of now I think," Smith said.
"(But) we may begin using info-
graphics on our Facebook page
or through posters and hand-
outs at events explaining how
the notion that Republicans are
anti-women is ludicrous and
emphasizing that the (College
Republicans) welcome all people,
LGBT or otherwise, to our club."
If history is any indication,
a well-executed campaign aes-
thetic can only help.

20TiH CENTIURY FOX
"LET US BON E
Is Bride'- m arriage
of humor, nosagia?
tasize and to exercise creativity, it a "cult" classic.
How many of us, when reading And yet, wait I did. I watched
Like in the salons of 77th a book or being read to, visualize as they described a very super-
and 78th century France, the characters and their world, ficial love, one that went not far
this weekly installment becoming completely caught up beyond "he loved her, and it was
in what we've imagined? so." I told myself it would be fine,
will feature two Daily Arts "The Princess Bride" cap- this wasn't an important part of
writers discussing the finer tures and revels in this univer- the movie, anyway (even though
sal phenomena of storytelling in it was the foundation for the
points o farts mediums a charming, genuine and clever entire plot).
from at least 70 years ago. way. We bruise our ribs laughing The man in black goes on to
at Billy Crystal's antics as Miracle dispatch the three outlaws who
Max and the preacher with the capture Buttercup - each in a
Full disclosure: I love "The speech impediment, sigh with manner more cheesy than the
Princess Bride." It's an obsession. relief when Inigo finally enacts last. In fact, I briefly recall put-
Growingup, my friends and I dis- his revenge, yearn to rhyme along ting on a skit similar to the Vizzi-
cussed the film regularly, quot- with Fezzik and get the warm ni's "battle of wits" when I was in
ing long portions to each other. fuzzies when Westley and But- elementaryschool.
We would run around our high tercup share the kiss that left all So I kept waiting - until I
school during fencing practice, other kisses behind. realized that, much to my dis-
pretending to be Westley and And boy, what a story "The may, I had waited through the
Inigo Montoya, always shocked Princess Bride" tells. As Peter whole movie. Yes, Billy Crystal
to discover our opponent was Falk's grandfatherly character and Andre the Giant are fantastic
not really left-handed. We would summarizes, there's "fencing, cameos to have - but I've seen
watch the behind-the-scenes seg- fighting, torture, revenge, giants, Billy Crystal before. With many
ment over and over and intensely monsters, chases, escapes, true fans naming this, movie the "
theorize which actors should be love, miracles" - is there anyone 'Wizard of OZ' of our time," why
cast as which roles if a remake who wouldn't be intrigued? That wasn't I feeling like I'd witnessed
were ever attempted. would be inconceivable! a classic?
Essentially, if "The Princess -LEAH BURGIN Perhaps it was the lack of nos-
Bride" comes up at trivia night, talgia. For others, this movie was
you want me on your team. I'm *** a cherished antique, the scenes
not ashamed to admit I can recite and jokes having collected the
the entire film along with the I had been told since middle varnish of 10 or 15 years.
actors. school that "The Princess Bride" Interestingly enough, I
And as nerdy as it is, "The Prin- was one of the best movies ever watched a similar movie for the
cess Bride" inspires this level of made and easily the funniest in first time a year or two ago: Mel
devotion from myself and count- its genre. It seemed clear - any Brooks's "Robin Hood: Men in
less others because, at its core, guy that showed up for Hallow- Tights." The two movies are so
the film is a celebration of sto- een dressed as the Dread Pirate alike, that even the protagonist
rytelling. Yes, like other tongue- Roberts was swarmed by girls, is played by the same actor: Cary
in-cheek films out there, "The despite taking a cool 10 minutes Elwes ("Saw 3D"). Yet I thought.
Princess Bride" has its comedic of preparation. Clearly this movie it was vastly superior - the jokes
quirks and contagious one-liners, had to be magical. were wittier, both on their own
but the film ultimately adds up The quotes, too, floated and as allusions to themes out-
to be more than the sum of those around my circles of friends, side of the particular genre itself
parts. even when we weren't directly Richard Lewis (TV's "Curb Your
This is because "The Princess talking about the film: "I do not Enthusiasm") is a funnier villain.
Bride" fuses the power of story- think that word means what And the debut of Dave Chappelle
telling with the power of film as you think it means." "Anybody (TV's "Chappelle's Show") is - I
a medium: The entire movie is want a peanut?" "Inconceiv- hate to say it - more exciting
in the imagination of a sick kid able!" And despite knowing not to watch than Inigo Montoya's
being read a novel by his grand- even one of the other charac- "classic" line.
father. Within the context of the ters' names, I could quote Inigo Yes, "The Princess Bride" is
film, he creates the characters, Montoya's death proclamation, six years older than "Men in
Florin, Guilder, the Pit of Despair word-for-word. Tights." Yet a classic is supposed
and the other iconic portions we So imagine my delight when, to be timeless (as the latter, at
love in "The Princess Bride." freshman year, my friends and least to me, seems to be). Maybe I
That's what's so wonderful I decided to rent "The Princess should've watched "The Princess
about sharing stories, creating Bride" so I could witness it for Bride"when I wasyounger, but as
stories and reading stories - the first time. I could scarcely an adult, it just seems average.
they allow us to escape, to fan- wait to join the "cult" that made -ELLIOTALPERN

-r .. .. _ r _,



Start-up Workshop: Writing a Complete
Business Construct
11/1 - 5:00 PM, R1240
Ross School of Business
Learn how to shape a viable business plan out of
a business idea.

FOLLOW US FOR
SOME HOCUS
POCUS.
@MICHDAILYARTS


4B - Thursday, November 1, 2012 a

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B -Thursday, November 1,2012 tlit b-Si(IC The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


FOOD COLUMN
Chowing down
on best of
chips and dips

ILLUSTRATED BY KRISTEN CLEGHORN
Fulfillin fantasies at '

Football fans find
community, culture
in online game
By ANDREW ECKHOUS
DailyArts Writer
When you grow up, odds are
you will not play in the NFL.
For most of us not lucky
enough to be nicknamed "Shoe-
lace," childhood dreams of grid-
iron glory will soon be smacked
in the face by reality. Only a min-
iscule percentage will ever actu-
ally "suit up."
But football stardom is still
achievable in the digital realm.
"Fantasy football doesn't run
my life, but it's a big factor in it,"
LSA senior Jay Sarkar chuckled.
Fantasy football is one of
America's fastest-growing hob-
bies. Usually between eight and
12 friends, coworkers or fam-
ily members will form an online
league and draft real-life foot-
ball players to their "teams."
A player's game day perfor-
mance will earn the "manager"
of that team points, and can help
him or her get a win for that
week. Different game events
are given varying point values,
with touchdowns and yards as
positives and interceptions and
fumbles as negatives. Each team
has its "sleepers," "sure things"
and "hometown heroes."
Fantasy sports participation
has increased by almost 400
percent since 2005, from 9 mil-
lion to almost 34 million partici-
pants, according to the Fantasy
Sports Trade Association.
With rapid ascent has
emerged a pervasive culture.
Some websites and magazines
deal exclusively with fantasy
football, and some restaurants
offer perks for holding "draft
day" in their establishment. FX
even has a wildly popular televi-
sion series about fantasy football
called, what else, "The League."
Many students, like Sarkar,
say fantasy football is a method
of making the NFL a more.inter-
active league.
"I'd gotten into the NFL in,

probably, third or fourth grade,
and some of the older kids said
I should play fantasy football,"
he said. "I said 'What's that?'
and they told me 'Think of it as
a video game, just it relies a lot
more on real life."'
To demonstrate his contin-
ued domination of his league,
Sarkar ordered himself a gaudy,
WWE-style championship belt,
evidence of his four straight
championships.
Animated trash-talk, like
Sarkar's nod to Dwayne "The
Rock" Johnson, is a common
aspect of fantasy football. Wheth-
er through rude text messages or
a well-timed "woo!" shouted in an
opponent's face, rivalry - wheth-
er friendly or not - is an integral
part of the experience.
The participants in LSA senior
Stef Manisero's league like to
raise the stakes, and in week five,
things got hairy - literally.
"Two girls were playing each
other and whoever lost had to wax
our friend's back," she explained.
"It already grew back though."
Besides testing relationships
with all of your closest friends,
fantasy football also makes
sports more engaging. For those
who won't ever throw on a Lions
jersey or a coach's headset, fan-
tasy football is the next best
thing. It adds a sense of strategy
to watching sports - something
sorely missed by athletes who
didn't make it past high school.
Fantasy football transforms
armchair quarterbacks into
heroes, and moves glory from
the playing field to the digital
realm. Enthusiastic managers
can and will talk about their
"monster week" to anyone who
will listen.
"If I'm talking to you about
my team, you don't care, but
you can't wait to tell me about
yours," said LSA senior Mike
Dewitt, who plays in Sarkar's
league. "But actually, I think
that fantasy helps people who
want more out of the NFL get
more out of it."
Dewitt also explained that
fantasy football can drastically
affect perception of a player.
"NFL players can make them-

selves heroes by being good fan-
tasy players, or they can make
themselves villains by underper-
forming," he added.
Dewitt and Sarkar have both
formed allegiances to players as
a direct result of fantasy football.
"I drafted LaDainian Tomlin-
son three years in a row, and those
were his three studliest years.
After that, L.T. became a player I
cheered for every year because I
felt like he did something to help
me out," Dewitt said.
Sarkar takes his devotion a
little more seriously.
"Whoever is my biggest fan-
tasy stud of the year, half of the
time I'll end up buying his jer-
sey," Sarkar revealed. "People
will tell me 'Oh, you're a fair-
weather fan!' I got knocked
for buying a (Houston Texans
defensive end) JJ Watt jersey.
But, I loved him at Wisconsin, I
love him in the pros, and maybe
I own the Houston Texans
defense."
There are priorities that out-
weigh fantasy football, though,
as most football fans will tell
you. Engineering senior Rick
Lorenz, a Detroit Lions fan who
plays in a league for money,
chooses his heart over his pock-
etbook every time.
"Tom Brady is my starting
fantasy quarterback, but if the
Lions and Patriots are playing,
I will not be upset if the Lions
shut out Tom Brady and he gets
me negative points."
But that doesn't mean loyalty
affects his strategy.
"I set the best fantasy lineup
possible every week. I don't
take fan loyalty into effect," he
explained.
It's not all about what's hap-
pening on the gridiron, though
- Dewitt, Manisero, Sarkar and
Lorenz all agreed that making a
team name is a time-consuming
process. While there are surely
many people who skip the agony
involved in crafting a wittier-
than-thou team name, most
will indulge. A good name will
usually involve some form of
football pun: In Lorenz's league
there are team names like "My
Vick ina Box," "Breaston Plants"

and "Show Me Your TDs" (sound
that one out when your little
brother isn't around).
While fantasy football does
exude some hypermasculine
characteristics thanks to its
association with American
sports culture, it's not necessar-
ily a man's world out there. Man-
isero is sitting at second place in
her league - which is split half
men and half women - and her
only competition is first place
LSA senior Rachel Nitzkin.
"I wasn't going to play, but
they needed another person, so
I did it and now, I'm addicted,"
Nitzkin said.
Nitzkin, who had not been a
serious football fan before, said
fantasy has helped her under-
stand and-enjoy the game.
"I know what a receiver and
a running back is now," Nitzkin
bragged. "I learned so much. I
was in my 8:30 class trying to
pick between Kyle Rudolph and
Jimmy Graham this week. I still
have some research to do."
Fantasy football does serve
purposes other than competi-
tion. For Dewitt, his league with
high school friends is an anchor
for their friendship.
"I think it's more to keep us in
touch than for us to play fantasy
football and win," Dewitt said.
What started out in middle
school as a way "just to hang
out with the guys" has become a
way to check in with friends on
a week-to-week basis. There is'
no money involved in the league,
it's simply a way of staying close,
albeit remotely.
While fantasy football die-
hards are not out pre-gaming
before noon like their Michigan
football fan counterparts, they
are equally dedicated. Some
managers spend hours research-
ing before the draft and just
as long adjusting their rosters
every week before Sunday kick-
off. Fantasy enthusiasts may not
be committed enough to pound
seven shots of bottom-shelf
vodka in a row, but their enthu-
siasm is still palpable. Just ask
any fantasy nut in the middle of
a given week. By then, they may
be halfway done complaining.

A s many of you probably
know, oldest children
often get screwed out
of something. And in my family,
this was especially evident with
the food I
was allowede
to eat - eat
a fruit and a
vegetable at
every meal, if
I wanted des-
sert. Snack
options NATHAN
included WOOD
carrots and
apples, and
junk food was almost never
available. This included chips
and dip. But every once and a
while, my mom - a closet chips-
and-dip lover - couldn't resist
buying a bag and a pint of dip.
And those were the days that
heaven came down to Earth.
Fast-forward 15 years, and
here I am, still obsessed with
chips and dip. IShave literally
walked four miles in a blizzard
to satisfy a craving, my grandma
lures me to come visit her by
keeping them on hand and every
time I have to drive my friends
to Meijer, they're the only things
in my basket at checkout. So let's
pop open a couple bags of my
favorites.
Favorite Flavored Chip:
Better Made Barbecue
Not only are these the best
barbecue chips on the market,
but they're also made in Detroit!
Take caution not to confuse
them with the same brand's
Sweet Barbeque offering, which
is far inferior.
Confessions of
a chip and dip
addict.
These chips boast a beauti-
ful, light rust color and from the
very first bite exude a forceful
dichotomy of sweet and spice. If
you have the willpower to let the
flavors ruminate on your taste
buds, undertones of smokiness
and acidity also slowly elevate.
My only complaint is that the
chips could use more salt: A
single serving doesn't even hit
the double digits for my percent
daily allowance of sodium! I
mean, come on.
You'll probably notice as you
mow down on the bag that there
are a select few dark orange
chips. If you're sharing the bag
with someone, fight over these
chips. They are beautiful disas-
ters chock-full of flavor - simply
da bomb. And while dip for these
Better Made chips is definitely
not necessary, I do humbly rec-
ommend pairing them with
another Detroit classic, Faygo
Redpop.
Favorite Hipster Chips and
Dip: Trader Joe's Ridge Cut
Salt & Pepper Potato Chips
and Caramelized Onion Dip
Alone, these chips aren't

spectacular. They are incredibly
thick and crunchy, surprisingly
punchy from the black pepper
and ground jalapeno pepper
seasonings and saturated in
oil. And - in the manner of all
things Trader Joe's - they some-
how seem more down-to-earth.
I just can't get over how greasy
they are.
But, because these chips are
so sturdy, they're perfect for dip-
ping, namely with the Joe's extra
thick caramelized onion dip.
The base is a trio of sour cream,
cream cheese and the real sur-
prise: mayonnaise. It's tangy
and strikingly sweet with a nice
mouthfeel (yes, that really is a
culinary term) and is rich, with
satisfyingly large and numer-
ous chunks of onion. It has a
mild lemon flavor in the back-
ground serving to brighten the
dip, yielding an acidic bite and
contrasting nicely with the dark,
black peppertones of the above
chip. The caramelized onions
are a hearty and warm deviation
from the norm.
And when these chips and dip
come together, the collisions of
warm and cool, sweet and salty,
spicy and acidic and creamy and
crunchy are simply irresistible.
Unfortunately, though, not every
city has a Trader Joe's (ahem
my hometown), so when I'm
home, IScan only enjoy this dip
if I make it myself. And thus, I
present my homemade replica-
tion of Trader Joe's Caramelized
Onion Dip:
Ingredients:
2 Vidalia onions
2 tablespoons butter
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup sour cream
1/2cup mayonnaise
3 ounces cream cheese
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground
black pepper
Directions:
Thinly slice the onions and
cook in butter over lowheat for
10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Cover the onions and continue
cooking for 15 more minutes, still
stirring occasionally. Add the
salt to the onions, stir and cook*
uncovered for five final minutes.
Remove the onions from the heat
and roughly chop. Let them cool.
Whisk the rest of the ingre-
dients together ina small bowl.
Gently stir in the onions. Chill
for an hour, and enjoy!
Far classier than your stan-
dard store-bought ranch dip, this
caramelized onion concoction
would also make a great accom-
paniment for fresh crudits or
cold crostini.
And while these chips and
dips are a great start, I still have
another couple of favorites up
my sleeve, including a "Classic"
combination no one can resist.
And so it is with great anticipa-
tion that I pause my chip evalu-
ation project for a few of weeks
and leave you with three infa-
mous words: To be continued ...
Wood is double-dipping
his chips. To stop him, e-mail
nisaacw@umich.edu.

I
6
4
0

6

a

WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE ISSUES

WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE ISSUES
ON THIS YEAR'S BALLOT?
COME TO THE 2012 ELECTION FORUM.
TODAY AT 7 P.M. AT RACKHAM AUDITORIUM
Hosted in collaboration with the Students of Color of Rackham,
the Ford School's Center for Local, State, and Urban Policy and The Michigan Daily.

10

Please e-mail rsg-exec@umich.edu with any inquiries.


