bEUR Mikljan IaiI
0\ NE I ) AIN I~ IX ~II)Iii lII N\

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, January 10, 2012

michigandaily.com
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
AATA plans
to add buses
countywide
City Council "We don't have all the exact
details right now, but we're ask-
debates enhanced ing you to support a framework
so we can work within," Ford
transportation plan said. "We're not asking you to
approve a millage or anything
By STEVE ZOSKI like that. Every-
Daily Staff Reporter thing will go out NNA19
to the people- :
Representatives from the Ann we'll be trans-
Arbor Transportation Authority parent from the
appeared before the Ann Arbor service plan to
City Council at its meeting last funding."
night to encourage approval of a Councilmem-
plan for a new countywide public ber Jane Lumm (D-Ward 2)
transportation authority. repeatedly insisted that council
The proposed agreement was rushinginto major reforms.
would expand the AATA's bus "We are being asked to con-
services beyond Ann Arbor to sider a fundamental restructur-
Ypsilanti and other neighboring ing of our public transportation
cities as part of a collaboration system," Lumm said. "Obviously,
between AATA, the city of Ann it's a major-league decision ... I
Arbor, the city of Ypsilanti and would like to postpone until we
Washtenaw County. Throughout have (more) material, it would be
the meeting, council members a logical way to proceed."
debated the specifics of the plan Ford reiterated to Lumm that
and how it would be financed he was only presenting a frame-
throughout the night, before work, rather than definite plans.
ultimately determining to table He stressed to council that he
the resolution for a later meet- was at the meeting to ensure
ing. Council also voted to host a transparency from the AATA.
public hearing on the agreement Mayor John Hieftje backed
at its next meeting on Jan. 23. Ford, adding that Lumm may not
AATA CEO Michael Ford have understood the amount of
spoke throughout the meeting to work that went into the agree-
address any questions about the ment as she was recently elected
plan and delivered a presenta- to City Council.
tion explaining the preliminary "Councilmember Lumm is
details of the program. See AATA, Page5

MCKENZIE BEREZIN/Daily
Students shop at the poster sale in the basement of the Michigan Union on Sunday. The sale is typically held at the beginning of every semester.
CENTRAL STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG seeks to implement
medical a-mnesty program
Proposed policy hol at levels that can be life Michigan Student Assembly student to make responsible:
threatening. For many students, - are working on a proposal to decisions by giving them incen-
aims to reduce the fear of receiving a Minor in implement medical amnesty tive to request help rather than
Possession of alcohol charge at the University, a policy that punishing them.
MIPs on campus can deter them from calling would protect students from Watson said having medical
for medical aid when an over- receiving an MIP if they call for amnesty on campus "would be
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA intoxicated friend is in need of alcohol-related medical atten- a huge accomplishment," add-
Daily StaffReporter assistance. tion for another person while ing that in cases of over-intoxi-
To combat the potential issue also under the influence. cation, failure to call for medical
On college campuses nation- at the University, members of CSG President DeAndree attention can have dire conse-
wide, a night out could include the Central Student Govern- Watson said the concept of quences.
excessive consumption of alco- ment - formerly known as the medical amnesty encourages See CSG, Page 5

GRADUATE EMPLOYEES
AG files
motion to
overturn
decision
Opponents fight
MERC ruling on
GSRA unionization
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily Staff Reporter
Though it gained a legal vic-
tory last month, the Gradu-
ate Employees Organization
received some bitter news in the
new year.
On Friday, Michigan Attor-
ney General Bill Schuette filed
a motion with the Michigan 3rd
District Court of Appeals seek-
ing to overturn a previous ruling
from the Michigan Employment
Relations Commission that
allowed a judge to determine if
graduate student research assis-
tants can unionize. Similarly,
Students Against GSRA Union-
ization, a group of GSRA's orga-
nized against the unionization,
also filed a motion seeking to
revoke the ruling.
On Dec. 13, MERC dismissed
See DECISION, Page 5


AMBROSIA UNDERGROUND

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
Viewers watch "The Weather Underground," a documentary playing for free in the basement of Cafe Ambrosia
yesterday. The cafe holds free documentary screenings every Monday this month at 7 p.m.
GETTING AROUND ANN ARBOR
Downtown Development Authority
to increase parking rates by 20 cents

FACULTY GOVERNANCE
SACUA dicusses
plan to combat
scheduling issues
Provost Philip about 200 to 300 classes cause
explicit scheduling challenges
Hanlon shares dean for the University each semester,
specifically in accommodating for
salary increases classroom renovations and over-
scheduling in specific time slots.
By KATIE BURKE It was difficult to determine
Daily StaffReporter how best to solve the problem,
since moving elective classes to
At the first meeting of the earlier time slots could result in
semester for the University's a loss of revenue and diminished
leading faculty governance body attendance, SACUA Vice Chair
yesterday afternoon, Martha Kim Kearfott, a professor in the
Pollack, the University's vice Medical School and College of
provost for academic and bud- Engineering, said.
getary affairs, shared a solution "The young adult mind of a
to alleviate scheduling problems freshman or sophomore doesn't
for students with members of the work well early," Kearfott said.
Senate Advisory Committee on Academic concernswere at the
University Affairs. forefront of finding a solution to
According to an analysis per- the scheduling problems, Pollack
formedbyAssistant Vice Provost explained, adding that another
Frances Mueller, about half of element that adds to scheduling
University classrooms are not difficulties is misaligned class
used between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. times - when classes do notstart
Starting in winter semester 2013, on the hour and make creating
in order to expand classroom schedules more difficult.
usage, the Provost's office plans According to Pollack, the Uni-
to increase class offerings at pre- versity must spread out classes
viously under scheduled hours better and units must share more
between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. and on academic spaces. She added that
Fridays. the proposal attempts to enforce
At the meeting, Pollack said See SACUA, Page S

Higher prices to
take effect this
September
By TAYLOR WIZNER
Daily Staff Reporter
Drivers hoping to park in
downtown Ann Arbor will
soon have to carry a bit more

pocket change to feed the
meters.
On Jan. 4, members of
the Downtown Develop-
ment Authority unanimously
approved an increase in park-
ing rates in the downtown
Ann Arbor area. Beginning in
September, the rate for street
parking meters will increase
from $1.40 an hour to $1.50 an
hour - amounting to a 30-cent

total increase since last Sep-
tember.
Other changes include
raised rates for hourly and
monthly parking in city park-
ing structures and higher costs
for parking violations, like
parking at a bagged meter.
Susan Pollay, executive
director of the Ann Arbor
DDA, said the decision was
See PARKING RATES, Page S


WEATHER HI: 48
TOMORROW L[:36

GOTANEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ......................... 2 CLASSIFIEDS ................. 6
Call 734-418-411sor e-mail Daily Arts recaps'Downtown Abbey Vol. CXXII, No.72 AP NEWS ....................3 ARTS .............................7
nems@michigandaily.comandletusknow. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER 020t1 The MichiganDaily OPINION .......................4 SPORTS ........................8
newsa~mchiandilycom nd et s kow.michigardoily~com


2 - Tuesday, January 10, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 ^ Tuesday, Jaary 10,2012 he-MihiganDaily- micigandiyc-

CONTROVERSY ARISES OVER THE LITERAL IMPLICATIONS OF 'U' DEGREES
Dean responds to editorial

TROMRONE TUNES

L71 eIIC4gan DAMl
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN ZACHARY YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

100 years ago this week (Janu-
ary 11, 1912): Following a scathing
editorial by the University's Engi-
neering News, Mortimer Cooley,
former dean of the College of Engi-
neering, responded to accusations
that degree titles at his school were
misleading.
"It does not follow that because a
man is awarded the degree of Mas-
ter of Engineering, for instance,
that he is a literal master of that
subject," Cooley told The Daily.
Cooley added that he "deplored"
a variety of different degrees titles
and would have simply preferred
to write "engineer" after the name
of each graduate. He told the Daily
that he blamed any confusion on
the Latin roots of the degrees and
the tradition handed down by the

University.
60 years ago this week (Janu-
ary 12, 1952): After a report on
University buildings, state inspec-
tors told The Daily that five land-
mark buildings on Central Campus
should be demolished after being
deemed as potential fire hazards.
The five buildings were built
near the turn of the century and
were in varying states of repair
since their wood constructions
posed serious risks to students
and surrounding structures. One
served as a repository for danger-
ous and flammable chemicals, The
Daily reported.
According to the Bentley His-
torical Library website, most of the
buildings were soon demolished,
but the preserved Economics build-

ing caught fire on Christmas Eve,
1981. The building housed the Leo
Scharfman library, which was com-
pletely destroyed by the flames.
30 years ago this week (Janu-
ary 12, 1982): About 85 students
gathered on the Diag for a protest
against the training of Salvadoran
troops in the United States.
The students marched in "sub-
zero temperatures" to the ROTC
headquarters in North Hall to
protest the training of the troops
at Fort Bragg in North Carolina. A
spokesman for the Latin Solidarity
Committee, which organized the
rally, said the military of El Salva-
dor was responsible for a "geno-
cide" of their people.

Newsroan
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlinead@m ichigandailycoen

News Tips
news@mchigadaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@omichigandaity.com
Finane
finance@michiganaoiycom

Bass trombonist Randall Hawes performs at the
Britton Recital Hall on Sunday

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Open a crack Sneaky sales Resume review HIV testing

WHERE: Rackham Gradu-
ate School Building
WHEN: Sunday at about
lO a.m.
WHAT: A door to the Read-
ing Room was discovered to
have broken glass, Universi-
ty Police reported. Nobody
appeared to enter the room.
There are currently no sus-
pects.
Hot rod
WHERE: Fletcher St. park-
ing structure
WHEN: Yesterday at about
6:35 a.m.
WHAT: A man said that his
vehicle was on fire, Univer-
sity Police reported. It was
confirmed that smoke was
coming from the vehicle.
The Ann Arbor Fire Depart-
ment assisted, and there
.~r nn ;,,,.;"c

WHERE: Crisler Arena
WHEN: Sunday at about
12:40 p.m.
WHAT: A man selling
tickets outside of the men's
basketball game against
Wisconsin was warned that
he must have a permit in
order to sell and solicity,
University Police reported.
The man left the area after
being warned.

WHAT: Students may
review their resume with
a career advisor or guest
employer. Students need
to make an appointment
with the Carreer Center in
advance to participate in the
workshop.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Tonight at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Student Activities
Building, room 3200

Stealth skaters Film screening

WHAT: Students will
have the opportunity to get
tested for HIV anonymously
and free of charge. No
appointments will be taken.
WHO: University Health
Services, Multi-Ethnic Stu-
dent Affairs
WHEN: Tonight at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 2202
CORRECTIONS
. In the Jan.9 edition of
The Michigan Daily, an
article ("CEO:Insomnia
Cookies to hopefully
return within year')
incorrectly stated the
last time the Insomnia
Cookie truck was in
operation. It was last
operated in Jan. 2011.
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

THREE THINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
An Occupy Orlando pro-
tester was arrested last
week for writing the
words, "Justice equals Liber-
ty" in chalk on the sidewlk in
front of Orlando's City Hall,
the Orlando Sentinel report-
ed. City law prohibits chalk
writing.
Former Michigan base-
ball great Barry Larkin
was voted into the Hall
of Fame by the Baseball Writ-
ers Association of America
yesterday. He led Michigan
to two College World Series
berths. >> SEE SPORTS, PAGE 8
Walgreens is opening
a new store in Chicago
that will feature sushi
and juice bars, a cigar humi-
dor and a makeover staff, the
Chicago Tribune reported.
The store is 27,350 sqaure
feet andlocated in anupscale
district.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Josh Healy ManagingEditor jahealy@michigandaily.com
BetharytBiror Manaing Nes Etor biron@michiegaaily.omn
S eN WSEITOaS:HleyGlao rn,HaleyGoldbergRayaoGo diy,
Page Pearcy, Adam Rubenfire
ASISAN NEWSEDcImTORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Ptass n .C smn w
AshleyGriesshammer and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Andrew Weiner EditorialPage Editors
SENIOR EDITORIALePAGE EDITORS: Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb,Vanessa Rychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Patrick Maillet
Stepher Neshitt Managingpors Editoe nesbit@mihgndaily.comn
SE5sNIOSRS DITO~SEerttCook,SBe n ts, uZa ela, Luke Pasch,
Neal Rothschild, Matt Slovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Matt Spelich,
ColleenThomas,LizVukelich,DanielWasserman
Leah Burgin ManagingArts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
.SI RARTSE OR :E otiAleirnJcobAerad,DavdaoKayaUpadhsyaa
AnSSSAsNTARTS EOmRS: Lan Cast,n MatsoE n, Kely EtznaooSdovky,
Chloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss Managing Photo Editors
SooENO PHOsOIORS:nTrraMlngrf, ~odd Nedle
ASISTANT PHOOEDITORS:AdamnGanzanAusenHufford, Allison Kruske
Marlene Lacasse, Adam Schnitzer
Arjun Mahanti Managing Design Editor mahanti@michigandaily.com
SENIORDESIGN EDITORS:Krisit Begonja,Anna Lein-Zielinski
DylanfCinti and statement@michigandaily.com
Jennifer Xu Magazine Editor
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Kaitlin Williams
ChristineChunand copydesk@michigandaily.com
Hannah Poindexter copy chiefs
SENIoR COPY EDIToRS:TJosephine Adams, Beth coplowitz
Zach Bergson OnlineEditor bergson@michigandaily.com
lmran Syed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Associate Business Manager
RachelGreinetz sales Manager
SophieGreenbaum Production Manager
SeanJackson specialProjects Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Ashley Karadsheh Client Relationships Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fal and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. Onecopyis availablefree of charge
to all readers.OAdditional copies may be picked up at the Daily's officefor $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, viaUS.mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through Apri) is
is, yearlong(September through April)is$195.University affiliatesaresubject toareduced
subscriptionrate.On-campussubscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.

WHERE: Hill Carport,
1001 Hill Street
WHEN: Monday at about
S p.m.
WHAT: University staff
reported that they asked
four or five skateboarders
to leave, University Police
reported. When officers
arrived no skateboarders
""re "rese"t.

WHAT: The film "Absolute
Wilson" explores the life
and career of theater direc-
tor Robert Wilson, encom-
passing the years from his
early life in the South to
his most recent work. The
showing is part of a series
presented by the University
Musical Society.
WHO: University of Michi-
gan Museum of Art
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art

0


Iran sentences ex-Marine to die
over allegations of spying for CIA

Want to work in this cool looking building?
COME TO OUR FIRST MASS MEETING "
Thursday, 7:30 p.m.
420 MAYNARD

Man is first impose more crippling sanctions.
It was the first time an Ameri-
American sentenced can citizen has been sentenced
.d t.r n to death in Iran since the 1979
to death in Iran in Islamic Revolution, according to
more than 30 years the International Campaign for
Human Rights in Iran.
"We are seriously concerned
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) - A for- regarding the death sentence,
mer U.S. Marine interpreter secrecy, and continued lack of
arrested while on a trip to visit transparency surrounding the
his Iranian grandmothers has prosecution," said Hadi Ghaemi,
been sentenced to death as a CIA a spokesman for the New York-
spy, state radio reported yester- based group.
day, in a case likely to become a The espionage charges against
new flashpoint in the escalating Arizona-born Amir Mirzaei
tensions between Tehran's defi- Hekmati were similar to previ-
ance over its nuclear program ous prosecutions against Ameri-
and Washington's efforts to cans who were sentenced to jail

time and later freed, including
an Iranian-American journalist
in 2009 and three U.S. citizens
detained along the Iraq border.
Iranian prosecutors, however,
had stressed Hekmati's links to
the U.S. military in calling for
capital punishment.
In Washington, NationalSecu-
rity Council spokesman Tommy
Vietor described Hekmati, 28, as
a victim of false charges and said
the U.S. was working with allies
to "convey our condemnation to
the Iranian government."
"Allegations that Mr. Hekmati
either worked for, or was sent
to Iran by the CIA, are simply
untrue. The Iranian regime has
a history of falsely accusing
people of being spies, of elicit-
ing forced confessions, and of
holding innocent Americans
for political reasons," said State
Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland.
Regardless of the facts of the
case, Iranian officials may now
see Hekmati as a potential bar-
gaining chip in efforts to fend
off tighter U.S.-led sanctions
that could undercut Iran's oil
industry.

REMEMBER TEAM 132'S
SUGAR BOWL VICTORY FOREVER
COME TO 420 MAYNARD TO PICK UP AN
"EXTRA SWEET" MICHIGAN DAILY POSTER
ONLY $10

* l Get going --Get GoNG
Go or No Go ("GoNG") is the new fun App on the Facebook platform.
We're looking for 10-15 enthusiastic students to work on the week-
long U of M Ann Arbor campus launch campaign occurring between
March 12-30. If you want to round up your floor or Greek house to join
the GoNG army, that works too! The pay Is most excellent!
G o orNO G Send your resume and contact information to: Info getgong.com
the one click critic by January 31. Applications with particularly creative ideas about
spreading the word about the GoNG App will go to the head of the line.
It is anticipated that successful candidates will be flown in mid-February
for two days to a secret undisclosed location for the initial US launch.
You will be able to watch the first GoNG army in action.

0

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 10, 2012-

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
New cardiology
complex to break
ground next week
The Detroit Medical Center
plans to break ground next week
on a $78-million cardiology com-
plex.
DMC president and chief exec-
utive Michael Duggan and Car-
* diovascular Institute President
Theodore Schreiber are sched-
uled to attend the Jan. 17 ceremo-
nies north of downtown Detroit.
The five-story DMC Heart
Hospital will provide state-of-
the-art facilities for cardiac treat-
ment, research and heart disease
prevention. Officials say the proj-
* ect will transform cardiac care
across the state and the Midwest.
DMC operates a number of
facilities, including Children's
Hospital of Michigan, Detroit
Receiving Hospital, Harper Uni-
versity Hospital and Sinai-Grace
Hospital. The system has more
than 2,000 licensed beds and
3,000 affiliated physicians.
DES MOINES, Iowa
Vilsack: USDA to
close 259 offices,
* labs and facilities
The U.S. Department of Agri-
culture will close 259 domestic
offices, labs and other facilities
as part of an effort to save $150
million per year, U.S. Agricul-
ture Secretary Tom Vilsack
announced yesterday.
While the closures and other
cost-cutting steps will affect the
USDA headquarters in Washing-
ton and operations in 46 states,
the savings will be relatively
small in the context of the agen-
cy's $145 billion budget.
The closures follow a review
of USDA operations done as part
of the Obama administration's
efforts to cut waste, Vilsack said.
Congress, he said, has reduced
the U$DAapetingbudgetrexat-
ing the challenge of finding ways
to maintain services with ewer
employees.
CARACAS, Venezuela
Chavez expresses
support of Iranian
president
President Hugo Chavez defend-
ed his close ally Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Mon-
day as tensions rose with the U.S.
over Tehran's nuclear program
and a death sentence against an
American man convicted of work-
ing for the CIA.
The two leaders met in Caracas
on the first leg of a four-nation
tour that will also take Ahma-
dinejad to Nicaragua, Cuba and
Ecuador.
"They present us as aggres-
sors," Chavez said of U.S. officials
as he received the Iranian leader

at the presidential palace.
"Iran hasn't invaded anyone,"
Chavez said. "Who has dropped
thousands and thousands of
bombs ... including atomic
bombs?"
CANBERRA, Australia
Japan frees anti-
* whaling activists in
Antarctic Ocean
An Australian customs ship
was steaming toward a Japanese
whaling vessel to pick up three
activists after Tokyo decided
today to release them with-
out charges over their surprise
boarding off southwest Australia.
Australian Prime Minister
Julia Gillard said the customs ship
would likely take several days of
traveling at full speed to rendez-
vous with the security ship the
Shonan Maru No. 2 to pick up
the three Australians - Geof-
frey Owen Tuxworth, 47, Simon
Peterffy, 44, and Glen Pendlebury,
27 - in the Antarctic Ocean. All
are from WesternAustralia state.
The three anti-whaling activ-
ists boarded the Shonan Maru
No. 2 on Sunday as it tailed the
Sea Shepherd Conservation Soci-
ety's flagship, the Steve Irwin.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports


-mI
m
0
0
(ns

m

ELISE AMENDULA/AP
Republican presidential candidate, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, speaks as New Jersey Gov. Chris Chris-
tie listens at left during a campaign rally in Exeter, N.H. on Sunday.
GOP contenders take aim
at Romney's record on jobs
Rivals hope to looted the companies, left peo- tion to the Bain jobs history
ple unemployed and walked off was spiking.
halt frontrunner's with millions of dollars," for- Speaking of insurance
mer House Speaker Newt Gin- options before a New Hamp-
momentum grich said on NBC's "Today" shire audience, Romney said,
show. A group friendly to "I like being able to fire people
Nashua, N.H. (AP) - Mitt Gingrich is airing TV ads of who provide services to me."
Romney's Republican rivals laid-off workers denouncing He remained favored to
accused him yesterday of exag- Romney, who interrupted his win today's New Hampshire
gerating his successes and time at Bain to serve as Mas- primary. But his rivals might
coldly laying off thousands of sachusetts governor. improve their hopes of halt-
workers while heading a prof- Texas Gov. Rick Perry ing his momentum in South
itable venture capital firm, an joined in. He cited South Carolina's Jan. 21 primary if
effort to turn the presidential Carolina companies that Bain they can persuade voters that
front-runner's biggest asset bought and downsized, and he his jobs legacy is not what he
into a liability. practically dared Romney to claims.
The heightened focus on the ask for voters' support there in Thanks to millions of dollars
firm Bain Capital threatens to the name of easing economic from a Las Vegas casino owner
slow Romney's cruise-control pain. "He caused it," Perry said who supports Gingrich, TV
campaign because it goes to in Anderson, S.C. ads in South Carolina are try-
the heart of his No. 1 appeal to Romney points to thou- ing to do just that. Like many
voters: the claim that he knows sands of jobs created at com- attack ads they are emotional,
far more than President Barack panies that Bain bought, one-sided and not subtle. They
Obama about creating jobs. invested in or restructured. show angry victims of layoffs
Romney's takeover-and- But he struck a discordant from Bain-controlled compa-
restructuring firm "apparently note yesterday, just as atten- nies.
Mudslides kill eight in Rio de
Janeiro, up to 20 stillr missin

Torrential rain
leads to evacuation
of thousands
President Heavy rains
caused mudslides that killed
at least eight people in Rio de
Janeiro state yesterday, rais-
ing the number of dead in Rio
and neighboring Minas Gerais
state to 23 so far this year, civil
defense officials said.
Mud loosened by the rain
swallowed about 10 houses in
the town of Sapucaia yesterday
morning. Seven residents were
confirmed dead by rescue crews
that are still searching for sur-
vivors. The eighth victim died
when a house collapsed nearby.
Up to20 other people are still
missing, accordingto Rio state's
civil defense department. Local
authorities are still compiling a
list of the disappeared.
Among the missing is a fam-
ily whose car was caught in
the mudslide as they tried to

escape, said municipal spokes-
man Sergio Campante.
Last week, torrential rain
burst a dam, leading to the
evacuation of 4,000 residents
of the town of Tres Vendas.
Elsewhere in the state, another
4,000 people were forced from
their houses and three people
were killed by heavy rains and
mudslides.
In the neighboring state of
Minas Gerais, more than 10,000
people have left their homes,
and 12 have died in floodwa-
ters or mudslides, according to
the state's civil defense depart-
ment.
The southern hemisphere
summer, which starts in late
December, is Brazil's rainy
season. It frequently brings
devastation and death to com-
munities perched on hillsides or
near river banks. Nearly 1,000
people died last year around
this time when torrential rain
unleashed avalanches of mud in
Rio's mountains.
In the capital, Brasilia, presi-

dent Dilma Rousseff cut short
her vacations and met yester-
day with cabinet members to
discuss the relocation of resi-
dents of areas hit hardest by the
storms.
"Avoiding deaths is our num-
ber one priority," said Rousseff's
chief of staff, Gleisi Hoffmann.
The federal government
announced the creation of a
working group of 35 geolo-
gists and 15 hydrologists who
will evaluate at-risk areas in
Brazil's southeastern states of
Rio, Minas Gerais and Espirito
Santo.
"We're going to map out the
locations to identify the most
vulnerable areas and help relo-
cate the families," said the min-
ister of Science and Technology,
Aloizio Mercadante, in a press
conference held after meeting
with the president.
Meanwhile, a severe drought
in Brazil's southern state of Rio
Grande do Sul led the governor,
Beto Grill, to declare a state of
emergency yesterday.

UN confirms Iranians enriching
uranium at an increased level

IAEA says new
uranium easier
to use in nuclear
weapons
The U.N. nuclear agency on
yesterday confirmed that Iran
has begun enriching uranium
at an underground bunker to
a level that can be upgraded
more quickly for use in a nucle-
ar weapon than the nation's
main enriched stockpile.
Comment from the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency
came after diplomats said that
centrifuges at the Fordo site
near Iran's holy city of Qom
are churning out uranium
enriched to 20 percent. That
level is higher than the 3.5 per-
cent being made at Iran's main
enrichment plant and can be
turned into fissile warhead
material faster and with less
work.

"The IAEA can confirm that
Iran has started the produc-
tion of uranium enriched up
to 20 percent ... in the Fordow
Fuel Enrichment Plant," said
an agency statement, which
used the alternate spelling for
the site.
The move was expected,
with Tehran announcing
months ago that it would use
the Fordo facility for 20 percent
production. Iran beg'an to fur-
ther enrich a small part of its
uranium stockpile to nearly 20
percent as of February 2010 at
a less-protected experimental
site, saying it needs the higher
grade material to produce fuel
for a Tehran reactor that makes
medical radioisotopes for can-
cer patients.
But with the time and effort
reduced between making
weapons-grade uranium from
the 20-percent level, the start
of the Fordo operation increas-
es international fears that Iran
is determined to move closer

to the ability to make nuclear
warheads - despite insistence
by the Islamic Republic that it
is enriching only to make reac-
tor fuel.
Its dismissal of findings by
the International Atomic Ener-
gy Agency of secret experimen-
tal work on a nuclear weapons
program also worries the inter-
national community.
British Foreign Secretary
William Hague called the move
"a provocative act which fur-
ther undermines Iran's claims
that its program is entirely
civilian in nature."
Tehran's "claim to be enrich-
ing for the Tehran Research
Reactor does not stand up to
serious scrutiny," he said in
a statement. Hague said that
Iran "already has sufficient
enriched uranium to power the
reactor for more than five years
and has not even installed the
equipment necessary to manu-
facture fuel elements" out of
the enriched material.

b~ncoIlege'
facebook.cerm/bnco lece
LOWEST PRICE GUARANTEE
WHEN BUYING NEW O R USED*
*Does not apply to online retailers. See bookseller for details.


4

,I


I

4 - Tuesday, January 10, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

4 - Tuesday, January10, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

c4c fitichinan l 43ablu

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAILJ EFFAT JEFFOZ(ciUMICtsEON'0

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
and ANDREW WEINER JOSH HEALY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

Look, kid, you can't just
keep taking free tastes
all day.
At

Sigh...I guess I'll
go with vanilla.

JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.

nutty Reman-Tea Peroty Oneh--O*W,. ni erty"--a.*,od An
-fantorm swiri-Polio nterg navar-Hialf-Raked Ran Paul-$ gar
Qaln-Vanilla Mitt-
Sustainable reso lutions

A home for all

he new yea
Ann Arbor needs affordable off campus housin g - a timet
Pout that las

Affordable student housing is becoming an increasingly seri-
ous problem on campus as a surprising number of high-
rise luxury apartments now dominate Ann Arbor's skyline.
With expensive amenities like hot tubs and large televisions offered
by such apartment buildings, students are asked to pay considerably
high rent prices, some of which exceed $1,000 a month per person.
These prices are a result of new complexes built close to Central
Campus, and force students who don't wish to reside in University
Housing farther from campus. The University and the city of Ann
Arbor must work together to attract and create affordable housing
options for all students.

The University announced in November
that the Baits I Residence Hall on North Cam-
pus will permanently close after the winter
semester due to serious structural damage.
East Quad Residence Hall will close for reno-
vations for the next school year. Freshmen
and sophomores will also now take precedent
over upperclassmen in choosing rooms in the
residence halls. These decisions, coupled with
the city of Ann Arbor's approval of a num-
ber of lavish apartment complexes, such as
Zaragon West on Thompson, Landmark on S.
University and most recently, The Varsity on
Church St., are limiting the number of afford-
able housing options available to students.
It's becoming nearly impossible for the
majority of underclassmen to find housing that
is affordable, comfortable and close to campus.
The campus-housing deficit is spiraling out of
control. Students are stressed due to the lim-
ited optionstheyhave to find reasonably priced
lodging. Increasing prices and a system that
encourages predatory landlords are not ben-
eficial to students. In order to secure reason-
ably priced housing for the following school
year, students are forced to engage in an insane
housing rush that begins as early as October
and gets earlier each year as students hope to
get a head start on the search.
New apartment complexes are popping up
close to Central Campus. These new build-
ings, however, come with expensive amenities

and high price tags. Since many students pay
or contribute to their own rent, it's not prac-
tical to design new housing that comes with
unneeded features, which drive up rent con-
siderably. Instead of building Landmark, more
affordable housing - more along the lines of
University Towers - should be built. Apart-
ments need to be designed more practically,
keeping in mind that many of their occupants
will be college students on a budget.
The area surrounding Central Campus is
small, but the University needs to actively
seek developers who are willing to build
affordable housing complexes on or near
campus. Ann Arbor City Council is respon-
sible for approving all high-rise buildings
proposed by developers. Students are in des-
perate need of affordable housing, but noth-
ing's been done to mitigate the problem thus
far. As the largest employer in Ann Arbor,
the University has influence with the city. It
should use that influence to work for all of its
students and be sympathetic to all students'
financial position.
Students deserve to live comfortably and
affordably. They shouldn't be forced to live
in the residence halls, apartments or homes
far from campus because expensive high-
rises are the only other options. The Univer-
sity must have its students' interests in mind
when working with the city of Ann Arbor to
provide more housing options.

ments or swear
off Big Macs for
good. Every-
one has a plan
for change, but
unfortunately
even some of the
best resolutions
can fall by the
wayside. There
should be a sim-
pler approach to
the resolution
business. Insteadc
change, try contin
done well in the pa
Since killing O
again is out of the r
ity, let's examine w
the field of renewa
the benefit of the
package. A continu
breaks for clean en'
perfect achievabler
new year.
The tax break f
wasn't just a ruse,
ronmentalists acro
actually created jol
clean energy out
to a Dec. 13 article
zine, the tax break
panies pursuing re
endeavors has cont
a 37-percent annua
power in the past
duction tax credit
2.2 cents for eac
of clean energy p
always increased t
of renewable ener
gigawatts.
The increase inr
output serves not o
ment but also pro

r is a fresh start of jobs for American workers. Even
to finally throw with successful implementation of
t pack of Parlia- a government-spending program,
the funding provided to renewable
energy projects could come to a halt
at the end of 2012.
The article points out that some
would contend that spending money
on a field too weak to sustain itself
without financial backing is irre-
sponsible and the government
should instead be focusing fund-
JOE ing on uncovering new locations
SUGIYAMA of fossil fuels - energy sources
understood to be both reliable and
lucrative. But this is exactly the
of resolving for a mindset that the U.S. needs to avoid
ruing something if it wishes to create a country that
st year. can sustain itself in the future.
sama bin Laden Opponents of the renewable
ealm of possibil- energy subsidies may cite the
vhat was done in recent expiration of the ethanol tax
able energy with credit as a reason to let the current
2009 stimulus green energy subsides run out as
cation of the tax well. Even without a government
ergy could be the tax credit, the ethanol industry
resolution for the isn't expected to see a downturn
in production. In fact, Matt A.
for clean energy Hartwig, Director of Communica-
to appease envi- tions of the Renewable Fuels Asso-
ss the country; it ciation, has gone as far as saying
bs and increased "the tax incentive is less necessary
puts. According now than it was just two years ago"
e in Time maga- and they expect to "produce the
offered to com- same amount of ethanol in 2012 as
enewable energy in 2011, or more."
ributed to nearly The same can't be said for solar
i growth in wind panels and wind farms. If the same
four years. Pro- train of thought is used in the case
ts - which pay of these renewable energy sources,
h kilowatt-hour the U.S. is likely to see a downturn
roduced - have in production of both solar and wind
he total amount power. According to Time, the wind
gy output to 43 industry alone would suffer nearly
a $10.1 billion drop in investment -
enewable energy costing nearly 37,000 American jobs
nly the environ- - after the 2009 stimulus runs out
vides thousands at the end of the year. This will dev-

astate the industry, and without a
renewal of the production tax cred-
its for wind farms, it could spell the
end of the trade altogether.
This is why - even with the
upcoming election - the public
can't forget that there's still work
to be done. It's an issue that must
be addressed, not in a presiden-
tial debate, but by Congress - and
soon. Renewable energy shouldn't
be viewed as a superfluous expense,
but rather as an investment in
America's future.
Keep investing
in alternative*
energies.
At the moment it seems like
renewable energy might be a poor
investment. But daily research to
increase the efficiency of wind
turbines and solar panels has the
potential to make these alternative
energy resources viable options
in the future. Though that future
may seem a long way off, it would
be foolish not to believe that it can
be achieved. Denying the U.S. the
opportunity of realizing the full
potential of solar and wind power
would be a mistake.
Sticking to a new year resolu-
tion can be tough, but this isn't a
cold turkey request. All I ask is that
we continue down a path that has
proven to be environmentally and
economically sound.
-Joe Sugiyama can be
reached at jmsugi@umich.edu
or on Twitter @JoeSugiyama.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Kaan Avdan, Michelle DeWitt, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Emily Orley, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Seth Soderborg, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
CAROLINE SYMS .
Have a backup plan

CONTRIBUTE TO THE COVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words. Both must include the writer's full
name and University affiliation. Send submissions to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.
RIDHISHA RUGHANI I
Spark your start-up

Backup plans are a college student's best
friend. We use them when the classes we
want to schedule are already full, when we
don't get accepted to our preferred academic
major and even when planning social events
and activities on weekends. Backup plans
become lifesavers in a variety of situations,
and all they require is a little creative fore-
thought in order to find alternative answers
to the question, "What if?"
When there is an absence of a logically
thought-out backup plan, the door inevitably
opens for disaster. College students across
the globe can learn a valuable lesson about
the importance of thinking big and preparing
for the unexpected by understanding how a
local government failed to generate a plan B
for running its city.
The city of Detroit has recently been on
the verge of succumbing to complete state
control as its financial standing crumbles. In
better times, Detroit was an industrial pow-
erhouse, greatly prospering because of the
pivotal position it held in the American and
worldwide automotive industries. As soon
as foreign competitors - with their higher
quality standards - broke into the automo-
tive market, Detroit couldn't keep up and the
industry collapsed under the economic pres-
sures exerted by foreign competition.
Detroit is not the only city in Michigan to
experience a financial crisis requiring state
government intervention. Detroit, however,
is guilty of putting all of its eggs into one
basket. Investing every dollar in the auto-
motive industry eliminated the possibility
of diversifying Detroit and allowing the city
to prosper in other sectors. Detroit's budget
was poorly managed and the future of the
city was not a top priority for its city council.
These fatal errors, committed decades ago,

are now responsible for putting the entire
state of Michigan at risk for a further eco-
nomic downturn.
So, what does Detroit's economy mean for
college students across the world?
As a young group of individuals charac-
terized by a sense of adventure, eagerness to
gain independence and a desire to adapt to
unfamiliar environments, college students
have the opportunity to avoid a similar fate.
As we continue to receive our college educa-
tions, we obtain skills that allow us to control
our decisions, ponder our options and create
backup plans to secure success in the future.
Though many of us won't be concerned with
budgeting the finances of a major American
city in our lifetimes, we have an even bigger
responsibility riding on our shoulders - man-
aging our own personal finances. Learning
how to budget money is certainly a challenge
that every individual encounters as they grow
up. Some are taught the value of a dollar at an
early age while others don't grasp this reality
until it's too late. Don't put yourself at a dis-
advantage by being careless and naive. Oth-
erwise, you run the risk of digging yourself an
early grave, just like Detroit has done.
We're all young enough to take control of
our own lives while there's still time to cor-
rect previous mistakes. So take charge of
your future, diversify yourself and spread
your passions. Become a leader and advance
your communication skills so you do not
leave your future in someone else's hands.
When things don't go as expected, have a
backup plan.
When you don't land your dream job, have
a backup plan.
When you're in doubt, have a backup plan.
Caroline Syms is an LSA sophomore.

The local entrepreneurial scene continues to grow
as MPowered Entrepreneurship, a University student
organization, aims to spur start-up activity with Startup
Weekend Ann Arbor. With a mission to expose students
to entrepreneurship and support student entrepreneurs,
MPowered is one of the driving forces on campus that is
engaging students in entrepreneurship.
From January 20-22, East Hall's Psychology Atrium
will be buzzing with students and local Ann Arborites
alike as teams work around the clock to build start-ups
over the course of the weekend.
Startup Weekends take place across the world and
bring together tomorrow's entrepreneurs. At Startup
Weekend Ann Arbor, participants will grow a concept
into reality by both pitching ideas and joining forces with
other participants to work on their ideas. Participants
will test their skills as they rapidly develop a business
model and prototype. Throughout the weekend, teams
have the opportunity to engage with various prominent
entrepreneurs, technological experts and venture capi-
talists in the form of mentors, speakers and judges. The
weekend culminates with teams pitching their compa-
nies to a board of judges. The top team will be awarded
a trip to San Francisco, sponsored by the University's
Center for Entrepreneurship, where they will have the
opportunity to pitch their start-up. Additionally, teams
will have the opportunity to receive three months of free
virtual tenancy at Ann Arbor SPARK!
Back by popular demand, Startup Weekend will be at
the University for a second consecutive year, hosted by
MPowered Entrepreneurship. Last year, Startup Week-
end U of M was the largest Startup Weekend to be held at
a university, hosting over 100 participants from various
backgrounds around the greater Ann Arbor community.
Events like Startup Weekend are highly beneficial for
a budding entrepreneurial community such as the one at
the University. It provides an ideal environment to find
potential partners and learn new skills. But most impor-
tantly, it gives individuals a taste of the challenge, fervor
and pace of the real start-up world.
Through Startup Weekend we can see that it takes

a certain environment to build an entrepreneur. It
requires highly passionate individuals, access to finan-
cial and educational resources, networking opportu-
nities and supporting mentors. Such an environment
is forming on campus. At the University, students are
beginning to make entrepreneurship a part of their
education. Along with taking entrepreneurship cours-
es, students went above and beyond by submitting
more than 3,000 ideas to this year's 1,000 Pitches com-
petition. Students are taking advantage of resources
such as TechArb and enrolling in the Entrepreneur-
ship Practicum - both of which have seen their larg-
est classes yet. In Ann Arbor, start-up communities
like the Tech Brewery, are filled with companies. Tech
meetups occur weekly and monthly through organiza-
tions such as a2geeks, Mobile Mondays and A2New-
Tech Meetup. We are attracting the attention of new
investors who are looking toward Ann Arbor start-ups
to invest their money. By bridging the gap between
the University and the Ann Arbor community, Startup
Weekend aims to further accelerate the momentum
already building locally today.
We have to continue to act to keep this momentum
alive. At the University, we are the leaders and the best.
We have the talent and the resources - let's make the
most of them. Startup Weekend's tagline is, "No talk,
all action". We're not just talking about making change,
we are making change happen.
On Jan. 20, MPowered Entrepreneurship will show-
case Ann Arbor's next generation of entrepreneurs
with Startup Weekend Ann Arbor. Undergraduate and
graduate students from all majors are encouraged to
attend. Past Startup Weekends have seen participants
from backgrounds such as education, design, business,
law, computer science, engineering and medicine.
For more information on how to apply visit annar-
bor.startupweekend.org or contact Ridhisha Rughani
at rrughani@umich.edu. The deadline is approaching
so apply now.
Ridhisha Rughani is a Business sophomore,

t h e My Ann Arbor: Eli Fenyes prepares to take you on
neaItrip around the Big AAsy.
Go to michigandaily.com/blogs/The Podium

9

4



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 10, 2012 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January 10, 2012 - 5

SACUA
From Page 1
increased sensitivity to family
commitments that prevent stu-
dents from attending class.
Hanlon discusses salary
increases for University deans
At the meeting, University
Provost Philip Hanlon presented
data on increases in dean sala-
ries this year and explained the
process behind the raises to the
SACUA members.
According to Hanlon, deans
DECISION
From Page 1
motions by the Mackinac Cen-
ter Legal Foundation on behalf
of students opposed to GSRA
unionization and a separate
motion by the attorney general.
Both motions sought to allow
the groups to intervene and
advocate at MERC hearings
against the proposed unioniza-
tion.
Both groups argued that since
the University Board of Regents
had previously voted to recog-
nize GSRAs as public employ-
ees, both parties represented at
the hearing would be in favor of
unionization. They contended
that arguments opposing union-
ization were therefore excluded
from formal hearings.
MERC dismissed the argu-
ments and ordered that the deci-
sion to permit the unionization
of GSRAs at the University be
determined by an administra-
tive judge in late January or
early February.
Patrick Wright, director of
the Mackinac Center Legal

receive a 10-percent increase in
salary after five years in their
position. If they leave their
appointments but remain at the
University, their salary returns
to the high end of the teaching
range.
At the end of every year, deans
are evaluated on their appoint-
ment, where there is a 3-percent
overall merit pool, Hanlon said.
When hiringa new dean, a mar-
ket study is done on peer institu-
tions' hiring rates.
Salary is more than compen-
sation, and other institutions,
Foundation and counsel for Stu-
dents Against GSRA Unioniza-
tion said the ongoing issue over
whether GSRAs can be consid-
ered public employees stems
from a 1981 MERC precedent
that determined that while
graduate student instructors are
considered public employees,
GSRAs are not.
"The regents cannot change
the law," Wright said. "The law
is that only public employees
can be subject to mandatory,
compulsory unionization. And
if they're not public employees,
there's no vote at all."
Wright added that while he
had been in contact with the
attorney general's office, the
two motions were separate.
The attorney general's court fil-
ing Friday still echoed many of
the same points as the motion
filed by Students Against GSRA
Unionization and stated that
MERC had committed a "sub-
stantial and material error of
law."
"The Attorney General has
determined that the outcome of
the (administrative law judge's)
ruling will have significant

like the University of Pennsylva-
nia, pay the college tuition of the
dean's children, SACUA Chair
Kate Barald said.
Business School Dean Alison
Davis-Blake is the University's
highest-paid dean with an annu-
al salary of $550,000, according
to the University's 2011 salary
report. She is followed by Medi-
cal School Dean James O. Wool-
liscroft, who earns $524,509
annually.
- Lily Bonadonna
contributed to this report
impact on the University's role
as an elite research institution,
which would detrimentally
impact the interests and rights
of the State and People of Michi-
gan," the filing stated.
GEO President Samantha
Montgomery wrote in a state-
ment to The Michigan Daily
yesterday that GSRAs are public
employees and should have the
right to unionize.
"While support for our union
is strong, we respect that some
may disagree," Montgomery
wrote. "They get to vote 'no,' but
shouldn't be allowed to hijack a
MERC proceeding."
Stephen Raiman, founder of
Students Against GSRA Union-
ization, wrote in a statement
to The Daily on Friday that
MERC's decision was a violation
of its rights and the organization
deserves to be heard in court.
"MERC made their previous
decision after only hearing one
side of the argument," Raiman
wrote. "This was a clear viola-
tion of our right to due process.
We will continue to seek justice
despite (the) union's attempts to
silence their opponents."

PARKING RATES
From Page 1
made after a DDA committee pro-
posed parking rate changes, held
public hearings and gave a pre-
sentation to the Ann Arbor City
Council about the 2012 parking
system changes.
The majority of the raised rev-
enue from parking will go toward
the parking structure fund for
maintenance, improvement and
expansion, according to Susan
Pollay, executive director of the
Ann Arbor DDA.
"Rates are increasing for two
big reasons," Pollay said. "First,
to cover increasing costs to oper-
ate the parking system, and two,
to pay for the cost to expand the
public parking system with two
new parking structures."
One of the new parking struc-
tures is currently under con-
struction on the old library lot.
Surrounding businesses have
complained about the lengthy
duration of the project, alleging
it has hurt their businesses. How-
ever, Pollay said the additional
structures are necessary.
"It has been nearly 30 years
after the last new public park-
ing structure was constructed in
downtown - the Liberty Square
parking structure - despite more
CSG
From Page 1
"(Medical amnesty is) some-
thing we all plan to push as hard
as we can and make sure it hap-
pens before the end of the year,"
Watson said.
LSA junior Aditya Sathi, vice
speaker of the CSG assembly, said
medical amnesty is spreading to
college campuses across the coun-
try due to its potential to save the
lives of endangered students.
"Excessive drinking is a prob-
lem at a majority of universities
throughout the country," Sathi
said. "medical amnesty is an
opportunity to ... save students'
lives."
Sathi said he will introduce a
resolution in support of a medical
amnesty program during the CSG
meeting next week. The student
government is then scheduled to
vote on the implementation of the
program on Jan. 24.
Though the resolution has yet
to be written, Sathi said it will
include minor repercussions for
underage drinkers, such as an
online class about alcohol safety
or a mandatory meeting with the
University's Counseling and Psy-
chological Services.
"Students can live with taking
a class or seeing a counselor, but
an MIP is monumentally worse,"
Sathi said.
If the resolution passes, Sathi
said he and other members of
CSG will approach University
administrators and Ann Arbor

than 2.5 million square feet of pri-
vate development, and it was clear
that more parking was needed,"
Pollay said.
Pollay noted that seven of the
12 DDA members own or work for
downtown businesses, so they are
aware of customer and employee
concerns about parking.
City Council member Sandi
Smith (D-Ward 1), a member of
the DDA committee, agreed that
the cost would not disrupt local
businesses.
"I don't think it's going to have
a negative effect," Smith said. "We
continue to have more and more
visitors downtown year over year,
but the thing about coming down-
town is thatcit is hard to find places
to park, so expansion is critical."
Smith said the small increase
is not enough to dissuade visitors
from coming to Ann Arbor.
"It's only another dime," Smith
said. "If you are coming for lunch
and stay two hours, it's only an
additional twenty cents on your
bill and I don't think enough to
keep anyone from doing what
their plans are."
City Council member Mike
Anglin (D-Ward 5) opposed the
new parking structure efforts,
which he said moves away from
sustainability initiatives in the
city.
"We want to get people out of
community members about offi-
cially launching medical amnesty.
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown said
issuing an MIP is secondary to
safety.
"Each of the University Police
officers are concerned with the
safety of our students, faculty and
staff," she said. "That's always the
primary concern and rises above
all else - making sure that people
are safe either from themselves or
others."
Brown added that after follow-
ing safety precautions, any action
made by officers is "enforcing
state law."
LSA junior Sean Walser, chair
of CSG's external relations com-
mission, said the "shadow of
doubt" of potentially receiving an
MIP can prevent students from
making responsible decisions.
"Whether or not you actually
get issued an MIP, the fact that
you could (get issued an MIP)
is what really scares a lot of stu-
dents from making the call," he
said.
Most of medical amnesty's
support stems from a study of
the medical amnesty program at
Cornell University, which found
that implementation of the pro-
gram led to an increase in calls
for medical attention in alcohol-
related incidents.
Purdue University launched
Purdue CARES, a manifesta-
tion of the concept of medical
amnesty, according to a Sept. 13
Purdue University press release.
Schools such as Ohio State Uni-

the cars, not in them," Anglin
said. "We are looking to expand
our bus system, so that we could
employ more people. A parking
structure is an old solution for an
old problem."
Anglin added he believes the
city is mishandling their funds
and would rather have money
used for programs that directly
aid citizens in need and support
environmental efforts.
"Everyone is looking for sus-
tainability and the ability to keep
going without spending more
and more money," Anglin said. "I
would prefer to have money avail-
able to help humans and not park-
ing structures."
Business sophomore Rachael
Brunk said she plans to avoid
driving downtown whenever pos-
sible asa result of the parking rate
increases.
"I don't like (the increased
cost)," Brunk said. "I'll just walk
from my house instead. It's a has-
sle but not worth it to pay $5 for
just a few hours."
Business senior Jake Barnett
said he isn't bothered by the meter
rate increases since the benefit of
being able to park in the city out-
weighs the small price raise.
"People are always looking to
park for game days," Barnett said.
"That parking structure could be
a bank for game day parking."
versity, the College of William
and Mary and the University of
Texas-Austin have also adopted
programs based on the idea of
medical amnesty.
LSA junior Jacob Sklar said
Medical Amnesty could benefit
fraternities, which may experi-
ence consequences beyond an
MIP if incidents of underage
alcohol consumption are discov-
ered on chapter property.
"(They would) rather kick
someone out than call the police,"
Sklar said.
He added that despite the legal
repercussions, most students
would call for medical attention
for a friend regardless of the risk
of receiving an MIP.
Brown echoed Sklar's senti-
ments and said she trusts that
students are making the respon-
sible decision to aid friends in
need of medical attention.
"I would certainly like to think
that our students are choosing
the healthy choice over (a fine),"
Brown said. "If they already
think that this person needs med-
ical help, one would think that
nothing else would stand in the
way of that."
Business junior Trevor Grieb
said he believes medical amnesty
would be beneficial to students
and would lead to an increase in
calls regarding alcohol-related
incidents.
While Grieb said it may appear
as if medical amnesty lessens the
consequences of underage drink-
ing, he added "the benefits far
outweigh the costs."


Khin Maung Win/AP
Myanmar democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi, right, and Tin Os, deputy leader of her National League for Democracy
party, participate in a ribbon-cutting ceremony for a sign of the party's headquarters in Yangon, Myanmar, yesterday.
Myanmar democracy leader
announces parliament bid


Aung San Suu Kyi
to participate in
election
YANGON, Myanmar (AP)
- Myanmar opposition leader
Aung San Suu Kyi confirmed
that she will run for a seat in
parliament, her party said today,
a move that will infuse April by-
elections with legitimacy, star
power and historic significance.
Suu Kyi said last year that she
would run for parliament but
had appeared to backtrack since
then. A victory would give the
Nobel Peace Prize winner and
longtime political prisoner a
voice in parliament for the first
time in her decades-long role as
the country's opposition leader.
She was under house arrest
during November 2010 elec-
tions, which were boycotted by
her National League for Democ-
racy Party in part because she
was barred from participating.
The elections, Myanmar's first
in 20 years, replaced a ruling
military junta with a govern-
ment that remains strongly
linked to the military but has
taken steps toward easing

decades of repression.
Suu Kyi's decision to person-
ally contest the April polls is the
latest vote of confidence for gov-
ernment reforms that include
the legalization of labor unions,
increasing press freedom and
openinga dialogue with Suu Kyi
herself.
Party spokesman Nyan
Win said today that Suu Kyi
announced during a party meet-
ing yesterday that she would
seek a parliamentary seat in
the Yangon suburb of Kawhmu.
Yangon is Myanmar's largest
city and Suu Kyi's hometown.
As recently as last week, Suu
Kyi declined to confirm whether
she would personally contest
a seat, telling The Associated
Press in an interview that her
decision would be announced
later this month. She also
expressed cautious optimism
about the government's reforms.
"I think there are obstacles,
and there are some dangers that
we have to look out for," Suu Kyi
said. "I am concerned about how
much support there is in the mil-
itary for changes."
Even if Suu Kyi's party wins
all 48 seats to be contested April
1, it will have minimal power.

Most of the seats were vacated
by lawmakers who became Cabi-
net ministers after the first par-
liamentary session last January.
The military is guaranteed
110 seats in the 440-seat lower
house and 56 seats in the 224-
seat upper house, and the main
pro-military party holds 80 per-
cent of the remaining 498 elect-
ed seats.
Suu Kyi's party won a sweep-
ing victory in the 1990 general
election but the junta refused
to honor the results. The mili-
tary regime kept Suu Kyi under
house arrest on-and-off for 15
years, hoping to snuff out her
popularity. Despite never having
held elected office, she became
Myanmar's most recognizable
face and an icon for the country's
pro-democracy movement.
Countries that imposed sanc-
tions on Myanmar under the pre-
vious military government have
taken at least tentative steps to
improve relations. In November,
Hillary Rodham Clinton because
the first U.S. secretary of state to
visit the country in more than 50
years, and on Monday, Australia
became the first country to ease
sanctions against Myanmar's
rulingelite.

AATA
From Page 1
relatively new to council and
may not have been aware of the
exhausting meetings that (coun-
cil has) had - and I've been to
several of them - and several
other councilmembers have been
as well," Hieftje said.
In response, Lumm told Hieftje
that she believed she had prepared
sufficiently for the agenda item.
"I understand that, and I've
been trying to do my homework,

but I feel that was a little bit
patronizing, Mr. Mayor," Lumm
said, as a person attending the
meeting shouted out in her sup-
port.
Hieftje later apologized to
Lumm, assuringherthathe did not
intend to sound condescending.
In the public commentary sec-
tion of the meeting, Ann Arbor
resident Alan Haber questioned
why council had not previously
hosted a public hearing on the
issue.
"Why no public hearing?"
Haber asked. "Why not hear from

all the people who have concerns
with this before you sign on to
some agreement that's taking you
down some course that has con-
sequences that aren't really laid
out?"
Ann Arbor resident Robert
Thomas told council that expand-
ing transportation services would
enhance the community.
"It's like the town I love sud-
denly grew to be four times its
size," Thomas said. "Like that
part in 'Harry Potter' when they
touch the brick and Diagon Alley
opens up."

#MICHLINKS

Remember Michigan's victory forever with two glossy posters.
Go to www.store.michigandaily.com/sugar-bowl-posters

i

A a


6 - Tuesday, January 10, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

' Obama's chief of staff resigns .

Budget director
Jack Lew to replace
William Daley
WASHINGTON (AP) - Presi-
dent Barack Obama announced
unexpectedly yesterday that
chief of staff William Daley was
quitting and heading home, cap-
ping a short and rocky tenure
that had been expected to last
until Election Day in November.
Obama budget director Jack
Lew, a figure long familiar with
Washington's ways, is to take over
one of the most consuming jobs in
America.
Daley's run as Obama's chief
manager and gatekeeper lasted
only a year. It was filled with
consequential moments for the
White House, like the killing of
al-Qaida terrorist leader Osama
bin Laden, but also stumbles
with Congress and grumbles
that Daley was not the right
choice to coordinate an intense
operation of ideas, egos and

week.
Daley did not waver, express-
ing to his boss a desire to get back
to his family in Chicago, where
Daleys have dominated local
politics for decades. He offered
no explanation yesterday about
what accelerated his decision; he
had committed to Obama that he
would stay on through the elec-
tion.
It apparently became clear
that the fit was no longer work-
ing for either side. Senior adviser
Pete Rouse already had taken on
more of the day-to-day manage-
ment.
Stepping in is the mild-man-
nered Lew, who began his career
as a staffer in Congress, where
he spent almost a decade as prin-
cipal domestic policy adviser
to House Speaker Tip O'Neill.
Lew has worked for Obama as a
deputy secretary of state before
becoming budget director, the
same position he held in the
President Bill Clinton's adminis-
tration.
Daley had been brought in for

cago, Obama's hometown, Daley
did not personally know Obama
well. That meant he had to fig-
ure out the president and run his
operation simultaneously. He
did not seem to mesh as the one,
more than anyone, charged with
ensuring a smooth operation.
The president delivered the
other side of the story, describ-
ing Daleyas highly influential and
effective.
"No one in my administration
has had to make more important
decisions more quickly than Bill.
And that's why I think this deci-
sion was difficult for me," Obama
said in a State Dining Room that
was nearly empty except for the
assembled media.
The mood was decidedly more
low-key than other transitions
involving the top staff job at the
White House.
Obama now plows ahead in an
election year with his third chief
of staff - one of the most cru-
cial positions in the U.S. govern-
ment and national politics. Daley
had replaced the colorful and

MUZAFFAR SALMAN/AP
A Syrian woman speaks with an Arab League observer who attends with other observers a mass prayer for the people
and soldiers who were killed during violence around the country at the Holy Cross Church in Damscus, Syria yesterday.
Syrian troops in Homs open fire
as Arab League observers visit

Assad to deliver
speech on "local
and international
developments"
BEIRUT (AP) - Syrian troops
fired on protesters yesterday in
the restive city of Homs as Arab
League observers toured the area
to see whether President Bashar
Assad's regime is abiding by its
pledge to halt the 10-month-old
crackdown on dissent, activists
said.
In the capital Damascus,
thousands held prayers for those
killed since the uprising began
in March. Christian and Mus-
lim religious leaders attended
the service, and throngs packed
the city's Holy Cross church, its
yards and a nearby street.
"Enough killings in our
beloved Syria," the country's top
Sunni clergyman, Grand Mufti
Ahmad Badreddine Hassoun,
told the crowd at the prayer ser-
vice. His son was shot dead in
October.
The 165 foreign monitors are
supposed to be ensuring that
Syria complies with the Arab
League plan stipulating the
regime stop killing protesters,

remove heavy weaponry, such
as tanks, from all cities, free all
political prisoners and allow in
human rights organizations and
foreign journalists. Syria agreed
to the plan on Dec. 19.
However, the crackdown has
not stopped and opposition activ-
ists say around 450 people have
killed by the regime since observ-
ers began work on Dec. 21. Yes-
terday, the British-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights
said security forces shot dead
four people around the country
and returned the bodies of 10
other people to their families in
several Homs neighborhoods.
Syrian state TV said that
Assad will deliver a speech at
noon Tuesday addressing "local
and international developments."
Assad has few public appearanc-
es since the uprising began, and
it will be his first comments since
Syria agreed to the Arab League
peace plan last month.
The U.N. estimated several
weeks ago that more than 5,000
people have been killed in politi-
cal violence since March. Since
that report, opposition activists
say hundreds more have died.
On Sunday, the Arab League
repeated its demand for the Syr-
ian government to immediately
stop all bloodshed.

It was not immediately clear
whether the foreign observ-
ers witnessed the regime forces
opening fire in the Khaldiyeh
neighborhood of Homs. Several
people were reported wounded.
Majd Amer, an activist in
Homs, said the shooting started
after thousands of protesters
surrounded a group of observers,
urging them to go to Khaldiyeh,
where anti-regime protesters are
known to be active. The observ-
ers' Syrian escorts wanted to
take them to the nearby Abbassi-
yah neighborhood, where many
regime supporters live, he said.
"Sporadic shooting was heard
for a few seconds," Amer said.
The opposition has accused
Syria of trying to mislead the
activists by showing them areas
where regime support is strong.
Arab League Secretary General
Nabil Elaraby said Sundayobserv-
ers will continue their monthlong
mission in Syria, despite claims by
activists that the'mission is giv-
ing cover to Assad's crackdown
on protesters and delaying fur-
ther action against the regime in
forums such as the U.N. Security
Council.
Some members of the Syrian
opposition criticized the Arab
League for not withdrawing the
observers.

decisions. nis potcat savvy, business ties tnvolved-n-everything Ranm
Ohama said he reluctantly and experience as Commerce Emanuel, who left the joh to run
accepted the news and at first had secretary. Yet as an outsider, for Chicago mayor, a position he
refused to accept Daley's post- despite his hackground with now holds. Rouse also served as
holidays resignation letter last the top political family in Chi- interim chief of staff for a stretch.
Aid pthinksit nfirst
cholera case in Haiti outbreak

jeauiy disease
has killed 7,000,
infected 500,000
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
(AP) - A mentally ill man who
bathed in and drank from a con-
taminated river most likely was
the first person to be infected in
the Caribbean country's dead-
ly cholera outbreak, a Boston
humanitarian group said yester-
day.
Partners in Health, which
works in Haiti, reported the case
yesterday in a study it did on the
outbreak and published in the
American Journal of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene.
Officials say the cholera out-
break that began in 2010 has
killed 7,000 people and sickened
nearly 500,000. The disease
surfaced in Haiti months after a
powerful earthquake struck the
country two years ago this week.
The humanitarian group's Dr.
David Walton, who co-authored

the study with Dr. Louise Ivers,
said information points to a
28-year-old mentally ill man
from the central town of Mireb-
alais as the first person infected
with the waterborne disease.
He said the man's family had
access to clean drinking water
but his auditory hallucinations
and paranoia went without treat-
ment and he bathed in and drank
frequently from a river into
which the Meye River fed. The
Meye has been identified as the
likely source of the epidemic.
"It's a striking example of how
mental health, infectious disease
and community health affects
overall well-being," Walton, an
internist, said by telephone.
The case serves as a reminder
of how mental health services are
often an afterthought in health
services planning, he added.
The mentally ill man devel-
oped acute diarrhea on Oct. 12,
2010, and died at his home with-
out seeking medical attention
less than 24 hours later.
He was buried the next day

and two people who prepared
the body for the wake developed
severe diarrhea in less than 48
hours.
The study also points out how
globalization can help spread
a disease like cholera to other
parts of the world. Cholera cases
were also found in the neighbor-
ing Dominican Republic, Miami
and Boston.
Studies suggest the cholera
was likely brought to Haiti by a
United Nations peacekeeping
battalion from Nepal, where the
disease is endemic. Haiti now
has the highest cholera infection
rate in the world, according to
Partners in Health.
Today , Partners in Health's
co-founder, Dr. Paul Farmer,
and the Haitian government
will "inaugurate" the near com-
pletion of a 320-bed, national
referral and teaching hospital
in Mirebalais, 30 miles (48 kilo-
meters) north of Port-au-Prince.
It is described as one of the larg-
est projects completed since the
earthquake.

it

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, January 10, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 39 Cheap and gaudy 54 Self-satisfied
1 Stopsstalling 1 _ mater 41 Deduces, slangily 55 Undecided
5 Concerts Sadeoylck hTbppenated ID 56 "The King and I"
souenirs 3 Like many lunch 46 Te tennis rote
10 Spongyball orders table divider 58 Not snookered
brand 4Song section 49 Relay, as by
14 It's often fenced 5 Do a downhill run information 60 Numbers game
15 Toys that need 65Two-bitgaomblers inootn HSmbsg e
wind 7 Colorado naties 50 Lyndon 61 Prefix with plasm
16 Electric co., e.g. 8 "Vamoose!" Johnson's son- 62 Ruckus
17 Cosmopolitan 9 Outdated in-law Charles 64 Class
piece geopolitical letters 51 Experiencing 65 WWi espionage
20 Without help 10 Pain in the neck serious traffic gp.
21 FDR's 11 Carve in stone ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
successor 12 Make hopping
22 Milo ot mad S T PAT A M F M N E S T
"Ulysses" 13 Dog bugger A ROSE S A L A I N C A
23 Nothing at all 18 Snazzy duo? B A T T L E P L A N G R A F
25 Inner Hebrides 19More stylish RITE B E T T E R H A L F
isle 24 Wishone hadn't E B R A T T Y G E E
27 "This can't lose" 26 Cries of surprise N0 EEN T
32 Sinbad's 27'__laDouce"
transport 28 Chisel, e.g. A
33 Part of SASE: 29 Offspring B I T T E R S N D
Abbr. 30 Musical with the ARLO S T E R N O R E M
34 Support at the song "A New LOUS S T A R E
meeting Argentina" ABS E E S A W R I N G
37Somewhat wet 31 Wasableto B 0 T T 0 M L I N E A S E A
40 Caesar of reach A B U T T E R D I S H
comedy 35 River through M E 0 I E C ENT I
42 Do over, as a Sudan
bow 36 Consider A R END A R G O T
43 Island greetings 38 Most diaphanous xwordeditor@aol.com 01/9/12

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
!www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
***! 5 UNIT/6 UNIT HOUSE. Corner
of Church & Willard. Across the street
from Pizza House. 2 large sitting areas,
2 kitch., 3 showers/bths, wshr./dryer no
charge, 8 prkg. spaces avail. Aug.
2012-
Aug 2013. CALL: 248-330-0396
4 BDRM/2 BATH House
Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
Avail. Sept. 2012. 734-395-6823
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available fall.
827 Brookwood. Washer Dryer. 4 prkg
spaces $2300 + utils. 734-996-1991
411 HIGH STREET APART-
MENTS
2 Bedrooms
Kerry Town-North Campus!
Quiet Neighborhood!
Heat & Water Itncluded
Cover Parking Avbilahle
$895-$925
734-761-8000
primesh.com
515 LAWRENCE
1 Bedrooms-2 Remaining
Fully Furnished
Heat & Water Included
Covered Parking Available
Free Internet
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS:
WHY PAY $1500 FORA BED???
Our 1 bedrooms start at $589.
We are now Renting for Spring/Fall
2012
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
FREE PROCESSING FEE, $150.00
VALUE*
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com

THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX (DORMS)
THINK U. TOWERS
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
WHY PAY OVER 1500
OUR ONE BEDROOMS
START AT $589
HURRY IN FOR BEST SELECTION
RESERVATiONS FOR SPRING/FALLt2012
FOR cEEK ONLY
FREE PROCESSING FEE
A $150 VALUE!!
"-FREE BUBBLE ISLAND
DRINK COUPON WITH
EVERY NEW TOUR"
VISIT USAT
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME
536 S. FOREST AVE.
ANN ARBOR, MI 48160
734-761-2680
8 MONTH LEASE ON CHURCH
ST
Across from CC Little.
4 Bedrooms, 2 Bath.
Easily Fit 6 Occupants.
6 FREE Parking Spaces!
Call for details.
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
cated on Central Campus near the
Busi-
ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com

TODAY
FALL 2012

**BARTENDING** 9300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. No exp. nec., training
avail. AGE 18+ 800-965-6520x125
SCOREKEEPERS IS NOW HIRING
Floormen and part-time office staff.
Punctual and dependable applicants ap-
ply at 310 Maynard. Contact John 734-
368-8678

married couple looking to adopt a new-
born. We will cover all legal adoption-
related expenses. Contact Andrea and
Matt at 800-895-1376.

45 Wole hunch
47 Stein filler
d8 Los Angeles
Timespiece, e.g.
52"Show Boat'
author Ferber
53 School since
1440
54 McCartney
bandmate
57 Signalfor
immediate
assistance
59 Cooks cakes
63 Stipulation from a
wealthy
purchaser
66 Banquet hall
vessels
67 Plant in Greek
legend
68 Productive start?
69 Pest in a swarm
70 Nautical speed
units
71 Heath-covered
wasteland

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 10 it 12 13
14 15 16
17 t6 19
ao 21 2z
23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
32 33 34 35 36
3T 38 38 40 4t 42
1 43 44 45 46 47
48 49 50 51
52 53
64 55 56 57 5$ 58 60 61 62
63 84 65
66 67 66
89 70 71
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke 01110112
(c)2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

'01


4

p


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, January 10, 2012 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, January10, 2012 - 7

Docum

"We're bringing sexy back."
Snow has Fallen

Newest Snow Patrol
effort underwhelms
expectations
By EDITH FREYER
Daily Arts Writer
It's been over three years
since Scottish outfit Snow Patrol
released their last studio album,
2008's A Hun-
dred Million **
Suns. If fans
are looking for Snow Patrol
a follow-up
that's far from Fallen Empires
profound, the Fiction/Interscope
band's latest is
just about the
ideal album - Snow Patrol's sixth
studio effort, Fallen Empires, is
an uninspired collection of tunes
that is easily forgettable.
The album opens with "I'll
Never Let Go," a shapeless ven-
ture with predictable pop-rock
percussion. The song takes a
decided turn toward the rock end
of the spectrum with the addition
of backup vocals by folk rocker
Lissie. But her wailing sounds out
of place and only adds confusion
to the direction of the album.
The whole of Fallen Empires
appears to be an attempt at a
sequel to Snow Patrol's big-

gest hit to date, 2006's "Chas-
ing Cars." Most of the tracks are
spent unsuccessfully taking aim
at the perfect angst-ridden love
song.
"This Isn't Everything You
Are," one such attempt, features
the groan-worthy lines, "Feels
like you loved him more than he
loved you / And you wish you'd
never met / Don't keel over now."
The song fulfills that resounding-
ly dull Snow Patrol mentality of
love as the be-all, end-all, must-
have force of life.
One of Fallen Empires's few
pleasant surprises is "The Sym-
phony," which starts out with a
more exciting, synthesizer-based
percussion line. The rest of the
song is a wash, but the introduc-
tory rhythm on its own stands out
more than most of the collection's
material.
Another is "The President,"
the darkest ballad of the album.
It's built on a foundation of mini-
malist piano chords and elon-
gated string lines and is easily
the most convincing track of the
bunch. Coincidentally (or not),
it's also the least produced - and
therefore the least obnoxiously
overdone.
One shift that the group has
taken is a noticeably heavy use
of layered unison vocals. Dur-
ing the title track, a chorus even

chants "We are the light," no less
than 48 times. Impressive, but
not in a good way. That's the case
in point - Fallen Empires lacks
the self-editing required of any
band that hopes to make a repeat-
edly listenable album. The track
titled "Life-ning" centers around
the vocalist moaning "this is all I
ever wanted from life" over and
over. Like this song, most of the
album's material feels unneces-
sary.
The album closes with "Bro-
ken Bottles Form A Star (Pre-
lude)," an instrumental track
laced with plucking strings and
pulsing piano. The song barely
peaks before it's over, cascading
with momentum. Surprisingly,
it's a refreshingly positive note to
end on.
Snow Patrol would have great-
ly benefitted from cutting a few
songs off of Fallen Empires, shav-
ing the selection down to focus
the direction a bit more. As a
whole, the lyricism feels unmo-
tivated and the production lack-
luster. Disappointingly, it sounds
like Fallen Empires was made in
a mere few weeks - after a full
listen of the album, most of the
songs blur together.
The majority of Fallen
Empires's fourteen tracks, clock-
ing in at one hour, aren't worth
your time.

" he magic of the mov-
ies." The old adage
connotes escapement
and fantasy. In today's cin-
ematic landscape the saying is
truer than
ever - Pan-
dora literally
leaps out at
us from the b
screen, invit-
ing audiences
to share in
James Cam- JACOB
eron's fic- AXELRAD
tional world.
Marvel Stu-
dios cranks out superhero flick
after superhero flick, and we as
viewers now expect such block-
busters and the technical savvy
inherent in their creation.
I'll admit it - I'm no differ-
ent. I ooh'ed, aah'ed and all but
drooled right there in the theater
when Sam Worthington first
inhabited his avatar, catapult-
ing himself into a landscape so
colorful and pristine it could
only be, well, imaginary. Though
we know this to be the case,
it's worth repeating, given the
legions of fans committingthe
Na'vi language to memory.
The reason I'm stating the
obvious - as if I recently learned
humans are not in fact waging
full-fledged wars with alien
races - is because I have only just
discovered this, ina sense. While
I'm aware we cannot transfer
our consciousness to giant blue
bodies and swing from big, bright
Pandora trees, I've only just
learned of the merits of non-fic-
tion in film. I'm talking about our
world, the one that actually exists
all around us.
For those who already consid-
er themselves fans of the docu-
mentary genre, you've got one
new member. And for those who
scorn documentaries as a carni-
vore scorns broccoli, Iask you
to open your minds and sacrifice
glamour and CGI for stories of
real people.
First, some background infor-
mation: Documentaries were not
always on my radar. I watched
them, sure, but mainly out of
obligation when my parents

would
them.,
"Oh, it'
It's sup
they w
groan.
but a s
togeth(
footage
docum
it. I wa
and ou
sors as
work. I
"Parks
Office'
taste: f
televisi
re
be
The
summe
gested
of: "Be
Travel
I knew
but sin
call a "
My frir
ing bet
rest, as
amaze
"Be:
premat
Called
import
the '90
later ra
Pharel
manyn
group':
Queen;
progre
Q-Tip{
Phife D
Shahe
White
ture bl
smootl
Phife's
Coltrar
nation
hip-ho
Buti

ntary magic
request I see a movie with were told that left me glad I'd
'Which one?" I would ask. set aside an hour and a half.
's a new documentary. A central plot point describes
posed to be really good," the behind-the-scenes tensions
ould say. And I would between Q-Tip and Phife, a key
What is a documentary reason for the group's breakup
eries of interviews spliced in 1998. This isn't "Jersey
er with black and white Shore" or some melodramatic
e added in for historical depiction of reality. The guys
entation? I wasn't having tell it like it is, and the truth
itched them with family of their lives resonated more
it of necessity when profes- powerfully with me than any
signed them for home- special-effects-laden bonanza
But "mockumentaries" like I've seen in a long time.
and Recreation" and "The Director Michael Rapaport sits
were more suited to my down with Tribe's four original
unny, half hour episodes of members and countless guest
ion documenting nothing. interviews to better understand
the complexities behind the
disintegration of a relationship
1k e reminiscent of McCartney and
o KnewLennon: two childhood friends
'al life could who make music together and
are eventually pulled apart by the
so thrilling? thing they love most.
Yet the little moments make
this film great. Phife cries when
he learns his wife will donate
change occurred last her kidney to him (he's diabetic).
er. My best friend sug- Q-Tip shares his joyin finding the
a title I had never heard perfect beat on the most obscure
ats, Rhymes & Life: The records he can get his hands on.
s of A Tribe Called Quest." The two friends dance together,
r about the hip-hop group, freely and uninhibited, in the
ce I'm not what one might recordingstudio in preparation
music guy," I was hesitant. for their 2010 reunion tour.
end persisted. I had noth- At the film's end, Q-Tip says
ter to do, so I gave in. The "I think the reason why A Tribe
they say, is history. I was Called Quest is still relevant
d. today after all this time is
ats" presents the rise and because it was truth, it was hon-
ture demise of A Tribe esty." If only I could say these
Quest, one of the most words to myself five months ago,
ant hip-hop groups of the guy who shrugged his shoul-
s, which influenced ders at the thought of watching
appers such as Common, talking heads discuss boring
, Kanye West and many, <em>real</em> issues instead of
more. Beginning with the action-packed, phantasmagori-
s early days growing up in cal sci-fi fare. As I should have
s, N.Y., the film tracks its remembered, a good story, told
ss as the four members - right, will always captivate. If
(Kamaal Ibn John Fareed), there's honesty, then people will
)awg (Malik Taylor), Ali listen. Sometimes a 3-D epic is
ed Muhammad and Jarobi the way to get there. And some-
- develop their signa- times, all you need are memo-
end of Q-Tip's laid-back, ries, recounted to a camera, to
h rhythms topped off with remind us of the power of mov-
fiery lyrics. This John ies. That's where the magic lies.
ne-meets-N.W.A. combi-
placed them on top of the Axelrad is watching all of the
p scene for a brief time. documentaries on Netflix. To join
it was the way the stories him, e-mail axelrad@umich.edu.

'Work It' doesn't work

Uplifting, impersonal 'Dreamer'

By BRIANNE JOHNSON
DailyArts Writer
If men are from Mars and
women are from Venus, why can't
Lee Standish find a job on his own
planet? The star
of ABC's new
sitcom "Work
It," Ben Kol- Work It
dyke ("Stuck
on You") plays Pilot
the befuddled Tuesdays at
family man 8:30 p.m.
forced to resort
to unorthodox ABC
methods (ahem,
cross-dressing) in an apparently
female-dominated workforce.
Presenting yet another program
encircling the tragic dwindling
of masculine power (hello, "Last
Man Standing"), ABC redeems
itself through a sympathetic cast,
but fails to deliver the ferocity
implied by its title.
Salesman Lee Standish has a
heart of gold, and a 14-karat gold
heart bauble embodied in the
polished hoops of his feminine
alias. Escaping the seemingly
imminent fate of Astro Taco ser-
vitude, Standish readily braves a
nine-to-five life of lipstick for a
position with Coreco Pharmaceu-
ticals. As an employee of a com-
pany for which a uterus is worth
more than a degree, Standish and
best friend Angel Ortiz (Amaury
Nolasco, "Prison Break") pose as
conspicuously broad-shouldered
women in order to regain the dig-
nity stripped by a failing economy.
The two modern bosom buddies
wiggle their way back to earning
a paycheck, but not without learn-
ing a thing or two about the labors
of women.
Replacing the failed sitcom
"Man Up," "Work It" is ABC's
third attempt at reining in a male
audience, touting subtle sexist
remarks and cries for the salva-
tion of manhood in the face of
recession - or, as bar-hopping
friend Brian (comedian John

Fierce.
Caparulo) calls it, a "MAN-ces- ability, sets such low expecta-
sion." This regurgitated idea of tions comedically that its few
female superiority as less accept- "laugh out loud" moments are
able than its male parallel does a welcome surprise. A notable
ABC no favors in appealing to example is Angel's sex drive,
either sex. The men are pitifully which gives "Work It" a refined,
desperate in their job hunt, blam- albeit soft, adult sense of humor
ing the female demographic for that's just subtle enough to sail
their failures with claims like, over kids' heads, yet elicits its
"When the women take over, fair share of double-takes from
they'll make pride illegal ... that older viewers.
and eating on the toilet." But ABC The most obvious - but wel-
must have some innovative twist come - shift from the ABC line
up its sleeve to balance out such of testosterone-driven television
a pathetically old-school attitude, is protagonist Lee Standish. A
right? Right? sympathetic victim of the econ-
omy and pantyhose, Standish
displays an endearing conscience
Drag is so last and respectable knowledge of
the industry. Unlike Tim Allen's
season. character in "Last Man Stand-
sea n ing," Standish is not a stubborn,
rambling bonehead. Koldyke
portrays the character with an
Wrong. Unless a pair of men honesty and innocence that is
sporting a pair of boobs is new (it impossible to dislike. Not once
isn't), "Work It" offers little more does Standish lapse into the
than the formulaic family sitcom. role of patronizing, resentful
Misunderstood teenage daugh- husband. Rather, he escapes
ter? Check. Neglected housewife? the obnoxious fall into blind,
Check. A horny heckler, bubbling "macho" pride and presents a
blonde and bitchy co-worker? No rather forgivable cluelessness.
doubt. Complete with a musi- If there has tobe one "last man
cal montage of wardrobe mal- standing" among ABC's repeti-
functions and makeup mishaps, tive slew of man-powered disap-
"Work It," unfortunately, knows pointments, please let it be Lee
how to work a good stereotype, if Standish. Any man willing to
nothing else. brave stilettos for his family is
Yet the show, in its predict- worth a second chance.

By GEOFF MARINO
Daily Arts Writer
Common embodies paradox.
In one instance he is beating his
chest, parading in the guise of
an early '90s
rap braggado-
cio and spitting
misogyny. In Common
another, he's
calm, spiri- The Dreamer/
tual, present, The Believer
advising young Think Common
people to follow
their dreams Music Inc.
and embrace
love. In his music, the man spends
some time reminiscing about
being "tough" in the hood, but
Maya Angelou proudly gushes
that "this man could be my son"
in an interview with The Mash
at the Common Ground Founda-
tion Gala 2011. There is certainly
somethingnovel aboutthis duali-
ty, and manybelieve thatparadox
is the womb of creativity. Unfor-
tunately, Common doesn't quite
live up to this suggestion in The
Dreamer/The Believer.
This is not to say that the
album doesn't have its moments.
"Blue Sky" is pure visceral
delight. The track begins in a
subterranean mode with muffled
voices singing barely audible
lyrics, producing an anticipa-
tory, hair-raisingshiver. Quickly,
the track soars into the heights
its name suggests. The back-
ground singing clarifies and the
bass thumps, making listeners
feel like they could conquer the
world. Common's lyrics certainly
add to this motivational effect, as
he urges listeners to follow their

dreams and be the best they can
be. 'i'his is the spiritual Common
at his best: combining hip hop
and modern spirituality into a
consciously uplifting work of art.
The song "Celebrate" is also
a highlight. Perhaps Common is
shamelessly aiming to chart-top
and radio-drop with this track,
but it comes out well nonetheless.
The beat evokes a piano-laden
pop suggestive of the lightness-
of-being that Common feels in a
gathering of friends and females.

THINK CoMMoN MUSIC INC.

"Celeb
"Blue S
ities o
song 1
spiritu
es mo
used tc
- the
and be

D

rate," when sidled with By not addressing these ques-
ky," exemplifies the polar- tions, the album feels more like
f Common's identity. The a sermon than a rap work. It's
eaves behind Common's anti-personal, and there are
al tendencies and embrac- countless, more efficient ways of
re of what listeners are deliveringmotivational messages
oin the popular rap sphere about the importance of dream-
allure of material wealth ing. The Maya Angelou poem
autiful women. alone, read in the opening track
"The Dreamer," would suffice for
this purpose.
Tot enough Unfortunately for Common,
No I.D.'s production isn't imagi-
native enough to gloss over the
II~ * deficiencies in the lyrics. As
shown in "Blue Sky" and "Cel-
ebrate," the album can be vis-
pite this richness of iden- cerally satisfying. But that is the
ersonal reflection seems height of its aural achievement.
largely missing from the Nuance is essentially absent, and
. The only snippet of Com- the beats progress predictably,
life listeners hear about is seeming only to exist as a back-
on's relationship with his ground to Common's voice.
er, and it is not substan- What we are left with is an
:ow can Common expect enjoyable album that doesn't
um to be compelling when achieve its highest potential.
positional nature of his Common feels like a faceless pro-
y is not addressed? How vider of aphorisms, embodying
tmmon come to embrace the vague archetypes of love-
and spirituality despite seeking soul and appetitive ego,
ig up in an environment exhibiting none of the wholeness
unsuitable to these kinds and complexity of human per-
ngs? sonality.

Des
tity, p
to be
album.
mon's
Comm
daught
tial. H
the alb
the op
identit
did Cu
love
growin
totally
of feeli

COME TO A DAILY MASS MEETING
January 12, 17 or 18 |1 7:30 p.m. 1420 Maynard St.

1 I

i


8 Tuesday, January 10, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, January 10, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Larkin enters Hall of Fame

BySTEPHENJ. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
Barry Larkin is headed to Coo-
perstown.
The former Michigan baseball
player and longtime Cincinnati
Reds shortstop was voted into the
Baseball Hall of Fame on Monday
after being named on 86 percent
of the Baseball Writers' Asso-
ciation of America's ballots. The
threshold for a call to the hall is 75
percent.
Larkin, a Cincinnati native,
spent three years in Ann Arbor
with then-Michigan coach Bud
Middaugh before being drafted
by the Reds and returning home.
He spent a year and a half in the
minors before becoming Cincin-
nati's starting shortstop from
1986 to 2004.
The Reds thought so highly
of Larkin that they drafted him
in the second round in 1982. He
turned down their offer and a
$50,000 signing bonus to attend
Michigan.
He was a two-time All-Amer-
ican and led the Wolverines to
two College World Series appear-
ances in 1983 and 1984 - the last
time Michigan reached the finale.
Larkin was also named the Big
Ten Player of the Year in 1984 and
1985. After three years at Michi-
gan, Larkin was again drafted by
his hometown Reds - this time as
the fourth overall pick, the high-
est-ever Wolverine draftee - and
this time he answered the call. He
spent 19 seasons in Cincinnati,
collecting 2,340 hits, 198 home
runs and 960 RBI in his tenure
with the ballclub.
Larkin was a 12-time All-Star,
nine-time Silver Slugger winner,
three-time Gold Glove winner
and won the National League
Most Valuable Player award in
1995. His crowning achievement,
he contends, was winning the

ICE HOCKEY
Black-and-blue Wolverines
aim to get healthy for OSU

RUSTY KENNEDY/AP
Shortstop Barry Larkin celebrates after winning the 1990 World Series.

It h.
days fo
Fifti
Shawn
the fac
period
win ov
Friday
visibly
game f
od befo
to soph
Whi
ry wer
severe
out of
against
Michig
- as v
session
But
Red Be
those
der's s
prepar
weeker
when t
ing Oh
"He
said, i

By MATT SLOVIN become the Wolverines' first loss
Daily Sports Editor of the season.
"(Janecyk) surprised me,"
as been a scary couple of Berenson said. "It's a tough situ-
r Michigan hockey fans. ation to throw a guy in. If I'm
h-year senior netminder the starting goalie, I'd rather get
Hunwick took a puck to thrown in on the road than at
emask during the second home."
of the Wolverines' 4-2 Berenson cited friends and
er Lake Superior State on family in attendance as reasons
night. Hunwick, who was why a back-up netminder might
shaken, remained in the prefer the road atmosphere for a
or the duration of the peri- stint in net. But Janecyk seemed
re surrendering his duties unfazed by it all, pausing only
omore Adam Janecyk. momentarily to take it all in
le the specifics of the inju- before the shootout began.
e never confirmed, it was "It was kind of surreal to final-
enough to keep Hunwick ly be out there," Janecyk said.
Saturday's series finale "(Especially) with it being my
t the Lakers - a game game and everything."
an dropped in a shootout Janecyk texted his father
vell as Monday's practice immediately after being told he
1. would start Saturday night. Bob
Monday, Michigan coach Janecyk, a former NHL goal-
renson had good news for tender and current scout for the
questioning the goalten- Ottawa 67's of the Ontario Hock-
tatus, as the Wolverines ey League, dropped his assign-
e for arguably the biggest ment and bolted for Yost.
nd of the season thus far For now, it seems Janecyk will
hey will face league-lead- return to his second-string role.
io State. When asked if the starting job
's feeling good," Berenson was something that might be in
ndicating the decision to the cards, Janecyk seemed tenta-

1990 World Series with the Reds.
In a promise to his grandmoth-
er, Larkin later returned to finish
his final year of school at Michi-
gan and earn his degree.
"I'm a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Michigan because I told my
grandmother that I would do that
and my mother made sure that I
did it," Larkin said in a teleconfer-
ence on Monday.
Larkin was bypassed in his first
two years of Hall of Fame eligibil-
ity, being named on 51.6 percent
of BBWAA ballots in 2010 and 62.1
percent in 2011. He joins former
Michigan players Charlie Geh-
ringer, Branch Rickey and George
Sisler in the Hall of Fame.
Larkin was already inducted
into the College Baseball Hall of
Fame in 2009, joining Michigan
alums Jim Abbott (2007), Rickey
(2009) and Sisler (2010). Lar-
kin's No. 16 Michigan jersey was
retired on May 1,2010.
When trying to describe his
credentials that gained him
admission into the Hall of ;Fame,

the ever-humble Larkin said he
never expected to receive the
necessary number of votes since
he didn't know if there was room
for an "amoeba man" or a "com-
plementary player" in the Hall
of Fame. In the end, the writers
voted Larkin in rather easily in his
third year of eligibility.
But that doesn't mean it was a
relaxing day. Larkin was told he'd
be called at 1:30 this afternoon if
he won. ESPN crews were at his
house filming the reaction. He
didn't geta call.
After pacing back and forth
between the kitchen and the liv-
ing room, Larkin turned off the
TV to focus on something else.
"I'd given up hope that it was
going to happen this year," he
said.
At 2:53, just seven minutes
before the official announcement
from the Hall of Fame, the phone
rang. He looked at the area code:
212. It was Jack O'Connell from
the BBWAA. Larkin was in the
Hall of Fame.

most goals scored with 10, fell to
the ice, where he lay face down.
Berenson noted that the deci-
sion to keep him out of practice
was also precautionary and that
Guptill "should be ready" come
Friday night's series opener in
Columbus. In Guptill's absence,
junior forward Jeff Rohrkem-
per held his place on Michigan's
most consistent line of late, which
includes Wohlberg and junior
forward Chris Brown.
Junior forward Lindsay
Sparks, who has been listed as
a healthy scratch in each of the
last five games, rode an exercise
bike while the team practiced.
He occasionally plays alongside
Rohrkemper in practice.
"His hip was bothering him,"
Berenson said. "He had to have an
injection. So we let him take the
day off. He'll be back tomorrow."
This allowed for some tinker-
ing of the lines at practice.
"Since Rohrkemper lost
(Sparks) ... we evened out the
lines," Berenson said. "(He was)
just filling in for Guptill."
NOTES: Monday, Wohlberg
was named CCHA Postgame
Offensive Player of the Week for
his efforts against the Lakers.
He racked up five points over the
weekend and tied Guptill as the
team's goal leader in the process.
... For the second time in the last
three weeks, Guptill was honored
as CCHA Gongshow Rookie of
the Week. Before his injury, Gup-
till notched two points on both
Friday and Saturday. ... Junior
forwardA.J. Treais took a puck
to the leftarm Monday and was
sidelined for the rest of practice.
Berenson expects to seeTreais
back in action Tuesday.

keep him off the ice was merely
precautionary. "He should skate
(Tuesday)."
Hunwick will be ready to face
the Buckeyes this weekend, he
said. Last weekend, fans got their
first meaningful look at Janecyk,
though he first appeared in a
game against Northern Michigan
in October after Hunwick was
ejected for throwing a punch.
But the man between the pipes
against Lake Superior State didn't
resemble the shaky youngster
who let atied game slip away and

tive.
"I couldn't tell you that," Jane-
cyk said. "I guess time will tell or
whatever."
GUPTILL ABSENT, TOO: Hun-
wick wasn't the only Wolverine
taking the start of the week to
heal.
Freshman forward Alex Gup-
till was on the receiving end of
a slashing penalty against Lake
Superior State on Saturday night.
Guptill, who's currently tied for
the team lead along with senior
forward David Wohlberg for


0

MARISSA MCCLAIN/Daily
Former Michigan star Cazzie Russell made an appearance at the new-look Crisler Center for Sunday's game.
Russell returns to 'The
House That Cazzie Built'

By LUKE PASCH Cazzie Built."
Daily Sports Editor Though Russell would never
-~ play on the hardwood that he
There was once a time when inspired - he was chosen as the
Michigan Stadium seated a mea- No. 1 overall pick in the 1966 NBA
ger 101,001 fans. Draft and was already playing
Back then, the Michigan bas- for the New York Knicks when it
ketball team played its home opened - his impact on the pro-
games at Yost Field House - gram was tremendous.
since converted to the ice arena "When Cazzie Russell's being
- which offered all the glamour recognized for what he did forthis
and charm of playing in what was program - because keep in mind
essentially a barn with a hard- we're talking about 'The House
wood floor. that Cazzie Built' - when I heard
But in 1964, a 6-foot-6 Chicago that he was being inducted to the
native named Cazzie Russell took college basketball Hall of Fame,
Ann Arbor by storm and forever we had to be there," said Athletic
changed the basketball culture at Director Dave Brandon on Sunday
Michigan. He set the program's of Russell's February 2011 induc-
single-season scoring record in tion. "He's an outstanding guy....
each of his three seasons with the Not just a terrific, iconic, legend-
Wolverines, earning All-Ameri- ary basketball player, but just a
can status twice and leading the wonderful man.
program to three Big Ten Cham- "I can't wait to reintroduce
pionships and two Final Four him today. I think people will get
appearances. a goosebump moment when they
Russell's collegiate resum6 see No. 33 hanging in the rafters
was nearly perfect, but the home and he's standing at center court."
of Michigan basketball was not. During a media break in the
With growing expectations for first half of Michigan's victory
the program came a growing fan over Wisconsin on Sunday after-
base, one that Yost Field House noon, the PA invited Russell onto
could no longer feasibly sustain. the court, where he led the crowd
On Dec. 2, 1967, the Athletic in a couple rounds of "The Vic-
Department opened the doors tors." It was a major step in Bran-
to the brand new Crisler Arena, don's initiative to reconnect with
dedicated to former Michigan former Michigan athletes.
football coach and long-time Ath- And when Russell came back,
letic Director Herbert "Fritz" he brought with him a wealth of
Crisler. The arena comfortably postseason experience at the col-
held 13,684 fans, and it justifi- lege and professional levels. He
ably became known as - at least won the Big Ten Championship
in Ann Arbor - "The House that every season he wore a maize and

blue uniform, and he led his 1965
team all the way to the NCAA
Championship, edging Vanderbilt
by two points in the Final Four
before losing to John Wooden's
UCLA in the title game.
With the Knicks, he won an
NBA title in the 1969-70 season,
playing an integral role filling in
for an injured Willis Reed and
becoming known as one of the
league's best sixth men.
For a program that's searching
for a return to national promi-
nence, Russell could serve as the
ultimate ambassador. Before the
contest with Wisconsin on Sun-
day, he had an opportunity to talk
to the team and impart his win-
ning wisdom.
"The formula to winning on a
consistent basis is to keep relying
and trusting in your teammates
- embrace what they bring to
the table," he said. "But don't let
anybody come in your house and
play harder than you play and beat
you."
Surely, the message of that
speech has a familiar tone for
Michigan fans who remember
former football coach Bo Schem-
bechler's famous emphasis on
"the team, the team, the team."
And though Crisler Arena
(recently renamed Crisler Center
with the opening of the adjacent
Player Development Center) is
currently undergoing a major ren-
ovation, the Michigan basketball
program and its fans seem enthu-
siastic about finally embracing its
colorful history.

j..

A


