46F 46F 4JW
(t4c Illic i an4,.3at.....
'- _ - _r y '{}i ,,,( \Tir -c 7 -44 it (y, i ,{1 {y ( y OF rf "(( r [[: y{ *E'{ry *t P yy// N i "
i. J AV )1. l_/ .. . .iJ L f iNrI t 1 'i J 1 ' L 7. k. A.../ 1 E D 1 1. R. I.1j,.{ .1 J i 1 l E 1..J D O M.
. .. ... ... .. , C':'.. .... . F. _.. _ " K .'X uiY:.:-.J ' :rr i. t ,. - .rei5' .I..;n 7'; i: H.e. .':aNT a ,r . ... "F,: ..t

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, December 7,2012

michigandaily.com

STATE POLICY
State House,
Senate pass
ri ght-to-work

Republican Gov.
Rick Snyder
says he'll- sign
controversial bills
By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily News Editor
Both the Michigan House
of Representatives and Senate
passed right-to-work bills on
Thursday, taking the state one
step closer to becoming the 24th
right-to-work state in the nation.
At a press conference Thurs-
day, Republican Gov. Rick Snyder
announced that he was prepared
to sign right-to-work legislation
into law should it reach his desk.
Later in the day, three separate
right-to-work bills were intro-
duced in the state House and
Senate that will eventually be
consolidated into two bills.
House Bill 4054 passed in the
House at about 4:45 p.m. with
a 58-52 vote. At around 7:45
p.m., the Senate passed its own
right-to-work bills. The first,
which deals with public employ-
ees, passed with a vote of 22-16,
with all Senate Democrats and
four Senate Republicans voting
against it. The second, which
addresses private-sector employ-

ees, passed 22-4. Senate Demo-
crats walked out of the chamber
before the vote was taken.
The House version failed to
make its way to the Senate on
Thursday due to a move by the
Democrats to reconsider the
vote. The Senate will have to wait
until the next session day, which
could be Friday, to deliberate on
the House version of the bill.
Snyder has been admittedly
unwilling to address right-to-
work legislation since before he
was elected governor in 2010,
according to Kurt Weiss, a
spokesman for Snyder.
"The governor has been pretty
clear that this hasn't been some-
thing that's been on his agenda,"
Weiss said. "It is on the table now
because, you know, Proposal 2
was on the ballot, and it's become
an issue."
Snyder has been reluctant to
address collective bargaining in
the state, even though Repub-
lican governors elected in 2010
in Wisconsin, Ohio, Indiana and
elsewhere moved to pass right-
to-work laws soon after their
respective elections.
Weiss added that the governor
is making the issue about grant-
ing workers the choice of wheth-
er or not to join of union instead
of about being against unions as
See RIGHT-TO-WORK, Page 5

Kinesiology junior Jeffrey Kosdfsky eats at Blimpy Burger on South Division Street. Kosdfosky says he has eaten at the restaurant at once a month over the last
three years. When asked his thoughts on the re-location, he said, "As long as they re-open, it's not that sad; Still, there is a lot of tradition in this spot."
'U to buy Buimpy property
After nearly 60 soonbe forced to relocate. owner. He said he hopes to relocate
The University reached a deal Magner said though he knew to an area close to campus,
years, A2 landmark with the owner of the property that his lease was coming to an either downtown or on. South
where Blimpy Burger is located, end in August, he hadn't given, State Street, which will take
to close doors in meaning the restaurant will much thought to renewing time to figure out.
-have to find a new location in- before-the University de a - "It's nota- fuathing for. any-
August the summer of 2013, according bid. Magner confirmed that the one when you have an icon in
to owner Rich Magner. restaurant will remain open one location for so long," he
By ALICIA ADAMCZYK Magner told employees that and operating until August. said. "ButI (need) to look at the
Daily StaffReporter the famous burger business "It is what it is," Magner positive side of it and hope that
will move out of the space when said. "If it had been a different we can do it in a different spot."
Though Krazy Jim's Blimpy its lease is up in August. The person purchasing it, it might Magner, who has worked at
Burger has been a fixture of property is owned by Patricia have been where I could have Blimpy for more than 20 years,
South Division Street for nearly Shafer, the widow of Jim Sha- renegotiated the lease with said his employees usually work
60 years, the restaurant will fer, the restaurant's original them or that kind of thing." See BLIMPY, Page 5


TRANSPORTATION
House-
approves
transit
plan
State Rep. Jeff Irwin
skeptical of Regional
Transit Authority
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily StaffReporter
Amid the controversy over right-
to-work legislation during Thurs-
day's state House of Representatives
session, the proposal to create a
regional transit authority passed
through the House despite mainly
Democratic efforts to stall the bill.
The proposal, which passed the
state Senate last week, will create
an organization for the integration
of public transportation systems in
metro Detroit. The bill passed by a
57-54 margin, with only two Demo-
cratsvotingin favor of the plan.
The bill - which was formerly
part of a package of bills that would
have provided a means for generat-
ing revenue and purchasing prop-
erty - allows for the creation of the
transit agency. Though the package
See TRANSIT, Page 5

PUPPETS ON PARADE

EVENT PREVIEW
CollegeHumor duo
talk comedy, A2 in
advance of live show

Students parade around campus in giant handmade puppets as part of their final class project.
CAMPUS EVENTS
Students strut their Stuff for
charity, Mr. Engineer title

Jake and Amir
to perform skits,
special material
in 'U' show
By STEVEN TWEEDIE
DailyArts Writer
A recent "Jake and Amir"
skit, "Interrogator," begins
as Amir talks with his
friend
Jake
about CollegeHumor
his LivePresented
disas- by Neebo
trous
volun- Friday at
teer 10:30 p.m.
work, Union Ballroom
until the
duo are Free
rude-
ly interrupted by Ben
Schwartz (TV's "Parks and
Recreation"), who interro-
gates the two in an attempt.
to find out who defecated
inside the CollegeHumor
copier. The episode ends
with a twist; it was actu-
ally Ben Schwartz's char-
acter that pooped inside the
copier.
What the hell?!

Short skits like this are
familiar to fans of Colleg-
eHumor.com's "Jake and
Amir." The comedy dou-
ble-act is characterized by
their hilarious back-and-
forth rapport, often veer-
ing off-topic into a comedic
firefight revolving around
Jake's disbelief at Amir's
ignorance of his own stu-
pidity.
And now the CollegeHu-
mor troupe is headed to Ann
Arbor for a free live show
compliments of Neebo, the
textbook retailer that owns
Ulrich's, because Univer-
sity students won an online
competition. The show will
be hosted by Jake and Amir
with stand-up performed
by CollegeHumor editor in
chief Streeter Seidell and
writer and comedian Dan
Gurewitch.
While students may be
used to seeing the show
online, Jake Hurwitz and
Amir Blumenfeld said in an
interview with the Michi-
gan Daily that the offline
yersion of the show will be
similar to any. other Col-
legeHumor production, but
with a few surprises.
"We have a lot of call-
See COLLEGEHUMOR, Page 5

Competition raises
funds for outreach
program
By JENNIFER CALFAS
Daily Staff Reporter
Two nights after the Victoria's
Secret Fashion show, a different
group of models competed for

the title of Mr. Engineering 2013.
Nearly 440 students gath-
ered at STAMPS Auditorium to
watch 13 Engineering students
compete at the 13th annual Mr.
Engineer competition, hosted
by the Society of Women Engi-
neers. The event raised money
for the Detroit Area Pre-College
Engineering Program, a charity
that helps elementary and high-
school students from lower-

income areas develop an interest
in engineering.
The competition's theme
was based on the 2012 Olym-
pic Games and featured a tal-
ent competition, a brainteaser
round and an ethics question.
The 13 contestants performed in
the talent portion, six semifinal-
ists completed brainteasers and
three finalists took part in the
See MR.ENGINEER, Page 5


WEATHER HI: 42
TOMORROW- LO: 39

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIG
Call 734-418-4115 ore-mail 'Nashville' recap
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY

ANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS........................2 ARTS-............. .. .. .6
Vol. CXXNo.58 AP NEWS-.................3 CLASSIFIEDS 6............6
.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE ©2012The Michigan Daily O PI N IO N ... .........4 5 PORTS...... ......... .7



2 - Friday, December 7, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers This Week in History Professor Profiles Campus Clubs

LEFT Students from RCARTS
286, a sculpture class taueht
by Jason Wright, put on a giant
handmade puppet carnival as
part of their f inal project on
Thursday. (Teresa Mathem/!
Daily)
TOP RIGHT Administrators
and students gather in the
Michigan Union to discuss
renovations of student facilities
on Thursday (Patrich earron/
Daily)
BOTTOM RIGHT Students and
faculty viem Lam student Tao
Li's exhibit about working in
Cambodia on Monday. (McK-
enzie Berezin/Daily)
NEED MORE PHOTOS?
See more Photos of the a
Week on our website,L
michigandailycom.
CRIME NOTES
Missing tunes Tech spill
WHERE: t502 Eust Medi- WHERE: Art and Architec-
cul Center ture Building
WHEN: Thursduy at about WHEN: Wednesday at
1 a.m. about 2:25 p.m.
WHAT: A CD wan allegedly WHAT: A laptop was dam-
stolen from a vehicle while aged after accidentally
it was valet-parked for visit- being knocked off of a table,
ing hours between 5:30 am. University Police reported.
and 6:30 am., University
Police reported.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Pitdlicjiwn &
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, M1 48109-1327
W WW.michiganduiy.com
JOSEPH LICHTERIMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor is Chief Business Manager
734-4t8-4u15 out. 1252 734-400-4105 ron. 1241
lichtermanigmichigasdailycom. rmgrein@michigandailycom
Newsroom News Tips
734-418-4115 opt.3 news~@nichicandaily.ccn
torrections Letters tothe Editor
cocrecticne@michigandailycom tcthedaily@michigandaily.con
Arts Section Editorial Page
arts@nichiganduily.con opinio@nichicandailyscom
Sports Section Photography Section
aycrts@nichicandailycon yiphoo@michigandaily.con
Display Sales tlassified Sales
diaplay~imichigandailycoms claifed@nichsicandaily.con
Online Sales Finance
onlineada@nichrigandaily.ccn finace@michigandaily.con
EDITORIAL STAFF
'Andrew Weiner Managing Editor aneiner@n ichicandeily~co n
Bethanyliron Mungig Nestditor biron@nichicandaitycm
SNIsOREScm EDTnORS:Heynlatthco,ney obeg,oRyz osith,
ASITN ESEI ORSiacomoseBciena, Anna Roenberg,PeerShahi.n, K.
TimothpyItabb and oinnditorsyrmichiganduilyscom
Adrienne Roberts EditoriultPagetEditors
SENIO EIOORIALAEEDITO:Melanieuei, HrschatVanssaccRnchlinki
AhScSSANT DIORIoALPAG EDORS:essaceKei,Sarh Ski,,s
Stephen Nesbitt Managing Spretstditor oeaitt@nislhicundoily.ccn
SNOnRooSPORT oSOS:EerettcCok,Bncse,chelfad, LkePach,
Neal othchild,Matt loin
AcSSISTAsNSPRTSEDITORS: Steven Bri, MncichalLcrl, Mattpec,
Collee Tvhomas,Liz Vukelich, DanieWassma
LeahBlurgin Managing ArtsEditoe burcin@michigandaily.com
OSNORART EO RS: Ell Oit Aler,MaEstOon, Kaoyla pahyaya
ASScIcSN AnS EDInORS:acob Axea, Len Csueurta e, Anna
Saosaa uCle hi.Stachowsiak
Erin Kirland and photo@michigandaily.comn
Alden Reiss Managing PhototEditors
SENIvORPOO EDoITORS:Trraoengraco dd Nseedl
ASITN HT DTR:AamGazaAse ufrAllison Kueis
Marenecasee , Adameccthnitzer
Alicia Kosaicheck and design@nichuigandaily.con
Amy Mackens Managicnesign Editors
DplantCinti and sataementymichigandaily.con
JennierXu Maguzine Editors
DEPUTYMAGAZINE EDITO:Zah eso, Kauitin iiamse~
Hannah Poindexter Copy chief coyydeik@michigaundaily.con
SENIORnCvrOYEOR:osphieAa~s,eh Coplitz
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh AssociateBusinessManagr
Sean Jackson SaleeManager
Sophie Greenbaum ProductioneManager
Connor Byrd inance.Manager
Meryl Hulteng Nutional Account Manuger
vie MichgDilt y u(nIlS 0745-i7i it publishedonday throcghFiay durinegthefl and
wnter termscbystudents at the Unvrsio ich1 ligan.On espy it availabie lreofcharge
tocall reders.Aditiolcpiesprmay bepicked upatthe aly's office for$2.Subsripeti o
faltrm,tarini eptemberiaciU.S.mai aet$11.OWiiteriterm(anuary through April)is
$115 yealont(eptebirtroh Apili$195.Uniesityefliaiteae secrt tccaeducei
subsccipticnsrate. O-cmpssciiptiostfor fllltloinano $35.Subsciptions muctibe pyepaid.
The MichiganrDaily is a member of The Associated Potsscad vheAsociated Collegiate Pess.

Study break Ladies' game The number of girls
WHAT: The traditional. night1 named Mary has
72-hour scudy break kicksI declined 94 percent since
off with free coffee and WHAT: Female video gum- 1960, The Atlantic reported.
snacks, puppy therapy and ers are celebrated with this Mary used to be one of the
de-stressing performances. dress up game-a-thon. most popular names for girls
WHO: Multi-Ethnic Stu- WHO: Computer & Video at birth, and Emma has taken
dent Affairs and Division of Game Archive oe h o oiin
4tn.Affaius's'VX.TVVovr te.oppoiton

WHEN: All day
WHERE: William Mon-
roe Trotter Multicultural
Center

WHEN: Tonioght at 5 p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt Cen-
ter, Computer and Video
Room

Gre ny Parking hit Cmdcrle A Midsummer
WHERE: Matthaei Botani- C m dcrle
cal Gardens+ WHERE: 1070 West Medi-TT "
WHEN: Wednesday at 2:15 cal Center with U Mix Night's Dream
p.m. WHEN: Wednesday at
WHAT: A contractor found about 2:10 p.m. WHAT: Stress Relief Week WHAT: A student per-
the entrance lock sawed off, WHAT: Allegedly, a car continues at "Live. Laugh. formance of William
University Police reported. struck a parked vehicle UMix!" with a College Shakespeare's comedy
Various tools and equip- in which both vehicles Humor improv show, a "A Midsummer Night's
ment were also allegedly sustained minor damage, cookie decorating station Dream."Tickets are $10
stolen from a storage unit of University Police reported. and a showing of "cWhat with a student I0 at the
the property. The driver has not yet been To Expect When You Are League Ticket Office.
located. mExec-nvc". WO:Scooh loftcMusic


2High school students
from Ann Arbor help
compile the Best Amer-
ican Nonrequired Reading
anthology by choosing their
favorite under-the-radar lit-
erary works.
FOE MORE. SEE OPINION PAGE 4
3For the fourth consecu-
tive year, the consulting
group Mercer named
Vienna, Austria the city with
the best quality of life in the
world, Reuters reproted. Bag-
dahd was chosen as the city
with the worst quality of life.

MORE ONLINE Cone Crime Notes? Findithem on theCrime
Notes blog atmichigandaily.com

WHO: Center for Campus
Involvement
WHEN: Tonight at 10 p.m.

Theatre & Ounce
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts

4

4

a

I

Ai


,


The Michigan Daily -= michigandaily.com

Friday, December 7, 2012 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Nexxis Friday, December?, 2012 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.
State Rep. who
switched parties
obeyed finance law
The secretary of state's office
says a lawmaker from Grand Rap-
ids who switched parties did not
break campaign finance law.
In a letter sent to state Rep. Roy
Schmidt's attorney this week,
a law specialist in the state's
Bureau of Elections writes that
the Democrat-turned-Republican
intended to commit a campaign
finance violation by paying some-
one to run against him.
But Melissa Malerman
writes that the violation never
occurred, because the prospec-
tive opponent, Matt Mojzak,
withdrew from the ballot shortly
after filing paperwork to run,
and the payment apparently was
not made.
SEATTLE
Hundreds get gay
marriage licenses
Hundreds of same-sex couples
across Washington state started
picking up marriage licenses
Thursday as a voter-approved
law legalizing gay marriage took
effect.
King County, the state's largest,
opened the doors to its auditor's
office in Seattle just after mid-
night to start distributinglicenses.
But hundreds of people had lined
up hours earlier, snaking around
the building on a chilly Decem-
ber night. By Thursday afternoon,
more than 430 licenses had been
issued in Seattle, where the mood
was festive overnight.
"We waited a long time. We've
been together 35 years, never
thinkingwe'd get a legal marriage.
Now I feel so joyous I can't hardly
stand it," said 85-year-old Pete-e
Petersen, who with her partner,
77-year-old Jane Abbott Lighty,
were the first to get a license.
BANGKOK
FDormer PMr faces
murder charges
Investigators say they plan to
file murder charges against Thai-
land's former prime minister and
his deputy in the first prosecu-
tions of officials for their roles in
a deadly 2010 crackdown on anti-
government protests.
The protests and crackdown
left more than 90 people dead
and about 1,800 injured in Thai-
land's worst political violence in
decades. Former Prime Minister
Abhisit Vejjajiva's Democrat Party,
now in the opposition after being
ousted in elections last year, and
"red shirt" supporters of the rul-
ing Pheu Thai Party have blamed
each other for the bloodshed since.
Department of Special Inves-
tigation chief Tharit Phengdit
said Thursday that investigators
found Abhisit possibly culpa-
ble in the death of a taxi driver
because he allowed troops to use
war weapons and live ammuni-
tion against protesters.

LONDON
* Pregnant Kate
Middleton sent
home from hospital
The Duchess of Cambridge left
a London hospital Thursday after
being treated for acute morning
sickness related to her pregnancy.
Clutching a small bouquet of
yellow roses, the former Kate
Middleton smiled and posed brief-
ly for a photograph alongside her
husband, Prince William, before
leaving King Edward VII Hospi-
tal. She stepped delicately into a
waiting car.
The couple's office said she
would head to Kensington Pal-
ace in London for a period of rest.
She had been in the hospital since
Monday. Officials from St James's
Palace have said the duchess is not
yet 12 weeks pregnant with the
couple's first child.
William visited his wife at the
hospital every day, while media
from around the world camped
outside, seeking any news on the
royal pregnancy.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

NATO readies
forces for Syria

An Egyptian armytank is seen behind barbed wire securingthe perimeterof the presidential palacewhile protesters on theotherside chantanti
President Mohammed Morsi slogans, in Cairo, Egypt, onThursday.
Egyptian president rages
against protesting crowd

Morsi says
constitutional
referendum
will go on
CAIRO (AP) - An angry
Mohammed Morsi refused
Thursday to call off a referen-
dum on a disputed constitution
that has sparked Egypt's worst
political crisis in two years,
drawing chants of "topple the
regime!" from protesters who
waved their shoes in contempt.
The Egyptian president's
uncompromising stand came a
night after thousands of his sup-
porters and opponents fought
pitched battles outside his Cairo
palace, leaving at least six dead
and 700 injured.
Speaking in a nationally tele-
vised address, Morsi accused
someinthe oppositionofserving
remnants of Hosni Mubarak's
authoritarian regime and vowed
he would never tolerate anyone

working for the overthrow of
his "legitimate" government.
That brought shouts of "the
people want to topple the
regime!" from the crowd of
30,000 Morsi opponents - the
same chant used in the protests
that brought down Mubarak.
Morsi also invited the oppo-
sition to a "comprehensive and
productive" dialogue starting
Saturday at his presidential
palace, but gave no sign that
he might offer any meaningful
concessions.
The opposition has already
refused to engage Morsi unless
he first rescinds decrees giving
him nearly unrestricted powers
and shelves the draft constitu-
tion hurriedly adopted by his
Islamist allies in a marathon
session last week.
Morsi said the referendum on
the disputed charter would go
ahead as scheduled on Dec. 15.
He also refused to rescind the
Nov. 22 decrees.
Readingfrom prepared notes,
Morsi frequently broke off to

improvise. He wore a black tie
in mourning for the six people
killed in Wednesday's clashes.
From Washington, President
Barack Obama called Morsi to
express "deep concern" about
the deaths and injuries of pro-
testers in Egypt, according to a
White House statement.
The statement Thursday
night said that Obama told
Morsi that he and other politi-
cal leaders in Egypt must make
clear to their supporters that
violenceisunacceptable. Obama
welcomed Morsi's call for a dia-
logue with opposition leaders
in Egypt but stressed that such
a dialogue should occur with-
out preconditions. The United
States also has urged opposition
leaders to join in talks without
preconditions.
Earlier Thursday, Morsi's
troubles grew when another of
his advisers quit to protest his
handling of the crisis, raising to
seven the number of those in his
17-person inner circle who have
abandoned him.

Chemical weapons,
prompt allies to
send soldiers and
missiles to Turkey
BEIRUT (AP) - As fears
grow in the West that Syrian
President Bashar Assad will
unleash chemical weapons as
an act of desperation, NATO
moved forward Thursday with
its plan to place Patriot mis-
siles and troops along Syria's
border with Turkey to protect
against potential attacks.
Assad's regime blasted the
move as "psychological war-
fare," saying the new deploy-
ment would not ,deter it from
seeking victory over rebels it
views as terrorists..
The missile deployment
sends a clear message to Assad
that consequences will follow
if he uses chemical weapons or
strikes NATO member Turkey,
which backs the rebels seeking
his ouster. But its limited scope
also reflects the low appetite
in Western capitals for direct
military intervention in the
civil war.
The U.S. and manyEuropean
and Arab countries called for
Assad to step down early in the
uprising but have struggled to
make that happen. Russia and
China have protected Assad
from censure by the U.N. Secu-
rity Council, and the presence
of extremists among the rebels
makes the U.S. and others ner-
vous about arming them.
In Dublin, Ireland, U.S. Sec-
retary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton joined Russia's foreign,
minister and the U.N. peace
envoy to the Arab country for
three-way talks that suggested
Washington and Moscow were
working toward a common
strategy as the Assad regime

weakens.
The diplomatic efforts to end
the civil war come days after
NATO agreed to post Patriot
missiles and troops along Tur-
key's southern border with
Syria after mortars and shells
from Syria killed five Turks.
Germany's Cabinet
approved the move on Thurs-
day, and German Defense Min-
ister Thomas de Maiziere told
reporters that the overall mis-
sion is expected to include two
batteries each from the Neth-
erlands and the United States,
plus 400 soldiers and monitor-
ing aircraft.
"Nobody knows what such a
regime is capable of and that is
why we are acting protectively
here," said German Foreign
Minister Guido Westerwelle.
In Washington, U.S. Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta said
Thursday that intelligence
reports raise fears that an
increasingly desperate Assad is
considering using his chemical
weapons arsenal - which the
U.S. and Russia agree is unac-
ceptable.
The Assad regime said the
NATO. deployment would not
make Assad change course,
calling the talk of chemical
weapons part of a conspiracy
to justify future intervention.
"The Turkish step and
NATO's support for it are pro-
vocative moves that constitute
psychological warfare," Syr-
ia's Deputy Foreign Minister
Faisal Mekdad said in an inter-
view with Lebanon's Al-Manar
TV. "But if they think this will
affect our determination and
work for a decisive victory in
this fight against terrorism,
they are very wrong."
Syria has not confirmed it
has chemicals weapons, while
insisting that it would never
use such arms against its own
people.

Suicide bombattack kills
Aghan intelligence chiefj

Taliban claims
credit for the fifth
assassination
attempt on Khalid
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP)
- A Taliban suicide bomber
posing as a messenger of peace
blew himself up near Afghani-
stan's newly appointed intel-
ligence chief on Thursday,
seriously wounding him, offi-
cials said.
The Taliban claimed respon-
sibility for the attack on Asa-
dullah Khalid - the fifth such
assassination attempt on his
life in as many years, the offi-
cials added.
"Thank God, he's OK. It's
positive," President Hamid
Karzai told reporters outside
a medical facility run by the
National Directorate of Secu-
rity where Khalid had surgery.
"Now there is hope that he'll
get healthy again."
The attempted assassina-
tion-of-the nation's top intelli-
gence official came just as the
president described the U.S.-
led military coalition as partly
responsible for instability in
Afghanistan.
"Part of the insecurity is
coming to us from the struc-
tures that NATO and America*
created in Afghanistan," Kar-
zai told NBC News in an inter-
view broadcast on Thursday.
Terrorism will not be defeated
"by attacking Afghan villages
and Afghan homes," he said.
Shafiqullah Tahiri, a spokes-
man for the intelligence ser-
vice, said that the bomber had
used the false peace offer as a
ruse to close in on the intelli-
gence chief.
The bombing was reminis-
cent of the September 2011 kill-
ing of former Afghan President
Burhanuddin Rabbani, who
at the time was the leader of a
government-appointed peace
council seeking reconciliation
with militants. In that attack,
an insurgent posing as a Tali-
ban peace envoy detonated a
bomb that was hidden in his

turban as he met Rabbani at his
home in Kabul.
Khalid, in his early 40s, suf-
fered serious injuries to his
stomach and lower part of the
body when the bomb exploded
at his guest house as he was
receiving a visitor, a senior
Afghan official said, speak-
ing on condition of anonymity
because he was not authorized
to disclose the information.
The intelligence chief had used
the house for private meetings
he preferred not to hold at his
agency's official compound, he
added.
The bomber passed through
at least one check without the
explosives being discovered,
the official said. The house was
not as heavily guarded as the
agency's compound, he added.
Shuja Momuzai, 31, who
manages a house a couple
doors from Khalid's guest
house, said he heard an explo-
sion shortly after 3 p.m., after
which he saw Khalid being
evacuated.
He said that people in the
neighborhood knew Khalid
used the house, which had at
least two perimeter walls.
Karzai said Khalid would
be sent elsewhere for further
treatment, implying that he
could be transferred outside
the country.
Taliban spokesman Zabi-
ullah Mujahid said the intel-
ligence chief was the target of
a suicide bombing carried out
by an attacker named Hafez
Mohammad.
Khalid, who was appointed
to head the intelligence service
in September, comes from the
Pashtun ethnic group and has
served as governor of restive
Ghazni province in the east
and Kandahar province in the
south. He is also Afghanistan's
former minister of tribal and
border affairs.
He says he first eluded an
assassin in 2006, and bombers
had targeted him 3 times since,
before Thursday's attack.
Karzai, in his interview, also
said that he was not convinced
that al-Qaida "has a presence in
Afghanistan."

Charles arapak/AP
President Barack Obama gestures as he speaks about the fiscaldciff at the Business Roundtable, an association of chief executive officers, in
Washington,on Wednesday.
Obama and GOP continue to
negotiate as deadline looms
President seeks to 2 percent," Obama said. "But I Timothy Geithner said, the
do remain optimistic that we can administration will "absolutely"
highlight personal get something done that is good let the country go over the fiscal
for families like this one and is cliff.
stories in campaign good for the American econo- The size of the problem is so
my." large it can't be solved without
for public support The president's quick trip - rates goingup," he told CNBC on


FALLS CHURCH, Va. (AP) -
President Barack Obama, trying
to put a personal touch on "fis-
cal cliff" negotiations, visited a
northern Virginia family's base-
ment apartment Thursday to
press his hard line on tax rate
increases for the wealthy.
"We're in the midst of the
Christmas season," Obama said, t
sitting at a table in the Santana
family's Falls Church home. "I
think the American people are
counting on this getting solved.
The closer it gets to the brink, the
more stress there is going to be."
Obama and lawmakers have
until the end of the year to avert
across-the-board spending cuts
and tax increases. The president
reiterated the firm stance he has
taken in recent days, warning
that he's willing to let that econ-
omy-rattling double whammy
take effect if Republicans don't
drop their opposition to higher
tax rates for the wealthy.
"Just to be clear, I'm not going
to sign any package that some-
how prevents the top rate from
going up for the folks in the top

just a 15 minute drive from the
White House - was part of an
effort to rally public support for
his tax proposals. The family
whose home he visited is one of
many that shared their stories
online, at the White House's urg-
ing, of how they would be hurt if
their taxes went up at the end of
the year. The president will also
travel to Detroit on Monday.
Obama and House Speaker
John Boehner spoke on the
phone Wednesday, their first
known conversation in nearly
a week. Neither side provided
details of the call, but the White
House said the lines of com-
munication with Capitol Hill
Republicans were open and
there had been multiple conver-
sations between staff.
Unless the president and
Republicans reach a deal, George
W. Bush-era tax rates will expire
on all income earners on Jan. 1.
Obama wants to continue them
for 98 percent of Americans,
while letting them expire on the
upper income earners.
If Republicans try to block
that effort, Treasury Secretary

Wednesday.
Geithner drew a fierce
response from Republicans. Sen.
Orrin Hatch of Utah called his
statement "stunning and irre-
sponsible." He added, "Going
over the fiscal cliff will put our
economy, jobs, people's pay-
checks and retirement at risk,
but that is what the White House
wants, according to Secretary
Geithner, if they don't get their
way."
Economists inside and outside
the government warnthat failing
to reach agreement on taxes and
spending could land the econo-
my back in recession.
Beyond his insistence that
taxes increase on the wealthy,
Obama has also warned Repub-
licans not to inject the threat of
a government default into nego-
tiations over the fiscal cliff as a
way of extracting concessions on
spending cuts.
"It's not a game I will play,"
he said Wednesday, recalling
the brinkmanship of last year in
which a budget standoff pushed
the Treasury to the edge of a
first-ever default.


ii1710

4A - Friday, December 7, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


hemidlinanC4al
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM THE DAILY
Sit down, Brandon
Athletic director must listen to advisory board
A ccording to the Board of Regents' bylaws, the Universi-
ty's Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics exists as
"advisor to the director on the program in intercollegiate
athletics." The athletic director is to "seek and consider" the rec-
ommendations of the ABIA "on all major financial and policy deci-
sions" However, on Dec. 3, The Michigan Daily reported that the
ABIA wasn't told about the Big Ten Conference's expansion until
well after the decision had already been made. In the future, the
ABIA should be consulted regarding structural or policy changes
within the Athletic Department before decisive action is taken.

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
When (right-to-work legislation)
arrives on my desk, I plan -on si gn ing it!'
- Mich. Governor Rick Snyder said after a rowdy
day at the state capitol, according to The Detroit Free Press. The state senate's passage of
right-to-work legislation brought crowds of protestors to Lansing, and police made several arrests.
KATE HERTLER AND ANAND KUMAR I VEWPOINT
Consider D-SIP

q

The Athletic Department's decision to
allow the University of Maryland and Rutgers
University to join the Big Ten conference was
highly relevant to the purpose of the ABIA, and
Athletic Director David Brandon was bound
by the obligations of the board to consult its
members before moving forward. The board,
which is chaired by Brandon and comprised of
"faculty members, alumni, Michigan athletes
(and) an executive officer," would have been
especially interested in the expansion since it
will result in a greater burden of time and lon-
ger travel distances for the student-athletes,
among other considerations. But Political Sci-
ence Prof Edie Goldenberg, a member of ABIA,
said she didn't get word of the expansion until
she "heard it on the radio."
This practice of "shoot first, ask questions
later" is nothing new when it comes to Bran-
don's relationship with the ABIA. In May 2011,
mere weeks after Brandon was first instated
in the powerful position, he met with the
men's lacrosse club coach to discuss his plan
to promote the. club to a Division I varsity

team. Members of the ABIA said they didn't
hear about the change until the day before it
was publicly announced. When asked to com-
ment on his decision, Brandon "opted not to
comment,"instead sending David Ablauf, asso-
ciate athletic director for media relations.
In light heightened security at University
Board of Regents meetings and a widening
rift between University administrators and
the students they represent, this is simply one
more example of University officials presum-
ing themselves and their decisions beyond
reproach. If it wasn't troubling enough that
students feel slighted by the collusions of their
superiors, this recent offense to our institu-
tion's distinguished faculty should be seen as
an opportunitytodraw a line in the sand.
Considering that the entire purpose of the
ABIA is to oversee and advise the policies of
the Athletic Department, Brandon's attempts
to circumvent the faculty are inexcusable. Our
University and its academic mission supersede
Brandon's agenda, whether or not that agenda
fills the athletic program's coffers.

Get with our program!
As a Michigan student, your summer possibilities are
endless. You could.intern at a hedge fund, a marketing
firm, an engineering company or an arts organization.
You could travel or end up living with your parents for
four months and working in your hometown. Or you
could intern for the University of Michigan's award-
winning Development Summer Internship Program,
and in our opinion, that's what you should do.
Why development, you may ask? Development is
philanthropy. Look around you. If you've sat in the
UGLi and sipped a delicious drink from Bert's Cafe,
then you've experienced philanthropy. If you've stud-
ied at the Rackham or Ross buildings, designed in a
studio at Taubman or danced in the Power Center,
you've experienced philanthropy. Have you been to
a Michigan football game? visited the art museum?
Spun the cube? Then guess what, you've experienced
philanthropy. Michigan thrives off the philanthropic,
gifts from donors, and D-SIP is an incredible oppor-
tunity for students to witness this process firsthand
and learn critical skills for creating positive changes
in the world.
Interns are placed in a development office on cam-
pus in locations ranging from the Business Engage-
ment Center to the School of Nursing to Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum. Four
interns are also placed in local non-profits to gain
experience in development outside of the University.
Each intern is assigned his or her own project to work
on throughout the summer. These carefully designed
projects cover a multitude of areas, from benchmark-
iig to data analysis to developing social media strate-
gies. In addition to being meaningful, these projects
are impactful and highly valued by the community.
One of our projects created strategies for getting
grants of more than $25 million to support research.
Another focused on engaging international alumni on
five continents.
After working from Monday to Thursday, interns

come together for Friday class. The morning part of class
focuses on the role of philanthropy at the University and
teaches about the different roles one could explore in the
field of development. The best part of Friday mornings is
guest speakers.including University leaders and donors.
Professional development is the focus of the afternoon
class. We practiced networking, participated in mock
interviews, completed online portfolios and partook in
exercises that helped us grow as leaders and prepared us
to present our best selves in future interviews and pro-
fessional situations.
Our favorite part of the program was the non-profit
consulting. We helped the HIV/AIDS Resource Center
develop marketing strategies to increase participation
in one of their annual events, a process that not only
exposedustonon-profitconsultingbutalsobenefitedour
community. Theteamwith the winningstrategywenton
a tour of the entire Big House, locker room included.
This program not only builds your professional
character and gives you an amazing experience, but
also introduces you to some incredible students and
professionals in the University community. Our cohort
ate lunch together every Friday, tried to pack as many.
people as possible into the elevators of Wolverine
Tower, explored Ann Arbor on weekends and bonded
over a shared passion for the University and the power
of philanthropy.
Philanthropy changes lives, and D-SIP is a firsthand
look at the process and an introduction to the profes-
sion of development. So, consider a summer filled with
eye-opening, behind-the-scenes views of the Univer-
sity. Consider meeting donors and listening to their
incredible stories about how they've become positive
agents of change. Consider pushing yourself to discov-
er how you want to change the world, and leave know-
ing exactly how you can.
Consider D-SIP and checkus out on Facebook.
Kate Hertler is an LSA senior and
Anand Kumar is an Engineering senior.

I
U
I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Shanik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain,
Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet, Jasmine McNenny,
Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski,
Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner, Derek Wolfe
FROM THE DAILY
Don't talk and drive
Cell phone law not comprehensive enough
n Jan. 24, 2010, Michigan teen Kelsey Raffaele was killed
in a car accident caused by talking on her cell phone while
driving. To prevent further tragic fatalities, a law in her
name aims to ban young drivers from talking on their cell phones.
This week, supporters of Kelsey's Law gathered at the Michigan
State Capitol in Lansing to urge the House Transportation Com-
mittee to discuss the bill before the end of the month. Though this
law is a step in the right direction, it's not comprehensive enough.
Kelsey's Law should be expanded to not only include young drivers,
but also the rest of the population from distracted driving.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints. Letters
should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words. Send
the writer's full name and University affiliation to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.
BERRY BELMONT IVIEWPOINT
Thoughts aren't property

I

The bill proposes that level one and two driv-
ers can be pulled over for a primary offense for
talking on their cell phone while driving. More
than 30 other states have similar laws that
ban cell phone usage while driving. Statisti-
cally speaking, using a cell phone to talk or text
while driving causes nearly 28 percent of all-
car accidents. Nationwide found in a January
2007 study that 73 percent of drivers admit to
talking on the phone while driving. All people
are distracted when they talk on a cell phone,
not just teens. Furthermore, of those who told
Nationwide they supported legislative restric-
tions on cell phone usage, 75 percent said they
felt the restrictions should apply to everyone,
rather than a specific demographic.
According to the Human Factors and Ergo-
nomics Society, drivers talking on cell phones
are 18 percent slower to react to brake lights.
They also take 17 percent longer to regain the
speed lost when they stopped. These statis-
tics are indicative of the importance Kelsey's
Law has and the necessity of its enforcement
to everyone on the road.
Opponents to the inclusion of the general
public in the law say that it's necessary to
use phones to multitask while commuting.
In recent years, however, car manufacturers

have introduced vehicles with built-in, hands-
free Bluetooth systems. The car communi-
cates with the phone wirelessly and the phone
call comes in through the car's speakers.
Automobile manufacturers should continue-
developing such technologies to make com-
munication safer en route. With Bluetooth
systems built into new cars and headsets
readily available for drivers who don't have a
built-in system, there are plenty of options for
drivers who want to follow the law and retain
their phone calls while driving.
Currently, only texting while driving is
outlawed in Michigan. While inexperienced
drivers lack familiarity with the roads and
are more likelyto be distracted in the car than.
experienced drivers, there are other ways to
target the teenage group specifically. Driver's
education programs and the literature they
teach should place a greater emphasis on the
severity of the risk taken when one chooses to
talk or text when driving. While this is cur-
rently a facet of Michigan's curriculum, it is
only mentioned in passing. Whether or not
a broader version of Kelsey's Law is imple-
mented, a concerted harm reduction effort
should take place before new drivers ever get
behind the wheel.

On May 5, 1998, a patent for
human gene BRCA1 was issued to
a company by the name of Myriad
Genetics, Inc. and the University of
Utah. Less than six months later,
Myriad Genetics was granted anoth-
er patent for a related gene, BRCA2.
These were neither the first nor
the last patents granted for human.
genetic material, but these instances
have been the source of constant
controversy for nearly a decade and
a half. One of the principle reasons
for this controversy stems from the
fact that women with BRCA - a
breast cancer susceptibility gene -
mutations are five times more likely
to contract breast cancer than the
general population and have a life-
time risk 10 to 30 times greater than
average to suffer from ovarian can-
cer. Because these genes are patent-
ed, anyone wishing to look for them
- be they researchers, doctors or
patients - has to pay Myriad Genet-
ics. And pay dearly.
In May 2009, the Association for
Molecular Pathology and several
other advocacy groups aided by the
American Civil Liberties Union
brought a case against Myriad, Uni-
versity of Utah officials and the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office claim-
ing that BRCA genes are not patent-
able as parts of nature. The original
decision of the court in that case
was successfully appealed twice
and to this day, the BRCA genes
have remained patented. However,
on Nov. 30 the U.S. Supreme Court
agreed to hear the plaintiffs' argu-
ment on the patentability of human
genes during its current session
to decide once and for all whether
human genetic information is sub-
ject to a protective government
monopoly.
Proponents of gene patents con-
tend that they incentivize scientists,
inventors and engineers in bio-

technology to create novel devices,
develop new methodologies and
promote further innovation by not
keeping research or technology
secret. This is the classic argument
in favor of patents that views them
as a trade of public disclosure for a
guaranteed window of exclusivity to
recoup costs and increase potential
profits. Some see this as fair.
Others do not. Most opponents of
gene patents argue that they stifle
further research and limit patient
treatments by forcing others to- pay
exuberantly high premiums. Fur-
thermore, as an intrinsic part of
human beings, our genes shouldn't be
subject to any sort of patent. It would
be absurd, they reason, to live in a
world where the notion of patenting
someone's blue eyes was dismissed
but where patenting the genes used
to make those eyes was embraced.
The problem with all of this is
the uncertain nature of intellectual
property as a whole. Regular prop-
erty is simple and easy to under-
stand. To own regular property
means that one mixed some natural
resources with their labor or legiti-
mately traded with someone else
who did.
I plow my garden, the potatoes
are mine; I trade my potatoes with
someone for a new plow, the plow is
mine. Simple. Property of this sort
can also be protected. I can put a
fence around my garden and lock my
plow in a shed. If one can't potential-
ly exclude something from others,
then one can't really own something
after all, we don't steal the air we
breathe. But what of ideas?
Ideas do spring from a sort- of
combination between one's resourc-
es and one's effort, but they are not
as easily protected. Certainly one
could keep something secret, but
this only prevents the transmis-
sion of an idea and doesn't exclude

another mind from thinking it. And,
this case has to do with the fact
that information - the stuff of our
thoughts - isn't so much invented as
it is discovered. Our world is awash
in information, and all we tend to do
is collectively accumulate knowl-
edge and piece it together to do new
things for us. We merely take from
the marble of nature the statues our
limited time and present resources
allow us.
In crafting our knowledge we
don't deprive anyone of crafting
their knowledge, and vice versa:
If I teach you about genes, I don't
suddenly forget about them. That is
until some folks feel entitled to the
information they have happened
upon and wish for others should
they come across the same infor-
mation. Hence, patents. Patents
are ephemeral fences surrounding
thought-of gardens erected with
real force. Myriad Genetics found
a strip of'information in the human
genome and declared it theirs.
Unfortunately, it's no different than
anyone else claiming that any other
piece of information is exclusively
his or hers.
The solution to all of this is to have
tangible marketplaces; for ideas, for
products, for everything. We should
freely trade and exchange our limit-
ed time and resources with as many
people as we can so that everyone,
everywhere may benefit. Gene pat-
ents should be struck down. They
should be struck down for the very
same reason all patents should be
struck down: Intellectual property
is not property. The price we've paid
propagating the failed intellectual
property system has been far too
great thus far, and it's about time we
discount them entirely.
Berry Belmont is a Rackham
graduate student.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged'to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do
not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 7, 2012 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, December 7, 2D12 - 5

BLIMPY
From Page 1
for him for several years and he
hopes the move won't negatively
impact them.
"My employees have kind of
invested themselves in this place
... it's a part of you," he said. "But
for the most part they're young
and if things go bad, they'll land
on their feet."
The owner said he hopes the
generations of loyal customers
will take solace in the fact that
he plans to reopen Blimpy else-
where. He also made a point to
emphasize that he is in no way
angry with the University or his
landlord over the move and will
make every effort to make aseam-
less transition.
"I want to keep Krazy Jim's
legacy going," he said.
Michael Magner, Rich's son,

said the news of the University's
purchase came as a "shock" to
him. He said though his father
could bid to keep the property, he
can't match the amount that the
University has reportedly offered.
Magner could not specify the
exact offer amount.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the University
could not comment on the prop-
erty acquisition until the Univer-
sity's Board of Regents approves
the purchase. The board is sched-
uled to meet on Dec. 13.
The University owns a park-
ing structure along South Divi-
sion Street and two houses at
South Division and East Jeffer-
son. These properties are close to
Blimpy and may suggest that the
University plans to build a new
structure in their place, AnnAr-
bor.com reported. It is unclear
whether the University has made
bids on the other buildings on the

street.
LSA junior Luke Thampy said
he eats at Blimpy habitually, and
though he's scared that it will
move to a distant location, he
doesn't foresee that changing his
eating habits.
"The building's really nice, it's
old, it has a nice history, a nice
location," Thampy said of the
burger joint's current location on
South Division. "It's got a nice
flavor down there and I feel if it
were to move down to like South
Forrest that would just be awful."
LSA junior David Hunt said the
move probably wouldn't affect
whether or not he dines at Blimpy
in the fall
"I enjoy the burgers," Hunt said
"As long as it's nottoo far away I'd
still go."
-Daily Staff Photographer
Teresa Mathew contributed
to this report.


RUBYWALLAU/Daily
Engineer senior Satish Subramanian performing at the Mr. Mr. Engineer Pageant at Stamps Auditorium on Thursday.

From Page 1
ethics round.
Engineering senior Rama
Mwenesi, a representative from
E-MAGINE, claimed the title of
Mr. Engineer 2013.
David Munson, the dean of the
College of Engineering, Chemical
Engineering Prof. OmololaEniola-
Adefeso and Michigan football
players Denard Robinson and Jor-
dan Kovacs selected Mwenesi as
the winner due to his high number.
of ticket sales - he sold more than
any other student - and perfor-
mance inthe competition.
"I feel absolutely mind-blown,"
Mwenesisaidinan interview after
the event. "I'm just so thrilled
because realizing the cause that
we're supporting, that's really
what made me do it and go above
and beyond and sell as many tick-
ets as I possiblycould, givethe tal-
ent portion as much as I could and
really just have a good time."
Mwenesi, who hails from
Washington, D.C. and Nairobi,
Kenya, said he has never gone to
the event, let alone competed in
it. He said the efforts of DAPCEP
encouraged him to get involved

and sell tickets.
"Getting this title of Mr. Engi-
neer is not necessarily the end
goal," Mwenesi said. "The end
goal is to use this position to go out
there and activelygo outthere and
say, 'As Mr. Engineer, I advocate
on behalf of DAPCEP."'
Mwenesi added that increas-
ing involvement for low-income
and minority students is a prior-
ity for him, because he himself is
a minority on campus.
Engineering junior Emily
Carroll, the college relations co-
chair of the Society of Women
Engineers, said the event was
sold out, and raised $3,300 for
DAPCEP.
Engineering senior Keith
Okimura served as the Michigan
Marching Band's first represen-
tative in the competition.
"To get our name out there
is good," Okimura said. "People
will know that we do engineer-
ing work as well as practicing."
For the talent portion, Okiu-
mura played the drums and
included a few sets played by the
band during football games.
The contestants represented
13 different engineering-relat-
ed organizations, including

E-MAGINE, the Solar Car Team,
the National Society of Black
Engineers, Engineering Global
Leadership, The Epeians, Michi-
gan Materials Society, American
Society of Mechanical Engi-
neers, the Michigan Marching
Band the Hybrid Racing Team,
the Mars Rover Team and three
fraternities, Theta Tau, Tau Beta
Pi and Sigma Gamma Tau.
Engineering graduate student
Mayank Agarwal said he has
consistently enjoyed attending
Mr. Engineer because of its abil-
ity to bring together different
groups.
"Some of the organizations I've
actually never heard of before, so
if's nice to be able to see all the
different groups represented in
engineering," Agarwal said.
Mwenesi said he hopes to con-
tinue to work passionately and
creatively.
"I always knew I wanted to
change the world by building
things, but I didn't know how,"
Mwenesi said. "Coming into col-
lege, engineering seemed like the
best possible route, and I hope to
proceed and get a Ph.D. in design
science to take that creativity
and engineering further."


TRANSIT
From Page 1
of bills failed to pass, it could be
reintroduced at some point in the
future, according to State Rep.
Jeff Irwin (D-Ann Arbor).
"The actual meat and pota-
toes of the RTA were not accom-
plished," Irwin said. "Now we've
empowered a group of people
from across the region to get
together and talk about public
transit, but we haven't empow-
ered them actually do anything
about public transit."
Irwin said his main concern
with the proposal is its ramifica-
tions for Washtenaw County. Due
to how the system is currently set
up - adhering to protocol estab-
lished by the Regional Transit
Coordinating Council, the organi-
zation that handles regional tran-
sit - all funding decisions require
a unanimous vote. According to

Irwin, this is the main reason the
system doesn't work.
The new RTA would require a
unanimous vote for rail projects,
which Irwin said would contin-
ue to disadvantage Washtenaw.
County.
"Where we are geographically,
rail is the most appropriate, low-
est-cost way to service our com-
munity," Irwin said.
He added that Washtenaw
County is working to develop its
existing tracks, but the new leg-
islation could potentially hinder
that process.
"Unfortunately, the legislation
that Lansing has passed won't
allow us to develop those kinds
of things," Irwin said.
'Irwin added that the new
organization could siphon funds
from the Ann Arbor Transpor-
tation Authority, Ann Arbor's
current public transportation
system.
"The RTA was really designed

for Wayne, Oakland and Macomb
- not for Washtenaw," Irwin
said.
State Sen. Tom Casperson
(R-Escanaba), one of the spon-
sors of the bill in the Senate, said
the RTA is necessary in order to
mend a deeply flawed system of
public transportation in south-
eastern Michigan.
"If Detroit is going to be suc-
cessful and come back and grow,
I don't know how you do it with-.
out that component," Casperson
said.
He also said approval of the
legislation will affect the mil-
lions of dollars of funding for a-
metro Detroit light-rail line.
"The only way to make this
work is it has got to be region-
al," Casperson said. "There's
got to be buy-in from the whole
region, not just Wayne County or
Detroit. That's been kind of the
struggle all the way through this
thing."

RIGHT-TO-WORK
From Page 1
a whole.
"(Snyder) feels very strongly
that people ought to have the
choice," Weiss said. "He clearly
does not view this as an issue of
being anti-union. He's been very
clear that he supports unions,
he supports collective bargain-
ing, but he also supports choice,
and he very much feels that
folks ought to have the right to
choose whether or not they join
or not."
However, Democratic legis-
lators and those in favor of col-
lective bargaining have argued
that the legislation is purely an
attempt to dismantle unions.
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) said Republican legisla-
tors are taking advantage of the
lame-duck session to enact leg-
islation that won't be feasible
once the new Legislature takes
over in January.
"Republicans lost elections
across the state of Michigan,
and their agenda was pretty
roundly repudiated, and now
this is their really last chance
to get this done before the will
of the voters is enacted with the
new Legislature in January,"
Irwin said. "So, this is the time
when a lot of their members
who lost elections because they
support things like right-to-
work are going to have one last
chance to exact retribution."
Irwin added that the asser-
tion that the legislation is a
response to failure of Proposal
2 - which appeared on the bal-
lot on Nov. 6 and sought to grant
Michiganders the constitution-
al right to collectively bargain
- is an excuse.
"It's no secret that the Repub-
lican Party represents rich and
powerful interests, and those
rich and powerful interests
want to pay workers less, and
so I think Rick Snyder's just
responding to the drum beat of
his party," Irwin said.
Irwin further asserted
that the implications of the
legislation are dire for the
state.
"What the governor's pro-
posing is a policy that will
drive down wages and hurt
Michigan's economy," Irwin
said. "And we know that
when you look around the
country, the states that have
the most dynamic, success-
ful economies are states that
respect their workers and
that invest in education."
According to White House
spokesman Keith Maley,
President Barack Obama,
who plans to visit the state
on Monday, is adamantly
opposed to right-to-work
legislation.
"President Obamahas long
opposed so-called 'right-to-
work' laws, and he continues
to oppose them now," Maley
said on Thursday. "The Pres-
ident believes our economy
is stronger when workers get
good wages and good bene-
fits, and he opposes attempts
to roll back their rights."
Right-to-work isn't the

only union legislation to be
addressed by the state Leg-
islature this term. In Febru-
ary, the Legislature passed
Senate Bill 971, amending
the Public Employment
Relations Act to include a
provision defining Graduate
Student Research Assistants
as students, not employees,
which effectively prohibited
them from collectively bar-
gaining.

The Graduate Employees'
Organization - the union rep-
resenting University gradu-
ate students - led the fight to
achieve collective bargaining
rights for GSRAs during the
winter semester. On Thursday,
representatives of the group
rallied along with other union
supporters on the steps of the
Capitol Building in Lansing to
oppose right-to-work legisla-
tion.
Rackham student Liz
Rodrigues, the communications
director for GEO, said group
members have been lobbying in
Lansing all week but showed up
early this morning amid reports
that right-to-work legislation
would actually be introduced.
"If it becomes law, the evi-
dence is pretty much in that
workers in Michigan are going
to see their wages go down,"
Rodrigues said. "That's what's
happened in every single state
because the tools that they
negotiate for their wages and
benefits are substantially weak-
ened by bills like this, so that,
will be what happens at a state-
wide level."
Rodrigues added that GEO
will continue to try to organize,
but their ability to do so will be
significantly limited if the bill is
signed into law.
Rodrigues further asserted
that the success of the legisla-
tion has negative implications
for the University.
"I think in the long run this
means the University of Michi-
gan will become less com-
petitive for graduate students
because we will not be able to
negotiate for good wages and
benefits for our work," she said.
Rodrigues said Michigan is
unlikely to see backlash to the
same degree as was experienced
in Ohio after Republican Gov.
John Kasich pushed right-to-
work legislation in 2010, given
the way in which the legislation
has come about.
Though many have taken
note that all action on the legis-

lation has octurred in the lame-
duck session, a provision for the
bill to take immediate effect
- and therefore avoid the stan-
dard 90-day vetting process for
bills - has not been attached to
the pendinglegislation.
Furthermore, the legisla-
tion notably excludes firefight-
ers and police officers, though
Irwinwas skeptical of the inten-
tions behind such action.
"It takes a little bit of edge off
of the political consequences
that some of these Republican
legislators might have to face,"
he said.
LSA junior Russell Hayes,
a member of the University's
chapter of the College Repub-
licans, echoed the governor's
sentiments regarding the legis-
lation.
"I think it's a positive thing,"
Hayes said. "It reflects the
mandate of the voters and the
referendum that endorsed this
opportunity for right-to-work.
As we saw, Proposition 2, which
would pretty much ban right-to-
work,.was struck down by the
majority of voters in the state of
Michigan."
Hayes added that the state's
manufacturers will reap ben-
efits from the legislation.
Katie Oppenheim, the chair
of the University of Michigan
Professional Nurse Council,
also weighed in on the legisla-
tion, and said the UMPNC will
be forced to reevaluate their
tactics should it pass.
"For us as nurses, we know
that we will have to contin-
ue to fight to have appropri-
ate staffing and appropriate ...
devices and such to take care
of our patients," Oppenheim
said. "We're going to continue
to fight for our patients like we
always do. This is obviously dis-
appointing, but we'll continue to
fight. We'll have to regroup and
decide what our next step will
be.
Daily Staff Reporter Molly
Block contributed to this report.


COLLEGEHUMOR
From Page 1
backs in our set, so if you're
a fan of the 'Jake and Amir'
series, I think you'll be happily
surprised by some of the jokes,"
Hurwitz said. "But we also try
and make sure that it's funny for
people who are seeing us for the
first time. It probably is catered
a little more toward - in fact,
you know what, if you're writ-
ing this for the paper - every-
body will enjoy the show."
"And 'Jake and Amir' fans
will enjoy the show even more!"
Blumenfeld said.
"And Ben Schwartz will
definitely be there ..." Hurwitz
joked.
"No! He will not be there,"
Blumenfeld quickly interjected.
Though the chance of a Ben
Schwartz cameo is out, Hurwitz
hinted that students will have
the opportunity to get involved
in the show, with the possibility
of some free stuff.
"We end the show with a very
special surprise where there's

going to be some audience par-
ticipation and some free give-
aways," Hurwitz said.
Despite the live audience,
Hurwitz said the duo would
stick to the roots that propelled
them to fame. He said the show
originated with them both just
goofing around.
"It started sort of organi-
cally: I was given a digital cam-
era, and I sat across from Amir
at work and we started making
funny videos and putting them
online," Hurwitz said. "And
once people started watch-
ing them, we made more vid-
eos, and then we put them on a
website, and that kind of slowly
grew into what 'Jake and Amir'
is now."
Hurwitz and Blumenfeld said
they keep their skits fresh and
original by sticking with their
gut.
"I think we just write what
makes us laugh," Amir said.
"And, as long as you do that,
and people enjoy it, you have
nothing to be regretful about,
because you're not compromis-
ing anything. If you worry too

much about keeping it fresh,
you might sort of 'lose the game'
so to speak."
"So far we've trusted that our
fans have the exact same sense
of humor as us, and it hasn't let
us down," Jake agreed.
Still, they were both quick to
mention their excitement at the
prospect of performing in front
of a live audience while visiting
Ann Arbor, Blumenfeld insist-
ing that this time, he <em>will</
em> visit Zingerman's Deli.
"It's always fun to travel and
meet fans'from different areas,
especially when we get to come
to a cool place like Ann Arbor,"
Hurwitz said.
"Everyone told me to go to
Zingerman's, so this time, I'm
going to go to Zingerman's,"
Blumenfeld said.
When asked about how they
will pry students away from
studying for finals, going to
parties or hitting the bars on a
Friday night, Hurwitz quickly
jumped ship.
"If there's bars and parties,
I might do that instead of the
show," he laughed.



6 - Friday, December 7, 2012ATMgD mcay

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A2teens in 826 pick
literary favorites

Assembling the
annual 'Nonrequired
Reading' anthology
By JOEY STEINBERGER
DailyArts Writer
It's hard to tell where an
anthology comes from when you
find one in a bookstore. The many
texts that make up the collection
are separated from their original
context, which begs the ques-
tion: "Who arranged these works
together, and on what grounds?"
For readers of the Best Ameri-
can Nonrequired Reading series,
the answer is alot closer to home
then you would think.
The texts for the Best Amer-
ican Nonrequired Reading
anthology are chosen annually
by two groups of high school
students, one from Valencia,
Calif. and the other from Ann
Arbor. Both groups are involved
with 826, a writing and tutor-
ing non-profit started by author
Dave Eggers.
"(Eggers) and a group of high
school students in the Bay Area
began developing the book ten
years ago," said Amanda Uhle,
executive director of 826michi-
gan. "Shortly after they invited
other 826 chapters to take part ...
(our chapter) took him up on the
invitation, and we were the only
one."
The group consists of approxi-
mately a dozen students and
two facilitators who meet for.
two hours every week to discuss
material that could possibly be
included in the anthology. The
students represent about six dif-

ferent high schools from the Ann
Arbor area. When searching for
material, the panel acquires texts
in a few different ways.
The series is considered "non-
required" because it is a compila-
tion of more unusual texts.
"The students themselves can
seek out materials they read in
literary journals or other publi-
cations," Uhle said. "The facili-
tators can also source materials
from things that they read and
distribute them to the students.
We also do a whole lot of collabo-
ration with the Valencia group.
If they find something they are
really excited about, we get a
copy of it too."
The facilitators, Henry W.
Leung and Jia Tolentino, are
MFA students at the University.
Eggers looks at the students'
favorite pieces each year as he
compiles the anthology.
"Those are the backbone of
how he builds the collection,"
Uhle said. "But I can't say there
is a rock-solid process that every-
thing goes through. Like all
publishing projects, there is an
organic nature to it."
While Eggers always serves as
the editor of the anthology, the
series has a different introduc-
er and cover artist every year.
Introducers come from a variety
of creative backgrounds; musi-
cian Beck, "Simpsons" creator
Matt Groening and author David
Sedaris have all contributed,
and Banksy and Art Spiegelman
have both done cover art.
Hanal Baveja, a junior at
Huron High School, has been a
part of the Best American Non-
required Reading group since the
fall of her freshman year, when a

senior at her high school told her
she might be interested.
"From the first meeting, I
knew that this was something I
wanted to do for high school and
maybe even college because it
was so different from anything
I've ever done," Baveja said. "It
was a chance to read so much
new work, and all these exciting
pieces that were so different from
what I was reading in school or in
the library."
When Baveja first joined the
panel, the students in Valencia
chose most of the readings and
sent them over to the students in
Ann Arbor to review. This year,
however, the Ann Arbor students
are taking a more active role in
the selection process.
"Henry has been bring-
ing more and more journals to
our meetings, which gives us
a chance to pick out pieces we
want to share with the group,"
Baveja said. "We're definitely
trying to make it more coopera-
tive."
Though Eggers is ultimately
the editor of the book, the stu-
dents serve as preliminary edi-
tors.
"We talk about whether it's a
good piece or not and what we
like about it, but we also talk
about where it would fit in the
book," Baveja said. "Although
there are wonderful pieces we
read, some of them we don't end
up choosing because they are not
right for the book."
"We're seeking work that is off
the beaten path that you wouldn't
come across otherwise," Uhle
said. "It winds up beingagem of a
collection because it has a kind of
unusual feeling to it."

4

"I SPEAK TO YOUR SOUL."
Musical tastes shaped
generation to generation

By JOHN LYNCH
DailyArts Writer
For my father, the most fas-
cinating innovation of the early
21st century was the mix CD. In
2001 - a time when MP3 files
were suddenly ubiquitous and
accessible - my dad became
obsessed with burning discs of
music. By embracing technology,
he had finally found 'a superior
alternative to the painstakingly
made song collections that were
the mixtapes of his 1970s child-
hood - and he rejoiced in it.
I was in first grade when my
father made this momentous
discovery, and each morning
drive to elementary school that
year was accompanied by a new
set of songs from his nostalgic
past. My ears were exposed to
the mystical jazz of Van Mor-
rison's "Moondance," the punk-
rock sounds of The Clash's
"Train In Vain" and the rough
vocals of Bob Dylan as he belted
out the chorus to "Mr. Tambou-
rine Man." I struggled to appre-
ciate any of it.
At the time, I was an eight-
year-old brat with a steadfast
affinity for the band Smash

Mouth
accepta
ing my
his silv
I knew
further
cal tota
compla:
like he
one of
there b
with a
to his C
the radi
dad's to
G
Y
hav
The
grade,
Social
bizarr
Joni M
while
the ro
stoppe
listene

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BLOGGING?
WRITE FOR THE DAILY ARTS' BLOG, THE FILTER!
Request an application by e-mailing arts@michigandaily.com.

Call: #734-4
Email: dailydi

and a needle-thin scope of ful falsetto hit me like a right-
able music. I dreaded see- hook from Muhammad Ali in
dad in the driver's seat of his prime, and I was overcome
er Dodge Intrepid because with emotion and appreciation
'it meant that I would be for the song as I realized that it
r subjected to his musi- was Track One of my dad's most-
alitarian rule. Despite my played mix from back in the day.
ints - "His voice sounds In the weeks following this
's dying!" being a common sudden revelation, I spent hours
Bob Dylan - my dad sat digging through my dad's dust-
ehind the steering wheel covered vinyl collections and
n unwavering commitment CD racks. I began hoarding his
Ds and a fascist control of albums and uploading massive
io. I spent years hating my quantities of this music that
aste in music. I had once disdained onto my
library. Suddenly, my iPod was
bursting with content and my
xuess what. taste in music was diverse and
seasoned with maturity. My
our parentS dad's favorite band, The Smiths,
became my favorite band, and
re good taste. Bob Dylan's vocals went from
*7being the bane of my existence
to a beacon of truth.
The origin of my taste in music,
n one day in seventh however, dates back much further
it all clicked. I was in than my father's mixes.
Studies class, and my Patsy Cline's "Crazy" is a song
e, old hippy teacher played that will unfailingly bring me to
litchell's song "California" tears if no one else is around. I've
we were walking around had a deep emotional connec-
om and doing a project. I tion to it for my entire life, but
d dead in my tracks and until recently, I had no explana-
d intently. Joni's beauti- tion for why it meant so much
to me. I was driving with my
mom one day this summer, and
"Crazy" came up on my iPod,
and she started singing it with
me. I asked, "You like this song
18-4115 too?" and she said, "Are you seri-
splay@gmail.com ous? This is one of my all-time
favorites. I used to sing it to.you
when you were a baby because it
would help you-fall asleep."
013. 1106 MichiganAve. large It's fascinating to think that
/6+ pking, $3400/m, all mytaste in music may have been
-192 reallcapital@gmail.co conceived in infancy with the
W.HOUSING.UMICI.EDU soothing notes of a Tasia Lynch
(734) 769-7520 rendition of a 1961 country bal-
bdrm., modern, clean, quiet lad, and it's for this reason that
min. walk. Free Wi-F. I am currently enthralled by the
TH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. ! science of shaping one's musical
front/Heat/Water/Parking. ! tastes. I believe that songs are
.HRPAA.com 996-4992! like viruses that can penetrate
SONPROPERTIES.COM the mind and fester there and
734-332-6000. grow into something that can
define a person's life.
E OI hope to infect my children
S Y Ulike my parents have infected
me. My kids, for example, willibe
IRCUAC injected with a daily dose of the
two Franks (Sinatra and Ocean).
I plan to bombard them with
Vampire Weekend and torment
them with Radiohead. Some-
day, when they are stopped dead
in their tracks by the beauty of
O L Andrew Bird song, they will
remember my relentless efforts
and thank me for giving them
the finest of musical tastes
T?
FOLLOW
DAILY
ARTS!

RELEASE DATE- Friday, December 7, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Nothing special 41 Approach 55 Gay leader?
1 Family nickname 5 Frantic 44 Everyother 56 Triple-A, at
5 Wharton hero 6 Signaled one's hurricane times
10 Crude letters arrival 46 One may be 57 Software product
14 One of five 7 Ancient theaters penciled in with a cup-and-
Norwegian kings 81961 record 48 Like a piece of saucer logo
15 Trapper's tool? breaker cake 58 All over again
16 Roast, in Rhone 9Ate at 50 Boost, with "up" 60 "Categorical
17 Eye sore . 10Tram load 52 Front-end imperative"
18 Inviemo month 11 Supply electricity alignment philosopher
19 Nicole's"Moulin toaCalifomia 54"New"currency 61Slurpee
Rouger"mo-star city? replaced by the alternative
20 Enjoying"O patria 12 eather ay Congolese franc 63 Come out with
mint? delay them;Abbr.ASETOP VIU PZL:
23 Legal tide: Abbr. 13 Half of dix ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
24 Artificial 21 Samson's end? S A A B S S HAM S D A D
25Night Moves 22 Anent assembly A L L O T S O L T I A T E
sng er awee A
27 Sometof itsads 26 Compass hdg.
feature a pig 28 Barsat the end K I S S M E A H H P I N G
named Maxwell 29 Latish lunch hr. E E R O S A A R I N E N
30 Prima 31"Because A L 1 G N E D S O N G
33Cubanpatriot freedomcan't R A C E D I E T S P A T
Marti protect itself"org. T H E R OSET T A S T O N E
36bAge k 32"Com e Sail Away" S R S S T R O H R O T E
38 Pight back, say handCREE INSULIN
39Aussie'sschool 33Solsticemonth
40 Contract extras, 34 Doing thejob H E R 0 S W E L C 0 M E
andread 35Spotaflamboyant 0 L A Y P L U R G G A LE
differently, a hint singer? L I P B O W A N D A R R OW
to this puzzle's 37 Bygonehblade E T E S T E N O R I N S E
theme 40 Rockefeller DER A S S N S S T E E R
42 Layer Center statue aaddle~oca 371
4 ime to retire xwordeditoraol.com 12/07/2
45 Copycat 1 2 3 4 s 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
46 Vichy waters
47 Kennedy and 14 15 16
Waters 1
49 Uikeaold aplea
51 Characterpiece? 20 21 22 23
53 "Pork and Beans"
band 24 25 2s
57 Binge
59 Whomping actor 27 2a 2s 30 31 32
Eric? 3334 35 36 37 38
62 Literarycollections
64Amity as 40 41 42
65 Knee-slapper
66 Star in Lyra, 43 44 4s 4as
67 Top of a form, 47 as as as
perhaps
68 Heraldry border s 5 52 5 s4 as 555
69 Furthest from the
hole, in 8golf 57 58 5 s5 0 1
70 Big key
71 Fade, maybe m 4 5
DOWN6
1 Israel's Dayan 70 71
2 Let out, say
3 Builders of By Gary J. Whitehead 12/07/12
steppedpyrands (02012 Tribune Media services,lInc.1

PARKjN1
2013-14
PARKING FOR SALE
*Great Locations
*Central Campus
*Great Rates
734-761-8000
"PRIME" PARKING FOR SALE
2013-14
Great Locations:
721 S. Forest $1500
1320 S. University $1500
909 Church -1 Pass $960
1021 Vaughn-l Pass $960
726 State-1 Pass $960
326 E. Madisen-I Pass $960
520 Packard $960
515 E. Lawrence $720
511 Hoover $720
Parking for less than the rest!
Call 734-761-8000

!!!!NOW LEASING FALL 2013!!!!
Great Location! 721 Church, 1 bd apts
& studios, quiet /great for mature stu-
dents! Across from East Quad. free
pkg, free heat, free water, laundry.
www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244.
!LARGE CENTRAL
CAMPUS HOMES!!
www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
*AVAILABLE FALL 2013*
Large 3 bdrm. house. Walking
distance '
from campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS
ON
Central Campus: WHY PAY$1,500
FOR A BED???
Our ONE bedroms ON S.UNIV-
ER-
SITY start at $645.00
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
TAKE $150.00 OFF YOUR SECU-
RITY DEPOSIT** Visit us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT; INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663-4101
CENTRAL CAMPUS
6 and 7 bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368

FALL 2a
house w/
734-674-
WWN
1 &2
5
! NOR
! River;
!www
CARL
HA
PU
TH
YE
I P

ATTORNEY NEAR CAMPUS
Free consultation
Daniel Meisels Esq. 734.277.8814
BARCLAY'S QUICK LOANS Ser-
vice. Pay outstanding bills. Borrow at
lowest rates pay. Personal loan. Busi-
ness, Debt loans. Home Improvement,
Auto, Bad Credit loans. No apps. fees
Call today: 1-800-610-7689
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

Do THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE. -

I

@MICHDAILYARTS



,,
u
r
v: ,1
fi ' f' a, rl ~.
1 y I
M F.
{ n 4ni 1 O4_:
,~

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, December 7, 2012 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, December 7, 2D12 - 7

Unbeaten Blue hosts Hogs

Better days ahead
for Daley, Michigan

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
When the. Michigan basketball
team traveled to Fayetteville, Ark.
for a midseason tilt against the
Razorbacks last season, it didn't
know what it was in for.
No matter how much Michi-
gan prepared
for the speed
and ferocity of Arkansasat
the middling Michigan
SEC foe, Arkan-
sas stormed out Matchup:
to a 29-10 lead Arkansas 4-3;
- making its Michigan 8-0
first 11 shots - When: Satur-
before the Wol- day 12 P.M.
verines could Where:
even blink. Crisler Arena
Arkansas TV/Radio:
stretched its CBS
lead to 20 in the
first half and
led by 13 with under seven min-
utes left before Michigan's frantic
comeback ended with then-fresh-
man Trey Burke missing a would-
be game-winning 3-pointer at the
buzzer.
Most fans remember Zack
Novak's hard foul on B.J. Young
as he attempted a fast-break dunk
during the 66-64 Arkansas vic-
tory, but when asked about the
game on Tuesday, Burke shook
his head. All he could remember
was the way the game started.
"We weren't prepared for that,"
he said. "No matter how much we
prepared in practice, Arkansas'
pressure is tough. They're a real-
ly good team. They're long and
active - very athletic."
Michigan coach John Beilein,
known for his X's and O's and the
way he readies his teams in prac-
tice, ajso hasn't forgotten how the
game opened.
"I haven't watched much tape,"
Beilein said of last year's contest.
"All I know is (it was) a blur last
year, the first few minutes. Our
defensive transition, with our
scout team ... was not like guard-

ALDEN 
Sophomore guard Trey Burke failed to hit a 3-painter at the buzzer last year against Arkansas to win the game.

ing them."
But Novak is gone, and instead
of playing in the hostile Bud
Walton Arena, the game will be
played at home in Crisler Center,
where the Wolverines (8-0) have
won 24 of their last 26 games.
And that Michigan team last
year wasn't the No. 3 team in the
nation, and didn't have the trio of
freshmen - guard Nik Stauskas
and forwards Glenn Robinson III
and Mitch McGary - that have
turned the Wolverines into a for-
midable transition offense capa-
ble of scoring points in bunches.
That was something that stuck
out to Kansas State coach Bruce
Weber, who spent the previous
nine seasons at Illinois, after
Michigan beat the Wildcats in the
NIT Season Tip-Off two weeks r
ago.
"They are their best in transi-
tion," Weber said. "In the years
I've watched (Beilein's) teams and
competed against them, he went
from walking the ball up, grind-

ing it out, to now their best thing
is their transition."
In last year's game, Burke
scored 13 points but shot just6-of-
19 from the floor while junior
guard Tim Hardaway Jr. was held
to nine points on 3-of-8 shoot-
ing. Redshirt junior forward Jor-
dan Morgan had one of the most
efficient offensive games of his
career, scoring 16 points on 7-of-
11 shooting while pulling down
six boards. Young, who returned
later in last year's contest after
Novak's flagrant foul, scored 15
points and currently leads the
Razorbacks (4-3) with 19.5 points.
Forward Marshawn Powell, who
missed most of last year, includ-
ing the Michigan game, after knee
surgery, is second on the team
with 16.1 points but burst onto the
scene with a 33-point outing in an
upset over Oklahoma on Tuesday.
The win snapped a three-game
skid for Arkansas, which included
losses to Wisconsin and a 91-82
barnburner against No. 4 Syra-

cuse.
Despite the mediocre record,
the Razorbacks average a whop-
ping 82.1 points per game and,
with their intense defensive pres-
sure, force more than18 turnovers
per game - nine of them coming
off of steals that help Arkansas
counter quickly in transition.
But with a more experienced
Burke, and ateam more apt to not
just handle a high-tempo play-
ing style, but excel at, Michigan
might even be able to beat the
Razorbacks at their owngame.
Still, Beilein is still approach-
ing the game with an air of cau-
tion.
"They're going to really force
the tempo," he said. "We'll find
out (if we're more ready than
last year). They run up and'down
on everybody.
"We're going to simulate the
best we can, and then hopefully
we can adjust as well as we did
last year, but just not get down
early."

Most NCAA soccer teams
could liken their season to a
roller-coaster ride, but for the
Michigan men's soccer team,
its 2012 campaign was quite the
opposite.
Michigan coach Chaka Daley
and hissquad started their sea-
son at the
top of the JEREMY
hill with SUMMITT
their hands
in the air, On Men's Soccer
heading
down a 70-degree drop at rough-
ly 60 miles per hour.
The Wolverines were defeated
in five of their first seven games,
a disastrous beginning to a new
era of Michigan soccer. A team
who had been to the national
semifinal just two years ago
seemed to be heading for another
rebuilding year.
Many players were putting
forth sufficient effort, but ques-
tioning if they could actually get
positive results midway through
the season. But against Ohio
State, in one of the most impor-
tant matches of the season, that
70-degree drop seemed to sub-
side at least for a moment.
A thrilling, double-overtime
victory against the Buckeyes
generated confidence back into
the Michigan squad, leadingto its
first multi-game unbeaten streak.
"The goal (for the season) was
to instill a culture of consistently
winning," Daley said. "Growth
throughout the season is very
important to us."
It should be noted that the
unbeaten stretch stemmed from
three home games, while the
Wolverines often struggled away
from Ann Arbor. In the next two
games, both on the road, Michi-
gan fell short to Wisconsin and
No. 3 Akron.
Searching for answers in the
midst of a 4-7-1 record, the Wol-
verines stormed into Blooming-

ton for their first road win in what
the team called one of the turning
points of the season.
Michigan had a minor lapse
against Bowling Green a few days
later, possibly an emotional hang-
over from the well-earned vic-
tory at Indiana. But following the
tough loss at home, Michigan rat-
tled off five straight wins en route
to the Big Ten Tournament final.
"We allowed our guys not to be
mediocre anymore," Daley said.
"We had a tough season and they
didn't play to the final whistle.
Losing to Bowling Green was the
big wake up call."
In an attempt to reach the .500
mark - required to qualify for
an NCAA Tournament bid - the
Wolverines needed to win their
first match of the Big Ten Tourna-
ment, which they did. Later that
weekend, a crushing defeat at the
hands of Michigan State could
have sent Michigan back down
that same hill they started on.
But with the strength derived
from previous adversity, the team
responded with composure. It
grew a vast amount from the
beginning to the end, just like
Daley expects out of his teams.
In the first round of the NCAA
Tournament, down one goal with
30 minutes remaining, junior
midfielder Fabio Pereira surely
lived up to expectations by scor-
ing a hat trick in just seven min-
utes.
Propelling the Wolverines into
the next round of the tournament
was an amazing feeling, Pereira
said.
In one of the most entertaining
games of the season, Michigan
finally fell to Akron in the second
round to end a remarkable late-
season run.
The Wolverines believe they
have the confidence and talent to
build off of that late success and
turn it into next year's early-sea-
son momentum.

i.,


VOLLEYBALL
Spartans next in Sweet 16

M' hockey lines in flux

By GREG GARNO play a team that's an hour away,"
Daily Sports Writer said junior outside hitter Molly
Toon. "I think it's definitely going
The Michigan volleyball team to be a fun game, but at this point
has harped on its strong confer- it's just another team in the way."
ence schedule all year, explaining For some Wolverines, Friday's
that it would pay off in December. contest will be more than just
Now that it's December, that another postseason game, it will
strength couldn't be more evident be a homecoming, as freshman
after six of seven Big Ten teams libero Tiffany Morales and junior
that made the defensive specialist Ally Sabol
NCAA Tourna- h hail from the Golden State.
ment advanced Morales opted to have her par-
to the Sweet 16. VS. MSU ents wait a weekend and skip the
Deep into Matchup: trip to Louisville to see her play in
the tourna- Michigan person. Now, the member of the
ment, Michi- 25-11; MSU All-Big Ten freshman team will
gan , will also 17-9 have the opportunity to see her
face an oppo- When: Fri- family and friends this weekend. .
nent its already day, 8 P.M. "My parents asked me 'So, do
seen twice this Where: you want us to come?' " Morales
season. More Berkeley, said.
importantly, it 'Calif. Morales told them, "I have
faces an in-state confidence in my team and I know
rival, Michigan you have confidence in my team. I
State, putting more pressure on a believe we're going to make it to
team that looks to continue its hot you guys next week."'
streak. Morales has been a solid defen-
Or so you would think. sive player for Michigan during
"I'm not throwing coaching its late-season run. The libero led
cliches out there, but to me in the her team in digs in both postsea-
NCAA Tournament it's just about son games with 19 against Ten-
advancing," said Michigan coach nessee and 17 against Louisville.
Mark Rosen. "I don't care if we're The Wolverines hope to con-
playing a team we've never played tinue to ride the strong play of
before or a team we're playing junior outside hitter Lexi Erwin
right up the street, like (Michi- and Toon for offensive produc-
gan State). We need to advance. tion- the pair accounted for half
Everybody becomes your rival." of the team's points in both post-
On Friday, the Wolverines will season matches.
compete in their fifth regional Erwin, the team leader in kills
semifinal in program history this season, has not let off the
when they face off against the gas against the strongest confer-
Spartans, following victories over ence in the country. On Tuesday,
Tennessee and No. 9 Louisville the American Volleyball Coaches
the previous weekend. Ironi- Association selected Erwin as
cally, though, Michigan will have an honorable mention to the All-
to travel across the country to Mideast Region team after she
Berkeley, Calif. to face Michigan was named a member of the All-
State, instead of driving an hour Big Ten team last week.
up I-96 to face the Spartans. Toon, on the other hand, has
The Wolverines split the series recently become a more consis-
against the Spartans this season, tent force after waitingto find her
losing at home in straight sets place during Michigan's offensive
before winning in straight sets in renovations. Toon took advantage
East Lansing to close out the sea- of the Cardinals' smaller blockers
son. Michigan trails the all-time in Friday's game.
series, 47-36, though neither team "I think (my performance) has
has played the other in the post- been building up the entire year,"
season. Toon said. "I don't think it was
"It's kind of funny having to go one thing that just switched. Its
all the way across the country to just all come together in the end."

Junior middle blocker Jen-
nifer Cross was named to the
AVCA All-Mideast Region team
Tuesday after playing in every set
this season. Along with freshman
middle blocker Krystalyn Goode,
opposing teams have no relief for
a force at the middle of the net.
Michigan State runs a 6-2
offense that features three hit-
ters,.making blocking more of a
challenge against teams that rely
on'just a pair. However, the duo
has combined for 267 total blocks
throughout the season, enough
for over half of the Wolverines'
total.
One area of concern for Michi-
gan will be its serving errors.
During the first and second
rounds, Michigan struggled to
keep the ball in play, which ended
runs or allowed the momentum
to shift. The Wolverines had nine
serving errors in both games, but
that doesn't surprise the veteran
coach.
"We're going to miss some
serves because we're going to
serve aggressively," Rosen said.
"I didn't really feel like there
was any point in the two matches
where I felt like that was getting
away from us, but we need to keep
serving tough. I never think we're
good enough. I always think we
have things to improve on."
Michigan would play the win-
ner of the match between No. 15
Iowa State and No. 2 Stanford
game on Saturday night should it
advance.
The idea of adjusting quickly
doesn't frighten the Wolverines,
though, who are accustomed to
making quick changes or adjust-
ing on bus rides between confer-
ence games.
Michigan (25-11) won't be the
only Big Ten team to play a con-
ference foe in the tournament.
Minnesota travels to Purdue to
face the Boilermakers with the
winner advancing to possibly
face Penn State.
"People say all the time, like
Tennessee's coach before the
match, 'The SEC is so much
more like the Big Ten now,' "
Rosen said. "But in the back of
my mind I'm going 'No. You're
not.'

By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
The offensive line chart that
Michigan coach Red Berenson put
out Saturday night in the series
finale against Ferris State night
didn't look even remotely similar
to the one he posted when the
Michigan hockey team opened up
its season on Oct.11.
Even compared to the line
chart in the Wolverines' 5-0 loss
the night before, there were glar-
ing differences.
But sudden, multiple changes
to Michigan's offensive personnel
have been a common trend this
season. Berenson has continuous-
ly mixed and matched different
forwards in an effort to produce
more quality play.
"We're looking for who , can
help (each) linegetbetter," Beren-
son said. "It might be offensively
or defensively, but it gives you a
new life sometimes when you get
a new player on the line. If we
were playing really rock-solid as a
team night after night, I wouldn't
be changing lines."
Heading into last weekend's
contest with the Bulldogs, Michi-
gan had been stagnant on both
offense and defense. Spanning
back to a Nov. 10 loss at Michi-
gan State, the Wolverines have
gone 1-4, scoring just six goals
while allowing 22. The offense,
which had been one of the top
in the nation earlier in the year,
had faltered, and the defense had
allowed 3.46 goals per game on
the year.
Though Saturday's switch
worked offensively - the Wol-
verines scored three goals in less
than two minutes during the first
period - the defensive effort
still wasn't completely effective.
Whether it was the fault of fresh-
man netminder Steve Racine or
poor defensive-zone coverage,
which has plagued Michigan all
season, Ferris State was able to
rally in the second and third peri-
ods to tie up the game with three
unanswered goals.
Surprisingly, Berenson has
consistently said that the Wolver-
ines' defensive struggles are just
as much a result of forwards' mis-
cues as defensemen's miscues.

Senior forward Kevin Lynch played alongside two other seniors last weekend.

"I think coach is stressing the
importance of defense right now,"
said senior forward Kevin Lynch.
"As long as we're not giving up
goals, that's the most important
thing..I think he's still just 'try-
ing to focus on the defensive
part of the game - backchecking
hard and cutting things down in.
the defensive zone and then the
offense will come."
Berenson has also touched on
the production of the lines as a
whole. Senior forward A.J. Treais
who leads Michigan in scoring
with 10 goals - more than double
anybody else on the team - has
led the top line all season. The
rest of the offense has been decid-
edly hot or cold, either scoring
in bunches or not scoring at all.
Though Treais has been mixed
and matched with various players,
his line on Saturday of Lynch and
senior Lindsay Sparks accounted
for four points with two goals and
two assists.
The third and fourth lines,
which usually provide little pro-
duction, have been almost nonex-
istent. Freshman forward Justin
Selman has two goals during the
last sevengames and he isthe only
player from the third and fourth
lines to notch a goal during that

stretch.
Though the expectations for
the third and fourth lines are
lower than the top lines as they
tend to be comprised of younger
players, production from them
can rally the veteran players to
play harder and more inspired.
"We played the last two games
and at least three players have
scored their first goal of the sea-
son against us," Berenson said.
"That's the fourth line guys that
are scoring. ... We're expecting
(Treais) to be an offensive play-
er but we're also expecting the
other guys that are playing regu-
larly to chip in with the odd goal
when they get a chance. You can't
keep playing and never score and
expectto be a plus player."
Lynch said that Berenson likes
to mix up lines early in the season
to see "how much chemistry they
have."
The coaching staff has shown
all year that being a plus player
- having more goals scored than
allowed when you are on the
ice - is important. And with the
defense giving up a conference-
high 3.45 goals per game, play-
ing both ways will continue to be
the only way for Michigan to cut
down on the goals against.


8 - Friday, December 7, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Friday, December 7, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycorn

4

0

4

.0

0

TEXT 'UM2' TO 22022
TO GET AN EXTRA $1O'WHEN
YOU SELL $50 IN BOOKS!**
*Offer valid when you sell back $50 or more. Expires 12/31/2012.
Not valid with any other offer.

ULRICH'S
Powered By
549 East University Avenue
neebo.com/umich

i


