'U' MUST CREATE PANTS'OFF TO MTV
Bombs, classified files and cryptology:N
The history of research at the 'U'more to offer than ersey
INSIDE PW8
i1te fikliian 0.aIVj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, February 8,2012

michigandailycom

UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
Regents to
vote to OK
NHL game
at stadium

The Michigan men's swimming and diving teams perform to Beyonce's 'Single Ladies'during Mock Rock at Hill Auditorium last night.
Student athletes compete
-a-t annua1lokRc vn

Charity variety varsity student-athletes and
athletic staff members perform
show raises skits and dance numbers. This
year, the event raised more than
$85,000 $85,000 for the Child and Fam-
ily Life program at C.S. Mott
By KATIE BURKE Children's Hospital, Student-
Daily StaffReporter Athletes Leading Social Change
and Big Brothers Big Sisters of
Denard Robinson in a nerd Washtenaw County.
costume, live-action Angry The first show took place in
Birds and numerous shirtless 1999 to commemorate Univer-
athletes are just a sampling of sity wrestler Jeff Reese after
the spectacles that entertained his death during season training
audience members the 14th and to raise money for a scholar-
annual Mock Rock Student Ath- ship in his name.
* lete Variety Show at Hill Audito- "Community service is some-
rium last night. thing we believe in strongly,"
Mock Rock is an annual Athletic Director Dave Brandon
charity variety show held by said during the event.
the University Student-Athlete ESPN anchorwoman Dana
Advisory Council, in which Jacobson, a University alum,

emceed the show, and men's
soccer coach Chaka Daley, M
Club President; Mary Petrovich,
Laura Hoke, wife of head foot-
ball coach Brady Hoke; and Max
Merget, brain cancer survivor
and former Mott patient judged
the performances.
The men's and women's track
and field and cross-country
teams were jointly awarded
best performance by the judges
with a dance sequence to the
tunes of "Roses" by Outkast
and "Run the World (Girls)" by
Beyonce. The teams earned the
only perfect score of the night
and received high praise from
the judges.
"(The performance was) so
good I wonder if they spent any
time in class," Petrovich said

during the judging.
The football team came
together with the women's vol-
leyball team to perform a series
of dances, songs and raps as
punter Will Hagerup played
electric guitar. One football
player tried to win over the
affections of Jacobson by hold-
ing her hand, but was unsuc-
cessful.
Brady Hoke said, in jest, that
he wished the same effort and
talent that went into the rap
performance would carry over
to the team's practices.
In its skit, the men's soccer
team jokingly criticized other
University teams, but the com-
mentary was not well received.
"(The performance had) little
See MOCK ROCK, Page 5A

In special meeting,
board to consider
Big House lease for
Winter Classic
By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
DailySportsEditor
The University's Board of
Regents will vote today to
approve the leasing of Michigan
Stadium to host the 2013 NHL,
Winter Classic.
The regents will vote in a spe-
cial meeting at 10 a.m. in the
Fleming Administration Build-
ing. A University source con-
firmed to the Daily that the event
would involve leasing thestadium
to the NHL, which would make it
more likely that alcohol will be
permitted to be sold inside Michi-
gan Stadium.
Michigan Athletic Director
Dave Brandon announced early
last month that the University
and the NHL were in discussions,
but no formal agreement had
been reached.
"We have been approached by
.the NHL about utilizing our facil-
ity for the 2013 Winter Classic,"
Brandon said in a Jan. 5 state-
ment. "There are alot of complex
-circumstances that need to be
ironed out before anything moves
forward. We willhave more to say

if/when something materializes."
If approved, the game would
likely feature the Detroit Red
Wings and Toronto Maple Leafs
on Jan. 1, 2013, which would be
the first Winter Classic match-
up tbat includes a team from
Canada. It would also be the first
Winter Classic held at a college
stadium.
Michigan hosted a hockey
game in Michigan Stadium on
Dec. 11, 2010 - The Big Chill at
the Big House - a 5-0 victory
over Michigan State. Pending
final approval, the Winter ClIs
sic would be the second outdoor
hockey game at Michigan Stadi-
um and would rival the Big Chill's
world-record-setting attendance
of 104,473.
The Sporting News' hockey
analyst Bob McKenzie tweeted
that the matchup would be made
official on Thursday.
The Ontario Hockey League
revealed a doubleheader match
set for Dec. 31, 2011 last week,
with early speculation being that
the gameswould be held at Mich-
igan Stadium as well. But Michi-
gan dismissed those rumors and
an OHL source told the Daily
the.games would likely be played
instead at Comerica Park in
Detroit.
-Editor in Chief Joseph
Lichterman contributed
to this report


STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG still
looks to
* increase
numbers
Student gov't now
has 42 sitting
representatives
ByGIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
The Student Assembly of the
Central Student Government
held its shortest meeting of the
semester last night, duringwhich
two LSA Assembly representa-
tives were removed and four LSA
representatives were formally
sworn in, raising the number of
sitting representatives from 40
to 42 and raising quorum from
20 to 21.
Lasting less than an hour, the
meeting was well attended com-
pared to previous meetings this
semester with 23 representa-
tives at opening roll call and 30
at closing roll call. Members also
See CSG, Page SA

LINIVER ITY OUTREACH
Men's Activism
promotes male
sexual assault
prevention
SAPAC group some members of the cam-
pus community think SAPAC
works to increase works mainly with women, it
strives to connect with mem-
outreach, hers of all genders on campus
- female, male or unidentified.
participation "Teaching and preventing
sexual violation has to be com-
By ANGELA SON munity-driven," Rider-Milkov-
DailyStaffReporter ich said.
SAPAC promotes healthy
Though sexual violence is relationships among students
often perceived to primarily on campus by educating them
be an act of violence commit- on sex trafficking, partner vio-
ted against women, University lence and bystander effect, she
leaders are working to increase said. In addition to promoting
awareness of male assaults, outreach to males, SAPAC also
and encourage male students deals with male survivors of
to participate in outreach and sexual violence. Rider-Milkov-
prevention programs. ich said 30 percent of the stu-
Holly Rider-Milkovich, dents served by SAPAC are
director of the University's male survivors.
Sexual Assault Prevention and Ryan Kubec, program man-
Awareness Center, said though See PREVENTION, Page 5A

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
LSA freshmen Monjira Biswas and Lisa Fouladbash have a jam session in East Quad Residence Hall yesterday.
CA M P pS CO M MU0 NNTtYa
GoNorth! promotes North Campus

Iniative to host ling action of Central Campus,
programs are being implement-
outdoor ice ed to continue to enhance the
area's reputation and promote
skating rink positive aspects of North Cam-
pus life.
By KATIE SZYMANSKI In an attempt to foster stron-
For the Daily ger unity between campuses
and encourage increased stu-
While many think the dent involvement on North
University's North Campus Campus, University officials
remains isolated from the bus- and student leaders developed

the GoNorth! Initiative last
year. The program plans two
major events each semester
to garner student interest and
strengthen appreciation for
North Campus. It is currently
developing a Winter Blast festi-
val, among other future events.
Elizabeth Zollweg, North
Campus project manager, said
the primary goal of every event
See NORTH CAMPUS, Page 5A



WEATHER HI: 42
TOMORROW LO 28

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
AG files appeal in GSRA unionization case.
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS.........................2A SUDOKU...... .....,...SA
Vol.CXXIl,No.90 OPINION.......... .......4A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
©2011 TheMichiganDaily SPORTS .... .......SA THE B-SIDE.................1B
oichitandoilypcom

A A


2A---'Wednesday;, February 8, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TALK OF THE TOWN

Gibe 1Midigan Daij
420 Maynard St.
AnnArbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPHLICHTERMAN ZACHARY YANCER
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

Volunteering abroad

Childreach, a newly formed
campus organization, will soon
take a group of students to Peru
and Tanzania to assist in reno-
vating schools and developing
sustainable programs in the two
countries.
LSA sophomores Lisa Nations
and Olivia Thompson lead
the campus chapter that was
formed this fall as a branch of
Childreach International USA,
a non-profit organization dedi-
cated to improving healthcare
and education for children in
developing countries. The orga-
nization aims to create sustain-
able solutions to these problems
while empowering . community
members.

Nations said she specifically
chose to bring Childreach to the
University because of its unique
goal of achieving sustainable
development, in addition to its
international outreach.
To remain sustainable, the
organization hires local commu-
nity members in the countries to
carry out large construction tasks
beforethe Childreach team mem-
bers arrive in order to give locals
hands-on experience building
so that if anything breaks or
becomes run down in the future,
they have the experience to fix it,
Nations said.
The Childreach team members
then focus their two-week trips
on light renovation work, like

decorating classrooms and paint-
ing the exteriors of schools.
"We get to see firsthand what
all of our fundraising efforts are
giving to this community, which
is really awesome," Nations said.
"The fact that we run sustainable
development projects means that
we know that this is going to be
a lasting thing for the commu-
nity members in years to come,
so children, say, 10 years down
the road will still benefit from the
work we put in."
Thompson said the group
hopes to have a safe and success-
ful first trip as a new organization
on campus and expect to expand
their group in the future.,
- ZENA DAVE

Newsrnnn
734-41-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigahdaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaity.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finane@nichigandaity.eon

Students attend the opening of the Library Celebrates
Langauge exhibit at the Hatcher Graduate Library.


CRIME NOTES
Computer
caper
WHERE: Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban
Planning
WHEN: Monday at about
10:40 a.m.
WHAT: A laptop in a locked
office was stolen between
5:15 p.m. last Friday and
8:15 a.m. Monday with noo
evidence of forced entry,
University Police reported.


CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES ETHINGSN,,
3 KN 04W 1)(. iAY
Twist and shout Film screening Comedy contest .Scientists at Virginia
WHERE: Northwood II WHAT: The four finalists Tech University have
Residence Hall WA ,Th re be of MI Favorite Comic will found why people are
WHEN: Tuesday at about shon as part of Winter perform in the final stage' shy in small groups, The Wall
12:20 a.m. .2 012 LSsThemeSemester of the contest. The winner Street Journal reported. Fear
WHAT: An oral dispute L012uLgA The Semese' will receive $150, a trophy levels were shownto increase
took place between a stu- Language: The Human and bragging rights in intimate settings with pe-
dent and her guest, Univer- Quintessence. WHO: Center for Campus ple thought to have celatively
sify Police reported. There WHO: Language Theme Involvementphghveofhanteliele
was nonhvsical contact.! SemesterW rnrsnnis . i ,,, higher levels of intelligence.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Josh Healy ManagingEditor jahealy@michigandaily.com
Bethany B Eron MaagingNey , Gdin e biron@michigandaily.com
Pa Pearcy,AdamRubenfire
ASIAN CWSDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman
Ashley Griesshammer and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Andrew Weiner Editorial PagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: HarshaNahata, Timothy Rabb,VanessaRychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Patrick Maillet
Neal Rothschild, Matt Slovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Matt Spelich,
Colleen Thomas,LizVukelich,DanielWasserman
Leah Burgin Managing Arts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, Jacob Axelrad, David Tao, Kayla Upadhyaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS:Laren Caserta, Matt Easton,Kelly.Etz, AnnaSadovskaya,
Chloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss Managing Phontoditors
SEN10R OarsO IORnS: Te oengr, ToddONdle
ASSISTATPOOr TR:Asnaomnonnnou,5s mon, usten oofor, Aiiin~r,,,e
MarleneLacasse, MarissaMcClain,Adam Schnitzer
Arjun Mahanti Managing Design Editor mahanti@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITOR: Anna Lein-Zielinski
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
lennifer Xu Magazine Editor
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR:KaitlinWilliams
Christine Chun and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Hannah Poindexter CopyChiefs
SENIOR COPY EDIToRS:Josephine Adams, Beth Coplowitz
Zach Bergson Online Editor bergson@michigandaily.com
Imran Syed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Associate Business Manager
Rachel Greinetz sales Manager
SophieGreenbaum Production Manager
SeanJacksonaSpecial Projects Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Ashley Karadsheh client Relationships Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 074s-967) is published Monday through Fridayduring the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free ofcharge
to allireaders. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for$2.Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September,viaU. .smail are $110. Winter term(January through Apriiis
$115 yearlon(s(eptember through Aprilis $19.University affiliates are subject to areduced
subscriptionrate.On-campus subscriptionsfor falItemarets.Ssubscriptionsmustbeprepaid.

0

pa II lyata kvi -.

Banded up

Pimp my ride bumper

WHERE: 1600 block
of East Medical Center
WHEN: Monday at about
3:30 p.m.
WHAT: A car door was
written on between 8:40
a.m. and 11:45 a.m., Univer-
sity Police reported. The
car was parked in the M-18
Caroort.

WHERE: Lot NC-51, 2600
Glazier Way
WHEN: Monday at about
7:30 p.m.
WHAT: A parked vehicle
was hit between 7 a.m.
and 7:20 p.m., University
Police reported. The impact
caused damage to the bum-
er o ditaigh

WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: North Quad Resi-
dence Hall, space 2435
Girlyman
concert
WHAT: The Atlanta-based
band Girlyman will be
performing a musical mix
of folk, country, pop and
rock. The band recently
added a fourth member to
its ensemble. Tickets start
at $22.50.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark

iHiN: Tonignt at is p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
Ballroom
Worry less
WHAT: A drop-in seminar
to help students relax more
and help them manage their
worries.
WHO: Counseling and Psy-
chological Services
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Michigan Union,
room 3100
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

The University may
have invented the Inter-
net in the 1980s, with
associate dean for research
and innovation Doug Van
Houweling playing a major
role in its creation.
FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
Florence Green, the last
known World War I vet-
eran, died in her sleep
yesterday, the BBC reported.
Green, who was 110, was a
member of the British Wom-
en's Royal Air Force in 1918.
Her 111th birthday would've
been this month.

SControversies overabortion,
0- birth control grab spotlight

Komen, Obama
contraception
ruling fuel
discussions
DAYTON, Ohio (AP) - Politi-
cal turmoil over abortion and
birth control spread suddenly on
yesterday. A high-ranking official
resigned from the Komenbreast-
cancer charity after its back-
tracking treaty with Planned
Parenthood, and Republican
presidential candidates blistered
the Obama administration for a
recent ruling on Catholic hospi-
tals and contraception.
The White House made a point
of declaring it wanted to ease the
concerns of church-affiliated
employers - many would be
required to provide birth control
coverage to their workers under
the new rules - but there was
no word on how those concerns
might be addressed.
The two-track drama pumped
new furor into longstanding
disputes that sometimes take a

backseat in political campaigns
because the lines are so familiar
and firmly drawn. Last week's
Komen-Planned Parenthood dis-
pute stirred many women's groups
that support legal abortion. And
the Obama ruling touched a nerve
with moderate Roman Catholics
who support contraceptives but
also defend their church's right to
run its hospitals and other institu-
tions according to religious con-
victions.
Republican presidential can-
didates pounced on what they
considered a blunder by Presi-
dent Barack Obama. They believe
his administration's ruling will
alienate moderate Catholic vot-
ers who could prove crucial in
November in Ohio, Pennsylvania
and elsewhere.
There also could be political
repercussions from the Susan G.
Komen for the Cure controversy.
The breast-cancer charity, fac-
ing fierce criticism, mostly from
women's groups, quickly over-
turned its decision to cut off
funding to Planned Parenthood.
Planned Parenthood is a major

provider of abortions, but it also
screens women for breast cancer
and other health problems.
In Atlanta, Karen Handel,
a Komen vice president who
played a role in the fund cutoff
decision, resigned yesterday. A
Republican who ran for governor
in Georgia, Handel was seen by
some as an example of what they
felt was an increasing tendency
by Komen to bring partisan poli-
tics into the charity's decisions.
"I am deeply disappointed by
the gross mischaracterizations
of the strategy, its rationale and
my involvement in it," Handel
said in her resignationletter.
Presidential candidate Mitt
Romney, for his part, said he sup-
ported Komen's original decision
to stop funding Planned Parent-
hood.
The arguments came as the
GOP presidential hopefuls cam-
paigned in several states and
Republicans voted in Colorado
and Minnesota. Each candi-
date tried to take advantage of
the unusually intense focus on
reproductive issues.

A PiPhOto/Madives President's Office
Mohammed Waheed Hassan, second left, who previously worked as a top UNICEF official, is sworn in as Maldives new
president after Mohamed Nasheed announced his resignation yesterday afternoon in Male, Maldives.
Maldives president resigns
as police forces, army clash

Vice president, a
former UNICEF
official, sworn in
MALE, Maldives (AP) - The
Maldives' new president prom-
ised to protect his predecessor
from retribution after he stepped
down amid protests and clashes
between the army and police over
his decision to arrest a top judge.
President Mohammed Waheed
Hassan, who was sworn in yes-
terday, called for chaos on the
streets to stop and for citizens of
this Indian Ocean island nation
to work together after months of
political turmoil.
"I urge everyone to make this a
peaceful country," he said.
Former President Mohamed
Nasheed's Maldivian Democrat-
ic Party insisted his ouster was
a "coup" engineered by rogue
elements of the police and sup-
porters of the country's former
autocratic leader.
However, a Nasheed adviser
denied the resignation came
under duress from the military.

The adviser, who spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the situation, said
Nasheed was left with two choic-
es: order a bloody military crack-
down on the police dissidents or
resign.
Hassan's office also denied
the military pressured Nasheed
to quit in the wake of yesterday's
street clashes.
"It was not a coup at all. It
was the wish of the people," said
Ahmed Thoufeeg, Hassan's sec-
retary.
Nasheed's resignation marked
a stunning fall for the former
human rights campaigner who
defeated the nation's longtime'
ruler to become its first democrat-
ically elected president. Nasheed
was also an environmental celeb-
rity, traveling the world to per-
suade governments to combat the
climate change that could raise
sea levels and inundate his archi-
pelago nation.
Nasheed presented his resig-
nation in a nationally televised
address after police joined the
protesters and then clashed with
soldiers in the streets. Some of

the soldiers then defected to the
police side.
"I don't want to hurt any Mal-
divian. I feel my staying on in
power will only increase the prob-
lems, and it will hurt our citizens,"
Nasheed said. "So the best option
available to me is to step down."
Maldivians waving flags
poured into the streets to cel-
ebrate Nasheed's resignation.
Some playfully threw water at
each other. Soon after, the judge
was released.
U.S. State Department spokes-
woman Victoria Nuland said that
Hassan had informed the U.S.
that the security situation in the
Maldives was now under control
and generally peaceful.
In a phone call with U.S.
officials, Hassan expressed his
strong commitment to a peace-
ful transition of power and the
preservation of democracy.
According to Nuland, the new
Maldivian leader expressed his
intent to form a national unity
government with opposition
participation in the lead-up to a
presidential election scheduled
for November 2013.

Environmentalist group challenges
candidates' support in Asian carp fight

Plan in question
would protect fish
in the Great Lakes
region
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.
(AP) - Environmental activists
yesterday challenged President
Barack Obama and the Repub-
licans hoping to unseat him to
support a hotly debated plan to
protect the Great Lakes from an
Asian carp attack by cutting off
their Chicago-area connection
to the Mississippi River water-
shed.

The Healing Our Waters-
Great Lakes Coalition, which
includes more than 100 groups
in the region, included the pro-
posal in a pledge submitted to
the campaigns of Obama and
Republicans Mitt Romney,
Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul and
Rick Santorum. None of the
campaigns had any immediate
reaction.
The Great Lakes region
includes heavily contested
and vote-rich states such as
Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylva-
nia, New York and Wisconsin.
Michigan's primary is Feb. 28
and Ohio is among states with
a Super Tuesday " primary on

March 6.
The environmental coalition
asked the candidates to promise
if elected to continue an Obama
administration program dealing
with some of the Great Lakes'
most pressing environmental
problems, including invasive
species, toxic pollution, farm
and urban runoff and wildlife
habitat loss.
Congress has appropriated
more than $1 billion for the
Great Lakes Restoration Initia-
tive since 2009. But supporters
say billions more are needed
over many years to fix the prob-
lems, which have been decades
in the making.

i

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cor
NEWS BRIEFS
ANN ARBOR
University sells out
ticket allotment to
Alabama game
Michigan has sold out its allot-
ment of tickets to the Cowboys
Classic game against Alabama.
The school announced yester-
day that it has sold nearly 25,000
tickets to the game against the
national champions on Sept. 1 in
Arlington, Texas.
Michigan chief marketing
officer Hunter Lochman says
the ticket demand was at least
as strong as it has been for any
event in the athletic depart-
ment's history.
Alabama spokesman Doug
Walker says the school also
expects to sell its allotment to Pa
old
the game.
LOS ANGELES
Elementary school
teacher will face
lewd act charges
Prosecutors have filed a lewd-
acts complaint against the sec-
ond of two teachers removed
from a Los Angeles-area elemen-
tary school, and the Board of
Education has voted to fire him.
Forty-nine-year-old Martin Sa
Springer is charged with com- st
mitting the acts upon one girl in ye
2009 and is due in court Tuesday co
afternoon. un
Meanwhile, Los Angeles Uni- no
fled School District spokesman th
Tom Waldman says the board ga
voted unanimously to terminate
Springer and he has 30 days to U.
appeal. ga
Springer has spent his entire tic
career at Miramonte Elementary be
School, the same campus where sa
veteran third-grade teacher
Mark Berndt is alleged to have wi
committed lewd acts with 23 ma
children between 2005 and 2010. st
Berndt was removed from wc
the school in January 2011 and ou
charged last week after months do
of investigation. Springer was ing
arrested Friday.
pa
LAGOS, Nigeria fiv
$4 million needed fe
to clean up lead er,
from deadly mine be
an
An international watchdog
said yesterday it will cost about 8
$4 million to clean up toxic lead wi
and secure mines in northern co
Nigeria, where activists say "the al
worst outbreak of lead poison- ity,
ing in modern history" has taken for
place.

At least 400 children have the
died since March 2010, and tha
thousands more continue to be ria
exposed to dangerously high lev-
els of lead, said Human Rights
Watch researcher Jane Cohen.
The children are being
exposed while processing ore in
these informal mines not owned
by any company, or when their
miner relatives return home
covered with lead dust. The chil-
dren's food and surroundings
also have been contaminated .
when people crush and grind
rocks at home to extract the ore.
SALVADOR, Brazil
Standoff between
Brazilian troops,
police continues
About 300 striking police offi-
cers and their relatives held out
yesterday as soldiers blockaded
a state legislature building in
northeastern Brazil, and pub-
lic worker, leaders threatened
a strike in Rio de Janeiro that
could threaten the world's larg-
est Carnival celebration.
About 1,000 soldiers and offi-
cers from an elite federal police
unit ringed the legislature in the
Bahia state capital of Salvador,
Brazil's third-largest city with
2.7 million people and a sched-
uled host for matches during the
2014 World Cup.
Negotiations failed to end the
strike in Salvador, officials said,
and authorities in Rio de Janeiro
also were preparing for police
discontent there.
a-Compiled from
L Daily mire reports

m

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 - 3A



Santorum regains
momentum with
three-state sweep

rtners Elen Pontac, left, and Shelly Bailes, right, of Davis, who have been married since June 16, 2008, hug Tina Reyn-
Ids, center as they watch the ruling of Proposition 8 at Cornerstone Restaurant at Headhunters in Sacramento, Calif..
Federal appeals court rules
Prop. 8 unnstitutional

Former senator
romps in Minn.,
Col, .and Mo.
WASHINGTON (AP) - A
resurgent Rick Santorum
won Republican presidential
caucuses in Minnesota and
Colorado on yesterday night,
a stunning sweep that raised
fresh questions about front-
runner Mitt Romney's appeal
among the ardent conservatives
at the core of the party's politi-
cal base.
Santorum triumphed, as well,
in a nonbinding Missouri pri-
mary that was worth bragging
rights but no national conven-
tion delegates.
"Conservatism is alive and
well in Missouri and Minne-
sota," the jubilant former Penn-
sylvania senator told cheering
supporters in St. Charles, Mo.
Challenging both his GOP rival
and the Democratic president,
he declared that on issues rang-
ing from health care to "Wall
Street bailouts, Mitt Rom-
ney has the same positions as
Barack Obama."
Returns from 83 percent of
Minnesota's precincts showed
Santorum with 45 percent sup-
port,:.Texas Rep. Ron Paul with
27 percent and Romney - who
won the state in his first try for
the nomination four years ago -
with 17 percent. Former House
Speaker Newt Gingrich trailed
with 11 percent.
It was closer in Colorado,
where returns from all the pre-
cincts showed Santorum with
40 percent of the vote to 35 for
Romney. Gingrich had 13, and
Paul claimed 12 percent.
Romney showed no sign of
disappointment in remarks to
supporters.

"This was a good night for
Rick Santorum. I want to con-
gratulate Sen. Santorum, but I
expect to become the nominee
with your help," he told sup-
porters in Denver.
If the night was good for San-
torum, it was
grim for Gin-
grich, who
made scant2 I
effortin anyof
the states that s
voted during
the day. He ran far off the pace
in both caucus states, forced to
watch from the sidelines while
Santorum boasted of being the
candidate with conservative
appeal.
There were 37 Republican
National Convention delegates
at stake in Minnesota and 33
more in Colorado, and together,
they accounted for the largest
one-day combined total so far in
the raceforthe GOP nomination.
The victories were the first
for Santorum since he eked out a
34-vote win in the lead-off Iowa
caucuses a month ago, and he
reveled in the moment. "I don't
stand here to be the conserva-
tive alternative to Mitt Romney.
I stand here to be the conser-
vative alternative to Barack
Obama," he told his supporters.
He had faded far fromthe lead
in the primaries and caucuses
since, and Gingrich seemed to
eclipse him as the leading con-
servative rival to Romney when
he won the South Carolina pri-
mary late last month.
While Romney throttled
back after victories in Florida
and Nevada in the past several
days, Santorum campaigned
aggressively in all three states
on the ballot, seeking a break-
through to revitalize his cam-
paign.

Case likely to
be appealed to
Supreme Court
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) --
me-sex marriage moved one
ep closer to the Supreme Court
sterday when a federal appeals
urt ruled California's ban
iconstitutional, saying it serves
opurpose other than to "lessen
e status and human dignity" of
ys.
A three-judge panel of the 9th
S. Circuit Court of Appeals
ve gay marriage opponents
me to appeal the 2-1 decision
fore orderingthe state to allow
me-sex weddings to resume.
"I'm ecstatic. I recognize that
e have a ways to go yet. We
ay have one or two more legal
eps," said Jane Leyland, who
as gathered with a small crowd
tside the federal courthouse in
wntown San Francisco, cheer-
g as they learned of the ruling.
Leyland married her longtime
rtner, Terry Gilb, during the
e-month window when same-
x marriage was legal in Cali-
rnia.
"But when we first got togeth-
I would have never dreamed
a million years that we would
allowed to be legally married,
d here we are."
The ban known as Proposition
was approved by voters in 2008
th 52 percent of the vote. The
urt said it was unconstitution-
because it singled out a minor-
'group for disparate treatment
r no compelling reason.
The justices concluded that
e law had no purpose other
an to deny gay couples mar-
ge, since California already

grants them all the rights and
benefits of marriage if they regis-
ter as domestic partners.
"Had Marilyn Monroe's film
been called 'How to Register a
Domestic Partnership with a
Millionaire,' it would not have
conveyed the same meaning
as did her famous movie, even
though the underlying drama
for same-sex couples is no differ-
ent," the court said.
The lone dissenting judge
insisted that the ban could help
ensure that children are raised
by married, opposite-sex par-
ents.
The appeals court focused its
decision exclusively on Califor-
nia's ban, not the bigger debate,
even though the court has juris-
diction in nine Western states.
Whether same-sex couples
may ever be denied the right
to marry "is an important and
highly controversial question,"
the court said. "We need not
and do not answer the broader
question in this case."
Six states allow gay couples
to wed - Connecticut, New
Hampshire, Iowa, Massachu-
setts, New York and Vermont
- as well as the District of
Columbia. California, as the
nation's most populous state
and home to more than 98,000
same-sex couples, would be
the gay rights movement's big-
gest prize of them all.
The 9th Circuit concluded
that a trial court judge had
correctly interpreted the Con-
stitution and Supreme Court
precedents when he threw out
Proposition 8.
The measure "serves no
purpose,, and has no effect,
other than to lessen the sta-
tus and human dignity of gays

and lesbians in California, and
to officially reclassify their rela-
tionships and families as inferior
to those of opposite-sex couples,"
Judge Stephen Reinhardt, one of
the court's most liberal judges,
wrote in the 2-1 opinion.
Opponents of gay marriage
planned to ask the Supreme
Court to overturn the ruling,
which came more than a year
after the appeals court panel
heard arguments in the case.
"We are not surprised that
this Hollywood-orchestrated
attack on marriage - tried in San
Francisco - turned out this way.
But we are confident that the
expressed will of the American
people in favor of marriage will
be upheld at the Supreme Court,"
said Brian Raum, senior counsel
for the Alliance Defense Fund, a
Christian legal aid group based
in Arizona that helped defend
Proposition 8.


'Sc ... c w o s- $.o'

Deadline: Thrs dy, eb.9th by 2:30
Cost: Only $S
Publication Date: Tuesday, Feb.l4th
Rge pien email add _ _ _ _
Text IJJLI L u u U
0
Plesestp nto The Mlhia Daily *ffiCe at
420 Maynard ( eh nd the LSA Bull ,t 9) with
this forrand $5. CASH ONLY P es. You may
al ofilOUtEthiform EnThe h0 an ily$
.sbite ad pay with a credIt cad'
EaCh Cupid G am p rChased gives you h
chance to win one of two dinners o
two at js Mo hanggjg Bareque

ft A


4A - Wednesday, February 8, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ANDREW WEINER JOSH HEALY
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
Don't delay
'U' must seriously address lags in crime report
ormer resident pediatrician at the University of Michigan
Health Systems was found to possess child pornography.
Reportsrevealed that UMHS waited nearly six months to
report the incident to University Police.

2T QU TABLE
Proposition 8 serves no purpose, and has no
effect, other than to lessen the status and human
dignity of gays and lesbians in California.
-Judge Stephen Reinhardt wrote in the decision to overturn the
ballot referendum that banned same-sex marrige in California.
The Obama Bogeyman

As the Republican presiden-
tial nomination process gets
increasingly nasty,you might

start to hear com-
plaints about one
of the most time-
honored tradi-
tions in politics:
spinning. No, I'm
not talking about
what you do
when you hit the
gym - although
you might say
Rick Santorum

DAR-WEI
CHEN

In light of the recent scandals that shook
other colleges including Penn State University
and Syracuse University, it's imperative that
the University report all incidents in a timely
manner, as long as it does not hinder ongoing
investigations. University officials must be
extra vigilant when dealing with reports of this
nature. Though the Department of Public Safe-
ty doesn't have authority over UMHS security,
some groups, like the Senate Advisory Com-
mittee for University Affairs,,have suggested
changing oversight rules. Lapse in procedure
not only affects the community's safety of the
community but also taints the overall goodwill
that the University works to maintain.
It's some consolation that University

President Mary Sue Coleman called for an
internal investigation to determine the cause
of the delay. Two outside groups - the U.S.
Department of Education and the Joint Com-
mission - are also reviewing the incident.
Clearly, the University is aware that such
a delay in reporting exposes a faulty and
outdated complaint system that warrants
investigation. If the investigation reveals the
complaint process was properly followed, the
University must change the process to ensure
the efficient reporting of crimes. It would be
unfair to attribute this singular case to an
institutional failure of DPS or UHMS, but
the upmost care must be taken to ensure the
well-being of the community.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Laura Argintar, Kaan Avdan, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Harsha Panduranga, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne
Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Seth Soderborg, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
DANIEL HOFFMANN I
Empower entreprenuers

is exhausting himself pedaling on a
stationary bike. In politics, spinning
is the art of cherry-picking facts and
carefully phrasing ideas for maxi-
mum political gain.
When debating among them-
selves, Republicans usually spin a
lot about each other. However, when
talking about President Barack
Obama, they move to another tactic
that's even slimier than spinning,
which at least includes some fac-
tual basis. The technical term for it
is making stuff up. The goal in mak-
ing stuff up is to scare voters from
Obama.
Now is where the bogeyman
comes in.
Remember when you were a little
kid and your parents told you that if
you didn't behave yourself, a monster
or evil creature would deal with you?
That scary imaginary thing is called
a bogeyman. Bogeymen are created
by parents to scare their children into
doing particular things they don't
want to do .such as cleaning their
room or eatingvegetables.
The particular thing Republicans
want is support for GOP candidates.
But since spinning Obama's record
hasn't been enough for the electoral
changes they want, the Republicans
have started making stuff up to cre-
ate the Obama Bogeyman. Bogeymen
don't actually exist, but they can be

quite effective if forced into the pub-
lic conscience. Let's investigate the
Obama Bogeyman using gun control
as an example.
One trait that all effective bogey-
men share is the ability to strike fear
in the hearts of people, and very few
things are closer to the hearts of.
conservative voters than their guns.
GOP presidential candidate Newt
Gingrich has exploited conserva-
tive voters' fears of Obama coming
for their guns, saying at a National
Rifle Association meeting that "the
Obama administration is the most
consistently anti-gun administration
and anti-Second Amendment admin-
istration that we have ever seen."
Except Obama hasn't been anti-
gun at all. Even in the wake of the
Gabrielle Giffords shooting last
year, when he could have - at the
very least - done something about
extended ammunition clips, he didn't
act. And that's when momentum for
gun control during his presidency
was probably highest.
Another sign of the lack of legis-
lated gun restrictions is the F grade
Obama received from the Brady
Campaign Against Gun Violence in
2010. Shouldn't an F from the Brady
Campaign translate to an A from the
Republicans?
Some conservatives actually admit
that Obama hasn't done anything to
restrict gun usage. But Obama still
can't win even when that happens
because, like any good bogeyman,
he's going to eventually get you.
Last year, National Rifle Association
_Vice President Wayne LaPierre said
Obama's lack of gun regulations is
"part of a massive Obama conspiracy
to deceive voters and hide his true
intentions to destroy the Second.
Amendment," according to NRA
reports. Can Obama win on this issue
if that's how the gun-toting, conser-
vative voting bloc thinks?
Another issue that fires up conser-

vatives is tax policy. To the GOP, high
taxes are never good. Now check
out these statistics: when President
Ronald Reagan tried to bring the
economy out of recession in 1983, tax
revenues were 17.5 percent of GDP.
In the Obama recovery, tax revenues
are 14.9 percent of GDP. Further-
more, Obama extended the massive
Bush tax cuts in 2010 when they were
abouttoexpire -look, it even has the
name Bush in there!
Republicans have
started making
stuff up.
But reality doesn't matter for GOP
talking points or for bogeymen. As
long as the Republicans can scare
people off with the Obama Bogey-
man, whether or not he is actually
raising taxes is immaterial to them.
The same principle applies to his
environmental or foreign policies,
and even his religion and birthplace.
My analyses here are to say noth-
ingabout whether I support Obama's
actions on these issues. Personally,
I'd like to see him move more aggres-
sively on gun control and raise taxes
onthewealthiestamongus.Thepoint
is that, in November, the Republican
presidential candidate won't have to
compete with President Obama. The
nominee will instead run against the
fact-free, imaginary Obama Bogey-
man created by the GOP, making the
candidate's job a little easier. Makes
me wish for the days of old-fashioned
spinning.
- Dar-Wei Chen can be reached
at chendwgumich.edu. Follow him
on Twitter at @DWChen_MDaily

0

Facebook is going public. The scrappy lit-
tle start-up born in a Harvard dorm room in
2004 is now estimated to be worth $100 bil-
lion. In just eight years, the company has built
a user base that is nearly three times the size
of the population of the United States. Face-
book is one of the world's most widely rec-
ognized brands and has become a significant
part of our social lexicon. Its success story is
a tremendous source of inspiration for entre-
preneurs all over the world wishing to launch
their own ventures.
Unfortunately, all the financial figures and
Wall Street jargon surrounding coverage of
Facebook's decision have shifted focus from,
arguably, the most important chapter of the
story: Facebook was started by students. Mark
Zuckerberg and his friends turned their novel
idea into a business that generated $3.71 bil-
lion last year.
The success stories of start-up companies
like Facebook have inspired an entrepreneur-
ial boom on college campuses. The University
is a leader in providing resources and encour-
agement to students looking to start their own
ventures. The Center for Entrepreneurship
offers a nine credit undergraduate certificate
and a Master of Entrepreneurship program,
which provides graduates with a joint degree
in Engineering and Business. The Zell Lurie
Institute in the Ross School of Business offers
funding to students through its Dare to Dream
and Venture Shaping grant programs. Univer-
sity students even have access to office space
and entrepreneurial mentors in the TechArb
in downtown Ann Arbor.
Providing students with the skills and
resources to work on their own projects is
crucial to creating a generation of innovators.
Partnerships between the educational and
entrepreneurial communities couldn't have
come at a better time. With a flagging econ-
omy and a need to find solutions to problems
like energy security and sustainability, entre-
preneurial ingenuity has never been more
important.
According to the U.S. Small Business
Adiinistration - an organization that pro-
vides governmental support to entrepre-
neurs and small business owners -- small
businesses employ about half of all workers
in the United States. They also accounted

for b5 percent of all net job creation between
1993 and 2009. Our economy thrives on the
creativity and drive of small business owners
and entrepreneurs.
Many colleges and universities, includ-
ing the University of Michigan, are tailoring
programs toward the practical application of
entrepreneurial skills. These programs are
crucial and will prepare students to drive the
economy forward in the coming decades.
Encouraging students to develop their own
ventures has turned campuses into a hot bed
for the creation of new endeavors, Doug Neal,
executive director of the Center for Entrepre-
neurship said.
"Entrepreneurship is quickly becoming
part of the fabric of our culture at the Univer-
sity of Michigan, and I'm very excited about
how many students are activelyengaged in our
educational programs, which offer a unique
blend of entrepreneurial frameworks and
theory combined with hands on application
which yield tremendous results," Neal said.
"We are very enthusiastic about the future
of entrepreneurship at Michigan and looking
forward to continuing to help students, fac-
ulty, researchers and staff embrace the entre-
preneurial mindset and identify ways to have
an increasing impact on the world."
Michigan students have plenty of ideas. In
2010, the 1000 Pitches Competition received
more than 3,000 ideas for business ventures,
unique inventions and non-profit organiza-
tions. With the support of University resourc-
es, one of these ideas has the potential to
become the next Facebook, Google or Twitter.
All colleges and universities should offer
opportunities to students who wish to explore
and experiment. Educating students to take
risks and put their ideas to the test will pre-
pare a generation of thinkers and doers
prepared to face today's complex global chal-
lenges. There's no better place to stimulate
creativity and entrepreneurship than college
campuses where students are thirsty to see
their ideas become reality. If a few college
students were able to completely change the
way we communicate with each other, there's
no telling what we can accomplish next.
Daniel Hoffmann is an LSA sophomore and is
enrolled in the Program for Entrepreneurship.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE COVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words while viewpoints should be less than 850 words.
Both must include the writer's full name and University affiliation.
Send submissions to tothedaily@michigandaily.com
SHARIK BASHIR I ' WP 'NT
Your9 hl is our 24 7 -

I enjoy watching the Republican
presidential debates. Though, I'm
usually indifferent to the candidate's
views. I'm not American - I'm from
Pakistan. Still, I generally enjoy
mocking the rhetoric and sound bites
used by Republicans, something
characteristic of election season
campaign speeches. But the Jan. 16
GOP debate in South Carolina evoked
a different emotion in me: hurt.
It was former House Speaker
Newt Gingrich that got to me. He
was enthused as ever. When the
topic of Pakistan came up, I became
particularly alert to what he was
saying. He alluded to the mission
that killed Osama Bin Laden in
Abbottabad last May and accused
Pakistan of supporting the al-Qaeda
leader. To put it mildly, Gingrich
called Pakistan an enemy of the
United States. As he spoke, loud
cheers erupted from the debate's
audience. His performance in the
debate was bombastic. The cheers
transferred to votes as Gingrich
snatched South Carolina right out
of Mitt Romney's grasp.
But his view on Pakistan was
painful to hear. It was ignorant
to the massive sacrifices Pakistan
has made as a country on the front
line of the Wr on Terror, and was
ungrateful for Pakistan's efforts.
In Pakistan, the War on Ter-
ror seems more like Pakistan's war
than America's. Since 9/11, Pakistan
has suffered much heavier losses
than the United States as a result
of the war. According to a Paki-
stani security report last year, there
were 10,003 deaths from violent

incidents in 2010 and another 7,107
in 2011 alone. An advertisement by
Pakistan in the Wall Street Journal
on the 10th anniversary of the 9/11
attacks read that 21,672 Pakistanis
have lost their lives as a result of
the war. The investment and losses
faced by the U.S. pale in comparison
to losses Pakistan has suffered.
There is a common protest slogan
in Pakistan, "Your 9/11 is our 24/7."
I can attest to that. On Nov. 11,2010,
I was watching television in the
living room with my family. Sud-
denly a shockwave swept through,
rattling my house. My father fell
off the sofa, ducking for cover. The
doors were unhinged and blades of
glass shot out from the shattering
windows. A 1,000-kilogram bomb
had exploded at a police center
nearby. There was no surprise as to
who the perpetrators were.
What may come as a surprise to
most people is the mood that pre-
vailed in my home afterwards. It
was apathy. This has become such
a common occurrence. This is the
ground reality in my home and
country. We have become used
to such incidents and are suffer-
ing daily because of this war that,
according to Gingrich, Pakistan
isn't cooperating in.
In an interview with CBS News,
Pakistan's ambassador to the U.N.,
Abdullah Hussain Haroon, cited
World Bank statistics claiming that
Pakistan has spent $150 billion on
this war. Even if you don't accept
this number and the U.S.-given fig-
ure is $20 billion. Haroon also said,
"We have invested 50 to 60 years of

the best periods of our life in (the
U.S.) and today we are getting treat-
ed like a pariah."
This is true. Pakistan and the
United States have been allies since
Pakistan entered the realm of foreign
policy. Pakistan was instrumental in
fighting against the Soviet commu-
nists in Afghanistan, and today it's a
crucial partner of the United States
against the Taliban forces on both
sides of the Pakistan-Afghanistan
border. The Express Tribune, a Paki-
stani newspaper, reported that more
than 200,000 troops were deployed
on the front line, and 90,000 Paki-
stani troops are fighting across the
border on the ground. Pakistan has
dedicated many air bases inside its
territory to the U.S. for launching
drone attacks - attacks that some-
times kill innocent civilians along
with militants. In the words of
Haroon, "you cannot solve Afghani-
stan without Pakistan."
I hope that next time before
jumping to conclusions about where
Pakistan's loyalties lie, people
reconsider the statistics. Instead of
alienating your allies, support us.
We stand on the same side in this
fight. I would encourage voters to
make a wise decision when choos-
ingthe best candidate for president.
Choose a candidate who is not bel-
ligerent. Pick someone who can
appreciate the sacrifices of your
allies, someone who can show some
respect and empathize with those
who suffer and fight for not only
their own, but your safety too.
Shank Bashir is an LSA freshman.

0
0

<C.
@MichLegislature 2 more states on
path to marriage equality while we
take away domestic partner
__ --benefits... This is Mich 3.0?
#EqualRightsNow
-@michdailyoped

A * 4




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, February 8, 2012 - 5A

PREVENTION .To increase male involvement
in sexual assault prevention,
From Page 1A SAPAC founded Men's Activisim
in 2004, which is the youngest of
ager of SAPAC, echoed Rider- SAPAC's three programs, which
Milkovich's remarks that sexual include Networking, Publicity
assault is a problem that should and Activism and Peer Educa-
be dealt with by the community tion.
as a whole, regardless of gender. Men's Activism workshops
"It affects the community and teach men on campus about
thus has to be presented as a com- sexual violence prevention and
munity issue," Kubec said. raise awareness about male rape.
LSA senior Carley Flanery, a Flanery said she has seen consis-
peer education coordinator for tent growth in the number of men
SAPAC, said often times people involved in SAPAC over the past
judge organizations like SAPAC four years.
for being female-driven and "It is becoming more accepted
* organized against males, which for men to be involved in sexual
she said is not the case. violence issues," she said.
"When I tell people that I Rider-Milkovich said
work for SAPAC, some people SAPAC would like to encourage
still think it's a women-centered, increased male involvement in
men-bashing organization or a sexual assault prevention in the
counseling center like CAPS," future.
Flanery said. "There is a lot of room to
Flanery added that conse- engage a lot of men to our work,"
quently, men often tend to feel Rider-Milkovich said. "Right
that they do not have a place in now there are 30 Men's Activists
sexual violence organizations andIwould love to see that num-
like SAPAC because "they feel ber grow to 100. There is enough
they won't be seen as capable of work to be done."
helping." Flanery said the ultimate goal
NORTH CAMPUS be open for free skating until 10
NroRTHageCAMUp.m. each day.
From Page 1A Last semester's events
included hot air balloon rides,
is to increase student awareness a Haunted Bell Tower Hallow-
about opportunities and events een event and football tailgates.
on North Campus and bring With a marketing team, student
more people to the area. input and collaboration with the
" "We are doing these 'bam- North Campus Affairs Commis-
wow' events (that are) kind of sion, a commission within CSG
new (and) exciting (that have) that works to increase commu-
never been done on Michigan's nicaionbetweenstudentgroups
campus," Zollweg said. "Some on North Campus, Go North!
are ... off the wall but things that plans to provide students with
are destination value that are even more events this semester.
bringing a lot of students and the Along with smaller scale
community to North Campus." projects, Go North! plans to
As part of the Winter Blast host a March Madness event
festival - slated to take place and Springfest - a collabora-
on Feb. 17 and 18 outside of Pier- tive event with the University of
pont Commons - the GoNorth! Michigan Engineering Council
Initiative will include an ice rink at the North Campus Adminis-
for students. Zollweg said she trative Complex - at the end of
expects a larger crowd for this the semester.
event because the installation Zollweg said the initiative
and preparation for an ice rink brings new events to students
on North Campus is something while gathering ideas from
that hasn't been done before. around the University to create
"Our programming team a stronger sense of community.
(has) worked very diligently "The essence of Go North! is
and very collaboratively with a not that we are always creating
lot of different units to make it our own events," Zollweg said.
happen," Zollweg said. "We are "We are really trying to expand
expecting about 1,000 people our umbrella to incorporate the
over the two days." academic side and to cross-pro-
Along with UMix at Pierpont mote events and ideas."
Commons from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Zollweg said Go North! also
on that Friday, Winter Blast will helps students experience a dif-
host a DJ, hold ice-sculpting ferent side of North Campus and
contests and prize giveaways, in learn about what North Campus
addition to the ice rink that will has to offer academically, social-
MOCK ROCK women's water polo was recog-
From Page lA nized for raisingthe mostmoney
as a team for the event.
The University athletic train-
left to be desired, it was risque ers, members of the march-
at times," Daley said during the ing band, cheerleaders and the
judging. dance team also performed.
Daley attempted to improve Women's swimming, women's
his team's performance by rap- soccer and women's rowing
ping for the crowd after his teams performed skits that
critiques and received loud highlighted the University's
applause. athletic and academic qualities
The team won the "Better compared to other Big Ten uni-
Luck Next Year" award, and the versities.

of Men's Activism is to build bet-
terpartnerships with the Athletic
Department and the Inter-Coop-
erative Council by eventually
training student-athletes and
members of co-ops to facilitate
their own workshops.
"We want men and do have
many men who are involved,"
Flanery said. "Showing that they
do have a place and that we want
men to be involved is crucial."
Men's Activism seeks way to
engage men through activities
like "No Shave November" last
year, which encouraged men to
grow a beard and explain the
importance of sexual consent to
people who asked them about
their beard.
LSA senior Kathleen Carbone,
president of University Students
Against Rape, said many men
don't believe they have been sex-
ually assaulted after experienc-
ing an incident. Students Against
Rape invites both female and
male survivors to discuss their
experiences in a comfortable
group setting, Carbone said.
ly and creatively.
"There are a lot of students
(at) Michigan (who) have never
been up there ... We want to
bridge that gap in saying 'Here
is the Michigan experience,
and it includes North Campus
because there is a lot of really
great things happening,"' Zoll-
weg said. "We are trying to start
our own traditions up on North
Campus and (give it) a desti-
nation value, not just the lost
abyss."
LSA freshman Alex Kokaly
said he believes in the poten-
tial of the upcoming Go North!
events, but wonders if Central
Campus residents like himself
will take the journey to North
Campus.
"I think the main challenge is
getting the people who live on
Central to make the trek up to
North Campus, but my friends
and I are always willing to do
something fun," Kokaly said.
Engineering freshman Isaiah
Murray, who lives in the Baits I
Residence Hall, said he thinks
the new events from Go North!
may help alter negative feelings
toward North Campus.
"I think that people get the
misconception that because
North Campus is ... outside of
(central campus) that there's
nothing to do up here," Murray
said. "Something like Winter
Blast could possibly change that
outlook a little bit."
The show left the crowd
cheering and audience members
were visibly excited to see stu-
dent athletes perform on stage
instead of the field.
Engineering junior Nick Ber-
lage said he enjoyed the perfor-
mance and found it to be one the
most humorous he had seen in
his time at the University.
"Having been to the last few,
this year was definitely the fun-
niest and had the best dance
moves," Berlage said.

AP PHOTO
The bombardment of Homs, the hot bedof the resistance to President Bashar Assad's regime, has intensified over recent
days, after Syria's allies Russia and China vetoed a Western and Arab-backed resolution at the United Nations.
Russia advocates for
ref orms amid violence

Assad forces Russian Foreign Minister-
p n Sergey Lavrov flew into Damas-
continue topound cus yesterday, accompanied by
o i i o his foreign security chief, to try
opposition in Homs to boost a plan that would keep
Assad in power, even though
BEIRUT (AP) - Days after many prominent members of the
blocking a U.S.-backed peace opposition reject that entirely.
plan at the U.N., senior Rus- "It's clear that efforts to stop
sian officials pushed for reforms the violence should be accompa-
yesterday during an emergency nied by the beginning of dialogue
meeting with Syrian President among the political forces," Lav-
BasharAssad, promoting a settle- rov said, according to the Russian
ment to end the uprising without news agency ITAR-Tass. "Today
removing him from power. we received confirmation of the
Thousands of flag-waving gov- readiness of the president of Syria
ernment supporters cheered the for this work."
Russians in the Syrian capital of The visit was also a sign that
Damascus, while to the north, Moscow wanted to get a first-
Assad's forces pounded the oppo- hand assessment of the situation
sition city of Homs - underscor- on the ground in Syria -and
ing the sharp divisions propelling the raucous welcome the diplo-
the country toward civil war. mats received from thousands
The violence has led to the of regime supporters appeared
most severe international isola- aimed , at showing that Assad's
tion in more than four decades of grip is firm, at least in Damascus.
Assad family rule, with country Syria has been- a key Russian
after country calling home their ally since Soviet times, and Mos-
envoys. cow remains a major arms sup-
France, Italy, Spain and Bel- plier to Damascus even as Assad
glum pulled their ambassadors unleashes his forces to crush
from Damascus, as did six Gulf not only peaceful protesters, but
nations, including Saudi Ara- army defectors who are fighting
bia. Germany, whose envoy left the regime.
the country this month, said The U.N. estimates the govern-
he would not be replaced. The ment crackdown has killed more
moves came a day after the U.S. than 5,400 people since March,
closed its embassy in Syria and making Syria's conflict one of
Britain recalled its ambassador. the deadliest of the Arab Spring.
Turkey, once a strong Assad Hundreds more are believed to
supporter and now one of his have died since the U.N. released
most vocal critics, added its that figure in January, but the
voice to the international con- chaos in the country has made it
demnation, with Prime Minister impossible for the world body to
Recep Tayyip Erdogan saying update its figures.
his country cannot remain silent Yesterday's visit by Lavrov
about massacres in Syria. He and intelligence chief Mikhail
said Turkey would "launch a Fradkov was evidence that Rus-
new initiative with countries sia does not want to be seen as
that stand by the Syrian people giving Assad a free hand to crush
instead of the regime." his opponents in the wake of Sat-
His comments reflect a grow- urday's veto at the U.N. Security
ing movement by the U.S., Council.
Europe and countries in the Both Russia and China
region to organize a coalition of blocked a Western- and Arab-
nations to back Syria's opposi- backed resolution supporting
tion, though what kind of sup- calls for Assad to hand over some
port remains unclear. Over the powers as a way to defuse the
weekend, U.S. Secretary of State 11-month-old crisis.
Hillary Rodham Clinton called Russia has opposed any U.N.
for "friends of democratic Syria" call that could be interpreted as
to unite and rally against Assad's advocating military interven-
regime. tion° or regime change. Russia
The Obama administration and China also used their veto
suggested yesterday it might powers in October to block an
provide humanitarian aid to the attempt to condemn the violence
Syrian people, but did not specify in Syria.
howor to whom. Moscow, delivered its own

message to Syria yesterday, call-
ing on all sides to hold a mean-
ingful dialogue.
"Necessary reforms must be
implemented in order to address
legitimate demands of the people
striving for a better life," Lavrov
told Assad, according to ITAR-
Tass."
Assad replied that Syria is
determined to hold a national
dialogue with the opposition and
independent figures, saying his
government was "ready to coop-
erate with any effort that boosts
stability in Syria," according to
the Syrian state news agency
SANA.
Repeated efforts by the Arab
League and Russia to broker
talks have been rejected by the
Syrian opposition, which refuses
any negotiations while the crack-
down continues. The opposition
has also said Assad's proposed
reforms, including a new consti-
tution and eventual multiparty
elections, are aimed at keeping
his hold on power.
In yesterday's talks, Assad
told Lavrov that Russia's posi-
tion has played "a key role in sav-
ing our motherland," according
to ITAR-Tass.
As Lavrov's convoy snaked its
way along Damascus' Mazzeh
Boulevard, it was greeted by a
sea of Assad supporters cheering
the vetoes at the U.N.
"Thank you Russia and
China," read one banner that
had photos of Assad and the
Russian president. Many stood
in the rain carrying Syrian flags
as well as the red, blue and white
Russian banner.
"I am hereto thank Russia for
its stand in the face of the world
conspiracy against Syria," said
Manya Abbad, 45. "I wish the
Arabs adopted similar stances."
The Assad regime says terror-
ists acting out a foreign conspir-
acy to destabilize the country
are behind the uprising, not
people seeking to transform the
authoritarian regime.
But in the flashpoints of the
conflict, witnesses, residents
and human rights workers say
Assad's forces are shelling and
firing indiscriminately. The
troops renewed their assault
yesterday on one of the main
centers of the opposition, the
city of Homs, with activists say-
ing tanks were closing in on a
restive neighborhood.


*CSG
From Page 1A
discussed the upcoming Lansing
Blitz, a collaborative event with
other colleges in the state to fos-
ter discussion of student issues.
CSG President DeAndree
Watson said he was glad to see
some of those vacancies filled
and to increase representation
within the Assembly.
"It's extremely important that
people who are elected show
up to meetings," he said. "I'm
also excited that we have good
relationships with the school
and college governments who
are standing ready to fill those
vacancies when they do exist so
that we can make sure we always
have an adequate (amount of)
students who are here repre-
senting the voices of the stu-
dents."
The Assembly has the capac-
ity to have 57 sitting representa-
tives, but not every school and
college sends, or even elected,
the representatives available
to them. The University Medi-

cal School, the School of Public
Health, the School of Natural
Resources and the Environment,
the Taubman College of Archi-
tecture & Urban Planning, the
Ford School of Public Policy and
the School of Music, Theatre &
Dance do not send representa-
tives to Assembly meetings.
Sean Walser, chairman of
CSG's External Relations Com-
mission, attended the meeting to
discuss Lansing Blitz, which is
slated to take place in late March
and will provide an opportunity
for students from the state's 15
public universities to meet with
state legislators in Lansing to
advocate for issues pertinent to
students.
Walser said CSG is currently
planning on spending $1,000 to
pay for two University buses to
take students to Lansing for the
two-day event. Walser said he
and other members of CSG are
discussing logistics of the event
with student organizations
including the University's chap-
ter of College Democrats, the
University's chapter of College
Republicans and the Michigan

Political Union.
Watson said the event is an
opportunity to provide a forum
for students to voice issues
they've experienced, and devel-
op ways to overcome them.
"I'm really excited that we're
going to provide an opportunity
for students to voice their con-
cerns directly to the people in
Lansing," Watson said. "Hear-
ing directly from a large group
of students simultaneously will
get that message to them loud
and clear."
Only one resolution, a pro-
posal to hold a joint meeting
between the University Council,
a CSG council created in 2010
composed of delegates from dif-
ferent schools to connect the
University Activity Center to
other school's student govern-
ments, and the Student Assem-
bly, was discussed. There were
also no speakers for Community
Concerns, a portion of the meet-
ing that typically lasts anywhere
from 10 to 30 minutes and allows
members of the University and
Ann Arbor community to dis-
cuss issues.

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@MICHIGANDAILY
@MICHDAILYNEWS
@MICHDAILYSPORTS
@MICHDAILYARTS
@MICHDAILYOPED
@MICHDAILYDESIGN
@MICHDAILYPHOTO

WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS?
* E-mail rayzag@michigandaily.com


A p

A A


V

6A - Wednesday, February 8, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Blue looks to rebound against Huskers

ByBEN ESTES
Daily Sports Editor
Coming off one of its worst
losses of the season - a 10-point
loss to hated rival Michigan
State, no less - the Michigan
basketball team would prefer to
play a familiar
opponent its Michigan at
next time out. Nebraska
That would
give Michigan Matchup:
coach John Michigan 17-7;
Beilein and his Nebraska 11-11
team a much When:
better chance Wednesday
at rebounding 8:30 P.M.
with a victory. Where: Bob
It's a lot easier Devaney
to win a game Sports Center
when you know TV/Radio:
a team's ten- BTN i
dencies, play-
ing against a
familiar opponent that you know
inside and out.
Unfortunately for the 22nd-
ranked Wolverines, they've got to
play the Big Ten's newest mem-
ber, Nebraska (3-8 Big Ten, 11-11
overall) on Wednesday night -
and they're going in blind.
"I have no history with
(Nebraska coach) Doc Sadler or
their players," Beilein said. "I've
never even seen one of their play-
ers in AAU or anything. ... You
just got to do what you can do.
While there's not comfort in that,
there's also no comfort in know-
ingthem too well.
"Our kids got to study them
more than they normally would
because they've never played
against Nebraska."
That's not good news for play-
ers such as guard Tim Hardaway
Jr. The sophomore guard in par-
ticular could use a mental break,
as he's coming off his worst per-
formance of the season.
Hardaway Jr. went just 1-for-
10 from the floor on Sunday

ADAM GLANZMAN/Dail
Michigan sophomore guard Tim Hardaway Jr. has struggled mightily in Big Ten play this season, shooting 1-for-10 during Sunday's game against Michigan State.

H em ingway
loses gifts
in burglary
BySTEPHENJ. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
Exactly a month after earning
MVP honors at the Sugar Bowl
in New Orleans on Jan. 3, former
Michigan wide receiver Junior
Hemingway had it alltaken away.
Friday, Hemingway had
numerous valuables stolen from
the home of his father, Kenneth
EarlHemingway, indConway, S.C.,
according to myrtlebeachonline.
com.
The following things were
taken from the home, according
to the report:
' Gator Bowl watch valued at
$1,000
" Sugar Bowl watch valued at
" East/West Shrine Game
watchvalued at $1,000
" Silver watch valued at $1,200
" Gold watch valued at $500
e Outback Bowl ring valued at
$1,000
" Gold diamond ring valued at
$800
* Gold initial ring with a K on it
valued at $500
" Two video gaming systems
and controllersvalued at $759
" Eleven video games valued at
$400
* A55-inch TV valued at $1,200
The report stated that crime
scene officers took fingerprints
for processing and photos were
taken of the home, which was
"left in disarray."
Hemingway finished his
fifth-year senior season with the
Michigan football team with 34
catches for 699 yards and four
touchdowns.
He was invited to compete
in the NFL combine later this
month in Indianapolis.

against the Spartans, and his
four points were a season-low.
But that performance wasn't
entirely unexpected - all season,
especially in Big Ten games, the
Miami native hasn't looked like
the sharpshooter he became dur-
ing conference play last year.
His struggles on Sunday mean
Hardaway Jr. is now 10-for-36
in his last three games and he is
shooting just 21.3 percent from
deep in conference games.
Worse yet, the sophomore has
let his offensive struggles affect
the rest his game, slacking on the
boards and regressing defensive-
ly. Hardaway Jr. has taken ques-
tionable shots, and Beilein said
the guard needs to let the game
come to him instead of forcing
things. But that's difficult when
someone puts as much pressure
on himself as Hardaway Jr. does.
"He really wants to be the ulti-
mate perfect player, and no one
is," Beilein said. "We just con-
tinue to work at that - that it's

not about perfection, it's about
excellence, of getting better, of
growth. And like I said, he's very
receptive to those things. We've
just got to continue to work at it."
Though Michigan (7-4,17-7) is
unfamiliar with the Cornhusk-
ers, Nebraska is far from a bas-
ketball version of the Mona Lisa.
Nebraska hasn't impressed the
conference much in its inaugural
season in the Big Ten, currently
sitting in 11th place in the league
standings.
The Cornhuskers are led by
one of the more solid scoring
threats in the Big Ten in guard Bo
Spencer, who averages 15.5 points
per game. Spencer is surrounded
by a veteran-laden lineup - three
of the team's other starters are
fellow seniors and the fourth is a
junior.
But other than a home win
against Indiana, Nebraska hasn't
beaten anyone of note in the con-
ference and lostits last two games
to Northwestern and Minnesota.

The biggest challenge for the
Wolverines may be adapting to
the Cornhuskers' offense, which
is more wide-open and relies less
on set plays than most of Michi-
gan's foes.
"It'llbe one of those personnel-
driven games," said senior guard
Stu Douglass. "There's some sets
they run, but alot of (the offense)
is transition. They have some
1-on-1 scorers, and they got great
options on the perimeter that can
make plays. It'll take our whole
focus.
"It's different going from play-
ingsets to playing individual play-
ers. It takes a different mindset."
The good news for the Wol-
verines is that they've completed
their toughest six-game stretch of
the season, bookended by Michi-
gan State. The team went 3-3 in
that span, and though that's a
solid mark against such difficult
competition, Douglass admitted
that such inconsistency has been
frustrating.

With a relatively easier sched-
ule the rest of way, Michigan has
an opportunity to make some
headway in the conference -- and
it begins in Lincoln on Wednes-
daynight.
"We're in a better position
than we were last year," Douglass
said. "Last year, we needed the
string of wins. You don't neces-
sarily need them (now), but we
do need to build momentum as
we head into a hopeful NCAA
berth."
INJURIES: Just 11 players
will make the trip to Nebraska.
Sophomore forward Jon Horford,
whose redshirt looks increasing-
ly likely, will stay home.
So will freshman point guard
Carlton Brundidge, who is still
dealing with an asthma-related
illness.
Meanwhile, the Cornhus-
ers will once again be without
backup center Jorge Brian Diaz.
Sadler said Diaz is likely out the
rest of the season.

Ryan given*
Academic
jAll-District

Looking for Housing? Do you love the outdoors?!
Radrick Farms is nwacceptingapplicaticns for Fall 212-13 (Caretaker positions!l
-Seeking Grsaduate S tidents (rust be enrolled fir t t - Please send cover letter, resasme &
duration ofthe appointment} 3 references to: '
-tWork at least 10 hours t:ek isi exchange for Sanh ita Shanbhag
housing at Caretake's House located on golf Administrative Speciaist
course- iRatdricklFarms( Glf Ccurse
47. (etdes lRd
-Must have the ability to drive atility vehicle & Ann Arbr. ai 48105
oaperate maintenance equipment (raining provided) sanhia mihd
-Skills relatedi to :nvironmsental Stewardshiplkandscaping
a plus
RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, February 8, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Morethan 35 Veep before 53 Museum
1 Organic fuel enough Gerald concern
5 Beggar's retums 4 It's not done 37 Letter after pi 54White with age
9 Out-and-oui 5 "State of Wonder' 40 Motel 55 Weasel-like
14 Soprano Gluck novelist Patchett convenience swimmer
15 Tree nursery? 6 Country expanse 41 "Gymnopedies" 56 Where captains
16Winnebagos' kin 7 "A Fuller ooser Satie go
17 Vaudeville Spectrum of 42 Scot's bluff 57 Froic
headlinery ews'neiwork 47 Dict. offering 58 Field of expertise
19 Atress Kelly 6 Bioflrhubarb 4~~lSls 0 P ese
20 Anaheimiteam, to Middle of 49Nmllrbt1 4 62 GPAreducer
f1ans nowhere, 51 SFLorsuntil 1904 usually
21 Spiotch meaphariall 52 Castle with many 64 Put in
23 Fishing gear 10 Hogsr steps? 65 Dei choice
24*CountBasie's symbolically ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
themesong 11Cutolassiosl
28Garmentordeor 1990sTV C A P T L I T E S T R A P
29M schae k" 12ipanseshbetween 0 0 G E A M I N E R A S E
'Caddyshack" wslns R I A I M N E
competition 13Would-beOneL's N A M E R E C O G N I T I O N
36oGeeoutin e hurdleTA MEN
36eouine 18 Aurholem M S S RAN KAM T E U R
3sB ngeog 25 Tilt E N O L A G A Y O R E L S E
39To-small 26 Fai to mention L O B O P OW R E A M
quantity 7Overseasthans T R ENDS T A S M A N I A
43 Open mic 3Labcootspeck? S E R I A L P O R T S A R P
perfarmeronesn 31 ChowRuE OER
44 ruinslegend 32YearElizabeth I R U E 0 E
45 "My love a delivered her N U M B E R C R U N C H E R S
fever, longing "Golden Speech" E L I A S K A T E I S U P
still":Shakespeare 33Caddie's A E T N A E V E R NAT O
4 Deelyproote a ong P E T E Y DI S S O U S T
'48 Ganhiai orrayer 34 Jaw-diropping iiirein~o~n ana
McKellen news xwordeditor@aoi.com 02/08/12
50'1959 Monroe 1 2 z a a I a 7 a s to1 11t3
clasic
57 oieam" 'a 'S
59 Weltoulofirange
60 Imay be 1 st
captioned2
61 Hoover rival
63 What many 2 a 2 n27
sports cars lack,
and, in a way,2 ss 31
whattheendsof
the starred 3213 33 3 35 36 37 3 8
answers are 4 2
H 6 Bench clearer 3 a atia
67 Ficher Pettitte
with a record 19 43i 35a
post-season wins 4 a4 a4 49
H Outoihe cage
H9 Lesharcdy- 31 5t s 53 5a 5535
looking
70 Early Iranian 68 s so
71 "America's Next
Top Model" host 2 63 F s F
Banks
DOWN
1 Lgcal stat? 0n7
20 nine mortgage
broker y.Jack Mnt'rf 02/ii/12a
(c)212 Tribune Meiaaservices,0In/0

honors
By COLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Writer

0

www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
clse*to* UofM NorthCanmp"s
affordable rates
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. ! great location to everything
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. ! MICHSTUDENTHOTSING.COM
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 ! ,=o. ..v.=.. a,.<.,,. no
' STERLING 411 LOFTS -Reserve 4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available fall.
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's 827 Brookwood. Washer Dryer. 4 prkg
BEST housing sold out early for 2010 spaces $2300 + utils. 734-996-1991
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Sign a lease on or before Febru- .
ary 29, 2012 and play to win for one of AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS, One
the following: $50, $100, $150, $200, & Two bedroom apartments loctaed on
no money down until April 2012 or UM Campus. Call Michigan
FREE laundry for a year (value of Commercial Realty,.734-662-5500.
$312). 2 blocks from Central Campus www.michcomrealty.com
and downtown. Ito 4 bedroom, private
7a-4s avail4ble. Rales from s660.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofis.com

! STERLING 411 LOFTS -Reserve
a summer only bed space at U-M's
Best housing. Leases will run from
April 30, 2012 - August 13, 2012. 2
blocks from Central Campus anddown-
town. Private baths available. Rates
starting at $660.
734-998-440 www.4elevenlofts.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
8 MONTH LEASES!!!
HUGE TOWNHOUSES w/ 3 1/2
Baths
Largest Bedrooms on Campus
4 FREE Parking Spaces
Fully Furnished
Hill/Washtenaw
Call For Details
(734) 665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVEAward-Winning rentals in Kery-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com

The accolades keep rolling in
for junior guard Jenny Ryan.
Just a year after beingnamed
to the Academic All-Big Ten,
and Michigan's Athletic Aca-
demic Achievement Award and
Academic Excellence Award
rosters, Ryan was named to the
Capital One Academic All-Dis-
trict first team last week.
Ryan was named to District
Five's first team which includes
two other Big Ten players -
Purdue's Brittany Rayburn and
Northwestern's Kendall Hack-
ney.
There are eight districts from
the United States and Canada.
Later this month, the College
Sports Information Directors
of America, which chooses the
finalists, will release its Capital
One All-American first, second
and third teams.
According to CoSIDA's web-
site, in order to be eligible for
Academic All-America, "a stu-
dent-athlete must be a starter
or important reserve with at
least a 3.30 cumulative grade-
point average (on a 4.0 scale) at
his/her current institution.
"Nominated athletes must
have participated in at least 50
percent of the team's games ...
have completed one full cal-
endar year at his/her current
institution, and have reached
sophomore athletic eligibility."
Ryan is a junior communica-
tions major with a 3.81 cumu-
lative GPA, according to the
Academic All-District list.
Ryan has been named a start-
er in all 23 games this season
while leading the Wolverines in
three-point field goal percent-
age (.377), rebounds per game
(6.0) and assists (4.3). The Sagi-
naw, Mich. native also leads the
Big Ten in steals (74) and ranks
fifth in assists.

A A




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 - 7A

The ichgan ail - mchiandaly~om WdnedayFebuary8, 012 : 7

DeBlois leads scrappy penalty kill

By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan hockey team
wouldn't be successful if it was
littered with flashy offensive
playmakers that cared about
defense as much as Wes Welker
cares for Gisele Bundchen. The
Michigan hockey program is
built of scrappy, two-way for-
wards that enjoy the dirty work
as much as the offensive glory.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
stresses the importance of these
two-way forwards perhaps more
than any other type of player on
the roster, and he has no qualms
about rewarding those players.
Senior forward Luke Glendening
is the captain, and he has never
scored more than eight goals in a
season.
And against Miami (Ohio) last
weekend, Derek DeBlois showed
why the two-way forward is so
important.
For the casual observer, it
might have seemed that DeBlois
didn't do much. The sophomore
forward didn't appear on the stat
sheet and was an even zero in
the plus/minus category in both
games.
But DeBlois was a lynchpin
° on a stellar penalty-kill unit that
scored a shorthanded goal and
didn't allow a goal on 12 power
plays. DeBlois was all over the
ice, breaking up shots and leaving
his impact on the boards.
"I thought he was a stud, one
of the best guys on the ice," said
sophomore defenseman Mac
Bennett. "We had to kill a lot of
penalties and that's one of his
strong points, so he really got a
* chance to shine. The penalty kill
speaks for itself, and he's a big
part of that."
A lot of credit for the unit's
turnaround has been given to
sophomore defenseman Jon Mer-
rill, rightfully so.
But the penalty-kill unit is
composed of guys like DeBlois,
who sacrifice the glory of being
an offensive stalwart in order to
help the team on the defensive
end. He has scored just five goals
on the season - and only one in

Behind Enemy Lines
wivth Brandon Ube
By LUKE PASCH go there. But it won't be too dif-
Daily Sports Editor ferent because we're going in and
just trying to get a win. It will be
The Big Ten hasn't been very business as usual, I think.
welcoming to coach Doc Sadler's TMD: Do you know anything
Cornhuskers this season. about Michigan's style of basket-
In Nebraska's inaugural season ball yet?
in the conference, the program BU: I watched (Michigan last
has garnered just three wins and year) on TV a couple times, when
sits one notch above bottom- they played Kansas and a couple
dwelling Penn State. That said, other times. Watching them last
the Cornhuskers aren't pushovers year, they've got some pretty tal-
at home, having knocked off a ented guards, and good big men,
very talented Indiana team last too. And I know they bring basi-
month in the friendly confines of cally everybody back except for
Bob Devaney Sports Center. (Darius) Morris. So they're obvi-
When Big Ten coaches say that ously going to be a really talented
wins in this league never come team, especially outside. I think
easy, they're not blowing smoke. that'll be a tough game for us,
And Michigan coach John Beilein just trying to match up with not
knows his Wolverines have to only the talent level outside, but
bring their A-game ifthey want to also their size inside. They've got
pick up their second road win of some bigger guards who are pret-
the season in Lincoln on Wednes- ty good rebounders.
day night. TMD: What do you know about
At Big Ten Media Day in Octo- the Big Ten brand of basketball,
ber, Nebraska forward. Bran- generally speaking, and how does
don Ubel - the team's leading Nebraska fit into that mold?
rebounder - sat down with the BU: What I've heard is that
Daily to discuss the upcoming the Big Ten is a bigger league
season. - it's stronger. And most of the
' The Michigan Daily: So, what's teams like to slow it down a lit-
itlike havingto scout up on a com- tie bit, really make you grind on
pletely new set of teams this sea- defense and execute on offense.
son? Is it exciting or is ita pain? That's something our coach
Brandon Ubel: I think it's pret- really stresses a lot. And we're a
ty cool. I'm a junior this year, so team, that I think if you look at
the fact that I got to play in the some of the scores last year and
Big 12 for two years, go to all some of the games last year, we
those places - go to KU, play at like to lower possessions, make
Allen Field House; go to K-State, you work on offense, and we play
play there; going down to Texas. some really good defense. I think
But this year, I'll get to go to the comparatively, we're a lot like
likes of Illinois, Wisconsin and Wisconsin.
Michigan State. So I think defi- TMD: Where do you think
nitely it's exciting for me because your team will stand at season's
I'll get to play in two conferences, end?
play in those venues and not have BU: We're coming in think-
to transfer at all. ing we've got the talent level at
TMD: What are you most excit- least to be a contender, top-five,
ed about? Big Ten-type team. As coach has
BU: I think it'll be cool to go been telling us, we've got to start
to some of the venues. You hear believing that we're that good.
about how loud Illinois, Michi- And until we start believing that
gan State, Wisconsin; Ohio State we're that good, it can't happen.
are. You hear about some of those SoIthink we're starting to unde'-
venues. So I think it'll be cool to stand how good we can be.

JEO MOCH/[
Michigan sophomore forward Derek DeBlois has just five goals this season, but he's been a force on the penalty kill.

2012 - but Berenson mentions player defense than offense,
DeBlois as a player he can't keep because defense is all about hus-
off the ice. tle and grit. There is little glory in
"He's got a good work ethic, defense.
he values defense, and he accepts DeBlois, rather, has flourished
a role that into a valuable
maybe isn't but unflashy
as glamorous nothing role. Berenson
as other roles I have often mentions.
on the team," L Thow important
Berenson said. baduI can say specific roles
"He's just get- about Derekj are for his
ting better and jb u ere. team, because
better." Nothi " not everyone
Before he 1 can lead the
got to Michi- . team in scor-
gan, DeBlois ing.
led his prep "For a team
team in scoring, soit's not like he to be successful, you have to have
doesn't know his way around the everybody understanding what
offensive side of the ice. their role is on the team, and
It's much harder to teach a accepting it, and embracing it,"

Berenson said.
"Some coaches would say
make that role the most impor-
tant part of your game - be a star
in that role."
Michigan's penalty-kill unit
has turned from a weakness to
a strength, partially because of
Merrill, but partially because
players are accepting their roles.
The scrappy DeBlois is an
exemplar of this mindset..
"He's gritty and really hard
to play against," Bennett said.
"I hate practicing against him
because he doesn't quit. Every
time he goes out there, he wants
to get something going or hit
somebody or make a play. He's a
great guy to have on your team.
"I have nothing bad I can say
about Derek. Nothing."

WOMENx 5AmKiEht foAhv
Examining the next step for Borseth and the Wolverines

ive years ago, Kevin Bors-
eth came to Ann Arbor to
jL become the eighth head
coach of the Michigan women's
basketball program.
He inherited a program that
dwelled near the bottom of the
Big Ten for a half decade and
hadn't made an NCAA Tourna-
ment appear-
ance since COLLEEN
2001. His THOMAS
teams showed
promise in On Women's
each of his Basketball
first four
years, but slow finishes hindered
any shot at a tournament berth.
This season, the team hopes to
change that story.
After posting a program-best
12-2 record to open this season,
the Wolverines appeared to be
a contender for the Big Ten title
and finally earn a spot in the
tournament.
But in conference play, it's
looked like the same old story
for Borseth's squad.
Michigan has dropped games
to good teams in Penn State and
Michigan State - the Wolver-
ines haven't beaten the Spartans

since 2008 - and sub-par Wis-
consin in the last three weeks,
and it began to look like the
Wolverines were going to have
another breakdown near the end
of the season.
But there still is time to turn
the season back in the right
direction. If they want to take
that next step and earn a tour-
nament bid, the remaining five
games will be the most impor-
tant of the season.
If you compare last season's
and this season's conference
records, this year's squad is
behind last year's.
Michigan is currently 6-5 in
the Big Ten, whereas last year
at this point, Wolverines were
one game better. Michigan will
have to go 4-1 over the next five
games in order to have the same
conference record as last year -
and matching last year's effort
may not even be enough.
With opponents such as
Nebraska and Purdue still loom-
ing, the Wolverines have to take
their game to the next level by
beating the best teams in the Big
Ten. And that starts with beat-
ing the Huskers on Thursday.

They also have a home-and-
home series against Iowa that
can help them gain momentum
for the postseason.
The Hawkeyes maybe just
14-10 overall, but they're tied
with the Wolverines in the Big
Ten standings at 6th, just below
Michigan State. Iowa has beaten
Purdue on the road, and the
Huskers beat the Boilermakers
in triple overtime last week.
The Big Ten may be a mess right
now, but the Wolverines can
straighten it all out by simply
winning these games.
There are a few stipulations,
though. Senior guard Courtney
Boylan has cooled off after a hot
start in nonconference play, and
senior guard Carmen Reynolds
has been unpredictable all sea-
son.:
Those two were two of the
team's leading scorers last
year, but they haven't produced
this season, which has been a
problem for Michigan. Instead,
junior forward Rachel Shef-
fer has taken the reigns of the
offense and is now the Wolver-
ines' leading scorer.
Sheffer has come up big in

some of Michigan's games, but
one player doesn't constitute a
team.
There are five players on the
floor, and all five need to con-
tribute for the team to be suc-
cessful. Boylan and Reynolds
are two pieces to that puzzle. As
seniors, they have the leadership
capabilities and the experience
to know what needs to be done
down the stretch.
They know what it's like to
hit a low - they lost to the worst
team in the Big Ten last year in
the conference tournament. In
order to make this season differ-
ent than the rest, they have to
take control.
The senior duo has shown
its potential. Boylan tallied a
career-high 22 points in Sun-
day's loss to Michigan State,
and Reynolds has gotten back
in stride after setting the pro-
gram's 3-point record. That
offensive production needs to
continue.
Sheffer, Boylan, and Reynolds
make three. There are two more
pieces in junior guard Jenny
Ryan and the Wolverines' bench,
but those aren't a problem for

Michigan. Ryan has consistently
contributed around the board
all season, especially on defense,
and the bench - whether it be
juniors Kate Thompson or Sam
Arnold - can step up in any
situation.
So it all comes down to the
seniors. Leadership and expe-
rience are two things a coach
can't teach, but they are things
Boylan and Reynolds possess
and have to use in order to finish
strong in the last five games.
Right now, ESPN's Bracketol-
ogy has Michigan as a 10-seed.
Earlier in the season, they were
as high as a seven. It's gener-
ous listing, though, as the same
bracket has both Michigan State
and Iowa as two of the First
Four Out. The Spartans swept
the Wolverines already and are
higher in the conference stand-
ings.
The Wolverines' nonconfer-

ence play was one of the best
of any team in the Big Ten. But
that has passed, and it again
comes down to the last push for
the team to gain a spot in the
64-team field.
The seniors have been here
before, and it's their job to make
this season different.
Borseth understands all of
this.
"Everything is at stake right
now," he said. "(The difference
between missing the tourna-
ment) last year, two wins. The
year before, two wins. The year
before that, one win. That's
what-it comes down to, getting
your win total up.
"You have to do well at the
end of the season - that's what
you're judged on. We've laid the
groundwork in the nonconfer-
ence, and now we need to be
able to clos.e the deal here in our
conference play."

BENEFITS INCLUDE:
50% reduction of MGSM tuition
" Stipend of $500 per month while enrolled
" Available Graduate Assistant positions:
" Mathematics Laboratory
" Writing Laboraiory
" Acconting Progrm
" Research Librarian
" Science Laboratory
" Instituteof Technology & Media
*Teaching Assistant
-Athletic lepartment
" lCenter Project Management
email: mgsm@robertmorris.edu masters.rbertmorris.edu

rtnivemity or '+ chigan s xar
M .'Vusic.The atre & Dace
Fa e-00
YM EL AN.SFE S 0N EYLEARW
Fe.6af75 M .7 8at8P Fb1 ti2P, eneson ha
Resevedstaing$26and$20e Stdens $0 wthl e eage11tet ffie e754764253
tik .M s ' eprmet fThare&Dr.

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CALL 81.225.1521
CHICAGO CAMPUS: 401 South State Street, Chicago, IL
Please visit
robertmorris.edulgrimgsm!
or scan the QR code with your
smart phone.
Graduate School of Management


*



s

8A - Wednesday, February 8,.2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TV REVIEW
MTVWears 'Pants' well

Hilarious cast
pleasantly surprises
in raunchy comedy
By BRIANNE JOHNSON
Daily Arts Writer
Nobody wants to admit ,they
like MTV. Quote "Teen Mom 2"
in your best Evans family imi-
tation ("I SEE
YOU WIFF
KEIFFAH, *
JENELLE!")? I Just Want
Sure. Laugh at
Snooki's drunk- My Patts
en stumbles? Back
You bet. But
acknowledge Pilot
that MTV's lat- Thurdays
est sexually at11 p.m.
charged series
may be engag- MTV
ing and (gulp!)
funny? Seek shelter and sharpen
the cries for long-lost music vid-
eos! But it's true - MTV gives
viewers exactly what they need
and revisits the neglected realm
of scripted television with Thurs-
day night's fist-pump-free "I Just
Want My Pants Back."
Based on the novel by David
J. Rosen, "I Just Wants My
Pants Back" follows Jason Strid-
er (Peter Vack, "As the World
Turns"), stuck in a less-than-
satisfactory entry-level position
at a New York casting agency and
plagued by a painful six-week
dry spell - so painful that poor
Jason can barely "remember
what sex smells like." Climbing
his way from rock bottom, Jason
meets Jane, the soon-to-be-elu-
sive "Fridge Girl." After a quick
exchange of witty banter and

"That's some good looking no-no juice."
Look past the title"
o ougar own

MTV

"We should try it in the blender next."
drinks, the two, hunched in the
comfort of Jason's refrigerator,
exchange something else - bodi-
ly fluids. Broccoli is an aphrodi-
siac, right? One sunrise later, the
one-night stand steals off with
Jason's jeans, leaving him with-
out alife plan or a pair of pants.
Each joke whizzes by as
"Pants" churns out humor of all
kinds: subtle remarks, witty (and
some not-so-wyitty) puns, pop-
culture-conscious comments,
snide retorts and delightfully
raunchy allusions. Despite the
risk of falling into the stereotypi-
cal "teen-y" ranks of "Skins" or
"My Life as Liz," "Pants" dodges
over-the-top attempts at relat-
ability and edge. Shockingly, the
show succeeds in evoking laughs.
That's right - not a slight snort
or throaty chuckle, but a literal

"LOL." After a sloppy enter-
tainment lawyer urges Jason to
stick his thumb in a previously
uncharted orifice, he heads to the
local store for a splint, complain-
ing that "her sphincter had the
grip of a merchant marine."
Yet at times, "Pants" may be
trying a little too hard, as illus-
trated by buxom friend Tina
Bradley (Kim Shaw, "She's Out of
My League"). An overwhelming,
overdone portrait of the hot-girl-
with-a-male-brain, Tina is quick
to spit obviously over-thought
lines, such as "take the deal, oth-
erwise a handjob is a man's job
and you can get out at the light
and mind my vagina." Mother
Goose must have excluded that,
one from her collection.
Instead, Jason holds the real
charm, like a cuter Andy Sam-

berg itt desperate need of a hair-
cut (and maybe a dose of reality).
Despite his lazy ways, Jason is
an incredibly likeable character,
playful and optimistic despite his
pants-less circumstances. Vack is
endearingly genuine, portraying
the protagonist with a subtle vul-
nerability and casual demeanor.
His character seems far more
"real" than the manicured "reali-
ty" casts MTV has manufactured
for years.
Strider may have described his
fridge-humping hook-up as "cute,
funny, and surprisingly filthy,"
but such compliments apply more
so to the new Thursday night
favorite, "I Just Want My Pants
Back." After the spray tans of the
"Shore" and the solemn-faced
squabbles of "The Hills," MTV
has finally done something right.

TV REVIEW
'Revenge' still bringing depth
and deftness to soap format

By KAYLA UPADHYAYA
Senior ArtsEditor
If you've ever wished that the
opportunistic, corrupt social-
ites who remained financially
unharmed by
the economic.
crisis finally
had their assets Revenge
served to them
on a silver Midseason
platter, your Wednesdays
modern-day at10 p.m.
Robin Hood A
has arrived in ABC
a cocktail dress
and heels. ABC's new thriller-
drama '"Revenge" shatters the
idyllic picture of carefree Hamp-
tons living by weaving a complex
but controlled web packed with
dark twists and surprises.
To the gossipy Hamptons
inhabitants of "Revenge," Emily
Thorne (Emily VanCamp, "Ever-
wood") is just the pretty, wealthy
new girl who has decided to
spend hersummer on the beach.
In actuality, Emily is an antihero
on a mission to avenge her father
David Clarke (James Tupper,
"Grey's Anatomy") by taking out
the players who framed him for
a crime he didn't commit. Her
friendly, warm facade allows her
to smoothly ease her way into the
lives of the people who haven't
seen her since Child Protec-
tive Services took her away and
placed her father in jail for trea-
son and laundering money for
terrorists. Her father dies in pris-
on but leaves behind a collection
of documents, video tapes and
photos that prove his innocence
and implicate the Hamptons'
residing royal family: Victoria
(Madeleine Stowe, "Raines") and
Conrad Grayson (Henry Czerny,
"The Tudors").
Emily, whose real naime is

Amanda Clarke, uses her father's
evidence to draw a roadmap of.
revenge. She concocts a won-
derfully complex plan to deal
out personalized forms of retri-
bution to everyone responsible
for her father's demise, target-
ing whatever or whomever they
value most. Almost every epi-
sode follows a similar formula:
Emily zeroes in on her victim
of the week, and after a series
of obstacles, destroys their life.
This could easily become tir-
ing, and most soapy dramas suf-
fer from their formulaic arcs,
but the writers of "Revenge"
know exactly when to throw in
a game-changing twist to pro-
pel the story forward or focus in
on a specific character to spend
time on development and depth.
This balanced movement makes
for strong storytelling and char-
acter development, which is why
it's hard to classify "kIevenge" as
a primetime soap - these char-
acters are fully realized, the sto-
ries are carefully plotted, and
the twists are shocking but still
grounded in a sense of plausibil-
ity and connectedness.
While the acting of the sup-
porting cast can sometimes be
melodramatic and vapid, the
leading ladies of "Revenge" are
a main reason that the show is
so addicting and exciting. Van-
Camp plays both sides of Emily
so expertly that the character's.
moments of earnestness seem
completely honest, yet her sud-
denbut fluid transformations into
a cold, calculating schemer are
just as convincing. Emily starts
dating Daniel (Joshua Bowman,
"Make It Or Break It"), son of
the all-powerful Graysons, and
it's still unclear if he's only a part
of her plan or if she really has
fallen in love with him. With the
elegant way VanCamp captures

ByKAYLA UPADHYAYA
SeniorArts Editor
You know that old saying,
"don't judge a television show by
its title?" No? OK, so maybe it's
not as popular as the real saying
about book covers, but it's a valid
point. With the multitude of
fantastic series floating around
the TV world these days, it can
be difficult to pick and choose
what we want to tune into every
week, and it's tempting to sort,
select and reject based on the
surface-level details: the cast,
the promos, the premise and the
title. This tendency has made it
difficult for me to recommend
the show "Cougar Town" with-
out being met with doubtful gri-
maces and judgmental badger
faces.
Yes, I agree, "Cougar Town"
is probably the stupidest title
of any show currently on air,
rivaled only by "The Vam-
pire Diaries." But just like the
supernatural CW drama, the
title isn't only dumb, it's entire-
ly misleading (I promise you,
the vampires stop writing in
their diaries circa the 5th epi-
sode of the series). Though the
first few episodes of "Cougar
Town" center around recently
divorced Jules Cobb (Courteney
Cox, "Friends") and her various
attempts at dating younger men,
the show has since morphed into
something entirely different,
making a lot of viewers wonder
why the title made itnto the page.
The cast even put forth sugges-
tions for alternative names.
"Cougar Town" isn't about
Courteney Cox vying for stud-
ly 20-somethings. It's about a
close-knit group of adult friends
- dubbed the "Cul-de-Sac
Crew" - who have a lot of fun
and drink a lot of wine.
It sounds simple, because it
is. Most of the comedy comes
directly from the interactions
among different combinations
of the Cul-de-Sac Crew. Put-
ting any two of these characters
in even the simplest of situa-
tions leads to hilarity. Jules's
two best friends - the feisty,
speed-talking Laurie (Busy
Philipps, "Freaks- and Geeks")
and the ever-crabby and judg-
mental Ellie (Christa Miller,
"Scrubs") - hate each other
and engage in daily insult bat-
i ties. Ele's husband Andy (Ian
Gomez, "Royal Pains") has an
over-the-top friend-crush on
Jules's ex-husband Bobby (Brian
Van Holt, "Entourage"), who
lives on a boat and has a golf
cart in lieu of a car. The cyni-
cal bartender Grayson (Josh
Hopkins, "Private Practice")
often acts like he wants nothing
.to do with Jules and her crazy
friends, but he quickly converts
into a full-fledged member of
the gang - watching "American
Idol," chugging wine and writ-
ing songs, (his top hits include
"Confident in My Sexuality"
and "It's Part of Being a Couple
- Remix").. Jules's pragmatic
teenage son Travis (Dan Byrd,
"Heroes") serves as the straight
man most of the time, calmly
explaining to the adults in his

life that "morning drinking"
probably isn't the best idea.
An ensemble show like "Cou-
gar Town" is nothing without a
well-meshed cast, and comedy
veteran Courteney Cox hardly
outshines her co-stars. Philipps
brings vibrant energy to her
delivery of all of Laurie's wild
stories, ramblings and words of
wisdom ("I have a rule that every
kiss should last three seconds -
it's what the Obamas do").
Speaking of "Scrubs," even
though this show has a different
premise and formula from Bill
Lawrence's past work, the dia-
logue, tone and jokes of "Cougar
Town" are distinctly Lawrence-
esque, reminiscent of this com-
edy master's beloved medical
sitcom. The Cul-de-Sac Crew
isn't all that different from the
Sacred Heart bunch in the ways
they interact and develop recur-
ring inside jokes. The characters
of "Cougar Town" make up the
game "Penny Can" - literally
consisting of throwing pennies
into cans - which reminds me
of all the absurd games J.D. and
Turk used to play, such as "Find
the Saltine" and "Toe or Finger."
On Valentine's Day, Ellie and
Grayson engage in a Janitor vs.
J.D.-like prank battle, ending
with Grayson littering Ellie's
whole house and front yard with
obnoxious Christmas decora-
tions. If you liked the pacing
and character arcs of "Scrubs,"
you're sure to find a familiar
home in "Cougar Town."
A game of
Penny Can,
anyone?

"Whose life should I ruin next?"
Emily's emotional complexities, idealistic, free-spirited David
it's nearly impossible to figure out Clarke, the very man she and her
the character's internalizations. husband framed. Small but pow-
In this case, empty expressions erful character moments reveal
are the product of bold acting that Victoria suffers from numb-
choices, not the dead-behind-the- ing guilt and regret, but she
eyes disease that plagues many never lets her weaknesses show,
dramatic television actors. especially around Emily, who
has drawn her suspicion since
the pilot. And just like VanCamp,
Stowe plays her character's dual
 genature with deftness and care,
a rsometimes making it easy to
s sympathize with the character
far revenge, and sometimes making empathy
or* almost impossible.
"Revenge" takes everything
that makes a soap opera gripping
VanCamp's talents are -the cliffhangers, the complicat-
matched only by the finesse of ed relationships, the snappy dia-
Stowe, who has made Victo- logue - and injects less common
ria Grayson the most dynamic attributes of the genre: careful
and intriguing character on storytelling and subtle character
"Revenge." Victoria - scornful- work. There are about 10-too-
ly called Queen Victoria by those many aerial shots of the exqui-
below her on the Hamptons site Grayson manor per episode,
social ladder -is controlling and and most of Emily's "insightful"
fierce, a domineering ruler who voiceover's are trite, but the show
is poised and confident on the was never trying to be acritically-
surface.'But there's much more acclaimed masterpiece - its mis-
to Victoria than supreme bitchi- sion is to entertain and enthrall,
ness - she used to be involved in and it succeeds in doing so week
a passionate love affair with the after week.

When Bill Lawrence alluded
to the possibility of "Cougar
Town" changing its name, I was
torn. On the one hand, the show
has been in constant danger of
cancellation and returns next
week after a long hiatus filled
with uncertainty for fans. Law-
rence noted on his Twitter that
the title is certainly a contribut-
ing factor to the show's low rat-
ings. The term "cougar" is also
offensive and problematic, and
have I mentioned it has noth-
ingto do with the show? But I've
become attached to the ridicu-
lous name. I no longer whisper
"I love 'Cougar Town' "out of
shame, because you know what?
It's a downright hilarious and
heartwarmingshow about fami-
ly and friendship that frequently
outshines "Modern Family" in
its ability to take simple stories
and charge them with smart,
feel-good comedy.
Yes, the titles "Friends With
Beverages" and "Wine Town"
are far more accurate, and if a
name change means the show
gets to stick around a little lon-
ger, I'm all for it. I guess I just
wish people could look past
the name and see the show
for what it is - a cougar-free,
wine-infused (penny) can full of
laughs.

0
0

HAVE YOU EVER SHOT A CHARGING LION?
THEN YOU'RE PERFECT FOR DAILY ARTS.
E-mail arts@michigandaily.com for an application.

m

A

A r



8B Wednesday, 2012

0

'

I

What are your plans for Valentine's Day?
by Kaitlin Williams
Valentine's Day - some call it a scam manufactured by Hallmark. Some
swoon and get engaged. Some scoff at the mainstream holiday and buy dis-
counted candy the day after. Yet others cast off their reservations about love
and make reservations at fancy restaurants with their significant others. How-
ever you decide to spend this random upcoming Tuesday, seize the day for
whatever you want it to mean to you. Make it a Mother's Day preview and call
up your mom to tell her you love her. Give your best girl friend a flower. Tape
hearts all over a stranger's dorm room door. Just because some guy wrote love
letters in prison doesn't mean you have to commit a crime and get locked up to
seize the passion of this February day, do a dramatic reading of Walt Whitman
for your current crush or buy a Walt Whitman chocolate sampler. Take a page
from the stories told in these pictures and reach out your hand to someone you
love. Nothing warms the heart like the heat of two hands interlocked.

statement
FEBRUARY 8, 2012
PROMETHEANVISION
The History of Research at the University
c"te 9 iclhigan wily



.. .

2B Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Statement
THE JUNK DRAWER

9

0

0

0

Wedesdy, ebrar 8,201 //Th Sttemnt 7BE

Rolling your own burrito

from last week: teach for america random student interview
by laura argintar /illustrations by jeff zuschlag
Do you think Teach for America should charge schools

an extra $3,000 for each corps member hired?

yes
26.2%

no
/ 73.8%

Online comments
"The more important question is not whether $3,000should be spent on
school supplies, but whether that investment would better improve student
achievement than student placement with a TFA teacher... The goal of edu-
cation is not to protect the jobs of low performing or ineffective teachers."
- anonymouswolverine
"We need to find ways to raise the retention rate of teachers, not lower
them."
- rocky42

Welcome to the Random Student
Interview, where we run around
without clothes on.
Hey, what's up? How are you
today?
I'm good. Kind of a rough morning,
what about you?
A lot of the same. I got a stupid
parking ticket this morning on
North Campus. Do you think I
have to pay it?
Oh man, they get you every time up
there! I go to the School of Art &
Design and I always get them. It's
the worst. You can pay them online
though. I know because I get them
so frequently, it's my homepage.
I'm pretty sure I give Ann Arbor
more money than the actual tax-
payers.
Any special plans for Valentine's
Day?
I don't know yet. I'm probably
going to eata lot of chocolate that I
bought myself.
Are you seeing anyone special?
He's definitely "special," but you
know, nothing special.
I wonder how he got into the
University ofMichigan, then.
How long have you guys been
together? Long enough to score
some good Valentine's Day gifts?
I wouldn't be expecting anything
radical from this guy, butI also
wouldn't turn anything down
either.
What have been some of your


favorite Valentine's Day gifts
that you've received in the past?
In the fourth grade, Cody [redact-
ed] gave me two Starbursts and a
tattoo necklace. It was pretty awe-
some.
Did you end up dating him?
No, he broke up with me like two
weeks later for Jiovanna [redact-
ed]. I'll never forget it - clearly,
since I remember both their full
names. It really traumatized me. I
stopped eating Starbursts.
Ouch. What is the worst gift
you've ever received?
Does no gift count? One time I
received a gym membership, which
was weird.
I really cannot believe that. How
does that even happen? Who
were you seeing?
I know. There's a story behind it,
but basically I kept going to my
sister's gym as her guest and I
had been abusing the privileges
for weeks. She was only allowed
maybe five guest passes and I think
I went 15 times. So finally, after
flirting with some of the guys at
the front desk, they gave me a free
month membership as a mock
"Valentine's Day gift" incentive.
Do you still go? Or more impor-
tantly, do you pay?
I kept going until the summer
months began when they pretty
much cornered me and were like
"OK, this has been fun watching
you run around in short shorts, but
seriously, you have to start paying
for a membership now or we're

gonna start kicking you out." I was
too embarrassed to go back after
that, so I switched and started pay-
ing for one closer to my house.
But you weren't embarrassed
,about running around in short
shorts?
You do what you gotta do. It
worked for a while. And it was
totally worth it. (Laughs) I was,
like, 17, and I thought it was cool.
Interesting. Have you heard
about the Walk of Shame Shut-
tle?
Yeah, I saw it posted on someone's-
wall on Facebook. Sounds like a
great idea. I want to use it to go to
breakfast or something afterwards.
I think it's pretty genius, but I don't
know if I'd actually use it or just
call a friend.
It also sounds mildly unsanitary.
Yeah, I guess the driver would
have to seriously wipe down the
seats after each customer. Also,
gwouldn't want to be up in the
morning that early to take kids .
home. Normally if I sleep out, I
don't stay past 8 am. j
Well, if it's a Fridayyou could
just try to blend in with the kids
going to class. Or you could park
your car some place close to the
house and drive home - barring
you don't get any parking tick-
ets, that is.e
- Samantha is an Art & Design
seingo as O o oudpr

A day at the mercy of strangers' food suggestions
By Chloe Stachowiak

've never been to The Chop House.
When I'm rushing to or from class
with an empty stomach, Thai food
doesn't even cross my mind. Like
many of my peers, I reach for a sure thing
when I'm hungry. In fact, my Ann Arbor
eating is almost exclusively limited to a
handful of sushi places (depending on
which one I'm closest to) and the- occa-
sional salad from Panera. I rarely branch
out from this handful of restaurants, and
when I do, it's usually with a friend who
is, for whatever reason, sick of sushi and
Panera salads.
But I can't help but think I'm missing out
on something - that an entire world of cafes,
sandwich shops, and restaurants exists out-
side my tuna roll and chicken salad palate.
After all, aside from a few office buildings
and parking structures, what is our down-
town district but a mecca of upscale (and
overpriced) eateries? Am I the only person
in Ann Arbor who doesn't take advantage of
these dining opportunities?
I decided to seek out these answers the
only way I knew how: by putting my appetite
in strangers' hands. For an entire day, Iasked
people off the streets where to go for each
meal and what to order - no Panera allowed.
10:30 a.m.
My Saturday morning started on South
University Avenue. Though I was sport-
ing bleary black eye makeup from the night
before, I didn't shy away from asking for
breakfast suggestions from the trendiest
person I could find: a Burberry-clad woman
in sunglasses who was the perfect comple-
ment to her breakfast suggestion - Sava's for
the Parfait French Toast.
Though I'd never stepped foot inside
Sava's, I should have known that the

woman's appearance was a precursor to
the classy establishment awaiting me. The
leather gloves. The oversized shades. The
lipstick at such an early hour. This woman
obviously leads a classier life than I do, and
this unfortunate truth unveiled itself the
second I stepped inside the clean, crisp and
well-lit restaurant. Everything was just too
polished.
The French toast I ordered was just as
intimidating as the ritzy atmosphere, piled
high with creamy yogurt, artfully arranged
berries and pompousness. Nothing about the
flavor itself wowed me. Despite the glamor-
ous appearance and price tag, it tasted exact-
ly like a piece of bread smothered in dairy
and fruit.
So maybe the dish wouldn't be showing up
in my dreams anytime soon - a phenomenon
my waiter had claimed to experience regu-
larly. But at least it looked pretty.
2:30 p.m.
My next meal felt a little closer to home,
thanks to advice from a group of students I
met taking a smoke break on a Kerrytown
porch.
"You have to go to Jerusalem Garden,
get the falafel sandwich," instructed the
leader of the porch posse, shielding her
bleach-blonde hair from the wind. "And
you have to get it with hummus and hot
sauce."
"It's just an Ann Arbor original," added
her hairy friend in a voice as serious as his
grizzly beard. "It's not like one of those
cookie-cutter pita chips and hummus plac-
es. You can get that shit anywhere in this
town."
The small, sunny restaurant was a nice
change from the spread of Sava's, but Istill
felt a little bummed at my porch friends'

suggestion.
It's not like anything was wrong with
the food - the hummus was creamy and
the falafel deep-fried to perfection - but
my time there just didn't feel out of the
ordinary.
There was no mystery, no stressful-
yet-exciting hunts through the menu, or
the "let's all order different things so we
can share" deals among groups of friends.
Everyone there knew exactly what they
wanted and what they were getting.
What's the fun in that?
6:45 p.m.
Lunch was a little less inspiring than I
had expected, but I had faith that my luck
would change when dinner rolled around.
Maybe someone would instruct me to go
somewhere fancy, where patrons wore
real pants in lieu of leggings and entrees
cost more than six dollars. And maybe, just
maybe, that place would serve medium-
rare steaks.
But it seemed that fate and I just weren't
on the same page. My dinner assignment
was Panchero's Mexican Grill, the home of
midnight munchies, belligerent conversa-
tions and everything that comes with an
embarrassing night of South U partying. A
low price and DIY thrill, according to Sam,
the curly-headed guy I met outside Espres-
so Royale on State Street.
"The townie secret is to order a side of
beans, rice and a tortilla," he insisted, "and
then just make it into a burrito yourself.
It's cheaper than just ordering something
off their menu."
Needless to say, I was skeptical. What
could the fast food Tex Mex place offer me
that a local restaurant couldn't, especially
when my BAC was "in the blue?"

Admittedly, my Panchero's experience
was almost exciting at first. I felt like I was
cheating the system as I stood behind the
burrito bar. At any moment a cook could
point his leathery finger and expose me for
the penny-pincher I was. But that never
happened, and it only took one bite of my 4
makeshift burrito to drain its badass thrill.
It was as lackluster and bland as it sounds
- a mushy pile of.carbs that lacked even
the simple touch of cheese or salsa. This is
what townies eat for dinner?
Epilogue
And, like that, nine hours and 25 dollars
passed me by. The part of me that wasn't
totally bloated felt tinged with disappoint-
ment.
I didn't once walk inside a European
breakfast cafe or swanky Indian restau-
rant. I still don't know what Ethiopians
eat for dinner, and the fabled Chop House
remains a distant stranger - hell, I didn't
even get close enough to the restaurant to
peek in the windows.
But maybe that's the point. Maybe
there's a reason why students feel uncom-
fortable in unfamiliar and expensive
breakfast places, flock to the same Medi-
terranean places for falafel and opt for
cheap "Mexican" dinners instead of dish-
ing out a day's paycheck for a meal.
Eating out might be more about com-
fort of routine than broadening horizons
and palates, about playing it safe with old
favorites rather than taking chances on
the exotic and unknown. So unless my
parents are in town to treat me to din-
ner (in which case Main Street awaits), I
think I'll just stick with my usual Panera .-
salad and sushi rolls. I order the same
ones every time.


0

0

0.

0.

. ,

IM Wednesay, Fbruar 8, 202 // he Sttemen

RESEARCH
From Page 4B
ducted less frequently and protests involve
animals instead of explosives, the federal
government's involvement in research con-
tinues.
Today, the National Institutes of Health
and the federal government support the
largest part of the University's $1.2 billion
research budget. Last year the NIH alone
gave the University more than $570 million
for health-related studies.
Forty-five percent of the research budget
goes to medicine-related studies, 15 percent
to engineering, 10 percent to public health
and 7 percent to social research.
Edie Goldenberg, a former LSA dean who
is now a public policy and political science
professor, saw the expansion of research not
only in biomedical but other fields as well,
while she served as dean from 1989-1998.
"During my time in LSA, Michigan
- became the (second) largest research Uni-
versity in terms of amount of funding, after
Johns Hopkins," Goldenberg said.
With increased funding and encourage-
ment of research, the work at the University
flourished. Other institutes were built and
soon garnered more national recognition.
The University's Institute for Social
Research is one of the leading centers for
survey research and houses five centers: the
Center for Political Studies, the Inter-uni-
versity Consortium for Political and Social
Research, the Research Center for Group
Dynamics, the Survey Research Center and
the Population Studies-Center.
ISR is not housed within a specific school,
but the Institute for the Humanities, the
University's humanities research center,

is in LSA. Goldenberg said the institute is
amongst the best of its kind.
"The social sciences here at Michigan are
very strong," Goldenberg said. "They are
really something to be proud of at Michigan
and they generate a lot of research activity,
perhaps more than most other social science
departments in other places."
The University prides itself on encourag-
ing interdisciplinary work between fields
and departments by housing strong core
areas for research, including medicine, engi-
neering, public health and social research,
Forrest said.
"All of these four schools are strongly cou-
pled to other schools around campus that are
much broader in scope and vision," Forrest
said. "We're so collaborative that it allows
us to look at multi-dimensions of the same
problem."
Ken Warner, dean of the School of Public
Health from 2005-2010, said that when he
was asked by Duderstadt to chair a commis-
sion to search for a new provost, the Univer-
sity's interdisciplinary work was something
many candidates said differentiated it from
other schools.
"I don't think you could find another uni-
versity that has as many schools and colleges
as we do that are ranked in the top 10 in their
fields," Warner said. "We have breadth and
we have depth."
Warner, who said he was attracted to
the University because of its reputation
for research, has developed classes he
said wouldn't be able to teach without his
research.
"One of the advantages of a university
like this for the students is that they are
really learning state-of-the-art knowledge
and methods," Warner said. "Most of the

faculty are very '" " * * 
active on their
scholarship and
their research.
It means they're
up to date, and
it means the stu -
dents are learn-
ing what's really
current."
Likewise,
first-hand
involvement
in research for
undergraduates
is something
the University
receives national
acclaim for now,
but it increased
tenfold while
Goldenberg was -
dean of LSA, she
said.
"There was a
tiny little pro-
gram called . a.. . . . .
UROP that had
14 students when I
became dean, and
now it's, I think, pushing 1,000," Goldenberg
said. "So that was a big ramping up of that
program."
University President Mary Sue Cole-
man, a biochemist by trade, openly supports
research growth. Coleman participated in
research as an undergraduate for a summer
and felt the experience was important.
"It was totally different from taking a
course," Coleman said. "I think it was one of
the reasons that I probably decided to go on
INTERNET
From Page 4B
successful and efficient network, as
opposed to other universities around the
country.
"All the other proposals that were sub-
mitted to NSF would have built much less
capable networks," Van Houweling said.
"(Other university networks) would have
gotten saturated. There wouldn't have
been enough resources to make them
work, and the notion of these Internet pro-
tocols that we now depend on for every-
thing would have gotten a black eye.'It
might have been the end of the Internet."
Atkins said if the University did not step
up, the Internet could have ended up as a
much more closed environment that was
segmented between telecommunications
companies.
Echoing Atkins's words, Van Houwel-
ing said the telecommunications compa-
nies were against the open structure of the
Internet he helped create,
"Of course, none of the telephone com-
panies thought this was a good idea," Van
Houweling said. "From their point of view,
the only way to run a network was with a

'
:\ .
^ ^
")i\
\''
n.\\:::
N \ ':\
:t::
\
::
i
"
I

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Statement-E3,

tweets of the week
#Superbow l('-

a week of daily stories


Jim Gaffigan m , en
The Super Bowl is like the Super Bowl of Super Bowl
references
Adam Sc hefter .A<-am h2
Get your excuses ready: 7 million people call in sick to
work today
Tw itteir.t.i
In the final three minutes of the Super Bowl tonight,
there were an average of 10,000 tweets per second.
-eb
Andy Borowitz 4r, w zr:rt
BREAKING: NFL Sets Next Year's Halftime Show
Starring Dame Judi Dench

I 5r> I

MCKENZIE BEREZIN/Daily
The University of Michigan Health System
is under review after it waited six months to
report the discovery of child pornography
that was found on an employee's flash drive.

)Os -to Present

in graduate school."
The University has increased the diver-
sification of its funding by starting part-
nerships with industry and allowing
businesses to contribute funds, which less-
ens dependency on federal funds should
they diminish.
Last year, for instance, saw no increase
in federal funding.
Vice President for Research Stephen
Forrest said the lack of increase is to be
expected now as well as in the future.
"If we look over the next decade we're
going to see a slowing in the growth of
" federal funding."
Ultimately, what Duderstadt says
drives research at the University - soci-
ety's wants - is what Forrest calls the
" University's great asset.
"Michigan is spectacularly well posi-
tioned in that world," Forrest said. "We
* do a tremendous amount of really basic
" research, but where our greatest strength
is in doing research which somehow con-
nects pretty closely to societal needs,
* whether it's in the social sciences, engi-
neering or medicine."
hierarchical control structure, and the
Internet has a distributed control struc-
ture."
Looking back on what his team achieved,
Van Houweling said he believes the Inter-
net could have been created only in an aca-
demic setting.
"The only place in the world the Inter-
net could have been invented was.at a uni-
versity, because we're the only people who
understand that good things happen when
nobody is in charge," he said.

scabbed knees and mcdonald's
[status update] by marisa winter
How many phone calls have you gotten about
Walk of Shame Shuttle?
Too many. I've kept count of total number of states who
have tried to contact me - 28 states and Canada.
Where's the weirdest place you've woken up?
In my car in a field off of a visitor's parking
area. I ate a McDonald's breakfast. Mcdonold's
breakfasts: that's the story of my life.
Tell me your best drunk story.
I was walking (not running) and tripped on the cement.
The next day I had to go to UHS because my knees were
swollen. I had crutches for three weeks. At my sorority
mock awards, I got "Most Likely to Have Scabbed
Knees."

TruMich, a student organization dedicated
to promoting mass transit on campus, is
working with the University to create an
MCard-based bike sharing program.

Kelly ann Wargo
creator of Walk of Shame Shuttle

The University is working to improve the
Central Campus Transit Center to ensure the
electronic boards at the bus stop show real-
time information.




" i

0r

0

0

W

46 . . ' -Feriy .202/ TeSatm n

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 // The Statement B

Would there be the
Internet without the 'U'?

By Zach Bergson

is

to other institutions to dissemni-
philosophy. Andrew White, then'
sor of history and English litera-
ok Tappan's idea of the university
earch institution and went on to
ornell University in 1865.
Enter World War I1

t'

al cha

er Today, the University receives more
le than $800 million annually in funding
:i- from the federal government, a numbere
c- that represents approximately two-thirds
sd of its total research budget.
What was markedly different about the
a University in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries was that most of its research
: funding came from internal University funds
* and foundations rather than Washington.
Everything changed once America entered
World War II. Federal funding started to pour
into America's universities to develop radar
technologies, nuclear weapons and electron-
ics to fuel the war effort. These technologies
ended up propelling America to victory and
* convinced the federalgovernmentthatuniver-
* sity research was a worthy investment.
"It made the case that research was so
* important on the campuses, to obviously
national security but also to prosperity and
health, that the federal government should
play the dominant role in supporting it on uni-
versity campuses," Duderstadt said.
Though the federal government knew the
® import'ance of funding university research,
most of its awards were limited to military and
national security research. Only a small per-
centage of federal funds were granted to non-
military experiments.
The University was no exception to the
* trend.
As the Cold War heated up, the federal gov-
ernment awarded the University millions of
dollars to conduct classified military research;
* in stealth technology, remote sensing and
laser weaponry. At the time, the University

.
"
w
s'
"?
,;
,, -
s
r
s
s
s
r
s
r,
'
'-
w

Early 1970s
did not have its own central apparatus for
research and thus most of this classified
research was conducted through the Col-
lege of Engineering, according to Duder-
stadt.
Most of the classified research was con-
ducted at Willow Run Laboratories near
Ypsilanti, an off-campus facility that now
functions asanairport. Duderstadtsaid the
University chose an off-campus facility to
limit outside exposure as much as possible.
Only a small amount of classified research
was conducted on-campus, according to
Duderstadt.
But at the height of the Vietnam War in
the 1960s and 1970s, controversy began to
swirl around the University's involvement
in classified government research.
"As Vietnam became a controversial
issue, students were very concerned about
the military industrial complex," Duder-
stadt said. "They were concerned about
being drafted, and so this became a hot
issue."
In the early 1970s, the uproar over clas-
sified research being done at the University
grew so violent that Willow Run's on-cam-

taking lives, then the policy was against
* it," Duderstadt said.
Even after the University made these
reforms and cut its ties to military
research, student protests continued
well into the early 1980s. Duderstadt said
* on a few occasions students even tried to
: break in and take over laboratories on
* campus.
* Duderstadt said he still agrees with
the University's policy to restrict classi-
fied military research on campus. How-
ever, he conceded that since most of the +
country's mathematical and scientific
talent is concentrated within universi-
ties, academia must be involved with
some of America's clandestine activities,
albeit in off-campus locations.
Duderstadt cited cryptography, the prac-
tice of code breaking for the intelligence com-
munity, as an example.
"(University Provost) Phil Hanlon is a
world-class cryptographer, but he doesn't do
it on campus," Duderstadt said. "He goes to
California in the summer.,
Duderstadt stressed that without the
involvement of the University's research
institutions, national security would be very
much at risk in this country.
Research today
As the University severed ties with military
research, it moved into a new field that con-
tinues to dominate research today: biomedical
research.
This transition was triggered by a broader
societal need for such research, Duderstadt
said.
"No matter what the federal government
tells you, the priorities for research are really
driven very much by larger trends in our soci-
ety," Duderstadt said, adding that in the 1970s
and 1980s the national focus switched from
defense technologies to health care.
Although classified research is now con-,
See RESEARCH, Page 6B

T here are countless theories of how the engines for innovation, and of course
the Internet was created. Most people Michigan was there among them."
respond to the question with playful jokes In a 1984 nation-wide competition, the
about Al Gore's remarks in 1999 that he National Science Foundation awarded
"took the initiative to create the Internet." five universities funding for supercom-
But when this question is posed to Uni- puting sites.
. versity administrators, it's met with a Michigan wasn't awarded a site, but
decidedly different answer. was later asked by the NSF to rebuild its
"A lot of people don't realize it, but overloaded and dysfunctional network,
although Al Gore ......... ..
claims he invented the
Internet, we built it,"-"
former University Pres-
ident James Duderstadt
said.
Dan Atkins, the "
" associate vice presi-
dent for research
" cyberinfrastructure, *
added that the Univer-
sity "played a critical
role at the tipping point
. in propagating ... the
open architecture and "
the intelligence at the
ends rather than the
. center kind of model
that the Internet now
has."
Most of Michigan's
involvement in the
creation of the Inter-
net can be traced back
to one man, Doug Van
Houweling.
Van Houweling,
an associate dean for
research and innova-
tion, first came to the
. University in 1984 during a critical ;*a
time in telecommunications research. * NSFNET. The network was one of the
Vice President for Research Stephen . precursors of the Internet and was cre-
Forrest said before the 1980s, most inno- ated by NSF to connect the supercom-
vations in telecommunications came from w puting sites around the country.
places like Bell Laboratories and IBM * Its original version operated at a
research laboratories. But as costs grew * snail's pace compared to the networks
and competition increased, the business we know today - only 50,000 bits per
models of these institutions changed. second. ARPANET, a network created
. They could no longer make the invest- . by the Department of Defense, predat-
ments in innovation that they used to ed NSFNET but was only used by a few
" make, according to Forrest. computer science departments around
"What rushed into that vacuum were the country that received Department of
universities," Forrest said. "They became " Defense funding.

Starting in 1987, Van Houweling spear-
headed the University's effort to rebuild
NSFNET. His team initially approached
the state of Michigan's own network
Merit, which was created collaboratively
by the University of Michigan, Michigan
State University and Wayne State Uni-
versity, to work together on the project.
After the Merit board agreed to join
the project, Van Hou-
weling solicited the
help of IBM and MCI,
a now-defunct tele-
communications
company, to build the
hardware and routers
for the network. The
partnership between
the private and pub-
lic sectors made Van .
Houweling's proj-
ect efficient and cost
" effective.
In the end, NSF
awarded the Univer-
sity funding to launch
the new NSFNET in
" 1988 because of the
strength of its proposal
and its low costs, Van
Houweling said.
Van Houweling
said it was from this
point forward that the
Internet as we know
it today began to take
shape. The new NSF-
NET, unlike its prede-
cessor, did not become
oversaturated with information and .
actually grew by 10 percent every month
until it was shut off in 1995.
Initially, the network was restricted to
research facilities and higher education.
But as it grew, many commercial compa-
nies started to pay for its connections and
access spread to the general population.
By the time the University shut off NSF-
NET in 1995, private corporations had the
knowledge to run their own networks.
Van Houweling added that the Univer-
sity was uniquely positioned to build a
See INTERNET, Page 6B

a

- I - - I - -

a

I


