iC i an 4,3atll

Friday, November 2, 2012

michigandailycom
ELECTION 2012
Feisty U.S.
Senate
campaign
nears end

Former Michigan Daily Editor in ChiefTom Hayden speaks at the Port Huron Statement Conference in East Hall Thursday.
Hden: Student avism
still relevant years later

Polls: Stabenow
has large lead
over challenger
Hoekstra
By ANDREW SCHULMAN
Daily StaffReporter
A few hours after the polls
closed on primary election night
in 1992, Pete Hoekstra's phone
started ringing, and 'it didn't
stop. On the line was a cadre of
local journalists scrambling to
find out where Hoekstra, then
a little-known candidate for the
U.S. House of Representatives,
was holding his Election Night
party.
The journalists had not both-
ered to ask before because they
had assumed he would lose.
He had only raised $45,000,
$30,000 of which was his own
money. He had no political
experience and was running
against Guy Vander Jagt, a
26-year incumbent who chaired
the National Republican Con-
gressional Committee.

"It was probably the one year
that I could have won - some-
one with no money, getting on
a bicycle, running against a
26-year incumbent," Hoekstra
recalled in an interview last
week. "Itwas perfect timing."
Two decades after his five-
point victory over Vander Jagt,
18 of which he spent in Congress
before a failed gubernatorial run
in 2010; Hoekstra is again chal-
lenging an entrenched incum-
bent, U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow
(D-Mich.).
Despite polls showing Stabe-
nowholding a large double-digit
lead, the race between the can-
didates has been one of the most
heated in the state.
For Hoekstra, the fierceness
of the contest has offered a new
reality of campaigning. He has
not ridden his bike to meet vot-
ers across the .state, as he did
to defeat Vander Jagt in 1992,
in subsequent House elections,
and in his run for the governor-
ship in 2010.
Instead, he has consistently
criticized Stabenow for her
policies, often targeting what
See SENATE, Page 3

SDS founder
recalls Port Huron
Statement
By ALICIA ADAMCZYK
Daily StaffReporter
Fifty years later, the statement
- which he later finished in a
* cramped house on Arch Street
- is considered one of the most

influential documents for Amer-
ican left-wing activists. After
speaking at conferences across
the country, Hayden, also a for-
mer state California senator and
editor in chief of The Michigan
Daily, returned to the University
on Thursday night to deliver the
keynote address at the confer-
ence, A New Insurgency: The
Port Huron Statement In Its
Time and Ours, which celebrates
the 50th anniversary of the pub-

lication's debut.
Political novelists, University
professors and members of the
original Students for a Demo-
cratic Society, the organization
that drafted the statement, gath-
ered on campus to give lectures
and participate in panel discus-
sions about America's new left
and the future of participatory
democracy. About 500 Universi-
ty students, Ann Arbor residents
and former members of SDS

packed into an East Hall audito-
rium on Thursday night to listen
to Hayden's speech.
In his address, Hayden dis-
cussed the writing process
behind the 25,000-word docu-
ment, as well as its ramifications
today. He said the statement was
influenced by many different
activists and groups, as well as
individual SDS members.
"One lesson that I learned is
See HAYDEN, Page 3

UNIVERSITY'S BOARD OF REGENTS
Steele, Horning hope to
change balance on board

Republican regent
candidates talk
in-state,
* out-of-state ratio
By TUI RADEMAKER
Daily StaffReporter
The two Republican can-
didates running for the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents are
striving to bring a more conser-
vative perspective to the Demo-
crat-controlled board as they vie
for two open spots on Election
Day.

Among their primary con-
cerns are lowering tuition costs
by reallocating the University's
endowment and encouraging
more studentsto take spring and
summer courses by offering low-
ered rates.
Republican candidate Dan
Horning said he hopes to focus
on lowering the cost for in-state
students to prevent constant
year-to-year tuition hikes. Spe-
cifically, he said he would like to
work on ratios between in-state
and out-of-state students that
garner the greatest financial
efficiency for the University.
"The biggest challenge today,
for me, is striking the balance

between in-state and out-of-
state (students): engaging prop-
er tuition for the out-of-state
and international students and
finding more access for the in-
state students," Horning said. "I
think in-state students are pay-
ing too much, and I don't think
out-of-state students are paying
enough."
Horning was previously
elected to the board in 1994 and
served for eight years, primar-
ily dealing with construction
and facility improvement on
Central Campus and serving as
vice chair of the search commit-
tee that hired University Presi-
See BOARD, Page 3

Republican Gov. Rick Snyder answered questions from voters Thursday evening in Detroit.
Snyder canvasses state

W -TANG CLAN
RZA talks 'Iron Fists,' career

Go
in

Rapper-producer
to release martial
arts thriller.
By SEAN CZARNECKI
DailyArts Writer
For RZA, it may never be
enough. Despite being the de
facto leader of the Wu-Tang

Clan and having been heralded
as one of hip hop's most for-
midable talents, the rapper-
producer, whose given name
is Robert Fitzgerald Diggs,
has widened the wake of his
legacy by authoring books, act-
ing in television and film and
even composing film scores and
soundtracks.
Now, all his ambitions
and talents, cultivated from

childhood to manhood, from
"C.R.E.A.M." to Grammies,
have culminated in his directo-
rial debut: "The Man with the
Iron Fists," a martial arts movie
about a vicious battle for gold in
a fabled Chinese village.
RZA found time away from
his many posts to sit down for
an exclusive interview with
The Michigan Daily to discuss
See RZA, Page 3

By A
DET
up and
Republ
town h
night,i
the tw(
The
ring to

vernor weighs to enshrine collective bargain-
ing rights in the state constitu-
on state ballot tion, started by calling collective
bargaining essential, and ended.
proposals with angry criticism of Snyder's
decision to end benefits for the
NDREW SCHULMAN spouses of same-sex employees.
Daily StaffReporter When the man finished his
question, Snyder stepped back
'ROIT - As a man stood and said he did not take issue
began to ask a question to with collective bargaining, but
lican Gov. Rick Snyder at a disapproved of the, proposal,
all forum here Thursday which he said would wipe more
it was immediately clear than 170 laws from Michigan's
o would not agree. books.
audience member, refer- The exchange highlighted
Proposal 2, which aims two prominent themes of the


town hall, hosted by Snyder and
Steven Clark, a news anchor at
WXYZ-TV. At times intense, and
often interrupted by rounds of
clapping and booing, the event
spoke to eventhe most minuscule
details of the sixballot proposals.
Snyder, who responded to
audience members in the small
auditorium in front of a standing
banner that read "Say Yes to One,
No to the Rest," blamed most of
the night's confusion on a cam-
paign of misinformation by pro-
posal supporters and detractors.
He most vehemently defended
See SNYDER, Page 3

WEATHER HI: 46 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY-COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail #michlinks
TOMORROW LO: 27 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS.............. 2 SPORTS ........................5
Vol. CXXIII, No. 37 AP NEWS...................3 CLASSIFIEDS ...............6
©2ll2TheM ichiganoDaily OPINION -.................. 4 ARTS ...........................7
michigondol!y.c! m

'4


2- Friday, November 2, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 40

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY.FRIDAY:
In Otherlvory Towers This Week in History Professor Profiles Campus Clubs Photos of the Week
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
LEFT James Acheampong, a www.michigandaily.com
drum carver rom dGhana, craf ts JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
cordia mood info drums on Oct. Editor io Chief Business Manager
26. (Tracy Ko/ Daily) 734-418-4115 ext.1252 734-418-4115 ext.1241
Sichterman@michigandaitycom rmgrein@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

A

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Bookin' it
WHERE: Hutchins Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at
10:05 a.m.
WHAT: A student reported
that overnight two text-
books were stolen from
their locker, University
Police reported. The stu-
dent had a combination lock
on the door but found it
unlocked after the theft.
Leggo my eggo
WHERE: Northwood I
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 9:30 p.m.
WHAT: A male student on
the sidewalk was allegedly
hit with eggs thrown from
a passing vehicle, Univer-
sity Police reported. Police
later located the vehicle and
identified a suspect with
further investigation pend-

This reeks of a
pending arrest
WHERE: Couzens Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 1:40 p.m.
WHAT: A police officer
confiscated marijuana and
associated paraphernalia,
University Police reported.
An investigation is pending.
Hard pressed
to find laundry
WHERE: South Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 10:30 p.m.
WHAT: Assorted laundry
was supposedly stolen from
a dryer on the seventh floor,
University Police reported.
There are currently no sus-
pects.

Drum concert
WHAT: The University
Percussion ensemble will
perform traditional African
music to show on influence
in Western music.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: University of
Michigan Museum of Art
Port Huron
Conference
WHAT: "A New Insurgen-
cy" marks the 50th anni-
versary of The Port Huron
Statement. The conference
aims to encourage social
change similar to the effect
of the first issue's ideas for
radical reform.
WHO: Port Huron 50
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
- 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Anderson and Pendleton
rooms

Shakespeare
comedy
WHAT: "Measure for
Measure" is a play about
political issues that are
applicable today.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Mendelssohn
Theatre
MACFest
WHAT: The annual a cap-
pella concert put on by the
Michigan A Cappella Coun-
cil features all the a capella
groups on campus to debut
the new members from the
current freshman class.
Tickets are $5 with a stu-
dent ID or $8 at the door.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30
p.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Graduate School

THRE ThINC Y(U
SHO LD KNW T)JAY
Research from a small
study has foundthat high
math anxiety activates
the same brain activity asso-
ciated with the physical sen-
sation of pain, CNN reported.
The neural area that is acti-
vated is linked with physical
threats and bodily harm.
If U.S. Rep. John Ding-
ell (D-Mich.) holds
his congressional seat
until June 8, 2013, he
will have served in Congress
for the longest period of time
in American history. Dingell
assumed office in 1955.
FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
In a Vanity Fair and "60
Minutes" online poll
regarding which actor
should be tasted as Jesus,
Denzel Washington won,
according to the Today show.
Daniel Day-Lewis, Al Paino,
Ryan Gosling and Woody
Allen trailed Washington.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrew Weinbr Managing Editor anweiner@michigandaily.com
BethanyBiron Managing News Editor biron@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Haley Goldberg, Rayza Goldsmith,
PaigePearcy,AdamRubenfire
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman
Timothy Rabb and opinioneditors@michfgandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts EditorialPagetEditors
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MelanieKruveis,HarshaNAhata,VanessaRychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Sarah Skaluba
Stephen NesbitManaeingotsEditoe nesbitt@nichigandailyomn
SN SPOTSE DIORnSEee k,aenE Etes,oZachHlfnLokerna
Neal Rothschild, MattSlovin
ASSISTAN T SPOnORS: StevenBraid,MichaelLaurila,MattSpelich,
ColleenThomas,Liz Vukelich,DanielWasserman
Leah BUrgin Managing Arts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
uSSSTANSDIORS:acoA a Td, L arCse rt,MattEaston, Kelly Etz,
Anna Sadovskaya, Chloe Stachowisk
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss ManagingPhototEditor
SNR PHTO DTOag RS:TrraMoengraff, Todd Needle
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS: AdamGianzman,Austen Hufford,,AllisonKruske
MarieneLacasse,AdamSchnitze
Alicia Kovalheck and design@michigandaily.com
Amy Mackens ManagingDesign Editors
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
Jennifer Xu Magazine Editors
DEPUTYMAGAZINEEDITOR:ZachBergson,KaitlinWilliams
Hannah Poindexter copychiee coydese@michigasdaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:JosephineAdams,BethCoplowitz
BUSINESSSTAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate Business Manager
Sean Jackson Sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
The Michigan Dailyl(IsSN 0745s967)ispublished Monday through Friday during-thefall and
winter terms by students at the university of Michigan.One copy is available free ofocharge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for$2.subscriptions for
fall ptmstriieptember, viau.S.mal are $1o.intrteerm(anuarythroughAprio)is
$is, yearlonglseptemberthroughApri)is9sIs.universityaffiliatesaresubjecttoied
subscription rate.On-campussubscriptions for falltermare $35.Subscriptions must beprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

4

GOING

TO THE
AIlR PORT?

Election forum informs students
about ballot proposals in Michigan
Public officals Speakers who followed includ- nomically failing communities. would be a boon to the state's
ed a state legislator, private con- Butler said Proposal 4, which economy.
discuss changes to sultants and members of state would provide in-home health "(Buildingthebridge) is about
coalitions. care workers with collective jobs and building a healthier
state constitution State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D- bargaining rights, is counter- economy for Michiganders,"
Ann Arbor) spoke against Pro- productive because high union Williams said. s
ByKATIE BURKE posal 1 and in favor of Proposal dues would prevent many work- He added that allowing resi-
Daily StaffReporter 2, emphasizing the difference ers from receiving any profit as a dents to vote on every inter-
between Proposal 1, which is a result of unionizing. national crossing is not an
Though the state's six ballot referendum, and the other pro- "Alotofpeoplegetzerobenefit organized way to conduct legis-
proposals are listed atthe bottom posals, which are constitutional from the union dues thatthey are lation and would result in inef-
of the ballot, issues concerning amendments. paying, and there is no benefit ficient government.
the proposals took center stage Irwin said Proposal l is a move whatsoever to the people they Butler countered, saying
at the 2012 Election Forum on to affirm Public Act 4, passed in are taking care of,"'Butler said. Michigan citizens should have
Thursday night. 2011, which allows the state gov- Scott Heinzman - a Michi- the ability to weigh in on such an
About 90 students attended ernment to appoint emergency gan representative for Ameri- influential decision, as the pub-
the event, which was hosted by managers to lead economically can Disabled for Attendant licwould be most affected by the
the Rackham Student Govern- distressed districts. Programs Today, an organiza- construction of the bridge.
ment, Students of Color of Rack- "Really what we're deciding tion for disabled citizens - and "Proposal 6 isn't a decision
ham, Center for Local, State and with Proposal l is whether or not a beneficiary of in-home health of yes or no on the bridge, it's a
Urban Policy, and The Michigan we want to validate the changes care, said Proposal 4 puts the decision to take it to the people
Daily. Opponents and propo- made in 2011," Irwin said. "If the control of in-home health care so they can have a say in the
nents of each proposal spoke and public were to vote no on Propos- in the hands of patients. process," Butler said.
answered questions submitted all1... we would go back to the old "We are directing the state to Public Health student Olivia
by Rackham students. emergency manager law." move away from the old, insti- Alford said Election Day will
Bridget Mary McCormack,the Irwin added that there are bet- tutional approach to long term be her first time voting, and she
dean of clinical affairs at the Uni- ter alternatives for the emergen- care, and we're moving into the found the forum informative.
versity's Law School and Michi- cy financial manager law than modern version of we direct our "Some of these issues seem
gan Supreme Court candidate, the 2011 alterations, and stopping own care," Heinzman said. very sensitive to the political
opened the event by encourag- the proposal would force leg- To conclude the forum, Brad climate, so I wanted to learn
ing students to fully participate islators to reassess the law and Williams, the vice president more about them," Alford said.
in voting by filling out the entire investigate other solutions for of government relations for "(The forum) made some issues
ballot. aiding financially unstable cities. the Detroit Regional Cham- less black and white."
McCormack said a large num- Lewis Butler, economic out- ber, argued against Proposal Rackham student Amber
ber of voters do not complete reach consultant at Americans 6, which would require voter Williams said she attended the
the non-partisan section of the for Prosperity, an organization approval for the construction of event to learn about the pro-
ballot, which is a major issue for devoted to strengthening the any international border cross- posals beyond their advertise-
state government and court elec- state government, argued in ing if approved. Butler, whose ments.
tions. favor of Proposals 1 and 6 and organization supports Proposal "There are so many bal-
"The non-partisan section of against Proposals 2 and 4. 6's sponsor, billionaire Matty lots, and it's really hard to get
the ballot has a big drop-off rate Butler said the recent mea- Moroun, advocated for the pas- through the partisan infor-
from the top of the ticket to the sures enacted by Public Act 4 sage of the measure. mation," Williams said. "(The
bottom of the ticket," McCor- are necessary to carry out the Williams said if the bridge speakers) made up my mind on
mack said "That is too bad." reforms that will rebuild eco- could be built expediently, it some proposals."
FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
@theblockm
@michdailyarts
@michdailydesign
@michdailyphoto
@michdailyoped

0

S

0

.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 2, 2012 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 2, 2012 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
University debate
team to host high
school tournament
High school debate students
from about 20 states are sched-
uled to argue government policy
at the University of Michigan.
The University of Michigan
Debate Program is hosting its 17th
annualtournamentbeginningFri-
day afternoon. The program runs
through Sunday at the school's
Ann Arbor campus.
Nearly 700 debaters, coaches,
judges and parents are expected
to attend. Two-person policy
debates will be held in varsity and
novice divisions.
The debate's policy topic will be
"Resolved: The United States fed-
eral government should substan-
tially increase its transportation
infrastructure investment in the
United States."
BOSTON
Man sentenced for
planned terror raid
on U.S. Capitol
A Massachusetts man was
sentenced Thursday to 17 years
In prison in a plot to fly remote-
controlled model planes packed
with explosives into the Pentagon
and U.S. Capitol.
Rezwan Ferdaus, 27, of Ash-
land, pleaded guilty in July .to
attempting to provide material
support to terrorists and attempt-
ing to damage and destroy federal
buildings with an explosive. As
part of a plea agreement between
prosecutors and Ferdaus' attor-
ney, both sides agreed to recom-
mend the 17-year sentence.
Ferdaus, a Muslim-American
who grew up in Massachusetts
and has a physics degree from
Northeastern University, deliv-
ered a long, soft-spoken statement
in which he offered no apology
for his actions but thanked his
family and friends for supporting
him. He said he has actepted his
fate and "can dream of a brighter
future."
LOUISVILLE, Ky.
Officials rush to
contain toxic fire
The blaze that authorities ini-
tially said would end in a couple
of hours instead spewed flames
and smoke from a derailed tank-
er car for a second day Thursday
with no end in sight, as crews
scrambled to prevent it from
igniting railcars loaded with
toxic chemicals nearby.
Hundreds of people have had
to evacuate, including the entire
town of West Point and some peo-
ple from the outskirts of Louisville.
The burning butadiene, a chemical
commonly found in rubber used to
make tires, can damage the central
nervous and reproductive systems.
Workers were hosing down other

railcars nearby filled with another
corrosive chemical, hydrogen fluo-
ride, which can cause severe respi-
ratory damage.
MOSCOW
Putin mysteriously
falls ill after stunt
What ails Vladimir Putin?
The Russian leader whose
image of physical vigor is key to
his success has canceled several
foreign trips in recent weeks, post-
poned his annual live televised
question-and-answer session with
average Russians, and has rarely
left his suburban residence out-
side Moscow.
A respected Russian newspaper
claimed Thursday that a public-
ity stunt during which Putin tried
to lead cranes on their migratory
paths in a motorized hang-glider
aggravated an old injury.
Putin's office denies it was the
flight with cranes, insists it is just a
pulled muscle and spins the situa-
tion, saying that athletes often get
banged up. Besides, it says, Putin's
avoiding the Kremlin office so he
doesn't tie up Moscow traffic with
his motorcade - something that
hasn't seemed to trouble him dur-
ing his previous 12 years in power.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

SENATE
From Page 1
he views as her record of reck-
less spending and neglect of the
economy. After emerging from
a crowded field of candidates
in the Republican primary
election, he has referred to his
opponent as ' "Debbie Spend-
It-Now," and himself as "Pete
Spend-It-Not."
He also launched a recent
effort to name Stabenow Mich-
igan's "worst senator ever,"
building a website that points
to her support for the Afford-
able Care Act, "wasteful spend-
ing" and failure to create jobs
as reasons why he thinks she
should be replaced.
As he sipped hot chocolate in
an interview at Sweetwater's
Cafe on E. Washington St. last
week, Hoekstra compared Sta-
benow to Vander Jagt by deem-
ing her lost in politics.
"I thought that the current
representative, or in this case
the current senator, was part
of the problem, not part of the
solution," he said of Stabenow.
"I think D.C.'s a mess, I think
Debbie's part of the problem, I
think my background and my
experience says that I could
help fix things, and I think I
can beat her in an election."

A poll released on Wednes-
day by the Detroit Free Press
and WXYZ-TV showed Staben-
ow leading Hoekstra 54 percent
to 33 percent. All 13 polls in the
last two months have showed
Stabenow leading, and in 10
of them she had a double-digit
lead, according to the Detroit
Free Press.
In an interview this week,
Stabenow said she is not sur-
prised by Hoekstra's aggres-
siveness in the last few weeks
given his position in the polls
and the increase of partisan-
ship in Congress - a phenome-
non she attributed to the influx
of Tea Party congressmen in
2010.
She called Hoekstra an
"extreme" candidate, citing
the fact that he co-founded
the Congressional Tea Party
caucus along with U.S. Rep.
Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.).
Stabenow has campaigned
on her support for President
Obama's healthcare reforms,
her support for higher educa-
tion and her record on agri-
culture while in Congress. She
serves as the chairwoman of
the Senate Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition and For-
estry.
She said she heavily opposed
the doubling of interesting
rates on student loans this year,

and noted legislation enacted
protecting the Great Lakes as
her proudest achievement dur-
ing her time in the Senate.
She said the issue of higher
education was personal for
her, recalling that she needed
student loans to attend Michi-
gan State University. She went
on to serve in the Michigan
House of Representatives and
Senate, and the U.S. House
before defeating U.S. Sen.
Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) in
2000.
For his part, Hoekstra, who
graduated from the Univer-
sity's Business School in 1977
and worked for 15 years as vice
president of.marketing for a
Fortune 500 furniture compa-
ny before challenging Vander
Jagt, said he is not worried
about the polls.
He cited the endorsements of
various Michigan Republicans,
including Republican Gov. Rick
Snyder as evidence of his con-
tention in the race.
"I can read about this horse
race every day," he said. "Every
phone call is about, 'How's the
horse race? How's the horse
race?' The bottom line is, we've
got a plan, we're executing it
- that's the most important
thing. And we think that the
plan gets us over the top at 8
p.m. on Nov. 6."

HAYDEN
From Page 1
that ideas don't come out of one
person's head," he said. "Ideas
are nothing if they're individual
ideas."
He skid the real genius of the
statement was that it unified of
people who already had respect
for each other's ideas.
"(Members of SDS) couldn't
necessarily get over all of their
political disagreements," he said.
"But they knew they had to be
creating the uncreated conscious
of their time."
Humor was prevalent
throughout Hayden's speech,
forcing him to pause multiple
times to let the laughter die down
before continuing.
"I think I'm on emotional
overload, returning to this cam-
pus," Hayden remarked. "I feel
like Barack Obama at the first
debate."
Al Haber, the first president
of SDS, said he's hoping the con-
ference will spurn a new stu-
dent-led movement to address
society's woes, as SDS and other
University students did years
ago. He noted the University's
rich history of activism, includ-
ing serving as the site of the first
teach-ins protests against the
Vietnam War and the birthplace

of the U.S. Peace Corps.
"What I'm particularly press-
ing for is that we see this as
activist and prospective, not as
academic and retrospective,"
Haber said. "Consider yourself
partofthis community, and what
would you put in that manifesto
for now? What are the (issues)
you see as critical?"
Howard Brick, the confer-
ence's organizer, said he was
pleased with Hayden's address
and the crowd's response.
"There was a spirit and enthu-
siasm that I thoughtwas remark-
able," Brick said. "Tom speaks in
a way that's capable of keeping
the spirit alive."
Public Policy senior Michael
Bloom said he thought the event
was phenomenal.
"Tom Hayden was obviously
a revolutionary figure and the
Port Huron Statement was really
a milestone in activism through-
out the country, especially here
at Michigan," Bloom said.
LSA junior Theresa Johnson
said she came to the event after
she read the statement in her
American Culture class, and was
interested in learning more.
"I think (the statement) still
plays a role in today's society
and beingunified," Johnson said.
"Especially with the election
comingup, and havingyourvoice
heard when you want it to be."


SNYDER
From Page 1
Proposal 1, the public vote on the
emergency manager law, and
attacked Proposal 2.
"I doubt if I asked how many
people knew what parts of the
Michigan Constitution could be
wiped out by this provision, that
there are many people in this
room," he said. "I doubt there
are many people that can walk
through the 170 laws and really
understand all the consequences
of what could happen if they get
wiped-out."
Snyder has previously said he
opposes Proposal 3, which would
place renewable energy require-
ments in the state constitution,
because he finds lawmaking to be
a better alternative to a constitu-
tional amendment.
He also opposes Proposal
6, which would establish need
for a popular vote to begin con-
struction of the proposed bridge
between Detroit and Canada, on
grounds that the crossing would
clearly benefit Michigan. He
added that Ambassador Bridge

owner Matty Moroun has poi-
soned public opinion on the
bridge.
When asked how he can be so
assured that Michigan taxpayers
would not bear any taxburden for
the proposed bridge, he deferred
to Roy Norton, Canada's consul
general of Canada in Detroit.
Norton told the audience that
he would have preferred the state
gather the fundsto split the fund-
ing for the bridge, as did Maine
and New York.
However, after Snyder's attempt
to allocate the funds died in the
state Legislature, the Canadian
government decided the project
was importantenoughforittofoot
the entire bill, Norton said.
"We aren't in the habit, I
should say, as a country, of
offering free infrastructure to
developed countries, but in this
particular case it's so important
that we ... had no choice," Norton
joked.
Support for the six ballot ini-
tiatives has fluctuated over the
last several months. Proposal
1, the referendum on the emer-
gency financial manager law, has
earned support from 35 percent

of Michigan residents and disap-
proval from 43 percent, accord-
ing to a poll released Thursday by
WXYZ-TV and the Detroit Free
Press.
Meanwhile, Proposal 4, which
would establish a limited collec-
tive bargaining agreement for in-
home health care workers - and
which was only lightly discussed
Thursday night - is too close to
call, according to a poll from the
two news organizations. The poll
reported that 44 percent of likely
voters oppose the proposal, while
42 percent approve of it and 11
percent are still undecided.
The closeness of the vote on
some of the six ballot propos-
als, and what Snyder said was a
wealth of misinformation, have
pulled Snyder across the state in a
campaign to boost his "Say Yes to
One, No to the Rest" stance.
On Thursday, Snyder stopped
in Livonia, Sterling Heights and
Lake Orion and held an online
web chat with The Oakland Press
before arriving here. The stops
were part of a bus tour named for
his perspective on the six propos-
als.
At the governor's final stop

in Detroit, Stephen Clark, the
WXYZ-TV anchor, praised Sny-
der for his transparency, telling
members of the audience that he
did not know another governor
who was as open with the citi-
zens of their state.
University alum Jacob Cohen,
a part-time University Law stu-
dent, came with what he called
"instincts" about his voting deci-
sion. He said he left with more
resolution about how he would
vote, pointing to Snyder's clarity
on his positions.
Cohen said he came to view
the referendum on the emergency
financial manager law as the less-
er of two evils between an emer-
gency financial manager installed
by Snyder - an elected official -
and a federal bankruptcy judge.
He said he also sided with Sny-
der's caution in deciding whether
initiatives have a place in the state
constitution.
"It was great to hear really sub-
stantive answers from someone
when all you see on TV are tag-
lines and things that don't make
much sense," Cohen said in an
interview after the event. "You
have to talk about these issues in

long-form to understand the actu-
al issue underlying the proposal.
You don't get that from TV ads."
Still, some attendees of the
townhallsaid they were unmoved
by Snyder's arguments and unim-
pressed by his willingness to
answer audience questions.
Sarah Grieb - a fellow at Chal-
lenge Detroit, a group that has
worked to educate voters on the
proposals and emphasizes the
facilitation of democracy - said
she was unimpressed with Sny-
der's answers.
"He was telling people how to
vote," Grieb said in an interview
after the event. "I don't think
that people got more informed by
coining here tonight."
Jacqueline Smith, a West-
ern Michigan University alum
and another fellow at Challenge
Detroit, added that she hoped
attendees would seek an alter-
nate perspective on the ballots,
whether or not they were per-
suaded by Snyder.
"I just think it's important that
people do their own research,
because it's easy to just look at
the ads and not really inform
yourself."


RZA
From Page 1
his upcoming film, which enters
wide release on Friday.
"All of these different ways of
expressing myself is like what
Bruce Lee would say, 'express
yourself fully,"' RZA said, giving
a big-smiled laugh. "And that's
what I feel like I'm doing. I'm not
gonna let anybody stop me from
doing that."
Growing up in poverty in New
York City, RZA digested count-
less hours of martial arts films.
Though separated by thousands
of miles and several millennia,
RZA discovered himself spiritu-
ally connected to ancient Chinese
culture.
More than entertain-
ment - more. than escapism
- these movies provided a spiri-
tual framework within which he
learned to express himself, he

said. He draws inspiration for
his music and "The Man with the
Iron Fists" from the "same well."
"Sometimes, I think of being
ferocious like a tiger, but nim-
ble as a crane. As deceptive as a
snake, you know what I mean?,"
he explained. "These types of
ideas I apply to music, I apply to
my daily life, you know - I live
martial. Bruce Lee would say,
'forget the form, be like water."'
As a child, RZA was a zealot for
martial arts films. It wasn't until
he met Quentin Tarantino dur-
ing the filming of "Kill Bill: Vol.
1" that RZA became a student of
the art. Under the tutelage of the
mind behind "Pulp Fiction," he
was exposed to film that wouldn't
have otherwise been possible,
that would only add to his "well."
During this time, RZA became
acquainted with Eli Roth, the
acclaimed horror director of
"Cabin Fever," and discovered
that both their fathers attended


the same public school. Togeth- classic '70s and '80s -era Shaw
er, they turned an idea into the Brothers movies.
screenplay that-would eventually "I wanted to make sure I cap-
become "The Man with the Iron tured that essence," RZA said.
Fists," marking RZA's transfor- "But at the same time I love Spa-
mation from kung-fu nut to kung- ghetti Westerns, and I love the
fu filmmaker. sounds they make, and the weird
"It took a lot of preparation, things Morricone would do with
a lot of studying, a lot of focus his soundtracks. I wanted to add
and it was very rewarding, but some. of that flavor. Then, at the
it wasn't difficult," RZA said. "It same time, I'm a big, big hip-
was almost like a natural musi- hopper, so I had to get hip hop
cal progression, you know what I in there. And the Black Keys -
mean? I got to one level, one level, they're bringing me some nice
and my mind and my energy was indie rock and shit, you know
just going further and further, what I mean?"
and now, I see directing is the "This is something that melts
medium where I can accomplish cultures together," he added.
all of my skills at once." RZA explained that because
Having composed scores and stories must also be grounded ina
soundtracks for videogames and non-fiction world, the universe of
films, most famously Tarantino's "The Man with the Iron Fists" is
"Kill Bill" series, RZA knows aware of the social and historical
what sounds should populate the issues of the period it portrays.
off-screen world of film. But as "During the period the film
someone who loves kung-fu, he takes place, there was a big opium
adheres deeply to the music of the
plan that would reduce tuition
during spring and summer terms
to encourage students tograduate
early as well as maximize facility
use throughout the year. 6 _ 5
Horning echoed Steele and said
the University must make bet-
ter use of the campus year round I 7
by encouraging students to take
summer courses and offer them 2 3
reduced tuition for those terms.
Horning added that he plans Ig
to lower tuition costs by finding
alternatives to compensate for
reductions in state appropria--7
tions, such as increasing donation
initiatives and pushing for reallo- 2
cation of the endowment.
While he said he would always 30
be pleased to see increased state_ _
funding, he emphasized the
importance of not relying on the
state government.
"The state simply does not 7 I
have the money ... if the money's
not there, I don't think we ought * S"
to assume the extra money's com-
ing our way," Horningsaid.

war in China," RZA said. "This
was when the British were able
to come through and spread the
opium, startwars - all these dif-
ferent types of confusion they
brought. And we touch on that a
teeny bit."
After all this time, from kung-
fu music sampling to the his-
torical accuracy of his upcoming
film, martial arts continues to
bleed through the layers of RZA's
diverse career "like water."It con-
tinues to change and be changed
by his creative endeavors.
This idea of "expressing your-
self fully" is his end-all goal. Per-
haps then, all that he will do, as
everything he's done before, will
be but a series of apprenticeships
- he "lives martial."
"This film feels to me like my
first album, 36 Chambers (felt).
And I look forward to making five
more classics," RZAsaid, smiling.
"At least."
5-M

BOARD
From Page 1
dent Mary Sue Coleman in 2002.
Looking ahead to the possibility
of a new term, he said he wants
to make finances a primary focus.
HorninggrewupinEastGrand
Rapids before studying political
science and English at the Uni-
versity, where he also served as
a student manager of the football
team under Bo Schembechler.
Since graduating in 1982, he has
worked in private financial ser-
vices and is currently the man-
aging director for Northwestern
Mutual.
Horning added that he would
be a conservative voice to what
he deems a liberal-leaning board,
adding that he would provide a
unique perspective as the only
candidate for regent hailing from
West Michigan.
Republican candidate Rob
Steele said if elected, his primary

focus would be providing funding
for in-state students and encour-
aging them to stay and work at
Michigan companies after gradu-
ating.
One of Steele's biggest ideas is
a plan that would make students
majoring in science, technology,
engineering or math eligible for
a tuition refund program if they
decide to stay in Michigan for more
than five years after graduation.
"This is a way that the Univer-
sity can pay back this 150-year
investment by the taxpayers."
Steele said. "In part (the endow-
ment) should be used to improve
the return investment to the state."
Born and raised in Greenville,
Mich., Steele, a cardiologist,grad-
uated fromthe University's Medi-
cal School in 1981 and served as a
clinical assistant professor in the
School of Medicine for more than
20 years. He also ran for Congress
in 2010, losing to U.S. Rep. John
Dingell (D-Mich.).
Steele said he also supports a

t


4 - Friday, November 2, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4- Friday, November 2, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

.!

IJIE 1M ditian &4ath
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
O I-E IA
Vote Johnson,
Kelley and McCormack
ne of the unsung sections of this year's ballot entails the race
for Michigan's Supreme Court. Unbeknownst to many, $10
million has been spent on television ads by the two major
political parties on the Supreme Court race. The current Supreme
Court is controlled 4-3 by conservative justices, so the outcome of
this election will have a major effect on many state decisions, as it
supervises and regulates other courts.

Beyond disillusionment

Since this presidential cam-
paign began 18 months ago,
there's been a narrative that
hasn't seemed to go away. By now,
we're all famil-
iar with the
popular refrain
- the disillu-
sioned youth
who once upon
a time volun-
teered and voted
for President YONAH
Barack Obama. LIEBERMAN
The 2008
campaign was
the first time I really engaged in
politics. I wasn't old enough to vote,
hut I'm proud to say I got caught
up in the empowering slogans of
"Change" and "Yes We Can." I sud-
denly found myself in Richmond,
va. as a community organizer, ral-
lying support from door to door.
Imagine that: a well-off, Jew-
ish, private-school kid talking to
impoverished black people. It was
inspiring work.
But wait! Before you all shove
this paper into the recycling bin,
I promise not to bore you with all
of Obama's accomplishments and
Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney's dangerous posi-
tions. That's overdone.
There's an oft-overlooked, yet
important demographic on campus:
people from all backgrounds who
may not vote - those of you who are
no longer inspired by the soaring
rhetoric and incredible atmosphere
of "the first time." That is, the first
time that Obama ran for president.
I know from experience that
many pundits' blanket statements
of disillusionment are entirely
false. I saw it first-hand in Denver
when I was a field organizer for the
Obama campaign last summer, and
I've seen it all across this campus
these past two months.
But, yes, there are many who
have lost faith - who, as the pun-
dits say, are "disillusioned."

Look, I get it. I really, really do.
There are many things I am frus-
trated at Obama for not doing in
his first term. He failed to achieve
immigration reform, fight for the
public option in health care reform,
pull our troops out of Afghanistan,
create more green jobs, reinvigorate
the peace process between Israelis
and Palestinians or close Guantana-
mo Bay. He continued the Bush tax
cuts on the wealthy and increased
the drone strikes in the Middle East.
And yet, my issue isn't entirely
with the president, but with the sys-
tem in which he functions. My issue
isn't entirely with the lack of prog-
teas, but with the institutions in
place that make true progress diffi-
cult. My issue isn't entirely with the
change that we didn't see, but with a
government that makes changes far
too slowly.
Clearly, I have major qualms
with the president's first term. We
shouldn't ignore these issues, and
we shouldn't simply forgive his
transgressions. We should engage
with them.
To engage is to act publicly when
we disagree. This could mean taking
to the streets, lobbying our congres-
sional representatives, writing to the
White House or - as Obama once did
- doing some real community orga-
nizing. To engage is not to check out.
That shouldn't be an option.
Every activist eventually learns
that change is slow. It took 10 years
after the Montgomery Bus Boycott
for the Civil Rights Act of 1965 to
become law. It took 35 years after
the 1969 Stonewall riots for Massa-
chusetts to become the first state to
legalize same-sex marriage.
We live in an imperfect world gov-
erned by imperfect institutions. Our
Electoral College is imperfect. Our
two-party system is imperfect. Our
campaign finance laws are imper-
fect. Our politics are imperfect.
If we want change, throwing up
our hands when confronted with
these imperfections isn't an option.

We need to roll up our sleeves.
The sweeping change we wanted
so badly in 2008 may have been
represented by Democratic presi-
dential nominee Obama, but he was
never going to achieve it all with
his hands alone. We cannot sit back
and watch. If we stop working for
change, it drifts that much farther
out of reach.
Take heart, get
out of bed, and
go to the polls.
We shouldn't forgetour emotions
the night Barack Obama became
president-elect. We can't push aside
the hope we felt simply because
change is slow. There's too much at
stake. There are too many policiwes
that still need to be changed.
I refuse to tell my grandchildren
that my generation's strength and
unity dissolved in disillusionment.
I reject the narrative that paints
the 2008 election as the high-water
mark of our movement for change.
There are valid reasons to be dis-
appointed in Obama's first term. But
there's no excuse not to vote for a sec-
ond term. There is no reason why we
cannot come together again as agen-
eration of change-seekers and hope-
mongers, starting with Election.Day.
When you wake up on Nov. 6,
remember how you felt "the last
time." And remember that while
change may be slow, change will
only come if, after we vote, we keep
on working.
- Yonah Lieberman can be
reached at yonahl@umich.edu.
Follow him on Twitter
@YonahLieberman.

4

McCormack is a former faculty fellow at Yale
Law School and the associate dean for clinical
affairs at the University's Law School. She has
participated in the Law School's clinics and
formed her own, the Domestic violence Litiga-
tion Clinic and the Pediatric Health Advocacy
Clinic. McCormack became the Dean for Clini-
cal Affairs in 2002.
McCormack is a teacher of law and an
advocate for justice. In an interview with
Michigan Radio, she said that if elected she
would "apply the law set by the political
branches of government, to provide stability
and promise equal treatment to all of our citi-
zens." McCormack is an advocate of due pro-
cess of law in all cases, and even volunteered
to defend a prisoner held in Guantanamo Bay
during the Bush administration.
She also told Michigan Radio thatshe's "real-
ly committed to the important, independent
role the court plays inour constitutional democ-
racy." Most importantly, however, McCormack
is committed to the community and believes
that the Court has a unique responsibility and
function within it.
Connie Kelley, a veteran of law for 27 years,
serves on the Wayne County Circuit Court.
Elected to the 3rd Circuit Court in 2008, Kel-
ley's term has been characterized by fairness
and consideration of both sides of arguments.
An Oct. 9 article in The Michigan Chronicle
described Kelley as family activist who looks
after the rights of children. As Kelley said dur-
ing the interview, one of the justices retiring
this year, Justice Marilyn Kelly, is the only
justice serving the state of Michigan to have
experience in family law. Kelley also serves as
a mentor for young women at Cody High School
in Detroit. In another interview, Kelley identi-
fied herself as someone who believes in trans-

parency of the law: "We believe that justice
should be for everybody and the justice system
should be accessible to everybody."
Two Republican opponents, Oakland County
Circuit Judge Colleen O'Brien, and Justice Ste-
phen Markman, have made questionable deci-
sions as judges. O'Brien sentenced a man who
raped an 11-year-old boy to one year in prison
and four years of probation; this is clearly not
a harsh enough sentence. Justice Markman
has consistently voted conservatively in many
cases. For example, in Pride at Work v. the Gov-
ernor of Michigan, Markman ruled that Michi-
gan's gay marriage ban also bars same-sex
domestic partners who are public employees
from receiving health insurance benefits.
For the half-term Supreme Court position,
Judge Sheila Johnson is running against Jus-
tice Brian Zahra. Johnson is a graduate of the
University of Michigan Law School.and has
served as the judge of 46th District Court for
nine years. She has worked as both a trial judge
and as a lawyer, giving her experience from
both sides. Justice Zahra was appointed to the
Michigan Supreme Court by Governor Rick
Snyder in 201. Zahra, like Markman, voted to
reject same-sexbenefits.
McCormack, Kelley and Johnson have the
skill to maintain jurisprudence in Michigan.
Both have opposed unprecedented campaign
contributions that took place in the 2010
Supreme Court elections and onward after
the Citizens United case. vote Bridget Mary
McCormack, Judge Connie Kelley and
Judge Sheila Johnson for Michigan Supreme
Court. Kelley will provide the necessary expe-
rience with regards to family litigation, McCor-
mack brings academic reflection to the judicial
bench and Johnson brings experience from her
range of careers.

I
I
I

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
LIZ RODRIGUES WPI NT
Support collective bargaining

4

F ROM T HE DA ILY
Vote Dingell, Stabenow
Jn a partisan campaign of Super Bowl proportions, former U.S.
Rep. Pete Hoekstra is the Republican challenging Democratic
incumbent Sen. Debbie Stabenow to represent Michigan in
the U.S. Senate. Hoekstra is adamant that his initiatives are a vast
improvement over his contender's. In an interview with The Michi-
gan Daily, he summarized five key items that form the focal point
of his candidacy: achieving American energy independence, revis-
ing our tax code, privatizing our country's health care industry,
improving our educational system and balancing the budget.

Hoekstra's goals mark a good starting point,
but he failed to sufficiently explain the means
by which he plans to achieve them in the Sen-
ate. Most troubling were his presumptuous
statements about the current quality of the
American health care system.
"America's health care is imperfect, but
imperfect as it is, it's still the best health care
system in the world, and I don't want to put it
in aposition where it's controlledby the federal
government," Hoekstra said.
While it's true Americahas excellenthealth
care, it's by no means the "best health care
system in the world," even compared to some
of our closest neighbors. Per-capita health
care spending in the U.S. is nearly twice that
of Canada's and exceeds any other country in
the world. In spite of the high expenditures,
however, the World Health Organization
ranked U.S. health care 37th worldwide, well
below the other industrialized countries and
some developing countries.
When asked whether he and his Repub-
lican cohorts had earned back their seats in
government in the wake of the Bush admin-
istration's missteps, Hoekstra pointed to the
current administration as an example of a
more recent failure.
This is a striking example of Hoekstra's
tendency to take the path of least resistance,
harping on the shortcomings of his opponents
rather than emphasizing his own campaign's
strengths. Thiswas evenmore clearly observed
in hiswidely panned, racially insensitive Super
Bowl campaign advertisement, which criti-

cized Debbie "Spenditnow" for her alleged sup-
port of moving jobs overseas.
Stabenow's interview with the Daily
focused more on her efforts to strike a com-
promise between parties. She has made a
positive impact with her position as chair-
woman on the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition and Forestry. She also underscored
her role as a "champion of advanced manu-
facturing and new technologies," a support-
er of the national auto industry and a chief
figure in a $23-billion reduction of wasteful
spending in the agricultural industry.
Though her voting record lacks perfect
consistency, Stabenow is the most qualified
candidate for U.S. Senate not only for her
abstention from extreme rhetoric, but also
due to the firm precedent she's set with a
12-year tenure as a senator. vote Sen. Debbie
Stabenow for U.S. Senate.
In the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep.
John Dingell faces Cynthia Kallgren to con-
tinue his record-long service as congressman.
Dingell's 57-year career, the longest in House
history, is studded with remarkable contribu-
tions, including his crucial role in uncovering
numerous cases of political corruption and
fraud. Duringa candidateforum at Weber's Inn
on Oct. 10, Dingell was able to cite numerous
examples of political service, while Kallgren's
only managerial experience is derived from
her role as a consultant for a company called
Creative Memories. Dingell's record speaks
for itself -vote Rep. John Dingell for the U.S.
House of Representatives.

If you're a Michigan voter, you
have an important decision to
make on Nov. 6. Will you stand on
the side of working families and
on the side of democracy, dignity
and fairness for all workers by vot-
ing yes on Proposal 2?
We, as your GSIs and as officers,
stewards and members of the Gradu-
ate Employees' Organization, have
worked hard to ensure you are able
to make this decision for our state,
rather than the CEos and politicians
who have launched dozens of legis-
lative actions stripping workers of
their right to organize and bargain
collectively. We urge you to vote yes
on Proposal 2.
You might have seen a few of
the attack advertisements that
circulate outright lies about what
this constitutional amendment
will mean for Michigan. These
commercials try to portray edu-
cators as evil criminals out to
harm children and steal taxpayer
money, instead of folks just try-
ing to take care of their families,
be treated fairly at work and make
our communities a better place
to live. These advertisements are
examples of the most basic kind of
discourse that does not even both-
er to rise to the level of informed
debate - you couldn't get away
with argumentation like this in
your English 125 essays. But the
adverts aren't fooling the people
who matter. Parents and informed
citizens know that collective bar-
gaining builds our communities
and protects students. That's why
groups like the Michigan PTA
have endorsed Proposal 2.
Before you make your decision,

you might have a few questions.
What is collective bargaining?
In a political climate that vilifies
working people, it's easy to for-
get that collective bargaining is
simply when two or more workers
come together with their employer
to negotiate hours, compensation
and working conditions. Work-
ers democratically decide among
themselves what to bargain for and
often address safety, quality stan-
dards and due process in hiring and
firing in their contracts. Many of
the basic workplace rights and pro-
tections we take for granted today
are the result of decades of collec-
tive bargaining efforts: the basic
40-hour work week, the weekend
break, minimum wage and child
labor laws.
Maybe your question is, "What
does the right to bargain collectively
have to do with me and my future?"
You might not be a union member
when you graduate, but your work-
ing conditions will be affected by
the standards that bargaining sets.
All workers gain because the wages,
benefits, working conditions and
safety procedures laid out in collec-
tively bargained contracts become
standards that other employers must
meet to stay competitive. Our com-
munities grow stronger because fair
wages allow us to support local busi-
nesses, fund our schools adequately
and keep safety services strong. Con=
versely, when workers don't have a
voice, we all lose. Politicians are roll-
ing back current laws that protect
wages, hours and safe working con-
ditions. We can't wait until our rights
are completely gone - we need to
protect them now.

There's a classic labor movement
* song that you might have heard
played at our rally with lecturers and
other community members support-
ing Proposal 2 last Friday. The lyrics
ask a simple question: Which side are
you on?
As we teach you in our dis-
cussion sections, rarely is such a
reductive question the right one
to ask. There are multiple sides to
every issue - and that's exactly
why teachers need a seat at the
table when decisions that affect
the quality of their students' edu-
cation are being discussed. Nurses
need to know they can't be fired for
raising safety concerns in hospitals
that are increasingly run for profit
at the patient's expense. All work-
ers need a seat at the table when
wages and benefits are being dis-
cussed. Collective bargaining gives
workers a say in these crucial deci-
sions that directly affect the lives
of their students, their patients and
their communities.
Yet in a time when the basic
democratic rights of working
people are under attack by politi-
cians and CEos who rake in record
profits for themselves while keep-
ing wages stagnant, the question
before you is simple: Which side
are you on? A vote for Proposal 2 is
a vote for the right for workers to
have a seat at the table, to have a
say in their working conditions and
to be respected for the labor and
skills they-bring to their jobs every
single day.
This viewpoint was written by Liz
Rodrigues and other members of the
Graduate Employees' Organization.

INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES?
POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every Monday and Thursday at
6pm, the Daily's opinion staff meets to discuss both University and national affairs and
write editorials. E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.

.0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com h

Friday, November 2, 2012 - 5

Wolverines blow past
Wildcats in exhibition

Albrecht, freshman excel early

By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Editor
It's hard to draw conclu-
sions from preseason basketball
games, especially for a Michigan
basketball team that has the hype
of the No. 5 team in the nation
playing against a Northern
Michigan team that went 9-17 in
Division II
last year. N M GU 47
There are MICHIGAN 83
takeaways
from these preseason games,
but again, it's only an exhibition
game.
Still, even though it's Novem-
ber and even though it was
against Northern Michigan, it
was easy to tell on Thursday
night that this Michigan team,
from top to bottom, can really
shoot. And even that might be an
understatement.
Michigan shot 42-percent
from beyond three point range
en route to a 83-47 win over the
Wildcats in its' exhibition open-
er. The game was never close, as
the Wolverines started off the
game on a 17-0 run - and that
was only their first 17-0 run of
the night.
The first three and a half min-
utes of the game started like this
for the Wolverines: 3-pointer,
3-pointer, 3-point play, 3-pointer,
3-pointer. Five possessions, 15
points.
"That was really big for our
team," freshman forward Glenn
Robinson III said. "I think it got
everyone going, especially for me
and Spike (Albrecht) being the
two freshman out there, I think
that that calmed our nerves a lit-
tle going into the game. We just
found our rhythm as a team."
Albrecht, the freshman point
guard, had six of those 15 points,
showing off some of the skills the
veteran Wolverines promised the
unheralded freshman would dis-
play early on. Albrecht was thrust
into the starting role in place of

preseason All-American Trey every starter was off the floor,
Burke, who was suspended for and with four minutes left in the
the Northern Michigan game by first half, Beilein trotted out the
Michigan coach John Beilein for five members of his highly-antic-
a "violation of team standards." ipated freshmen recruiting class.
"Spike surprises me every Those five Wolverines -
day," Beilein said. "He just plays Albrecht, Robinson III, guard
out there, and I said yesterday, Nik Stauskas, and forwards Caris
he makes you smile to watch him LeVert and Mitch McGary -
play. Everyone says, 'Well how combined for 54 of the Wolver-
did he do that,' but I don't know ines' 83 points, and didn't show
either. He just has a presence out any of the nerves associated with
there ... he certainly doesn't pass a collegiate debut.
the (eyeball) test but he continues "It was a lot of fun," Robin-
to be productive." son III said. "When we sat down
Albrecht, who seems to have a at the scoreboard, all five of us
hold on the backup point guard checked in at the same time. We
role, finished the night with 16 kind of looked at each other and
points and led the Wolverines in said, 'Let's go, let's give the fans
minutes, playing his first game something to talk about."'
in the Crisler Center like he was The Wildcats got within 10
already comfortable in his new points with little more than two
digs. minutes left in the first half, but
Michigan put on its second 17-0
run of the game - spanning
the end of the first half and the
"Let's go, let's beginning of the second half - to
squash any sort of comeback.
give the fans Stauskas led the team in points
with 17, but Hardaway had the
something to most complete game of the night.
t a u The veteran scored 13 points, and
also tallied eight rebounds and
five assists with no turnovers.
"He's got to continue to see
his role as a guard, it's a different
"Spike's been playing really role sometimes," Beilein said. "I
well all fall," redshirt junior cen- just like that he went in there and
ter Jordan Morgan said. "He's rebounded the ball. He's tryingto
a really solid player who read do more things - be more of an
defenses and just takes what they assist guy, he's become a better
give him. He's smart and is really defender - and still hit big shots
willing to learn. He played really for us."
well. But it's not that much of a The game was never close
surprise. He's been doing that all and won't count, but that doesn't
fall." mean Beilein won't use it as a
As the game went on, Beilein valuable evaluation tool, espe-
had plenty of time to experiment cially for his young freshmen.
with his lineups, trying to see One thing that stood out after
where all of his athletic guards, the game was the number of
forwards and centers should play. offensive rebounds Michigan
Junior wing Tim Hardaway Jr. secured -19 in all. When was the
and Albrecht were constants, but last time that happened with a
the players around them rotated Beilein team?
early and often. "I don't think it's in this cen-
Nine minutes into the game, tury," he said with a smile.

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports, Writer
New Crisler Center. New uni-
forms. New point guard, at least
temporarily.
Entering Thursday night's
exhibition opener against lowly
Division-II Northern Michigan,
the focus easily could've centered
on what was unveiled before the
game's tip-off. The flashy and
vibrant Crisler concourse was
revealed to the public for the first
time, but the spotlight was shift-
ed instead to freshman point
guard Spike Albrecht, starting
in place of suspended sophomore
Trey Burke.
Like Burke last year, Albrecht
showed the poise of a grizzled
vet, hiding any sign of inexperi-
ence in the Wolverines' convinc-
ing 83-47 victory.
Albrecht knocked down a
3-pointer 51 seconds into the
game, moments later assisted on
a 3-point make from freshman
forward Glenn Robinson III and
thenlofted ina floaterthathitthe
bottom of the net and sent him to
the line, where he completed the
three-point play.
Michigan coach John Beilein
spoke highly of Albrecht, com-
paring the Crown Pointe, Ind.
native to famous NFL quarter-
backs Doug Flutie, Joe Theis-
mann and Joe Montana.
"They don't pass the eyeball
test for an NFL quarterback,
but somehow they get things
done," Beilein said. "He certainly
doesn't pass the test, but he con-
tinues to be productive.
"He surprises me every day.
He just plays out there. ... He
makes you smile to watch him
play, and everybody just says,
'How'd he do that?' Well, I don't
know either."
Before the Wildcats scored
a single point - or Michigan
missed a field goal - the Wol-
verines jumped to a 17-0 lead,
with the two freshmen starters
accountingfor 12 of the points.
"We just started rolling,"
Albrecht said. "It felt good (to)
get in there and get your feet wet

ALDEN R
Freshman point guard Spike Albrecht scored 16 points against NMU.

a little bit, for all of us, actually.
We had great energy. We .came
out, got out to a nice little run,
and it was smooth sailing from
there."
Albrecht finished with 16
points and six assists, while
turningthe ball overjusttwice in
30 minutes. Robinson added 13.
"Wow," a wide-eyed Robin-
son said of the experience. "It
was like nothing else. (Michigan
assistant coach Bacari Alexan-
der) told me to just go out there
and have fun and that's what I
wanted to do. Once I saw (the
crowd), I knew it was going to be
a great night."
Freshman guard Nik Stauskas
also wasted little time putting
points on the board. The sharp-
shooter spotted up in the cor-
ner and drilled a three just six
seconds after checking into the
game. He finished with agame-
high 17 points - in just 19 min-
utes - thanks to 4-of-6 shooting
from deep.
Freshman forward Mitch
McGary added five points and
nine rebounds, but it was his
energy and willingness to draw
a charge and dive for balls that

reminded Beilein of anoth-
er Chesterton product, Zack
Novak.
"That's indigenous,' appar-
ently, to Chesterton," he said.
"They're tough kids. I would
think you'll see him dive a lot,
during this, time. That's a big
man putting his life on the line
to dive, but we'll take it every
time."
The final freshman, guard
Caris LeVert, knocked down a
3-pointer for his only points.
At one point, Beilein got so
caught up in making sure that
everyone played enough minutes
that he unknowingly sent all five
freshmen to the scorer's table to
check in at the same time. It was
the first time the highly-touted
recruiting class played together
on one unit in a7Michigan uni-
form, including during practice.
"We sat down at the score-
board - all five of us checked in
at the same time - and we kind
of looked at each other," Robin-
son said. "I said, 'Let's go. This
is our time. Let's givethe fans
something to watch and to talk
about.' I think that's what we
did."

ICE HOCKEY
Berenson expects dog fight, not fist fight, at NMU

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Editor
Last season, the Michigan
hockey team visited Northern
Michigan for
an early season .iL a
series as it will iCigafl
this weekend. at NMU
On that occa- Matchup:
sion, it seemed Michigan 3-2;
the teams NMU 3-3
gathered for a When: riday,
heavyweight Saturday
fight, only to 7:35 p.m.
have a hockey Where' terry
game break out. tvents Center
This time
around, Michi- TV/Radio:
gan coach MGoBlue.com
Red Berenson
expects tempers more subdued
compared to last year's incident

when then-starting goaltender
Shawn Hunwick took a swing at
a Northern Michigan forward
and earned a game misconduct
penalty. Michigan lost the first
game, 5-3, and earned a shootout
win in the finale.
"I don't think we'll have that
issue," Berenson said. "I think
Hunwick might've been a bit of
a target last year, and he made
a mistake last year. We've got
a new team, they've got a new
team ... we won't have any of
that."
What the Wolverines will
have on their hands, however, is a
much-improved Wildcats squad
that endured a painful sweep at
the hands of No. 7 Notre Dame
last weekend. In those games,
No. 20 Northern Michigan fell
5-2 and 3-2.

"They're a pretty good team," await the Wolverines (1-1, 3-2-0)
Berenson said. "And they'll be in Marquette, making neutral-
looking to play better than they zone communication especially
played last weekend too, because important, as breakaways are
they gave upa couple of bad goals even more dangerous.
against Notre Dame. It wasn't "If you get on the wrong side
that they got outplayed, they just of your man, it's a long way back
got outscored." to the net,"
In addition Berenson said.
to dealing with "Hunwick The larger
the new-look ice will pres-
Wildcats (0-2 might've been ent a challenge
CCHA, 3-3-0 for the two
overall), led a bit of a target freshmen goal-
by coach Walt tenders, Jared
Kyle in his 11th last year." Rutledge and
season, No. 8 Steve Racine,
Michigan will altering their
encounter an anticipated
Olymp -sized rink, bigger than angles. Berenson has yet to name
the NCAA standard and the larg- a starter for the weekend - the
est the Wolverines will see this duo each took one of the team's
season. Fifteen extra feet of ice games with Miami (Ohio) - but

he did emphasize that the team's'
Thursday night skate at the
Berry Events Center should help
minimize the adjustment for the
netminders.
According to senior captain
A.J. Treais, the adjustment
should come naturally to Michi-
gan.
"I think it works to our advan-
tage," Treais said. "We've got a
lot of guys that can fly and a lot
of guys that can drive wide so ... I
think we'll be fine."
This weekend marks the Wol-
verines' first road test of the
young season, and away games
certainly troubled Michigan last
year - it went 5-6-3 in true road
contests.
Berenson said the upperclass-
men carry a lot of the burden
of making sure "team talk" is

focused, and younger players
understand the difficulties of
playing on the road.
"None of these games any-
more are gimmies," Treais said.
"Especially with it being our first
road test, it'll be interesting to
see how we respond there."
Michigan will play without
two of its defensemen, neither of
whom will make the trip to Mar-
quette.
Junior Jon Merrill has been
sidelined since he cracked a ver-
tebrae in an Oct. 9 exhibition,
and sophomore Brennan Serville
is out with what Berenson is call-
ing a "facial concussion."
With only six defensemen
available for the two games, the
weekend will be a test of the
defensive corps' resilience and
depth.

Attend a Cooley Law School Open House in November and talk to Cooley
administrators, department representatives, students, and faculty members at
all five of our campuses.
Register online for one or all five Open Houses at cooley.edu or LI
register onsite the day of the Open House.You are encouraged
to visit more than one campus.
Lead Today. Lead Tomorrow. Cooley Law School. -
40Years ofSuccess SC.IN&LANMOR



6 - Friday, November 2, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Quarterback a question vs. Minny

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
As usual, Michigan coach
Brady Hoke spoke this week in a
stream of staccatos, punctuated
by a heavy serving of periods
and peppered with colloquial-
isms that didn't reveal much. He
favored phrases like "we'll see"
and spoke often in the condi-
tional, saying that senior quar-
terback Denard Rtobinson should
be ready with-
out straying Michigan at
into the land of
the unequivo- Minnesota
cal will. That's Matchup:
how Hoke pre- Michigan 5-3;
fers it, espe- Minn. 5-3
cially in a week When: Satur-
when a decla- day 12 p.m.
ration about
Where- TCF
the quarter- task tdeum
back position Stadium
would change TV/Radio:
so much. BTN
In this week
of uncertainty, Hoke rendered
no certainties of his own. Robin-
son should play Saturday against
Minnesota, despite a nerve inju-
ry to his right elbow, Hoke said.
His status, though, might not
be decided until kickoff. Junior
wide receiver Devin Gardner
has taken the bulk of the reps at
quarterback, but redshirt fresh-
man Russell Bellomy could still
get the nod.
"(Robinson's) better," Hoke
said on Wednesday, adding that
Michigan is planning on him
starting.
"It's not all the way cleared up
yet, but it's better."
Hoke said he didn't think
Robinson would sit out, saying,
"We're counting on him," but
he noted that he could make the
decision as late as the kickoff on
Saturday.
Suddenly, the game itself has
been thrust into uncertainty by
the fragile right elbow of Michi-
gan's star.
With Robinson in the game,
Minnesota (1-3 Big Ten, 5-3
overall) is no match for Michi-
gan, on paper at least. Michigan
(3-1, 5-3) rolled to a 58-0 vic-
tory in last year's skirmish for
the Little Brown Jug. Without
Robinson, though, the game is
as as questionable as Bellomy's
arm or Gardner's transition back
from receiver, both major ques-
tion marks.

Breakdown: Blue
should rebound

The D
enters th.
Brown J
rid itselfc
week's 23
The de
setbackf
saw their
winning
and last c
ends div:
played w
againstt
the offer
disaster;
Denard R
injury in
Luckil
on a Minr
provide7
Nebraska
are still t
under cn
one Big7
like mnuci
the home
Michig
nE
This i
game. Ev
and is effi

By BEN ESTES whether or not Robinson will play.
Daily Sports Editor Michigan coach Brady Hoke has
said all week that his signal caller
Michigan football team should be ready to go, but indicated
e 93rd battle for the Little it could be agame-time decision.
ug desperately needing to Whether Robinson plays or not,
of the poor taste left by last the Wolverines will be up against a
-9 loss to Nebraska. very tough Minnesota secondary.
feat in Lincoln was a huge The unit is second only to Michi-
for the Wolverines, who gan in pass defense in the Big Ten,
r season-long three-game and Derrick Wells is one ofthe con-
streak come to an end ference's best cornerbacks.
ontrol of the Big Ten Leg- If Robinson can't go, indica-
ision. Michigan's defense tions are junior Devin Gardner
cell, but not well enough will get the bulk of the playing time
the Cornhuskers, while at quarterback, having practiced
ise was, quite frankly, a extensively at the position this
after senior quarterback week for the first time since mov-
tobinson left with a nerve ing to receiver at the beginning of
his elbow. the season.
y the Wolverines willtake Neither Gardner nor redshirt
nesota team that shouldn't freshman Russell Bellomy should
near the challenge that play as poorly as Bellomy did
did. The Golden Gophers against Nebraska, when he was
rying to build a program thrown into the fire in a hostile
ach Jerry Kill. With just environment.
Ten win, they don't seem Still, if Michigan can move the
h of a candidate to pull off ball effectively through the air,
upset. it'll be something of a surprise.
The Wolverines will also have to
an rush offense vs. Min- account for defensive linemen D.L.
esota rush defense Wilhite and Ra'Shede Hageman,
who are among the leaders in the
s the key matchup of the Big Ten with 6.5 sacks and four
ven if Rlobinson does play sacks, respectively.
ective against Minnesota, Edge: Minnesota


ERIN KIRKLAOND/Daii
Junior wide receiver Devin Gardner and redshirt freshman quarterback Russell Bellomy could be called on at QB.
The situation is the most deli- out of his control. For one, mov- But Hoke stayed tight-lipped,
cate thus far in Hoke's tenure. At ing Gardner to receiver wouldn't and he praised the team for ar
once, he must balance the health have even been an option if especially good week of practic-
of Robinson, Michigan's best not for a lack of wide-receiver es. Gardner has taken the mos
player, with the fact that Michi- depth. And Hoke simply hasn't snaps at quarterback as the Wol-
gan cannot afford another loss had enough time to recruit and verines try to re-transition hin
in the conference. Hoke must suitably develop young quarter- after they moved him to receiver
weigh placing a heavy burden back talent, like Bellomy. at the beginning of the year.
on the tenuous shoulders of a Yet Hoke's decision will likely Hoke and Borges indicatec
redshirt freshman quarterback, be his most scrutinized in his that Bellomy and Gardner would
Bellomy, instead of the more time at Michigan. Last year, he compete for the starting job if
experienced Gardner. pushed all the right buttons as Robinson can't go. If Robinsot
And he and offensive coor- the Wolverines cruised to a sur- does start, Gardner will move
dinator Al Borges must accel- prising Sugar Bowl berth and back to receiver. Bellomy 'was
erate two months worth of victory. just 3-for-16 with three inter-
quarterback reps into one week With a deeper receiving ceptions in Michigan's loss tt,
for Gardner. corps, Gardner was a service- Nebraska last week.
All the while, Michigan must able backup for Robinson, and After losses, Hoke is 4-0 it
find a way to jump start to its a breakout season from then- his time at Michigan. And he
stagnant offense which hasn't redshirt-sophomore tailback is especially active in practices
scored a touchdown in more Fitzgerald Toussaint took the following a loss, according tt
than two games. As the defense pressure off whatever quar- fifth-year senior center Elliot
has improved dramatically from terback was in the game. Last Mealer.
week to week, the offense has season, Robinson accounted "He's very good at 'Put that
been mired in stagnation, and for 67 percent of the Michigan game behind you, learn from the
the Wolverines have found little offense. This year, with Gardner mistakes, and let's go,' " Mealei
success outside of Robinson's at receiver and Toussaint stifled, said. "He comes out to practice
legs. that figure has ballooned to 77 fired up like we're playing for
In relief of Robinson on Sat- percent. the Super Bowl or something."
urday, Bellomy did not pose a Still, it's been business as For Michigan, it's an infu-
running threat. Borges cautions usual this week for Michigan, sion of confidence in its most
that he is more dynamic than he save for the absence of any quar- uncertain week in Hoke's time
showed. terbacks at the week's mediases- here. It's an early response tt
"Russ is not a wood man back sions. Robinson has spoken with the Wolverines' most press-
there," Borges. "He can actually the media every week but this, ing questions. Will the offense
get out of the way. So we just and Gardner has made several return? Will Michigan rebound
don't do quite as much of that." appearances in the past. Both this time?
No option is perfect, and Hoke quarterbacks, in addition to Bel- And even if Robinson can go,
has been limited by a few factors lomy, were not made available. who will provide the answers?

1,
n
t
I-
n
,r
d
d
if
n
e
s
a,
n
e
,s
0
I
it
e
!r
e
rr
t-
>t
e
0
e
d

offensive coordinator Al Borges
will still rely heavily on his ground
attack. Play has followed this pat-
tern since the loss to Notre Dame,
and there's no indication that the
rest of the season will be different.
Redshirt junior running back
Fitzgerald Toussaint has to step
up, especially if Robinson doesn't
play. The other two quarterbacks
don't pose nearly the threat on
the ground as Robinson, meaning
Toussint wil c forced to carry
the loe The Gophers are 10th
in the iof ce in rush defense
with 178 yards allowed per game,
so the Wolverines should have the
advantage. I f Toussaint again can't
get going, it will be a huge disap-
pointment - and with the passing
game a question mark, it'll mean
Michigan could streiggle to move
the ball.
Edge: Michigan
Michigan pass offense vs. Min-
nesota pass defense
The question of the game is

Minnesota rush offense vs.
Michigan rush defense
Gopher running back Don-
nell Kirkwood packs a punch at
219 pounds and has been a decent
threat this season, averaging 4.4
yards per carry.
But in the past few weeks, the
Wolverines have proven them-
selves to be one of the top run-
stopping defenses around, thanks
to improved gap maintenance by
the defensive line and more consis-
tency from linebackers.
Michigan has shut down better
running attacks than Minnesota's
this season, and though the team
wasn'thappy with itseffort against
Nebraska, the unit stillb'hd down
the explosive Cornhuskers better
than anyone else has. Expect more
of the same against the Gophers.
Edge: Michigan
Minnesota pass offense vs.
Michigan pass defense
The Wolverine back seven prob-
ably isn't as good as the statistics
say, with the team tied for tops in
the country at 145.9 passing yards
allowed per game. Michigan's
hasn't been tested as much as other
top units.
That doesn't mean it's not asolid
bunch, though. Making his third
career start, Minnesota freshman
quarterbackPhilipNelsonwillface
perhaps his stiffest challenge yet.
Nelson has been pretty solid since
taking the reins from MarQueis
Gray, and he has a couple solid tar-
gets in Gray - the team's best ath-
lete - and A.J. Barker. This will be
a test of just how good Nelson is.
Edge: Michigan
Special teams

I
I

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Friday, November 2, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Pu
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Unsolicited 39 Add some meat 53 Buyer's,
1 Brgh-eyed opinion to H4 Basedc
- Smude t yo 6 Doesn'twing it 42 Kolkata's locale hat.d
Socrates 7 Like a boring 45 Avril follower 57 Sourcec
11 "The Mentalist" lecture, probably 47 Polecat kin 58 With 13-
network 8 Rio contents 48 Saltimbocca herb errand r
14 Cut over 9A.L East team, 49 How much destinati
15 Get readyto surf on scoreboards s
16 Last word?: Abbr. 10 Lowtie sauteing in done 59 2t2 O
17 Stallone's garden 11 Movie about amony Tiling le
supply? artificially grown amphibians Track
19 Halifax head bacteria? 51 Subjectfor Sr10a2BOn
20 Lively dance 12 Lineage Archimedes Open c
21 Cage, forone 13 See 58-Down ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PL
23 Movie theater 18 Seconds
appliances 22 Storm harbinger W A S N T A I D T R
27 Casually 23 Old Testament E S T E E P D A R A
mention, with''to" poem B E A C H B o Y S A D
28 Sacred structure 24 Wistful remark B A N K R O L L O S i
29 Buck 25 Fast-talking A D O L L S H O
31 Influentialsports salesman's
figure training
32 Brewery materials? A T O M 0 E A R A K
flavoring 26Jewelryitem T I T U S A N D R O N 1
33 Beginninglto 27 To boot S T E P A N E E R L
cure? 29 Dome cover U P I D A T
36 French article 30 Drops (out) C L A M C H O W D E R
37 Lacking 32 Hand-holding L E V I E D H AD A
40 To benefit group dance A G A S P C A B L E T
41 Cubs'spring 34 Oaterorphan R A I T A A L I N O
training city 35Mashie and
43 Prominent niblick
peiude 30 Decded in coont nwordeiemto~ol.com

izzle
aid
on ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
of iron ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
Down, . www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
ontes ! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
ot now for 2013 (Spring or fall). U-M's
apter 11- BEST housing sold out early 2012. Re-
'r serve your space for 2013 today. 2
blocks from Central Campus anddown-
tist town. 1Ito 4 bedroom, private baths
tamp available. Rates from $665. 734-998-
JZZLE. 4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
o M P !!!!NOW LEASING FALL 2013!!!!
T i a Great Location! HOUSES, 1 and 2 br.
A M S apts, studios. All properties across
R I S fm
}1U S E -ast Quad. pkg, laundry.
www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244.
I T A
C U S !!LARGE CENTRAL
E T S CAMPUS HOMES!!
S U N www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
C H E (734) 332-6000
I E E " www.CarlsonProperties.comx
Now Leasing!
I I R 4 BDRM/2 BATH house
11/02/12 Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
1 13 Avail. Sept. 2013. 734-395-6823
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2013. dklemptnerfdcomcast.net
AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6 bdrm houses
www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
or email louisbreskman@gmail.com
34 mm CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
stiltes you to visit
www.CampusMgmt.om
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
6r e1 plete ling for 1 all 2013 available
yowl Or call ond speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663-4101.
WWW.HOUSING.UMICH.EDU
11/02/12 (734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.


CENTRAL CAMPUS
6and? 7bedroomhouses
gerorfurniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734j 972-7368
FALL '13 RENTAL. 5 Bdrm, 2 Bath
at 811 Sylvan. 10 minwalktocampus.
5 min to baseball field and track.
$2500/mo. 734.834.1680.
FALL 2013 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 S Fourth Ave, furn., dwshr., dis-
posal, ldry., parking, central A/C, high
speed internet, hardwood floors, alarm
system, heat and water included.
$3300/me. 734-882-7121 or
gpmiles@aol.com
FALL 2013 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4600
7 1129 White St $4200
6 605 Catherine $3720
6 711 Arbor $4200
6 716 E.Kingsley $3700
6 829 Packard $3900
5 910 Greenwood . $3600
4 505 Sauer (May) $2440
4 507 SauerCt $2300
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2280
4 1010 Cedor Bend $2200
4 1037 Packard $2400
Tenants pay all utilities.
Leasing starts Nov. 9th.
Reservations Accepted.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
FALL 2013 HOUSES:
6 & 8 bedroom, call 734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
HELP WANTED
VETERINARY RECEPTIONIST/
ASSISTANT Part Time. No experi-
ence required. Apply in person @
Arbor Hills Animal Clinic or
Call 734 668 1466.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILH
& pub at 310 Maynard is pleased to an-
nounce they are currently hiring for
punctual, proficient LOORMAN that
pay great attention to details. Apply'
iwithi. No phone calls.
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILL
& pu at 311 Maynard is pleased to an-
nounc they are currently hiring for
punctual, proficient COOKS that pay a
great atten tion to details. Apply within.
No phone calls.
MODELS NEE1D ED. MAIL at
glohalphotoyraphy a2l gmail.comtt
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734/996u-0566ar mwrionsierv a

:4

44 Cadiz cohort
46 Pud otice flier
40 Allied leuder
49 "Gave it mybest"
51 News source
since Dec. 1881
52 Musical
inadequacy
53 Feudal lord
55 Wine flavoring
56 Santa's risky
undertaking?
62 First name in
dictators
63 Eliminate
64 Ryder rival
65 WWII carrier
66 Domingo, e.g.
67 Hides
DOWN
1 Hand holder?
2 Rural expanse
3 Changed-my-
mind key
4 Encouraging
word

1 2 3 4 5 1 7 8 9 10 11
14 15 16
17 18 19
20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
31 32 33
36 37 38 39 40
41 42 43 44 45
46 47 48
49 50 51
52 53 54
55 56 57 58 59
62 63 64
65 ' 66 67
By Gail Grabo vski
(02012 Tribune Media Services, Inc,


Redshirt junior kicker Brendan
Gibbons has six field goals the last
two weeks, including a career long
52-yarder against Nebraska. With
junior Will Hagerup continuing
to boom his punts, the Wolverines
might have one of the top specialist
duos in the country.
Minnesota isn't nearly as strong
in this department. Kicker Jordan
Wettstein is 9-for-16 on field goals
this season, and the Gophers aren't
great in any other department
either.
Edge: Michigan
Intangibles
Yes, this is technically a rivalry
game, and both teams want to
win the Jug. But its one-sidedness
means it lacks the passion and
intensity typical of most rivalries,
so there shouldn't be any signifi-
cant impactfrom that aspect.
Give the slight advantage to
Minnesota, just because of the
mental lift the Gophers will get
if Robinson can't play and since
they're likely highly motivated to
avenge the 58-0 drubbing the Wol-
verines gave them last season.
Edge: Minnesota S
FINAL SCORE (with Robin-
son): Michigan 38, Minnesota 6
FINAL SCORE (without Rob-
inson): Michigan 23, Minnesota 12



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 2, 2012 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Friday, November 2, 2012 - 7

EVENT PREVIEW
Film series to show
Romanian culture

Jazz to fill Kerrytown
during annual Edgefest

Screenings and
lectures to explore
cinematic diversity
By CARLINA DUAN
For the Daily
As November hits, so does the
crunch of leaves, bulky sweaters,
the seasonal flair for pumpkin-*
themed drinks.
Add to this Fourth
year's autumn: Annual
Romanian film.
The Fourth Romanian
Annual Roma- Film Series
nian Film
Series, which Saturdayand
begins Saturday, Sunday and
will spotlight Nov.17 and
four Romanian- 18at4 p.m.
produced films Helmut Stern
over the course Auditorum
of two week-
ends. As a part Free
of the American
RomanianFestival, the film series
intends to illuminate aspects of
modern Romanian culture and its
art forms to audiences.
According to Ramona Urites-
cu-Lombard, a lecturer in the
Comparative Literature and Ger-
manic Languages & Literatures
Departments, filmgoers this sea-
son might be drawn to new Roma-
nian cinema - a field wrapped
in avid curiosity and trademark
"Romanian black humor," which
she described as "a sort of wit that
manifested itself during commu-
nism."
According to Uritescu-Lom-
bard, the film coordinator for
the series, the films, which fea-
ture emerging filmmakers and
critically acclaimed films by more
established Romanian directors,
were chosen in order to portray
Romania as operating within the
larger global community.
"It isn't so much the feeling
that Romania is still a world apart,
that it's still cut off," she said. "No.
Now, Romania is one country
among other cultures, and so the
issues that some of our films deal
with are international issues."
Uritescu-Lombard added,
"There is still a Romanian con-
text, but there's no longer the feel-
ing that this is an isolated world
apart."
The four films being shown
- "Outbound" (Nov. 3), "Tues-

By JOHN BOHN
DailyArts Writer

MK2 NTER
In "Outbound," showing Saturday, Ana Ularu plays an escaped convict.

day After Christmas" (Nov. 4),
"Philantrophy" (Nov. 17) and
"The Phantom Father" (Nov. i8)
- will be accompanied by post-
screeninglectures inorder tohelp
audiences enhance their compre-
hension of the films. All films will
be shown in Romanian with Eng-
lish subtitles.
Lecturers include "Outbound"
director Bogdan George Ape-
tri, LSA Comparative Literature
Professor Dr. Corina Kesler and
Uritescu-Lombard.
"As a member of the audience
myself, I like a bit of introduction
after a film," Uritescu-Lombard
said. "It helps me understand
things better, and makes the
experience of viewing a film or
seeing a film more pleasurable
because I get more of it."
In addition, she said films seem
to appeal more to audiences, cre-
ating a fresh channel for audienc-
es to delve into.
"We live in a. visual culture.
That's what has immediate
appeal," she said. "A lot of people
are maybe better readers of film,
or better viewers of film than
they are viewers of books, and
are more frequent readers of film
than they are of books."
The American Romanian Fes-
tival itself is a larger nonprofit
organization based in southeast-
ern Michigan. The festival hosts
annual events, aimed to encour-
age an appreciation of Romanian
culture for the larger community
in the U.S.

"As with anysmaller culture or
lesser well-known culture, such
as Romania, we all hope to gain a
wider audience and appreciation
and whatever cultural products
we put out there," Uritescu-Lom-
bard said. "Perhaps by showing
these films we might pique peo-
ples' interests."
American Romanian Festival
president Marian Tanau began
the group in 2005 as a way to
build interaction and apprecia-
tionforthe Romanian community
and its culture.
"The way we accomplish
understanding (of Romanian cul-
ture) is by presenting a wide vari-
ety of events - such as classical
music by Romanian composers
that have not been heard of here
in the U.S., or we have an artist
that we feature," Tanau said. "The
goal is to present an ensemble, a
picture of the culture."-
The festival presents annu-
al orchestral concerts, lecture
series, cooking. lessons and a
film series, spreading its events
throughout the course of each
year in order to raise awareness of
Romanian culture.
Tanau commended the role of
film as an ideal medium to com-
municate aspects of. Romanian
culture.
"A film has musical elements, it
has habitual elements, and it has
literature elements," he said. "So
all of a sudden, in two hours, you
expose the audience to many sides
of a culture presented in a film."

Sixteen years ago, Kerrytown
Concert House staffer David
Lynch founded Edgefest, a fes-
tival dedicated
to bringing for- Edgefest
ward-thinking -
jazz artists to Through
the Ann Arbor Saturday at
area. The first 10 p.m.
concert was Kerrytown
performed Concert House
in Holland-
ers, the paper
making store
across from the concert hall on
North Fifth Street. From there,
it grew in size and reputation
and has since garnered a loyal.
following.
"It grew organically out of
a movement in town amongst
young people and older people
who were missing the avant-
garde part of jazz - the new
music jazz - that was really
beginning to flourish in New
York at the time," said Edgefest
Director Deanna Relyea.
In addition to the concert
house performances, the festi-
val has always been dedicated
to community engagement.
In years past, Ann Arbor resi-
dents may have come across
their favorite cafe or record.
shop, transformed into a perfor-
mance venue by an internation-
ally renowned musician. This
year, the theme of the event is
"Worldly Measures."
While the standard jazz for-
mat may be present, non-tradi-
tional elements such as the banjo,
violin or native flute can also be
heard. Many of the musicians
playing this year have looked to
their rich cultural roots, giving
their music an eclectic feel.


As the son of Indian immi- this project in 1977," Smith said.
grants, Rudresh Mahanthappa "About five years ago, I had 10
has drawn on such influences compilations already fixed, but
in his Indo Pak Coalition, a sax, I didn't think of it in terms of a
tabla and guitar trio, which will collection until about four or five
be playing this year. years ago. At that time, I got new
"(The Indo Pak Coalition) commissions to complete the
deals with both South Indian and pieces, I finished the last piece
North Indian music in a jazz con- in October of 2011. So from 1977
text," Mahanthappa said. to2011, that's 34 years of musical
This will be his third year at activity looking over this piece."
Edgefest, though he has played Ten Freedom Summers will
the Kerrytown Concert House be split into two performances
many times before. - the first part on Friday eve-
"We've always had positive ning and the second on Saturday
response there," Mahanthappa afternoon.
said. "There's always a loyal fol- "We knew Wadada would
lowing for what I do so that's probably draw a few people, so
always nice." we made him play twice," Relyea
said.
Barely seating 100 people, the
space aims to provide the audi-
ence and performers with an
include Wtadada intinnateexrin. topa
"It's definitely fun to play
Leo Smith. there," Mahanthappa said. "It's
different. I'm over in-Europe
playing500-800 seathalls with a
very loud jazz fusion band so it's
One of the main events of a very different scenario. I think
Edgefest in 2012 will be perfor- it will be good for the music we
mances by Wadada Leo Smith, will be playing."
one of the pioneers in this new "Everybody loves it," Relyea
approach to jazz. In addition to added. "Because you're right on
working with the University's top of them, you're in the living
Creative Arts Orchestra, as well room with them."
as a solo appearance at Encore The festival runs from Oct.
Records, Smith will be perform- 31 to Nov. 3. In addition to per-
ing his Ten Freedom Summers in formances, there will be talks
its entirety. and classes given by the musi-
Ten Freedom Summers is a cians, and on the last day, Smith
tribute to the Civil Rights Move- and other performers will lead
ment with each part of the cycle the Edgefest Parade through
meditating on a particular aspect the Kerrytown area. The parade
of this monumental experience allows anyone to bring a musical
in the African-American com- instrument and play along with
munity. A complete performance the performers.
of the project runs nearly five "This is not a commercial ven-
hours. tore," Relyea said. "This is a kind
"The whole collection has 21 of event pushing this music for-
pieces in it. I started to compose ward."

PERFORMANCE PREVIEW
'U' bands to come together
for patriotic concert at Hill

By LAURA KAYE
Daily Arts Writer
Elections are impending, bring-
ing with them further conflict
within Congress, between candi-
dates and among
voters. Band-O-
But instead
of heated politi- Ram: The.
cal discourse, Anerican
the School of Salh
Music, Theatre
& Dance wants Saturday at
to bring the Uni- 7:30 p.m.
versity together
to experience Hill Auditorium
"Band=O-Rama: From $5
The American
Salute" with the hopes of bridg-
ing, through music, the gap this
election has produced.
The marching band, concert
band and symphony band are con-
gregating at Hill Auditorium for
this annual production. This is the
only time during the year these
three bands join for a united con-
cert, featuring songs from their
seasons with patriotic aims.
Theconcertbandwillplay"The
March" by John Williams, from
the movie "1941," which depicts
Pearl Harbor during the begin-
ning of WWII. The band will also
present a work by Frank Picheli,
a well-known composer of band
music. The symphony band will
then take the stage with music
includingthewell-knownfavorite,
"The Stars and Stripes Forever."
The marching band's reper-
toire is distinctive, with selections

includi
Boy," a
'40s, a
favorit
The
Michig
as "Ha
Go Blu
"We
of thef
and ma
sica Pa
the a
the fo
way in
everyo
the sho
audien
(
Am
Dire
and At
explain
concer
- who
- are1
tic exp
showcx
of theh
their p

ng "Boogey Woogie Bugle may be different, but the practice
popular piece during.the strategy remains the same: articu-
s well as some Gershwin lation of notes, playing in tune,
es like "I've Got Rhythm." matching tone qualities and play-
band will also include ing as a group.
an traditional pieces such "At Hill, you are looking for
iI to the Victors" and "Lets the highest degree of subtleties
e."' and nuances and musical phras-
are not only the support ing, and it's all about the craft of
football team," LSA junior. music making," Boerma said. "Art
arching band member Jes- is often entertaining but art is
cholski said. "But we lead often intellectual. At the stadium,
dience to want to support the audience doesn't necessarily
otball- team. It's the same want an intellectual experience
'Band-O-Rama.' We get but wants a fun exciting Michigan
ne riled up and excited for football experience."
w, and this registers to the Even though the performance
ce." is separated by the distinct music
of the three bands, the Ameri-
can theme encourages cohesion
among all the players.
"The 'Band-o-Rama' concert
terica in song. is kind of a greatest hits of the
fall performance for all of these
bands," Boerma said. "We took
pieces that highlight our season
ctor of Michigan Marching with a theme that ties the ensem-
hletic Bands Scott Boerma bles together. This year it is patri-
ted that members of the otic music or music by American
t and symphony bands composers. You can see it as a
are mostly music majors night to put aside our differences
looking to create an artis- and just be proud to be Ameri-
erience for the audience, cans."
sing a musical repertoire The marching band plans to
highest caliber and honing conclude the show "by marching
nerformance skills in the on stage to energize the audi-

Your One-Stop GRADUATION SHOP!
Purchase your CAP & GOWN, YEARBOOK,
ANNOUNCEMENTS, DIPLOMA FRAME and
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CLASS RING!
November 5-9th (Monday - Friday)
1 0:O0am-6:OQpm.
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street
Jostens Michiganensian
Y E A R B 0 0 K

process.
In the Big House, the band has
to be big, boisterous and enter-
taining. Therefore, the band has
to tone down its volume, but not
excitement, to accommodate the
smaller space. The environment

ence.
"I want them leaving tapping
their toes," Boerma said. "And
if they're whistling the last tune
we play which is probably going
to be 'The Victors,' then we have
achieved our purpose."



8 - Friday, November 2, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Friday, November 2, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 4

tsr 01m lanEmsrgv

I
I

4
0

0

40

Union o
Concerned
Scientists

For mores inrts
ELK ActonFun.Prg252

E1PActionor

For more Infraion:


