A R T a A WALK IN THE 'PARK': Now entering its fifth season, NBC's veteran comedy makes good television look easy. >} PAGE 6A

~iie c4 an &i3ajj
ONvE-HOUNOR lil)I WENTCY-Tril-l]REYE'ARIS OF EDITOR'(IAl FREEDO M

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, October 24,2012

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY ENROLLMENT
Minority
enrollment
remains
stagnant

vice President Joe Biden gives a speech at the University of Toledo on Tuesday. The presidential tickets are focusing on Ohio as Election Day nears.
Campaigns one n on Ohio

In Toledo speech,
Biden focuses on
economic recovery
By ANNA ROZENBERG and
RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily Staff Reporter and Daily
News Editor
TOLDEO, Ohio - The final
presidential debate on Monday
night marked the beginning of

the home stretch for President
Barack Obama and Republi-
can nominee Mitt Romney's
campaigns for president. And
with less than two weeks until
Election Day, its likely that the
Republican and Democratic tick-
ets will both continue to cam-
paign heavily throughout Ohio,
as Vice President Joe Biden held
a rally here Tuesday on the cam-
pus of the University of Toledo.
There is no question that
Ohio, and Toledo in particular,

could decide the election, and
both campaigns are well aware
of the stakes. Both campaigns,
as well as allied interest groups,
have spent or
reserved around
$950 million on
television ads in.
the state.
Though the
Romney groups
have accumulated an approxi-
mately $100 million advantage
over Obama's groups, Obama

looks to have a slight edge in the
state, with an average lead of 1.9
points, according to Real Clear
Politics.
Obama visited Ohio on Tues-
day, making it his 17th trip to
the state this year. The president
has visited Ohio more than any
other state this election cycle,
and Romney has a number of
planned trips to the state in the
coming two weeks.
The economy remains a para-
See OHIO, Page 7A

Administrators say
the University is
still committed to
increasing diversity
By TUI RADEMAKER
Daily Staff Reporter
When senior Levester Wil-
liams came to the University as
a freshman, he said he often felt
disconnected from the campus
community asa black student.
Though Williams overcame
these initial feelings through
active involvement in various
multicultural groups, he said
he still thinks the student body
lacks diversity.
Enrollment figures released
by the Office of the Registrar on
Monday indicate that Africans
Americans represent 4.74 per-

cent of the student body, His-
panics constitute 4.75 percent
and Native Americans comprise
0.19 percent.
In 2011, the total student
body was comprised of approxi-
mately 4.77 percent black stu-
dents and 4.68 percent Hispanic
students, both lower than the
2010 national averages of 14.5
percent and 13 percent respec-
tively,.according to the National
Center for Education Statistics.
Native American students made
up 0.2 percent of the student
body last year.
Of the enrollment figures for
the 2012 freshmen class, 10.2
percent are underrepresented
minorities, a slight decrease
from last year's 10.5 percent.
John Matlock, an asso-
ciate vice provost and the
executive director of the Uni-
versity's Office of Academic
See ENROLLMENT, Page 7A


PUPPY THERAPY

SPEAKERS ON CAMPUS
Annual Wallenberg award
given to environmentalist

Maria Gunnoe
advocates against
coal mining
By JENNIFER CALFAS
Daily Staff Reporter
Environmental and social
justice advocate Maria Gunnoe
received a standing ovation
from nearly 350 students, fac-
ulty and Ann Arbor residents
as she approached the stage in
Rackham Auditorium to deliv-
er the annual Wallenberg Lec-
ture Tuesday night.
Gunnoe, the 22nd recipient

of the University's Raoul Wal-
lenberg Medal, spoke about
her efforts to eliminate moun-
taintop removal coal mining
and valley fill operations in her
hometown of Boone County,
West Virginia and across the
nation. The University also
. honored her for her focus on
educating others about envi-
ronmental affairs.
Gunnoe began her humani-
tarian work in 2004 after a
flood filled with toxic coal
sludge destroyed her home and
left thousands of others home-
less. With teary eyes, Gun-
noe discussed how the flood
impacted her community and

said she refuses to stop fight-
ing sgainst the coal mining
that has negatively impacted
the health and lives of so many
people.
"We demand an end to the
abuses of the people of Appa-
lachia and our human rights,"
Gunnoe said. "We deserve a
life with healthy land, clean
water, clean air and a clean sus-
tainable energy and future for
our children."
During the event, Univer-
sity Provost Philip Hanlon said
Gunnoe demonstrates quali-
ties and values of Raoul Wal-
lenberg, a 1935 University alum
See AWARD, Page 7A

Thearpy dogs greet students on the Diag at the annual Dogs by the Diag event on Tuesday.
LEGAL DISPUTE
Jenson allegedly violates
stipulations of his bond

STATE BALLOT PROPOSALS - - =
Backed by a billionaire, Prop. 6
fights second bridge to Windsor

Former UMHS
resident accused
of missing curfew,
using computer
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
Former University of Michigan
Health System resident Stephen
Jenson is scheduled to appear in
a review hearing in federal dis-
trict court in Detroit on Wednes-
day for allegedly violating several
stipulations of his bond.

Jenson, who is accused of pos-
sessing child pornography in the
University Hospital, has repeat-
edly violated stipulations of his
bond by breaking curfew and
using a computer that was not
monitored by the court's pretrial
services, according to a document
filed with the court by the pretrial
services on Oct.17.
Jenson, who was released on
bond after being charged by fed-
eral authorities for possession of
child pornography, was originally
only allowed to use a computer
for work-related purposes. How-
ever, his bond conditions were
loosened in June to allow him to

use a court-monitored computer.
Jenson's other conditions -
which include restricted travel
within the jurisdiction of the
federal Eastern District of Mich-
igan and Utah, avoidance of con-
tact with minors or anyone who
could be a potential victim or
witness in the case, attending
sex offender treatment, obeying
a curfew and refraining from
possessing a firearm - continue
to be enforced.
According to court docu-
ments, Jensen has broken curfew
six times in the last six months.
His initial curfew required him
See JENSON, Page 7A

If passedmeasure of a second span across the
Detroit River, and this fall he
would require is takingthe battle to Michigan
voters.
state vote for new Proposal 6, which is backed
by Moroun, would require a
border crossings citizen majority vote before
any new international cross-
By KATIE BURKE ings are financed and built. The
Daily StaffReporter measure defines international
crossings as non-public bridges
Billionaire Matty Moroun, or tunnels.
the owner of the Ambassador The measure is aimed at
bridge that connects Detroit stopping a proposed second
and Windsor, Ontario has spent bridge that will be entirely
years fighting the construction financed by the Canadian gov-

ernment. Republican Gov. Rick
Snyder, the Detroit Regional
Chamber and the Michigan
Chamber of Commerce sup-
port the building of the second
bridge and oppose the propos-
al.
"While the proposal is
intended to protect one com-
pany's monopoly on truck
crossings between Detroit and
Canada, it was sloppily writ-
ten and jeopardizes any bridge
construction today that won't
be completed by January 1, or
See PROP. 6, Page 7A


WEATHER HI:75 GOTA NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail #michlinks
TOMORROW LO: 51 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEW S....................... 2A ARTS...........................6A
Vol.cXXIllsNo.34 OPINION..........4A CLASSIFIEDS ............... 6A
t2012TheMichigan Daily SPORTS...........SA THE STATEMENT......1 B
michigondoily.com

i. a 'r...:. _. r .R , .. e ,U N ..-MS . 3. ,. i ,f ,: . r. ,.. ' .1., .,. .!,"Ti,
, : SCr.. - .lF ' t:, C .t .r^, F,, tF .h I .: F1 :4 , . S.. 4 .S ... F
--.r ,,.., , z, S.-,: r , ,,,, :: > 4 ., r .r.a .. e . da ., ., Y ~11
.i ..:, ," .. 1. ., -s~ . 4..,, .._ ,. n7 r. n . ., .. ,{.. , 1. 4.t a. r 4. s . a. s ., 4 . .. 1iL -
+ s a.. w ,., Nor,. r 4",L.-., xi,, F .. -. ,.. , r:,;x.YNv:,< . .:-...Si ,4 7!,,.... .,, r .,r <.,,.. .,m e'kx. r:m' i.m . r r r. : ,r - .. .r,,.,_P. .f ...._.. e ._ . 1 ",_ik,. a.ri.. ..


2A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

B liAn theTIs tBIOGY TEAM
Builingth bes Bibrck

A GREEN TTJMR

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michigandaily.com

In case Biology 172
wasn't challenging enough
for you freshman year, don't
fret, the Michigan Synthet-
ic Biology Team is here to
help.
The team, which has
competed in the Inter-
national Genetically
Engineered Machines com-
petitions since 2006, works
to create biological systems.
They use biological units
called Biobricks - which
are essentially DNA created
to formulate new biological
systems - according to LSA
senior Josh Atkinson, an
undergraduate member of
the team.

Atkinson said the group
puts DNA into E. Coli cells
to create proteins for vari-
ous purposes. One would be
hard pressed to find a Bio-
brick in any recognizable
technologies, but Atkinson
explained that synthetic
biology is an emerging field,
and the iGEM competition
has only existed since 2004.
The team consists of
about 15 University stu-
dents, primarily from the
College of Engineering and
LSA, but Atkinson said the
group is looking to expand
so it can begin preparing for
competitions year-round.
This year the team com-

peted against more than 40
other Universities in the
iGEM 2012 Americas East
Regional Jamboree - held
in Pennsylvania between
Oct. 12 and Oct. 14 - and
was awarded one of numer-
ous gold medals distributed
at the competition. The
team was also given the
award for the best new Bio-
brick from a natural source.
Next up for the team is a
trip to the World Jamboree
in Boston, one of 14 invitees
from the regional competi-
tion to be granted a spot in
the world competition.
-RAYZA GOLDSMITH

Newsnoom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
letterstothe Editor
tothedaity@michigandaity.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
finance
finance@michigandaily.com

I
4

Students in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
designed plant natural plants outside the Dana Building on Monday.

CRIME NOTES
Stolen Laptop Phantom
and Hard Drive package

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Monthly DPS Sharing your
crime meeting research

WHERE: Chemistry
Building
WHEN: Monday at about
2:20 p.m.
WHAT: A MacBook and
hard drive left in a third-
floor room were stolen,
University Police reported.
A suspect was apprehended
at 11 p.m.
Wrenching loss
WHERE: Lurie Biomedical
Engineering Lab
WHEN: Monday at about
9:45 a.m.
WHAT: While a tool box
was left ina locked closet,
three pairs of pliers and
three wrenches were stolen
from it, University Police

WHERE: Bursley
Residence Hall
WHEN: Monday at 5:15
p.m.
WHAT: A student
expecting a package was
notified of it's arrival but
it could not be located
when tryingto retrieve it,
University Police reported.
Oil all over
WHERE: M-89 Lot
WHEN: Monday at about
2:20 p.m.
WHAT: Automobile oil
was spilled near the loading
dock, University Police
reported. Occupational
Safety and Environental
Health staff cleaned up the
spill. No police report was

WHAT: The Department of
Public Safety invites mem-
bers of the University com-
munity to learn about crime
statistics and trends.
WHO: Campus Information
Centers
WHEN: Today at 11 a.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Pendleton Room

WHAT: During this session
participants will learn how
to increase the impact of
their research and teaching
materials, and how to share
their work as much as pos-
sible.
WHO: Teaching and
Technology Collaborative
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Harcher
Graduate Library

THREE THINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
Unbeknownst to them,
an Oregon family bought
a house that had been
previously used as a meth
lab, ABC News reported. The
family realized something
was wrong when they began
suffering from mouth sores
and dry mouths.
A dorm's average cost
is $1,455 a month. Com-
pare this to a one-bed-
room apartment in a house,
which is $965 a month.
FOR MORE, SEE
THE STATEMENT INSIDE
Apple has introduced an
iad Mini, a pencil-thin
tablet that is said to be
as light as a pad of paper, the
Detroit Free Press reported.
The new iPad has a dual-core
A5 chip, FaceTime HD, and
a 5MP iSight camera. The
Wi-Fi only model will start at
$329.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrew Weiner Managing Editor anweiner@michigandaily.com
SENIO NESETORS aeyGlatthornHaleyGoldbergRa olnGmitn, auyh,
PaigePearcy,AdamRubenfire
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Peter Shahin,K.C.Wassman
Timothy Rabb and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts EditorialPagetEditors
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MelanieKruvelis, Hars thata,VanessaRychtinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein,Sarah Skaluba
Stephen Nesbitt ManagingSports Editor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS:Everett Cook, Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch,
Neal Rothschild Mat Slovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Lurila, Matt Spelich,
ColleenThomas,LizVukelich,DanielWasserman
LeahBrrgin ManagingArtsEditor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: ElliotAlpern,DavidTao,KaylaUpadhyaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jacob Axelrad, Laren Caserta, Matt Easton, Kelly Etz,
AnnaSadovskaya,chloesStachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaiy.com
Alden Reiss Managing PhototEditors
SENIORPHOTOEDITORS:TerraMolengraff,ToddNeedle
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:AdamGlanzman,Austen Hufford, AllisonKruske
MarleneLacasse,AdamSchnitzer
Alicia Kovalcheck and design@michigandaily.com
Amy MackenS Managing Design Editors
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
JenniferXu MagazineEditors
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: ZachBergson,KaitlinWilliams
Hannah Poindexter CopyChief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Josephine Adams, Beth Coplowitz
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate Business Manager
SeanJackson Sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
ConnorlByrd Finance Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Tie Michgs, Daiyl(ISSNt 0145-6is ulio shtediMonday through Fidy duigthetfall and
winter tenmsytsntssatthe OUiesityofMiigan.One copy is aailabie teetioarge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fol termstarting in September, via U.S.mail are $110. Wintert erm anuary through Aprillis
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate. On-campussubscriptions for fall termare 535.Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0


Getting rid of Global health
e-mail spam .
career semi}}r

WHAT: Senior Scientist
at Yahoo! Labs, Arniban
Dasgupta, will discuss
some new algorithmic and
machind learning questions
motivated by email spam.
WHO: School of Informa-
tion
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHERE: North Quad
Residence Hall

WHAT: People with
careers in global health will
share the experiences that
led them to their current
positions in a range of
sectors.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Todayat 5p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
Anderson Room

I

U.N. plans for peacekeepers in Syria'

Russian lawmakers
redefine treason

Forces will only
enter the country
if a ceasefire is
approved
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -
The United Nations is already
planning for a peacekeeping
force in Syria should a cease-
fire in that country take hold
and pending a Security Council
mandate, the U.N. peacekeeping
chief said Monday.
Herve Ladsous said, however,
it was still too early to say how
many peacekeepers might be
deployed in such an eventual
force.
"I would confirm that, of
course, we are giving a lot of
thought to what would happen
if and when a political solution
or at least a cease-fire would
emerge," Ladsous told reporters
at a U.N. briefing.
U.N. and Arab League envoy
to Syria Lakhdar Brahimi met

with Syrian President Bashar
Assad in Damascus on Sunday
as part of his push for a cease-
fire between rebels and govern-
ment forces for the Eid al-Adha
holiday, which begins Oct. 26.
Syria's state-run news agency
SANA said Damascus supports
the truce proposal, but would
not commit to halting fire dur-
ing a four-day Muslim holiday
until Western countries and
their Gulf allies stop support-
ing rebels and halt their weap-
ons supplies to the anti-regime
fighters.
Brahimi told reporters, fol-
lowing a closed-door meet-
ing, that he also had held talks
earlier with opposition groups
inside and outside the country
and received "promises" but not
a "commitment" from them to
honor the cease-fire.
Brahimi replaced Kofi Annan
as envoy to Syria after the for-
mer U.N. secretary-general
resigned last August, frustrated
by a lack of progress.
Under Annan's peace plan the

AdisplacedSyrianboyisseeninarefugeecampnearAzaz,Syria,Tuesday,Oct.23,2012.
U.N. sent a 300-strong unarmed and it is simply unacceptable,"
observer mission to Syria to Ladsous said.
oversee the cessation of vio- Diplomats say that Ladsous
lence but the team was forced has told Brahimi he could put
to withdraw in August because together a force of up to 3,000
of escalating fighting which has peacekeepers in the event a lon-
continued until today. ger truce took hold.
"It's a shocking fact that But Ladsous said, "it certain-
everyday 150 to 200 civilians are ly would be premature to men-
killed and it has almost become tion a figure because it would
part of the background noise depend on the situation."

Bill says treason
now extends
to financial or
consulvative acts
MOSCOW (AP) - Rus-
sia's lower house of parlia-
ment on Tuesday quickly
rubber stamped a new bill
widely expanding the defini-
tion of high treason. Critics
alleged the legislation is part
of a wider crackdown on dis-
sent by President Vladimir
Putin, who has already pushed
through laws targeting street
protests, aid organizations and
opposition leaders.
Current law describes high
treason as espionage or other
assistance to a foreign state
damaging Russia's external
security. The new bill expands
it to include moves against
Russia's "constitutional order,
sovereignty and territorial and
state integrity."
The bill, drafted by the Fed-
eral Security Service, the main
KGB successor agency, also
changes the interpretation of
treason to include activities
such as financial or consulta-
tive assistance to a foreign state
or an international organiza-
tion.
The bill, which the lower
house, the State Duma, over-
whelmingly approved Tues-
day, is certain to quickly sail
through the equally pliant
upper house before Putin signs
it into law. It keeps the punish-
ment of up to 20 years in prison
used by the current law.
Rights activists have warned
that the new bill is so loosely
worded that it would allow the
government to brand any dis-
senter a traitor.
"It would allow them to
put any civil activist, let alone
rights defender, in custody,"
said Lev Ponomaryov, a veteran
Russian rights activist. "It will
place a sword over the head
of anyone who is maintaining
contacts with foreigners."
The socialist Just Russia

party was the only Duma fac-
tion that didn't vote for the
bill, although it stopped short
of voting against it. Just Rus-
sia leader Sergei Mironov
voiced concern that the bill's
loose wording could allow the
authorities to use it to stifle dis-
sent.
Russia's rights ombudsman,
Vladimir Lukin, also criti-
cized the bill, saying it would
free investigators of the need
to prove that a suspect inflict-
ed any actual damage to the
nation's security.
Putin has clamped down
on the opposition following
a series of major street ral-
lies against his re-election to
a third term as president in
March. The Russian leader has
claimed that the protests were
staged by Washington in order
to weaken Russia, and he filled
his campaign with anti-Ameri-
can rhetoric.
New repressive laws have
been passed to deter people
from joining protests, and
opposition activists have been
subject to searches and inter-
rogations.
One of the laws passed
this summer obliged non-
governmental organizations
that receive foreign funding
and engage in vaguely defined
political activity to register
as "foreign agents," which is
intended to destroy their cred-
ibility among Russians.
Earlier this month, Mos-
cow declared an end to the
U.S. Agency for International
Development's two decades of
work in Russia, saying that the
agency was using its money to
influence elections - a claim
the U.S. denied.
In August, a court handed
down two-year prison sen-
tences to three members of
the punk band Pussy Riot for
performing an anti-Putin song
inside Moscow's main cathe-
dral. One was freed earlier this
month after a court suspended
her sentence, but the other two
were sent from a Moscow jail
to remote prison colonies this
week.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
MILFORD, Mich.
At least 2 cougar
sightings reported
in SE Mich.
At least two people have
reported possible cougar sight-
ings near Kensington Metropark
in suburban Detroit.
The Oakland Press of Pon-
tiac reports that experts say it's
unlikely one of the big cats would
be in Michigan's southern Lower
Peninsula.
Michael Pucker, interpretive
' naturalist at the park, says that if
the reports near Milford are cor-
rect the animal might be one that
was kept as a pet and escaped.
Michigan Department of Nat-
ural Resources spokesman Ed
Golder says it would be unusual
to have a cougar in the area. He
says some people see bobcats and
mistake them for cougars. Gold-
er says the DNR looks for tracks,
fur on a fence or other evidence
to help confirm such sightings.
The DNR has verified the
presence of cougars in the Upper
Peninsula.
SAN JOSE. Calif.
Apple's iPad Mini
much pricier than
rival tablets
Apple Inc.'s pencil-thin,
smaller iPad will cost much more
than its competitors, signaling
the company isn't going to get
into a mini-tablet price war.
The company debuted the
iPad Mini Tuesday, with a screen
two-thirds smaller than the full
model, and half the weight. Cus-
tomers can begin ordering the
new model on Friday. In a sur-
prise, Apple also revamped its
flagship, full-sized iPad just six
months after the launch of the
latest model.
Apple'slate founder SteveJobs
once ridiculed a small tablet from
a competitor as a "tweener" that
was too big and too small to com-
pete with either smartphones or
tablets. Now Apple's own M ni
enters a growing small-tablet
market dominated by Amazon.
com Inc.'s Kindle Fire.
ALEXANDRIA, Va.
Ex-CIA man
pleads guilty to
leaking identity
A former CIA officer pleaded
guilty Tuesday to leaking the
identity of one of the agency's
covert operatives to a reporter
and will be sentenced to more
than two years in prison.
As part of a plea deal, prosecu-
tors dropped charges for John
Kiriakou, 48, that had been filed
under the World War I-era Espi-
onage Act. They also dropped
a count of making false state-
ments.
The lawunder which Kiriakou
was convicted, the Intelligence
Identities Protection Act, had

not yielded a conviction in 27
years.
BEIRUT, Syria
Hezbollah rejects
international
probe in killing
Syria's powerful ally Hez-
bollah was accused Tuesday by
Lebanese political opponents of
playing a role in the assassina-
tion of a top intelligence officer
who used his post to fight Syrian
meddling in Lebanon.
The group, which dominates
Lebanon's government, rejected
calls to refer the investigation of
the killing to the international
tribunal that implicated Hezbol-
lah figures in the truck bombing
that killed former Prime Minis-
ter Rafik Hariri under similar
circumstances.
Brig. Gen. Wissam al-Hassan
was killed Oct. 19 in a car bomb
that exploded next to his car in a
residential Beirut neighborhood,
shearing the balconies off apart-
ment towers and killing al-Has-
san, his bodyguard and a civilian.
Scores more were injured.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

CSG proposes revamp
of election code policies

VA Ann Arbor
Healthcare signs
lease in NCRC

Chc
up
pr

By G
After
Central
assemb
its leng
semeste
would r
section
in resp
tested I
March.
Onec
islation
assemb
tion cod
the fina
CSG Ur
mission
of e-ma
senior,]
preside
junior. I
servs pl
of the
by near
weeksc
ther del
the deci
The1
bypasse
of resol
only t%
The leg
ics such
finance
nation I
his or h
Sittir
from I
escaped

anges brought final night of the March elec-
tion - Law representative Jer-
in lenghtiest emy Keeney, the chair of the
rules committee, said the new
oposal of the election code was the result of
a month's work by several indi-
viduals. Keeney has intimate
experience with problems of
[ACOMO BOLOGNA the election code after serving
Daily StaffReporter as student legal aid during last
March's election hearing.
a two-week hiatus, the Parikh, whose highly con-
Student Government tested victory was the cata-
ly met and proposed lyst for part of the legislation,
thiest resolution of the helped co-author the resolution
r. The proposed policy and said the authors did "great
eplace the election code work" on the legislation.
of CSG's compiled code "When Keeney e-mailed me
onse to the highly con- over the summer asking me
presidential election last what are some of the things that
I want to see in this or some
of the last pieces of leg- points that I got to get across,
passed by the previous I'm very happy that they're,
ly called for a new elec- reflected here," Parikh said.
le following a hearing on Parikh said he was pleased to
l night of voting by the see legislation regarding cam-
niversity Election Com- paign finance, an area where
i concerning the abuse there was no previous mention
il listservs by Business in the election code.
Manish Parikh and vice "Not only did it need to be
nt Omar Hashwi, an LSA regulated but it also needed
Controversy over the list- to be reported and that's been
layed a role in the delay taken care of," he said.
results of the election Parikh added he was grate-
ly 12 hours and created ful that the resolution clearly
of uncertainty and fur- stated that only the owners of
lays following appeals of listervs listed by the MCommu-
ision. nity website would be recog-
15-page resolution vastly nized as the true owner of that
d the typical word count website - a point that nearly
utions, which often are cost him the election when
io to three pages long. e-mails were sent out by a sup-
gislation addresses top- porter to listservs that the sup-
as demerits, campaign porter did not own.
and the defining coordi- "I think that this will not
between a candidate and only set great precedent at
er supporters. Michigan but I think this
ng only a few feet away election code could be repli-
Parikh - who barely cated around student govern-
I disqualification on the ments across the nation as

well," Parikh said.
In addition to reforms to the
election code, the assembly also
discussed two more resolutions.
The first called for supporting
a campus-wide calendar that
would provide a comprehensive
listing of all events put on by
University organizations.
The proposed legislation
would also add a segment to
e-mail notifications of funds
awarded by the Student Orga-
nization Funding Commission
sent to student organizations.
Every time a student organi-
zation receives funding, they
would also be informed of the
all-campus calendar and would
be provided a tutorial on how to
use the calendar.
A campus-wide calendar was
part of youMICH's platform
during the March elections and
LSA representative Michael
Dalton, an LSA junior who ran
on the youMICH ticket, pro-
posed the resolution.
The other proposed reso-
lution supported identifying
"cyberbulling" as a form of bul-
lying in the Statement of Student
Rights and Responsibilities.
Hashwi spoke in favor of the
resolution, saying cyberbullying
can easily go undetected.
"Even normal bullying hasn't
really drawn attention from
many people," Hashwi said. "It's
very easy to cyberbully some-
body"
LSA-SG vice president Melis-
sa Burns was the author of the
cyberbullying resolution and
attended the meeting to address
questions from the assembly
regarding the issue. She said she
will present a similar resolution
on Wednesday at the LSA-SG
meeting.

150 researchers
will move into new
space on North
Campus
By MOLLY BLOCK
Daily StaffReporter
The Veterans Affairs Ann
Arbor Healthcare System
and the University of Michi-
gan Health System, located
adjacent to one another, have
become more than just neigh-
bors.
On Monday, the VA signed
a $866,574 multi-year lease
agreement for 24,600 square
feet in the headquarters of the
Institute for Healthcare Policy
and Innovation at the Univer-
sity's North Campus Research
Complex.
The VA's Center for Clini-
cal Management Research,
which investigates solutions to
various health issues, will join
more than 400 University fac-
ulty and students in the facility,
according to Eve Kerr, director
of the center and professor of
internal medicine at the Uni-
versity Medical School.
Kerr said she believes the
NCRC willbe an attractive area
for collaboration between the
University and the VA health
care system.
"In general, NCRC is rapidly
becoming a hub for interdisci-
plinary research and partner-
ships between the University
and outside entities," Kerr said.
"So, the potential for VA
researchers to work alongside
U-M researchers in the same
building and as part of the
same institute made this pos-
sibility very attractive."
The VA's CCMR will move
150 researchers to the new
building, which will free the
20,000 square feet the CCMR
currently occupies in the VA
Hospital for additional veteran
facilities, Kerr said.
The lease agreement
strengthens ties between the
University and the VA, which
cares for more than 8 million
veterans, according to Kerr.
Most of the researchers in the

CCMR are also VA doctors,
University faculty at the Medi-
cal School, School of Public
Health or School of Nursing
or colleagues at the University
Institute for Healthcare Policy
and Innovation.
The IHPI will not only aid
the health care of veterans, but
the UMHS as well, according
to Kerr.
"While our research focuses
on improving care for veterans,
much of our work is also appli-
cable to health care delivery
at the University of Michigan
Health System and many other
health care systems," Kerr said.
"Having CCMR be a partner of
the newly established Univer-
sity of Michigan Institute for
Healthcare Policy and Innova-
tion brings incredible syner-
gies."
CCMR research studies the
impact of changes to health
care, specifically for veterans.
With the new space, it hopes to
find pragmatic solutions to the
most common and costly clini-
cal management challenges
to improve the health care of
veterans. Some of the most
studied cases include heart
disease, diabetes, mental ill-
ness and post-traumatic stress
disorder.
"CCMR studies ways to
improve the quality, effective-
ness, safety and efficiency of
veterans's healthcare," Kerr
said. "Many of our researchers
study ways to improve perfor-
mance measures and clinical
decision support for conditions
like diabetes, heart disease
and cancer. We have a core
group studying approaches to
improve patient safety for hos-
pitalized patients."
The CCMR also includes
the VA Serious Mental Illness
Treatment, Research, and
Evaluation Center and the Dia-
betes Quality Enhancement
Research Initiative. Programs
run collaboratively by both
entities will also be included in
the move including the Patient
Safety Enhancement Program,
the Center for Bioethics and
Social Sciences in Medicine
and the program on Qual-
ity Improvement for Complex
Chronic Conditions.

Egypt's top court to rule
on constitutional panel

Court refers undercutting the powers of the
Supreme Constitutional Court.
controversial case Supporters of the panel say
it was set up by an elected par-
to a higher court liament and broadly represents
Egypt's political factions. Critics
CAIRO (AP) - An Egyptian counter that the process is domi-
court on Tuesday asked the nated by majority Islamists, such
country's highest tribunal to as the Muslim Brotherhood of
rule on whether to disband the Egypt's new president, Moham-
body tasked with writing a new med Morsi, and more radical
constitution. The delay in a rul- groups.
ing is a possible blow to liberals, A new constitution would be a
since it could give Islamists time key step in establishing a democ-
to finish drafting the contested racy to replace the Mubarak's
document. regime, ousted last year in an
The referral of the case to a uprising led by progressive, secu-
higher court is the latest twist lar activists.
in a bitter struggle between But in the nearly 20 months
Islamists and their secular since then, Islamists have
rivals over Egypt's first constitu- emerged as the strongest politi-
tion since it set out on a path to cal force. Morsi was elected
democracy, following the ouster president after the Brotherhood
of longtime President Hosni and the even more conservative
Mubarak lastyear. Salafis party swept parliamen-
Islamists, who dominate the tary elections, leaving the liber-
constitutional assembly, are rac- alswith minimal representation.
ing to put a draft to a public ref- The parliament was later dis-
erendum before the judges rule, banded.
while leading members of the Instead of ruling on a petition
panel appealed for dialogue to submitted by liberals challeng-
overcome the divisions. ing the legitimacy of the panel,
Leftist and liberal parties Judge Nazih Tangho of the
expressed doubts about such a High Administrative Court on
dialogue. Tuesday sent the case to Egypt's
The work and the composi- Supreme Constitutional Court.
tion of the 100-member con- The decision sets up a
stitutional assembly have been new showdown between the
the subject of fierce debate. The Supreme Constitutional Court,
focus is the potential for stricter packed with secularist judges,
implementation of Islamic law, and Egypt's ruling and power-
or Shariah, and empowerment ful Brotherhood. The same court
of religious scholars that liberals dissolved the Brotherhood-led
fear could signal a turn toward a parliament, ruled the election
theocratic state. law unconstitutional and turned
Along with the contentious down Morsi's attempt to restore
role of religion in the nation's it upon his election in June.
affairs, Islamists and liberals are Last week, the Constitutional
haggling over other proposed Court criticized the panel's move
articles relating to women rights, to strip the court's power right
freedom of worship, presidential to rule on laws passed by parlia-
powers, immunity for the mili- ment. The proposed articles also
tary from civilian oversight and maintainthe president's grip over

the court, as he appoints its head
and members.
The panel drafting it said it
could be ready for public discus-
sion as early as the first half of
November. The new constitution
then willhave to be put to a public
referendum within 30 days.
Tangho said he referred to the
case to the Constitutional Court
to look into alawhMoral passed in
July that gave the constitutional
panel legal immunity, a clause he
said needs vetting because no one
shouldbe abovelegalsupervision.
"The law was meant to pre-
vent the High Administrative
Court from looking into appeals
against the panel," he said.
A senior Brotherhood mem-
ber, Ahmed Abu Baraka, said,
"the court here is saying that
this is not my business and I am
not interfering in the writing of
the constitution nor its panel, in
respect to the principle of sepa-
rationbetween powers."
The Muslim Brotherhood's
political arm, Freedom and Jus-
tice Party, praised the ruling as
ushering "a new meeting point
to all spectrum of the Egyptian
society." constitution.
Hafez Abou Saada, one of the
lawyers challenging the panel,
appealed to leaders of the body
to stop work until a final ruling
is issued.
"Ifthey are reallyaseeking con-
sensus, then a panel whose legiti-
macy is questionable should not
be working," Abou Saada said.
Former President Jimmy
Carter said it has become clear
that the secular versus reli-
gious aspects of the constitution
remain the crucial questions, but
he said he was "gratified" with
the panel's work. Speaking in
Cairo Tuesday, Carter said his
center will apply to send observ-
ers to the constitutional referen-
dum.

FOLLOW THE DAILY
ON TWITTER
@MICHIGANDAILY
@MICHDAILYNEWS
@THEBLOCKM
@MICHDAILYARTS
@MICHDAILYOPED
@MICHDAILYPHOTO
@MICHDAILYDESIGN

n--uo

LIKE THE DAILY
ON FACEBOOK-


4A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I
he WlchiQan:43at*lv
l

Four years is not enough

A

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F ROM T HE DA ILY
RateMyHousing
Creative solutions for off-campus housing
espite the pressure of midterms weighing on the minds of
students, the word "housing" is what truly strikes fear in
the hearts of many unassuming students. For upperclass-
men, it's that dreaded time of year when Friday afternoons are filled
with begrudged house hunting. For freshmen, this concept may be
unwelcome news. Adding to the hassle, Ann Arbor's housing market
is dominated by a few realty companies, which dictate not only prices,
but also living conditions. In order to improve off-campus housing in
Ann Arbor, it's up to students to create a community where off-campus
properties are peer-reviewed and tenant rights are well-known. The
city of Ann Arbor needs to do more to ensure that landlords have less
opportunity to take advantage of students.

There have been a lot of dis-
tractions during this elec-
tion cycle. But with less
than two weeks
until Election
Day on Nov. 6,
let's take a step
back and think
about what this
race is really
about. I
A lot of people MICHAEL
aren't feeling the SPAETH
effects ofthe eco-
nomic recovery
yet. They're still unemployed and
can't find a job. They're fatigued and
impatient. They want jobs immedi-
ately, and that's completely under-
standable. As a result, they blame
President Barack Obama for their
economic miseries.
It's important to understand that
no matter which economic policies
are implemented, recoveries from
financial crises simply take a long
time - particularly the recovery
from the most severe financial crisis
since the Great Depression. "This
is what normally happens after a
severe financial crisis," Nobel Prize
winning economist Paul Krugman
explained in his latest column in The
New York Times.
On the night of Obama's inaugu-
ration, before he had done anything,
Republicans plotted to obstruct his
agenda, according to Robert Draper,
author of "Do Not Ask What Good
We Do: Inside the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives" - and they have done
so relentlessly ever since.
Today, they gleefully castigate
the president for not turning this
economy around. Despite the fact
that financial recoveries take a long
time and Obama's dealt with con-
stant Republican opposition, he has
still managed to create approxi-
mately 3.6-million private-sector
jobs since the start of the recovery in
June 2009, according to PolitiFact.
com, the Pulitzer Prize-winning
fact-checkingunit of The Tampa Bay
Times. We definitely need more jobs
than that, but it's still an impressive
feat, under the circumstances.
Can a conservative economic

approach improve the economy more
than Obama's approach?
Republican presidents have cre-
ated far fewer jobs than Democratic
presidents in recent decades. At the
Democratic National Convention in
September, former President Bill
Clinton said - and FactCheck.org
verified - that since 1961, Repub-
licans have occupied the White
House for 28 years and created
24-million private-sector jobs. In
contrast, Democrats have occupied
the White House for only 24 years
since 1961 but created 42-million
private-sector jobs.
Republicans forcefully advo-
tate for slashing the budget using
austerity policies, but these poli-
cies can devastate fragile, recover-
ing economies. An article in The
Guardian describes how in 1937,
during the recovery after the Great
Depression, President Franklin
Roosevelt also decided to enact
austerity measures. As a result, the
United States was thrown back into
a recession and it took a world war
to enable us to fully recover.
In the past few years, auster-
ity policies have caused or wors-
ened recessions across Europe in
countries including Britain, Spain,
Greece, Italy, Portugal and possibly
Germany in the near future.
"Germany's insistence on cut-
ting public budgets has led Europe
into a recession swamp," Robert
Reich, former secretary of labor,
stated in April.
Republican policies have made the
deficit skyrocket. Today's Republican
Party doesn't mention the fact that
conservative president Ronald Rea-
gan nearly tripled the deficit during
his eight years as president. Repub-
lican presidential nominee Mitt
Romney claims that unlike former
President George W. Bush - who
replaced Bill Clinton's surplus with
large deficits every year since 2002
- he will balance the budget. Yet, as
Ezra Klein wrote in the Washington
Post last week, Bush also "endorsed
amending the Constitution to require
a balanced budget. But, like Romney,
he wasspecific about his tax cuts and
increases in military spending, but

vague about his spending cuts. The
result was much higher deficits."
Why will this time be any different?
If we give
Romney a
chance, who are
we electing?
It's hard to say, because Romney
has repeatedly refused to reveal the
details of his economic plan. David
Leonhardt wrote in The New York
Times in September that Romney
"will not say which tax breaks he
would reduce, andthe large ones,like
the mortgage-interest deduction,
are all popular." Leonhardt cited a
detailed analysis by the Tax Policy
Center that, in his words, "showed
that achieving all of Mr. Romney's
top-line goals - a revenue-neutral
overhaul that does not increase the
tax burden of the middle class - is
not arithmetically possible."
Even if Americans decide to give
Romney a chance, it's difficult to
know which Romney they're elect-
ing, since he has changed his posi-
tions on issues so frequently. But
chances are, to ensure his politi-
cal survival as president, Romney
would have to support conserva-
tive economic policies that satisfy a
Republican base that's influencedby
the uncompromising Tea Party. His-
tory isn't kind to these policies.
The President certainly hasn't
had perfect economic policies.
Some economists like Krugman
believe the 2009 stimulus should
have been bigger. But Obama's plan
for increasing the number of manu-
facturing jobs, investing in clean
energy, focusing on innovation and
investing in education are steps in
the right direction. Let's give the
president enough time to finish the
job he started.
- Michael Spaeth can be
reached micspa@umich.edu.

4

Many searching for off-campus proper-
ties are doing so with little house or apart-
ment hunting experience. Usually, students
hear about living conditions and landlords
from their friends or by word of mouth. This
is only slightly effective - the information
students receive is limited by who they know
and what properties their friends are familiar
with. Most students, therefore, aren't fully
informed about what to expect upon signing
a lease. To counteract this problem and edu-
cate students about landlords and properties,
a universal housing database should be creat-
ed, where current tenants can rate properties
and landlords - the RateMyProfessors.com of
housing.
This won't just give students more infor-
mation to make better decisions, but it will
also keep monopolizing landlords in check.
Bad reviews would deter students from sign-
ing leases at those properties, detracting
poorly rated landlords' business. This will
provide incentive for rental companies and
landlords to better accommodate students's
needs and keep properties desirable and
prices competitive - capitalism that actually
works for students.
Major complaints regarding rental proper-
ties in Ann Arbor include condition and main-

tenance of the properties. Some landlords
ignore maintenance requests and allow prob-
lems to develop until conditions are practi-
cally unlivable. City ordinances state that
rental houses in Ann Arbor must be inspected
every 30 months. This time period allows for
about two 12 month leases to expire before
another inspection. The time allotment needs
to be shortened by the city to ensure safe liv-
ing conditions for students.
When houses are not properly maintained,
students need to be informed about avail-
able legal actions to be levied against their
landlords and realty companies. Lawyers are
available to students in serious incidences that
require court cases filings. Ann Arbor must
also take initiative and help students fight
unfair housing practices. Students, the city
and landlords, with the University's help, must
collaborate to reach an agreement to improve
off-campus housing conditions. The first steps
can include creating a housing review website
to inform potential tenants aboutthe pros and
cons of each property, insisting on more fre-
quent and thorough housing inspections and
pressuring landlords to stop taking advantage.
of students. Plausible solutions exist for the
housing problems in Ann Arbor and must be
implemented immediately.

6
U
6

INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES? POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every Monday and Thursday at
6pm, the Daily's opinion staff meets to discuss both University and national affairs and
write editorials. E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
Benefits beyond clean energy

LE T TE R TO T HE EDITOR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Engage in political science,
licans raises a larger issue, claiming that the
not political silence panel was fallacious. We might ask, "Does the
Republican party wish to reduce a woman's
TO THE DAILY: control over her own body?" Indeed, we can
The University's chapter of the College answer this factually: yes. The GOP platform,
Republicans would have you believe that approved at the Republican National Conven-
Monday's panel titled, "Republican War on tion in Tampa, explicitly opposes all acts of
Women," was "blatantly fallacious," parti- abortion and silent on exceptions.
san and offensive. I wholeheartedly disagree. The question that follows, then, is "why?"
First, a disclaimer: I identify as liberal, as a Answering this question may, for some, be
male and as a feminist. If my political affili- informed by moral or religious beliefs. Attempt-
ation, sexual identity or intellectual position ingtorespondtothisquestion fromanormative
offends you, perhaps you aren't prepared for position is, necessarily, partisan. But answering
my opinion. the firstquestion requires only observation.
First, the panel sought to discuss the media's As a student, I am grateful that the Univer-
portrayal of the political treatment of women's sity hosted the panel and others like it. If, as a
bodies, not debate the legality of abortion. campus, we only discuss issues that are apo-
One might claim that the panel was partisan litical, little else remains to be discussed. Our
for lack of a Republican journalist, but none professors and invited lecturers should be paid
seem to be writing about this issue. It's also to discuss such issues from the perspective of
offensive to group the panelists as "feminist scientific observation. In this sense, we might
journalists" occupying the same perspective. engage in political science, not political silence.
While each may be a feminist, this doesn't
guarantee a shared partisan stance. William Rogers
But RachelJankowski of the College Repub- LSA Junior
LETTER TO THE EDITOR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
'U'should utilize sustainable the UM Sustainable Food Program unites all
student groups interested in, you guessed it,
opportunities on campus sustainable food. This includes a wide range
of possible ways to get involved, you can sell
TO THE DAILY: food (Brassica), farm food (Friends of the
In 2010, President Mary Sue Coleman Campus Farm; Cultivating Community) and
created the Environmental Sustainability celebrate food (Harvest Festival). Cultivating
Executive Council and the Office of Campus Community educates students about leader-
Sustainability. This was a huge step for the ship in community food systems. The garden
University, however, Michigan has a long way is located near the Gingsberg Center right on
to go. The way to get there is with us, the stu- campus. You can get your hands dirty and
dents. We are the movers and shakers of this learn about what it takes to farm and grow
university. This school exists to serve the stu- your own organic produce.
dent body. Without us, it would cease to exist. With such a wide range of opportuni-
It's up to us to determine what programs ties, there's a place for any student looking
Michigan will support and the next steps we to get involved in making the campus more
will take towards toward sustainability. sustainable, all it takes is passion. Without
Ample opportunities exist that allow stu- students acting as drivers and triggers of
dents to get more educated or involved in change, actions and plans will not be able to
sustainable practices: EarthFest, Graham take shape. We need to lead the university
Environmental Sustainability Institute, to action.
Planet Blue, Student Sustainability Initiative
and the University of Michigan Sustainable Michelle Busch
Food Program are just a few. For example, LSA Junior

Presidential elections tend to
draw a higher percentage
of the population to the bal-
lot box, which
makes this an
important year
for other issues
that Michigan
residents will
vote on.
Proposal 3
might be the
most important MARY
of this year's six GALLAGHER
ballot propos-
als. It would
increase the renewable energy
standard in Michigan to 25 per-
cent by 2025. This would raise our
state's current goal of 10 percent
renewable energy by 2015, a stan-
dard approved by the state legisla-
ture in 2008.'
I spent last semester interning
for one of the groups advocating for
this ballot initiative - the Michi-
gan League of Conservation Voters
- so I have a strong bias toward the
approval of Proposal 3. MLCV is an
Ann Arbor-based organization that
describes itself as "the leading non-
partisan political voice for protect-
ing Michigan's land, air, and water,"
and has offered its support for Prop
3 because "in-state renewable ener-
gy production means thousands of
new in-state jobs."
Whenever I bring up Proposal 3
- yeah, I'm a lot of fun at parties -
the most common concern is if the
cost of expanding renewable energy
would go straightto our energy bills.
Fortunately, the proposal specifies
that companies can't increase their
electric utility rate any more than
1 percent per year solely to comply
with the standard. If it's truly impos-
sible to achieve compliance with-
out increasing rates, the proposal

allows for deadline extensions. How-
ever, that shouldn't be too much of a
problem, considering that a total of
20 states have already passed simi-
lar initiatives "without significant
increases in utility costs for consum-
ers," including three other Great
Lakes states - Illinois, Minnesota
and Ohio.
After they find the cost isn't going
toward consumers, people are gen-
erally concerned that the increased
requirement will lead to job cuts
within energy companies. Howev-
er, the proposal mandates that the
legislature "enact additional laws
to encourage the use of Michigan-
made equipment and employment
of Michigan residents," which
would actually lead to the creation
of more jobs in Michigan rather
than relying on outside labor and
resources to supply our energy.
Currently, 60 percent of Michi-
gan's energy is provided by out-of-
state coal supply. Out of the $31.3
billion Michigan spent on energy
in 2009, $22.6 billion was sent to
other states and countries for their
energy resources.
This is an unacceptable waste of
Michigan's incredible manufactur-
ing capacity. The manufacturing
capacity is what built our state in
the first place. That's why Proposal
3 was endorsed by the United Auto
Workers, whose president, Bob
King said, "Proposal 3 will help
put our state's manufacturing tal-
ent to work, will help to preserve
a healthy environment for Michi-
gan citizens while reining in rising
energy costs for businesses."
Many people perceive renewable
energy as a highly partisan concept,
a pet project of the hippie tree-hug-
gers on the left. However, even con-
servative business leaders like Steve
Linder, president of the Republican

consulting firm Sterling Corpora-
tion, support the initiative. As Linder
pointed out in a May 2012 inter-
view, "While we don't like govern-
ment mandates, this allows us to use
manufacturing capacity in Michigan
rather than bringing in $1.6 billion
worth of coal from West Virginiaand
Pennsylvania."

0

Renewable
energy is wrongly
perceived as
partisan.
Since the bill was passed in 2008
to mandate 10 percent renewable
energy by 2015 in the state legisla-
ture, there has been some confu-
sion. Why is this new initiative, so
similar to the last one, being voted
on by the general population rath-
er than by state representatives?
This is because the political envi-
ronment in Lansing has changed
drastically since that time. In the
past few years, the legislature has
become increasingly partisan,
making it harder and harder to get
any bill passed, no matter how ben-
eficial it is to Michigan's economy,
environment or public health.
That's why we're lucky that the
reform is being brought up as a bal-
lot proposal. Instead of relying on
our legislators to listen to their con-
stituents and come together to serve
the commongood,we're ableto show
up at the voting booth and make that
change happen for ourselves.
- Mary Gallagher can be
reached at mkgall@umich.edu.


Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


EVENT PREVIEW
Author of 'Winter's
Bone is co ming
Woodrell and Estill rural Missouri as a backdrop on of "Winter's Bone" received the
which to weave his tales. Grand Jury Prize for a dramatic
to share respective Shaped by his experiences, film and the Waldo Salt Screen-
Woodrell's books wrestle with writing Award at the 2010 Sun-
works at Zell series tough themes of violence and dance Film Festival, and was
crime. While many authors write nominated for four Academy
By TYLER BAILEY crime dramas or violent thrill- Awards, including Best Picture.
and TEHREEM SAJJAD ers, Woodrell's work is impactful Over the past several years,
Daily Arts Writer and For the Daily because, between these outbursts, Woodrill's wife Katie Estill has
one can find moments of calmemo- worked as a teacher and journal-
Though his claim to fame is tion and a strong feeling of family. ist, while authoring an assort-
authoring the book adapted into "The idea of family or the ment of short stories, as well
the award-winning film "Win- search for family turns out to as two novels: "Evening Would
ter's Bone," be at the core of every book I've Find Me" and "Dahlia's Gone."
Daniel Woodrell Zell Visit- written," Woodrell said. "It may At Thursday's reading, Estill will
has much more . not be a blood family, it may be be showcasing "Dahlia's Gone"
to offer in terms ' Wrers some facsimile family that you and sharing her experiences from
of his writing Series: create among like-minded and writing the novel.
abilities. Ka Eill needy people, but almost all of "One of the things that I was
This Thurs- them seem to concern that." thinking about a lot while I was
day, Woodrell and Daniel His newest story, "The Maid's writing the book was how polar-
will be reading Woodrell Version," which Woodrell plans ized we have become as a nation
selected passag- on sharing with attendees on - politically and culturally - and
es from his most Thursday at Thursday, illustrates what he I was looking for characters that
recent work as 5:10 p.m. seems to bring to life so well - were very, very different, who
part of the Zell Helmut Stern a sense of family love set amidst had extremely different ideas
Visiting Writ- Auditorium a disaster or difficult situation. about human politics and were
er's Series. His This might be his most personal brought into contact because of
wife and fellow Free tale, based off a true disaster and this incident," Estill said.
author Katie what ensued. This story makes Estill finds orally reciting her
Estill will join him, reading from his already personal and emo- work an "enriching experience."
her own body of work. tional style of writing all the She added, "but, it's definitely
Many of Woodrell's books are more visceral. one of those experiences that
about people on the fringes of "It's kind of a family tale," Woo- can be shared by when you go to
society - a type of country life drell said. "Although it's a family the theater or see the movies at
that Woodrell experienced for tale designed around a catastrophe the theater. You're here and the
himself, living most of his life that happened when a dance hall experience is with a community
in the Missouri Ozark mountain blew up around here. There was an of people - something happens
country. It shows in his works actual event like that." there, some subconscious moral
too: Woodrell hardly ever strays In addition to Woodrell's liter- that doesn't happen on your read-
from the familiar environment of ary awards, the film adaptation ing alone."
YOUR MOM FOLLOWS @MICHDAILYARTS

TV REVIEW
New-'Story,'same scare

By BRIANNE JOHNSON
DailyArts Writer
Bring out the monsters, call
them forth from their closets -
but, please, fasten their shackles
tight.Hometo
the criminally
insane, Briar-
cliff Mental A ecan
Institution is
the new set- Horror Story:
ting of FX's Asylum
anthology
series, "Amer- Season Two
ican Hor- Premiere
ror Story." Wednesdays
The twisted at10 p.m
minds behind a
the show's FX
infamous
Dylan McDermott sob-sturbing
first season have made "Asylum"
a hair-raising, mind-numbing
(lobotomy, anyone?) thrill.
Dubbed the largest tuberculo-
sis ward of 1901, the fictional Bri-
arcliff claimed 46,000 victims,
and is hungry for more. But "Asy-
lum" introduces a fresh Briar-
cliff, reinvented by the Catholic
Church in 1964 as a sanitarium
for residents one screw loose
of, well, their weapon of choice.
Governed by Monsignor Timo-
thy Howard (Joseph Fiennes,
"Shakespeare in Love"), headed
by Sister Jude (Jessica Lange,
"Big Fish") and corrupted by
Dr. Arthur Arden (James Crom-
well, "The Green Mile"), Briar-
cliff welcomes its "most famous
resident," mechanic Kit Walker,
a.k.a. serial killer "Bloody Face"
(Evan Peters, "Kick-Ass"). Sniff-
ing out a sensational story - or
the stench of leftover limbs -
journalist Lana Winters (Sarah
Paulson, "Serenity") sneaks
through the institution in search
of its secrets and the motives of a
murderous lover.
A lick of lusty nun and a dose
of sadistic Doc (specialty: cutting
the Devil out from his patients'
FILM NOTEBOOK

FX

"Man, this stuff is good."

occipit
to can
viewer
lum" fc
is mes
Sister
driven
and v
demur
God, a
heavei
5's Ad
eymoo
tend h
Oc
Th
V
But
son on
the st:
Nichol
nest.
pared
shoot-
Peters
tized
aliens
to a ne
Dea
Demon

tal lobes and feeding them please. Roll out the blood-red
nibalistic pets) is nearly all carpet for "I Know What Evan
rs need to check in to "Asy- Peters Did Last Summer," parts
or a permanent stay. Lange one through five of "Evan Peters
smerizing as the complex on Elm Street" and let him join
Jude, plagued by desire, Jason for a slasher rampage in
to cruelty, yet maternal space. Viewers can offer Levine
ulnerable. Fiennes is the as a sacrifice (virgin status unde-
ely charming gift from termined).
humble reward from the But the delectably dangerous
ns for tolerating Maroon cast would be little without the
am Levine as horny hon- writers' dedication to humaniz-
ner Leo. Maybe if we pre- ing each character to depths oth-
e's not here, he'll go away. erwise unexplored by the horror
genre. Not one (still ignoring
you, Levine) is left bobbing at
- * ob the surface, assigned the Unholy
cipital lobes: Nun archetype or the Nosy Jour-
e other, other nalist cliche. Sister Jude is both
aroused and shamed by her fan-
vhite meat. tasies; Winters struggles to hide
her love for her partner, Wendy
(Clea Duvall, "The Faculty");
Walker is passionately devoted
,fresh from his role as sea- to wife, Alma (Britne Oldford,
e's Tate Langdon, Peters is "36 Saints"), despite their taboo
ar as Kit Walker, the Jack interracial relationship. "Asy-
lson of Briarcliff's cuckoo lum," by tangling the expecta-
Though slightly stiff com- tions of hero and villain, proves,
to his last role as Tate, the as Sister Jude says, "All monsters
'em-up dead boyfriend, are human."
is magnetic as a trauma- There's something to be
country boy, swiped by said about a show that makes a
(yes, aliens) and delivered squeamish roommate bury his
w nightmare. head in blankets before the title
ir Horror Gods (er, sequence can finish. It's damn
ns), more Evan Peters, good, and a bloody success.

From damsels-in-distress
to ass-kicking heroines

It's game on at Treasure Island Resort & Casino! Head up to the game at
the new TCF Stadium and watch your Wolverines take on the Minnesota
& Gophers on Saturday, November 3. Then it's back to Treasure Island for a
night filled with even more gaming excitement!
+ Two tickets to see the Wolverines + Two FREE games of bowling at
take on the Minnesota Gophers on Island Xtreme Bowl
November 3 + Two buffets at Tradewinds Buffet
+ Standard hotel room Only $ plustax
+ Two $10 Blackjack match plays
$50 FREE slot play

By PROMA KHOSLA
Daily Arts Writer
Superhero movies are usu-
ally a fail-safe Hollywood for-
mula: Money for the studios
and a big break for the leading
men in tights (and metal suits
and ripped shorts and Kevlar ...
oh, you get it). But the genre has
always spelled uncertainty for
their most peripheral charac-
ters - the women. After years
as marginalized plot devices,
the women of the superhero uni-
verse have evolved into protago-
nists as impressive as the heroes
themselves.
A prime exception to sole-
ly supporting women is the
"X-Men" series, which from
comic book page to screen intro-
duced a host of powerful women
in almost equal number to the
men. From vengeful combatant
Mystique to the shy-but-deadly
Rogue, the story has always been
about humans and mutants, triv-
ializing further classification.
Even Jean Grey (Famke Jans-
sen), the obligatory center of a
love triangle, is a teacher, scien-
tist and one of the most powerful
and volatile mutants alive.
Nothing showcases the evo-
lution of females in superhero
movies more than this summer's
fare. Black Widow (Scarlett
Johannson) of "The Avengers"
more than holds her own among
six male colleagues and the
nefarious villan Loki. The most
brilliant accomplishment here
is that it isn't even discussed.
Her gender isn't pointed out
once in the movie; the writing
and performances are so natu-
ral that reviewers barely even
commented on it. She never uses
her sexuality as a weapon, and
only mentions romance when
remarking that "love is for chil-
dren." It didn't escape my notice
that she wears a rather skintight
combat suit - but if anything
was objectified in that movie,
it was Chris Evans's back in a
t-shirt.
It's no secret by now that the
crowning jewel of July's "The

"How could youleave so little starring roles for the rest of us?"
Amazing Spiderman" was its sor (so ... two). I was not disap-
superb lead actors, Andrew Gar- pointed. Selina Kyle, externally
field and Emma Stone. Apart an innocent beauty, turns out to
from the kind of hypnotic chem- be a remorseless revolutionary, a
istry that can only be described transition Anne Hathaway con-
as nerd-porn, "Amazing" com- veys literally in the blink of an
pletely changed the established eye. One of the most chill-induc-
on-screen dynamics of Peter ing scenes in the film features
Parker and his love interests. Kyle beating up her opponents,
before almost instantly acting
the part of a hysterical victim
Girls just want when polite enter the scene.
The seductive catlike manner-
to have super isms can grow irksome, but then
she'll snap a few necks and all is
powers. forgiven.
Kyle.succeeds, not because of
the film's writing, but because
of Hathaway's superb perfor-
Mary Jane (Kirsten Dunst) mance. It's a remarkable trans-
was a classic damsel-in-distress formation for an actress whose
in the early 2000s Spiderman big break was "The Princess
trilogy, placed in peril whenever Diaries." Hathaway once became
the writers seemed to run out an idol for girls who felt invis-
of ideas. She loved Peter, sup- ible and longed to be pretty. Ten
ported his quest and made him a years later, she's upped the ante,
better man ... she also screamed showing girls that the best way
and got kidnapped an awful lot. to be noticed is to make a killer
Stone's Gwen Stacy is the smart- impression. Kyle is a woman
est girl at school (and knows it), unintimidated by the lowest of
sharp enough to befuddle Parker criminals who become her new
with brains as much as beauty neighbors in prison; a woman
and create the serum that saves who, when the time comes to
New York City by the end of the choose a course of action, opts
movie. Now that's the kind of for the moral high ground and
girlfriend a superhero should be basically saves Batman's ass.
so lucky to have. At first, I feared Marion Cotil-
With all that, I was anxious lard's Miranda Tate wouldbe just
to see what was in store with another woman in need of sav-
"The Dark Knight Rises," with a ing, but Cotillard gives a thrilling
cast list boasting twice as many performance in the third act that
female leads as its predeces- See HEROINES, Page 6A


6A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

6A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

"I still can't believe Amy and Will are over."
'Parks' still one of
the best on television

"You've never played Kings? Really?"
Wise 'Wallflower'

By PROMA KHOSLA
Daily Arts Writer
Now more than ever, NBC's
"Parks and Recreation" begs the
question: Why isn't everyone
watching this
show? ****-
A show that
started with the Parks and
basic format of Recreation
"The Office" in
hopes of tap- Season Five
ping into the Midseason
latter's viewer Thursdays at
base, "Parks" 9:30 p.m
is now exem- 9BCp'm
plary televi- NBC
sion comedy far
superior to most of its contempo-
raries. After breaking out of the
"Office" prototype, creators Greg
Daniels and Michael Schur have
cultivated a show populated with
engaging characters and charm
so irresistible that watching an
episode feels like spending half an
hour with your funniest friends.
In its fifth season, "Parks" falls
effortlessly back into the rhythm
established in season three with
the pivotal arrival of Chris (Rob
Lowe) and Ben (Adam Scott) to
Pawnee, Ind. Every single charac-
ter is likable, from lovably dumb
Andy (Chris Pratt) to sassy pow-
erhouse Donna (Retta), to guests
who have become Pawnee staples,

like Je
and Pe
This
liancec
meticu
to tru
chemis
Chris,.
ri) see
they ba
any gr
Better
other;
be a po
izes he
perfect
E
sh
And
Washir
of apat
and ne
almost
find ba
becom(
during
Pawne
The
proved
writers

an-Ralphio (Ben Schwartz) duced last season, it seemed like a
rd Hapley (Jay Jackson). sort of negative deux ex machina
season extends the bril- - another way of keeping Ben and
of these characters beyond Leslie (Amy Poehler) from happi-
lously crafted individuals ness after the numerous hurdles
ly believable people with they jumped to be together. But
try in any combination. Leslie and Ben are as flawless as
Andy and Tom (Aziz Ansa- ever, encumbered by distance but
m an unlikely group, but still very much in love. Even more
nd together as naturally as impressive is the fact that having
oup of friends really would. ongoing stories in two locations
yet, they learn from each isn't holding "Parks" back from
Andy becomes motivated to plot development. Characters
lice officer and Chris real- grow, people change and all to the
wants more in his life than tune of the kind of silliness one
health and physique. can only expect from the Pawnee
Parks Department.
One of "Parks" 's greatest
yen a bacon strengths the past few seasons
has been the ability of the its
orta e can't writers to blend marvelous com-
edy and quality drama - noth-
w this down ing as dark as "How I Met Your
Mother" 's explorations of death
and infertility, but those everyday
moments like Ben and April mak-
who could forget the ing fun of their congressman or
ngton, D.C. shenanigans Leslie standing up for her beliefs
hetic April (Aubrey Plaza) even if they defy city laws. It is
rdtastic Ben? The two are not uncommon among fans to get
polar opposites, yet they a little teary-eyed during the sea-
lance in the workplace and son four finale or freak out every
e actual friends outside it time Ben and Leslie kiss for the
their failed road trip to first time. That kind of resonance
e. is what differentiates an average
D.C. plotline itself has comedy from a superb one, and
tobe asmartgamblebythe "Parks" is the latter, without a
. When it was first intro- doubt.

Nuanced characters
perfectly embody
teenage dysfunction
ByKAYLA UPADYAYA
Senior Arts Editor
"The Perks of Being a Wall-
flower" is not a perfect movie. The
film adaptation of the 1999 young-
adult novel of
the same name *
starts off a bit
choppy, and The Perks
the pacing
remains erratic of Being a
to the end. But Wallflower
its flaws are
oddly fitting, At Quality 16
because "Perks" and Rave,
never tries to
give a gloss to Summit
its portrayal
of growing up. It's a story about
dysfunction and introversion, its
narrative unfolded by a tortured,
unstable protagonist. So, its messi-
ness is appropriate, even beautiful.
Charlie (Logan Lerman, "The
Three Musketeers") just started
high school, and he's already
counting down the days until
graduation. His best friend, Mike,
shot himself last May - a reveal
so matter-of-fact and hushed that
it'd be easy to miss completely.
But Charlie meets Sam (Emma
Watson, "Harry Potter and the

Deathly Hallows: Part 2") and
Patrick (Ezra Miller, "We Need to
Talk About Kevin"), two eccentric
step-siblings who welcome him
into their island of misfit toys.
As the director, screenwriter
and producer (not to mention
the author of the original novel),
Steven Chbosky ("Rent") knows
this story inside and out, and the
celebrated care he pours into the
camerawork - like the effortless
blend of Charlie's memories with
the present - makes for a capti-
vating display.
Some of the more peculiar
direction choices are mesmeriz-
ing. At a post-homecoming party,
Sam tells Patrick about how Char-
lie lost his best friend. She does
so in a whisper, but not the kind
of stage whisper you usually see
in the movies. You have to strain
to hear - she breathes the words,
her body angled away from the
camera.
With an impressively penetrat-
ing voice and style for someone
so new to filmmaking, Chbosky
transforms the rigid epistolary
structure of the novel into a story
that dances. The tempo might be
wobbly, but the script is immacu-
late, untangling and probing very
dark, very complicated issues
in a way that's as genuine as it is
elegant.
Also relatively inexperienced
are the film's trifecta of young
stars. While Watson is hardly a

newcomer, she does an about-face
from the character she played for
a decade. Sam, an uninhibited and
passionate girl trying to shed her
turbulent past before college, is
no Hermione, and Watson brings
a magnetic honesty to her perfor-
mance, never allowing Sam to slip
into a bad-girl cliche.
Miller similarly sheds the skin
of his haunting performance
as the titular teen sociopath of
"We Need to Talk About Kevin."
Patrick is the beating heart of
"Perks." On the surface, he's the
class clown, the guy who orga-
nizes the senior prank and does
impressions of teachers. But like
Charlie and Sam, he too harbors
intense pain - he's involved with
a closeted football star whose
father would kill him if he ever
came out. And Miller is wholly
mindful of all of Patrick's intrica-
cies in his approach, dominating
some scenes with his infectious
comedy and others with a quiet
anguish.
But the film's most indelible
images come from Lerman, who
has the staggeringtask of captur-
ing Charlie's internal struggles
without dipping too far into the
macabre. We have to believe just
how tormented Charlie is for the
character to work, and Lerman
manages to make that happen
without taking the character to a
point beyond empathy. The story
is told from deep within Charlie's
head, which would feel suffocat-
ing if not for the delicacy of Ler-
man's touch.
The script zooms in on the
specificity of these characters'
anxieties, with enough close-ups
to enliven and augment even the
minor characters. But "Perks"
also doesn't belong to a certain
time or place, painting broad
strokes with its more peripheral
details.
This is a world in which you
pour out your feelings in a mix-
tape and who you sit with at lunch
can seem like the most important
thing in the world. And no matter
how distantof a memory teenage-
dom is for viewers, "Perks" will
resonate.

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, October 24, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Pt
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS DO
1 Brains 1 Madea
7 Like manya reply appear
env. 2 Teamc
10 Low-tech missile concer
13 New Age 3 Mornin
physician 4 Teeth-c
14 Zeno's home step
15 Namibia 5 Ttle wi
neighbor: Abbr. John Ir
16 Florida export 6 Hasen
17*"Ditto!" one
19*1955 7 Directo
Communist 8Jam th
defense treaty 0 Black H
21 Old Russian 10FWhen
dynast Fortune
22Pulitzer 11"A Day
playwright Rice Rain"N
23 The tiniest bit 12 Culture
25 _ Moines 14 Israelid
26 Sink, as a Abba
snooker ball 18 Whenc
28 Flattering have a
decepton 20 The C
31 Daddy-o novelis
33 Marsupial 24 'The A
sometimes called Family'
a bear 27 Specia
34 Friction reducer military
37 "1 can answer 29 Flamen
yourqaestions" 30 Shorelir
40 Mapreader's aid indenta
41 Firefighter Red 2 a
43 Gaming console
with afitness '1
component
44 County in eastem
Ireland 19
47 R&B's Hill
49 Peoriabrs 22
52 Score tempo
54 Opposite of neo- 2
56 Fr. miss
58 'Momentarily
forget 34 an 53
60 Lik thebesa ht
honda, and a hint 41
to the answersto
starred clues
62 Dumpstertfill 52
63 Reunion
attendees 5 a57
64 Goes down in the0
weal
65 Done forthefirst e
time
66 Sewup so
R7 .~de deux
R8Trusty munts By Gareth B
()2012 Trib

)wN
an
rance
captain's
rn
g janglers
cleaning
riter in a
ving novel
pfeffer, for
r's cry
ickener
Hills terr.
e"host
Without
New Ager
medium
diplomat
one might
late lunch
'hosen"
t Chaim
ddams
adjective
force
co shout
tion

32 Print maker 48 Cheerf
34 Wine barrel wood 49 Painter
35 Dictator Amin 50 Had an
36 *Space cadet's 51 Small g
home? 53 Extrem
37 Inland Asian sea short
38 Lehdr operetta 55 2004 re
"The Merry _" starring
39 Breathable gases 56 Fabrica
42 Car at a long 57 Rested
light, say 59 Venust
45 Herbal brew lack
46 Everglades birds 61 Egyptia
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P
DRE AAC O A J A X
REL AX L U G.E
A ND R O M E D A S T R
W O OD A X I S S I
G E NE N A S
J U R A S S I C PA R K
A N I M E O UT S
V I L EL C O N G O N
T H E L O S T W C
A B R O A D C AN S
D R I P S F AU X T
M I C H A E L C R I C H
I D E A V E E R D A
T E ST E A S Y S T
xwordeditor@aol.com

uzzle
ul
Monet
inkling ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
ifts ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
ists, for ! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
make ! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
Jude Law now for 2013 (Spring or fall). U-M's
Ite BEST housing sold out early 2012. Re-
serve your space for 2013 today. 2
blocks from Central Campusand down-
n snake town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
UZZLE: available. Rates from $665. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
T U T S !!LARGE CENTRAL
R A I N CAMPUS HOMES!!
I D L E www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
(734) 332-6000
K E B * www.CarlsonProperties.com
E A R Now Leasing!
H A R CE 4 BDRM/2 BATH House
D R L D Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
Avail. Sept. 2013. 734-395-6823
TI M E
H T O N 811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
A Z E D parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
T A T S Fall 2013. dklemptner@comcast.net
10/24/12
a 2 AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6 bdrm houses
www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
or email louisbreskman@gmail.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
ts so tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Coin-
so 5' plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS
6and 7 bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
10/24/12 for rent NOW for May 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368

FALL 2013 FINE6 bedroom house.
523 S Fourth Ave, furn., dwshr., dis-
posal, ldry., parking, central A/C, high
speed internet, hardwood floors, alarm
system, heat and water included.
$3300/mo. 734-662-7121 or
gpmiles@aol.com
HAVE YOU HEARD...?
We have BRAND NEW LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
THE 2ND FLOOR
We are taking reservations for
2013/2014
The 2nd Floor apartments are
Right on Central Campus with the Best
amenities,
the Best service and the Best prices!
You've seen allthe rest, NOWrent
with the BEST!
734-761-2680

SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILL
& pub at 310 Maynard is pleasedto an-
nounce they are currently hiring for
punctual, proficient COOKS that pay a
great attention to details. Apply within.
No phone calls.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to loin. Click on Surveys.

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
14 15
17 1$
20 21
23 24
26 27 28
31 32 33
W 37 38 39 40
42 43
45 46 47 48 49
i2 53 54 155
58 59
61 62
64 65
67 6$
Bain
bune Media Services, Inc.

The2ndfloorSU.COM HAVE YOU
WE ARE TAKING
RESERVATIONS for 2013/2014 PURCHASED
You've seen all the rest, NOW rent -
with the BEST! "
This is where Ubelong
UNIVERSITY TOWERS FOOTBALL
Affordable ON CampusApartments
SOLD OUT IN MAY LAST YEAR, B
DON'T WAIT UNTIL IT'S TOO
LATE. YT
Visit us at YET?
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
WWW.HOUSING.UMICH.EDU
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
H ELP WANTED
SDOTHE
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILL CROSSWORD,
& pub at 310 Maynard is pleased to an-
nounce they are currently hiring for TH
punctual, proficient FLOORMAN that ORDER
pay great attention to details. Apply
within. No phone calls.

HEROINES
From Page 5A
proves she is anything but.
Without completely spoiling
the movie, suffice it to say that
appearances can't be trusted,
and that the gravest mistake any
character makes in "The Dark
Knight Rises" is underestimat-
ing a woman. Christopher Nolan
may be disconcertingly unaware
of the existence of women, but
the few he allows into his hal-
lowed interpretation of Gotham
City aren't afraid to fight for
their radical beliefs.
Women have always been
present in superhero movies, but
contributing minimally to plot
and character development. In
the modern movie climate, these
blockbusters are indispensable,
but the old female formula is
beyond archaic. The women who
were once just barely visible are
makingtheir presence known.
Personally, I'll know female
representation in superhero
movies is incontrovertibly
changed for the better when I
see a young girl dressed as Black
Widow among all the boys who
spend Halloween as Iron Man
and Captain America. We may
finally live in a society where
being Catwoman is as enticing
as being a princess - and that's
about as super as it gets.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom NCW S Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 7A

NYPD i nformant forced
to 'bait' Muslim terrorists

19 year old asked
to partake in
'create and capture'
program
NEW YORK (AP) - A paid
informant for the New York
Police Department's intelli-
gence unit was under orders
to "bait" Muslims into saying
inflammatory things as he lived
a double life, snapping pictures
inside mosques and collecting
the names of innocent people
attending study groups on Islam,
he told The Associated Press.
Shamiur Rahman, a 19-year-
old American of Bangladeshi
descent who has now denounced
his work as an informant, said
police told him to embrace a
strategy called "create and cap-
ture." He said it involved creat-
ing a conversation about jihad
or terrorism, then capturing the
response to send to the NYPD.
For his work, he earned as much
as $1,000 a month and goodwill
from the police after a string of
minor marijuana arrests.
"We need you to pretend to be
one of them," Rahman recalled
the police tellinghim. "It's street
theater."
Rahman said he now believes
his work as an informant against
Muslims in New York was "det-
rimental to the Constitution."
After he disclosed to friends
details about his work for the
police - and after he told the
police that he had been con-
tacted by the AP - he stopped
receiving text messages from his
NYPD handler, "Steve," and his
handler's NYPD phone number
was disconnected.
Rahman's account shows how
the NYPD unleashed informants
on Muslim neighborhoods, often
without specific targets or crim-
inal leads. Much of what Rah-

man said represents a tactic the
NYPD has denied using.
The AP corroborated Rah-
man's account through arrest
records and weeks of text mes-
sages between Rahman and
his police handler. The AP also
reviewed the photos Rahman
sent to police. Friends confirmed
Rahman was at certain events
when he said he was there, and
former NYPD officials, while
not personally familiar with
Rahman, said the tactics he
described were used by infor-
mants.
Informants like Rahman
are a central component of the
NYPD's wide-ranging programs
to monitor life in Muslim neigh-
borhoods since the 2001 terror-
ist attacks. Police officers have
eavesdropped inside Muslim
businesses, trained video cam-
eras on mosques and collected
license plates of worshippers.
Informants who trawl the
mosques - known informally
as "mosque crawlers" - tell
police what the imam says at
sermons and provide police lists
of attendees, even when there's
no evidence they committed a
crime.
The programs were built with
unprecedented help from the
CIA.
Police recruited Rah-
man in late January, after his
third arrest on misdemeanor
drug charges, which Rahman
believed would lead to serious
legal consequences. An NYPD
plainclothes officer approached
him in a Queens jail and asked
whether he wanted to turn his
life around.
The next month, Rahman
said, he was on the NYPD's pay-
roll.
NYPD spokesman Paul
Browne did not immediately
return a message seeking com-
ment about Tuesday. He has
denied widespread NYPD spy-

ing, saying police only follow
leads.
In an Oct. 15 interview with
the AP, however, Rahman said
he received little training and
spied on "everything and any-
one." He took pictures inside the
many mosques he visited and
eavesdropped on imams. By his
own measure, he said he was
very good at his job and his han-
dler never once told him he was
collecting too much, no matter
whom he was spying on.
Rahman said he thought he
was doing important work pro-
tecting New York City and con-
sidered himself a hero.
One of his earliest assign-
ments was to spy on a lecture
at the Muslim Student Asso-
ciation at John Jay College of
Criminal Justice in Manhat-
tan. The speaker was Ali Abdul
Karim, the head of security at
the Masjid At-Taqwa mosque in
Brooklyn. The NYPD had been
concerned about Karim for years
and already had infiltrated the
mosque, according to NYPD
documents obtained by the AP.
Rahman also was instructed
to monitor the student group
itself, though he wasn't told to
target anyone specifically. His
NYPD handler, Steve, told him
to take pictures of people at the
events, determine who belonged
to the student association and
identify its leadership.
On Feb. 23, Rahman attended
the event with Karim and lis-
tened, ready to catch what he
called a "speaker's gaffe." The
NYPD was interested in buzz
words such as "jihad" and "revo-
lution," he said. Any radical rhet-
oric, the NYPD told him, needed
to be reported.
John Jay president Jeremy
Travis said Tuesday that police
had not told the school about
the surveillance. He did not say
whether he believed the tactic
was appropriate.

OHIO
From Page 1A
mount issue in the state, and has
remained a theme in campaign
appearances by all candidates.
In his speech, Biden delineat-
ed the clear vision of the Obama
administration for alleviating
social issues and aiding the mid-
dle class before a crowd of about
1,500 attendees.
Biden talked about job out-
sourcing, and distinguished
between the two presidential
candidates on the issue, noting
that while Romney emphasizes a
difference between "off-shoring"
and "outsourcing," he and Obama
seeboth as takingjobs away from
Americans.
"The president's job is to bring
jobs home; the president's job is to
create jobs here," Biden said.
He emphasized the need for
Americans to stand for what they
believe in and vote in a way that
reflects what they want, adding
that there should be a heavier
focus on the middle class and a
concerted effort to continue cre-
ating jobs.
Biden said Romney and Ryan
have not publicly addressed their
thoughts on how to ensure eco-
nomic success for the middle
class well enough.
"Instead of signing a pledge ...

promising that they'll cut taxes
for the very wealthy, they should
be signing a pledge to you, the
middle class, saying that they'll
level the playing field," he said.
"That's the pledge we wrote -
that's why we're running."
He noted that he and Obama
have already started develop a
plan to create new manufactur-
ing jobs and double the country's
exports.
"We're going to give tax breaks
to companies who stay here and
come here - not those who go
abroad," Biden said. "We're going
to develop home-grown energy."
If re-elected, he explained
that he and Obama foresee an
increase in coal, oil and natural
gas generated domestically, as
well as solar power energy and
biofuel. Noting that the admin-
istration plans to create 600,000
jobs solely in natural gas produc-
tion.
Guyton Mathews, a Univer-
sity of Toledo junior studying
political science and communi-
cations, was chosen to address
the audience before Biden took
the stage. In an interview after
the event, he said he was glad
to see that the vice president
addressed some of his primary
concerns - affordable education
and women's rights.
Mathews added that with the
help of supporters like Biden,

the Obama administration can
secure Ohio's support.
"If they just keep at it the way
they're doing it now, (Obama
will) definitely getOhio,"he said.
Mathews was one of many
Ohioans to take advantage of
early voting, which began in late
September.
"It's alot more convenient,"he
said. "We have classes so some-
times it's not as easy to get out to
the polls."
Deonte Howard, a University
of Toledo junior studying social
work, also voted early. Howard
explained that because he has
cerebral palsy, it is hard for him
to stand in line or walk long dis-
tances.
"Early voting gives me the
opportunity to (vote) at a slower
pace so I won't be tired on Elec-
tion Day," he said.
Howard added he thinks
Biden's speech "hit home" for the
college students in attendance.
"I feel like Biden coming down
... is showing that they do care
about us," Howard said. "We are
willing to put in our vote and
I appreciate the fact that they
acknowledge that."
- The Associated Press
contributed to this report. Daily
Staff Reporter Anna Rozenberg
reported from Toledo and Daily
News Editor Rayza Goldsmith


less than 90 minutes each time, once again broke this curfew on
JENSON except for the fifth occurrence Oct.13 by about half an hour.
From Page 1A on Oct. 1, when he returned more At the hearing in Detroit, Jen-
than three hours after curfew at son will have the opportunity to
to be in his residence between 8 11:17 p.m. respond to the allegations.
p.m. and 8a.m. daily. On Oct. 3, his nightly curfew Jenson's lawyer, Raymond Cas-
Jenson, whose location is mon- was reduced to 5 p.m. because of sar, was not immediately avail-
itored by the court, was late by his repeated violations. Jenson able for comment.

PROP. 6
From Page 1A
any bridge built thereafter,"
Snyder said in a statement.
A second bridge has been in
development for years, starting
in 2005 while former Demo-
cratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm
was still in office. The Michi-
gan Department of Transporta-
tion reported then that another
bridge was necessary to relieve
traffic congestion at the cross-
ing.
Granholm was not success-
ful in building the bridge due to
Moroun's continued influence
on legislators.
When Synder took office after
Granholm, he indicated the con-
struction of a second bridge was
one of his top priorities as gov-
ernor.
Despite the Legislature's con-
tinued disapproval of bills for
the new bridge, Snyder signed
an agreement with the Cana-
dian Government in June for
the bridge's construction where
Canada agreed to pay for the
construction.
Before Snyder made the
agreement, the Legislature
passed a supplemental budget
which indicated no tax dol-
lars could be spent on a bridge
between Canada and Michigan.
The 82-year-old Ambassa-
dor bridge is one of the busiest
international border crossings
in North America and about
10,000 vehicles cross it each
day. Advocates of the second
crossing say the region will lose
shipping traffic to other border
crossings if another bridge isn't
built.
"The new bridge will be a
great benefit for our state, and
we shouldn't let one billionaire
and his special interest monopo-
ly get in the way," Snyder said in
the release.
Business Economics Prof.
Thomas Lyon said in an Oct.
17 panel discussion at the Ford

School of Public Policy that the
new bridge construction would
make funds available for other
resources in the state.
"(The bridge) would actually
generate $2.2 billion in addition-
al federal highway money that
will be freed up and be given to
the state of Michigan as a gift if
we have the bridge," Lyon said.
Lyon said the only obstacle
to the endowment is Moroun
and his interest in maintain-
ing ownership of international
crossings.
"Well there's one guy that
doesn't like (the deal) ... it's the
monopolist trying to block free
money coming into the state, so
the message is to vote no on Pro-
posal 6," Lyon said. "This one
should be a no brainer."
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) said The People Should
Decide committee, which is
behind the proposal, has been
campaigning for the proposal.
"There's a very heavy ad cam-
paign behind (Proposal 6), and
the message of that ad campaign
is somewhat compelling," Irwin
said. "People generally have that
initial reaction of having a vote
by the people on these kinds of
things, what could be wrong with
that?"
The commercials, which have
been making claims that the
state will be losing state-funded
programs due to the cost of the
bridge, have cost an estimated
$10 million, which has been fund-
ed by Moroun. Snyder has refuted
the claims the ads are making
because the bridge is to be funded
entirely by the Canadian govern-
ment.
Irwin said the United Auto
Workers support the construc-
tion of a second bridge because
of the opportunities it would
provide for shipping and trans-
portation, and having a vote on
such construction could slow
down or halt the progress.
"We've heard repeatedly in
the Legislature from the auto
companies and from the UAW

that building this new span ...
would be a real benefit to the
auto industry," Irwin said. "It
would be more of an impetus
for (the auto industry) to invest
more here in Michigan."
Representative Mark Oui-
met (R-Scio Twp.) said other
states have implemented policy
similar to Proposal 6 and it has
proven to be inflexible.
"California operates a ballot
initiative, and it ties the hand
of legislative process to work
through (crossing construc-
tion), regardless if they are
Republican or Democrat," Oui-
met said.
Ouimet added that such mea-
sures should not be included
in statewide, permanent law
and could have negative future
implications.
"I just don't think it's good
that (Proposal 6) be in our Con-
stitution," Ouimet said. "I think
that that could be very danger-
ous."
LSA senior Lauren Coffman,
the communications director
for the University's chapter of
the College Democrats, wrote
in an e-mail interview that the
organization has no official
stance on Proposal 6.
LSA senior Nicole Miller,
member of the University's
chapter of the College Republi-
cans, said the unclear phrasing
of the proposal makes it difficult
to support.
"The wording is a little bit
vague and so it could threaten
the construction of other bridg-
es and other projects in the
state," Miller said. "I just think
that the need for a new bridge
in addition to the Ambassador
Bridge is great enough that hav-
ing the proposal passed would
be detrimental."
She added that Proposal 6 is
less partisan and less relatable
to students than many other
measures on the ballot.
- Daily News Editor Paige
Pearcy contributed to this report.

ENROLLMENT
From Page 1A
Multicultural Initiatives, said
minority enrollment numbers
have decreased as a result of
Proposal 2, the 2006 state refer-
endum that banned affirmative
action policies, which prevented
public institutions from using
race or ethnicity as a deciding
factor in admissions decisions.
According to Nina Grant, the
director of the Office of Multi-
Ethnic Student Affairs, under-
represented minorities have
consistently comprised about 10
percent of incoming freshman
classes in recent years. Grant
added that while she always
hopes to see an increase in
minority enrollment at the Uni-
versity, the numbers nationwide
are not where they ought to be
either.
Underrepresented minority
groups include African-Ameri-
can, Hispanic and Native Ameri-
can students. Lester Monts, the
senior vice provost for academic
affairs, said most Asian ethnici-
ties are not considered under-
represented at the University or
in Michigan because they have
such a prominent presence in the
state.
Monts said the number of
underrepresented minorities
might also be lower at the Uni-
versity due to the relatively
homogenous population of the
state, adding that comparing the
University's numbers with col-
leges in other states is mislead-
ing.
"California's population, is
much, much larger than Michi-
gan's, and because of immigra-
tion, its proximity to Mexico and
being on the West Coast ... there
are more people from diverse,
racial and ethnic backgrounds,"
Monts said. "So it's ill-advised,
to make that kind of comparison
based on the number or percent-
age of students."

Michigan State University's
demographic make-up is simi-
lar to the University's - black
students represent about 6.2
percent of the student body and
Hispanics consist of 3.4 percent.
Eastern Michigan University,
however, boasts an underrepre-
sented minority population of 24
percent among undergraduates.
University officials assert-
ed that statistics often do not
accurately reflect the general
attitudes and commitment to
diversity on campus. Matlock
said he believes that diversity
is one of the University's most
defining attributes.
"I think some schools get into
the numbers game ... to me diver-
sity is not only who and how many
people you bring in, but how many
people you get out and what kind
of climate they have that's condu-
cive to it," Matlock said.
Matlock pointed to the large
populations of out-of-state, eth-
nic minority, lower income and
international students as proof
of the University's commitment
to expanding diversity. He noted
that while the gender imbalance
is no longer a primary concern,
only 25 years ago women were not
as equally represented at the Uni-
versity as they are today. Students
in this year's freshman class rep-
resent 46 states and 60 countries.
Monts concurred, stressing
that the impressive number of
international students alone has
created tremendous cultural
diversity and representation.
"We can't really dwell on any
one aspect of diversity," Monts
said. "We really do have to move
beyond just race and ethnicity
because there are other kinds of
diversity that make this Univer-
sity strong."
Matlock said he is impressed
with University efforts focused
on increasing accessibility to
higher education for financially
disadvantaged students.
"I think we've done a much
better job in terms of recogniz-

ing social-economic diversity
(and) trying to put in scholarship
programs and funding programs
to deal with first generation stu-
dents," Matlock said. "We ask for
that information in the admis-
sions application, looking at
social-economics."
Williams, however, said he
feels there is a disparity between
the University's statements
regarding overall diversity and
the reality on campus.
"I don't think it's diverse in a
way that the University conveys
it as," Williams said. "It seems
like they're more committed to
sustainability than diversity."
Despite this inconsistency,
Williams said the wide array of
multicultural support systems
has helped address the lack of
representation for many groups.
Williams has mentored black
freshmen, promoted diversity
issues and is now a student man-
ager at the Trotter Multicultural
Center, which provides a venue
for groups to meet and socialize.
Support for Incoming Black
Students is a mentorship pro-
gram through which African-
American freshmen are paired
with African-American upper-
classmen that connect incoming
students with academic resourc-
es and social opportunities dur-
ing weekly meetings.
Latino freshmen also have
access to an expansive sup-
port system through Assisting
Latinos to Maximize Achieve-
ment. Like SIBS, the program
offers mentorship opportunities,
recruitment efforts and attempts
to generate understanding and
enthusiasm about Latino issues
on campus.
These various multicultural
groups, in combination with
Trotter, are organized and run
by MESA. While these groups
have an extensive presence on
campus, Williams said he hopes
to see more University funding
for and attention paid to multi-
cultural groups in the future.


AWARD
From Page 1A
who saved the lives of thou-
sands of Hungarian Jews during
the Holocaust. The University
presents the annual award in
his memory.
"She demonstrates how
much difference one person
can make," Hanlon said while
introducing Gunnoe. "Her
dedication to educating and
empowering others will have a
lasting impact. She is an inspir-
ing example of Wallenberg's
belief of the power of the indi-
vidual."
Gunnoe said Wallenberg
inspired her to make a differ-
ence in the world, and under-
stand the value of humanitarian
work at all levels.
"I am humbled to be in the
company of such an amazing
person as Wallenberg," Gunnoe
said. "His human rights work
allowed me to believe in real
change to begin at the grass-
roots. Our struggles will always
benefit the next generation if

each generation continues to
demand better for future gen-
erations."
Gunnoe also discussed her
testimony in June before the
U.S. House of Representatives
Subcommittee on Energy and
Mineral Resources about the
Obama administration's actions
against the Spruce Coal Mine
in West Virginia. The Spruce
mine is a controversial project
in West Virginia that the Obama
administration tried to block.
She said the Republican com-
mittee members would not
allow her to show a photo of a
five year-old girl in a tub filled
with "tea-colored bath water"
to demonstrate the realities
of hazardous water because it
qualified as "child pornogra-
phy."
"They are willing to do just
about everything to keep their
evil deeds under protection,"
Gunnoe said.
Sean Goodrich, an Engineer-
ing junior and a member of Stu-
dents for Clean Energy, said
Gunnoe's activism is inspiring.
"She's a really powerful tes-

tament to what one person can
do to stop coal and to encourage
more sustainable, clean energy,"
Goodrich said.
Goodrich said Students for
Clean Energy hopes to orga-
nize a grassroots movement
to encourage the University's
investment in cleaner energy,
adding that Gunnoe serves as a
strong example of how to lead
a successful grassroots move-
ment.
"She emphasized that we
should tell stories and try
to spread word through the
media," Goodrich said.."Hear-
ing this from Maria Gunnoe is
very inspiring, and I think it
can definitely help and rally our
club to encourage some support
for it."
Goodrich added that though
Gunnoe demonstrates the
efficacy of a grassroots move-
ment, there are still vast areas
for growth in environmental
efforts.
"Our work will never truly be
done," Gunnoe said. "We are all
one person and this one person's
name ishumanity."


8A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

8A Wdnsda, ctber24 212 heMihign aiy -mihiandico

The curious case of Denard

'M' defense refuses

Robinson and the second half to be complacent

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
Meet the Denard Robinson
few know and fewer can explain,
the Robinson who only appears
in the second half. This Robinson
isn't a reckless playmaker, he's a
game manager.
This Robinson is more care-
ful. He has zero interceptions in
the second half this season. First-
half Robinson has nine this year.
This Robinson is also less
dynamic. He has zero touch-
downs, rushing or passing, in the
fourth quarter. In the other three
quarters, Robinson has nine.
This Robinson is an enigma.
His teammates, even Robinson
himself, can't explain what has
happened in the second half.
Is it by design or is it a fluke? Is
Robinson smarter or is Michigan
limitinghis opportunities to fail?
Is it something else entirely?
"I really don't know the
answer to that one," Robinson
said. "We know we got to fin-
ish. And that's what Coach Hoke
talks about all the time. Finish-
ing strong and trying to win the
fourth quarter and trying to win
the second half."
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
said the decline in Robinson' sec-
ond-half statistics - both good
and bad - can be credited to play
calling.
"How many opportunities
is he going to have?" Hoke said.
"(Offensive coordinator Al Borg-
es) obviously is putting the ball in
other people's hands."
That's a novel concept for
Michigan, which in years past
had relied on the senior quarter-
back to win games late. Yes, the
memory of four interceptions
against Notre Dame still lingers,
and Robinson's fourth-quarter

cues from Robinson. His faith
feeds theirs.
Fifth-year senior safety Jor-
dan Kovacs said he had no expla-
nation for the second-half riddle.
And it is a sort of riddle. Yes,
Robinson has slightly fewer pass-
ing and rushing attempts in the
fourth quarter but not enough
to explain the precipitous drops
in two opposite offensive catego-
ries.
Kovacs said Robinson has
tucked the ball more often late
in games - he is forcing it less.
But still he has scored no touch-
downs. Robinson has passed to
win games. Yet he has no inter-
ceptions.
The statistical quirk could
just be a problem of sample size.
Michigan hasn't been in many
close games. Against Notre
Dame, Robinson still powered
Michigan's failed comeback
attempt, leading the Wolverines
to a late field goal. Against Michi-
gan State, he did the same to col-
lect the win.
"He did play pretty smart,"
Borges said of Robinson's perfor-
mance against Michigan State.
"It kept us in the game, although
it wasn't flashy. That part I liked,
which has shown the last three
weeksparticularly, is his growth.
About being conscious of taking
care of the football, making plays
where there are plays, and not
trying to create something that's
not there. That was good."
No, this Robinson isn't flashy,
but he's safer. He makes fewer
mistakes, but he creates less too.
And weirder, still, this Robin-
son said he hasn't even noticed
the second-half enigma, of the
absence of interceptions and
fourth-quarter touchdowns.
"I did not know that at all,"
Robinson said.

By LUKE PASCH able for the game, nursing aleft
Daily Sports Editor knee injury - and junior quarter-
back Taylor Martinez, are shifty
When the Michigan football and all have the ability to get to
team walked off the turf at Cow- the sideline quickly, so outside
boys Stadium following a 41-14 containment will be an emphasis
drubbing from Alabama, the this week.
defensive unit was dejected. Star "You can watch any defense,
sophomore cornerback Blake you can watch anyone on Sunday,
Countess was on crutches, already you can watch anyone on Satur-
done for the season. Senior defen- day," Mattison said. "If you let the
sive tackle Will Campbell hung ball outside your defense, then
his head in disappointment. you don't have a chance."
Fast forward nearly two Against Michigan State on Sat-
months and you see a defense that urday, the Michigan defense con-
has found its mojo. tained star running back Le'Veon
The Wolverines haven't given Bell very well. Bell, who leads all
up more than 13 points in a game Big Ten running backs with an
since playing Air Force week two, average of 123 yards per game,
and Michigan suddenly has the was limited to a mere 68 yards
third-best scoring defense (16.4 on 26 carries. But Bell is more of
points per game) and the second- a downhill runner who prefers
besttotal defense (285.3 yards per banging bodies up the gut, rather
game) in the Big Ten. than bouncingto the outside.
Still, the rhetoric in the locker For Ryan, correcting mistakes
room has not changed. Coaches has become a bit more enjoyable
are looking for improvements this than it was earlier in the season.
week leading up to a primetime He admitted Tuesday that some-
matchup at Nebraska. times Mattison, who coaches the
"We won't get complacent, outside linebackers personally,
believe me. That won't happen," would get in his face whenever he
said defensive coordinator Greg does something wrong.
Mattison. But for the past few weeks,
"We've got so far to go, you Ryan and the rest of the defense
know. I mean, again, I'm proud has been doing much more right
of the way they have played hard. than wrong.
... But there's so many things we "Watching film has become
have to get better at, and they see more fun, and knowing what
that on the film, and they believe they're doing before the snap is
it just as much as we as coaches great," Ryan said. "I think with
do." Coach Mattison, he's just taught
A major focus this week will be me where the back is (before the
outside contain and funneling the snap), like he's going to go there.
run toward the middle of the field. It's ridiculous how much he
When playing against teams that knows about football."
run the football well, it's critical Next week, we'll see if Ryan
that the offense can't get to the still finds film study fun after
edge and turn upfield. defending against a Nebraska
The Cornhusker backs, sopho- offense that ranks first in the con-
more Ameer Abdullah and senior ference in both scoring and total
Rex Burkhead - who is question- yards.

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Senior quarterback Denard Robinson has Michigan at 5-2 this fall.

pass attempts are low - his 30
fourth-quarter attempts trail
the nearest per-quarter total by
seven.
Yet that figure is deflated by
situation factors: Michigan has
held big leads against Illinois,
Purdue and Massachusetts, and
the game was out of reach by the
fourth quarter against Alabama.
Robinson has sat out two fourth
quarters entirely, bringing his
average fourth-quarter attempts
closer to the norm. And, remem-
ber, Robinson won the game with
his arm against Michigan State
on Saturday with a completion to
junior receiver Drew Dileo that
enabled the game-winning field
goal.

Against Michigan State, win-
ning the second half meant rip-
ping out part of the playbook.
Borges said his play calling was
purposefully conservative. The
game and the personnel neces-
sitated that.
"You can't have what hap-
pened at Notre Dame and put
(the defense) in predicament
after predicament," Borges said.
"So there's got to be a balance
there somewhere."
Robinson's teammates said
they haven't noticed a change
since the Notre Dame game.
Fifth-year senior center Elliott
Mealer said Robinson is still
calm and confident late in games.
The players, he said, take their

Wolverines get
crossed up by
Bowling Green

0

By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Writer
For the Michigan men's soc-
cer team, it felt good to be home,
or at least it should have. The
Wolverines (2-2-1 Big Ten, 5-7-1
overall) have grown accustomed
to the rowdy Michigan Ultras,
family support and winning at
the U-M Soccer Complex.
Michigan returned to Ann
Arbor Tuesday to host Bowl-
ing Green
(2-2-1 Mid- BGSU 2
American MICHIGAN 0
Confer-
ence, 5-7-3) after a three-game
road stretch that included a vic-
tory against No. 11 Indiana.
The energy was recognizably
high from both the players and
supporters, as Michigan head
coach Chaka Daley made his
return to the sideline after suf-
fering a knee injury two weeks
ago. Much to his dismay, the
return was nothing like Daley
had hoped for, as the Wolverines
fell to the Falcons 2-0.
"I was excited for the oppor-
tunity tonight because we had a
lot of belief that if we could put
things together right here at
home, we could potentially be
above .500 going into the Big Ten
Tournament," Daley said. "That
would have given us a lot of hope
heading forward."
But the Wolverines' early
excitement was not as appar-
ent on the field in the first half.
Though Michigan controlled
much of the possession, it failed
to record a shot on goal in the
initial frame for the first time all
season.
Despite clear offensive woes,
the Wolverines' evident control
of the midfield and a couple of
key stops by redshirt sophomore
goalkeeper Adam Grinwis kept
the score at 0-0 as a dull first half
came to a close.

"I thought we did not control
the final third (of the field),"
Daley said. "I told them (at half-
time) we needed to probe a little
bit more and attack more. We
had the ball a lot, but we were
never really dangerous."
-Michigan must not have been
too intent on Daley's lecture,
though. Bowling Green came out
firing as it maintained persistent
pressure on the the Wolverines'
outside defenders. In both the
47th and 50th minute, Bowling
Green headed beautiful crosses
past Grinwis to put them up 2-0
for good.
"For five to 10 minutes, we
kind of had a half-hearted per-
formance and they got two
goals," Daley said. "They scored
on their chances and we didn't.
That's soccer sometimes."
Much like Michigan did in the
first half, Bowling Green won the
battle in the midfield early on in
the second. The difference was
simply converted opportuni-
ties. The Wolverines managed a
few late chances in the final 15
minutes that included a missed
penalty kick, but the Falcons
remained too much for the typi-
cally defensive-minded Michi-
gan squad.
The Wolverines will stay at
home for the rest of the month,
which will include their final
three regular-season matches
before the Big Ten Tournament.
Michigan will look to get back on
its feet before then, and there's
no better place to do so than
inside the U-M Soccer Complex.
"Playing at home is fantastic,"
Daley said. "I don't think we've
always taken advantage of the
support we have here though.
Our support with the Ultras is
superb, and they show up rain
or shine. They are a fantastic
organization, and when they're
in full force they act as our 12th
man."

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Sophomore forward Alex Guptill was Michigan's leading scorer last fall. He's expected to bea big contributer for the Wolverines again this fall.
Offense has blue-collar focus

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer.,a
Out of all the numbers to
show up on the Michigan hockey
team's box score following its
6-3 win over Bentley last Friday
night, the largest one is perhaps
the least impressive for coach
Red Berenson.
Falcon netminder Branden
Komm faced 56 Wolverine shots
over the course of the game, and
let in six goals. And according
to Berenson, the team's problem
lies in the math of it all.
The majority of Michigan's
shots last weekend came in a
flurry in the third period as it
looked to solidify its lead over
the Falcons. Though it did pay
off for the Wolverines - Michi-
gan scored half of its goals in that
final frame - Berenson doesn't
think the shot chart effectively
reflects the team's effort.
"Part of our game is getting
shots through," Berenson said.
"If you look at our shot chart,

you'll see half our shots never
get to the net. Why is that?
They're either blocked or they
miss the net. It's hard to get shots
through."
Aside from puck luck decid-
ing which shots make it past the
goalie, the most important part
of turning shots into goals comes
less from play on the perimeter
and more con-
centrated activ-
ity around the "IT d on
crease. I uolT
Berenson
is known for tooI
preaching a p
blue-collar pretty
work ethic to
his players. Its
tenants are sim-
ple - get the puck to the net any-
way you can. It doesn't have to be
fancy, and it certainly shouldn't
try to be "too cute."
Berenson starts drumming
that message in as early as possi-
ble, and it's likely the Wolverines
will get that message every day

of practice for the
son. For as much
team hears, it's sti
them to keep it inY
ly on the eve of co
"Getting pucks
getting the puck t
always the best
said sophomore
Guptill. "When I
t score
many
goals."
It's a particul
message for the fr
considering that y
have a tendency t
excited any time t
es their tape.
This kind of
offense is partly

rest of the sea- mostly learned through experi-
rhetoric as the ence. Though the team regularly
ll important for practices how to handle the puck
mind, especial- in the opponent's zone, there's
nference play. only so much that can teach
deep and them them.
o the net, that's It's lucky, then, that there's a
way to score," captain who exemplifies the kind
forward Alex of grind-it-out work ethic that
score, I don't translates shots into goals.
score too Senior forward A.J. Treais is
many pretty perhaps an ideal prototype of
goals. You a Berenson blue-collar worker,
have to get as a player who usually has luck
in your mind finding twine. He already leads
as a player the team in shots on goal (18) and
when you go though that doesn't hold much
outthere (you stock consideringthe Wolverines
shouldn't) have only played three games,
try to do too he's expected to hold steady as
much." the season progresses.
arly important "You've already seen him
eshmen to hear, twice this season where the
younger players other team has scored and A.J.
o become over- comes back the next shift and
:he puck touch- scored to kind of take away the
momentum of that goal," Beren-
hard-working son said. "He's going to be a go-to
coachable, but player and he already is."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 24, 2012 -- 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 9A

fur Claim ,EmeriW

Union of
fConcerned
Scientfists
ucsusa.org

E LPCACTION UN
ELPCAction Fund.org

PROPOSAL 3
ftd .wh fop5.t.d funat y M s a rgy, M' "'O . 3
For mo re nfor mation:
ELPCActonFund.org/25x25


For more information:
ELPCAction Fund .orgJ25x25

Names, ties and affillations are given for
purpossonly and do not indicate Univers
or endorsement ofthbe views in this a


10A -Wednesday, October 24, 2012

iDA WenesayOctoer 4, 012The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

1i lI


A
I'M

I

U'

U

U.0

U

XpERENCE

Hi - k .a.ERE.. . . 7 . .

EFFICIENCIES * I BEDROOM-* 2 BEDROOM
AV AI L A B LEAL21

m
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT LC
(734)741-9300
ANNARBORAPARTMENI*INt.NE

I
i

I



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 24, 2012 -11A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - hA

Check us out and get
AFREE INSOMNIA
COOKIE with
all new tours !

U.

Eu

OAN CAMPUS, ]FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS

BRAM~ PEWLLKLY
APARTAM5 SCrN
7?E 1' FL~tR
Contact us for a
tour today!

Th et mt ottThe Best Campus Locations
@The Best Vlue!


536 South Forest
734-761-2680
UNIVRSITYTOwERS-MI.COM

Ww~Ivrgit)

Varsly Manaugement
625- rch S!
www.vtSityMnsgen wnt.corn
Sudlei, 1,.2, 3,4, L 5 Bedrooms, & Houss
FU y' ,J ishe'
H Ior woter ad ai ng incl j ed ms oat~
M fly ~e1Y

/
/


'N

12A- Wednesday, October 24, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


I AM

U .


6

40 wonderful houses and apartments
CLOSE TO CAMPUS!!!
Most properties are less than 2 blocks from the campus perimeter
Contact us and we may be able tohelp you find the perfect place to
live within walking distance of theUniersity of Michigan campus.
(734)665-5620
wbartonbrookQom
May and September leases
Yted #1 by Michigan Daily readers!

#I

4Eleven
E Washington'
ice. See office for details.

U


The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

Wednesday, October 24, 2012 -13A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 24, 2012 - 13A

2t'e doae
ILIVE COLLEGE


apply today for fall 2073

Great location on S. University Ave-walk to class. Designer interior finishes. Green entertainment deck with hot tub & fire pit. Individual leases.
On-site retail. Resort-style amenities. State-of-tie-art fitness center. Fully-loaded game room. Wireless study lounge & open air veranda.


14A -- Wednesday, October 24, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

14A - Wednesday, October 24, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

LANDLORD
IN THE
WORLD.
Well, almost...
Michigan Daily readers voted us
"The best campus landlord 2012."
for voting Arch #1!

A RL
734.995.9200 R EA LT Y


9

9

9-

WenedaOcobr 4 212//Te -taemn



_... J.

TWednesday, October 24K20K The Statement
THE JUNK DRAWER

0 0

0

Wedn sdaOtoe 4 S21 /7hBtteet E

letter from the editors
by dylan cinti and jennifer xu
If your parents have enough disposable income to put you up in a pal-
ace like Zaragon or Landmark, then this issue of The Statement prob-
ably isn't for you. But for the rest ofus - the oneswithout the high-rises
and penthouse apartments - we must learn to discerningly navigate
the world of off-campus real estate.
To begin that navigation, there's a couple things to consider. That's
where this issue comes in handy.
First of all, give that lease you're considering signing a good, thorough
read. Payspecial attention to extraneous fees. Is there a clause for a "non-
refundable $1,000 move-in fee"? If so, time to start looking elsewhere.
Now, who are the people you're thinking of signing with? Can you
imagine using the same bathroom as them? Do you envision them
doing the dishes more than just once per semester? If you assumed no
on either account, don't sign on the dotted line.
And what if you think that houses or apartments just aren't right for
you? What if you're looking for something a little more community-
based, with cheaper rent and a self-governing system? Finding the right
fit is equally important as fees or roommates.
These are some questions to ask yourself. There are more.
Needless to say, housing is pretty complex stuff. But when every-
thing falls into place, it can be fantastic. That's the experience we want
you to have - the one where you walk into your house and enjoy it,
unencumbered by rusty pipes, dirty dishes and dirtier slumlords.
And so we present our Housing Issue. It's got a little something for
everyone. Live alone? Read Jesse Klein's article about how despite liv-
ing alone, you are not alone. Trying to get off North Campus and into a
more centrally located residence hall? Read Leah Shepherd's firsthand
account of how that can actually happen. And finally, everyone should
turn to our center spread to learn about what you'll pay on a neighbor-
hood-to-neighborhood basis.

random student interview
by brandon shaw
Where are you living next year? have asthma so, you know? Do you have any Springsteen
Maybe a house. It's either a house posters?
or an apartment - I'm not sure. What was the first question I I do not.
asked you?
What's the difference between a Uh, about the house or apartment? My whole room is Springsteen
house and an apartment? posters.
What's the difference? A house is Great, now can you tell me who I know, because you're obsessed.
a lot more action going on. This you're living with next year? I've heard you talking about this
apartment thing, it's just a couple Uh, it could be a variety of people, from across the library for hours.
people. It's not as crazy. but probably this kid named Enzo. You talk loudly. You have what
some may deem a man crush on
You don't like crazy? This kid? I'm sure he's glad to this Bruce guy.
Um, I like crazy, but I don't like, know how you refer to him. Do
you know, too crazy. you have friends? Can you do me a favor and give
Yeah, you know, I have a couple me some metaphors, some figu-
Yeah, I'm that - I'm too crazy. more than you do, I bet. rative language on the differ-
From the little I've ... I'd agree ences between a house and an
with that. I'd agree with that com- I told you, I'm shy - I don't apartment and do you identify
pletely. know many people. I have dif- with one more than the other,
ficulty confronting or otherwise and why?
Why do you agree with that? engaging in conversation with Uh, that's a very philosophical
You are crazy. What some would people. question.
call intense? That's true. ButI think, I mean
you may be, quote unquote, shy, I'm a philosophical dude.
What's intense? butI don't really buy that. I think I need a couple of seconds to think
But, I mean, it's different from it's all an act for you. I don't really about this.
what I was saying with the apart- buy your act.
ment and house. I mean, you're ... Please, take your time, while I
you're just crazy because you're So you're saying I'm a liar, basi- sing to you. Show a little faith,
like, you know, crazy, but it's not cally? You're saying this is all a there's magic in the night; you
like the house versus the apart- load of my initials? ain't a beauty, but hey, you're all
ment crazy. Um, your initials? right! And that's just fine, with

I'm very shy, it tends to be a Yes, my initials are B.S.
problem in my life. Yes, it is a load of B.S.; I'll stay
That, uh, that deserves a snicker, clean - I don't want to use any
because I don't think it's true. expletives.
Hungry? Grab a Snicker's. Actually, that was my moniker,
That's okay, so I'm actually aller- so that's my credit. We're clean
gic. here at The Michigan Daily.
We're also clean in our houses.
Are you allergic to apartments? Are you clean at your house?
I'm, uh, no. Not really. That's the part of the crazy. When
you're not crazy in a house or
Do you smoke cannabis in these apartment, then you're not'clean.
apartments?
No. That doesn't even make sense,
but OK. Do you like posters in
Why not? your house?
Why? Because uh, I don't know. I Yeah, I guess.

me.
OK, that's enough. I don't want to
hear any more of this, you're out
of key, man! I'm going to go with,
I'm a little more like an apart-
ment with some house features.
Because the apartment is, like, not
as crazy, but a house is, you know,
a little crazy. Just crazy enough,
like me.
Like me, I'm crazy.
Right, so you're a house.
So, you'll be living ina condo-
minium next year, based on this
entire premise. Have a nice day.
-Aron is an LSA junior.

VISIT BOOK.MICHIGANDAILY.COM THE statement
FOR MORE INFORMATION Magazine Editors: Editor in Chief: Managing Editor:
Dylan Cinti Joseph Lichterman Andrew Weiner
Jennifer Xu Design Editor: Photo Editor:
We tweet, too! Deputy Editors: Nolan Loh Terra Molengraff
ollow us on Twitter @thestatementmlag Kaitlin Williams Copy Editor: illustrator:
Zach Bergson Josephine Adams Megan Mulholland


B2
6B Wedesay

WensaOtbe 4 02 Teattmn 3

lm
.-4

the leaders and the worst
by zach bergson and kaitlin williams
LEADERS

a week of daily stories

* The online research database JSTOR
now has an official apparel store. Now
you can wear a constant reminder of
that research paper you've been put-
ting off for weeks.

* Scientists at Stanford University
found that injecting the blood of
young mice reversed signs of aging
in old mice, stealing a trick from Kim
Jong Il's playbook. If you're wonder-
ing what we're talking about Google
"Kim Jong Il+ virgins" at own risk.

I

Last Saturday, the Wolverines beat Michigan State 12-10 with a late fourth
quarter field goal. The win ended Michigan's four-game losing streak
against the Spartans.

An analysis by the New York Times
found that "Paul Ryan Shirtless" is
Googled nine times more often than
"Paul Ryan Budget." Our analysis
found that Paul Ryan is hot.
JF A
Detroit hit number one on a list of cities!
Forbes' list of America's Most Dangerous
Cities, that is. Fourth year in a row. Oh
yeah, we're on top.
WO]

Obamacare covers pre-
existing conditions, includ-
ing Romnesia.

At its monthly meeting in Palmer Commons last Monday, the Uni-
versity's Senate Assembly questioned candidates for the University
Board of Regents.

Lance Armstrong was stripped of
his seven Tour de France titles and
banned from cycling for life. It's OK
though. Sheryl Crow will commemo-
rate him in song.
RST

MCKENZIE BEKELIN/Daily
Students protested a University-sponsored event titled "The Repub-
lican War on Women" outside of the Hatcher Graduate Library on
Monday. The event hosted about 150 attendees in the library.


A&

14


