O\n ilV l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, March 29, 2012

michigandailycom

UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
Scarnecchia
announces
resignation
University's work with faculty members to
provide law services and advo-
general counsel to cate for individuals fighting
human trafficking internation-
join Law School ally and domestically.
"While our students in the
* faculty classroom and the Human
Trafficking Clinic will benefit
By PAIGE PEARCY immensely from her knowledge
Daily News Editor and range of experiences, I
will miss her wise counsel and
In an e-mail sent to members steady leadership inthe general
of the University community counsel's office during the past
on Friday, University President four years," Coleman wrote.
Mary Sue Coleman announced Scarnecchia previously
that Suellyn Scarnecchia, the worked at the University as
University's vice president and a Law professor from 1987 to
general counsel since 2008, 2002 before she took the posi-
will step down to take a faculty tion at the University of New
position in the Law School. Mexico School of Law.
Coleman wrote in the e-mail During her time as general
that Scarnecchia has played an counsel, Scarnecchia advised
integral role as a member of the the University when the NCAA
University's executive board. alleged former football coach
"During her tenure, Suellyn Rich Rodriguei violated prac-
has expertly managed a num- tice regulations in 2010, which
ber of complex and challeng- resulted in a three-year proba-
ing issues, and I am grateful for tion from the NCAA. She also
her thoughtful work," Coleman worked to centralize compli-
wrote. ance information for University,
Scarnecchia, who was pre- organizationsbydevelopingthe
viously the dean of the Uni- Compliance Resource Center.
versity of New Mexico School Law School Dean Evan
of Law, will take a position in Caminker - who recently
the Human Trafficking Clinic announced he will leave in 2013
at the University of Michigan - said in a statement he feels
Law School after her resigna- Scarnecchia's skills will benefit
tion, which goes into effect at her future position on the Law
the end of May. The Human School faculty.
Trafficking Clinic, established "I am absolutely thrilled to
in 2009, allows law students to See RESIGNATION, Page SA

DOWNWARD DOG IN THE DARK

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Students participate in rave yoga hosted by Ann Arbor Lululemon Athletica Store on yesterday.
SPRING COMMENCEMENT
Holder to deliver address

Attorney general
will speak at Law
School Senior Day
By HALEY GLATTHORN,
ALEXANDRA MONDALEK
and ANDREW SCHULMAN
Daily News Editor and
Daoy StajReporters
U.S. Attorney General Eric
Holder has been selected to
send off University Law School
graduates at the school's annual
commencement address during

its Senior Day festivities, the
Law School announced yester-
day.
Holder, the country's first
African-American attorney gen-
eral, will speak to the nearly 370
graduates at Hill Auditorium on
May 6.
Law School Dean Evan
Caminker said he is looking
forward to a commencement
speaker that represents the
public sector in a positive light.
A student advisory committee,
also advised the decision.
"Traditionally, the com-
mencement speakers discuss

their personal experiences
after law school, someone who
has taken different paths that
can provide advice or inspire
our graduates," Caminker said.
"I hope that Attorney General
Holder follows in that tradi-
tion."
The excitement surrounding
the announcement of Holder's
visit to the University contrasts
popular sentiments of last year's
commencement speaker, U.S.
Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio),
who has a history of not sup-
porting LGBTQ issues.
Holder earned undergraduate

and law degrees from Columbia
University before accepting his
first position at the Department
of Justice in 1976. After' serv-
ing as deputy attorney general
in 1997, he worked in a private
firm before assuming his cur-
rent post as attorney general on
Feb. 3, 2009.
He has been appointed to
legal posts by several presidents,
including former President Ron-
ald Reagan and former Presi-
dent Bill Clinton. Caminker said
Holder's prominence in the fed-
eral government prompted the
See HOLDER, Page 5A


AROUND CAMPUS
Museum seeks to document,
preserve mammal specimens

University has
one of the largest
collections in the
United States
By AUSTEN HUFFORD
Daily StaffReporter
Past the two stone pumas
guarding the entrance and
through the large circular
atrium behind the University's
Museum of Natural History
lays one of the largest collec-
tions of mammal specimens in

the country.
While the University's
Museum of Zoology's Mam-
mal Division has remained
relatively unchanged for the
past century, the Internet now
allows the collection to reach
more people than ever. The
museum's mammal collec-
tion has preserved a variety
of specimens from the col-
lection's smallest animal - a
three gram Etruscan shrew
- to its largest, a 27-foot long
humpback whale: The collec-
tion also includes many foreign
specimens- confiscated at the
Detroit Metropolitan Airport,

including the tanned hide of an
African golden cat.
The museum's 130,000
specimens.are preserved using
four different methods. The
most common is to remove an
animal's innards and bones
and stuff it with cotton, but
researchers also use flesh-
eating dermestid beetles to
remove skin and flesh to dis-
play an animal's bones. Speci-
mens can also be preserved in
alcohol and extracted DNA is
stored in liquid nitrogen.
Zoology Prof. Philip Myers,
one of the museum's curators,
See MUSEUM, Page SA

MCKENZI EREZ N/Daily
Dhani Jones, Lloyd Carr and Mike Martin speak at the A&R Benefit Dinner in the Jack Roth Stadium club yesterday.
Football legends support
community involvement

GREEK cEE
Greek Week raises money for local charities

Lloyd Carr, Dhani
Jones and Mike
Martin share
stories at event
By SYDNEY BERGER
Daily StaffReporter
It felt like a Football Satur-
day last night at the Jack Roth

Stadium Club in Michigan Sta-
dium as about 250 guests dined
with former Michigan football
coach Lloyd Carr, former Mich-
igan and NFL linebacker Dhani
Jones and graduating Michigan
defensive lineman Mike Martin,
who's expected to be a top pick
in next month's NFL draft.
At Appreciate + Reciprocate's
second annual benefit dinner,
guests had the opportunity to
mingle with the three guests

of honor throughout dinner, as
well as participate in a panel
discussion and silent auction in
which attendees could bid on
items such as a game of 1-on-1
basketball with former Michi-
gan basketball player CJ Lee.
All proceeds from the event
benefited the LSA Emergency
Student Aid Fund, an effort
developed by A+R to assist stu-
dents struggling to fund their
See FOOTBALL, Page SA

In annual
competition, teams
participate in
community service
By LIANA ROSENBLOOM
Daily StaffReporter
During this year's annual
Greek Week competition, stu-
dents involved in Greek Life

expanded community service
efforts beyond their usual fun-
draising activities.
The 10 day charity event
concluded last night with the
annual "Sing and Variety" tal-
ent competition, where Team
New York - comprised of the
Alpha Delta Pi sorority and fra-
ternities Alpha Sigma Pi and
Delta Kappa Epsilon - was
crowned the winner. The 15
teams of fraternities and soror-
ities, named after large U.S. cit-

ies, raised money for six local
charities.
Greek Week began at the
University in 1978, and the
fraternities and sororities use
the occasion to raise money for
national and local charities.
This year, proceeds will go to
several Southeastern Michi-
gan charities, including the
Vada Murray Fund for Cancer
Research, C.S. Mott Children's
and Von Voigtlander Women's
See GREEK WEEK, Page 5A


H :45 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
ATMO O L Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail 'Justified' recap.
TOMORROW LO3 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX NEWS................
Vol. CXXIISNo.18 OPINION............
02012 The Michigan Daily S U D O K U...........
michigondoily.com

..2A SPORTS ....................6A
..4A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
..5A THlE B-SIDE ..................1B

"

4

P4


w

2A - Thursday, March 29, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


MONDAY: TUESDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers This Week in History

WEDNESDAY:
Campus Club

FRIDAY:
Photos of the Week

!AL Ihc~n DU#
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN ZACHARY YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

Mammal maniac

What type of work do you do at
the University?
t'm a curator of mammals at
rho Museum of Zoology here ac
che University of Michigan anod
I'm a professor in the Deportment
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy.
What's your favorite animal?
I always thought that fishing
hats are really tool. These are
hats that have big feet and they
fly over the surfate of the water,
and they drag their feet over the
water. They actually gaff fish
with their claws. So, those are
fun. There's an aquatit mole that
lives in Eussiatcalled a desman. It
has amazing thick, lush fur - it
lives very north in Eussia - and

this wonderful, curved, long
sthnoz with big whiskers tom-
lug off to the side. I like looking
at that.
Why do you enjoy studying ani-
mals?
Animals are endlessly variable.
There's room for infinite turio-
icy and infinite learning.
What is your main role at the
University?
Ihave two roles and, to me,
they are both very important.
One is that I'm a professor. I tenth
and I do 'researth in etology and
evolutionary biology. I also have
grad students. We are all now
involved on studies on climate
thange and its impact on lotal

mammal faunas.
My setond role is as a turator
here at the museum, where I'm
responsible for a pretty large
researth collection of mam-
mals.
What courses do you teach?
Most of the time sinte I've
been here I taught a mammalogy
tourse cailed "Biology of Mam-
mals." I have also taught a vari-
ety of other courses. For the last
couple of. decades, it's been ani-
mal diversity and I really enjoy
doing that. We try to introduce
people to the diversity of ani-
mals - everything from protozoa
to mammals, and everything in
between.
-AUSTENHUFFORD

Newsnnn
734-418-4115 oyt.3
acorrectiaons@ichigandaily.coa
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Spnrts Sectionn
syorts@michigandaily.om
Display Sales'
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michiganday.com

News Tips
news@michiaaily.co
Leters tn the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editnrial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
PhotographylSectin
photo@michigandaily.com
tlassified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

AUSTON HUFFORD/Daily
Zoology Prof. Philip Myers holds a preserved spetimenr
from the Museum at Zoology.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Costly video
WHERE: Mason Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
11 a.m.
WHAT: A video projettor
attached to the ceiling was
damaged, University Polite
reported. The damage is
valued at $250, and sun-
petted to be the result of an
attempted theft. There are
no suspets.
Locked and
looted

Crash and dash ' Feminism

WHERE: East Ann Arbor
Health and Geriatrits Cen-
ter
WHEN: Yesterday at about
12:40 n.m.
WHAT: A driver fled the
stene of an attident in
whith his vehitle strutk
a parked tar, University
Polite reported. The sus-
pecthas been identified, but
there hasn't been an arrest.
Open door
policy
WHERE: Baits I Eesidence
Hall
WHEN: Tuesday at about
7 p.m.
WHAT: A laptop was stolen
from a student's room after
they left their door open,
University Polite reported.
There are no suspects.

panel
WHAT: A distussion
about the aims of the global
feminism movement will
be held. The panelwbith
intludes a variety of speak-
ers, will engage in a discs-
sion on feminism's history.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Hatther Gradu-
ate Library, room 100

Being assertive
WHAT: The workshop
will entourage people to
be more assertive in order
to improve relationships
omong peers and build new
schools.
WHO: Counseling and Psy-
chological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:1S p.m.
WHERE: Mithigan Union,
room 3100
Brass

Doping and performance

1Ford announted it will
add 100 horsepower to
the newest model of the
Shelby Mustang, Fox News
reported. Next month, an
1,100 horsepower version
of the vehitle is rumored to
be featured at the New York
Auto Show.
2Sparrow Gym, lotated
adjacent to Sparrow
Market in Eerrytown,
incorporates photography
and pop art into personalized
workouts that tater to par-
titipants' spetific needs.
sFOR MORE, THE B-SItE, INSIDE
3An amusement park
based on the life of
Frenth leader Napo-
leon Bonaparte is being built
near Paris, the BBC reported.
Battle re-enactments, roller
toasters, and water rides are
planned attrattions for the
park.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Jnsh Healy Managing Editor jahealy@michigandaily.com
BethanytBirnManagingNewstEditor bironmichianailycom
SNsIOR aNESEITORS:oey Glath,5 Haeyoldberg, Raya osih,
Paig Par,Adm unfire5
ASSIsoSTA NEWS IORS: Gaomo Bolna,nnRoenbergb,ndrew Schulmn,,
Ashley Griesshamner and oyinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Andrew Weiner tditorialyPagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIALPE EDInTORS: Hashahta, T~imohy a, 5Vaneayhliski
ASSISTATEIORIAL PoGEEIORSJesslin, ParickoMillet
Stephen Nesbitt MnaginSporltditor nesbit@ichigandaily.co
SEIOR SPORTSEDITORS: EeretsCok,BEses,ach Helfad, Lke Ps,
NelRothschild, Matt Slovi
ASSISTANT SPOR 0TS EITO S Stevn Brid5, chel Laurila,attSplich,.
Colleen ThomasLiz Vueli,1 DanielWasserman
Leah Burgin Maaging~rt ditor burgisnmicigandaily.co
SENIOR ARTS EDTORS: Ellio lpr, sJacobAelrd, DaidTa, KylaUpdhyaya
055505TANTAT Ts ORS0:5Len Catserta, Masto n, Kely t, Anna7,,,Sadoskaya,
Ein Kirkand and photopmichigandaily.com
Alden Reiss ManagingePhotoEditors
SENIOaRaH OTOEITORS:TerraMoengrafft,Tdds,,edt
A~SSTNT POToOOO EDTOS:Adm lazmns,oussen ford, Allisn Ksske
Arun Mahanli ManagingaDesigntEditor mahati@michigadaily.com
Dylan tinti and saemen@michigandailyeom
Jennier Xa MagazineEditors
thristinetChunandcopyydek@michigandaily.com
Hannah Poindexter topytihiefs
SENIOR COPY EITORS: Josephine Adam, BethtColowitz
Zach Bergsnn linertditor bergso@michigandaily.com
lnran Syed Pyblc Etnor yubliceditr@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
llianna trin AssociatenBusiness Manager
Rahel Greinetz Sales Manager
Sophie GreenbaumnrduchionMnager
Sean Jackson Syecial P'rojects Manager
tnnnr BydFinnce Manager
Ashley Karadsheh CliennelatinishoipsManager
Meryl Huteng NationalAount aManager
Tie MihignDaily 1151N 0745-967) s ysilishedMondaynthrough Fidy duringthe fallan
winter terms by studen t ttheivesity ofMihan. One copy is availe freeocharge
to alleer. Adiionalcopiesmy bpied pt te Dly's offie fo$2. Ssciptise fo
$115,erlnglSeptebe throughApil s195. Uiersity affliateae subject toa reduced

WHERE: 2650 South Stole
Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about
4:4S p.m.
WHAT: Though it was
reportedly lurked, a 1997
Honda Civic was stolen,
University Polite reported.
The car is valued at about
$2,500.


sports
WHAT: A seminar on the
ronsequences of substance
abuse in athletics will he
held. Experts from around
the rountry will attend
to discuss their work and
research.
WHO: The University's
Substance Abuse Eesearch
Center
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Palmer Commons

WHAT: The Ann Arbor
Trombone Choir and the
UM Trombone Ensemble
will perform a free concert.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dante
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandailycom.

0

MORE ONLINE [ove Crime Notes? Share them with yourL
followwrs an Twitter @CrimeNates or find them on their new hlag. F

OU *on,,w*kendFIND THE BEST OF THE INTERNET .
ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
CHECKOUT
SK~fo ~wm*%% #MICHLINKS"
UPDATED EVERYDAY AT
MICHIGAN DAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE


lDYOUKNW?
" cad ta was arented imAmenca
when a lammchan twaned to
ake hismp apperg
duin~g avery hot liHWorkfs Fair
T toaUnwimd Sweaarl

0
0

GREEN
AlAnaimd iar

AnMdntParia

M AE cHMP BLC OOLON~tGP
Energy yf F e n e SBost -P Box*a Fexl* S anwd Rbx

IMED OR HOT, LAHTE OR NOT,
Come chekoule aity oftewaelecflona at

exerEAsel Asictemto h*
yo for }~u up fta

0



A 4 4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 29, 2012 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 29, 2012 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Mich. jobless rate
falls to 8.8 percent
Michigan's unemployment
rate continues to drop, shrink-
ing from 9 percent to 8.8 percent
over the past month and marking
its seventh consecutive month of
improvement.
February's seasonally adjust-
ed rate announced yesterday
by the state Department of
Technology, Management and
Budget was the lowest monthly
mark since August 2008, when
Michigan had an 8.5 percent
rate right before the national
economic meltdown hit. Michi-
gan also saw its rate continue to
edge nearer the national rate.
"For a number of years, Michi-
gan's jobless rate remained well
abovethe national rate," said Rick
Waclawek, director of the Bureau
of Labor Market Information and
Strategic Initiatives. Now, it's
only half a percentage point above
the nation's 8.3 percent rate, he
added.
RICHMOND, Va.
Va. Tech families
look to circumvent

Soldier who allegedly
killed civilians suffers
from severe depression

A Syrian soldier hugs a religious official at a candlelight vigil following two explosions at Syrian security buldings on
March 21.
Arab nations dividedover
how to deal with Syrians

Lawyer: traumatic
incident in Iraq
triggered anxiety
OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) -
The U.S. soldier accused of
killing 17 Afghan civilians
suffered a traumatic incident
during his second tour in Iraq
that triggered "tremendous
depression," his lawyer said
yesterday.
Lawyer John Henry Browne
said he could not discuss the
details of the matter because
it remains classified. But he
expects the issue to become a
focal point in the case against
Army Staff Sgt. Robert Bales.
"It caused him tremen-
dous depression and anxiety,"
Browne said.
The lawyer previously said
Bales experienced other major
dangers in his deployments,
including a serious foot injury
and head trauma. In addi-
tion, a fellow soldier's leg had
been blown off days before the
Afghanistan massacre, he said.
Bales was charged with 17
counts of premeditated murder
and other crimes. He is being
held at a U.S. military prison at
Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
A defense team is now in
Afghanistan to collect evi-
dence and interview other U.S.
soldiers who knew Bales.
"Everyone they've spoken to
in the military has nothing but
amazingly positive things to
say about him," said Browne,
who is not part of the team in

Afghanistan.
Due to security concerns,
Browne doesn't think the team
will visit the villages where the
killings occurred. 'The inves-
tigators are likely to stay in
Afghanistan a few more weeks.
Browne questioned the U.S.
government's . case against
Bales, noting there is no pre-
served crime scene to assess.
"It's going to be a difficult
case for the prosecution to
prove," Browne said. "There's
no 'CSI' information. There's
no DNA that I know of. There's
no ballistics that I know of."
Bales has indicated that
he had no recollection of pre-
scription drugs he may have
been taking before the shoot-
ing - something the attorney
took as an indicator of larger
memory problems. The law-
yer also said his client has a
sketchy memory of the night of
the shootings.
U.S. military officials
said Bales was drinking on a
southern Afghanistan base
on March 11 before creeping
away to two villages at night,
shooting his victims and set-
ting many of them on fire. Nine
were children.
Bales has had incidents
involving alcohol and violence
in the past.
In2008, a couple accused an
intoxicated Bales of grabbing
a woman's hand and thrust-
ing it toward his crotch before
kicking and punching the
woman's boyfriend, according
to a police report. Prosecutors
declined to pursue that case.

Disagreement
could lead to

state cap on claims stronger action
p from Gulf states

Families awarded $4 million
each in a wrongful death lawsuit
over Virginia Tech's response to
a 2007 massacre are seeking to
circumvent a $100,000 cap on
claims against the state, accord-
ing to court filings.
Montgomery County Circuit
Court jurors ruled on March 14
that the state was negligent when
Virginia Tech officials delayed
alerting the Blacksburg campus
of the first two shootings by a
gunman who ultimately killed
32 and himself. It was the most
deadly mass shooting in modern
U.S. history.
The jury awarded the families
of two slain students $4 million
each, but the state asked the trial
judge to enforce the $100,000 cap
on claimsxgainst the sta a. Jrors
were not told of the cap before
they began their deliberations in
the eight-day trial.
DAVENPORT, Iowa
Romney wrong on
jobs, Biden says
Vice President Joe Biden said
yesterday that Republican presi-
dential candidate Mitt Romney
is "consistently wrong" on U.S.
manufacturing, painting him as
someone who doesn't believe the
sector is crucial to future U.S.
economic success and as a pro-
ponent of outsourcing.
Seeking to frame the choice
that voters could face in Novem-
ber, Biden used a speech in politi-
cally important Iowa to reject
Romney's argument that his
background as a business execu-
tive makes him better suited to
turn around the economy than
President Barack Obama.
0 Biden mocked Romney for
allowing state contractors to set
up call centers in India while he
was Massachusetts governor,
and said the Bain Capital private
equity firm Romney once headed
had shipped jobs overseas after
acquiring companies in the
1990s.
BEIRUT
Syrian forces take
opposition town
Syrian activists said yester-
day a government offensive in
northern Syria during which
troops overran a major opposi-
tion stronghold has left behind
scenes of destruction, with
corpses in the streets, homes
burned to the ground and shops
that have been pillaged and
looted.
* The reports of 40 people dead
in Saraqeb since Sunday come as
Arab leaders meeting in Bagh-
dad remain deeply divided over
how to help solve Syria's year-
long crisis. President Bashar
Assad said he has accepted a
six-point U.N. plan to resolve
the conflict, including a cease-
fire, but the opposition is deeply
skeptical that he will carry it
out.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

BAGHDAD (AP) - Arab lead-
ers gathering here today will call
for Syria to implement a cease-
fire, but there's little faith that
President Bashar Assad will do
anything to halt his crackdown
on the year-old uprising.
That could set the stage for
Gulf Arab nations, eager to see
Assad's downfall, to take stron-
ger action on their own.
Arab governments are divided
over how strongly to intervene to
stop the bloodshed in Syria, and'
their divisions illustrate how the
conflict has become a proxy in
the region's wider rivalry - the
one between Arabs and power-
house Iran.
Sunni-led nations of the Gulf
such as Saudi Arabiaand Qatar.
- hoping to break Syria out of its
alliance with Shiite Iran - are
believed to be considering arm-
ing the Syrian rebels to fight back
against Assad's forces. But other
Arab nations are reluctant to
openly call for that step yet.
Iraq, the host of the one-day
Arab League summit, is in a par-
ticularly tight spot because its
Shiite-led government has close
ties to Iran, Assad's top ally.
Given the divisions, foreign
ministers meeting here yesterday
laid outa middle-ground for their
leaderstoissue atthesummit. The
draft resolution they put together
would reject foreign intervention
in Syria while voicing support
for the Syrian people's "legiti-
mate aspirations to freedom
and democracy." It would call

on Assad to implement a cease-
fire and let in humanitarian aid,
according to a copy obtained by
The Associated Press.
The leaders also "denounce
the. acts of violence, killings
... and remain committed to a
peaceful settlement and national
dialogue," it said.
It also supports the mission
of joint U.N.-Arab League envoy
Kofi Annan, who has put forward
a peace plan to end the regime's
crackdown that the U.N. esti-
mates has killed more than 9,000
people since the uprising began
in March 2011 as part of the Arab
Spring.
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshy-
ar Zebari acknowledged to the
media that the summit will
offer "nothing new" on Syria,
but will complement ongoing
international diplomacy to
settle the crisis.
Damascus has accepted
Annan's plan, which includes
a cease-fire. Violence has
continued, however, with
clashes between government
forces and armed rebels. Syr-
ia's opposition is deeply skep-
tical that Assad will carry out
the terms of Annan's plan.
The plan also calls on
Damascus to immediately,
stop troop movements and the
use of heavy weapons in popu-
lated areas, and to commit to a
daily two-hour halt in fighting
to allow humanitarian access
and medical evacuations.
Opposition members accuse
Assad of agreeing to Annan's
plan to stall for time as his
troops make a renewed push
to kill off bastions of dissent.
"We are not sure if it's
political maneuvering or a
sincere act," said Louay Safi, a
member of the opposition Syr-

ian National Council. "We have
no trust in the current regime.
... We have to see that they have
stopped killing civilians."
The Assad regime has pre-
emptively rejected anything
coming out of the Arab League
summit, a reflection of its refusal
to deal with the 22-member body
since it suspended Syria's mem-
bership last year.
Iraq is hostingthe annual sum-
mit for the first time in a genera-
tion, keen to show it has emerged
from years of turmoil and U.S.
occupation. But the Syria issue
has clouded its attempts to
win acceptance by other Arab
nations, which are deeply suspi-
cious of its ties with Iran.

A A

x

F.


4A - Thursday, March 29, 2012

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, March 29, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

l e fitichioan l 4:lat*lv

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
and ANDREW WEINER JOSH HEALY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
An invasion of privacy
Employers shouldn't ask for Facebook passwords
ur society is becoming increasingly dependent on social net-
working sites. A significant amount of personal information is
now shared online, which makes it dangerously easy for indi-
vidual liberties to be violated. Reports of employers asking job appli-
cants for their Facebook password have been growing. This is a trend
that is alarming and a breach of personal independence. Employers
shouldn't judge job candidates by their social networking profiles, but
rather by their interviews and the quality of their application. Asking
for Facebook passwords endangers job applicants' personal liberties,
and should be illegal in a time and place where almost everything is

EL A IN40 AA OR LESS
@SCOTUS We enjoy being covered by our
parent's healthcare 'til we're 26.
Please don't take that away.
#realworldproblems
#kidsatheart
-@michdailyoped
Beyond the easy A's
hen the LSA Course choose to take these courses. percent of Americans have a college
Guide gets posted online, 5o why do so many of us confuse degree. According to a May 2010
it seems as if everyone on the word "elective" with "blow-off?" study by Harvard University and the
campus is talking UsuallywhentIhear people talk about Asian Development Bank, only 6.7
about it. selecting classes for next semester, I percent of people in the entire world
It reminds me hear the phrase, "I need an easy A so have degrees. Even smaller percent-
of those innocent I'm taking..." followed by some class ages are able to attend as prestigious
days right after they are not passionate about. a university as ours.
the newest Harry But the reason why electives
Potter book got exist is to allow students to take
released. Every- classes that we are interested in but
one is talking. do not necessarily fit into our field Electives should
about the same YONAH of study. Electives are not designed
things: Who is LIEBERMAN to boost our GPA or fill our credit be interesting,
RAB? What on load to graduate.
Earth is a Hor- We all have interests that lie out- not GPA boosters.
crux? Who did Harry snog this side our field of study. I have a friend
time? The main difference between who is aPrograminthe Environment
those days and the present is that major but is fascinated by public pol-
we are now in control of the future. icy and politics. My cousin wants to A number cannot represent our
We could have written all the letters be a sports journalist, but is really education, even if we extend it two
to JK Rowling we wanted, but she interested in Middle East history. decimal points. It can only be rep-
was never going to listen to our sug- My housemate is pre-med, but finds resented in the knowledge that you
gestions (even for Harry's kids' God social issues intriguing. gain in our short time in the class-
awful names). And the beauty of going to a school room. It seems shortsighted to skip
As students, we have eight short as big as ours is that there are tons of over classes that interest us for ones
semesters to define our college courses in each of these fields offered that we will sleep through just for
career. We will choose to focus on each semester. Not only is it easy for that 4.0.
different things, be they extracur- us to take electives that we are inter- Electives offer us a break from the
riculars, parties, intramural sports ested in, taking these courses will structured schedule of our major. We
or Twitter. The one unifying factor is actually help inform your own field should not squander the opportunity
class, and we get to choose those. of study. that we have been given with elec-
Luckily, as a history major, the The PitE major will inevitably try tives we are not passionate about.
world - or, in this case, the Course to influence the political debate in This semester, we should all take
Guide - is my oyster and I don't have some way. The journalist may be sent a good, hard look at our planned
burdensome requirements. I know to the Middle East to cover a major schedules for next year. We are
that this is a privilege that pre-med, sporting event. The doctor will be either going to be interested in our
Engineering, Business and other able to treat patients better if he or required classes or nopt; there is no
students don't have. However, I also she knows what social influences choice in these classes. I think it is
know that each of these departments pushed them to need treatment in the time for us to choose classes for the
leave some room for electives. first place. same reason we chose Harry Pot-
From our favorite resource, Wiki- Now lets zoom out and look at the ter: pure, magical interest.
pedia: "Elective, used as an adjective, broader implications of choosing
means that it is optional and chosen blow-off classes over ones we might - Yonah Lieberman can be reached
by election." Inherent in this defi- actually be interested in. Accord- at yoahl&umich.edu. Follow him
nition is the concept of choice. We ing to the 2010 U.S. Census, only 27 . on twitter at CYonahLieberman.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Laura Argintar, Kaan Avdan, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Harsha Panduranga, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts, Vanessa
Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Seth Soderborg, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
KAAN AVDAN|°
The Syrian debate

shared online.
U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) and
U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) are
both aware of the impending dangers associ-
ated with asking employees for Facebook pass-
words. They have asked the U.S. Department of
Justice and the U.S. Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission. to investigate whether
this breach of personal privacy is legal. Not
only would employers gain access to personal
information that would otherwise be hidden to
them during the application process, but they
would be able to use the information to also
discriminate against applicants.
The information obtained from social net-
working sites by acquiring an applicant's
password isn't relevant to employers. An indi-
vidual's social connections and personal life
shouldn't play a major role in selecting the best
candidate for a certain job. If distinct infor-
mation about employees needs to be obtained,
there are less invasive legal means of doing it,
including a background check or other investi-
gative measures.
. Asking for Facebook passwords also gives
employers answers to questions that would
otherwise be hidden to themunder federal law.
Personal information such as religion, sexual
orientation and marital status are all protect-
ed by federal employment laws. By asking for

Facebook passwords, companies would be able
to uncover specific details about applicants
that they would not legally be allowed to ask
for in a normal application process, leading to
potential discrimination against certain indi-
viduals that otherwise wouldn't occur.
The employers asking for passwords are
taking advantage of the bad economic cli-
mate and cutthroat college graduates who
will do almost anything in hopes of finding
a solid job. In today's poor economy, it's more
difficult than ever to find a job right out of
college, and employers are using this, fact
to their advantage by invading a potential
employee's privacy. A line needs to be drawn
somewhere because social media will con-
tinue to expand in the future.
Asking for Facebook passwords allows
employers to discriminate against potential
job candidates, take advantage of the cut-
throat economic environment and plunge
into the personal lives of their employees.
This action can only lead to more intrusive
methods of screening candidates as social
media and the Internet continue to grow.
Employers should not have the right to make
judgments based off sites such as Facebook,
and the federal government needs to make
the practice illegal.

SAM MYERS I
Activism is a full-time job

What does it take to become well-known?
200 years ago, if you weren't a king, president,
composer or notorious outlaw, you were like-
ly nobody to the world. In the 20th century,
celebrity status experienced a shift. Singers,
bands, actors, writers, athletes and other art-
ists and entertainers began to gain global rec-
ognition. Today, ten tweets is the difference
between anonymity and stardom. That's obvi-
ously an exaggeration, but the propagation of
social technology and media has undeniably
altered the landscape of fame forever. Making
a YouTube video, posting a Facebook status
or Tweeting something could literally make
someone famous. This poses a serious prob-
lem. People's political and social priorities are
determined by sites that also feature memes
and pictures of cats, not by the latest congres-
sional meeting on Capitol Hill. And in a coun-
try that supposedly promotes democracy, it's
ridiculous for citizens to only be informed of
Facebook-worthy issues.
The latest and most salient example of
this type of bandwagon activism was, at least
among my Facebook friends, the Kony 2012
campaign. The movement was sparked by a
30-minute video that shows and describes
LRA leader Joseph Kony's war atrocities,
featuring interviews with everyone from
senators to members of Kony's child army.
This is an undoubtedly noble cause, one
deserving of immediate attention and resolu-
tion. Kony - indicted for war crimes by the
International Criminal Court - is a murder-
er, kidnapper and sex trafficker, among other
terrible things, and he must be stopped.
Normally, I could never be frustrated at an
honest attempt to spread the word about
an injustice like this. I was disappointed,
though not at this campaign, but at the brief
and abrupt exclamation of awareness. For
one day, my news feed was littered with vid-
eos and statuses about Joseph Kony. The next
day? "Like my status and I'll rate you out of
10." And here lies the problem.
Social media has unfathomable and indis-
putable benefits - the Arab Spring being
a great example. It can usher in democracy
and social progress in previously unimagina-
ble ways. Social media reinforces the inter-
connectedness of the world and demands
civic responsibility between nations. But

its strength and influence can work against
substantive progress. The stories that gain
Internet traction are those that feature flashy
images or particularly interesting plotlines.
Yes, Kony needs to be arrested and removed
from power, but I saw not one post about
Iran's nuclear weaponry program or the
exponentially growing death toll in Syria.
Super Tuesday didn't have its own Facebook
video. Going back several months, Georgia
inmate Troy Davis became a Twitter phe-
nomenon much like Kony 2012 did. He was on
death row, though his conviction was some-
what inconclusive. Davis trended on Twitter
and Facebook for the few days leading up to
his death. After he was killed, there was no
more mention of him. There also wasn't any
mention of the inhumanity of capital punish-
ment or the general inefficiency and injustice
of our prison system. I don't want to take
away from the Kony campaign or Davis, but
there is a lot more going on in the world than
just them. Brutalities and social inequalities
occur continuously every single day. I'm not
interested in making value judgments about
the world's most pressing issues, or whose
plight deserves the most attention - each
and every one needs attention from each
and every person in the world every day. It's
not enough to post two statuses a year. It's
not enough to post a status every single day.
People need to engage with each other and be
politically active to truly bring about change.
How then, do we alter this culture of
momentary awareness? The responsibility
falls on individual people and on the media.
Citizens must make more of*an effort to stay
current with the world, perhaps by reading
a newspaper or watching CNN. But websites
such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube also
need to consciously promote continual aware-
ness. Otherwise, only select issues will receive
attention, forsaking thousands of others. And
it's humanely irresponsible to promote only the
movements that personally move or irk a per-
son. Thanks to social technology, we live in a
very small world, with very large problems, all
of which deserve the consideration and com-
mitment of every individual within the global
community. Now Tweet that.
Sam Myers is an LSA freshman.

The Arab Spring has boiled down to a single point,
and now everybody seems to have forgotten about all
the other countries except for that point: Syria. The
revolt against the Syrian government is definitely
unique among the wider Arab Spring, but when the
topic at hand is Syria, it's not only about a struggle for
democracy. And in this context, a foreign intervention
would be more harmful than helpful in the long run -
both to the Western world and Syria.
The main difference in the Syrian revolt is that the
majority of rebels are Sunnis, but the Alawites - a
minority of the population - control the government.
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is an Alawite him-
self. Sunnis make up 74 percent of the country's popu-
lation, but they are an almost non-existent part of the
government. In this case, the struggle in Syria is chiefly.
a struggle for power. The opposition aims to take down
Assad, but doesn't promise to bring democracy. On an
international level, Syria is again atypical because his-
torically, Syria has been a key country in determining
the stance superpowers take on Middle East issues.
In order to analyze the international context in Syria
right now, we first need to outline its role in the Cold
War. The Cold War rhetoric was, of course, between
the United States and the Soviet Union, but proxy wars
took place in the Middle East. Syria was a robust ally of
the Soviet Union throughout the Cold War, and, unlike
Libya or Egypt, it has remained distant from the Unit-
ed States ever since.
The Middle East continues to be a playground where
superpowers try to prove their dominance. Since the
1950s, the United States has managed to exert control
over the Middle East to a certain degree. However, Syria.
was always a problem, whether it was Syrian-Israeli rela-
tions, Hezbollah or the Iranian Revolution. On the other
hand, Syria embraced the Soviet Union as a patron and
acted in cooperation with it throughout the Cold War.
What shapes today's relations with Syria are the lin-
gering effects of the Cold War, which make everything
all the more predictable. Russia and China vetoed any
U.N. military intervention in Syria. Russia - the old
superpower - and China - the superpower to be - are
trying to prove their hegemony by supporting the Syr-
ian government because it has been a staunch enemy
of the United States and its Middle Eastern allies since
Syrian independence.
Today, all talk on a United States-led intervention in
Syria focuses on the humanitarian aspect of the opera-
tion. Not mentioned is the strategic bonus the United

States would enjoy through removing a despot, which
would help to stop Syria from supporting Iran .and
Hezbollah. While the media implies that the United
States - as the world's utmost superpower - has to
take on the moral task of saving the civilian population
of Syria from its ruthless dictator, Defense Secretary
Leon Panetta and Pentagon officials agree that a U.N.
or United States led intervention is highly risky and
could be detrimental.
I'm not attempting to demean the Syrian people's
fight for democracy. Many of them pay the price with
their lives, but why does the United States have to be
the one to lead the operation? In Iraq, we saw war
bring only more death - both American and Iraqi -
and no remedy. It shattered a country and its people,
and it cannot be said that it brought much democracy.
On the contrary, the war in Iraq cost billions of dollars
and incited more fundamentalist hatred toward the
United States.
Regarding any talk on intervention, the opportunity
cost of getting into a war with Syria is so high that it's
almost impossible to calculate what one would gain
from it. Unlike the Egyptian revolution, the army is
loyal to Assad, and unlike the Libyan revolt, the army
has high-tech weaponry. The opposition is divided,
so the removal of the army would most likely trigger
a civil war, and there is no guarantee that the Sunni
majority would act belligerently toward the Shiite and
Christian minorities after it seizes power.
The historical interpretation of a U.S. intervention
in Syria would be that the United States. found a long
sought-after opportunity to take down the last castle
of the Cold War. It is likely that after Syria, the Unite
ed States would quickly move to take down the next
imminent threat - Iran. If you think that Iran is mov-
ing hurriedly on uranium enrichment now, you will
be amazed how fast they will try to obtain a nuclear
weapon if the United States gets into Syria.
While trying to save the lives of civilians, thousands '
of Syrian soldiers will have to be killed. The soldiers
don't fight for a democratic cause like the opposition,
but are they less human? Trying to take down a dic-
tator who kills his people is a noble effort, yet in this
case, it appears that his removal won't bring order
or democracy, and it is likely that a foreign interven-
tion would further plague the country and fray ties
between East and West.
Kaan Avdan is an LSA freshman.

A

)k


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 29, 2012 - 5A


HOLDER
From Page 1A
law school to consider Holder as
a prospective speaker.
"We examine people who are
nationally prominent, whether
in public office or private indus-
try," Caminker said. "I hope that
the attorney general can offer
students insight on ways of com-
mitting one's self to parts of the
industry."
In a statement this afternoon,
Adora Andy, press secretary for
the U.S. Department of Justice,
said Holder will speak to gradu-
ates regarding the "critical role
attorneys play in strengthening
our country." Andy added that
Holder will also discuss how
graduates can use their legal
education to make a difference
in their communities.
Law student Sarah Palmer,
former co-chair of Outlaws, a
political and social organiza-
tion that serves the needs of the
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgen-
GREEK WEEK
From Page 1A
Hospital, The Friendship Circle,
SafeHouse Center, Ele'sPlace and
the Scott L. King Serving Aces for
Sarcoma Research Endowment.
LSA junior Laura Raines, a
member of the Greek Week 2012
business committee and the Zeta
Tau Alpha sorority, said orga-
nizers added a new community
service day to this year's activi-
ties. Teams New York City, New
Orleans, Chicago, Aspen, Miami
and Las Vegas sent about 100
members to nearby Dexter to help
clean up damage from the March
15 tornado.
"It was a really great addi-
tion this year to get more into
the service aspect instead of just
the competition and just raising
money," Raines said.
Raines explained that other
service projects included cleaning
up Nichols Arboretum, writing
letters to soldiers serving over-
seas, and volunteering with Will
Work For Food - a University
organization aimed at supporting
malnourished children around
the world. The week also includ-
ed traditional events such as the

der and queer community at the
University, said she is pleased
that Holder will be delivering
the speech after her involvement
in protesting Portman's appear-
ance last year.
"It's encouraging that Dean
Caminker consulted with some
students before making the
choice this year," Palmer said.
"Hopefully it'll be a lot more
representative of the commu-
nity."
Though first-year Law stu-
dent Zack Stillings isn't graduat-
ing this year, he echoed Palmer
in hoping that the commence-
ment speech will better stand
for the students' views.
"The (third-year Law stu-
dents) are very excited about
it, so it should be a very good
thing," Stillings said.
Third-year Law student Ilya
Feldsherov agreed that Holder
was a wiser choice than Port-
man.
Feldsherov said he protested
Portman's speech last year, add-
ing he was pleased he would

"not have to walk out (of) my
own commencement."
"I'm glad that this year it's
someone who is, in my opinion,
much less controversial, and
someone that I would be glad to
hear speak," he said.
Feldsherov pointed to Hold-
er's intent to address lawyers'
service to the community and
the choice of an African-Amer-
ican speaker as the two main
reasons he is looking forward
the speech. As a coach of Ypsi-
lanti High School's mock trial
team and as a Teach for America
alum, Feldsherov said he agreed
with Holder's message, and as a
member of the Black Law Stu-
dents Alliance he said he was
eager to hear the attorney gen-
eral.
"He's a prominent figure, but
he's also a prominent African-
American figure," he said. "It's
great that it's a prominent Afri-
can American- - I'm happier
about that than necessarily the
fact that he lines up with my
own politics."

AUSTEN HUFFORD/Daily

LSA senior Ariel Taivalksoki prepares a specimen for the Museum of Zoology Bird Division.


Greek Olympics, the Mr. Greek
Week pageant and Anchor Splash
- an aquatics competition held by
Delta Gamma sorority.
Raines added that the annual
Journey of Dreams - an event
in which representatives from
each of the six charities benefit-
ing from the week's events spoke
to team members and University
students about the missions of
their organizations - was partic-
ularly successful this year.
"While (Greek Week) is a fun
time in our community, it also
helped a lot of people in the Ann
Arbor community," she said.
Raines said she is proud of the
work the Greek community did
this year, adding that events such
as the Greek Week blood drive -
collected 40 donations per day
for five days - are particularly
important to helping those in
need.
"It has been a great turn-
out. Everyone has been around,
wearing their team shirts and
showing great spirit," she said.
"It has been a great week just to
show the campus what the com-
munity does and was a great way
to give back and still have fun."
LSA senior Julia Martorana,
a member of the Pi Beta Phi

sorority and part of Team Las
Vegas, volunteered in Dexter and
helped to remove fallen trees and
other debris from the aftermath
of tornado. Martorana wrote in
an e-mail interview that help-
ing local people in need was
gratifying, particularly during
her experience of speaking with
a woman who could see the tor-
nado from her window.
"We were glad we could help
and hope that others will join
in the effort of helping a nearby
town get back to normal," Mar-
torana wrote.
Business seniorAllison Haney,
also a member of the Pi Beta
Phi sorority, wrote in an e-mail
interview that there was a clear
need for help in Dexter and she
was glad to have the opportunity
to take part in the service learn-
ing experience.
"One thing I learned is that
the insurance companies pay
for structure damage, but don't
cover anything else on the prop-
erty, such as clearing trees,"
Haney wrote. "We were told
many of the residents affected
were older or lived alone, so a
task like removing trees would
have been too difficult to do with:
out volunteers."

From Page IA
said people from all over the
country come to study the speci-
mens in the museum's collection,
though it is not open to the pub-
lic. He said a veterinarian from
Sea World in Florida visited a few
years ago to study the museum's
collection of whale teeth.
Myers explained that his
job is largely a balance of keep-
ing specimens preservgd and
ensuring their longevity for
future research, while also mak-
ing them available for current
research..-
"Our charge is to make sure
nothing bad happens to them,
but also to make them avail-
able for teaching and research,"
Myers said.
Myers has recently found
a way to increase access and
eliminate potential harm to
the specimens. A new website
called Animal Diversity Web -
an online species information
database - has allowed Myers to
share the University's collection
with scientists worldwide.
Myers said he came up with
the idea while teaching a class
about animal diversity in 1995,
noting that he thought the best
way to help the students learn
would be to let them discover the
information for themselves.
Myers set out to create a web-
site where students could learn
from and add information about
the animals. He enlisted Roger

Espinosa, a University applica-
tions programmer-analyst, and
Trisha Jones, a research area
specialist, to help him with the
technical aspects of the project.
Animal Diversity Web has
a large collection of "species
accounts" - written reports that
describe various aspects of spe-
cies. There are more than 3,300
species profiles, which together
include more than 22,000 imag-
es.
The site is unique, Myers said,
because the information is orga-
nized into an easy to use data-
base that makes searching for
species simple.
"Literally, with a couple clicks
of a mouse, we can have students
generate a table where each
row is a species and each col-
umn is some attribute," Myers
explained.
Undergraduate students at the
University contribute most of
the information, with additions
from other institutions around
the country. Myers said for some
classes students are required to
research and add a new species
to the database.
"We ask students to put a lot
into writing these accounts,"
Myers said. "It's not just amatter
of going to Wikipedia and look-
ing up a few facts."
Myers, other co-workers
and volunteers then check the.
reports for accuracy before they
are made available online.
"It has to be correct and it has

to be legitimate," Myers said.
Myers said students from
more than 50 universities, who
contribute to ADB, benefit since
it enables their work to be shown
to a large online audience. Myers
said the site gets about 400,000
visits every month.
For Myers, the website has
three main purposes - it can
increase animal knowledge,
improve undergraduate teaching
and showcase University speci-
mens to the public.
"If you're a high school class
in Detroit, you really don't have
access to the, diversity of mam-
mals that we have here physi-
cally, but you can go online and
actually see specimens."
Recently, Myers and Educa-
tion Prof. Nancy Songer have
rewritten the data at a lower
reading level to increase accessi-
bility for younger students. This
website, called "Critter Catalog,"
is used by public middle and ele-
mentary schools in Detroit.
Songer said the website ben-
efits both undergraduates and
younger. students in different
ways. Undergraduate students
learn research skills by creating
the pages while younger students
learn about animals by exploring
the information.
Songer and Myers agree that
students learn better when they
are actively engaged.
"Kids don't learn very much
science if its memorization
intensive," Songer said.


FOOTBALL
From Page 1A

A+R treasurer, said the orga
tion seeks to facilitate and
good deeds throughout the
Arbor.

schooling amid financial crises "Our big mission state
at home. as Appreciate + Reciproca
Throughout the night, the appreciating what we have
speakers stressed the impor- given and then trying to rec
tance of working hard and giving cate that for other people
back to the community. gratitude for what we have
"The importance of giving given," Duiven said.
back, as I understood; is that if Football coach Brady
someone supported you, support was scheduled to speak,
them," Jones said in an interview could not attend due t
after the event. father's death on Mo
Jones, who founded the Bow Though he was not in a
Tie Cause Foundation, said he dance, Carr acknowle
believes in giving back to the Hoke's achievements durin
community and those around speech.
him, which is the primary focus In an interview after
of A+R. event, Carr continued to
"You came into this world Hoke's work since beco
with the help of another and head coach of the football to
you are going to leave this world "Brady and his staff have,
helping others as well," Jones a tremendous job last fall.
said. you go from 115th in the cou
Jones said that Carr, who in defense to 15th, you knc
coached him from 1996-1999, you've done some things r
helped inspire him to give back Carr said.
to others. Carr added: "Every
"Coach Carr taught me, 'It's has to instill the things
not about you. It's about some- he believes deeply in, an
thing greater than yourself'," very obvious the players
Jones said. "I've lived my life responded in a significant w
that way ever since." Carr said this season has
LSA junior Jack Duiven, the particularly enjoyable to w;

niza-
spur
Ann
ment
ate is
been
ipro-
out of
been
Hoke
, but
o his
nday.
tten-
edged
ng his
the
laud
ming
:eamn.
done
When
mntry
low ...
ight,"
coach
that
d it's
have
nay."
been
'atch,

especially with the team's vic-
tories over Nebraska, Ohio State
and Virginia Tech in the Sugar
Bowl.
"I think (Hoke and his team)
are generating great enthusiasm
among the students," he added.
After dinner, Jones moder-
ated a panel with Carr and Mar-
tin where they talked about the
importance of helping others,
and how certain mentors had
had an impact on their lives.
For Carr, the motivating fig-
ure in his life was late Michigan
football coach Bo Schembechler.
Martin said his influence was his
mother, who was sitting in the
front row.
"Really, all you have in life is
the people you surround yourself
with and the relationships that
you have," Martin said. "To real-
ly cherish that, that is something
I learned from (my mom)."
Martin said it's bittersweet
joining Jones as a former Wol-
verine after completing his
senior season, but noted that he
is looking forward to the future,
adding that he'd ideally like to
play for the Pittsburgh Steelers.
"Steeler Nation Baby - but
hey, it's not my choice," Martin
said. We'll seewhat happens on
draft day."


RESIGNATION delayed reporting the alleged
possession of child pornography
From Page 1A by the former resident for six
months.
have Suellyn return to the Law "It has absolutely nothing
School faculty," Caminker said. to do with (the Jenson case),"
"As a tireless legal advocate for Fitzgerald said. "Suellyn was
children and an experienced very instrumental in handling
civil litigator, she will be a won- the University's response to that
derful addition to a wide array situation and she's worked very
of our outstanding legal clinics, hard going forward with that."
including our Human Traffick- Coleman asked Scarnecchia
ing Clinic."
According to Coleman's
e-mail, Debra Kowich, associ-
ate general counsel, will serve 'V
as interim vice president and
general counsel until a com- "For the veggie
mittee selects a permanent
replacement for Scarnecchia. Present valid stu
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said there is no time-
frame for finding a permanent
replacement. any en
Fitzgerald said Scarnec- Dine-in/Carry-outnly .Nov
chia's decision to change posi- 10 * * MaNinnAb, M3
tions was not influenced by the
recent case involving Stephen
Jenson, in which the Univer-
sity of Michigan Health System

to remain as a special assistant
to advise the implementation
of the response plan she and
her office developed to improve
management issues that caused
the lapse in reporting the felony.
"I'm pleased Suellyn has
agreed to serve asa special assis-
tant to me through May 2013,
to complete this and several
other critical projects," Coleman
wrote.

WANT TO WRITE
OVER THE SUMMER?
OR JUST USE THE DAILY'S AIR.
CONDITIONING?
E-MAIL JACOB AXELRAD AT
AXELRAD@UMICH.EDU FOR MORE
INFORMATION


2012 Orren C. Mohler Prize Lecture
Friday, March 30, 2012 " 7:00pm
New Worlds:
the Search for Planets
outside the Solar System
Scott Tremaine
Institute for Advanced Study
member of the National Academy of Sciences
In the past fifteen years, hundreds of planets
have been found around other stars. The
ultimate goal is to find Earth-like planets that
could sustain life.
182 Dennison Bldg., 500 Church St.
Sponsored by the Department of Astronomy
http://goo.gl/unXhm (734) 764-3440


-~ S

f,


wV

6A - Thursday, March 29, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

EMU pounds Michigan,
12-2, ending win streak

By LIZ NAGLE The gap between the pitching
Daily Sports Writer staff's top tier - senior right-
hander Brandon Sinnery, junior
YPSILANTI - The Michigan right-hander Ben Ballantine
baseball team has struggled to and redshirt junior left-hander
maintain its win streaks. After Bobby Brosnahan - and the rest
two consecutive wins against of the bullpen is wide. Though
Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne in the Wolverines are already half-
the first ____ way through the season, Malo-
home series MICHIGAN 2 ney is still waiting for someone
of the sea- EMU 12 to step.up and bridge the gap.
son, the Michigan didn't have a lot to
Wolverines looked to tally two choose from - much of the staff
more before Big Ten play. lacks experience' and reliability.
They had back-to-back mid- So Maloney rotated through the
week opportunities against Oak- bullpen in hopes of finding at
land (3-18) and Eastern Michigan least one pitcher to produce.
(9-15), but after knocking off the Wednesday's starting hurler,
Golden Grizzlies on Tuesday, the freshman right-hander James
Eagles snapped the three-game Bourque, looked promising, com-
streak by handing the Wolver- ing in with a 3.00 ERA. But in 3.1
ines a 12-2 loss. innings of work, Bourque had
It was Michigan's second-lon- already given up four hits, four
gest win streak this season, but earned runs and four walks.
the team still lacks the consis- It was time for a change, and
tency that Michigan coach Rich even though five different Wol-
Maloney wants to see. verines took -the mound, only.
There was a drastic difference one threw well enough to earn
between the team that posted Maloney's recognition - redshirt
three straight wins and the freshman right-hander Jay Perry.
team that played in Oestrike Sta- "Two games in row, he's come
dium on Wednesday. Michigan in there and done a nice job,"
fell into an immediate hole and Maloney said. "Therefore, - he
couldn't pull itself out. gets more (of an) opportunity."
Earlier in the week, Maloney Perry closed the eighth with a
predicted what would prove to strikeout and didn't give up asin-
be the demise of the Wolverines: gle hit. But the first seven innings
walks. were lackluster, not only from
"Will we be able to limit our the mound, but also at the plate.
walks?" Maloney asked on Sun- The Wolverines recorded nine
day. "If we do that, that will give hits - three by junior center
us a much better chance for suc- fielder Patrick Biondi and two by
cess. ... We gotta limit the free- freshman left fielder Will Drake
bies." - but managed just two runs.

Michigan was held score-
less until the seventh inning,
when Biondi doubled down the
right-field line. With two outs,
Drake singled Biondi home. But
the middleman was missing.
Sophomore right fielder Michael
O'Neill popped up to the Eagles
shortstop and failed to contrib-
ute to the batting order's usual
triple-threat production.
"Guys are going to go ... 0-for-
(3)," Biondi said. "It's part of the
game - it's baseball."
A handful of Wolverines have
recently experienced this kind
of slump. With just four players
batting above .300, Michigan has
witnessed agradual decline in its
averages.
But Biondi boosted his batting
average to .323 against Eastern
Michigan and continues to feed
off the momentum of an eight-
game hitting streak. He seems to
be peaking at the right time, just
before the Big Ten season begins.
Maloney is waiting for the
rest of the team to catch up. He
hoped to see the team find its
rhythm and stay above .500, but
the Eagles kept the Wolverines
from the mark.
Eastern Michigan outplayed
them in-every facet of the game.
The Eagles put the game out of
reach early, scoring eight runs in
the fourth and fifth innings.
"We're trying pretty much
everything we have in the arse-
nal," Maloney said. "It's just a
matter of guys being the best
they can and execute what
they're asked to do."

Sophomore left fielder Nicole Sappingfield hita grand slam to clinch Michigan's 12-2, mercy-rule victory on Wednesday
Offensive outbreak i fts
in midweek contest

By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Writer
It was just another day at the
office for the Michigan softball
team.
The 20th-ranked Wolverines
wrapped up their five-game
home stand
on Wednes- BGSU 2.
day with IMICHIGAN 12
a 12-2 win
over Bowling Green (15-10).
With a five-run explosion in the
second inning, Michigan (3-0 Big
Ten, 22-9 overall) took control
and never looked back.
"I've known all along that
we're a capable offensive team,"
said Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins. "It's nice to see the
entire order swingingtheir bats."
After a midseason offensive
slump, the Wolverines are back
on track in the batter's box.
For the second-straight game,
Michigan recorded 13 hits, their
season-high, highlighted by
senior left fielder Nicole Sap-
pingfield's walk-off grand slam
to end the gaite via mercy rule in
six innings.
"(During) my last at hat, I was

just trying to hit the ball hard,"
Sappingfield said. "It was a good
opportunity to be in that clutch
situation and just be able to pull
it through for the team."
There is no question that
teamwork has been at the cen-
ter of the Wolverines' offensive
streak. The team has recorded at
least 10 hits in four consecutive
games.
Since returning home on
March 21, freshmen have being
stepping up to make a difference
at the plate.
Most notably, Big Ten Fresh-
man of the Week catcher Lauren
Sweet went 6-for-8 and scored
four runs in three games last
weekend against Penn State,
adding a hit and two runs on
Wednesday.
Freshman right-hander Sara
Driesenga had two hits and two
RBIs, and junior shortstop Amy
Knapp hit a home run - her
third of the season.
"I think our offense is really
starting to turn around," Sap-
pingfield said. "We've been
practicing well, and it's really
just taking what we've done in
practice and putting it into the

game."
On the mound, Driesenga
allowed only three hits, while
striking out four.
But it was not all fun and
games for Driesenga.
Halfway through the second
inning, Hutchins met with Dri-
esenga on the mound after she
allowed a double to center field
that brought in a Bowling Green
run.
"(Driesenga) has to bring her
bullpen (mindset) out there with
her," Hutchins said. "That's what
I went out to the mound to tell
her. She was getting behind alot,
and she needed to make adjust-
ments to get ahead of hitters and
command them."
The freshman rebounded well,
striking out a batter in three of
the next four innings to keep the
Wolverines' lead out of reach.
"(Driesenga) had some good
moments," Hutchins-said. "We're
trying to get her to be consistent
in every inning.
"Sometimes you take a few
steps forward and (then) you
take a step back. We think she's
got it and we just have to keep
working (at) it."

LIKE SPORTS?
SPORTS CAN BE FUN.
Join the Daily sports staff if you agree. E-mail
sportseditors@michigandaily.com to join!

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RME5.DATEThu *&vyMme 2D,2012
Los Angeles Times[Daily Crossword Puzzle
adtdb ich Norirsandl Joyce Nos oLt-wis
ACROS DOWN 3 Lgcs roy be5INl~duped b
I Fci 1 i;,nmferom o tmon tes 57 Crno sl~na
&'GM dw 2°fnuin 35'N I s& emar. i
11 Tv he vinwtq vimr 5 Kyc ie la
15 PL lv% 3 a_ r, am Mrd s
17 k mayba aor. 6 do 5 16 N ry se ya
1a5 rr~de 7 l . ae Sr_ 6)Low~y
19S~oge wIl 56 Fi r...... 1t awd iale laarwo kmr
2br.t s 9SIwdb dd 6 F~ie o 5 Ule, inL.
2a Ens. 1'h 10 i ANSWER TO PREVIOUS RM LE,
,24Mrol~juuu* 13 s m .a0
O0~r 5 c 8 ! r 1 1
290ktrf,1. 2 'Gdw's&o
32 ropmo 2 d ctd, n ELE. ER LLbFIE 1 Al IES
ft530Fr05rr 5
361-esl _ yerirb OIoIY
s o L1IN 5 2
3 Eop rmMhgPm D ' " N
451 5~rar r~r"~ p0 N 1
5413
tQ8ite t~a
4610 lgms*rme
7latuww IZe1m
c47 Ifnhe6 w e325a1
cAaAe

ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVEAward-WinningrentalsinKerry-
town, Central Camps, Old West Side,
Buins Park. Now Renting for 2912.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
2ND FLOOR APARTMENT - 808
Monroe st. near Ross & Law School
S850/mo. utilities included. Lease
terms negotiable. Call: (734)323-5021
AVAILABLE FALL, 6 bedroom
houses near central and north campus.
Call Michigan Realty at 734-662-5500
or www.micltcomrealty.com
NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
FOR SALE: GIANT brand bicycle,
Mizuno MP-52 Golf Iron and Mizuno
Through Wedge in new condition. If
interested, contact lan at
(734)834-1031.

COLLEGE PRO IS NOW HIRING
painters all acrossthe statetoworkout-
doors w/other students. Ears 3k-5k.
Advancemeni opport. + iniernships. I -
8-277-9787 or www.collegepro.
ONE YEAR LEGAL internship posi-
tionavailableatBirminghamMichigan
law firm starting Aug. 2012. Perfectfor
highly motivated graduating senior.
Email resume/cover letter/transcript to
h.immigration.s@gmail.com for
consideration.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WORKON MACKINACIslandThis
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus,and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS, One
& Two bedroom apartments loctaed
on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.nichcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and
five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk toifootball games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
wwwnichconrealty.com
TODAY
FALL 2012.

! STERLING 411 LOFTS -Reserve
a summter only bed space at U-M's
Best 'sIoising. Leases will run from
April 30, 2012 - August 13, 2012. 2
blocks from Central Campus and down-
town. Private baths available. Rates
starting at $660.
734-998-440 www.4elevenlofts.com
WE HAVE BRAND NEW
LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
The 2nd Floor
Ihese apartments have State of the
Art .
.Kitchens and Baths. Beautiful
furnishigs and great vieas of the
campus and the city.
Your new horm e has many amenities
just waitig for y ou...
Located right on C entral (Campus on
Sout Uni ity i e. Cant get a
btterlocation!!r
TIll 31BS AMI NITIIS,
I3EST SERVICI
AND B 11 11111 R ES'
Cai us for a tiertoday
734-761-2680
Or email vis at
I ie2ndlloorSl(eviaol.com
MARCH ON IN TO THE BEST
LOCATION ON CAMPUS!
University lowers & TIhe 2ndl oor
are right on Central Campus with
the Best amenities,
the Best service and the Best prices!
Call us for a tour today
734-761-2680
www.U~niversity'"owers-MI.com
WWW.80FUL L.ER.COM
1734) 769-75211
I & 2 brm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min: walk. Free Wi-i.

0
0

SUMMER STORAGE STUDENT
Specials- Indoorandclosesttocampus.
Book onlrinenow annarborstorage.com
or call 734- 663-0690
'ELPWANTED
LEARN THE LIVE music business.
The Blind Pig is looking for interns to
assist with researching emerging live
music acts. Get free entry into shows.
Contact zachary.toccoggnail.com for
more information.

NANNY PART-TIME (3 days/week)
needed for our 2 school-aged girls in
our Novi home from June 18 to end of
August. NON-SMOKER ONLY, $10
per hour, must have own transporta-
tion. Please email information/resume
to tinandpat@gmail.com
NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER
wanted for school age childcare/tutor-
ing A2 Westside May-July. MW 4:30-
8:30pm, other days/times as needed.
MUST have local childcare references.
Email brennana@me.com
a.) read the daily
b.) do the crossword puzzle
c.) sleep and embarass yourself

close to U of M North Campus
affordable rates
great location to everything
MICHSTUDENTHnUSING.COM


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 29, 2011 - 7A

Hunwick makes unexpected Columbus sojourn

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
COLUMBUS - A 2003 Ford
Ranger pulled into the play-
ers' parking lot on Wednesday
at Nationwide Arena in Colum-
bus, Ohio. Assorted hockey gear,
two small goalie leg pads and a
winged helmet sat in the bed of
the pickup truck.
The' newest member of the
Columbus Blue Jackets opened
the window to speak to the lot
attendant. Shawn Hunwick told
the attendant that he was here to
be the back-up goalie.
"I don't think he really
believed me," Hunwick said.
"But then he radioed up to some-
body, and they said I was good."
Hunwick got out of the pickup,
went into the arena and signed
some papers that officially put
the 5-foot-6 goalie on the roster
of an NHL team. Then he got
back into the Ranger and drove
off to his hotel.
If you listen to junior defense-
man Lee Moffie, it was a miracle
the clunker - too small to be a
considered a real pickup truck

and older than most, too - ever.
made it into the parking lot in
Columbus.
"I wouldn't get too excited
about (Hunwick) dressing in
Columbus tonight," Moffie
posted on his Twitter account
Wednesday, before exaggerating
for effect. "The chances of his '86
Ranger making it there are slim
to ione."
Slim collided with none on
Wednesday morning, and slim
won. That collision coincided
with a more literal collision -
that of a puck and Columbus
goaltender Steve Mason's face-
mask.
Mason, who was supposed to
be the starter later that evening
against the Detroit Red Wings,
was ruled out after suffering a
minor head injury.
With goaltender Curtis San-
ford already injured, Columbus
needed abackup goalie. And fast.
They called Michigan coach
Red Berenson.
"(They) told us that one of
their goalies got hurt this morn-
ing," Berenson said. "They asked
if Hunwick was available."

r 
rc b
Former Michigan netminder Shawn Hunwick blocks a shot in pregz

Jackets needed a goaltender, and
they wanted Hunwick.
The 24-year old netminder
didn't know what to think. He
looked to Berenson.
"He gave me that grin that he
does, and said, 'Just have fun,
soak it in,' " Hunwick said.
But Hunwick wasn't con-
vinced. During the season, Hun-
wick said one NHL team had
been following him throughout
the year. Now, though, he con-
cedes that that might have been a
lie he used "to pick up some girls
or something."
So Hunwick was skeptical.
"I checked to see if it was April
1st," he said. "I don't know, I
thought everybody was messing
JAY LEPRETE/AP around with me."
arne warmups. But moments later, Hunwick
was on the phone again, this time
soon as pos- with Blue Jackets General Man-
an told him. ager Scott Howson.
wed instruc- The call lasted one minute.
at he must Howson told him that he wanted
g wrong the to sign him to an unpaid amateur
at word had tryout contract, which, by rule,
would last only one day.
got to the Howson told him that he just
tim: the Blue wanted him to do what he did in

college. And he told him that he
had to make it down to Columbus
by 5 p.m. or else he wouldn't play.
So Hunwick hustled. He called
his father first, then his brother,
Matt, who laughed at the whole
situation.
Last, he called former team-
mate Kevin Porter, and then he
threw all of his equipment into
the back of the Ford Ranger and
drove off for Columbus.
Two miles later, the Ford
Ranger turned back around.
Hunwick had forgotten his wal-
let and his shoes.
When he finally made it onto
I-75 South, his phone buzzed so
frequently that it died halfway
through the trip. So for the next
90 minutes, Hunwick was on an
island, alone with his thoughts in
that old, small Ford Ranger.
At 4 p.m., Shawn Hunwick
pulled into the parking lot at
Nationwide Arena. With a skep-
tical look and orders from his
walkie-talkie, the attendant
opened the gate, and the player,
who again was in the right place
at -the right time, entered the
National Hockey League.

Berenson had assistant coach
Brian Wiseman call Hunwick.
Hunwick, who had decided to
sleep in on Wednesday morning,
was still in bed.
"I wasn't at the (Brown) Jug
yet," Hunwick said later. "A cou-
ple more hours, and I might've
been."

"Get to the rink as
sible," was all Wisem
So Hunwick follor
tions, assuming th
have done somethin
night before and the
reached Wiseman.
When Hunwick
rink, Wiseman told h


. Ex-Wolverine Johnson provides calming presence for Hunwick

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Editor
COLUMBUS - Wednesday
night, the first night of Shawn
Hunwick's NHL career, pitted
the familiar against the unfamil-
iar.
During pregame warmups,
Hunwick glanced across the
ice and saw the team he grew
up admiring - the Detroit Red
Wings. He'd dreamt of this
moment many times, admittedly
picturing himself donning the
red-and-white winged wheel.
"Guys like (Red Wings cap-
tain) Nick Lidstrom and (Red
Wings forward) Tomas Holm-
strom have been there since I
was, like,-10 years old," Hunwick
said. "It was pretty cool to see
them out there and get a feel for
the big leagues."
Columbus, the location of his
first NHL game, seemed every
bit as unfamiliar, and even some-
what hostile, to Hunwick, just
days removed from his last game
as the goaltender of the Michigan
hockey team. A Michigan-raised
kid trapped in Buckeye territory,
Hunwick had no idea how he'd be

received by the Blue Jackets fans.
So it came as a complete relief
when, after the long drive down
from Ann Arbor, one of the first
people he saw made him feel
right at home. That someone
was former Wolverine defense-
man Jack Johnson. While the
pair never played together at
Michigan, Johnson's stay in Ann
Arbor overlapped with Shawn's
older brother and current mem-
ber of the Colorado Avalanche,
Matt. Once the younger Hunwick
put pen to paper upon arrival in
Columbus, it was his turn to call
Johnson a teammate.
"It was obviously nice to know
a familiar face," Hunwick said.
"(He's) somebody I've known
fore a long time and am really
close with. It was nice to see
someone that can ease the pro-
cess for youa little bit."
Because he arrived on such
short notice, Hunwick needed
to supply most of his own equip-
ment to suit up. And if the maize
and blue winged helmet seemed
slightly out of place amongst the
blue and red of the Blue Jackets'
uniforms, at least one of his
teammates paid no mind.

"(Johnson) kept bringing up
how he wanted to see the maize
"It was cool
taking some
shots from guys
like (Bluejackets
forward) Rick
Nash."
and blue helmet on the ice here in
Columbus," Hunwick said. "He

was joking around that he was
going to take a twirl in it."
When Johnson heard the
news that Hunwick was the
goaltending reinforcement
that the Blue Jackets had
acquired following an injury to
usual starter Steve Mason, he
was almost as excited for the
reunion as Hunwick was to be
dressing for the game.
"I thought it was great,"
Johnson said. "They said 'Hey,
we're trying to get a hold of
your boy Shawn Hunwick.'
"It couldn't happen to a bet-
ter kid. He deserves it, and I
was as happy as I could possibly
be to see him sitting on an NHL

bench."
Though the NHL call came
significantly sooner than Hun-
wick had anticipated, he didn't
seem out of place or anxious
while playing under an amateur
tryout contract. And his game
plan was simple.
"Don't fall," Hunwick joked.
Hunwick didn't get to see the
ice during the Blue Jackets' 4-2
win, but he's still thrilled that he
even got the chance.
"I've never played down here
with Michigan at all, but it was
a pretty cool experience," Hun-
wick said. "It was cool taking
some shots from guys like (Blue
Jackets forward) Rick Nash."

As for what's next, Hunwick's
ready for whatever comes his
way - even if it's a return ticket
to Ann Arbor.
"z probably won't be back, but
you never know," he said after the
game.
Columbus interim coach Todd
Richards didn't get much time
to talk to his new backup goalie,
simply asking Hunwick how the
drive up went. Richards seemed
optimistic, however, that there
would be more chances to get
to know Hunwick in the near
future.
"I'll get another opportunity
to talk with him more at length
later," Richards said.

Attention Science, Engineering
& Pre-Health Majors!
Do you have any of the following
questions???
Can I get paid to Are there other
go health-related
to Graduate - career options
S- a abesides the practice
School??? of medicine (M.D.)?
Sciences ?
Come out to talk to current Ph.D. Students at tht
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Discussion Panel
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Tuesday, April 3, 2012
6:30 - 8:00 p.m.
CC. Little Bldg. (1100 N.University) Room 1544
Dinner will be provided! i ~ i
RSVP at:
http://pharmacy.umich.edu/pharmacy/register ©
Presented by the American Association of
Pharmaceutical Sciences at the University of Michigan
SUMMER IMPRESSIONS
/1 1 1D Y C A M P
WESTBLOOMFIELD, MI
SEEKING TALENTED & EXPERIENCED STAFF
POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
" DIVISION LEADERS
* WSI'S & LIFEGUARDS
" COUNSELORS
" SPORTS INSTRUCTORS
" ART INSTRUCTORS
" DRAMA & SCIENCE INSTRUCTORS

$10 offpvhs
of $30 or umowe
Otess x .Q+ ~a+ istesItw ncllnl
me S1111 ReSt re

WWW.SUMMERIMPRESSIONS.COM

I


w1

8A - Thursday, March 29, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

.,

I jII-A~JCNUIAI
14~ I

8

._ ,._-4
14 <1 iii ii __iW_;
41 4
-1 4 I
t1 , ~
._ 1-
s -- #4

0.. .
0.. .

t I
{ E T i i- 41
" 3't It 1 '
i 1 4! I
"l fI
y1 3
~,
l-ISI_

*I

0

...:.._;. ; . (iSWHE
E . . i i
E s i k" }
k
I " I k f i
{ S E s,
t
i
f " r ,
,
,

_. _;.:
._ ..
_£ ''r. _
_._

-I
; t~
Cm andmeont w .romnane_

4 j Il l i
-I~ '--44-
tj;I II

Pirates

fi f
Dali u t e ,610 s H~pst9Ir
{If

+

0

I I I IEI I
- 1 t
1 4
terevert e _ ohs

c
._n
t
._ .S
t
_t
_ ,

11I -
j --i
--f--H------44-
t t 1

ei fi to .world i. f)at!

1 J ks ,

fiil Comebacks come in many shapes and sizes.
Swww.browseryou Iovedtohate.com #Iovedtohate


r

a

A


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com I Thursday, March 29, 2012


wk essei

.


. -
:' f s
_ - -',', -,

EVENT
The International Student Affairs Commission is
celebrating the change of the seasons with "Spring Around
the World," an internationally inspired cultural celebration
that will include performances, interactive booths and food
from around the world. The event will go down in East
Hall's Math Atrium at 5 p.m. tomorrow. Admission and
food is free.

ON DISPLAY
Stop by the Duderstadt Center Gallery this weekend to
see some truly amazing artwork during the 17th Annual
Exhibition of Art by Michigan Prisoners. The event is
sponsored by the Prison Creative Arts Program, a group
dedicated to fostering the creative expression of those who
are and have been incarcerated. The show runs through
April 4 and gallery hours vary by day. Admission is free.

VIDEO GAMES
Do you enjoy throwing a good Falcon Punch? How about
throwing one for charity? The Men's Activism Program is
joining with the UM Smash Club to host a Super Smash
Brothers Melee charity tournament to benefit Ann
Arbor's SafeHouse Center on Saturday. Bring $5 and a
controller from home to join in the fun at 1401 Mason Hall.
Registration starts at 11 a.m., and the fight begins at 1 p.m.

A


w

2B - Thursday, March 29, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ARTS RECOMMENDS
In this feature, Daily Arts writers will give their endorsements
for the arts you need to experience to help you deal with current events.

1
j
c

NI

"The Taking" - Dean Koontz
The end of March typically means one thing:
Professors have begun to inundate their students
with the last big projects of the semester. To take
your mind off your increasingly frantic workload,
dive into Koontz's "The Taking" - a page-turner
that somehow manages to combine talking dogs, a
zombie-inducing fungus and unseen space invad-
ers into a surprisingly frightening novel.
"Close Your Eyes and Count to
Ten" - Grouplove
Grouplove may sing of metamorphosis, but this
beachy sing-along isn't the sticky liquefaction of a
melting Creamsicle. "Close Your Eyes and Count to
Ten" ignites from a sweet and raw sand-between-
your-toes, melody into a howling celebration.
Christian Zucconi's croons will have you charmed
before you can even wonder, "Is it summer yet?"
"Don't Trust the B- in
Apartment 23"
James Van Der Beek is returningto television in
"Don't Trust the B- in Apartment 23." The show
won't start until mid-April, but ABC has made the
pilot available forfree on Huluin order to getview-
ers excited. A far cry from some of the more prob-
lematic new sitcoms this year, "Don't Trust the
B-" is a hilarious, sassy success.
"Man on Wire"
Ah, the end of the semester. Summer plans are
made. All-nighters are pulled. Relationships end
... and begin. At times, it can all feel like a tricky
tightrope act we're supposed to maneuver. So take
a note from Philippe Petit, the French high-wire
artist whose 1974 traversal between the World
Trade Center's Twin Towers is captured in mes-
merizingsuspense in the 2008 documentary"Man
on Wire."

((B-BSde Buzz))
Sanda Mong
Engineering sophomore
How did you get involved in parkour?
I started training with the club about two-and-a-half years ago. I
was still in high school at Pioneer.
What makes Ann Arbor a great place for parkour?
Ann Arbor is nice because it's kind of suburban and it's not densely
populated.
Where is the best parkour spot in town?
By far, the dental school is the best spot for parkour in Ann Arbor, I
think.
Excerpts are taken from the B-Side Buzz video,
which can be found on MichiganDaily.com.
Interview by Jefff Waroniok
TRAILER REVIEW

SINGLE REVIEW

The talk of the town is that
Justin Bieber is channeling the
R&B style of Justin Timberlake
in his new
song. Appar-
ently, "chan-
neling" is a B i
euphemism
for "copying" Justin Bieber
Bieber's sing- Island
ing is barely
present on the
track: He only graces the chorus,
and the production sounds like
it's attempting to hide his true
identity - perhaps a wise move.
The lyrics to the verses are
original, in the sense that few
artists are willing to introduce
this much poetic stupidity into
their music. When "chillin' by
the fire while we eatin' fondue,"
we can only ask ourselves why
the word "swag" is repeated
not once, but three times with
no context. Bieber creatively
employs rhetorical devices like

Oh man, here it comes:
"Breaking Dawn - Part 2."
Based on the teaser trailer, Sum-
mit is trying
hard to make
you think this
series. finale The Twlight
is going to be
epic. There's saga
the slowly Breaking
pounding
music - like a Dawn
heartbeat, but Part 2
more tribal -
and flashes of Summit
action intend-
ed to induce a state of frenzied
RA excitement in any Twi-hard.
ISLAND But for the rest of us, the
trailer falls flat - trips, actually
appear - in its delivery of "tension."
Why are two shots devoted to
gly, the Bella's hideous ring, and only
1 hun- one pan to a disappointingly
pies in clothed Jacob? Kristin Stewart's
opening voiceover is laughably
awful: "After 18 years of being

0

5I~~~ . j kb'A

the onomatopoeia "burr" in
reference to the temperature of
snow, matched by a metaphori-
cal reference to Buzz Lightyear,
possibly inspired by a play date
Bieber's mom had scheduled
weeks before with Cody Simp-

son - who will, in fact,,
on the upcoming album.
Sadly, but unsurpisini
song is predicted to sel
dreds of thousands of co
its first week. Shudder.
-GREGORYHICKS


ARE YOU GOING
TO BE STUCK IN
ANN ARBOR THIS
SUMMER?
ARE YOU GOING TO BE BORED?
YOU SHOULD APPLY TO WRITE FOR
DAILY ARTS!
Request an application by e-mailing
arts@michigandaily.com.

WEATURING
k '.'SPECIAL GUESTS
W aat Dk if A , f 4 iPYr
FR 1l1[IS: WWW.FMlll. COM l I rHHE74IO.22 IJWW.?RlMESOCIO[lCOM

0

0o

A

#4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 29, 2012 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 29, 2012 - 3B

Bono, The Edge-... and the other two guys.
The U2 divide
of my attachment to U2 can be
attributed to sentimental reasons.
Like in the salons of 77th U2 is, bizarrely, the first music
and 78th century France, I can ever remember listening
this weekly installment to - outside of lullabies and my
grandparents' Louis Armstrong
will feature two Daily Arts and Ella Fitzgerald vinyls (one of
writers discussing the finer my first words was a blend of their
points of arts mediums names: "Louinella"). But my dad
is a hardcore fan of two things in
from at least 70 years ago. this world: "Star Trek" and U2,
so I was exposed to the latter at a
very early age. And no matter how
What do you get when you com- much I try to hide it from some of
bine unimaginative songwriting, my more musically elitist friends,
poor musicianship and the largest I can't help it - I have never
ego in rock 'n' roll history? You get stopped liking the tunes of U2.
U2, one of the most famous bands U2 has certainly been show-
of the past three decades. ered with endless awards and
Despite never really writing has maintained a steady base of
an original song in the 34 years devoted fans throughout many
they've been a band, the members years, but as with any mainstream
of U2 are still somehow regard- success story, it also has its haters.
ed as rock superstars. over the And I admit that many of the U2
course of their puzzling career, dissidents are right to make some
they've garnered 22 Grammy of their complaints: The band
awards and sold over 150 million oftentakes themselves far too seri-
album sales worldwide. ously and the stadium-rock sound
The only thing U2 ever got right that has given the band worldwide
was its timing- the band emerged recognition seldom presents origi-
onto the scene after the glory days nality or flair. But what the critics
of radio rock had all but faded sometimes fail to comment on is
away but before the alternative the brief period in the '90s when
era of '90s rock actually required U2 sought to redefine themselves,
a band to be exciting or innovative. leading to some of the band's more
That's it - the band's early under-discussed successes.
songs sounded good on the radio In 1991, U2 was just coming off
to a public who would've accepted of the success of its 1987 album
almost anything that was even The Joshua Tree - an album that
the slightest bit catchy. I'm not delved into the complicated rela-
faulting the band for that, but U2 tionship between the band mem-
capitalized on this by releasing bers and the United States - and
essentially the same set of songs the messier, folkier Rattle and
for over two 4ecades. This really Hum. While the bluesy tracks of
pisses me off. Combine this with Rattle and Hum often lose their
its attitude - U2 seems to think it footing, The Joshua Tree was a
deserves more than international home run, critically and commer-
fame for its extremely derivative cially. The music was passionate
form of pop-rock - and you have yet restrained, giving it a tight,
the recipe for the most overrated polished feel. Thematically, it was
band in history. the most honest, compelling work
To be fair, just because Bono is U2 has ever done - unfortunately,
a smug, overrated asshole doesn't the political messages the band
necessarily mean his music is shit. has tackled since then have often
However, his lyrics are completely felt trite and oversimplified.
unoriginal and his singingconsists But the '90s ushered in a new
ofyellinghalf melodies, which just phase for the members of U2 as
makes me hate him even more. they responded to claims that
Bono's creative process can be they were often too earnest. They
summarized as using political realized they took themselves too
buzzwords in different combina- seriously, and they decided to play
tions and emphasizing some of with it, leading to the meta, self-
them by yelling even louder. This deprecating Achtung Baby, which
is only slightly better than the played with some more electronic
passages during which he just sounds and was significantly more
sings notes at different pitches to humorous and introspective than
add emotion to his pieces. Instead some of the band's other endeav-
of sounding raw and uplifting, it ors. Bono embraced accusations
sounds forced. He's also fond of that he was self-absorbed and
usingbland and unoriginal words, made fun of himself, creating an
such as peace, love and freedom, egocentric alter-ego "The Fly" for
to cement his image as a world- live performances of the album's
changing, saintly figure. material on the Zoo TV Tour.
I'm usually willing to give In 1993, U2 continued with its
bands some slack on lyrical sub- alternative-rock-meets-electron-
stance if they can dazzle me with ic-music trend with the release
their musicianship. But for some- of Zooropa. Though none of the
one who. nicknamed himself "The tracks were commercial break-
Edge," David Evans is one boring away hits, the upbeat dance tunes
guitar player. In fact, his extensive of Zooropa remain evidence that
use of delay tones and repetitive U2 could break away from the
chiming is the exact opposite of spiritual lyrics and stadium rock
edgy guitar work. He uses almost sounds of its earlier albums. Along
the same tone on every song, with Achtung Baby and the even
and while this helps some gui- more ironic and technologically
tarists create a signature sound, embellished Pop, Zooropa kept U2
The Edge lacks the creativity to relevant.

expand past the same chord struc- But I'd also be lying if I said I
tures or repetitive plucking pat- don't also love the more tradition-
terns. al U2 albums - 2000's All That
Sure, there are other, worse You Can't Leave Behind remains a
bands that have arguably received guilty pleasure of mine. With song
more recognition than the Irish titles such as "Beautiful Day" and
rockers - but no other band in "Peace on Earth," there's nothing,
recent history has been so smug necessarily revolutionary about
about it. Yes, the group has found- it, and most of the guitar melodies
ed quite a few charities and raised are simple enough that I can play
millions of dollars, a fact any fan them myself, but sometimes I'm
will bring up when defending the just looking for some laid-back,
band. But Bono alone has a net non-gimmicky music I can sing
worth of over 600 million dollars, along to. As for this album, I've
which leads me to believe that the been jamming along since I was
band's philanthropy angle is more eight. They may not have radi-
of a marketing ploy than anything cally changed the music industry
of substance. or the world, but U2 has had a
-TYLER BAILEY lasting - albeit often embarrass-
ing - impact on me, and I'm sure
*** the same can be said for countless
others.

PARKOUR
From Page 1B
over and dive onto rails, walls
and ledges.
These circuitshelp the mem-
bers prepare for parkour jams,
which are noncompetitive gath-
erings where parkour clubs from
all over the country gather to
work on moves together. Mong
said he is planning on traveling to
Kalamazoo in a few weeks to par-
ticipate in a jam and to prepare
for the upcoming Ann Arbor jam.
"(You) just show off (your)
moves, watch people do moves,
make friends, all that," he said.
"We have our own jam too,
in September. We usually get
around S0 to 80 people, and it's a
lot of fun."
As the traceurs race around
the building, cat jump over vari-
ous walls and structures and
shimmy down handrails, their
eyes glimmer with a distinct
satisfaction and unmistakable
appreciation for the activity they
have undertaken. Though scal-
ing walls and dive-rolling onto
concrete may not appeal to some
people, it's obvious that these
University students enjoy their
unconventional workout.
"We don't like being normal,
do we?" Schumacher jokes.
In the public eye
Parkour has received more
and more attention in recent
years thanks to popular mov-
ies such as "Casino Royale" and
"The Bourne Ultimatum." But
the acts depicted in the movies
can't be strictly defined as park-
our, at least according to the Uni-
versity's club members and the
Michigan Parkour & Freerun-
ning Association.
Mong said the majority of stu-
dents only have knowledge of
parkour from an episode of the
NBC sitcom "The Office," but he
explained that Michael Scott and
Dwight Schrute's antics, while
funny, are a false depiction of the
activity.
"(The episode) just kind of
treats parkour like it's a joke, like
it's just what kids do. But there's
really a philosophy behind it.
There's a discipline behind it,"
Mong said. "When people join
karate, it's not like people think
it's a joke or anything. It's some-
thing for real. And some people
just don't take (parkour) seri-
ously."
While parkour is its own dis-
tinct activity, it is similar to fre-
erunning. McKenzie explained
that while the public may believe
that freerunning and parkour are
interchangeable, they are very
different.
"Freerunning ... allows the
freedom to sacrifice some effi-
ciency for freedom of movement
and self-expression by adding
some tricks such as flips and
spins," McKenzie said. "Essen-
tially, for many people, freerun-
ning is more 'flashy' and fun to
watch.".
Mong mentioned that park-
our is strictly for practicing effi-
ciency while freerunning allows

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily

Members of the University's parkour club practice their craft in a variety of locations about campus.

room I
"I li
parkot
and f
ground
of the
that a
both."
McE
miscon
the as
discip
young'
tive.
"As
our- E
pledge
of our
trainh
want t
shown
Mon
parkou
the iss
"reckl
was a s
"I k
of har
train i
fine w
the c
explai
just ab
DPS
Brown
an und
about
tions.
"Son
tend
said. "
age p
that, b
knowt
As t
up, th
under
Some,
whileI
the br
Washt
studen
pouich
sault o
Pro
abroad

for creativity. said he trains extensively in his
ike to make the analogy of home country, sometimes for as
ur like an obstacle course many as eight hours a day. He
reerunning like a play- practices "true parkour," a slight
d," Mong said. "But a lot variation on the normal activity
movements are so similar in that it is, for hiti, a way of life.
lot of the people just do "You find an obstacle that you
can overcome, you overcome it,
Kenzie noted that another then you choose another level,"
nception about parkour is Prokopouich said. "You can over-
ssociation made between come any obstacle, like arguing
lined practitioners and with a guy, or be confident in
"hooligans" being destruc- yourself, or it can be anything."
He explained that what or how
an association, we stress you do parkour counts less than
ethics and community what you think and feel as you're
s to each and every one doing it.
members," he said. "We "You feel sometimes like a
Hard in our community and bird, sometimes like a tiger," he
o show it the respect it has said. "You feel like an animal,
us." really free, and it's an amazing
ng explained that when a feeling.
ur club first came about, "You need to see freedom in
ue of being viewed as just your mind, and liberty and info-
ess kids" by the University ity, something like that."
serious concern. Many of the other club mem-
now with the DPS, we kind bers said they started practicing
ve a relationship, we can parkour as a fun way to'stay in
in some areas and they're shape. Schumacher, who has pre-
rith it," he said. "When viously participated in martial
lub was established, we arts and gymnastics, said park-
ned to them that we're not our was an easy way for him to
bunch of reckless kids." exercise in college.
spokeswoman Diane "It's just a way to kind of
n confirmed that there is improve technique and keep my
derstanding with the club physical conditioning up," he
certain rules and regula- said. "This is my favorite aspect
of martial arts, the agility stuff.
me of the activities would So it's just fun to me."
tov alarm people," Brown LSA freshman Nick Barden
Their intent is not to dam- also said he joined the club for
roperty or anything like the physical benefits.
rut other people might not "I did sports in high school
that." (but) I wasn't good enough to
play sports here, and I wanted
Mind, body, spirit to stay in shape," Barden said. "I
love (parkour), it's a lot of fun"
:he practice begins to wrap Though the fitness perks can't
e club members once again be denied, McKenzie, like Pro-
take individual activities. kopouich, said parkour isn't just
climb trees, doing crunches practiced to stay in shape.
hanging upside-down from "Some people see it as a way to
anches, and others, such as cleanse their minds from typical
enaw Community College everyday stress, similar to yoga
it Ivan Dmitrieuich Proko- or meditation," McKenzie said.
i, begin to flip and somer- Adam Dunlap, an employee at
ff of ledges. Take Flight Apparel, which pro-
kopouich, who is studying duces parkour-specific clothing
d in the U.S. from Russia, and gear, also mentioned that the

activity can benefit a practitio-
ner's mental health.
"Practicing parkour helps
develop and maintain the physi-
cal condition while pushing the
mental side of practitioners,"
Dunlap wrote in an e-mail. "They
analyze problems and overcome
obstacles. It also forces practitio-
ners to confront fears, both ratio-
nal and irrational."
Just be careful
Watching the club practice, it's
hard not to wonder whether or
not any of the members have ever
.been seriously injured attempt-
ing the techniques.
Surprisingly, Mong said that
injuries are few and far between.
"Parkour is extremely incre-
mental," he said. "It's usually
pretty calm, and the reckless
people will quit when they get
hurt. We try to limit our risks
as much as possible. You know,
we're not going to ask you to
jump off a building."
Prokopouich said he has
never been seriously injured and
doesn't imagine he ever will be.
"I've never broken (my) legs
or neck or something like that
because of my... method of train-
ing," he said. "You don't have to
hurry up, so you don't have inju-
ries. You just don't compete with
others."
With that, he turns and leaps
over a wall, landing on a con-
crete ledge behind it. As the
other members take a break
from their activities to observe,
Prokopouich turns and dives off
of the ledge, effortlessly transi-
tioning from a terrifying head-
first plunge into a graceful roll
as he reaches the ground. And in
one fluid motion he is on his feet
again, completely nonplussed as
passers-by gawk.
As others join Prokopouich on
the ledge to attempt the amaz-
ing stunt, Mong offers some final
words of wisdom to the club
members:
"Watch out for people ... and
don't die!"

TWEET WITH THE BEST OF US
Follow Daily Arts @michdailyarts

2012 U-M CANCER RESEARCH
SUMMER INTERNSHIP PROGRAM (CaRSIP)
' ' As part of its Canter Biology Training Program,
the University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center
is providing exposure to cancer research for
highly motivated and talented college undergraduates.


The Vice President for Student Affairs
is looking for students to serve on
her student advisory board for
the 2012-2013 academic year, and
advise her on the topics that are most
pressing to the students at
the University of Michigan.

The program will run for a ten-week period from'
June 11th - August 17th, 40 hours per week.
interns will be paid $5,000 for the10 week period.
Only U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens are
eligible to apply. Awardees are responsible for their
own transportation and housing.

Applications and more
information can be found at:
http://www.studentaffairs.umich.edu
/DSA-student-advisory-board
The deadline for applications is
Friday, March 30, 2012 at 5 pm.

Deadline is March 31, 2012
Applications can be completed at
www.mcancer.org/carsip

I'll admit this up front: Most

-KAYLA UPADHYAYA

i


s

48 - Thursday, March 29, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

.,


Summertime
self-expression
D uring this 2012 heat- to eplore their day-drinking
wave, the sun has possibilities as the premature
peeked its head out far summer weather makes most
enough to royally disturb the life feel somehow off the hook. My
of plants and animals, but days feelings on the subject are rather
have become neutral.
much live- From a sardonic English-major
lier for human standpoint, the porch/front-
Ann Arborites lawn area symbolizes a midpoint
- porches and between security and insecurity.
front lawns It's positioned openly to the
transform street but remains attached to the
into the most firmly rooted home that is typi-
inhabited tally a space prized for its safety.
parts of all JIA In real-person speak, it's cur-
homes. Spring SMITH- rently trendy to be hanging out
came early EPPSTEINER on the porch because you can and
this year, and because you look relaxed (and
we're all re- usually you are). Finally, it's the
realizingthat we do in fact have finest spot to try out fresh fash-
neighbors - not just walking, ions of which you maybe unsure.
talking North Face fluff balls that In terms of the most obvi-
sleep in the box over. We remem- ous form of style - what you
ber that fashion exists, ice cubes wear - the inaugural weeks of
make drinks tastier, Frisbee is warmth accentuate folks' choices
much harder than it looks and we in threads, walking-wear, shades
are actually happy. and every other germ of external-
June in March: displeased izing our person. In the last days
sharecroppers, pleased students. of March this year, a generous
We gain the right to stare at amount of hair braiding, mint-
people as they walk by, stumble colored everything, sports caps,
by, bike by, throw a football by ... highly saturated denim short
but there is this odd dichotomy shorts and canvas backpacks have
going on. We are all together come out to play. As long as the
in the sunshine in our minimal hair-feather fad remains buried,
clothing, listeningto upbeat jams, I'm content.
but we're isolated on rectangular
plots, observing one another from
a place of privacy - private prop- POrches are the
erty, that is.P
It's like each home is its own a r
animal exhibit at the zoo. pl e r o
Despite this social foible, the to present their
porch is a wonderful venue for
showing off your latest trends personalstyle.
with a sense of comfort and confi-
dence derived from being at your
home with your friends. Butthe
outside world is still able to eye The power of the porch to
your latest harem pants, eyelash- let these fads out seems to be
tinting job, laptop stickers and somewhat specific to the Univer-
smoothie blend made of Farmers sity because many other college
Market kale and beets. I mean, towns do not have such a high
#YOLO, right? #GBGH? "It tastes population of students living
great, I promise!" in homes, and most Ann Arbor
Hammocks, lawn chairs, residences represent a historic,
roofs, towels and the steps are farmhouse architectural style
all superb locations for flaunting that includes porches. The porch
purposes. If you desire passers- is a torch that lights the way to
by hear the sunny electronic trendiness. Do you see what I did
indie-pop magic that is "Closer there? I rhymed. It's not trendy,
Than This" by St. Lucia, there's don't do it.
no better settingthan street-side Send out positive thoughts
to share your taste. If you've got for those whose income depends
a Cabo-induced tan to share with upon agriculture, but then con-
the world before it's faded by the tinue to soak in that unexpected
classroom, your sorority house Vitamin D and the ability to
rooftop or lawn is superlative. If transport ourselves via bikes,
you care to share your hula-hoop-. skateboards and rollerblades.
ing/cigarette smoking multitask- Beyond that, revel in your flip-
ing skills, then your co-op's porch flops, naturally highlighted hair
is idyllic, and porch/front-lawn experience,
Conclusion: The porch which all facilitate your self-
front-lawn Space truly works as expression like a oss.
a trendy outlet for all cultures
within college campuses. And Smith-Eppsteiner is rocking
I've forgotten to mention that it is the porch recliner. To rock it too,
also the perfect place for students e-mail julialixs umich.edu.
THE NEW LINE CHINESE CUISINE
(Gar en

SPECIALIZING IN HONG KONG, TAIWANESE, '
SZECHUAN & HUNAN STYLES
734-995-1786
116 S. MAIN STREET
(BETWEEN W. HURON AND WASHTENAW) '
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR
WWW.KAIGARDEN.COM
-.5D - U

A 2 gymmixes art, fitness
Sparrow Gym
makes the workout



personal, dynamic
By CHLOE STACHOWIAK
Daily Music Editor
Most people don't go to the
gym for the decorations. They
don't shell out money to be sur-
rounded by the turquoise, glassy
glow of aquariums or to hoist
dumbbells into the air next to
mint-green walls and the black-
and-white photos that adorn
them. A gym's interior is noth-
ing more than the backdrop to
its members' workouts - unless,
of course, those bicep curls and
squat thrusts are taking place
inside the colorful walls of Spar-
row Gym. For members here, the
gym isn't simply a place to pump
iron, but a place to feel inspired.
It's a haven where art, person-
ality and a love of fitness come
together in a single space.
Tucked away in the corner
of Sparrow Market, it's clear
that this Kerrytown gym is
going to stand out from others
the moment you walk past the
meat counter and onto its creaky
hardwood floors. Tom Petty
and Beyoncd hits blast from the
speakers. Movie and music post-
ers stare down at equipment
from boldly colored walls. Even
the unconventional floor plan
begs for a double-take - a junc-
tion of small, equipment-lined
rooms hidden from the view of
the entrance. It's not your typi-
cal, overly sterile gym. There isn't
a single advertisement for protein
supplements hanging onthe wall,
and rows of identical cardio and
weight machines are nowhere
to be found. But for Josh John-
son, the gym's founder and main
trainer, the offbeat fitness center
is exactly how it should be.
"You see alot of places look the
same when you go to the gym," he
said. "It can be intimidating and
overwhelming when people see a
bunch of equipment. I wanted to
create an atmosphere where peo-
ple wanted to walk in every day."
The gym is striking on an aes-
thetic level - bright hues wash
each wall and clusters of photos
cover nearly every inch - but the
purpose behind Sparrow's deco-
rations isn't just paint-deep.
"I think the art is something
that makes people not think
about what they're doing," he
said. "If you're doing an exercise
and you think it sucks, and you
look over and see a picture of
Marilyn Monroe doing the bench
press, you probably won't think

Sparrow Gym was founded six years ago and is located in Kerryotwn's Sparrow Market.

about that exercise. Instead,
you'll just think it's an amazing
photo. You're' kind of making
people forget about where they
are."
Opened by Johnson and Spar-
row Market owner Bob Sparrow,
the Sparrow Gym has only been
in operation for six years, but
it has already made a name for
itself as a business and quasi-art
showcase. It houses pictures of
everything from Muhammad Ali
to the University Hospital stairs,
and has a membership at nearly
full capacity to boot. It's a color-
ful success storyfor such a young
fitness center, especially since it
was born out of an idea the two
had when they were working out
together.
"I was just getting out of grad
school, and I was looking for
a job in some kind of financial
position," Johnson said. "I had
been working out since I was 17,
but it was something I never saw
myself doing professionally in the
future. But helping people feel
good about themselves - that's
what made me think doing this
would actually be an option."
Transforming the gym space
- and his customers' experi-
ences there - didn't stop when
Johnson first designed the gym,
though. He is constantly updat-
ing the gym's interior, with paint
jobs occurring almost monthly
along with frequent changes in
pictures and wall art. While the
endless makeovers might pose a
tedious challenge for some, John-
son's interest in art and photog-
raphy keeps the design process
as fresh as the end product. Some
of the pictures hanging are given
to him by clients, but the rest are
taken and printed by the trainer

himself. a workout for you thatday," Kant-
"I try to snap a picture when- ers said. "He recognizes if you're
ever I'm working out outside in a show or notfeeling that great.
and a shot really stands out," he He pushes, he always pushes, but
said. "I like to throw people off you're comfortable with him."
by hanging something beautiful For Johnson, maintaining this
and artistic that still has a fitness level of personalization means
edge. I want to show them beauti- creating specific workout plans
ful places in Ann Arbor that they for more than 140 people per
didn't even know existed and day. He and the other trainers
encourage them to get out and also keep in constant touch with
aboutto see them." their trainees, even if that means
This attentiveness to the atmo- picking up the phone and sending
sphere doesn't go unnoticed by messages directly.
Johnson's clients. For School of "The communication here is
Music, Theatre & Dance senior awesome," Golliday said. "You
Melissa Golliday and junior Zoe might get a text message from a
Kanters, these artistic touches trainer that says, 'Hey, are you
keep their workouts from becom- working today?' or, if you haven't
ing monotonous while still feel- been to the gym in a while,
ing relaxed. 'Where are you?' That's a huge
"It's a great environment," motivator."
Kanters said. "He definitely cre- It isn't easyto keep this level of
ates a space where you can make connection between trainers and
it your own." clients. Johnson is no stranger to
, Added Golliday: "He lets 15-hour workdays, shifts spent
everyone put a splash of color on bustling about Sparrow while
the wall if they want to, and that's offering friendly words and
really somethingthat appealed to detailed exercise instructions to
me when I saw people I knew on the members training there. He
his wall." also requires newcomers to get
"I was like, 'Oh, ok, this is a referrals from friends who are
good, safe place to be where I'm members before they're admit-
going to feel comfortable.'" ted, a way for him to maintain the
Still, it's the personalization , atmosphere in the gym. It's a lot
of the workouts themselves that of fuss for a man who also trains
really stands out to Sparrow cus- Olympic swimmers on the side,
tomers. Unlike traditional gyms, but when you factor in the sense
which can force clients to fend for of community and personal com-
themselves in a dizzying array of fort his efforts create for clients,
fitness equipment, the trainers maybe the fuss is worth it.
at the Sparrow offer each per- "We're artists, and Josh knows
son their own workout plan. This that," Kanters said. "We need
custom list of exercises is often workouts that cater to our breath,
created on the spot, based on that cater to our flexibility and
members' specific fitness levels, stamina. They're really good
goals or even moods when they at understanding what people
walk through the door. need, and that's what makes the
"Josh is reallygood at creating Sparrow Gym so unique."

Josh Johnson, a co-founder and the head trainer, infuses the facility with his passion for photography to keep the clients' minds off their workout.

0

Applications are now being accepted for the
Undergraduate Program in
Philosophy, Politics & Economics
PPE
Deadline is March 30, Visit
wwwdsaumiehedu/pp
for morc informati n

)mL
i ...,
=*;
';;

0


:41


