~IieA~iliian 0ai Ij
\ N I i1 f i id 1 i Ij 9 N \i) 1.IF -f(ZR4'. ? ' !4YtV t.\ ' -'. 0 kd 1 ) , II \I 1 1{ )\ I: -

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, March16, 2012

michigandaily.com

BOARD OF REGENTS
Students extol
tuition equality
at regents mtg.

Graduate students
share desire for
increased childcare
services
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily Staff Reporter
Dozens of yellow-shirted stu-
dents representing the Coalition
for Tuition Equality, accompa-
nied by student representatives
of allied organizations on cam-
pus, filled the Michigan Union's
Pendleton Room yesterday during
the University's Board of Regents
meeting.
At the meeting, several student
organizations protested in sup-
port of issues such as childcare for
graduate students and increased
enrollment for underrepresented
demographics.
LSA junior Luz Meza, who
spoke on the Coalition's behalf,
said she had been contacted by
Regents Julia Darlow (D-Ann
Arbor) and Katherine White (D-
Ann Arbor) to discuss the group's
core issues before the board.

Meza recounted a personal
story about her experience as
an undocumented immigrant in
Detroit. She said one of her clos-
est friends in high school, also an
undocumented immigrant, was
arrested during their senior year
and deported to Mexico despite
being acceptedto attend college at
the University of Detroit-Mercy.
"Over the course of the three
years I spent in Mexico, none of
my classmates and I discussed
higher education," Meza said.
"(My) parents brought me to
the United States because of the
opportunities that they know we
will have. There were only five of
my peers from elementary school
to graduate from high school, and
I was the only to attend college."
Meza also called for increased
enrollment of Latino and Afri-
can-American students, the
implementation of a mandatory
intergroup relations course for
University students and establish-
ment of in-state tuition for undoc-
umented students.
"I want to go back to south-
west Detroit and tell them that
the University of Michigan cares
See EQUALITY, Page 3

Firefighters respond to a tornado in Dexter last night. No causalties were reported, though many buildings and homes were damaged ,
Tornado slams Dexter

Ann Arbor spared
as campus takes
cover from storm
By ZACH BERGSON and
ANNA ROSENBERG and
ADAM RUBENFIRE
Online Editor, Daily Staff Reporter
and DarlyNews Editor
DEXTER, Mich. - As a result
of a storm that brought signifi-

cant rain, severe hail and gust-
ing winds to campus yesterday,
several University buildings
sustained damage, while a tor-
nado ravaged the nearby towns
of Dexter and Pinckney.
No casualties or injuries were
reported by the Washtenaw
County Emergency Manage-
ment agency as of 11 p.m. yester-
day. However, at the University,
significant leaking was observed
in the center hallway connect-
ing Mason and Angell Halls. At

the intersection of South State
and Arch Streets, about 2 feet
of standing water slowed cars
traveling near South Campus,
and water reached the hoods of
parked cars in front of the Ste-
phen M. Ross Academic Center
and the Athletic Ticket Office.
A tornado warning for Washt-
enaw County was issued after 5
p.m. yesterday evening, and the
University's Emergency Alert
system was activated, sending
text, e-mail and voice messages

to students, faculty and staff
The system sent students four
messages regarding the initial
tornado warning, an extension of
the warning, spotting of funnel
clouds and tornados, and finally
the expiration of the warning
and a subsequent thunderstorm
watch and flood warning.
Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Diane Brown
said she did not have any details
regarding the leaks in Angell
See TORNADO, Page 3


LEGAL DISPUTE
A2 taxicab driver
accused of assault

Driver disputes
claims made by
Tri-Delt member
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
Daily News Editor
Murmurings of a sexual
assault by a popular local taxi
driver have been circulat-
ing through the University's
Greek community, after an
e-mail was sent to members
of numerous sororities this
week.
The e-mail, which originat-
ed from LSA sophomore Bri-
anna Porter, a member of the
Kappa Alpha Theta sorority,
alleges that the driver picked
up a woman by the name of
Emily, the guest of a Delta
Delta Delta sorority member
on March 8. According to the
e-mail, Emily was lost in the
crowd outside Scorekeep-
ers Bar and Grill at 310 May-
nard Street, but recognized
the driver from earlier in the
night and decided to take his
cab before he allegedly sexu-
ally assaulted her.
The Ann Arbor Police
Department is investigat-
ing the incident, which was
reported at AAPD headquar-
ters last Friday afternoon.
AAPD has also made contact
with the suspect.
The e-mail alleges that
the driver attempted to drop
Emily off at the Tri-Delt
sorority house at 718 Tappan
Avenue, but she was unable
to enter the house because

no one answered the door.
Instead, he offered to let her
stayin the cab while he picked
up other customers. Accord-
ing to the e-mail, the driver
dropped off one customer and
then proceeded to drive Emily
into a wooded area where he
sexually assaulted her in his
vehicle.
Emily was able to open
the door of the vehicle and
run from the area, and was
later picked up on South Uni-
versity Avenue and brought
back to the Tri-Delt house
before reporting the incident
to police the next morning,
according to the e-mail.
In the e-mail, Porter urged
sorority members to avoid
taking his services until the
incident was investigated.
"Please, please, please stop
taking (the driver's) cab," Por-
ter wrote.
Porter did not respond to
a request for comment on
Wednesday.
AAPD spokeswoman Lieu-
tenant Renee Bush was unable
to confirm whether the house
in the report was in fact the
Tri-Delt house since the vic-
tim was "not familiar with the
area."
According to Bush, the
driver initially told the victim
at the time of her taxi request
at Scorekeepers that he had
to pick up other customers,
after which he would drop her
off. This does not correspond
with statements in the e-mail,
which suggest that the driver
took the victim straight to the
See ASSAULT, Page 3

Uninersity President Mary Sue Coleman speaks at the Board of tegents meeting yesterday.
New School o Nursing
building gt go ahead

CAMPUS LIFE
Greek Life
plans safe
St. Patty's
Program organized
to ensure revelers
stay safe tomorrow
By LIANA ROSENBLOOM
Daily StaffReporter
As students kick off their St.
Patrick's Day festivities tomorrow
adorned in green apparel and with
pitchers of green beer in tow, mem-
bers of the University's Greek com-
munity will be working to promote
safe behavior.
In an effort to prevent the poten-
tially dangerous effects of alcohol
on the annual holiday that's known
more for excessive drinking and
partying than its religious roots,
LSA junior Sean Jackson, president
of the Interfraternity Council, said
IFC developed a three-part preven-
tion effort to aid students.
According to Jackson, members
of the Interfraternal Development
Council will serve as ambassadors,
walking around the areas of Geddes,
Hill and State Streets tomorrow in
orange T-shirts, looking for unsafe
behavior and providing assistance
as needed. They will also hand out
bottled water and fliers with impor-
tant safety and emergency contact
information.
The junior members of IFC, who
will be joined by members of the
junior Panhellenic Association,
received specific training from the
Ann Arbor Police Department and
University Health Services. Dur-
ing the training, ambassadors were
taught how to recognize dangerous
See ST. PATTY'S, Page 2

Regents also
appoint external
auditor
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily StaffReporter
The University's Board of
Regents approved a new home
for the School of Nursing at
their monthly meeting yesterday
in the Pendleton Room of the
Michigan Union - a deviation
from their typical meeting space
in the Fleming Administration
Building as the board seeks
a new permanent location to

accommodate more attendees.
University Provost Philip
Hanlon said the school's cur-
rent building - a former hospital
built in 1913 - can't be retrofit-
ted to accommodate the use of
models and other technologies
for instruction. In addition to
voting on the new school, the
regents voted on a name change
for Crisler Arena and addressed
the hiring of an external auditor
to investigate the University's
handling of the alleged posses-
sion of child pornography by a
former University of Michigan
Health System resident. The
board also approved honorary
degree recipients for the 2012

Spring Commencement ceremo-
ny and an increased budget for
Yost Ice Arena renovations.
In an interview after the
meeting, Hanlon said the new
School of Nursing will be able to
provide for increased resources.
"They want to greatly expand
their use of simulated patients
in their instruction," Hanlon
said. "They have these manikins
(and) they can program them to
have all sorts of symptoms and
problems, and students can work
on them as a first step before
they run into real patients."
According to a communi-
cation to the regents sent by
See NURSING, Page 3


WEATHER HI: 72 GOTANEWS TIP? NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Block eMboss
TOMORROW LO: 6 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE VIEWFINDER

INDEX NEWS..............
Vol. CXXl,No.09 OPINION......
02012 The Michigan Daily A RTS.............
michigandoily.com

. 2 SUDO KU....................,5
, 4 CLASSIFIEDS...............6
.........5 SPO RT S. ... ........ 8.........6


2 - Friday, March 16, 2012

WEDNESDAY:
Professor Profiles

THURSDAY:
Campus Clubs

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
LT$ Wtc$ipan DitV
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN ZACHARY YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

LEFT University alum Josh Levin
balances on slacklines near the
Engineering Arch on Tuesday.
(PAUL SHERMAN/Daily)
TOP RIGHT Students play
instruments on the Diag on
Wednesday. (MCKENZIE BER-
EZIN/Daily)
BOTTOM RIGHT Department
of Afroamerican and African
Studies Profs. Meg Sweeney
and Scott Ellsworth speak
during the Concentration Fair
in the Michigan League on
Tuesday. The fair was designd
to help students choose their
major. (TERESA MATHEW/
Daily)

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com t
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaySaes Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.cor

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@mrichigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigaridaily.com

CRIME NOTES
Left high and Raiding the
dry cabinet

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
M ichigan Bluegrass Coyotes in PeoriaAriz.
madness concert hit three people in a
24-hour time peroid,
WHAT: A March Madness WHAT: Singer and gui- azfamily.com reported. None
viewing party hosted at the tarist Sunny War brings of those bit were seriously
Pierpoint Commons. Free her bluegrass and folk injured. The Arizona Game
food and giveaways will be music show to Ann Arbor. and Fish Department has set
offered. Tickets start at $15. traps in an attempt to capture
WHO: Center for Campus WHO: Michigan Union the animals.

WHERE: Northwood
Apartments
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 8:30 p.m.
WHAT: Suspected mari-
juana and paraphernalia,
including a glass bong, were
taken from a student, Uni-
versity Police reported.

WHERE: Facilities Ser-
vices Building B
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 6:05 p.m.
WHAT: Keys to an office
cabinet were stolen between
5 and 5:30 p.m., University
Police reported.
u wt b;I

EDITORIAL STAFF
losh Healy Managing Editor jahealy@michigandaily.com
Bethany Biron Managing News Editor biron@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Haley Goldberg, Rayza Goldsmith,
Paige Pearcy, Adam Rubenfire
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman
Ashley Griesshammer and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Andrew Weiner Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: HarshaNahata, Timothy Rabb, Vanessa Rychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Patrick Maillet
Stephen Nesbitt Managing Sports Editor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SENOR SPORTS EDITORS: Everett Cook,Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch,
Neal Rothschild, Matt Sovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, M ichael Laurila, Matt Spelich,
Colleen Thomas,LizVukeich,DanielWasserman
Leah Burgin Managing Arts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIOR A RTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, Jacob Axelrad, David Tan, Kayla Upadhyaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Laren Caserta, Matt Easton, Kelly Etz, Anna Sadovskaya,
Chloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaity.com
Alden Reiss Managing PhotocEditcrs
Marene Lacasse,AdamSchnitzer
Arjun Mahanti Managing Design Editor mahanti@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGNEDITORS:Krisit Begona,Anna Lein-Zielinski
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
JenniferXu Magazine Editor
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Kaitlin Williams
Christine Chun and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Hannah Poindexter copy chiefs
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:JosephineAdams,Bethcoplowitz
Zach Bergson online Editor Bergson@michigandaily.com
lmran Syed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim Associate BusinessManager
Rachel Greinetz Sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Sean Jackson special Projects Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Ashley Karadsheh Client RelationshipsManager
Meryl Hulteng National AccountManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigant One copy is avaiable free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. inter term (anuary through April)is
$ii yearlong (September through Apriiotis$195.University affiliates aresubject to areduced
subscriptionrate.n-campussubscriptionsforfalitermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.

Involvement
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Pierpoint Com-
mons

Ticket Office
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark


Backpack here,n} u
now it's not Benjamins
WHERE: Ross School of
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu- Business
ate Library WHEN: Wednesday at
WHEN: Wednesday at about 5:35 p.m.
about 5:50 p.m. WHAT: A student reported
WHAT: A student reported that his wallet containg
a backpack stolen between $700 cash fell out of his
3:45 and 3:50 p.m. from pocket on the first floor. The
the 3rd floor of the library, wallet later was found and
University Police reported. turned in to staff, but was
There are no suspects. missing cash.

:M
(k
|k
{

Art lessons Mudew Q&A
WHAT: A workshop in WHAT: The group
which students can learn will oberve the Friday
how to utilize various art Juma'a prayer and have
techniques, including lay- a subsequent Q&A ses-
ering, blending and color sion about prayer.
theory. Participants must WHO: MuJew
bring their own materi- WHEN: Today at 2:10 p.m.
als and register before the WHERE: Michigan Union
S. ..s:..azp ....mete 0170, z. Kuenzel Room

The Michigan men's
basketball team has
a first-round match-
up with Ohio in Nashville
tonight. Michigan passed
into the Round of 32 last sea-
son. .
o FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 7
As 100th anniversary of
the sinking approaches
next month a group of
British historians plans to re-
enact the sinking on Twitter,
Yahoo News reported. The
group will give a real time
account of the ship going
down on Twitter.

eet, wnicn casts p$i7U or
students.
WHO:University of Michi-

gan Museum of Art
hem with your I WHEN: Today at 2:30 p.m.
their newblog. WHERE: Museum of Art,
Multipurpose room

CORRECTIONS
Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

I

0

hoosing the right career requires equal parts
knowledge, insight, and planning.
If you are weighing your career options, consider
this: US. News & World Report places pharmacy on F
its short list of Best Careers -
and ranks the University of
Michigan College of Pharmacy
Uone of the best in the nation.
Ever ear IU-M stiudents form


L yi y y C, U 1JLU-IL ~ i
the largest share of our entering
Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
class. Their undergraduate
majors range from biology and chemistry to psy-
chology and anthropology; international studies
and sociology to English and engineering.
Upon graduation, our graduates find well-paying
careers in health care, higher education, the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries,
managed care, hospital and community practice,
publishing, and many other fields.


S the first time DEC has collabo-
ST. PATTY'Yrated with AAPD and UHS. In
From Page 1 _ September, the fraternity devel-
oped a best practices list and
situations and evaluate intoxica- provided food credits for the
tion levels. Michigan vs. Notre Dame night
They were also educated in football game. Jackson said the
alcohol safety and conflict reso- success of this effort is what led
lution. IFC's Social Responsibili- IFC to take additional action on
ties Committee - which works St. Patrick's Day.
year-round to ensure events held "We've always tried to keep
by fraternities establish a safe St. Patrick's Day in our minds
environment - will also be part as one of those days that we
of tomorrow's efforts. could do something for the com-
Engineering junior Emily munity," Jackson said. "Add-
DeSanti, president of the Pan- ing ambassadors is just another
hellenic Association, said Greek level of security we can give to
members will also be stationed our community members to
in the Office of Greek Life in the help them out."
Michigan Union throughout Jackson added that the IFC
the day tomorrow. She said this executive board believes it is
will help Greek life members important to define safe and
efficiently resolve any issues appropriate behavior, and
reported by ambassadors. teach students to recognize
In addition to patrolling the dangerous situations. He said
streets, IFC, with the help of Greek Life ambassadors will
AAPD and UHS, composed a not be giving out punishments
list of "St. Patrick's Day Best on St. Patrick's Day, but rath-
Practices," which will be dis- er informing the appropriate
tributed prior to tomorrow's Greek Life executives to help
festivities and will be e-mailed resolve any potentially perilous
to all IFC members today. These issues.
practices range from picking "We're looking forward to a
up trash throughout the day, to successful day and hoping that
being mindful of noise levels everyone has a good time," he
and immediately attending to said.
severely intoxicated guests. DeSanti said she thinks this
Jackson described the final initiative is a good way for
part of the plan as "food credits," members of the Greek com-
noting that IFC provided each munity to show the city of Ann
fraternity with $100 to purchase Arbor what it means to cele-
food and water for those attend- brate safely.
ing their parties. He said offer- "I think it's a great initia-
ing nourishment is essential for tive for us ... to take the time
the safety of students who are out of the holiday to make sure
drinking excessively. that other members are being
IFC is also partnering with safe," she said. "I think it's a
Domino's Pizza, which will pro- good effort to make sure that
vide a discount to fraternities not only the members of our
who choose to use their food community are being safe dur-
credit to order pizza for their ing this day but also the other
guests. students who are also in atten-
Jackson said this effort is not dance at these events."
DAILY NEWS S LIKE
ST. PATRICK'S DAY.
ALL YEAR LONG.
E-MAIL RAYZAG@MICHIGANDAILY.COM TO
JOIN THE FUN.

You'll meet Michigan PharmD alumni representing
diverse career paths. And you'll have the opportu-
nity to speak with current Michigan PharmD
students about their U-M College of Pharmacy
experiences.
For more information, contact:
The University of Michigan College of Pharmacy;
734-764-7312; mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu
Also, be sure to visit the College of Pharmacy
Web site at:
http://pharmacyumich.edu/pharmacy/home
Great Futures Begin Here

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, March 16, 2012 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, March 16, 2012 - 3

NURSING
From Page 1
Timothy Slottow, the University's
executive vice president and chief
financial officer, the project is esti-
mated to cost about $50 million.
The 75,000-square-foot structure
will also accommodate approxi-
mately 40 new faculty members
that the School of Nursing plans to
. hire in the next decade.
Hanlon projected that ground-
breaking on the building will take
place within a year and a half,
pending completion and regent-
al approval of the architectural
design. The current building will
remain occupied, but Hanlon
added that it is rapidly becoming
less useful.
CRISLER ARENA
BECOMES CRISLER CENTER
The regents also voted to
change the name of Crisler Arena
to Crisler Center during yester-
day's meeting.
Addressing the regents, Slot-
tow said because Crisler Center
now contains training centers and
retail shops, it is no longer appro-
priate to refer to the complex as
simply an arena.
"Crisler Arena has expanded
and been converted into many,
many things beyond a basketball
arena," Slottow said.
UNIVERSITY HIRES
EXTERNAL AUDITOR CASE
In her opening remarks, Cole-
TORNADO
From Page 1
Hall, but said there was "apparent
water" inside the Ross Academic
Center.
University of Michigan Health
System spokesman Ian Demsky
said there was a small leak in a
stairwell in the Comprehensive
Cancer Center and that precau-
tions were taken to protect patients
depending on their condition and
their location in the hospital. He
said blinds were closed, some
patients were moved into hall-
ways and other interior spaces, and
blankets were placed over several
patients to protect them in case
of shattering glass from a tornado
impact.
Brown said the typical response
to a tornado warning depends on
the amount and type of calls DPS
receives. For example, Brown
said if there is a power outage on
campus, police officers are often
required to respond to calls of indi-
viduals stuck in elevators.
Still, if severe weather is report-
ed close to the University, Brown
said officers will take necessary
precautions to protect themselves.
"If it's really coming to campus,
then they've got to take cover for
themselves," Brown said.
Ann Arbor Police, Housing
Security, and Hospital Security
could all be heard over police radio
yesterday afternoon performing
checks to ensure that University
buildings took necessary precau-
tions to protect students, staff and
faculty.
LSA senior Courtney Fletcher
said she had been stuck in Angell
Hall for more than three and a half
hours waiting for the worst of the
weather to pass.

While the weather may have
interfered with her day, Fletcher
was not bothered studying in the
hallways alongside the leaks.

man shared with the regents that
the University hired former senior
auditor Fred White Jr. as the
external auditor per the regents'
order. White will oversee the
implementation of recommenda-
tions made by the earlier internal
audit and will also serve as liaison
for an external audit.
In May, a University of Michi-
gan Health System staff member
found a flash drive belonging to
former resident Stephen Jenson
and reported it to UMHS authori-
ties. UMHS waited more than six
months to report the incident to
investigators and proceed with
the case.
"We are making excellent
progress in following up on the
internal audit in the pediatrics
residence case," Coleman said.
REGENTS APPROVE HON-
ORARY DEGREE RECIPI-
ENTS
In addition to Monday's
announcement that Sanjay
Gupta, CNN's chief medical cor-
respondent, will serve as the key-
note speaker at the 2012 Spring
Commencement address and will
receive a Doctorate of Humane
Letters, a slew of other notable
professionals will be in atten-
dance to receive awards.
The regents approved that
honorary degrees also be grant-
ed to The New Yorker's Susan
Orlean - who will deliver the
Rackham Graduate School
address - and Chris Van Alls-
burg, author of "The Polar
"I mean it needs to be fixed, but
now they know what's going on so
hopefullythey fix it as soon as pos-
sible," Fletcher said. "I'm not wor-
ried about anything going wrong.
It's leaking but most buildings
leak."
Because of the inclement weath-
er, Central Student Government
had to cancel its presidential and
vice presidential debates that were
scheduled for yesterday evening.
CSG President DeAndree Wat-
son, who was taking shelter from
the storm in the Michigan Union,
said time spent takingshelter from
the storm allowed him to get some
work done.
Watson said conditions at Angell
Hall as a result of the storm are not
fit for students at the University.
"We get heavy rainfall, we start
leaking and use trash cans at the
University of Michigan - I don't
think that's acceptable," Watson
said. "We're going to push hard to
make sure we improve our facili-
ties."
A tornado that spurred from the
storm damaged and destroyed sev-
eral homes in nearby Dexter and
Pinckney in northwest Michigan.
Dexter resident Victor Hola, a
nurse at the UMHS Cancer Cen-
ter, said the roof and garage of his
home near Hudson Mills Metro-
politan Park were torn aparthby the
tornado. He said he didn't suffer
any injuries, but was driving home
when the tornado touched down in
his neighborhood.
Scott Ferguson, Hola's partner,
said he did not hear any tornado
sirens go off when the tornado
warning was issued because his
neighborhood - located about
five miles away from the Village
of Dexter - does not have an alert
system. However, Ferguson said he

heard the warning over National
Public Radio broadcasts and quick-
ly took shelter in the basementwith
his dog and cat.
Though he sustained no physi-

Express" and "Jumanji," who
will also receive a Doctorate of
Humane Letters.
Additionally, Richard Sarns,
chairman of J.1. Harris & Associ-
ates, will receive a Doctorate of
Engineering; J. Ira Harris, a for-
mer member of the University's
Investment Advisory Commit-
tee, will receive a Doctorate of
Laws; and Jose Antonio Abreu,
founder of a youth program for
children in Venezuela and a
prominent musician, will receive
a Doctorate of Music.
BOARD APPROVES
INCREASED BUDGET FOR
RENOVATIONS TO YOST ICE
ARENA
The regents also gave the
green light for a $2-million
increase yesterday for renova-
tions to Yost Ice Arena- which is
slated to include seating replace-
ment and window installation
- bringing the project total to
$16 million, up from the initially
approved $14 million.
In a communication to the
regents, Slottow and Athletic
Director Dave Brandon sug-
gested the increase, in order to
properly accommodate for the
renovations.
"Due to a strong desire to
include the alternates, and the
fact that the bids received were
higher than expected due to the
cost of the steel and bleachers,
we are recommending increasing
the budget by $2 million," Slot-
tow and Brandon wrote.
cal injuries, Ferguson said the
tornado ripping through his home
was a terrifying experience.
"I've never been so scared in my
entire life," he said. "Think of ten
freight trains coming at you all at
once and you can't move ... that's
what (the tornado) was like."
Hola added that his neighbor's
garage and roof were also torn
off during the storm. The first
responders in the neighborhood
worked to remove fallen trees and
repair down power lines that lit-
tered the streets.
In an e-mail interview yester-
day, Perry Samson, a professor of
atmospheric, oceanic and space
sciences, wrote that yesterday's
storms came as a "surprise" to him
so early in the year.
"Usually this time of year we're
worried about ice storms and/
or episodes of dense fog," Sam-
son wrote. "This warm weather is
remarkable."
Samson wrote that the cause for
the storm isn't clear, as it could be
the result of several factors.
"No scientist worth their salt
will say this is due to global warm-
ingbecause we knowthe only thing
normal about weather is that it's
rarely normal," Samson wrote. "On
the other hand, no scientist worth
their salt will claim with certainty
that this is not related to a larger
trend as we frankly don't know
with confidence how the warm-
ing of the globe will affect specific
weather phenomena. We'd need
to see a trend on top of the wild
fluctuations that normal weather
presents."
Samson added that examining
causes behind rarities in weather is
a major aspect of his course, AOSS
102.
"I am working on a review of

today's events and remain a bit
perplexed to be honest," Samson
wrote. "This storm happened away
from any major fronts and away.
from the jet stream where we nor-

EQUALITY
From Page 1
about them, and that we are doing
something to remedy the situa-
tion," Meza said.
After Meza spoke, Darlow
requested that University Provost
Philip Hanlon provide the regents
with information about the status
of undocumented students at the
University for later review. Han-
lon stated that the Provost's office
would make that information
available to the regents as soon as
possible.
Rackham student Laura Wash-
ington spoke on behalf of eRA-
Cism, a University organization
that focuses on fighting racism on
campus and advocates for affir-
mative action based admissions
policies. Washington described
occurrences of racism and pro-
vided testimonies from anony-
mous students at the University
who have encountered racial dis-
crimination.
"Unfortunately, it is a common
misconception that we live in a
post-racist society and we should
no longer discuss such historical
attitudes," Washington said. "We
know that racism isstill alive and
shaping the experiences of stu-
dents at this university."
Washington described the des-
ecration of images of Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. and Cesar Chavez
in the Mary Markley Residence
Hallandthe alienationofAfrican-
American students in group work,
among other incidents.

Washington added that eRA-
Cism aims to see a 10-percent
increase in African-American
student enrollment by2016.
The group presented informa-
tion from the Office of the Reg-
istrar, showing a decline in the
enrollment of African-American
students from 6.58 percent in 2007
to 4.71 percent in the fall of 2011.
Washington echoed Meza, say-
ing that an intergroup relations
class was essential for breaking
down barriers at the University.
The two groups had previously
arranged to protest their griev-
ances on the same day. organi-
zations such as the University's
chapter of the NAACP also sent
students in support of the Coali-
tion and eRACism.
Members of the Graduate
Employees' Organization - the
union that represents graduate
students' interests - also spoke to
request improved access to day-
care services at the University.
The University provides a
$150,000 fund to help graduate
students cover the cost of child-
care. According to Rackham
student Patrick O'Mahen, the
school's Central Student Govern-
ment representative, that amount
was recently supplemented with
another $35,000 from CSG.
Rackham student Daniel Bir-
chok discussed how the fund
has impacted his family and his
research.
"Without these funds, my wife
and I would have to cut Anna's
daycare in half," Birchok said. "I
would have to write most of my

dissertation while simultaneously
caring for her, something that
would not be fair to Anna or my
scholarly pursuits."
A graduate student parent
whose spouse does not work more
than 20 hours a week is not eli-
gible for the childcare subsidy.
However, Birchok said the policy
often excludes international par-
ents who do not have work visas
in the United States and spouses
that are currently unemployed
but dedicate many hours per week
searching for work.
He added that in the last con-
tract between graduate students
and the University, the gradu-
ate students opted to forgo pay
increases in order to establish the
fund.
Samantha Montgomery, presi-
dent of the Graduate Employees'
Organization, said CSG's recent
commitment to the fund was a
stark contrast to the University's
obstinacy onthe issue.
"The latest offer from the Uni-
versity was extremely disappoint-
ing, and it neglected to adequately
address our concerns," Montgom-
ery said. "It is also disappointing
in light of the recent resolution
by the Central Student Govern-
ment to contribute an additional
$35,000 to this fund, represent-
ing the commitment of students to
support the fair-'treatment of all
members of this University com-
munity."
Darlow also requested that
Hanlon provide information on
the childcare issue to the regents
at their next meeting.

mally expect such storms to devel-
op. It was remarkably slow moving
(hence the flooding) and there
were few indicators in advance
that the atmosphere contained sig-
nificant convective potential."
His class will be conducting a
donation drive for the Washtenaw
County chapter of the American
Red Cross today and Monday from

10 a.m. to 11 a.m. in his class in conduct an initial review of the
Angell Hall Auditorium C. Sam- severe weather.
son wrote that he will person-
ally match the first $500 of student -Daily News Editor Adam
donations received during both Rubenfire and Daily Staff Reporter
class periods. Students looking to Anna Rozenberg reported from
contribute should bring cash or Ann Arbor. Online Editor Zach
checks donations made out to the Bergson reported from Dexter.
American Red Cross. During those The Associated Press also
class periods, Samson will also contributed to this report.


ASSAULT
From Page 1
Tri-Delt house. After the driver
allegedly sexually assaulted the
victim, Bush said the victim alert-
ed a female passerby who drove
her to her friend's house. The
e-mail, however, suggests that the
victim was picked up by a known
acquaintance.
Bush also noted that the sus-
pect is a state-licensed limo driv-
er, not a city-licensed taxi driver,
adding that the incident is cur-
rently being classified as a "possi-
ble misdemeanor sexual assault."
In an interview on Wednesday,
the driver, whose name is being
withheld since he has not yet been
charged, denied the e-mail's alle-
gations, and said he would be will-
ing to submit to a polygraph test to
prove his innocence.
"I haven't done anything," the
driver said.
The driver said he is a married
man with two "grown daughters,"
and said he was not contacted by
the Ann Arbor Police Department

until yesterday.
In addition to denying his
involvement in the incident, he
also said he would have never
allowed Emily to ride in his car
while he served other customers.
"I did not pick anybody up and
take anybody anywhere in any
wooded area," The driver claimed.
"I was very busy (last) Thursday,
and it's not my wayof doing things
- if the girl wasn't able to get in
she would have to go somewhere,
because I'm not going to let her
ride around with me all night."
The driver said he talked to
Ann Arbor police last night and
they told him that there was no
police report filed in the alleged
incident.
While the e-mail alleges that
the incident occurred after the
bar closed at 2 a.m., the driver
said he doesn't accept customers
after 3 a.m., and he said he had
recorded in his reservation book
that he told two customers he was
not able to drive them at 3:31 a.m.
and 3:59 a.m. Friday.
The driver said most of his pas-
sengers are women who use his

service because they feel a sense
of protection in his taxicab.
"They call me because they feel
safe with me," the driver said.
The driver said he was particu-
larly surprised to hear that the
reporter of the incident appeared
to be a member of Tri-Delt.
"Some of my best customers are
in Tri-Delt," The driver said, nam-
ing off several of the sorority sis-
ters that are his regular customers.
The driver said he is concerned
about his reputation as a result of
the e-mail.
"I would really like to know
where the e-mail comes from,"
The driver said. "I would like to
know what happened."
The driver said he was contact-
ed by police and will be coming
into police headquarters with his
attorney at an unspecified time.
"I've got nothing to hide," the
driver said. "I hope the girl gets
her justice, but it ain't me."
A Tri-Delt board officer
declined to comment on the
e-mail, calling the incident a
"police matter," not a "Greek mat-
ter."


4 - Friday, March 16, 2012

0
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Friday, March 16, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arhor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ANDREW WEINER JOSH HEALY
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
FROM THE DAILY
Ensure integrity
Supreme Court should follow ethical guidelines
A n ethical judiciary is an integral pillar of a well-functioning
democracy. In an appeal for the United States Supreme Court
to adhere to a high ethical standard, a petition signed by more
than 100,000 citizens, 212 law professors and three members of Con-
gress calls for the court to formally observe the Code of Conduct for
United States Judges - a set of ethical guidelines designed to maintain
judicial integrity. The Supreme Court doesn't abide by the code, and
it should embrace these guidelines and establish a clear standard for
recusal from cases in which justices may have a conflict of interest.

The issue of judicial ethics has gained atten-
tion as the Supreme Court prepares to rule
on the constitutionality of President Barack
Obama's signature legislative achievement -
the 2010 healthcare reform law. Progressives
argue that Justice Clarence Thomas should
recuse himself from the case. Thomas's wife,
virginia, has worked against the implemen-
tation of the ACA, calling for the repeal of
the law in question. Likewise, conservatives
maintain that Justice Elena Kagan shouldn't
hear the case because she served as Obama's
solicitor general while the law was meander-
ing its way through Congress. The solicitor
general represents the U.S. federal govern-
ment before the Supreme Court.
This individual case highlights the necessi-
ty of having a clear and coherent set of recusal
guidelines for the Supreme Court, especially
since judges in all lower federal courts are
bound to follow them. The standards are
not unreasonable - they generally commit
judges to uphold integrity, avoid impropriety,
perform duties fairly and refrain from politi-
cal activity. Formalizing these rules for the
Supreme Court could, at the very least, stop
calls for recusal and provide a set of stan-
dards to facilitate public appeal in the inter-
est of reasonable judgments. In the case of
the healthcare law, people calling for Kagan
or Thomas to refrain from ruling would have
legal backing for their arguments through
specific provisions of the Code of Conduct.
The highest court in the land should

undoubtedly be bound to the same, or high-
er, ethical code as all other federal judges.
The decisions of the Supreme Court carry
the most weight and effectively serve as the
final say short of Constitutional amendment.
The Supreme Court has decisively shaped
the American legal system with rulings on
wide ranging and controversial issues such as
school segregation and abortion - issues that
have immense implications for individual
rights and legal precedent. It follows that for-
malized judicial ethics must be the foremost
concern of the court, not an afterthought.
Regent Denise Ilitch (D-Bingham Farms),
Chair of the University's Board of Regents,
excused herself from the board's vote last
month on whether the NHL's Winter Clas-
sic could be played in the Michigan Stadium,
because her family owns the Detroit Red
Wings. If Ilitch can recuse herself from a deci-
sion with a far smaller impact, the Supreme
Courtshould - at the very least - adopt a gen-
eral set of guidelines for Justices' behavior.
It's true the Supreme Court's formal accep-
tance of the Code of Conduct for United States
Judges could contribute to additional politi-
cization of the court with frivolous partisan
calls for recusal, but the benefits outweigh the
costs. The Supreme Court is too influential of
a legal entity to not exercise appropriate pru-
dence when it comes to potential conflicts of
interests. While justices are already trusted
with high integrity, formal guidelines would
serve to maintain the bar they've set.

LIoIIlL 'I ("'R !R
@TornadoWarning thanks for wasting
2 hrs of hw time... we were trying to
12) get ahead for #St.Potrick'sDay
-@michdailyoped
Sourcing your coverage
T he other day I decided to accessible, 24/7 news society is that on a downward spiral of immense
go on a Twitter rampage in news is easily and inevitably person- polarization. In the eyes of count-
attempt to follow every news alized - and maybe too much. Itread less Democrats, Rush Limbaugh
source I could numerous articles every day regard- will continue to become the devilish
think of. I felt ing the disaster of the never-ending face of the Republican Party and for
like I had to in GOP primary, issues pertaining spe- many Republicans, Barack Obama
order to stay up- cifically to college students and this will steadily become less and less
to-date. Twitter so-called "war on women." With so "American."
now breaks news many news options available, there's
first.I was some- no incentive to continue reading if
what selective we aren't entertained or agree with
in adding these ADRIENNE the article we're reading. New s is never
news sources,ARBENTE This is true especially in college.
however. Any- ROBERTS We all have extremely busy and truely objectve
thing Fox News- sometimes solitary lives that don't ,
related didn't leave room for social and political it is biased.
exactly make the cut. Why? Because discussions. It's almost a require-
I can't stand the thought of seeing ment to bring your laptop and home-
an endless stream of liberal bash- work with you to meet up with
ing. Also, I just didn't feel like read- friends, even if you're just going out Each news source does have some
ing tweets from a news source that I for dinner. When I first came here as element of truth. Every second, we
disagree with 99 percent of the time. a freshman, the first thing I noticed are bombarded with varying types
Looking back on my decision, it's is that we live in a bubble that of news, and it's our responsibility
easy to see why this country, myself secludes us from the real world. If to critically read a plethora ofsourc-
included, is so biased and uniformed news doesn't pertain to us as college es. Uniformed consumers of news
on certain issues. News is now more students, we probably won't know make for more uneducated debates
available than ever before. When I about it unless we seek that informa- and deeper misunderstandings.
was younger, my family would wake tion out. Even if an article doesn't pertain
up to the Detroit Free Press in the News is biased. No matter how to you specifically, it doesn't mean
morning and faithfully watch NBC objective a news source claims to it won't have an effect on those
Nightly News with Tom Brokaw at be, it's not, and never can be, com- around you. It's crucial to read and
6:30 every evening. Those were my pletely objective. Each reporting watch news with an open mind
only sources for news each day. This decision made in an article you're because that small grain of truth,
is hardly the case anymore. Now, reading- from the angle of the story portrayed in something you may
each morning I get up and check to the seemingly extraneous facts not completely agree with, is some-
Twitter, scrolling through and read- that are edited out - is a choice, and one else's belief. And no matter how
ing articles written by people I fol- that choice creates a certain bias many liberal-bashing tweets come
low and find interesting. News is for anything, harmless or not. Once from that dreaded news source's
constantly being updated, and if you we accept that news will always be Twitter account, maybe it's worth
don't check your television or the biased, we will realize that we are it to follow them, if for nothing less
Internet for two hours, you could inadvertently inhibiting our own than entertainment's sake.
miss something huge. capacity for knowledge.
In theory, I'm doing better than News is destined to remain a per-
some. At least I'm paying attention vasive factor in our society. Until - Adrienne Roberts can be reached
to the news. But the underlying we recognize our own flaws in how at adrirobe@umich.edu. Follow her on
problem with the advent of the all- we engage with it, we will continue Twitter at @AdrRoberts.
CONTRIBUTE TO THE COVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words. Both must include the writer's full
name and University affiliation. Send submissions to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.
Take out the (space) trash

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Laura Argintar, Kaan Avdan, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Harsha Panduranga, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne
Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Seth Soderborg, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Keystone XL pipeline would
threaten major water source

depletion of the Ath
which extends into
Park - due to unfe
ment, is hardly "ove

TO THE DAILY: Obama recognizes
Kyle Smith omits many important consider- won't allow constru
ations from his March 12th viewpoint, "Focus pipeline. He happen
onjobs,notre-election".Asoilused to be,water cial interest enviro
is viewed as an endless resource, the conserva- port him" and this
tion of which is therefore not necessary. to "anger" them, is t
Smith's article was brought about by our Corresponding spec
current oil crisis. Living in an affluent country, undoubtedly angere
we notice a shortage of oil much sooner than able energy, whichi
one of water, but unlike oil, water is necessary able than oil from C
for life on our planet. The fact that Smith fails are far more jobs toI
to even name the Ogallala Aquifer reveals deep there are by constru
ignorance of environmental issues with water. On top of all the:
Because it provides 30 percent of the ground- Smith's article, and
water used for crop irrigation, contamination that any presidentn
oftheOgallalaAquiferwouldtherebycausethe he does not conce
nation to suffer if it were to be contaminated. A dates have certainly
good argument would at least take into account before job creation:
the name of that "aquifer in Nebraska", which
actually extends into 7 other states as well. Juliana Ley
This threat, along with contamination and Engineeringsenior

abasca River watershed -
beautiful Jasper National
ettered tar sands develop-
rblown." President Barack
this and consequently
uction of the Keystone XL
ns to agree with the "spe-
nmental groups that sup-
, rather than not wanting
the reason for his decision.
cial interest oil groups are
d by a movetoward renew-
is even more safe and reli-
anada. Furthermore, there
be created in this areathan
ction of a pipeline.
se facts that are lacking in
even when we grant him
eeds a plan for re-election,
de that Republican candi-
y been putting other issues
as well.

The modern sum of man-
made waste has gotten to be
out of this world - some of it
quite literally.
According to
NASA's web-
site, more than
21,000 pieces
of debris larger
than 10 centi-
meters, 500,000
pieces 1 to 10 KRISTEN
centimeters, and KILEK
more 100 million
pieces less than
1 centimeter are currently orbiting
our planet.
Orbital debris - useless bits of
man-made metals, paints, human
waste and other random objects
introduced by humans into Earth's
orbit - are becoming increas-
ingly dangerous to contemporary
space navigation and satellite func-
tion. NASA estimates that a piece
of debris smaller than half an inch
could cause an impact similar to a
bowling ball moving at 300 miles per
hour if it collided with a satellite or
spacecraft.
Though scientists have been
aware of the growing galactic gar-
bage mass for decades and many
national space programs have
instituted policies to monitor its
movement and reduce future addi-
tions, very little of what's already
out there has been eliminated. A
September 2011 report assessment
from the National Research Coun-
cil called upon NASA to develop
technologies that actively remove
debris from space. It also stated
that the amount of orbital debris
is approaching a "tipping point,"
when so much material will be in
orbit that it will continuously col-
lide and multiply.
Most orbital debris originated
from satellite collisions. The Union
of Concerned Scientists' Satellite

Database alone lists more than 900
active commercial and government
satellites currently orbiting Earth
- and the number is increasing.
The 2009 collision of U.S.-sourced
Iridium 33 and Russian Kosmos 2251
satellites serves as a prime example
of the massive potential for orbital
debris generation. This single event
accounts for one-third of all cata-
logued orbital debris.
Though the United States has
made great strides in monitoring
orbital debris, it needs to step up
on its remediation strategies. Last
month, Switzerland announced its
plans to lead the world in orbital
debris removal. The Swiss are cur-
rently developing CleanSpace One
- endearingly referred to as "the
janitor satellite" - a prototype for a
line of satellites they'll send into the
cosmos to pick up decommissioned
satellites within the next three to
five years.
CleanSpace One will be a very
small device - only about 10 centi-
meters by 10 centimeters by 30 cen-
timeters - and is aiming to offer a
relatively inexpensive method for
space disposal services. It will travel
at 17,400 mile per hour, latch onto its
target with its appendages and then
fly toward Earth on a kamikaze-like
mission, with both masses burning
up as they re-enter the atmosphere.
Here's the catch though - the
United Nations' Outer Space Treaty
of 1967 prohibits the reclamation of
any other country's object in space.
This means that the CleanSpace
satellites from Switzerland will
likely focus on remediation of orbital
debris hailing only from Switzer-
land. In addition to the extensive
amount of time it would take to get
each space-faring nation to reme-
diate its rubble, there is also great
potential for miscommunication and
misunderstanding among nations
claiming individual space objects as

their own property.
I have a feeling that no matter
how much pride a nation has in their
spacecraft, it's a bit difficult to dif-
ferentiate between scraps of metal
speeding around the Earth at rates
upward of 20,000 miles per hour.
These pieces of junk, though, are
a nuisance to all space exploration,
no matter who they belong to. This
situation represents a tragedy of the
commons in which everybody has
to take responsibility to tackle the
problem.
Orbiting debris
is approaching a
tipping point.
Though there is no specific inter-
national treaty on orbital debris,
many leading space agencies have
come together through the Inter-
Agency Space Debris Coordination
Committee to limit future growth
of orbital debris. NASA also reports
that the United Nations Committee
on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
has discussed orbital debris since
1994.
Though a difficult undertaking,
Switzerland's innovation in the area
of orbital debris remediation dem-
onstrates that viable options are
surfacing. It's about time that major
space-faring nations get together
and clean up their messes - not
only to reduce our footprint on the
universe but also to allow for the
successes of current and future tech-
nologies in outer space.
-Kristen Kiluk can be reached
at kkilukumich.edu. Follow her
on Twitter at @KristenKiluk


Backlash over column on
sexuality was beneficial

Just be safe, heal
Looking back,
footing. Not yet f
I was, instead of

TO THE DAILY: felt I was on the'
I wanted to take this opportunity to thank the in my life, but I:
readers of The Michigan Daily, especially those it was. It could 1
who took the time and effort to comment on my my new job as a
opinion piece last summer, Pandora's Box." At abroad, assisting
the time, the criticism was very hard to take in ing the Daily opir
stride, and I was overwhelmed with feelings of going to be, it ne
embarrassment. But in actuality, reading those chance. Good, ba
comments was incredibly helpful in learning move, and I ende
a hard lesson - I made a mistake. I put myself I'm luckythat
out there and fell flat on my face in front of the will live forevert
entire University. But that's okay. - it's a part of m
I want to make clear that the attitude deny or hide fron
expressed in my previous piece is no longer an I can only ta
accurate portrayal of myself. My understand- personal growth
ing of sexuality has grown significantly since I edge I've gained1
wrote my "sex column" last summer. It's more
sophisticated and mature, and frankly I won't Molly Payton
be commenting on sexuality anytime soon. LSA sophomore

thy and happy.
,I see myself still finding my
had I come to terms with who
f who I thought I should be. I
verge of something significant
couldn't quite figure out what
have been a myriad of things:
bartender, possible semesters
a local band on tour or join-
nion staff. But whatever it was
eded my willingness to take a
ad, or ugly I needed to make a
d taking a wrong turn.
this hiccup in my adult career
thanks to the Daily's archives
y history and I'm not going to
m it.
ke this as an opportunity for
and try to balance the knowl-
with the experiences I've had.


T yil y Friday, March 16, 2012 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


CONCERT PREVIEW
'Masterworks' to be
served up byA2SO
Michigan Theater
to host fusion of a

Shallow, Southern 'GCB'

classic and modern
By JONATHAN ODDEN
Daily Arts Writer
For over 80 years, the Ann
Arbor Symphony Orchestra
has brought music to the area
through its
annual con- Masterorks
certs and
outreach Tomorrow
programs. at 8 p.m.
Now in its Michigan Theater
12th year
under Con-
ductor and
Music Director Arie Lipsky, the
symphony orchestra will pres-
ent "Masterworks" - its fifth
main-stage concert of the sea-
son - with the hope of bringing
masterpieces from the classics
together with some of the most
lauded compositions from mod-
ern composers.
"The catalogue of music is
so extensive and fascinating
that it's quite difficult to choose
music for only six concerts in a
single season," said Mary Steffek
Blaske, executive director of the
A2SO. "(Lipsky) is a marvelous
music director, though, and he
looks at the concert experience
a little like a meal with an appe-
tizer, main course and dessert."
For the "Masterworks" con-
cert, the appetizer is the mod-
ern classic "Oh, Lois." Part of
the award-winning "Metropolis
Symphony" - a symphony based
on the original Superman com-
ics - "Oh, Lois" is about Clark
Kent's love interest and Daily
Planet reporter Lois Lane.
"With an explicit tempo of
'Faster than a speeding bullet,'
the four-minute piece just races
along," Blaske said. "And under-
neath that speed is a wonderful
complexity of harmonies and
polyrhythmic counterpoints
that change the energy and tone
of the work."
The cause of much of this
complexity is one of the most
distinctive features in the sym-
phony: a flexatone. Looking a
little like a steel mousetrap with
drumsticks, the flexatone pro-
vides a percussion effect similar
to manipulating the pitch and
intensity of an alarm clock. The
sound is cartoonish and dated,

COURTESY OF MARY BLASKE
Arie Lipsky will conduct A2SO at tomorrow's performance.

By RADHIKA MENON
Daily Arts Writer
"GCB" began making waves
early in its conception when its
name came under attack from
various reli-
gious advocacy
groups. For-
merly titled GCB
"Good Chris-
tian Bitches," Pilot
then altered to Sundaysat10 p.m.
"Good Chris-
tian Belles"
and finally set-
tling on simply "GCB," the show
offends in more ways than just
its name. Operating through
exaggerated Southern charm
and unrelenting accents, "GCB"
reduces every character to a
stereotype, presenting them in
nothing more than busty blouses,
short skirts and forced dialogue.
Amanda Vaughn's (Leslie
Bibb, "Iron Man") husband dies
after his car drives off of a cliff
while a lady friend is, ahem,
pleasuring him. The very fact
that he dies from road head is
questionable enough - but wait,
there's more! Afterward, Aman-
da loses everything (because she
doesn't have a job ... of course)
and must move back into her
mother's mansion in her home-
town of Dallas (rough life). How-
ever, her return is not received
enthusiastically, as it's revealed
she was the resident mean girl in
high school, and her peers still
hold a grudge against teenage
Amanda.
Soon after arriving, Amanda
begins receiving gifts from an
anonymous "Secret Admirer,"
muchtothe dismayofherformer
schoolmates: Carlene Cockburn
(Kristin Chenoweth, "Pushing
Daisies"), Sharon Peacham (Jen-
nifer Aspen, "Rodney"), Heather
Cruz (Marisol Nichols, "24")
and Cricket Caruth-Reilly ('U'
alum Miriam Shor, "Mildred
Pierce").
Carlene, the ringleader,
begins to plot her vengeance
against Amanda with the help
of the gang. Together, they

as if lifted directly from the
sound effects of a 1930s radio
thriller.
"The use of the flexatone and,
at one point, a whip, challenges
the normal 'sound' of a sympho-
ny," Blaske said. "But it's excit-
ing and creative; and the genius
behind the work is our own local
celebrity, Michael Daugherty."
A professor of Composition
in the School of Music, Theatre
& Dance, Daugherty is also one
of the most active American
composers today. His work -
including a three-time Grammy-
award-winning 2011 record of
the Nashville Symphony's Naxos
playing "Metropolis Sympho-
ny" - is widely considered to
be among the most progressive
and original material written for
modern choral, orchestral, con-
certi, solo and operatic pieces,
Blaske explained.
In his extensive program
notes, Daugherty describes how
he uses the Superman metaphor
to evoke an American mythol-
ogy expressive of the eclectic
fusion in sound and culture in
mid-to-late 20th century urban
America. The symphony, Daugh-
erty explains, is a snapshot of
America told through one of its
most lasting icons.
A piece by Camille Saint-
Sa6ns follows "Oh, Lois." Most
remembered for composing
"The Carnival of the Animals"
or the operatic "Samson and
Delilah," the 19th-century
Frenchman also wrote concer-
tos for cello, piano and violin. In

"Masterworks," Concertmaster
Aaron Berofsky will perform
Saint-Saens's third and final vio-
lin concerto.
"Saint-Saens's concerto rivals
the most beautiful works in the
classical canon," Blaske said. "In
its day, it was almost unheard
of for such work to come from
a French composer, and it has
a tremendous romantic core,
which Aaron captures with his
exceptional work."
Berofsky is concertmaster
for the Ann Arbor Symphony
Orchestra and an associate pro-
fessor of violin in the School
of MT&D. He has performed
around the country as a soloist
and with chamber ensemble The
Chester String Quartet.
"(Berofsky) has an amazing
tone and talent," Blaske said.
"Moreover, he and Maestro Lip-
sky have a strong collaborative
relationship that helps drive the
symphony. His work with Saint-
Saens's piece is masterful."
After Berofsky's performance
and brief break, the orches-
tra will preform Tchaikovsky's
Fifth Symphony. First per-
formed in 1888, the four move-
ments making up the 46-minute
piece deal with the themes of
providence and salvation.
"It's classic Tchaikovsky, with
cyclical melodies and strong
horn moments," Blaske said.
"However, it is by far Tchai-
kovsky's most overtly trium-
phant symphony. As it flows
from a minor to a major key, the
optimism is simply infectious."

"Oh my God Karen, you can't just ask someone why they're white."

sabota;
job ani
keepin
everyn
Ror
or
Ever
over th
fake T
ning of
virtual
wants
charac
way of
ence he
Furt
the m:
of wor
Womer
ful, ha
tures o
on topi
life, no
these
other i
episodi
of fill-i
and dra
the for

ge Amanda's search for a no Emily Thorne, Kate Austen or
d a new home, while also Meredith Grey.
g a watchful eye on her The characters are shallow
move. caricatures acting in juvenile
fashion. Amanda barely grieves
for her dead husband before
ad head: Best openly pursuing new suitors.
Even her children don't seem to
worst death? be botheredby the circumstances
of their father's death and assimi-
late to Texan life almost too easi-
ly. The scorned schoolmatesseem
rything about "GCB" is to do little else besides plot their
he top. From the horribly revenge, a storyline that already
exan accents to the don- feels old.
cowboy hats and boots by The only redeeming quality is
ly every character, "GCB" a potentially promising storyline
you to know that these in which Cricket's husband is
ters are Southern in every revealed to be gay. Though this
the word - and the audi- plotline is eerily reminiscent of
ears it loud and clear. a "Brokeback Mountain" type of
her, the show exploits ordeal, it could be a site of fan-
ost offensive stereotypes tastic character and community
sen as a minority group. exploration. Southern communi-
n are denigrated to venge- ties are often cited as homopho-
teful, gold-digging crea- bic places, and this could provide
)bsessed with coming out commentary on the topical sub-
in the popularity contestof ject matter.
matter the cost. Watching If you're looking for a mind-
women interact with each less way to pass the time, then
s reminiscent of a staged this is the perfect show. But if
e of "The Real Housewives you hope for your shows to carry
n-the-blank," with money a bit more depth in character
ama as the major themes at and plot development, stay clear
efront. These women are of "GCB."

Probing the Bobo culture

Effort to reboot 'SSX'
stumbles down the stretch

..

By SHIN HIETFE
Daily Arts Writer
With the Tony Hawk skate-
boarding games declining
in popularity, there are few
extreme-sports
games released
anymore. EA
hopes to fill SSX
the void with
"SSX," revi- Xbox 360
talizing a for- and PS3
merly popular EA
snowboarding
franchise that
has lain dormant for the last
half decade or so. While "SSX"
retains the essence of the series
- pulling off gravity-defying
tricks in style - it goes in some
directions that are detrimental
to the game's -lasting appeal.
"SSX" throws realism to the
wind, letting players get gigan-
tic air off of ramps and pull off
amazing stunts. Completing
tricks gives you points to fill up
a "Tricky" meter, and filling the
meter will not only let you do
even crazier stunts that yield
more points, but it also provides
infinite boost for racing down
the mountain. The goal is to get
as many points as you can or to
race to the bottom of the track as
fast as possible.
Both game types are enjoyable
at first, as unbelievable-looking
tricks can be done with ease,

and th
boostin
ever, a
mount
treache
and ga
goingo
way to
into a
fallingt
ly frus
only co
and im
sfl
if y
W
Unfo
course
with t
"Survi
mode,
give yo
it dow
against
obstacl
It's eas
to slipu
so the
it safe,
jumpsc
ever, th

1e sense of speed when the core of "SSX," which is to do
ng is extraordinary. How- crazy, unrealistic tricks. While
s the difficulty ramps up, the idea of dangerous crevasses
ain slopes become more sounds like it adds a sense of ten-
erous, adding deadly cliffs sion to the game, really it only
ps in the course. When adds unnecessary frustration.
off a big ramp, there's no All this doesn't compare to
know if you're headed the biggest issue with "SSX,"
gap, and inadvertently which is the lack of head-to-
to your death is extreme- head multiplayer. First off, there
trating. This problem is is no split-screen multiplayer,
ompounded by the loose which is a terrible oversight,
precise controls. as competing with roommates
or friends would add lasting
appeal.
It's no fun Bafflingly, there is no head-to-
head online multiplayer either.
owboarding Instead, you post your score on
a certain course and see how it
'ou can't play compares with other players
online. Competing against ran-
'ith friends. dom people's scores isn't com-
pelling and doesn't hold much
lasting value after finishing the
World Tour mode, which won't
rtunately, treacherous take more than 10 or so hours.
design is emphasized To its.credit, the core game-
:he game's new mode, play of "SSX" is still a good time.
ve It." In the World Tour Getting huge air, completing a
these special events quadruple backflip while doing
iu only one task - make an insane trick and barely land-
n a course in one piece ing it is awesome and thrilling.
the odds of a specific Furthermore, it has a fantas-
e, such as ice or darkness. tic soundtrack and is visually
ier than the other courses arresting. At the end of the day,
up, die and get frustrated, those looking for a new extreme-
best method is to play sports game will find a lot to like
going slow and taking in "SSX," but the fun probably
only as necessary. How- won't last as long as you would
his seems antithetical to like.

By NICOLE SAVITSKY
DailyArts Writer
Someone is moving toward
you; at first glance, it's indiscern-
ible whether the figure is male or
female, but, regardless, the jeans
are cigarette-leg skinny. The
ankle-length cowboy boots on
this figure continue the trek, who
is also sporting an ironic T-shirt
with a plaid, flannel button-down
left open and layered on top.
Buddy Holly-inspired glasses
(not necessarily prescribed for
improved vision) and a well-worn
leather carry-all satchel complete
this air of uncaring. Alas, a hip-
ster is approaching.
The hipster can be your friend
though! Growing up in Manhat-
tan and attending an artsy high
school taught me quite a bit about
what it means to be a hipster,
and it's definitely about more
than just appearances (though if
you can breathe, then your jeans
aren't tight enough). That I pre-
fer handwriting my class notes
in uniquely designed notebooks
merely toes the line of hipster-
dom; true hipster status would
culminate in writing every essay
by hand, on recycled, handmade,
flower-pressed paper, obviously.
Across the pond, a similar
ironic lifestyle grows in more
meticulously plotted soil - Paris,
France. Coined by David Brooks
in his comic sociological reflec-
tion "Bobos in Paradise: The
New Upper Class And How They
Got There," the "Bourgeois-
Boheme," or bobos, present a
synthesis of the liberal idealism
of the 1960s and the self-interest
of the 1980s. After spending the
second semester of my junior
year abroad in Paris, I know the
bobos tres well.
Even though my New York
experiences have desensitized
me to the sometimes-shocking
exploits of hipsters, I was fas-
cinated to see that the Parisian
bobo does not fall far from the
American Apparel-outfitted
tree. The distinction lies in their

desire to create a better society mastered the Parisian chic men-
byspreadingtheirpersonal tastes tality, combining unique pieces
and beliefs. with expensive brand names,
Bobos and hipsters share simi- blurring our ability to tell where
lar points of view, one being the one ends and the other begins.
resentment of mainstream soci- Politics are not a strong point
etal conventions applicable to for bobos. Hipsters cannot be
dating preferences. The muscu- pinned to one party over another,
lar and athletic male ideal is no but the bobo is at once a social
longer attractive to chic and cul- liberal and an economic conser-
tured bobo women, who instead vative, promoting freedom and
seem to prefer the ability to share justice for all, but ignoring eco-
apparel with their slender mate. nomic inequalities.
One night at "Social Club," a pop- Like hipsters, bobos consider
ular and eclectic nightclub for the wealthy to be relatives of Phi-
young Parisians, I found myself listines, equipped with money
in the thick of romantic scenarios but not with the nose for culture.
where traditional rules of attrac- They chew on organic food,
tion did not at all apply. don all-natural cottons, but
can't seem to live without their
iPhones, pondering the road to
As Kanye would enlightenment.
As the American masses seem
say: Got our to be growing weary of hipsters,
criticizing young people for join-
bobos in Paris. ing a wannabe fringe movement
in a post-war era (i.e. beatniks,
hippies, punks, etc), the bobo pro-
vides a fresh face, and perhaps a
Bobos are the tip of Pari- new lifestyle to ultimately attack.
sian tastemakers. The best spot The bobo is far less ostracized
to bobo-watch is the Ninth for their status as an "other"
Arrondissement - citadel of though, receiving a modern and
bobo cool. You'll find restaurants less negative connotation. As a
created around retro school- fusion of'60s counterculture and
room furniture and menus that '80s entrepreneurial material-
strum the chords of smart eating, ism, they have created their own
rustic sophistication and child- comfortable contortion of capi-
hood nostalgia. Most venues are talism, proving that your career
modeled around the bobos' deep canbe somethingyou love: agood
passion for New York City, with morality for building a decent
an artistic decor that's meant to society.
evoke vibes of SoHo. While I may not qualify as a
Bobo yuppies claim highly total hipster (my favorite beer
tolerant views of others and pur- sadly does not include Pabst Blue
chase expensive and exotic items, Ribbon), my friends seem to be
arguing their aversion to blatant correct in mocking some of my
consumption and emphasizing actions and habits. But if being
the necessities of life. They feel a hipster means hanging out at
for the working class, referring to fashionable coffee shops, indie
moneyas ameansto achievetheir rock shows and underground
ends rather than considering dance clubs, where do I sign up?
affluence as an optimal end itself. For me, the ultimate debate is
While I was already in a con- now New York versus Paris: My
stant state of awe regarding the home is in the former, my heart in
complementary daily fashion the latter. Whether with hipsters
showsoccurring on every street, I or bobos, either way I know I'll
observed that the bobos had truly feel among friends.


6 - Friday, March 16, 2012

a

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Hockey team prepares for Cinderella Three icers
By MATT SLOVIN
Daily SportsEditor

DETROIT - The Michigan
hockey team promises it isn't
taking Bowling Green lightly.
Granted, the
Wolverines
spoke highly BGSU VS.
of the Falcons Michigan
entering the
final regular- BGSU 14-23-
season series 5; Michigan
in which senior 23-11-4
goaltender When Frid
Shawn Hun- 8:30 r. ay
wick had to be
perfect to earn Where:rJoe
a mere split. Louis Arena
Did they over- TV/Radio:
look streaking FSD+
Bowling Green
then? As they admitted, they're
guilty as charged.
Senior forward David Wohl-
berg didn't sugarcoat it. The
Wolverines (15-9-4-1 CCHA,
23-11-4 overall) were underpre-
pared last time around, when
they lost their chance at a share
of the CCHA regular-season
crown at Bowling Green.
"I thought we walked into
that weekend thinking, 'There's
going to be two games that are
going to be somewhat easy,' "
Wohlberg said. "That (series)
really opened our eyes to how
good of a team they were."
This time around, it would
seem impossible for Michigan to
underestimate the CCHA's ver-
sion of Cinderella. But that's not
to say that the Falcons (5-19-4-3,
14-23-5) aren't talented enough
to advance to Saturday's title
game on their own merits.
"I thought after that weekend
(that) they were a much better
team than their record," said
Michigan coach Red Berenson
on a confprence call Tuesday.
"When they hired (coach) Chris
Bergeron ... it was just a mat-
ter of time before that team
would take a step, and obviously
they've taken that step."
Since Bowling Green's 4-3
victory over the Wolverinen, the
Falcons have proven that it was
no fluke and that they are legiti-
mately eyeing the CCHA Tour-
nament title and the automatic
bid to the NCAA Tournament
that accompanies it.

award show
By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Editor

6

PAULr-HERMAN/Daily
Senior forward David Wohlberg finished the 2011-12 retular season as Michigans second-leading scorer. Wohlhert and Michigan face Bowling Green tonight.

After the loss at Bowling
Green, Berenson noted that Fal-
con netminder Andrew Ham-
mond has the potential to steal
his team a playoff series. But
Hammond's done more than
that: he's earned two. Both have
come in similar fashion - on the
road, facing elimination.
"Every team seems to have a
good goalie this time of year,"
Berenson said. "They just come
in different sizes."
Last weekend, the Falcons
trailed regular-season champion
Ferris State after one period in
Big Rapids, 3-0.
Instead of being content with
reaching the quarterfinals,
Bergeron told his team some-

thing that completely tilted the
ice.
"We told the team that
they hadn't given up on them-
selves the whole year, and that
this wasn't the time to do it,"
Bergeron said on the conference
call. "If they would have quit on
that game and quit on each other,
they would have regretted it."
There's no reason to believe
that Bowling Green will pick
the semifinal game against
Michigan to do so, either. So
after watching the unbelievable
comeback on tape, Berenson has
stressed to the Wolverines that
if the early goal, or even three of
them, does come, the game is far
from over.

"We know that this time of
year, no lead is safe," Berenson
said. "You've got to play 60 min-
utes. It's always a little bit about
your opponent, but it's more
about you."
But Joe Louis Arena has been
kind to the Wolverines this sea-
son. Michigan has gone 3-0 there
so far. And for junior forward
A.J. Treais, Joe Louis was home
ice growing up, as a member of
Little Caesar's hockey teams.
"I've been fortunate enough
to have success playing at the
Joe," Treais said. "It's a comfort-
able place for me to play, espe-
cially in these big stages."
While Berenson doesn't think
that the arena dictates how

fired up his team is for a game,
he thinks the importance of the
game most certainly does. This
week, then, should have the Wol-
verines bouncing off the walls.
"Just like last weekend, we
knew playing Notre Dame in
the first round at home, the
motivation and incentive would
be there," Berenson said. "The
crowd was great. It'll be similar
down there. ... We'll feel some
comfort level playingthere."
NOTE: Both of Friday's semi-
finals will be televised on Fox
Sports Plus.
Saturday's title game, a 7:35
p.m. puck drop from Joe Louis,
will be shown on Fox Sports
Detroit.

DETROIT - Three Michi-
gan hockey players took home
accolades Thursday night at the
CCHA awards show.
The event took place at
Detroit's Fox Theatre, where the
league's top players donned tux-
edos and gathered to be recog-
nized by their peers and coaches.
Freshman forward Alex Gup-
till, already named a member of
the CCHA's All-Rookie team,
earned the Rookie of the Year
trophy.
Guptill led the entire Wolver-
ine roster in scoring.
The award was presented to
Guptill by Michigan assistant
coach Brian Wiseman. Wiseman
is a former Rookie of the Year
himself, being recognized early
in his storied career as a Wolver-
ine.
Senior captain Luke Glenden-
ing was honored as the league's
best defensive forward. Earlier
on Thursday, Glendening empha-
sized how he feels his defensive
efforts shape him as a player and
how Michigan coach Red Beren-
son doesn't expect, but demands,
that his forwards learn how
to play both ways. After being
handed the award, Glendening,
not known for his scoring prow-
ess, poked fun at himself.
"I think they showed my only
two goals (during the highlight
reel)," Glendening said. "And one
of them was an empty netter."
Junior forward Chris Brown's
through-the-legs goal brought
fans to their feet across the
league and won the fan vote for
CCHA Play of the Year. The mas-
sive screen above the stage prom-
inently displayed the highlight of
Brown's undressing of the Miami
(Ohio) defenseman.
Western Michigan's Danny
DeKeyser edged out Michigan
senior defenseman Greg Pateryn
for best defenseman.
Berenson fell short as a nomi-
nee for his third-ever CCHA
CoachoftheYearaward. Instead,
the trophy was given to Ferris
State's Bob Daniels, who coached
the Bulldogs to a regular-season
league championship.
Though no Wolverine was
nominated for the award, Michi-
gan State defenseman Torey
Krug earned the CCHA Most
Valuable Player trophy.
WANT
TO JOIN
THE DAILY

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Friday, March 16, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Hit that sends the 38 Someone to 50 Livestock
1 Storage spot gamete extra admire marker
51i0-Down's innings, e.g. 40 Ouestion at 52 Developers'
request:Abbr. 4 Predetermined identity acquisitions
10 State alongthe outcome 41 Worked (up) 53 RV follower
Sea of Cortez 5 "__Easy": Buddy 44 Empire partitioned 54 Nocturnal
14 Overhead Holly classic by the Treaty of newborns
projector? 6Like wany aunts Lausanne 57 CD alternative
15 Conirof 7Actor McGregor 47 Official 59 Baker's qtys.
16 Sensoty 8 Dorm Coops half prnclamasions eo Healthy
stimulant 9 Lineage display 49 Miff Romney's 61 Decoratiniug
17 Some Monopoly 10 Imposer ofta alma mater:y 2 Returns pro
props. drunks Abbr 63 Aflame
18 Long look comeuppance
19fins locale 11 Champion ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
an *Hail 12 Break ffuid?
23 Club withvery 13 First namein M A R C C L A S P E K E D
little loft Fighting Irish O H iO O U N CIE V I N O
24 William ofn., history W E L L I N G T O N I W I N
knownfor his 21Northeastern S M E L T S ETC Li D S
"razor" maxim natives E C O L T I R E D
27 Bouquet.. 22 Theater ticket
28 *Tar wnrd WATCHMEN LAYOFF
32Yourang 25 Quarter ACHT MOAN CELLO
34 Dos Passos 26 Computer game SHE P E N N A M E L AX
trilogy set on an island P O L A R E D D A B A K E
35 Some map nos. 29 Inventive cubist? S O E V E R Z I P P E E D
36[not my mistake] 30 Pac-12's Beavers
39 *Tin 31 Seat oftTexas's T A P E S A Q U A
42 Lunch, say McLennan J E T T I T S U P T A K E
43 Norsk County A S E A N E W Z E AIL A N D
Folkemuseum 33 Coal-rich region G A R R I P A S S E R I N
setting 36 Woefullyout of S U S S N A G A T S E T A
45 Sashimi conice shape
48 Sheffilling ret. 37 Fenydestination xwordeditor@aol.com 03/16/12
48 *Poe
51 "The best is __ 1s 15 1is
be": Browning
55 Fractious 17 19
56 Had a slice oft
humble pie
58 What you need 23 24 ]2526
to getthe starred
clues to fit their 27 28 0 s30 1
answers
62 Shell occupant 32 33 34 3S
64 Handled
65 Pilate's 3 3 3 33 in 4 42
"Behold!"
66 Typesetting unit
67 Paperfan 4n 49 so 51 52 33 04
teature
68 Un t politi ue s nn Ons
69 Envelopeabhr.
70 Sturdytabric se sN sos1
71 Est and Lat.,
once 5
DOWN "6
1 Seasoned salt? , 071
2 Plazade a
Revolucin By Marti Duguay-Carpenter 03/16/12
locale (c)20i2 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

HELP WANTED
ONE YEAR LEGAL internship posi-
tion available at Birmingham Michigan
law firm starting Aug. 2012. Perfect for
highly motivated graduating senior.
Email resume/cover letter/transcript to
h.immigration.s@gmail.com for
consideration.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
summer camp. Pocono Mountains,
Pennsylvaniu 6/16-8/12. If you love
children and want a caring, fun environ-
ment we need Counselors, Instructors
and other staff for our summer camp.
Interviews on UM campus March 21st.
SelecciThe Camp 'That Selects The Best
Staff! Call 1.215.944.3069 orapply on-
line at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk. Hell Stuff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen.tBaristas. lous-
log. honus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
BEST housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Sign a lease on or before Febru-
ary 29, 2012 and play to win for one of
the following: $50, $100, $150, $200,
no money down until April 2012 or
FREE laundry for a year (value of
$312). 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. 1 to 4 bedroom, private
baths available. Rates from $660.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
MARCH ON IN TO THE BEST
LOCATION ON CAMPUS!
University Towers & The 2nd Floor
are right on Central Campus with
the Best amenities,
the Best service and the Best prices!
Call us for a tour today
734-761-2680
www.UniversityTowers-M.com
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS, One
& Two hedroom apurtments toctued
on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
a summer only bed space at U-M's
Best housing. Leases will run from
April 30, 2012 - Augast 13, 2012. 2
hlocks from Central Campus cnd down-
town. Private baths available. Rates
starting at $660.
734-998-440 www.4elevenlofts.com
AVAILABLE FALL, 6 bedroom
houses near central and north campus.
Call Michigan Realty at 734-662-5500
or www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com

APT ON THE ARB. 16x25'; 15 win-
dow, 2 Rm, Peninsula, 1 of a kind, /u
Priv Entry; Views NSEW; Kitch, Bath;
WiFi, cable; $630 734-662-7924
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available fall.
827 Brookwood. Washer Dryer. 4 prkg
spaces $2300 + utils. 734-996-1991
ANNOUNCEMENT
US - EPA will provide the owner of a
non-hybrid vehicle havinga
manufacturer's PZEV sticker or badge
an incentive of $50 per day to leave
their vehicle at EPA's Ann Arbor test
facility while techs measure tailpipe
emissions. The testing may last up t
six weeks (test period could extend to
eight weeks). The vehicle will be
driven 300-400 miles, both over local
roads and in an indoor emission test
cell. Your vehicle will be returned
washed and with a full tank of
gasoline.
Contact URS Federal Services (EPA
contractor) at 734-214-4879 between 9
AM and 5 PM M-F formore
information ot to participate in the
program. Please be ready to provide
your vehicle's VIN #/registration s
that URS may verify eligibility. The
offer is not open to employees of the
US-EPA, 2500 Plymouth Rd or its
contractor, URS Federal Services.
ISUMMER EMPLOYMENT
PART TIME & FULL TIME
SEASONAL GRILL, BANQUET,
BEER Cart Servers. Stonebridge Golf
Club AA. 734-429-8383.
PART TIME & FULL TIME
SEASONAL PRO SHOP Staff.
Stonebridge Golf Club AA.
734-429-8383.
PART TIME GROUNDS MAINTE-
NANCE CREW. Stonebridge Golf
Club AA. Call Jim 734-323-8790.

i
t
t
f

SPORTS
STAFF?
Of course you do!
MEETINGS ARE
EVERY SUNDAY
AT 420 MAY-
NARD STREET.
E-MAIL US FOR
MORE DETAILS.
FOLLOW
US ON
TWITTER
@michdailysports
@michdailyf ball
@michdailybball
@michdailyhockey

0

0

SABBATICALHOMES.COM
Do you have a home to rent? Are you
looking for housing while on sabbati-
cal? We are the academic community's
resource for home rentals and home
swaps worldwide,
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !

6

___j


p


10 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

z
Friday, March 16, 2012 - 7

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, March 16, 2012 - 7

Breakdown: Blue vs. Ohio

ALDEN REISS/Daily
Freshman guard Trey Burke, a native of Columbus, will be playing in his first NCAA Tournament on Friday night.
Tournament play vs. Ohio

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
NASHVILLE, Tenn. - With
its highest seed since 1998, the
Michigan men's basketball team
will kick play off in the NCAA
Tournament on
Friday against
Ohio. Ohio VS.
The 1998 Michigan
team, a three-
seed, was upset Ohi 27-7;
in the tourna- Michigan 24-9
ment's open-
ing weekend when: Friday
and has since 7:20P.M.
been banished Where:
from the record Bridgestone
books due to Arnea
sanctions. The TV/Radio:
Wolverines TNT
have to look
back to 1994 to find the last team
that made it out of the opening
weekend. Since then, Michigan
has just four tournament wins.
StandingInfrontoftheWolver-
ines (13-5 Big Ten, 24-9 overall)
are the MAC Champion Bobcats.
Riding a four-game win streak,
Ohio (11-5 MAC, 27-7 overall) is
making its first appearance in
the Big Dance since 2010, when it
upset third-seeded Georgetown.
"We're not going to overlook
this team," said freshman point
guard Trey Burke. "They won
the MAC for a reason. We know
how good they can play and how
well they've been playing lately.
Just watching film lately, we see
... their go-to guys and how good
they can be."

One of those players is guard
D.J. Cooper. The junior leads
Ohio with nearly 15 points and six
assists per game.
But Michigan also has some
history on its side. This won't be
the first time that the Wolverines
will run into the Bobcats in post-
season play. In 1964, Michigan
defeated Ohio, 69-57, en route to
the program's first Final Four.
Additionally, in games follow-
ing each of the Wolverines' eight
regular-season losses this year,
Michigan is yet to lose. The play-
ers say their ability to bounce back
is all mental, and they earned it in
the film room.
"You've got to put pride aside
and grow up a little bit," said
senior guard Stu Douglass. "Just
take responsibility for your own
actions and move on and ask
yourself, 'what are you going to do
for this team?' instead of saying,
'Woe is me, why is coach picking
on me?' Maturity and growing up
and the experience we had last
year has helped us a lot."
To avoid a similar fate to their
1964 tournament team, the Bob-
cats will need to play the superb
perimeter defense they've used all
season, holding opposing 3-point
shooters to just 29.6 percent.
Perhaps the most important
shooter on the floor for the Wol-
verines is their primary ball
handler, Burke. The correlation
between strong performances
from Burke and Michigan wins
was magnified in Indianapolis at
last week's Big Ten Tournament.
In the opening round, Burke

shot 75 percent from long range
on his way to 30 points, lifting the
Wolverines to a 73-69 overtime
win over Minnesota. But the fol-
lowing day, when the point guard
was held without a 3-point make
and finished with just five points,
Michigan was throttled by Ohio
State.
The Columbus native is the
only notable contributor that lacks
NCAA Tournament experience.
The rest of Michigan's starting
lineup started in the Wolverines'
75-45 win over Tennessee and
the ensuing 73-71 loss to Duke
last March. But Burke, who has
displayed exceptional composure
all season, has the support of his
teammates, who aren't concerned
about his lack of experience.
"I haven't even thought about
(talking to him about staying
calm), and I won't do it - won't
even think about doing it," Dou-
glass said. "The whole experience
thing, needing that experience
has kind of gone out the win-
dow. It started with playoff-time
experience with Minnesota, and
he basically carries us the entire
game. Then he had a rough game
against Ohio State. So he's had a
wide range of experiences already
in postseason play."
Should the Wolverines beat the
Bobcats, they'll move on to face
the winner of the Temple-South
Florida game.
The fifth-seeded Owls are the
favorite, but the Bulls are riding
the momentum of a convincing
65-54 win over California in the
first round.

By LUKE PASCH finishing up with an impressive
Daily SportsaEditor 42-percent from behind the arc.
He has also shown the capacity
It's uncanny that in the year to drive when defenders get too
that Michigan's Athletic Depart- close, and when he gets to the
ment shortened "Ohio State" to line, he's lights out (91 percent).
the simpler "Ohio" moniker, the Though Kellogg doesn't pos-
Wolverines drew 13-seed Ohio sess quite the same talent his
University in the second round of father Clark had when he was a
the NCAA Tournament. starting forward for Ohio State
The Bobcats are not rivals in the early 1980s, Nick averages
with Michigan in the same sense just under nine points a game. If
as the Buckeyes, nor do they he is not properly accounted for,
present as talented of a lineup. you can tab him as that X-factor
Yet a mere glimpse at Ohio's ros- player for the Bobcats.
ter and its season's accomplish- From Douglass, expect to see
ments proves that Friday night's the usual - solid fundamentals,
matchup in Nashville shouldn't a decent shooting performance
be a cakewalk for four-seed from long range and the occa-
Michigan. sional cut to the basket. It's noth-
Upon winning the Mid-Amer- ing flashy, but he gets the job
ican Conference Tournament done.
Championship against Akron on Edge: Douglass
Saturday, Ohio punched its ticket Wing Guard: Tim Hardaway
to March Madness and will look Jr. vs. Walter Offutt
to bust brackets with an upset at You never really know which
Bridgestone Arena. Tim Hardaway Jr. you're going
Here, we break down how the to get. Will he pick his shots and
two squads match up, position by attack the rim when the situation
position. calls for it? Or will he settle for
Point Guard: Trey Burke vs. shooting and missing contested
D.J. Cooper 3-pointers ad nauseam?
Nobody quite knows what to On Friday, Hardaway Jr. will
make of Burke's performance in need to be versatile in his offen-
the Big Ten Tournament semifi- sive approach because he'll likely
nal against Ohio State last Satur- be matched up with experienced
day. For the first time all season, redshirt junior Walter Offutt,
the freshman actually played who transferred from Ohio
like a freshman, getting himself State after the 2009-10 season.
into foul trouble early, commit- In his first year back in action,
ting a whopping eight turnovers Offutt has filled a Zack Novak-
and shooting an abysmal 1-for-11 type role, leading the team with
from the field. a solid defensive foundation and
Surely, playing against such the ability to shoot and attack the
a stingy defense played a fac- basket on the other end.
tor, and Burke should fare better The edge in this matchup will
against Ohio junior D.J. Cooper, likely depend on which Hard-
who is not as widely known for away Jr. shows up, but expect
his perimeter defense. Offutt to prove his worth on Fri-
The Bobcat point guard is a day.
prolific scorer, though, and he Edge: Offutt
tends to be Ohio's go-to guy. He's Wing Forward: Zack Novak vs.
the only one on the roster aver- Jon Smith
aging more than 30 minutes per Throughout his senior season,
game this season, and he leads Novak has symbolized the foun-
the team with 14.6 points per dation of the Michigan basket-
game. ball program, and his presence
Though those 'numbers are in Ann Arbor has played a major
comparable to Burke's (36 min- role in the Wolverines' turn-
utes per game, 14.8 points per around over the past few years.
game), Cooper is not nearly as Starting Friday, he has a chance
efficient of a shooter. He typical- to put an exclamation point on
ly relies on taking many attempts that turnaround by opening a
from the field, which won't be deep run in the NCAA Tourna-
effective against a Michigan ment.
offense that likes to eat the clock And barring any Bobcat line-
on its offensive possessions. up surprises, Novak has a good
Edge:Burke chance to wreak havoc on the
Shooting Guard: Stu Douglass perimeter.
vs. Nick Kellogg The 6-foot-7 Smith is not
Senior guard and co-captain known for guarding versatile
Stu Douglass has an opportu- guard-forward hybrids like
nity to prove that he is one of Novak, and he could have trouble
his conference's best perimeter keepingup.
defenders because Nick Keljogg Smith may get some easy
is likely to challenge him from buckets underneath due to his
long range. The sophomore has height advantage, but he hasn't
rained 3-pointers all season long, proven to be much of a scorer at

all this season.
Edge: Novak
Center: Jordan Morgan vs. Ivo
Baltic
 Ivo Baltic has been a rock for
Ohio all season long, and Morgan
may need help from teammates
to defend him in different areas
of the floor. Baltic has shown the
ability to step out and pop the
midrange jumper, and occasion-
ally the 3-pointer (he has five on
the season).
But then again, Baltic is no
Jared Sullinger, who terrorized
the Michigan frontcourt on Sat-
urday to the tune of 24 points.
Morgan has seen tougher play-
ers come through his territory
throughout Big Ten competition,
so don't be surprised if he has a
rebound performance against
the Bobcats on Friday.
Edge: Morgan
Bench:
Michigan coach John Beilein
is not known to rely on his bench.
This season, Burke, Hardaway
Jr., Douglass and Novak all aver-
age over 30 minutes on the floor
per game. And the fifth starter,
Morgan, would probably be clos-
er to that mark if he wasn't con-
sistently in foul trouble.
That said, forward Evan
Smotrycz has pieced together a
solid sophomore campaign off
the bench, shooting 42 percent
from 3-point range.
Ohio coach John Groce uses
an extensive rotation in his line-
up. He'll likely call on junior for-
ward Reggie Keely to tangle with
Morgan underneath at times, and
he'll rely on 5-foot-9 freshman
Stevie Taylor to provide a spark
from the perimeter.
. Beilein should be a bit wary
that the Bobcats are consistently
rotating and running the floor
with fresh legs.
Edge: Ohio
intagibles:
The outcome of this game may
be very dependent on how Burke
handles the pressure of playing
in his first NCAA Tournament
game. But Burke has played on
a big stage at every level in his
career, and he's about as cool and
calm as freshmen come.
It also helps that all of his non-
freshmen teammates have tour-
nament experience under their
belts.
Cooper, Keely and Baltic all
have NCAA experience with
Ohio as well. In 2010, Cooper
led the Bobcats in an upset over
Georgetown in the first round,
scoring23 points.
But winning in March
requires great team leaders, and
it's always hard betting against
Novak and Douglass.
Edge: Michigan
Prediction: Michigan 65, Ohio
58

Wolverines focus.on Oklahoma in first-round matchup

By COLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Writer
Now that all the excitement
and tears that came with being
selected to the NCAA Tourna-
ment have passed, it's back to
work for the
Michigan Oklahoma
women's bas-
ketball team. VS. Michigan
The Wol- Matchup:
verines (8-8 Okla. 20-12;
Big Ten, 20-11 Mich. 20-11
overall) began When: Sanday
Tuesday's 7:35 P.M.
practice with Where' Lloyd
a quick huddle Noble Center
on the prac- T
tice court, then TV/Radio:
ESPN2
they made the
trip upstairs to
the film room to start breaking
down their next opponent: Okla-
homa.
Though Michigan will have
just a few days to prepare for
Sunday's game in Norman, Okla.
against the Sooners (11-7 Big
12, 20-12), the squad will have Junior center Rachel Sheffer and the Michigan women's basketball team earned their first NCAA Tournament berth since 2001.
almost a full two weeks of post-
season preparation under its and refining its plays instead of Iowa State. season runner-up in the confer- pa
belt. The last time the Wolver- focusing practice on a certain "The Big 12 is a very com- ence, behind undefeated No. 1 mt
ines took the court was March opponent. petitive conference, just like Baylor. The Sooners boast a tall too
3 in their Big Ten Tournament Now that it knows its first- the Big Ten," said junior guard lineup: six of eight players that me
quarterfinal loss to Ohio State. round opponent, Michigan has Jenny Ryan. "They're very well- are scoring threats come in at ac
They have taken some time taken a good look at Oklahoma. coached, they have great play- over 6-foot, and three average thr
off to rest their bodies, which The Big 12 has some similarities ers and scorers. It's going to be a double digits. 371
have worn down over the course to the Big Ten, such as physical battle - we've seen Big 12 teams The sophomore duo of Aaryn
of the season, but they haven't post play, but the Wolverines before, so we know the caliber Ellenberg and Morgan Hook is
slowed down in practice. The don't really know much about of play. We're just excited to make up Oklahoma's backcourt, av
week before Selection Mon- their opponent - the last time have the opportunity to take it at combining for 26 points per an
day, the team was still working Michigan played a Big 12 oppo- them." game. Ellenberg was selected to
hard, focusing on its strengths nent was Dec. 4, when it defeated Oklahoma was the regular- the All-Big 12 first team and sur- mt

in the paint for the Sooners.
Though Oklahoma has 6-foot-6
center Nicole Griffin, she isn't as
dominant on the boards as Hand,
averaging just three rebounds
per game.
But undersized post play
is familiar to the Wolverines.
Junior center Rachel Sheffer
stands at 6-foot-1, but she has
seen much success under the
basket against taller, more physi-
cal players throughout Big Ten
play
"The Big
12 is a very
competitive
conference."

ssed the 1,0
ark this season
ok Michigan s
en Reynolds t
complish. Elle
reat behind th
percent from1
Redshirt juni
the team's lea
eraging seven1
d tallying 13 p
Despite beingj
ay as well be t

"(The Big 12 is) a well-known
conference - they have big
PAULSHERMAN/Daily girls," Sheffer said. "But again,
the Big Ten has s lot of that, too.
00-career point. (The) Big Ten really is about post
, something that play and (is) known for big play-
enior guard Car- ers, (so) I think in that regards,
wice as long to we'll be ready."
enberg is also a While the Sooners will basi-
te arc, averaging cally be playing a home game at
long range. their arena in Norman, Okla. and
or Whitney Hand are the higher-seeded team, the
iding rebounder, Wolverines have confidence in
boards per game themselves and their senior lead-
oints per game. ership. And certainly, anything
just 6-foot-1, she can happen in the tournament.
he biggest threat After all, it is March.




0

0

S

0

0 0

8 - Friday, March 16, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



The Heart of Texas
How Ann Arbor became home for Chris Brown
By Everett Cook, Daily Sports Editor

wit0

The click of cowboy boots fol-
iows Chris Browo every-
where. Find him in any sort
of weather - rain, snow, sun
- and he's wearing those boots, trudg-
ing through the long Michigan winters
wearing something that was intended
for a climate more than a thousand miles
south.
Around Ann Arbor, he drives a mas-
sive black pick-up truck with Texas
license plates slapped on it, a not-so-
subtle reminder of the Division-I hockey
player's transplanted background.
And there is the music he listens
to before games, so different than the
hip-hop and electronic beats that usu-
ally flow in the locker rooms of Yost Ice
Arena. Chris prefers country artists like
Kenny Chesneyand The Casey Donahue
Band, whose most popular song is called
"White Trash Story."
The lost cowboy plays the most un-
Texan sport out there on a team that has
never seen someone of his lineage.
"He's not a typical Michigan kid,"
said Michigan forward Kevin Lynch.
"Maybe other people would have adapt-
ed in moving to Michigan, or would be
taking on a different lifestyle, but he's
still a Texan at heart."
Sitting on his couch in Flower
Mound, Texas, Chris took in the 1996
NCAA Hockey Championship with his
dad and fell in love with the winged hel-
mets. After the game, he stood up and
announced that he was going to play
hockey for Michigan. He was 5.
But his journey, this adventure,
doesn't happen without a little pair of
skates that have been passed down from
family member to family member, filling
out the Brown family tree one first-skate
at a time.
Long before there were cowboy boots,
there were skates.
The skates are small and nondescript,
black with white laces, but they have
helped every Brown on every side of the
family tree on the first skate, the only
steady thing going ina time of slips, falls

and tears.
Chris was the first to use them, back
when he was just two-and-a-half years
old, because his mom, Candice, had to
finally release the ball of energy that was
running around her house at 10 months.
Hockey was the only sport Chris was
old enough to play. It also helped that his
dad played college hockey at Division II
Indiana University of Pennsylvania and
knew what he was doing.
The first day he started skating, Chris
was jumping over sticks placed around
the rink.
Maybe other people
would have adapted in
moving to Michigan, or
would be taking on a dif-
ferent lifestyle, but he's
still a Texan at heart.
- Kevin Lynch
"I've been on roller blades and skates
for as long as I can remember," Chris
said. "My mom always used to joke that I
can skate better than I can walk."
He was big enough to play with 5-year-
old kids when he turned 3, playing on his
first team before he started kindergar-
ten. Chris was a full two years younger
than a lot of kids he was playing with,,
and he was still making waves.
"I remember one of the 5-year-old's
mom came up to me and said, 'Oh my
gosh, he is goingto love to play hockey,' "
Candice said. "Even at 3 years old, if you
got in his way, you were probably going
down."
When the Browns picked up and
returned back to Flower Mound - a sub-

urb about 45 minutes from Dallas - after
a quick stay in Pittsburgh, they brought
the hockey with them to a state where
football is the religion of choice.
In middle school, everyone his age
was playing football and so he did, too,
through his freshman year of high
school. His best sport was baseball, but
still, everything in Chris's life revolved
around hockey.
The other sports were just avenues for
staying in shape for hockey and hanging
out with his friends. The conditioning
was his favorite part - he thought two-
a-days were "awesome."
But he would miss football games
and .baseball tournaments for hockey
practices, not confusing his passions for
even a second. Football is king in Texas,
but Chris was far more interested in the
sport played on ice.
As he continued to move up in the
ranks, the travel increased. The level of
hockey played in Texas simply doesn't
compare to hockey on the East Coast, in
the Upper Midwest or in Canada, even
if it has come a long way in the last 20
years.
"My biggest goal growing up in Dallas
was to play for the Texas Tornadoes, the
North American Hockey League team,
because that was the goal for everyone,"
Chris said. "I didn't think I was ever
goingto get out of Texas and play."
He was on the road every weekend,
taking long plane rides across the coun-
try to play in high-level tournaments,
running out of space to show colleges
and the NHL the type of hockey player
he could be.
Chris was getting too big for Texas.
Rob Krohl, one of the best prep coach-
es in the country, approached Chris's dad
after Chris' freshman year of high school
in Flower Mound to have him come play
for his Honey Baked club team in Detroit
with some of the best amateur players
around.
If Chris wanted to play for Michigan,
this was the golden opportunity.
See HEART OF TEXAS, Page 9


The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.cam

Friday, March 16, 2012 - 9

The ichgan ail - m c h i a n d il y cm ~ r d a y ,Marh 16 202 -

Michigan heads out to
Coastal Carolina Tourney

Winger off the mound

By ISABELLAACHENBACH
Daily Sports Writer
Statistically, the Michigan
baseball team (7-9) hasn't been
playing its best. The team has
lost five of its the past six games
- most of which were winnable,
according to coach Rich Malo-
ney. But the team refuses to lose
spirit when looking ahead to the
Coastal Carolina Tournament
this weekend.
"This past weekend, we actu-
ally played really well," Maloney
said, referring to the LSU Tour-
nament in Baton Rouge, La.
On Sunday morning, they
ended their five-game losing
streak with a nail-biting 6-5 win
over Notre Dame.
"I took a lot of positive signs
from this last weekend," said
senior righthander Brandon Sin-
nery. "We actually pitched pret-
ty good."
Sinnery started the weekend
on the mound for the Wolverines
and allowed no walks in eight
innings during Friday's LSU
matchup.
But the Wolverines didn't
fare well earlier in the weekend.
Michigan lost to LSU, 6-0, on
Friday; to Notre Dame, 2-0, on
Saturday; and again to LSU, 6-4,
on Saturday.
"I don't think we're as far off
as it might seem," Maloney said.
Despite the 'tough competi-
tion, the Wolverines tallied 11
hits and three home runs in the
second LSU game.
"Even though the game
wasn't a victory, I think we prob-
ably should have won the game,"
Maloney said. "We deserved to
win the game. But I was pleased
with the way our guys played."
The team is hoping all of their
"almost-wins" will be real wins
this weekend, when they head
down to South Carolina to play
against Coastal Carolina (9-6),
Alabama-Birmingham (12-5)
and Connecticut (6-8).
"(Coastal Carolina is) a very
well-coached team," Maloney
said. "They're an outstanding
program, so we've got great

By LIZ NAGLE
Daily Sports Writer
Brett Winger once stood on top
of the mound.
Standing at 6-foot-3 with a
powerful arm, he made pitching
look effortless. There were always
high hopes for Winger to excel as
a right-handed pitcher.
Starting at the age of five,
Winger spent much of his pre-
college preparation perfecting his
delivery. But he couldn't do it all
on his own. Enter coaches Frank
Viola and Randy O'Neal.
Beginning in eighth grade and
extending through his career at
Olympia High School in Orlando,
Fla., Viola and O'Neal guided
Winger through the mechanics of
pitching.
Both coaches had the experi-
ence and credentials that even-
tually led Winger to hurling
Olympia's first no-hitter in school
history.
Before coaching Winger, Viola
was a left-hander for five different
major league organizations - he
boasts a Major League Baseball
World Series MVP award (1987)
and American League Cy Young
award (1988). And O'Neal was a
right-hander that debuted with
the Detroit Tigers and threw 248
strikeouts in his MLB career.
Absorbing the wealth of knowl-
edge his coaches had to offer,
Winger claimed a few titles of
his own. He was named to ESPN
RISE Magazine's All-Area Cen-
tral Florida's top players list in
2009 and selected as a 2010 Pre-
season Baseball Factory/Under
Armour All-American.
With an accomplished back-
ground and promising future,
Winger committed himself to the
Michigan baseball team.
"Brett has good size," Michi-
gan coach Rich Maloney said a lit-
tle more than two years ago. "He
has a good fastball with life on it
and the makings of a very good
slider. I think the best thing about
Brett is that he is extremely com-
petitive and is very projectable as
a pitcher."
Little did he know, Winger's
fastball would never reach Ray
Fisher Stadium's home plate.
Though he was recruited as

ERIN KIRKL AND/Daily
Sophomore first baseman Brett Winger has taken his ha cks across the diamond.

Senior righthander Brandon Sinnery took positives out of last weekend.

respect for them."
The last time Michigan faced
off against Coastal Carolina was
in 2010, and Michigan lost in
both games.
This year, theWolverines will
get two chances at redemption
- once this weekend and once
again May 8-9 at Ray Fisher Sta-
dium in Ann Arbor.
Last year's game against Con-
necticut also ended in a loss,
16-9.
When the Wolverines played
against Alabama-Birmingham
in 2006, they lost 5-4. The team
definitely has its work cut out for
it this weekend.
Sinnery's solid and reliable
pitching this season is keeping
him in the starting lineup for
Friday's game.
Sophomore right-fielder
Michael O'Neill's outstanding

season hit a bump in the road
last Friday when the LSU pitch-
ing staff snapped his 10-game
hitting streak.
The Wolverines are focusing
on the fundamentals in prac-
tice, but Maloney tweaked this
week's practices to cater to the
playing styles that they'll see
this weekend.
"We know that Coastal likes
to steal and they like to bunt so
we're working a lot on defense,"
Maloney said.
This week's practice has
boosted the players' confidence
going into this tournament.
"I like the attitude of the team
and the way they keep trying to
learn and get better," Maloney
said.
"They're just a play,- a pitch,
a hit away from having three or
four more wins."

pitcher, Winger stepped down
from the mound. He's now bat-
ting in runs and rounding the
bases. He is labeled asa first base-
man, and maybe that's where he
belonged all along - at-bats and
fielding ground balls were not
unfamiliar territories to Winger.
It was always a lingering possi-
bility. He felt comfortable hitting
and maintained a high batting
average in high school. So when
he became a Wolverine, Winger
hoped to get the chance to do a
little bit of both.
He intended to redshirt his
freshman year, but when the team
was struggling at the plate, Malo-
ney tested out an experiment on
Winger, who made his collegiate
debut as the designated hitter. It
was March 27, 2011, and Wing-
er hit a seventh-inning double
against Michigan State.
Maloney saw him as a power
hitter and utilized that skill in the
middle of the batting order. Last
year, Winger posted a .294 batting
average and .314 on-base percent-
age in just 25 games in which he
saw action.
"I guess he's a hitter now,"
Maloney said with a laugh. "He's
a super hard worker, very pro-
fessional in his approach, mean-
ing he just works and works and
works and works, tireless worker.
And you gotta like those kind of

guys."
Last summer, Winger played
in the Great Lakes Summer Col-
legiate League for the Lake Erie
Monarchs, batting .301 with 17
RBIs. He also pitched in a hand-
ful of games, but his game log
displayed mediocre pitching sta-
tistics.
With a .328 batting average,
13 RBIs, three doubles and a .365
on-base percentage this season, it
seems that Winger really is meant
to be a hittingthreat.
At the start of his recent eight-
game hitting streak, Winger
recorded home runs in consecu-
tive games against Ohio State and
Chicago State.
He went 3-for-6 with three
RBIs over the Cougars.
The switch from the mound to
the plate seems as if would be a
challenge, but Winger was a natu-
ral.
"I'm very happy with the tran-
sition," Winger said. "I've been
starting every game. ... They gave
me a chance to hit, and it really
worked out."
Winger's current Big Ten con-
ference lead with 146 put-outs
shows that he not only commands
a forceful bat, but also plays solid
defense at first base.
"They always said I would be ...
a pitcher," Winger said.
It turns out they were wrong.


HEART OF TEXAS
From Page 8
He could turn a spot with
Honey Baked into a spot on the
United States National Develop-
mental Team, which send a few
players to Michigan every year.
The USNDT is based in Ann
Arbor and consistently feeds play-
ers to top college programs. If he
was going to play on a team in high
school, this was the one to play
on. But first, he had to get on the
junior team.
Krohl had Chris travel to
Toronto with his Honey Baked
team to play in a top-prospect
camp, which was essentially a try-
out for the team.
Chris scored seven goals in
that tournament, and his spot was
cemented.
But for all this to unfold, Chris
had to leave Texas. At age 15, he
had to leave everything he had
ever known and move to a city
where he knew no one and to a
culture he knew nothing about,
living with a family he had never
met.
Chris would have to learn
things by himself that ordinary
teenagers do with their parents,
such as how to manage money or
how to drive a car.
The decision was made for
itself.
"I put it in my head that if this
is something you want to do, you
have to make a commitment now
and decide this is what you want
to do for the rest of your life,"
Chris said.
Facing the prospect of having
her eldest child leave the house
at 15, Candice said no. He was too
young to be living on his own.
But after Chris told her she was
the only one against him leav-
ing, Candice relented, saying she
wouldn't be the one to hold him
back from his dreams.
"It was terrible," Candice said.
"Besides the death of my mother,
putting him on that plane was the
hardest thing I have ever done."
Chris still claims that regard-
less of whether it is sunny or
cloudy, Candice wears sunglasses
when she is driving him to the air-
port. It could be the darkest day of

winter, but if she is driving Chris
to the airport, those sunglasses
are going down.
To this day, more than six years
later, dropping Chris off at the air-
port makes Candice cry.
So Chris started over in Michi-
gan, living in Saline with a host
family that Krohl had set him up
with. Soon after, the USNDT team
came calling, where he would be
playing with future Wolverines
A.J. Treais and Lynch.
There was still an adjustment
period.
On his first day of class at Pio-
neer High School, the Texan
answered a question the same way
he had his entire life: with a "yes,
ma'am." His teacher stared Chris
down, telling him not to call her
ma'am.
Chris answered with another
"yes, ma'am."
She sent him out to the hallway,
where the confused newcomer got
a lecture on why using "sir" and
"ma'am" was disrespectful to a
youngteacher.
Click. Click. Click.
Chris stopped at the second
level of Yost Ice Arena during his
sophomore year of high school,
pausing to admire the arena of the
team he had wanted to play for as
long as he could remember. Then-
Michigan assistant coach Mel
Pearson continued, venturing to
the club level seats that sit directly
above the Michigan bench.
Click. Click. Click.
The cowboy boots slowly
clicked as Brown maneuvered up
the stairs of Yost, lifting his eye
line up to the endless rows of ban-
ners that adorn the rafters of the
historic building. He sat down
next to Pearson, who talked up the
tradition and success of the Michi-
gan hockey program, even though
he didn't have to sell anything to
the kid that watched that 1996
National Championship game.
This meeting with Pearson was
the first visit Brown had made to
a university and the first time he
had been in Yost. He also hadn't
met head coach Red Berenson yet.
So when Pearson offered a

scholarship, Brown had to excuse - current N
himself to call his parents back in Hagelin ha
Texas. year - but ti
Click. Click. Click. song and the
"Chris told us, 'Dad, I have had The ado
no interest in going anywhere something
else, my whole life, but here,' " his interesting
father, Chris, remembers. also the ma
The phone call lasted less than and the trip:
a minute. "For me,i
play," said C
brother, wh
Michigan a
hockey tea:
The flag unfurls, covering the physical pl
heads of at least 40 students in the people in.
student section, called "The Chil- everyone els
"My biggest goal grow
Dallas was to play for th
Tornadoes ... because t
the goal for everyone.
think I was ever going tc
of Texas and play
- Chris Brown

lew York Rang
d a Swedish fl
he combination
flag is.
ration certain
to do with1
background, I
ssive hits, thes
s to the penalty
it's mostly hiss
Chase Brown,

er Carl
ag last
n of the
ly has
Chris's
but it's
scuffles
box.
style of
Chris's

depicts two crossed hockey sticks
with flags draped over them. One
flag is a combination of the Texas
state flag and the American flag,
and the other is a Michigan flag.
His country and state split a
stick, but his school gets its own.

no is a freshman at Before the 2009 NHL Draftthe
nd plays on the club Browns received a phone call they
m. "He's more of a weren't expecting from the Phoe-
ayer, and that draws nix Coyotes, who asked if either
He is different than of Chris's parents were psycholo-
e's typical player." gists or in the psycho-analysis
field. A bit confused, the Browns
said no. Why?
Every NHL prospect takes a
hockey IQ test before the draft,
similar to the Wonderlic prior to
the NFL draft.
ing up in According to the Coyotes, Chris
had received the best score the
ie Texas team had ever given out. They
hat was wanted to know if his parents had
I didn't helped him with the test.
The Browns assured them that
get out Chris scored that on his own - so
the Coyotes picked him early in
the second round in 2009, 36th
overall, as the fifth American
taken.
When he was a prospect, the
biggest knock against Chris was
his offensive repertoire, which
scouts thought needed more
refinement. The size, physicality
and defense were always there,
ration comes from but he hadn't tied everything
e the one in the begin- together offensively.
uary, when Michigan Flash forward to February2012.
on Miami (Ohio) late With Michigan up 2-0 on
te. Senior goaltender Miami, Chris got the puck in the
nwick had been get- Michigan zone and took off, going
attention than usual, from one side of the ice to the
ion was mounting on other before getting to the Red-
With a little more than Hawk zone. He leaned right while
ft in the game, Chris sliding the puck in between the
wk defenseman Will legs ofWeberbeforeshiftingtohis
ped gloves and tried to left and recovering the puck.
punches. Miami goaltender Connor
as a big game against Knapp didn't have a chance. He
tate the next week- didn't flinch until the puck was
hting in college hockey past his left shoulder.
utomatic suspension. The entire play took about five
couldn't let anyone seconds.
his goalie. His team- "I think he's come a long way
more important than since the firsttime I saw him play,"
Treais said. "He was kind of raw
importantly, it's the in the beginning. Everyone knew
right shoulder, which he was going to be good because

he was so big and he had a great
shot, but he's out there making
plays now and he's smarter with
the puck."
Chris has led everyteam he has
ever played on in penalty minutes
(he leads senior defenseman Greg
Pateryn by one measly minute,
entering this weekend), but those
penalties are never high-sticking
or hooking.
They are almost always board-
ing or cross-checking. A player
who getshitby Chris is going to go
a lot further than normal, which
referees aren't used to seeing. The
wrecking ball plays within the
rules, but he tries to bend them as
much as he can.
"I'm in the game and I'm going
to hit people," Chris said. "I think
the coaches and everyone else
knows that. I'm going to be physi-
cal. If you happen to fall too far
from the boards, I'm sorry, but
that's how Iam going to play."
More than six years after he
moved, Chris is still every bit the
Texan. Moving to Michigan and
playing a sport that is so very un-
Texan seemingly hasn't changed
him atall.
The ceiling for Chris remains to
be found. After the season, he is a
front-runner to be a captain next
year, expanding the role he has
filled in his whole career.
"Brown's got a lot of respect on
this team," Berenson said. "He's a
classy kid, a serious student and a
player who is getting better every
year.
"I like everything about
Brown's game."
After Michigan, who knows.
He could see himself teaching
kindergarten after hockey - how
many future NHL players would
say that?
Chris will be welcomed in
Phoenix, where he has the poten-
tial to have a lengthy NHL career.
He will be back in the desert,
back where people will under-
stand why he is wearing cowboy
boots. The locals will understand
the boots, but they won't under-
stand the skates.
Click. Click. Click.

dren of Yost." Chris has just scored
a goal, and the students are going
crazy, the lone-star flag shaking
like it's on a pole during a windy
day. Shortly after, the crowd hears
the song that makes Chris differ-
ent from every other Michigan
hockey player.
That song is "Deep in the Heart
of Texas," and it was the brain-
child of Michigan Hockey Band
director John Pasquale, who also
hails from Texas. He started play-
ing the song after the Children of
Yost made a Texas flagthatbounc-
es over the top of the student sec-
tion after a Chris goal or big play,
things that have happened with
increasing occurrence.
"The Texas flag is a nice thing,"
Berenson said. "Plus, I love the
song."
The flag is not unique to Brown

The ado
moments lik
ning of Febr
was up big
in the gam
Shawn Hum
ting more
and frustrat
both sides. V
a minute lei
and RedHa
Weber drops
throw a few
There wa
Michigan S
end, and figi
earns an a
Still, Chris
mess withI
mates arer
anything.
But most
tattoo on his



10 - Friday, March 16, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom
L SA
l he faculty of the COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS recognize the following students
for their superior scholastic achievement and congratulate them on their recent academic honors.
JAMES B. ANGELL SCHOLARS
Students who maintain the highest grades for two or more consecutive terms in a calendar
year are honored annually by the University of Michigan for their achievements with the
Mbmd Abdabbnh 2 Mihe arckSehn
HilaryChitineAbahm2 B h "su e t e re itn to :EiyFiy er S ig
Amsh Abrol2 James B. Anell naward. Terolowing LSA1sudetsnaveerndtnis dsicto:MidelJaa nSmm3
Lnday Rhel Akr2 LannAly Sr-,2
Jui L.- Aas2 MchelArthr Stwat6
JsphieSleerAdm 2- hale enySbin. 5
Mihel Pul Adkns 2 Adm Philip Sillan ,,3
Gegry Dvid Affedd ihla ihelCru 2 hd 2 J,hVlli Sark Fldan 5 Mlly At,.lHendiks 4 Cidi. Ee oza 2 Elzht n esne 3 JssicaLenRd 2 Chitphrj ehSoc
Hsek Al-Khrm 5 Snford Bkdger Crton2 SaanhaLigh Frrro2 Alexader Franklin, Hrmann ,,5 OivaSuaneKamr6 Bdo TmJoseph Mikkshn 2 Jwn CaonRpprt2 2 yd Jb. Sobel 3
Aoud Slmnlm i2 JaesPhilip Cauo2 Elizabth Frrie2 MlaieJoy Hern2 Maisn. Krus3 Mx SevenMiler 2 Nhid KhkW Rshid 2 Ay ReSo 2
Kaa SmyAlSely4 Nka LuseCal 3 CitinAnn Fey 3 Niol CstorHess2 LarenRse Kdbi,k4 DnieleNcoleMilkr 2 All Mohamed da2 McheJsehSllin3
JoranDvid Almn2 MagaetCese4 BenJanieFeld 2 "hoasCrl Hikey3 Ae.Jae Kemr7 Cilin MrgaetMillr 2 Clm Sopha Rini2 Jcob lBarthlmew S, 5,f . ,ki 2
MataLupl Avs3 BranPtrick C,,k,2 juiaMri Field2 JuliaPriaHcky 2 Gace Elen ,,Kil,,,2 MraTai.Mi,,,6,, 5 Ynyig 6e.2 CareAne"alet2
Bin ayon Aw 3 Xi,,,,,i Ch,, 2 BnjmiAlx Field 7 JssicaI yinHighfield 3 Sri Fedmn Krmhol 3 B 13.,Daiel Misky2 Bad Loyd R,,,,ll 3 Aron Davd 'PU6s 2
Eliabth An,,Anastasia,7 Apurba Knt Chkaharti6 Tylor6,RoseFild 2 Cady. LnnHill 3 Kly Alion ,Kuml 2 DminickF,,,,,,Misk 2 Chd Le Rios, 2 Gi(16 n'1mrwn 2
Short ,Cnsidie Adrsen 4 Dnil Lui Ch,,,,ll 4 Kktly Elzabeh F, ilip 3 Eik Niol Hisch 5 Ni,,aD. Kyn~ 2 Rbcca Ligh Michell 2 Adew Clark Rich u r 3 Avi Wn, Si,,,,1,,4
Dana. EAnderson,,3 Ben Gosin Cha6,, ong5 Ellit, Ry ik 3 T,,,i,,Vicent I, H6v'ty 2 Kll Vi ..byK, 2 Sa,, Michll 2 Mri Chitie, Rman-Kriglr 4 AlertShy K an6
ElsbthAnAn sa2 Chi Ch,, 2 SepaneNcol Fihr 2 Jsti DoulasHdg 2 T,l., H,d,,Kl, 2 Mcknzi Lse More,,2 Pl Thmas ,,Ri,k 9 Rchl Zi,,,,,, 1665
Carolie Eliabeth A,,didg 2 Zhng Chen 6 Adm,,Griegory Fshr 3 Srah Mril Hdi 2 Jsha Bruce ,Krtz. 3 Kye Dvid Mored 2 L,,,,,, Elibeth Rik 2 A,,,,,,CtTylr 2
Jnifer Angll 2 H,,,gsi Chn, 2 CLaurn 6Ren,,,Fizgrald 2 S,,,Richar,,d Hgn 2 BejainPul K,,li,,, 2 Rhr, EII,b,,,,3,Mrgn, 2 Eml Jan Ri,,, 2 Jao aonTyo
Willim ,AdewAfgiff 3 Jnnifer Chn, 2 Mgn os Farey3 arusChrlsWilliam H,, t 2 Jlin, Mubi,,, LafP,,,,,,,5 MihllLee Mrgn 3 Alliso Luie, Rach 2 Gegr i' rryn3
Audrey Ky ritg 2 Y,,li, Chng 2 (,uit. Rse FPleming 3 Kahrn. Hbs ,2 Lcas, Steven,,L,,16,i,, 5 RchlAn ,Mr,ion, 3 Hnna,,h Lurel Rbb 2 Eityy JyeTbiodau 2
Eica NicoleAvestan,,,2 Eil ya 4 ico Nl FP,,i 3 Smantha Hl,,,l-l ,l2 O,,, ver ,m2 Gbie aloeM,, 7 Jillin,,Alys,,,g Rig,,2 P Br, Kliptony 3
SoyaT 3g ho o iEi Flye F,,,,2 Se,, Chrl,,, H,,,,hi,,, 5 Cunt ,Kne laU,,,5 Aexan,,dr Mu,,,, Ms,2 Willam Rgers3 Coutne y 2
0OliviaL,,,g,,,,id Brd J,,,if,,T,,,,,,Chou 26,,, Suz2nneF dl 2 1'Tom,(2h,,,,H,,2fyL,,i, ~ ,,,hM,~ ,hi,,L,,Rk2 Aastas,i ,el6Tk,,h 2
(,gyB,,,2My Ye Cho5 Dena,,Re, Franco,,,2 3Ja,,t H,2 Jime ,Ncol tap2 Klsy nnM-1.,l,,3 Emma erP,,h 6,,,,,,,3 ibc Lnn Tbck 4
An,,a dli,,,,S Erika,,M,,,li Clow 2 Mchll Rose Fran,,ki 2 Yiqnn H,, 3 BranPtrickkL 2 Kti (1.- Mllis, 5 Ri,,,,e 2NnaVicnz oso2
J h4,I,,,i2 Lna,Jli Citron,,,2 Eic ,,,,2 ,,,,,W.J,,,Lh AFranMz,,,, l,,ydl ,,,2 3 lreMaiynEh T,,nikhi, 23
An ~ l Mri Bail2 KthynEizabth Clppion 2 Ean . Freed 2 Jixi, Hang 2 Dnil Cnnor ,,I,,6,, 2 Willim ,Egne ,Mrdck 111 2 Kren Amy Ross 3,l,,iTl,,,,
A,,E1,6hBk,,,, Jcob jff larCIk 3 S1hne,,Rbrt Freeman, 2 Jseph Dona,,ld Hbbrd 3 K,, Yi,g Bcky La. 3 Gh,d, Di016spha3 Tylr SI,,an,,Rthl,,,,,,3 EmalRbr
(21,Elilh 6 Nthnil LeeCogi,, 7 Tmar ,Mchll Fridman,,,2 Se,, Rb- ,,Hff 4 Sharon Irene lIra 3 Sy Deepk N,gj 'a5 Chh,,,,Cthrie, Rzek,4 S,,,,,,,h,,J,,toTo,,l2
Ze Ail, Blbn-Fld 2 Smuel ,l H,,,i,,,,Chn,3 Am Lu P Fida,, 2 Tssa Lynn Fffman, 2 Adm,,,6ossLavit 2 Eliabthlaim21,,Ngr4 S,fr,, U,,,id,,,,,,,, nbl U,3NichlasGeorg. hT,,,lou3
Ftima,,A. Bilut, 2 2 ,Saa 6,,, Coen4 Mya CthrieFridman,,,5S Tlr Willam Hghs 2 MckenziEliabth L,bi 4 Mbl,,,d Jihd N,i,,2 Lisa Bcth 6ubnstei, 2 Nh,, ll,, Tiu 5
Stve ayeB,,i, 3 Srah l izbth (Colbrt 2 Zclhary Kig Fllr 2 3Jonathn Ro6bertH,,,,,,k 5 Hain,,,, 3 Jnnifer An ,Y,,4i,,,,N,,, 2 RaclhelSm Ru6der-n,,,2 l,,y6~~T,
Mi,6,,nlAC.I,,kaB3,A,,hiAY BiancCaGamk,73GraceAnne,,lg,,,,,i 2 3,u Hr1x3 Mgr.Y,,,,i,, 5l,,2 J ,iMri Rff2 Iri P,,,,gTsaig
Bandn Rbrt Bring 2 Da..R,-A,,,, opea S5 MelissaLynneGmier ,5 J,,d,,,, Fait6 I,,,,8,i,2 JosehlHsu-Jy U, 3 All. N,,,,llhl,2 Starr Z,,,,, Rui Jli Ti,,bg r2
Chitohr By.. Bnb 2 AadaJyCopr2 T16,r,,a Biond Gti,,i3 Rnald Chrls lngl,6,,,, 2 Kley MriU[..men3 Ay ayanNwab 3 AI,,,,d,, Kig, 6epki 3 Ane,,Mihll, 16,,,,2
HiayBehBuh2 Ssh H. Cnes ,3 Jrdan Lee Gavi 4 Gen Cm 3 KlyAn ekvc aprIhn e aqeieSrhShga ar ndr DanaT nkg
Evan Elliot Bser 2 Bandn,JmesCry 2 Aman,,d. L,,,l Gye 2 Aexandr Th,,,,,Jnke,2 JeffeyAlln Lonar,,d 2 Lane I,,,,,,lNsbit 5 Mgn E1b,h Sjwski 6 Sphi Cthrie lUs- ,2
Lu,,,,MagretBde3 Eeln MriCoves-D,,,,,, 3 3 ,ky, Genevive, ,61,2 Vijy Bb3,,,dip,, 4 lBrynJynes', U,,g 2 Mihael 6,6er, N,,i, 2 Rsyyn'Trq S,,mi 2 Christine NiolV,,k 2
Kahrn liabet~h Bck6.2 Brian , 6,6,,,,Caft 2 Josun unn Gerge2 MrkAdm Jay 2 Mchael Hnlest-yU,,,3 An,,abroghNwberg 2 N..,,Smue,,l 3 ElizabethorenceVnwiren, 3
K1isn ,6,, 6 Bthany5 Crstpe Lnsa ~aw 2 Lauen Grber2 Y-N jon ,2 Austi Th (a ,,6, e2 MlisaSyd Nwman,, 2 Amn~, Mihel Snfld 2 jumd.h.,,Wler Vrg,2
SdeyElizabeth &j,,,,,, 5 Dvid C(2ltdnCron5 Perre Hbert Gerard- ,,2 Syougi 2 MlliLU,,,, 2 KiSamNg 2 Ktrina Niol Sntos 3 Vias Vagpdi2
LiaMari Bnder 2 Mtthew, Russell-Jmes Cmmy 2 06bod. C6,b. 2 JdJin, 4 BnjmilJoseph Lvi, 2 BchMihlNgyen, S Dina Claire Saum,,,,3 Tni,,,PiyVWmm,5
Jmie Farl Bnnett5 Y,,i, Ci3 PEie Gace Ghras2 Janna Rose J,3,d, 4 Smantha,, Al, Levie,2 CthlenAnNik 2 Luren ,Jn,,Sals 2 Kl icroVmy
StpaneMetnegr 4 (Co11een,6Rose C 3unningham 31,,,RuhGilet2 H, NtJn G Al,,,, Lyn, Levi.3 Luren ,Jill Nim,,,,3 K1,,,, Loi, 6,6,6,3 Jnn aculieVks 2
3161,,, Lin,,Bergmo,6 RBobi. Joyp C,,,,,j,,i 7 Sam Plazzo (iinz6g 4 jy Shhash Kchori 3 Mtthew Adam LevUy 2 1David Sc,, Niman,,, 2 SmanthaAiel Sh,,,,, 2 Ctherie, Ee Vg2
(261,, Brgmo-SaPfe 2 Mtthew Sh1iji0Da12 A,,,,C(26i11,G1,,,,2 Ely., 6,c Kd,,,2 SrahlJan, i-Cow, 3 '1oraNi,l Ni,,6,,, 3 AisonJill Sho 2 Mgan DiVg 3
N,,,1i, 6,mBrk-,,,3 Mri 0,,,66,,,s,2 Tylr Marie li,,,61 S Mi,,d, 6RoseKh, 2 Mgn ,Critina Lim 3 Dvid Ti N,gal, 2 EmaAlli,,,,Shneidr 2 Mrly El1,, Wldan,,2
Mgn MIai,,Brnath, 2 Mlisa KllpDnko 2 Slni Godb6l1,3 Sndy ieea3Ji-W n Lim, 2 M hnTalrOConr3 Ad.., Mihael Sha,,6 2 Srah Ane ,Wes 3
Jmie Book Brnstein, 3 3JohnPulI Duks 3 Jli An,, ,ddiis3 Adew John ,Kl,,,1,i,, 2 3,,i, 1,,,,,, Limburg 2 KthrieMary(GaeO'Donnll 2 Mtthew ,EcShwan,2 Nihols, RynWler-Caig 2
Alxanda Bry 2 Ad,, D,,i Dvidon 3 Srah Eliabeth Gdi2 Miim, Lah Kmil 2 Ion Lin 7 Y,,,,i,,Nlo le l,,,i S Asti Badly S6hw,,,, 6 Mry Elizabeth WlS
Mihael Adrw eyr2 Erica Pig Dvi 2 Miim,, Shpio(Goldbrg 2 Robrt Jhnlaspr 5 ChrStoherD,,,ki L1n4 Ki,6Rose 1O1son,3 Tylr areSheizer,2 1Deng Wg 2
Kthrine Jan 1B1,,4 Kll yneDy4 Hly l Glbeg3 Chster inghi, K, 7 Gu~y Xi,,Li, 2 AyEliabeth (36,,,,, 2 Eily AneScw siur2 XMs.,Wg 3
Emily Wrthigon Bi,,,,,2 0,,,iAkns1December,,2 CrleyClire(.Goldbrg 2 361,e Beth Kpln 2 Rily Srah Linebwg2 LurenNioleO, owki2 Jseph Carls S6,81,3 J,,di,,Wng3
Lan, Mri 11112 Wil111amWrigt D066bgh 2 3Ja,,n5olomon Gldrosen,3 Mihelle13Dan, Kppp 3 (Chritphr Ry Lik66 All,,,on B larOrh 3 Hnnah Ear2lr Sgloff 2 K,P,, W g 2
Kvi Joseph Binder,,5 3JennaAne D0,6,,,2 Ry-, Byl ayGldmih3 Adea 6Elizabeth Kats.2 JosephRobertLip 2 Co1,ln Daid Oni 2 6,,,i Sel1man,, 2 Mlnie, Wng 2
Mary Mari 111,6,,,6 Kilyn Elizabeth 0D11bene,2 Emil Mrga G,, 2 ,l,, Krnm,, 2 Mll j Lockwoo,,d 2 SepenBadly1Ostrowsk 2 TnieSlane, 3 JngnWng 3
Alxandr Donald Bary2 Mredih Elizabeth Dnnis 3 6,,ssMchael G,,,61F 2 ClseaLe, ig Ksp 2 Mlly Mld LUge 2 AIxanda Ni,l Pig 2 Cri PigShr,6i, 3 W,66,,, Wng14
Megn1Ale 6,, in2 AnneMrier nerer2 Kiberly Erin Grambo 5 S Adw 3,,8,,Kufman, 2 Rachel Y-Ry L 2 Sabrina Mjk. Plmb 4 Celia1ErinShe,,,r2 R kn an
Elzae6,611 odya2 hlMke,,606,i,2 SmuelIPaulIGreenberg113 HlnMari Kell2 Gia,Mhel I-,,6,ei 3 3,,,,p Pk 2 Yng Shng5 Mlani Dniell Wr 2
JordanLynnBeve,2 Mdelie Jane D016612 Emil Elizabeth Greer6 Danil K. Kih 4 Joy Al~i,,,Ly,,,, 2 Snda l,- Prk 2 Dvid Alf,,d56,,,,,,, 5 Nihols John W,,lyhy, 2
Bake Luis Bgar3 Kthryn 11ise01D6ck,,,,,2 Niol Dnielle Gd-mi,,A,5S PtrickNel Klly 2 Adrew ,Mcal ,Lyg 2 Lu.,,P,,61,,,,, 2 Rchl Dbrah 56h,,m,,,2 CorteyLig Wber 3
Mgn Elizabeth ,,ii 2 Adm. Spir ing~s2 Daren Sottross2 Eliabeth 6A,, Klly 7 3JoshuaThmas Macky 2 Leil Rostte.Pstore 2 (2,1,5612 Aby RneeWistin2
Isobel Fi B-,662 Lura,,,MrgaretULehman Ditel S Mrtin, Mih,l (2,,, 3 A,li Gale Klly 3 AnneGe 61,88,, o.3 Hly Aid PaPil 2 Evan Jck Se 2 Mdison,,,Pig Wibrg 2
Josha Jay Brnstein 5 611,,,, ErinDvrigi 7 Smuel Gregry Gusin, 2 Porma,,GraceKeKly 2 Shale Mdjar, S Nthan T,,,,, Ptl 3 Mial,lH. 56,,,, 3 Jhn ,AdsonWis 4
MihaelVicet Brroaeo3 Din,, Rgia Ddg 2 R,6,,,, Mrton,,0,,,,i,,,,4 3,,,,,, Fdward6Kley2 A,,,, Hward Mgid 4 Myr .Ptel 2 EmilyWnd S6,,,, 5 Mredith Sn.Wlch 2
EaMB,,,,2 Mihael Wler D0o1or 2 K,,,i,,, Mgn G0,,,i,,,,6 Kiry,,Mihll IU, K,,,, S ill AnMilig 53,,,,i,, 6ajsh P,,l 4 Mtte JsehSl,,,,k2 11,A,, Wl3
EmlyRoetsn ourau4 auaMri Dnahue ,3 AnaNiolGwi1,,8,,,,,62 Lurn (l,,,,Knnd 6OmrMaim,,4 NtsaLem ael ury alc hu2Adm,,JoshuaWrther 2.
G,,ce Bwdn 3 A,,,ik, 6,1,11,0,,,,,,2 El., ,M,i 0,,,,8,62 6ElizabthAne,,Knnedy 2 Sbana ,Mali 3 Srh al- 1,,Pwlig 3 K,,,,16 5dr6 ,6Mihell HleWst 2
Hnnah Oerseh B,,,6,,4 J,,,,, Eizabth Dtty 4 Smantha ,Ni,,,, H,66,l 3 3 ,J,,,s Ptrik Knnedy 2 Emily A. Mli,,,,,,6 2 Eily Elizabeth P,,,,112 Lur AneSill,,,,,2 Aj, FElj,,l,,,lWxmn,,3
JcynChitieBadey2 Kyl Philip 0,,o-,2 Nihols EgeneFx, He 6 CtherieLindsay K,,t 6 Mlia, HlpriManly 3 Vi,,6 Rajal54,av, 2 Ua,,,, P16b,,SiI,,, 2 Mihel BrnrdWy6mp 2
Josha, RyBay5 tay 1'Doss,,3 ,,,, 3 en[DubarHc,,4 Nthaniel 6o6,,,K,,,,5 YighngMo, 2 Cassandra Lynn Pnmen, 2 Kai Zhi Si,, 3NcleAheyWllas2
Mihael B,,,8,,,4 Julie Bth reler 8,4 Agl .63a88a8 S Ay F631,,6,6KernSr651,,6,,l, 6,,,,aMrcos, 3 Smantha., 1)ewP,,6,i,,3 1B1,6,Myls Sion,,3 Jacqelie R6,,,,,Wio,3
Emily . Bmhob 3 Jose~ph D,,,,6,, 2 Mik] David HEgad,8r,,2 Pipr Carolie, Kys 2 Ktherie Gll,,, M,,,,,gli 2 Mredih AnePerry3 O,,yell KitiSion,, 4 Alx Llyd Wikelman ,4
EddE manue6,,,l 1rannan 2 0Danill Mcke0,,,,, 4 Timothy Reid 63l2 Zi,,, Kalil 3 Aexander Michelle6Moron G 6 essica DataP,,,,, S Eil 6R6b6k6h1Simons 4 3,1ia K,,lig Wil,,4
CaaRs rna ueJmsDyr2 Srah Rose Hli,,, 7 Fi6,,,M,,,,,IAKm.,2 Kien Ane,,M,,,,,,4 3Juli DwnI0,,,,Py 3 JasonPSing 2 EliAn,,W,j,,,,82
Adam, Shea,,Brewster,3, 2 ebeccaAil Dykan ,3 Nthn, Mtthw Halma63,11,,, 3 3,,,,, 61116Kan,4 KlsyMawelMrvi,2 6Rama Hry Wdi, Pilip s NiolSra Spdn C6 Sane Mredih Wlf3
Lua ei ma 2 .irpe .Dy, 2 6Ed. Elizabth Hlsey 2 MlasanM,,116 Khn, 2 Emily Lucill Mrti 2 Mry Elibeth P,,,son 3 J3hnEricSisson 6 0David P,,,ieW Afg,,g 2
Rachl le36,,Bgl 2 Adrew Rivard DYetc2 SepaneLyn FI,,,,l 3 Y-,,,Ke,6h 2 Mredith Mra 2 M61i11,Lon ePt,, 2 Mtthw David Skb 2 Ahly AnenWe ,d,2
Justin Michael3 Ealba J 3 MdmS Haal2 Sy i3 AlndaLegh Mthews 3 11lan an ioy3 AlaAne ly3K,,HW2
CariUnaBi Ro3we16, 6sly-Apply83 3 ,JaesHer,, amon 5Mria Ki 2 BitnyFotMa-n2 Tioth6y JosphlPi,,,,,63 Hnter, B,,,,,Small2 0,dS,.iW
3,65,,,B,~y2 DnilY,,,,6, 6,,Edwars 6Rahl urenH,, pton2 Ay Jiy,,,,,Ki,, 3 Nchols SpncerM,,u, 2 Mria Cr(26,lia 'l,6,2 Cr Chia 211,Sih 2 ,j,,g,2
Elye Mde iodo 5HnfeS
A~~ ,,,1,,,,2 Kyl Pnicle Eggrdig 2 Joseph J. Hn, 2 6,,,i, i 4 SepaieAneMxwell 2 Kli Mri P,,g,6i 2 Erica Michell Sith 4 l,,bg,
Aleandr Sephn Bown5 Ael Iaac 66,,,,,,,2 MryElzaVhan,,,3,erni J,6i,,6,,hKicaid 3 Eik Ln Mye67Eia Rae P'6ily 2 (2,,11,,,,raretSih 4 H,itX 2
Sara,, Ally- ,,,,, e 68,6,,,6 N,ll, H,b 2 Mihael Stphnig 3 HstiSmponMys 2 T1n arhmPllack2 MarAKelsey8imXth 2
auren Mi61hell1,B,,8,, 2 Frers Mhammed EI-61.11,62 Bade JnthnHrln,2 S-.Joe R i 3 Bai liabeth ayrand4 Kitie, Fli,,6,h lllck6 2 CrstperJnSihl2 il,J, X,2
Kent StephanlB2m3J6hn Athony ll,,,61,,jS 3,,,kesicaAneHrpe3 3 Jani Catherie M,, p~2 Mi,,SephnieM- ,2 S5,,P,,,,l ,,illi 2 5,,lNtha Soerbeg 4AitillaeeY ,8,,,6
6,lA,,1,,,,2 Alysa Mihell Egstom2 MeganFwn Harris, 2 6,,,, 61,,Kei 2 Eiabethh Rachl 1a11 MDnald2 Mihael3,James P-,,,4 Yi,,yo Sng 3Be mnS,,muel Ym,1
MAllisoCn Jenni,6, ~fEptein, 3 Mly tinrHntsiSS AdrewMihael RI,,,,e, 3 Allon, 6,, MDnald8 4 Sannon ,,H. Poers2 Sarah Eiabeth Sorenson 4 SrahAllionY,,,,g61,,
631,o land11812 Z,,yh, 1,l .H,,,,823,,, 6,,K,6,, 11,l,6, 3,616,,,3 3,,,D,,dPi, Tf,,,,, ,
Petr Brlv3 Bnjai Philip Estes 3 As, K,,,8l ora 7 Kthlen Mri K,,hl 4 Eria Ki,,,,, 1c61,,,,,2 3JennirLynn rout 33Jy Rbert Sprey 2 AyY 3

LeaRseBugi 4D,i 13JordanEFe3 AllionMihell Hawkins,3 Lydi Mri Kohn2 Abiil Cl,,,M,,,,2 Mtthew 6,bertPrky 6 DviSMttewSpins d7 .Hg IabelYan,3
LslieQinln, Burrell2 K,,,i,DniellF,,Evans 63 aobDnld Ko,,lr2 Aill1Leah Melen,2 Mria Erin Purser2 AgneSu,6,, 2 Syd SamirZffer 3
Mata y ueaio miyIrn 6ad pecr ae aan2 EretSng Yung Kh 6 KganMidhael 61,1,,,,, 2 Wi Qi,,2 Mtdxew Alxander Sack 2 AtoyLueZk
Thmas James 11,d,, 1113 61Pima beadFdlllh 2 Nig 632 Dsmond,,Loui,, e-urey2 Sheila Mnagi 2 SrahlJuli Ratty 3 Z ,, Rchel Sahl 2 K,,i, Mri,78,,,i 3
Jesia Eliabth Byler 4 61ax Bandon Frks 2 Kyl 6Mihael 63cl,,,an 3 Ty 6Michelle K,,,,,il4 Cortn lia.btlh Mrcir 3 RebeccaLeig 6,,,,,2 Kyle LynnSai 3 RanMtthw, 7,1,,,,2
Kyl Alan By,8 2 Srah Bay F,,,,,, 6 Kyl lhmnas Hiser 4 6EvanWllceKotijan3 Mredih. Elie M,l,,i 2 StcyNiol Radi, 2 Juli An Sark 3 6Eleni Kontanim ,, 2
Joseph Rbert ,Cdgi, S KySruFl6er2 (Gabrillxg H,,i2 M ar~ S. K,,,,,,,,,d,2 Mnb-h,,PtrikM. 5 SahA.RrlS 2 Kyi Eizbeh t 3,,gh2 h,,u oiZman 2
6Ml ~ enCa2,2NilAne Sg,i,,5LilYili Zhng S
BckyLuieC~aiui 2 Zyi Zang 3
ChistpherRyn anon2 Lc uuiZa
Y,,,b,,(Can,2 NtaliTheresa 71,2
Macenzehllen ,6, 2 W LLIAM J . B RAN STROM FRESHMAN PRIZE 0,,6i,l,A,,,,Z,,,2
__ First-year students in the top 5% of their college class are eligible for this honor if they _____
have at least 14 credits at the University of Michigan. The following LSA students have
Viin Abrham ,,DnilSott T,,,,,6ff
E.ec0. Ali earned tisdistinction: BDeng,61,,K1eT,
Wili,,m 11Alln Mtthew Aln Thim,
JingeiAn, Smuel ,LuiThmas,, N
Sean Mihel AdersonHnna,,Drby ,g '
Kei ct anAd,, B,,sClver 81,1 ,6 ich ,,,l, M,,ia 6,,e1,8,,,,, Charlne LrnerB,6diNdi., Srh anhRh 6,,,,66,,,Dvi 6Edward Wlk.
KthrieLeigh Brbour, Nah David (2o11ins, Adrea, Mri Gilespie Mu-,a, l ,,,P,, koo,-, Samantha,,, M6ihell Lvi Astin Danil N,,.ig,, rysalW ,,, 6eng Rt ini W
Nich1l",Micaelach Bh,, Fa ichaep'I (msC,61 6 3J'sinlyichPrdlands,, Amand 3,BariZJacobsoHnJacob BouglasLight rikaRyan Ntor Jessiey'MFrye Shakia Justn YueWng
3Blus,,, SauzanneBCa r lyep o ,, 0 aculyerlGlda,,b Y-Sua adi.I,,, illZahary Harrs Lyma61 Bejamin C (a6,,,wm1n.,Ryst631alSal,,,,P Ati Ila,Wg
K im ber61 , D , ,, N~ l , l 0 , 3 p S ,, y ihHa,, 6 ,l , , , 6 l, , h , ,Jo, 6 ,, , 1 g ~ ~ ~ 8
Maxwe llB,8li, 1,,, lrd ShNaaieC nnhyaMi,6,,l 13 1, M1.1h1lle,,, Inxn ayai A,,, Hl,,in ,,,, , Camera.1Ros Miych Me1di6h Monana i,, r S 16,,,, hrisophe3Joh6KiliaW sung
5,essicaIrsBley Caro,6ln Anne Darr AdaShBenjaminGorman , Mhele 5,ssandra I, 16,,,,, 61. MusheaqMali Ry ndrlewO,.,aIPrenlHa~q ,leSho, riell Ruh Wild,,
SJa,,,Mry,,l sky AndrewTJoseph lDaygl RyaShristphe Graam mrHklpni 5,,, L, 111,, 21,,DanielPaulMnlc6i Jordan1,,Harr is Orineryev. ae chKr iclye Marie ~Wffr
3,Mao rc ege ,ssMre hrs lrh CD mt NtliBlzbt rae oc un JhHleRc B ae zbhtZfaCtiick esc eghShodrAro tpe hr
Seen SiYuHungBdwll Em LynneM DejongeiKaren,,ivi1,1Gra14,,,,,, K 11,,,,,,ar a ,,,,Marinez ChenxiR. Pan jd C t Mae Shwrz leisAne,,re
Carna lauia glano '3t- ichael Dew6t18 Courtny I 1,i, H,,,,lreen AnneHelen,6 Inosi ai d (61, ,, Isaac Md Sang-Eo Park Margaret Di,,yvengh SribnrMCatle Rose Wih,,, Qy
Sarh Ncol lg en SamMcal ~icksheaJen rouds63leySaanta,, ThoasMaiga MUri, oe Ga -1Anq,~ ~ RI,, ~ ~ dyi ng5l6She 6 (2,16AndreWilde
Pag AnlitBomrio Anein o~eDmabo n Mra uy reiRs Rc Kp~wr. amnGac cee Crin Eiabt Ptrs Ptrc aiSinFa lzaeh il4m
Jeremy SmelBuse M r ew Lloyd D.ffI8 V inay ,,, 6,, GuH 6p 5,,,,,, DBai,lKaka Ec atthew,, LMln Mrndy6AndrewM1ichaelPetesTmiylJanS,,h,,,,,,lKelseyGP66 Zhilson
IsayacRNid 3-en LoenzaAB,-ialDonnelly,, l.a1Gupta Elm6 mli,,B6okeKlyd, Is2ha,,el ,(Co ,kNe61Mc ~ Kayi,, 6,1,,,, Anneb l,-h oai lrneSy oahnCrso her 7,,16dn
StvnMcalRo n ls'aae ogls SrhFiaeh Hlei aaLn Kle lzbt nn cagln Ciln.Sr iosyRanDulsSm aatnClahnW lf


