TOUSSAINT RETURNS: Running back Fitzgerald Toussaint, recently reinstated from suspension, is battling to get his job
. - ICE ICE BABY
Egg vitrification, the newest devel
m p reproductive technology, is chang
NE UN WE11Li)iNTI TWI \( \ lSOFi l AFEE11/laIIdI liIOMl

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, September 5, 2012

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
Students settle back into campus life Tuesday by shopping at the Michigan Union (top), LSA sophomore Eduardo Rivera plays catch on th elawn outside of the
Michigan League (left), Students cram onto the Bursley-Baits bus as they head tolorth Campus from the C.C. Little
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION
Obama knows what it means
to stru le first ladysays

michigandaily.com
CAMPUS CRIME
'U' police
investigate
three sexual
assaults
Suspects in watch party at Michigan Stadi-
um for the Michigan v. Alabama
weekend incidents football game. During this inci-
dent, a student reported that an
all have similar unknown male, who appeared
very inebriated, grabbed her
description chest and legs.
The suspect in Saturday's
By AUSTEN HUFFORD case is described as a 5'6" light-
Daily StaffReporter skinned Asian male with broad
shoulders, weighing about 180
Three separate sexual assault pounds with a stocky muscular
incidents were reported on or build, black hair in a grown-out
near campus this past weekend, "buzz cut," with a clean-shaven
all with a similarly described face. The victim of the assault
suspect. also reported him as having a
University Police say it's cur- high-pitched voice, and he was
"anknown" whether the reportedly wearing a baseball
alleged crimes are related., hat, blue sunglasses and light
Last Friday, a student told pink shorts.
DPS that an unknown male Both students notified DPS
approached her while at the Uni- of the assaults after receiving
versity's Museum of Natural His- the campus-wide crime. alert
tory between 5and 6 p.m., sent out about an incident that
After following the student occurred Monday morning, in
around, the man spoke to her which a student reported that
both in Chinese and limited she was grabbed from behind
English with a heavy Chinese near Washtenaw Avenue and Hill
--nt. arn- "lice. The Street. In Monday's case, the sus-
suspect proceeded to rub her pect grabbed the student's chest
elbow and grab her buttocks. He and crotch.
is described as a 5'7" Asian man Monday's suspect ran away on
with short hair, clean appear- foot after the student screamed.
ante and an average build. The suspect in that incident was
A _ond sexual assault described as anAsian male wear-
occurred on Saturday at the See POLICE, Page 7A

Michelle Obama's husband understood the plight
of working Americans in a
keynote aimed at prime time keynote address at
the Democratic National Con-
middle-class voters vention in Charlotte, N.C.
Student debt and financial
By KATIE BURKE aid were primary focuses of
Daily StaffReporter the first lady's address, as she
lauded the work of her husband
First lady Michelle Obama in implementing progressive
used her and President Barack policy that promotes access
Obama's experiences with col- to higher education. Obama, a
lege debt to illustrate that her graduate of Princeton Univer-

sity and
Harvard
Law
School,
drew on.
her per-
sonal
struggles '
to pay back student loans dur-
ing her speech, which high-
lighted the convention's first
night.
"Believe it or not, when we

were first married, our com-
bined monthly student loan
bills menu actually higher than
our mortgage," Obama said.
"We were so young, so in love
and so an debt."
Obama, wearing a pink
sleeveless dress, reminded vot-
ers of the president's humble
origins in an effort to connect.
with middle class voters.
"Barack knows what it
See OBAMA, Page 6A


LIVING OFF-CAMPUS
Beyond the,
Diag program
expands to new
neighborhoods

'U' group hopes
to unify students
living off-campus
By ALICIA ADAMCZYK
Daily StaffReporter
Off-campus students wish-
ing to better connect with
their neighbors now have more
opportunity for collaboration as
Beyond the Diag - a student-led
initiative kicking off its second
year - expands to encompass six*
times as many neighborhoods as
last year.
The program, which cur-
rently includes 11 neighborhoods
on Central Campus and one on
North Campus, originally came
to fruition after safety concerns
were raised in off-campus areas
last summer. The program aims
to educate students on neighbor-
hood resources and responsibili-
d ties, as well as connect students

residing in the same off-campus
neighborhoods.
Coordinators plan to add
another North Campus neigh-
borhood, much of which is off of
Plymouth Road, across from the
-border of North Campus, facing
much of Northwood Community
Apartments and the Courtyard
Apartments, which are a part of
the West Murfin neighborhood.
Beyond the Diag's operations
are also expanding. LSA senior
Josh Buoy, Beyond the Diag co-
coordinator, said neighborhood
ambassadors living in 10 of the
12 neighborhoods will distribute
off-campus living guides and act
as points of reference for fellow
students. Buoy said the ambassa-
dors are comparable to residen-
tial advisors in the University's
residence halls.
"If residents have questions,
they can go to the neighborhood
ambassadors who will hope-
fully have the answers or know
See DIAG, Page 6A

Members of the Michigan Marching Band practice on Elbel Field Tuesday.
TECHNOLOGY
New Maize Page website
offers updated services

CITY COUNCIL
Transit
study
rejected by
Council
Report would have
tested city road
conditions
By TAYLOR WIZNER
DailyStaffReporter
Ann Arbor City Council mem-
bers rejected a proposal Tuesday
evening to pursue a transporta-
tion study that would examine
the durability and capacity of the
city's roadways as an increasing
number of vehicles take to the
streets.
Eight votes were required to
pass the proposal, but only four
councilmembers voted in favor,
with five opposing the measure.
Councilmembers Sabra Briere
(D-Ward 1), Sandi Smith (D-
Ward 1), Margie Teall (D-Ward
4), Jane Lumm (I-Ward 2) and
Mike Anglin (D-Ward 5) voted
against the measure, while Coun-
cilmembers Tony Derezinski
(D-Ward 2), Christopher Taylor
(D-Ward 3), Stephen Kunselman
(D-Ward 3) and Mayor John
Hieftje supported it.
See TRANSIT, Page 7A

Campus groups
frustrated with
re-registration
By MOLLY BLOCK
Daily StaffReporter
Maize Pages, an Internet
database that has previously
provided information on the
more than 1,400 recognized

student organizations on cam-
pus, is now more that just a
glossary of University groups.
Susan Pile, director of
Michigan Union and Center for
Campus Involvement, said the
updated website will meet the
needs of students and address
issues raised by the old site,
including a lack of flexibility
and poor managerial tools.
Still, despite the multitude
of services offered by the new

site, some student groups have
expressed difficulty with re-
registering their organization.
This has led to decreased rep-
resentation on the site for the
start of the school year, from
1,438 groups during the 2011-
2012 academic year, to 378 as of
last night.
According to Pile, the new
website offers many new
features designed to assist
See MAIZE PAGE, Page 6A


WEATHER HI: 82
TOMORROW LO:57

GOTANEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS ....................2A CLASSIFIEDS ........... 6A
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Drifting through an Ann Arbor summer Vol. CXXIII, No.2 OPINION..........4A SPORTS. ................ 8A
news@michigandaily.comand let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER 02012 The Michigan Daily ARTS.............5A THE STATEMENT.........1B
michigandailycom
E4


2A - Wednesday, September 5, 2012.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, September 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONDAY:
In Other Ivory Towers

WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Campus Clubs Professor Profiles' Photos of the'Week

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-a327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-410-4115 eat. 1252 734-41a-4115 eat. 1241
tichterman@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michigandailyeom

A LEG UP

Boarding with your buddies
Through the frigid, occasionally club also sells hats, mugs, shot glasses, Williams noted that Burton, one of the
unbearable winters they spend together, stickers and silicone pint glasses adorned largest snowboarding gear manufactur-
members of the Michigan Snowboarding with the Block 'M' and the club's logo, a ers, will provide the team with an equip-
Club say they continue to forge long-last- source of pride for club members on and ment trailer for Festifall on Thursday.
ing friendships on the trails. off campus. She said the club hopes to host a few
The club, which consists of more than Farron wrote that additional local snowboard video premieres on campus
200 members and 18 officers, holds a trips include Brighton, Cannonsburg this year, underscoring their efforts to
variety of annual trips throughout the and Boyne, as well as group outings to broaden the base of people who enjoycthe
year, according to Engineering senior campus restaurants and bars. Each Fri- sport.
Andrew Farron, the Snowboarding Club day, the club officers meet at Good Time Farron added that key social events
president. Charley's for happy hour to brainstorm include a welcome week party with a
Typically the group takes a visit to' improvements for the club and how to bonfire, two progressive dinners, a bar-
Searchmont, Canada during the extend- increase awareness to as large an audi- beque tailgate and two snowboard wax-
ed Martin Luther King Jr. holiday week- rote as possible. ing parties. The social component of the
end, as well as" an annual spring break Engineering senior Brennan Williams, club is equally as important as an appre.
trip to the West Coast. Patron wrote in the club's vice president, said the club ciation of snowboarding, Farron wrote.
an e-mail interview that this year's West has "sweet hook-ups" with manufactur- "All in all, (the club) is a great way to
Coast trip will likcly be held in Park City, ing sponsors such as Rome Snowboards, meet lifelong friends that share inter-
Utah or Big Sky, Montana. Oakley, Red Belly Boardshop, Moosejaw ests," Farron wrote.
In addition to hitting the slopes, the and Burton. - HALEYGOLDBERG

Newroon
730-418-4115 opi.3
Corrections
corections@michigandaily.com
Ats Section
artichikgandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigoodaiiy.com
Online Sales
onineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Leters tnthelEditor
tothedaiy@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photngraphy Sectin
photo@michigandaily.om
Classified Sales
classifid@michigandailycomo
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

MARLNE LACASSE/Daily
A stadent starts ihe new
school year by practicing
yoga outside on Tuesday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Not quite a
masterpiece
WHERE: Bursley Resi-
dence Hall
WHEN: Monday at about
10:45 a.m.
WHAT: A room on the
fourth floor with white
boards was completely
filled with graffiti of geni-
talia overnight, University
Police reported.

Gate crasher Panhellenic John Cage
WHERE: Michigan Sta- info meeting Celebration


dium G~ate I
WHEN: Saturday at about
7:4S p.m.
WHAT: A person tried,
to enter the stadium with
someone else's MCard, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
person was cited.

Packing for the
be tour de theft hospital

WHERE: 600 block of
Madison Avenue
WHEN: Monday at about
6:30 p.m.
WHAT: A male student's
Trek bicycle valued at $350
and combination cable lock
was stolen overnight from
a rack outside South Quad.
There are no suspects.

WHERE: University Hospi-
tal Emergency Room
WHEN: Monday at about
9:30 a.m.
WHAT: A handgun was
found in a patient's belong-
ings, University Police
reported. The weapon was
confiscated.

WHAT: The Office of WHAT: A screening of
Greek.Life is sponsoring the movie "Prom Zero - 19
an informational seminar Questions with John Cage"
addressing the rush pro- as well as a panel discus-
tess for fraternities and sion with University fac-
sororities across campus. ulty celebratingcthe 100th
WHO: Office of Greek Life anniversary of Cage's birth.
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m. and WHO: School of Music,
a P.M. Theatre & Dance
WHERE: Michigan Union WHEN: Tonight at17:30 p.m.
Ballroom WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Stamps Auditorium
CTools lessons CORRECTIONS
* Please report any-
WHAT: This session will error in the Daily to
focus on how to use the corrections@michi-
CTools Gradebook. Faculty gandaily.cons.
and staff will learn how to
effectivelyouse the techniol- 9 An editorial in the
ogy.Sp.4eiino h
WHO: Teaching and Tech- Sp.4eiino h
nology Collaborative Michigan Daily ("Seam-
WHEN: Today from 9:30 mer Simplified'9 mistook
a.m. to 11 a.m. the University Health
WHERE: Matcher Graduate Service for University of
Library Faculty Exploratoryv ieiffan Health Rvat-h -

1To prove his devotion to
his girlfriend, Russian
Alexey Bykov faked his
own death with the help of a
make up artist, screenwriter
and director, The Sun report-
ed. As his "girlfriend cradled
him in her arms, he "rose
from the dead" to propose.
2She felt afraid and anx-
ious all the time. But
she couldn't tell anyone
about it. So she stayed silent.
And itcgot much worse before
it got better. Now, she's tell-
ing her story about a struggle
that continues every day.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
3In the wake of Egypt's
revolution, harass-
ment of even obser-
vant Islamic women is on
the rise, the BBC reported.
80 percent of Egyptian
women reported being vic-
tims of sexual harassment
in 2008.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrew Weiner Maoagingtditor anwoeiner@iicigndaiy.om
BethanyBin Managing NewsEditor biron@michiooodaiiycom
SENIOR NEWSEDITOS:Haly Gatthorn, Hleyoldbeg, RyzaGoldsmith,,
Pe eary,AdamoRuber
ASSISTANTNESEITORS: Gacoo Bogna , n o,be. AndrewShlmn,
Peter Shh,K.C. Wssman
Ashley Griesshamnernand oiioedios@nichigndailywno
Adrienne Roberts Etralagetditors
SENIOR DIORIALuAE EITS: arsa Ni ahat, Timoty Rab,Vanssa ychlinski
ASSISTATETOI5iA PAGEDITOSOJssOKn,,Sarah Skaluba
Stephen Nesbitt MnagoingSpotstEditor nesbitt@michigandaily.oon
SENIsOsRonSPaOR S IORnSerttCook Bnsts, Zach Helfad, LukerPsh,
5NalRohhid, MtSino
ASSISTATSPRoTS EDIToORSteenoBrad; MialLaurssit peO:h,
ColeenThoms,LizVukel,I DanielWssrmn
Leah Burgin Managing Aetsditor Burgin~okcigaodaiycoo
SEOR oARTSnEIORS : losulpr,Dvo.:aoaylopasyays
ASISTAT ARTS EDITORS: JacobAxeI.d, LarCserta0.,,Matt0Easton, Kelly O,,,
AnSaoss.kaya, Chloacowia~k
Erin Kirkland and photo@okchigaodaily.ooo
Alden Reiss Manaeginrhooiotoes
SENIOR POTOITOR:Terr,,,a Mle~nr, Todd Needl
SSISTANTOOEToORS:oAam Glanzman,,Austen Hfod, Allso ruke
MarleneLaas,Adam,,Schnitzer
Alicia Koacheck and desin@michigandaily.com
Amy Mackens MagaieEditor
DylantCinti and stateent@michigandaiiyecom
JenniternXu MagzineEditos
DEUYMGZN DTR ah egoKilnWlim
Hannah Foindexter Copytchief copydesk@michigandilyscom
SENIOR COPY EDITOS:JsehineAas, Be o plownitz
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh AsoitiinoessiManager
SeanlJackson SlesiManager
Sophie Greenbaumnroduction Maager
SeanlJackson SpecialrojectsManager
tonnonlByrd Flinane Manager.
Meryl tHalteng NationaAccosnt Mansge,,
ThMichgan Daily (ISSOJ 0745-967)is pubihed Monday through Fiday dringthe fall and
wnte esiystudentsiatthe Uivestyof Michgan. Onecospy i s ale reeof charge
toalledes. Additonal copieybe pckeup t the Daiy's office for$. Subscriptionfor
fall te,strtinginSeptemer,,via U.S. meae $110.O:Wite oml(JnuaythrogAlpril)is
$115, yearlon (Seteberthrugh April is$195. Universityaffilias are subject to a reduced
subscription rate. On-cuoybscrti fti fl emar35. Ssriptossbe pepad.
Th iciDassil:y iesamemeoosociaed PesiandThe Associed Cllegiate Pess.

0

A

.10


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 5, 2012 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 5, 2012 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Wayne State takes
part in energy
research project
A Detroit university is playing a
role in early but promising efforts
to find and extract new energy
sources-.
A research project at Wayne
State University is among 14
across 11 states involved in work
on methane hydrates. These are
structures that look like ice but
have natural gas locked inside.
The project builds on what the
U.S. government calls a "success-
ful, unprecedented" test on Alas-
ka's North Slope that produced a
steady flow of gas from methane
hydrates.
The Energy Department says
the hydrates are found onshore,
includingintheArctic permafrost,
and offshore in ocean sediments
along most continental shelves
worldwide. It sees the structures
as an untapped resource holding
great potential for economic and
energy security.
Wayne State is getting $178,000
from the department for its two-
year project.
DETROIT
New auto sales
surge in August
Big pickups carried U.S. auto
sales to their highest level in three
years.
Demand for full-size pickups
jumped 16 percent in August,
helping to make it the strongest
sales month since August 2009.
Overall auto sales increased 20
percent from a year earlier to
nearly 1.3 million, according to
Autodata corp.
The rising demand shows that
businesses need to replace aging
trucks and feel more confident
about the recovery in U.S. housing
- an industry where pickups are
essential for hauling equipment
and crews.
"Businesses don't usually go
* buy a fleet of trucks unless they
have good reason to believe that
business will be ramping up," said
Jesse Toprak, vice president of
market intelligence for the True-
Car.com auto pricing service
Ford, GM and Chrysler, the
biggest makers of full-size trucks,
notched double-digit gains in
overall sales last month.
CLEVELAND
Bridge bombers
to change pleas
A, federal judge on Tues-
day scheduled change-of-plea
hearings for three of the four
remaining defendants charged
with plotting to bomb a highway
bridge in Ohio - a development
that usually signals plans by a
defendant to plead guilty.
U.S. District Judge David
Dowd scheduled the hearings
Wednesday after meeting with
attorneys Tuesday.
Mike Tobin, a spokesman for

the U.S. attorney's office in Cleve-
land, confirmed the change-of-'
plea hearings for Brandon Baxter,
20, of Lakewood; Connor Stevens,
20, of Berea; and Douglas Wright,
26, of Indianapolis.
BOGOTA, Colombia
Colombian rebels
reach peace talks
Colombia and its main left-
ist rebel group said Tuesday they
have signed an accord to launch
peace talks next month aimed at
ending a stubborn, half-century-
old conflict that has claimed tens
of thousands of lives.
In a nationally televised speech,
President Juan Manuel Santos
called the pact a road map to "a
definitive peace." It was reached
after six months of direct talks in
Cuba, with that country's govern-
ment and Norway serving as bro-
kers following a year and a half of
preparatory work.
The agreement, signed Aug. 27,
does not include a cease-fire.
It also doesn't grant a safe
haven to the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, as
the last peace talks did.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Ryan doubles
down on RNC
speech content

Republican
VP nominee


Lebanese anti-Syrian regime protesters, shout slogans against Syrian President Bashar Assad, during a protest Friday
against Syria's ambassador to Lebanon and against the Syrian regime's mass killings, in Beirut.
Thousands flee Syria
as civil war escalates

As
alit
BE
100,0
count
mont
begat
refug
Th
incre
count
numb
in the
cy sai
Alt
that1
was a
war v
are p
levels
wher
regim
ingly
"If
an as
refug
Melis
numb
Augu
Tuesc
"Ai
escal

sad says he will and people seeking asylum, and
probably points to a very pre-
ow Red Cross to carious and violent situation
inside the country," she said.
provide aid But even the August figure
only counts refugees who are
tRUT (AP) - More than registered and those awaiting
00 Syrians fled their registration. Officials acknowl-
try in August, the highest edge the real number of Syrian
hly total since the crisis refugees is likely way above
n in March 2011, the U.N. 200,000, because tens of thou-
ee agency said Tuesday. sands are believed to have not
at exodus sharply yet contacted authorities.
ased the number of Syr- The uprising began with
now living in neighboring largely peaceful protests of
tries, bringing the total Assad's regime but has turned
per of refugees to 234,368 into a civil war that activists say
past 17 months, the agen- has killed at least 23,000 people.
id. U.N. Secretary-General Ban
ong with activists' reports Ki-moon accused both the Syr-
the death toll in August ian government and the opposi-
iso the highest in the civil tion of large-scale human right
with 5,000 killed, all signs violations and failing to protect
ointing to unprecedented civilians fleeing the country.
of misery in a country "Prisoners on both sides are
SPresident BasharAssad's subject to harsh treatment and,
ne is fighting an increas- often, torture," Ban said in a
violent rebellion, speech before the U.N. General
you do the math, it's quite Assembly. "There have been
tonishing number," U.N. alarming reports of summary
ee agency spokeswoman executions on both sides."
sa Fleming said of the As Syrians look to escape the
er of people who fled in bloodshed, Assad told the head
er, sfpekinopreorerof the International Committee
t, eakn to reporters of the Red Cross Tuesday that
nd it points to a significant the group is welcome to operate
ation in refugee movement in Syria - as long as it remains

"neutral and independent,"
state media reported.
Assad has accused the inter-
national community of conspir-
ing to unseat him.
ICRC spokeswoman Rabab
al-Rafai did not give further
details about Assad's meeting
with Peter Maurer in Damascus
but said the Red Cross chief also
met Deputy Foreign Minister
Faysal Mekdad and the head of
the Syrian Arab Red Crescent.
"President Assad confirmed
Syria welcomes the humanitar-
ian operations that the organiza-
tion is conducting on the ground
in Syria as long as it works in a
neutral and independent way,"
the state-run SANA news agency
quoted Assad asesaying.
Maurer's three-day visit,
which began Monday, comes as
the need for humanitarian assis-
tance grows increasingly urgent.
According to the U.N. refu-
gee agency, there are now more
than 80,000 Syrian refugees
in Turkey, where the borders
remain open, and there is a
backlog of 8,000 Syrians wait-
ing to be processed at the border,
Fleming said. Jordan has more
than 77,000 Syrian refugees;
Lebanon has more than 59,000;
and Iraq nearly 18,700, accord-
ing to the agency.

maintains veracity
of his statements
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (AP)
- Republican vice presidential
candidate Paul Ryan defended
himself Tuesday against
lingering questions about the
accuracy of some of his recent
statements.
In interviews, Ryan
disputed the notion that he
misled voters in last week's
convention speech while
criticizing President Barack
Obama's handling of debt
reduction and the closure of'
a General Motors plant in his
Wisconsin hometown. He also
laughed off questions about
why he understated his time in
A marathon race by an hour.
Asked on NBC's "Today"
whether he would agree that
some of his statements have
not always been accurate,
he said, "No, not in the least,
actually."
In an afternoon appearance
in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, the
42-year old GOP congressman
took the offensive against
Obama, even as Democrats
opened their convention in
Charlotte, N.C., where they
will nominate the president for
a second term. Ryan aimed his
remarks at the nation's weak
economic performance under
Obama.
"President Obama, to be
charitable, he came into office
with a very difficult situation,"
Ryan told the crowd. "Here's
the problem: He made things
worse. He's run out of ideas.
And he cannot run on his
record. That's why he's
relegated his campaign to a
campaign based on the politics
of envy and division, smear
and fear."
But in a round of morning
broadcast interviews, much
of the attention was focused
on Ryan's own remarks at last
week'sRepublican convention
in Tampa, Fla. In his
acceptance speech there, he
linked Obama to the closure of
a General-Motors plant in his
Wisconsin hometown, a plant"
that actually closed before
Obama took office.
"What theytare trying to
suggest is that I said that
Barack.Obama was responsible

shut down he said that he
would lead an effort to retool
plants like the Janesville plant
to get people back to work. It's
still idle."
Ryan was also asked about
his acceptancespeech criticism
of Obama for rejecting
the recommendations of a
bipartisan debt-reduction
commission the president
appointed. Ryan did not
mention in his convention
remarks that he was on that
commission and voted against
the same plan.
"I didn't think it actually
fixed the problem of runaway
health care entitlement
spending. I authored and
passed through the House
an alternative," Ryan,
chairman of the House Budget
Committee, told NBC. "The
president didn't do that."
Both parties are often
caught stretching the truth.
But Ryan is facing near-daily
accuracy questions just as
many voters are still getting to
knowhim, less thanfourweeks
after Mitt Romney tapped him
as his running mate.
Ryan, a former fitness
instructor, recently told
a radio host that he ran
a marathon in less than
three hours. Ryan released
a statement correcting the
record after Runner's World
magazine found evidence he
had completed one marathon,
in,1990, and finished in just
over four hours.
He was asked about his
inaccurate recounting of his
marathon time an interview
that aired Tuesday on aToledo,
Ohio, television station.
"About my marathon
you said?" Ryan laughed. "I
literally thought that that
was my time. It was 22 years
ago. You forget sort of these
things."
Ryan has been serving as the
GOP ticket's leading aggressor
in recent days. Romney is
spending much of this week
preparing privately for next
month's presidential debates.
Campaign spokesman
Michael Steel acknowledged
that 'Ryan faced tough
questions Tuesday morning,
but suggested it was simply
because it was some national
news organizations' "first
crack" at the Wisconsin
congressman. Similar
questions, however, have also
followed Ryan this week in
rounds of local interviews.

Court orders tuition equality
for Florida publicuniversities

Decision consistent
with similar
rulings in N.J. and
California
MIAMI (AP) - Students at
Florida's public colleges and
universitiescannot be charged
higher out-of-state tuition sim-
ply because their parents are in,
the U.S. illegally, a federal judge
ruled.
U.S. District Judge K.
Michael Moore determined the
policy violates the equal pro-
tection clause of the Constitu-
tion by forcing those students
to unfairly pay three times as
much as Florida residents. Chil-
dren born in this country are
citizens whether or not their
parents have legal immigration
status.
"The state regulations deny
a benefit and create unique
obstacles to attain public post-
secondary public education for
U.S. citizen children who would
otherwise qualify for in-state
tuition," Moore wrote.
The ruling Friday came in a
lawsuit filed by the Montgom-
ery, Ala.-based Southern Pov-
erty Law Center on behalf of
several Florida students who
were denied in-state tuition
because they could not prove
their parents are in this coun-
try legally. The center's deputy
legal director, Jerri Katzerman,
said Tuesday that Moore's rul-
ing could give thousands of
students greater access to an
education.
"He has said in no uncertain
terms that these youngsters are
citizens and they have been dis-
criminated against," she said.
State education officials
said lawyers were reviewing
the ruling and no decision had

been made on a possible appeal..
There are .28 public two-year
colleges - most of which also
offer a limited number of four-
year degrees - and 11 public
four-year universities in Flori-
da.
At the state's flagship Univer-
sity of Florida, in-state tuition
costs about $205 per credit
hour. For those paying out-of-
state tuition, the price balloons
to $947 per hour, according to
the State University System of
Florida.
Children of illegal immi-
grants have won similar battles
in other states.
Last month in New Jersey, a
state appeals court ruled that
an American-born student
whose parents could not prove
legal status was wrongly denied
financial aid. The American
Civil Liberties Union said that
ruling could affect thousands
of New Jersey students seeking
state assistance to attend col-
lege.
In California, a challenge
was resolved in favor of the
students. Similarly, the Colo-
rado attorney general issued an
opinion in 2007 determining
that legal state residents were
eligible for in-state tuition even
if their parents were residing in
the country illegally.
The Florida policy, which has
been in effect for several years,
applies to students under age 24
who are also claimed as depen-
dents by parents. According to
a Florida International Univer-
sity law professor's analysis of
U.S Census figures, nearly 9,000
children of illegal immigrant
parents are enrolled in Florida
public colleges and universities.
in a given year.
. It wasn't immediately clear
Tuesday how many current
students might have their resi-
dency status and tuition costs
changed because of the ruling.

for a. plan shutdown in ---'---'- -- --".-' - .
Attorneys for the state Janesville. That is not what I Meanwhile, Steel says that
argued mainly that classifying was saying. Read the speech," Ryan will not back down from
children of illegal immigrants Ryan said on the "Today" any of his criticism of Obama's
as eligible for in-state tuition show. "What I was saying record.
would cost financially-strapped is the president ought to be "He's very prepared to
colleges and universities mil- held to account for his broken answer questions about what
lions of dollars each year. That promises. After our plant was he's said," Steel said.
argument, however, assumed
Florida would be forced to offer
in-state tuition to all students The .
who lived out of state. inctof FREE'
"This is simply incorrect," R Fview
Moore wrote, adding that his GRAD PRACTICE TESTS
ruling "would not prevent MCAT 10/06/2012
the state from continuing to LSAT 10/06/2012
distinguish between in-state GRE 10/06/2012
residents and out-of-state non- GMAT 10/D6/2012 A
residents." Try an MCAT, LSAT, GMAT or GRE Free
Moore also noted that undoc- Practice Test and receive a detailed
umented parents help pay for score breakdown to see
education through state sales how you would do on the actual test!
and other taxes just as do par- m ii.'.'
ents who are U.S. citizens. "'
State Rep. Hazelle Rogers, a
Lauderhill Democrat who spon-
sored legislation to scrap the ,
policy, said the ruling comes as
welcome news.
"The bottom line is simple:
a U.S. citizen should be treated
like a U.S. citizen no matter who
their parents are,"Rogers said.
New pathways to work and
education have recently been 7
opened at the federal level for
young people who are in the 2 4 3
U.S. illegally.
Earlier this year, President
Barack Obama's administra- 
tion expanded the rights of
more than 1 million young ille- 9 1 3 7 2
gal immigrants by giving them
work permits even though they 9 i
would not obtain legal residen-
cy here or a path to citizenship.
The immigrants must prove 9 _ 2 5 4
they arrived in the United
States before they turned 16, are 2 8 5
30 or younger, have been living
in the country at least five years 4 5 2 8
and are in school or graduated '6 2
or served in the military. They
cannot have been convicted of'
certain crimes or otherwise
pose a safety threat.

14.

0


4A - Wednesday, September 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, September 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
_f Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
RO) Ii DAIL
Present-day prejudice
Recent'severe incidents act as sobering reminders
Z achary Tennen, a sophomore at Michigan State Univer-
sity, was brutally attacked at an off-campus party on
Saturday. According to Tennen, two men approached
him and asked if he was Jewish. He answered that he was, and
then was brutally beaten. It's discouraging that in 2012, Ten-
nen may have been targeted because of his religious beliefs or
cultural background. Our communities - especially universi-
ties - need to take steps to ensure the accuracy of Tennen's
claims and prevent similar hate crimes.

Cynicism isn't the answer

Its only a matter of time before
the frenzy of classes, clubs and
extracurriculars picks up. How-
ever, no mat-
ter how hectic
college life is,
it's essential to
remember that
this fall is also
a crucial time
for the political
and economic
future of our HARSHA.
country. NAHATA
This year,
we are return-
ing to campus in the midst of a
much-heated presidential cam-
paign, and a closely contested
election that will have huge impli-
cations on everything from health
care to education.
A quick glance at the news makes
it hard to ignore the fast-approach-
ing election between President
Barack Obama and Republican
Presidential nominee Mitt Rom-
ney. News channels, papers and
radio stations are covering the
campaigns incessantly. whether
it's debates on policy issues, can-
didates' speeches or nominating
conventions, the election will be
the big news story until November.
We have access to overwhelming
amounts of information - aboutthe
candidates, their positions, their
personal lives and their records.
This knowledge is indispensable.
It's necessary that we have all the
facts to make well-informed deci-
sions at the voting booths.
But with the nonstop news cycle
we're also getting a lot of political
rhetoric. As the election becomes
closer, campaigns are stepping it up.
We're seeing an increase in negative
attack ads and campaign rhetoric.
For those inbattleground states, The

Washington Post warned in a Sept.
2 article, "the worst is yet to come."
Candidates and other interested
parties are set to unravel upwards
of $3 billion in advertising over the
next three weeks alone.
Endless rhetoric is taking its
toll. With special interests pulling
out all the stops to sway the media
cycle and candidates in different
directions, it's hard to discern facts
from campaign chatter. It's even
harder to determine what the can-
didates actually stand for, and who
their influences are. It's difficult
to know what information to trust
and where to look for true assess-
ments of policies and issues.
In turn, this is leading more
and more people to become disil-
lusioned with America's political
process. According to recent Gal-
lup- polls, Congressional approval
reached an all-time low in August.
Only 10 percent of Americans
approved, the lowest percentage in
38 years. In fact, more Americans
approve of the IRS and Paris Hilton
than of Congress.
Why wouldn't people be cyni-
cal? There's a lot wrong now and
a lot that's frustrating - from a
slow economy to a deteriorating
public education system to a grow-
ing income gap. People's patience
is waning and it's only natural to
become frustrated. Everywhere
we look, it seems as though there
is an overflow of problems and not
enough solutions.
The fluffed up campaign talk
coming from both sides doesn't
help. Political Action Commit-
tees, super PACS, corporations and
interest groups are pouring more
money into this election than ever
before, making it difficult to trust
what candidates are saying. The
inefficiencies of Congress com-

bined with the back-and-forth
attacks add to citizens' frustration.
In the past week alone, I've heard
many people comment on how
upsetting it is to follow the election
and how the widespread partisan-
ship disillusions them from the
Pessimism
won't be the
path to change.

I
I

entire process.
But, in atime like this - where so
much is at stake - it's more impor-
tant than ever not to become cyni-
cal. Yesterday, -I was sitting in a
public policy class when Professor
Yazier Henry said something that
really struck a chord. "Cynicism is
a privilege in my opinion. It allows
us to shirk our responsibilities as
leaders." It's easy to be cynical, to
complain about problems or to sim-
ply live with them.
Pessimism won't change any-
thing and doesn't stand in for
action. And if there is a time for
action, it is now. It's during times
that things seem exceptionally bad
or frustrating that it's most neces-
sary to be engaged.
So even though it's going to be
a frustrating election season, and
even though some of the rhetoric
will make you want to pull your
hair out, cynicism and apathy are
stopgaps. Because now more than
ever, it's necessary that we - espe-
cially as college students - are
engaged and active.
- Harsha Nahata can.be
reached at hnahata@umich.edu.

Tennen claims that the two male students
raised an arm in a "Heil Hitler" salute before
attacking him. He was knocked unconscious,
left with a broken jaw and a stapled-shut
mouth. While there were several witness-
es, no one called for help at the time. After
Tennen regained consciousness, he called
himself a taxi to take him to the hospital.
Currently police are not investigating the act
as a hate crime.
Though the University touts its diversity,
it would be naive to think societal tensions
don't still exist. An attack such as the one at
MSU could happen in Ann Arbor. This kind
of sweeping declaration is easy to say, but
much harder to enact. Such an implementa-
tion involves a strong administrative influ-
ence and openness from the student body.
Honest, open dialogue is the only way to
address xenophobia.
Prejudice does not only exist in action, but
also in a lack of action. It is a lazy tendency
to push responsibilities onto others, like the
bystanders at MSU. In a group situation, many
people assume teat someone else will help or

be the person to call 911. But, unfortunately
in Tennen's case, someone else didn't take
responsibility. Interfering when someone is in
need is a basic objective of communities.
When the police remove the "hate crime"
label, they challenge the definition of hate
crimes in this country. Recent events such as
the deathly attack on a Sikh temple in Wiscon-
sin or the burning of a mosque in Tennessee
are only a sobering reminder of when preju-
dice turns to extremism. The actions against
Tennen are obviously aggressive and targeted
at a subset of the American population that
shares a common religion or culture. Any such
action should be labeled as a hate crime.
Though it is difficult to admit,,hate crimes
and racism still exist in our nation. It's despi-
cable that a crime against a Jewish student
could occur at a major university, and col-
leges across the nation should step up their
tolerance programs and awareness. If stu-
dents are encouraged to accept those differ-
ent from themselves as young adults, they
will carrythese values with them for the rest
of their lives.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE COVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints. Letters should be fewer
than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words. Both must include the writer's full
name and University affiliation. Send submissions to tothedaily@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Kaan Avdan, Eli Cahan, Ashley GriesshamMer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski,
Sarah Skaluba, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
ERIN PAVACIKV
The student housing gap

a

TAYLOR PORTELA I
Coming out feminist

a

"Expect Respect" and "Allyhood" are mot-
tos of social justice often spoken of at the
University. Our haven of Ann Arbor is far
from the malevolence of selfish, small-town
suburbia (five minutes away) or the sprawl-
ing urban cityscape of Detroit (45 minutes to
the east). We indoctrinate our newly arrived
freshmen with orientation leaders enrobed
with slogans, our faculty with trainings, and
returning students with free t-shirts and
endless chalk. There are programs like Inter-
group Relations that teach about privilege
and oppression. There is the Growing Allies
retreat. And there are people like me.
Free resources are everywhere. They're
better than the free pizza during Welcome
Week and mass meetings, but they are unde-
rutilized and oftentimes ignored. And it's
obvious. People are not sly about hiding their
ignorance.
"Dude, but you're gay. Do you even like
women that much?"
"You're a man, just go with it."
Their comments shocked me. Our haven is
infiltrated, or rather populated, by some who
just go through the motions of college. These
two statements were made by "friends" when
I came out to them - as a feminist. Though
not much of a closeted affair, as I tend to wear
my feelings on my sleeve - oftentimes liter-
ally.
I'll admit two things: I am gay, and I love
women. Perhaps I don't want to sleep with
them, but I do support them. One evening
while at nightly activities with incoming
freshmen at orientation, a few of the students
proclaimed quite loudly,- "What SLUTS,"
to a group of students that walked by on a
Wednesday night. That's a problem.
Before we come to college, we're well
versed in our high school culture, which-
is mixed with our family and community
lives. People who show more skin, people
who enjoy more sex, people who party on a
Wednesday night are stigmatized. What we
sometimes forget is that we, at some point in
our lives, will either be that person or know
that person. However, our connection to the

subject in question shouldn't dictate what we
say about others. I talked to the students to
not only discuss why they said those things
but also to start educating them on how life
is different on campus. Saying something is
always the first step.
I also identify as a cisgendered man -
someone whose gender identity matches the
sex they were born with. After growing up
and watching movies about men that can be
anything they want - professor, astronaut,
assassin - my ambitions skyrocketed (we're
the leaders and best, right?). After having
many opportunities come my way, I am well
accustomed to succeeding in most things I
do. However, I don't want to be the only one
who can get job offers, be paid reasonably,'or
be able to walk confidently around by myself
at night. So why would I just go along when
this patriarchal system works? Sure, I ben-
efit, but I want all genders to benefit, too. I
want them to be able to wear what they want,
act how they want and say what they want.
Walking around campus, going to a club or
working in a classroom with women will con-
vince the men reading this that society does
think it's too hard of a request. I'd hate to be
yelled at from cars, grabbed in a room full of
strangers, or thought to be less intelligent
just because of my identity. Once I realized
there was a problem, I started to act.
As a feminist, I don't want to destroy soci-
ety. It doesn't mean I yell at every assumed
man on the street. It doesn't mean not shav-
ing. Or it does. Feminists come in every
shape, size and identity.
For me it's more than the fact that I know
women. They account for half of our student
population. It's when I realize that there are.
people who denythe fact that a white woman
makes seventy-seven cents to every dollar a
white man makes, that one in four college-
aged women are sexually assaulted, and that
women make up about seventeen percent of
the House of Representatives. Iam a feminist
to educate, to liberate and to enact change.
Taylor Portela is an LSA junior.

I spent the entirety of my summer in a veritable pig-
sty. After four months of living in an apartment with a
roach problem, an ant infestation and a general lack of
cleanliness, I'm nearing the end of my patience with
student housing. As new Zaragon copycat apartments
appear, the state of living options for-those without the
$1,200-plus-a-month allowance seems to disappear.
It's almost as if landlords have given up - why pre-
tend your crappy building is a four-star, amenity-rich
opportunity when you can just throw up a dilapidated
sign offering "$600 a month!"?
I'm not expecting luxury here - we're college kids.
We're supposed to live off of mac and cheese, take cold
showers and learn how to avoid that creaky stair when
we're sneaking a "friend" in at 3 a.m. I can even live
with a basement laundry room that recalls bad child-
hood nightmares of "The Shining." I can't, however,
justify an entire complex without locks on windows
that lead straight into bedrooms from fire escapes.
I can't explain away broken glass, shattered lights or
trash scattered in hallways. With only days left on my
lease, I can't imagine living here one day longer.
The question I've been struggling with all summer
is simple: where is the in-between? Why is there such a
large disparity between decent living and housingthat
may rival the nicest hotel I've ever stayed in? I don't
need my apartment furnished by Three Chairs Co.,
with a rooftop grill and hot tub or granite counter tops
- all of which are boasted by Landmark. I'm simply
asking for a clean living space with reasonable pricing
and responsible landlords.
The entirp process of finding housing would benefit
from renovation. Right now, finding housing is a mat-
ter of knowing the right people, namely, those with
the nicest houses and locations and hoping they'll set
you up with the landlord. It's 5 a.m. lease signings
after nights spent in line, hoping that you'll be the
first to glide your pen across the paper that will prob-
ably still only entitle you to coin laundry and leaky
ceilings. I spoke with a rental manager at what would
be considered a more sought out apartment complex
in town - though mainly inhabited by grad students
- and she expressed a similar frustration. The apart-

ments she manages failed inspection the first time
for all requirements. Things like "pin locks installed
on double hung windows that are readily accessible"
and "...light fixtures function properly and free of
damage" are listed on the Ann Arbor "Rental Hous-
ing Pre-Inspection Checklist" she had to pass. Yet my
building is in clear violation of six, by my last count.
Hers? Failed.
Even dorms are restricting access to their rooms
- as the University accepts a larger pool of incoming
freshman and closes dormitories for renovation, so
shrinks the availability of University sponsored hous-
ing to current students. Capped off by the new student
housing. policy that states that students with fewer
total credit hours have first access to dorms, many have
been left to scour Craigslist advertising, "41 y-o male
looking for two female roommates, must be under 24
to inquire."
This year, I'll be moving into the Courtyards. Yes,
,on North Campus. No, I'm not an engineering student,
nor of the art or architecture schools/I'm just unlucky
in leases and late to the signing game. Yet, the closer I
get to my move-in date, the more accepting-I become
of my exile. There, I'll have neat, tidy rooms and hall-
ways alike, backed by modest pricing and a full-time
staff to aid in the case of a broken faucet or faulty
dryer. I'm far-removed but well kept, a trade-off that
I'm willing to make after four months of questionable
filth and safety.
I'll chalk these past weeks up to a learning experi-
ence - see what happens when you live with three
college age boys in a shady apartment complex? See
how you become indifferent to leaky ceilings, crack-
ing linoleum and mildew stains? I'll appreciate my
new bedroom, rather than resenting its distance from
campus. I'll begin searching for apartments now for a
school year that is still more than 13 months away. I've
learned much, but I still would rather have been taught
a lesson from the comfort of a room without ants on the
floor. I think we all, even those of us without an extra
grand to throw around, deserve that.
Erin Pavacik is an LSA'junior.

a

i

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons
and join in the debate.
Check oHt @michdailyoped and @michigandaily to get updates on Daily
opinion content throughout the day.

EDIT R ITALS IN14 CAR ALT E5SO LES
@UniversityofMichigan Whatever
happened to syllabus week?
#toomuchworkolreody
#notinschoolmode
-@michdailyoped

I
I

F


T D aWednesday, September 5, 2012 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

TV REVIEW REVIW
'Bad' breaks on top Sweet Motown underdog
 - M_ - it

Midseason finale
leaves viewers
wanting more
By RADHIKA MENON
Daily Arts Writer
The front end of season five of
"Breaking Bad" made one thing
very clear: Walter White (Bryan
Cranston) is
no longer Mr. *****
Nice Guy. Kill-
ing innocent Breaking
people no lon- Bad
ger weighs
down his con- Season Five
science, and he Midseason
certainly feels Sundays at10 p.m.
no shame in AMC
throwing oth-
ers under the
bus. Heisenberg is no longer
just his alter ego - it's his entire
identity.
The midseason finale ended
differently than we're used to.
There were no final gunshots, no
bombs attached to wheelchairs -
instead, we were left with Hank
(Dean Norris) finding the answer
that we always knew he would
find. Though it may not have been
as cathartic as past finales, it still
managed to leave us wanting
more.
It was only a matter of time
before one of White's carefully
laid plans would go awry. But
Hank didn't find the ricin behind
the electrical socket, nor did he
happen across an extra cell phone
in the toilet behind him or the
piles of money that Skyler (Anna
Gunn) admitted she was unable to
launder.
No, Walt's downfall will come
in the form of an etched note
in a long-forgotten Walt Whit-
man book, gifted to Heisenberg
by none other than the late Gale
Boetticher (David Costabile),
a former cook in Gus Fring's

story in 'Sugar an'

"We're going to need a bigger briefcase."

(Giancarlo Esposito) operation
who met the barrel of Jesse Pink-
man's (Aaron Paul) gun at the end
of season three.
As the first half of the final sea-
son of "Breaking Bad" wraps, the
pieces begin to slide into place.
All of the menthat Mike Ehrman-
traut (Jonathan Banks) was pro-
tecting with his imposed "legacy
costs" were killed in penitentia-
ries around Albuquerque in an
eerily upbeat montage of prison
stabbings and arson, literally
ensuring that none of them would
speak of Walt's involvement inthe
Fringera.
Lydia's (Laura Fraser) inside
information about these men
essentially saves her life, as Walt
pockets the vial of ricin after a
meeting at a cafd, saving the poi-
son for the next time she acts out
of order. With Mike out of the
picture, Walt has implemented a
foolproof way.of ensuring loyalty:
Obey or Die.
In Lydia, Walt finds a new
partner of sorts. She convinces
him that the Czech Republic is
swarming with drug addicts,
and the international market is
a viable option for their regime.
And so Walt continues cooking.
In a beautiful montage set per-
fectly to Tommy James and the
Shondells's "Crystal Blue Persua-
sion," houses around Albuquer-
que begin sporting the yellow

and green tents of "Vamanos Pest
Control," while inside, Walt and
his new apprentice Todd (Jesse
Plemons) churn out ounce after
ounce of the pure blue candy.
It takes Skyler showing him
the storage garage filled with
enough money to "last them
ten lifetimes" for him to realize
that it's time to step away from
the game. And just like that, the
White children return home
and the entire extended fam-
ily seems to be well. But Marie
(Betsy Brandt) is talking over
Skyler who's talking over Walt
who's talking over Hank - it's an
unsettling feeling of calm chaos
and anticipation that eventually
leads to Hank's discovery.
If there was one imperfect
aspect to the otherwise superb
sequence ofevents,it's that Hank's
own intellect and expertise were
not what brought him the answer.
Rather, it was sheer luck that
he found the book stowed away
beneath other reading materials
in the White's bathroom.
So what does Hank's find mean
for the newly free Walter White?
Surely his past will come back to
haunt him, but the form of poetic
justice won't be revealed until
"Breaking Bad" returns next sum-
mer.
"You gotme," Hank remembers
Walt saying. Though he didn't
then, surely he does now.

By JACOB AXELRAD
Assistant Arts Editor
"Soon you know I'll leave you,
and I'll never look behind, 'cause
I was born for the purpose, that
crucifies your
mind." These *
are the haunt-
ing words of Searching
poet and musi-
cian Sixto for Sugar
Rodriguez. His Man
legacy is large-
ly unknown. At the
His lyrics have Michigan
faded into ano- Sony Picture
nymity. But Classics
if you're from
South Africa,
you're probably familiar with
these lines - they provided an
anthem to repeal Apartheid in the
early 1990s.
If this sounds incredible to you,
chances are it's nothingcompared
to the shockwave that hit Rodri-
guez himself when he realized
that his music was as significant
as Bob Dylan for an entire genera-
tion of South Africans. This was
a man who, after recording only
two albums with Detroit-based
label Motown, allegedly set him-
self on fire mid-concert - a cruel
testament to the broken promises
of record producers and the aban-
donment of his fans.
"Searching for Sugar Man," a
documentary by first time direc-
tor Malik Bendjelloul, is more
than just an underdog story. It's
a story of a man who was lost,
became a legend, and then, once
found, proved more puzzlingthan
one could have ever imagined.
Such is the scope of Bendjelloul's
film as he chronicles the journey
of two men to track down any
information that could lead to
the truth about their music idol,.
Rodriguez.

From the outset, the film is and owns the stage, deliveringthe
shrouded in mystery, as record music that's been circulating for
store owner Stephen "Sugar" years as bootleg records and was
Segerman and journalist Brian even banned from the radio waves
Currin explain what feels like by a government intent on shield-
a hopeless goose chase to track ing its citizens from its so-called
down Rodriguez. And given that anarchist themes.
he's been presumed dead for To watch Rodriguez inter-
years, any chance of them making act with audience members is
progress seems farfetched, to say to observe a long-lost brother
the least. finally coming home to his family.
Slowly, methodically, layers In the end, however, he returns
are peeled back until the movie's to Detroit, donating all funds
gut-wrenching core is revealed. from his numerous South Africa
A woman identifying herself as appearances to friends and fam-
Rodriguez's daughter posts on ily. Is it an unusual use of money
Segerman's website, The Great for astrugglingworkingman?Yes.
Rodriguez Hunt: he is alive. He But so is this entire heartbreaking
lives a common life in Detroit, story.
with no knowledge of his legend- . Watching him walk through
ary status across the ocean, and the Detroit snow, black coat
has never seen a dime inroyalties. pulled tight around himself, gui-
tar strapped to his back, you won-
der what happened to his music.
The Bob Dylan You wonder what went wrong,
what; deprived listeners of his
of South Africa. songs' profound mixture of maj-
esty and realism. But most of all,
you're humbly reminded of the
strength of the human spirit.
What proceeds from here is not He didn't capitalize on his "sad
a profile of a broken man, or a man songs," as one record producer
bitter at the world for taking what calls them in the film. He lived
was rightfully his. Rather, this is a them, each and every lyric, mined
man who chooses a life of simple from the depths of his heart, an
elegance - finding joy and mean- understanding of the plight of
ing working construction. In his America's working class so acute
first interview,' Rodriguez shifts it simply had to be true.
uneasily in his seat, signature At one point, one of Rodriguez's
dark sunglasses perched on his three daughters answers what she
face, laughing at the absurdity of thinks people back home will say
the whole thing. of her father's unbelievable Cin-
So, he's learned he's an icon in derella story.. She explains that
another continent. So, he trav- Detroiters need these kinds of
els to South Africa to perform stories. As do most of us.
for .20,000 screaming fans. "So That's exactly what "Sugar-
what?" he seems to think. He's man" gives us: The chance to
already found happiness in his life. believe, if only for a short while,
Why does he need another one? that desperate times can be over-
Yet Rodriguez, as always, is come. And, more importantly, that
full of surprises. He greets his there is still beauty to be found in
fans like the star he never was even the most dire situations.

Don't miss a minute of the action with XFINITY -
Your Home for the Most Live Sports.
Awesome is watching live sports and shows - including College Football, SportsCenter and Mike & Mike - on your
computer, smatphone and tablet with WatchESPN. Plus, with XFINITY Internet, you and all of your roommates get
the speed you need to stream, surf and download on multiple devices simultaneously.

Fastest
ISPS
2011 w
,Nationwide

To orrow c uld e a os e ~f u alil- OO-XFINITYtoday!

iomcast.

tO i jtUt 01.(0otot~t~t tl~~~ tt~
t -tttt ot
I . _.t. :~ ( Ihuotet t : o: oo

t h e future of awesome
000 V~~t~ o~tOototootco ottoo to 0 tt.:1 ::o~t : it y ro:' TO tS
t~o to $00 2, too 000 toot $tO.0i: o $t0 90, : OOOl~~oo$00 o$09,oo
ooo nto. My ou VocootO:oJ titO0100 ot~oo TV Ifotosoto Avaoilrit blooron::thet
t~ttt0.00 o~do toit~tottXiI~l~n otOUtpttpttttoreooo


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 6A

DIAG Pharmacy student Stephanie
Hamel, the second Beyond the
From Page 1A Diag co-coordinator, said the
two areas the program worked
where the answers exist," Buoy in last year served as "pilot
said. "We very much believe that neighborhoods." She added that
if people know each other better, after researching similar pro-
then they will feel safer because grams at other universities over
they'll know who lives in their the summer and surveying stu-
neighborhood." dents, Beyond the Diag will have
The ambassadors work three a much stronger presence this
to four hours a week and are year.
compensated for their time, and "Last year ... we didn't do any
are asked to also plan two or specific. smaller events in the
three events per semester for neighborhoods," Hamel said.
residents living in their neigh- "The student ambassadors we
borhoods. had were kind of.spread across
Buoy said one of the most campus and working more on a
important aspects of the pro- program-wide basis."
gram is creating a culture of off- Hamel said the program is
campus living that will become expected to hire a faculty mem-
part of the "Michigan Tradi- ber as the program director,
tion." which she believes will further
"We have a lot of amazing tra- strengthen the program. The
ditions here, but to work some- program director will work to
thing new into that mix can be raise funds, find corporate spon-
challenging," Buoy said. "But I sors and provide institutional
think the student support has support.
been really strong." Hamel also emphasized the

importance of instilling a cam-
pus culture with the program.
"We want this to be some-
thing that students look to for
support and information off-
campus," she said.
Rackham student Matt Ion-
nerstater, a program assistant,
oversees all of the neighbor-
hood ambassadors, and said he
became involved to learn more
about community organization
and urban planning.
"I thought it was a good
opportunity to really practice
what I wanted to do in the
future but also improve stu-
dent life off-campus," Lonner-
stater said. "I lived off-campus
for three years and never once
was there a neighborhood
party."
Neighborhood ambassadors
will distribute the new off-
campus living guides in the
next two weeks. The program's
website, offcampus.umich.edu,
will launch at the end of t ie
week.

MAIZE PAGE
From Page lA
campus leaders manage their
organizations, including a finan-
cial system that allows groups to
view their account balances, a
link to UMEvents - the central
events calendar at the University
- as well as several resources to
facilitate group communication.
The website will also include
a campus involvement tracker
later in the year which will allow
students to monitor an ongoing
record of their extracurricular
activities at the University.
"There are robust commu-
nication tools for student orga-
nizations," Pile said. "They can
text message members, e-mail
all members or only a subset -
like committees - so it provides
a great roster management plat-
form."
Ultimately, she said the Uni-
versity hopes that the new site
will help students to seek out and
join organizations that fit their
interests.
"It will actually enhance any
student's ability to find ways to
get involved," Pile said.
The new Maize Pages is
powered by CollegiateLink, a
component of Campus Labs, a
web-based assessment program
focused on the promotion of stu-
dent organizations. Several other
universities, including Slippery

Rock University and the Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh, also use the
program.
Some student organizations
have noted that the lengthy re-
registering process, paired with
general lack of awareness of the
new program, is to blame for the
lack of participation on the new
site.
The timing of the launch has
worried groups such as the Uni-
versity's chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union, which was
rejected from CollegiateLink's
group registration project for
having a URL that didn't meet
the website's standards.
LSA junior Jacob Light, the
ACLU chair, said starting a new
system so close to the beginning
of the semester is bound to cre-
ate confusion, and may hinder
students from joining a group of
interest.
"I think that the new Maize
Pages, going up so close.to the
beginning of the semester, serves
only to confuse students," Light,
said. "Goinglive atthe beginning
of the school year just creates a
headache for me and .tuuC..
that Iam hoping to connect to."
Light said he felt much of
the re-registration process was
unnecessary and took him about
an hour to complete the entire
application.
"The re-registering process
was lengthy," Light said. "It felt
like I was not simply creating a

page, but applying to be a student
organization altogether. It took
me through various aspects of
my student organization that I
knew would not be relevant to
my actual student org's page."
While the new website
requires student organizations to
input asignificant amountofnew
information, student organiza-
tions have always been required
to re-register for the new school
year, according to Pile.
LSA senior Kevin Pohl, the
LSA Student Government exter-
nal relations chair, said the new
management platform is appeal-
ing to the complex inner-work-
ings ofstudentgovernment.
"I think that the new site will
be a great new tool for managing
our group internally," Pohl said.
"I like that it combines a lot of
the University services that were
previously found in bany differ-
ent places online. I think the big-
gest improvement is the addition
of the finances section."
Pohl said he believes that the
revamped Maize Pages will be
a great resource for students
once the registration process is
complete, but it cannot replace
a student organization's own
website.
"While I do think it's great
though, I don't think it's ever
going to be anything that would
replace our website for posting
information or our events to our
constituents," Pohl said.

a
a

Argentinians unhappy
with currency constraints

Exchanging pesos
for dollars becomes
challenging
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina
(AP) - Argentines are increas-
ingly feeling trapped inside
their country as the government
restricts access to the foreign cash
they need to travel.
Legallytradingpesos for dollars
or euros has become ever more
difficult as President Cristina Fer-
nandez tries to keep dollars inside
the country and bolster the Argen-
tine peso's sliding value. And new
rules taking effect this week are
squeezing them still further by
going after credit card spending.
Until now, travel has offered
a limited exception to the cur-
rency controls first imposed lpast
November: People up to date on
their taxes and poised to cross a
border, tickets in hand, can get
permission to buy no more than
$100 per person for each day
abroad. The process is bureau-
cratic and intrusive, and many say
their requests are rejected for rea-

sons they don't understand.
Credit and debit cards pro-
vided a legal way out, enabling
people to make purchases and
get money while abroad. But now
the government is cracking down
there as well.
The new measures make using
plastic inside or outside the coun-
try less affordable by charging
15 percent in taxes on all foreign
purchases that appear on credit or
debit card bills, plus a 50-percent
customs duty on any goods from
abroadthatmight be brought back
to Argentina. Internet purchases
on sites such as Amazon, eBay
and the Apple Store are included,
along with anything bought using
online services such as PayPal.
. Consumers will pay the tax
along with their monthly card
bills. And for the first time, the
government will be able to scruti-
nize each cardholder's entire bill,
tracking their spending to capture
anything unreported on customs
and tax declarations. Argentines
are taxed on wealth as well as
income, so this gives tax agents
powerful new tools to collect a
piece of everything they own.

Tax chief Ricardo Echegaray
described twin objectives: catch-
ing scofflaws and making it less
attractive for Argentines to spend
abroad.
"Let there be no doubt that
we prefer that everyone stay and
spend their summers in Argen-
tina," Echegaray said last week.
He later clarified that people
who fully pay their taxes "can
take vacations, buy things and
do things anywhere in the world
they wish to."
But travelers are learning that
their pesos are no good outside
Argentina, and saving them at
hogne isn't an option either, with
inflation running at 25 percent or
more a year.
Before traveling in June to
southern Argentina and Chile,
information technology executive
Natividad Pozzo and her husband
submitted sworn declarations
to the tax agency and were
granted permission to buy $570,
which they exchanged for Chil-
ean currency across the border.
Then their cash ran out and they
discovered peso-denominated
bank cards don't work in ATM

I

OBAMA
From Page1A
means when a family struggles,"
she said. "He knows what it
means to want something more
for your kids and grandkids.
Barack knows the American
dream because he lived it."
Earlier Monday, during a
conference call with college
students that was hosted by
Students for Obama, the first
lady said that with an especially
tight presidential race, much is
at stake for college students in
this year's election.
She added that the presi-
dent's policy on student tuition
and loans - which has included
doubling funding for Pell grants
and instituting a tuition tax
credit program - should be a
motivating factor for students
to participate in the campaign
and vote in November.
"As college students, you
can see how important things

are every time you look at your
tuition bill or your student loan
statement, and Barack and I
know what that feels like,"
Obama said.
Obama asked students on the
call to support her husband by
voting, just as he supported stu-
dents struggling to cover their
tuition expenses.
"Barack has your back ...
we're going to need you to stand
up for Barack," Obama said.
"We need you to have his back
and that starts with registering
to vote."
Ronelle Chapman, a junior at.
Hampton University in Virginia
who introduced the first lady
on the call, has been working
for Obama since he was twelve
years old. Chapman told call-
ers that dedicated student vol-
unteering is especially vital to
the president's re-election cam-
"(Through working on the
campaign) I realized how
important it is that we all work

difference," Chapman said.
Obama said she organized
the call because college stu-
dents are big supporters of her
husband and she. wanted to
thank them and urge them to
continue their hard work.
Obama added that she had
confidence in this year's cam-
paign because of the support
college volunteers have contrib-
uted in the past.
"Every single day, (college
volunteers) should know that
(they) are providing the energy
and the passion that have always
been the engine behind Barack's
campaign," Obama said.
In her speech in Charlotte,
Obama said she and her hus-
band have the endurance for
four more years in the White
House, and are ready to contin-
ue to encourage change.
"(President Obama) reminds
me that we are playing a long
game here, and that change is
hard, and change is slow, and
it never happens all at once.

a
6

even harder for every vote, But eventually we get there, we
because each one could be the always do," Obama said.
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmall.com
WANT TO BE THE NEXT
R CHILD CARE NEEDED HRISTIANE AMAN POUR?
Reposible persos seeded for part - IT ANlEAA NAKPffURIfl


RELEASE DATE- Wednesday; September 5, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 7 Bldg. coolers 39 Fed. benefits 48More wise
1 Home to the 8 "Steady as _.. agency 49 Roof overhang
Ibsen Museum goes" 43 N. Zealand's 51 2007 A.L, MVP
5 Onlisseaction 9 Masonstray highest psak 52 Vans.
psynent, say 10 Comic's rewards 44 'Deep 53 ossip column
10 Animation 11 "Any pentrating pain. couple
14 Partof a Clue volunteers?" relief" brand 54 "Coming Home"
guess reply 45 Subject to a actor
15 Salsa holder 12 Sailsforce? penalty fee, 56 Language suffix
16 Political pal 13 Scrutinized maybe 57 Letterstfor Louis
17 *Saw 18 Award two stars 46 Thumb twiddler Quatorze
191997 Peter to, say 47 Capone 58 Lemony
Fonda role 21 Glyceride, for henchman quencher
20 Le ame 23moper ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 tDroe(on) 24lStart of a PCBe O mN I P SI P L A T
22'*Head parliamentary S HA T H EI E ERCIO DE
26 Like prison proposal Y
windows 25 Math ratio
30 Doesn't mention 26 Hint of things to C L A S S S T R U G G L E
31 Toe the line come H E A L L I E A B E D
32 Peach pit 27Not yet stirring S T 5 I N G B E A N T I V O
33 Closa, asa 28 Game callers o IIIIIIIDE M u a H ERE CS
windbreaker 25 Caraway-seeded S P A DB A I P A Y E R E
36 *Come bread, often P
40 Glamour VIPs 32 Comic
41 Denmark's Silverman ALPO N A T U R E W A L K
Islands 33 Tubular pasta R O L L B A R A G E E
42 Suffixwith tip or 34 Urbanaddition I L L S E C O N D T H A T
trick 35 Ceremonial pile P I Q U E N U T S O A N T
43 Erin of "Happy 37In progress, to A C U T E A L T E R S T L
Days" Sherlock CHEEP ST K TOE
44 Mathematician 38 Causing puckers C P 1 0 C K 0
Pascal xwordedtor~eaoom seas5A2
46 *Board 1 2 3 a 4 r7 8 e ro1 11 12 13
49 Decree
50 Tummy soother 14 1515
55 One in a four-
pur harmony r7 3
se 'Do 201
59 Gubernatorial
turndown 22 23. 24 25
60 Cassette half
61 Prefix missing w r27 w 29 a
fromthe starred
clues 31 32 33 34 35
62 Composer Satie3s 37 33 39
63 _ once inra
while 4 41 > 42
64 Like Broadway's
Yankees 4s44 45
_DOWN 46 47 48
1 Inexact words 40 5153 5a
2 Gazpac ur.g.s
3 Easy run ss s r 58
4 Hint of things to
come ' 5ssa6
5 Bagrudged
6 Meaningful pile s u4
of stones
By Mel Rosen 09/05/12
(c)2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

DISCOVER
"101 Things You Didn't Know About
Ann Arbor" ($9.95 at Amazon.com)


CUSTOM-MADE BOOKCASES (3)
white, 38" high, 1: 80" wide $250,
2: 41" wide $150 each, all 3: $500
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
$$BARTENDING$$ $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. No exp. nec., training
avail. AGE 18+ 800-965-6520x125
BABYSITTER NEEDED. MOP"
and/or Weds 3:30 to 5:30. Own trans-
port. needed. $13/hr. 734-754-1145.
CHILD CARE NEEDED: up to 10
hr(s)/wk babysitting six-year-old twin
boys. Email sgronewold@gmail.com

time supervision of two schooi aged
boys after school, 3-5:30 pm. Will need
to drive. Email groshL@yahoo.com
LOVING BABYSITTER NEEDED
mature, responsible, loving, fun, & pa-
tient babysiner needed to watch ow 4
& 7 yr old daughters. Flexible after-
noonhours10-15 hrs/week.References
and reliable transportation a must.
$14/hr. Contact Gabrielle @ 734-761-
8844,.gabgillard@yahoo.com.
MATH & SCIENCE TUTORS
NEEDED. Call 734 434 1228.
NOW HIRING AFTER SCHOOL
PROGRAM STAFF MEMBERS ux
local elementary school. 2:30-6:00pm
2-4 days a week. Experience with
children and reliable transportation
required. Email rhacker@emerson-
school.org for more information.
SEEKING SITTER TO watch two
boys 2-3 aftrns/wk, exp w/kids & ac-
cess to car rqd. Email gsein@umich.edu
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
UM LAW PROFESSOR'and wife
seek experienced and engaging babysit-
ter for periodic evening work and
driving children to various activities
around town. We live in Ann Arbor
near the campus, and our kids are
15 and 12. Car required. Please provide
references. Call Steve or Nancy at
734-761-7752.
WANTED UNIVERSITY
STUDENTS to work on 2012
campaign for Green Party Candidates;
work involves 3 hours general canvass-
ing slots inAnn Arbor, Flint and
Dearborn areas, pays $15.00 an hour.
'ntact the Eric Borregard for Peace
and Justice Committee.
EBorregard@aol.com
734 383-0793.
YARDWORK & PROJECTS
on 5 acres for retired professor
$12/hr. Flexible hrs. 668-8850

MAYBE TOM BROKAW?
HOW ABOUT BOB
WOODWARD OR CARL
BERNSTEIN?
JUST WANT TO HANG OUT
IN THIS COOL BUILDING

a

40

0

COME TO A MASS
MEETING AT 420
MAYNARD
September 9,-12,1319 and 23
at 7:30 p.m.

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September, 5, 2012 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September, 5, 2012 - 7A

CENTRAL STUDENT GOVERNMNT
Assembly holds first
meeting of semester

CSG members talk
administrational
matters, positions
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily Staff Reporter
Despite taking office more
than five months ago, the Cen-
tral Student Gove.....,_. han-
dled mainly administrative
procedures in its first meeting
of the semester on Tuesday.
The new assembly lost mul-
tiple meeting opportunities at
the end of last semester when
approval of the March elections
took much longer than antici-
pated. That, coupled with sum-
mer meetings designed only to
give out student organization
funding, meant a fair portion
of the meeting was spent elect-
ing committee positions and
discussing plans for the year.
No new resolutions were pro-
posed, and no old business was
discussed.
CSG president Manish
Parikh and CSG vice president
Omar Hashwi - who upheld
their campaign promise to
dress in business casual attire
- spoke to the group about
their plans for the semester.
Parikh said he already start-

ed new projects with multiple
representatives. Specifically,
he said he is working on social
media initiatives and videos
for CSG with LSA representa-
tive Harnek Singh, creating a
centralized student calendar
with assembly speaker Michael
Proppe,, promoting tuition
equality with LSA representa-
tive Daniel Morales, and com-
municating with the student
governments of other Univer-
sity schools with LSA represen-
tative Arielle Zupmore.
He added that. CSG execu-
tive positions will be decided
in the upcoming weeks, noting
that he has received 40 candi-
date applications for a handful
of executive positions, and he
said he expects to receive more
before the application period
closes on Sunday. ,
In his address to the assem-
bly, Hashwi said representa-
tives need to make sure they do
the majority of their positions'
duties outside of Tuesday night
meetings to ensure they remain
productive during their weekly
time together.
"I know these meetings may
seem really boring, most of the
time they are," he said. "But
this is not the time where we
should be getting stuff done ...
these meetings are just to talk

about what we have done."
Earlier in the meeting, all
of the chair and vice chair
positions were determined
in uncontested elections, and
several took place only after
multiple students declined
nominations to run for the posi-
tions.
The assembly also consid-
ered holding an election for
the vice chair of 'the execu-
tive nominations committee
after the status of its current
office-holder, Rackham rep-
resentative Jennifer Dibbern,
was deemed unclear. Rackham
assembly representative Pat-
rick O'Mahen said h( "
sure if Dibbern is still actively
enrolled at the University.
Dibbern was dismissed from
her position as a graduate stu-
dent research assistant LA.
but attended classes in Rack-
ham with a different concen-
tration. The incident attracted
significant coverage when a
press conference was held in
January by Dibbern and the
Graduate Employees' Organi-
zation - the union of graduate
student instructors and gradu-
ate student staff assistants at
the University - who claimed
Dibbern was unfairly dismissed
from her position for her ties to
GEO.

The newly-moved SAPAC office, now located inside the Michigan Union.
SAPAC office fin
new home in Union

Director says move
is beneficial to
program, students
ByBRANDON SHAW
Daily Staff Reporter
An important resource for
University students, faculty and
staff has moved closer to the
people it serves.
The Sexual Assault Preven-
tion and Awareness Center,
which provides support services
to survivors of sexual assault
and educates members of the
University community on sex-
ual violence, moved last month
to the Michigan Union from its
previous location on North Uni-
versity Avenue between Thayer
and South State streets.
SAPAC director Holly Rider-
Milkovich said the new location
puts it closer to its most impor-
tant campus partners, including
Counseling and Psychological
Services and the Office of the
Dean of Students, both located
in the Union.
Rider-Milkovich said the
North University location had
the benefit of discreetness, but
the Union location is more con-
venient for inter-departmental
TRANSIT
From Page 1A
Marcia Higgins (D-Ward 4)
and Carsten Hohnke (D-Ward
5) were not present at Tuesday's
meeting.
Eli Cooper, the city's trans-
portation program manager, said
without the study,1 there would
be a significant strain on Ann
Arbor's transportation systems in
the future. He noted that as more
jobs come to the city as a result of
the establishment of new Univer-
sity facilities, more cars may cre-
ate congestion and force asphalt
to deteriorate more quickly.
one of the main issues that
councilmembers considered was
thecostofthe study;whichwould
have borrowed $60,000 from the
city's general fund to supplement
federal and state grants.
Kunselman voted in favor of
the project, but said he worried
POLICE
From Page 1A
All three incidents are clas-
sified as fourth-degree criminal
sexual conduct, which involves
an instance of sexual assault that
does not include penetration.
A campus-wide crime alert was
only sent out for Monday's inci-
dent. DPS spokeswoman Diane
Brown said by the time the other
two assaults were reported to the
police, too much time had lapsed
since the alleged crimes. The
other tw" incidents were posted to
DPS's website Tuesday morning.
Brown added that DPS and the
Ann Arbor Police Department

work and better suits the orga-
nization's strategic vision and
objectives.
She noted that the U ..
position as a cornerstone of stu-
dent life at the University allows
SAPAC to educate as broad an
audience as possible by making
itself more prominent on cam-
pus and may allow it to reach
students who may not have
known the service existed una
now. '
Rider-Milkovich said the
proximity to the rented offices
of student organizations also
provides abeneficial component
in allowing students 'coming
and going to those organiza-
tions to see SAPAC, and it also
serves to forge further strategic
partnerships between SAPAC
and other campus groups.
While the new space is some-
what smaller than the old loca-
tion, Rider-Milkovich said it is
designed to meet the needs of
SAPAC's clients.-The new loca-
tion and its renovation was
designed with the assistance.
of focus groups and blueprints
designed by current and for-
mer SAPAC students and volun-
teers.
"From the placement of
walls, to the moving of where
walls would have been, right

down to the color we ended
up painting the walls, this is
very much a student-led, stu-
dent-inspired location," Rid:.
Milkovich said.
Another component to the
Union location is increased
privacy for confidential visits.
Unlike the previous location,
there is now an open area for
volunteers and full-time staff
to convene duringthe week, but
also a more enclosed area for
visits by students seeking per-
sonal resources and services.
When SAPAC celebrated its
25th anniversary last year, Rid-
er-Milkovich said current stu-
dents and staff members were
surprised by the irony of the
move, as SAPAC was founded in
the Union in 1986.
"We told them we were mov-
ing to the Union, and they said,
'back to where it all started,"'
she said.
"One thing, though, hasn't
changed at all," Rider-Milkov-
ich added. "We continue to try
every day to build awareness
that there are resources avail-
able on this campus for sur-
vivors of sexual and intimate
partner violence, and we hope
that this move makes those
resources even more acces-
sible."

U don leaders confront
backlash at public event


about how much the city would
have to contribute, especially
from the general fund.
"We are all over the place,"
Kunselnian said. "The idea that
we are going to be building a lot
of things for mass transit without
any idea of how we are going to
pay for the operations.leaves me
with a little concern."
Lumm said she was dissatis-
fied with the information provid-
ed from similar studies that are
currently being performed.
"We continue on this path to
implement studies without ask-
ing basic questions... So in the
spirit of transparency, the com-
munity deserves to understand
the whole picture," Lumm said.
"I don't, and they don't. And I
believe that rather than embark
on another transportation study
we owe the community some
answers first."
Toward the end of the dis-
cussion, Derezinski pledged his

support for the study. In an inter-
view after the meeting, he said he
felt the councilmembers made an
oversight.
"Thinking down the road, not
getting the data I think is a big
mistake," Derezinski said. "If
we finally come to a crisis where
everything is just stagnated in
terms of transportation then it
is so much more expensive to fix
the problem, but if we start now
we can solve a problem in an effi-
cient and prudent way."
Briere wavered between both
sides of the debate. She said in
an interview after the meeting
that her vote came down to what
would be the greatest benefit to
Ann Arbor residents.
"I'm still stuck on how the
rest of us (besides the Univer-
sity) benefit except indirectly,"
Briere said. "I want someone to
make that connection for me.
Not somebody telling me another
study they need to do."

Prime Minister,
Treasury chief
chastized for
economic policy
LONDON (AP) - The pub-
lic's verdict was clear: Prime
Minister David Cameron and
Treasury chief George Osborne
.:d a chorus of boos at Lon-
don's Paralympic Games - a
rare flash of hostility toward
their belief that a sharp aus-
terity drive is the best way to
repair Britain's debt-ravaged
economy.
Anger is mounting amid a
grueling four-year program
of cuts to public sector jobs
and welfare payments, which
Osborne has conceded will
need to be extended by at least
two years and which some
opponents worry has fueled
Britain's slump in" ro'-st
recession since 2009.
Seeking to win back support
and boost his prospects before
the 2015 national election,
Cameron on Tuesday made the
first major overhaul of his Cabi-
net and 100-strong ministerial
team since taking office in 2010.
While Cameron left most
senior allies in place, he sought
to sharpen his e"-mic mes-
sage by promoting, a crop of
young fiscal conservatives, and
looked to exploit the success of
the Olympic Games in appoint-
ing Paul Deighton, chief execu-
tive of the London organizing
committee, as a new finance
minister.
Osborne- architect of the
unpopular 81 billion pounds
($130 billion) in budget trim-
ming - gave an uncomfortable
smile late Monday as he faced
loud heckles at a Paralympic
Games medal ceremony. Cam-
eron, meanwhile, heard both
boos and cheers when his image
was shown on a jumbo screen
inside the Aquatics Center.
The outbursts were rare
amid the upbeat mood of Brit-
ain's summer of sports but
underscored resentment over
cuts to welfare payments, par-
ticularly a program assessing
whether those who receive dis-
ability payments should contin-
ue to be eligible.

Those checks are being car-
ried out by ATOS, the lead
technology company for the
Olympics and Paralympics.
"When people were first
told that there would be cuts to
benefits and tax rises over the
next five years, they seemed to
accept it. Now that those cuts
are starting to bite, people are.
beginning to complain," said
Victoria Honeyman, an expert
on British politics at the Uni-
versity of Leeds.
In another indication of the
country's mood, Britain's ex-
Prime Minister Gordon Brown
- the former Labour Party
leaderwho was hugelyunpopu-
lar while in office and defeated
in the May 2010 election - was
cheered during an appearance
at the Paralympics.
Cameron's Conoervative
Party and the smaller Liberal
Democrats formed a coalition
government after the incon-
clusive election and pledged to
cut Britain's debts, which had
piled up amid the global finan-
cial crisis and costly banking
bailouts.
Osborne has acknowledged
that he is a lightning rod for
public dissent. "In a difficult
economic environment, it is not
surprising that the chancellor
is not the most popular mem-
ber of the government," he told
the BBC on Sunday.
However, Cameron backed
his friend and longtime ally by
keeping him in his post - sig-
naling that the U.K. won't ease
up its austerity program, as
some including the Internation-
al Monetary Fund have urged.
The staffing shifts do offer
hints of change on other issues.
Culture Secretary Jeremy
Hunt lost his post after criti-
cism of his close ties to James
Murdoch, media mogul Rupert
Murdoch's son. Maria Mill-
er, a junior welfare minister'
and previously an advertising
executive, takes on the task of
implementing new regulation
in the wake of Britain's phone
hacking scandal - which
erupted in 4 Murdoch tabloid.
Hunt becomes Health Secre-
tary, though campaigners have
already raised concerns. In his
previous job, he questioned a
section of the Olympic Games
opening ceremony which

hailed the actievements of the
publicly fundedhealth care sys-
tem.
Justine Greening, a fierce
opponent of expanding Lon-
don's Heathrow Airport, was
switched from Transport Sec-
retary to Britain's aid minis-
try - a move that could let the
government authorize building
a third runway.
Advocates insist a new run-
way is needed because British
business is being hampered by a
lack of flightsto Chinaand many
developing economies. Those
opposed say the impact would
be severe on communities close
to Heathrow, including Green-
ing's Parliamentary district.
Sayeeda Warsi becomes a
member of Foreign Secretary
William Hague's team. Warsi,
the first female Muslin, o' oe
in a British Cabinet, has stirred
controversy by attacking Paki-
stan over women's rights and in
claiming that prejudice against
Muslims was pervasive in Brit-
ish society.
Veteran legislator Ken
Clarke, 72, leaves his job as
Justice Secretary. His replace-
ment, Chris Grayling, is likely
to take a tougher line on penal
policy.
To take his new economic
role, Deighton will be appoint-
ed a Conservative member of
the House of Lords and begin
work next year, once he has
completed Olympic and Para-
lympic duties.
Liberal Democrat David
Laws, a staunch supporter
of the - austerity program,
returned with a joint role in
the education department and
Cabinet Office, which handles
government administration.
Laws quit in 2010 after he
admitted claiming taxpayers'
money to pay rent to his long-
term partner, which is banned
under Parliamentary rules.
Cameron hopes the moves
will kick-start a government
that has been humbled in recent
months by policy reversals. A
series of planned tax rises were
ditched amid public dissent and
opposition fromn his own party
nixed Cameron's pledge to
transform Britain's unelected,
700-year-old House of Lords
into a mainly elected 462-seat
chamber by 2025.


have an increased presence on
and near campus during the first
weeks of the school'year because
more students are active then.
Holly Rider-Milkovich, direc-
tor of the University's Sexual
Assault Prevention and Awareness
Center, said students should con-
tact someone if they feel violated.
"We want students to reach
out whenever they experience
conduct that doesn't feel right
to them," Rider-Milkovich said.
"They may not choose to label itas
sexual assault, but they may feel
'what happened to me just didn't
feel right."'
Rider-Milkovich noted that
sexual assault is one of the most
underreported crimes.

"As the rate of reports rises,
that doesn't necessarily reflect
that we have an increase in the
number of incidents, just the
number of those reporting," Rid-
er-Milkovich said.
SAPAC visits are confidential,
and the center offers services to
students who have, been victims
of anytype of sexual assault.
"Once a student connects with
SAPAC, we continue to provide
support for the entire time a stu-
dent is at the University," Rider-
Milkovich said.
SAPAC is open Monday
through Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. in
the Michigan Union. It also offers
a 24-hour crisis line at (734) 936-
~~. dJ

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
@michigandaily


.8A - Wednesday, September 5, 2012ThMcignaly-mhgnaicm

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

If you defer making payments while in school. Additional .50%
discount,drops rate to 5.99% (5.99% APR) when you graduate and pay
with auto payments
.V
If you make payments while in school and sign up for auto payments.
Additional .Z5% discount drops rate to 5.99% (5.99% APR) after you
graduate
No origination fee
No cosigner required
Access to private alumni community
Similar borrower protections to federal student loans, including income
based repayment and economic hardship forbearance4
15 year repayment term
Below Federal Stafford (6.8%/6 6.55%) and PLUS (7.9%/f7.65%) rates
Available for US Citizens and Permanent Residents0
www.soficom/michigan
"*'866.357 6342
4
Ar., Al, \~rANI,' .
a<
do ON Po U 'oloXol.
t6
Metoeoau epl n hyl s
abuao.Ntyu eue eas
ItJy~,teprow'eI~rse n
RelIlJ~U ui.AtrMI' i1dvrewrdottee
 pt's ofthe peob,llwe're minrseyo.
disret eontsndfeshhnig
See More I Opportuntiltes
1A 6
* . 40

04% * VA 0
of 4e
V IlIIII I I I( Quality In Everything We Do


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, September 5, 2012 -- 9A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, September 5, 2012 - 9A

U.S., Israel in close talks over
easing tensions with Iran

U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton meets with Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi Tuesday during her visit to Beijing.
C1inton seeks Chinese
accord on S. China Sea

Americans hope to
resolve land disuptes
BEIJING (AP) - U.S. Secre-
tary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton sat down Wednesday
with Chinese President Hu Jintao
to press Beijing to agree to peace-
fully resolve territorial disputes
with its smaller neighbors over
the South China Sea. But as she
began her meetings here, China
questioned the stated neutrality
of the United States.
At the start of the talks with
Hu, Clinton said the U.S.-China
relationship is strong. "We are
able to explore areas of agree-
ment and disagreement in a very
open manner, which I think dem-
onstrates the maturity of the
relationship and the chance to
take it further in the future," she
said.
There was no immediate com-
ment on the talks, but a sched-
uled meeting with Vice President
Xi Jinping for later Wednesday
morning had been canceled by
China "for unexpected schedul-
ing reasons," said a senior State
Department official, speaking on
condition of anonymity.
Xi, who takes over as China's
top leader later this year, also had
a meeting canceled with the visit-
ing prime minister of Singapore,
Lee Hsien Loong. No reasons for

the cancellations have been given.
Clinton met late Tuesday with
Chinese Foreign Minister Yang
Jiechi after arriving in China
from Indonesia, where she urged
Southeast Asian nations to pres-
ent a unified front in dealing with
China in attempts to ease rising
tensions in the South China Sea.
The U.S. wants China and
the other claimants to adopt a
binding code of conduct for the
region, along with a process to
resolve maritime disputes with-
out coercion, intimidation or the
use of force. Clinton wants the
Chinese to drop their insistence
on settling conflicting claims
with individual nations and
instead embrace a multilateral
mechanism that will give the
smaller members of the Associa-
tion of South East Asian Nations
greater clout in negotiations.
She urged all parties to make
"meaningful progress" by a
November summit of East Asian
leaders that President Barack
Obama plans to attend in Cambo-
dia.
In Jakarta, Indonesia's capital,
Clinton offered strong U.S. sup-
port for a regionally endorsed
plan to ease rising tensions by
implementing the code of con-
duct. Jakarta is the headquarters
of ASEAN, and Clinton pressed
the group to insist that China

agree to deal with them as a bloc.
The stance puts the U.S.
squarely at odds with China,
which has become more aggres-
sive in pressing its territorial
claims with its smaller neigh-
bors and wants the disputes to
be resolved with each country,
giving it greater leverage.
Clinton made her case in
Jakarta on Tuesday in meetings
with Indonesian President Susilo
BambangYudhoyono and ASEAN
secretary general Surin Pitsuwan.
Indonesia has played a leading
role in putting the six-point plan
together after ASEAN was unable
to reach consensus on the matter
in July.
Clinton said the U.S. is
"encouraged" by the plan but
wants it acted on - particularly
implementation and enforce-
ment of the code of conduct,
which has languished since a
preliminary framework for it
was first agreed upon in 2002.
"The United States does not
take a position on competing ter-
ritorial claims ... but we believe
the nations of the region should
work collaboratively to resolve
disputes without coercion, with-
out intimidation and certainly
without the use of force," Clin-
ton told reporters at a news con-
ference with Indonesian Foreign
Minister Marty Natalegawa.

Americans hope to
dissuade possible
military strike
JERUSALEM (AP) - Israeli
officials said Tuesday they are
in close discussions with the
United States over how to deal
with the Iranian nuclear pro-
gram, seeking to ease tensions
that have emerged between the
two allies over a possible Israeli
military strike against Iran.
The dialogue, in which Israel
is looking for President Barack
Obama to take a tough public
position against Iran, suggests
the odds of an Israeli attack in the
near termhave beenreduced.
Israel, convinced that Iran
isn't taking seriously U.S. vows
to block it from acquiring nuclear
weapons, believes that time to
stop the Iranians is quickly run-
ning out. A series of warnings by
Israeli officials in recent weeks
has raised concerns that Israel
could soon stage a unilateral mili-
tary strike. In response, senior
American officials have made'
clear they oppose any Israeli mili-
tary action at the current time,
After tense exchanges with
the Americans, Israeli political
and defense officials said Tues-
day that the sides are now work-
ing closely together in hopes of
getting their positions in sync.
Clearer American assurances on
whatpressure itispreparedtouse
against Iran, including possible
military action, would reduce the
need for Israel to act alone, the
officials said, speaking on condi-
tion, of anonymity because they
were discussing a security matter.
There was no immediate
American comment Tuesday, as
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu huddled with his
security cabinet for a daylong
briefing by military intelligence
on Iran's nuclear program.
Netanyahu has criticized the
international community for
failing to curb Iran's nuclear
program. In recent days, he has

called for the world to set a clear
"red line" for the Iranians. His
comments were seen as veiled
criticism of President Barack
Obama.
Israel has not publicly defined
its own red lines, which might
include a deadline for Iran to
open its facilities to U.N. inspec-
tors or a determination that Iran
has definitively begun enrich-
ing uranium to a weapons-grade
level.
Israel believes Iran is trying
to develop nuclear weapons, a
charge the Iranians deny. The
U.S. has said it doesn't know
what Iran's ultimate plans are
for its nuclear program.
White House press secretary
Jay Carney on Sunday played
down any differences, saying
"there is absolutely no daylight
between the United States and
Israel when it comes to the neces-
sity of preventing Iran from
acquiring a nuclear weapon."
"The best way to ensure that
Iran does not acquire a nuclear
weapon is through a diplomat-
ic process that results in Iran
finally agreeing to, in a com-
pletely verifiable way, give up its
nuclear weapons ambitions and
abide by its international obliga-
tions. But that window will not
remain open indefinitely," Car-
ney said. He emphasized that
Obama "has insisted that all
options ... remain on the table."
A U.N. report last week show-
ing continued progress in the
Iranian nuclear program rein-
forced the Israeli view that
negotiations and economic
sanctions are not persuading
Iran to change its behavior.
The U.N. report found that
Iran has moved more of its
uranium enrichment activi-
ties into fortified bunkers deep
underground and impervious
to air attack. Enrichment is a
key activity in building a bomb,
though it has other uses as well.
Israel views a nuclear-armed
Iran as a mortal threat, citingIra-
nian calls for Israel's destruction,
Iran's development of missiles

capable of striking the Jewish
state, and Iranian support for hos-
tile Arab militantgroups.
Israel's timeline for military
action is shorter than that of
the United States, which has far
more powerful bunker-busting
bombs at its disposal.
Feeling so vulnerable, Israel
needs strong assurances from its
key ally, said Dore Gold, a former
Israeli ambassador to the United
Nations and confidant of Netan-
yahu.
"We have to hear something
a lot more concrete, a lot more
public from the U.S., which is
the leader of free world. What
is it going to do?" Gold told the
Army Radio station.
Israeli officials said they are
discussing the possibility of
tightened economic sanctions on
Iran. They also want Obama to
make a strong public statement of
American unwillingness to toler-
ate a nuclear Iran, perhaps at the
U.N. General Assembly later this
month or even sooner.
"What we'd(like to see is Presi-
dent Obama saying something
in the next few days or weeks,
something serious," said one offi-
cial.
"It could be (a declaration) of
red lines, or some forceful state-
ment," he said. "The point is not
to convince Israel, but to con-
vince the Iranians, that we, the
United States, mean business. We
will tighten sanctions. There's a
military option. ... The Iranians
have to understand unequivo-
cally that the Americans are seri-
ous about preventing them from
acquiring nuclearweapons."
Obama has repeatedly said
he would not allow Iran to gain
nuclear weapons and has said
the U.S. would be prepared to use
force as a last resort.
But many Israelis are skepti-
cal. Obama is also believed to be
unwilling to launch a risky mili-
tary operation in the run-up to
presidential elections. An attack
could send global oil prices sky-
rocketing and endanger U.S.
troops in the region.


Judge: Undocumented Florida
students can't be charged more

Regardless of
immigration status,
Fla. residents can
pay in-state tuition
MIAMI (AP) - Students at
Florida's public colleges and
universities cannot be charged
higher out-Qf-state tuition sim-
ply because their parents are in
the U.S. illegally, a federal judge
ruled.
U.S. District Judge K. Michael
Moore determined the policy
violates the equal protection
clause of the Constitution by
forcing those students to unfair-
ly pay three times as much as
Florida residents. Children
born in this country are citizens
whether or not their parents
have legal immigration status.
"The state regulations deny
a, benefit and create unique
obstacles to attain public post-
secondary public education for
U.S. citizen children who would
otherwise qualify for in-state
tuition," Moore wrote.
The ruling Friday came in a
lawsuit filed by the Montgom-
ery, Ala.-based Southern Pov-
erty Law Center on behalf of
several Florida students who
were denied in-state tuition
because they could not prove
their parents are in this coun-
try legally. The center's deputy
legal director, Jerri Katzerman,
said Tuesday that Moore's rul-
ing could give thousands of
students greater access to an
education.
"He has said in no uncertain
terms that these youngsters are
citizens and they have been dis-
criminated against," she said.
State education officials said
lawyers were reviewing the rul-
ing and no decision had been
made on a possible appeal. There
are 28 public two-year colleg-

es - most of which also offer
a limited number of four-year
degrees - and 11 public four-
year universities in Florida.
At the state's flagship Univer-
sity of Florida, in-state tuition
costs about $205 per credit
hour. For those paying out-of-
state tuition, the price balloons
to $947 per hour, according to
the State University System of
Florida.
Children of illegal immi-
grants have won similar battles
in other states.
Last month in New Jersey, a
state appeals court ruled that
an American-born student
whose parents could not prove
legal status was wrongly denied
financial aid. The American
Civil Liberties Union said that
,ruling could affect thousands
of New Jersey students seeking
state assistance to attend col-
lege.
In California, a challenge was
resolved in favor of the students.
Similarly, the Colorado attor-
ney general issued an opinion
in 2007 determining that legal
state residents were eligible for
in-state tuition even if their par-
ents were residing in the coun-
try illegally.
The Florida policy, which has
been in effect for several years,
applies to students under age 24
who are also claimed as depen-
dents by parents. According to
a Florida International Univer-
sity law professor's analysis of
U.S Census figures, nearly 9,000
children of illegal immigrant
parents are enrolled in Florida
public colleges and universities
in a given year.
It wasn't immediately clear
Tuesday how many current stu-
dents might have their residency
status and tuition costs changed
because of the ruling.
Attorneys for the state argued
mainly that classifying children

of illegal immigrants as eli-
gible for in-state tuition would
cost financially-strapped col-
leges and universities millions
of dollars each year. That argu-
ment, however, assumed Florida
would be forced to offer in-state
tuition to all students who lived
out of state.
"This is simply incorrect,"
Moore wrote, adding that his
ruling "would not prevent the
-state from continuing to distin-
guish between in-state residents
and out-of-state non-residents."
Moore also noted that undoc-
umented parents help pay for
education through state sales
and other taxes just as do par-
ents who are U.S. citizens.
State Rep. Hazelle Rogers, a
Lauderhill Democrat who spon-
sored legislation to scrap the
policy, said the ruling comes as
welcome news.
"The bottom line is simple: a
U.S. citizen should be treated
like a U.S. citizen no matter who
their parents are," Rogers said.
New pathways to work and
education have recently been
opened at the federal level for
young people who are in the U.S.
illegally.
Earlier this year, President
Barack Obama's administration
expanded the rights of more
than 1 million young illegal
immigrants by giving them work
permits even though they would
not obtain legal residency here
or a path to citizenship.
The immigrants must prove
they arrived in the United States
before they turned 16, are 30 or
younger,.have been living in the
country at least five years and
are in school or graduated or
served in the military. They can-
not have been convicted of cer-
tain crimes or otherwise pose a
safety threat.
"I have ruined their inno-
cence," he said quietly.'

A Somali soldier holds his weapon Tuesday in the port of El-Ma'an afterforces ousted al-Shababfighters from the area.
Somalis flee after Kenyan attack

Stronghold of
al-Qaida-linked
terrorist groupr
shelled
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)
- Hundreds of residents have
fled the southern Somali port
of Kismayo after the Kenyan
navy shelled the town ahead of
an expected ground operation
to capture it, officials and resi-
dents said Tuesday.
Kismayo is the main remain-
ing stronghold of the al-Qaida-
linked militants of al-Shabab.
The group, considered terror-
ists by the United States and
others, is waging an insurgency
against the U.N.-backed Somali
government, which is being bol-
stered by African Union troops
including Kenyan forces.
Residents say the militants
have ordered them not leave
Kismayo, but the prospect of
being caught in a war between
the militants and the Kenyan
forces is outweighing whatever
brutal punishment they could
get for disobeying.
Kenyan military spokesman
Col. Cyrus Oguna said seven
people believed to be members


of al-Shabab were killed in
shelling Saturday and Monday
that targeted an arms cache,
a mounted gun .position and a
militant roadblock
Oguna said Kenyan ground
troops were moving closer to
Kismayo - they are now just
90 kilometers (56 miles) away
- in preparation for a military
assault.
Afrah Hussein, an elder in
Kismayo, said hundreds of resi-
dents have fled.
"There was a gradual flood
in recent days, but today more
than 200 people left," he said
Tuesday. "People are being
forced to stay in the town but it
seems they are paying no heed
to that because of their fears of
war."
Another resident agreed.
"We are fleeing because com-
bat ships are coming in sight
of the town and troops are on
the way," said Mohamed Ali,
who was heading to the town of
Barawe to the east. "We don't
want to get caught between
warring sides - it's a confusing
and scary situation out there."
Muhummed Ghelle, another
Kismayo elder, said "everyone
is sneaking away for his safety
- people started to leave here a
week ago."

Those fleeing have mostly
streamed into Jilib, a town
north of Kismayo, but some
have traveled to Merca, an east-
ern town recently seized by
government troops, Ghelle said.
Kenyan commanders had
earlier vowed to take Kismayo
by August but officials said the
plan was bogged dowis by the
need to take care of people in
the towns already liberated
from al-Shabab.
Last week, Kenyan troops
took over the town of Miido,
north of Kismayo.
The Ugandan military forms
the bulk of the African Union
forces in Somalia. Ugandan
and Burundian forces pushed
al-Shabab out of Mogadishu,
the capital, about a year ago.
Kenya and Burundi have also
dispatched troops to fight al-
Shabab, which neighboring
countries view as a regional
threat.
Somalia has not had a fully
functioning government since
clan-based warlords toppled
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in
1991, but slow progress is being
made. A new constitution has
come into force, a new parlia-
ment and speaker were recently
chosen and they are to vote in a
new president by Sept. 10.

I


10A - Wednesday, September 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Remorseful Toussaint ready
to fight for starting RB spot

Borges not planning
to adjust game plan

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan football team
was beaten and broken Saturday,
and 1,000 miles away, Fitzgerald
Toussaint was a spectator.
From the house of assistant
basketball coach Bacari Alexan-
der, Toussaint watched as sopho-
more cornerback Blake Countess
hopped off on crutches after the
game. He watched redshirt junior
tackle Taylor Lewan hobble away
on one good leg, and he watched
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
address the media, his voice tired
and hoarse.
In -his mind, Toussaint was
imagining what he could have
done, what would have gone dif-
ferently had he been on the field
with the men he calls his broth-
ers, he said Tuesday.
Toussaint said that Alexander
had extended an invitation to
Toussaint on behalf of the team,
because "they wanted me to feel
wanted."
Toussaint had not been wanted
in Texas, and it was no one's fault
but his. Hoke suspended the red-
shirt junior running back along
with sophomore defensive end
Frank Clark for the opener after
separate legal issues.
No, Toussaint had not been
wanted. But he was needed.
Without the former 1,000-yard
rusher, Michigan's ground game
was suffocated by the Crimson
Tide. His replacements, senior
Vincent Smith and sophomore
Thomas Rawls, combined for just
42 yards on 19 carries. As senior
quarterback Denard Robinson
struggled to find consistency
through the air, Alabama crowd-
ed the box, and Michigan had no
answer in the backfield, not with-
out Toussaint.
Toussaint spoke with the
media on Tuesday for the first
time since his arrest.

Redshirt junior running back Fitzgerald Toussaint has been reinstated following a one-game suspension.

For a few seconds after he
strode into Schembechler Hall,
finally free from the weight of
the suspension and Hoke's own
rebuke - which both declined
to discuss - a smile stretched
across Toussaint's face. When
he approached reporters, the
grin disappeared, and for four
minutes, he earnestly answered
questions about his own personal
failings. Had he learned?
"Guys my age, they feel they
know everything up until they get
in trouble," Toussaint said. "That
day really brought a lot of things
to me and showed me about my
character."
Was he angered by the suspen-
sion?
"I kind of knew I messed up,"
Toussaint said, "and I was ready
to face any consequences."
In jail that July night after he
was arrested for driving a vehicle
while intoxicated, Toussaint said
the worst part was the feeling
that he had let down his team. In
the span of four minutes on Tues-

day, Toussaint mentioned letting
down his teammates a total of
seven times. Now that he's back,
the job remains up for grabs.
"We're not going to want to put
him in and say he's the starter,"
said offensive coordinator Al
Borges. "I don't think that's fair
to the other guys. So we'll go this
week and see how everything
works out and make a decision."
Toussaint, though, remains the
No. 1 running back on the depth
chart and is the likely leader to
start. Though the Alabama defen-
sive frontblanketed the Michigan
backfield on Saturday, Smith and
Rawls didn't create any seams
for themselves in Toussaint's
absence. Rawls, heralded since
spring as a bulldozer, was bull-
dozed.
Smith was never supposed to
be a feature back, and aside from
one 22-yard scamper on a burst of
speed to the outside near the end
of the third quarter, he gained
just 11 yards on 12 other carries.
Still, with just 33 yards, Smith led

Michigan in rushing.
On Saturday, back in Alexan-
der's house, Toussaint said he
analyzed the game. No one knows
how Toussaint would have fared,
but, of course, he wondered any-
way. Before the team left for
Texas, Toussaint said his team-
mates visited or spoke with him
individually to show him their
support. He said Robinson had
the biggest impact, and one day,
Robinson showed up at Tous-
saint's house with fellow captain
Jordan Kovacs, the fifth-year
senior. The visit, and Robinson's
phone calls, showed Toussaint
the team still had his back.
Senior receiver Roy Roundtree
said he didn't speak with Tous-
saint individually, but he said he
never lost faith in him. He sup-
ported him from the beginning.
"The whole team did,"
Roundtree said. "That's our
brother. He just made a mistake,
and you learn from it, watching us
Saturday wishing he could be out
there."

ByZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
After an ineffective offensive
performance and a lopsided loss
against, Alabama on Saturday,
Michigan offensive coordinator Al
Borges said he was ready to rip up
the playbook, run more and pass
less. Right?
Well, Borges has eight words
for you.
"No. No. Nope. No. Not at all.
No."
The plan will remain the same,
Borges said on Tuesday, despite
criticism that he didn't properly
utilize senior quarterback Denard
Robinson's ability to run. He said
that he wouldn't change his plan
even if he were playing Alabama
again.
When the defense stacks the
box to try to stop Robinson, Borg-
es will favor pass. With fewer men
in the box, Borges will favor run.
Borges' philosophy isn't particu-
larly new or radical, but perhaps
more than ever, Robinson must
pass efficiently for the offense to
succeed.
Under former coach Rich
Rodriguez, Robinson was asked to
run first, and, well, run second. To
shake things up, Robinson could
fake the read option and look for a
receiver over the sleeping second-
ary, though if things broke down
he could always - you guessed it
- run.
Last year, Borges adjusted,
though Robinson still ran the ball
17 times per game. Good defenses,
like Michigan State's, shut down
the Michigan offense by crowding
the line of scrimmage and daring
Robinson to throw.
The opener and remarks from
Borges indicate Michigan will try
to exploit that defensive philoso-
phy this season. Robinson ran just
10 times against Alabama, and his
first designed run came with just
30 seconds left in the first quarter.
"I would not have run Denard
Robinson any more than we

ran him Saturday," Borges said.
"Absolutely not. No.I know alot of
people think that, but no way. That
wasn't going to happen."
Borges is betting that Robinson
has improved his decision-making
and mechanics enough to catch
defenses creeping in. Against Ala-
bama, Robinson limited the num-
ber of throws off of his back foot,
but still appeared flat-footed at
times. He made one catastrophic
decision - a second-quarter inter-
ception returned for a touchdown
- but also connected on a beau-
tiful deep ball to redshirt junior
Jeremy Gallon and found junior
Devin Gardner for a long touch-
down.
"The game plan, obviously we
know they were going to try to
stop me from running, so we went
in with a different mindset, and
we took what they gave us." Rob-
inson said "The play-calling was
great.... We've just got to execute."
Against a lesser defense, Rob-
inson will have bigger passing
lanes. The backs will take some of
the pressure off. Alabama simply
made plays that other defenses do
not.
"Never in my life have I seen a
corner knock a guy out of bounds,
run back and intercept. a fade,"
Borges said. "In 37 years of coach-
ing, I've never seen that happen."
Though Borges said he will
limit Robinson's touches to keep
him healthy, Michigan will likely
run him more against the remain-
der of the schedule than against
Alabama. Borges said he takes a
game-by-game approach in decid-
ing how much to utilize his quar-
terback's legs, and the Crimson
Tide's past success against mobile
quarterbacks spelled doom.
Yet the blueprint is out there.
The defenses that turned Robin-
son into a one-dimensional player
have shut Michigan down.
It's up to Robinson to prove he
can beat them with his arm.
"Whatever coach calls,"he said,
"I'm with him 100 percent.", 0

Dantonio criticizes Spartans for 'disrespectful' tweets

Michigan State
players bash Denard
Robinson for play
against Alabama
By STEPHEN J. NESBITT
Daily Sports Editor
While the Michigan football
team was getting manhandled by
No. 2 Alabama in the Cowboys
Classic on Saturday night, Mich-
igan State players were sitting at
home watching.
But a handful of them decided
it would be smart to get on Twit-

ter and critique Michigan senior
quarterback Denard Robinson
on his performance, setting off a
firestorm of criticism.
The tweets were deleted,
but not before being captured
by MLive.com. Some of them
included:,
" "DENARD IS SOOOOO
BAD!" wrote safety Kyle Artin-
ian. "And it makes me feel so
good."
. "I can play quarterback for
the school in blue," added line-
backer Jamal Lyles. "(Spartan
tailback Le'Veon Bell) for Heis-
man > the other guy in the great
state of michigan."
. "Is this guy really a QB I'll

say my mans (walk-on quarter- running back Nick Hill.
back Tommy Vento) is a bet- "Even a blind squirrel can get
ter QB lol," linebacker Denicos a nut ever once in a while ..." Hill
Allen tweeted. tweeted.
"S/O to my boy Allen, real-
vento by the izing the fire-
way." "Our guys storm he'd set
Robinson off, put in the
passed for 200 need to keep final word on
yards on r-of- Sunday after-
26 passing, their mouths noon.
but threw two "Lol well
interceptionsshut." apparently I
He complet- hurt a lot of
ed a 71-yard feelings sorry
pass to red- guys lolI guess
shirt junior wide receiver Jere- we have 'to wait till October
my Gallon in the second quarter, 20th to play some real football
but that didn't impress Spartan

#GoGreen," he wrote.
"I heard about it," Robinson
said on Tuesday. "But I'm think-
ing about Air Force, I'm not even
worrying about it now."
But did it bother him?
"No," he said. "It doesn't both-
er me at all."
Michigan State coach Mark
Dantonio was prepared for the
question during his Tuesday
press conference and roundly
rebuked his players.
"Our guys need to keep their
mouths shut," Dantonio said,
adding that the tweets were "dis-
respectful."
"You need to approach this

game with humility," he said.
"When this becomes personal,
that's when it crosses the line."
In his two career games
against Michigan State, Robin-
son hasn't seen much success. In
Michigan's 34-17 loss in 2010, he
threw three interceptions. In a
28-14 defeat last season, Robin-
son was just 9-of-24 passing with
an interception.
But for Dantonio, not only are
the personal attacks uncalled
for, he also remembers being
lambasted by Alabama recently
- Michigan State lost the 2011
Capital One Bowl, 49-7, to the
Crimson Tide.

0
6
6

Join
Come to one of our mass meetings
*Sunday, Sept. 9
-Wednesday, Sept.12
-Thursday, Sept.13
-Wednesday, Sept. 19
-Sunday Sept. 23
All meetings at 7:30 p.m.
-d
420 Maynard St.
@michigandaily | Facebook.com/michigandaily

6

r

F' t


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomWensaSpmbr,202-A

Wednesday, September 5, 2012 -11A


lot
Amilk
vn AfONE
COt$fES TU VING
WMEN IT 01
p F
] F 1 J ," r T S .b
i
uk, 7;
i
4 I
Rai wr
,
sitar, ,
AMAM

:Y ,r

ULRICH'S
Powereddf 4 By

SAVE UP TO $20 Y U TXB OSO
Text "UM2a" to 22022
Re ,pystrc' esaefrdtis



12A Wednesday, September 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

U.S. Navy: Bin Laden
book leaks classified info

"No Easy Day"
cleared formal
Pentagon review
WASHINGTON (AP) - A for-
mer Navy SEAL's insider account
of the raid that killed Osama bin
Laden contains classified infor-
mation, the Pentagon said Tues-
day, and the admiral who heads
the Naval Special Warfare Com-
mand said details in the book may
provide enemies with dangerous
insight into secretive U.S. opera-
tions..
Rear Adm. Sean Pybus told
his force Tuesday that "hawking
details about a mission" and sell-
ing other information about SEAL
training and operations puts the
force and their families at risk.
"For an elite force that should
be humble and disciplined for life,
we are certainly not appearing to
be so," Pybus wrote in a letter to
the roughly 8,000 troops under
his command. "We owe our chain
of command much better than
this."
The letter was obtained by The
Associated Press.
At the Pentagon, press secre-
tary George Little said that an offi-
cial review of the book, "No Easy
Day," determined that it reveals
what he called "sensitive and clas-
sified" information. He was not
more specific but said the author
was required to submit the book
to the Pentagon before publication
for a formal review of potential
disclosures of such information.
"When you have special opera-

tions units that perform these
missions, there are tactics, tech-
niques, and procedures, not to
mention human life, that are in
play," Little said. "And it is the
height of irresponsibility not to
have this kind of material checked.
for the possible disclosure of clas-
sified information."
He told reporters during a
briefing that the Pentagon is still
reviewing what legal options
should betaken againstthe author.
Pybus, in his letter, was more
direct, saying that, "We must
immediately reconsider how we
properly influence our people in
and out of uniform NOT to seek
inappropriate monetary, political,.
or celebrity profit from their ser-
vice" with the SEALS.
"We all have much to gain
or lose," he said. "In the weeks
ahead; we will be taking actions to
meet this'challenge, and I appreci-
ate your leadership and support of
our community in this effort."
Last week, Adm. William
McRaven, head of U.S. Special
Operations Command, warned
his troops that he would take legal
action against anyone found to
have exposed sensitive informa-
tion that could cause fellow forces
harm. The Naval Special Warfare
Command is a unit within U.S.
Special Operations Command.
A lawyer for author Matt Bis-
sonnette, who wrote under the
pseudonym Mark Owen, has dis-
puted that he was legally obliged
to have the book screened before
publication.
Bissonnette's co-author Kevin
Maurer said in a statement Tues-

day that Bissonnette "was meticu-
lous aboutnadheringto his desire to
never do anything to undermine
the SEALs' mission or put his for-
mer colleagues in harm's way."
Little would not say what dam-
age may result from the book's
revelations and he declined to
point to any specific portions of
the book that contain material
that would be considered a vio-
lation and a release of classified
information.
He said the Pentagon did not
try to stop the public release
of the book this week in part
because there wasn't much time.
"Pre-release copies of the
book were already being circu-
lated around," Little said.
The book, which was pub-
lished by Dutton, an imprint of
Penguin Group (USA), was No.
1 on Amazon's best seller list
Tuesday, which was its official
release day. The initial print run
was 575,000 copies and publica-
tion of the book was moved up
from Sept. 11 to Sept. 4 amid a
flurry of reports about the book
last week.
Jeh Johnson, the Pentagon's
top lawyer, notified Bissonnette
last Thursday that the Pentagon,
believes he is in "material breach
and violation" of two nondisclo-
sure agreements and of a related
document he signed upon leav-
ing active duty in April2012.
The Justice Department
could go after the profits of the
book in a civil proceeding if it is
determined that he violated the
nondisclosure agreement by not
getting the book pre-cleared.

I
I

Former President Bill Clinton speaks ata 2010 campaign event in Rackham Auditorium.
Clinton aims tounify

4

Separatist party takes power in
Quebec after electora victory
No vote to breaki ties to pass legislation, and the Marois on her victory but said he
results will undermine efforts did not believe the results meant
away from Canada to quickly hold a referendum on most Quebecers favor separation.
separation. "Our government will remain
expected soon Quebec's official election web- focused on jobs, economic growth
Mite showR AP preli)inary resultspd goo ceonoa iiagerner.
MONTREAL (AP) -- A s epa-givingPth just over 32 percent "'Harpesid"WeTaeveeconod
ratist party won power in the of the vote and 57 seats, while the it issues and jobs are also the pri-
French-speaking province of Liberals had about 30 percent of ority of Quebecers. In that sense,
Quebec on Tuesday night, but the vote and 46 seats. A new party, we will continue working with the
another referendum to break Coalition Avenir Quebec, followed Government of Quebec on those
away from Canada isn't expect- with 27 percent and 20 seats. The common objectives."
ed any time soon after the Parti separatist Quebec Solidaire party Although a number of candi-
Quebecois failed to win a major- won 2 seats. dates from the smaller parties are
ity of legislative seats. A party needs to obtain 63 of separatists, a minority govern-
Parti Quebecois leader Pauline the 125 seats to form a majority. ment means "the more radical
Marois, who becomes Quebec's Charest, who lost his own seat, things in the party platform are
first female premier, replaces Lib- congratulated Marois for becom- going to be dead on arrival," said
eral Jean Charest, Quebec's leader ing Quebec's first woman premier, Bruce Hicks, a political science
for nearly a decade. but noted it is a minority govern- professor at Concordia University
With opinion polls showing lit- ment. in Montreal.
tle popular appetite for a new sep- "The result of this election Francois Legault, a former PQ
aratist referendum, Maroisherself campaign tonight speaks to the minister who now leads the Coali-
has left much uncertainty about if fact that the future of Quebec tion Avenir Quebec, has showed
and when one would be held under lies within Canada," Charest little support for quickly holding a
a PQ government. said. He did not indicate whether referendum, saying the separation
But more autonomy for Que- he intended to step down as Lib- issue has paralyzed the province
bec is high on the agenda for the eral leader after the defeat. for too long. He has said a referen-
PQ, which has said it would seek Quebec has held two referen- dum should be put off for at least
a transfer of powers from the dums to split from Canada, in a decade.
federal government in areas like 1980 and 1995, the last narrowly With the PQ just short of a
employment insurance and immi- rejecting independence. A recent majority, however, the party
gration policy. If those measures poll showed support for inde- should be able to win support
are rejected, the party believes pendence under 30 percent, but from other parties on a number
it would have a stronger case for analysts said voters were weary of other issues, for instance by
independence. of the Liberals after three terms offering them cabinet positions,
Without a majority in the Que- in office. Hicks said.
bec Assembly, however, the PQ Canadian Prime Minister Charest called the election:
will need to work with other par- Stephen Harper congratulated more than a year before he had

Keynote address that brings Clinton back to the to rebuild America from the
national political forefront and ground up," Clinton says, adding,
sign of mended lends Obama the validation of "That's what happened when I
.1. the Democratic Party's most was president."
relationship with popular elder statesman. To be sure, Clinton hasn't
With the economic recov- always been a model surrogate
ab ama ery still tepid and unemploy- for the Obama campaign.
ment stubbornly high, Obama The former president once
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) - campaign officials are eager praised Romney's '"sterling"
When Bill Clinton takes the to portray the president's eco- business credentials at 'Bain
convention stage in prime time nomic policies as mirroring Capital, the private equity firm
Wednesday to praise Presi- those of his Democratic prede- where Romney amassed a lsrge
dent Barack Obama, it will be cessor. Many voters remember fortune. Clinton also broke with
the most visible step on a path Clinton's tenure as a period of Obama on tax policy, suggest-
toward reconciliation for two prosperity. The economy added ing George W. Bush-era tax cuts
former rivals whose political some 22 million new jobs dur- for higher income earners be
fortunes are now inextricably ing his two terms in the White extended at least temporarily.
linked. House from January 1993 to the Obama has pledged to allow the
That Obama would choose start of 2001 and Clinton left cuts to expire as a way to cut the
the former president for such office with a balanced federal federal deficit.
a high-profile speaking spot budget and surplus. Clinton later walked back
and that Clinton would accept But it's not a one-wayproposi- that comment, but Republicans
seemed unfathomable in 2008, tion, as Clinton needs an Obama seized on it to suggest he was
when the two clashed bitterly win in November to preserve his siding with the GOP on taxes.
during the Democratic nomina- own legacy. A recent Fox News poll found
tion showdown between Obama "From President Clinton's a nearly 20-point gap among
and Hillay RofIImJ Clinto pspcive, if o iy were hit ters for the wsmen
e frmer p'esid nt's wife veete"he'lrepeal'verything _ ienton is vie wndrably
Even though Hillary Clinton Clinton ever did and everything by 61 percent of white voters,
now serves as Obama's secretary he wants to advance," longtime Obama by 42 percent. Among
of state, resentments between Clinton adviser Paul Begala independents, just 46 percent
the current and former presi- said. "He and President Obama have a favorable view of Obama
dents have been slow to ebb. share an economic philosophy while 64 percent view Glinton
But now, with the Democratic ferociously focused on the mid- favorably.
incumbent locked in a tight race die class, and he believes Obama Mindful of the formerpresi-
with Republican Mitt Rom- has us on the right track." dent's appeal to those groups,
ney, Obama has fully embraced Begala also serves as senior the Romney campaign has tried
Clinton as a political partner in adviser for Priorities USA Action, to co-opt Clinton's. record as a
hopes of capturing the former an independent group support- weapon to use against Obama.
president's uncanny knack for ing Obama's re-election that has They've done so most nota-
political survival against tough struggled to compete financially bly in a TV ad claiming Obama
odds. with similar Republican-leaning has tried to strip the work
"President Clinton has an groups. Clinton has signed on to requirements from welfare,
economic record second to help the group and did his first which was a key component of
none," Obama campaign man- event in August, briefing donors the welfare reform law Clin-
ager Jim Messina said at a on the political.landscape. His ton signed in 1996 and which
briefing Tuesday hosted by assistance helped the group raise remains one of his signature
ABC News and Yahoo. "He's a about $10 million in August, its accomplishments.
very credible messenger ... he's best monthly haul. Clinton released a statement
going to deliver a very compel- Clinton stars in an Obama, saying the ad was "not true" -
ling speech." campaign commercial currently an assessment shared by inde-
Obama called Clinton in July, running in battleground states. pendent fact-checkers.
and asked him to give the speech In the ad, the former president It's been an uneasy partner-
that would place the president's suggests that Romney would ship for Obama and Clinton, two
name in nomination. Clinton return the country to George political heavyweights whose
accepted enthusiastically, aides W. Bush-era economic poli- styles and political instincts
to both men said. cies while affirming Obama's often conflict. Tempers flared
If the arrangement seems approach that he argues mirrors between the two in 2008, lead-
like a forced marriage, it's also his own. ingto accusations of race baiting
a mutually beneficial pairing "President Obama has a plan and recriminations.

ECB chief is wielding more sway than Fed Chair Bernanke

Benchmark interest
rate cut expected on
Thursday
WASHINGTON (AP) - Move
over, Ben Bernanke. This is
Mario Draghi's moment.
The European Central Bank
president is overtaking the Fed-
eral Reserve chairman - at least
for now - as the central banker
with the most influence on the
global economy and markets.
Faced with a growing reces-
sion and a possible breakup of
the 17-country euro alliance,
Draghi has bigger problems than
Bernanke, who's, overseeing an
economy in recovbry.
As head of the ECB, which
meets Thursday, Draghi also has
more ammunition left than Ber-
nanke does.

The Fed chief still wields con-
siderable power to drive finan-
cial markets. That was clear last
week, when stocks jumped after
Bernanke signaled in a speech
in Jackson Hole, Wyo., that the
Fed will do more to help the still-
weak U.S. economy.
Yet the focus of the global
financial world has shifted to
Draghi. Some economists expect
the ECB to cut its benchmark
interest rate Thursday. Many
also hope Draghi spells out plans
by the ECB to start buying bonds
of troubled European govern-
ments to ease their borrowing
costs and shore up the euro alli-
ance.
"Draghi's role in averting an
implosion of the eurozone puts
him in the unfortunate position
of being the central banker with
the greatest influence on global
financial stability in the short

term," says Eswar Prasad, pro-
fessor of trade policy at Cornell
University.
Bernanke's task isn't as urgent,
"since the U.S. economy is plod-
ding along and does not face an
imminent disaster scenario.
Stock prices have risen in
recent weeks, in part because
investors expect the Fed and the
ECB to reduce lending costs in
the United States and Europe.
The Standard & Poor's 500 stock
index has risen more than 5 per-
cent since July 25..
Greece, struggling with debts
and its fifth year in recession,
may have to stop using Europe's
single currency if it doesn't
impose the tough budget cuts
being demanded as a condition
for its, bailout. Many fear that
bigger indebted countries -
like Spain and Italy - would be
forced to follow Greece out of the

eurozone.
The breakup of the alliance
could be devastating. Borrow-
ers in countries that left the
eurozone would struggle to
produce enough money in their
weak local currencies to repay
old debts denominated in much
stronger euros. As debts soured,
Europe's banking system would
freeze up. Its economy would
likely follow.
"The stakes in Europe are
much higher," says Ethan Har-
ris, co-head of global economic
research at Bank of America Mer-
rill Lynch. "Europe is already in
a recession. Their banking sys-
tem is in worse shape than ours.
And their fiscal policy process is
even more broken ... The survival
of the euro is at stake."
Last month, Draghi vowed
to do "whatever it takes" to
hold the eurozone together and

said that "believe me it will be
enough." Markets rallied on the
bold promise. Investors assumed
the ECB would intervene in the
bond market and buy up Italian
and Spanish government debt.
They hope its purchases would
drive Italy's and Spain's borrow-
ing costs down to sustainable
levels.
Imminent action by the ECB
is considered unlikely. Indebted
countries like Spain would first
have to apply for aid to the euro-
zone's bailout fund. Then they
would have to agree to condi-
tions spelling out how they'd
shrink their deficits.
And key details have yet to
be settled. They include how
tough the conditions would be
and whether any bond purchases
would target a specific interest-
rate ceiling.
Theoretically, Draghi has lim-

itless power to print money to
pour into bond purchases. But
Germany's conservative Bundes-
bank opposes the purchase
plan. It says governments could
become addicted to central bank
support - and slack off on cut-
ting their deficits.
Bundesbank head Jens Wei-
dmann, who sits on.the ECB's'
governing council, is so far alone
in opposition to bond purchases
by the ECB. But Weidmann could
conceivably rally more support
for his position if Draghi and the
council majority are perceived as
going too far.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has
indicated she's open to Draghi's
plans - a key factor fueling mar-
ket expectations he'll be able to
carry out a strong intervention.
Analysts say the effort ultimately
needs public support in the cur-
rency union's largest country.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Wednesday, September 5, 2012 -13A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, Septemher 5, 2012 - 13A

1

I

U U


,14A --Wednesday, September 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

14A -Wednesday, September 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


l

9

10

t
..
- ..
I
.. I

amazon

TEXTBOOKS
FROM AMAZON
SAVE UP TO 70%*

164

A

0I



8B Wednesday, September 52012 The Statement
EGG FREEZING
From Page 6B
parents offering to pay for half the cost of egg freezing of their soon-to-
be-35-year-old daughters.
Those who have already gone through with egg freezing laud the
benefits of their decision.
"It's shocking how often I find myself at some social function with
a captive audience as I discuss the sixteen little eggs I have sitting in a
freezer in Denver," wrote Jennifer Hayes in her blog Retrieve Freeze
Relax, who was interviewed for the New York Times article. "Very few
people know this option exists."
Even those deemed too young to think about babies are looking
toward egg freezing as an option. LSA sophomore Lisa Schlosberg said
she was considering freezing her eggs after a painful cyst removal in
her senior year of high school left her with one ovary and half a Fal-
lopian tube.
"It's so hard to be like, 'What is my life going to be like? When am
I going to need my eggs? When am I going to have kids?' " Schlosberg
said. "The more I thinkabout it, the more it makes sense (to freeze my
eggs)."
The emergentechnology of vitrification can offer a temporary san-
tuary, allowing women who aren't quite ready to have children but are
reaching the age of infertility to "put time on hold," as Mersol-Barg
calls it.
"Men have been able to do that for years," Mersol-Barg said. "Why
can't that be for women?"
Go forth and multiply cOrder Online
But perhaps the most convincing argument for the technology of co ttag einn co m
egg freezing lies right in front of our eyes: the desperation of infertil-
Julie and Bill VanDerworp had been trying to conceive a baby for 13 & Recive F ree
years before ent was born.
For 13 years they watched as friends posted Facebook pictures of InnSticks
bouncing babies and strangers pushed strollers with toddlers in Santa Enter Coupon
hats. 13 years of pee sticks and insensitive comments like "Well, it must
be fun trying all the time," injecting hormone after hormone and sub-C de"Students"-
jectingthemselves to any amount of gynecological probing in the hope Code"Students"
of producing a child. All the while, the pregnancy tests remained a
stubborn negative.
"You don't think13 years sounds like alongtime, but it's every month
during those 13 years," Bill VanDerworp said. "Every month you're not
pregnant, it's a slap in the face."
The first IVF baby, Louise Brown, was born in Great Britain on
July 25, 1978, at the deft hands of Patrick Steptoe, a surgeon, and
Robert Edwards, a scientist. At the time, the process was immedi-
ately demonized as irregular and unethical. "All hell will break loose,
politically and morally, all over the world," decried Nobel laureate
James Watson at a Washington conference on biomedical ethics in
1971.
But when society saw the scores of babies delivered into the a
hands of hundreds of desperate couples, their hearts - like the
Grinch's - grew many times in size, and the process started to
gain widespread acceptance. Today, more than 5 million babies
have been conceived through IVF, with few objections in regard
to its ethical resonance.
Perhaps oocyte vitrification will eventually follow the same path.
Infertility is an affliction as ancient as mankind itself. Artifacts of
big-breasted fertility goddesses dug up in the dirt recall generations of
people rubbing totems and herbs on their bellies to hasten the birthing
process - all to no avail.
And now, technology has offered a tentative treatment.
To know how hard these couples have fought to have their babies
- the money and time spent, the drugs, the tears, the uncomfortable
questions - how can we not allow this technology to exist?
"I'wouldn't wish infertility on my worst enemies," Julie VanDer-A A , 4
worp said. "It's the worst thing emotionally."
The VanDerworps have spent more than $200,000 to conceive Kent.
But it's been worth it, they say.
"Most people our age have a retirement plan,".Bill VanDerworp said.
"We have a baby."

IF.




.w

-w

U

_0

0

U U U

2B Wednesday September 5 2012 The Statement
THE JUNK DRAWER

Wednesday September 5, 2012 The Statement 7B

Crestfallen
PERNAL STATEMENby Kaitlin Williams

letter from the editors
by dylan cinti and jennifer xu
Welcome back, Wolverines! Thank you for choosing Michigan.
More importantly, thank you for picking up this magazine.
Our mission is simple: find good stories and tell them well. It's notan
especially original mission. Indeed, Mark Twain wrote that it was his
love of "a good story well told" that led him to write in the first place.
Unlike Mr. Twain, we're not writing for posterity. We're writing
for right now. Journalism these days happens with an urgency that's
as daunting as it is exciting. We're inundated with so many different
sources of stimuli, and all of them have some piece of news to convey.
To say the world moves faster than when Mr. Twain wrote is a mas-
sive understatement. But still, the same principle holds: you can't go
wrong with a good story well told.
For us, what makes a good story is the telling. And the key to telling
a good story is to ground it in the human.
For instance, which of the following stories would you rather read:
a report about how human eggs are cryogenically frozen, hermetically
sealed in liquid nitrogen and injected into prospective mothers' uteri;
or a story about Julie and Bill, a couple whose 13-year quest to conceive
a child led them to an eggstored away in a freezer for years?
We're thinking you would choose Julie and Bill.
As it happens, our feature piece this week is about both stories. It's
equal parts science and people, technological advances and human
experience. But the pulse of the story lies in its subjects - in parent-
hopefuls like Julie and Bill, egg donors like LSA student Lisa, and dona-
tion coordinators like Mitzi. You'll meet all these people when you flip
to the center of the magazine.
This semester, we're also bringing back the Personal Statement.
This week, Kaitlin Williams shares a candid story about struggling
with mental illness. We welcome Personal Statement submissions
from anybody affiliated with the University. Please e-mail thestate-
mentmag@gmail.com for more details.
Here at The Statement, we're always on the lookout for good stories.
That is to say, we're always listening to people and hearing what they
have to say. Come listen with us.
Join
Come to one of our mass meetings
'Sunday, Sept. 9
'Wednesday, Sept. 12
'Thursday, Sept. 13
'Wednesday, Sept. 19
'Sunday Sept. 23
All meetings at 7:30 p.m.
Student Publications Building - 420 Maynard St.

random student interview
by kaitlin williams / illustrations by megan mulholland

Welcome to the Random Student
Interview, where we travel to a
mythicalplace called Hypotheti-
cal Land. Here, the sun is always
sunny and everybody's stepdad
is from Hawaii.
So, I don't want to ask all the
boring questions you're going to
get from everybody like Where
areyoulising? What'syouraem-
ber?Cal/memaybe? What did
you do this summer? Ijust want
to go straight to Hypothetical
Land because that's fun. What do
you wish you would've done this
summer?
Well, I wish I would've studied
abroad.
Where would you like to study
abroad?
Spain.
Whereabouts in Spain?
Barcelona.
Have you been overseas at all?
Yeah. I've been to France and Italy.
So why Barcelona? Is it because
it sounds so beautiful to say it
with that lisp? Bar-tha-lo-na?
Yeah.
Yeah? Really? I was kidding.
No. I just really like the sun.
We've got the sun here! So do
you think the sun is particularly
wonderfl in Barcelona?
Yeah. I've heard.

So, where's your favorite place
to vacation?
Hawaii. My stepdad is from Hawaii
so we go over there alot.
Oh, I'mjealous! Way to go,
Abbey's mom!
Oh, I know!
She married that guy to make
her kids happy. What if she
would've married some guy from
Milwaukee?
That would've been not so good.
OK, confident. What would you
do to prepare for a trip to Spain?
I don't know.
Come on, we're in Hypothetical
Land! Dream a little! Would you
like to rough it? Like one back-
pack, you against the world?
No. Probably not.
Would you get homesick?
No.
Just Hawaii-sick?
Yeah, Hawaii-sick.
So, speaking of travel, you know
that the game last weekend was
in Dallas?
Yeah.
Would you have gone if you had
the chance?
Yeah.
Doyou knowabout Isaac?
No.
Do you think Isaac isjust some
guy I'm talking about?
No. It's a hurricane!

Yeah, it's a hurricane. And it's
kind ofgoing that direction...
still want to go?
I would go. Probably.
How brave. I mean stupid. I
mean brave?
I think people are pretty deter-
mined fans, so they're still going
to go.
So, what was the song of your
summer?
Oh, I don't know. I feel like "Call
Me Maybe" was playing all the
time.
But was that against your will?
Kind of against my will
Yeah. What song did you actually
like bask?
I don't know.
You don't have a convertible to
bop around in? Your stepdad
from Hawaii isn't rich?
No. (laughs)
Let's talk summer fashion trends.
Did you like the colored pants?
I like the colored pants, butI don't
own any colored pants.
Any other trends you follow?
I like the high-waisted shorts.
Well,maybeyoucangetsomecol-
ored high-waisted shortsin Hypo-
theticalLand.ThengotoDallas.
And we'lwin.AAnything'spossible.
-Abbey is an LSA sophomore.

Istruggle with mental illness.
I was afraid to write that. Writing it down tually I didn't believe her. I nearly floated
makes it more real. to the PES.
I've talked about it for months. In therapy, My first visit was disappointing. I waited
through tears. I've lied about it too. With for hours, I gave my personal information
family, friends. I lied because I didn't think and bodily fluids until, anticlimactically, I
anybody would understand. was given a dose of anti-anxiety medication
The mind is a most misunderstood thing. and sent home.
Months of trial and error with therapy and The medication increased my detached
medication proved thatto me. feelings, but at least it made me sleepy. I
Through it all, I've grappled with regrets. went home and napped for a few hours,
I could've done this ... I should've done that... and when I woke up, I went to a party.
The best thinglIve learned fromtherapy is to At that party; I drank. The thought that I
banish these words. When there is no I can, shouldn't be drinking on the medication
there is onlyI will try. didn't cross my mind. A few drinks later
and I was standing in front of a mirror
Last February, I admitted myself to the with my thoughts racing until one emerged
Psychiatric Emergency Service at the Uni- clearly: Wouldn't it befunny if I didn't wake
versity Hospital. up tomorrow?
Insomnia, nightmares and sleep paraly- But I did wake up the next morning, in a
sis had plagued me for more than a year. state of disarray. I was so disarrayed that I
The worst nightmares started with me abruptly left a lunch with my family, leaving
waking up in my bed, everything lifelike, them worried.
and ended with somebody harming me. I I wish I could say that's when I turned
didn't know when I was in real danger or it all around, told my family everything
dreamland danger. My best friend had to and admitted I was afraid. Instead, I went
routinely remind me of the real. But even- back to my apartment and spent days in

bed. -
But for all the lows, there were high For too long, I wanted my problems to be
points too. Some days I would ride a wave mine alone. I thought getting help meant
to intellectual and creative peaks. But failure. When antidepressants and slep
then, crestfallen, I'd go down the barrel aids made everything worse, I wrote off
again. all medication. Even when medication had
I haven't always felt this way. The emo- nie stable after my hospitalization, I took
tions I've experienced lately aren't normal, myself off it "just to see" if I was okay on
and they aren't me. It's like a blackout. my own.
Last April, I came back into focus at the I wasn't.
Psych ER. I could beat myself up over these mis-
It was my fifth visit, and the staff admit- takes, but instead I'm trying to be my own
ted me to a psych ward out of town. I was best friend. I used to think mental illness
assessed to be a suicide risk. It wasn't that I wasn't as legitimate as physical illness, but
actively wanted to die; it'sjust thatlivinghad I've learned the impact is the same. There's
become too difficult. nothing weak about asking for help. There's
I was involuntarily committed for two nothing strong about suffering alone.
days. I stayed three more because I knew I Unlike the other works I've written,'l
needed to. can't write this from an outside perspective.
My parents drove hours to attend therapy Truthfully, I'm afraid last year will repeat
sessions with me. Friends and family called itself again. But this time I'm prepared. Iwill
every day to tell me how much I meant to try mybest.
them. Even the University was understand-
ing, sending a representative to the hospital Kaitlin Williams is an LSA senior and a deputy
to help me deal with the classes I'd missed. magazine editorfor The Michigan Daily.
I was not alone.


6B Wednesday, September 5,2012 The Statement

EGG FREEZING
From Page 5B
age and a dating service, egg donation agen-
cies help with the in-between steps involved
in the donation process: litigation, travel
arrangements, donor screening, hormonal
monitoring, education, emotional support
and more. The agency a donor or a recipi-
ent couple ultimately chooses can "lend you
insight and skills that will not only ease the
process but also help you focus on the things
most important to your cycle's success,"
according to a book published in.2010 called
"The Insider's Guide to Egg Donation."
"The way that (Mitzi) had approached the
process, I was much more comfortable doing
it," Kaitlin said of her experiences donat-
ing under Heineman. By law, egg donors'
full names. cannot be disclosed for fear that
the recipient couple would find out. "It was
something that I knew nothing about, and
was about to go into it completely blindsided,
and she made me really comfortable."
The.question is, if Mersol-Barg's predic-
tion that egg donation agencies would even-
tually go extinct was to come true, would
reproductive clinics be able to take up the
slack?
Kyla, a veteran egg donor who has been
treated at three different reproductive clin-
ics, doesn't think so.
"When you're the donor, the doctors don't
seem to care much about you," she said.
"They're usually like, 'OK, do this. and this
and this,' but they don't really give you a rea-
son for it."
"You don't think
13 years sounds like
a long time, but it's
every month during
those 13 years. Every
month you're not
pregnant, it's a slap in
the face."
-Bill VanDerworp
She acknowledged she was worried that
some clinics would treat an egg donor as
more of a commodity than a patient if.egg
donation agencies were eliminated. Though
such worries might not apply to all fertility
clinics (Mersol-Barg's staff makes a regular
habit of shouting "You're pregnant!" over the
phone to infertile couples whose tests come
back positive), standardization of this behav-
ior is a legitimate worry.
Such fears are reminiscent of the contro-
versy behind the Repository for Germinal
Choice (nicknamed the Nobel Prize sperm
bank), a place where women could, in effect,
"shop around" for their future children's

genes by selecting frozen sperm donated by
a roster of Nobel laureates, math geniuses,
famous businessmen and successful athletes.
Implicit in the disappearance of donation
agencies is the vague worry that egg dona-
tion - such an intimate, time-consuming
process - could be reduced to a similarly
coded financial transaction.
As the process currently exists, egg dona-
tion already has whiffs
of commercialization. In
some instances, donors
are compensated more if
they graduated from an
Ivy League school or have
a certain eye or hair color.
"Dr. Greene asked
about my parents' and
siblings' bodies: average-
height, average-weight,
fair skin, and blue eyes,
and she makes an approv-
ing expression at the last
fact," Catherine Lacey
wrote in an article pub-
lished this April in The
Atlantic. "This is like
a sunroof on a car you
might buy or a washer-
dryer in a potential apart-
ment. Grad school is a
leather interior, a pool in
the backyard."
Egg donors also worry
that donatingto an empty
bank with no certain des-
tination will take away
the personal bond they
feel toward their recipi-
ent families.
"I personally have
always been grateful that
I was able to know the
outcomes of my cycles
and that there was that
personal cunnection
there," said Leah, who
runs a blog called Single
Infertile Female. "I don't
evenhonestly know if I
would have been as driv-
en to donate if I thought
my eggs were simply
going to be frozen away in
a bank somewhere where
they may or may not one
day be used."
Stop all the clocks
Still, the expansion of
egg freezing to a wider
audience contains con-
siderable benefits. Most
significantly, the cost:
In vitro fertilization, an
elective procedure that is
rarely covered by health
insurance, can cost up to
$30,000 per cycle. But
without the need for an
intermediary such as an
egg donation agency cov-

ering the costs of travel and donor screening,
the cost is slashed in half.
There are substantial advantages to the
egg donor as well. If a college student want-
ed to donate her eggs, she could theoretically
- after undergoing the preliminary-psycho-
logical, genetic and drug screenings - start
immediately. Those six to twelve months
waiting for a family to decide whether you're

a "good match?" Eliminated.
Not to mention that the prospect of egg
freezing has opened up a host of new oppor-
tunities for those women who want more
control over their- reproductive choices. A
New York Times article published this May
noted the increasing appearance of young
patients accompanied by two gray-haired
parents at infertility clinics, would-be grand-
See EGG FREEZING, Page 8B

Wednesday, September 3B

the leaders and the worst
newsmakers from the worthy to the worthless
LEADERS

a summer of daily stories

irevealf,~ latopfrom -
EGA BYTI NO
11wi dAM

Jason Clarke screaming aaaaarr
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrg
ggggggghhhhh like a deranged ape
for FIVE STRAIGHT minutes in
"Lawless."

Nicki Minaj said she's voting Repub-
lican in Lil Wayne's new mixtape
Dedication 4, giving Mitt Romney a
considerable lead in bootyliciousness.


Harvard says that the 200 + students who
are being investigated for cheating, may
have plagiarized their take home exams...
WAIT YOU CAN'T DO THAT?

* Highlight from Kanye West's lat-
est Twitter rant: "I was recently
questioned about the use of the word
BITCH in my music and initially was
offended by anyone questioning any-
thing in my music."
7
* According to Jezebel, cosmetic
vagina reconstruction services are
on the rise. What's next? Foreskin
reattachment surgery?
I n a recently surfaced interview,
"Bourne Identity" star Jeremy
Renner doesn't think it's ever okay to
say the n-word, unless it's him saying
it twice in the same interview.

This July, Ann Arbor native Mayer Hawthorne performed at the Michigan
Theater asa part of the Bank of Ann Arbor's Free Sonic Lunch Series.

* The press couldn't get ahold of
Clint Eastwood to tell him what
they thought about his speech at the
Republican National Convention, so
they told this empty chair.

No. 407:
When Wolverine
Access is down
on the first day
of school, classes
should be cancelled.

-WORST
No. 408:
If more than five
people are walking
to a party together,
they're freshmen.

THE rules
No. 409:
Meet the neighbors:
before it's too
awkward to meet
the neighbors.

On July11, the Library Lane parking garage celebrated its grand open-
ing. The underground parking structure is located on South Division
between East William and East Liberty Streets.


N

O

9

4B Wednesday September S, 2052 // The Statemet

Wednesday,eptember 5, 2012 // The Statement 5B

eTelive in an age of mechanical production. OnStar,
rather than the North Star, guides us home. Texts
determinedly buzz at our legs wherever we walk.
Technological gadgets have insinuated themselves into our
personal, professional and internal lives.
So it should come as no surprise that we also live in an age
of mechanical reproduction. That's right, the most intimate
biological process is now online and open for business.
gandwiched between Craigslist calls for "$$$ Exotic
Dancers $$$' and "Happy Finnish Massages" are multiple
inquiries-for college-aged egg donors. In the 1970s, one of
these eggs would be joined with a sperm in a petri dish and
clumsily fumble into its embrace. Sometimes, this process
- called IVF, in vitro fertilization - created a baby. Other
times, it didn't.
But now, these eggs can be frozen, hermetically sealed in
liquid nitrogen until revived from their cryogenic freeze to be
injected into a hopeful mother's uterus. You could do whatever
you wanted with these eggs - save them, implant them, study
them, throw them out. Yet, as new technologies in assisted
reproduction glide inevitably onward, the question remains:
what implications will this have on donors and the recipient
couples?
Fresh vs. frozen
There's no better adjective to describe Michael Mersol-
Barg's fertility clinic in Birmingham, Mich. than clean. A
pitcher of ice water and a tin of biscotti cookies welcome
prospective patients to the brightly-lit space. Tidily stacked
atop the waiting room chairs are magazines emblazoned with
proud parents clutching babies, their skin as smooth as egg-
shells.
A floor below, nearly 20 different eggs are suspended in
deep-freeze, tightly packed in liquid nitrogen tanks at temper-
atures nearly 200 degrees below zero. Some of these eggs are
more than three years old, waiting for the day their cell walls
will be cracked open by a sperm cap and implanted into a pro-
spective mother's womb.
Pregnancy with a frozen egg is a relatively new development
in the field of assisted reproductive technology. Rather than
going through the interminable trials (and failures) of obtain-
ing eggs from a fresh donor, infertile couples can select a pre-
frozen egg from Mersol-Barg's egg bank - the only one of its

kind in the state of Michigan - and begin IVF immediately.
Bill and Julie VanDerworp, a couple struggling with infertil-
ity from Commerce Township, Mich., recounted their struggle
to obtain fresh oocytes.
"It's a numbers game, completely," Bill said.
For every donor they selected, the VanDerworps had to wait
until the college-aged women were available for a summer
break, then gradually sync their ovulatory cycles to the recipi-
ent mother and wait with bated breath to see if the embryos
would take.
The first donor produced 13 eggs at the outset. Out of
those, 11 were viable for fertilization. But by the time the
embryos were ready for implantation - about five days after
the eggs we're mixed with sperm - only two of the original
13 remained
The two embryos implanted into Julie's uterus didn't take
and she suffered a miscarriage two weeks into the pregnan-
cy.
Another donor only produced four or five eggs at retrieval,
so it wasn't worth going through the rest of the process. But
the VanDerworps still had to incur all the cost of her medi-
cal bills and infertility drugs - about $25,000 per cycle.
"Every time you picka girl for fresh, you're.out of pocket,"
Bill said. "But it might work, it might not."
Ice without the freezer burn
The newest technology in the field - oocyte vitrification -
can preventsuch inconsistencies from happening. Now, as soon
as the eggs are retrieved from'a willing donor, they're imme-
diately frozen, stored in an egg bank and thawed at the recipi-
ent couple's convenience. Egg freezing offers a guarantee that
those oocytes selected for IVF are viable, increasing the chance
of pregnancy.
Donor sperm have been frozen and thawed for decades.
For lack of a better term, they don't get freezer burn. After
the sperm are collected, they can be quickly dehydrated and
popped into a freezer, ready to be thawed at any time.
But the difficulty with freezing the sperm's female counter-
part - the oocyte - is that it is inundated with water droplets.
Water in its liquid form is innocuous. But when it is frozen, ice
crystals form,and these crystals can be deadly to the developing
baby.
"Crystals, like snowflakes, can become jagged," said Marsha

Parker, an embryologist at Mersol-Barg's fertility clinic.
The knife-like tips of the ice crystals can destroy the egg's
interior structure, slashing through the floating chromosomes.
And pregnancy via a damaged egg can result in catastrophic
after-effects - mostcommonly, miscarriages.
Enter the process of vitrification.
Loosely translated as "freezing to glass," oocyte vitrification
involves the use of a cryoprotectant - colloquially known as
antifreeze. Unlike water, cryoprotectants don't expand when
they solidify. So if the water droplets inside of the egg could
somehow be exchanged for cryoprotectant, the harmful con-
sequences of ice crystal formation, when subjecting an egg to
temperatures changes, would be eliminated.
The first part of the process seeks to slowly exchange
the water in the egg for the cryoprotectant. Then, once the
exchange is complete, the egg is immediately plunged into a vat
of liquid nitrogen, remaining in the frozen state until it's ready
to be inseminated and implanted.
Of course, there is no guarantee with anything.
Egg freezing, especially IVF via frozen egg, is still consid-
ered an experimental procedure by the American Society for
Reproductive Medicine.
"There could be a fracture that happens at the time of
retrieval," Parker said. "There could be something innately
wrong with these eggs."
But Mersol-Barg is optimistic. -
"We always need to be cautious, and there's always uncer-
tainty," he said. "But to move forward, there has to be some
risk."
So far, Mersol-Barg has found the likelihood of pregnancy
via in vitro fertilization with a frozen egg - with about a 45 to
50 percent success rate - is equal to that of a fresh egg. Today,
his clinic has helped give birth to 29 babies from frozen eggs,
with five more on the way.
The VanDerworps count themselves among the lucky 29.
Their son, Kent, turns one in October.
Eggs for sale
To Mersol-Barg, the technology for vitrification has become
so powerful that it could eliminate the need for egg donation
agencies.
"The age of egg agencies ... eventually they're going to go
bye-bye," he said. "It's justthe future."

In other words, the central goal of the egg bank is to make
egg donation something more akin to sperm donation.
Over the years, sperm donation has morphed into a sim-
ple outpatient procedure. After filling out some preliminary
paperwork, a prospective sperm donor is handed a stack of
pornographic magazines, a plastic cup with a lid and a bio-
hazard bag. After he "produces," he will ring a buzzer. A nurse
takes the bag, holds it up to the light (there is a request that no
jokes are made duringthis moment), and
that'sit. The sperm is crystallized, stored,
and - when selected a week, a year or five
years down the line - thawed, grasped by
a fine needlepoint pipette, and injected
into a waiting oocyte ina petri dish.
But how similar is the process of egg t
donation to its male counterpart?
Well, not very much. Far from a quick
lunch-break trip to a fertility clinic, egg
donation is at minimum a three-month
process. Before their eggs are even looked
at, donors have to fill out a 30-page appli-
cation detailing their deepest, darkest
secrets, and subjected to lengthy screen-
ings of their psyches, genes and bodies.
And once they are selected by a couple
(a process that can take anywhere from
six months to a year), the donation proce-
dure is no walk in the park. Donors have to
get up early every week to get their blood
drawn and ultrasounds performed. They
must store and mix vials and vials of medi-
cation in their refrigerators - suppression
hormones to prevent premature ovula-
tion, birth control pills to synchronize the
cycles of the donor and recipient, follicle
stimulating hormones to stimulate the
growth of multiple mature follicles, anti-
biotics to reduce the chance of infection
- injecting tiny syringes of hormones into
their bellies and thighs.
The ovaries, normally the size of olives,
produce so many eggs that they swell to
the size of navel oranges. Donors can't 2 o e
drink, smoke, have sex, exercise or even

walk very fast, for fear that their swollen ovaries will knock
into their abdomen. They can't stay up too late or go to bed too
early, as this would disrupt their injection cycles.
On behalf of the egg
Mitzi Heineman, who runs Egg Donor Program of Michi-
gan, an egg donation agency based in Saginaw, Mich., regards

her role as a donation coordinator as absolutely essential.
"I am the middle person, the communicator for what's
going on with the donor, the doctor and the recipient couple,"
Heineman said. "Things can go wrong, tests can come back as
abnormal. Everything has to be perfect in order for things to
proceed."
Deemed something of a cross between a real estate broker-
See EGG FREEZING, Page 6B


