STORY IN "STITCHES": Michigan native presents humorous and surprising account of his experiences in medical school PAGE 7A

IiffFid igan & i j
Oi H \lT. l 1) E TY T T4 \A R o F EDITIS ALj F EE11) 1111, lAI1Il1L.M)'l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 21, 2012


michigandailycom


.... , ou ..,, . ..,,,.. .


UNIVERSITY ATHLETICS
Football ticket
prices increase

Individual student
tickets up $2.50

35 r

from last year
E
By ZENA DAVE M 35
Daily Staff Reporter

32,57
31.25
28 ,/~ 7
2/25ii /

A volunteer undertakes a prescribed burn at the Matthaei Botanical Gardens yesterday.
CAMPUS SAFETY
S'U'e emergency response
syste-m effective in stor-m

Though the 2012 Michigan
football schedule features 2
fewer homes games than last
year, students will be paying
more to attend each game this
season for the second straight
year.
Season tickets for students
will cost $195 for six home
games, or $32.50 per game,
with an additional $10 service
fee - up from $250 for eight
homes games, or $31.25 per
game in 2011.
Hunter Lochmann, aenior
associaterathletic director and
the Athletic Department's
chief marketing officer, said
the price increase is necessary
for the Athletic Department
to maintain competitive and
match the price level of other
institutions.
"We realize that we are
a little underpriced in some
areas, and this (raise in ticket
prices) gets us a little closer
to that price (of peer institu-
tions)," Lochmann said.
Lochmann added that

v
.

25 , l'


2009

2010 2011 2012

E-mails, phone calls
and text messages
warned of inclement
weather on campus
By CHARLENE LERNER
Daily StaffReporter
While emergency sirens blast-
ed throughout Ann Arbor last
Thursday amid hail and lightning
to warn locals of a fast-approach-

ing tornado, the University used
its own system to caution campus
of an impending emergency.
The University's Emergency
Alert system, implemented in
February 2008 by the Univer-
sity's Department of Public Safe-
ty, has bridged the gap between
mass-warning signaling and the
lack of informative details. On
Thursday, the system sent e-mails
to all University students, fac-
ulty and staff. Text and voicemail
messages were also sent to those
who registered for the additional

notification service.
The system is the most reliable
communication system in send-
ing direct information to the Uni-
versity community, according to
DPS spokeswoman Diane Brown.
"With the emergency alert,
you can send a text message,
voice message and an e-mail mes-
sage so that people can get more
information than they would get
from a non-worded siren," Brown
said.
Though all students, faculty
See EMERGENCY, Page 6A

Notre Dame charges $38 per
game for student tickets and
Ohio State charges $32.
Including the service fee,
student season ticket prices
amount to $2.50 more per
ticket for the 2012 season, and
the team will play only six
games at home instead of the
eight played this past season.
Michigan is scheduled to
play Air Force, Massachu-
setts, Illinois, Michigan State,
Northwestern and Iowa at
home this season.
Marquee games against
Alabama, Notre Dame,
Nebraska and Ohio State will
all be played away from the
Big House this fall.
Lochmann said one reason
prices were raised was to give
students an incentive to arrive

Year
at the stadium prior to kick-
off and not waste their well-
spent money.
"We want more students
who buy their student tick-
ets to come (to home games).
We want them to attend, we
want them to get there early,"
Lochmann said. "So by rais-
ing these prices minimally,
we're definitely not trying to
price anybody out. We want
students to show up early, it's
such a huge home advantage
when they're there early and
loud."
LSA sophomore Kate
Maknev said she does not
think the increase in prices
will impact student atten-
dance.
"Personally I don't think
See TICKET, Page 3A

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Fiercely contested
election nears end

FLASH ACTTVTSM

CSG candidates
make last-ditch
efforts to win votes
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
As of 12:01 a.m. today, the polls
opened for one of the most con-
tested Central Student Govern-
ment elections in recent history
as five pairs of students vie for the
presidential and vice presidential
seats and more than 100 students
seek to fill representative posi-
tions.
CSG President and LSA senior

See who the Daily editorial
board thinks is best suited for
the CSG presidency. Page 4A
DeAndree Watson, who hand-
ily won his election last year, said
this year's election is more com-
petitive than in years past.
"The enthusiasm and the ener-
gy that's present with the candi-
dates in this election definitely
surpasses what I've seen in previ-
ous elections," Watson said.
Watson added that this elec-
tion may attract students who
hadn't previously voted or paid
attention to student government
due to the vast array of candidates
See CSG, Page 3A

Members of Arab Expression, a coalition of Muslim groups on campus, participate in flash mob on the Diag yesterday.
SPEAKERS ON CAMPUS
Obama's half-sister to give talk

LSA-SG candidates
unopposed in election

Canning, Burns
running for
president, VP seats,
19 for reps
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
DailyStaffReporter
Along with Central Student
Government elections, stu-
dents will also vote for LSA

Student Government's represen-
tative positions online today and
tomorrow.
LSA students, who comprise
the University's largest student
body, will elect their student
government's next administra-
tive pair and nine of the 19 LSA-
SG representative positions for
one-year terms.
LSA junior Caroline Canning,
LSA-SG secretary, and LSA
junior Melissa Burns, LSA-SG
See LSA-SG, Page 3A

Soetoro-Ng visit
honors Asian-
Pacific American
Heritage month
By SYDNEY BERGER
Daily StaffReporter
In January, President Barack
Obama visited the University,
emphasizing the importance
of college affordability and
accessibility during his address
at Al Glick Field House. This
Thursday, his half-sister Maya
Soetoro-Ng will be addressing
campus as part of the Universi-

ty's celebration of Asian-Pacific
American Heritage Month.
The University's Asian/
Pacific Islander American Stud-
ies program will be hosting
Soetoro-Ng for a lecture titled
"Education for Peace and Global
Awareness." The lecture will be
delivered at the Michigan Union
and will come in preparation for
Asian-Pacific American Heri-
tage Month, which will be cele-
brated in May. Soetoro-Ng is an
assistant professor of education
at the University of Hawaii -
Manoa and a published author.
"We are extremely honored
tohave her," saidAssociate Prof.
Scott Kurashige, director of the
Asian/Pacific Islander Ameri-

can Studies program. "She is a
very distinguished scholar."
The month of May was offi-
cially designated Asian-Pacific
American Heritage Month in
1992, and it was chosen as the
celebratory month because Jap-
anese immigrants first arrived
in the United States on May 7,
1843, according to a website
dedicated to the month.
Kurashige said there is a need
for greater awareness of Asian/
Pacific Islander American stud-
ies on campus to provide a
new perspective on issues like
gender, sexuality, history and
immigration.
"It's an important time
where people learn about the

significance of Asian American
and Pacific Islander history
and some of the important con-
temporary issues facing Asian
American/Pacific Islander
communities on campus and off
campus," Kurashige said.
Soetoro-Ng has made a large
impact in promoting intercul-
tural awareness through her
advocacy work, in which she
connects her domestic under-
standing of diversity with global
awareness.
"She is well known for
her political activism and for
her writings on education,"
Kurashige said. "Even though
her own work hasn't focused
See HALF-SISTER, Page 3A



WEATHER HI: 81
TOMORROW LO: 52

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Hear Me Out: I Will Protect This House
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE PODIUM

INDEX NEWS .........................2A SUDOKU..... ...5A
Vol. CXXII, No.112 OPINION....................4A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
0212 The Michigan Daily SPORTSMONDAY.........5A THE STATEMENT..........1B
michigandoilycom

5 'V

r


.W

2A - Wednesday, March 21, 2012N CW

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


In Other Ivory Towers This Week in History ___________
Students serve Detroit

THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
Professor Profiles Photos of the week

SUNNY BEATS

420, Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMIAN ZACHARY YANCER
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 eat. 1241
lichterman@michigandailycom zancer@mictigandailycom

After years of University
students merely limiting
community service work to
volunteer days in Detroit, stu-
dents in the Michigan Com-
munity Scholars Program
residential learning commu-
nity formed the Brightmoor
Youth Garden Partnership,
an organization that aims to
develop long-term partner-
ships with Detroit's Bright-
moor community.
LSA junior Sandhya
Kajeepeta, a BYGP executive
hoard member, said Bright-
moor is a predominantly
black Detroit neighborhood
that confronts issues of pov-
erty, crime and racial ten-
sion. According to Kajeepeta,

the club - comprised of 25
members that host four to
five mass volunteer days each
year and contribute a total of
about 8,000 hours of service
work - originally formed
to help Brightmoor youth,
but now works to benefit the
community in any way pos-
sible.
"(We form) relationships
with the community and use
all the resources we have as
University students to mobi-
lize them and help them
with whatever they need,"
Kajeepeta said. "It is all about
them and what they hope for
their community."
LSA junior Sam Moryk-
was, a BYGP executive board

member, said the club hopes
to provide University stu-
dents with a unique learning
experience by involvingcthem
in the Brightmoor commu-
nity.
"Each aide has many skills
that can benefit the other
side," Morykwas said.
Kajeepeta said she has
learned more about Detroit
and the power of community
relationships through her
involvement.
"Every time I go there I
learn something completely
new ... nothing compares to
being around the people who
live in Brightmoor," Eajeepe-
ta said.
-AARON GUGGENHEIM

Newsraom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Correctioss
corrections@mihigandaily.com
Arts Section
arta@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
diaplay@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

Ness Tips
n~ewa@michigandaily.com
lettes tothe tditor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com,
Editonial Pate
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@micigandaiy.om
Classified Sales
claasified@m ichieendaily.com
finance
finance@michigandaily.coms

PAUL SHtRMAN/Daily
LSA freshman Vinny Shea beats a makeshift drum on she Diag
yesterday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Tax howe-to Personal

ilamburgiar
WHERE: Hutchins Hall,
WHEN: Monday at about
7:1S a.m.
WHAT: Cash and food
items were found missing
after the cafe was broken
into, University Police
reported. The cash register
was pried open and money
was taken. There are no
suspects.
Gun slinger
WHERE: Rachel Upjohn
Building
WHEN: Monday at about
2 p.m.
WHAT: A patient with
a valid weapons permit
reported she had a gun
in her purse, University
Police reported. Though
the woman wasn't a threat,
police took the weapon and
an investigation is pending.

Paint party
WHERE: Argus II Building
WHEN: Monday at about
8:20 am.
WHAT: A building was
spray painted with graffiti,
University Police reported.
The incident occured
between 5 p.m. on March
16 and 7 a.m. on March 19.
There are no suspects.
Storage wars
WHERE: North Ingalls
Building
WHEN: Monday at about
7:SO am.
WHAT: There was an
attempted break-in at a stor-
age room, University Police
reported. The perpetrator
tried to pry open an interior
door sometime between 2
p.m. March 16 and 7:50am
March 19 There are cur-
rently no suspects.

WHAT: A seminar that
outlines the steps to filling
out an Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number and
W-7 Form will be held. A
University payroll repre-
sentative and notary public
will assist students with the
forms.
WHO: International Center
WHEN: Today atl10 a.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Com-
mona Boulevard Eoom
Author's forum
WHAT: Kathleen Cush-
man, auther of "Fires in the
Mind," will leadsa discus-
sion on what motivates
teens to participate in
various activities. Cushman
raises the question of how
mastery develops inside and
outside of the classroom.
WHO: Author's Forum
WHEN: Tonight at 5:30
p.m.
WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, Library .
Gallery, room 100

statement prep
WHAT: Students can
attend a presentation about
compiling and exhibiting
past activities for applica-
tions to jobs and intern-
ships.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHERE: Student Activities
Building, room 3200
Playfest 2012
WHAT: The play "What's
Heaven For?", written by
LSA sophomore Michael
Toner will be performed
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Studio One
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
ycorrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

1Film director James
Cameron announced his
intention to travel to the
Challenger Deep in the Pacif-
ic Ocean, the deepest point
on the planet, The New York
Times reported. Cameron has
spent eight years building a
submarine to make the trip.
2As graduation nears,
seniors should listen
to their predecessors
and take their advice to
heart even though our elders
haven't lived the same expe-
riences as people in the cur-
rent generation > FRtMORt.
SEE OPINION, PAGt S
3 A101-year-old woman
from Utah looked to
break the world record
for oldest female to paraglide
tandem yesterday, the Asso-
ciated Press reported. The
previous record was set by a
100-year-old woman on Sept..
1, 2011.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Josh fHealy ManagingtEditor jahealy@michigandaily.com
Bethany Biran Masagisg New~sEditor biron@michigandailyceom
SENIOR NEWS EDTORS:Haly Gatthorn, Haley Goldber, Rayza Goldsmith
Paie Peary, AdamnRubenfir
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: GicmoBnn ae,snaeber, tAndren Schlmn,
PeernShhi,K.C. Wmann
Ashley Giesshamnen and opinioneditos@mich~igandaily.comr
Andrew Weiner tditoalPtaeEditoes
ASISTANT EDITORIAL PAGSE ITORS: JesseKlein,,eatrick Maillet
Stephen NesbiftManaginSrs Editorensaitt@nichigardaity.scrn
sSERSORTSEDITOS:sEerenCok, B st,Zach elad, Lke Pash,
Neal oshiljd, Matt Sin
ASSIST PORTS EDITORSSvn Baid, Michael asri5, MattSelich,
ColeeThmas, LizVkelich, DanjiWasemn,,
Leah Burtin MasagisgArts tditor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIR ARS DT OR50S: Elliot Alper,sJacob Aelrd, DaidTa, Kala Upadhyay
Erin Kinkland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss ManagingePhostditos
SENIOR PHOTOEDTS Terr Mlngaf, Tdd Nedle
AsSSTATeHOTOEDITORSAdam Glann,Au,stnnnufd, AllisnKrske
Marln acssea,,AdmnSchnitzer
Ajun Mahanfi Managing Design tditoe mahanti@michigandaily.com
Dylan Cinti and statemnt@mihigandaily.cm
JenniferlXu MaazinetEditoes
ChnisinetChunand copydek@michigandaily.com
Hannah Poindexten Copyythiefs
StNIORsCOPYEDTOSJsphie Adans, BethtCoplowsitz
Zach BengasosOnine Editoereebero@michigandaily.corm
Innanlpyed PubhicEditor publiceditor@m~ichigandaily.com,
BUSINESS STAFF
Juliannatrim ssoates~ness Manager
Rachel GreinetzSasles Manager
SophielnreenbaumeProductios Manaer
SeanlJacksnSpeecialtProjects Manage,
Connor Byrd FisnaneoMaagser
Ashley Kaadsheh CientsetionshipsManager
Meryl fHulengsNatioaAountaansaer
The Mihigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967),spblihed Mondayi th rouFidaydarinefalland
wntertermsiby stadents atth, University of Michigan. Onncpy is avaiable free of charge
tonallreaders. Adiinalcopis may b ickeldup at thDail'soffice fon$2Suciions for
fal tr, startiinSeptee,ia U.. mail are110. Witeterm January through April) is
$115, yealong(Septebe trogh pi)is$15.Uniesty afiliates aresuject toa eue
"sobsifptiiaegOnamus suscrniptins forfallterm aetISubsripitionsrstbeprpai.

0

MORE ONLINE Lose Crime Notes? Share them with yourL
fsllowers on Twitter @CrimeNotes or find them on their new biog. FV

- Li

-i
or or
your click counts.-,,
-jN is the new fun App that provides you with
quick information on whether to orNoG to that
entertainment activity. Get Going - Get ~N G!
wina a ndohe o stufll
Use GONG, then'"4ke"and"Sare" ihfred o register to win
Find us on getgongcom

0

0


A#


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 21, 2012 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 21, 2012 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
 LANSING
Michigan poised to
free nursing moms
from jury duty
A mother's phone call to a
Michigan legislator will likely
lead to a new state law exempting
breastfeeding mothers from jury
duty.
The Michigan House is expect-
* ed to give final approval to the
bill providing an exemption this
week. If Gov. Rick Snyder signs
it, Michigan would become at
least the 13th state to adopt such
a measure.
SANFORD, Fla.
Slain Florida
teen's girlfriend
heard altercation
The attorney for the family of
a black teenager fatally shot by a
neighborhood watch captain said
yesterday that the boy was talking
to his girlfriend on his cell phone
when the confrontation began.
She did not hear the shooting.
Their phone call was discussed
at a news conference that fol-
lowed announcements that the
U.S. Justice department would
probe the death of 17-year-old
Trayvon Martin and that a local
grand jury will also consider evi-
dence in the case.
George Zimmerman, 28, claims
he shot Martin in self-defense
during a confrontation last month
in a gated community in Sanford,
Fla. Zimmerman spotted Martin
as he was patrolling his neigh-
borhood on a rainy evening and
called 911 to report a suspicious
person. Against the advice of the
911 dispatcher, Zimmerman then
followed Martin, who was walk-
ing home from a convenience
store with a bag of Skittles in his
pocket.
SCHAUMBURG, I.
Romney gets big
win in Illinois
GOP primary
Front-runner Mitt Romney
won the Illinois primary with
ease yesterday night, defeating
Rick Santorum in yet another
industrial state showdown and
padding his already-formidable
delegate lead in the race for the
Republican presidential nomina-
tion.
Romney triumphed after ben-
efitting from a crushing advan-
tage in the television advertising
wars, and as his chief rival strug-
gled to overcome self-imposed
political wounds in the mara-
thon race to pick an opponent
to Democratic President Barack
Obama.
Returns from 29 percent of the
state's precincts showed Romney
gaining 55 percent of the vote
compared to 28 percent for Santo-

rum, 9 percent for Ron Paul and 7
percent for Newt Gingrich.
MEXICO CITY, Mexico
7.4-magnitude
earthquake shakes
Mexico City
A strong 7.4-magnitude earth-
quake hit southern Mexico yester-
day, damaging some 800 homes
near the epicenter and swaying
tall buildings and spreading fear
and panic hundreds of miles away
in the capital of Mexico City.
One of the strongest to shake
Mexico since the deadly 1985
temblor that killed thousands in
Mexico City, Yesterday's earth-
quake hit hardest in border area
of southern Oaxaca and Guerrero
states. In Guerrero, officials con-
firmed that some 800 homes had
been damaged, with another 60
having collapsed.
Hours after the shaking at
noon local time (18:02 GMT),
there were still no reports of
death or serious injury, even after
a less powerful, magnitude-5.1
aftershock was felt in the capi-
tal and several other aftershocks
near the epicenter in a mountain-
o ous rural region.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

TICKETS
From Page 1A
that there's going to be much of
an effect because even though
the price is higher, people might
be more likely to sell more
games to make back the money,
and then just go to the home
games that they want to go to,"
Maknev said.
Compared with the 2011 sea-
son - which included a rivalry
game against Ohio State and
the Big House's first-ever night
game against Notre Dame -
many students expressed frus-
tration about the simultaneous
rise in student season ticket
LSA-SG
From Page 1A
academic relations officer, are
running unopposed for presi-
dent and vice president. There'
are also 18 candidates running
for nine representative posi-
tions this spring.
Canning said she and Burns,
who have both been a part of
LSA-SG since their freshman
year, complement each other
well and added their personal
connections will help achieve
the goals of their administra-
tion.
"What's really nice about
Melissa (and I) as a team is that
we bring together the student
life and the academic perspec-
tive," Canning said. "One thing

prices and lack of big matchups
at home on the 2012 schedule.
LSA sophomore Mitch Lapoff
said he is disappointed with the
number of home games that will
be offered in accordance with
the rise in ticket prices.
"t've only been a season ticket
holder for two years now, so I'm
not that used to any set price so
I guess I'm more willing to have
a couple years of rising prices,"
Lapoff said. But I'd be alarmed if
this (rise in student ticket pric-
es) would continue for another
year."
Despite the rising prices,
Maknev and other students said
they will still purchase season
tickets for the 2012 football sea-
that Melissa and I have found
throughout our time on govern-
ment is that our government is
connected to the right kind
administrators to make these
kinds of changes happen."
Burns added that she and
Canning have specific goals for
changes in LSA courses.
"(One goal is) creating an
economics course for people
who are afraid of Econ 101,"
Burns said. "As well as creating
a new religion program."
Though they are running
uncontested, Canning said that
has not deterred the pair from
campaigning.
"We're trying to treat it like
we're not running unopposed
and that's we really have been
making the effort to go out and
talk to people and meet with

son'.
"I think sales might go down
because there are less games,
but at the same time I feel like
Michigan pride is so big that
people are going to buy the tick-
ets regardless (of the price),"
Maknev said.
Lochmann said the Univer-
sity had about 21,000 student
ticket holders this past season,
and hopes to maintain that
number for 2012.
"We're trying to create a lot
more fun, a lot different atmo-
sphere, and we want to make
sure that students and every-
body who spends their hard-
earned money are getting a
great show," Lochmann said.
them," Canning said.
LSA senior Jeff Larkin, the
LSA-SG election director and
the LSA-SG vice president, said
there is good balance between
freshmen and upperclass-
men running in this spring's
election. He added that the 18
candidates have surpassed the
average number for LSA-SG
elections.
"It's a great mix of people
who have been on student
government and people who
haven't," Larkin said. "It's
amazing to see people that are
really interested. It's really
exciting."
LSA-SG holds elections in
March and November to fill
the 19 representative posi-
tions, but executive positions
are only elected in March.

Date
Sept.1
Sept. 8
Sept. 15
Sept. 22
Sept. 29
Oct. 6
Oct.13
Oct. 20
Oct. 27
Nov. 3
Nov.10
Nov. 17
Nov. 24
Dec.1
HALF-SISTER
From Page 1A
exclusively on Asian Ame
her own awareness of
Islander issues, being in I
and her own understand
global and domestic di
makes her an idealchoice
program," he added.
LSA junior Gina Chen
munity historian for the
Asian American Organi
said she hopes people li
Soetoro-Ng with an open m
"I hope that they can
away from the general m
that math and science are
the path to go and that th
move beyond thinking tha
dardized testing is going t
America back to the foref
include youMICH, MFi
OurMichigan and Stude
Puppies. The Defend Affi
Action Party, while not run
executive slate, is running
dates for representative pi
There is one presidential a
presidential pair runningi
dent of a party.
In this election, many
dates and parties have g,
endorsements from
groups and Universityr
including Michigan quar
Denard Robinson who e
MForward.
LSA junior Aditya Sat
speaker of the SGassei
running for president with
ward and took several
graphs with Robinson,N
MForward apparel.
Sathi and his running m
sophomore Louis Mirante,
endorsed by the president
vice president of the Stude
ciation of Michigan, a c
organization comprised of
gan's 15 public universities.
Sathi is not the only ca
endorsed by a popular
sity athlete. Michigan gua
Novak, was in a campaig
for Business junior Manish
and LSA sophomore Oma:
wi, an assembly represe
As of 3 a.m. the video had
5,000 hits on YouTube.
Hashwi saidtheircamp
also reached out to ethnic

Opponent
vs. Alabama (Arlington, Texas)
Air Force
Massachussetts
at Notre Dame
Bye Week
at Purdue
Illinois (Homecoming)
Michigan State
at Nebraska
at Minnesota
Northwestern
Iowa
Ohio State
Big Ten Championship Game
the world, because I don't think
that will happen," Chen said.
Chen added that she hopes
people show Soetoro-Ng respect
ricans, and attend for more than her rela-
Pacific tion to the president.
Hawaii, "I hope that they don't come
ling of justbecause she's Obama's sister,"
versity she said. "I hope that they actu-
for our ally do have an interest in what
she's saying about education."
, com- Chen noted that it is impor-
United tant that students realize it is not
zation, a campaign event, but rather a
sten to speech intended to highlight her
nind. activism.
break "What we invited her to do is
iindset really a serious, important lec-
always ture on the issue of education,"
iey can Kurashige said. "She is not com-
it stan- ing to campaign. She is not com-
o raise ing to try and draw attention to
ront of herself."
orward, on campus by sending e-mails to
nts for community members in languages
rmative such as Chinese and Greek.
ning an Public Policy junior Kevin Mer-
candi- sol-Barg, an assembly representa-
sitions. tive, and LSA junior Amy Navvab
nd vice- received an endorsement from the
ndepen- University's chapter of College
Democrats for their OurMichigan
candi- platform. In last year's election,
arnered the College Democrats endorsed
campus the MForward candidates for
notables president and vice president.
terback LSA sophomore Alexandra
ndorsed Brill, chair of the University's
chapter of College Democrats, said
hi, vice Mersol-Barg and Navvab's past
nbly, iexperiences madethem an obvi-
MFor- ous choice for endorsement.
photo- "This year, Kevin, who's formed
wearing a Coalition for Tuition Equality,
and Amy, who's the chair of the
ate, LSA Open Housing Initiative ... they
are also have clearly done much more for
and the progressive causes than Aditya
nt Asso- and Louis (the MForward can-
oalition didates)," Brill said. "We felt that
Michi- they more justly represent what
we feel our student government
ndidate should be."
Univer- Mersol-Barg and Navvab also
rd Zack received the endorsement of the
n video Graduate Employees' Organi-
Parikh zation, the union representing
r Hash- University graduate students.
ntative. Rackham student Liz Rodrigues,
I nearly GEO's communications chair, said
Mersol-Barg and Navvab's cam-
aignhas paign had values closely resem-
groups bling those of GEO.

CSG Election director Peter Borock, and the Students for Puppies party
a Law student, said he expects is scheduled tobe on the Diag with
From Page 1A higher than usual turnout for the puppies today.
election because of the high vol- Borock added that while a
that hail from numerous student ume of candidates. 10-percent turnout seems unim-
organizations and cover a wide "We're really excited to have pressive, it would actually be con-
range of issues. really high voter turnout this sidered successful.
"This is the perfect opportunity year," Borock said. "The average is "We've had turnout as low as 5
for students who haven't really about 10 percent, but we're hoping percent ... anything above 10 per-
participated or been engaged in for even higher than usual." cent and we'd be happy," he said.
student government elections or The OurMichigan, youMich, To aid student voters, Borock
student government in general to MForward and Defend Affirma- sent out a campus-wide e-mail
get involved in the process," Wat- tive Action parties and indepen- yesterday that contained the plat-
son said. "There are so many peo- dents Manish Parikh and Omar forms of all of the presidential and
ple that cover such a broad range Hashwi have been campaigning vice-presidential candidates and
of identities and student organiza- heavily throughout campus by instructions on how to vote.
+ions nd interets non apus" chalkingand distrihlinv e Mrs Paerlnnin"rexc*tie sate

Secondary Master of Arts with Certification (MAC)
Specializing in the Small, Urban High School

TEA[H IN A SMALL SCHOOL, MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE
" Earn your master's degree and teacher certification in two years
*Work alongside expert teachers and faculty in unique Detroit-area schools
* Designed for students with a bachelor's degree in a certifiable major
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE
Tuesday, March 27, 2012
6 - a p.m.
Short program begins at 6:30 p.m.
Hors d'oeuvres and $1,000 scholarship drawing for all who attend
Plymouth Educational Center 9th Grade Academy
4600 Russell Avenue
Detroit, MI 48207
Parking on Russell Avenue, East Forest Avenue or in the school parking lot
RSVP: www.umflint.edu/graduateprograms/infosessIon.htm
www.umfllnt.edu/graduateprograms 0


v

4A - Wednesday, March 21, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


C l e 4R17C4tgan at

KEVIN MERSOL-BARG W
OurMichigan is your Michigan

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
and ANDREW WEINER JOSH HEALY
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
Vote OurMichigan
Mersol-Barg and Navvab stand for social justice
nlike previous years, this year's Central Student Government
elections are hotly contested with many deserving candidates
pushing admirable platforms. There are six pairs of presiden-
tial and vice presidential candidates on the ballot this year - each rep-
resenting a myriad of political parties, or no party at all. Whether it's
engaging students through social media, emphasizing social justice,
improving CSG's funding process or focusing on student issues such
as medical amnesty and off-campus housing rights, the candidates all
have compelling visions and each offer something unique to students.
Ultimately, the commitment to social justice of the OurMichigan party
stands out the most.

Michigan's fight song has a verse that includes the
phrase "leaders and the best," and right after we sing it
we shout "Go Blue." Everything about the University of
Michigan teaches us the importance of leadership and
doing our best. We are encouraged to volunteer and give
back to our community. That's why I'm running for presi-
dent of the Central Student Government as part of the
OurMichigan ticket, which envisions CSG as an inclu-
sive and active advocate for students. When you see
the posters and flyers around campus you may wonder,
"does it make a difference who leads student govern-
ment?" Yes, there is a difference between the various
candidates and parties, and let me voice some of our-
Michigan's goals and strategies.
Too often people use the word leadership in affilia-
tion with ideas of power, dominance, or control. In auni-
versity based on a legacy of collective change, activism
and innovation, we in OurMichigan strongly believe in
encouraging leadership as a form of empowerment and
community building. Our platform reflects this commit-
ment through its goals of increasing accessibility, sup-
porting coalitions and providing sustainable avenues for
student engagement.
We must address the high cost of being a student in
Ann Arbor. The financial challenges facedby current and
prospective students threaten our educational opportu-
nities and can diminish the diversity of our student body.
Lack of money can deny students enrollment or heavily
constrain their options for campus activities. How can
students volunteer or be active members in the campus
community when we struggle to pay for tuition, rent and
food with extremely limited funds? Under my adminis-
tration, CSG will answer this question in part by setting
up a University funded food bank. This will help support
students in need. Right now, the University doesn't have
a resource that supports its students with basic living
needs. OurMichigan believes that CSG can do more to
help students with financial hardship.
OurMichigan would like to create a strong advo-
cacy coalition against tuition hikes and in support of
increases in financial aid. We will continue our work
for tuition equality while simultaneously creating
safe spaces in residence halls and campus gathering
locations. This can improve accessibility and security
for our diverse community. We believe CSG can help
implement policies for the recruitment and retention
of all underrepresented communities. With tuition

equality, more financial aid and less drastic tuition
increases, the University can improve its student body
diversity and acceptance rate of lower income students.
Members of my party seek to facilitate leadership
through the process of building coalitions around vital
progressive movements on campus. All student orga-
nizations on campus dedicate their work to effecting
powerful change. Sometimes the visions they commit
resources to overlap with the visions of others. Rather
than work against one another or spend time and money
redundantly, let's find ways to better work together.
OurMichigan understands that CSG can serve as a
platform for collaboration in order to encourage and
strengthen the passionate endeavors of individual stu-
dents or groups. We can create forums for inter-orga-
nizational discussions as well as connect students to
faculty, administrators and the public through town
hall meetings. Collaboration is the most efficacious
strategy for students to create change on campus with
implications that will echo throughout local, state and
national communities.
Corresponding to our emphasis on bringingstudents
together from all walks of life, OurMichigan hopes to
transform CSG into a direct extension of all forms of
student voice and interests. Understanding more of the
challenges and goals from different campus communi-
ties will allow us to use our resources to bridge the gap
between them.
In general, we want to connect CSG to as many
students as possible. Apart from the listening tours,
we will also create a simple, web-based application
so students can more easily get funding for campus
events and projects. Our inclusive approach will be
easily accessible and user-friendly. Through this,
we will improve communication between campus
administrators, CSG and all those whom we represent
in order to facilitate a more open and representative
University.
If you support our vision for leadership, please visit
vote.umich.edu to vote for me, vice-presidential candi-
date Amy Navvab and representative candidates from
OurMichigan. Each vote moves CSG closer to a more
inclusive and considerate resource for all student lead-
ers to add their voice.
Kevin Mersol-Barg is running for Central Student
Government president with the OurMichigan party.

Unlike previous years, this year's Central
Student Government elections are hotly con-
tested with many deserving candidates push-
ing admirable platforms. There are six pairs of
presidential and vice presidential candidates
on the ballot this year - each representing a
myriad of political parties, or no party at all.
Whether it's engaging students through social
media, emphasizing social justice, improving
CSG's funding process or focusing on student
issues such as medical amnesty and off-cam-
pus housing rights, the candidates all have
compelling visions and each offer something
unique to students. Ultimately, the OurMichi-
gan party commitment to social justice of the
OurMichigan stands out the most.
The University has largely been defined
by the activism of its students in the past.
From the initiative to form the Peace Corps
to the large number of University students
in organizations such as Teach for America,
social justice and activism are an integral
part ofthe' University's culture and iden-
tity. OurMichigan emphasizes social justice,
awareness and activism in its platform. It is
this commitment to social justice that make
Mersol-Barg and Navaab well-suited to be
the face of the student body. OurMichigan's
platform focuses on reaching out to under-
represented student groups to give them a
voice in student government.
OurMichigan highlights issues such as
tuition equality, minority retention and mak-
ing college more accessible and affordable to
all students. OurMichigan envisions a coali-
tion based government, where students at the
grassroots level are able to organize and push
relevant policies for students. The party pro-
poses solid initiatives such as creating a food
bank to aid financially strapped college stu-
dents and implementing a student leadership
trainingtoenhance the University's reputation
as the "leaders and the best."
Though OurMichigan has a promising vision
for social justice, its platform appeals to a con-
centrated group. If elected, the party should
also work to incorporate other student inter-
ests into studentcgovernment. Mersol-Barg and
Navvab should draw on the platforms of their
counterparts as well - ideas such as making
CSG more pertinent to all studentsbyengaging
them through social media. OurMichigan will
have to work to ensure all students are involved

so CSG becomes relevant in routine campus
affairs.
Each of the other candidates have unique
strengths and impressive plans for campus
improvement - ideas thatcshouldn't go without
mention. MForward presented a comprehen-
sive platform focusing on medical amnesty,
financial transparency and making students
aware of off-campus housing rights. However,
the inner-party politicsthat defined the party's
nominating process are a cause for hesitation.
YouMICH highlighted the importance
of making it easier for student groups to get
funding and proposed streamlining the finan-
cial aid process. CSG presidential candidate
Shreya Singh's work with revampingthe fund-
ing application is a testament to her ability to
make this happen. Overall, YouMICH pres-
ents realistic and pragmatic goals, goals that
could easily be achieved and are needed for the
University. But, the focus of their platform is
extremely specific and doesn't include a broad
visionto expand CSG's role to anything beyond
what it already does.
Independent candidates Manish Parikh and
Omar Hashwi stressed the need to use social
media to reach out to students and make CSG
a viable presence in students' lives. Their use of
memes to advertise their campaign reinforces
their ability to appeal to the student body. They
also proposed adding a polling commission to
CSG that would collect student opinions on
campus affairs. Their focus on representing
students along with their creativity, energy
and vigor is commendable. However, they lack
concrete plans to implement their ideas. The
fact that they don't have a focused vision raises
concerns about how many of their policies will
be achievable in a year.
This year's CSG elections present students
with a tough decision. There are numerous
candidates, all of whom are passionate about
the University and bring innovative platforms
to the table. What separates OurMichigan's
platform from the others is its commitment to
make CSG relevant for students that don't cur-
rently have a significant voice in student gov-
ernment by giving a platform to social justice
issues that define the identity ofthis institution.
For this year's election, The Michigan Dai-
ly's editorial board endorses KEVIN MER-
SOL-BARG and AMY NAVVAB for CSG
president and vice president.

RYAN ROBERTSI W

Moving MForward

As the president of the University's Engineering
Council, I have been able to view the Central Student
Government with a unique outside perspective. I have
watched as MForward transitioned CSG from an orga-
nization that focuses merely on political posturing to
one that successfully advocates for students at the Uni-
versity, local and state level. In March 2010, MForward
formed promising big changes to campus - and back
then, as is happening today, naysayers said that student
government at the University was powerless. Instead
of focusing on bettering this University for decades
to come, it should provide "tangible" programs and
events for students.
Since its formation two years ago, MForward has
delivered on its promises. Under former student
body President Chris Armstrong, the organization
successfully implemented a gender-neutral option
in University Housing. Under the direction of Presi-
dent DeAndree Watson, state appropriations to the
University increased for the first time in more than a
decade as a result of extensive lobbying efforts in Lan-
sing through the Student Association of Michigan. But
MForward hasn't restricted itself to these large issues
- small programs and changes have also been part of
the MForward platform. For example, forthe first time
in years, students can again enjoy a meal in the resi-
dence halls on Saturday night. In addition, CSG hosted
a tailgate before the Notre Dame night game last fall
that attracted more than 8,000 students and greatly
reduced the number of hospital visits due to alcohol
poisoning as compared to other football Saturdays.
I am confident that Aditya Sathi, Louis Mirante and
the entire MForward slate will continue to deliver
promising changes to students. For example, con-
sider Sathi's work on a medical amnesty policy that
would eliminate the risk of receiving Minor in Pos-
session of Alcohol charges when emergency services
are requested for an alcohol-related incident. This
program encourages students to contact emergency
services when necessary and has been proven to save
lives at other universities. Thanks to the hard work of
Sathi and others in MForward, a bill implementing this
policy has passed in the Michigan House of Represen-
tatives and is currently awaiting a vote in the Senate.
Members will also work to establish greater student

representation on University decision-making com-
mittees, including the University's Board of Regents.
While opponents of change and greater student repre-
sentation say this is impossible and requires an amend-
ment to the state constitution, they are wrong. In fact,
Wayne State University and Michigan State University
both provide student representation on their govern-
ing boards and the same constitutional provisions bind
them. Gaining greater representation for students is
possible, and under MForward it will get done.
MForward members believe that student govern-
ment must accomplish small goals as well. They will
work with other campus organizations to implement
a bike share program on campus to provide public-
access bikes to students. The CSG website has the
ability to bring students and student government
closer together by informing students what represen-
tatives are working on and by publicizing how CSG
funds are utilized. Shreya Singh, current treasurer
of CSG and youMICH presidential candidate, did not
put CSG financial information online despite multiple
requests. Sathi and Mirante will make sure that the
campus community can find out what CSG does with
student money by making the information available
online.
Some parties will have you believe that CSG must
become smaller and less significant. They say they
want student government to be more "pragmatic," but
this is only a code word for unimaginative and unin-
spired. I am proud to be part of an impressive group
of organizations and leaders that oppose this narrow
view and endorse MForward and their vision for a stu-
dent government that can promote big, lasting change,
just as it has already done. MForward has been sup-
ported by an incredibly impressive list of leaders
including Denard Robinson, Jay Gage and Kevin Tatu-
lyan, the president and vice president of the Student
Association of Michigan. If you believe that student
government shouldn't confine itself to a narrow set
of issues, take 60 seconds to log on to vote.umich.edu
today or tomorrow and vote for MForward's impres-
sive slate of student leaders.
Ryan Roberts is the president of the University of Michigan
Engineering Council and a junior in the College of Engineering.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Laura Argintar, Kaan Avdan, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Harsha Panduranga, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne
Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Seth Soderborg, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
T SSEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

As University students, we
have apowerful voice
TO THE DAILY:
In the March 18 viewpoint entitled, "Prag-
matic Goals for CSG", Michael Budros - vice
chair of CSG's Student Organization Funding
Commission - made the case for why you-
MICH should be elected as the representatives
and leaders of our student body while simul-
taneously offending an important part of that
community. He wrote: "Nor should we expect
our student leaders to be able to overturn
decades of legal and legislative precedents to
offer illegal immigrants in-state tuition."
As formerly undocumented immigrants and
student activists, we were personally offended
by his use of the "I" word, a racially charged
slur used to dehumanize an entire population
in our country, and by his undermining of the
work accomplished bythe Coalition for Tuition
Equality.
We have both spoken on behalf of the coali-
tion, personally addressing the University's
Board of Regents at its past two meetings. And
the regents were receptive to our message.
Regent Julia Darlow (D-Ann Arbor) addition-

ally asked Provost Philip Hanlon to provide
them with more information regarding our
issue.
We recognize that as individual students
we have a powerful voice and that we can ini-
tiate change on this campus. Our university
has a long and vibrant legacy of social change
and activism, and we seek to continue it. We
believe that tuition equality can and will hap-
pen at the University, and we know that the
support offered by the current CSG adminis-
tration has been instrumental to the success
of our movement. Conscious of his agency as
a CSG representative, the coalition's founder
and OurMichigan presidential candidate,
Kevin Mersol-Barg strategically utilized the
resources available to him through such posi-
tion in order to bring this issue to the eyes of
administration.
It is obvious to us and students on this cam-
pus that this is the kind of change we need in
Central Student Government. As candidates
with OurMichigan, if elected, we pledge to con-
tinue advocating for meaningful change.
LuzMeza is anLSA junior and DanielMorales
is an LSA freshman. Both are running for CSG
representative with the OurMichigan party.

IT W E ET IT OR IA L
EDITORIALS IN 140 CHARACTERS OR CESS
.#CSGelections #studentgoverment
-@michdailyoped

0

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 21, 2012 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 21, 2012 - 5A

Learning wisdom

A new kind of travel

The end is near for us graduates
to be, and in the next few weeks,
we'll be getting lots of advice.
With anecdotes, aph-
orisms and earnest
looks, those who have
been where we are
now will share their
hard-earned wisdom.
Some of it will be
idle speculation. Any-
one who's seen "The
Graduate" remem- SETH
bers the neighbor's SODERBORG
prophecy to Dustin
Hoffman - "Plas-
tics!" - and knows that such suggestions
are worth less than the effort it takes to
make them.
But some of these things will change
our lives. If we listen carefully, we Mpight
manage to catch a little of our anteced-
ents' wisdom without having to earn
it. That would be a wonderful thing, for
much of what they will share are lessons
learned from mistakes.
In theory, at least, the people who will
speak with us are full of wisdom we do
not yet possess. The prospect of hearing
them has led me to wonder about those
people and what it is they know. What
does it mean to be wise? What kinds of
things might a wise person tell us? And,
vexingly, if the lessons they share with us
were drawn from their lives, will it really
be possible to apply them to our own?
Most of us know the refrain "You don't
know what it's like!" with which ado-
lescents distance themselves from their
0 parents. There's a part of me that worries
that, in fact, those around us don't know
what it's like to be us, here, now.
One of the main themes of the speech-
es will be our pending entry into the "real
world." The speaker's wisdom is, one sup-
poses, that he or she knows something of
this other world that we do not. If that is
what makes them worth hearing, perhaps
we should be worried about our futures.
In one of the saddest moments in our
country's history, shortly after the death
of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Rohert Kennedy spoke to a disconsolate
Indiana crowd ahout the kind of nation
we are and where we might want to go.
His own difficult life was very much on
his mind.
In his brief remarks, Kennedy quoted
Aeschylus's "Agamemnon," one of the
first books I read in college. The line he
chose said that wisdom comes through
suffering: "Even in our sleep, pain which
cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the
heart until, in our own despair, against
our will, comes wisdom through the

awful grace of God."
There's a whole genre, call it the Great
American Novel, that tells stories of men
- the ones about men seem to win more
prizes - who wake up in the morning and
realize they've done it all wrong. This is
the Aeschylus kind of wisdom - pain-
ful knowledge, slowly accumulated, that
leaks from regret-filled people.
Stories like these are popular, and that
should give us pause. Do most people
wake up one morning certain that the
preceding 25 years were a waste? Are we
on track to do the same? Advice will come
our waybecause our elders hope that wis-
dom can be transferred, less painfully, to
those who will listen.
Listen to people
who were once
in our shoes.
At Kenyon College in 2005, author
David Foster Wallace told graduating
seniors that a liheral education gives con-
trol over "howand whatyouthink."Incthe
real world, where the way one sees what
happens is the product of patterns that
"you gradually slip into, day after day, get-
ting more and more selective about what
you see and how you measure value with-
out everbeing fully aware that that's what
you're doing," control over what and how
one thinks is a kn of freedom.
Being trained in thought means that if
we put in the time, we can figure out what
it i we're trying to achieve. Itngives us the
chance to understand what's pushing us
to chase our goal. The choices we make
now will set the course of our lives more
than many others - it would be prudent,
maybe even wise, to make such choices
conscious of our reasons.
Choose to think about why you want
the things you are pursuing. Use your
freedom to examine your motivations. Do
your due diligence - know the costs of
whatcyou hope to achieve and weighethem
carefully. Then move forward, confident
in the knowledge that if someday in the
middle ofyourlife you,like Dantewake to
find yourself in dark woods you'll at least
know why you're there. Self-knowledge,
kept, is a sure bulwark against regret.
- Seth Soderborg can be reached at
sethns@umich.edu. Follow him on twitter at
@thedailyseth.

met this guy who liked to talk
about infinity. He was tall, healthy,
6 foot 2, and he
thought about things 4
- a lot. Everything ,
was a question; noth-
ing could be solved.
Well, unless he pro-
posed the ideas. We
must talk about life,
he said. Liberty. The MELANIE
Pursuit of Happy- KRUVELIS
ness and other Will
Smith movies. "Don't
you realize we're all infinite?" he yelled,
sloshing beer all over my shoes. A real
prophetic Buzzed Lightyear.
And the strangest thing - well,
besides the fact that I was awake at 5
a.m. in Valencia, Spain, watching the
entire city burn alive for a festival that
celebrates man's right to ignite - was
that I didn't hate him. This man of the-
ory and meaning and all those terrible
things - this man was not hated. In the
72 hours I spent in his normally nause-
ating, pseudo-intellectual presence, I
never considering grabbing that hemp
necklace around his neck and strangling
him until there was no tomorrow. Au
contraire. I fell in love. And I fell hard.
I promise, this is not a love story. Nor
is this a poorly written Carrie Bradshaw
rant about how great sex is in Europe -
after all, as an empiricist I couldn't make
such a claim in good consciousness. No,
the subject matter of this poorly writ-
ten rant is CouchSurfing. And why this
website made me stop brushing my hair
and start believing in humanity.
My lover's name was Miguel, by the
way. Or, more precisely, Miguel was the
name of my feigning prophet lover. But
he wasn't the only inamorato I made
that weekend. There was the girl with
the dolphin laugh. The girl with the

dragon tattoos. The feisty blonde Ger-
man who was last seen looking for her
pants. And the kind of smelly Italian kid
who was never ten centimeters away
from a bottle of hair gel. In just a matter
of hours, this free floor to crash on, this
free shower to neglect to use and these
people - these strange, wonderful,
shiny happy freaky people - became to
me what peanut butter is to jelly. Which
is to say, a sandwich.
Before Igo off and grabmy cake of rain-
bows and smiles from the oven, I'd like to
address your concerns about CouchSurf-
ing, because I have a hunch that no mat-
ter how much weed you're smoking right
now, you must be wondering how much
weed I was smoking when I signed up for
this freak show. The answer is a lot but
that's really not the point. CouchSurfing
is an online community where members
can create profiles to either host guests
or find a couch to drool on for a couple
of nights - for free. And yes, of course,
Mom, the site is teeming with thieves,
axe murderers and Ponzi schemers.After
all, with more than a million users and
reviews in The New York Times, Time
magazine and now the world-renowned
Michigan Daily, we can only presume
that the Hitlers of the world congregate
here to do bad things to weird people.
But in all seriousness, we all know
that the neo-Nazis aren't really good
with computers, and if you just use a bit
of common sense, it's not hard to be a
safe surfer. For instance, do you request
to surf with a 35-year-old man who,
accordingto his profile, only has a couch
for blonde women between the ages of 18
and 22 with bra sizes between 34C and
38DD? Perhaps. But if you'd rather not
wake toa large man friend smelling your
hair, pick the vegetarian. The vegan.
The macrobiotic tree bark eater. Anyone
who describes themselves as looking for

their place in the universe. These are the
people you want. These are the people
who will make you breakfast (tree bark
tea with a side of stick), who will give you
space, tell you whatto do and where to go
- probably somewhere with trees.
But sometimes, you decide to stay
CouchSurfers
look for new
people and new
things.
with the guy who "likes to party" and
doesn't own any yoga mats. And that's
okay too. Because maybe you'll end up
sleeping on the floor with ten other
surfers. Ten other Brits. Californians.
Swedes that are far too attractive to
even be in the same room as you. Ten
other nomads who just want to figure
out how to see everything with the ten
bucks they've got. You wouldn't think
something as trivial as frugality would
bring people together, but after our first
meal together, well, we kind of became
inseparable, this non-functional unit
of sorts. I guess that's called a family.
It was more than just people looking
to drop their crap off in some random
dude's apartment while they go get
hammered in a new city. They were
looking for new people and new things.
And that's the story of how traveling
can change and should change. Ad infi-
nitum.
- Melanie Kruvelis can be reached at
melkruv@umich.edu.

FRANK QUINONES AND LENA CINTRON I
Fighting to win, and not afraid to lead

CAROLINE SYMS|
Oh the places you'ii go

The Defend Affirmative Action Party
stands for restoring affirmative action,
defending and expanding public educa-
tion and fighting for the DREAM Act and
in-state tuition for undocumented stu-
dents. We are the longest-standing party
on campus and we have proven in action
that we have a strategy to win - building
an independent, student-led movement
and leading by example through direct
action.
We are the only party prepared to hold
the University accountable for abandon-
ing its defense of affirmative action,
refusing to lead the fight to increase
public funding for education, becoming
more the creature of its corporate donors
and less a place that stands for academic
freedom.
Student-led struggles have made the
University a standard-bearer for inte-
gration and equality. When affirmative
action came under attack in Michigan
in Grutter v. Bollinger, we as the student
interveners led the fight to defend affir-
mative action as co-defendants with the
University. In 2003, DAAP led the cam-
pus and the nation in mobilizing 50,000
students to march at the Supreme Court
as the arguments were heard in the Uni-
versity affirmative action cases. That
mobilization won a historic victory
upholding affirmative action.
The challenges we face and the oppor-
tunities we have now stem from the con-
tradictions coming out of the Grutter

case and the increasing conflict between
the two poles of leadership in the fight
for affirmative action: the student move-
ment and the University administration.
The University's defense of affirma-
tive action was based on their First
Amendment rights to create a diverse
student body, rather than the rights
of minority students to obtain equal-
ity. This emphasis on the power and the
rights of the University has created a
climate in which minority students are
made to feel dependent on the adminis-
tration to defend their right to be on cam-
pus. Now, the University has abandoned
its defense of affirmative action both by
refusing to express public support for
the legal effort to overturn Prop 2 and
restore affirmative action, and by allow-
ing minority enrollment to drop precipi-
tously. It is becoming increasingly clear
that we cannot depend on the University,
and we mustbuild an independent move-
ment in order to win now.
The University's abandonment of this
fight is tied up with its increased privati-
zation. Anticipating defeat in the Grutter
case, the University raised large sums of
private money to use for minority schol-
arships in order to mitigate the effects of
the loss of public scholarships. Through
this process, the University has become
the most privatized public university in
the nation. Those private donors, who
are now calling all the shots, are no lon-
ger interested in maintaining affirmative

action because they are trying to lower
living standards and want to bury issues
of racism and inequality. This privatiza-
tion has caused an erosion of academic
freedom and has distorted the mission of
the University. The only way to restore
the public character of the University
now is to win a definitive victory for
affirmative action.
Students who want to defend affir-
mative action and public education now
must turn to the power of the student
body. We need student leaders who are
prepared to speak the truth about rac-
ism. Thevastmajorityofstudents oppose
racism and want an integrated campus,
but if we don't speak up, we allow the
small number of blatantly racist people
to determine the climate on campus. The
burden of speaking out against racism
cannot be placed solely on the shoulders
of minority students.
We want a University where everyone
can develop to their greatest potential,
where research is driven by the needs
of humanity, not profit, and where our
dreams are not crushed and our talents
are not squandered.
We are not just asking for your vote;
we are calling on you to act and join the
new civil rights movement.
FrankQuinones is DAAP Social
Work candidate for CSG representative
and Lena Cintron is DAAP LSA
candidate for CSG representative.

In referencing Dr. Seuss's light-
hearted children's story, "Oh, the Places
You'll Go!," a meaningful message about
the importance of seizing new opportu-
nities, keeping an open-mind, and try-
ing new things stands out. I've learned
that life is certainly one huge adventure,
jam-packed with unexpected twists and
turns. The excitement, adventure and
craziness of these experiences, how-
ever, make life special and create long
lasting memories.
This underlying message about tak-
ing chances and pushing beyond your
comfort zone has inspired me to take
advantage of the country I live in by
experiencing the United States' unique
culture and distinguishing geographi-
cal features. There's so much waiting
at your fingertips, so adventure beyond
the borders of Michigan this summer
and broaden your horizons. As college
students, we're young, full of energy
and passion, and we possess a strong
sense of adventure. Be responsible,
make good choices, but most of all,
have fun while you explore and dis-
cover the hidden gems in the Land of
the Free.
Once you get behind the wheel or
find your seat 14C on the airplane, the
adventure begins. Whether you're head-
ed north, east, south or west, you'll be
exposed to new scenery, authentic cui-
sine and diverse lifestyles. To kick-start
your tour of the United States, there a
few destinations that should receive top
priority on the travel list:
""I left myheart in San Francisco."
Get a taste of the laid-back West Coast
atmosphere by visiting San Francisco,
home of the Golden Gate Bridge and
Fisherman's Wharf. "San Fran" is a
popular tourist destination filled with
California sunshine, high spirits and
wonderful adventure. Take a tour of
Alcatraz and see the prison cells that
the Anglin brothers and Frank Mor-
ris busted out of nearly 50 years ago.
Spend some time at Pier 39 to see hun-
* dreds of enormous sea lions barking and
lounging all day long. Walking along
the Golden Gate Bridge - the ultimate

symbol of the city - is a must. Take lots
of pictures so you can look back on this
experience ten years from now.
*"It's up to.you, New York, New
York." If you've never been to the "city
that never sleeps," the glamorous lights
of Broadway await you, so prepare to
submerge yourself in a hectic city that
bustles around the clock. From the mon-
umental Statue of Liberty to the famous
American Museum of Natural History,
New York City is a magical place filled
with plenty of energy and entertain-
ment. There's quite a lot of culture to
explore in this chaotic yet one-of-a kind
East Coast hot spot.
""Welcome To D.C." Visiting our
nation's capital, though a less leisurely
and more educational trip, will be a
rewarding and enriching experience.
Take a stroll through The National Mall
and touch the Washington Monument,
one of the classic symbols of American
government. Spend hours at the Smith-
sonian museums where you can explore
American history, wildlife or aeronau-
tic exhibits. While you're out and about
sightseeing, be sure to snap photos by
the White House, the U.S. Capitol and
the Lincoln Memorial.
If you're adventurous enough to
think outside the box even further,
experience America's natural beauty by
visiting the Grand Canyon or immerse
yourself in American pop culture while
dancing at a live country music "honky-
tonk" in Nashville.
There really are no limits or bound-
aries. It's important to take advantage
of all the opportunities that allow us
to experience things we wouldn't nor-
mally be exposed to on a daily basis.
Gaining a rich and diverse cultural
understanding and appreciation of our
country can go a long way, so these des-
tinations across the United States mark
the beginning of your traveling expedi-
tions. An open mind can get you all the
way to San Francisco.
Caroline Syms is an LSA sophomore

ALLISON SHERMANI
Support LSA-SG's new constitution

While Thomas Jefferson may not
have been at the Constitutional Con-
vention in 1787, he believed that the
document should be rewritten every 19
years. While the U.S. Constitution has
prevailed for more than 220 years, LSA
Student Government's Constitution,
written in 1993, has reached its 19th
birthday. LSA-SG's founders created a
strong foundation for our organization,
but a lot has changed since then, nearly
two decades later. This semester, LSA-
SG decided to amend their constitu-
tion. The amendment process happens
by and for the students, and in order
to adopt the new constitution, LSA-SG
needs the approval of the majority of
student voters in the winter election.
LSA-SG has made tremendous devel-
opments over the years, and we have
decided to update our constitution
accordingly. While these changes serve
to benefit our organization, the moti-
vation behind making them is student
driven: we want to reach out to each indi-
vidual, and the revised constitution lays
the foundations to do so.
One of the largest changes is to our
mission statement. Old and dated, the
original was long, repetitive and ambig-

uous. Collectively, we agreed to make it
more succinct, focusingon ourone, main
purpose: "LSA Student Government
shall be the democratic government
representing the entire Student Body
of the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts. The Government shall
actively seek the voices of LSA students
and advocate their interests to improve
academic and non-academic life." We
wanted to guarantee that our statement
became short, simple and translatable
by every student in the college, and we
truly believe that we have succeeded in
doing so. Our responsibility as a student
government is to serve the students in
whatever way possible. It's important
for LSA students to know that not only
do we speak up to administrators, we
are a resource to improve the college
in a multitude of realms. We want to
interact more with student organiza-
tions and different parts of campus. We
are able to do this by awarding students
money for events and simply listening to
students' desires.
Additional changes include elimi-
nating the LSA Judiciary - which has
not been represented in LSA-SG for
more than four years - and expand-

ing legal disputes through the Central
Student Judiciary. Also, many terms,
government positions and actions were
phrased in a confusing manner. The
new constitution is streamlined, orga-
nized and clearly defines these posi-
tions and procedures.
Members of LSA-SG approved the new
constitution on Feb. 22 during our gener-
al meeting. During the All-Campus elec-
tions on March 21 and 22, we encourage
LSA students to approve updates to our
constitution. In addition, drafts of the
improved constitution are available on
the LSA-SG website (www.lsasg.umich.
edu) for LSA students to review. We
want you to know that these changes do
not just benefit our organization but will
improve the LSA community as a whole.
Thomas Jefferson once said, "Democra-
cywill cease to existwhenyou take away
from those who are willing to work." Let
us work for you to improve the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts. Please
take the time to support the amended
constitution and other LSA-SG projects
by voting in the winter elections.
Allison Sherman is a member of LSA
SG Counsel and is an LSA junior.


v

6A - Wednesday, March 21, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

JUMP FOR JOY

In penultimate meeting,
CSG discusses resolutions

Potential policies to
be terminated if not
voted on by next
week
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily Staff Reporter
Eight resolutions were intro-
duced at the penultimate Central
Student Government assembly
meeting of this year's term on
topics including CSG operations
and preparations for the incom-
ing assembly.
One resolution would resolve
an ongoing debate about how
best to balance speed and suffi-
cient legislative oversight by the
Student Organization Funding
Commission when distributing
funding.
Currently, the assembly
approves SOFC's budget ret-
roactively, and many fear that
resolutions would slow down the
organization's ability to award
funding. After some members of
SOFC expressed concern over
the contents of the resolution, the
assembly chose to refrain from
voting on it until next week.
The resolution was first read on
Feb. 14, and Business senior Matt
Eral, the speaker of the assembly,
said he was frustrated because he
significantly changed the resolu-
tion since its first introduction,
only to see it postponed again.

While Eral said the delay was a
"bit personally annoying," he said
support from the SOFC chairs is
necessary.
Eral added that this resolu-
tion, which has been introduced
for more than five weeks, will be
terminated if it is not passed next
week. Assembly protocol states
that resolutions that do not pass
by the end of the term will be con-
cluded.
"Either the assembly will pass
it next week or it will be killed
because the new assembly does
not get to ... carry business over,"
Eral said.
Business junior Shreya Singh,
CSG treasurer, also gave a pre-
sentation to the assembly about
CSG's budget and said she would
like to ensure the use of all fund-
ing awarded to CSG.
Singh said $60,000 will roll
over to the budget for CSG's next
term unless the money is utilized
through the actions of commis-
sions before the end of the cur-
rent term.
Singh added that the organiza-
tions that receive funding from
SOFC have been using more of
those funds. Traditionally, orga-
nizations have spent about 75
percent of the funding awarded to
them, but that number has risen
to 85 percent since the introduc-
tion of SOFC's new weekly roll-
ing funding system - a program
in which organizations can apply
to receive funding on a weekly
basis, instead of receiving allo-

cated funds in shifts throughout
the semester.
The assembly also passed a
resolution in support of making
the Big House a "zero-waste" sta-
dium, meaningthatas much trash
as possible will either be recycled
or composted instead of sent to
landfills.
Rackham student Leah Zim-
merman, a member of the Erb
Institute - an organization
focused on using business to bol-
ster sustainability efforts around
the world - attended the meet-
ing to speak on the resolution's
behalf.
"Overwhelmingly, 100 percent
of the people on campus and the
alumni we've talked to have been
not just supportive, but enthusi-
astic," Zimmerman said.
Members of the CSG Environ-
mental Issues Commission came
to the meeting to publicize an
event scheduled to occur Monday
on the Diag to increase environ-
mental awareness in celebration
of Earth Day.
LSA senior Madeline Caldwell,
EIC treasurer, spoke to the
assembly about the event and
said several University organiza-
tions will be participating.
. "It's a good event for stu-
dents to come raise awareness
and learn about cool opportuni-
ties to get involved on campus,"
Caldwell said. "I think (the envi-
ronment) is something we're
really going to need to think
about going into our future."

Washtenaw Community College student Ivan Propkopovi

of jumps over a wall yesterday.


EMERGENCY
From Page 1A
and staff are sent an e-mail
notification when the system
activates, it takes a long time to
process, Brown said. An addi-
tional 32 percent of students, as
well as 31 percent of faculty and
41 percent of staff, have another
device registered for more fre-
quent and detailed messages.
The system was active for
Thursday's emergency and sent
an initial e-mail and text mes-
sage notice about the National
Weather Service's tornado
warning. At 6:30 p.m. another
e-mail update was sent when
the warning was extended to
7:15 p.m. Finally, at 7:15, an
e-mail was sent to alert the
University community that the
warning had expired, but a flash
flood warning and thunder-
storm watch were still in effect.
According to Perry Samson,
professor of atmospheric sci-
ence, there is no sure way of sci-
entifically predicting a tornado
far in advance, especially in the
spring.
"A tornado this time of year
would never be expected,"
Samson wrote in an e-mail

interview. "That said, the atmo-
spheric models that day did
show great potential for convec-
tion. It is easy now in hindsight
to see that the potential peaked
in the late afternoon at a level
higher than (at least I expect-
ed."
Samson added that determin-
ing a storm's exact location is
difficult, and said he was sur-
prised that it touched down in
Dexter.
He also wrote that, with the
exception of 2011, which saw a
series of devastating tornadoes
in Alabama, Mississippi and
Georgia, deaths due to torna-
does have been limited since
1970.
Samson credits technological
advantages for these improved
percentages.
"Much of this decrease can
be directly attributed to the
improved forecasting of storm
formation plus improved radar
capability, hand-in-hand with
more personal and mobile
notification systems," Samson
wrote. "As we reach the point
when all can receive notifica-
tion, (our) next challenge is to
impress upon the population the
value of heedingthese warnings
and the need to improve access

JOIN DAILY NEWS
E-MAIL RAYZA GOLDSMITH AT
RAYZAG@MICHIGANDAILY.COM
FOR MORE INFORMATION

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail~com

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, March 21, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 36 Tots' story starter 53 Second-deepest
1 17-time NBA 1 Give up 37 Burden U.S. lake
champs 2 Muslim noble 38 Roof application 54 New Zealand-
6 Stern with strings 3 Jeans pioneer 40 Rajah's wife born crime writer
11 Hrs. before noon Strauss 42 Big name in Marsh
14 Filing board 4 October custom couture 58 10-Down drooler
15 Word of praise done in costume 45 University 60 "Bah!"
for el nito 5 Dict. entry officers 61 Natural skin
tO House plantrs 6 Same PCs 4B 'Perhaps' treatment
housing 7I' fine wth oa0oung dolphin 62 'Who's turn is
17 With "The," Bette that" 51 Windmill blades it?!"
Midler'sadebut 8 Greek with 12- 52 Public relations 65 Stadium sound
album Downs concern 66 Wyo. neighbor
19 Gun lobbyorg. 9 Crossword entry:
20 Funny Idle Abbr. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Regarding 10 Fanny pages G.S . A CC E D S A
32 Classic name in 11 Sleep disorder G A EDE
ts 12 Paint M P MART N R A H
24 Flors 13Parsue, cat-style F R O N T P O C K E T A L A
26 Kellogg's cereal 18The life of Riley T A 0 S A S H S A P 0 R
281-Across, e.g. 23De Beers , E D N A S B A C K S T A G E
31 Govt. properties DI E L A Y A N O T H E R
cryptanalysisorg. 25 Hall of Fame O D O U L P S I I O N
32 Bar graph, say quarterback F R E N C H C A R
33 Alluring Graham
35 Purely academic 27 One-named Irish S P F A A S K R E M E
39 Ones making singer A T H E I S T IS A A N T
deliveries at 28"Closecall!" B A R N S T O R M L E N T O
colleges? 29 Political contest A M A D 0 E E N C H E R
41 Lady in a Beatles 30 __ D.A. C I S D O U B L E D OOR S
sang 32 Largest OH U N E D R I E D U P L E 0
43 Carafe cousin airport
44dFirst razor with a 34Maroel S A S G E L A T I E DSS
pi4oting head superhero xwordeditor@aol.com 03/21/12
46Acquire,asdebt 1 2 3 4 s 7 a9 10 11 12 13
47 Austrian article
49Concealsfromthe 1415 16
enemy, in a way
51 Ribofla 78s1
55 An ate has a
strong one 20 1222o3
56 Italian violin a 2 26
craftsman
57 Sci. with cliff 48232 so 31
notes?
59 Shiite Islam is its 32 3 3 4 45 34 43 34
Btate religian
63 Slangyrefasal 44 44 8r 41
64 Spectacular a3as 46a
concert ender, ora
what 17-, 26- and 47 48 49 so
51-Across
numerically 1 64 53 54s5
contain
67ZSelf-esteem 58 57 56 59 60 51 62
68 Carib ban country s 46 s5s 1
69 Dryout, in rehab
70 Cross-reference se s s
word
71 "_were the 70 71 72
days!"
72 Plus By Don Gagliardn and C.C.,,urnikel 03/21/12
(c)2012 Tribune Media services,Inc,.

CEREMONY MUSICIANS
NEEDED: Seeking 2-4 ceremony
musicians far June15
wedding in Ann Arbor. Finail
Katherine at khmurkorumich.edu
ONE YEAR LEGAL internship posi-
tion available atBirmingham M ichigan
law firm startingAug. 2012. Perfect for
highly motivated graduating senior.
Email resume/cover lcttertranscript to
h.immigration.swcgmnailcom for
consideration.

to adequate shelter for those
living in homes without base-
ments."
While DPS primarily uses the
emergency alert system to send
out weather-related warnings
that could potentially affect
campus, it has also been used
for other threatening incidents,
such as a reported gunman on
campus, large gas leaks and
two separate armed robberies
in 2010, according to Univer-
sity emergency manager Andy
Burchfield.
Burchfield added that DPS
tests the system routinely twice
a year, once in the spring and in
the fall.
With evolving technology
and continued reliance on text
messaging as the quickest and
most efficient mode of com-
munication, the decision to
implement the emergency alert
system was a crucial move for
DPS.
"From the University's per-
spective, it's to put forward our
best foot in trying to help people
better prepare themselves for
emergencies that could occur,"
Burchfield said. "The U-M
emergency alert system is one
more key source that is available
to our faculty, staff and students
that they can utilize and regis-
ter for in order to receive alerts
when potential imminent dan-
ger may impact them."
Brown added that the sys-
tem is especially important in
the age of texting.
"As it grew in popular-
ity and acceptance and as ven-
dors were able to find ways to
advance text messages, then
the University looked for ways
to explore how we could fit
that into our way of commu-
nicating with text messages,"
Brown said.
The system is one of a com-
bination of resources that
DPS wants the community to
utilize in case of emergency,
along with television, news
and the outdoor warning
sirens, according to Burch-
field.
"The more resources you
have in your toolbox, the bet-
ter prepared you're going to
be. That's why we really advo-
cate for people to register for
this system because this does
key in on the University itself,"
Burchfield said.
Social Work student Kelly
Pearson said she registered for
the alert system when she was
a freshman at the University.
"I thought that if some-
thing was happening on cam-
pus, it would be good to know
about it," Pearson said. "I have
unlimited texting, so I figured
it was better to be safe than
sorry."
The continuous text mes-
sage updates confirmed the
severity of the storm for Pear-
son, who was at Dominick's on
Monroe Street when the storm
started, and helped her decide
to take precaution.
"Especially when I got an
alert that the tornado was
actually close by in Dexter I
thought 'OK, let's go down-
stairs and take cover,"' Pear-
son said. "The alerts gave more
details and updates as the

storm was progressing, get-
ting closer and getting worse."
The emergency alert system
is set for its spring test Friday
at noon.

s6
0
"

0

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
' Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
. www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2012 (Spring or Fall). U-M's
BEST housing sold out early for 2010
and 2011, reserve your space for 2012
today. Sign a lease on or before Febru-
ary 29, 2012 and play to win for one of
the following: $50, $100, $150, $200,
no money down until April 2012 or
FREE laundry for a year (value of
$312). 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. 1 to 4 bedroom, private
baths available. Rates from $660.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available fall.
827 Brookwood. Washer Dryer. 4 prkg
spaces $2300 + utils. 734-996-1991
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and
five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.miclicomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS, One
& Two bedroom apartments loctaed
on UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
MARCH ON IN TO THE BEST
LOCATION ON CAMPUS!
University 'owers & The 2td Floor
are right on Central Campus with
the Best amenities,
the Best service and the Best prices!
Call us for a tour today
734-761-2680
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
I STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
a summer only bed space at U-M's
Best housing. Leases will run from
April 30, 2012 -.August 13, 2012. 2
blocks from Central Campusand down-
town. Private baths available. Rates
slartiwg at $660.
734-998-440 www.4elevenlofts.com

close to U of M North Campus
affordable rates
great location to everything
MICHSTUDENTHOUSING.COM
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
AVAILABLE FALL, 6 bedroom
houses near central and north campus.
Call Michigan Realty at 734-662-5500
or www.michcomrealty.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVEAward-WinningrentalsinKerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
HEL W ANTED
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summoner- Make lifelong friends. Tb'
Island ouse Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Clickuon Surveys.

0



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Wednesday, March 21, 2012 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 21, 2012 - 7A

Devilish seduction
1n 'Progress'

Memoir of medical life

St
Ch
Faust
kees"
pathy
Devil
haunt
throu
years
ferent
tions
devil
ing u
the
tempt
are
intrig
this fi
embo
and
who
and at
We
a tale
quenc
to th
Rake's
ing a
Theat
sity O
versit
are cc
this 1
Stravi

ravinsky adapts The opera revolves around
three characters: the betrothed
paintings into Anne Trulove and Tom Rakewell,
and the devilish figure of Nick
moral opera Shadow, who draws Tom to the
city of London to embark on a life
By LAURA KAYE of debauchery and knavery. Tom
Daily Arts Writer distances himself from Anne,
captivated by Shadow's lures, yet
ristopher Marlowe's "Dr. pleasure never finds him. Will
us," the play "Damn Yan- Tom simply fall victim to a life
and even the song "Sym- devoted to Shadow or will an
for the inner strength persuade him to
" have think otherwise?
ed us The Rake's Stravinsky is an acclaimed
gh the Progress composer whose works include
with dif- the very percussive and dramatic
depic- Tomorrow section of the Disney film "Fan-
of the at7:30 p.m., tasia." In "The Rake's Progress,"
bewitch- Friday and which was his largest operatic
s through Saturday at work, Stravinsky experimented
power of 8 p.m. and with the neoclassical opera form
ation. We Sunday at of the 18th century. Associate
certainly 2 p.m. Music Prof. and director Rob-
ued by Lydia Mendelssohn ert Swedberg explained that
gure, w Theatre Stravinsky's opera closely resem-
dies evil bles Mozart in the shape, length
seduction, From $10 and construction of its arias and
repulses ensembles.
tracts us all at once. "It will sound in some ways
are again confronted with like a Mozart-style opera, but it
of desire and the conse- has the 20th-century flavor and
es of a man who succumbs character of Stravinsky. It's an
e devil in the opera "The interesting combination," Swed-
s Progress," which is open- berg said.
t the Lydia Mendelssohn The 18th-century painter
re tomorrow. The Univer- William Hogarth created eight
pera Theatre and the Uni- paintings called "The Rake's
y Philharmonic Orchestra Progress." These works became
ollaborating in presenting the basis for the narrative of the
951 opera composed by Igor opera.
nsky. Swedberg mentioned that

the graphics designer Lisa Buck
studied these original Hogarth
paintings and then incorporated
fragments of these etchings into
her own designs for the settings
of the scenes. Her interpretations
have deep, rich colors reminiscent
of a German expressionist style.
Three projection screens will
project these images throughout
the show, providing a multimedia
elementto the performance.
Even though the costumes
are reflective of traditional 18th-
century dress, Swedberg said the
attire will have a 20th-century
flair as well. Rather than dressing
each character in multiple col-
ors, each individual will appear
wearing a solid color. The hues
and textures connect with con-
temporary times, but the form of
each costume piece harkens back
to this specific period.
A central aspect of the opera
is the exploration of a man's
response to greed and how that
greed affects him.
"The moral of the piece is that
'for idle hands and hearts and
minds, the devil finds a work
to do,' " Swedberg said. "One
should be perfectly happy with
what one has already, but being
offered (what is) a step above
or beyond or maybe just out of
reach (leads to) disaster, which
is what happens to Tom. We see
contemporary parallels to what
happens in this 18th-century
setting, and it's very interesting
in that way."

By ALICIA ADAMCZYK
Daily Arts Writer
"What a pair. Double D's. Pok-
ing up at me like twin peaks. Pam
Anderson, eat your heart out. Too
bad they're attached to a four-
teen-year-old boy."
So begins Anthony Youn's "In
Stitches," a refreshingly hon-
est and humorous memoir about
the life of a surgeon in the mak-
ing. For pre-med students curi-
ous about what it actually takes
to become a doctor, "In Stitches"
offers a one-of-a-kind look into
the transformation from college
kid to working physician.
Youn, an Asian American
who grew up in the small, pre-
dominately Caucasian town of
Greenville, Mich., said the book
chronicles his evolution from a
shy, "wallflower-type" kid to a
successful plastic surgeon who
makes appearances on shows
such as "Dr. 90210," "The Rachael
Ray Show" and "The O'ReillyFac-
tor."
"The first third of the book is
about growing up in Michigan
feeling kind of like an outsider,
kind of like an ugly duckling,"
Youn said. "And then itprogresses
through college where I went four
years without a date ... the last
two-thirds of the book are about
medical school and the process of
becoming a doctor."
With stories including a
recounting of his date with a
fire-eating carnival worker and
a description of his small-town
roots, "In Stitches" differs enor-
mously from the medical memoirs
that typically occupy bookstore
shelves.
"I've read a lot of medical mem-
oirs by physicians, and to me, they
all came across as being overly
serious," Youn said. "In a lot of
ways, the books focused on keep-
ing the doctor as the hero of the
story. And what I wanted to write
was a book about becoming a doc-
tor (and) the process of medical
school in particular."
"These books were typically
written by 50-something-year-
old men who wrote stories about
how they change patients' lives.
And my book is exactly the oppo-
site of that."
Youn said he wanted to write
a book of equal parts truthful
and funny that would appeal to a
broad range of audiences.

A MEMOtR

"In Stitches" was named a 2012 Michigan Notable Book of the Year.


"Eve
ican, ev
goingtc
are still
that th
with,"
empath
can't fi
pain at
througi
minor
housing
H
be;
But t
the lig
school
ing ho
patient
ing her
there a:
in the b
"It's
said. "I
where3
are par
sadness
Youn
which

n if you're not Asian Amer- Michigan Notable Book of the
'en if you're not technically Year and has received praise from
o be a doctor, a lot of people USA Today, Publisher's Weekly
1 finding parts of the book and "The Rachael Ray Show,"
ey can really empathize among others - was initially
he said. "Whether it's rejected by 30 different agents
izing with someone who before it was picked up.
nd a date, to feeling the "I don't even know how many
nd the difficulty of going times I heard that medical books
h medical school, to even don't sell, people aren't inter-
things ... like university ested in learning about medical
g." school and being a doctor," he
said. "I think that with the book,
it's something that hopefully I've
umor is the provenwrong." s
Youn said that with such a posi-
st medicine. tive response to the book, espe-
cially among college students, a
second book is potentially in the
works.
*he book doesn't just depict "This book literally ends with
hter side of the medical- the end of medical school," he
experience. After describ- said. "But there is also that transi-
w he watched his first tion of going from medical school
die seconds after meet- to being a real, practicing doctor,
,Youn acknowledged that and that would be the idea behind
re sad, more serious stories the second book."
ook as well. With stories that include unre-
kind of like real life," he quited love and medical disasters,
n real life, there are parts wide critical acclaim, celebrity
you're laughing, and there endorsements and a major liter-
ts where there's a lot of ary award, it would seem Youn's
." "In Stitches" has indeed broken
said that the book - the mold of the traditional medi-
was designated the 2012 cal memoir.

'Model' is revolutionary bore
By BRIANNE JOHNSON
Daily Arts Writer

PARAMOUNT VANTAGE
"I got a bad feeling about this."
Lovable, charming 'Jeff'

By ANDREW MCCLURE
For the Daily
Filmmakers Jay and Mark
Duplass have delved into the
all-too-common discord of fam-
ily life before.
In "Cyrus,"
the indie duo
explored neu- Jeff, Who
rotic, vulner-
able characters LIVeS at
whose eccen- Home
tricities are
validated by all- At the State
encompassing parameunt
truths of famil-
iar ties. "Jeff, Vantage
Who Lives at
Home" turns out to be exactly
what its title suggests, but only on
its surface. A day in the life of Jeff
reveals the constant fear of fate
when at odds with your family's
expectations.
Jeff (Jason Segel, "The Mup-
pets") is a pothead living in his
mother Sharon's (Susan Saran-
don, "Thelma and Louise") base-
ment. He wanders mindlessly and
ignores his mother's order to pick
up wood glue to repair the win-
dow blinders. His obsession with
the film "Signs" epitomizes his
role: a cosmically charged bum
who thinks everything happens
for a reason. His bizarre behav-
ior leaves his mother ashamed
and his married brother Pat (Ed
Helms, "The Hangover Part II")
distanced.
At first, it seems that the film
will consist of everyone tear-
ing into the innocuous, unem-
ployed Jeff - until he, ironically,

appears to be the most grounded saying she "hates" her kids now.
of them all. The audience begins to despise
Sharon has a miserable cubicle the negligent Sharon as she
job that gets twisted when a secret vainly preoccupies herself with
admirer supplies her with fresh ambiguous messages from some-
confidence. Pat fosters a dysfunc- one in her office.
tional marriage that involves not Candy trucks, basketball jer-
listening to his wife, courtesy of seys and soaring birds are few of
an inflated ego. And then there's many "signs" that Jeff detects,
Jeff, a stoner with a destiny - or hoping they'll guide him toward
so he thinks. Mommy and brother his destiny. He looks and sounds
won't admit it, but they need Jeff zany, but persistence is his best
more than ever, despite their out- asset. The Duplass brothers
ward disregard. ensure Jeff is simplistic in every
way, which is why he's such a
powerful character.
High living at Segel deftly embodies the
benevolence and drive of such
mom's house. an unlikely pursuer. Helms finds
long-lost sensitivity despite his
asshole portrayal. Sarandon
proves, once again, her moth-
Alas, we have seen this story erly genius. A perfect storm of
foundation recycled ad nauseam. catastrophic measures integrates
The loser stay-at-home son was the three in a way so emotive, it
seen in "Step Brothers" and the might be the magic to restore
newfound bromance genre spear- latent love. Jeff sets out to honest-
headed by Judd Apatow. It's not ly bring forth a feeling everyone
entirely fresh material, but that's yearns for: completeness. Wheth-
OK. The Duplass brothers man- er that means boning supermodel
age to infuse enough eccentric after supermodel or incessantly
elements to string together a solid hitting the bong in your mom's
film. basement, the concept is relative.
Throughout the course of this The Duplass brothers show
one day, the camera lens takes that destiny may take some
a very up-close-and-personal searching for, but it must be
approach. This is complemented sought out, devoid of overana-
by timely mini-zooms that accen- lyzing and over-living. Unneces-
tuate every word spoken, hugely sary complication is the root of
elevating the power of the script. our demise. The film's title is an
A series of unfortunate events, oxymoron, because Jeff seems to
including Pat's wife's poten- be the single figure that ventures
tial infidelity, brings the two from his conventional, homey
estranged brothers closer, while bubble - and that's why we love
their mixed-up mother is caught him.

"Wait, these girls are from the
U.K.? They're not American. Is
this a joke right now?" wonders
Texan con-
testant Kyle
Gober. As view-
ers tune in to Ameicans
another mani-
cured cycle of Next Top
"America's Next Model
Top Model"
(cycle 18, to be Season18
begrudgingly premiere
exact), they Wednesdays
may be in for a at 9 p.m.
culture shock. CW
Deeming it a
"British Inva-
sion," host and producer Tyra
Banks incites a gratingly patriotic
competition of countries as she
introduces seven ironically un-
American models from across the
pond.
Announcing, "May the best
Brit or the best Yank win!" Banks
then reveals a twist: Seven of the
fourteen contestants previously
contended for "Britain's Next Top
Model." At this point, you may
be reaching for the stray Ameri-
can flag proudly hanging from
your pocket, wiping the wax (and
treachery!) from your ears like the
Q-tip of freedom.
Aside from its fresh delivery
of posh charm, "Top Model"
remains tediously formulaic,
trudging through an hour of
inane challenges and stone-faced
judges' deliberations in its six-
inch Jimmy Choos. Its structure
is as predictable as the melodra-
matic models' behavior. Mascara-
soaked tears stream down their
cheeks amid a lackluster photo-
shoot, reappearing without pause
post-makeover. When famous
Kardashian mom Kris Jenner

"Bitch, please. I'm fabulous."

waltzes
viewers
own.
How
to the.
enliven
franch
for a re
at leas
tiques,
tic thri
ex-boy'
Facebo
fort the

S
t:
thi
it

into the second episode, American/British rivalry; liter-
s shed a few tears of their ally parades, as the contestants
thrust their fists into the air,
'ever, when introduced chanting "USA!" atop a string of
culture clash intended to floats.
i a stalled "Top Model" "Top Model" puts the Ameri-
ise, viewers may plead can stereotype on display, juxta-
eturn to "normal" - hey, posing the starred-and-striped
t the judges' weekly cri- models' garishness and vulgar-
offer the same voyeuris- ity (one contestant refers to her
ll of scrolling through an British opponent as a "trick" - a
friend's or ex-girlfriend's prostitute - in front of a runway
ok photos. There's com- audience) with their modest and
ere, right? Right? reserved adversaries. "Those
Brits better watch their damn
backs because we're gonna come
;ometimes for them," threatens American
Laura LaFrate. God bless Amur-
rying new rica.
The British contestants are
ings is a bad exponentially more likeable as
the obnoxious battle rages on,
dea, Tyra. presenting a quiet confidence
that the American models lack.
Humbled by her opponents'
home advantage, Brit Sophie
he competition unfolds, Sumner gazes over the railing of
odels march on, draped the U.K.'s parade float, meekly
r homeland's banners - (and humorously) calling, "Tea
own to their flag-inspired and scones!" Maybe she'd have
s, flag-inspired hair a bit more success chanting a
and flag-inspired frosted phrase warmly embraced by
o longer a modeling com- American culture - "Expecto
n, the show parades as an Patronum," perhaps?

As t
the ma
in thei
right d
T-shirt
streaks
lips. Na
petitioi


8A - Wednesday, March 21, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com a

.... .ro e n . .MEN'S BA SKETBALL
Projecting the starting five

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Michigan coach Red Berenson will take Michigan to its 22nd-consecutive NCAA Tournament appearance this weekend.
Michigan not concerned
withcomeback troubles

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
With the start of the NCAA
Tournament just days away,
Michigan coach Red Berenson
reflected on one of the best come-
backs he's witnessed in his tenure
as coach of the Michigan hockey
team.
His thoughts turned back to a
different tournament - a game
against Denver in 1999.
With the Wolverines trailing
by three, Berenson called a time-
out midway through the second
period to try and put some life
back in his squad.
"I just talked to the team,"
Berenson said. "Just reminded
them why we came here, how we
have to play to be a good team."
Michigan left the bench a
rejuvenated team and went on to
trounce Denver, 5-3.
So, where was that same sense
of comeback during Saturday's
CCHA Championship game
against Western Michigan, a
contest in which No. 2 Michigan
trailed by three for most of the
game? According to senior for-
ward David Wohlberg, it's always
there - the Wolverines just had a
little difficulty unearthing it.
"It's tough to dig a hole for
yourself and then have to come
out of it," Wohlberg said. "Coach-
es really stress about getting a
jump-start on teams, getting a
first goal and then playing with a

lead an
Thos
the tea
up. Mi
ing 20-
first th
problen
up the
mucht
that fir
they fin
"
a
"Itt
the oth
I don't
Berens
you go
you sta
create
is to sc
momen
That
problen
cos sco
first fr
didn'ti
later. E
midst o
The

d growing that lead." make a distinction between work
e aren't empty words - ethic and luck. On Friday night,
m has stats to back them Michigan trailed Bowling Green
chigan has a command- by two in the second period. With
-6-4 record when scoring 10 seconds left in the frame, soph-
is season. The Wolverines' omore defenseman Jon Merrill
n isn't necessarily giving got a lucky bounce that fumbled
first goal - it's letting too its way past the Falcon goaltender.
time pass between when But Michigan would rather
st goal is scored and when play not have to rely on quirky
d twine. bounces or lucky breaks. Wohl-
berg was definitive that the team
becomes beatable the instant it
doesn't come out and play for
(ou can't go the full 60 minutes. It's a point
that the coaching staff routinely
)ut and try emphasizes. It starts with the
team coming out focused and in
nd do it all the right mindset. But after that,
it all comes down to grittiness
yourself." and mental toughness.
"We've got to earn it," Beren-
son said. "We've got to work
harder than the other team
doesn't rattle me (when and then you've got to be a little
er team scores first), and patient, too. You can't go out and
think it rattles our team," try and do it all yourself. We're a
on said. "(But) the longer team, and let's do it together."
without scoring, the longer The Wolverines recognize Sat-
irt pressing. You've got to urday's loss as the exception rath-
momentum, and one way er than the rule. So, even with the
ore. The one way to lose first round of the NCAA Tourna-
tum is to give up a goal." ment looming, they're not worried
was the team's biggest about repeat performances.
n on Saturday. The Bron- "Hopefully, we won't be in (a
red midway through the hole), and that's the most impor-
same, and the Wolverines tant thing," said junior defense-
respond until 35 minutes man Lee Moffie. "I think we have
ven then, they were in the a lot of confidence in ourselves
f a five-minute penalty kill. because we're able to come back
team also knows how to and get over the obstacles."

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Had everything gone accord-
ing to plan, senior guards Zack
Novak and Stu Douglass and the
rest of the Michigan men's bas-
ketball team would be busy prep-
ping for a Sweet 16 matchup with
North Carolina.
But after an upset by Ohio sent
the Wolverines packing, it's time
for a first look ahead at a 2012-
13 campaign that may bring the
program's highest preseason
expectations since 1996, when
the team opened the year ranked
No. 7.
Since he finished an impres-
sive freshman campaign in 2011,
there have been talks surround-
ing the chances of sophomore
guard Tim Hardaway Jr. bolting
for the NBA this offseason. But
after a less-than-stellar shoot-
ing performance for much of
the year, murmurs of the Miami
native leaving have quieted.
And ever since November's
Maui Invitational, when fresh-
man Trey Burke burst onto the
scene - prompting ESPN NBA
Draft analyst Chad Ford to tell
The Michigan Daily he believed
Burke would be a first-round
pick this summer - rumors have
swirled about Burke departing,
too.
But in the locker room after
the Wolverines' loss last week-
end, both underclassmen
pledged to return to Ann Arbor
for next season.
With Burke and Hardaway Jr.
back, along with the best recruit-
ing class the program has seen
in well over a decade, Michigan
is expected to open next year
ranked near the top 10.
Let's take a look at what next
season's roster will look like:
Point guard: projected starter
- Burke.
Assuming Burke returns, he
may be a unanimous selection
for All-Big Ten first team, and
he should find himself near the
top of the preseason list for the
Bob Cousy Award, given to the
nation's top point guard. Burke
has already demonstrated lead-
ership ability, and Novak - who
has been grooming the freshman
- indicated that Burke should be
a captain next season.
A healthy Burke, along with a
more talented surrounding cast,
should spell trouble for foes.
Expect his 4.6 assists per game
to increase with more scorers
on the floor, while his already
impressive 2.8 turnovers could
drop, as his decision-making
improves with another year
under his belt.
But Burke will be tasked with
an even greater burden than this
year, when he led the team with
36.1 minutes per game. Douglass
was Burke's backup this year,
and his departure leaves a glar-
ing void on the bench behind the
Columbus native.
Just two other players on the
roster have (albeit limited) point
guard experience: freshman
Carlton Brundidge and junior
Eso Akunne.
In only 44 minutes this sea-
son - and just nine in confer-

ence play - Brundidge looked
overmatched on the floor. His
five turnovers in limited action
is concerning, and his ball han-
dling and quickness don't appear
to be Big Ten-quality. A sparse-
ly used Akunne, who's also a
below-average ball handler, is a
last resort.
Guard/wing: projected start-
ers - Hardaway Jr. and incoming
freshman forward Glen Robinson
Ill.
Hardaway Jr. should be hun-
gry to improve upon a disap-
pointing sophomore campaign,
when his 3-point shooting took
a significant step back. Though
his scoring numbers improved
slightly, his field-goal percentage
dropped slightly and his 3-point
mark fell to an abysmal 28.3 per-
cent.
Still, Hardaway Jr. has one of
the wing positions locked down.
His running mate remains a
mystery. Douglass, the starter
at two-guard for most of year,
played 33 minutes during con-
ference play and was Michigan's
most reliable on-ball defender.
Junior guard Matt Vogrich
saw a drop in his minutes this
year, and though he should see
more time next year, he's not
starter material. Vogrich - a
sharpshooter who struggled to
find his touch for a long stretch
of conference play - possesses
some of Novak's tenacity at chas-
ing down loose balls against
more physically gifted athletes,
but his shortcomings are too
much. Vogrich is too slow to stay
with opposing wingmen, and he
lacks the first step to create his
own shot.
Don't expect blog-writing
junior guard Josh Bartelstein to
grow into a formidable option
this offseason, which means
Michigan coach John Beilein
will have to rely on a newcomer,
either guard Nik Stauskas or
Robinson III.
Stauskas, a 6-foot-5 Canada
native is one of the most dan-
gerous 3-point shooters in the
nation. Stauskas is more of a true
shooting guard than Robinson,
but he has the ability to get to
the basket and create his own
shot, earning him four stars from
Rivals.com.
Robinson, the son of former
NBA star Glen "Big Dog" Rob-
inson, is a true wing player. He
appeared more talented than
Stauskas, but will Beilein want
a second wing on the floor to
accompany Hardaway Jr.? The
two players' style of play closely
resemble each other, and since
Hardaway Jr. struggles to defend
shooting guards, it'd be risky to
throw an inexperienced wing
on the floor to guard the opposi-
tion's two-guard.
Expect to see Stauskas and
Vogrich on the floor at times, but
it'll be Robinson's name called
over the PA system before games.
Post: projected starters -
incoming freshman forward
Mitch McGary and redshirt soph-
omore forward Jordan Morgan.
Beilein will again slate a true
power forward to play the four
position to kick off the season,
but unlike this year, don't expect

the plan to be scrapped midsea-
son in favor of a four-guard sys-
tem.
At 6-foot-10, McGary is taller
than Michigan's starting five-
man, Morgan, but is a natural
power forward. After spending
a year in prep school, his body is
college-ready, and he should be
able to step right in and collect
rebounds among the Big Ten's
best.
While his offense may be a
work in progress, McGary has
a nice midrange game and can
even step outside and shoot the
three. The mental aspect to his
game needs growth, but he won't
be asked to do a whole lot aside
from collecting rebounds and
setting screens. The high energy
level that he plays the game with
should help at both, and if he
can average close to10 points, 10
rebounds and a block-and-a-half
per game, Michigan will finally
have the big man it has lacked in
the Beilein era.
With his height, McGary can
easily slide over to the five if
Morgan gets into foul trouble.
With another offseason, Mor-
gan should improve on a steady
sophomore year.
The Detroit native shot an
impressive 61.9 percent from the
field but had several puzzling
point-blank-range misses. His
points (7.3) and rebounds (5.6)
may not see notable increases,
but if he can add strength and
stay out of foul trouble - some-
thing he improved upon greatly
this year - he'll be a dependable 0
option down low.
Additionally, Beilein should
finally have a bench full of low-
post options. Despite going
cold for most of conference
play, sophomore forward Evan
Smotrycz still managed to shoot
a team-high 43.5 percent from
3-point range.
Last offseason, he returned
to Ann Arbor close to 35 pounds
heavier, and it showed, as he was
able to attack the rim - danger-
ous for a 6-foot-9 shooter. He'll
be highly motivated to have
another superb offseason after
his turnover ended Michigan's
season, so expect him to bulk up
even more to improve his ability
to defend the post.
The biggest improvement
Smotrycz needs to make is a
mental one. Too often, he picked
up fouls away from the ball or
basket, limiting his play time. If
he can stay out of foul trouble,
look for him to be one of the con-
ference's top sixth men.
Sophomore forward Jon Hor-
ford, who played in just nine
games before being shelved with
a foot injury, should be back at
full strength.
While he might be squeezed
out of ever seeing significant
minutes, the 6-foot-10 Horford
should prove to be a defensive
burst of energy off the bench.
In just under 11 minutes per
game this season, he notched
3.6 rebounds and a block per
game. If he can provide similar
results, Michigan can transform
from a team with almost no low-
post depth to one of the deepest
benches in the Big Ten.

SOFTBALL
M' opens home slate vs. EMU

By GREG GARNO to No. 7 Oklahoma and No. 5 Ari-
Daily Sports Writer zona State, and it will be looking
to gain much-needed confidence
Having played six tourna- before its Big Ten opener against
ments on the road to begin the Penn State this weekend.
season, Michigan coach Carol Eastern Michigan enters
Hutchins and - Alumni Field with a 9-14 record
the Michigan EMU at on the season.
softball team The Eagles won three of
can't be blamed Michigan their last four games during
for wanting to Matchup: the Miami (Ohio) Tournament
get a head start EMU 9-14; and are led by a pair of pitch-
on their home Michigan 17-9 ers, junior Jenna Ignowski and
season. When: sophomore Lauren Wells. Both
On Mon- Wednesday, pitchers carry an ERA under
day, the 6 p.m. 3.00 and have combined for a
20th-ranked Where: total of 82 strikeouts through-
Wolverines Alumni Field out the season. Ignowski, who
(17-9 overall) TV/Radio: threw a no-hitter over the week-
announced the MGoBlue.com end, will look to take advantage
addition of a of a Michigan team in an offen-
regular non- sive slump. But Michigan has a
conference game against East- pitching ace of its own in fresh-
ern Michigan for Wednesday at man Haylie Wagner, who holds a
Alumni Field. Michigan holds a 1.26 ERA and a 12-4 record com-
52-8 all-time advantage over the ing into Wednesday's matchup.
Eagles, and the team won last Eastern Michigan has also been
year's matchup, 9-7, in one of the unable to succeed offensively
Wolverines' closest regular-sea- so far this season, as it has a
son games. combined team batting average
"We thought we would take of .235. The key, though, will
advantage of the great weather be how Wagner's arm holds up
we have been having," Hutchins after pitching 21straight innings
said. "After our games were over the weekend. Hutchins will
rained out this weekend, we turn to another freshman, Sara
have the opportunity to add a Driesenga, to close out the game
game to our schedule. This will and provide relief for the Wol-
be a great chance for our fans to verines.
get out and catch us in action for Michigan relies onsenior third
the first time." baseman Amanda Chidester and
With the weather predicted to senior center-fielder Bree Evans
reach an unseasonably high tem- to spark quality at-bats and get
perature in the 80s on Wednes- runners on base. The captains
day, conditions should be similar have been an important part of
to the warm weather of Florida any offense the Wolverines have
and California the Wolverines produced this season. Junior
have seen already. second baseman Ashley Lane is
Michigan is coming off a two- also a critical piece of the Wol-
game losing streak after losses verine offense, being the major

source of power and a contribu-
tor of seven home runs this sea-
son. Michigan hopes to return
its "one pitch at a time" men-
tality to the diamond as well -
something Hutchins has yet to
see as of late. The Wolverines
have combined for 127 strikeouts
on the season and just 66 walks.
The Wolverines will see the
Eagles later again in two weeks
in one of four games against
Mid-American Conference
opponents.


0, W0
'p Q. w G SD r- ID
on N y  N1{
O 'CO pp,,( C0 o G O- O ""w0 G C n - - .
OojNr 0 w om 0- n U y r
'pCowwO c .  cw ,2 0 a N gx 4
.,.. CO O CM Yx..'aw 1 N00 : C w Om0
n C0.00 0. -n R. rr
.. T o r wb mK 3 DG N .O "eOo y w r
n 0 N c FD N
n O p m ' yw -N
a. roo r YN
N O N 0-
P r0 N NN 0N 0N o
 0n'b -. N Ow G N x ' 0- N G y O N N W N O.a C 0C . m C
xNN N< 0 N N 00 O N N -0ma aoo Gv aNa 7w a 4 N r .0
0N0-NyNwOONw C
D w r ' 0 aN p p ID w .0
w 0m Y ovNw / iNN
." '_'O . - 00v mN D 0 00 0- wN  C.- t,. ' 9 '
68 NO O- O W  r00N w 'jNNS u 'S .ti n (D .-.
.n S. yc G O D ' CK G . C ' S p' '-  N (
NNOA .+NC N w on n C W N O D NNW o .y "r T7 v 0 r .wm n tC .r' O tP N''N0 G m
' " 'im n I' ,. .r yrp ,0 o N0Eo m-m" u NNNOON N y 0- r oN
mN cz pO w M 0 " O .0-y n O (D CC S 0- vwNN00
0- NNNaNm-M . a N(o r0a- C D e0-0-~ .
o A N0 w w- w~ NN
'G W O ( C..'(D R N C'CLN yO o - o ONN DO n "N0 ."-w"0,
NOa aON - n  N
m q m w., r 0-re 9'w w N0 " E2o 0 -NO Z roD cN o. N ' w
C0ONN",O 00-N
w p I c hN y No NOyww o N 0
ONN 0000" 'O- : .J mCn 7 rDD N NOw'?ONU-O<W0-O Not
NONm R NNN M m x^ o o g o 0- 0 f
0-O0 N N - t
N o F- oRNo o 8n 0m- oWL-ZC
0-r -. o 0 N o y a00 n o. b v NmN 0000 rt ' w
'D ID r G O R N0 O ..Oo N0 O NN rro w 00a. y m. :
0N 0- NOO ~ NO~o0 OONN
rnD C rn ti . n r"D Or N yN " @ 0 N3 ,n y . 0 r. G p
0-~O ~ ~ ON N~ON N ~ ~ ON Nt*
CT'CLO .-. .7 0ON (p Nbom wNn ONw pr
y C i, t r ,ro 1 w m0- N O0 4 sD ,w - 00000 w 'ON .N
 A. o "0 ~ m'v q.0 vo " wa" OwN
NDo O N 0 OrNN N - 0 ONt. N N 0 . 0 - O
V N .+N09 N P Ny<D S. 0 E N N O' O ]+< 0 R ( w 6' .n 0 n
C a 'y d E"w m ro a , >rv k CD
On T
0-0 0- a o o o aa tmo . O . i
"'+NNO ti ~O ONy .,n (Oyr ' CC' , OmNNNO C . N r 0 0 -
C-s(oro -r tN0 - 0NN D 0 000(00 G qC r BCq ~.F._ryS ,",,"y. F ,

I

0




0

0

2B Wednesay, 201

Wednesday, March 21, 2012 // The Statement 7B

Young adults needed!
This study will characterize brain mechanisms of emotion and motivation.
This study involves: To qualifvjfor this studryou must be:
. An interview, questionnaires, blood and urine - Age 18 - 22 (inclusive)
samples, and a computer task (2 - 2% hr) . Not pregnant or using hormonal
. Compensation of $25 - $35 contraception
. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and an " Not using drugs that affect the brain
additional $70 - $90 if selected for the 2nd phase -"Able to tolerate an MRI scan
This study is sponsored by: University of Michigan Department of Psychiaty MichiganInstitute for Clinical & Health
Research; National institutes of Health Study ID: HUMIOM40452
Please call 1-734-615-2698 or email Mchancestudy@umich.edu for more information
j UyD m KIUn

Letter from the Editor
by Kaitlin Williams
ore than 40,000 students attend the University and they all
stake claim to the epithet "the leaders and the best." How could
you whittle the "champions of the west" down to just 11 Stu-
dents of the Year featured in 10 articles? With plenty of viable choices, it
wasn't easy.
Nominees were gathered via e-mail submissions and suggestions from
Michigan Daily staff members. The resulting pool of nominees was dif-
ficult to cut down to just a handful of finalists. That said, we're confident
our selection is a representative sample of the best the University has to
offer.
The students profiled include star athletes, an actress starring on Broad-
way and an engineer building equipment to shoot into the stars. Their
achievements are made more impressive when you consider that they take
classes, deal with relationship drama and juggle social lives.
For those profiled who are not seniors, we can expect more great things
in years to come. For those leaving the University this year, we get to throw
in our lot with the legacy they leave behind. And for those not tossing their
graduation caps in the air this spring, you could land on these pages next
year.
THE Statement
Deputy Editor: Kaitlin Williams
Magazine Editors: Dylan Cinti, Jennifer Xu
Editor in Chief: Joseph Lichterman
Managing Editor: Josh Healy
Design Editor: Nolan Loh
Photo Editor: Terra Molengraff
Copy Editor: Beth Coplowitz

q l

COURTESY !F CHRIS DZOMB'A
Taylor Louderman: To Broadway
by Jesse Klein
II
TIth blonde hair and bright blue eyes, Taylor Louderman looks like your
stereotypical high school cheerleader, but she hadn't ever cheered until
she landed a starring role in Bring It On: The Musical.
Louderman is currently taking a sabbatical from the University to tour the
country as Campbell, the lead role in Bring It On. To get the part, Louderman
went through a series of intense auditions at the University and then in New
York. She even nabbed the part while battling bronchitis.
"I was back in time for school the next day," Louderman said.
Louderman traded in her backpack for a suitcase and embarked on a 13-city
tour. She plays Campbell, an uppity rich girl who transfers to an inner city
school and is forced to compete against her old high school in a cheerleading
competition.
"It's insanely different," Louderman said. "It's not based on any one movie but
takes elements from each."
Louderman said she thoroughly enjoys her time on stage.
"I love work with a creative team on the production of the show," Louderman
said.
The big cities are a change for this small town girl. Growing up outside of St.
Louis had a large impact on Louderman's work ethic, she said.
"I had to drive an hour to get to rehearsals," Louderman said. "It taught me
how hard you have to work."
- It's that same drive that got her into the University's prestigious School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, a place she said is defined by its instructors.
"The professors really make the school," Louderman said.
Louderman will return to the University next year and is excited to come
back to campus. while she misses the football games, the buses and just being in
school, she said the atmosphere was the hardest thing to leave.
"I miss the family environment," Louderman said.
- "As students, it is important to be open to opportunities available to you," Shi
said. "If you take the time to find the classes that are interesting to you, you
never know when the opportunity may come about to make use of it."

ALDENREISS/daly
Duncan Miller: The Rising Star
by Zach Bergson
hough he's too modest to admit it, Engineering junior Duncan Miller is a
rising star in the field of aerospace engineering.
Miller, who said he was "bitten by the space bug at an early age," has a
resum6 that any aerospace engineer would appreciate.
In his three years at the University, Miller has interned for Lockheed Martin
Space Systems, the NASA Langley Autonomous Vehicle Laboratory and earned
a flawless 4.0 grade point average with 18 A-pluses.
Oh, and did we mention he's one of the lead engineers for the Cubesat Inves-
tigating Atmospheric Density Response to Extreme Driving, a state of the art
satellite, which will orbit around the Earth?
But the Dearborn, Mich. native plays all of this down when you speak to him.
He says he's gotten to where he is today through tireless work and a lot of help
from his peers and mentors.
"I didn't do all of this myself," Miller said. "I get to work with some of the
smartest (University students)."
Miller added that the CADRE project has been consuming most of his free
time lately. He said the satellite project is one of the biggest student-led projects
at the University.
"CADRE will study the thermosphere in low earth orbit by sampling the ion
winds. Ultimately, this will improve orbital tracking of objects to help minimize
collisions in orbit," he said.
Though he downplays his level of importance to CADRE's success, Miller is
the only undergraduate leader of the project - the rest of the team leaders are
graduate students.
Miller said it's difficult to balance his CADRE work and his rigorous engi-
neering curriculum - he spends more than 20 hours a week designing the satel-
lite. He added that his peers are integral to his success juggling responsibilities.
"The great thing about being on a student project is that there are a bunch of
other kids who have the same dream, who are really motivated to make it hap-
pen," Miller said. "what usually happens is, if it's my midterm week, it's going
to be someone else's midterm week next week, so if they pick up the slack for me
this week and I cover for them next week ... we have each others' back."
This summer Miller will intern at SpaceX, a private aerospace company that
develops space vehicles, and his long-term plans include attending graduate
school for aerospace engineering.
Miller said he owes all of his successes - from the internships to his pres-
tigious position on the CADRE project - to the lessons he's learned from this
University.
"All of my experiences at Michigan have shown me the merits of hard work
and having strong morals and motivation, and that those things are the key to
success," Miller said. "You can't pick the lock."

Don't just spend your tax refund, invest it in your future. At Coverall, we make
awning pne own business as attainable goal. Join a leading commercial cleaning
franchise system In a grawing industsy.
" Financing Available a Comprehensive Training
" Billing & Collection Services " Initial Customer Base
With as low as $2ooo down, there has never been an easier way to start a
business for yourself.
COVERALL
Heah-Based CleaningSystem'
Call 734.367.4843 or visit www.CoverallDetroit.com
and change your future today.
This offering is made by prospectus only. SeeFranchise Disclosure Document for details.

i

i

i

COVER ILLUSTRATION BY NOLAN LOH/Daily



0 0

0

0 0.

6B Wednesday, Mrch 21, 201

I Wednesday, March 21, 2012 // The Statement


1

or Rackham student Mohammed Tayssir Safi - hired by the Michigan
Muslim Alumni Association as the University's first Muslim chaplain in
January - listening is as much a religious duty as a line item in his job
description.
"It's an act of worship just to meet people: to talk to them, to hear them, to
listen to what they have to say so that you can better serve them," Safi said.
Safi's appointment marked the first of a Muslim chaplain among public uni-
versities. Only about 30 universities nationwide have the position.
Two months into his appointment, Safi said his job entails listening more
than anything else. He is still having first meetings with University officials,
campus religious leaders and students. Earlier this month, he held office hours
for students and he said more showed up than he could listen to.
"I didn't know that this was going to happen, but people very quickly opened
up," he said. "... I had nine students in the span of two hours that I was there, and
I couldn't meet all of them."
Safi's other responsibilities include advocating on behalf of the Muslim
Student Association, working with religious figures on campus to encourage
cooperation and tolerance, and assisting MSA with miscellaneous tasks - be it
finding a speaker or offering advice.
He said he is a conduit both to and from the University's Muslim community,
not only raising MSA's ambitions and concerns to the University but returning
to MSA with the University's thoughts and responses.
"Sometimes the University's actively concerned and hoping to help minority
communities both in faith and ethnicity, but they don't know who to contact,"
he said. "And so I'm trying to connect with people so that they know if they can't
come to me, at least I can put them in contact with the people they need."
And though he resisted credit for all the efforts he's putting in, citing Islam's
teachings of modesty, he said his intermediation seems especially important
given the high turnover rate among the Muslim campus leadership.
In April, when the president and both vice presidents of MSA graduate, the
University and other religious organizations on campus will have to rebuild
their relationships with the University's Muslim community - except for Safi.
"Next year they're going off to do what they're going to do, and now you've got
a whole new group of people that you have to interact with," he said. "And so all
those relationships that you built disappear. We hope that I'm a circuit."

by Vanessa Rychlinski
L SA junior Connie Shi has all the answers.
The cellular and molecular biology major advanced to the semi-finals of the
College Jeopardy! Championship after winning a quarter final that aired Feb.
2, finishing with $19,000 in winnings.
Shi was one of 12,000 undergraduates to apply to the college version of the
popular television game show. She auditioned in New York City before being
selected as one of 15 students who would compete on the show. Shi was flown to
Culver City, Calif. for filming in January.
"You get to go with the purpose of representing your school," Shi said. "It adds
an even better dimension."
Shi said the only strategy she employed for her stint on Jeopardy! was to
"answer correctly and before others," which is the same mindset she has for
exams. Shi added that she went into the show with the goal of doing her best and
enjoying herself in the process.
"The game is so unpredictable," Shi said. "You really don't know what's going
to happen in the moment, then there's a commercial break."
Shi's win led her to compete in the semi-finals the day after the first round.
The show aired a week later on Feb. 10.
"What most people don't realize is that the filming is done all at once - so Ken
Jennings (74-time Jeopardy! winner) taped each episode one after the other."
Shi said though there was less pressure after she won the first round, she was
less confident during the second round, in which she finished third.
Shi's life went back to normal once she returned to Ann Arbor with exams to
study for and a contract of silence to uphold. Shi couldn't tell anyone - outside
of her parents, who were present in the audience - of her win.
"It was kind of fun, knowing something no one else knows," Shi said.
Keeping academics first as always, Shi didn't watch herself on television in
early February because she was in class.
As an undergraduate researcher in the University Comprehensive Cancer Cen-
ter, Shi was recently selected to be one of 17 recipients of the prestigious Thomas J. -
Bardos Science Education Award offered by the American Association for Cancer
Research. She will head to Chicago at the end of the month to participate in the
AACR annual conference.
Shi additionally volunteers at the Veterans Affairs Hospital in Ann Arbor, is a
violinist in the Michigan Pops orchestra and is a staff member of the Michigan
Undergraduate Research Journal.
All in all, Shi said that her Jeopardy! experience was "plenty of excitement,"
and she offered advice to University students.
"As students, it is important to be open to opportunities available to you," Shi
said. "If you take the time to find the classes that are interesting to you, you
} never know when the opportunity may come about to make use of it."


A

Q
Q
v
n
N
N
a_
N
(D
r-r
8

0

0


