(41 P tc4t an 4,3at l

TORD.% .e

M

Ann Arbor Michigan

Tuesday, November 6, 2012

michigandaily.com

Now, the voters decide

Ohio a focus as
campaigns blitz
swing states


By RAYZA GOLDSMITH
Daily News Editor
COLUMBUS, Ohio - After weeks
filled of grueling campaign stops and
rallies across the nation, it's no surprise
that the race for the White House culmi-
nated in Ohio, a state that has proven to
be a critical battleground state in recent
political history.
Ohio and its 18 electoral votes has
been the source of increased speculation
over the course of the campaign, and
many believe the race will be decided in
Ohio. As polls narrow across the state,
the presidential candidates and their
surrogates have made numerous trips
to Ohio, and on Monday both campaigns
held events here in Columbus, in the
hopes of wining over the state.
With the help of Jay-Z and Bruce
Springsteen, Obama reminded the
nearly 15,500-person crowd at Nation-
wide Arena of the importance of voting
on Election Day in securing a victory in
the state, and thus, the country. Later
in the day, Romney appeared with The
Marshall Tucker Band before a crowd
of about 10,000 at the Port Columbus
International Airport to warn attendees
of the consequences of four more years
under the Obama administration.
Ohio carries significance not only
given that the country remains largely
unsure of which candidate will win the

state on Tuesday, but also because it
has historically been a standard bearer
of success for Republican presidential
nominees. No Republican candidate has
won without Ohio, and the winning can-
didate has taken the state in every elec-
tion since 1964.
The Romney and Obama campaigns
each used high-profile performers to
campaign in key battleground states in
order to increase the enthusiasm. But
beyond the glitz and the glamour, the
stars had a message to convey to their
audiences.
"American dream and American
reality, our vote tomorrow is the one
undeniable way we get to determine the
distance in that equation," Springsteen
told the crowd. "Tomorrow we get a per-
sonal hand in shaping the kind of Ameri-
ca we want our kids to grow up in."
Springsteen's message is consistent
with both campaign strategies in the
final days, which is to get out the vote,
whatever it takes. However, this was
somewhat of a. moot point in Ohio on
Monday, at least for those who turned
out for Obama's . event. Early voting
began more than a week before Election
Day in Ohio, and nearly 1.6 million peo-
ple have already cast their ballot.
When Jay-Z asked the crowd to
scream if they had already voted, he was
received by a robust response, and the
See OHIO, Page 2

Top Jay-Z, President Barack Obama and Bruce Springsteen campaign at a rally in Columbus Ohio on Monday. More than 15,000 people attended.
Bottom Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romey also campaigned in Ohio Monday as part of a final sweep through four swing states

ELECTION 2012
Polling
places
closely
watched
Election monitors in
,place to ensure fair
voting practices
By ALICIA ADAM4CZYK
Daily Staf Reporter
Students votingTuesday may notice
increased numbers of election moni-
tors at polling stations around campus
as part of an effort to combat voter
intimidation.
Many organizations are worried
the emphasis placed on preventing
voter fraud in this year's election will
increase the likelihood of voter intimi-
dation practices. Conservative, liberal-
leaning and independent groups are
dispatching lawyers and law students.
to monitor polling places across the
country to assuage this fear and to
See POLLING, Page 6


GOP makes final
case to Michigan

U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow at an Election Day Eve rally in Weill Hall on Monday night.
Confident Dems

By ANDREW SCHULMAN
Daily StaffReporter
JACKSON, Mich. - Jo Ankney
hoisted up her sign, adorned with a
map of a red-colored Michigan with
the words "The Mitten for the Mitt"
into the air repeatedly at an outdoor
rally here Monday night, the last stop
on the Michigan Republican Party's
"Believe in Michigan - Jobs First" bus

tour.
Braving temperatures below 40
degrees outside the GOP's campaign
office for Republican presidential nom-
inee Mitt Romney, she was there not
only to back Romney's candidacy but
to champion his vision for the coun-
try. Ankney said she wanted voters to
know that what worked for the state
could work for the nation, a prominent
See GOP, Page 6

rally on
By KATIE BURKE and
SAM GRINGLAS
Daily StaffReporters
Though the air was chilly as stu-
dents gathered outside Weill Hall on
Election Day Eve, the crowd was fired
up as the maize and blue tour bus of
Mark Bernstein, a Democratic can-
didate for the University's Board of
Regents, pulled up on Hill Street full of

campus
Michigan Democratic candidates.
The University's chapter of College
Democrats hosted a-rally on Monday
night to promote the state's Demo-
cratic candidates, including U.S. Sen.
Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Rep. JohnDing-
ell, and Michigan Supreme Court can-
didates Bridget.Mary McCormack and
Connie Kelley.
The candidates, accompanied by a
See DEMS, Page 6


WEATHER HI: 48
TOMORROW L LO 32

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail #michlinks
news@michigandaily.com and letus know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE


INDEX
Vol. CXXIII, No. 40
020t2 The Michigan Daily
nichigondoily.com -

NEW S..... .................2 ARTS... ....................5
AP NEW S .............. ......3 CLA SSIFIEDS...............6
OPINION...........4 SPORTS.......................7

A4


q 4


2 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom S

WHERE TO VOTE: POLLS OPEN FROM 7 A.M. TO 8 P.M.

Lan
D
m
N ,.,,:

COUZENS MARKLEY
ORDAN
ST OCKW ELL 0 0 0
00 0 * 0 ' R 0
*0 *0

ght Idtih-gan IBailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
73418-0-4115 opt3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrew Weiner Managing Editor

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com -
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Bethany Biron Managing News Editor biron@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Haley Goldberg, Rayza Goldsmith,
Paige Pearey, Adam Rubenfire
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna; Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman
Timothy Rabb and opinioneditors@michigandaily.eom
Adrienne Roberts EditorialPagenEditors
SENIOREDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Melanie Kruvelis,HarshaNahata,VanessaRychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein,Sarah Skaluba
Stephen Nesbitt Managing Sports Editor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Everett Cook, Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch,
Neal Rothschild, Matt Slovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Liz Nagle,
Colleen Thomas, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
Leah Burgin Managing Arts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, David Tao, Kayla Upadhyaya
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS: Jacob Axelrad, Laren Caserta, Matt Easton, Kelly Etz,
Anna Sadovskaya, Chloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@ichigandaily.co
Alden Reiss Managing Photo Editors
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Terra Molengraff, Todd Needle
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Adam Glanzman, Austen Hufford, Allison Kruske
Marlene Lacasse, Adam Schnitzer
Alicia Kovalcheck and design@michigandaily.com
Amy Mackens Managing DesigoEditors
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
Jennifer Xu Magazine Editors
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Zach Bergson, Kaitlin Williams
Hannah Poindexter copy chief . copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Josephine Adams, Beth Colowitz
BUSINESSSTAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate BusinesssManager
SeanJackson Sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during thelfall and
winteroterms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $.Subscriptions for
fall term,startginneptember, viaU.S.mail are lO. Winter term oanuary through April)is
$11, yearlon (September through April is $195.University affiliates are subject toaareduced
subscription rate.On-campossubscriptionsforfalltermare$3.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The AssociatedCollegiate Press.

6
6
0
0

Angell School Mary St. Polling PI
1608 S. University Avenue 926 Mary Street
Palmer Commons University Coliseu
100 Washtenaw Avenue 721 S. Fifth Avenui
Ann Arbor Michigan League
Community Center 911 N. University
625 Main Street


New Hampshire' Kid Rock per-
formed at a raucous Romney rally
From Page 1 to end the day in Manchester,
N.H.
ple have already cast their bal- But Romney was introduced
lot. at his event here by a number of
When Jay-Z asked the crowd Ohio athletes, including Olym-
to scream if they had already pic figure skater Scott Hamilton,
voted, he was received by a robust before enumerating reasons the
response, and the cheering of nation should be cautious of elect-
those who had not yet voted was ing Obama.
noticeably softer. "If the President is re-elected,
Terrell Russell of Dover, Ohio, he's going to continue to crush
who attended the Obama rally small business," Romney said
decked out in an Obama T-shirt, at the event. "I don't know if he
Obama watch and an Ohio State thin'ks of it that way, but that's
University scarf, said he voted what his policies are going to do."
early because he wanted to ensure The future of small business,
that his vote would count. the bailout of the automobile
"I voted early so my vote would industry and outsourcing in Ohio
count," he said. "I voted early so have been ongoing topics of dis-
they didn't take my vote." cussion in the state, which U.S.
Romney and Obama raced Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio),
across the country Monday, visit- who is running in a tight race
ing crucial battleground states to for re-election, said is a signifi-
get out the vote. Before appear- cant contributor to the nation's
ing here, Obama and Springsteen auto production during Monday's
made a joint appearance in Madi- Obama rally.
son, Wisc. Later in the evening, Sarah Lee of Franklin County,
first lady Michelle Obama joined Ohio explained why Obama's
the president and Springsteen assistance in the auto bailout has
for an event in Des Moines, Iowa been important to helping her
- Obama's final rally of the cam- community get back on its feet
paign, and his political career. during an economically challeng-
Romney, meanwhile, started ing time.
the day in Virginia before sweep- "Everything you do when
ing through Florida, Ohio and there's a rescue or a stimulus,
H UED,

it helps create and save jobs for
everybody," Lee said. "When they
say, 'When you're sitting around
the dinner table,' well, you gotta
sit around the dinner table with
something. And I believe because
of what (Obama's) done, because
of that bailout, jobs were saved
and food's on the table."
Romney has also made numer-
ous trips to the state in the past
week, and -announced he would
also visit Cleveland on Election
Day, in what might be considered
a nod to the importance his cam-
paign has placed on the state.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily, Columbus mayor
Michael Coleman, who appeared
at Obama's campaign event Mon-
day, said Ohio will play a critical
role in determining the victor of
the election.
"Columbus will determine how
the state goes, and the state will
determine how the nation goes,"
Coleman said.
One thing remains certain -
all eyes will be on Ohio on Tues-
day, and if Coleman has anything
to say about it, even more empha-
sis will. be on the city of Colum-
bus. Coleman emphasized that
Columbus is destined for political
importance in this year's elec-
tion, noting that presidential
candidates require 270 electoral
college votes to win, in accor-
dance with I-270, the highway
that circles Columbus, making it
an auspicious number.
"When you have those two
things coming together like that,
you know it's gotta be victory,"
Coleman said.
LIKE THE
DAILY ON
FACEBOOK

.9

6

In this Sunday, Nov. 4, 2012 file photo, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends a weekly cabinet meeting in
Jerusalem. Netanyahu ordered the military in 2010 to go on high alert for a looming attack on Iran's nuclear program.
TV report: Israel securit heads
nixed plallied 2010 Iran aftack

0

Prime Minister of
Israel called for
"pre-attack mode"
JERUSALEM (AP) - Isra-
el's prime minister ordered
the military to go on high alert
for a looming attack on Iran's
nuclear program two years ago,
but backed off following strong
objections from senior security
officials, a respected Israeli news
program reported Monday.
The report exposed a deep rift
between Prime Minister Benja-
min Netanyahu and his top secu-
rity officials over the wisdom of
attacking Iran but also indicated
that Israel was much closer to
carrying out a strike at that time
than was previously known.
Channel 2 TV's flagship inves-
tigative program "Uvda," or
"Fact," reported that toward the
end of a meeting in 2010 Netan-
yahu and his defense minister,
Ehud Barak, ordered Israel's
military chief and director of the
Mossad espionage agency to put
the country on "P Plus" status
- code for pre-attack mode on
Iran.
The report said the officials
were shocked. Then-military
chief Lt. Gen. Gabi Ashkenazi

warned that Israel's enemies
would notice the measure, which
might touch off a war. "This is
not something you do if you are
not sure you will ultimately want
to carry it out," he was quoted by
unidentified close associates as
saying. "This accordion produces
music when you play with it."
Meir Dagan, the Mossad chief
at the time, was even blunter,
telling the leaders that without
seeking formal approval from
Netanyahu's Security Cabinet,
a decision-making body of gov-
ernment ministers, they were
"taking an illegal decision."
"The prime minister and
defense minister simply tried
to steal a decision to go to war,"
he was quoted by Uvda as say-
ing. Dagan did not appear on
camera, and Uvda attributed his
remarks to his "associates."
Israel considers a nuclear-
armed Iran to be an existential
threat, citing Iranian denials
of the Holocaust, its calls for
Israel's destruction, its devel-
opment of missiles capable of
striking the Jewish state and
its support for hostile Arab
militant groups. Tehran says its
nuclear program is peaceful and
designed to produce energy and
medical isotopes, a claim that
Israel and many Western coun-

tries reject.
Dagan, who stepped down as
Mossad chief in 2010, is believed
to be the mastermind of Israeli
efforts to sabotage the Iranian
project. The Mossad is suspect-
ed of infiltrating deep into Iran,
spreading viruses and assassi-
natingnuclear scientists.
But Dagan has also opposed a
full-fledged attack and since his
retirement has lashed out openly
at the leaders, describing them
as warmongers bent on striking
Iran at all costs.
Netanyahu has repeatedly
said the threat of force must
be seriously considered should
economic sanctions fail. He
recently warned that the world
has until next summer at the lat-
est to keep Iran from building a
bomb. But analysts have debated
whether the Israeli leader would
really be willing to order the
strike.
Monday's report provided the
strongest evidence to date that
Netanyahu is prepared to attack,
a move that could have dire, far-
reaching consequences for the
region.
Speaking to the program,
Netanyahu did not address the
alleged 2010 incident but dis-
missed any questioning of his
resolve.

f

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 6, 2012 - 3

Enthusiasm for election
wanes in light of 2008
Experts: Students Heaney said many college in national programs like Teach
students look at what Obama has for America help make it a unique
less inspired four done as president and see-a lot of place where political activism
later things they like in comparison to thrives just as strongly in 2012 as
years lRepublican presidential candidate it did in past decades.
Mitt Romney, particularly in "Although we're not in the
By STEVE ZOSKI regards to affordable health care, streets, the things that students
Daily StaffReporter marriage equality and support for do on Michigan's campus impact
the DREAMAct. policy and impact the world
 On the night of President "Obama's done a lot of things around them," Styer said. "(it)
Barack Obama's historic victory that appeal to college-age is just as important and just as
in 2008, shouts of celebration students, it's just that people powerful as it was back in the
rang out throughout Ann Arbor aren't angry. The Republicans sixties."
as thousands of students united have not been delivering the goods LSA senior Nora Stephens, an
together on the Diag. to young people, the Democrats intern for the Obama campaign
Though many students remain have, Obama has," Heany said. who runs the Facebook page
supportive of the president this Heaney said the high "Wolverines for Obama,"
year, a victory for Obama on expectations for Obama's first volunteered for the Obama
Election Day might not lead to term, coupled with realistic campaign in 2008 while she was a
quite as rowdy of a celebration in achievements of a typical senior in high school. She wrote in
2008, according to officials. president, have generated some an e-mail interview that she does
Political Science Prof. Michael disappointment. not feel students are less excited
Heaney said the decreased "Obama just hasn't been the about Obama this election cycle,
enthusiasm for the election is same inspiring speaker he was "I think now, more than last
partly due to the special nature of four years ago," Heaney said. "And time, students have proof that
the 2008 election, in which many we had kind of made Obama out to President Obama has done things
voters desired major changes in be something, a 'superman-like' that benefit them," Stephens
the direction of the country. character, a real hero. And what's wrote. "Through enacting the
"People, especially on college turned out, the truth of the matter Affordable Care Act that allows
campuses, were very unhappy is, four years later what we know young people to stay on their
with President George W. Bush - is Obama is a regular politician, parent's insurance plan until they
the Iraq War in particular, (that just like the rest of them. He's are 26, doublingPell grantfunding
was) something that a lot of young not superman, and he's also not and establishing a college tax
people were against, and so there Doctor Evil either." credit so that students of all levels
were years of frustration and University alum Nathaniel of affluence can attend college,
anger about that," Heaney said. Eli Coats Styer, who served as President Obama has consistently
Heaney said the college the chair of the University's stood up for issues that affect us
voters of 2008 were part of a chapter of College Democrats in students and young people."
generation that had experienced 2008, said jubilations could be Stephens added that students
Sept. 11 at a young age, and grew heard across campus each time who fell this election is less
up with resentment toward the Obama won a state, leading to a important should research
Iraq War. He added that the spontaneous victory march across Obama's policies and take note of
"articulate and inspiring" Obama campus. However, he said 2012 is his interest in advancing causes
- who promised to eventually a different kind of election. important to young people, such
end combat operations in Iraq - "I don't think you can as higher education funding, and
offered a chance to make history necessarily compare the compare them to the plans of
and spur change. enthusiasm of electing the first Romney.
Heaney said for students, black president, and also the first "I would hope that after
the prospect of electing Obama president after the Bush years ... thorough research, fellow
instilled "a sense that all things because this year the mission is Wolverines would see the stark
are possible" which generated a so much more about continuing differences between , the two
strongsense of excitement. the path that Obama has put us candidates in terms of their
According to Heaney, college on and what that has done for records and where they plan to
students may be less enthused our economy and our education take the country," Stephens wrote.
for the election this year because system .... it's a different kind of "I hope they will find, like I have,
they don't have the same desire to enthusiasm," Styer said. that President Obama has fought
remove the incumbent from office He added that the University's for young people on every issue
and are generally move favorable academic programs, student that matters to us."
toward Obama than Bush organizations and strong presence
11th annualFast-A-Thon event
raises awareness on food issues

51 EVEN SENNE/Ar
Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate Elizabeth Warren, center, hugs a supporter at the conclusion of a campaign rally
at a high school in Braintree, Mass.
Mass. Senate candidates
-make last -minute appeal

Fo
S

BR
- R
Brow
Eliza
Sund
by tw
they
wani
gruel
Fo
Willi
with
at Bo
Dem(
joine
stop
WE
Brow
"man
Kerr
as a
help

rmer Gov. Weld agenda.
Weld recalled being with
en. Kerry make Brown on the final weekend
in 2010 before Brown won
appearances the special election to fill the
Senate seat left vacant by the
AINTREE, Mass. (AP) death of longtime Democratic
epublican U.S. Sen. Scott Sen. Edward Kennedy.
tn and Democratic rival "It was man versus machine
beth Warren were joined then and it's still man versus
ay on the campaign trail machine today. The reason
vo former political rivals as that doesn't change is that
scrapped for votes in the the machine never rests, the
nghoursofMassachusetts' machine never sleeps," Weld
ing U.S. Senate race. said Sunday. "All it does is say,
rmer Republican Gov. 'I want some more automatic
am Weld campaigned votes for higher taxes."'
Brown at a rally Sunday Brown, speaking to the
iston's Faneuil Hall, while cheering crowd packed into
ocratic Sen. John Kerry the historic venue, cast himself
d Warren at a campaign as he has throughout the
at Braintree High School. campaign, as an independent
eld characterized the voice who puts people over
n and Warren race as party and weighs each bill
versus machine," while to see how it will effect
y said he needed Warren Massachusetts residents before
partner in the Senate to voting.
push President Obama's He also portrayed Warren

as a' lockstep Democrat who
will push for higher taxes and
bigger government at a time
when the nation is struggling
with soaring deficits.
"People are hurting. They
want to work," Brown said. "My
answer is to work together, find
that common ground, try to
push back against the extremes
on both sides and actually solve
problems."
Kerry, speaking later to
a packed crowd at a school
auditorium in Braintree,
whipped up Warren supporters
by offering a harsh critique of
Mitt Romney and calling the
{ Massachusetts Senate race
pivotal for the future of the
country.
"We can decide who controls
the United States Senate. This
race is about that," Kerry said.
"I need a partner in the United
States Senate who's going
to stand up and fight for the
agenda of Barack Obama."

380 students unite
to shed light on local
food challenges
By ASHWINI NATARAJAN
Daily StaffReporter
Though students weren't
pitted against each other in a
televised fight to the death, they
experienced their own version of
the Hunger Games on Monday.
At the University's Muslim
Student Association's 11th
annual Fast-A-Thon event, titled
"The Real Hunger Games,"
members worked to fundraise
and raise awareness of global
and local hunger on campus
and in the Ann Arbor area.
At 4:45 p.m., about 380
students broke their fast that
lasted from sunrise to sunset
on Monday with a feast of
traditional Mediterranean
food. Throughout the meal,
ravenous participants engaged
in lively table discussions on
hunger and food equity issues
while food , justice activist
Sheelah Muhammad delivered
an address about hunger in'
Chicago and spoken-word
artist Zain Shamoon performed
at the Rackham Amphitheater.
MSA president Zeinab
Khalil, an LSA junior, said the
event was designed to educate
members of the University
community about food
disparities.
"This year our goal is to raise
awareness about the issues of

hunger and food justice, which
are pressing problems in the
metro-Detroit community, but
don't receive much awareness,"
Khalil said. "We hope to bring
together the campus community
to discuss these issues because
we believe, all people should
have easy, consistent access to
wholesome and affordable food.
Khalil added that the
experience of fasting for an
entire day serves as an eye-
opening, enlightening glimpse
into the greater issues of the
community.
"Fast-A-Thon is a way to bring
together people from all across
campus to humble ourselves
for a day and break out of our
routines. It's a way to remind us
of our common humanity and
connections to others," Khalil
said.
In the spirit of raising local
awareness about hunger, MSA
donated all proceeds of Fast-A-
Thon to Forgotten Harvest, an
organization that aims to reduce
hunger in metro Detroit by
obtaining surplus prepared and
perishable food and reallocating
it to emergency food providers.
LSA sophomore Betul
Tatar, the MSA community
service co-chair, said she chose
Forgotten Harvest as the event's
charity to further educate
the community about the
imminence of hunger in its own
backyard.
"This year, we chose
Forgotten Harvest because
hunger is a big issue that we
don't really realize in our own

metro-Detroit area," Tatar said.
"One in five are hungry in the
Detroit area, which is a huge
number."
LSA freshman Syed Ferdous,
a member of MSA's Community
Service Committee, said he
believes the act of fasting is a
humbling experience.
"It's just getting back to
my roots; it instills a sense of
solidarity with the Detroit-area
poor, and it also renews a sense
of humility within me," Ferdous
said. "I'm given everything
pretty much. These people, they
struggle to put a plate of food on
the table every day."
University students who
aren't members of MSA also
participated in Fast-A-Thon and
they said they also gained vast
perspective from the fasting
experience.
LSA junior Eryn Smith said
though she has traveled to India
and Nicaragua and seen poverty
firsthand, being part of Fast-A-
Thon gave her a new perspective
of her experiences.
"I feel more compassion to
people who are facing hunger,
and (I want) to do more to help,"
Smith said.
LSA junior Katie Brill echoed
Smith's sentiments, and said
it made her grateful for her
personal opportunities and
abilities.
"Whenever I'm fasting, it's a
really good time to reflect and
think about day-to-day life and
how lucky I am that I can get
access to food every day," Brill
said.

WANT TO JOIN DAILY NEWS?
E-mail Rayza Goldsmith at
rayzag@michigandaily.com for more
information on getting started.


4 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycam 10

4 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

ce Midiian BaIVy
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T HE DAILY
DIY government
Voting essential to maintain democracy
j day, the 2012 election cycle comes to an end. With it, thou-
sands of politicians and laws will be added to our nation's
lexicon thanks to the voices of millions of citizens. Amongst
those voices should be University students, expressing their per-
sonal beliefs and ideologies in hopes of creating their vision of the
. Unfortunately, due to a marked difference in the tenor of college-
aged excitement about President Barack Obama compared to 2008,
and in conjunction with historically low rates of youth engagement,
the reality is that far too few of us will make it to the polls this time
around. Plenty of solutions have been proffered to fix this, from
Jay-Z and Bruce Springsteen campaigning with the President to
Lena Dunham of "Girls" likening the first time voting to losing one's
virginity. The simple fact of the matter, however, is that voting is an
essential form of participation in the democratic process and those
of age must participate in order for the system to succeed.

Rorney Reaganomics

As we head to the polls to
elect our president, mem-
bers of Congress and decide
countless other
decisions, his-
tory will be in
the back of our
minds as we
check off the
ballot boxes.
Regardless of
who is elected,
this election will JAMES
parallel some BRENNAN
period in our
country's his-
tory, and our decision will illustrate
which period we want to see again.
In the 1920s, the United States
saw an economic boom. The coun-
try exploded with wealth and con-
sumption, leading to the acquisition
of huge fortunes for many individu-
als. But as we all know, the ride
didn't last for long. As the stock
market crashed 'in 1929, the world
fell into the worst economic depres-
sion in human history. This wasn't
an accident, and perhaps could
have even been prevented. Ram-
pant speculation and easy credit led
people to gamble and over-invest,
while the government had little
regulation in place and virtually no
capital requirements when it came
to financial dealings within banks.
The bottom fell out, and the whole
system collapsed. The same thing
happened with the housing market
in 2008, and we've been dealing
with the repercussions ever since.
In the 40 or so years following
the Great Depression, the federal
government introduced tight eco-
nomic restrictions on banks, indus-
try and individuals. Economically,
the United States was the most suc-
cessful nation in the world during
those years, benefiting from our
own ingenuity and government-
imposed fiscal responsibility. We
may not have seen a boom like the
1920s, but economically speaking,

life was pretty good in the 50s, 60s
and early 70s.
As government control of major
industries waned in the late 70s, the
country began to see unemployment
and energy costs rise. Inflation hit
the economy hard, leadingto stagfla-
tion - a combination of inflation and
high rates of unemployment never
before thought to be possible. Then,
in stepped President Ronald Reagan.
Reagan proposed slashing taxes,
deregulating businesses and letting
the free market take over again.
Even the man who would eventual-
ly become his running mate, George
H.W. Bush, called his policies
"voodoo economics" when he ran
against Reagan in the 1980 Republi-
can primaries. Bush was right.
As the economy boomed in the
80s - just as it did in the 20s - a
time bomb began toetick. There were
plenty of warning signs: a stock
market crash in 1987, an early-90s
recession and another crash in 2000
followed by a recession. Then, the
explosion: the housing meltdown of
2008 and the worst economic situa-
tion since the Depression.
For almost 30 years our country
went back to the economic pros-
perity of the 1920s. If Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney
is elected and his economic policies
are put into place, we will besetting
ourselves up for another visit from
our ugly past.
I'm not saying Obama will be
the next Franklin D. Roosevelt -
though I wish he would. Heck, I
even wish Mitt Romney would be.
Frankly, we need another president
to tame our country's economy, as
FDR did in the 1930s. The White
House needs to stop banks from
betting vast amounts and provid-
ing their workers with an unliv-
able wage. The government can't
allow people to take out expensive
mortgages they'll almost certainly
default on. These situations could
lead usto a double dip recession and

destroy plenty of lives, squandering
the hard work of millions of people
trying to claw their way out.
I'm not saying Obama will do all
of these things. What I'm saying,
instead, is that Romney certainly
won't. The Romney-Ryan economic
plan is the same one Republicans
have been pushing since the Rea-
gan era. They want less regulation,
less government in all aspects of
the economy and lower taxes -
meaning less money to fund the
necessary agencies to regulate
businesses and individuals.

History is bound
to repreat itself
after initial

40

economic boom.
More government, I'll admit,
isn't always the answer. Sometimes,
regulation and over-taxation stifle
growth and prevent innovation. I
want to be clear that this isn't an
attack on capitalism or the free
market - our freedom to develop
business and technology is what
makes our economy run better and
more efficiently than any other in
the history of the world. Govern-
ment regulation will mean that
the booms from the 20s and the
80s will be essentially unachiev-
able. But what we will get in return
is stability: fewer recessions that
are less severe, a more even spread
of wealth and a stronger middle
class. A Romney economy may pro-
duce a bigger boom, but it won't
last. When it runs out, history will
repeat itself, and we'll be right back
where we started.
- James Brennan can be reached
at jmbthree@umich.edu.

People should realize that when they vote
they are not only choosing a candidate for the
next two, four or six years nor are they merely
choosing which bonds to renew or to impose.
More importantly, they are forcing politicians.
and fellow citizens to consider their demo-
graphic and the issues important to them.
Women's rights, marriage equality, fair trade,
unemployment, the rising cost of education and
the increasing tax burdens cast upon our gen-
eration and those to come are just a few of the
issues thatappealto students more thaneothers.
By voting we are using the voice given to
each of us by our democratic process, and that
right is under fire in some states. Check your
voter registrationcard to see where you're reg-
istered to vote - polling places are open from
7-a.m. to 8 p.m. on Nov. 6. Be sure to bring a
driver's license or another form of photo iden-
tification, such as an MCard, U.S. passport or
other government-issued ID. If you don't have
a photo ID, it is possible to sign an affidavit at
the polls to affirm your identity. It's necessary
to bring your voter registration card or a util-
ity bill if your forni of identification does not
include your current address.
Apathy, disillusionment and the feeling that
one vote doesn't matter are all regularly cited
as reasons to remain at home on Election Day.
All these argumentsdposit that an individual
vote is insignificant and therefore not worth

casting. This line of thinking strays when it
assumes that democracies are reflections of
individual desires rather than the culmination
ofour collective action.America is not just built
by presidents or ballot proposals, campaigns or
special interests; our nation is built by all of us
- for all of us.
Often people forget this. They become more
concerned with how their particular brand
of politics reflects upon themselves and fail
to consider how their political beliefs - pro-
testing through inaction - reflects on their
country itself. This creates public and private
forms of non-participation. The silent plural-
ity of non-voters finds itself with nothing to say
about the far-removed notions of the political
world. This inaction then becomes the cause
of their disenfranchisement since politicians,
lawmakers and lobbyists can only interpret the
words and actions of voters: they simply do not
have the means to interpret the silence. If you
have a grievance, you must air it or fix it your-
self. Since the issues we face as a country are
greater than any one of us, it will take all of us
to solve them.
Today the 2012 election cycle ends and a
new one begins. The only change we'll see is
the change we initiate. Let us leave our indeli-
ble mark on the history books so that tomorrow
we maysaywe started to create the countrywe
wanted today.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,Patrick
Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski,
Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES? POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every Monday and Thursday at
6pm, the Daily's opinion staff meets to discuss both University and national affairs and
write editorials. E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.
NICOLE MILLER IE;WP'<OINT
Vote GOP, vote for prosperity

0

0

JACOB LIGHT I VIE WPOINT
A critical turning point

To call any presidential election "historic"
may be a bit redundant. The very nature of
a presidential election, the event in which
Americans come together to voice their hope
for the direction the country will take, is to
change history. Yet in all of the elections that
our nation has seen, I believe none to have
been as important as today's. Today, we must
raise our voices in support for the candidate
who has championed equality, economic
recovery and progressive ideals. We must re-
elect President Barack Obama.
Obama's first term in office took place
under inauspicious circumstances. With an
ineffective Congress whose primary objec-
tive seemed to be preventing the President
from bringing his vision of America to frui-
tion simply out of partisanship, it has been
difficult for Obama to enact the broad chang-
es he saw for the nation.
Obama's accomplishments, however, have
still been impressive. The Affordable Care Act
created the broadest health care reform the
nation has seen in decades. Millions of for-
merly uninsured Americans, including those
with pre-existing health conditions, now have
greater access to health care. College students
now have the ability to stay on their parents's
health care plan until they turn 26. Through
the ACA, Obama showed his understanding of
health care as a basic necessity.
In addition to promoting a healthier Amer-
ica, Obama and the Democratic Party have
fought hard for equal treatment of all Ameri-
cans. Democrats have advocated for the pro-
tection of women's reproductive freedoms,
while the opposition has focused on enact-
ing omnibus legislation to restrict them.
Obama's recognition of the benefits of birth
control as preventative medicine has allowed
women access to birth control at no cost. In

May, Obama became the first president to
declare his support for same-sex marriage.
The Democratic Party followed this decla-
ration by becoming the first major political
party to add support for marriage equality
- in the form of the Respect for Marriage
Act - to the official party platform. Obama's
economic policies are the only viable options
for continued economic recovery.
While Obama is the advocate for the pro-
gressive ideals that we need in order to move
America forward, he cannot enact change
alone. It's important that we elect Democrat-
ic representatives - both in Washington, D.C.
and Lansing - who support the President's
legislative agenda. As we have seen with the
split Congress of the past two years, Ameri-
ca can't move forward when our leaders are
more preoccupied with party divisions than
progress. We need to re-elect Sen. Debbie
Stabenow (D-Mich.) and Rep. John Dingell
(D-Mich.), elect progressive candidates to
our state and federal legislatures, and bring
new voices to the Michigan Supreme Court
through the election of Shelia Johnson, Con-
nie Kelley and Bridget Mary McCormack, a
Michigan Law School professor.
We find ourselves at what is a historic
presidential election. The choice we face as
students of the University of Michigan and
as Americans could not be more important.
We must think critically about the direction
we want to move in for the next four years.
Obama has earned another term in office to
continue economic recovery and the pursuit
of equality.
This is 2012, and it's going to be a critical
year in American history.
This was written on behalf of the University's
chapter of College Democrats by Jacob Light.

The Republican Party and its
platform aren't perfect. The GOP
did, after all, bring you Chick-fil-A
Appreciation Day. When it comes
to the economy, however, the choice
between Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney and Presi-
dent Barack Obama is clear.
The economy is what this presi-
dential election - like others before,
it - will come down to. The United
States will survive another four
years of an Obama administration
because no matter how large the
crisis, our country always manages
to keep trucking along. However,
what's at stake in this election is a
bigger question: Whether we elect
to have a private economy or one
that's run by the government.
Significant transfers of power
from the private economy to the
government have characterized
Obama's first term. In March 2009,
the President asked former CEO
of General Motors, Rick Wagoner,
to step down. This extraordinary
reach of the federal government
into the private sector provided a
clear indication of its relationship
with business under the Obama
administration. In contrast, as the
founder of a firm that has invested
in hundreds of companies in Bain

Capital, Romney understands and
has faith in the private sector. Rom-
ney's plans to eliminate regulations
that function as hidden taxes and
move America toward greater ener-
gyindependence will help American
businesses prosper and create jobs.
In 2010, Obama signed the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act
into law. This mammoth piece of
legislation will cost nearly $1 tril-
lion and adds 30-million people to
the health care system while doing
virtually nothing meaningful to
change it - not even the insurance
companies the President has abso-
lutely vilified. A law that requires
159 new government programs
while creating a regulatory envi-
ronment and increasing efficiency
simultaneously is unprecedented.
Health care reform is tremen-
dously complicated, but Repub-
lican Vice Presidential nominee
Paul Ryan has offered a plan that
addresses the sustainability of
Medicare. If members of Congress
believe their constituents find cer-
tain aspects of proposed health
care legislation objectionable, there
would be room for adjustment.
Unlike Obama, who pushed the
Affordable Care Act through Con-
gress without garnering a single

Republican vote, Romney would
ensure bipartisan support for a new
and more carefully considered law.
We have seen the effects of a wel-
fare state in Europe, where citizens
depend on the government for their
livelihood. Providing for people
in this way drives society toward
mediocrity. When politicians grow
their own power and influence,
those who actually produce can-
not be rewarded and growth slows,
hurting citizens across the board.
If elected, Romney would decen-
tralize power, returning it to the
states by empowering them to cre-
ate innovative Medicaid and work-
er retraining policies through the
use of block grants.
In 2012, we have seen what hap-
pens when governments try to roll
back entitlements even slightly:
riots in Spain, Greece and Portu-
gal. This isn't the America that fis-
cal conservatives can bear to see.
It isn't the America our founders
intended, and it isn't an America
where people are truly free. The
GOP's economic policies give our
country the best chance to prosper.
This was written on behalf of
the University's chapter of College
Republicans by Nicole Miller.

L EE T THE iEDITR SEND LETTERS TO: TOTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Hoekstra not best repre-
sentation ofMichigan
THE DAILY:
The Michigan Daily published
two pieces about Pete Hoekstra
and both completely neglected to
mention the bigoted and racially
charged attack advertisement that
Hoekstra aired during the Super
Bowl. The advertisement featured
an Asian actress speaking in an
American accent, but with broken

grammar generally associated with bigoted and xenophobic, and was
Asians who have learned English decried by Democrats, Republicans
as a second language. The actress and non-partisan groups alike. He
rides a bike through a field of rice has refused on multiple occasions
paddies and thanks "Debbie Spend- to apologize for this advertisement.
It-Now" for sending American jobs Regardless of his politics, Hoeks-
to China. tra has proven himself a bigot. He's
The advertisement was not someone that I want, much less
accompanied by a website fea- consider capable, of representing
turing equally stereotypical rep- the great state of Michigan, and its
resentations of Asian culture, all residents of all colors and creeds.
in an attempt to make Americans
fear China for Hoekstra's politi- Ross Warman
cal gain. The advertisement was LSA Junior

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do
not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.

t

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 6, 2012 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November 6, 2012 - 5

'Ralph' smashes stigmas

When do
artists sell out?

Newest Disney film
plays with video
game tropes
By MATT EASTON
Daily Film Editor
"Wreck-It Ralph" exists in
front of a video game backdrop,
but refuses to be defined by video
game norms.
It plays with ****
gamer concepts
of points and Wreck-It
medals, but Ralph
instead of fall-
ing back onto At Quality 6
arbitrary, pixi- and Rave
lated senses
of comple- Disney
tion, it seeks
to humanize the qualities of the
"players" working within the
system. Bad can be good and los-
ing can be victory, because what
matters isn't the gold around
your neck, but the gold within
your heart.
Ralph (John C. Reilly, "Cyrus")
is a bad guy; he wrecks for a liv-
ing. But being bad isn't all that bad.
Ralph allows the good guys to be
good; he is a necessary niche in
video game ecosystem. He knows
this, and his struggle isn't really
to prove he isn't bad, but instead
to gain some recognition of his
importance within the system. So
he goes off in search of a "Hero's

Medal" by jumping through the
various games residing in the
arcade.
This arcade setting allows
"Wreck-It" to draw from, and
expand upon, the rich history of
video games within our culture.
Sometimes we forget these char-
acters, their worlds and their
styles, have been with us for
decades. Even if we don't notice it,
the influence of "Street Fighter,"
"Mario" and "Pac-Man" is deeply
embedded within our psyche.
It's something "Scott Pilgrim vs.
the World" evoked very well, and
"Wreck-It" continues thathomage
to gaming simplicity. Joyful eyes
will dart toward all corners of the
screen to catch the references and
pieces of the past and relish in the
vibrant fluidity and understand-
ing of the animators.
Gaming is, in a sense, motion.
Coincidentally, so is cinema,
which draws its name from the
Greek word for movement, kine-
ma. The creators of "Wreck-It"
understand these things. The
inhabitants of Ralph's game dance
and mingle in an intentionally
disjointed manner. It's as choppy
as an old Nintendo game, and a
delight to take in. Of course, there
are also newer games with more
fluid motions.
One example, "Hero's Duty,"
pokes fun at the violence and
intensity of modern entertain-
ment, while also perfectly encap-
sulating the tone of those types of

DISNEY

"Take that, Michael Phelps!"
games. Ralph jumps into "Hero's
Duty" to get his hands on a medal,
and the pounding electronic,
nightclub music that assaults your
ears, combined with the hectic
first person shooter pacing is over-
whelming, but also the perfect
opportunity forthe movie to break
the more simplistic fetters of older
games. The opportunity is taken,
and for a few minutes, the audi-
ence is transported into a hectic,
pulse-pounding world.
The story takes a turn with
the encounter of Vanellope, a
scratchy-voiced "glitch" per-
formed endearingly by Sarah
Silverman ("The Muppets"). She
becomes the center of the film,
and Ralph goes from caring about
medals to, eventually, caring more
for her. Vanellope is purposeless in

the game, a bug in the system; her
plight, combined with her imma-
ture hopefulness, creates a char-
acter worth rooting for. She and
Ralph share a desire to belong, and
while this is a common theme in
children's movies, where "Wreck-
It" succeeds is in its definitions of
success and the sacrifices required
gettingthere.
"Wreck-It Ralph" ends cleanly,
but it's hard to ask a children's film
to not. Even still, Ralph doesn't
become a Good Guy, he just finds
comfort in friends, and in being at
peace with the parts in him that
wreck and the parts in him that
can heal. After years of living in
Pixar's shadow, Disney has finally
leveled-up their animation game
- let's hope "Star Wars" gets the
same care.

ALBUM RsEVgIEWh
Inn~enr' su.sacgeshz

cian or
they str
within
nobody
seems t
know w
they ar
This ar
essenti
your se
to cher
and clu
close to
heart ft
foresee
And
Before
starts t
artist li
throug
out mo
music i
tually, y
this isn
you use
listenin
a sheep
Ev
ma
the
We t
"selling
label, bi
all goo
in the g
compro
artist t
musicy
years y
"sell-ou
the mu;
But
an act h
niable t
after th
release,
accused
sound f
- even 
Bob Ro
ference
leap to
while it
15x plat
origina
like an'
lost inte
biggera
I'm n
describ
about t
how im
when a
fact, re:
section
a short
nature'
editor a
out cou
once yo
you inh
how su
mainstr
affects
Our
disagre

e've all been there at ists can do both: They can care
some point. You've about popular opinion, and still
discovered a musi- make truly creative, uninflu-
a band, and not only do enced music.
ike a very deep chord His example was convinc-
you, ing, at least momentarily. "Well,
else what about Kanye?" he asked.
o That one made me think. I'm
ho not ashamed to admit that I'm
e. a fan of Kanye West, from his
tist is, original The College Dropout
ally, days, all the way to My Beautiful
cret, Dark Twisted Fantasy (I don't
ish ELLIOT count Cruel Summer, nor doI
tch ALPERN particularly enjoy it). In any
case, his music has remained
ir the objectively well-appreciated:
able future. Rolling Stone gave Fantasy five
then they make a hit. out of five, Pitchfork a 10.0 out
you know it, the fame of 10, and Spin a pessimistic
o collect around this nine out of 10.
ke a snowball rolling But still, I stuck to my opin-
h a dense drift. They put ion. As great as Fantasy is, I'd
re records, but this new still argue that the music is
sn't quite the same. Even- affected by his celebrity. The
ou come to realize that College Dropout worked with
't even the same band heavy themes, like family
d to like - and that, in dysfunction when a relative is
g to it, you feel more like incarcerated, or the titular act
than a pioneer. of leaving school early. Fantasy
does this to an extent, but Ican
never truly ignore how famous
he is as he raps.
eryone goes It's not a very satisfy-
instrea for ilg answer - that he sold
,re for out because he "knows he's
rightprice famous." Clearly it would qual-
r ify the majority of the music
world for "selling out."
But for this, I point to the
brow around the term recent exploits of a certain
out" as if it's not just a Kendrick Lamar. Granted,
ut an eventuality - that Lamar isn't nearly as famous
[ music must come to rest as Kanye, nor has he built the
raveyard of mainstream same body of work. But consider
'mise. If you have an the situation: Lamar is anup-
hat's still making great and-coming hip-hop sensation,
you better enjoy the few garnering fame largely from his
ou have left, before the Internet stardom. Yet instead
t" expiration date makes of making a 2 Chainz "I'm so
sic go stale and bland. cool, seriously guys" album, he
what really signifies that records a deep, complex, almost
as "sold out?" t's unde- vulnerable product - one that's
hat it occurs; Metallica, also insanely catchy.
e bands most successful Kendrick doesn't jeopardize
The Black Album, was his sound, but instead holds
I of compromising their to it tenaciously - and yet, he
or mainstream success still found success, debuting at
the album's producer No. 2 on the Billboard 200. He
ck acknowledged the dif- didn't seem to even consider the
as a desire to "make the mainstream, yet he still makes a
the big, big leagues." And fantastic - and popular - piece
's undeniable that going of music.
inum is a major feat, the So maybe selling out doesn't
1 fans often feel spurned, come from being successful
old flame has suddenly as much as living success-
rest, ready to move on to fully. When the cash rolls in,
nd better things, your lifestyle tends to change,
iot exaggeraingwhen I regardless of how true to your
e how much people care origins you wish to remain. And
his - and, accordingly, it's hard to argue that lifestyle
portant it is to know has no discernable effect on
n artist has sold out. In content - how often do rappers
ently, in the Daily Arts spit lyrics about growing up on
, a few of us editors had the streets, only to later weave
argument about the tales about their lavish luxuries?
of selling out. Another Quoth the immortal Kanye:
nd I argued that selling "Always said if I rapped I'd say
Id rarely be avoided, that somethingsignificant /But now
u get famous enough, I'm rappin''bout money, hoes
erently care about and rims again." So goes the life
ccessful you are in the of a hip-hop superstar.

By JACKSON HOWARD
Daily Arts Writer
Teen Daze's music sounds
exactly like his name - a collec-
tion of hazy, spatial electronica
explorations
that serve as the
ideal musical *
accompaniment Teen Daze
to any Polaroid-
documented The inner
summer, , or a Mansions
late-night philo-
sophical discus- te
sion in a dorm
room. That being said, the prob-
lem with Teen Daze's music is not
necessarily a question of its musi-
cal value, but rather, its artistic
purpose.
On his Bandcamp page, Daze
describes his many different
projects in detail. He notes being
inspired by studying philosophy
in a remote village in the Swiss
Alps for one record, an old book
found in a thrift store titled "Uto-
pian Visions" for another and
manages to label one project as
"glo-fi" and "reverb-drenched."
The inevitable question aris-
es: Is this man an artist with a
legitimate identity or just a guy
attempting to play into every
existing "indie" cliche in order
to appear different? The question
hovers over Daze's second album,

The Inn
feels c
but ulti
and enj
Daze
singer
knows1
Inner N
and fac
chords.
beats.
track,v
the sou
voice is
wondro
produc
creatin
for the:
Ulti
see
"Div
ond so:
than "P
the sam
tion an
ics are
theme,
album.
founda
it unde

er Mansions, a record that mental scope of the album and
ontrived at many points, demonstrates how Daze's work
imately succeeds as a deep doesn't rely solely on traditional
oyable collection of music. vocals.
, a young producer and Not only does Daze include two
hailing from Vancouver, instrumental songs, "Disciple-
how to create a mood. The ship" and "By Love," but he places
fansions is full of distorted them back-to-back in the middle
ding vocals, sparse piano of the album, providing exactly
and soft-hitting electronic 12 minutes of pure music without
"New Life," the opening vocals. "Discipleship," the better
would have fit perfectly on of the two, incorporates subtle
ndtrack of "Drive." Daze's disco hi-hats mixed with trippy
sn't the strongest, but his electronica grooves, while "By
ius, Clams Casino-esque Love" utilizes an early 1990s Tim-
tion easily compensates, baland-style drum beat mixed
g a worthy introduction with a floating harp line. Though
album. the songs are worth the listen,
after a while the continuous
instrumental becomes extremely
- * monotonous.
[mate hipstermotnus
"Union," with Frankie Rose,
ks a pshakes the album awake with a
Spurpose distorted guitar riff and a small,
ironically. but noticeable, background vocal
contribution by Rose. The song, a
standout from the album, sounds
like the emotionally unstable love
ided Loyalties," the sec- child of Best Coast and Washed
ng, carries more of a beat Out, with hyperactive guitars in
New Life," but maintains the beginning transitioning into
ne sense of awe, introspec- a smooth and celestial breakdown
d melancholy. Daze's lyr- by the end.
barely understandable, a There is a fine line, however,
that runs throughout the between experimental music and
While this lack of a lyrical simply a bunch of sounds. "Gar-
tion is frustrating at times, den 1," its aptly named sequel
rscores the broad instru- "Garden 2" and the closing track,

"The Heart of God," all fall on the
wrongside of this line. There is no
musical or thematic connection
between the bleary, piano-heavy
"Garden 1" and the unorganized
and vocal-sample ridden "Gar-
den 2." And "The Heart of God"
is a disappointing end for such
a spiritual and introspective
album - the track sounds more
like a mix between choral music
and random noise than an actual
song, and thus ends the record on
a somewhat incomplete note.
The Inner Mansions is proof
that, after two years of constant-
ly releasing music, Teen Daze
understands what he does best..
The album is intriguing, nos-
talgic and sonically captivating,
and is definitely the work of an
inspired and thoughtful musi-
cian who, as his name implies,
is still trying to understand who
he is.

'eam audience, and that
the music you make.
opponent, a third editor,
ed, explaining that art-

Alpern wants you to guess
his price. To submit bids,
e-mail ealpern@umich.edu.

The fun of candidates as contestants

By BRIANNE JOHNSON
DailyArts Writer
October has been a month of
experimentation for the ladies
of a Packard Street apartment.
When the night falls and the caws
of crows outside our window
blend into the thump-thumping
of "Gangnam Style" from a first-
floor tenant's stereo, my room-
mates look to the living room. If
I'm plopped on the floor, remote
control in one hand, cell phone
in the other and a bowl of Lucky
Charms spilling over into my lap,
my roommates - my little Pavlov-
ian puppies - know to, as the kids
say, GTFO. Why? It's the hour (or
two or three, if Jim Lehrer moder-
ates) of the presidential debate.
It's not that I don't welcome
friendly, political banter (if there
is such a thing), but my roommates
value their sanity. Sucked into the
world of malarkey and precious
pathos, I prefer a night spent
threatening my blood pressure
levels and following the insightful
and educational commentary of
trusty news correspondents. Did
I say "news correspondents?" I

meant Twitter comedians and old
high school classmates.
A disappointment to the politi-
cally engaged and emotionally
invested voting demographic, I
have a confession. Though Don-
ald Trump has yet to extort me
for its admission, it's a truth I
must acknowledge nonetheless:
I haven't watched the 2012 presi-
dential debates to seek a promis-
ing display of leadership ability
and detailed plans for the future
of our economy, national security
and social issues. Instead, I shush
the audience surrounding my
television (the sound of absence
can be deafening) and tune into
what I consider another round of
"American Idol" auditions. Cue
music. Enter Ryan Seacrest. Cut
away from Seacrest attempting a
high five with a blind man. Sedate
Paula Abdul. Enjoy.
President Barack Obama and
Republican presidential candi-
date Mitt Romney are America's
"desperate hopefuls," lusting for
the golden ticket to D.C. We, the
voters, are the judges, varying in
apathy and sobriety - some of us
are Ellens, some Steven Tylers and

some A
ed Vote
to this
that the
.at hom:
son sh:
Bush si
hell is K
Wh
ne:
SomE
Americ
duces a
mean a
commei
news cc
the La
(correc
to-be m
minute.
Romne
tion wi
econom
Cowell'

bduls (that's you, Undecid- talent" in the form of a 19-year-old
er. Sorry). To fully commit in cowboy boots.
metaphor, I'll even suggest But, let's be honest, most min-
e Electoral College is "You utes are at once insufferable and
e, America;" Jennifer Hud- insatiable. It's an evening spent
ould've stayed, George W. predicting the next train wreck,
hould've gone and who the sadistically amused by the embar-
Kris Allen? rassment to which the candidates
- I mean "contestants" - subject
themselves.
As the night stretches on, t care
to will be the less about Romney's economic
t Aproposals and more about his
Xt American comically tight smirk and friends'
President? suggestions via Twitter that he
appears to be "consistently silent
farting." I'm too bemused by Paul
Ryan's personal anecdotes about
etimes the search for the shape of his then-fetus daugh-
a's next president pro- ter to note the value of his argu-
truly great moment - I ments. I suppose it's hard to hear
moment, not an off-hand much through the snorts of my
nt, fragmented for future creepy-lone-girl maniacal laughter.
overage and catapulted into As the election season draws to
nd of Soon-to-Be Memes its close, so does the curtain over
tion: the binder of soon- the theatrical production that is
nemes). These are the rare the series of presidential debates.
s during which Obama or I know who I'm voting for (Aiken/
y fully answers a ques- Archuleta 2012!), but if you don't,
thout veering into "strong no worries. "America" doesn't
iy" babble, or when Simon always get it right - right, Taylor
s nipples perk up at "real Hicks?


1


6 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012
DEMS
From Page 1
number of their Democratic com-
rades, took the stage in a room
plastered with campaign signs
and blaring energetic music.
Dingell said in an interview
before the event that this year's
election has had the strongest
Democratic effort to date.
"We have the best, most effec-
tive get-out-the-vote effort in this
district that I have seen in my
career," Dingell said.
He added that his campaign has
continued to work on garnering
support for all of the Democratic
candidates on the 2012 ballot.
"We are going to do everything
we can to re-elect every Democrat,
from President Obama down,"
Dingell said. "We're goingto see to
it that we get the same kind of good
votes for our non-partisan court
candidates."
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) said in an interview before
the event that campaigning
throughout Election Day would be
instrumental for persuading unde-
cided voters.
"For the top of the ticket, voters
usually have their minds made up
asyougo furtherdowntheballot,
particularly for judicial candidates
and the ballot proposals, people
can be swayed by a last minute
piece of information," Irwin said.
Stabenow was the first of the
POLLING
From Page 1
assist with other Election Day
issues, according to the Associ-
ated Press.
Election monitors typically
represent a candidate or organi-
zation at polling places. They are
not allowed to interfere with pre-
cinct activities or sway voters in
any way, but instead are present to
help protectvoter rights.
On Friday, the U.S. Depart-
ment of Justice said it would send
more than 780 federal employ-
ees to oversee voting practices in
23 states. Since the 1965 Voting
Rights Act was passed, the depart-
ment has dispatched observers to
election sites to protect against
discriminatory practices.
In addition to gathering infor-
mation on whether or not poll-
ing centers are following legal
voting procedures,. the Justice
Department poll observers work
to ensure that voters are able to

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6

candidates to speak to the enthu-
siastic crowd of students and com-
munity members filling the room,
emphasizing the importance of
affordable education, economic
equality and President Barack
Obama's health care reforms
Stabenow said the Obama
administration has been especially
important to the state of Michi-
gan because it stood with the auto
industry, bailing out Chrysler and
General Motors, when no one else
would. She added that the next
four years should be focused on the
population as a whole, and not just
special interest groups.
"Community is our strength,"
Stabenowsaid. "Caringabout other
people is a good thing."
Stabenow said that though
a slew of billionaires have been
funding the Republican campaign,
come Election Day, their influence
is restricted to their one vote.
"This is not an auction, this is an
election," Stabenow said.
Bernstein appeared with fel-
low Democratic regent candidate
Shauna Ryder Diggs, and spoke on
the significance of the University
for the future of the state, and his
own commitment to providing stu-
dents with the lowest tuition and
best resources possible.
Bernstein said the products of
a University education have the
potential to positively impact soci-
ety.
"What happens in the lab and
the classroom can change the
understand the ballots if English
isn't their first language.
"To assistinthese inquiries, the
department has deployed observ-
ers and monitors who speak Span-
ish and a variety of Asian and
Native American languages," the
department said in a press release.
University Law Prof. Margo
Schlanger wrote in an e-mail that
the Obama campaign has trained
hundreds of lawyers and law stu-
dents to monitor polling sites,
including in Ann Arbor, to ensure
eligible voters cast ballots cor-
rectly.
"Student voters often run into
identification and other compli-
cated voting issues," Schlanger
wrote. "Poll watchers can help
sort out those kinds of problems."
According to the Brennan
Center for Justice, a non-par-
tisan public policy institute at
the New York University School
of Law, poll monitors and other
partisan observers cannot chal-
lenge a student's ability to vote.
Only 'official poll workers can

world," Bernstein said.
He added the choice on Tues-
day's ballot is more than just
between candidates - it is also
about alleviating issues such as
skyrocketing tuition and tuition
equality.
LSA junior Alexandra Brill, the
president of College Democrats,
said the rally was successful in
instilling excitement about the
election amongstudents.
"(The rally) pumps people up
and makes sure everyone votes all
the way down to the bottom of the
ticket," Brill said.
Brill said the College Demo-
crats plan on puttingup flyers and
chalking the campus following
the rally to remind people to vote
Tuesday.
Self-proclaimed political
enthusiasts LSA junior Victoria
Whitworth and LSA freshman
Tiasha Nandi held a Stabenow
sign at the event, and said they
plan on waking up together at 7
a.m. on Tuesday to vote.
Nandisaid the University atmo-
sphere has caused her to pay more
attention to election issues and
participate inthe politicalprocess.
"I think college has made us
more politically aware," Nandi
said. "It's important to take a
stand and be knowledgeable about
what you're voting for."
Whitworth said the diverse
perspectives come together at the
University have made her election
experience unique.
question a student's residency.
Because students are able to
select their voting residency,
they are unlikely to be chal-
lenged. However, if questioned
by the election inspector, stu-
dents can answer questions to
prove their eligibility, which the
inspector will then approve or
reject.
Students may find themselves
particularly susceptible to vot-
ing issues because of Michigan's
identification law. Every voter
must display an acceptable form
of photo identification, such
as a driver's license or pass-
port, in order to vote. However,
there is no address requirement,
enabling out-of-state students to
vote without issue.
Students without a photo ID
can sign an affidavit of identity.
MCards are also an acceptable
form of ID.
If students feel monitors are
intimidating or influencing their
vote in any way, they should con-
tact an election inspector.

GOP
From Page1
theme of Monday night's Rom-
ney rally.
In their last plea to Michigan
voters on Election Day Eve, in a
state that now seems less cer-
tain of a victory for President
Barack Obama, Republican offi-
cials here reined in their criti-
cisms of Obama and his failure
to stimulate the economy.,
Instead, they urged Michi-
gan voters to look to the state's
turnaround under Republican
Gov. Rick Snyder as a model
for the change to expect under
a possible Romney presidential
administration.
Rounding out a list of speak-
ers that included Republican
National Committee chair
Reince Priebus, Snyder - who
has presided over what he
claims to be a "reinvention" of
the state through a method of
"relentless positive action" -
said Romney's election would
amount to a continuation of the
state's economic recovery.
"We're on the path to a
major comeback," Snyder told
the crowd of about 150 people.
"Now is not the time to stop.
Tomorrow decides the choice,
are we going, to act or are we
going backwards? And we're
going ahead."
Bill Schuette, the state's
Republican Attorney General,
said that the successes of Snyder
should continue to be reflected
at the national level through the
election of Romney.
"In Michigan, we've turned it
around - we have an outstand-
ing governor, and an outstand-
ing lieutenant governor. And
if you think about the quali-
ties that Rick Snyder brought
to Michigan, they're the same
qualities that Mitt Romney will
bring to America."
The rally, which lasted about
45 minutes, comes as polls in
the state show a narrowing gap
between Obama, who has long
held a lead statewide, and Rom-
ney, who was raised in Bloom-
field Hills, Mich., while his

father George Romney served
as governor from 1963 to 1969.
As the candidates swung
through the roster of critical
states in the election's dying
hours, surrogates for both can-
didates have canvassed the
state, and both campaigns have
elevated their rhetoric.
Republican Lt. Gov. Brian
Calley, who preceded Snyder as
the second-to-last speaker, said
Michigan voters would prove
analysts wrong who have pre-
dicted a safe win in the state for
Obama.
"I just can't wait for 8 o'clock
tomorrow to roll around, and
then 9 o'clock to come and 10
o'clock to come and all of a sud-
den they're not calling Michi-
gan yet," Calley said. "They're
all looking at Ohio, while we are
winning the presidency of the
United States."
At the rally, the Republican
speakers, again portrayed the
election as a choice between
two distinct visions for the.
country, following a trend ever
since both parties held their
nominating conventions earlier
this fall.
Before U.S. Senatorial can-
didate Pete Hoekstra criticized
Obama for his handling of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attack on the
American consulate in Beng-
hazi, Libya, George Romney, a
nephew of the Republican presi-
dential nominee, told the audi-
ence Mitt Romney would fix the
economic woes he said Obama's
policies have only worsened.
George Romney recalled
an instance at the 2002 Win-
ter Olympics in Salt Lake City,
Utah, which Mitt Romney ran,
when he directed traffic when
a backlog of cars threatened to
prevent people from attending
some of the events.
He said the affair illustrates
that Mitt Romney has a knack
for stepping up through adver-
sityand seizing the moment.
At the rally here in Jackson,
and a stop in Ann Arbor attend-
ed by two of Mitt Romney's sons,
Matt and Josh Romney, an hour
earlier, members of the Uni-
versity's chapter of the College

Republicans said they thought
this was Romney's moment, and
that the candidate's strength in
Michigan would boost him to a
national victory.
LSA senior Matt Jones, state
chair of Students for Romney,
said Priebus's appearance in
Michigan, as opposed to other
contested states like Pennsylva-
nia, shows that the state will be
closer than originally projected.
"We feel that Michigan's in
play, we really do. I know that
a lot of people are counting
out the state, but ... everyone is
acknowledging that Republi-
cans are far more energized to
vote than the Democrats are,"
Jones said in an interview after
the bus stop in Jackson. "We
think Michigan is absolutely in
play, and we think that if Michi-
gan goes red, then the whole
national election will probably
go our way."
Members of the College
Republicans at the Ann Arbor
stop were equally confident
about Romney's prospects.
LSA senior Brian Koziara,
a senior adviser to the group,
said after the event that the
group will continue to make
last-minute get out the vote
efforts, including making calls
during the duration of the eve-
ning at the Washtenaw County
office.
"The work that they've been
doing to elect Mitt Romney and
Paul Ryan as president and vice
president and elect Republi-
cans up and down the ticket is
just momentous and we're real-
ly looking forward to a victory
tomorrow night," Koziara said.
While Snyder congratulated
voters on their work to elect
Romney over the past 18 months
of the campaign, he urged vot-
ers to work up until the closing
of the polls to ensure Romney's
election.
"We need to go out of here
not just saying this is a rally, but
this was a rally that there's still
tomorrow," Snyder said.
Managing News Editor
Bethany Biron contributed
reporting from Ann Arbor.

6

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON
TWITTER
@michigandaily

0

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, November 6, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 31 Like a teetotaler 49 Atkins ofcountry
1 Things to wear 1 Emulate a 32 Bergen's dummy 50 Silence
5 Chemists' rooms beaver Mortimer 51 Pro debater
9 One who asks too 2 Play beginning 35 Scored 100 on 52 Auntie of the
many questions 3 Farm butters 37 Domino dots stage
14 Campussports 4 Big party 40 Practiced in the 53 45 minutes, in
gp. 5 Beatlesatune that ring soccer games
15 Irish name for starts, "When 1 41 Art of verse 54 Scott Turow
Ireland find myself in 42 Thailand's work
16 Christina of times of trouble" capital 55 Roman robe
"Speed Racer" 6 Like some Navy 43 QB's mistakes 56 Smooch, in
17 Doughdispensers rescues 46 "Well said" Staffordshire
18 Real attitude 7 Champagne 47 African river 58 ,-dandy
underlying a designation ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
facade 8 Set eyeson A
20 Letter to Santa, 9 "Ignorance is G 0 N G P E E P S J I L T
essentially bliss,"e.g. A R I A P ANEL A M O I
2 sgPennsaniain 1 0Upm B A N G F R Y0 U R B U C K
Washington, fnr 11 Clickahle pic SaLc.0 M 0 A P 8 E aSa K I
one 12 Sandy-colored A L A A P S
23 Summer in Lyon 13 Levitate A LAW L P S
24Sentaquicknote 19 Humped beast P O U N D C A K E C A R D S
2nheHlk'salter 21 Sidelong look E M B T A C A N A D A
24Mid.name KNOCK O F F H A N D B A G
ega substitute O I L IE R K I N B Y E
3oBamyarrayer 25Anoint E S T E R R A P A R T I S T
"T heman" 26 Put the check in M T A S L U R
'The Raven"
34 J. Paul Getty or r I N I T I A T E H I N G E
J.R. Ewing 27Bringtagentherb R I N G T H E D O O R B E L L
36 Dubaihbigwig 2Veieonacoh A N I I 0 D L Y E X A M
37 .1o tmildly' .9Preann l S E L F E G A D S S T D S
38 Piece of ice preunice, e.g.
39 Revolutionaryftoy 30 Caribbean resort xwordeditor@aoL.com 11/06/12
of the'70s-'80s? 1 2 3 4 0 0 8 10r 11 12 13
42'Boyfriend" singer
Juscin 1 s1
44 Fr. hlywoman r7 08 1
45 Song covered by
Michael Buble, 20 21 22
say
47 Glasgow vetoes 23 24
48 Toronto's pro.
49 Dining room 2 2 27 2829 30 31 32
necessities 3034 30
52 Photos atthe
precinct 337 38
57 Aunt Jemima
competitor 39 40 41 42 43
59 Auth. unknown
60 Perfumer Lauder4
61 AsI see it,r47 40
online ~ I E I
62 Maker of Duplo 49n5o1 52 4 00 6
toy bricks
63 Just behind the 57 sa 59
runner-up o1 2
erly compliant 60 4 00
65aFlier on a ple, 7300400
andat the ends of
18-, 25-, 45- and By Neville Fogarty
57-Across (c)2012 Tribune Media services, Inc. 11/06/12

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2013 (Spring or fall). U-M's
BEST housing sold out early 2012. Re-
serve your space for 2013 today. 2
blocks from Central Campus and down-
town. 1 to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $665. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
!!LARGE CENTRAL
CAMPUS HOMES!!
www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
(734) 332-6000
o www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
parking, laundry, $1900/month. Avail
Fall 2013. dklemptner@comcast.net
AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6 bdrm houses
www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
or email louisbreskman@gmail.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663-4101.
CENTRAL CAMPUS
6 and 7 bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368

FALL 2013 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4600
7 1129 White St $4200
6 605 Catherine $3720
6 711Arbor $4200
6 716E. Kingsley $3700
6 829 Packard $3900
5 910 Greenwood $3600
4 505 Sauer (May) $2440
4 507 Sauer Ct $2300
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2280
4 1010 Cedar Bend $2200
4 1037 Packard $2400
Tenants pay all utilities.
Leasing starts Nov. 9th.
Reservations'Accepted.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
FALL 2013 HOUSES:
6 & 8 bedroom, call 734-564-2125
www.keysrmanagement.net
HAVE YOU HEARD...?
We have BRAND NEW LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
THE 2ND FLOOR
We are taking reservations for
2013/2014
The 2nd Floor apartments are
Right on Central Campus with the
Best
amenities,
the Best service and the Best prices?
You've seen all the rest, NOW rent
with the BEST!

WE ARE TAKING
RESERVATIONS for 2013/2014
You've seen all the rest, NOW rent
with the BEST!
This is where U belong
UNIVERSITY TOWERS
Affordable ON Campus Apartments
SOLD OUT IN MAY LAST YEAR,
DON'T WAIT UNTIL IT'S TOO
LATE.
Visit us at
www.universitytowers-nmi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
6-BED 3-BATH 3-PARKING
WASHER/DRYER FREE
DIAGPROPERIE-S.COM
734.277.0668
HOME FOR SALE by owner: 2292
Chestnut Crescent, Saline. $255,900.
4 bed, 3 bath.ranch. Finished walkout.
Home office. Conventional financing
or land contract option. For appt call
734-944-3556. www.fsbo.com/158824

Check us out and get
A FREE INSOMNIA
COOKIE with
all new tours!
Best Apartments
ON Central
Campus!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
BMA NF' LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
THE e FLOOR.
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MLCOM
Tow

6


We hf
We
Th
Righ
the Be

734-761-2680
The2ndfloorSU.COM
HAVE YOU HEARD...?
ave BRAND NEW LUXURY THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
APARTMENTS ON organization, format. All disciplines.
THE 2ND FLOOR 734/996-0566 or writeonaviserv.net
are taking reservations for
2013/2014
e 2nd Floor apartments areE ANTED
t on Central Campus with the
Best
amenities,
est service and the Best prices!

You've seen all the rest, NOW rent
with the BEST!
734-761-2680
The2ndoorSU.COM
WWW.HOUSING.UMICH.EDU
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
min. walk. Free Wi-Fl.

VETERINARY RECEPTIONIST/
ASSISTANT Part Time. No experi-
ence reqsired. Apply in person r
Arbor Hills Aniomal Clinic or
Call 734 668 1466.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 6, 2012 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November 6, 2012 - 7

Robinson 'improving slowly'

Blue ignores other
conference scores

By LUKE PASCH
Daily Sports Editor
On Monday, Michigan foot-
ball coach Brady Hoke remained
uncertain of whether senior
quarterback Denard Robinson
will be available to start Satur-
day afternoon against North-
western.
Against Nebraska on Oct.
27, Robinson scrambled in the
second quarter and fell on his
throwing elbow, damaging a
nerve that affects his grip on the
ball. Last Saturday, against Min-
nesota, junior quarterback and
wide receiver Devin Gardner
successfully filled in and led the
Wolverines to a 35-13 victory.
After the game, Hoke said
that he was "very optimistic"
that Robinson would be healthy
enough to start this weekend.
But on Monday, his rhetoric
didn't purvey the same type of
confidence.
"Well, (Robinson) will prac-
tice," Hoke said. "He'll split
some time there, and we'll see.
He's getting healthier. He's just
improving slowly."
Hoke mentioned that Robin-
son did a full workout on Sun-
day night that involved a little
bit of everything - throwing,
running, etc. - but admitted
that Sundays are a bit lighter
than the rest of the week.
Though he didn't seem cer-
tain about Robinson's status
against Northwestern, he con-
fidently negated any notion
that Robinson's injury will nag
him throughout the remainder
of the season. In the meantime,
Gardner will practice at both
quarterback and wide receiver.
"I think we'll probably (prac-
tice Gardner) a little bit in both,
but more quarterback than the
wide out position," Hoke said.
If Robinson is healthy
enough to play, Hoke said that
Gardner playing some snaps in
a game at wide receiver is a pos-

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Senior quarterback Denard Robinson missed his first start since his freshman season against Minnesota on Saturday.
sibility. He's not yet sure if he'd was in more of those than we'd are able to break the pocket,
be willing to have them split like because we've got to do a Robinson is better suited for
snaps at quarterback, though. better job of protecting." the read option in the shot-
"I think that's too far down Still, Gardner needs to be gun formation because of his
the road," Hoke said. "We'll aware ofthe fine line that exists quickness. Gardner takes fewer
definitely have a plan." between when he should extend designed runs.
But if Robinson isn't ready, the play and when he should "We're more under center
Hoke at least hasa viable option just throw the ball away. Hoke with Devin, and part of that
at quarterback, given Gardner's said that Gardner, who was is all of the play action," Hoke
solid performance against Min- sacked three times and tossed said. "We haven't been under-
nesota. He threw for 234 yards an interception when throwing neath as much with Denard in
and two touchdowns on 12-of- on the run against Minnesota, the football game because of
18 passing, and he rushed for 21 needs to work on that balance. the other elements he brings
yards and another touchdown. Even though the offensive with the read play and the ride
Gardner, like Robinson, has line didn't have the best per- and all those things.".
the unique ability to extend formance on Saturday, Gard- Hoke affirmed that Gard-
broken plays, which was espe- ner's dual-threat style provides ner could still execute all of
cially evident when he found a relatively easy transition for the designed runs, and he con-
junior wide receiver Drew the linemen. tinues to practice them during
Dileo for a 45-yard touchdown "I've been dealing with that the week. Whether he could
strike after scrambling east and for four years with Denard," execute them during the game
west outside of the pocket. said fifth-year senior offensive is another question.
"Some of the good things - tackle Taylor Lewan. "I have "It's easy to do things in
extending plays out and then no idea where the kid's going practice, but live action when
being productive with it, find- whenever. You get used to it. the bullets are truly flying is
ing a place to push up in the The ability to break down plays when you prove you can do
pocket, delivering the ball - and make something out of it - things," Gardner said.
he's always been a guy that's that's a special quality." The question remains - will
kept his eyes down the field The big difference between the bullets be flying at Gard-
when he is in that situation," Gardner and Robinson is what ner or Robinson this weekend?
Hoke said. "And he probably goes on before the play. Though We'll wait and see.

By ZACH HELFA.
Daily Sports Edito
Scoreboard watchingi
like picking your nose.
ably, there are people wh
and inevitably, those peop
like to admit it. Take the M
football team, for example
After Michigan'sloss tol
ka two weekends ago, theI
ines no longer control th
destiny in the Big Ten. Ea(
has one loss in the conferer
with the win, the Corn
own the tiebreaker in the I
division, meaning Michiga
a Nebraska loss to be back
er's seat.
Still, Michigan coach
Hoke and mem-
bers of the team
said Monday
that they don't
concern them-
selves with f
other teams'
scores. C
"We've
always been a W
team, I think,
that has wor-
ried about us,"
Hoke said. "I don't ever thi
know, we can really worr
things we can't control. An
kind of how we approaches
Added junior quarterbr
wide receiver Devin G
"We really can't worry ab'
because that game is done
can only control what we c
trol. So we just have to con
win games."
Perhaps Hoke prefers t
look because scoreboard w
can lead to pain and disa
ment - things that distra
Michigan's own issues
Saturday. Michigan State
significant lead over Nebr
the fourth quarter, only ti

ND the lead away with just seconds
)r remaining.
Redshirt junior offensive tack-
is a lot le Taylor Lewan takes a more
Invari- extreme approach. He said he
o do it, doesn't scoreboard watch. Ever.
rle don't Including his own games.
lichigan "I've never focused on scores
my whole life," Lewan said. "I
Nebras- remember this week in the game
Wolver- when I was playing, I didn't know
eir own what the score was. In highschool,
ch team we were in the state championship
nce, and game, we were getting killed, but I
huskers had no idea. In the fourth quarter,
Legends I was like guys 'We got this, we got
n needs this.' People said, 'What are you
in driv- talking about?' There's like two
minutes left in the game, I look up,
Brady it's 38 to zero. I guess we don't got
this.
"That's just
how it is. You
I've never just got to focus
on the game at
ocused on hand."
BEL LOMY
Scores my BOO-BOO?:
Russell Bel-
vhole life." lomy, the red-
shirt freshman
quarterback
who replaced
ink, you senior quarterback Denard Rob-
y about inson against Nebraska, was
id that's unavailable during Saturday's
d it." game for undisclosed reasons.
ack and Bellomy warmed up before
ardner: the game against Minnesota, but
out that redshirt senior quarterback Jack
and we Kennedy took the reps with the
an con- second team before the game.
tinue to After the game, Hoke said Bel-
lomy wasn't available td play but
hat out- didn't elaborate why. Then he
atching clarified that the problem was a
appoint- "boo-boo."
ct from On Monday, Hoke said, "I'm not
Take going to address his condition,"
held a and when asked if the condition
'aska in could keep him out for the season
o cough he said, "I don't know."

Berenson rues shifting Great
Lakes Invitational indoors

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Editor
With outdoor hockey games
becoming more common for the
Michigan hockey team, one might
expect coach Red Berenson to.
have already had his fill.
As evident by Berenson's
remorse over the recent Win-
ter Classic cancellation , which
would've pitted the Detroit Red
Wings against the Toronto Maple
Leafs on New Year's Day at Mich-
igan Stadium, that's not the case.
"I think these outdoor games
are good," Berenson said. "We've
had a good time with them, and
our team likes them.... Hopefully
it'll happen, but it doesn't look
like it'll happen this year."
The Winter Classic's cancella-
tion means the Great Lakes Invi-
tational will move from Comerica
Park, where it was supposed to be
held outdoors for the first time
ever, back to Joe Louis Arena
where it's traditionally held. This
year's tournament will feature
Michigan, Michigan State, Mich-
igan Tech and Western Michigan
on Dec. 27-28.
"That's too bad," Berenson said
of last week's change of plans.
"It's more than too bad. ... For the
Big House, and the whole city of
Detroit and the hockey experi-
ence they would've had in Comer-
ica (Park),.that's too bad. It won't
be the same."
Berenson, who Red Wings gen-
eral manager Ken Holland called
a "great Red Wing" in July, had
planned to be a part of the festivi-
ties, specifically by skating in the
event's alumni game.
TROUBA VERDICT IN: The
Wolverines received some much-
needed good news Monday when
Berenson was informed by CCHA
officials that freshman defen-
seman Jacob Trouba will not
receive further punishment for
his hit on Northern Michigan's
Reed Seckel in Friday night's
shootout win that earned him a
five-minute major penalty.
"They reviewed the tape and
they thought the DQ was the
right call, and it cost him the last

U-AnulBusiness
Plka=n Com eiin

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
Michigan coach Red Berenson expressed his disappointment at the cancellation
of the Winter Classic and outdoor Great Lakes Invitational on Monday.

five mi
son saic
Trou
game
third-p
head, n
to sit ou
Seckel
"TI
It'4
injured
by scor
cats' wi
Trou
hole it
on Sat
forwarc
in strot
boost tI

nutes of the game," Beren- "He's played really well for a
d. freshman with a lot of hype and
ba also was assessed a high expectations," Berenson
disqualification for the said. "Like any young defense-
eriod blow to Seckel's man, he's made some mistakes,
neaning he was also forced but he makes up for them with his
it Saturday night's 4-3 loss. effort. He's really a bright spot."
appeared to be seriously SERVILLE PROGRESSING:
Michigan's depleted blue line
should regain more of its depth
hat's too bad. this weekend.
*Sophomore defenseman Bren-
s more than nan Serville, who suffered what
Berenson called a "facial con-
too bad." cussion" against Miami (Ohio),
should be back for this weekend's
series against Michigan State,
according to Berenson.
on the play, but responded Berenson said before the
ing two goals in the Wild- defense can live up to its high pre-
in in the finale. season expectations, there need
ba's absence left a major to be enough healthy bodies.
n the Michigan defense "We've got to get everybody
urday, and though senior healthy, number one," Berenson
d Jeff Rohrkemper filled said. "And then start jelling like
ugly, Trouba's return will we thought we would. Hopefully
he Wolverines. Serville's back."

p.

A


8 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com 0

8 - Tuesday, November 6, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom 0

WOMEW'S OCCER
Blue earns first home
NCAA game since '02

By ALEJANDRO ZU
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women
team likes to dance to "G
Style" before its home n
This season, it will keep
into November.
On Monday afterno
Wolverines (8-3-2 Big T
2 overall) earned an at-I
to the 64-team NCAA'
ment. They'll play Centra
gan (9-2 MAC, 15-6-1) in
round on Saturday at t
Soccer Complex.
Michigan hasn't ho:
NCAA Tour-

Sophomore point guard Trey Burke scored 16 points and added eight assists in Michigan's 76-48 exhibition victory over Saginaw Valley State on Monday
M handles Saginaw Valley

ByCOLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Writer
If there were any concerns
about Trey Burke after he
missed last Thursday's exhi-
bition game against Northern
Michigan, they're all gone now.
With less than six minutes
to play in the first half of Mon-
day night's
game, the SVSU 48
sopho- MICHIGAN 76
more
point guard dished the ball to
senior guard Matt Vogrich with
a 'smooth, no-look pass for an
easy layup in transition. Just a
few seconds later, Burke found
freshman forward Glenn Rob-
inson III for another transition
layup - no rust there.
Burke's 16-point, eight-assist
performance helped the No.
5 Michigan men's basketball
team to a 76-48 victory over
Saginaw Valley State in its last
exhibition game before its sea-
son gets underway against Slip-
pery Rock on Friday.
Burke, who averaged 36 min-
utes per game in his freshman
campaign, was suspended for

Michigan's first exhibition for
a violation of team rules that
he said happened over the sum-
mer, but he returned Monday
and saw 21 minutes of action.
"I felt comfortable (coming
back)," Burke said. "After the
first couple minutes, my team-
mates helped me get comfort-
able before the game. Plus, IOgot
out there and got a feel for the
game - I was fine."
Burke also had no problem
handing over the reins of the
offense to Spike Albrecht, his
freshman counterpart who
started last Thursday. Albrecht
made his impression with 16
points and six.assists in his first
career start, but was a bit more
silent in Monday's exhibition
- the Crown Point, Ind. native
tallied just two points and an
assist while playing a signifi-
cant chunk of the second half.
And just like Thursday, the
Wolverines relied on offense
from the rest of the freshman
class. The rookies totaled 33
of Michigan's 76 total points,
with Robinson leading the team
with 17. Robinson notched the
first four points of the game to

put Michigan ahead for good
and provided excitement to the
mostly silent crowd by finishing
an alley-oop from junior guard,
Tim Hardaway Jr. in the second
half.
Freshman forward Mitch
McGary, who seemed to be
recovering fine from a knee
injury that limited his action
Thursday night, was just as
emotional on the court as he
was in the exhibition opener.
The Chesterton, Ind. native
excited the crowd with an
emphatic block and a dunk
halfway through the second
half. McGary finished with six
points and 10 rebounds, but got
in foul trouble in the first half
with three fouls.
Aside from the knee trou-
bles, Beilein is concerned about
McGary's shape - he wants to
see McGary lose a few pounds
and increase his stamina.
"With the media timeouts,
he really can push himself,"
Beilein said. "(He has) to under-
stand, 'I can play hard, I can
play through these things.' He's
getting in better shape - game
shape is different from all the

sprints we run."
Aside from the rookies and
Burke, the rest of the squad was
silent Monday night.
Hardaway scored his first
points of the game with 2:32
left in the first half and finished
with just five points and six
assists in his 26 minutes of play.
Redshirt junior forward Jordan
Morgan finished with seven
points and seven rebounds
and Vogrich contributed eight
points.
Despite the lack of scor-
ing from Michigan's veterans,
offense wasn't a problem for the
Wolverines. The game wasn't
even close after Michigan took
the lead for good three minutes
in, which Burke attributed to
the team's talent after adding a
top-10 recruiting class.
"We have options, a lot of
options this year," Burke said.
"Last year, our offense was kind
of stagnant, and though these
are exhibition games, you can
tell that (we have options).
"It's going to be pretty hard
to guard us this year as long
as we make the right play and
make adjustments."

nament
game since
2002, when it
advanced to
the quarterfi-
nals.
Nervously
packed into the
home locker
room Mon-
day afternoon,
the Wolver-

C
te

NlIGA The Wolverines will partici-
r pate in their second NCAA Tour-
nament in three years under
's soccer Ryan. After taking over a pro-
angnam gram that went 3-9-6 in 2007,
matches. Ryan's squads improved each
dancing year before receiving an NCAA
Tournament selection in 2010.
on, the After suffering through an inju-
en, 14-5- ry-plagued 2011 season, the Wol-
arge bid verines are back in the national
Tourna- spotlight.
1 Michi- "We've come to a place in the
the first program where we expect to be
he U-M in the NCAA Tournament," Ryan 4
said.
sted an Michigan hasn't won an NCAA
Tournament
game since
2003, and the
"W e focus Chi~ppeasth
thewill pose a
)n thenext tough chal-
- lenge. Central
am in front Michigan lost
ofus. in the MAC
championship
game to Miami
(Ohio), but
made appear-
on when ances in the NCAA Tournament
ounced. in 2009 and 2010. Last season,
ord and the Chippewas salvaged a draw
Wolver- against the Wolverines in Ann
d a spot Arbor.
10-game "They're a good team," Ryan
ropelled said. "But I'd say we are two to
onally, it three goals better per game this
mark in year (than last year)."
the dis- Ohio State, Penn State, Illinois
t matter and Wisconsin were the other
Big Ten teams to earnspots in the
nemory," tournament. Michigan could face
eg Ryan. a rematch with the first-seed-
team in ed Nittany Lions if both teams
advance to the third round.

ines erupted in jubilatic
the selection was ann
Despite their solid ret
impressive resume, the
ines weren't guarantees
in the field of 64. After a
unbeaten streak that p
Michigan to No. 17 nati
stumbled through a 1-3-1
its final five games. But
appointing finish doesn'
any more.
"We have a short nm
said Michigan coach Gr
"We focus on the next
front of us."

FOLLOW ON TWITTER
We've got you covered.

@THEBLOCKM

I

4

0

'


