

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
COMMUNITY CULTURE
Bridging Alzheimers and Arts

Combating memory
loss through
interactive approach
By JENNIFER XU
Magazine Editor
Andrea Simons, a docent for the
Detroit Institute of Arts, is giving
a tour. She pauses at a sculpture
called "The Genius of the Dance,"
showcasing a man with long, flow-
ing locks holding a tambourine. His
body, taut with muscles, sways with
the motion of the imaginary music.
"Do you like to dance?" Simons
asks her audience, a small group
of elderly adults - some in wheel-
chairs, some not - all with some
form of dementia.
"If I looked like that, I would,"
returns Louis Niebrzydowski, 86.
Niebrzydowski, a former silhouette
painter who has quit his trade since
being transferred to assisted living
five years ago, was brought to the
DIA by his daughter, Diane, for the
museum's monthly "Meet Me at the
DIA" program.
The program, a 90-minute tour
that brings elderly patients with
dementia to the museum to engage
in a series of intimate dialogues, is
one of the many nationwide efforts
to bridge the gap between memory

loss and creative expression.
First spearheaded by the Muse-
um of Modern Art in 2006, the
University of Michigan Museum of
Art kickstarted its own program,
"Meet Me at UMMA," in 2009 after
the docents attended a workshop
funded by the MoMA Alzheimer's
Project. The DIA followed suit just
a few months ago.
In a 2006 study commissioned
by George Washington University's
center on Aging, Health & Humani-
ties, it was found that elderly
individuals exposed to creative
interventions had a higher rating
of physical health. They went to the
doctor less often and relied on their
medications less. They reported
fewer incidences of falls.
"When I was visiting MoMA,
two men were like this:" UMMA
docent Marlene Ross said as she
mimicked a patient with catatonia.
Her head droops rigidly, her long
silver hair obscuring her eyes.
"I thought, 'Well, not going to
get much there.' But as soon as they
got in front of a piece of artwork,
whoooooooh."
Ross picks her head up and
comes to life, eyes brightening. A
smile rushes across her face.
"Talked, interacted, made appro-
priate and insightful comments. If
you had seen this man ten minutes

before, you would have thought,
'There's nothing there."'
For a long time, a diagnosis of
Alzheimer's disease tolled like a
death knell.
Under a PET scanner, neurofi-
brillary plaques and tangles knot
the surface of the Alzheimer's
brain. These plaques and tangles
work their way across the infold-
ings of the nervous system, slashing
away vital connections - the abil-
ity to coordinate muscle movement,
verbalize words or recognize a face.
But what scientists have come to
realize is that the disease doesn't
harm all parts of the brain. Bal-
ance, sensory pathways and vision
stay largely intact. Their memories
might be altered, but patients can
still live in the present.
"You don't need to have a mem-
ory to have a visual response to
something ... exciting or beautiful
or disturbing," Ross said.
And the warehouses used for
storing long-term memory are
spared until late in the disease's
progression. Dr. Cathleen Connell,
a School of Public Health professor,
said this might be the reason why
music and art therapy are beneficial
to people with Alzheimer's - it may
trigger distant memories and help
connect a present experience with
something from the past.
"There's a feeling of 'This is a
good place,' " UMMA docent
Gretta Spier said. "They may not
remember the specific tour, but
there's a positive feeling about
beinghere."
Since the original program's
inception in 2006, representa-
tives from the MoMA Alzheimer's
Project have been traveling the
country inspiring museums to
continue its mission.
This is how "Meet Me at
UMMA" got its start. But it's also
evolved from there. UMMA's
dementia program has expanded
beyond MoMA's initial notion of a
discussion-based tour into some-
thing more imaginative.
"I don't even know how we
came up with this, but we thought
it would be really good idea to
engage as much of the senses as
we can," Ross said.
The visitors - two groups from
the residential community Huron
Woods and the University Health
System's Turner Geriatric Silver
Club - throw multicolored fabrics

Ann Arbor, MI

UIN l-H U NDRJEl-T WEKNTIY I WO YELARIS O EDITORIAL FREEDOUM

Weekly Summer Edition

Monday, May 21, 2012

GALA FUNDRAISER

GRADUATE EMPLOYEES
'U'to increase
childeare funds

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily

A senior citizen looks on at 'The Genius of the Dance!'

CAL LING ALL STUDENTS!
Do you have what it takes to be a
Google Guide?
Now hiring for summer temp positions.
Go to google.umich.edu to apply.
Go gtc

on the floor, uncork Indian spices
and sing along ("lustily," Spier says)
to big band music. Behind a wall
encrusted with malachite-colored
tesserae, docent Susan Schreiber
emerges as Mrs. Louisine Have-
meyer, mistress of the house, regal-
ingthe audience with fabulous tales
of her husband, the sugar baron.
"If (MoMA) saw us, they'd prob-
ably have a fit," Ross said.
And the museum setting offers
more than just a place to observe
magnificent works of art; it also
offers inspiration to create them.
In one instance, Ross dressed up
as Martha Washington, encourag-
ing the visitors to draw a portrait
of themselves on a cut-out oval. On
the sides, the visitors wrote char-
acteristics of themselves: mom,
happy, beautiful, white hair, cool
hat. When the visitors put the oval
to the mirror, they found a reflec-
tion of themselves gazing back.
Art & Design Prof. Anne Mondro,
who herself turned to artmaking
after a speech impediment made
it difficult to verbalize the emo-
tions she felt, praised artmaking as
an excellent vehicle for patients to
express themselves and take con-
trol of a situation.
"Anyone who's a patient in the
hospital loses their ability to have

control over whathappenstothem,"
she said. "They don't get to decide
as much because they have to follow
what the nurses have to say, or they
have to follow these tests today."
But in creative endeavors, the
patients have independence, she
said. They can choose what colors
and brushes they want to use. They
can use their hands and muscles.
The art begins to call on physi-
cal sensations, serving as a vehicle
to tap into a nonverbal, emotional
place in a person.
According to George Wash-
ington University Prof. Elizabeth
Warson, who specializes in the
role of art in American Indian
cancer patients, visual and kines-
thetic creative activity serves as
excellent machinery for storytell-
ing. A search for a story through art
validates the artmaker as the author
and reestablishes his or her sense of
personhood.
The capacity for the creative arts
to reawaken the imagination nulli-
fiesthe classic stereotype of demen-
tia patients as empty shells.
"You can't say, 'This is the way
Alzheimer's patients are,' " Ross
said. "A sense of humor is still there,
a joy of life, an appreciation of the
arts and the senses and so on. It's all
there."

Kids relax at Saturday's event held in conjunction with the radio-a-thon on Friday to raise money for Mott Children's Hospital
SOFTBALL
Softball advances to Super Regional

GEO meets with
'U,' grad students
to have $150,000
available
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Managing Editor
Last week, University Provost
Philip Hanlon approved the rec-
ommendations of a joint com-
mittee regarding the childcare
subsidies of student parents.
Prior to the approval, only stu-
dents with spouses working or
attending school for 20 or more
hours could receive a childcare
subsidy. Throughout the year, the
Graduate Employees Organiza-
tion Parents' Caucus met with
University administrators in the
hopes of expanding this subsidy.
Now, Graduate Student Instruc-
tors and Graduate Student Staff
Assistants with a spouse work-
ing or attending school for 12 to
19 hours a week can also apply for
funds. According to the commit-
tee's recommendations, if a GSI
or GSSA's spouse works or attends
school for 12 to 15 hours a week,
he or she will be eligible to receive
$1,000 per semester for childcare.

If the spouse works or attends
school for 15 to 19 hours a week,
they will be eligible to receive up
to $1,250 per semester.
Students whose spouses work or
attend school for 20 or more hours
can receive between $2,250 and
$4,350 each semester, depending
on the number of children in their
household.
A committee comprised of
three members of the GEO Par-
ents' Caucus and three Uni-
versity administrators made
the recommendations. The six-
member body had been meeting
monthly following last summer's
contract negotiations between
GEO and the University before
submitting its recommendations
to the provost.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the committee
accomplished its goal.
"I think everyone is pleased
with this recommendation,"
Fitzgerald said. "The process
worked effectively ... working
together to find a solution that
everyone involved thought would
work."
Fitzgerald added that the com-
mittee functioned to provide
recommendations rather than
hashing out issues between GEO
See CHILDCARE, Page 2

W
off
in

olverines knock And from the moment Louis-
ville pitcher Tori Collins threw
f host Louisville the first pitch at 1:04 P.M.on Sun-
day, the No. 21 Michigan softball
NCAA Regional team dominated each and every
inning.
By GREG GARNO The Wolverines (42-15) used
Daily Sports Writer consistent pitching from fresh-
man left-hander Haylie Wagner,
UISVILLE, Kent. - One timely hitting by seniors Amanda
at a time. Chidester and Bree Evans, solid
chigan coach Carol defense from senior third-base-
iins preaches the motto man Stephanie Kirkpatrick and
e, during and after every smart base running all around to
win, 4-1.

"I thought our kids were bril-
liant in one area in particular,
and it was one-pitch softball,"
Hutchins said. "We harped on
that all day. We told them before
the game, 'don't worry about
whether we get (a win), just worry
about one pitch."'
It was the first game of the
weekend that Michigan didn't
need to win on a walk-off play.
Having already defeated No. 9
Louisville on Saturday afternoon,
the Wolverines had the added
See SOFTBALL, Page 7

LO
pitch.
Mi
Hutch
befor
game.

INDEX
VoiCXXI,No.13 2012TheMichigan Daily
NEWS .................................... 2
OPINION ...............................4
CLASSIFIEDS........................ 6
CROSSWORD........................6
SPORTS.................................. 7
ARTS ....................................10

I

NEWS OPINION ARTS SPORTS
Cyber Storage Politics of Research Festival of Flowers Last Swing in A2
New North Campus modu- House amendment would Nichols Arboretum Peony Senior golfer Matt Thomp-
lar data center streamlines makeitillegalfor NSFtofund Fesitval celebrates its 90th son fails to advance NCAA
data research at the 'U.' political science research, anniversary. finals.
SEE PAGE 2 >> SEE PAGE 4 >> SEE PAGE 11 >> SEE PAGE 9



Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Andy Palms walks through the modular data center as he explains the plan to use outside air to cool the server.

Modular data center
opens on campus

Center aims to
accommodate
researchers
efficiently
By LIANA ROSENBLOOM
Daily StaffReporter
The University is opening a
Modular Data Center in an effort

to increase data capacity in a cost-
effective, environmentally-friend-
ly way on campus.
Andy Palms, executive direc-
tor of communication systems and
data centers for Information and
Technology Services, said this
"high-performance" site will be
used by researchers on campus to
streamline data storage in a man-
ner that is more cost-effective but
slightly less reliable. The site will
be tested and running by the end of

It's hot, do you have AC?
The Daily does.
Write for us!
E-mail annaroze@michigandaily.com
For updates throughout the week follow
@michdailynews

July, according to Palms.
He said modular structure
gives the center more flexibility to
expand its data capacity as needed
by researchers.
"By using a more modular
approach, we don't have fo build
a whole lot of capacity and have it
sitting there waiting," Palms said.
"We can deliver the capacity on a
more on-time basis."
He explained that the data cen-
ter will not always be needed and
therefore the site is more cost-
effective and practical though it
is slightly less reliable. Though
the center is a "Tier 1" - the least
reliable type of site - the center is
only expected to crash once every
five years at most, according to
CHILDCARE
From Page 1A
and the University, like was done
last summer with GEO's contract
negotiations.
"This wasn't a negotiation pro-
cess," Fitzgerald said. "This was
not an 'us versus them."'
Per the agreement, $150,000
will be used over the course of the
next two years to fulfill the recom-
mendations. Specifically, $37,500
will be allocated to each of the
respective fall and winter semes-
ters. The amount is fixed and more
funds will not be made available if
the subsidies requested exceed the
funds available.
Rackham student Emily How-
ard, the GEO communications co-
chair, said she was pleased to see
more students become eligible for
the subsidy.
"While we weren't able to just
efiminate that work requirement

Palms.
Maria Sheler-Edwards, mar-
keting communications special-
ist for the Office of Research
Cyberinfrastructure, said part of
what distinguishes the MDC is
its shared computing feature that
will allow researchers to pur-
chase the appropriate amount of
data time and space for their par-
ticular projects. Palms said this is
ideal for storing computer equip-
ment, which can be easily restart-
ed and also allows researchers
to store the equipment at a much
lower cost.
"High-performance computing
is becoming much more in demand
by many researchers on campus,
so the lower their cost of acquiring
that ability, the more research they
can do," she said.
Sheler-Edwards said she is
hopeful about the success of this
new technology.
"What we're doing is really very
new and cutting edge, and we have
very high hopes," Sheler-Edwards
said. "We'll wait and see what hap-
pens, but if this works then we
could expand with this technology
in the future."
Prof. Kenneth Powell is an aero-
space engineering researcher who
plans to use the new MDC for com-
puting. He said he thinks the cen-
ter will positively impact research
on campus.
"I'm happy to see the University
taking a proactive step with data
center activities in a bigger, stra-
tegic plan," Powell said. "I think it
is going to be a good move for the
University."
entirely ... hopefully (the new
agreement) will catch a lot of peo-
ple who have fallen through the
cracks," Howard said.
The current plan covers GSIs
and GSSAs, though it does not
include Graduate Student Research
Assistants. Currently, only GSIs
and GSSAs can be members of
GEO, but GEO can bargain on
behalf of GSRAs.
Howard said GSRAs are
often excluded from agreements
between GEO and the University,
but she hopes that they will even-
tually have the same access to the
childcare subsidy as other graduate
students.
"It's my hope that, as with
many things in the past, this will
be extended to GSRA's," Howard
said.
Howard said the next most
important issue for GEO to tackle
is to spread awareness about the
newly available childcare subsi-
dies.

420 Maynard Or.
AnnArhor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOBAXELRAD MERYL HULTENG
aerdlmcindiyom mhultengm~michiadiyo
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroomfrice hours
734-763-2459 opt3
News Tips newsmichigandaily.cm
Corrections corrections@michigandaly com
LetterstotheEditor tohea ivmchigandai.co"m
or vsit ir.chigndailcomlletters
Photo Department photo@micgansaily com
ArtsSection arts@michigndaila.com
EditoriallPage opinion@ichigandaily.co"'
SportsSection sports@michigandaily.com
Advertising rhone:734-764-0554
Department spc cay.iigandailcycom
Clasifieds P on. 73474
Department claasifid@aiciandailycom
EDITORIAL STAFF
Giacomo Bologna ManagingEditor
bolognacmichigandail com
Ana R*aenber ManagingNewsEditor
annarca,@micSimandailyc.m
SENIOR NEWS EDITOR: Steve Zoski
Adrienne Roberts EditorialPageEditor
adrirobe@'.,,uigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAG EDITORS:
Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth
Colleen Thomas Managing Sports Editor
tolthornm ich iga nda ly< io
SENIOR SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Slovin
AnnaSadovskaya Managing ArtsEditor
asado michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITOR: Kelly Etz
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editor
photo@m ich igandai ly. cons
AliciaKoaalcheck ManagingDesignEditor
sENrARscaDcoRus teprhaniey ve c

By.
Burs
stand t
under
The 91
versary
Nichols
tum Pe
tival ca
* this ye
March
warmer
flowers
up the
time.
"The

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
COMMUNIT i eCLTURE FEATURE
.Peonies bloo m n nnual festival

Nic
com

hols Arboretum the peony itself and the bloom
time of the garden," said Joseph
imemorates 90th Mooney, Matthaei Botanical
Gardens & Nichols Arboretum
anniversary marketing & communications
manager. "This year it's been crazy
ANNA SADOVSKAYA because March was so warm and
ManagingArtsEditor the peonies actually moved the
festival date up from early June to
ting with color, the peonies the middle of May."
all in their rows, blooming Peonies are historically cool-
the sun. climate flowers. Native to Europe
0th anni- Peony and Asia, they captured the inter-
of the Festival est of breeders and now have a
Arbore- long-standing history of varied
cony Fes- Through breeding. Combining and cross-
ame early June 5 pollinating different flowers
ar as the allowed the breeders to create
weather13m 0 newly colored and structured
d the p.m. daily buds.
and sped Focusing on the inimitable flow-
blooming Free er, the Peony Garden in Nichols
Arboretum will be going through a
festival really centers on renovation, allowing for the flowers

I E0 GAIM'E [ EVIEW

to get the attention and awareness
they once had.
"The garden is undergoing a
multi-year renovation during which
we're bringing in advisors and tak-
ing care of the plants to make sure
they survive, seeing if they have
various diseases," Mooney said.
Donated by Dr. W. E. Upjohn of
the Upjohn Pharmaceutical Com-
pany in 1922, the Peony Garden fea-
tures more than 270 historic buds
and some that are still alive from
their original'20s planting.
Visitors will be able to walk from
flower bed to flower bed, discover-
ing various forms and types of peo-
nies in the process.
"People can learn about peony
form, names, where they're from
and what importance they
have in not just European and
American culture, but also that
they're very important in the

asian culture, literature and art,"
Mooney said. "Since the garden
is an antique variety, people can
also learn about the top-ranked
peonies and why they were cham-
pions and the prices people have
paid for (them) in the past."
Along with the flower history,
people can enjoy a variety of events
held in honor of the peony blooming
season. Artworks and photographs
are on display in the Reading Cen-
ter of Nichols Arboretum, featuring
local artists.
A concert is also scheduled for
Wednesday, with local singers cel-
ebrating the various historical con-
notations of peonies in the Chinese
culture.
"There will be a concert of Chi-

nese flower songs," Mooney said. w
"A series of Chinese traditional,
contemporary and modern songs
about flowers and their roles in
Chinese culture, and they're going
to be sung in Chinese."
The garden is home to the larg-
est collection of heirloom peonies
in North America and the festival
celebrates these flowers for a month
every year. Despite time changes
and blooming set-backs, the festi-
val's focus has always stayed on the
flowers.
"It's a celebration of the guest of
honor, the main event, the peonys
themselves," Mooney added. "It
usually lasts for a month, so we
encourage everyone to come out
and see this incredible garden."

KendraFurry
copydesk* ichgadily. m

Copy Chief

As University of Michigan Alumni,
We've been supporting the
UM Community since 1939...
ByAppointment -a
304 1/2 S. STATE ST
Above Ben & Jerry's
734 668 9329
WWWDASCOLABARBERSCOM
WALK-INS WELCOME!

BUSINESS STAFF
BrettBergy SalesManager
.oe Crim Classified's Account Executive
ConnorByrd FinanceManager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is
published Monday through Friday during
the fall and winrter tams by students at the
University of Michigan. One copy is available
tree of charge tu all readers. Additional
copies may be picked up at the Daily's office
for $2. Subscriptions for fall term, starting
iSeptember, cia U.S. mail are $110. Wirter
termlJanuarythroughApr il)s $115, yearlorg
(September through Aprl)is $195. University
affiliates are subect to a reducedcsubscription
rate. On-campus ubscriptions for fall term
are $35. Subscripiers must hr prepaid. The
Michigan Dailyis a member of TheAssociated
Press and TheiAssociated Collegiate Press.

By JULIAN AIDAN
DailyArts Writer
The third installment of Bliz-
zard's "Diablo" series arrives after
12 years of development, promis-
ing an intense
and unforgiv-
ing dark fan- *
tasy adventure DiabloII
and delivering a
single- and mul- Blizzard
tiplayer expe-
rience whose PC
chaotic combat is
second to none.
Players find themselves thrust
into the world of Sanctuary as one
of five highly differentiated class-
es: the archetypal Barbarian and
the Wizard as well as the ranged
vigilante Demon Hunter, the voo-
doo practicing Witch Doctor and
the holy Monk. Sanctuary has the
misfortune of finding itself right
in the middle of an eons-long war
between angels and demons. The
Diablo universe is rich with lore,
and players find snippets seam-
lessly integrated with exploration
and conversation. The game's plot
unfolds at a reasonable pace and
overcomes some grossly subpar
writing with world-class voice act-
ing, including voices from "Avatar:
The Last Airbender" and "Kung Fu

Panda" and a character can completely
With 12 years of development, change his loadout in no time
the team at Blizzard had more than before engaging the next swarm of
enough time to create a game that demons. This allows for innovative
looks and feels alluring. With an and complex play both in the solo
incredibly intuitive user interface, and multiplayer campaign, and the
menu navigation is logical and absence of retraining costs com-
character customization options pensates for the unforgiving diffi-
are literally in the trillions. The culty of higher levels.
graphics are stellar, the cutscenes Gameplay is, in a word, cha-
absolutely gorgeous, the heads-up otic. Dozens of monsters swarm
display isn't too overbearing and the screen at any given moment,
there are multitudes of options to with the character having to
customize the viewingexperience. react to multiple hazards rang-
ing from wasps that shoot more
wasps to pink lasers known to
Long xvait not wipe out entire groups of heroes.
As the player progresses from
in vain: third Normal difficulty onto Nightmare,
Hell and eventually Inferno, dif-
installment ficulty ramps up exponentially,
with run-of-the-mill enemies
delivers, gradually becoming fire-spewing,
semi-invulnerable beacons of frus-
tration.
"Diablo III" is an absolutely
As far as the players are con- insane hack-and-slash game with
cerned, characters unlock new a learning curve just slight enough
abilities and secondary abilities as to make players try for an eighth,
they level up, having simultaneous ninth or tenth time before finally
access to six primary abilities and crushing their way through a spe-
three passive abilities - allowing cific area. It looks sweet and plays
each character to be played with better, and will only improve with
different focuses or situations in time as more and more people set-
mind. Swappingoutskills and items tle in to its specific brand of balls-
takes a minimal amount of effort, to-the-wall insanity.




10

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MLM REVIEW
'Marigold Hotel' delves into life

Former football stars
raise money for Mott

bri
den
As te
wise ft
groupc
talente
throw
into a
shoot a
everyti
work
right i
But o
while,
tively f.
Such
case w

All-star cast Best Exotic Marigold Hotel,"
which features an all-star cast that
ngs understated performs superbly without the
gimmicks of avenging the Earth
nographic to light or robbing Andy Garcia (though
both are admirable pursuits). The
y PROMA KHOSLA charming film, an adaptation of
Daily Arts Writer Deborah Moggach's "These Fool-
ish Things," follows seven British
empting as it may be, it isn't senior citizens as they seek adven-
Dr film producers to sign a ture and peace in Jaipur, India, at
of famous, the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel
d actors, (for the Elderly and Beautiful).
them The absurdly talented ensemble
location 11 et is led by Dame Judy Dench ("My
nd expect Week With Marilyn"), undeterred
hing to Exotic Man- by her traitorous corneas as she
out all gold Hotel expertly portrays the shy but
n the end. determined Evelyn Greenslade.
nce in a At the Evelyn is truly independent for
it's posi- Michigan the first time in her life, but at
oolproof. Fox Searchight the price of having just lost her
is the husband of 40 years. She is equal
ith "The parts alone and lonely, but Dench

knows the distinction and plays
the fine line to perfection. Evelyn
isn't in Jaipur in search of a grand
adventure, but to live out her new
life in a new place, free of judg-
ment.
That effortless inhabitance of
character pervades the cast; Tom
Wilkinson ("Michael Clayton") as
a man searching for his lost love,
Bill Nighy ("Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hallows: Part 1") and
Penelope Wilton (TV's "Downton
Abbey") as an incompatible mar-
ried couple and Maggie Smith (the
"Harry Potter" films) as a delight-
fully sassy old racist undergoing
hip surgery.
And even though the acting
personas are somewhat larger
than life - it may take a while to
stop mentally referring to them by
their real names (or as McGona-
gall and Harriet Jones) - there

isn't a moment in the film when
this ensemble doesn't bring their
confused band of travelers to life
with splendid ease. They are every
bit as real as the elderly couple sit-
ting in front of you in the theater
(they'll be there, I promise) and
deserve to be imagined complexly.
Anyone who's ever taken a
Humanities class can attest, older
people are among society's most
marginalized individuals. Espe-
cially in the media, where youth
and beauty are all but synony-
mous and coveted to extremes. In
the "riot of noise and color" that is
life in a bustling Indian city, the
travelers are treated as respected
guests instead of ticking time
bombs.
Dev Patel ("Slumdog Million-
aire") plays Sonny, the token
young, character, a goofy and
anbitious entrepreneur behind

the hotel. Though playing an inno-
vative Indian of modest means
isn't exactly branching out, the
role suits him even more than
his previous work, emphasizing
his respectable comedy chops
over his decent-at-best dramatic
ones. Sonny's story ties the travel-"
ers together as he struggles with
financial problems, a controlling
mother and big dreams. They see
their past mistakes in his present
and in offering him wisdom, set
their own spirits free.
Despite the simplicity of its
premise, "Marigold Hotel" suc-
ceeds impeccably in combin-
ing comedy and solemnity with
expert execution. It's a film for
the old school of thought that says
everything works out all right in
the end. "And if it's not all right,"
the characters remind us, "then
it's not the end."

to
E).
Ann
come
return
Hutch
ball sto
alma m
For
ers al
coache
annual
Mott
thon y
with f
a.m. ar
Brady:
M Den

More than The day-long radio-a-thon
raised money for the Coach Carr
75,000 donated Mountain Top Experience Fund, a
.nt nprogram started by Carr's former
Mountain Top players and colleagues. The fund
perience Fund gives directly to Mott and is based
on Carr's philosophy that the only
way to reach the top of a mountain
By KATIE BURKE is by finding a cause greater than
Daily StaffReporter oneself.
The fund set its donation goal
Arbor rolled out the wel- at $114,804 - the same number as
mat this weekend for the the Michigan Stadium attendance
of Charles Woodson, Steve record. The radio-a-thon ended
inson and other former foot- with a total of $77,622 raised but
ars as they gave back to their continued accepting donations
nater. after the show.
mer University football play- During the event, Carr said the
ong with past and current fundraiser was an embodiment of
es participated in the seventh his philosophy as well as that of the
. WTKA Takeover for C.S. University.
Children's Hospital radio-a- "I look back and what's hap-
'esterday. The event opened pened here in this community is
ormer coach Lloyd Carr at 7 an example of the mountaintop
nd closed with current coach experience," Carr said. "I don't
Hoke broadcasting from the think you can ask any more of a
at 5 p.m. Michigan man than what those

(players) have done."
Melissa Dyer, coordinator of the
radio-a-thon, said the event used to
feature current University football
players but switched to exclusively
former players last year because of
their celebrity effect.
"Last year we raised $107,000...
(which) was a huge jump, and we
think it's because of the star power
that was able to participate," Dyer
said.
Dyer added that she was look-
ing to top last year's total with the
array of players and coaches fea-
tured at this year's event.
Gifts given to donators dur-
ing the fundraiser ranged from a
ringtone recording of Carr to items
signed by the players and coaches
participating in the event.
The players and coaches remi-
nisced about their time at Michi-
gan and talked of currentMichigan
football as well as their experienc-
es at Mott.
Defensive coordinator Greg
Mattison shared a personal expe-
rience with the hospital about the
hole in his granddaughter's heart,
which was successfully treated by
the pediatric experts at Mott.
"I don't think I can ever put in

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
words my appreciation," Matti-
son said. "(The medical care) just
speaks to Michigan, to Mott Hos-
pital."
Former running back Mike
Hart said his participation in pro-
grams like working with Mott is
a major part of his personal phi-
losophy. 0 I
"We give back the way we can *pek a
- it's always big to give back,"
Hart said. "That's what really
matters at the end of the day, the
relationships we build with peo-
ple."
Members of the Mott commu-
nity also contributed to the show
to share their stories of the work
being done at the hospital.
Anne Ryan, whose son Mitch-
ell was treated for cerebral palsy
at Mott, said her experience with
the hospital inspired her to move "
to Ann Arbor and work there as a
volunteer.
"The best decision I ever made seo*
was to bring Mitchell to Mott,"
Ryan said. "We felt like part of
a family, we were treated like
we were part of the staff ... I've
never received so much love and
support than I did from the Mott
staff."

13

FILaM EV I EtW
Nuanced, campy 'Battleship' stays afloat

Time editor speaks on campus about Presidents Club book

By JACOB AXELRAD
Editor in Chief
There's alotofPeter Bergin "Bat-
tieship."- The creator of the critical-
ly acclaimed series "Friday Night
Lights" was handed the reigns of
an alien-invasion
movie based off*
of a board game
where play-E
ers attempt to
destroy each oth- At Qualityl6
er's ships through and Rave
a series of strate-
gic guesses. The Universal
story is at times
disjointed, making large narrative
jumps without fully developing
characters, and leaving plot holes
too big for viewers to fill in on their
own.
Admittedly, there are a few eye-
popping scenes of global destruc-
tion, yet these leave much to be
desired. What makes the movie fun,
however, is that Berg does what he
does best - injecting humor into
otherwise hackneyed moments,
winking at the audience the entire
time and informing us that it's OK
to laugh.
At the center of the plot is Lieu-

tenantj
"Frida
unlike
"Night
operate
with lii
his acti
But,
laced
Skarsga
shows
manys
his br
the na
that co
as thou
forcing
quent t
itable;v
to it?
B
Alex
ranks o
strongv
him thi
more it

Alex Hopper (Taylor Kitsch, father (a wonderfully surly Liam
y Night Lights"). He is not Neeson, "Taken") who also happens
Kitsch's Tim Riggins from to be the Admiral of the naval fleet
s" - a rebellious figure that in which Alex serves. And yet, like
es almost entirely on instinct the sly smirk that seems perpetually
ttle regard for the outcome of stained on Alex's face, we know all
ions. alongthatourhero onlyneeds asuf-
as first noted by his straight- ficient challenge to put his abilities
brother Stone (Alexander to the test.
ard, "Generation Kill"), he This challenge comes in the
potential, regardless of his form of aliens who seek to (what
screw-ups and mistakes. At else?) destroy Earth. Explosions
other's demand, Alex joins abound. Wills are tested. Life-or-
avy, a precipitating event death choices must be made. It's all
mes so out of the blue it's very familiar, and it's a familiarity
igh the movie is saying that that's acknowledged by the film-
this down-and-out delin- maker. This movie's pleasures lie in
o serve his country was inev- the nuances that are uniquely Berg:
why even attempt to build up Alex sneaks through the vents of a
convenience store solely to obtain a
chicken burrito for the woman he
desires. At a point of climax, a naval
lears beets engineer tasked with the make-or-
> > break shot against the enemy ship,
Battleship' turns to his companion and, with a
' laugh, informs him that he has not
fired a gun since summer camp. In a
sense, Berg makes fun of the campy
is promoted through the while simultaneously participating
f the navy, despite his head- in the campiness.
ways. But this does not earn Meanwhile, he looks out for his
e respect of his comrades or, characters, always remembering
mportantly, his girlfriend's to present them as complete and

BI
lit
at

"What do you mean 'The Secret Circle' was cancelled?!"

holistic, an aspect of his filmmak-
ing that's aided him well in televi-
sion. Singer Rihanna makes her
acting debut as Petty Officer Cora
'Weps' Raikes. But her sexual-
ity is not once over-emphasized or
exploited. Rather, her role is simply
that of another officer, doing her
job, playing her part in defeating
the invaders. The same can be said
of Brooklyn Decker ("Just Go With
It"), who plays Alex's love interest
Samantha. As was the case with
"Friday Night Lights," Berg's female
characters are strong and on equal

footing with the men, whether the
setting be a small town in Texas or a
battleship out at sea.
At film's end, a team of World
War II veterans is called upon to
operate the nearly defunct battle-
ship. Where they come from or why
they're ready to leap into action is
unimportant. The fact that they're
present is enough, which might be,
if there is one at all, the theme of
this B-level movie: give the formu-
laic a dose of lighthearted mischief,
and you'll be sure to entertain your
viewers.

Eve
Univer
honor
selecti
Club.
A n
Club,"
that si
Thursc
author
campu
to join
elected
Mic
tor of
author
visited
in Ani
sign ci
The
event
Luken
versity
with I
the 19

ook showcases paign who donated his papers to
the library.
tle-known facts Lukens, who has worked as a
political consultant, said she met
Duffy while he was at Time maga-
zine during the George H.W. Bush
By STEVE ZOSKI administration.
Daily News Editor "I got to know Michael then
because we were doing work for
n getting picked for the President Bush, and we just kind of
rsity's Order of Angell remained friends," she said.
society doesn't compare in Lukens added that she helped
vity to the U.S. Presidents Duffy while he researched Presi-
dent Ford.
:ew book, "The Presidents "I helped Michael with some
offers insight into this group of the research on the book on
ofew are able to enter. On Ford ... some things that dealt
day evening, the book's co- with the campaign in '76 and
stopped by the library on with the primary against Reagan
is named after the only man in 1975," Lukens said. "I told him
the club without ever being since the book dealt with former
d - Gerald R. Ford. presidents, he should come here
'hael Duffy, executive edi- to talk."
F Time magazine and co- Duffy, an Ohio native, -joked
of "The Presidents Club," early on in his speech about being
i the Gerald R. Ford Library in the territory of his hometown's
n Arbor to speak about and rival university.
opies of his new book. "Most of you probably know
library invited Duffy to the I am from central Ohio, so that
with the help of Mary C. (applause) really was beyond the
s, a Northern Michigan Uni- call of duty," Duffy said.
trustee who had worked Duffy, who wrote the second
Robert Teeter, a member of half of the book, said the Club
76 Ford presidential cam- wasn't something he and co-author

Nancy Gibbs, deputy managing
editor of Time magazine, made up.
"We soon came to realize it
wasn't just our idea - they talk
about it like, 'It's a club. It has its
own rules, it has its own feast days,
it has its own taboos, it has its own
trinkets, it even has its own club
house,"' Duffy said.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily prior to the event,
Duffy said the library helped him
write the sections of the book
about President Ford along with
Marty Allen, chairman emeritus
of the Ford Presidential Founda-
tion.
"Allen told me an amazing story
about when Bill Clinton came to
Grand Rapids," Duffy said. "One of
the beststories inthe book is (about
how) Gerald Ford at one point tried
to save Clinton from impeachment
in 1998."
Duffy said Ford tried to deter
Clinton away from his trial pub-
licly and privately, and he told the
president that he should publicly
apologize for lying about the affair.
"Ford felt the trial was unneces-
sary (and) there were better ways
to solve the problem," Duffy said.
"He brought that uncommon Mid-
western common sense there."

He explained that Ford's desire
to help Clinton showed that he was
a member of the Club who appreci-
ated the presidency unlike most.
"Ford knew in ways few other
men did how important it was to
preserve the power of the office,"
Duffy said. "Ford preserved the
power of the presidency, especially
at a time when our politics were
broken ... I think what President
Ford was trying to do wasn't save
Bill Clinton, it was save the power
of the presidency."
Duffy said he's found that presi-
dents grow closer and come to
appreciate each other more over
time.
"After Ford died, Clinton makes
a visit to Grand Rapids and makes
a personal and private visit to
Ford's grave," he said. "That story
is also in the book - it's about two
men who came from fairly modest
means and a generation and a party
apart who, what often happens in
the Presidents Club, found a way to
work together," Duffy said.
Duffy explained that because
Ford lived a comparatively long
time after his presidency, he was
one of the most active members of
the club. Duffy added that Ford had
a close relationship with his former

opponent Jimmy Carter as well.
"(President Ford's) most
remarkable feature of his time
in the Presidents Club was his
unexpected and quite fruitful
partnership with Jimmy Carter,"
Duffy said. "The two fought in
1976; they didn't much like each
other until one day when they
were traveling back from Cairo in
1981 (and) they kind of realized,
'We kind of have more in common
than we have apart,' and they
became lifelong friends."
Elaine Didier, director of the
library and the Ford museum in
Grand Rapids, said she enjoyed
what she had read of the book so far
in an interview with the Daily prior
to the event.
"Gibbs and Mr. Duffy have both
been studying and covering the
presidency a lung time," she said.
"I just thought the quality of the
writing was really marvelous ...
the stories they're telling are just
amazing."
Didier added that while Ford
may not have joined the club like
the elected presidents,he was pres-
idential nonetheless.
"He took a different path to get
there, but he didn't choose that,"
Didier said.


Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
WOMENiS TENNIS
'M' eliminated by Florda in Sweet Sixteen

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB AXELRAD
EDITOR IN CHIEF

GIACOMO BOLOGNA
MANAGING EDITOR

ADRIENNE ROBERTS
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
RMT H E D AI Y
Politicizing research
Bill may make NSF's funding of poly-sci research illegal
The National Science Foundation is facing an unprecedented con-
gressional intervention in its internal decision-making process.
Last week, the U.S. House passed an amendment for a bill that
would make it illegal for the NSF to fund political science research,
something it has been doing for decades. The vote, motivated by partisan
opposition to a handful of research projects, such as "Understanding the
Origins of the Gender Gap in Political Ambition," paves the way for fur-
ther congressional interference in scientific research. Such interference
will seriously hinder the NSF's ability to serve as a clearinghouse for the
nation's most promising research. The amendment must be stopped in
the Senate.

GUS TURNER|VIEWPOINT
Stake in the game
On May 2, as the news of her grown in recent years. The Super
son's untimely passing pulsed Bowl set the record for U.S. televi-
along newswires throughout the sion ratings three years in a row,
country, Luisa Seau addressed the with the latest garnering an aver-
-well wishers who had made their age of 111.3 million viewers. Eight
way out to her home in Oceanside, of the Big House's 10 highest atten-
Calif. Distraught and understand- dances - which are effectively
ably hysterical, she choked out collegiate football's attendance
a public statement that ended in records -have occurred in the past
tears and a warning. two years. When a market this con-
"Drive carefully, drive safely," ductive to the growth of a product
she cried, no doubt recalling the such as collegiate or professional
cliff-side plunge that Junior Seau's football is present, questions of
SUV had taken only a couple of ownership with issues like player
years earlier, an accident that, safety persist. Who is to be held
though he emerged unharmed, now responsible for.Duerson or Waters?
possessed more suspect motiva- Surely the players, who delivered
tions in light of hisdeath. the hits to Duerson, Waters, Web-
The tale of Junior Seau, a for- ster, Easterling or Seau could point
mer National Football League star the finger of blame to the coaches
whose life came to an early end after who called the plays. The coaches,
his playing career, is one that is all likewise, could turn the fault to the
too familiar in the NFL in recent owners and athletic directors who
years. By now, many of us have pay them to make these decisions.
heard the stories of Dave Duerson, And who else would the owners
Mike Webster, Ray Easterling and and ADs shift the blame to but us,
Andre Waters, all former. players the very fans who put the money
who have recently taken their own into their hands, who create the
lives. Waters was left with brain demand for such a product?
tissue that had degenerated to the There is a certain pride, no
state of an 85-year-old man by the doubt, associated with football at
time he died, due to the concus- the University of Michigan, the
sions he suffered during his football home of the winningest football
career. He was 43. Duerson, in an program of all time. Beyond this
act that was tragically eerie, sent a pride, however, what is our true
text message to his family minutes stake inthe game as spectatorssaAs
before his suicide, stating that he students, does it truly serve as any-
wanted his brain to be donated to thing more than a venuefor drunk-
science after he died. He, like Seau, en merriment for the majority of
then shot himself in the chest. us? Is that worth the possibility of
And now, in addition to these someday seeing our fellow class-
deaths, the loss of Junior Seau raises mates who take the field suffer the
questions that the game of football, same fate as Dave Duerson?
from the NFL to the high-school It's time for the student body, for
level, is hard-pressed to answer: the fans, to consider this harsh real-
What's the price of entertainment? ity and to ponder: What does this
Will too many parents concerned game really mean to usS When we
with their child's safety keep them face the facts of the situation, it's
from playing football, killing the easy to see that the inherent risks of
sport from the ground up? What is the game are not worth our selfish
the future of football? For the most rewards. It's because we don't take
part, the answers to these questions the hits across the middle, the bone
are unclear. rattling collisions, nor the back-
A more important question, breaking blindside sacks that the
however, is one that not only the players are subjected to every game,
NFL or the NCAA should be ask- and many of us will not see a loved
log, but also the fans: What do we one take his own life as a result of
do now? Given a sports culture this punishment. Instead, as the
that only a few years ago celebrated players make their way off the field
the hard-hitting toughness of the at a game's conclusion, they're the
game (check YouTube for clips of ones who are possibly injured and
the. now-defunct "Knocked Up" perhaps, as the team doctors may
segments from ESPN's NFL Live), later tell them, irreversibly so. We,
the transition from this tough atti- the fans, just file out of our seats
tude to a public consciousness that either raucous in victoryor despon-
is more concerned with safety has dent in defeat, but regardless, feel-
been relatively swift. ing things easily forgotten by the
One looming issue still persists next week's contest. There is no one
that negates this concern. It's an telling us about broken legs, head
issue that contradicts the very trauma or ended careers, just the
nature of professional and colle- voice of the announcer as he calmly
giate football itself: We still watch sounds across the PA, "Everyone
the game. Despite the mounting drive home safely."

By BEN SEIDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
There were a couple bright spots
for the No. 15 Michigan women's
tennis team first round matchup
versus the No. 2 Florida Gators. But
in the end, they were sent home
packing from the University of
Georgia's Tennis Complex in their
third consecutive appearance in the
Sweet Sixteen.
Florida handled Michigan, win-
ning three singles matches decisive-
ly over the Wolverines. However,
Michigan freshman Emina Bektas
and sophomore Brooke Bolender

gave the No. 1 nationally ranked
doubles partners, Allie Will and
Sofie Oyen, all they could handle.
Bektas and Bolender ousted the
best doubles duo in the nation and
was the first match to finish on the
court.
But the rest of the team was not
as successful in its matches. In fact,
Bektas and Bolender's win was
the first and only match Michigan
would take all day.
The Wolverines have yet to beat
the Gators in head to head matches
in the three times they have met in
series play. This weekend marks the
third consecutive appearance in the

Sweet Sixteen, and is Michigan's
fourth in its program's history, and
is also Michigan coach Ronni Bern-
stein's third Sweet Sixteen appear-
ance in her fifth year as head coach.
Michigan finished this season
with an overall record of 21-8 and a
10-1 conference record.
"I'm pretty happy with the way
we played in general," Bernstein
said. "We had a shot at the doubles
point, and I think that if we could
have squeaked out a win there it
would have put a little more pres-
sure on Florida in singles. They kind
of just took it to us in the singles.
When you have chances to make

something happen, you have to take
them, and we couldn't do that."
Bernstein is always happy to
make it to the Sweet Sixteen but
admitted that Florida was simply
a better team than Michigan was.
Satisfied with the level of energy
and fearless spirit, Bernstein knows
that there is plenty of room for
improvement with the amount of
youth and talent on their squad.
"We had a good year," said Bern-
stein. "We got here again, and that
was our goal. We wanted to take a
step forwards and improve. Over-
all, I'm very happy with the way we
played and competed all year, and

that's all you can ask for."
Senior Michelle Sulahian capped
her career off, closing out with a
record of 85-49 in singles matches,
placing herself in the top-10 among
Michigan's all time singles wins
leaders.
Fresman Sarah Lee also wrapped
up her rookie debut season with an
impressive 32-10 singles record to
rank fifth among Michigan single-
season Wins leaders. Bektas tied
her in the same category, finishing
32-9 for the season and will have a
chance to improve upon her record
in the NCAA Singles Champion-
ship.

Thompson ends career at NCAA Central Regional

U.S. Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.)
proposed the "Flake amendment,"
which prohibits the NSF from
funding political science research,
as he believes it is "a waste of tax-
payer dollars." The representative
cited, among others, a project that
requested "$600,000 to try to fig-
ure out if policymakers actually
do what citizens want them to do."
The House voted on this amend-
ment May 9, and it passed by avote
of 21$-208. The current amend-
ment is Representative Flake's sec-
ond attempt to cut NSF spending.
Last year, his proposal to trim the
general NSF budget failed in a 291-
121 vote.
Representative Flake's singling
out of an individual academic
area should give us pause. Federal
research funding drives innova-
tion at the University of Michigan;
last year federal money accounted
for $800 million of the University's
research expenditures. An attack

on the NSF may signal trouble
for other, larger federal research
agencies. Flake is a known oppo-
nent of research funding, and his
attacks on political science should
be taken not asa sincere evaluation
of that field's social value, but as a
politician's search for a vulnerable
target. Most research is valuable,
though not all project titles make
that value immediately obvious.
There is tremendous irony in
Rep. Flake's opposition to politi-
cal science research. The con-
gressman himself holds a master's
degree in political science. Fur-
ther, the research Flake cites to
explain his amendment has imme-
diate, tangible implications for the
U.S. government.It matters agreat
deal whether, as Flake describes
the project he opposes, "policy-
makers actually do what citizens
want them to do." The particular
funding Flake proposes to cut is
money that would be used to study

how the government - of which
Congressman Flake is a part -
does its job.
American political leaders
have long recognized that aca-
demic research is valuable. They
have also, since creating the NSF,
respected Congress's decision to
give scientific experts respon-
sibility over research funding
rather than elected officials and
civil servants. The NSF's leader-
ship is chosen by the president,
but the original law's requirement
that members of the foundation's
board be "eminent in their field"
ensures that the NSF's governing
body can put good research ahead
of politics. Federal funding is one
of the most important sources of
money for academic research in
this country. Previous Congresses
understood how important it was
for decisions about research to be
made by experts. That's why they
created the NSF.

By PETER BROWN
Daily Sports Writer
At 9:40 a.m. on Saturday morn-
ing, Matt Thompson stood on the
tenth hole tee box at the University
of Michigan Golf Course prepar-
ing to strike his opening drive of
the NCAA Central Regional final
round.
In order to move on to the NCAA
Finals at Riviera Country Club in
Los Angeles, Calif. on May 29-June
3, Thompson would have to post a
low score - something in the mid-
to-high 60s - to have a chance.
Otherwise, the round would be the
senior's last as a collegiate golfer.
After hitting his tee shot in the
right rough, Thompson marched up
the fairway with coach Chris Whit-
ten by his side. They looked a little
odd, seeing as they both sported
nearly knee-high blue socks, a rarity
amongst the other 74 competitors.
They were a sequel to the white
ones that Thompson had donned on
Friday, but this time his coaches got
in on the action.
"(Whitten and assistant coach
Nick Pumford) threw them on
today, which I was actually kind of
surprised to see," Thompson said.
"Yeah, I don't think (my team-
mates) jumped on that bandwagon,"
he said, chuckling.
Thompson's flashy wardrobe,
however, was juxtaposed all week
by his calm demeanor and his
steady play on the course.
During Thursday's first round,
Thompson struck the ball well, hit-
ting 14 out of 18 greens in regula-

tion. He made two birdies and no
bogeys on the front nine, making
the turn at two-under par. After a
string of missed birdie opportuni-
ties on the second nine, Thompson
hit back-to-back wayward drives
on holes 17 and 18, both resulting in
bogey. He finished the round at an
even-par 71, four strokes back of the
leader, but solidly in a tie for fourth
place.
"I was hoping a few putts would
drop eventually but nothing really
did," Thompson said. "I hit a lot of
downhillers I had to be pretty care-
ful with. I couldn't get real aggres-
sive with anything."
Because the pin locationswere so
difficult during the first round, low
scoring was tough to come by.
On day two, however, the pins
were much more accessible, and
it showed early on in Thompson's
round. He promptly birdied holes 10
and 11- his first two of the day - en
route to a three-under 32 total for
his first nine holes. The highlight
came on the demanding par-four
18th hole, when Thompson hit his
long approach shot over the water
to within four feet of the cup. He
easily drained the putt to move to
three-under for the tournament.
From there; his round suddenly
became riddled with missed oppor-
tunities. After narrowly missing
birdie putts on holes one and two,
Thompson took a calculated risk
by attempting to cut the corner on'.
the par-5 third. Instead of driving
it down the fourth fairway like he
planned, he hit a tree branch with
his tee shot, eventually resulting in

a bogey.
"I had so many chances that just
didn't go in," Thompson said. "I hit
it better (than on Thursday), putted
better and got the most I could out
of the round. I just missed a couple
short ones and had a lot of 15 to 20
footersgoing over edges of the cup."
Thompson finished his round
with a respectable two-under 69,
but was five strokes off the pace of
the leaders. He would need a strong
round on Saturday to have a shot at
moving on to Riviera.
"If I do the same things I did
today, I could easily put a 64 or a 65
up on the board. I just have to go out
and do it, make more putts and play
my game," Thompson said.
But on Saturday, Thompson
couldn't replicate Friday's hot start.

two par-fives (holes 11 and 1) and
was two-over par through 10 holes.
Add in the fact that North Caro-
lina State's Albin Choi came into
the clubhouse with a three-under
68 and a 10-under par tournament
total, and Thompson's fate was
sealed. He wouldn't be moving on
to the NCAA Finals.
Thompson finished his round
with two birdies and two bogeys,
carding a two-over 73. His total for
the tournament was an even-par 213
total, good for a tie for 19th place.
"It was a grind all day," Thomp-
son said. "But what can you do? It's
golf- not every day is perfect. I still
had fun."
The reality that this was his last
tournament as a Wolverine wasn'tl
sinking in yet.
"I+1 ' i } c nL n]+1 ,++

put it all into perspective," Thomp-
son said, choked up. "It was a lot
of fun - finishing up on my home
course. Not a lot of people get to
play their last tournament at home,
so that was great."
Thompson finishes the season
with a 72.06 scoring average, sec-
ond only to his own record of 72.00
from the 2009-2010 season. He also
finishes his Michigan career as the
all-time leader in scoring average,
with a mark of 72.79.
He plans on turning professional
in three weeks, at the Michigan
Open.
"I'm going to try to play as much
as I can this summer, then start a
full-time schedule in the beginning
of 2013," Thompson said.
He'll be taking his high socks

$1 off ANY smoothie size
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 062-2430swww.barrybagels.com
L Expires: May 29, 2012

tragedies, the popularity of foot-
ball in the United States has only

Gus Turner is a LSA junior.



Monday, May 21. 2012

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Lions tight end talks college
football Michigan connection
By LIZ NAGLE in baseball - I kind of just did it be the administrator that he was,
Daily Sports Writer because I love playingbaseball. But and I'm just proud of him and real
I neverreallygave it ahundred per- happy for him.
After being traded by the Den- cent in college, so it was always on TMD: Being from Michigan,
ver Broncos in 2010, tight end Tony the back burner. It was something when you came back to play for
Scheffler returned home to Michi- I enjoyed and I loved the change of Detroit, was this ultimately what
gan. pace it brought and different guys you wanted?
Over the years, Scheffler has on the team. It was a lot of fun and TS: Yeah, it just kind of worked
developed local ties to the com- kept me out of trouble in college - I out really awesome. It was a whirl-
munities in and around Detroit had to stay focused. wind when I got traded and I got
through family, friends and work. TMD: At Chelsea High School, rumor that it might be here and
On Saturday, Scheffler was one was your (baseball) coach Wayne it was just really cool. Both sides
of the thousand in attendance, Welton? of my family are from down-river
supporting C.S. Mott Children's TS: One of the best men I've ever area, so just coming back and being
Hospital during the Griese/ been around on and off the field able to play in front of my fam-
Hutchinson/Woodson Champions of play. He's a great, great man - ily every weekend and just being
for Children's Hearts weekend. there's not really words to describe back in the state. I have so many
While perusing the silent auc- him. He's a guy that expected a ties here, and it's awesome to be
tion items, Scheffler talked to the lot out of us in high school, and he back, playing for the Lions and I
Michigan Daily about his ties to his did a fantastic job of raising young get to do stuff like this on a regular
home state and the future of the men at Chelsea. There's just not a basis. And I'm still meeting guys
Lions' upcoming season. lot I can put into words to say - he like George Blaha, Ray Lane and
The Michigan Daily: At West- knows how much I appreciate him. Mark Champion ... guys that I grew
ern Michigan, you were playing And he's had a lot to do with where up listening to on the radio and
both football and baseball - what I'm at today. I'm really happy for watching on TV in the sporting
ultimately led you to choose a him. I know he's super excited to world. Now, I'm kind of rubbing
career in football? be here with (men's baseball coach elbows with them in and around
Tony Scheffler: I was on a Rich Maloney). I'm sure it's one of the state is pretty cool.
football scholarship, so I had to do his dreams come true. I know that TMD: Coming back to the Lions
everything with the football team. he's passed on opportunities like organization, what do the new
So I was always a little bit behind this before to stay at Chelsea and draft picks bring to the table?
TS: It's fun - it's always fun.
This is going on in my seventh year,
USUE Eso I probably have pretty good feel
for what goes on and helping guys
out. It's cool to see, every year, a
new wave of guys come in. Espe-
cially now with the new (Collective
Bargaining Agreement), our ros-
8 7 2 5 ter's expanded and we've got a lot
more undrafted rookies, so there's
9 3 5 a lot of guys out there. It's juts fun
to be a leader out there and help the
1 7 2young guys out. And it's definitely
fun to watch them swim a little bit
the first couple days.
4 2 6 7 TMD: There's still some con-
cern on the Lions' running game -
9what do you see there?
TS: I think if (Mikel Leshoure's)
injury comes along and, obviously,
7 1 (Jahvid Best) is a great running
back and I think we have plenty of
9 6 1 5 weapons in the backfield as long
as we stay healthy. And with our
1 7 offense, we've got so many weap-
ons that we're able to make up for
deficiencies when we get injuries.
5 3 4 It's something that all flows pretty
well, and we're excited. We love
' who we have in the backfield and,
hopefully, we can just stay healthy
back there.

SOF TBALL
Wagner dominates, sets
freshman wins record
By COLLEEN THOMAS tied Taylor with the most wins
Daily Sports Editor as a freshman with 31. Wagner
again went the distance in the
LOUISVILLE, Kent. - And circle, giving up three hits and
you thought Jordan Taylor was one earned run, and put Michigan
dominant. in a good position for a trip to the
Last year, Taylor set the Michi- NCAA Super Regional.
gan softball program record Then she went for win number
for wins and career strikeouts 32. Against the Cardinals on Sun-
and was named to the NFCA day for a trip to the Super Region-
All-American second team. As al on the line, Wagner recorded
a freshman, she set the rookie another dominating performance
record for most wins (31) and in the circle, completing her third
earned Big Ten Freshman of the game in three days, shutting out
Year honors. And now, Taylor is a Louisville while giving up six
member of the US softball nation- hits.
al team. After Saturday's game, Michi-
But the Wolverines may just gan coach Carol Hutchins was
have found a candidate to replace unsure whether or not she'd start
the former star. Wagner in Sunday's matchup, but
Enter Haylie Wagner, the said she would check with Wag-
freshman ace for the Michigan ner to see if Wagner would be
softball team. available for the third game of the
weekend. The freshman lefty had
already pitched 15 innings against
two great offensive teams, and
"I'n going to Hutchins didn't want to risk over-
use of the arm.
play my one- But that's not unusual for Wag-
. ner.
pitch softball ... "In high school I was the only
pitcher and I pitched basically
right now. every game," Wagner said after
the May 12 win against Purdue.
"But coming here it's just been
great, (and) if I have to pitch, I
Wagner, also named Big Ten pitch."
Freshman (and Pitcher) of the So after Sunday's win, Wagner
Year this season, ended the Big wasn't concerned about the tired-
Ten season as the top pitcher in ness of her arm.
the conference in ERA and wins, "(It) feels great," she said. "I
and looked to lead the Wolverines could throw for another game
to a Regional victory. right now. It feels fantastic, (and)
She led them to three. I'm going to take care of it as the
The Orange, Calif. Native days go on."
started in the circle in Michigan's Michigan plays Alabama in
Regional opener against Ken- Tuscaloosa this weekend in the
tucky on Friday afternoon and NCAA Super Regional with a trip
put up stellar numbers. Despite to Oklahoma City for the Women's
surrendering the lead in the top College World Series on the line.
of the seventh - the Wolverines The Crimson Tide are the No. 2
would come back and hit a walk- team in the country and have one
off double to win the game - of the nation's most potent offens-
Wagner gave up just one earned es. The Wolverines need to shut
run and recorded four strike- down Alabama's offense tosecure
outs in seven innings en route to a 10th berth to the WCWS.
her 30th win of the season. And And as for extendingher record
things just got better from there. to33 wins?
Wagner started again on Sat- "If it happens, it happens,"
urday against No. 9 Louisville, Wagner said. "I'm going to play
who she struggled against in the my one-pitch softball and that's
March 10 matchup when she was my mindset right now."
tagged with the loss. But this So look for Wagner to start in
time, she recorded the win and the circle. Again.

"NOTABL E QUOTA BLE
I don't know whether Barack Obama was born in
the United States or not. But I do know this, in his
heart, he's not an American. He's just not an Ameri-
can."
- Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) speaking to supporters on May 17,
as reported by the Huffington Post. He later apologized.
"Tree Town"fun

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
In rover oasis

15

When I came to Michigan three
years ago, I was a very different per-
son. It only took one springterm for
me to figure
out why this
was. It wasn't
entirely due
to the books,
the problem
sets or the
lectures. My
education has
been as much MICHAEL
Ann Arbor SMALLEGAN
as it has been
coursework.
Our school
consistently ranks among the top
learning institutions of the world,
and you might agree that this is in
large part due to the town in which
we live. We're at a school that is
deeply integrated with its sur-
rounding city. Contrast this with
Michigan State, our neighbor on
the banks of the Red Cedar. This
facet provides an opportunity, but
not one that comes in the form of
a class. We have to actively seek it,
and I don'tthink enough of us do.
The real problem here is that
there is no syllabus for exploring
Ann Arbor. So, to whet your appe-
tite while LSA drafts a course in it,
here's my outline:
In the first place, Place. This is
going to take some footwork and
involves leaving the comfortable
confines of residence hallsand
South University bars. Ann Arbor
boasts 157 city parks, not including
Nichols Arboretum, where there's
a line of 10,000 daffodils in bloom
right now. Hunt Park overlooks the
entire city. There will be a quiz on
the sunset from that vantage.
Any rigorous class should draw
from established material, and so
our itinerary will mostly be set
by a pamphlet from 1859 called
"Pleasant Walks and Drives About
Ann Arbor." I recently walked the
path of Drive A, which includes a
"genuine mountain road ... like ...
in Switzerland," and found myself
transported in time. The road
described is now blocked off to cars,

which makes it easier to imagine a
horse and carriage overtaking me
on the switchbacks.
Get your money's
worth and live it
up in Ann Arbor.
The route brings you close to
North Campus where the Bentley
Historical Library, which digitized
that pamphlet, holds 3-D stereo
photographs from the 186Os, just
in case you thought 3-D technol-
ogy was new. This library closes the
first part of the course, from which
we have gained context for what
follows.
Next up is Weirdness, in the
best way possible. Ann Arbor has a
unique voice, and because of that,
it has been heard on the national
stage many times.A character that
is self-evidently representative of
this is Homeless Dave, also known
as Dave Askins, who is the editor of
the Ann Arbor Chronicle and who
interviews people on a teeter totter.
We'll move rapidly through
Food, in which required eating
will be at Mark's Carts. Then we'll
close with Events, for which your
cheat sheet will be the Ann Arbor
Events Calendar.
This course needs no exam.
You're embedded in your location
and are shapedby it no matter what.
This course happens whether or not
you have a syllabus. The only vari-
able is how much you grow from
your surroundings.
If you treat your education as
if it only comes from lectures and
library sessions, you're getting
ripped off. Go get your money's
worth and live it up while you're
still in Tree Town.
Michael Smallegan can be
reached at smallmic@umich.edu.

Despite the fact that Face-
book has evolved tremendously
over the past
eight years, its
primary goal
of connect-
ing people has
never changed.
This social net-
working site is
a mechanism
of communi- MICHAEL
cation among SPAETH
a staggeringly
diverse array of
people. Wheth-
er rich or poor, young or old, cre-
ative or analytical,, introverted or
extroverted, the Facebook com-
munity knows no boundaries.
Introverts gain a unique ben-
efit from Facebook. When it's
used wisely, Facebook can be an
extremely valuable tool to assist
introverts as they try to navigate
challenging social environments.
By using Facebook, introverts can
have frequent or lengthy conversa-
tions with people without suffer-
ing the social anxiety of speaking
with someone face-to-face or even
over the telephone. While Face-
book can't completely replace
face-to-face relationships, it can
help introverts begin the process
of slowly forming meaningful
personal relationships with other
people, step by step.
Among other characteris-
tics, Susan Cain's book, "Quiet,"
describes most introverts as
people who prefer less stimula-
tion, think longer before they act
and think on a deeper level than
their peers. With the exception of
the video chat feature, Facebook
is conducive to these character-
istics. Unlike the immediacy of
social interaction and the stress
that comes with it, introverts can
spend as much time as they want
carefully crafting a wall post or
inbox message. Once those inter-
actions are comfortable, intro-
verts can then use the chat feature
to communicate in real time with
TE

another person while still having
time to think deeply about their
responses and avoid the social
anxiety of being in another per-
son's presence.
The experience of communi-
cating via bodies of text is also
conducive to an introvert's pref-
erence for reduced stimulation
in his or her environment. While
the Facebook website is certainly
stimulating, common character-
istics of social interaction such as
another person's body language,
vocal tone or presence at a party,
are likely to be more engaging
than sitting alone with a laptop
in a quiet house. With a compara-
tively low level of stimulation,
introverts can demonstrate their
true, favorable personalities to
new acquaintances on Facebook, a
feat that might not have occurred
in person due to the introvert's
shyness or social anxiety.
Opinions ofwriters andscholars
conflict about Facebook's effects
on social interactions. In January,
Clay Shirky, a journalism profes-
sor at New York University, told
The New York Times that "Digital
media is an amplifier. It tends to
make extroverts more extroverted
and introverts more introverted."
It's reasonable that once the devel-
opment of a personal relationship
on Facebook reaches the point at
which face-to-face interaction is
the next natural step, introverts
are likely to become more intro-
verted if they only use Facebook
for communication. I'm skeptical,
however, that Facebook makes
introverts more introverted in all
situations, since there have been
multiple cases in which Shirky's
statement isn't true.
In fact, some Internet users
experience an opposite phenom-
enon. They're actually extroverts
when they interact with other
people online. Wael Ghonim, the
creator of a Facebook page that
helped to spawn the uprising in
Egypt last year, describes him-
self as a "real-life introvert yet an

Internet extrovert" in his memoir
called "Revolution 2.0."
Facebook is a
valuable tool for
introverts.
Of course, Facebook shouldn't
completely replace personal inter-
actions. As Jenna Wortham, a
reporter for The New York Times,
has noted, "In many instances,
Facebook and Twitter make us
more curious to meet and chat
with the people we've encoun-
tered online. Knowing them on
the Web isn't enough." Once per-
sonal relationships on Facebook
become strong, attempts at deep
and meaningful communication
via Facebook begin to seem artifi-
cial. One University of California,
Los Angeles study conducted by
Prof. Albert Mehrabian found that
55 percent of human communica-
tion is body language and 38 per-
cent is voice, while only 7 percent
consists of the spoken words. If I
ever want someone to comfort me
during times of struggle, I don't
want to read two lines of a reas-
suring comment on my status.
Instead, I want somebody to sit
next to me, look me in the eye and
say that everything is going to be
fine.
Introverts need to eventually
make the transition to face-to-face
interactions with people if their
personal relationships are going
to be meaningful and long-lasting.
Facebook conversations are a valu-
able first step towards meaning-
ful social relationships with new
people. Yet, these relationships
eventually must extend beyond the
confines of the computer screen.
Michael Spaeth can be
reached at micspa@umich.edu.

JOIN THE MICHIGAN DAILY'S EDITORIAL BOARD
Interested in campus, state and national affairs?
Enjoy writing and debate? Participate in a weekly
meeting to dicuss the Daily's editorials.
E-mail adrirobe@umich.edu for more information.



Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com

Monday, May 21, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily1com

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

Join the Michigan
Sailing Club
and learn to sail this
summer!

Windsurf, canoe, &
kayak too!

michigansai inclub org
RELEASE DATE- Monday, May 21, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Pound of poetry
5 Hourglass trickler
9 Salami and turkey
jerky, e.g.
14 Steak and
hamburger, e.g.
15 Jene sais_
16 'That's plentyfor
me"
17 Chicago
footballer
18Sputnik launcher
19 Girl who says
"Lindle"
20 Add a little gin to
a partydrink, say
23 KGB coanterpart
24 Like poppies and
kittens
25 Game requiring
full 25-square
coverage to win
31 Lao Tzu's"Te
Ching"
32"SmokeGets in
Your Eyes"
composer
Jerome
33 Item in asquirrel's
stash
35Sandwich rolled
in atortilla
37 Fx, asnwom
hrakes
40 Europe's highest
active volcano
41 Leadingthe
league
43 Prefixnwith
-syncrasy
45 Catthegrass
46 Efcint
50 Minnesota's
"crazy" state hird
51 Bubble anaptfilter
52 Front page staple,
and, in away,
what 2-, 25- and
46-Across begin
with
58 Salami type
59 "Dang it!'
60 Lake south of
Niagara Falls
62 Ignoramus
63 "Ouch!"
64 It may lose its
mate inthe
laundry
65"Please, 'ldoh
that'
66 Ch ky behavior
67 Youngster

DOWN 34 "Don't reckon so" 52 Formally tum over
1 Flow back 36 Where to see 53 Military group
2 Puzzle pair? sharks with cues 54 Ellington/
3 Bring in from the 38 Sum up Strayhom's "Take
SeI 39 Denies _ Tramn"
4 Chad'scontinent knowledgeof 55Grandsonof Eve
5 Tight game 42 Divide according 56 City fooled by a
6 Vienna's country: to ownership horse
7Small snack 44 Baby's boo-boo 57Ailing
8 Lead the 4 sBayspiggy" 58 Hodges of the
orchestra 46Rankles Dodger
9 Trifling matter 49Author 61 Squeeze (out), as
10 Cardinal's Hemingway a living
hononfic, after ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
"Your"
11 Words after R E S T E A S Y A C C E DE
gimmeor wait E X PECTTO L E A NE D
1t Jeran .~c o P R 0 6 0 M A N T I L T A T
one: Ahr L E T I N 0 N F I L L E D0
21tPantsey Y DS D UO S SR S
22 Brit's watering C A V i A R F I L S
hole M A R T NE T B O NE S
2oeowlstomes P O N Y I N G H E A R T E N
26 Averse A A T R E S O
27Preiousmetal AVA9T REEDSTOP
2 rLetdoas A G A R OTUE P T L
one's hair PELHAM CABFARE
29"1haven'tadue" P A S S O N C ORAL S E A
30 "... hut theel O NT P E A E
couldbe wrong E
31 Bill featuring STATES ADAMBEDE
Jefferson xwordeditor@aol.com 05/21/12

SUMMER PARKING BEHIND
420 Maynard St. $100/Mo.
Call 734-418-4115 ext.1246
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.
!www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
!!LG. RMS., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For Male. $275/mo. 845-399-9904
2BR 2BATH, NEWLY remodeled top
fr condv Pauline & Stadium fvr rent,
Wood firs & fireplace in living em.,
complex has indoor pool, 2 free prkg
spaces
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
AVAILABLE FALL, 6 bedroom
houses near central and north campus.
Call Michigan Realty at 734-662-5500
or www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR bed-
room duplex in a quiet neighborhood.
Walk to football games and Kroger.
Call Michigan Commecial Realty.
734-662-550.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL.STUDIOS, One
& Twe edrm apartments lectaed
en UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5560.
www.michcomrealty.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
roms fr students, shared kitch., dry,
hark., intecoet, summer from $325, fall
from $480. Call 734-276-0886.
WE HAVE BRAND NEW LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
The 2nd Floor
These apartments have State ofte Art
Kitchens and Buths. Beautiful
furnishings and great views of the
campus and the city.
Your new home has many amenities
just wailing fee yes...
Located right en Central Campus on
South University Ave. Can't get a
better location!!
THE BEST AMENITIES,
BEST SERVICE
AND BEST PRICES!
Call us for a tour today
734-761-2680
Or emui usat
The2ndpleerSU@aelcom

DON'T MISS OUT ON THE BEST
LOCATION ON CAMPUS!
University Towers is right on Central
Campus wirthhe Best amenities, the
Best service and the Best prices!
**LIMITED UNITS AVAILABLE**
Call us for a tour today
734-761-2680
www.UniversityTowers-MI.com
FULLER APARTMENTS
www.800fuller.com (734) 769-7520
2bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

HELP WANTED! LOCAL company
looking for self motivated people to fill
purt time er full time pesitiens. Bene-
fits include flexible schedaling. noe x-
perience required! earn $10-$30 per
hour. Call 616-644-0659 to setup an in-
terview
MICHIGAN HELPS MEDICAL
Team. Web designer needed for non-
profit Medical Mission Team.
734-476-4092
PERSONAL ASSISTANCE
NEEDED We ure leoking fee an Of-
fice Assistant. Duties include greeting
clients, answering phones, and routing
mail, data entry and retrieve, schedul-
ing and calender maintenance ldeal can-
didates will have proven customer ser-
vice skills in an administrative setting
and experience with Microsoft Office
applications email resumes toscot.-
jack909@Tgmuii.com IF INTER-
ESTED

Softball from Page 1A
advantage of rest while the Cardi-
nals had to
play Ken- KENTUCKY 2
tucky in an MICHIGAN 3
elimination
game LOUISVILLE 1
Last MICHIGAN 2
year's stun-
ning loss
to Ken- LOUISVILLE 0
tucky in the MICHIGAN 4
Regional
Final saw a top-20 Michigan team
upset, but this year, the Wolverines
played the role of the underdog
and avenged the previous season's
early exit.
Hutchins doesn't believe that's
the case though.

"I don't even think about last
year," Hutchins said. "I'm all about
2012 and I'm all about the next
game and the next pitch."
Wagner - pitching her third
game in as many days - endured
the hot weather to pick up her
32nd win. She went the distance,
allowing just five hits and one
walk.
Wagner's defense, however,
recorded three double plays to save
her from some tight situations,
"Louisville definitely came out
swinging and they had already
seen me," Wagner said.
The Wolverines got on the board
in the first inning, working pitch
counts from Louisville starter Tori
Collins, who struggled with her
control.

"It's smart on their part because
I wasn't finding the strike zone,"
Collins said.
Michigan began with a walk to
sophomore left-fielder Nicole Sap-
pingfield and a single by Chidester,
before Sara Driesenga was walked
to load the bases. Junior second-
baseman Ashley Lane slapped a
single to score both Sappingfield
and Chidester for a 2-0 lead.
The Wolverines would tack on
another run in the second inning,
this time off of Louisville pitcher
Caralisa Connel, who came in for
relief of Collins. Sophomore right-
fielder Lyndsay Doyle started the
inning with a leadoff single and
advanced to second on a sacrifice
bunt and then to third on a pop
out. Driesenga hit a single to score

SEEKING PROGRAM Manager
We are hiring a new Program Manager
to continue our not-for-profit College
Prep program in Hamtramck, Michi-
gan. Candidate must he knowledge-
ahle ahout the ACT test, college uppli-
cation process, and be able to recruit
and manage student volunteers. See ad-
ditional program details at: http://ascot-
tfoundation.org/Hamtramck/overview.-
html
Send inquiries & resume to:
ascottfoundation@gmail.com
734-846-3436
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE
organization, format. All disciplines.
25 years' U-M experience.
734-996-0566 or www.writeona2.com

Michigan's season ends after series loss to Nebraska

Doyle and reach base for her 31st
consecutive time this season.
Leading off the fourth inning,
Evans extended her hitting streak
to 13 games this season - the lon-
gest streak by any Michigan player
this season. She would move to
second on a Sappingfield ground-
out before Chidester recorded her
199th career RBI with a single.
Louisville would attempt a
comeback in the seventh inning
with back-to-back singles, on hits
by Alicja Wolny and Jordan Trim-
ble, though it would fall short after
Wagner closed out the inning.
"We wanted to come out and
attack them," Chidester said. "I
thought that our energy level right
from the start was great. We exe-
cuted our game plan perfectly and

it worked to our advantage."
Michigan will take on Alabama
next in a Super Regional matchup
in Tuscaloosa, Ala. The Crim-
son Tide are ranked second in the
country and won three straight
games to advance in their region.
"They're going to need good
momentum going into Alabama,"
said Louisville coach Sandy Pears-
all on Michigan's upcoming series.
"They are going to have a tough
Super Regional, but if they can do
some of the things they did this
weekend then I think they're in the
top four of the bracket."
But the Wolverines - now on a
nine-game winning streak - won't
be thinking about the College
World Series. They'll be thinking
about the first pitch on Friday.

H,.-,OK

By LIZ NAGLE Nebraska right-hander Ryan
Daily Sports Writer Hander gave up two consecutive
walks, before sophomore first
Saturday marked the end of baseman Brett Winger doubled to
the Michigan baseball season. right-center field, knocking in a
Though the farewell was bitter in pair of runs.
a rubber-match loss to Nebraska, "We just got timely hits," said
there was a semi-sweet aftertaste, sophomore right-fielder Michael
like a reminder that the weekend's O'Neill. "Our pithing obviously
series wasn't as disappointing asit held a little better on Friday than
may seem. on Thursday."
On Fri- NEBRASKA 15 In the series opener on Thurs-
day, senior MICHIGAN 2 day, the bullpen littered the
right-hander scoreboard, allowing the Corn-
Brandon Sin- huskers to score 15 runs off of 20
nery pitched NEBRASKA 5 hits. Freshman right-hander Matt
a full game MICHIGAN 6 Ogden saw the first start of his
to become rookie campaign, but had a prob-
just the sixth NEBRASKA 7 lem finding the strike zone, giving
Wolverine to MICHIGAN 3 up three walks in the first inning.
pitch more Nebraska's damage was deep
than 100 innings in a single sea- with its entire starting lineup
son. He earned the 6-5 win, giving posting at least one hit, led by cen-
up runs in just two innings. ter-fielder Rich Sanguinetti, who
"Everyone wanted to rally went 4-for-5 with four RBIs and
around Brandon because it was his three runs.
last start," said senior third base- A triplet of pitchers was yanked
man John Lorenz. "It was great from the mound and too many
that we could help him out, and it balls ended up in the dirt. Michi-
was a great way to end his career." gan coach Rich Maloney was
But the Cornhuskers (14-10 Big running out of options and sent
Ten, 34-21 overall) attacked the redshirt junior right-hander Chad
plate in the fourth frame. Third Jasman into relief and sophomore
baseman Josh Scheffert singled to catcher Cole Martin behind the
left field and advanced on the next plate.
two outs before stealing home and Putting in Martin was an easy
posting the first run on the board. choice since Maloney saw him
With runners on the corners, as a better defender all year, but
second baseman Pat Kelly cleared it seemed like a risky decision
the bases, sending a bomb to left using Jasman on the mound since
field and propelling a4-0 lead over he came in with a total of three
Michigan (8-16, 22-34). But that innings of work this season.
was the last of Sinnery's troubles, The poor defensive delivery
and the Wolverines came back in gave up the last four runs, and the
the bottom with a bit of luck. Wolverines had minimal hit pro-

duction to factor in.
"You don't feel good about it,
that's for certain," Maloney said.
"We had expectations for more....
We struggled in a lot of facets of
the game, not just one."
Though Michigan came back
with Sinnery's win, Nebraska
spoiled the high spirits in Satur-
day's rubber match. Players left
the field buried under defeat - the
season finale was anything but
grand.
"I don't feel like it's over yet -
I know it will hit me eventually,"
Lorenz said. "But seeing all the
other seniors and other families
and how emotional everyone's
getting, it's kind of depressing."
Junior right-hander Ben Bal-
lantine started the final contest,
and his performance was promis-
ing. But a string of four hurlers in
the eighth inning alone allowed
Nebraska to rally a win.
Though Michigan was left
scoreless through six frames, it
took a narrow lead in the seventh.
With two outs, freshman short-
stop Dylan Delaney struck out
swinging, but reached first base
on a wild pitch and advanced on
junior center-fielder Patrick Bion-
di's single to center field.
For the first time all season,
Lorenz was stuck in the two-hole.
But good things came from the
change in the batting order - he
tripled to tie the game at two.
"He's a good hit and run guy,"
Maloney said. "I just didn't do it
earlier in the year, but I said give
him some more at-bats, it's his
senior weekend."
Following Lorenz, O'Neill dou-

Senior Coley Crank played his final series ina Michigan uniform this weekend

1 2 3
14
17
20
25 26
31
35
41
46
52 53
56
62
65
By Jeff Chen

7 s 10 11 12 13
15 16
121 5 6
18 22 19
023 24
6 27 28 29 30 1] 32 33 34
36 37 38 39 40
42 43 44 45
47 48 49
50 51
3 54 55 56 57
59 60 61
63 64
66 67
mne Media Services, Inc. 05121/12

bled down the left-field line, tack-
ing on the leading run. He closed
the season with the team-high
batting average at .329. Though
he missed a large chunk of con-
ference play due to injury, he still
notched 30 RBIs and six home
runs.
The slim difference turned to
Nebraska's favor with the quad of
pitchers that suffered two costly
innings en route to the 7-3 loss and

Things didn't work out the way
Maloney had planned. The Wol-
verines were fairly optimistic at
the start of the season, coining
their motto "Flip It" in regards
their last place Big Ten finish in
2011.
"If you just mix a few parts in,
it can change quickly," Maloney
said. "We really believe we've got
a good young nucleus here.... We'll
have an opportunity to make big

99.5% ISU RANCEJ$ ACCEPTED
AND
GUT OF} TATSE REFILP
1112 SGuth Uni versity Avenue
Ann Arbor, M 48104 (734) 663-553

(c)2012 Tribu





