

Monday, August 13, 2012
I The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Athlete's Foot Driving you Crazy?
You may be eligible to participate in
our latest research study.
David Fivenson, MD, PLC is currently recruiting people with Athlete's Foot to
participate in a research study. This study will compare an investigational cream
to an already approved cream.
You may be able to participate if you are:
- 18 years of age or older
- Have a confirmed diagnosis of Athlete's Foot

Ann Arbor, MI

UNE-HUINDUIE-T W EN T Y T WO YEARSU FEDUITORIAL FREEDUM

Weekly Summer Edition

Monday Auirust13.2012

Study participants will receive:
,. Study drug or placebo
Physical exam and lab testing
Up to $75.00 for participating

For More Information Call:
734-222-9630

Elections galore
An integrated piece com-
posed of three separate arti-
cles regarding the primary.
> SEE PAGE 3
Behind the facade
Vanessa Rychlinski delves
into why Detroit is more
than meets the eye.
> SEE PAGE 4
'Celeste and Jesse
Forever' maybe?
True take on age-old story of
love and loss.
>>SEE PAGE 7
SPORTS
Closing ceremony,
Wolverine style
Updates on Michigan ath-
letes at Olympics end.
> SEE PAGE 9
Vl CX I, 152 2012TheMichiganDaily
NEW S ............................... 2
OPINION ...............................4
CLASSIFIEDS...................6
CROSSWORD......................6
A RTS... .................. ..............7
SPORTS'............................ 9

White
Market to
close after
80 years
Rent rises, becomes
too much for A2
staple
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Managing Editor
After nearly 80 years of serving
Ann Arbor residents, White Mar-
ket, a neighborhood grocer on East
William Street, is
planning to close A4.i
on Aug. 25. .
LasE fall, the 
arrival of a new
landlord caused ____
speculation that
White Market would close. But
now, Dave Jones, the store's owner
since 1984,wasbluntinhisexplana-
tion for the store's exit.
"Money," he said. "We were talk-
ing thousands of dollars a month
more that (the new tenant is) pay-
ing."
Jones said the new tenant, a res-
taurant, will be able to pay more in
rent than White Market can, adding
that the landlord, Costas Boutsi-
kakis, made the decision based on
rent.
But Jones said the expulsion
of White Market wasn't because
the store was unprofitable. He
explained that CVS initially took
See WHITE MARKET, Page 6

Mitt Romney speaks at Ford Field in late February.
Barracuda Labs investigates
Romney's Twitter followers

Cause potentially
a hired service
that creates fake
accounts for money
By ERIC GABBARD
Daily StaffReporter
Presumptive Republican pres-
idential candidate Mitt Romney
is facing scrutiny after a study
conducted by Barracuda Labs, a
digital security company, high-
lighted an "abnormal increase"
in the number of his followers on

Twitter.
Barracuda Labs is the global
"research and threat analysis
team" of Barracuda Networks,
an IT security company based in
Campbell, Calif., with a branch
office located in Ann Arbor.
Published on Aug. 3, the study,
called "The Twitter Under-
ground Economy: A Blooming
Business," analyzed the growing
market for fake profiles on the
social networking site.
Mary Catherine Petermann,
director of corporate communi-
cations for Barracuda Networks,
said the company's researchers

have been looking into social
networking usage and threats
for the past few years.
"About six months ago, we
conducted a study into the fake
accounts on Facebook - and
then just last week, Facebook
said in its SEC filing that it has
approximately 83 million fake
accounts registered as users,"
Petermann said. "This week, we
extended that look into Twitter
and found some very interesting
results."
Researchers at Barracuda Labs
created three Twitter accounts
See TWITTER, Page 2


Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Study recognizes 'U' as a great place to work

Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

11.

Chronicle Editor:
purpose of list is to
understand college
work atmosphere
By KATIE BURKE
Daily Staff Reporter
There is more to a school than
its students, and the University
proved this week that it continues
to have a strong focus on its own
workforce.
The University was recognized
last Monday in the Chronicle of
Higher Education's 2012 Great
Colleges to Work For list, appear-
ing on the publication's Honor
Roll and recognized in nine of the
12 workplace categories.
Laurita Thomas, the Univer-
sity's associate vice president for
human resources, wrote in an
e-mail to The Michigan Daily that
creating a strong environment for

faculty is an area of major impor-
tance to the University and added
that the opinions of its staff are
given attention.
"We take pride in building a
workplace that fosters collabo-
ration, a strong sense of job sat-
isfaction and proper work/life
balance," Thomas wrote. "We
know from talking with faculty
and staff that our overall envi-
ronment and benefits package has
made a real difference in recruit-
ment and retention."
The Chronicle's study has been
published annually for five years,
and the University has been
named on its list each year.
This year, the University was
listed in categories that include
compensation and benefits, job
satisfaction and teaching envi-
ronment.
The University did not appear
in the categories for diversity,
professional/career-development
programs and supervisor or
department-chair relationship.

Thomas wrote that the specific
nature of the categories the Uni-
versity was not listed under gives
the University an idea of areas
that require attention.
"The Great Colleges to Work
For recognition helps us know
our strengths and what areas we
could explore to improve," Thom-
as wrote.
Chronicle Editor Liz McMillen
said the publication worked with
the consulting firm ModernThink
LLC to conduct a survey among
employees of large four-year
institutions. The final compila-
tion is not a ranking, but shows
the schools with the most positive
responses.
McMillen said the list began
as a way to better grasp the type
of working environment colleges
can provide.
"We're trying to understand
the academic workplace and what
some of the main features are
according to the employees that
work there," McMillen said.

McMillen said the reaction
from the academic community to
the list in past years has generally
been positive.
"(The list) is based on a survey,
a representative sample of people
from a particular institution,"
McMillen said. "And I'm sure
there's always somebody who
might disagree, but in general
institutions like the recognition."
Richard Boyer, principal and
managing partner of Modern-
Think, said in a University press
release that the merit of an insti-
tution's working environment is
tried in a slow economy, and the
listed schools have demonstrated
durability in that area.
"It's easier to be .a great work-
place during good times, but it's
when times are tough that com-
mitment to workplace quality
really gets tested," Boyer said in
the release. "Those institutions
that measure, up during times
of economic hardship reinforce
their already strong cultures."

420 Haynsedat.
AnArbor, HI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JACOB AXEIRAD MERYLKHULTENG
Editor in Chief Business Manager
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom s of.iceham
734-73-2454sopti
NewsTips news mfcigandaity.com
Corrections correctionsmigigandaily.com
letters to the Editor tted ymicigndaiyco
Photo Department photo michigandaiycom
ArtsSecton me ichgand'"iyco
SEorts ect ion speors@micigandilycomn
Advertising Ph e:734-7s6a-05
Department ispay@mfesienandaiy.com
Classifieds Phone 734.764-0557
Department cassized@michigandaily.com

Bottom atop newly combined swimming programs

Programs combine
with plans to make
investment in
Canham Natatorium
By COLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Editor
After longtime women's swim-
ming and diving coach Jim Rich-
ardson announced his retirement
in May, Michigan athletic director
Dave Brandon had a tough task to
find Richardson's replacement.
But on Friday, Brandon found
his replacement.
Men's swimming and div-
ing coach Mike Bottom was
announced as the new head

coach of the women's program,
an announcement that effectively
combines the men's and the wom-
en's programs under Bottom.
"I can think of no better per-
son to lead our swimming and
diving programs than Mike Bot-
tom," Brandon said in a statement
released by the athletic depart-
ment on Friday. "Mike brings a
wealth of experience at the colle-
giate, international and Olympic
level. He has led our men's pro-
gram to a championship level and
will work to return our women's
program to that same level. Our
aquatic programs have a rich his-
tory and tradition at all levels and
high expectations will continue
under Mike's leadership.
"This announcement is the
beginning of a substantial com-

mitment to our swimming and
diving programs," Brandon added.
"We plan to make a .significant
investment at Canham Natato-
rium in the near future. It's the
right time to combine our pro-
grams and to utilize Mike's talents
for the benefit of Michigan Swim-
ming and Diving."
Bottom led the men's program
to the Big Ten team title last year,
and has coached many Michi-
gan Olympians, including Tyler.
Clary - who won the men's.200m
backstroke in London- and Con-
nor Jaeger - who will return to
Michigan for his junior year after
placingf6th in the 1,500m freestyle
in London.
Bottom is also the three-time
Big Ten Coach of the Year on the
men's side in addition to coaching

the Serbian National swim team
in London for the 2012 Olympic
Games.
"I can think of
no better person
... than Mike
Bottom."
His accolades, both on a col-
legiate and international level,
include coaching Olympic medal-
ists and 19 swimmers to national
titles.
"This is really a great opportu-

nity and advantage for both of our
programs and the student-athletes
should be the ultimate beneficia-
ry," Bottom said in the statement.
"We will have the opportunity to
add excellent coaches to our cur-
rent staff. We can combine the
administrative work that has been
done by both the men's and wom-
en's staffs and allow the coaches
to focus more on the training,
coaching and mentoring of the
student-athletes. The future looks
bright for the men and women
associated with Michigan Swim-
ming and Diving."
And after coaching the men's
team at Michigan - a position
he has held for four seasons - he
will be the new face of the entire
Wolverine swimming and diving
program.

EDITORIAL STAFF
GiacominBologna
gboloknaemichigndaily.com

ManagingEditor


TWITTER
From Page 1A
in May 2012, at the beginning of
the study. In approximately three
months' time, the researchers
purchased some 20,000 to 70,000
"followers" for each of the three
accounts.

Researchers found that followers
could be bought from sites as com-
monly used as eBaycom. The study
cites that the fake followers were
bought from 20 different eBay sell-
ers and 58 websites of 100 results
returned from a Google search of
"buytwitter followers."
From the study's data, research-
ers calculated that the average

Affordable Student
Co-op Housing
2. 4 and 8 Month Contracts
on North and Central Campus
All utilities, High-speed Internet
Homemade Meals
Shared Work, Shared Fun
Leadership opportunities
44 Single/Double rooms
~ Parking available
WWW.ICC.COOP (P)INFO@ICC.COOP
The Inter-Cooperative Council
337 E. William St., Ann Arbor, Ml 48104
Phone: (734) 662-4414 (ext.100)

price for 1,000 "followers" is
approximately $18.
With only a Twitter user-
name required to purchase phony
accounts, and considering that
"dealers" - as Barracuda refers
to the sellers of bogus followers
- can control as many as 150,000
accounts, it is easy to see how this
business is a growing one.
The report also examined a
recent and oddly large spike in
the number of followers of Rom-
ney's Twitter account, @Mit-
tRomney.
In a single day, July 21, 2012,
the number of Romney's followers
increased from 673,002 to 789,924
- an increase of 116,922 followers
or approximately 17 percent in one
day.
140elect.com, a website that
provides metrics of tweets rel-
evant to the 2012 election, reports
that in the month prior to the
spike, Romney gained an average
of approximately 3,000 to 4,000
followers per day.
Barracuda Labs analyzed
152,966 of Romney's followers
that began following between
July 21-26. The analysis high-
lighted that 25 percent of the
examined followers were less
than three weeks old and 80 per-
cent were less than three months
old.
The study also concluded that
almost one quarter of the same

followers had no tweets at all and
that Twitter had suspended 10
percent of the accounts.
Jason Ding, the report's author,
said the research team has reason
to believe that most of Romney's
recent followers are "not from a
general Twitter population," and
most likely resulted from a paid
Twitter service.
Because authentication is not
necessary to purchase Twitter
accounts, Ding also cautioned that
it isn't possible for the researchers
to identify the exact source of the
followers with the information
they were provided. -
"It is possible for anyone to buy
followers for other Twitter users,"
Ding remarked. "So far, there is
not a feasible way to confirm who
is responsible."
The report noted that it's also
unclear as to whether Romney's
supporters, his rivals or Romney
himself have paid for some of his
Twitter account's latest follow-
ers.
Zac Moffatt, the digital direc-
tor for Romney's campaign, has
"rejected accusations" that the
campaign was purchasing follow-
ers for Romney's Twitter account,
according to BuzzFeed.com.
CORRECTIONS:
" Please report any error in
the Daily to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

Kendra Furry
copydeskmichigadaly.com

opyC chief

Anna Rozenberg sMaagngNesEdiator
annaroze3.,ichiandiy.co.,
Adrienne Rsberts Editoilieage Eitor
adrirobe@michigadaily.com,
Sarah Skaluba, Micae aet
tole Thomas MnagingseportssEitor
colom,@'ichigandaily ci,,.
ArSnaassaya MaaigCrtsEditor
asad oihgndaicom ~i i
Terra Molengraff 5ManagingiPhoo Eitor
photo,9michigandaily.com,
Alicia Kosalchecd Mnaging DeignEdiitor
design@michiandaily.com.

A2 Council denies parkland amendment As University of Michigan A/umni,
We've been supporting the-
Members rejoined Some feared that Fuller Park Advisory Commission deliberated UM Community since 1939..
land could be leased as part of on whether or not to recommend
after primary to the new train station - prospec- the ballot iniative. The commission
tively on Fuller Road - that Coun- unanimously decided to recom-
hold usual meeting cil accepted federal funding to mend its opposition. ByAppointment
research in June, according to the Though the resolution was spon- 3041/2 S. STATE ST.
By STEVE ZOSKI Chronicle. sored by Mike Anglin (D-Ward 5), AboveBens &Jerry's
Daily News Editor In reference to the alleged Jane Lumm (I=Ward 2) and Sabra 734 668 9329
"loophole," Christopher Taylor Briere (D-Ward 1), Briere intro-
At Thursday night's City Coun- (D-Ward 3) said the resolution had duced a more specific amendment
cil meeting - which occurred on "unintended" but "likely unknow- to the resolution approvingthebal- WWWDASCOLABARBERS.COM
a Thursday, rather than a Monday able consequences" and added that lot proposal. Briere's amendment WALK-INS WELCOME!
due to last Tuesday's primary elec- voters had already decided they was also supported by Stephen
tion - campaigning was set aside didn't need the extra lease clause. Kunselman (D-Ward 3).*.
and several issues were discussed, "Aside from the fact that the Later in the meeting, Briere
despite the potential post-election word 'sale' could not be more plain, didn't vote for the resolution she
awkwardness such as Tony Derez- and that voters are presuming to sponsored. Rather, Anglin, Lumm,
inski (D-Ward 2) - who lost Tues- regret the ballot measures that Kunselman and Marcia Higgins
day - sitting next to Jane Lumm they passed, I learned yesterday at (D-Ward 4) voted in favor of it,
(I-Ward 2) - who endorsed his the (Park Advisory Commission's) only to see the resolution rejected. 7 9 4 6 3
opponent. meeting that Council specifically Mayor John Hieftje said he
Much of the meeting's discussion removed the word 'lease' from the couldn't support the ballot -ini- 8 6
focused on the approval of a resolu- ballot measure that went before tiative, adding that the public
tion that would have puta question voters in 2008," Taylor said. expressed that they like the Fuller 3 2
on the November ballot asking Ann Taylor added that he thought Road Station idea. Hieftje said
Arbor voters whether or not they people were wrong to claim they Fuller can always be its own ballot
would like to change how parkland had always intended there to be a proposal, rather than having to fix 1 4 7
in the city is protected. lease clause in the 2008 legislation. the "loophole."
The ballot initiative, if approved "In light of this specific and "I have no doubt that if the tim-
by voters, intended to make it so no intentional deletion of 'lease' from ing is right, that if that's taken to
parkland could be sold or leased for the 2008 ballot language, the con- the voters, if it's a fully developed
any long-term, non-recreational tinued assertion that 'lease' was proposal ... that the voters will
use, without voter approval. part of the initiative's intent is ... approve that," Hieftje said.
In2008,AnnArborvoterspassed demonstrably false," Taylor said. Additionally at the meeting, 6
a similar initiative by an 81-percent "It may be a good idea, this may be Council approved a resolution
to 19-percent margin, which speci- a bad idea, but to suggest that oppo- to designate the property at 317
fied that parkland could not be sold sition to the proposal contrary to Maynard Street as an Ann Arbor
withoutvoter approval. the demonstrated will of the peo- Industiral Development District. 5 .9 6 8 2,4
According to the Ann Arbor ple as evidenced by the 2008 reso- This designation allows for the
Chronicle, because the word lotion is, I believe, patently false." location's likely tenant, Baracudda
"lease" was not specified in the Discussion of the issue had been Networks, to begin a process of E
2008 amendment, some Ann Arbor delayed from a July 16 City Council qualifying for reduced taxes by the
residents said a "loophole" existed. meeting. On Aug. 8, the city's Park's city.


BUSINESSSTAFF
BrettBergy SalesManager
Joe Crim Classifed'sAccount Eecutive
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is
published Monday through Friday during
he fall and ainie terns hy students at the
Uiversiiy nf Michigan. One copyyis availahie
free of charge to all readers. Additional
copies may be picked up at the Daily's office
for $2. Suhscripiions fun tall ten, staniing
SSeptember, siaU.S. mail are $ s10. Winter
term January through April is $115, yearlong
(September through April) is $195. University
affiliates aresubject toa reduced subscription
rate. 0n-cabpsi bsciytions for fall ene
are $35. Suhscriytions nusi he yrepaid. The
Michigan Daily is a member of The/Associated
Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.




Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

13

Michigan coach Brady Hoke addresses the media at Michigan Media Day on Sunday.

MICG A N M[ED IA D AY
Players,.coaches excited
for upcoming season

Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich,) celebrates the next step in his journey to his 29th term in Congress.
Senate, Congress and city ele

Primary election
exciting despite low
voter turnout
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN,
ADAM RUBENFIRE and
STEVE ZOSKI
Editorin ChiefandDailyNewsEditors

Precinct 4-1 ha
while 3-2 had cc
In an inter
Jacqueline Bear
elections during
to have lower st
outs.
"Obviously w
that the predo
precincts have
in August," Be.

Senior Denard Robinson believes he can beat Usain Bolt ina 40-yard dash.

By LUKE PASCH on Monday.
DailySportsEditor "The guys, as teammates, we
love them," Hoke said. "But there's
At Michigan football's Media Day consequences for their behavior.
on Sunday morning, second-year They're paying a price, and they
coach Brady Hoke wasted little time will continue to pay that price for a
in addressing the elephant in the little bit.
room - that he still has not decided "I haven't made any of that (deci-
whether redshirt junior running sion regarding their eligibility), and
back Fitzgerald Toussaint will play I won't make that decision for a
in the season opener against Ala- while."
bama in light of his recent Driving Should Toussaint be forced to sit
Under the Influence offense. out against Alabama, sophomore
Reporters left the room frus- Thomas Rawls is widely expected
trated again, though, as Hoke's to be the starter in the backfield,
only update on the situation is that and the coaches continued to sing
Toussaint and sophomore defensive his praise on Sunday.
end Frank Clark, who has been sus- "First of all, a lot of people don't
pended on home invasion charges, realize he's real fast," said running
will begin practicing with the team backs coach Fred Jackson of Rawls.
T eVlae 0 i e a
99.5% F INSU ANC4E IS AC
AND
OUT OF-STA E PR RtPINS
1112 South Uniersity Avenue
Ann Arbor, M 48104 ('34) 663-551

"I saw the kid in high school run a
10.6 (second)100 meters. So the kid
is real fast, but he's powerful. And
he knows that when he's got a shal-
low cut to go through a guy, he'll do
it. But he's also got enough 'wiggle'
in him to make the guy miss and
go."
Senior running back Vincent
Smith will also likely see snaps from
the backfield, and his veteran pres-
ence there should help fill the void if
Toussaint misses any game action.
ROUNDTREE PATCHED UP:
SeniorwidereceiverRoyRoundtree
underwent arthroscopic surgery on
Friday to remove cartilage in his
knee. The surgery was considered
a success, and he is expected to
return to practice in two weeks.
Roundtree is the veteran leader
of a receiving corps that severely
lacks depth following the depar-
tures of Junior Hemingway, Darryl
Stonum and Martavious Odoms.
With the role in mind, he continues
to be a presence even as he recovers
from surgery.
"Roy is great," said wide receiv-
ers coach Jeff Hecklinski. "He's
out there helping, he's in meetings
helping. He's great. Like I said, the
expectations are for the position,
and when you're in Roy's position,
you're expected to help."

To potentially help shore up
depth issues at receiver, it is well
known that junior quarterback
Devin Gardner has been occasion-
ally lining up on the outside for
snaps in practice. But coaches and
players remained hush on Sunday
regarding the decision to actually
line up Gardner at receiver come
gameday.
"I think Devin will do whatever's
best for the team," Hecklinski said.
"I think (offensive coordinator Al
Borges) and coach Hoke have to sit
down and say, 'Okay, this is what
we're going to do,' and that hasn't
taken place yet."
Added Gardner: "They haven't
expressed to me how much I'm
going to play there. I'm just trying
to get reps whenever I'm not play-
ing quarterback right now, and
they haven't said much. I guess it's
a secret for you guys - it's a secret
for me, too."
CARTER WALKS: Hoke
announced Sunday that redshirt
freshman defensive back Tamani
Carter has decided to leave the pro-
gram, but he did not disclose any
particular reason.
"Tamani Carter has decided to
leave Michigan," Hoke said. "He's
a great, young man, a tremendous
kid. But he decided to leave, and I'll

leave it at that."
The Pickerington, Ohio native
was actually Hoke's first commit
at Michigan, decommitting from
Minnesota and deciding to become
a Wolverine just nine days after
Hoke took the job back in January
2011.
Carter was not likely to see play-
ing time this year, as he is very low
on the depth chart in the secondary.
SHOELACE VERSUS BOLT:
When senior quarterback Denard
Robinson watched Usain Bolt
defend his gold in the tOO-meter
and 200-meter races in the London
Olympics, he was both a fan and a
critic.
In high school, Robinson clocked
a 10.4-second 100-meter, which
wouldn't come close to touching
Bolt's 9.6-second Olympic record.
But Michigan's quarterbacknoted
that Bolt was a little slow getting off
the blocks in his races last week.
"I think I'd get Usain Bolt in the
40-yard dash," Robinson said. "I
watched his start the other day, and
I think I'd get him in the 40. See, the
(60-yard dash), I don't know about
that. He'd probably start pulling
away from me."
Butmaybe ifBoltuntiedhisshoe-
laces, Robinson would actuallyhave
a chance.

Last Tuesday, when ballots of the students
for the primary election were summer."
being cast across polling stations Working att
throughout Ann Arbor, it was cinct 1-2 was A
clear it wasn't a typical August Carol Simmons
day- along State Street there Simmons, wI
were cars with special "election book alongside
day" parking passes, rooms in the her co-workers
Union full of poll workers and a no one came to
plethora of political signs. uted the lack of
Voters made decisions in sev- vacation.
eral primary races which chose "I don't thi
the Democratic and Republican matter of peop
candidates for the new 12th con- just that nobo
gressional district, the Repub- mons added.
lican Senate candidate to face
Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) in U.S. Senate
the fall, and the Ann Arbor City
Council Democrats to likely face PONTIAC -
little to no Republican opposition former U.S. con
in November. ed Clark Duran
At the Union, registered vot- and Randy H
ers from student-heavy precincts Rapids in Mich
such as 1-2, 4-1 and 1-1 could vote, primary electio
and as of 3:30 p.m., zero votes had Winning by
been counted at Precinct 1-2, four according toi
votes had been counted at Pre- Hoekstra will
cinct 4-1 and nine votes had been bent Sen. Debt
counted at Precinct 1-1. Mich.) in Nove:
At the end of the day precinct Hoekstra tE
1-1 had counted 15 ballots. porters for helt
Precinct 1-2 had counted 4 votes. pledged that

d counted 8 ballots
ounted 59 ballots.
view, City Clerk
udry said primary
ithe summer tend
>tudent voter turn-
we see historically
minantly student
a lower turnout
audry said. "A lot
are away for the
the polls for Pre-
nn Arbor resident
.
ho had a hardcover
her, said she and
waited all day, but
vote. She attrib-
voters to summer
nk that it's just a
le not voting; it's
ody's here," Sim-
Pete Hoekstra, a
gressman, defeat-
it of Grosse Pointe
ekman of Grand
igan's Republican
n for U.S. Senate.
about 20 percent
unofficial results,
now face incum-
bie Stabenow (D-
mber.
hanked his sup-
ping him win, and
Republicans will

take back the
come November
Durant is a
"rebel with a
his toss, he tole
believed Hoekst:
benow's senate:s
ber.
Rob Steele, af
professor and a
didate for the U
of Regents, also
ante at Hoekstr
"I think it's gi
close election,a
the information
now's record, it
said. "She's beer
the past."
U.S. Congres
U.S. Rep. Ji
Mich.) is one st
ning his 29thc
Congress, after
the first primar
faced in a decad
Dingell's dist
following the2
he's now runnin
new 12th cong
which includes
lanti, Dearborn
southern Wayne
Dingell, 86,
to the House i
longest-serving
In November
Cynthia Kallgr
Republican nom
When asked
tory in an int

speech, Dingell said, "Well, it
feels great." He added that the
campaign for the fall would have
a wide focus.
"It's always been my job to see
to it that we run a clean, vigor-
ous campaign in this district that
helps all of our Democrats," Ding-
ell said. "We will be very busy
getting ready to run that kind of
campaign. We're going to be talk-
ing about jobs, the economy, eco-
nomic opportunity and building
and rebuilding Michigan's eco-
nomic success."
And while he lost in a land-
slide, Dingell's challenger Daniel
Marcin, who's studying for his
Ph.D. in economics at the Uni-
versity, could be pleased with the
result. In an interview before the
votes were counted, Marcin said
he'd be happy if he garnered 15 to
20 percent of the vote.
PATRICK BARRON/Daly Though he spent more than
$12,000 of his own money on
the losing effort, Marcin said he
Ction11s didn't regret running.
"pu about one semester of
University of Michigan tuition
U.S. government into this race," he quipped.
r. Marcin said he made policy the
self-proclaimed focus of his campaign, and one of
cause." Despite the issues he focused on was the
d the AP that he legalization of same-sex mar-
tra will clinch Sta- riage.
eat come Novem- Marcin claimed his pres-
sure on Dingell contributed to
former University him changing his mind on that
Republican can- issue, but Dingell said his views
Jniversity's Board had undergone "evolution and
made an appear- change," explaining that the
a's party. Defense of Marriage Act "raised
oing to be a tough, constitutional questions" and
and if we can get was "hurting a lot of people in
n out on Stabe- ways that I found improper."
's critical," Steele Citing strong disagreements
n tough to beat in with Dingell over over economic
and environmental policy, Mar-
tin said he had no plans, as of
ss,12th District now, to work on Dingell's fall
campaign. He added that he also
ohn Dingell (D- wasn't thinking about running
ep closer to win- for another office anytime soon.
complete term in "I'm going to write a disserta-
handily defeating tion now," Marcin said
y challenger he's
e. City Council
rict was redrawn
2010 census, and Two Democratic spots were
g to represent the open to newcomers because
ressional district, Councilmembers Sandi Smith
Ann Arbor, Ypsi- (D-Ward 1) and Carsten Hohnke
and other parts of (D-Ward 5) decided not to seek
e County. re-election.
was first elected By defeating Eric Sturgis last
n 1955 and is its night, Sumi Kailasapathy will
member. have a chance to run for Smith's"
, Dingell will face vacant seat as a Democrat in the
en, who won the fall. She won with 863votes, total-
iination. ing 57.69 percent, to his 628 votes,
about his vic- totaling 41.98 percent, accord-
erview after his ing to unofficial results from the

Washtenaw County Clerk's office
as of 1:35 a.m.
Hohnke's seat was won by
Chuck Warpehoski, who defeated
Vivienne Armentrout. He had
1,709 votes, totaling 56.33 per-
cent, while she had 1,320 votes,
totaling 43.51 percent.
Christopher Taylor (D-Ward
3) had no challenger in the pri-
mary.
In Ward 2, Tony Derezinski
(D-Ward 2) lost to Sally Hart
Petersen. He had 938 votes,
totaling 44.65 percent, while
she had 1160 votes, totaling 55.21
percent.
In the Ward 3 Democratic pri-
mary, Margie Teall (D-Ward 4)
defeated Jack Eaton by a mere
1.5 percent. She had 866 votes,
totaling 50.47 percent, to his 848
votes, totaling 49.42 percent.
Eaton, who had run against
Teall in the 2010 primary, held a
results-viewing event at Conor
O'Neill's Pub Tuesday along with
Railasapathy. Councilmember
Stephen Runselman (D-Ward 3)
attended along with councilmem-
ber Jane Lumm (I-Ward 2).
In an interview after she
declared her victory, Kailasapa-
thy said she expected her win and
added that it was an indication of
resident's will.
"I was expecting to win
because I could see the writing
on the wall. People really more
than anything else, they just
wanted a change," Kailasapathy
said.
Meanwhile, at The Last Word
bar where Lumm attended,
Petersen and supporters awaited
the results of her race against
four-year incumbent Derezinski.
In an interview just before the
final election results were known,
Petersen said she would bring a
fresh expertise to city council
because of her business back-
ground.
However, Petersen said the
election was not an indication
that there was any kind of council
establishment or status quo party
up against a newcomer party to
bring change.
"(Kailasapathy) has an
accounting background, and
she's going to approach it from
that perspective," Peterson said.
"I have a business background,
I'm going to approach it from a
slightly different perspective.
I think you're going to have a
lot of diversity of voices on City
Council."
Managing Editor Giacomo
Bologna contributed to this report.


41

Monday,August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
fie AUC4-igan Oal

Spirit of the 'D'

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

JACOB AXELRAD
EDITOR IN CHIEF

GIACOMO BOLOGNA
MANAGING EDITOR

ADRIENNE ROBERTS
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.

JESSE KLEIN I
Power to the youth

Michael Phelps is old. He hasn't even reached
30 and he's considered old. At 27, he's 10 years
senior to some of his swimming teammates and
competitors. The golden girl of 2012 Olympic
swimming, Missy Franklin, is a decade younger
than Phelps. Missy Franklin's accomplishments
this year include gettingherdriver's license, hav-
ing her braces taken off and beating out Emily
Seebohm of Australia for her first gold medal on
a back-to-back swim night. Seebohm is only 20
years old, but she's an Olympic veteran compared'
to Franklin and was bested nevertheless.
Of the "Fierce Five" Olympic gold medal wom-
en's gymnastics team, only Alexandra Raisman
is of age. The rest include Gabby Douglas and
McKayla Maroney, both 16, Jordyn Wieber, 17,
and the baby Kyla Ross, 15. The rule in gymnas-
tics is that a competitor must be turning 16 the
year the Olympics takes place.
The dominance of youth at the Olympic Games
does not come without controversy. During the
Beijing Olympics, He Kexin's age was the center
of scandal. There were two birth certificates, one
that put He's birth year in 1992 (age 16 in 2008)
and the other 1994 (age 14 in 2008). But even if
He was 16 at the time of the Beijing Olympics,
there's still controversy over whether a young
athlete should be under such pressure.
Thirty-hour-a-week workouts, possibly mov-
ing away from home and dropping out of public
school are routine for elite Olympic hopefuls.
Mental and physical pressures are a major con-
cern for these young champions. But if you ask

them if it was all worth it, after that Olympic
medal, they all say something to the effect of
"hell yes." The Olympics are ruled by the youth.
Youth prevalence all started at the opening
ceremonies. There was huge speculation about
who would carry the final torch and light the
Olympic cauldron. Usually the honor goes to an
Olympic alumnus, a person from the host country
who exemplifies the Olympic spirit and tradition.
But this year no one knew the names of the seven
final torch carriers, and it wasn't because they'
were English. The seven bearers had never won
an Olympic medal and had never even qualified,
but one day they would. As the NBC announcers
explained the bearers are "representing the next
generation of athletes and possible Olympians."
The "next generation" is usually a phrase
reserved for politicians to make grave remarks
about the state of the world. "We need to be envi-
ronmentally conscious so the next generation
has a world to live in." "Fixing the economy will
be a problem for the next generation" "The job
market is slim for the next generation." "We need
to get the next generation interested in science"
And as part of this so-called "next generation," I
am sick of being reminded just how screwed over
we got. I appreciate the older generation finally
giving something back to the generation that
needs to become game changers in thewnext 20
years, but they have already changed the Olym-
pic Games.
Jesse Klein is a LSA sophomore.

Have you ever been unaware of
what a conversation was really about,
until it was over?
Chrysler's
"Imported from
Detroit" adver-
tising campaign
overtly challeng-
es the assump-
tion that Detroit
wouldn't have
anything special VANESSA
enough to export,
but it seems to be RYCHLINSKI
one of those con-
versations. After
Clint Eastwood
had his Super Bowl say, Chrysler lent
its award-winning tagline to another
town with a bad rap - Gotham City
- in time for the release of "The Dark
Knight Rises" at the end of last month.
Since I can't afford a Chrysler 300 (I'm
team GM, anyway), I'm keen to reflect
on what else Detroit has to offer now
that the confident slogan popularized
by rappers, cowboys and superheroes
has been - almost - exhausted from
public discourse.
Though the auto companies remain
important for Michigan, the influx of
business has indicated the beginning
of a hopeful sea change in the "Paris of
the Midwest." Quicken Loans - cur-
rently housed in the Compuware head-
quarters - is hiring young people by
the hundreds, while Team Detroit, an
advertising company, also has begun
snappingup newtalent. Oneofthe most
exciting additions is the new Twitter
advertisingoffice inthe renovated Rock
Ventures M@dison Building. Twit-
ter will share space with tens of other
technologic startups and companies,
including the CAPTCHA formula start-
up, Are You a Human, and the infamous
Texts From Last Night. The Russell
Industrial Center is home to many
smaller ventures and local dreams. I
know some musicians that have their
own record label who pian to move
to RIC to live and record their music
and that of their friends."Everyone (in
Detroit) is sick of recording themselves
and using cluttered and crappy stu-
dios," my friend Alex told me recently.
"I think I've got the ear for it as well as
the vintage gear everyone wants to use
and the training and experience needed
to properly run it."
In Detroit, I've seen more dreams
this summer than I could have antici-
pated. On Father's Day I visited The
Church of the Messiah on Lafayette
and East Grand Boulevard on the east
side. My friend Jugo Kapetanovic -
who was accepted earlier this year
into the University's School of Public
Health - was kick-starting the trial
run of a healthy food program. It was
a hot day, and many people were keep-
ing themselves cool with paper. fans.
Downstairs, a red-faced Jugo was
cooking up kale, beans, rice and a host
of other fresh local foods, bought at
Eastern Market, in the kitchen. In the

main room, a nutritionist gave a lec-
ture for the churchgoers, who were
also given information about acquir-
ing health insurance. Jugo's big idea for
the summer was to pool money from
bridge cards in order to buy - and cook
- healthy food for everyone who came
to church.
I learned that anyone with a._per-
suasive enough idea could potentially
put their dreams into action. Such is
the case with Monique Sasser, of Nik-
ki's Ginger Tea. For 20 years, Sasser's
product has been made in the church
on East Grand Boulevard, and today is
distributed in over 30 markets and gro-
cery stores around Michigan, from the
metro to Petoskey to Ann Arbor. Jugo
and his girlfriend put together a project
proposal last August, which formu-
lated a "new model of primary care in
which you would have urban farming,
nutrition programming (and) health
insurance on top of that." After the
meal, he drove me around and showed
me several plots of land belonging to
the church. Each was an overgrown,
asymmetrical piece of land, with grass
to vour knees and surrounded by rusty
chain link. The congregation owns 103
such plots and hopes to one day use
them for urban farming.
Detroit is quickly
changimg.
Revitalization, dot-com business-
es and artistic visions are just a few
intrinsically Detroit things that have
all the spirit of the aforementioned
slogan and could potentially school a
nation. But what about giving back?
About a month ago, I went to a party
on the south side of Detroit. Most
of the people there study at Wayne
State University, and several were
old friends I hadn't seen since high
school. I caught up with a friend who
is a film major who asked me "what
I was doing." I told him about my
studies and summer work, including
my internship in Detroit and screen-
writing class in Ann Arbor. Put off a
little by his assessing gaze and lack of
response, as always, I talked faster. I
delved into describing the plot of my
drawn-out dystopian screenplay.
"There's this island but it's in the
future and there's no technology."
My friend had the same slightly
bemused, mostly unreadable expres-
sion he had had on his face the entire
time. Finally, his face cleared. Nodding,
he said decisively, "You should come to
Detroit," before walking away. Sudden-
ly I realized that "what I was doing"
wasn't even what the conversation had
been about.
Vanessa Rychlinski can be
reached at vanrych@umich.edu.


Join me in welcoming the next President of
the United States, Paul Ryan"
- Presumptive Republican candidate Mitt Romney announcing his running mate, Paul Ryan,
according to the Huffington Post.




Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

15

'Bourne' holds viewers' attention

'Bourne' again, the
legacy continues with
a new face
By AKSHAY SETH
DailyArts Writer
I'll be the first to admit that I
wasn't expecting much from the
fourth installment of the Bourne
series. Why? The
same old reasons *
any fan of the tril-
ogy would likely The Boume
list - No Damon,L
no Greengrass
and a plotline At Quality16
thatseemed like a and Rave
direct, unimagi-
native rip-off of Universal
the first three
films. In other words, the project
had all the tell-tale signs of a Hol-
lywood studio struggling to milk
the last few dimes out of a franchise
that didn't really need any more

screen time. But as it so happens,
"The Bourne Legacy," although
flawed, isn't a complete failure:
There's no point dancing around
the most obvious mistake here -
the storyline centers on the pain-
fully dull premise that "there was
never just one" super-spy. It's a
cheap way to start off a reboot and
the blandness behind it all never
gives the script an opportunity to
grab the audience. Instead, writer
and.director Tony Gilroy ("Michael
Clayton") leaves us thinking 'No
shit. Would the United States of
America really put all their money
behind one program?'
Of course not. But we are told to
take this as some kind of unprec-
edented revelation. The product
of this revelation is Aaron Cross
(Jeremy Renner, "The Avengers").
Cross is a covert agent for Outcome,
a government-funded agency with
many of the same directives as
Treadstone, the infamous program
that produced Jason Bourne..
Interestingly, Gilroy chose to

set the film along a timeline run-
ning parallel to the events of "The
Bourne Ultimatum." Most of the
action takes place around the time
Jason Bourne re-enters the coun-
try and helps Pamela Landy expose
the CIA's role in the illicit activities
of the Treadstone Initiative. Con-
sequently, the U.S. government is
forced to do damage control to pro-
tect many of the other beta stage
training procedures still on the
drawing board. Surprise, surprise
- the first step of said "damage con-
trol" involves terminating Outcome
along with all of its agents. And
thus, the manhunt begins.
At its best, the action in the film
is intelligent if not thrilling. Rather
than Greengrass's shaky, seizure-
inducing camera work, Gilroy opts
for a more straight-laced approach
to the fight sequences. For most of
the movie, the gambit works. The
stunts are well orchestrated and
paced beautifully until we wind
down towards the tail end of the
film, which involves a drawn out

Poorly-timed primaries
City council elections should be non-partisan
Last week's elections were - for the most part - quite uneventful.
What seemed to dominate headlines, rather was the low voter
turnout in Ann Arbor. With many people on summer vacation
and even more students living elsewhere this summer, voter turnout

'Can you feel the love tonight?'
motorcycle chase that fizzles away
into an overwhelmingly unsatisfy-
ing conclusion.
The writing is similarly impres-
sive yet hollow - missing the
nuanced brilliance of the predeces-
sors. The film manages to keep us
engaged, but the excitement and
unpredictability from the original
trilogy is nowhere to be found.
A bonus is the easy charisma
behind Renner's acting. Yes, that
magnetic vulnerability Matt

Damon was able to create in Jason
Bourne is not present in this film.
But Renner remarkably manages
to avoid Damon's shadow by some-
how making us feel sorry for his
character. As a result, we end up
caring about Aaron Cross and this
entire unfortunate mess he finds
himself in. Is it the same way we
felt about Bourne? No. But when
all's said and done, you can only
expect so much.

was minimal.
Absentee ballots are a way
to combat this problem, but
unfortunately many students do
not seek out this option or are
unaware that it exists. However,
Ann Arbor City Council makes
decisions that have a profound
effect on studentlife, and many of
the recipients of these decisions
aren't physically present to voice
their opinion for whom they feel
represents them the best. City
Council elections should be non-
partisan and elections should
only happen in November so that
students have the opportunity to
influence decisions that greatly

affect them.
Tuesday, Aug. 7, 2012, was the
primary election day for Ann
Arbor residents to vote for city
council members, state represen-
tatives and state senators. When
polls closed on Tuesday, "pre-
cinct 1-1 had counted 15 ballots
(.77 percent of registered voters).
Precinct 1-2 had counted four
votes (49 percent of registered
voters). Precinct 4-1 had count-
ed eight ballots (39 percent of
registered voters) while 3-2 had
counted 59 ballots (2.79 percent
of registered voters)." Low voter
turnout is expected, and this year

was no exception.
With less than 1 percent of
voters voting in many precincts,.
this past election does not accu-
rately represent the University's
student body. Elections must be
pushed back until November, or
else Ann Arbor will continue to
let a minority of residents deter-
mine who will possibly represent
them. This isn't not democracy
and it certainly isn't represen-
tative. Changing the day of the
election is the simplest way to
give students the opportunity to
actively contribute to their com-
munity.


CAMPAIGN
From Page 7
conspire to bring "insourcing" of
Chinese laborers to the North Caro-
lina district. The bylaws to do so can
only be dodged if a Republican can-
didate can oust Cam. Meet Marty
- someone who wore Crocs to his
mother's funeral - the best worst
option for the partners in crime.
Since his father refers to him
as, "Richard Simmons' hobbit
son" and his brother nicknames

him, "Mouthful of pubes," Marty's
only stimulus is his Jesus-loving,
wouldn't-hurt-a-fat-kid nuclear
family. The kin's character is exem-
plified during a dinner-table confes-
sional scene in which the Marty's
wife voices her attraction to Drew
Carey and an under-10 son admits
to having a beer with an elderly man
down the street, followed by Marty
getting down to business with the
obligatory squeezing of his spouse's
jugs.
The meat of the story marinates
as the candidates one-up each other

-via unconscionable and downright
hilarious television ads - one of
which borders on a certain Tommy
Lee/Pam Anderson tape. Another
rests on a candidate "adopting" the
son of his opponent. It is entirely
outrageous, butwhere would a farce
be without that "Billy Madison"-
caliber of folly?
Unironically, the film ironi-
cally illustrates the primo bullshit
that pervades politics. Candidates,
in some cases, don't wholly com-
prehend the messages, plans and
vernaculars they advocate. "The

Campaign" exaggerates this stupid-
ity in a fresh and effective manner.
Cam and Marty make Hermain
Cain (in his prime, mind you) speak
like Ayn Rand.
The only problem with "The
Campaign" is its flagrant false start
in avoiding banality and by spend-
ing too much time with the lens on
the air-conditioned commentators.
Show us the race for crying out
loud! Fortunately, the false start is,
by and large, negligible.
Through tools like a one-day-
stand in a Porta-Potty and punch-

ing a rugrat io the jowls, "The
Campaign" succeeds for what it is:
slapstick to produce guffaws, not
redefine the comedy genre (see:
"Ghostbusters").
During your post-showing dis-
cussion with your cynical buddy,
one question begs itself, "Did you
laugh?" A simple three-letter word
should suffice. And in a brisk 85
minutes, Cam's kindly son epito-
mizes our director's LOL-fest, "Win
at all costs." Jay Roach is a fierce
competitor, like Usain Bolt - farci-
cally speaking, of course.

Time to act
Last week, my hometown finally tog with climate change. And even
received a considerable amount of if global warming isn't connected to
rain after weeks of miserably high this particular drought, we still need
temperatures and to take action to prevent ourselves
minimal precipi- from inflicting further damage on our
tation. It was a planet - before it's too late.
welcome relief
and a bit of a sur-
prise - I was so
accustomed to the It's time to
lack of rain that
I almost forgot address global
that it's supposed MICHAEL
to rain every now SPAETH warming.
and then during
the summer.
Unfortunately,
many people across the country have So far, President Barack Obama
been suffering from an even more seems to be concerned about climate
severe absence of rain. According change. In an interview with Roll-
to the Aug. 7 Drought Monitor map, ing Stone earlier this year, Obama
52.27 percent of the U.S. and Puer- outlined a few steps that he wants to
to Rico is "in moderate drought or take to help deal with global warm-
worse and 38.48 percentis "in severe tog: "Doubling fuel-efficiency stan-
drought or worse." The PBS New- dards on cars is going to take a whole
sHour also noted during its Friday lot of carbon out of our atmosphere.
broadcast that the U.S. Department We're going to continue to push on
of Agriculture "now projects 10.8 bil- energy efficiency, and renewable
lion bushels of corn to be produced," energy standards, and the promo-
which is "the lowest average corn tion of green energy." He also believes
yield in 15 years." that we can find a way to address cli-
A few people have been citing mate change "that is entirely compat-
global warming as the cause of recent ible with strong economic growth
record-breaking hot temperatures and job creation - that taking steps,
and droughts. In a recent op-ed for for example, to retrofit buildings all
the Washington Post, James Hansen, across America with existing tech-
who directs the NASA Goddard Insti- nologies will reduce our power usage
tute for Space Studies, wrote that "it by 15 or 20 percent. That's an achiev-
is no longer enough to say that global able goal, and we should be getting
warming will increase the likelihood started now."
of extreme weather and to repeat the In his op-ed, Hansen proposed
caveat that no individual weather the establishment of "a gradually
event can be directly linked to cli- rising fee on carbon collected from
mate change. To the contrary, our fossil-fuel companies, with 100 per-
analysis shows that, for the extreme cent of the money rebated to all legal
hot weather of the recent past, there residents on a per capita basis" to help
is virtually no explanation other than reduce global warming. He argued
climate change." that "this would stimulate innova-
While some aren't convinced that tions and create a robustclean-energy
global warming is the cause of the economy with millions of new jobs."
current drought, an increasing num- These ideas are certainly much
ber of reputable voices are empha- more promising than those of Mitt
sizing the monumental threats that Romney, who said in October that
global warming poses for our planet. "we don'twknow what's causingtcli-
In a recent op-ed for The New York mate change on this planet." His
Times, Prof. Richard Muller from running mate, Paul Ryan, wrote in
the University of California, Berke- December 2009, "Unilateral eco-
ley declared he is "a converted skep- nomic restraint in the name of fight-
tic" about global warming. He wrote ing global warming has been a tough
that the results of a recent analysis sell in our communities, where much
conducted by the Berkeley Earth of the state is buried under snow."
Surface Temperature project "show But no matter what we decide to do,
that the average temperature of the we need to make sure that we take
earth's land has risen by two and decisive action to deal with climate
a half degrees Fahrenheit over the change right now, before we damage
past 250 years, including an increase our planet beyond repair.
of one and a half degrees over the We can't wait until we're suffering
most recent 50 years. Moreover, it from natural disasters to start seni-
appears likely that essentially all of ously addressing global warming. We
this increase results from the human have to take action now, so that these
emission of greenhouse gases." natural disasters will never happen in
If global warming is contributing the first place.
to the current drought, then this sum-
mer should be a loud wake-up call Michael Spaeth can be reached
for people all over the country that at micspa@umich.edu
we need to get serious about deal-

Finance the arts
New millage in A2 will enhance the city's individuality
Ann Arbor: is considered by many to be one of the most well-
known cultural hubs in Michigan. And while Michigan foot-
ball games may attract many of the city's tourists, the art
scene is a major part of what distinguishes Ann Arbor. To maintain
this vibrant art scene, residents pay taxes. A proposed millage would
replace the current Percent for Art program. Voters should support
this new proposed millage as it promises to bring concerts and events
to Ann Arbor that will make the city even more attractive to tourists,
simultaneously giving residents a vibrant city in which to live and
work.


* Aftn11-nD dwght
t'a ;do" F&Ye ... Asstinz"
Breakfast -Lnh- rnh-Catering
U of M's preferred Catering Service!
We accept U of M Shortcodes!
251 East Liberty - Ann Arbor
(734) 665-7513
www.afternoondelightcafe.com

Buy 1 Sandwich and Receive
a 2nd Sandwich of Equal or
Lesser Value FREEI
Lirnit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer
alid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Abor, M! 48103
(734) 662-243s www.barrybagels.com
L Expires: August 19, 2012
- - - - - - - - - - J

A ballot proposal that would
change the way Ann Arbor pub-
lic art is funded was announced
Thursday night. City Council-
member Christopher Taylor (D-
Ward 3) is the primary sponsor
of this proposal. According to
Taylor, this art millage would
cost the average household
$10.97 a year. The current Per-

cent for Art program takes away
more than $2 million from vari-
ous city funds and is extremely
limiting. The proposed millage
would be more-flexible and allow
for temporary installments, con-
certs and events.
Ann Arbor is thriving through-
out.the economic downturn com-
pared to other cities in Michigan,

This can be attributed, in part,
to the individuality of the city.
Ann Arbor's local government
has the responsibility to serve its
citizens beyond their basic rights
and maintain an arts scene that
separates it from other cities, thus
encouraging tourism. This mill-
age promises to do so, and voters
should support it.


Monday, August 13, 2012
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Email: iailydIspay gmail.com
HELP WANTED! LOCAL company
looking for self motivated people to fill
part time or full time positions. Bene-
fits include flexible scheduling. no ex-
perience required! earn $10-$30 per
hour. Call 616-644-0659 to setup an in-
terview

michigansal I ingclub.org
RELEASE DATE- Monday, August 13, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 CBS forensic 38One-horse 52 WWII plane-
1 _ razor: principle drama carriages Gay
 lTge c 4Redbeet 40 Try to escape 56 Belieftsystems,
7 Tempe sch. 5SActres oio capture torushot
10."Back to the 6 Patsies 41 Lo-.jlite 57 DostmIranian
Future" bully 7 Wheelchair guy 46 Evey bit ruler
14 ir Putin's Oee" 47Tomament 59 Photo taker
contPTh '-stpizza exemptions 60 Suffix with station
15Tract -amer style 48 Teakettle or honor
15 Factoaceebam 9 Fgss( emission 61 1-1 score, e.g.
thicket 1Odnightgitt 4Ecalyuseater 62 Neurology
priTcess 12 Clanssicorange state ap, e.g. 63 Really sexy
20 Computercode soda ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
ecronym 13Back-pucke
21Pubbeorders liquor CLASP S L A REEF
22 "Gil': Lesage 18Highpoint H A R P O N A P A ELM O
nvl 21 Letter before
26 Baseal's Ott e A T I L T O C E A N C 1 T Y
27 Underhanded 22 Suprene M E D I A W E S TIC O A S T
28W n college 23Woodshaper T O R Q U E ADA G E
31 t"Gotcha" 24Fi APP E R U P T S E Z R A
33"Wht5!" S dpr 0 5 5 5 E A H E B R A I C
3 ~ ' den-ce
34 Chinese 29 ay F LEA GLOATS N T H
chaang 30 Pre meaning SKUNK L ANATCE
stOner don 32 Church doctrine p H O T O C E L L I T I N A
Fale cecga n 4F sa A U N A T U R E L N O R A D
39 Drmtcgrabin AU ATU EL ORA
42 Email status Romhan empe r
43 Con. northof 37 Perfumefeature xwordeditor@aol.com 08M 12e
Africa
44 Country snger 1 2 3 4 56 7 8 8 10 11 12 13
Kathy
Kito rchase 14 5 16
47 Tetetor
48Aiiy 1, 1a 19
51 Tawih aspot- 20 21
onPalin
53C atoppersm 2a 2s 2 27
54 Likepopmusic 2a 29 o 31 32
55 "-theloneliest
number": '60s 33 34 3 so36s3Tso
58 Sunrse direction 5s 0 41
interscing es 42 43 a
of paralel lies
64AcorfBaldwin so so
65 Suffer 5 z 5
66-80s9s 4 4o so us s
quar e Dan 54 55 56 5
67 Sujc fit
fr acin 58 se 61 62 63
68 Urban tanstorg
69 Least outgoing 64 65 66
DOWN 67 or o s9
1 Mars or Venus
2Junkyarddog By Gerry wihenberg 08/13/12
(c)2012Tribune MediaServices,eInc.

NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/WaterlParking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
!!LG. RMS., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For Male. $275/mo. 845-399-9904
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old-West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
BRAND NEW LUXURY APART-
MENTS ON The 2nd Floor The apart-
mnents have State of the Art Kitchens
and Baths, Beautiful furnishings and
great views of the campus. Located
right on Central Campus, on South Uni-
versity Ave. THE BEST AMENITIES,
BEST SERVICE & BEST PRICES!
Call us for a tour today734-761-2680
or email us The2ndFloorSU@aol.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet, summer from $325, fall
from $480. Call 734-276-0886.

WHITE MARKET
From Page 1A
some business when it opened last
year, but White Market had since
won that business back.
As the owner of the only store
that could potentiallybe labeled as
a grocery store, Jones said he was
"convinced" there's a need for a
store like White Market. He added
that, given the right conditions, a
store like that can survive.
Jones said White Market and
Boutsikakis had been in "off-and-
on negotiations up until a month
ago," and that White Market had
been operating without a lease
since Boutsikakis became the
property owner.
"If you're the landlord, youthink
your tenant's not paying enough
(and) if you're the tenant, you think
you're payinga lot," he said.
Jones said not having a lease
placed the store in a limbo state
and restricted White Market from
pursuingany major changes.
"We had plans in place, but we
couldn't execute any of them," he
said.
Jones said he had been looking
to move the store, which came to
its current location in the 1940s,
but couldn't find a suitable replace-
ment.
"Therejusthasn'tbeen anything
available that would work size-
wise - either way too little or way
too big," he said.
Bigger than a convenience store
but smaller than a supermarket,
White Market operates with just
five young employees including
Micah DeAndre Authement who
said the store is more than just a
place that sells food.
"It's just a nice local vibe," he
said. "It's kind of more like a fam-
ily experience. It just feels con-
nected."
Authement added that the store
cultivates a unique welcoming
atmosphere and has good work
relations.
"I'm not going to get yelled at
aboutlittlestufflike clockingin five
minutes late," he said. "It's a good
job - the bestjob I've ever-had."
If White Market had been con-
sistently open for six days a week
over the last 80 years, it would
amount to about 25,000 days that
White Market has welcomed Ann
Arbor shoppers. While shoppers
can still make plans to buy banan-
as on day 25,001, Jones remains -
uncertain about what he will do
that day.
He said he typically does not
close the store, but he's contem-
plating doing it one last time.

By ANDREW MCCLURE
Daily Arts Writer
"The Campaign" is not unlike
the Men's loom dash at the Lon-
don London Games this pastweek.
North Caro-
lina Democratic
Congressional
candidate Cam The Cam-
Brady (played
with brilliant pap
idiocy by Will At Quality16
Ferrell, "Step and Rave
Brothers") is
unflinchingly Warner Bros.
Usain Bolt -
cocky, self-aggrandizing and, to
the awe of the audience, continu-
ally a household name. His unlike-
ly rival Marty Huggins (portrayed
by the quasi-typecast weirdo Zach
?,ialifianakis, "The Hangover")
resembles, conversely, the chubby
guy in the navy blazer standing
behind the sprinters before the
gunshot - humble, oblivious to
the sport and merely hopeful for a
chance in the limelight.

A contemporary wizard of
farce, director Jay Roach ("Austin
Powers" trilogy, "Meet the Par-
ents") sprints a fine race of comic
hyperbole in "The Campaign,"
despite his decelerating pace in
the last half-hour. He wittily par-
allels the heinous art of politics
in all its fucked-up glory: infidel-
ity, cronyism, corruption, avarice,
truth distortion and, undoubtedly,
nipple slips.
Bringing humor
to politics.
Look; Cam Brady is an asshole
- the same asshole that has run
uncontested for umpteen terms
and has a hot wife. Things get
interesting when a pair of greedy
cronies (played by Dan Aykroyd,
"The Blues Brothers," and John
Lithgow, "3rd Rock from the Sun")
See CAMPAIGN, Page8

'Celeste and Jesse'
tackle love and loss

Monday, August 13, 2012IARTS
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 4
A 'Campaign'
full of comedy

soNY

I

ANN ARBOR CLEANING Service -
We clean vacant -apts.
annarborcleaningservice.tripod.com
call 340-7087
EXPERIENCED HOUSE SITTER
looking for assignoments, Ann Arbor,
Sept-Dec (mi. 2-mon.). Mature single
woman, non-smoker, non-drinker. Care
for cats. References. 734-707-5825
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE
organization, forma. Alt disciplines.
25 years' U-M experience.
734-996-0566 or www.writeona2.com
DOMINICK'S NOW HIRING all po-
sitions for Summer/Fall F/PT. Call 734-
834-5021.
WANTED: PARTICIPANTS FOR a
psychology experiment on simple per-
ceptuanljudgements at UM. One 2-hour
sessions pays $25. To quali2y, must be
at least 18, be a native English speaker,
and have vision correctable to 20/20.
IRB#: HUM00061866. Call 734-936-
8703 or email Brian at briansi@med,-
umichedu

JOBS!1
Fall/Winter Term
Minimum $9/hr
Apply now at the Law Library!
We have jobs for any U-M -
Students enrolled for
Fall & Winter
Immediate openings for
Desk Attendant positions
Apply at the Hiring Table
outside room S-180 in the
Law Library's underground
addition.
Hours between
8 a.m. and 2 a.m. 7 days/week

I just had sex and it felt so good.
True take on age-old
story; friendship, to
love and back again
By RADHIKA MENON
Daily Arts Writer
When a couple has been togeth-
er for years, there's a certain
level of comfort between the two
members that
is unrivaled by ***
any other rela-
tionship. There CeleSte
are inside jokes and Jee
that turn your
friendly Vase- FO1eV&
line tube into inselect
squirting male theaters
genitalia; secret
handshakes Sony
spelling out the
couple's initials; conversations
held in fake German accents. Both
partners are in tandem with one
another.
But all that glitters is not gold.
Celeste (Rashida Jones, "I Love
You, Man") and Jesse (Andy Sam-
berg, TV's "Saturday Night Live")
were best friends-turned-loveis-
turned-husband-and-wife. But
years later, their marriage has
fallen apart and in light of their
impending divorce, they do the
opposite of normal: They fight
to remain in each other's lives
instead of making a clean break.

To them it's the perfect break-
up. Their mutual friends don't
have to choose between the two
parties, and as long as they still
enjoy each other's company, why
not stay friends? But when Jesse
seems to have moved onto another
serious relationship, Celeste real-
izes she's not ready to let go of her
other half.
If nothing else, "Celeste and
Jesse Forever" is emotionally raw
and uncompromisingly honest.
When you marry your best friend,
you expect it to last forever; but as
with any break-up, a clean split is
always simpler than trying to nav-
igate the murky waters of "staying
friends." For a pair that has been
codependent for the better part
of their adult lives, letting go and
moving on is a difficult transition.
Jones and Samberg easily sink
into Celeste and Jesse's decade-
long romance, effortlessly por-
trayingthe comfort and chemistry
in the relationship. Jones, who co-
wrote the screenplay with her own
lover-turned-friend Will McCor-
mack, plays a warm and ambitious
female character similar to her
role of Ann Perkins on TV's "Parks
and Recreation." Samberg, nor-
mally partial to roles that require
him to contort his face in his spe-
cial brand of comedy, shines in a
character that requires him to dig
deeper emotionally.
Jesse's childish ways in personal

and professional realms are blamed
for the break-up - A common cat-
alyst for conflict in the romantic
comedy genre. This coupled with
Celeste's Type-A personality begins
to converge on stereotypicalterrito-
ry, giving the film its main struc-
tural flaws.
The secondary characters all
feelexactlythat- second-string-
to the performances of Jones and
Samberg. They are mere stand-
ins, fountains of advice that our
leads promptly forget. But much
like real life, they are unabashedly
rooting fortheir friends while also
hoping to stay afloat amidst their
indecision.
The film is messy. Celeste is
not in love with Jesse anymore,
but she can't let go of his compan-
ionship. She goes back and forth
wondering how to hold onto him
platonically, all the while send-
ing a heartbroken Jesse mixed
signals. Jones has stated in inter-
views that real couples inspired
the film, and it shows. The film is
a mirror of real break-ups with all
of the fanfare, drama and heart-
break of real life.
As Celeste and Jesse begin
to find that perhaps there is life
beyond each other, it is met with
yearning and hatred; desire and
sadness. It seems that the perfect
couple isn't actually perfect. And
it seems that the perfect break-up
isn't either.

DIE..,,I

J


