(Ii £id igan &Ilj
()NE:1 1 j I)RI )r' XWEN IY ' tIRiEE YLA1. 01F ED'IT)I A FL 1()M

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 5,2012

michigandaily.com


Into the homestretch

Profs:
Obama
up in
Micli
As polls narrow,
experts predict the
president will win
the state
By ANDREW SCHULMAN
and ALICIA ADAMCZYK
Daily StaffReporters
Despite polls showing a
narrowing race in Michigan
between President Barack
Obama and Republican presi-
dential nominee Mitt Rom-
ney, the state will likely give
its 16 electoral votes to Obama,
according to University experts.
Officials said the election in
the state - which has not given
its electoral votes to a Republi-
can presidential candidate since
1988 - will likely be closer than
it was in 2008, when Obama
won the state by 16 points.
Despite Romney's recent
surge in state-wide polls,
Sexperts said a combination of
demographic factors, Obama's
support for the bailout of the
Detroit automakers and a lack
of home state support for the
Bloomfield Hills native makes
it likely that Obama will win
Michigan.
Political Science Prof.
Michael Traugott estimated
that Obama would win by about
five or six points, in accordance
with the margin most statewide
See OBAMA, Page 3A

PORTRAITS OF THE STUDENT VOTER

i.- ..
1
Y

L

Prep,
school
students
split on
Romney
Cranbrook,
Romney's alma
mater, proud of
GOP nominee
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily Staff Reporter
When the polls close Tuesday
evening and electoral maps light
up on screens across the nation,
Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney will begin prepara-
tions.
The former Massachusetts
governor and Michigan native
will either start settling into the
life of a defeated candidate or
ready himself for four years in
the White House.
But before all the railies,
debates, campaign yard signs
and other efforts designed to
propel Romney to Washington,
young Mitt inhabited a place less
foreign to Michiganders than the
Beltway. Romney spent his for-
mative years in Bloomfield Hills,
an affluent Detroit;suburb only
45 miles northeast of Ann Arbor.
As the time until Tuesday
dwindles, neither campaign
is giving up on winning over
Bloomfield Hills and the state of
Michigan. Even at Cranbrook,
the elite college-preparatory
school located in Bloomfield
See ROMNEY, Page 6A

As the presidential carnpaign enters its final days, students shared their thoughts about the election and discussed who they pln to "tefo." or "or,'ur
to page 7A or visit www.michigandaily.com.
College GOP, Dems make final pushes

Student groups
work to get voters
to the polls
By CHELSEA HOEDL
Daily StaffReporter
The University's chapters of
the College Republicans and
College Democrats are continu-

ing to mobilize in last minute
efforts to inform students and
encourage them to go to the
polls with only two days left
until Election Day.
Both organizations have
stepped up their canvassing
efforts, and are working to
encourage student voter par-
ticipation and education of the
student body on critical issues.
Business sophomore Elena

Brennan, the external vice
chair of the College Republi-
cans, said the group is working
with local activists to promote
voting in the Ann Arbor area.
In addition to holding Diag days
to reach out to classmates, they
are also taking trips off campus
to expand their efforts.
"The big thing we're doing
right now is having volunteers
come to our (office) which is

five minutes out from campus,"
Brennan said. "We're taking
students every day and they
can either go knock on doors or
make phone calls."
Brennan said the College
Republicans have continued to
inform potential voters on the
stances taken by each candi-
date, and explain the language
of the ballot proposals that can
See FINAL PUSHES, Page 6A

ELECTION 2012
Obama campaign: Polls % N
not a concern in.Mich.

Levin, Cato June
campaign for the
president on Sat.
By TUI RADEMAKER
Daily Staff Reporter
"'Go Blue' has a double mean-
ing," said U.S. Sen. Carl Levin
(D-Mich), Saturday morning at
the Democratic campaign office
in Ann Arbor, emphasizing the
importance of capturing Michi-
gan's 16 electoral votes for Presi-

dent Barack Obama.
Despite recent polls showing
Obama and Republican presiden-
tial candidate Mitt Romney in a
neck and neck battle for the state,
Democratic volunteers seemed
confident and excited as they pre-
pared for their final "Get Out the
Vote" efforts. Levin, along with
U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.),
Obama campaign advisers, Uni-
versity alum Broderick Johnson -
and Cato June, former Michigan
and Indianapolis Colts football
player, were among volunteers
See POLLS, Page 6A

Holocaust survivors share stories with
'U' students at annual Hillel luncheon

Sixth annual As he talked, he carefully
placed his documents back into
Conference on the the folder with a paper clip, only
to pull them out again within a
Holocaust raises matter of minutes. During the
span of a half-hour conversa-
. awareness tion, he repeatedly drew out
the paperwork, original records
By HALEY GOLDBERG from his arrival to Auschwitz
Daily NewsEditor concentration camp in 1942,
where atop was a handwritten
A worn, manila folder sat note with a reminder to "speak
on the table in front of George slow."
Vine, 85, with two words hand- Vine and 49 other Holocaust
written on the label: "Holocaust survivors gathered at the Uni-
Records." versity of Michigan Hillel to

speak intimately with about 200
students for the sixth annual
Holocaust Survivor Luncheon
on Sunday. The event was orga-
nized by the Conference on the
Holocaust Committee, an eight-
person team led by co-direc-
tors and LSA seniors Michelle
Kappy and Samantha Schwartz.
In the same format of past
events, students were encour-
aged to engage with survivors
over lunch. At table 22, Vine
began the event by sharing his
experiences during World War
See HOLOCAUST, Page 7A

TRACY KO/Daily
A student listens to George Vine's story of surviving Auschwitz at the Holocaust Survivor Luncheon on Sunday.


WEATHER HI: 46
TOMORROW Lo 37

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail #michlinks
news@michigandaily.com and let us know, MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEWS .......,................. 2A CLASSIFIEDS. ............ 6A
Vol. CXXIII, No.38 AP NEWS ....... ........ 3A ARTS ........................... IA
©22TheMichigan Daily OPINION.....................4A SPORTSMONDAY.........1B
michigandoily.com

.- ., >:


2A - Monday, November 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, November 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

BIG HOUSE HEROINE

Contribute to the Daily's
election coverage

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arber, MI.48109-1327
www.michigandaily.eom
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHIIL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Easiness Manager
734-41a-4115 ext. 1202 734-418-4115 exn. t24t
tichterman@michigandaiy.com rmngrein@michigandailycom

You've heard it a lot, but this
election is important.
The outcome of Tuesday's
election - from the race for the
White House to Ann Arbor's
local ballot initiatives regard-
ing a new downtown library
and funding for public art - will
likely affect your community in
some capacity.
It should come as no surprise
that we're encouraging you to
-vote. It's one- of your most basic
right as an American citizen.
You can turn back to page 1A
for a guide on everything you'll
need to know before you go to
the polls.
But we also want you to be
part of how we cover the elec-
tion. We want to know what you
think. We want to see what you
see. We want to hear your voice.

Did you hear something inter-
esting? Send us a tweet or com-
ment on our Facebook. Did you
see something worth sharing?
Take a photo with Instagram.
Use the hashtag #umichvotes
and we'll collect your observa-
tions, along with those from our
reporters and photographers,
and post them at www.michi-
gandaily.com/news/vote
On Tuesday we'll have report-
ers and photographers spread
out everywhere from Chicago to
the Buffalo Wild Wings on South
State Street covering the elec-
tion, but we can't be everywhere.
We need your help.
Thanks, and again, please
remember to vote.
-JOSEPHLICHTERMAN
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Nensronm
734-410-4t1s ogt.3
torrections
eorrectiooa@oicigandaity.o
Arts Sectin
arta@nichigandaity.cen
Sports Section
sports@oichigaodaity.o
Display Sales
disptay@michigandaity.om
Online Sales
ertineada@michigandaily.om

News Tips
oews@niciigaodaity.om
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.om
Editnial Page
erinio@oichioandaity.om
Phottography Sectin
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com,

I

Medical student Anne Hoekstra donates blood at the annual 'Do a Hers at the Rig House'
blond ard organ driver at Michigan Stadium on Sunday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Water break Out on a wire Eurocrisis FastA--Thon
WHERE: Nichols WHERE: Medical Science discussion 2012


WHEN: Friday at about
9:25 a.m.
WHAT: A water fountain
was discovered broken,
University Police reported.
Officers did not find any
other fixures that appeared
broken and there are
currently no suspects.

Research Building 01
WHEN: Friday at about
9:35 a.m.
WHAT: Platinum wire
was reportedly missing
from a piece of equipment,
University Police reported.
The wire was allegedly
taken between Oct. 30 and
Nov. 2.

Smoke and It's a sign
mirrors WHERE: 600 Block Oxford
WHEN: Saturday at about
WHERE: School of Public 2:20 a.m.
Health WHAT: A suspect was seen
WHEN: Friday at 5:40 p.m. carrying an Oxford Housing
WHAT: A caller informed sign into the backyard of a
police of a smoky smell random house, University
emanating from the Public Police reported. After
Health Building, University further investigation, the
Police reported. No source suspect and the sign are still
was discovered, missing.

WHAT: Georgetown
University Prof. Kathleen
McNamara will speak
on the viability of the
European Union amid the
financial crisis. Admission
to the event is free.
WHO: Center for European
Studies
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building
Potluck and
critique
WHAT: Ann Arbor
Botanical Society members
will hold a potluck and
critique ofthe botanical
gardens and AABS trees.
WHO: Matthaei Botanical
Gardens
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Matthaei
Botanical Gardens

WHAT: Pledge to fast from
sunrise to sunset and help
raise money for Forgotten
Harvest, a nonprofit that
collects leftover food to feed
those in need.
WHO: Muslim Students'
Association
WHEN: Today from 4:45
p.m. to 8 P.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Graduate School, 4th floot
See the stars
WHAT: The public is
invited to view the sky
through the Fitz telescope,
weather permitting.
Participants must be able to
climb stairs.
WHO: Department of
Astronomy
WHEN: Tonight at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Detroit
Observatory, on Observatory
and Ann streets

THE _HIG O
SHUDKNO OA
1Spike TY, a men's interest
television channel, is
offering a $10 million
reward for irrefutable proof
of Bigfoot's existence, the
Huffington Post reported. The
prize is insured, but it's notcyet
clear whether Bigfoot must be
found dead or alive.
2Junior quarterback Devin
Gardner scored three
times in Michigan's 35-13
win, while Denard watched
from the sidelines.
>FOR MORE, SEE
SPORTSMONDAY, INSIDE
3 A Polish casket
manufacturer has
gained significiant
attention for using topless
modelsato advertise its coffins,
MSNBC reported. The risque
photos, which appear in a
bonus calendar gift, have
angered the Catholic Church.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrew Weiner Managing Editor anoriner@michigandaily.com
BethanylBirn Maoagiog News Editor biron@nhchigandaily.eoo
SENIaOR WSnEDITORS:aley Glathor, Haleyoldbr,aza oldsmith,
PaigParc,AdanoRubenfirn
Pete snrwoasn~aeeeeaaso eaaOar sehaina.CnWasma
Timothy Rabb and opinioneditrsr@michigandaily~com
Adrienne Roberts EditoriatragerEditors
SENI~OR nDInORALPAEEDnInORSsa:Mene Kueli,asaNaaa,aanesaRyhliaki
ASITN TRAsanaeaL PAGEEO S:nJaessn aah Skaluba
Stephen Nesbitt ManginSortEiaditor nesbitt@michigandaity.eom
SENIaOnR SRTSnEDIOS:Everetok,Bn E, ZahHead, LkePasch,'
Neal Rothschid, MattSlovin
ASSIaST nennANT PRSEIOnS:Stevn Baid, Michaauril,taLizsNal,
Coleenr Thomas, Lz Vkalich, D0ielWaserana
Leah Burgin ManagingoAratsditor borgin@nichigandaily.com
SENIaORARTSnEDITRS:Elltt eloroDavid TaoayaUadthyaya
ASSISnAsNAnn EO RSoan oA xeebaad, Lare aeta,oMattnaso rn,ay t,
Ana .Sadoskayahet5ahwiak
Erin Kikland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss MangingrPhonooEditors
SNIsOnR P OODIORS:ra Mlena, To'eddNeedle
ASSSATrnHOneTOEIS:nAdam nzanr, AuenHuffod, Alion eruaka
MarnLassen,Adam niern
Alicia Koalthetk and design@mihigandaily.com
Any MakenS ManagingDesignotditors
DylantCinti andstatement@mihigandaiyeeom
JenniternXu Magazinertditors
DEPrTY MAGAZIE EDIoTOR:eaceo,Kaitli:a:nWia
Hannah Pondexter Copy chief eepydesk@michigandaily.eom
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh AssoiaBirniesaaer
SnphielGreenhann ProduonManager
Sean JacksnSpecialrojects Manager
ConrByrd Fioanee Manager
Meryl HultengsNationalAccoount Manager
The Michgan Drisy (SSN 0745-967) ianpbishednd ~ay throughiday drngnthetfall and
wntertersabyastudents te niersitye eof Michigan. Oecopy inaalbletfeeof charge
to al eae, Additoal oe ayabpiked pattetDaiy'sfietfor 2, Sbciptionsofor
fall trnatarting in SenmariaaU..nailarea$11. Winte tarm (Januay thoug pil)lia
t11t, yearlong (September throughApril) sa5, Unverstatfilateaeasubecttoa reducei
auscripton ate. O-empssuiscripton fofall temae$t5 sit~ionsnut bpepad.
The Michigan Daily as a menber of The Assoiated Pres and The Asociated Collegate Press.

6

0

0

100+ locations
for 100,000+ fans.,
As an Official Partner of Michigan Athletics, Flagstar Bank is proud
to be a key player for Michigan students, alumni, faculty and fans.
Along with personal, local service, Flagstar customers enjoy free
access to a network of more than 750 ATMs across the state.
How's that for going long?
Personal" Mortgage" Business Commercial

0

Visit a branch today.
(800) 642-0039
flagstarxcom

An Official Partner of Michigan Athletics

t

EQUALeHOLSesLENDER Memr FDPIt


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 5, 2012 -- 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 5, 2012 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
GULLIVER, Mich.
Botulism found in
Upper Peninsula
Authorities say they've found
the bodies of about 700 water
birds along a stretch of northern
Lake Michigan shoreline in the
Upper Peninsula.
The Mining Journal of Mar-
quette says authorities suspect
that the birds died of Type-E
botulism.
The 694 dead birds were found
in Sthoolcraft County near the
unincorporated village ofGulliver.
They include 247 common loons,
152 horned grebes, 98 red-necked
grebes, 73 long-tailed ducks and
64 white-winged scoters.
The Michigan Department of
Natural Resources says Type-E
botulism bacteria cause a toxin
that paralyses birds and fish.
Similar die-offs happened in
the Upper Peninsula in 2007
and near Sleeping Bear Dunes
National lakeshore' in northern
Lower Peninsula in 2006.
CHICAGO
Man with brain-
s controlled bionic
leg climbs high rise
A 31-year-old amputee has
made history, becoming the first
person to climb 103 floors of one
of the world's tallest skyscrapers
with a bionic leg.
ZacVawterwaswearingapros-
thetic leg controlled by his mind
Sunday when he participated in
"SkyRise Chicago." The charity
event raises funds for the Reha-
bilitation Institute of Chicago.
The event marked the bionic
leg's first test in the public eye.
AsVawterthought about climb-
ing stairs, the motors, chains and
belts in his leg synchronized the
movements of its ankle and knee.
Researchers cheered him on and
noted the smart leg's perfor-
mance.
KHAYEGA, Kenya
Bull fight thought
to infer presidential
election outcome
On Saturday villagers from
western Kenya town of Khaye-
ga held a bull fighting contest
between a 900 pound black bull
they named Obama and a black
and white 1,000 pound bull they
named Mitt Romney. Both are
cattle breeds indigenous to Kenya.
'Despite being smaller in size,
Obama was the overwhelming
favorite having won six of his last
fights and he did not disappoint.
After close to half an hour the
bulls were separated and Obama
was declared winner.
Most Kenyans consider
Obama, the son of a white mother
from Kansas and a black father
from Kenya, as one of their own.
Bull fighting has been held in
Khayega town for generations
but attempts last year to bring
the event to the national stage
attracted the wrath of aninial

rights groups. Paul Shiboko one
of the event's organizers said it is
a great honor to be an owner of a
winning bull, aside from the prize
money. Shiboko said bulls are
usually bred to fight and some-
times named after both famous
and infamous international
newsmakers to create a frenzy
among the spectators, like Sad-
dam versus Bush.
TEHRAN, Iran
Six killed in Iran
after bomb left
from '80s explodes
An Iranian semi-official news
agency reports an explosion from
* a land mine left over from the
Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s has
killed six people and injured one.
The Sunday report by Mehr
says the explosion happened on
Saturday, during a minesweeping
operation near the town of Mari-
van, some 300 miles (490 kilome-
ters) southwest of Tehran.
Explosions from leftover muni-
tions lead to casualties in Iran
from time to time.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Walter Huancayaandhisson,Jose, loadupvotingmachinestobedeliveredto Bergenfieldand Haworth,NJ.,Fridaymorning. NewJersey
residentswhosecommunitieswerehard-hit bythisweek'sstormare beinggivenextraordinaryoptionstovotein Tuesday'selection.

election officials

State officials gather
generators, find new
poll locations
NEW YORK (AP) - Power
generators are being marshaled,
polling locations moved and vot-
ing machines hurriedly put into
place as officials prepare to hold
an national election in storm-
ravaged sections of New. York
and New Jersey barely a week
after Superstorm Sandy.
Organizers expressed guard-.
ed confidence Sunday that the
presidential vote will proceed
with no major disruptions in
most areas hit by the storm,
though it was unclear wheth-
er the preparations would be
enough to avoid depressed
turnout in communities where
people still lack power or have
been driven from their dam-
aged homes.
Some voters will be casting
ballots in pacsnferen fronem

their usual polls.
In Long Beach, N.Y., a bar-
rier-island city that was inun-
dated with water during the
storm, the number of polling
places will be cut to four, down
from the usual 11. Residents of
the devastated borough of Sea
Bright, on the New Jersey shore,
will have to drive two towns
over to vote.
But with two days to go until
Election Day, officials in both
states said Sunday that they
were overcoming many of their
biggest challenges.
Hundreds of emergency gen-
erators have been rushed into
place to ensure power at poll-
ing places, even if the neigh-
borhoods around them are still
dark. Electric utilities were
putting, a. priority on restor-
ing power to others and had
assured election officials they
would be up and running by
Monday.
Of the 1,256 polling loca-
tions in Nw omvrk Citv onlv 59

hopeful
needed to be moved or closed,
said Valerie Vazquez, a spokes-
woman for the city's Board of
Elections. Most were in coastal
areas of Brooklyn and Queens
or other neighborhoods where
buildings normally used for
voting had been turned into
shelters. In a few places, vot-
ers will be casting their ballots
in tents, and some might be
offered shuttle buses to get to
polling spots moved miles from
their homes.
Some New York City lead-
ers remained worried. Mayor
Michael Bloomberg noted that
the polling-place changes would
affect some 143,000 New York-
ers. There were concerns about
whether some poll workers
might fail to show up, and as of
Sunday night, the city's voting
information hotline was down.
"Over the next day, it's going
to be critical that the Board of
Elections communicate this
new information to their poll
"rkers.,e ,Ua

OBAMA with working-class workers
who are not strong supporters
From Page 1A of Obama, but are reluctant to
vote for Romney.
polls are projecting. In Macomb County, Repub-
. "There's some difference on licans are more energized
the size of the margin, but I than they were four years ago,
don't think it's competitive or in according to Cecil St. Pierre,
danger of Obama losing," Trau- the city council president in
gott said. Warren, Mich., the county's
Over the last few weeks, polls largest city.
in the state have fluctuated "The ground game has
from a slight lead for Obama to swelled and cannot be com-
a tie between the candidates. pared to any other election," he
On Sunday, the Democratic said, adding that the Republi-
firm Baydoun-Foster released a can victory center in Macomb
poll conducted for Fox 2 News County is always full.
that showed Obama with 46.92 Michael Taylor, the mayor
percent of the vote over Rom- pro-tempore in Sterling
ney's 46.56 percent - a 0.36 Heights, Mich., in Macomb
margin. County, wrote in an e-mail
Similar polls have registered interview that Republicans
a lead for Obama around the there have been more active
margin that Traugott predict- than in the last presidential
ed. Public Policy Polling's last election.
survey of the state, released "At this point in '08, conser-
on Saturday, projected Obama vatives seemed resigned to the
holding a 52-46 edge over Rom- fact that Obama was the inevi-
ney, while a poll by the Detroit table winner," Taylor wrote.
Free Press showed Obama with "This year is a completely dif-
the same lead, 48 percent to 42 ferent story."
percent. Despite narrowing margins
Traugott said in order for among the presidential candi-
Romney to win Michigan, he dates, neither Obama nor Rom-
would need strong voter turn- ney has appeared in the state in
out from cities like Grand Rap- the past few months. Romney
ids and counties on the west most recently visited the state
side of the state. in August, while Obama has not
He-added he might also need appeared here since April.
low voter turnout from pro- Vice President Joe Biden
Obama areas of the state like and Republican vice presiden-
Detroit and Ann Arbor. tial nominee Paul Ryan have
However, Traugott said the campaigned in the state more
combination of high voter turn- recently. Biden held a rally in
out among Republicans and Detroit on Labor Day, and Ryan
low turnout among Democrats spoke at Oakland University on
would be unlikely given polls Oct.8.
showing high turnout among The campaigns have also
Democrats. dispatched surrogates to the
Political Science Prof. state in the final weeks as polls
Michael Heaney agreed that it have revealed a tightening
is possible for Romney to_ win margin for Romney. On Satur-
the state, but noted Michigan day, Obama campaign adviser
is not a particularly influential Broderick Johnson and former
state leading into Election Day. University football player Cato
"Michigan will not be a deci- June, along with U.S. Sen.
sive state," he said. "It's like Carl Levin (D-Mich.) and U.S.
this third layer of icing on the Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.),
cake." advocated for Obama at the
Heaney said he would advise campaign's Ann Arbor head-
voters to focus more on other, quarters.
more critical swing states. Meanwhile, U.S. Sen. John
"It would be really hard McCain (R-Ariz.), the Repub-
for Obama to lose Michi- lican presidential nominee in
gan," Heaney said. "My advice 2008, campaigned for Romney
would be, don't waste your in Royal Oak last week. House
time watching the presidential Majority Leader Eric Cantor "
returns in Michigan. I would °(R-Va.) held a rally fo Romney
say, 'Watch Virginia."'' "at a football tailgatelast month.
Heaney said the areas in the" Romney's wif~e, Ann Rom-
state to watch in particular are ney, also visited Grand Rapids
Oakland and Macomb counties, for a campaign appearance two
which Traugott said are filled weeks ago.

MICHIGAN DAILY
OPINION

Your One-Stop GRADUATION SHOP!
Purchase your CAP & GOWN, YEARBOOK,
ANNOUNCEMENTS, DIPLOMA FRAME and
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CLASS RING!
November 5-9th (Monday - Friday)
10:00am-6:00pm
Student Publications Building
420 Maynard Street
jostens Michiganensian
Y E A R B O O K


4A - Monday, November 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Monday, November 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Re-elect President Obama
Despite disappointments, he deserves a second term


"You can't measure change in speeches. You measure
change in achievements:"
-Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney
speaking at a campaign rally in Iowa on Sunday.
Vanity (un)Fair

4

A

In 2008 The Michigan Daily endorsed then-Sen. Barack Obama
for president of the United States. His platform was inspiring -
his rhetoric, extraordinary. Young people here at the University,
of Michigan and across the country participated in the campaign and
election at historic levels. Many volunteered for Obama's effort with
hopes of "change" - a scope that excitingly included addressing cli-
mate change, civil rights, immigration and health care overhaul.

Four years later, much of the rhetoric hasn't
reflected policy or sweeping change. Politi-
cians, presidents included, can only change the
country so much - Obama has faced a historic
recession, a deadlocked Congress and an ever-
changing world. Obama, however, has done a
remarkable job considering the gridlock and
barriers he has faced thus far.
Obama has most clearly excelled in the realm
of foreign policy.While he hasn't been the pro-
gressive social activist many expected and con-
servatives still fear, he has lived up to many of
his foreign policy initiatives. From successfully
locating and killing Osama bin Laden to wind-
ing down wars the in Iraq and Afghanistan, he
has taken significant strides toward ending our
nation's longest and most expensive foreign
entanglements. Obama also successfully signed
an arms control treaty with Russia, presenting
a united front against Iran's nuclear program,
which marked an important milestone for
nuclear disarmament, despite Iran's agenda.
Obama also promotes a variety of sound
social policies. The politically convenient man-
ner in which Obama endorsed same-sex mar-
riage doesn't change the fact that he is the first
sitting president to do so. Obama extended ben-
efits to same-sex domestic partners of federal
employees, granting the same rights that all
employees and their families enjoy. He has also
appointed the greatest number of openly gay
officials in U.S. history. He also signed off on
the end to the military's "don't ask, don't tell"
policy so those serving our country can do so
with full integrity.
Though Republican presidential nominee
Mitt Romney is using the current state of
the economy as a selling point for his cam-
paign, Obama has handled the economy quite
remarkably. With the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009 - a $787-billion
stimulus package - Obama created between
1.4 million and 3.3 million jobs. He also estab-
lished the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, among other consumer protections
in the wake of Wall Street's collapse as part of
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Con-
sumer Protection Act.
Students, especially those in college, have
also benefitted greatly from Obama's policies
in spite of the economic downturn. In May,
Congress successfully kept the student loan
interest rate subsidy at 3.4 percent with the
president's support.

Perhaps Obama's biggest achievement is
the Affordable Care Act, a milestone that was
decades in the making. By 2022, 33 million pre-
viously uninsured Americans will have health
coverage, according to the Congressional Bud-
get Office. Children can also now stay on their
parents' plans until age 26,, and the act makes
sure those with pre-existing conditions can't be
denied health coverage.
It most likely won't come as a surprise that
The Michigan Daily endorses Obama for presi-
dent - his administration has been successful
against great odds.
Romney, on the other hand, has cam-
paigned on a constantly shifting platform. His
policies and past beliefs have ranged from Tea
Party conservatism to almost liberal progres-
sivism - his Massachusetts health care policy
became the model for Obama's health care
reforms. His lack of consistency begs the ques-
tion: which incarnation would a President
Romney govern as?
Romney also seems to be out of touch with
certain issues, particularly those affecting stu-
dents. During a visit to Otterbein University on
April 27, Romney said to students, "Take a risk.
Get the education. Borrow money, if you have
to, from your parents." This cavalier attitude
isn't the right way to pursue higher education
policy, and this may be indicative of Romney's
ignorance of the financial state of many Ameri-
can families.
However, our endorsement of Obama can't
be as enthusiastic as it was four years ago.
Obama's progressive rhetoric hardly matches
his centrist policies. While it's important for
Obama to work across the aisle, he should also
be more assertive in his beliefs - a president
has to play politics, too.
Obama has the ability to lead this nation
through the challenging and confusing era
we're in - and with another four years we
believe he can do so. Romney's platform repre-
sents backward social policy and dispassionate
economic policies.
Students across the country campaigned
for Obama in 2008 for a good reason. He's
pragmatic and has done his best to help
struggling students. A president must lead
the country - through words and actions -
into a future that improves the quality of life
for Americans and for the rest of the world.
Vote for President Barack Obama to keep us
on this path.

" 0 h em gee. Can you
believe they both
showed up last night
wearing match-
ing dresses, in
the same exact
color? I mean,
come on, that's
totally embar-
rassing, right? I
would've been
utterly morti-
fied. Though SARAH
it's really not a SKALUBA
secret that Ann
looked fiercer in
that fuchsia dress, just look at those
giant blue baubles she flaunted!
Such a statement piece - turned
heads and blew away the competi-
tion! Her rival never stood a chance,
poor thing."
Just another casual convo over-
heard in the depths of your neigh-
borhood sorority house, or the
political gossip following the second
presidential debate? Unfortunately
for us, it's the latter. Welcome to the
realm of today's American politics,
ladies and gentlemen. Where policy
and platform should be front and
center, somehow the media man-
ages to spew completely irrelevant,
almost laughable stories about first
lady Michelle Obama and Republi-
can presidential nominee Mitt Rom-
ney's wife, Ann.
The first lady of the United States
- "FLOTUS" - has frequently been
dubbed a style icon by fashion maga-
zines and news sources. Harper's
Bazaar even coined the nickname
"First Lady of Fashion," noting
Obama is "well on her way to leav-
ing a stylish legacy on par with those
other White House arbiters, Jacque-
line Kennedy and Nancy Reagan."
And who's to say Michelle doesn't
rival the famed Jackie O with her
immense poise, style and grace? It's
a feat in itself to be named one of
Forbes' "Most Fashionable Power
Women of 2012." But where do we

draw the line between "acclaimed
style icon who just so happens to
play a powerful role in American
politics and diplomacy" and the
"fashionista" who has little more to
bring to the table than elegance and
immaculate style?
You won't find The New York
Times or The Washington Post
spending too much time analyz-
ing the choice of tie color President
Obama or Mitt Romney sported at
the last presidential debate. Nor do
we read about their personal styles
and choice of dress - though Mitt
Romney's flawless locks may be a
fair exception.
We're frequently bombarded,
however, with a plethora of blogs,
articles and photos analyzing every-
thing from the first lady's choice of
nail color to the exact cut and fit of
her designer dress. It's time soci-
ety views women first as influential
leaders, not fashion statements.
Let's take a moment to compare
the fierceness of Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton with the demean-
ing gossip surrounding Michelle
Obama and Ann Romney. When
Clinton was interviewed in 2010 by
the American University of Central
Asia, the moderator had the naivet6
to ask her "What designers do you
prefer?" and without skipping a
beat she replied, "Would you ever
ask a man that question?"
Of course not. The answer is
unsurprisingly "no." Our society
couldn't care less about which
designer dressed Obama or 'what
color tie Romney rocked during
the last presidential debate. But the
media attacks each woman with
a ferocity that makes me think
they've confused New York Fashion,
Week with the 2012 U.S. presiden-
tial election.
As Hillary fights to gain the
respect and admiration of those
around her, the first lady and Ann
Romney aren't fortunate enough to
say the same. The Huffington Post

is notorious for publishing articles
aimed solely at the contrasting fash-
ion choices and individual styles of
these leadingladies.
According to the ever trustworthy
HuffPost, "As the presidential race
heats up, the prospective first ladies
continue to duke it out in the fash-
ion department, one-upping each
other on the campaign trail in eye-
catching outfits and trend-setting
nail art." Right, well I'm pretty sure
the last time I saw anyone sport-
ing "nail art" was in middle school,
when bedazzled fingernails were all
the rage.
Women need to
be respected for
their skills and
intelligence.
In all seriousness though, we need
to break down this double standard
that plays such a large role in Ameri-
can politics today. Women deserve
to be respected for the skills and
leadership they bring to the table,
rather than their immaculate style
and dress choice. Both Romney and
Obama may have "obscenely perfect
eyelashes and shiny hair," according
to Vanity Fair, but they still deserve
to be treated as intelligent and pol-
icy-affecting women - not symbols
of beauty and high fashion.
It's just a shame we couldn't see
the two of them in a head to head
debate before our final votes are
cast, because let's be honest, we'd
rather see the first lady and Ann
Romney debate live than read one
more editorial bickering about "who
wore it better."
- Sarah Skaluba can be reached
at sskaluba@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
Tips to take to the booth

BEN LERNER I VIEWOIN
Vote for cleaner air

I'm a 20-year-old student at the University
of Michigan who suffers from asthma. I'm
one of more than 800,000 people in the state
with this disease. Michigan also happens to
be one of the most coal-dependent states in
our nation - 60 percent of our electricity is
generated from coal-fired power plants that
fuel global warming, pollute our air with soot
and smog and poison our water supply with
mercury. Recent studies have shown that pol-
lution due to coal is a leading source of asth-
ma attacks. Clearly, it's not a coincidence that
Michigan has such a high number of asthma
patients.
If we care at all about the public health of
our state, we will end our addiction to this
dirty source of energy. Proposal 3 does just
that by requiring utilities comapnies to get 25
percent of Michigan's electricity from renew-
able sources, like wind and solar by 2025. The
Michigan Nurses Association even endorsed
Proposal 3, calling it "the most important
public health initiative in decades."
The reality is DTE and Consumer's Energy
have pooled more than $5 million to make
sure that we stay reliant on dirty, sources
of energy, airing television advertisements
against the ballot initiative. Overcoming the
influence of our coal-burning utilities is not
going to be easy.
By this point, I'm sure you've seen their
misleading TV advertisements and mail-
ings, stating that Proposal 3 will cost con-
sumers millions. For those skeptical about
who will be paying for all of these changes,

rest assured, it won't be us. There's actually
a clause in the proposal to protect consum-
ers that caps an increase in electrical bills to
1 percent. A 1-percent increase is estimated to
cost only and $1.25 per month.
Furthermore, we can expect decreases in
our electricity bills within the next five years.
This has been proven in the 31 other states
already reaping the benefits of similar pro-
posals. I understand that some of us are for-
tunate enough to not have to worry about our
own electricity bills at this point in time, but
within the next four years it's something that
will affect all of us.
As a Program in the Environment concen-
trator at the University, I am obviously excit-
ed to see Michigan detox from years of coal
pollution. Knowing that my energy bills will
be decreasing at the same time is simply an
added bonus.
Whetheryou are aflamingliberal, extreme-
ly conservative or anywhere in between, this
proposal is something we can all agree on.
The truth is that renewable energy is no lon-
ger the future. It is the present and we cannot
be left behind.
As college students, it's critical that we
make it to the polls. But we can't just vote for
our elected officials. We must also turn over
the ballot and vote on nonpartisan issues like
Proposal 3. I urge you to vote "Yes" on Pro-
posal 3 because not only will it clean our air
and water, but it will also save lives.
Ben Lerner is an LSA junior.

y editors here at the Daily
encourage columnists to
write about issues that
are pertinent to
the University of
Michigan, Ann
Arbor or college
students in gen-
eral. I do my best
to abide by that
rule of thumb as
often as possible. DANIEL
But in case CHARDELL
you haven't
heard, the elec-
tion is tomor-
row. Whatever you think of politics,
the results of this election will have
an impact on all of us and at all lev-
els, from local to national. This will
be the first presidential election in
which most undergraduates are eli-
gible to vote.
So here's what I'll say. I won't
try to sway your vote one way or
the other - I assume you've made
up your mind by now. But I do have
some ideas, some tips that I want to
offer up.
Specifically, I ask of you just
three things:
1. Educateyourself
You wouldn't know it from main-
stream news coverage, but there's
much more to this election than the
heated race for presidency. That's
especially the case in Michigan,
where voters will determine the out-
comes of six state ballot proposals
as well as races for the U.S. Senate,
the U.S. House of Representatives

and the Michigan Supreme Court,
among others.
Don't let these less publicized
- but no less important - elec-
tions catch you off-guard. Before
you walk into the voting booth on
Tuesday, read up on the candidates,
their positions and their values. The
Michigan Daily has made endorse-
ments, as has The Detroit Free Press
and other Michigan news outlets.
Check them out.
An uneducated vote is worse than
no vote at all.
2. Beprepared to live with the con-
sequences ofyour selections.
Though we might (justifiably)
mock politicians for being out of
touch, their decisions have impor-
tant implications. They're empow-
ered to address major tasks: setting
budgets, declaring wars, levying
taxes and investing in education.
Elected leaders exercise power
because voters give it to them. When
casting your vote, ask which candi-
date's views mirror your own. Your
vote shouldn't necessarily define
you, but it does reflect what kind of
future you want to see. Will you be
proud to have made this selection? Is
your candidate "on the right side of
history," as they say?
3. Don't lose track ofpolitics after
the election is over.
I get it. We're all excited the elec-
tion has come to an end. No more
debates, hollow promises or pander-
ing. No more misleading campaign
ads polluting the airwaves. No more
obnoxious, albeit entertaining, can-
A

didates making a mockery of our
democracy - I'm looking at you,
Herman Cain. We've lived with daily
reminders of this election for the
past two years. Now the end is finally
in sight. I think that's a good thing.
Do your

4

a

research, vote
proudly and
stay involved.
However, this doesn't mean we
should ignore politics or policy once
the votes have been counted and the
results are in. Quite the opposite.
More than ever before, we must now
focus on holding those we've elected
accountable. Poor politics thrive on
unaccountability. Given how polar-
izing the 2012 election has been, I
welcome its conclusion, but I'm fear-
ful of the apathy that it has engen-
dered. It shouldn't be too difficult
to follow the president in the news,
but do make a point of keeping tabs
on your representatives in Congress
and your elected local leaders.
I'm as happy as you are that the
election is almost over. But don't
think of that as a free pass to aban-
don the political process altogether.
- Daniel Chardell can be
reached at chardell@umich.edu.


5A - Monday, November 5, 2012'

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

5A - Monday, November 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MANDY KAIN AND JUSTIN WAGNER I
Consider Mideast policy

GIANCARLO BUONOMO I
Obamacare relevant to all

When we go to the polls to vote tomorrow,
there will be many issues to consider. In our
globalized society, more and more of these
issues involve the international community.
Conflicts in the Middle East are especially
important to our country, and there are none
more important than the conflicts between
the Israelis and Palestinians.
There's a global consensus that a two-state
solution is the only viable way to resolve the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The non-Jewish
population of Israel, Gaza and the West Bank
will soon grow too numerous for Israel to
consolidate all the land and still maintain a
majority Jewish population. If Israel was to
deny non-Jewish residents equal rights to
maintain its Jewish character, it would no
longer be democratic. The current status quo
- a blockade of the Gaza Strip, an occupation
of the West Bank and an increasingly intran-
sigent government in Israel proper - cannot
continue if we want Israel to remain both a
Jewish and democratic state.
Republican presidential nominee Mitt
Romney says he will "recommit" the United
States to a two-state solution. He has visited
Israel and met with its leaders, and has vowed
to go against international practice by mov-
ing the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
He appears to be a true friend to Israel on the
surface, but his attitude toward the Palestin-
ians and the resulting implications of negoti-
ating a two-state solution suggest otherwise.
He has said Palestinians have "no interest
whatsoever" in establishing peace with Israel
and claimed all Palestinians are "committed
to the destruction and elimination of Israel."
He ascribed the gap between the economic
success of Israelis and Palestinians to a dif-
ference in culture, completely ignoring the
economic effects of the occupation. These
aren't the words of someone who's truly com-
mitted to a two-state solution.
President Barack Obama has also wrestled
with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. During
his presidential term, he has consistently pro-
vided necessary financial support to ensure the
security of Israel and the Palestinian Author-
ity, contributing to an unprecedented level of
stability in the region. He has supported the
general plan for a peaceful two-state solution
that has long been the standard of Israeli-Pal-
estinian negotiations. But, there has still been
unsatisfactory progress. Peace talks have been
dormant for the past two years, with no signs of
restarting any time soon.
KATJA EDELMAN ( .
Know your ri
Andrew Goodman was 20 years old when he
traveled to Mississippi in 1964 as a part of the
Freedom Summer. His mission was to ensure
suffrage for all Americans. On Goodman's first
day in Mississippi, members of the Ku Klux
Klan murdered him, alongwith fellow activists
Michael Schwerner and James Chaney, to stop
them from registering African-American vot-
ers. Today, 11 ambassadors around the country
work for the Andrew Goodman Foundation to
share the true significance of the right to vote
with others and honor his memory in doing so.
As one of these ambassadors, I want to
encourage Michigan students to realize how
lucky they are to have the chance to exercise
this right on Tuesday. I understand students'
frustrations with the repetitive television
advertisements and endless mailers, but stu-
dents must consider the serious issues at stake
in this election. Issues important to students
include the cost of a college education, the
economy, LGBT rights, health care, reproduc-
tive rights and the environment - to name just
a few. We must make our voices heard and cast
our votes on Tuesday.
Young people often wonder why candidates
don't spend as much time addressing issues like
student loans as they do addressing issues like
Medicare. The simple answer is that politicians
pay attention to voting patterns and, according
to the Huffington Post, 48.5 percent of millen-
nial voters 18 to 24 years old showed up at the
polls. By contrast, 67 percent of those 30 and
older voted, and senior citizens had the highest

voter turnout of any of the age groups.
This year politicians have sought partisan
advantages by making it harder by raising reg-
istration barriers. Voter identification require-
ments are one example. Fortunately, many of
these laws are being overturned in the courts,
but still create confusion among voters that can
only be overcome through education.
We must not let these attempts to hinder
democracy keep us from voting. Rather, we
must show those who try to silence or ignore us
that we are a strong voice. Each and every one

Duringthe final presidential debate on for-
eign policy, Israel was mentioned 35 times by
the two candidates - but only one of those
times was referenced a peaceful solution.
The rest consisted of rhetoric about "our
great friend Israel" or the threat of Iran. Our
alliance with Israel is meaningful, as is the
threat a nuclear-armed Iran poses to Israel.
But instead of rhetoric, our generation needs
plans. This debate was an example of how lax
our politics are concerning this issue.
. J Street supports leaders at all levels of
government who have decisively proven that
they are true friends of Israel by providing
not only financial and military support, but
also by making a concerted effort to achieve a
Palestinian state.
While some may claim this lack of action
stems from intractable parties on both sides,
at J Street we believe a lack of exigency in
the United States to push both parties to the
negotiating table is partly to blame. Other
concerns, domestic and foreign, have side-
lined earlier efforts. It is up to us to remind
our leaders in government of the necessity of
a two-state solution.
J Street UMich has been doing this
through our Two State Semester Campaign.
We have mobilized the masses by collect-
ing more than 300 postcards that we'll soon
submit to Congress. The postcards, signed by
students, state: "We Support Vigorous U.S.
Leadership to Achieve a Two-State Solution
to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict."
We have also mobilized the leaders on this
campus. More than two-dozen student lead-
ers have stood up and publicly declared their
support for the statement. These are leaders
from diverse backgrounds - from the ACLU
to the Detroit Partnership, from Hillel to
Crowd 313, from the American Movement for
Israel to the Delta Gamma Phi pre-law soror-
ity. These students all approach this issue
from different places, but they all agree that
now, more than ever, the United States needs
to take an active role in facilitating fair nego-
tiations between Israelis and Palestinians.
Tomorrow, when you vote, keep in mind
our campaign and consider which of the
presidential candidates has shown true sup-
port for a two-state solution.
Mandy Kain is a Biomedical graduate student
and Justin Wagner isvan LSA junior.
This viewpoint was written on
behalf of J Street UMich.
ghts as a voter
of us hasa duty to go out and vote Tuesday.
I urge students to make a plan. The polls
open at 7 a.m. and close at 8 p.m. Decide exactly
when you're going, and I strongly recommend
filling out a sample ballot beforehand. Know
the candidates, what they stand for and how
they'll represent you. Learn about the initia-
tives and the judges. This is your future - make
sure you're in control of it.
Voter information
Voter information can be found at http://
publius.org. See your ballot, know the issues.
Identification
A Michigan voter needs proper identifica-
tion to vote. Any the of following will suffice:
Michigan driver's license or state ID card, a
current driver's license from another state,
Federal or state government-issued photo ID,
U.S. Passport, Military photo ID, tribal photo
ID or Mcard.
Michigan anticipates that not all voters will
have an ID. Any voter who forgets his or her ID
or does not have an acceptable form of ID may
sign an affidavit affirming that he or she is the
voter - simply request an affidavit from a poll
worker. Avoid filling out a provisional ballot at
all costs.
With so many voting places, it's inevitable
that not all poll workers will understand the
law. If a poll worker tells you that you cannot
vote because you forgot your ID or that your
out-of-state or student ID is invalid, insist on
casting a non-provisional ballot.
Voting on Election Day

Election Day is Nov. 6. Polls will be open
from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Find your polling location
at https://webapps.sos.state.mi.us/mivote/.
For more information about voting in Michi-
gan or another state, check out the student
voter guides available through the Campus
Vote Project website.
Katja Edelman is an LSA sophomore.
This column was written with support
from the Andrew Goodman Foundation
and the Campus Vote Project.

I'd like to begin this viewpoint
with a personal anecdote about a
time when I, or someone I know,
was denied access to health care.
But, I don't have one, and therein
lies the point. As a student, like
many others at the University, for
whom health care access has never
been an issue, President Barack
Obama's health care bill wouldn't
seem to directly relate to me. This
couldn't be further from the truth.
After several unsuccessful
attempts at health care reform, most
notably President Bill Clinton's in
1993, Congress finally passed the
Patient Protection and Afford-
able Care Act, commonly known as
"Obamacare," in 2010. The bill essen-
tially overhauls the process by which
Americans purchase and maintain
health insurance. The major reforms
of the Affordable Care Act include
prohibiting insurance companies
from dropping their clients when
they get sick, banning dollar caps
on yearly and lifetime coverage and
allowing children to stay on their
parents' insurance plan until they're
26 years old.
The last provision is of particu-
lar importance to students like me.
Under the old health care regulations,
I may not have been covered for the
duration of my time at the University.
Many Americans in undergraduate
and graduate programs had to worry

about the threat of illness while try-
ing to earn a degree. Thanks to the
Affordable Care Act, these worries
no longer affect us.
Beyond its impacts on me, I'm
proud to support the President that
ended discrimination based on pre-
existing conditions. For those Ameri-
cans who may need health care
coverage the most, insurance compa-
nies mistreated those with long-term
illness and pre-existing conditions.
Obama understands that affordable
health care is a basic human neces-
sity and took care to ensure that all
Americans would be covered.
The opposition has been elitist
and unrealistic with its treatment
of health care reform. Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney
stated in 2012, "Obamacare must be
repealed - inits entirety." He moved
back from his remarks this Septem-
ber, when he stated, "I'm not getting
rid of all of health care reform."
I view this as a lose-lose for Rom-
ney. His first comment indicates
that he does not understand how
much Obamacare helps' Americans
who struggle to get health care.
His second comment indicates that
he understands that Americans are
beginning to realize the value of the
ACA, and that he must, as he has
done time and time again, change
his opinion.
How can we trust Romney with

our health care when we don't
know his real opinion? The other
side has continually put politics
ahead of the interests of the nation.
They're unable to compromise on
what may be the greatest piece of
progressive legislation since the
civil rights reforms of the 1960s,
despite the Supreme Court's June
ruling of the constitutionality of
the ACA's individual mandate, a
vital-piece of the legislation.
The ACA isn't just a dense poli-
cy package or a campaign tactic.
It's a long overdue service to the
American people that we should all
embrace as students. I encourage
you to look beyond party rhetoric
and to truly examine the benefits
American citizens receive under
the provisions of the ACA. If you're
a student who is worried about
finding employment after college,
feel relieved that the ACA will
allow you to stay on your parents's
coverage. And if you're a concerned
citizen, feel proud that we finally
live in a country where access to
health care isn't based on class.
If you believe in the America that
provides opportunities for all of its
citizens, then your decision is easy
- re-elect Obama on Tuesday.
Giancarlo Buonomo isan LSA
freshman and member of University's
chapter of College Democrats.

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.
Hoekstra Csfresh perspective

W alking with former
Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R-
Mich.), you'll quickly
see that he's a
stark contrast to
his Democratic
opponent, Sen.
Debbie Stabe-
now (D-Mich.).
Hoekstra pres-
ents himself
as a business,
common sense JAMES
and solutions- BRENNAN
based conserva-
tive, a man who
has spent half his life in the private
sector and the other half in govern-
ment. A graduate of the University's
MBA program, he was a success-
ful businessman who helped take a
medium-sized company to Fortune
500 status. Hoekstra first entered
the House of Representatives in a
shocking primary upset of a long-
serving fellow Republican - he
entered government willing to fight
his own party.
Stabenow, on the other hand,
has been in government for the vast
majority of her adult life, first win-
ning an election while in graduate
school at Michigan State University.
She went on to be the only person to
serve in both houses of the Michigan
state legislature and both houses of
Congress. Not necessarily a bad
thing, but Stabenow fits the bill of a
"career politician."
Hoekstra believes his credentials
as a businessman who knows how
Washington works uniquely qualify
him - a man who has new ideas and
knows how to implement them. His
agenda is filled with the typical spiel
of this year's Republican platform:
reform the tax code, focus on energy
independence, balance the budget
and get America back to work. In an
interview with The Michigan Daily,
Hoekstra pointed to the shortcom-

ings of the Obama administration and
congressional Democrats. Unemploy-
ment remains high, and even for grad-
uates of a school like the University,
jobs are hard to come by. He strongly
believes the country is headed in the
wrong direction - and Stabenow, he
claims, is a part of that problem.
I'll admit to my own liberal bias
and major fundamental disagree-
ments with Hoekstra (this is, after
all, an opinion column) but he had
a lot of very valid, very intrigu-
ing points. Foremost among them
were his opinions on higher educa-
tion. Usually a weak spot for bud-
get-hawk business conservatives, I
found Hoekstra's ideas to be some-
what compelling.
He claimed that government can-
not continue to subsidize high-cost,
low-reward schools, and therefore
students must take the initiative to
refuse invitations for admission.
Essentially, Hoekstra hopes the
market will signal to schools their
costs are too high and even commit-
ted students are notwilling to putup
with their outrageous prices.
I have my qualms with this argu-
ment, as I'm suremany do - but it
makes sense in a way. Colleges - the
University included - have grown
far too comfortable with shifting
costs to students (rather than cut-
ting them on research, professors,
and administration) and forcing us to
pay more and more. As a legislature,
Hoekstra believes it's his role to stop
subsidizing such an arrangement.
As one would imagine, Hoeks-
tra's free market-oriented solutions
spread much farther than educa-
tion. He believes that health care
must return to state and private
control, where it will be cheaper
and more efficient. Government cer-
tainly has a role to play, encouraging
growth, rewarding people who take
risks - especially entrepreneurs -
and utilizing and exploring its own

resources for energy production.
However, Hoekstraholds the line on
private industry. It's business, not
government that creates jobs. Fur-
thermore, Hoekstra believes this
is what the American people want.
He reminded me of the sweeping
congressional takeover by Republi-
cans in 2010, proving to him that the
American people are not happy.
Although seemingly very parti-
GOP Senate
candidate strong
on education.
san, Hoekstra assures us that he's
about solutions, not politics. His
plans aren't just for Republicans and
he hopes to work with anymember of
Congress who's trying to help move
the country forward. He cited the
work of former President Bill Clin-
ton and Speaker of the House Newt
Gingrich, who were able to balance
the budget in the 1990s through
bipartisan support. Hoekstra hopes
to be part of a similar situation in the
future, one where Republicans and
Democrats come together to build
an effective government.
What Hoekstra failed to point
out about that same administration,
however, is the bad stuff - the same
people who "worked together" also
presided over the government shut-
downs of 1995 and 1996. I hope that
he - and Stabenow, for that matter
- agree that deadlock to such an
extent is something neither of them
would allow.
- James Brennan can be reached
at jmbthree@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than 300 words and
must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do not print anonymous letters.
Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.

A


The Michigan Daily = michigandaily.com

Monday, November 5, 2012 - 6A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 5, 2012 - 6A

Mitt Romney, left, shakes hands with his father, then Michigan Gov. George Romney, as he graduates high school in 1965.

From Page 1A
Hills that is Romney's alma mater,
allegiances remain divided.
It was - among Cranbrook's
Tudor-style brick and stone build-
ings, nestled on 319 acres of con-
verted farmland, that the future
presidential candidate began sev-
enth grade classes in 1959.
In May, the Washington Post
article investigated Romney's
time at Cranbrook beyond his'
participation in the glee club,
the cross country team and his
role as hockey manager. Through
interviews with his classmates,
the Post detailed several Rom-
ney pranks, including an incident
where Romney allegedlyharassed
a homosexual student.
"That definitely brought extra
media attention," Cranbrook
senior George Gheordunescu, co-
president of Cranbrook's chapter
of the Teenage Republicans, said.
"You can't go to Cranbrook and
not feel connected to the student
body. I would like Mitt Romney
to be more open about his years at
Cranbrook. He doesn't talk about
his years in school."
To meet the demands of jour-
nalists digging into Romney's
Cranbrook years, the school cre-
ated a page on its website to field
requests for information and
maintains a policy of not com-
menting on the election..
"It would certainly be a sense
of enormous pride to have one of.
our alumni elected to the high-
est office in the land," the web-
site states. "However, as a matter
of policy, Cranbrook Schools does
not and will not endorse any polit-
ical ideology, party or candidate."
Karen Santana-Garces, the
president of Cranbrook's Club
for Liberals and Democrats, said
though students are excited about
his status as an alum, it hasn't been
a critical driving force in influenc-
ing student support.
"It is exciting that he is an
alumni, but that's not really the
main support that he has," Club
for Liberals and Democrats presi-
dent Karen Santana-Garces said.
"I think it's more about your polit-
ical beliefs."
Gheordunescu said it's hard to
tell where the majority of student
support lies. Like Santana-Garces,
he said Romney's Cranbrook roots
haven't played a significant role.
"A lot of people say it's cool that
Romney went to our school, but I
don't think they are going to make
their decision based on that," Ghe-
ordunescu said. "I don't think that
has as much of an effect as people

might think."
Both Gheordunescu and Santa-
na-Garces emphasized the econ-
omy and college affordability as
issues most important to students.
"Being able to afford a college
education is a very important
issue," Gheordunescu said. "Once
we graduate from college, we want
to be able to find good jobs and
start our own lives."
Cranbrook tuition itself is com-
parable to that of a college educa-
tion. While the school provides
scholarships and financial aid, and
bases tuition around a family's
income level, regular tuition costs
$28,300 per year for families earn-
ing more than $150,000 annually.
Still, Cranbrook prides itself on
a diverse student body, contrib-
uting to divided electoral senti-
ments.
While the Club for Liberals and
Democrats and Teenage Repub-
licans are working to educate
students and encourage eligible
voters to go to the polls, Santa-
na-Garces said she notices more
Romney support outside of Cran-
brook's gates in Bloomfield Hills.
When driving down Lone Pine
Road, a Bloomfield Hills street
lined with trees and large homes,
Santana-Garces said he she sees
plenty of Romney-Ryan yard signs
flankingthe roadside.
Aaron Kall, director of the Uni-
versity of Michigan Debate team,
said Obama currently holds a lead
over Romney in the state, as Nov.
1 poll data released by the Detroit
Free Press and WXYZ-TV shows
Obama holds 48 percent of state
support, to Romney's 42 percent.
Kall noted that while the lead
is narrow, neither campaign has
spent much time in the state, with
Obama's last appearance in April
and Romney's in August.
In 2008, Obama won Oakland
County by 15 points, leading Mich-
igan by a similar margin in the
final resu'lts. Kall estimates Obama
will carry Oakland County, where
Cranbrook is located, this year by
five or six points, the same margin
Obama is polling in the state.
"The fact that Romney-Ryan
have recently spent more time in
long shot states like Pennsylvania
and Minnesota led me to believe
the campaign doesn't think Michi-
gan is currently in play," Kall said.
Jermaine House, the Obama
campaign's deputy press secretary
.in Michigan, said Bloomfield Hills
has strong support for the presi-
dent and the campaign is working
every day to turn out voters on
Election Day.
"Michiganders, including those

in Bloomfield Hills, stand with
the President because he stood
with them during the dark days
of the auto industry crisis," House
said. "The auto industry supports
one in five Michigan jobs, so the
President's decision to rescue the
industry bodes well with Michi-
ganders."
For many in Michigan, Rom-
ney's 2008 New York Times Op-Ed
titled "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt"
was difficult to reconcile in a state
whose economy is driven by the
auto industry.
In the article, Romney empha-
sized his love for American cars,
his Detroit roots and his father's
position as chairman and president
of American Motors Corporation. .
"In a managed bankruptcy, the
federal government would pro-
pel newly competitive and viable
automakers, rather than seal their
fate with a bailout check," Romney
wrote in 2008.
House said Romney's plan
would have cost one million jobs, a
crippling blow for the state.
The Michigan Republican
Party, the acting spokesmen of the
Romney campaign in Michigan,
could not be reached for comment.
While it is uncertain whether
Romney's branding as Michigan's
native son will deliver votes in
Bloomfield Hills, Romney's Detroit
roots, along with his much-dis-
cussed views on the auto-bailout,
have generated significant media
attention focused on Metro Detroit
and Cranbrook.
Romney has visited the campus
of his alma mater in recent years.
The school's website said Romney
las visited the campus in 2005 to
receive an award from its alumni
association. In 1995, Romney deliv-
ered Cranbrook's commencement
speech, encouraging students to
make choices consistent with their
deepest values.
"Will you choose to sit on the
sidelines in the great battle for
justice, equality of opportunity,
decency, and freedom?" Romney
said.
Almost 20 years later, Rom-
ney will spend the 24 hours days
awaiting America's choice in plac-
es like Bloomfield Hills and other
towns across the country.
Toward the end of Romney's
commencement speech, he said:
"Winning is not the only success;
entering the fray is success, in and
of itself."
On Tuesday, voters will learn
whether Romney will succeed in
Bloomfield Hills, in Michigan and
in attaining the highest office in
the nation.

POLLS
From Page lA
firing up voters.
All four men touched on the
state's importance in the election,
sharing their common confidence
that ultimately Obama will win
the state, as he did in 2008.
Johnson said the Obama cam-
paign is not especially concerned
with narrowingthe Michigan poll
results, noting that it's part of an
inevitable trend across the coun-
try to see the race getting more
competitive in the final days.
However, despite the general
air of confidence, Debbie Dingell,
John Dingell's wife and a Demo-
cratic activist, and Levin empha-
sized that every vote matters.
Levin recalled volunteering
after graduating from law school
for John Kennedy's 1960 cam-
paign by driving veterans to poll-
ing places, sometimes spending
hours driving one voter.
"(I thought) what am I doing -
four hours, one vote? That night,
Kennedy won by one vote per pre-
cinct - my veteran." Levin said.
All were in agreement that
the way to garner support was
through continuing to pursue
a vigorous ground campaign,
which entails canvassing and
making phone calls. In a press
release, the Obama campaignsaid
it has created the largest grass-
HOLOCAUST
From Page 1A
II with LSA sophomores Mary
Bari and Nicole Berman and LSA
junior Blake Orman.
In accordance with his note,
Vine spoke slowly and eloquently
as he shared his story. When he
was 12 years old, his family was
taken from their home in Ciecha-
now, Poland where they lived in a
ghetto before traveling by. cattle
car to Auschwitz in 1942. He
remained in concentration camps
until 1945, when his camp near
Munich, Germany was liberated
by American forces.
Vine was the.only member of
his family to survive, losing his
parents and four brothers in the
genocide.
Vine described that the words
his father told him in the crowded
cattle car on the third day of their
four-day transport to Auschwitz
served as his motivation to sur-
vive in the camps.
"He leaned over to me so my
mother shouldn't hear, and he
says, 'Son, I apologize for telling
you that the Germans are won-
derful people.' And then he low-
ered his voice and said, 'We are
going to die here. We are going to
get killed. I leave you a command-
ment: you must survive. You must
do it. Because no one in the world
will ever believe that you are tell-
ing the truth,"' Vine said.
Vine was separated from his
parents after arriving in the
camp. He said the words of his
father echoed in his mind after
arriving at Auschwitz, and about
10 days later he devised a plan to
leave his bunk at night and get
shot by a guard.
"As I was going out trying to
get myself killed, I heard those
words from my father, and I knew
I couldn't do it. And I'm here to
tell the story myself," Vine said.

"The reason I try to talk slowly
is because I want you to believe
me, and what could be more.than
showing you documents, real doc-
uments, that I found after the war
hidden in Auschwitz, that told the
story."
Vine then referred to the two
scanned documents in his manila
envelope: the records made bythe
Germans upon his arrival to Aus-
chwitz.
After liberation, distant fam-
ily members brought Vine to the
United States in 1947, where he
lived in New York before settling
in the Detroit suburbs in 1952,
FINAL PUSHES
From Page 1A
occasionally be confusing.
"A lot of students are con-
fused about what the actual
stances are, whether it beon the
economy or social issues," Bren-
nan said. "So we're informing
people. We're informing them
about the candidates and about
the six Michigan ballot pro-
posals, which is really impor-
tant because a lot of people
don't take the time out to really
understand how (the proposals)
are going to affect them."

roots effort in Michigan history.
Johnson said while the cam-
paign has the resources to put
money toward television ads,
which remains a key strategy of
winning support in many states,
community organization is still a
crucial weapon.
In June's opinion, a similar
grassroots effort is what put
Obama in the White House in
2008. He emphasized the impor-
tance of young people turning up
to the polls, since there is a wan-
ing interest in politics within
today's generation.
"People that are doing all the
grassroots level work are the peo-
ple that are really going to make
the difference in the election
because we saw last time around
that when people actually got out
and voted, wow people (were)
taken back ... the voice of America
(was) actually being heard," June
said. "Now we have to continue
with that same energy, with that
same passion."
Field organizers and volun-
teers initially focused on regis-
tering people to vote. However, at
this point in the race, their efforts
through "Get Out the Vote" have
been more focused on encourag-
ing registered voters to turn up at
the polls, regardless of their polit-
ical affiliation. Johnson said early
voting is somethingthe campaign
is continually encouraging.
"We've been working really
according to his biography in the
event program.
Vine found his Auschwitz
records after returning to the
camp for atourlaterinhis life. For
him, the documents serve as key
pieces of evidence in illustrating
the truth of his own experiences
and the experiences of millions
of Jewish people throughout
Europe.
Vine added that though the
events were difficult to speak
about at first, he now finds inspi-
ration sharing his story with oth-
ers.
"You got a happy Holocaust
survivor," Vine said. "I'm living
with hope ... and the greatness
you can do for mankind and for
yourself by being kind."
Another survivor at the event
was Albert Fein. Fein said he
and his family were deported to
a ghetto in Ukraine in 1941 and
managed to escape death by pre-
tending they were Christians,
ultimatelyreceivingidentification
from the Germans verifying they
weren't Jewish, an act that saved
their lives.
Fein's daughter Renee, who
helped bring survivors to the
event through her work at the
Program for Holocaust Survivors
& Families Foundation in Detroit,
explained why her father has
attended the event at Hillel since
its conception.
"He feels it's important to tell
his story to younger children,"
Renee Fein said, "The story is
really important for them, for all
the survivors, to let people know
what happened to them because
they are the last of the survivors.
The youngest survivors right now
are in their late 70s, and in five,
10 years they are going to be gone
and it's our responsibility to tell
their stories."
For Business senior Lindsay
Davis and LSA senior Jessica
Randel, the highlight of the event

was talking with the two survi-
vors at their table, Lola Taubman
and Kathy Sattler.
Both survivors, currently 87
years old, met in Auschwitz as
teenagers in 1943 when they were
assigned as bunkmates. The two
women were separated before
the end of the war, not sure if the
other had survived. Miraculously,
they found each other by pure
coincidence in Detroit in 1953.
"I met her on a street in
Detroit," Sattler said. "I said to my
husband she looks familiar ... so I
went over and tapped her on the
shoulder and she turned around."
Similarly, College Democrats
is busy reaching out to students
and the community. LSA senior
Lauren Coffman, the communi-
cations director of the College
Democrats, said they are less
focused on persuasion and edu-
cation and more heavily empha-
size getting their supporters to
the polls on Tuesday.
"The last four days before
the election, our campaigns are
really focused on getting out
the vote," Coffman said. "We
had persuasion earlier in the
election cycle, but these last
few days (are) really going to be
about making sure those people

hard for early vote and absentee
balloting is important - we think
that gives us an advantage in a
number of states ... Election Day
is no longer just a day, that's for
sure." Johnson said.
Dingell's confidence that
the Obama campaign will take
Michigan stems from his belief
that come Election Day, voters
will be able to see the differences
between the two candidates.
"I have never seen, in my long
political career, such desperate
abandonment of the truth or resort
to falsehood as I have seen on the
part of the Romney-Ryan Repub-
lican campaign," Dingell said. "I
have never heard folks stray so far
fromthe truth ...the Romney cam-
paign seems to take its foot out of
its mouth only to change feetL"
Dingell said General Motors
and Chrysler denial of Romney's
recent claim - that their compa-
nies are sending jobs to China -
marks the first time that they have
openly criticized a Republican
politician, a turning point which
he said emphasizesthe misconcep-
tion characterizing the campaign.
With a select few states ulti-
mately deciding the election,
Johnson admitted that winning
Ohio was so important that he
was going to temporarily change
out of the Michigan apparel he
was proudly sporting when he
traveled to the Buckeye state that
afternoon.
Sitting across from the two
women, Davis said their story
seemed surreal.
"It's something you only hear
about in movies about reconnect-
ing in the middle of a street eight
years later," Davis said. "I think
it's beautiful that they come to
an event like this and are still sit-
ting at the same table and we can
hear that story from both of them.
It just says a lot about the human
spirit and persevering and con-
tinuingon."
Many students attending the
event had family ties to the Holo-
caust through their grandparents
who were survivors. Kappy, who
provided opening remarks at
the luncheon, said all four of her
grandparents survived the Holo-
caust and organizing the event
helped her continue sharig the
stories of her family.
"It's important for my family to
have this connection and for me
to continue telling my friends and
strangers," Kappy said. "(Survi-
vors) here know my grandparents,
and they know my name and they
love hearing, 'Oh, you're so and
so's grandchild.' I've grown up
having survivors as grandparents
and it's easy for me to connect
with these survivors."
A new edition to the event this
year was a violin performance by
School of Music, Theater & Dance
freshman Maxwell Karmazyn.
Karmazyn's grandparents are
also both survivors who lived in
a military internment camp in
Morocco. Karmazyn, who is a
violin performance major, shares
his musical talent with his late
grandfather.
"My grandfather was a violin-
ist and he used his violin playing
to help him survive the Holocaust
by teaching the commandant's
daughter of the concentration
camp how to play the violin for
better care for both he and his
wife, my grandmother," Karma-

zyn said.
Karmazyn closed the lun-
cheon after a ceremonious can-
dle lighting with a performance
of the theme from the movie
Schindler's List, composed by
Itzhak Perlman.
Schwartz said the Conference
on the Holocaust Committee will
host another annual event in the
spring for Holocaust Remem-
brance Day, where the group will
read the names of those who per-
ished, and they plan to organize
a trip to the Holocaust Memo-
rial Center in Farmington Hills,
Mich. later this year.
we've already persuaded are
getting out there and making
their voices heard at the ballot
box."
She added that College Dem-
ocrats is holding an Election
Eve rally at 8 p.m. Monday with
speakers including Sen. Deb-
bie Stabenow (D-Mich.) to U.S.
Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.).
"The event should be a lot of
fun," Coffman said. "We will
also be sending people out with
promotional material afterward
to make sure that they make
their voices heard across cam-
pus and to get them pumped up
for voting the next day."

I

WILL ROMNEY OR OBAMA
WIN TOMORROW?
USE #UMICH VOTES
To share your thoughts on the 2012 election with
us.
We'll be compiling tweets and Instagram posts
online at
www.michigandaily.com/news/vote


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 5, 2012 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 5, 2012 - 7A

Political Portraits
Students share their thoughts on Tuesday's election and discuss
who they plan to vote for -if they decide to vote at all.
By Erin Kirkland and Marissa McClain

I'm voting for Barack Obama because...
"Obama wants to keep all of the
funding we already have for schools and
Romney talks about cutting that out.I benefit
from financial aid, that's pretty much how Iam
a student here."
y George Goddard, Business and LSA senior

IIIEE an
I'm voting for Obama because...
"I think when you look at what the president has
terms of health care and the economy I just real
hes moving the country in the right direction a
continue to move forward instead of turning-th
back 50 years."
- Sara Stevens, Public Policy graduate sti

I'm not voting because...
really seems to be able to cut a budget
I guess I'm allfor affordable health care
vquestion is how are you going to payfor
we find someone that can answer that I
don't really want to vote.

I'm voting for Obamabecause...
"Just in general, I don't think anyone can do a
better job at running the country than Obama,
obviously things aren't great, the economy can
be better, butI don't see how Romney is going to
be better atfixing it."
- Alex Weiss, LSA freshman


8A - Monday, November 5, 2012T nd

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


FILM REVIEW
Denzel soars in
captivating 'Flight'

Director Zemeckis
excellently creates
empathy for antihero
By ANDREW MCCLURE
Daily Arts Writer
A broken hero is more redun-
dant than the busty co-ed in
contemporary cinema. We sym-
pathize with
his melancholy
only because it
"shouldn't have 1
happened to
him." Any Dis- AtQuality16
ney Channel and Rave
Original Movie
could produce Paramount
a salty dis-
charge front even Tony Soprano's
eyes. But the void? Empathy. In
"Flight," a lofty Denzel Washing-
ton shoots for exactly that: the
antihero worthy of empathy.
Accomplished director Rob-
ert Zemeckis ("Forrest Gump")
beautifully packages a compel-
ling character study in which
deceit trumps all. In Forrest
Gump, we saw an ideal man
born with external deficiencies.
"Flight" presents Whip Whita-
ker (played with oozing and toxic
poise by Denzel Washington,
"Training Day") equipped with
the ideal exterior and a hugely
flawed mental game. Viewers
sympathized with Forrest, but
they probably empathize with
the equally right and sinful Whip
of "Flight."
Whip is an all-smiles, cool-
as-a-cucumber veteran pilot. An
everyday flight takes a horrify-
ing turn when heavy turbulence
evolves into a nosedive, free-fall
with about a hundred on-board
passengers. Whip quarterbacks
an incredible last-second effort
to flip the plane upside down in
order to regain a coasting glide
- with- no working engines, In
a blood-pumping scene, cockpit
alarms sound uncontrollably as
the plane suffers a rough landing

PARAMOUNT
They put a bandaid on my forehead. No one puts bandaids on my forehead.

in a field. Five casualties. Whip
is a hero. Things are hunky-
dory until the toxicology reports
reveal Whip's 0.24 BAC and a
positive cocaine test.
Not such a hero anymore,
right?
The remaining film probes into
all the reasons we should give up
on Whip: his incessant and ubiq-
uitous alcoholism, estrangement
toward his son and an intractable
inclination to lie and lie and lie.
Zemeckis is smart - he wants to
build a collective aversion aimed
at a truly likable yet corrupt
character. He wants the charac-
ter to earn your trust by the end,
without guaranteeing anything
more than a downward-spiraling
debacle of pathetic proportions.
This game of self-identity, addic-
tion and egoism paints a poeti-
cally dreary picture that begs for
rebirth.
In the most moving scene of
the film, Whip drunkenly and
spontaneously returns home to
his divorced wife and distant son.
It ends badly - his wife threaten-
ing to call the police, the son vig-
orously trying to wrestle out of
Whip's grasp, and Whip-laughing
as he forcibly embraces his son,
kissing his forehead. This emo-
tive climax showcases a major
thematic element in Whip's
crooked mentality: holding on. to
what is unrightfully his.
Surprisingly, the glimmer of
enlightenment comes from the

minor role of a charming cancer
patient during Whip's time in
the hospital. Knowing his end is
within weeks, he softly says that
"death gives you perspective." A
message that resonates through-
out as people deem the plane mir-
acle "an act of God."
The' depressing moments
are somehow inspiring though,
like an Edgar Allen Poe work in
which the bad revives the good.
Luckily, Whip's buddy-slash-
drug-dealer (played hilariously
by John Goodman, "The Artist")
counterbalances the attitude of
"Flight" via his comic slights,
like dropping off "stroke mags"
for a hospitalized Whip.
Even the wrongful acts of
Whip are brilliantly made
cool, courtesy of a dynamite
soundtrack. The Rolling Stones'
"Gimme Shelter," Joe Cocker's
"Feeling Alright" and similar
toe-tappers flood the scenes of
white line-sniffing and booze-
guzzling. It's all part of the plan:
make the uncool cool. A pretty
simple task with Washington at
the helm.
"Flight" will soar confidently
above mass expectations. Den-
zel junkies will continue to feed
the addiction. Denzel unbeliev-
ers (Do they even exist?) will be
converted. Whetherloaded or not
entirely sober, Whip's words, ges-
ticulations and undying ego don't
make us cry for him - we root for
him.

UNIVERSAL
"Where's the buffet?"
Fight sequences can't
save feeble 'Iron Fists'

ByCONRADI
For the]
First-time di
encounter a pro
cially in the acti
films are too
centralized on
fight scenes and
action sequenc-
es, leaving the
story to wallow
in mediocrity.
Unfortunately
for RZA, direc-
tor, writer and
star of "Man
with the Iron
Fists," this
problem is not
visually impressi
unable to capturi
imagination due
plot and underder
ters.
The film is set
lage, a small come
century China. T
(RZA, "America
explains the area
clans, includingt
for whom he ma
He hopes to earn
to be able to skip t

FOREMAN
Daily
rectors often
blem - espe-
ion genre. The

Silk, his girlfriend and local
prostitute. When the Lion Clan
is charged with the task to pro-
tect government gold as it passes
through Jungle Village, the town
becomes a battleground.

The Man RZA-score
With the almost makes it
IronFists worth it.
At Quality16
and Rave
Universal Greedy for glory and gold,
members of the Lion Clan assas-
sinate their leader and decide
avoided. While to take the gold for themselves.
ve, the film is Meanwhile, a British soldier
e its audience's named Jack . Knife (Russell
to a confusing Crowe, "Gladiator") with a tal-
veloped charac- ent for violence and unknown
motivations has checked into the
in Jungle Vil- local brothel owned by Madam
munity in 19th- Blossom (Lucy Liu, "Charlie's
the Blacksmith Angels"). With the Lion Clan
in Gangster") holed up in the brothel to defend
's four warring " their recently acquired wealth,
the Lion Clan, it's up to Jack and The Black-
akes weaponry. smith to seek revenge and justice
enough money against the ruthless Lion Clan.
own with Lady The film features several very

impressive action sequences, but
unfortunately the story is lost in
a fury of fists. The murky plot is
often inexplicable, which may be
attributed to RZA's inexperience.
Complementary performances by
veterans Crowe and Liu are not
quite enough to make up for the
rather lackluster and dull per- S
formances by the rest of the cast.
Even the main characters suf-
fer from a lack of development,
and while action films do not
necessarily require high drama,
this absence leaves the audience
without a vested interest in the
story and turns "The Man with
the Iron Fists" into more of a
kung-fu montage than a film.
Where the film finds redemp-
tion is in the soundtrack and the
visual aesthetics. Produced by
RZA, who is the leader of the Wu
Tang Clan, the soundtrack fea-
tures a pleasing blend of modern
rock, hip hop and, of course, Wu
Tang songs to enrich the clas-
sic sound of.kung-fu movies. As
a longtime fan of kung-fu films,
RZA also did not disappoint in
the genre's defining aspect - the
fight sequences are impressively
well choreographed and very
entertaining. One in particular
features Madam Blossom slaying 6
through a dozen Lion Clan mem-
bers with a Chinese war fan.
As promised by the "Quentin
Tarantino presents" heading on
the movie, "Iron Fists" deliv-
ers violence and gore in droves.
While the film does not match a
Tarantino production in witty
dialogue and interesting story-
lines, the brutal death scenes and
sprays of blood satisfy even the
most sadistic viewers.
Ultimately though, "The Man
With the Iron Fists" is anunder-
whelming directorial debut for
RZA. However, for viewers seek- .
ing a bloodbath with entertain-
ing, physics-defying fights, there
are worse ways to spend an hour
and a half
REMEMBER,
REMEMBER

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

G
G
C
r
C
r,
n,
:
4
4
4
4
4
4

RELEASE DATE- Monday, November5, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword PL
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 8 Magazine with a 41 Hula swivelers 54 The"l" i
1 Chinesetemple Stylewatch spinoff 46 Family-friendly, Abbr.
instrument 9 Eat noisily, as filmwise 55 End-of-tl
5Nestling noises soup .47 Germancoal letters
10 Leave atlthe altar 10 Elbows rudely valley 56 Scandin
14 Diva's showpiece 11 Inthe morning" 48 Native American literaryc
15Group of experts radio host groups 58 Bakery<
16 Pierre's 12Security device 50 Sierra Nevada 59 Happy
possessive 13 _torch: patio resort 60 Spreadi
17 Returmon one's light 52 Tax-sheltered trees
investment, in 18 Finish the laundry accts. 62 Ancient
slang 19 Perform another 53 Store opening 63 Yiddishr
20 Replay technique, MRIlon time dismay
briefly 230ldmanor
21 Relaxing time in Newman ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P
the chalet 24Ragamuffin MA SIBASR 5111
22 "There oughta 26 Orange _ tea CM AR NBA R A P O L
be_" 27OldDodgeautos C L E A R N A I L P 0
25 H1-spinners 28 Horseshoe-. J O G G 1 N G S T R O L
26 Plain dessert shaped fastener 0 H GEE P AEA N
30 Playing decks 29 "The Trial" writer A A S D A I R Y T
35 Diplomatic bldg. Franz S S E P U P A S C R
36Juanita'saunt 31Furthermore F R E E H S H 1
37 Yukon's country 32Synagogue B L A I R B T E A
38 Prada imitation, scholar
perhas 33 Times tasend in CGLOWSN HOARtD
42 Moregreasy thetroops S H A U N D OYIL E
43Extendedfamily 34"Full House" K I T T P E N CIE M
44 "Bonvoyage!" c-trob A NA R OLCEO Lcc
45 Fry-sm I 37P namaosser T E N S I L E I T R C N
4mm y and 3 a. in Paris E S C A P E A T T E N
46 Jay-Zforavne 40 "Sesame SnreetR EYNARD SEAT
49LA. bus-and-rail News Flash" C Y N A R 0 5 C H
org. reporter xwordeditor@aol.com

uzzle
n !HOP:
6-BED 3-BATH 3-PARKING
he-week WASHER/DRYER FREE
DIAGPROPERI1ES.COM
avian DISCOVER
coll "101 Things You Didn't Know About
Ann Arbor" ($9.95 at Amazon.com)
mg HOME FOR SALE by owner 2292
Chestnut Crescent, Saline. $255,900. 4
cries of bed, 3 bath ranch. Finished walk out.
Home office. Conventional financing
or land contract option. For appt call
UZZLE: 734-944-3556. www.fsbo.com/158824
S T S T
i S H S EV O SCOS
EL E RN
K L U
Tw I Nx
3 O K
IR T THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
M organization, format. All disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
A D E HL WANTED
r O N
SE R O
11/CU12S
12 1 STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.t
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
VETERINA RY RECEPTIONIST/
ASSISTANT Part Time. No experi-
ence required. Apply in person @a
Arbor 2 illsprnimal Cli Uc or
!NORT H CA MPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
59 60 ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.H RPAA.com 996-4992 !
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
now for 2013 (Spring or fail). U-M's
BEST houing sold out early 2012. Re-
nerve your space for 2013 today. 2
11/t5012 blocksfrom Central Campus and down-
town. I to 4 bedroom, private baths
available. Rates from $665. 734-998-
4400 www.4elevenlofts.com

FALL 2013 HOUSES
# Beds Location Rent
9 606 Catherine $4600
7 1129 White St $4200
6 605 Catherine $3720
6 711 Arbor . $4200
6 716 E. Kingsley $3700
6 829 Packard $3900
5 910 Greenwood $3600
4 505 Sauer (May) $2440
4 507 Sauer Ct $2300
4 827 Brookwood $2400
4 927 S. Division $2280
4 1010 Cedar Bend $2200
4 1037 Packard $2400
Tenants pay all uilities.
Leasing starts Nov. 9th.
Reservations Accepted.
CAPPO/DEINCO
734-996-1991
WWW.HOUSING.UMICH.EDU
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
CENTRAL CAMPUS
6 and 7 bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry und parking
for ren NOW for Hay 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368
!!!!NOW LEASING FALL 2013!!!!
Great Location! HOUSES, 1 and 2 br
apts, studios. All properties across
from
East Quad. pkg, laundry.
www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244.
!!LARGE CENTRAL
CAMPUS HOMES!!
www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
Now Leasing!
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $2000/month. Avail
Fall 2013. dklemptner@comcast.net
AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6 bdrm houses
www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
or email louisbreskman@gmail.com
FALL 2013 FINE 6 bedroom house.
523 S Fourth Ave, fury., dwshr., dis-
posal.ldry., parking, central A/C, high
speed internet, hardwood floors, alarm
system, heat and water included.
$3300/mo. 734-662-7121 or
gpmiles@aol.com

FALL 2013 HOUSES:
6 & 8 bedroom, call 734-564-2125
www.keysmanagement.net
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We
spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663=4101.
Check us out and get
A FREE INSOMNIA
COOKIE with
all new tours!
Best Apartments
ON Central
Campus!
ON CAMPUS, FURNISHED
STUDIO, 1, 2 & 3 BEDROOMS
BRAND NE PLURY
APARTIMNTS ON
THE e FLOOR.
Contact usfor a
tour today!
536 South Forest
734-761-2680
UNIVERSITYTOWERS-MI.COM
H University
Toweb

...TO FOLLOW US
ON TWITTER.

51 Speak indistinctly
52 Begin
57 Gate-hanging
hardware
61 Announcene's
arval gently ... us
opposed to words
that start 17-, 26-,
38-and 46-
Across
64 Voting no
65In an unusualway
66 S tudet's ressor
67 Very familiar nte
recipient?
68 "Fetch my
smelling safts!"
69 Avg. levels
DOWN
1 Goes on and on
2 Unwritten
3 Barcelonaboy
4Joke writer
5 HMO alternative
6Musical sensvty
7One-namedIrsh
folk singer

*I

Follow
@michdailyarts

By Patti varol
(c)2012TribuneMediaServices, ne.

N


'


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 5, 2012

FILM REVIEW
Empathy foi
Palestinian-Israeli Palestinian from the West Bank.
In an ironic instance of unity
conflict captured in between the two factions, these
boys were mistakenly switched
switched-at-birth tale at birth during a hospital evacu-
ation. Seventeen years later, their
By NATALIE GADBOIS parents make this life-altering
Daily Arts Writer discovery while sitting side-by-
side in the hospital where it all
The Arab-Israeli conflict began, the fathers both shocked
brings a volatile and jumbled and stoic, the mothers bonding
mix of emotions, identities over the emotional significance
and assump- of it all.
tions, and is **** This is the defining moment
often - difficult of the film - these mothers sit-
to compre- The Other ting together, silently unified in
hend. Thank- their mirrored losses and gains.
fully, you don't The film is never bogged down
have to fully At the by political or racial opposition,
understand Michigan but instead finds its cohesive
the conflict to . strength in how Orith Silberg
be emotion- Cohen Media (Emmanuelle Devos, "Bachelor
ally invested Group Days are Over") and Leila Al
in "The Other Bezaaz (Areen Omari, "Laila's
Son," a moving French film by Birthday") handle the heavy
director Lorraine Levy ("Un issues at hand. Their sons have
divorce de chien"). The film is not just lost their place within
really about the bonds of fam- their own families, but within
ily, the crushing confusion that their religion, their ethnicity and
comes with identity loss and the their social standing.
length to which unconditional Dehbi and Sitruk deftly por-
love stretches. It's thoughtful tray this identity crisis between.
and universally heart-wrench- two of the most conflicted identi-
ing, no matter your political ties in the world with grace and
standing. believability. In a heartbreaking
At the heart of "The Other scene, Joseph asks his mother
Son" are two young men who live with frantic tears in his eyes if he
just miles apart but in entirely is still Jewish. Yacine valiantly
different worlds - Joseph Silberg struggles to stay connected to his
(the luminous Jules Sitruk, "Mon older brother, an ardent Palestin-
pere est femme de menage") is ian who can't justify his brother's
a 17-year-old sheltered musi- newly discovered place in their
cian living with his upper-class divisive society.
Jewish family in Tel Aviv, while While the movie does not focus
Yacine Al Bezaaz (Mehdi Dehbi, on political debate, it's always
"Le sac de farine") is an ambitious present and on point. Joseph

r the 'Other'

"... Yeah, I'm not really looking forward to the Bris."

and his. family are wealthy and
privileged, and he spends his
time much like an American
teen would - by listening to
Bob Dylan on the beach with his
friends. They are the fortunate
ones, while the Al Bazaaz fam-
ily lives under a constant state
of mild oppression. Yacine and
his family have never known this
privilege and freedom, and this
angers and isolates his brother
and father, who both oppose
meeting Joseph at all.
These groups have been con-
ditioned to fear and hate each
other, and overcoming that and
recognizing their similarities is
the film's basis. The nearly silent
interactions between these fami-
lies are poignant because they
make you realize once again how
great the tension is, how little
they really have to talk about and
yet how hard they try to over-
come this.
The film doesn't reduce the
conflict to Israeli vs. Palestinian

or Jewish vs. Muslim. Yes, those
are key identities, but the focus is
other identities these characters
share - Joseph and his biologi-
cal father are both musicians, the
two younger sisters love the same
dolls, Yacine and Joseph bond
over girls 'and joints. At times
it almost seems too easy how
quickly the characters bond and
forgive, but the conflict is always
an undercurrent even as they are
singing "Kumbaya" around the
campfire. The acting makes up
for this flaw, because each actor
both embodies their character
and shows the deep inner tur-
moil they feel with this unfath-
omable change, and the script
has a cohesive, realistic flow that
makes their situation so much
more relatable.
"The Other Son" is a stunning
portrayal of family life when it is
tested to its breaking point, and
at the same time a thought-pro-
voking look at what really defines
who we are.

FILM NOTEBOOK,
Bittersweet legacy of Disney films

By NATALIE GADBOIS
Daily Arts Writer
At age eight, I spent three
hours locked in my bathroom
attempting to dye my hair red
with Kool-Aid so I could be just
like Ariel. I admittedly couldn't
rock the seashell bra (what eight-
year-old -can?) and my Singing
voice was less than impressive.
But I thought that if I at least had'
the hair, I would be able to swim
swiftly through the ocean, save
my family from evil sea witch-
es and marry my own dashing
Prince Eric. If only life were so
simple.
Twenty years ago, budding
millennials only a few years older
than myself were introduced to a
whole new world with the release
of "Aladdin." We were ushered
in the golden age of Disney that
lasted throughout the '90s, just as
our impressions of the world were
slowly coalescing. In Disney mov-
ies like "Beauty and the Beast,"
"The Lion King" and, of course,
"The Little Mermaid," good
defeats evil, hard work usually
pays off, the bad guys are univer-
sally ugly and the heroes always
have great hair.
The world of Disney is black
and white - uniform in its sim-
plicity - and much of our gen-
eration grew up revering these
one-dimensional storylines and

characters.While children's mov-
ies are rarely applicable to real
life, as children of the modern
Disney era we were inundated
with these ideas of simplicity that
are no longer compatible with an
increasingly complex world.
We live in a world of instant
gratification, in which informa-
tion, skills and distractions are
constantly available. Disney char-
acters were always single-minded
in their goals - and that's why
they achieved them (that and a
dose of magic, of course). We can't
work like that because success
now links to multitasking, effi-
ciency and trying desperately to
beat the competition. Rarely are
accomplishments as simple and
gratifying as winning over Pride
Rock or overcoming a witch's
curse.
Our generation faces some
great hardships, and the lessons
we learned from Disney have
never been less applicable. Hard
work does not necessarily guar-
antee success - and definitely
doesn't guarantee happiness. It's
impossible to classify people into
groups of "good" and "bad," and
people are never uniform in their
actions. To my surprise, relation-
ships don't occur with a swoon
and a binding kiss, but require
patience and compromise.
Growing up in this Disney
dreamland, I was utterly unpre-

F
fered i
You we
it by n
the pai
too-so
cellatie
a fresh
series.
It's
thingI
been d
with si
"Freak
Geeks,
it's son
contin
will be
which
the wo
Fan
know e
about.
ciallyd
cal dra
attenti
annou
that su
prepar
show a
avoidi
used te
tations
have b
Thr
series
hers -
USA's
- and
should
ing a t
the sh
w
And
matter
shocki
with s
much t
televis
"Pol
during
politic
Before
Wing,"
star Ga
politic
just in
have p
of polit
eyes of
The
zany H
follow,
Meyer
her dy
"Scand
starrin
Olivia
ington
'and th
HBO a
aboutt
preside
heavil
incarn
Ente
which
woman
that Si1
Barris
Clinto
altered
Clinto
lady, E
inghus
loses h
becom

Sounds
But1
than a
Secret
a sedue
explore
of emo
Barris
anyone
are am

TV/NEW MEDIA COLUMN
A eulogy or
Animals'
riends: It is with great ed presence as Washington's
sadness that I inform you powerhouse.
of a terrible casualty suf- It's almost like a work of politi-
n the world of television. cal fan fiction: There's an openly
ould think I'd be used to gay U.S. Supreme Court justice
ow: . (played fabulously by Vanessa
n of a Redgrave) and Elaine's son T.J. is
on can- a drug addict who still struggles
on for with the tumultuous way in
man which he was forced out of the
closet asa teenager in the White
some- House. Furthermoe, his twin
've brother Dougconstantly blurs
ealing KAYLA the line between his family and
nce UPADHYAYA professional lives as the right-
s and hand man to his mother.
"and Outside of being an impres-
nething that will forever sive and smart series, "Politi-
ue. For network executives cal Animals" is a rarity: It's
network executives (by a television show that truly
I mean they will always be loves powerful women. Elaine's
rst). perspective as a woman and.
s of "Political Animals" asmother shapes the show's
xactly what I'm talking voice, driving its themes and
On Friday, USA offi- developments. It's an addict-
Iropped the soapy politi- ing, sexy seriesewith plenty to
ma that garnered instant say about current affairs, the
on this summer. The American political atmosphere
ncement shouldn't be all and modern journalism (fun
rprising. After all, USA fact: "Animals" more accurately
ed us. They branded the and deftly captures a newsroom
s a "limited series event," than Sorkin's "Newsroom"), but
ng the more commonly creator Greg Berlanti also has
rm "miniseries," so expec- aslot to say about the women of
for a second seasonshould Washington - women who are
een cautious. sometimes relegated to support-
ow into the mix that the ing roles in political dramas.
never pulled in big num- Most importantly, it's a show
especially compared to that could have all-too-easily
more established content pitted its women against each
there's really no reason I other. Carla Gugino's Susan Berg
have gasped upon receiv- is a spin on Maureen Dowd,
'xt from my friend about who rose to fame by covering
w's demise. Bill Clinton's scandals. Susan
similarly benefited from writ-
ing aboutElaine's ex-husband,
eshould j s former President Bud Ham-
just mond (whose saltyvulgarity is
run USA.. so perfectly delivered by Ciaro
Hinds, with the help of a faux
Southern accent) and his fre-
quent philaidering.
yet, gasp I did. Because no Susan isn't Elaine's enemy
how expected; it's always though, and Gugino made it clear
ng to hear when a show to Berlanti early on that she had
o much potential and so no interest in simply portraying
o give is ripped away from a woman vs. woman dynamic.
ion entirely. While the downright crazy
itical Animals" premiered cliffhanger of the last episode is
a shift toward female-led probably what has most fans reel-
al narratives on television. ing in its immediate aftermath,
now, we had "The West the loss of these two incredibly
"'The Wire" and "Battle- well-written female characters
lactica" as paradigms of and their complex relationship is
ally driven dramas. But the worst part about "Animals"'s
the past year, new series early exit.
opped up that tell the tales But alas, all of my praise and
ics and power through the geeking out can't bring the series
women. back. The best I can hope for
re was the unapologetic, right now is that the series gets
IBO sitcom "Veep," which lots of attention come awards
ed Vice President Selina season, something thatwould
(Julia Louis-Dreyfus) and have boosted viewership had
sfunctional staff; ABC's USA not pulled the plug (I want
al," a serialized thriller . USA to regret all of their life
:g Kerry Washington as choices, basically).
Pope, who runs a Wash- I also hope that other series
crisis management firm; - partiularly of a political
e Emmy award-winning - nature - learn lessons from "Ani-
novie "Game Change" mals" on how to write powerful
:he 2008 Republican women and how to challenge or
ential ticket that focused complicate the persistent por-
y on Julianne Moore's trayal of ambitious women as
ation of Sarah Palin. justbitches. The writers nobly
rr "Political Animals," attempt to reclaim the label,
hinges so critically on the with a line so perfect that it gets
sat its center. It's no secret repeated in the pilot: "Never call

gourney Weaver's Elaine a bitch a 'bitch.' Us bitches hate
h is a stand-in for Hillary that."
n, and the show offers an While "Veep" and "Scandal"
, made-for-TV take on have female leads, neither is
n's story. As a former first more vocal about the intricacies
laine leaves her cheat- of beinga woman in Washing-
band, runs for president, ton than "Animals." I miss you
er party's nomination and already, show. But Susan and
es the secretary of state. Elaine, I especially mourn-for.
familiar? "You know, I am just sick of it
the series is much more all," Elaine tells Doug. "I'm sick
cheap dramatization of to death of the bullshit. The egos
ary Clinton's journey: It's and the men. Iam sick of the
ctive family soap and an men."
ation of the intersection Me too, girl. Me too.

"What do you mean we forgot the fifth of November?l"

paredt
ies now
ofthe<
percep
cated
face to
Ai
How
entirel
have s
like, b
ful for
to hold
optimi
Disney

to be an adult. These mov- the most important quality and
uact as a constant reminder perseverance is rewarding, even
chasm between my Disney if your goal is ultimately unmet.
tion of life and the compli- "Aladdin" proved that money
and.dissatisfying world we and status aren't the most signifi-
day. cant qualities a person can have.
"Beauty and the Beast" showed
little girls like myself that it was
ninated life OK to be a reader, to be nerdy, to
place importance on intellect.
lessons. "The Little Mermaid" taught that
it's normal to feel different or out
of place at times.
Yes, if it weren't for Disney;
vever, Disney was not I would probably be better pre-
y useless. Yes, it may not pared to tackle this competitive
hown us what real life is world without unrealistic expla-
ut I'm in some ways grate- nations. But as a generation, we
that because we were able can still see the magic in every-
I on to our innocence and day life - which is probably what
sm for a little bit longer. we need more than anything else
taught us that kindness is right now.

CITY OF ANN ARBUFR PARK MAINTENANCE
AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS MILLAGE ,RENEWAL
ANN ARBOR CITY CHARTER AMENDMENT AUTHORIZING TAX
FOR PARK MAINTENANCE AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
Shall the Charter be amended to authorize a tax up to 1.10 mills for park maintenance and capital
improvements for 2013 through 2018 to replace the previously authorized tax for park maintenance
and capital improvements for 2007 through 2012, which will raise in the first year of the levy the
estimated total revenue of $5,052,000.

tions and politics. The
h family has problems like
else, but their conflicts
plified by their spotlight-

Upadhyaya is sick of-men
and their egos. To sympathize,
e-mail kaylau@umich.edu.

o Yes

o No

On Thursday, Aug. 9, City Council voted unanimously to place on the Tuesday, Nov. 6 ballot a
renewal of the city's parks maintenance and capital improvements millage at the rate of 1.1 mills.
City council also voted unanimously to reaffirm the current policies for the Administration of the
Park Maintenance and Capital Improvements Millage. Between 60% and 80% of the annual millage
funds support city park maintenance activities. Park maintenance activities include forestry and
horticulture, natural area preservation, park operations, park equipment repairs, and recreation
facility maintenance. Between 20% and 40% of the annual millage funds are designated for City
park capital improvements in the following areas: active parks; forestry and horticulture; historic
preservation; neighborhood parks and urban plazas; pathways, trails, boardwalks, greenways
and the Huron River watershed; recreation facilities; and park equipment acquisitions. This millage
renewal proposes 1.10 mills and estimates total revenue in the first year of the millage of $5,052,000.
The estimated annual cost to a household in the first year of the millage renewal, based on a mean
taxable value of $108,600 is expected to be $119.46, or slightly less than $10 per month. The current
cost to a household for the expiring millage based on a mean taxable value of $108,600 is $119.13.
Please visit http://ww.a2 r/p for additional information, fact sheets,
FAQ's, administrative policies; and millage project status tables.

Pieks& r Cetio

WHAT SHOWS ARE
YOU ADDICTED TO?
APPLY TO WRITE FOR DAILY ARTS'
TV/NEW MEDIA BEAT!
Request an application by e-mailing
arts@miChigandaily.Com.


r

/"


10A - Monday, November 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily -' michigandaily.com I

iDA - Monday, November 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

i

1


. The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I November 5, 2012

Gardner excels at QB
as emergency starter

By LUKE PASCH repeated throughout the week
Daily SportsEditor that Robinson should be ready to
go against the Golden Gophers,'
MINNEAPOLIS - The Michi- junior quarterback Devin Gard-
gan Athletic Department deliv- ner started in his place. Gardner,
ered the sobering news minutes who had been playing mostly at
before kickoff: senior quarter- wide receiver this season, took
back Denard Robinson would not the bulk of the snaps in practice
start against Minnesota due to an this week to prepare for the role.
"undisclosed injury." Gardner got off to a slow start,
Robinson inured a nerve in throwing an interception early in
his throwing elbow last week the first quarter, but he rebound-
at Nebraska, and even though ed and finished 12-of-18 through
Michigan coach Brady Hoke the air with two passing touch-

downs and one rushing, en route
to a35-13victory over Minnesota.
"It didn't surprise us," said
Michigan coach Brady Hoke.
"Being a receiver, being over
there, that's a whole different
animal. I think that helped with
some development. I think he did
a nicejob of managing the team. I
think we had four drives over 79
yards."
Michigan's recent offensive
struggles continued early in thq
See GARDNER, Page 3B


FOOTBALL
For his team,
Gardner answers
' the call again

M INNEAPOLIS -
Scrambling and out
of alternatives on
Saturday, Michigan leaned on
the familiar option. Once again,
Michigan needed Devin Gardner,
his own concerns be damned.
Michigan desperately needed
Gardner to
lift it up in the
second quar-
ter Saturday,
trailing 7-0
to Minnesota
- yes Min-
nesota - as
it reeled on ZACH
offense. But HELFAND
in the big-
ger picture,
the Wolverines needed a lift out
of the panic that enveloped the
team, needed a way to revive Big
Ten hopes already on the brink.
The cracks first appeared
against Michigan State, when

Michigan failed to score a touch-
down. They exploded into chaos
when Robinson was injured the
following week at Nebraska, tak-
ing 75 percent of the offense's
production with him. With no
Robinson, the backfield was
absent of any rushers with a 100-
yard game this season.
Simply, Michigan had no
choice. It needed Gardner. And
as usual, Gardner really had no
choice either.
"He fashions himself assa
quarterback," Hoke said. "He
really has made the move (to
receiver) to help us as a football
team. That tells you a little bit
about him and his character and
(that) he believes in Michigan."
Michigan scrambled and
improvised like a Gardner roll-
out on Saturday. For Gardner, the
line between genius and grasping
in the dark could be blurry.
See ANSWERS, Page 3B

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Senior forward A.J. Treais scored a last-second goal and a shootout goal on Friday at Berry Events Center.
Wolverines struggle in two-
gameseries with Wildcats

FOOTBALL
Rawls sees
time at RB
11victory
By BEN ESTES
Daily Sports Editor
MINNEAPOLIS - The Michi-
gan offense has waited and
waited for redshirt junior run-
ning back Fitzgerald Toussaint
to become the player he was just
last year, when he ran all over the
Big Ten in the second half of the
season. As Toussaint's struggles
have dragged on, the cries for
more playingtime for his backup,
sophomore Thomas Rawls, have
only intensified.
After two weeks without a
carry, Rawls finally saw the field
in a significant way against Min-
nesota. It was the most action of
his young career, in fact. Rawls's
16 carries were a career high, just
nine fewer than he had received
all season going into Saturday's
game.
The Wolverines were also
without their quarterback on Sat-
urday afternoon. Minus Denard
See RAWLS, Page 3B

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Writer
MARQUETTE - After a
Friday night affair in which
everything that could pos-
sibly happen in a game - a
disqualification, a brawl, a
last-second goal and a shoot-
out win - happened, the No. 8
Michigan hockey team wanted
to make a quick, clean sweep of
Northern Michigan on Satur-

day evening..
The game was quick. And
relatively clean. At times, espe-
cially
with MICHIGAN 4
another N. MICHIGAN 4
last-min- MICHIGAN 3
ute come- N. MICHIGAN 4
back, it
seemed like a flashback to the
previous night.
But the win ultimately elud-
ed the Wolverines, who fell 4-3

to the 20th-ranked Wildcats at
the Berry Events Center.
"I think we were missing a
little more offensive bit," said
Michigan coach Red Beren-
son. "We didn't reallytest their
goalie as far as having really
good chances."
Michigan (1-2-1 CCHA, 3-3-1
overall) faced challenges before
the puck evendropped, with
the presence iosenior forward
See WILDCATS, Page 3B

M

DUMPING THE ROCK
Michigan scored 106 points against
Slippery Rock, the first time 'M' eclipsed
the century mark since 1998. Page 4B

'D' SELF-DESTRUCTS u
Before and after Jacob Trouba got the-
heave-ho, the Michigan defense struggled
against Northern Michigan. Page 2B


2B - November S, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Michigan's adversity on the road to Pasadena

MINNEAPOLIS - It's a
foregone conclusion.
Michigan throttled
Minnesota, 35-13, at TCF Bank
Stadium on Saturday behind a
banner day at quarterback for
Devin Gardner to hoist the Little
Brown Jug once more.
The victory_
was the Wol-
verines' sixth
of the season,
the magic
number to
become bowl-
eligible. But
hardly anyone STEPHEN J.
even noticed. NESBITT
The days of
the almighty
sixth win are gone.
It's a foregone conclusion
now, and that's a beautiful thing.
The focus is higher now, set on
winning the,Big Ten champion-
ship. Brady Hoke brought that
laser-focus when he arrived
before the 2011 season.
Michigan is back to a place
where not just any bowl, but the
Rose Bowl is the standard.
There's a reason Hoke took
the seniors on a leadership trip
to the California coast in late
May.
He took them to train with
Navy SEALs, but he also took
them to the Rose Bowl Stadium
in Pasadena, Calif.
"It was my first time and
I was dying to see it," said
fifth-year senior safety Jordan
Kovacs.
"That's a special place. I

questionable flags and 'Sparty,
no!' moments, engineered a pair
of touchdown drives to steal vic-
tory from the grasps of defeat.
Michigan, fully poised to
scoot back into the driver's seat,
got whiplashed. Back behind the
Huskers.
The finish in East Lansing
nearly shrouded the victory -
that crucial sixth victory - in
Minneapolis. And that it all
happened on Hoke's 54th birth-
That roadmap
to Pasadena
cuts through
Indianapolis.
'day seems like a script written
wrong.
Still, Hoke says November is
when championships are won.
So Michigan waits, If Nebraska
falters, the Wolverines must be
ready. Through the training, the
SEALs and this agony of bat-
tling from behind the eight-ball,
Hoke built the Wolverines for
this chase.
He never thought about that
sixth win.
That was a foregone conclu-
sion.
- Nesbitt can be reached
at stnesbit@umich.edu.

a

The Michigan football team is trying to gain a game on Nebraska, who stole a victory from Michigan State this weekend. Michigan lost to the Huskers this fall.

understand now why they call
it the Granddaddy of 'Em All. It
was unreal.
"I left that place thinking,
'I've gotta be backhere in six
more months, because I can't go
too long away from this place."'
But the reality of that Rose
Bowl goal is that roadmap back
to Pasadena cuts through India-
napolis, and Michigan's window
of opportunity to get to Indy is

closing week by week.
The Wolverines are 6-3
through the bulk of its sched-
ule this fall. They are 4-1 in the
Big Ten, good for a slice of first
place with Nebraska. But there's
no split first-place ribbon here.
Michigan lost to the Huskers
two weeks ago and, in so doing,
relinquished the driver's seat in
the Legends Division.
To pardon the well-worn

cliche, the Wolverines aren't
in control of their own destiny.
And that's the last thing Hoke
wanted.
If the Huskers win out,
they're on to the Big Ten title
game and one step away from a
Rose Bowl berth. If Michigan
wins out, goes 7-1 in confer-
ence play, but Nebraska doesn't
lose, it would have to settle for
a warm, sunny bowl game in

Florida.
That's why all eyes were on
the Michigan State-Nebraska
game on Saturday night.
The Michigan football team's
plane had just landed, and
the players were undoubtedly
watching. The Spartans were
leading slightly, then comfort-
ably. Then it was all erased.
Taylor Martinez and the
Nebraska offense, aided by a few

I
I


Defensive miscues
plague Wolverines

Reinforcements can't seal holes

By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
MARQUETTE'-A wide-open
one-time goal can be difficult to
come by in hockey.
Having the goalie completely
out of position and the puck fall
rightintoyour lap for an easygoal
is every hockey player's dream.
But that was exactly what the
majority of Northern Michigan's
goals looked like on Saturday
night as the Wildcats defeated the
No.8 Michigan hockey team 4-3.
It wasn't a new theme either.
The night before, Northern Mich-
igan tallied three power-play
goals in the second period during
Michigan's overtime victory. It
was the first time the Wolverines
had allowed three power-play
goals in a single period since Oct.
25, 2008. And the penalty-kill
unit allowed these same kinds of
easy, point-blank goals.
These issues come just weeks
after Michigan started the sea-
son a perfect 10-for-10 on the
penalty kill. The success 'of the
unit enabled the Wolverines to
concentrate on other areas of the
game.
"They were getting sticks on
pucks and deflecting them in,
and we were on our heels," said
Michigan coach Red Berenson on
Friday. "There's no question. We
did not look good on our penalty
kill during the second period."
Later in the game, after fresh-
man defenseman Jacob Trouba
earned a five-minute major for
a hit to the head, the Wolver-

ines were able to kill the entire
penalty en route to a last-minute
comeback. The unit appeared
to have regained its confidence,
especially in knowing that Racine
couldbe a reliable option between
the pipes. On Saturday, though
Northern Michigan didn't score
a single power-play goal, the
same defensive miscues plagued
Michigan. All four Wildcat goals
came from just outside of the
crease in the slot. Whether it was
a missed assignment or confusion
on where they needed to be, the
Wolverines looked befuddled.
Berenson attributed this to
problems in Michigan's defen-
sive-zone coverage. Whether it
was on the power play on Friday
or when both teams were at even
strength on Saturday, the defen-
sive effort was not up to par.
"It's individuals being sur-
prised that they didn't see some-
body or they thought this and
'they went over to help you
because you weren't doing your.
job, and now all of a sudden no
one is helping me,' " Berenson
said on Saturday.
Whether it's the defensive
effort during the penalty kill or
the defense as a whole, the glar-
ing mistakes in the defensive
zone were too much for Michigan
to overcome this weekend, com-
ing out with just two points. The
mistakes will need to be correct-
ed if the Wolverines hope to find
success in the difficult CCHA.
"It's a game of mistakes and
we're making too many right
now," Berenson said.


By MATT SLOVIN
Daily SportsEditor
MARQUETTE - The Michi-
gan hockey team traveled to
Northern Michigan for its two-
game series against the Wildcats
having just six healthy, eligible
defensemen to work with.
The Wolverines left just as
they did last season, bearers of
just two of six possible CCHA
points after Northern Michigan
won Saturday's finale.
For Michigan, it was day late,
defenseman short.
The defensive depth issue
turned quickly into a full-
fledged emergency in the series
opener when freshman standout
Jacob Trouba received a game-
misconduct penalty for an open-
ice hit on Northern Michigan's
Reed Seckel.
Asa result, Trouba was forced
to sit out the series finale, leav-
ing the Wolverines with just
five true defensemen in their
lineup, though senior forward
Jeff Rohrkemper did dress and
skated alongside Kevin Clare on
the blue line.
As for Seckel, who appeared
seriously injured after Trouba's
misconduct penalty? He was
back in the lineup on Saturday
and responded by scoring twice
in Northern Michigan's 4-3 win
in the series finale, doubling his
prior total for the season.
Trouba's absence; along with
that of defensemen Brennan
Serville ("facial concussion,"
according to Berenson) and Jon
Merrill (cracked seventh verte-
brae), took their tolls on the Wol-
verines in the loss.
"It's different," said Michigan

to return. Serville, though, skat-
ed this weekend in Ann Arbor
s { and could be ready for this
weekend's series against Michi-
gan State. And unless the CCHA
passes down a suspension for
Trouba's hit, he'll return -to the
lineup Friday.
Junior defenseman Mac Ben-
nett believes the team needs to
make do with what it has for
now.
"I don't think it should make
a difference," Bennett said of the
stockpiling absent defensemen.
"We just got to come in with the
mentality that we're going to
shut teams down."
The onus to play responsible
on defense then falls to others,
PAUL SHERMAN/Daily like the forwards, and defen-
Freshman defenseman JacobTrouba earned a game disqualification on Friday semen who lack experience at
and was forced to sit out Saturday's game against Northern Michigan. Michigan.
coach Red Berenson of playing Michigan forward lost sight of Take sophomore defenseman
without several of his top defen- his man. The puck ended up in Mike Szuma for example. Last
semen. "There's no question. But. the net before the Wolverines year, Szuma struggled to see the
that's no excuse." could maneuver back into posi- ice, playing in just two of the
Instead of focusing on what tion. Wolverines' 41 games. This sea-
his team was missing in the loss, In fact, the lone forward to son, Szuma isn't just cracking
Berenson chose to point out how earn Berenson's praise after the the lineup for Michigan - he's
the Wolverines could've patched game was senior Jeff Rohrkem- expected to make significant
up some of per - a scratch contributions.
those holes. from Friday Saturday night, Szuma found
And it starts " don't think it night's game, himself working from the blue
up front. but thrust into line to build a Michigan rally as
on far too should make a the lineup on time wound down. A year ago,
many occa- defense Satur- he'd have been at the end of the
sions in the d eday to replace bench come crunch time.
loss, Michi- Trouba, along- Consider ita sign of the times
gan's for- side junior for Michigan. Injuries are very
' wards allowed Kevin Clare. much a part of the game, but
Northern Michigan skaters Berenson said it's the only time the response is what determines
to sneak through its porous he can remember Rohrkemper their impact.
defense. Both of the Wildcats' playing defense for Michigan. And the Wolverines respond-
first two goals came after 5-on- Total relief isn't coming for , ed to the adversity on Saturday
5 play in the Wolverines' own the battered defensive corps. by missing assignments in their
zone. Merrill is still weeks, probably own zone, creating easy goals for
And both times, a different months, away from being ready' the opposition.

Defense down, offense picks up slack in split vs. Wildcats

By LIZ NAGLE conference collisions. With junior
Daily Sports Writer Jon Merrill, junior Kevin Clare
and sophomore Brennan Serville
MARQUETTE - With highly missing various amounts of ice
touted defensive lines consist- time, the remaining defensemen
ing of a ninth-overall NHL Entry have struggled to find chemistry.
Draft pick, a pair of returningvet- The Wolverines' defense sits
erans and a preseason First Team last in the CCHA, surrendering
All-CCHA 3.43 goals per game. Though the
member, the NOTEBOOK penalty kill sat atop the charts
No. 7 Michigan entering conference play with a
hockey team was tagged with perfect record of kills, Michigan
high expectations. dropped to the bottom -half at
But there's been a spotlight 82.1 percent. The Wolverines have
shift. compensated with better offensive
Things quickly went awry as production as of late, headlined
the Wolverines' anchor started by Friday night's performance
to collapse with a slew of inju- against NMU. Michigan's deflat-
ries. Michigan coach Red Beren- ing defense and penalty woes
son rearranged the blue line each continued before the final frame.
week after exhibition and non- The Wolverines found themselves

in a 4-1 hole after giving up four
straightgoals in the second period
- three on the Wildcats' power
play.
But with a quick shift in
momentum, the Michigan offense
surged with a trio of goals, includ-
ing senior forward A.J. Treais's
game-tying tally with 0.6 seconds
left on the clock.
"Anything can happen in the
last minute," Treais said. "I don't
think anyone thought we were
down and out. If they could score
four goals in one period, I think we
could too."
Treais has been the on-ice
leader the Wolverines need since
the losses in the defensive arsenal.
He notched his seventh goal of the
season on Saturday and sealed the

shootout victory, slipping one past
Northern Michigan goalie Jared
Coreau.
Michigan leads the CCHA in
registering 4.43 goals per game,
and that output can be credited
to Treais and the spreading-out of
offensive efforts. With 14 different
players finding the back of the net
this season, the Wolverines look
to rely on their depth of forwards
while the defense recovers.
The defense continued to strug-
gle on Saturday, and the offense
tried to make another comeback
from a 4-1 deficit, netting back-to-
back goals against the Wildcats in
the middle of the third period.
Treais ignited the rally attempt
on a power play goal and junior
defenseman Mac Bennett fol-

lowed suit less than a minute later
with an assist by senior forward
Kevin Lynch. But that was all the
offense could manage.
"This team has a lot of pride,"
Berenson said. "They expect to do
well and they learned last night
when they fall behind, you never
give up because you always can
get back in the game. And we did
that last night and we did it again
tonight, so that's good - that's the
one thing we learned on this trip
that we can come from behind.
"On the flip side, you can't get
behind like that and have to play
desperation hockey."
MOFFIE AND BENNETT PAIR
UP: Senior defenseman Lee Mof-
fie sat on the bench in the empty
Berry Events Center before the

faceoff against Northern Michi-
gan, with Bennett giving him an
encouraging back rub.
Berenson put the two together
for the first time this year against
the Wildcats and he was pleased
with the pairing.
Before the first road trip, Beren-
son called Moffie a "notoriously
slow starter" and expected him
to start "playing like a senior." But
he also noted the duo's progress in
the week of practice leading up to
the northbound series.
"I like playing with Moffie,"
Bennett said. "In Moffie, I've got
a two-way defenseman, who can
jump up and who can cut for me.
So with the two of us together
we're able to do some kind of an
offensive flare."

I
I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 5, 2012 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom November 5, 2012 - 38

MICHIGAN
ATHLETICS
SCOREBOARD

L A S T W E E K
M ON DAY (OC T. 29)
Men's golf: Texas12, Michigan 0
Women's golf: Edwin Watts Palmetto Invite, 4th
Men'sgolf: Georgia8, Michigan 4
TUESDAY (OCT. 30)
Men's golf: Washington14.5, Michigan 9.s
Men's soccer: Michigan 2, Detroit 1
WEDNESDAY (OCT. 31)
Women's soccer: Michigan 2, Wisconsin 0
THURSDAY (NOV. 1)
Field Hockey: Michigan1, Ohio State 0
Men's basketball: Michigan 83, Detroit 47
Wrestling: Michigan 46, Olivet 0
Wen's basketball: Michigan106, Slippery Rock35
Volleyball: Michigan 3, Nebraska 2
Ice Hockey: Michigan 4 (SO), Northern Michigan 4
Women's soccer: Michigan 2, Ohio State )
Field Hockey: Michigan 3, Indiana 0
tba:Michigan 35,Minnesota 13
Volleyball: Michigan 3, Iowa 0
Men's soccer: Michigan1, Michigan State 0
Ice Hockey: Northern Michigan 4, Michigan 3
Field Hockey: Michigan 2, Detroit 0
N E XT W E E K
MON DAY (N OV. 5)
Mens basketball: Michigan vs. Saginaw Valley
State, 7 p.m. (')
T UESDAY (N OV. 6)
Wrestling; Michigan at Central Michigan (7 p.m.)
"WEDNESDAY (N OV. 7)
Men's soccer: Michigan Vs. Wisconsin, 4:30 p.m.
(Evanston)
T HUR SDAY (NOV. 8)
Men's tennis: USTA/ITA National Indoor, TBA
(Flushing Meadows, N.Y.)
FR IDAY (NOV. 9)
Wons XC: NCAA Great Lakes Regional,1 p.m.
(Madison)
Men's XC NCAA Great Lakes Regional, 2:15 p.m.
(Madison)
Women's basketball: Michigan vs. Detroit,6 p.m.()
Volleyball: Michiganvs.Wisconsin,7 p.m.())
Ice hockey; Michigan vs. Michigan State, 7:35 p.m. *)
Men's basketball: Michigan vs. Sippery Rock,
8:30 p.m. (")
Women'stennis:Thunderbird InvitationalITempe)
Men's tennis: USTA/ITA National Indoor, TBA
(Flushing Meadows, NY.)
Men's soccer: Big Ten semifinals, TEA (Evanston)
Women'ssoccer NCAAfirst round,TBA
4SATURDAY (NOV. 10)
Football: Michigan vs. Northwestern, noon ()
Volleybal: Michigan vs. Minnesota, 7 p.m. C)
Ice hockey: Michigan at Michigan State, 7:OS
Women'stennis: Thunderbird Invitational (Tempe)
Men's tennis: USTA/ITA National Indoor, TBA
(Fushing Meadows, NY)
WomeTs soccer: NCAA first round, TBA
Field hockey: NCAA first round, TBA
SU NDAY (N OV. 11)
Wrestling: Michigan vs. Pittsburgh, 2 p.m. ))
Woens tennis ThunderbirdInvitationa (Tepe)
Men'senTnis: USTAITA National Indoor, TEA
(Flushing Meadows, N.Y.)
Women's soccer: NCAA first round, TBA
Men's soccer: Big Ten final, TA (Evanston)
Field hockey:NCAA second round, TBA
-I') All home events are eligible to earn points fo
the Athletic Departmens A prgamO
BIG TEN
STANDINGS
Igends Division BiR Ten Overall
Nebraska 4 1 7 2
Michigan 4 1 6 3
Northwestern 3 2 7 2
Iowa 2 3 4 5
Michigan State 2 4 5 5
Minnesota 1 4 5 4
Leaders Division Big Ten Overall
Ohio State 6 0 10 0
Penn State 4 1 6 3
Wisconsin 3 2 6 3
Indiana 2 3 4 5
Purdue 0 5 3 6

Illinois 0 5 2 7
THIS WEEKEND'S RESULTS
MICHIGAN 35, Minnesota 13
NEBRASKA 28, Michigan State 24
INDIANA 24, Iowa 21
OTIO STATE 52, Illinois 22
PENN STATE 34, Purdue 9
FOLLOW
USON
* TWITTER
@theblockm
@blockmfootball
@blockmbball
@blockmhockey

GARDNER
From Page 1B
contest, though, as Gardner failed
to get the Wolverines on the
board in the first quarter, mark-
ing the ninth straight quarter
without a Michigan touchdown.
Minnesota was the first team
on the board, scoring on the first
play of the second quarter. Fresh-
man quarterback Philip Nelson
moved right in the pocket and
then looked left to find tight end
John Rabe wide open on the goal
line.
Michigan's defense did a stel-
lar job through the rest of the
game, though, especially consid-
ering the short field that Minne,-
sota's offense had to work with.
Four Golden Gopher drives start-
ed on the SO-yard line or in Wol-
verine territory.
"You hit on a key subject,
which was the lack of our special
teams being special at all," Hoke
said. "I thought the defense, we
gave a little bit ... too much yard-
age rushing the football. But
thought they had some good
stops. I think they played well
together."
On the next drive after the
Minnesota touchdown, though,
the Wolverines ended their
touchdown drought.
Pinned deep in Michigan ter-
ritory following a penalty on
RAWLS
From Page 1B
Robinson, they were lacking the
one player who's managed to pose
a consistent and explosive threat
on the ground this season.
That meant that the team
would have to rely on its running
backs more than ever for ground
production - it's telling, then,
that Michigan coach Brady Hoke
chose that situation to reinsert
Rawls into the rotation, in the
most prominent role he's enjoyed
in his two seasons.
"To be honest with you, we
planned on doing it a little more
a week ago and we didn't for one
reason or another," Hoke said.
"We wanted to get him involved

the kickoff, Gardner led a steady
drive to the Minnesota 45-yard
line over 11 plays. Then on third-
and-17, he extended a broken
play by scrambling outside of
the pocket, and he launched the
deep ball to junior receiver Drew
Dileo, wide open in the back left'
corner of the end zone.
"The fact that I improvised
is kind of my fault, I believe,
because I don't think I got in
the right protection during the
play," Gardner said. "Afterward I
just tried to make the best play I
could, and I saw Drew waving his
hands running down the field, so
I threw it up and just prayed that
it got down as fast as possible."
The Wolverine defense forced
a quick three-and-out after the
score, and Gardner went back to
work with just under six minutes
remaining in the first half. Start-
ing on Michigan's own nine-yard
line, he worked down the clock
on a 13-play drive that ended with
sophomore runningback Thomas
Rawls diving into the end zone
from two yards out.
Even with the slow start,
Michigan went into the locker
room with a 14-7 lead.
Gardner continued to roll in
the second half. Midway through
the third quarter and backed up
deep in Michigan territory, Gard-
ner found junior wide receiver
Jeremy Gallon open down the
right sideline for a 47-yard strike.
in the I-back stuff and under
center. He kind of suits it when
you put it that way. I didn't see
every play because I talk with
the defense sometimes, but I
know one thing, he's going to run
downhill and he's going to run
hard."
That he did. Rawls didn't set
the world on fire by any means,
gaining just 43 yards against the
Golden Gophers for a yards-per-
carry average of 2.7.
But he did things that Tous-
saint hasn't done this season as
much as the coaches would like.
Rawls wasn't as hesitant to pick
a hole as Toussaint has been,
wasting little time in going north
instead of east or west.
In turn, that allowed Rawls
to turn would-be losses into no-

Five plays later, on third-and-
goal, he lofted the ball to the
back right corner of the end zone,
where Gallon leaped over the
defender and came down with a
foot in bounds.
Gallon was Gardner's top tar-
get on Saturday, finishing with
four receptions for 72 yards. He
also picked up 21 yards on the
ground on a couple of end-around
runs.
On the next Michigan drive,
Gardner used another 47-yard
completion to set up the score,
this time to fifth-year senior wide
receiver Roy Roundtree. Three
plays later, Gardner rolled out
from the two-yard line, and kept
it to himself for the score, push-
ing the lead to 28-10.
The Gophers responded by
adding a chip-shot field goal to
cut the deficit to 28-13, but Michi-
gan answered with a 41-yard
touchdown run from junior run-
ning back Fitz Toussaint to put
the game on ice. With the vic-
tory, the Little Brown Jug - the
trophy awarded to the winner of
this matchup after each meeting
- will remain in Ann Arbor.
"It's always important," said
fifth-year senior safety Jordan
Kovacs. "It's one of our rivalry
games. That's one of those trophy
games that you want to win every
year, and it's a trophy that you
want to keep at Schembechler
Hall year in and year out."
gains, or one- or two-yard gains-
into three- or four-yard bursts -
a small difference, perhaps, but
a difference nonetheless, and a
difference that Toussaint hasn't
made consistently.
Toussaint, for his part, looked
better than he has in past weeks,
and the 41-yard touchdown run
he broke out for in the fourth
quarter was his longest of the
season.
Still, the redshirt junior didn't
do much besides that one big play
- he averaged just 2.8 yards per
carry with the 41-yarder taken
out.
"He may (play more)," Hoke
said. "The one thing, you've got
to earn it every day in every
practice. That's the competitive
nature of what we do."

ANSWERS
From Page 1E
The same cot
Michigan.
When Michik
to scramble this
turned to Gardr
Gardner was
given a fair shah
as a five-star re
behind a once-i
talent= Next yea
compete with a
recruit, Shane A
better fits Mich
system. This ye.
to move to recei
unclear whethe
The extent of hi
say he still cons
quarterback.
On Saturday,
him into uncha:
wide receiver g:
prepare for qua
was little rungo
out, and even w
Michigan hadn
down in two ga
had taken reps)
his first two yea
learn new prote
packages in day
"I was pretty
in to know how
that," Gardner s
like I handled it
After some fi
cups, he did. Ga
18 with two pas
and one on the
hit Jeremy Gall
Roundtree andl
long vertical thi
one ball perfect
of the end zone
touchdown. He
of forcing into t
Afterward, h
usual, he didn't
Reeling andr
on offense, Garc
broken scrambl

down.
B Gardner took the snap near
midfield and turned his back
to the pass rush. He scrambled
uld be said of wildly, dangerously approaching
the line of scrimmage.
"There's no question it's a fine
*** line," Hoke said. He was talking
about Gardner's scrambles: the
gan has needed risks, the improvisations.
s year, it has "When it works out, it's really
ner. good. When it doesn't, it's not so
never really good."
ke. He came in Drew Dileo appeared like an
cruit marooned oasis in the end zone. Gardner
n-a-generation heaved, Dileo caught and Michi-
.r, he'll have to gan ended 145 minutes and 11
nother hyped seconds of pain and embarrass-
Morris, who ment - more than two games
igan's pro-style without a touchdown.
ar, he was asked "I brought it upon myself to
iver, though it's run around like that," Gardner
r he had a choice. said. "And I was pretty tired
is protest was to after that soI was hoping we'd
iders himself a score a touchdown."
After that play, the ice broke.
Michigan thrust Gardner moved the ball at will,
rted territory: a finishing with 234 yards. It was
iven one week to only Minnesota, but Michigan's
rterback. There collective panic is over like a bad
ame to bail him dream. Gardner deserves the
ith Robinson, credit for that with a 35-13 win.
't scored a touch- Before the game, Robinson
mes. Gardner managed to throw a few passes,
at quarterback in and Hoke said he's optimistic
rs, but he had to he'll play next week. That seems
ctions and run more likely this time around.
s. Robinson can return and render
'nervous coming this game an aberration, a happy
I would handle anomaly - the time the Wolver-
aid. "But I feel ines won without three quarters
pretty well." of their offensive output.
rst-quarter hic- Now, all that's left for Gardner
rdner was 12-for- is to accept his praise and cel-
sing touchdowns ebrate the Jug, victorious, and go
ground. He back to the relative anonymity
on and Roy of receiver. Michigan's Cincin-
Drew Dileo on natus, called upon for just one
rows. He placed game of service at quarterback.
ly in the corner After the wild touchdown
to Gallon for a - one that possibly saved Michi-
took off instead gan's season from spiraling into
ight coverage. ruin - Gardner threw his head
e smiled, and as back and pointed his arms sky-
complain. ward. Then he clasped his hands
together near his chest as if to
*** pray "thank you." But Gardner
got it backward. Saturday, he
with no options wasn't the prayer. Thrust into
dner turned toa atough'situation once again,
e, a circus play. Gardner was the answer.

Michigan trailed 7-0 halfway
through the second quarter and - Helfand can be reached
had just picked up its first first at zllelfand@umich.edu.


WILDCATS
From Page l B
Jeff Rohrkemper on the blue line.
In fact, the coach believed the
team's sputtering had everything
to do with its limited numbers
of forwards who have a flair for
finding the back of the net.
Look to the final period for the
prime example - when the night
took a turn that was eerily simi-
lar to the one before, as senior
forward A.J. Treais's power play
tally kicked off a late surge of
Michigan goals. In the span of a
minute, the Wolverines scored
twice - the one from Treais and
another from junior defenseman
Mac Bennett - to close the gap
to 4-3.
Racine earned the starting
nod for the second night, but his
rough start seemed to spiral out
.of control as Northern Michigan
(1-2-1, 4-3-1) tacked on goal after
gdal. Racine took another hit in
the waning minutes of the first
frame when Scott Macaulay dan-
gled him out right before deking
and beating the goalie glove-side

to put the Wildcats up 2-0 to
enter the second period.
The Wolverines looked to
jumpstart a little life into their
team at the beginning of the sec-
ond stanza, but Northern Michi-
gan put a stopper in their plans
with a quick tap-in goal from the
crease. Not two minutes later,
junior forward Kevin Lynch
crossed the slot and neatly bur-
ied the puck in the open corner of
the net to finally put Michigan on
the board.
Lynch's goal seemed to finally
tilt the ice in the Wolverines'
favor as shots rained down on
Northern Michigan goalie Jared
Coreau. But Seckel found twine
a second time - on another
rebound, no less.
Whereas Berenson cited the
forwards for being unable to
stage a late rally, Bennett faulted
the blue line.
"Our D-zone coverage, we
kind of got caught up," Bennett
said. "They got pucks in and took
advantage of the chances. Unfor-
tunately for us, to come back in
the third, it was too little, too
late."

FOR A GOOD TIME


4B - November S, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Michigan sweeps Iowa
after upset of Nebraska

Junior guard Kate Thompson and the Wolverines scored their highest point total since 1998 on Friday at Crisler Center.
Wolverines eci1pSe the
century mark in opener

By GREG GARNO the score is ... because if we win
Daily Sports Writer every four minutes we'll be in
good shape."
Less than 20 seconds into the Michigan had seven players
Michigan women's basketball finish with double digits on the
exhibition against SlipperyRock, night, led by senior guard Kate
sophomore point guard Brenae Thompson's double-double - 16
Harris found herself in the right points and 10 rebounds. Sopho-
corner more guard Nicole Elmblad led
alone and SLIPPERY ROCK 35 all scorers with 20 points while
out of sight MICHIGAN 106 Harris followed behind with 16
of the near- points. Ryan, who was named
est defender. Senior guard Jenny -team captain before the game,
Ryan spotted her and allowed finished with 13 points and a
Harris to bury the basket and team-high six assists.
give the Wolverines the lead for The Wolverines built up an
good. 8-0 lead to begin the game and
Michigan scored early and never looked back. Slippery Rock
often, showing no mercy for the turned the ball over 24 times
school loved by students across while shooting a dismal 29.1
the campus- in a 106-35 victory percent from the field. The Wol-
on Friday. The Wolverines' first verines, on the other hand, com-
and only exhibition of the season mitted just five turnovers during*
culminated with the program's the game and finished with a
first triple-digit game since 1998 60.6 field-goal percentage.
and was 27 points higher than "(Barnes Arico) really focused
its biggest offensive game of last on us taking care of the ball,"
season - a 79-68 victory over Harris said. "She tells us to value
Northwestern. the ball and I think we did a pret-
First-year Michigan coach ty good job of doing that."
Kim Barnes Arico was quick Freshman Madison Ristovs-
to downplay the 106-35 win, a ki, the-2012 Miss Basketball in
71-point victory in a dominating Michigan, saw her first min-
appearance against an opponent utes at Crisler Centeraafter four
picked last in its division during minutes in the game and scored
the preseason. her first points midway through
"I don't really look at the the half. Thompson, a 6-foot-4
scoreboard, and I try not to have guard, used her height advantage
the players look at the score- and speed to cut underneath the
board," Barnes Arico said. "I hoop for a pretty reverse lay-
think we need to become more up later in the half and tiptoed
disciplined and worry about us along the line again for a similar
and play four minutes at a time. shot, frustrating Slippery Rock's
Every timeout I tell them what defense.

"I was expecting us to play
really well, but what I really
loved to see was our ball move-
ment and working together,"
Thompson said. "We were on
point with cuts, people saw the
open cutter, and we had a lot of
assists. It was a good game."
The Wolverines steadily built
up a sizeable lead, creating more
offensive opportunities from the
11 steals recorded in the game.
Senior forward Sam Arnold
capped a 29-4 run to end the
first half with a reverse lay-up of
her own to make the score 56-19
heading into the locker room for
halftime.
Michigan scored at will
throughout the second half, as
Barnes Arico played with differ-
ent lineups frequently.
"I think there's always the
ability to change," Barnes Arico
said. "I want the kids to know
that if they do really well in prac-
tice their going to have the ability
to start."
With 1:40 remaining in the
game, Arnold put her team over
the century mark by sinking a
pair of free throws.
Barnes Arico, though pleased
with her team's performance,
was quick to discuss what her
team would be working on before
its season opener against the
University of Detroit next Friday.
"I think we gave up way
to many offensive rebounds,
and Detroit is a good offensive
rebounding team," Barnes Arico
said, noting that The Rock talued
12 boards in the Michigan zone.

By GREG GARNO taking advantage of an Iowa
Daily Sports Writer team that looked lost and con-
fused. The Hawkeyes finished
Late in the third set against with a .087 attack percentage.
Iowa Saturday, freshman libero Tied at seven to begin the
Tiffany Morales' serve went first set, the Wolverines began
directly into the net, ending to pull away with a short 4-0
a short run for the Michigan run - its biggest of the set.
volleyball Led by junior outside hitter
team. NEBRASKA 2 Lexi Erwin's six kills in the set,
Morales, MICHIGAN 3 Michigan steadily managed to
though, buildup a20-13 before coasting
walked IOWA 0 to the end.
back to MICHIGAN 3 The Wolverines raced out
her huddle to an early 4-0 lead in set two
with a smile across her face and only to watch Iowa take the
a group of teammates matching next three points back. Michi-
her expression. gan broke the game open with
It was the type of game a 13-4 run immediately after,
where even when a play didn't capped by a kill from freshman
work out, the game was still in outside hitter Kelly Murphy.
the Wolverines' favor. Making good use of the Hawk-
After a dramatic and thrill- eyes' numerous attack errors,
ing five-set victory over No. 4 the Wolverines closed the set on
Nebraska on Friday, Michigan a 5-0 run.
made quick work of Iowa on The second set eventually
Saturday, winning 25-19, 25-10, allowed Rosen to rotate his
25-12. It was the Wolverines' lineup and provide action for
third-straight victory, evening a young and inexperienced
up their Big Ten record at 7-7 bench. It was the first time
with six games remaining in the in Rosen's 14 season that he
season. The Hawkeyes (2-12 Big remembers using every member
Ten, 10-17 overall) have' yet to of his lineup in a match.
win a set since October 13 dur- , "Everyone works really hard
ing their six game skid. in practice," Rosen said. They
"We've been much more play at a really high level, and
steady," said Michigan coach they don't always get to show
Mark Rosen. "Part of that is it in a game. Tonight we had an
related to confidence. Part. of opportunity to do that. Every-
that is becoming more mature body who normally does get
as a team. We're seeing it come to play, was more excited for
together, which is what you everybody else than themselves.
expect throughout the season. "A lot of times, when you
I really thought we've taken a make those changes, the level
really big step in the last four to drops down because every-
five matches." body is thinking about them-
Michigan (19-9 overall) hit 'a selves instead of each other. But
season-high .451 on the night, tonight it didn't drop at all. We

stayed a super high level."
Ahead 3-2 in the third set,
Michigan put together a 9-1 run
with three of Erwin's team-high
10 kills on the night. The Hawk-
eyes, appearing lethargic, could
not match Michigan's energy at
the end of the game. The Wol-
verines finished on a 6-2 run
with kills from an unlikely pair
in freshman setter Carly War-
ner and freshman outside hitter
Ally-Davis.
A balanced attack account-
ed for 44 kills, 42 digs and 40
assists on the night. Follow-
ing a 64-assist game against
Nebraska, sophomore setter
Lexi Dannemiller tallied just 28
assists to lead the team, while
Morales contributed a team-
high11 digs.
"We have the skill and we
knew that all along," said senior
right-side hitter Claire McEl-
heny. "We know the games that
we've lost, we could have played
a lot better."
With the potential to fall
after an emotional game, Michi-
gan instead heads into the final
stretch of the regular season
before it prepares for a chance
in the NCAA ournament.
"We want to prepare the
same every night, no matter
who were playing, no matter
where we're playing, no mat-
ter what happened the night
before" Rosen said. "We went
through the same process and
if we prepare the same way we
can expect the same outcome."
It may just be the year where
even when the season doesn't
appear to be going their way, it's
still working out in the Wolver-
ines' favor.

a
4
4
6

WANT MORE COVERAGE OF
MICHIGAN ATHLETICS?

0

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER: @THEBLOCKM


Ohiotate edges'M'
in Big Ten semifinals

Seniors lead Blue over Spartans

By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
DailySports Writer
Junior forward Nkem Ezurike
has scored plenty of goals for the
Michigan women's soccer team
this season. But on Friday after-
noon, an own goal off of Ezurike's
back helped
No. 24, OHIO STATE 2
Ohio State MICHIGAN' 1
eliminate
the Wolverines from the Big Ten
Tournament in Bloomington by a
score of 2-1.
Ezurike's mishap came just 12
minutes into the contest. When
defender Megan Fuller crossed
a' Buckeye corner kick toward
the far post, Ezurike was turned
away ball going up for a challenge
and couldn't see it drop towards
her body. The cross was headed
by Lauren Granberg and then
deflected off of Ezurike's back
past senior goalkeeper Haley
Kopmeyer. The tally gave Ohio
State an early two-goal lead.
"It was unlucky," Ezurike said.
The Buckeyes (10-2-1 Big Ten,
15-4-1 overall) had already gotten
on the board in the third minute
on a penalty kick. The referee
awarded the shot when sopho-
more defender Chloe Sosenko
stumbled and tripped an attacker.
Ashley Gruenbaum cooly buried
the penalty kick to give Ohio State
the early advantage.
Michigan coach Greg Ryan dis-
agreed with the call, arguing that
Sosenko had been fouled before
committing an infraction of her
own. Replays showed plenty of
contact between Sosenko and
Granberg before both fell to the
ground.
"We saw it completely differ-
ently," Ryan said. "(Sosenko) was
in good defending position and

she got knocked from behind."
After Ezurike's own-goal less
than 10 minutes after the penalty
kick, the Wolverines (8-3-2, 14-5-
2) trailed by their largest deficit of
the season.
In the second half, Michigan
began sending defenders forward
to create more offensive opportu-
nities. It almost paid off seconds
into the complementary period
when a short cross by freshman
midfielder Corinne Harris nearly
reached a wide-open Ezurike in
front of the net. As the Wolverines
shifted to a more offensive forma-
tion, they opened up space for
Buckeye attackers to make long
runs through Michigan's back
line. In the 61st minute, forward
Tiffany Cameron - Ohio State's
most dangerous player - received
a pass at the top of the 18-yard
box. Completely unmarked, she
took a touch before ripping a shot
that ricocheted off the post.
The Michigan offense finally
got a shot past the Buckeye geeper
in the 72nd minute. Taking con-
trol of a loose ball, Ezurike pow-
ered through one defender and
got around another before beat-
ing the freshman goalkeeper with
a rising shot. But the Wolverines
never threatened again.
Despite the loss, Michigan will
likely earn a bid to the NCAA
Tournament.' The Wolverines
last participated in the 64-team
competition in 2010. This year,
the higher-seeded team will host
the first round of the tournament,
which begins on Nov. 9.
"I will be shocked if Michigan
isn't in the NCAA Tournament,"
Ryan said.
Michigan hasn't hosted an
NCAA Tournament game since
2002. It will learn its fate on Mon-
day.

By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Writer
There were much more than
statewide bragging rights at
stake between the Michigan
men's soccer team and Michi-
gan State on Saturday's senior
night in Ann Arbor. With both
squads eyeing an NCAA Tour-
nament berth and a high seed
'in next
week's Big MSU 0
Ten Tour- MICHIGAN 1
nament,
this match wasn't just another
rivalry game.
In the annual battle for the
Big Bear trophy, the Wolver-
ines edged out the Spartans
1-0. With a win, Michigan State
would have clinched the Big
Ten championship, so the vic-
tory was even sweeter for the
Michigan side.
"You want to play for your
seniors and they had a great
day today, said Michigan head
coach Chaka Daley. ."I think
the younger 'guys fought for
the seniors as well, which was
exactly what we talked about in
our pregame meeting."
Daley's pregame speech must
have been stellar. The Wolver-
ines' energetic start proved that
much, at least.
Michigan won two corner
kicks in the first five minutes,
both of which tested Michi-
gan State freshman goalkeeper
Zach Bennett. In the midst
of the Wolverines' persistent
attack, junior midfielder Fabio
Pereira ripped a shot from just
inside the 18-yard box that rat-
tled off the crossbar, landing
just in front of the goal line.
The Spartans managed to
absorb the pressure early on,
as they eventually placed some
stress on redshirt sophomore
goalkeeper Adam Grinwis and
Michigan's defense in return.

4

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Senior defender Kofi Opare scored a late goal on Saturday to defeat Michigan State, 1-0, in Ann Arbor.

But with both teams in a heat-
ed, foul laden first half, neither
side managed to concede any-
thing, leaving the score line at
0-0 heading into the break.
Daley was calm, cool, and
collected at halftime. He said

Sometimes it does matter
though, and it sure did for the
Wolverines in the heart of the
most important half of their
season. Senior defender Kofi
Opare, who was plagued by a
broken nose and appendicitis

he didn't this season,
mind that his . headed a. ball
team failed from Fabio
to convert "They're gonna Pereira into
early on, and , the back of
he kept his enjoy the Big the net to give
team focused Michigan the
on an NCAA Bear tonight. lead in the
Tournament 71st minute.
berth and the "I credit my
opportunity team, Opare
to ruin its archrival's night. said. "They kept pushing me
"It doesn't matter who scores and kept me going (during my
first, but it matters how you injury). When I got back on the
deal with winning the game field tonight, I was 100 percent
or how you handle adversity if and I give my team praise for
you're losing," Daley said. that."

The Wolverines then did
what they have done best in the
second half of the season. They
played defense.
"I think our back line had one
of its best performances today,
and that makes my job so much
easier," Grinwis said. "I love
having confidence in the four
guys playing in front of me."
With a victory, Michigan
captured all that was at stake. It
ruined Michigan State's season
and more importantly, it kept
the team's aspirations to reach
the NCAA Tournament alive
and well.
"They're gonna enjoy the
Big Bear tonight," Daley said.
"I think the feeling of winning
something tangible like that
can push them onto winning
something bigger like the Big
Ten Tournament."

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 5, 2012 - 58

THE QUICK BREAKDOWN
AA IZ E G A U G Er The Michigan Daily football writers break down the weekend's stats that don't show up in the box score. The Denard-o-Meter measures the success of quarterback
Denard Robinson, the Man-o-Meterjudges Michigan's "Manball," how physically it played in the trenches, and the Hype-o-Meter measures the fans' performance.

DENARD-O-METER
/ It wasn't Denard, but Devin Gardner did everything
asked of him in Robinson's stead and more. Limited
in his running game by a short bench, Gardner'car-
Denards ried Michigan with his arm.


MAN-O-METER
1/4 The offensive line was porous in pass protection
against a mediocre Minnesota defense. After the
game, Hoke was critical of the unit, which allowed
Brady Hokes constant pressure on Gardner.

HYPE-O-METER
2/4 Here's a picture of the atmosphere. In the fourth
quarter, the crowd was more focused on Goldy the
Gopher, Minnesota's mascot, attacking members
Big Houses of the band with a foam sword than the game.


LOOKING GOOD

FEELING BLUE

JUNIOR QUARTERBACK
DEVIN GARDNER: The
quarterback, converted into a
receiver, converted back into
a quarterback, shook off a
rough first quarter to dominate
the game. Gardner showed
off an impressive arm, and
threw several vertical strikes
to receivers Roy Roundtree,
Drew Dileo and Jeremy Gallon.
Gardner finished 12-for-18
for 234 yards and three
touchdowns - two passing
and one on the ground. His
touchdown pass to Gallon in
the corner of the end zone was
placed where only Gallon could
get it. Gardner scrambled
for gains with no one open,
and had just one mistake:
a poor throw in the first
quarter for an interception.

JUNIOR PUNTER WILL
HAGERUP: Minnesota took a
lead into the second quarter,
largely because the Golden
Gophers controlled the field-
position battle. Hagerup didn't
help. Until this game, Hagerup
was among the nation's best
punters. He still ranks No. 20
in the nation in punt average,
but his numbers plummeted
Saturday with three punts for an
average of just 29.33 yards per
punt. On two of those punts, he
shanked the ball out of bounds.
After the game, Michigan coach
Brady Hoke was harsh on his
special teams, and said that the
punt team needed to find more
consistency, both in protection
and in Hagerup's performance.


THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP-10 POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10
points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on.

NOTABLE
QUOTABLE
It's e
old
rid ing-
a-bike
theory.
-Michigan coach Brady Hoke on
junior Devin Gardner's transition from
wide receiver back to quarterback.

1, ALABAMA (17): The
Tide pulled out some magic
against LSU and passed +'
their biggest test all season. L
2. OREGON (1): The Ducks
put up 62 points and 730
yards against USC. Trojans
coach Lane Kiffin called
the totals "mind-boggling."

6. LSU: The Tigers actually
made Alabamalookhuman,
afeatinitself;butevenDeath
Valley couldn'tstop the Tide.
7. FLORIDA STATE: The
Seminoles had no trouble
with Duke, butreally, does
anyone havetrouble with
Duke?

3. KANSAS STATE: The 8. FLORIDA: The Gators
ow Wildcats had no problem barely escaped with awin
with OK State. Just three against a mediocre Missouri
games away from12-0. teamin the Swamp.
4. NOTRE DAME: The Irish 9. OHIO STATE: Gordon Gee
escaped in three overtimes went as Orville Redenbacher
over Pitt but boy was it for Halloween. Really.
close.

5. GEORGIA: The Dawgs
rolled over Ole Miss and
could be the best chance
left to beat Alabama.

10. SOUTH CAROLINA:After
performing for hours each
week, the rested Cocks are
ready to make a splash in the
SEC with increased stamina.


STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what
happens in the 2012 football season.
Michigan(-12.5)atMinnesota
No.1 lalbamao (-7) at No. 5 LSU
No. 2ZOregon (-6) at So. 1s USC
No.S Kansas tate 0)7v. Oklahoma State
No.4kNotreDame(9)vs.ePittsbuegh
No. 6 Ohio State (-24) vs.llinois
No. 7Georgia-17.5) vs. Ole Miss
No. 8Florida(06) vs. Missouri
No. 10les on-4.51 at Duke
No.12 Louisville(-3)vs. Temtple
No. 1a Oregon State (-a) vs. Ariona State
No.14Oklahoma-13) at lowa State
No.15 Stanford (-28)at colorado
No.16Texas A&M (-2.5) at No.17 Mississippi State
No.1 9 oise State 05) vs.SanDiego State
No. 20Texas Tech(-2.5) vs. Texas
No. 21 Nebraska at MichiganState (-1)
So. 22 LoisinaTech (-31) vs. UTSA
No. 23 West Virginia (-7) vs. TCU
No. 24ArizoatNo.255tLA-t.5)
Indianaves. Iowa (-3)
Purdueovs Penn State (-2.5)
rhis Week
Overall

Stephen J.
Nesbitt

Luke
Pasch

Alabama
Oregon
Kansas tate
Pttsburgh
Ohio State
Ole Miss
Flrida
tClemson
Loisville
OreonsState
owa State
Stanford
Mississippi State
Boise State
Texas Tech
MichiganS tate
Louisiana Toch
TCU
tedle
12-10
132-108-5

Alabama
Oregon
Kansas State
Pittsburgh
Ohio State
Ole Miss
Florida
Clemson
Temvple
OregoneState
Oklahoma
Stanford
Mississippi State
Boise State
TexaovTech
Nebraska
UTSA
West Virginio
Pen State
133-107-5

Kansas State
Pittsburgh
Ohio State
Ole Miss
Cleson
Looisville
Oregon State
Oklahoma
Stanford
Texas A&M
Sae Diego State
Nebraska
LouisianaTech
West Virginia
UCLA
Penn State
16-6

Alabama
Oregon
Kansas State
Notre Dame
Ohio State
Georgia
Clemon
Louisville
OregonState
Oklahoma
Stanford
Mississippi State
Boise State
Texassrevh
MichiganState
UTSA
West Virginia
Penn State
139-101-5

Alabama
KanusasState
Pittsburgh
Ohio State
Georgia
Florida
Clemson
Louisoille
OregnState
lowa State
Colorado
Mississippi State
Boise State
Texoas
MichigansState
LouisianaTech
Westiinia
Arizona
Penn State
11-1



6B November 5, 2012

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

6B - November 5, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

fur Clean Ensrgv
Ln Eich~m

4

0

I

4

14

I

4


Union of
s: i Concerned
Scientists
ucsusa.org
ELCACTION FN
ELPC Acton Fu nd.org

PROPOSAL 3
Pad for with ouat d s bti ik ron Jai.'XJiga s.
Pfl o 73 . EasNLaning. MI 4Sti~

For more information:
ELPcG ionFu nd.org125x25


For more Information:
ELPC; ctionFund.org/25x25.

Naes, titles and affiliations are given for identification
purposes only and do not indicate University support for
or endorsement of the vimw in this advertsenent


