Ann Arbor, Michigan
REGENT S MEE TING
Board
approves
athletic
upgrades
Yost Ice Arena,
Schembechler Hall to
be renovated
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily News Reporter
The University's Board of
Regents unanimously approved
a host of projects at its first meet-
ing of the year yesterday, includ-
ing renovations to Yost Ice Arena,
Schembechler Hall, the Edward
Henry Krause Building Auditori-
um and Northwood Apartments I,
II and III.
At the meeting, Stephen Forrest,
the University's vice president for
research, also detailed the uncer-
tain future of research funding for
the University during a presenta-
tion to the regents on the Univer-
sity's annual report on research.
Athletic Director Dave Brandon
and Timothy Slottow, the Univer-
sity's executive vice president and
chief financial officer, wrote in a
communication to the regents that
Yost will receive new luxury boxes,
a new press box location and an
expansion of fire suppression sys-
tems, all of which were approved
unanimously.
See REGENTS, Page S

The ffikI~igari 0,7aig

Friday, January 20, 2012

michigandailycom

PTL A NTHROPTC FTN

GRADUATE EMPLOYEES
Provost,
GSRAs say
dismissal
warranted

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
LSA junior Kelly Ketthun, member of the University's chapter of the Foundation for International Medical Relief
of Children, describes the organization to a student at Philanthrofest in the Michigan Union yesterday.
EV E N T PRoEVeIsEW

Glass to restage for an international tour 20
years after its last produc-
seminal work at tion. The
tour's first Einstein on
Power Center stop, and the Beach
the opera's
By JON ODDEN and first per- Tonight and
DAVID TAO formance tomorrow at 7
DailyArts Writer and in North p.m., Sunday
SeniorArtsEditor America at 2p.m.
outside of
Heralded as one of the 20th New York Power Center
century's greatest examples City, will From $22
of artistry, "Einstein on the take place
Beach," the radical five-hour tonight in Ann Arbor.
opera that elevated director While the opera involves
Robert Wilson and composer the titular physicist as a char-
Philip Glass to international acter and incorporates many
prominence, is being revived elements from his life, Glass

and Wilson intentionally
focused upon Albert Einstein
as a historical figure instead
of a cultural icon. In place of
biography, Glass and Wilson
actively embrace a lack of
narrative, incorporating sym-
bols such as repeated num-
bers, syllables of solfege and
abstract dance sequences.
They, along with the produc-
tion's original choreographer,
Lucinda Childs, are involved
with the opera's new tour.
"In the (university)
remounting, the original cre-
ative team ... is in residence to
pass on their innovative aes-
See EINSTEIN, Page 8

GEO, Dibbern claim
firing was due to
unionization effort
By PAIGE PEARCY
Daily News Editor
Following the termination
of former graduate student
research assistant Jennifer
Dibbern, University officials
and GSRAs who worked with
her claim the act was justified,
while Dibbern and the Graduate
Employee's Organization assert
she was fired for advocating for
unionization rights for GSRAs.
A group of five GSRAs who
worked with Dibbern under
Engineering Prof. Rachel
Goldman's supervision in the
Department of Materials Sci-
ence and Engineering sent an
e-mail Wednesday to University
President Mary Sue Coleman,
University Provost Philip Han-
lon and Assistant Vice Provost
Frances Mueller, stating that

Dibbern's claims were defama-
tory.
"These allegations are all
COMPLETELY FALSE (sic),"
Adam Wood, Justin Canniff,
Emily Robb, Mike Warren and
Eric Zech wrote in the e-mail,
which was obtained by The
Michigan Daily.
"As students that are advised
by Professor Goldman, and for-
mer academic colleagues with
Ms. Dibbern, we can attest to
the complete dishonesty with
which these accusations are
being made," the GSRAs wrote.
GEO and Dibbern said at a
press conference yesterday that
she was fired from her research
work after speaking openly
about supporting the unioniza-
tion. Dibbern claims that her
research work was how she sup-
ported herself and she would
not have been fired if GSRAs
were allowed to form a union.
In the e-mail, the GSRAs
wrote that the University shoul-
publicly denounce GEO and
See GSRAS, Page S


"I"CHGAN Fl&CTF

TFA CEO lauds program on campus

TERESA MATHEW/Daily
LSA sophomore Tatiana Hofmans MCs at the FOKUS' Music Metaphysics show in the Michigan Union yesterday.
LOCAL BUSINESSES
The Brides Project fundraises for Cancer
Support Community of Greater Ann Arbor

Kopp encourages
students to assist
ailing schools
By CECE ZHOU
Daily Staff Reporter
Teach for America founder
and CEO Wendy Kopp encour-
aged an audience of more than
300 University students to teach
in rural and urban districts that
struggle to provide quality K-12
education in an event at the natu-
ral science auditorium last night.
In 1989, Kopp successfully
made her senior-year thesis at
Princeton University into reality
by creating the non-profitorgani-
zation, TFA. Kopp was inspired
to found TFA because she was
surprised by the number of
recruiters encouraging students
to work in "money-making" cor-
porations instead of disadvan-
taged communities. In a recent
visit to Detroit, a newly created
TFA site, she discussed her early
ideas about the organization.
"This label about our gen-
eration (that) we supposedly all
just wanted to go work on Wall
Street and make a lot of money, I
thought that it was a little crazy,"
she said. "Everyone I knew was
just searching for a way to make
a real difference in the world and
they weren't finding it. I came to
the conclusion that the problem
wasn't really the generation but
rather, the recruiters."
She explained that one-fifth
of American children grow up in
poverty, adding that they have an

TyREA MATHEW/Daily
Wendy Kopp, the founder of TFA, speaks at the University yesterday.

Local boutique
sells discounted
gowns to brides
By CHELSEA LANDRY
Daily Staff Reporter
Though delicate folds of
Chantilly lace and dainty
pleats of cream-colored tulle

may seem out of place at Mid-
dle Earth - the eclectic gift
shop located at 1209 S. Univer-
sity Ave. - a window display
in the store exhibits a number
of elegant wedding gowns to
advocate for The Brides Proj-
ect, a fundraising effort of the
Cancer Support Community of
Greater Ann Arbor.
The organization, which
originated in Toronto, Ontario

in 2004, has expanded to the
United States and currently
operates in Ann Arbor at a
boutique located at 208 W. Lib-
erty St. The shop offers a wide
variety of secondhand bridal
gowns that are sold for consid-
erably less than retail price.
Ashley Edwards, marketing
chair for The Brides Project,
said all the proceeds from the
See BRIDES, Page 5

8-percent chance of graduating
from college by age 24.
Kopp shared the story of one
TFA participant, Megan Brous-
seau, who taught biology to a
class of more than 100 ninth-
grade students in the Bronx. All
of Brousseau's students passed
the biology Regents Exam, a
pre-college standardized test
for high-school students, though
most students in the school had
not attempted the optional exam
in the past.
Kopp added that cases like
Brousseau's redefine the poten-
tial of students from all walks of
life across the nation.
"Twenty years ago ... the pre-
vailing notion was that socioeco-

nomic background did predict
educational outcomes, but today,
we have growing numbers of
communities all over every
region that I visit," she said. "We
have school systems that people
had completely given up on that
have made meaningful systems
of progress."
Business junior Trevor Grieb,
a campus campaign coordinator
for TFA, said he got involved in
education reform when he heard
about the low percentage of stu-
dents graduating from college
from low-income communities.
"Teach for America provites
that opportunity to go right
from college and dive into solv-
See TFA, Page5


WEATHER HI 28
TOMORROW LO:21

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
'Justified' RECAP: Psychopaths and frying pans
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE FILTER

INDEX AP NEWS..................2 SUDOKU.........S.....;5
Vol. CXXII,No. 78 OPINION.....................4 SPORTS ......... ....... 6
dc2OtThe Michigan Daily N E W S ........... . .... 5 ARTS ................... 8
michigondailycom


2 -- Friday, January 20, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

2 - Friday, January 20, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


al mchipan Ba-l
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN ZACHARY YANCER
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandaily.com zyancer@michigandaily.com

__ -'
4U
w
, '/' '
a

9

Newsroom
734-418-415 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaity.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaity.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES
All sucked up Laptop looted
WHERE: Stockwell Resi- WHERE: Taubman Health
dence Hall Center

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Songwriter Bowling
showcase tournament


WHEN: Wednesday at WHEN: Wednesday at WHAT: A showcase of the WHAT: The first ever intr
about 8:40 a.m about 3:20 p.m best student songwriters mural bowling tournamen
WHAT: A vacuum cleaner WHAT: Three laptops were from local colleges and The first 75 registrants can
was reported stolen from a taken from an unsecured universities. The students participate for free.
hallway, University Police storage room, University will be competing for the WHO: Department of Rec
reported. There are no sus- Police reported. There are opportunity to play a show reational Sports
pects. no suspects. at The Ark. WHEN: Tonight from 6 p.
WHO: University of Michi- to 8 p.m
gan Museum of Art WHERE: Colonial Lanes
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m
WHERE: University of Learn to relax
Too ughlyhMichigan Museum of Art
Slash and dash Theater night WHAT: A workshop to
cleaned learn stress reduction
WHERE: Lot NC- 27, 900 in Detroit techinques such as deep
WHEE . h lle a fi muscle reaxati mitnl

ta-
it.
-
.m

Warren Buffet will
match a check of more
than $49,000 written by
Rep. Scott Rigell (R-Va.)
to the U.S. Treasury after
Rigell became the first to act
on Buffet's promise to match
any donation to the Treasury
made by a member of Con-
gress, CNBC reported.
Despite unbelievable
dialogue, ABC Fam-
ily series "Pretty Lit-
tle Liars" combines strong
female characters with
nerve-wracking suspense. >
FOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGE 8
The longest winning
streak in college sports
was broken when the
Yale squash team beat Trinity
College 5-4 on Wednesday,
Sports Illustrated reported.
The loss was Trinity's first in
252 matches since the 1997-
1998 season

EDITORIAL STAFF
osh Healy Managig Editor jahealy@michigandaily.com
Bethany Biron Managing News Editor biron@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Haley Glatthorn, Haley Goldberg, Rayza Goldsmith,
Paige Pearcy,AdamRubenfire
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Giacomo Bologna, Anna Rozenberg, Andrew Schulman,
Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman
Ashley Griesshammerand opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
AndrewWeiner EditorialtPage Editors
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:HarshaNahata,TimothyRabb,VanessaRychlinski
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Patrick Maillet
Stephen Nesbitt ManagingSports Editor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Everett Cook, Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Luke Pasch,
Neal Rothschild, Matt Slovin
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Matt Spelich,
ColleenThomas,LizVukelich,DanielWasserman
Leah Burgin ManagingArts Editor burgin@michigandaily.com
SNIORAARTSDT RS: ElliotlpernJacobAxelrad,DavidTaoKayaUadhyya
ASSISTAATS EDITORS: Larn Caserta,Mattastn,Kslyt,Anna adosky,
Cbloe Stachowiak
Erin Kirkland and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss Managing Photo Editors
SENIO0ROOTO EDITORS: Terra Maolnraffodd Needle
SSISTANTPHOTO EDTORSAdamGanzanAusensufford,AllisonKruske
Marlene Lacasse,AdamSchnitzer
Arjun Mahanti ManagingDesignEditor mahanti@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS:Krisit Begonia, AnnaLein-Zielinski
Dylan Cinti and statement@michigandaily.com
JenniferXu Magazine Editor
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Kaitlin Williams
Christine Chun and copydesk@michigandaily.com
Hannah Poindexter copychiefs
SENIoR COPY EDIToRS: Josephine Adams, Beth Coplowitz
Zach Bergson Online Editor bergson@michigandaily.com
Imran Syed Public Editor publiceditor@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Julianna Crim AssociateBusiness Manager
Rachel Greinetz sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Sean Jackson special Projects Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Ashley Karadsheh Client RelationshipsManager
The Michigan aily (ISSN 0745-967)is published Monday through Friday during the ali and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. Onecopy is avalable free of charge
toallreaders.AdditionaIcopiesmaybepickedupatthe Daly'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor
fall term, starting in september,via U.S.mal are $110. Wintteerm (anuary through Aprilis
$115,yearlong(September throughApriiis$19s5.Universityaffiatesaresubject toareduced
subscription rate. On-campus subscriptionsfor fall term are $35s.Subscriptions must be prepaid.


*1

wrx: Nort Inga s
Building
WHEN: Wednesday at
about8:55 a.m
WHAT: Four locks on cus-
todial closets were found
vandalized, University
Police reported. There are
no suspects.

Mur n Ave.
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 5:30 p.m
WHAT: Two tires on a
parked vehicle were punc-
tured between 3:05 p.m.
and 5:25 p.m, University
Police reported. There are
no suspects.

WHAT: Travel to Detroit
to see The Whipping Boy,
a play about slaves deal-
ing with their newfound
freedom in the aftermath
of the Civil War set in 186S.
Tickets and transportation
cost $10.
WHO: Arts at Michigan
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m
WHERE: Max Fischer
Music Center

inseroiun, mental
imagery and more
WHO: Counseling and Pys-
chological Services
WHEN: Today at noon
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

Carnival Corporation
launches safety review

After accident,
procedures called
into question
MIAMI (AP) - Carnival
Corp., the parent company of
Costa Cruises, announced yes-
terday a comprehensive audit
and review of all safety and
emergency response procedures

across all 10 of the company's
cruise lines.
Carnival Chairman and CEO
Micky Arison said in a news
release that last week's accident
of the Costa Concordia in Italy
has called into question the com-
pany's safety and emergency
response procedures and prac-
tices.
The Costa Concordia capsized
off the Tuscan island of Giglio on

If you suffer from anxiety attacks and are 18-45, non-pregnant and
medication free (no birth control pills), you may qualify to participate
in a U of M research proect. Study involves free diagnostic examinatior
and testing of physiological functions through blood sampling. Up to
$250.00 for those who complete study. (iRB #HUM00022648)
For more information call or email
U of M Anxiety Clinic Research office:
(734) 647-8354
Email: Ponicstudyumich.edu
-an-

Jan. 13 after the ship detoured
from its programmed route and
slammed into a reef. At least 11
people were killed and 21 are
missing.
"While I have every confi-
dence in the safety of our vessels
and the professionalism of our
crews, this review will evaluate
all practices and procedures to
make sure that this kind of acci-
dent doesn't happen again," Ari-
son said.
The review is being led by
retired U.S. Navy Capt. James
Hunn, who currently is the com-
pany's senior vice president of
Maritime Policy & Compliance.
Muon and executives from
each of the corporation's subsid-
iary cruise lines will review all
safety policies, employee train-
ing, bridge management and
response and support efforts.
Carnival reported that it also
is engaging outside experts to
audit of all of the company's
emergency response and safety
procedures. The outside experts
will also conduct a review of the
Costa Concordia accident.
"This company-wide initia-
tive will identify lessons learned
and best practices to further
ensure the security and safety of
all of our passengers and crew,"
chief operations officer Howard
Frank said.
Earlier yesterday, Cruise Line
International Association Presi-
dent and CEO Christine Duffy
called on the International Mar-
itime Organization to undertake
a comprehensive evaluation
from the findings of the Costa
Concordia investigation to
ensure the cruising industry
remains safe.
"While there is still a great
deal not yet known about this
incident, all of our members rec-
ognize the seriousness of these
events and want to ensure that
we apply the lessons learned
from this tragic event," Duffy
said in London.
Carnival's said in the news
release that it welcomes such an
evaluation.

Rupert Murdoch and his wife Wendi arrive at the 69th Annual Golden Globe Awards last Sunday in Los Angeles.
Murdoch to pay Jude Law, 36
others for illegal eavesdropping "

Settlements give
vindication to
accusations
LONDON (AP) - Rupert Mur-
doch's media empire apologized
and agreed to cash payouts yes-
terday to 37 people - including a
movie star, a soccer player, a top
British politician and the son of a
serial killer - who were harassed
and phone-hacked by his tabloid
press.
The four - Jude Law, Ashley
Cole, John Prescott and Chris
Shipman - were among three
dozen victims who received
financial damages from Mur-
doch's British newspaper compa-
ny for illegal eavesdropping and
other intrusions, including email
snooping.
Lawyers for the claimants said
the settlements vindicated their
accusation that senior Murdoch
executives had long known about
the scale of illegal phone hacking
and had tried to cover it up.
News International, the par-
ent company of Murdoch's News
Group Newspapers, said it did
not admit that senior staff knew
of the wrongdoing and tried to
cover it up - but it said that "for
the purpose of reaching these
settlements only, News Group

Newspapers agreed that the
damages to be paid to claimants
should be assessed as if this was
the case."
Financial details of 15 of the
payouts, totaling more than
640,000 pounds (about $1 mil-
lion), were made public at a court
hearing yesterday. The amounts
generally ran into the tens of thou-
sands of pounds - although Law
received 130,000 pounds (about
$200,000), plus legal costs, to set-
tle claims against the now-shut-
tered News of the World tabloid
and its sister tabloid, The Sun.
Law was one of 60 people who
have sued News Group News-
papers, claiming their mobile
phone voicemails were hacked.
Others whose settlements were
announced yesterday at London's
High Court included former gov-
ernment ministers Chris Bryant
and Tessa Jowell, rugby player
Gavin Henson, Princess Diana's
former lover James Hewitt,
singer Dannii Minogue and Sara
Payne, the mother of a murdered
girl.
It was the largest group of
settlements announced yet in
the long-running hacking scan-
dal, which has shaken Murdoch's
global empire, spurred the resig-
nations of several of his top exec-
utives and reverberated through
Britain's political, police and

media elite.
Law, the star of "Sherlock
Holmes" and "The Talented
Mr. Ripley," said he was "truly
appalled" at the scale of surveil-
lance and privacy invasion that
his case had exposed.
"No aspect of my private life
was safe from intrusion by News
Group Newspapers, including the
lives of my children and the peo-
ple who work for me," he said in
a statement. "It was not just that
my phone messages were listened
to. News Group also paid people
to watch me and my house for
days at a time and to follow me
and those close to me, both inthis
country and abroad."
News Group Newspapers
admitted that 16 articles about
Law published in the News of
the World between 2003 and
2006 had been obtainedby phone
hacking, and that the actor had
also been placed under "repeated
and sustained physical surveil-
lance." The company also admit-
ted that articles in The Sun had
misused Law's private informa-
tion - although it didn't go as far
as to admit hacking by that paper.
Law said Murdoch's tabloids
had been "prepared to do any-
thing to sell their newspapers 0
and to make money, irrespective
of the impact it had on people's
lives."

4-


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 20, 2012 - 3

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 20, 2012 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING
Snyder advocates
for more education
funding in budget
Republican Gov. Rick Snyder
said yesterday he'll propose more
" spending for Michigan education
in his upcoming budget proposal.
School districts took a cut of
more than 2 percent in this year's
budget, or nearly $1 billion, and
many have had to lay off teachers
and contract out food and janito-
rial services to absorb the cuts.
Funding for state universities
dropped by 15 percent, and many
raised tuition nearly 7 percent to
make up for the lost state support.
The decreases continue to be
criticized by Democrats and have
proven unpopular with many vot-
ers. House Democratic Leader
Richard Hammel has called for
giving $457 million left over from
the past budget year to public
schools, advice Snyder has point-
edly ignored.
WASHINGTON
Ex-wife claims
Gingrich wanted
open marriage'
Dredging up a past that Newt
Gingrich has workedhard tobury,
the GOP presidential candidate's
second ex-wife says Gingrich
asked for an "open marriage" in
which he could have both a wife
and a mistress.
In an interview with ABC
News' "Nightline" aired last
night, Marianne Gingrich said
she refused to go along with the
idea that she share her husband
with Callista Bisek, who would
later become his third wife.
The explosive interview was
airing just two days before the
presidential primary in South
Carolina, a state with a strong
Christian conservative bent, and
as Gingrich tries to present him-
self as the strongest alternative to
front-runner Mitt Romney.
* MCLEANVa.
Feds prohibit file-
sharing web site
One of the world's largest
file-sharing sites was shut down
yesterday, and its founder and
several company executives
" were charged with violating
piracy laws, federal prosecutors
said.
An indictment accuses
Megaupload.com of costing copy-
right holders more than $500 mil-
lion in lost revenue from pirated
films and other content. The
indictment was unsealed one day
after websites including Wikipe-
dia and Craigslist shut down in
protest of two congressional pro-
posals intended to thwart online
piracy.
The Justice Department said
in a statement said that Kim Dot-
com, formerly known as Kim
Schmitz, and three others were
arrested Thursday in New Zea-
land at the request of U.S. offi-

cials. Two other defendants are
at large.
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan
Six NATO soldiers
die in Afghanistan
helicopter crash
A NATO helicopter has crashed
in southern Afghanistan, killing
six members of the international
military force, the U.S.-led coali-
tion said today.
A coalition statement said that
there was no enemy activity in
the area at the time of yesterday's
crash.
The cause of the crash is still
being investigated. The coalition
did not disclose the nationalities
of those killed.
The helicopter crash occurred
on the same day that a suicide car
bomber killed at least seven civil-
ians outside a crowded gate at
Kandahar Air Field, a sprawling
base for U.S. and NATO opera-
tions in the south. The Taliban
insurgents claimed responsibil-
ity, saying they were targeting a
NATO convoy.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

U.S. to begin peace
talks with Taliban

U.S. officials
optimistic about
future Middle East
relations
WASHINGTON (AP) - The
Obama administration is moving
ahead with plans for negotiating
with the Taliban, confident that
talks offer the best chance to end
the 10-year-old war in Afghani-
stan. But the military worries
things are moving too fast, and
intelligence agencies offered a
gloomy prognosis in their latest
Afghanistan report.
Several current and for-
mer U.S. officials said the most
substantive give-and-take to
date between U.S. and Tali-
ban negotiators could happen
in the next week, with the goal
of establishing what the U.S.
calls confidence-building mea-
sures - specific steps that the
U.S. and the insurgents agree to
take ahead of formal talks. Those

talks, if they ever take place,
would include the United States,
the Taliban and the Afghan gov-
ernment of President Hamid
Karzai, a senior U.S. official said.
Like others interviewed, the
official spoke on condition of
anonymity to describe sensitive
diplomacy. Elements of the U.S.
outreach to the Taliban are also
classified.
The diplomatic, military and
intelligence branches of the
U.S. government differ over
the value of talks with the Tali-
ban or whether now is the right
time to so publicly shift focus
away from the ongoing military
campaign that primarily targets
Taliban insurgents. Defense Sec-
retary Leon Panetta and some
uniformed military leaders have
recently sounded some of the
strongest notes of caution, espe-
cially on when to grant Taliban
requests for the transfer of sev-
eral of its prisoners from theU.S.
military prison at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, military and other
U.S. officials said.

Republican presidential candidate, Texas Gov. Rick Perry pauses during a news conference in North Charleston, S.C.,
yesterday, where he announced he is suspending his campaign and endorsing Newt Gingrich.
Perry leaves presidential
race, endorses Gingrich

Texas governor
returns home to
consider future
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - Gov.
Rick Perry dropped out of the
presidential race yesterday,
endorsed- his old friend Newt
Gingrich and returned home to
Texas, where the failed White
House candidate has three years
left to serve as the chief execu-
tive.
"I have come to the conclusion
that there is no viable path to vic-
tory for my candidacy in 2012,"
Perry said in North Charleston,
S.C.,justtwo days before the pri-
mary there. "I believe Newt is a
conservative visionary who can
transform our country."
Money also was a factor, with
spokesman Ray Sullivan say-
ing: "We have spent the bulk of
our funds." He added that Perry
hasn't ruled out running again
for governor or the White House
in 2016 if President Barack
Obama is re-elected.
Perry ended his campaign
wherehelaunched itlast August,
when tea party and evangelical
Christian leaders hailed him as
a charismatic conservative and
some early polls showed-him as
a front-runner for the Republi-
can nomination. But soon after,
Perry's verbal gaffes and poor
debate performances sent his
campaign into a tailspin from
which it never recovered.
It was too soon to tell whether
Perry's rocky turn on the nation-
al stage had damaged him politi-
cally at home. But already there
were signs of his diminished

clout.
Several Texas donors who
fueled his bid indicated they
were likely to back Mitt Rom-
ney, the former Massachusetts
governor who is considered the
more moderate candidate in the
race. And South Carolina House
speaker David Wilkins, who had
supported Perry, ignored the
governor's recommendation and
shifted his support to Romney,
too.
Short of a Gingrich victory
leading to a job for Perry in
Washington, Perry will most
likely stay in Austin where -
despite his dismal presidential
campaign - he's still considered
the most powerful politician in
the state. He has appointed more
than 1,000 people to key govern-
ment positions since becoming
governor in 2000. State lawmak-
ers also depend on his support.
But that doesn't mean he
won't face serious headwinds.
Democrats insist the failed
presidential run has diminished
his power and embarrassed Tex-
ans. Conservatives also have
complained about the $2.6 mil-
lion the state has spent on his
security detail while he cam-
paigned outside the state. Top
Republicans, meanwhile, have
been positioning themselves to
replace him whether he won the
presidency or retired in 2014.
Roy Blount, a Perry supporter
and deep-pocketed Republican
donor in Texas, said he expect-
ed Perry to remain popular and
powerful.
"Everything he stood for reso-
nates with Texans," Blount said.
"He's got this state as a leading
state, and he wants to continue

that and expand it."
The Texas Democratic Party
was ready yesterday to begin
exploiting any perceived weak-
ness created by Perry's deci-
sion and called on him to focus
on problems at home, including
legal questions about the consti-
tutionality of the school finance
system as well as water short-
ages and greenhouse gas emis-
sions.
Perry's biggest supporters,
in turn, welcomed him home.
Bill Hammond, president of the
Texas Association of Business,
said "Gov. Perry has always been
good for Texas business."
Mark Jones, chairman of
political science department
at Rice University, said Perry
risks becoming a lame-duck
governor and must not rule
out seeking a fourth term if he
hopes to continue being effec-
tive.
"As long as he can maintain
the illusion that he could be gov-
ernor through 2019, that allows
him to maintain authority not
only among the legislators, but
also among donors, lobbyists and
his appointees," Jones said.
Perry's early missteps called
into question whether the Texas
politician who had never lost
a race in nearly 30 years was
ready for the national stage. His
biggest flub came in a nation-
ally televised debate in early
November, when he could not
remember the name of the third
Cabinet department he pledged
to eliminate.
Perry could only manage to
say, "Oops." Making fun of him-
self afterward, he told reporters:
"I stepped in it."

Egyptian military
critic beaten publicly

Key figure in last
year's uprising
attacked in street
CAIRO (AP) - Assailants
attacked a prominent Egyp-
tian activist as she left work at
Cairo's Nileside state television
headquarters late on Wednes-
day, in the latest incident of
violence against the protest
movement that toppled Hosni
Mubarak's regime to be cap-
tured on video.
A clip posted on social net-
works showed a small crowd
punching and kicking Nawara
Negm, and hurling abuse at her.
Her assailants could be heard
saying she wanted to drive a
wedge between the ruling mili-
tary and the people. Others
called her an "agent," presum-
ably of a foreign power.
Negm told a TV interviewer
late on Wednesday night that the
beating left her with a swollen
eye, but that she was otherwise
unhurt. She said the beating took
place while scores of policemen
and army soldiers assigned to
the protection of the TV building
stood by and watched.
"I am not the type that runs
away. I stood my ground," she
told the interviewer on the pri-

vately owned ONTV station.
Negm is the daughter of
Ahmed Fouad Negm, Egypt's
best known satirical poet and a
longtime critic of Mubarak. She
was a key figure in the 18-day
uprising that forced Mubarak to
step down last February. Also a
newspaper columnist and blog-
ger, she has been sharply criti-
cal of the generals who took over
from the ousted president.
Negm was questioned by
prosecutors this week over her
alleged role in deadly clashes last
month between troops and pro-
testers in Cairo.
The ruling generals have
repeatedly accused some of the
activists behind Mubarak's oust-
er of illegally receiving foreign
funds and the state mgdia has
portrayed them as reckless trou-
blemakers.
The country's military ruler,
Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi,
delivered a thinlyveiledwarning
to anti-military activists plan-
ning a wave of protests to mark
the Jan. 25 anniversary of the
start of the uprising.
In comments published on
Wednesday, he said Egypt was
facing "grave dangers" but
assured the nation that the
armed forces would protect it.
Tantawi was Mubarak's defense
minister for 20 years.



4 - Friday, January 20, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com 0

4 - Friday, January 20, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ASHLEY GRIESSHAMMER
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ANDREW WEINER JOSH HEALY
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Imran Syed is the public editor. He can be reached at publiceditor@michigandaily.com.
Cleaner and greener
Michigan must increase renewable energy use
World energy needs have long been supported by unsustain-
able resources. Though further innovation must occur,
cleaner and greener sources are critical to the future of
energy usage. Michigan currently has the opportunity to make the
necessary change toward a greater use of renewable energy. The
Michigan Jobs & Energy Coalition is pushing to amend the state con-
stitution to require more of Michigan's utilities to come from renew-
able sources by 2025. Michigan residents should sign the petition for
this ballot-initiative and vote to make it a constitutional amendment in
the Nov. 6 general election, and the state Legislature should fully sup-

JEFF ZUSCHLAG

E-MAIL JEFF AT JEFFDZ)UMICHs.EDU

port the proposal.
On Jan. 11, the Michigan Jobs & Energy
Coalition filed the proposed ballot language
that would require one-quarter of Michigan's
utilities to come from renewable sources
by 2025. Current law requires 10 percent of
Michigan's electricity to come from renew-
able sources by 2015. The proposed ballot-
initiative would increase the goal, putting
Michigan on par with several other states
in energy progression. While The Michigan
Daily doesn't usually support ballot-initia-
tives, this specific proposal would benefit
Michigan's technological sector, its environ-
ment and the state as a whole.
While 25 percent use of renewable energy
may seem like a drastic increase from the four
percent Michigan used in 2009, the greener
number is within reach. Four percent renew-
able energy is far too low a number in a state
like Michigan, where clean energy infrastruc-
ture is a reasonable alternative. Several plans
have explored the feasibility of installing wind
turbines in the Great Lakes. Development of
the turbines would greatly benefit from this
plan. Michigan wouldn't be the only state to
have 25 percent of energy coming from renew-
able resources - six other states have set this
commendable goal, and several have even
higher requirements.
This plan promises a cleaner environment
for everyone. The National Academy of Sci-
ences estimates that the United States could

The relentless negative ads With that in mind, I have
by my opponents are dirty, decided to release an ad ...wait, I think I just
dishonest, and distort the that depicts Mitt Romney blanked out. What am
issues at hand. as a negligent dog-abuser. I trying to accomplish
here, again?
More than just a phone
hen I started at the these computers (read: communi- on their big boy or girl pants and
University in fall 2008 cation, gaming and web-surfing exhibit self-control when neces-
devices) often hold the attention of sary. If a student chooses to spend
I was sporting students, myself included, better his or her class time hidden behind
a trendy Sam- than a professor's lecture slides. a computer screen or looking at his
sung flip phone. As far as phones go, however, or her phone for non-class related
However, by Fall most professors draw a line in the purposes (assuming such actions
Break I real- sand and strictly prohibit their use do not negatively impact other stu-
ized how much during class for any purpose. With dents' ability to pay attention), such
I could benefit improved technology, device dis- students should endure the conse-
from receiving LEAH crimination becomes an issue, as quences of their actions. And while
my e-mail on my POTKIN smartphones double as computers some may argue that electronic
phone and made for some students and therefore devices are better left outside the
the switch to a have equal abilities to benefit and classroom to avoid the inevitable
BlackBerry. With my new phone I distract in the classroom. temptation, there is no denying the
could receive CTools notifications With these similarities in mind, advantages associated with allow-
(to avoid being the only student to the line dividing acceptable class- ing computers, and potentially now
show up when a class had been can- room electronics becomes blurred,
celled), reply quickly to professors' as smartphones could arguably
e-mails (to avoid getting back to my provide the same advantages as
dorm only to realize that my pro- computers now do. In this sense, if People struggle to
fessor was free to meet 20 minutes teachers allow students to use com-
prior) and feel more connected on a puters in the classroom, they have find technology's
campus as large as the University's. little reason to ban phones - par-
Now a recent iPhone convert, I can ticularly smart ones. In the past, educational role.
do more on my phone than my Sam- teachers could argue that phone
sung-equipped self ever thought use was strictly social and non-
possible, but it's hard to say wheth- academic. But now, in the same
er or not this ability is beneficial to way a teacher doesn't know what a phones, in the classroom.
me as a student. student is doing on his or her lap- I am by no means advocating
While the iPhone is undoubt- top (many students have mastered spending class time. wandering
edly an incredible device - equally putting on the inquisitive note- in cyber space, but as computers
entertaining as it is educational taking face while really Facebook and phones now share equal pro
- its ability to connect its owner chatting), the teacher doesn't know and con lists, it seems only logical
with everything and anything has whether what a student is doing on that their use be equally treated.
been a recent topic of debate. One his or her smartphone is class-relat- And when it comes to the matter of
of Newsweek's '31 Ways to Get ed. And many students do prefer to self-control, it's both the student's
Smarter in 2012' was to "toss your take notes and read documents on responsibility and decision wheth-
smartphone," while another was to these smaller devices in an effort to er to pay attention to a screen or a
play Words with Friends, a popular be environmentally friendly. professor. While the contradiction
Scrabble-like application - contra- A related issue is the question of surrounding smartphone use in
diction at its finest, responsibility and whether profes- class continues to be debated, at
This contradiction is nothing sors should be charged with the least if a student chooses to occa-
new, as the advances in smartphone task of ensuring their students are sionally engage in a tense game
technology and their proliferation paying attention. Ideally, the class- of Words With Friends during
on campuses has created a conun- room will reach an ultimate uto- class time they're exercising their
drum for college professors. In the pian balance between electronic brains.
past, most college professors have intervention and self-control, but as
permitted laptop computers for the people struggle to find technology's - Leah Potkin can be reached
sole purpose of doing class-related appropriate place in the classroom, at Ipotkin@mich.edu. Follow her
activities, despite knowing that I believe it is up to students to pull on Twitter at @LeahPotkin.
SAM MYERS I
Disappointing MLK's legacy

save $120 billion in health care costs per year
if Americans stopped using all fossil fuels.
Renewable energy reduces pollution in the
air, which has been linked to many diseases,
including lung cancer. The plan would also
reduce electricity and industrial pollution - a
major cause of acid rain, which pollutes water
and makes crops and vegetation potentially
harmful for human consumption.
The proposal also has the potential to cre-
ate jobs in Michigan. It will spark more than
$10 million in much-needed new investment.
Contrary to many fears, an incentive would be
put into place that encourages hiring of Michi-
gan workers rather than importingout-of-state
employees. Increasing the use of clean energy
won't cost significantly more for Michigan resi-
dents. A Dec. 2011 study by ClearSky Advisors
proves that states with high volumes of wind
and solar energy have seen well below average
cost increases. Under this proposal, the utility
rate increases would be capped at a 1 percent
increase per year, making the new industry a
cost efficient energy source.
Michigan has the opportunity to set clean
energy goals that will help the state's economy
as well as create a cleaner environment for resi-
dents. This proposal gives Michigan the ability
to move in a high-tech and innovative direc-
tion, resulting in jobs and economic growth. A
cleaner and healthier future is at stake, and all
residents should support the measure.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS:
Aida Ali, Laura Argintar, Kaan Avdan, Ashley Griesshammer, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein,
Patrick Maillet, Erika Mayer, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Harsha Panduranga, Adrienne
Roberts,Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Seth Soderborg, Caroline Syms, Andrew Weiner
BRITTANY SMITH I
National idenitfications

Since returning to the University after
studying abroad at the London School of Eco-
nomics five months ago, I've struggled with
what my follow-up will be to a blog post I
wrote a year ago. I've thought a lot about how
my life has changed. But after considering
my various epiphanies, revelations, setbacks
and surprises that have caused me to alter my
worldview considerably, I can now see how
limiting my first piece might have been. I now
wrestle with what might be the hardest part
about writing the capstone to my trilogy - the
story I will now tell.
Before I left for London last spring, I set an
agenda. It seemed simple at the time. I wanted
to escape what seemed like a place that wasn't
a good fit for me - the University of Michigan.
I wanted to leave the place that seemed so
stifling and gray, and exchange it for what I
assumed wasthe big city life of London. And, if
I liked my time in London, I assumed I would
switch schools altogether. But I did not expect
that my time in England would help me value
being a student at the University, and a citizen
of this country.
London is a powerful city - it surpassed
my imagination. When I landed I immediate-
ly began to understand why England, and its
capital city, were regarded as the seat of the
British Empire. This forced me to navigate a
complex cultural scene of race, class and sta-
tus. Parts of me felt privileged in ways that I
had never experienced before. My politics and
my reality just didn't fit in.
Students atLSE are as diverse as the nations
representing the Group of 20 finance minis-
ters and central bank governors. I learned that
the social consequences associated with the
classification of race are different in the U.S.
than they are in the U.K. Justice, for instance,
seemed to be grounded in class and nation-
hood, not race.
Standing in the line to go through immi-
gration at the airport in London, I noticed
how quickly certain people were going
through, while others' paths were less com-
fortable. What I found interesting was that

there seemed to be a pattern of behavior: the
color of one's passport seemed to dictate the
respect security officials showed passengers.
Americans and people from Western Europe,
were surveyed with less suspicion than those
from Eastern Europe or Africa. But when
I witnessed the experience of Southeast
Asians, I was shocked at what I saw. South-
east Asian passengers were met with anx-
iousness and nervousness.
Once again, national identity - not race -
defined social status.
Thinking about the different ways I was
being viewed as an American (and not as a
black American) felt surreal. Even talking
with my black British peers in the halls of LSE,
speaking about the differences between Brit-
ish colonialism and American expansion with
other students from Estonia and Germany or
being uncertain of why philanthropic gifts to
higher education are less common in the U.K. I
was being asked to see difference through the
guise of an otherwise unusual identity - to
truly experience myself as an American.
When I put all these questions together
and reason why Black History Month in Brit-
ain focuses on black American achievement, I
also wonder why there is limited representa-
tion of Latinos in Britain, or even questions of
identity and immigration. I was often curious
about the concerns of nationhood and ethnic-
ity when exploring why a disproportionate
amount of London's underclass is preoccupied
with the Southeast Asian experience.
Being in London was helpful. My experi-
ences in that city, similar to the one I had in
southern India, helped me think about the
definition of nationhood, the imagination and
local reality of citizenship, and the different
visions of globalization. When put together,
all these experiences both confuse and inspire
additional meanings.
All this and more has led me to further
explore the symbolic meaning and realities of
the American Dream.
Brittany Smith is an LSA Senior.

Twenty-six years after the inaugural observance
of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, the question has to be
asked: Are we - the self-proclaimed greatest, most cul-
turally diverse, accepting and modern country on Earth
- doing justice to Dr. King's brilliance and bravery?
The answer is a complex one, with varying degrees
of yes and no. On the one hand, public, professional and
educational segregation are no longer legally permit-
ted in almost all cases. Every American has an inalien-
able, and too rarely utilized, right to vote. A major
culture shift has occurred which has eliminated per-
sonal racism, though sectors of the country still lag.
Well, that's good, but we can do better. Restoring basic
human rights doesn't offset hundreds of years of legal-
ized slavery, discrimination and persecution. I certainly
don't claim to know what will, but it appears we're mov-
ing further and further away from the answer.
People like to think of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
as a giant reset button - once it was clicked, every-
thing became fine and dandy. Beside organizations like
the NAACP and Congress of Racial Equality, large-
scale movements for civil equality seem unnecessar-
ily outdated, as if the 1964 Act could somehow remedy
decades of disenfranchisement and exclusion from
higher education, political and professional arenas.
It couldn't, and mainstream politics and scholarship
need to reflect America's structural inequalities.
While the ancestors of white people were given
financial, academic and professional opportunities,
African-Americans were enslaved and subsequently
rejected by society. Though African-Americans' strug-
gle has been the longest, most pronounced and severe,
many minorities have endured similar plights.
Imagine a footrace. When the race begins, only
white people are allowed to run. Hours in, everyone
realizes African Americans and other minorities have
a right to run too, and officials let them enter. The
officials argue that the race is now equal and base all
rules and regulations off of the assumed equality, even
though whites have already been running for hours.
In the U.S., people who were under-educated and ill-
equipped to succeed were thrust into a system that had
rejected them for years. Minorities had little academic,
financial or professional foundation because they had
always been excluded from those institutions. Capital-
ism only functions justly when everyone is given equal
opportunity, and that's not happening right now.
This is quickly turning into a sociology paper, so I'll
make my point. Given knowledge of these inequities,
one would assume that a nation as progressive as ours

would work to bring about equality. But take one look
at the GOP's star lineup for the upcoming presidential
election and it's clear this isn't the case.
Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) wants to eliminate five cab-
inet-level departments - Energy, Commerce, Housing
and Urban Development, Interior and Education. He'd
also like to cut the Federal Reserve, the Department
of Health and Human Services, the Department of
Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Interstate Commerce Commission and the
IRS. Alright, that last one can go.
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney aren't as cut-happy
as Ron the Ripper, but they'd both make significant
cuts in social services. All of the candidates would
repeal President Barack Obama's health care plan and
abolish the Consumer Protection Agency. Not to men-
tion they hate many forms of welfare.
Libertarianism and Tea Party politics are domi-
nating the economic policies of the GOP, whose only
concern seems to be low taxes. They hail capitalism as
the ultimate adjudicator - a perfect system that natu-
rally and fairly delegates all resources. They say that
the markets will deal with healthcare and education.
But we live in a country where only a handful of peo-
ple control each market, and too few have the oppor-
tunity to enter them. It's true that every department
and every facet of the government has inefficiencies,
but abandoning social services is abandoning people -
people whom the markets couldn't care less about.
Ideally, everyone could compete in the economy
and we'd have fair prices, efficient production, tech-
nological development and all of those fun things that
hardcore capitalists promise. But ideals are just ideals,
and reality is more important. Republicans value their
ideology more than the actual state of things, which
is scary.
The unfortunate reality of our proud country is that
far too many people are excluded from economic and
political opportunities, and capitalism in its current
form isn't a fix. Martin Luther King, Jr. gave his life
for the betterment of mankind. A quarter of a cen-
tury after a holiday honoring his life was established,
Republicans can't agree to make millionaires give an
extra 5 percent of their paychecks? That's not progress.
People need the government and all of the services it
provides. And after hundreds of years of brutally inhu-
mane treatment, I think it's the least we can do.
Sam Myers is an LSA Freshman.

01


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
d "T ? Z 1
t+
II A
z
ry t y !
x

Friday, January 20, 2012 - 5

East Stadium bridges to
be completed on Nov.14

At meeting,
project members
discuss project
development
By TAYLOR WIZNER
Daily StaffReporter
Drivers in Ann Arbor who
pass the intersection of East Sta-
dium Boulevard and South State
Street will have to continue tak-
ing detours until construction
of the East Stadium Bridges
Improvement Project is sched-
uled to be finished on Nov. 14.
At a public meeting last night
near the Ann Arbor Senior Cen-
ter, Michael Nearing, the proj-
ect's senior project manager,
discussed the progress being
made on the bridges. Nearing
said the bridges over South State

Street and the Ann Arbor Rail-
road, both built in 1928, were
demolished last November and
are still under construction, an
endeavor that has continued to
block the direct route to Michi-
gan Stadium and other Univer-
sity athletic facilities.
The construction was due to
the dangerous conditions of the
bridges and the city received
funding from the U.S. Depart-
ment of Transportation, the
Michigan Department of Trans-
portation and the city of Ann
Arbor's 2006 Street Reconstruc-
tion Millage.
As part of the renovations, the
project also installed retaining
walls and a staircase on South
State Street, and replaced the
storm sewer and water main
under the street.
After the new bridge opens in
November, the final landscap-
ing and restoration of the area

around the bridge is expected
to be complete in spring of 2014,
Nearing said.
"It's going to be interesting
to see when the football season
starts," Nearing said. "People
will just have to deal with the
detour. There is an outdoor
hockey game scheduled at the
stadium for Jan. 1, but the proj-
ect will be complete by then."
The project is progressing
on schedule, Mike Lea, resident
engineer of the project said at
the meeting. Though there were
minor problems when replac-
ing the sewer and water main,
workers were able to divert the
issue by avoiding the blocked
the areas while building under-
ground.
"We had to change the pipe
and there was a storm sewer
issue, but (they have) been
resolved and we are moving on,"
Lea said.

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
University President Mary Sue Coleman addresses the University's Board of Regents at its first meeting of the new year
yesterday


From Page 1A
At the meeting, Slottow added
that an unknown donor may
provide further funding for win-
dow upkeep at the arena, which
is home to the Michigan hockey
team.
"There is a possibility that we
may have a donation to enhance
the window treatments to go to
potentially historic windows for
Yost," Slottow said at the meet-
ing. "If you can imagine the size
of the windows on Yost, you can
imagine it's not a small under-
taking."
The regents also approved $9
million in funding for improve-
ments to Schembechler Hall-
the Michigan football team's
practice facility. In addition to
adding 7,000 square feet to the
building, the renovations will
include an overhaul of the entry-
way to the building that will be
integrated with the museum in
an effort to improve accessibili-
ty and highlight the collection of
football memorabilia displayed
there.
Boiler replacements were also
approved for Northwood Apart-
ments I, II and III. Slottow told
the regents that the new systems
would increase heating efficien-
cy, increase safety and decrease
, the University's liability.
The regents also approved an
upgrade to the Edward Henry
Krause Building Auditorium,
which will include new seating,
lighting and fire safety systems
GSRAS
From Page 1
Dibbern's assertions.
"We understand that the
University is prohibited from
commenting on academic per-
formance, but these claims are
not academic performance relat-
ed," the GSRAs wrote. "They
are pure slander and should be
discounted publicly by the Uni-
versity."
At the University's Board
of Regents first meeting of the
year yesterday, Hanlon said he
reviewed Dibbern's past aca-
demic records and supported
Goldman in her decision to ter-
minate Dibbern for academic
reasons.
"I have personally reviewed
the academic records in this
case, and I'm convinced that
the academic decisions made by
the faculty were justified, cor-
rect, and appropriate, and that
the decisions were made on aca-
demic grounds," Hanlon said. "I
think that the faculty depart-
ment followed a thorough and
fair process, and I want to offer
my strong support for them."
In an e-mail sent to Dib-
bern in August and acquired
by AnnArbor.com, Goldman
expressed her dissatisfaction
with Dibbern's progress in the
lab and asked for more dedica-
tion to her research.
"I realize you have manyother
things going on but an increase
in your focus on research is
urgently needed," Goldman
wrote. "This will probably
require you to decrease your
involvement in non-research
related activities."

University spokesman Rick

at an estimated cost of $1.7 mil-
lion.
FUTURE FEDERAL
RESEARCH FUNDING
UNCERTAIN
While presenting the annu-
al report on research to the
regents, Forrest revealed a
sobering long-term outlook for
the fate of federal funding to
University research.
The report noted that while
2012 research funds from the
federal government this year
increased slightly from 2011, the
future did not appear to be as
promising.
"In a time of flat or declining
federal funding for research,
how does (the University's)
research enterprises continue
to thrive and to grow?" Forrest
asked. "Not just to maintain
itself, but to really move strong-
ly into the future?"
Forrest noted that the Uni-
versity's $1.2 billion research
budget comprises the third larg-
est category of the overall Uni-
versity budget-following the
health system and the academic
units. Forrest added that since
1976, the research budget has
consistently tracked upward.
In an interview after the meet-
ing, Forrest said the upcoming
budget is unpredictable because
of potential congressional bud-
get fights and this fall's election.
He also cited a U.S. or European
debt crisis as a potential threat to
research funding.

"A lot of this federal fund-
ing supports a vast research
infrastructure at this Univer-
sity," Forrest said. "There's the
human capital and the infra-
structure capital and both of
those things can be quite at risk
if times change. We'll just have
to watch."
Forrest predicted that the
tenuous budget situation would
persist for five to 10 years.
REGENTS APPROVE
WAYNE COUNTY
HOSPITAL EXPANSION
The regents also approved
a $39 million, 25-year lease of
property and the construction
of a building along the I-275 cor-
ridor in Wayne County as part of
an effort to expand the Univer-
sity of Michigan Health System.
Ora Pescovitz, executive vice
president for medical affairs,
and Slottow wrote in a commu-
nication to the regents that the
facility will be approximately
100,000 square feet and house
a variety of medical specialists.
The building is designed as an
"expansion site" to the nearby
Livonia Center for Specialty
Care, which is less than a half-
mile from the new building.
"This is a very important
facility, pivotal to our strategic
efforts," Pescovitz said at the
meeting. "It's largely designed
to respond to the burgeoning
clinical need near I-275."
The building is scheduled to
open in 2014.

BRIDES
From Page 1
gowns are donated to the Cancer
Support Community. The Ann
Arbor boutique opened in Sep-
tember and since its opening,
numerous brides have aided the
fight against cancer by purchas-
ing a gown from the program or
donating a dress after their wed-
ding.
"Really, it's making your
wedding more than just about
the day; it's about giving back,"
Edwards said. "I think a lot of
brides really value that. It's more
than just buying just a dress."
She added that brides choose
to shop at the boutique because
of its altruistic efforts, low prices
and varied selection, as "no two
dresses are alike."
"A lot of people get caught up
in the hype of spending... money
on their wedding, and every-
thing is about them. This is just
a good way to give back," she
added.

While women at the organi-
zation's Toronto location have
developed friendships through
sharing a bridal gown, Edwards
said the Ann Arbor branch of the
charity is too new for women to
have developed that connection.
However, Edwards said she has
witnessed instances of emotion-
al connection between brides.
"Some of the dresses that are
donated actually come with let-
ters," she said. "Sometimes, the
bride will write a letter to the ,
next bride who wears her dress
... it's a really sweet idea."
Other stores in the commu-
nity have collaborated with The
Brides Project to advocate for
the Cancer Support Community
of Greater Ann Arbor - includ-
ing Middle Earth and the Selo/
Shevel Gallery on Main Street -
through offering their window
displays to promote the effort.
Richard Wedel, manager of
Middle Earth, said he was happy
to lend the window space to
assist the organization.
"It's a good, local organization

that's doing good work," Wedel
said. "(Brides can) save some
money and do good at the same
time."
In addition to the window
space, Middle Earth distributes
information about the charity,
which Wedel said has received
"a lot of attention."
Barb Hiltz, executive direc-
tor for the Cancer Support Com-
munity, said she is enthusiastic
about the project and the finan-
cial assistance it provides.
"It is one of the things we are
looking to do to kind of think
creatively about sustaining the
free cancer support services that
we provide," Hiltz said.
She said donations areused for
avariety of.different programs at
the Cancer Support Community,
including grief counseling, sup-
port groups, educational classes
and recreational activities.
"It's exciting to have a proj-
ect that ... has to do with such
a happy time in people's lives,
whereas cancer is often the
opposite of that," Hiltz said.


TFA
From Page 1
ing a real problem," Grieb said.
"College students have ... all the
know-how to implement little or
big incremental changes to help
improve the entire education sys-
tem."
LSA senior Blair Daniels said
Kopp's speech inspired her to
apply for TFA because the pro-

gram appeals to her.
"My friend just got into Teach
for America and she encouraged
me to do ittoo," Daniels said. "I've
been tutoring kids in Detroit, and
I like it a lot."
Kendra Hearn, a clinical assis-
tant professor and TFA's certi-
fication program coordinator at
the School of Education, said she
is impressed by TFA and similar
organizations that encourage
people to work in urban and rural

environments in need of teachers
and resources.
"The students in these schools
will often have a rotating door
of substitute teachers or people
who are even less prepared,"
Hearn said. " ... We stand as a
nation to really look hard at how
we go about getting passionate,
well-prepared, highly effective
teachers into every single child's
classroom, regardless of their zip
codes."


Fitzgerald said the University
does not endorse GEO's claims.
He added that after Dibbern
stopped working in Goldman's
lab, the University continued to
provide GSRA benefits to Dib-
bern as scheduled, until her
position expired on Dec. 31.
"From the University's per-
spective, many of the allega-
tions that were made at the press
conference were just wrong,"
Fitzgerald said. "She was paid
her stipend, her health benefits
and her tuition waiver through
the end of the year as it was
scheduled even though she was
no longer in the lab earlier than
that."
During the public comments
section of the regents meeting,
Engineering graduate student
Stephen Raiman, founder of
Students Against GSRA Union-
ization, Victor DiRita, medical
school associate dean for gradu-
ate and postdoctoral studies,
Physics Prof. Finn Larsen, and
Cagliyan Kurdak, associate pro-
fessor of physics and director
of the applied physics program,
spoke against GSRA unioniza-
tion.
Raiman said many of the
individuals who initially agreed
to sign GEO's petition did not
receive enough information
before signing. DiRita, Larsen
and Kurdak discussed that char-
acterizing GSRAs as employees
would harm the relationship
between the GSRAs and their
advisers, and ultimately be det-
rimental to the GSRAs.
"I understand that some of the
students view the GSRA union
as a possible resource to address
conflicts between the adviser
and the graduate student," Kur-
dak said. "(But) by interjecting

the union into such situations,
many cases that could have been
resolved to the benefit of the stu-
dent's career may automatically
be escalated to the point that
there can be no real solution that
benefits the student."
Members of the Senate Advi-
sory Committee on Univer-
sity Affairs, the University's
lead faculty governing body,
released a statement yesterday
demonstrating their support
of the University's opposition
to granting GSRAs the right to
unionize.
"We on SACUA, who are
active faculty members from
many different academic fields,
in our roles as researchers and
teachers, concur entirely with
University of Michigan Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman's state-
ment to the Regents of the
University in our firm convic-
tion that graduate students in
their role as research assistants/
associates are fully engaged aca-
demics in training and are stu-
dents and not employees," the
statement read.
On Monday, former Univer-
sity President James Duderstadt
wrote a letter expressing his
concern against GSRA unioniza-
tion to Julia Stern, the adminis-
trative law judge who will decide
on the GSRAs' right to vote next
month.
"Adopting such a practice in
Michigan, which would stand
in sharp contrast to the rest
of the nation, would seriously
handicap and damage our state
universities in their efforts to
attract the outstanding gradu-
ate students and research grants
necessary to maintain our pro-
grams in disciplines critical to
this state," Duderstadt wrote.

Cuba seeks oil through
drilling rig in Havana

Spanish oil decades of bad blood between
Cuba and the United States.
company leases The U.S. trade embargo essen-
tially bars U.S. companies from
drill for $500,000 doing oil business with Cuba
and threatens sanctions against
HAVANA (AP) - A huge foreign companies if they don't
drilling rig arrived yesterday in follow its restrictions, making it
the warm Gulf waters north of far more complicated to line up
Havana, where it will sink an equipment and resources for the
exploratory well deep into the project.
seabed, launching Cuba's dreams To avoid sanctions, Repsol
of striking it rich with offshore oil. chose the Scarabeo-9, a 380-foot-
The Scarabeo-9 platform was long (115-meter), self-propelled,
visible from Havana's sea wall semisubmersible behemoth capa-
far off on the hazy horizon as it ble of housing 200 workers. The
chugged westward toward its rig qualifies for the Cuba project
final drill site about 30 miles (50 because it was built with less
kilometers) from the capital, and than 10 percent U.S.-made parts,
60 miles (90 kilometers) south of no small feat considering Amer-
Key West. ica's dominance in the industry.
Spanish oil company Repsol While comparable platforms
RPF, which is leasing the rig for sat idle in the Gulf of Mexico, the
about a half-million dollars a day, Scarabeo-9 spent months navi-
said it expects to begin drilling gating through three oceans and
within days to find out whether around the Cape of Good Hope
the reserves are as rich as pre- to arrive in the Caribbean at tre-
dicted. mendous expense.
"The geologistshave done their Even after the rig is in place,
work. If they've done it well, then the embargo continues to affect
we'll have a good chance of suc- just about every aspect.
cess," Repsol spokesman Kristian The Scarabeo-9's blowout pre-
Rix said by phone from Madrid. venter, a key piece of machinery
"It's been a long process, but now that failed in the 2010 Macondo-
we're at the point where we dis- Deepwater Horizon disaster, is
cover whether our geologists have state of the art. But its U.S. manu-
got it right. It's a happy day." facturer is not licensed to work
It's been a long, strange jour- with Cuba so replacement parts
ney for the Scarabeo-9, Repsol must come through secondary
and Cuba, a process shadowed at sources.
every step by warnings of a pos- It's also more complicated to
sible environmental debacle and do things like the maintenance

necessary to keep things run-
ning smoothly and decrease
the chances of something going
wrong.
If it does, Cuba would be hard-
pressed to respond to a major
spill on its own, and getting help
isn't as simple as making a phone
call to Washington. The embar-
go would require licenses to be
issued for all manner of equip-
ment and services for an emer-
gency response.
Few U.S. companies so far
have gotten permission to work
with the Cubans in the event of a
spill - representingjustl5percent
of all the resources thrown at the
Macondo blowout, according to
an estimate by Lee Hunt, presi-
dent of the International Associa-
tion of Drilling Contractors.
Two U.S. companies have
received licenses to export cap-
ping stacks, crucial pieces of
equipment for stopping gushing
wells, but related services like
personnel and transportation
have not been green-lighted,
Hunt said.
"So what you have is agreat big
intelligent piece of iron without
a crew," he said. "You can't just
drop it on the hole and hope (the
spill) will stop. It's not a cork."
Even Tyvek suits worn by
cleanup crews cannot currently
be exported to Cuba because
potentially they could be used for
the construction of bacteriologi-
cal or chemical weapons, Hunt
added.


6 - Friday, January 20, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

iper sees Robinson at WR

Michigan stressing
academic success

By TIM ROHAN
Daily Sporrs Wrirer
ESPN draft expert Mel Kiper Jr.
scoffed at the pundits who thought
Baylor quarterback Robert Griffin
III would be better suited playing
wide receiver in the NFL.
"I heard that, never understood
that," said Kiper, who answered
questions Thursday on a national
conference call regarding April's
NFL draft.
"To say, he's an athlete, he's not
a great ..." Kiper continued, sum-
ming up the questions athletic
quarterbacks often hear - that
they aren't great passers. "(Grif-
fin's) a heck of a passer. That's his
strength, is throwing the football
accurately on the deep ball."
As for junior Michigan quar-
terback Denard Robinson - a
player who shares similar athletic
attributes with Griffin, but lacks
the pinpoint accuracy that won
Griffin the Heisman Trophy last
month - Kiper is equally deter-
mined about his NFL fate.
But he sees Robinson as a wide
receiver, not under center.
"Not a quarterback, no," Kiper
said, defiantly. "I think you look
at (Robinson) as a projection. You
can make an argument really that
goinginto next year he's either the
No. 2 or No. 1 most highly rated
wide receiver option and he hasn't
even played the position.
"That's'cause alotofthe receiv-
ers this year that were projected
from the junior class were com-
ing out. It's left you with a mini-
mal number of players that are
going to be projecting super high
and Denard would be one of those
guys projecting as a wide receiver,
slot guy."
It came across as a backhanded
compliment for Robinson, who
maintains that his childhood
dream is to play quarterback in
the NFL. He spurned college
coaches that recruited him to play
other positions, and he clams up
more than usual when reporters
inquire about his pass-catching
abilities. Robinson lined up split
out wide in one of Michigan offen-
sive coordinator Al Borges' sub-
packages of the "deuce" formation
he implemented this season, with
sophomore Devin Gardner atcquar-
terback and Robinson used more
as a runner or decoy. But it wasn't
a staple of the offense and only
appeared in a handful of games.

ERIN KIRKLAI
Junior quarterback Denard Robinson is projected by ESPN's Mel Kiper Jr. to be a coveted wide receiver in the NFL.

His speed can't be denied. With
plenty of open space in former
Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez's
spread offense, Robinson broke
the NCAA single-season rush-
ing record for a quarterback with
1,702 yards as a sophomore in
2010. Then under Borges, getting
fewer carries and being used as
a true running back - barreling
off tackle on power-run plays out
of shotgun formations - Robin-
son still found a way to gain 1,176
rushing yards this past season.
Running back could also be in
Robinson's NFL future.
Under Borges' watch, Robinson
was supposed to become a more
polished quarterback playing in
a pro-style offense. But the tran-
sition was far from smooth and
Robinson threw at least one inter-
ception in all but three games this
season, fueling the argument for
experts like Kiper who believe
Robinson is merelya dynamic col-
lege quarterback.
Accuracy aside, Robinson's
height may be his biggest obstacle
to playing the position. Kiper said
Griffin's stock could be largely
affected by whether he's mea-
sured at 6-foot-2 or shorter. And
Wisconsin quarterback Russell
Wilson, who's 5-foot-11 and wide-
ly considered the bestquarterback
in the Big Ten, could slip from the
first or second round to the fourth
because of his height, according to
Kiper.
"Looking back in the past 30 or

40 years, how many have made it
thatwere under 6-feettall?" Kiper
asked. "How many, not only have
made it, but started?"
New Orleans Saints quarter-
back Drew Brees seems to be
the exception, not the rule, as he
broke the NFL's single-season
passing yards record this season
at 6-feet tall. But Brees possesses
one-of-a-kind knowledge and a
reputation for his perfect passes.
Michael Vick is the only other
reputable starting quarterback
listed at 6-foot and he has strug-
gled with inconsistent results as
a passer. The rest of the league's
elites are 6-foot-2 or taller.
Robinson, at 6-feet, has never
been considered more than an
average college passer. As an ath-
lete, Kiper said, Robinson will be
one of the best in the 2013 draft
class. Kiper projected five wide
receivers in the first round of his
first 2012 mock draft, which was
released Wednesday. Three of
the five - Oklahoma State's Jus-
tin Blackmon, Rutgers' Mohamed
Sanu and South Carolina's Alshon
Jeffery - are juniors who left early,
leaving gaps in the 2013 crop.
While Robinson waits, Michi-
gan has two players Kiper thought
highly of - defensive tackle Mike
Martin and center Dave Molk.
Martin, the four-year starter
who attracted constant double
teams, and Molk, the Rimington
Award winner and vital cog in
Michigan's offensive line, both

are considered undersized for
their positions. But their mean
streaks and football I.Q.s could
catapult them into the one of the
first three rounds.
"To me, if you look at the guys
this year, Mike Martin, quick out
of the blocks," Kiper said. "You've
got to like the fact he's a former
high school wrestler and all the
great things he did at Michigan.
Size is an issue, but I think he
could be a rotation type in that
second- (or) third-round mix.
"Molk (is the) same thing. You
think about a guy who's just that
overachieving center, battles
and scrapes for everything he
gets. I think he's the kind of guy
you think about with his abil-
ity to come in and from an intel-
ligence standpoint know what
he's expected to do and fit in right
away and become a leader on that
offensive line. Played a lot of great
football at Michigan, he could be
in that third- to fifth-round area."
Wide receiver Junior Heming-
way will also participate at the
NFL combine next month in
Indianapolis. Hemingway, the
Sugar Bowl MVP, was one of the
"intriguing possibilities" Michi-
gan offered - also including tight
end Kevin Koger - on day three
of the draft, which include rounds
four through seven. If Kiper's pre-
diction comes true in 2013, Rob-
inson may be drafted higher as.
a pass-catcher than the ones he
threw to while at Michigan.

By BEN SEIDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Role model first and swim
coach second, Michigan men's
swimming coach Mike Bottom
and his dedicated staff have moti-
vated their swimmers to succeed
in the classroom by preaching the
importance of academics and the
belief that swimming will propel
them to the next step in their lives.
When Bottom stepped out of
his hotel room around 10 p.m. the
night before the Big Ten Cham-
pionships last year, he didn't see
an empty hotel hallway. Nor did
he see loud or obnoxious college
students breaking rules. He wit-
nessed his guys sitting out in the
hallways with their books cracked
open because they needed to study
and didn't want to disturb their
roommates who were sleeping.
This year, the team has set a
firm goal to earna cumulative 3.2
GPA, and the swimmers closing
in on the mark fast after they pre-
formed impressively in the class-
room last semester. They achieve
these goals by holding each other
accountable and helping one
other out - the true essence of
what a team is all about.
"(Assistant Coach) Josh
(White) will ask them, 'How are
you doing in that class?' and I'll
ask them, 'Hey, how did that test
go?' We try to keep track of what
they're doing," Bottom said.
White joined the coaching
staff in 2008 when Bottom was
hired. The two met earlier at
Kenyon College where Bottom
watched White lecture and grew
interested in White's vast knowl-
edge of swimming and human
performance in general. White
obtained his Ph.D. in human per-
formance from Indiana Univer-
sity and has been instrumental in
the team's success, both athleti-
cally and academically.
Making academic excellence
part of the culture for Michigan's
swimming and diving team is
something that has trickled down
from Athletic Director Dave
Brandon, through the coaching
staff and ultimately to the stu-
dent-athletes.
"How the athletes are doing
academically is really important,"
White said. "It's part of how the

team is viewed in terms of being
successful by the administration
as well."
"We wouldn't be here if Michi-
gan wasn't Michigan and if it
didn't hold the kind of ideals that
it holds," Bottom added. "The
athletic department puts a lot of
money into these guys' success
academically. They're doing it
because the mission of Michigan
athletics is to produce men and
women of character who will
make a difference. They put their
money where their mouth is."
Brandon has been the true
source of all this academic moti-
vation, according to Bottom and
White. Brandon met with each
and every coaching staff at the
University for three hours to
establish the importance of aca-
demics in the sphere of athletics.
"That's a commitment to
excellence that you would be
hard-pressed to find around the
country," Bottom said. "We're
more motivated in doing what
we're doing because of the way
he is and what he talks about in
coach's meetings. We believe that
it's important and we pass our
belief down to the guys and they
pass it around to each other. I
think that's the crux of success."
Bottom's team has a unique
way of looking at things. You can
either help the team out by swim-
ming fast and scoring points at
meets, or you can go to class and
earn a high GPA.
"There are some guys who
might never score at Big Tens,
yet we want them on our team
because they are helping the
guys with academics," Bottom
said. "The guys really understand
that. If there is a guy who is not
doing much in the water in terms
of scoring points but he is there
everyday and is getting a good
GPA, the respect is equal to a guy
who earns a lot of points."
Senior Casey Sreenan, a sprint
freestyle swimmer, was one of
those who struggled academically
as a freshman. Now he is earning
Academic All-Big Ten and U-M
Athletic Academic Achievement
Award honors.
"Those are the guys that really
stand out," Bottom said. "Casey
has never scored a point, but if he
focuses on being a total person
and not just being swimmers,
everything is elevated. Casey
has figured it out in the class-
room and the pool and most
likely he will score this year."
White said one of the best
feelings as a-coach is when a
swimmer comes in to prac-
tice and they're excited about
their grades.
"They'll tell you because
it's important to them and it's
exciting. It's a pretty exciting
thing to be a part of as coach
when they are both proud
and successful," White said.
Bottom added that being a
swimming coach is not sim-
ply critiquing strokes and
running practices, it's also
about teaching the things
that build a person and lead-
ingby example.
"Everyday we talk about
character and the things that
develop them as men and we
talk about academics," Bot-

tom said. "I think that it's just
the Michigan way."
Team academic counselor
Eric Gerbens has also been
pivotal in helping these stu-
dent-athletes to achieve their
goals. Every week he sends
the coaches the test sched-
ules of each student-athlete,
so the the coaching staff can
work around their academics.
Whether it is moving a work-
out session or giving a swim-
mer a day off, Gerbens' work
is essential to the academic
improvement the coaches
have seen.
"They really like and
respect Eric," White said.
"And you have to be really
good at a job like that to have
them like and respect you."
When prospective swim-
mers approach the Michi-
gan coaching staff and ask
what they can do to either
help their chances of accep-
tance or ready themselves for
swimming at Michigan, they
always reply saying only one
thing: Academics.

0
0~

0-


RELEASE DATE- Friday, January 20, 2012
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 8 Emma's 41 Green span 56 Cold War
1 Certain portrayer in "The 42Trash, in a way defense acronym
lymphocytes Avengers 43 Alias user 59 B&B
7 Clumsy sort 9 Wins a certain 47 Landlord's 60 Fords of the past
1a Kind at signal sendgaeme fileful 62 Handle user, and
4 Had none le 10 Drink listitg 48 uMnn sat a hintuto this
15 Ajman and 11 Hagen of 50 Like nobility puzzle's theme
Fuairah, fortwo Broadway 51 Band on the 63 Impede
t7Aead 2 Alter, wye rad 64 Unlock, inves
altercation? t3 Fashion 52 Burnout cause 65 Mini-albums,
19 "Are we ready?, monogram 55 Crayola color briefly
20 Pose 15 uge' renamed Peach 66 Make haste
21 Relay part 03 gidge renamed in 1962 67 Fire
22 S er's yeshiva for RFK in 008 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
boy 04 Oln of"Alias"
25 Samoa's capital 26 Glass piece A Z U R E J I F A T R A
29Jointacct. info 27 Wrath S I N A I A R I D S E A N
3t2eginningpoet? aWaod-smoothing P L A I N C R A Z Y U S D A
34 Jaz _ . tool LII
37 Keen an 30 Placetfor buoys
3 Pine-_ glasses and gulls S I 0 E P O W E R R E L A
39 Fightoer the 32 Words spoken C O E D S L I D Y E A T S
lastquartof milk? before the I N D O P E N I L L B E T
42ESP,e.g. Senate P L U G SA W A Y
44 Palm starch 33 Have-_: A : T I O N L I O N F I G
45 Exhaust disedoantaged AC I N LO FI
46 One always 35 Gentle slope P A R T I P E W D R A M A
talking abouthis 36__League P L E A S E S T A Y A I M S
MacBook Air? 39 Market R O N T S A E A G L E
49Courtteam: fluctuations O R T S P LA Y A R O U N D
Abbr. 40 Wolf V
53 Org. at 11 Wall Frankenstein E NY S
shoots him,in a E N O T E
54 Rubsftherigh 1939 film xwordeditor@aol.com 01/19/12
w4Rasyhrih 1 2 3 4 5 B 7 8 8 10 11 12 13
57 Big Apple
subway div. 1a 15 18
58 Sneeze, cough, r,,
etc.
61 Certain college 18a20
member
63 Can'tfcolorfthe 21 22 23 24 25 s 27 n
sky, say? s 1 2
68 Stuff In the back 29 3 3' 23
69 Soaks 34 35 38 37 38
70 Cleaning
challenge o3 4s41
71 Date
72 Swarms 42 43 44 45
DOWN en a7 e a s4 s1 a2
1 Gets behind n 55 s an
2 Things to get
behind a as9s an as
3 Naval officer
4 Early2000s sa as 687
Senate minorityledrase
5 Virginia's es n1 72
Cavens
6 Ufeftime By Jack Mcinturff
7 Island welcome (c)2012nribune Medil Services, Inc. 01/20/12

AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS: OFFICE OR STUDIO space on U-M
WHY PAY $1500 FORA BED??? Campus 2nd fir across from Ed School-
Our 1 bedrooms start at $589. economical, pleasant atmosphere, win-
We are now Renting for Spring/Fall dows that open. 734-995-5454.
F OR SA LE 2012
WWW.800FULLER.COM
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY, (734) 769-7520
2011 NISSAN VERSA. In very good FREE PROCESSING FEE, $150.00 I & 2 bdrm., modem, clean, qaiet
condition, black. 4,140 miles, Ask-4 gVALUE** 5 mi. walk. Free Wi-FL
$14.000. Call 734-478-54035mi.wk.FeW-F'

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
1 Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
4 BDRM/2 BATH House
Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
Avail. SeptL21112. 734-395-6823
4 BEDROOM HOUSE Available fall.
827 Brookwood. Washer Dryer. 4 prkg
spaces $2300+utils. 734-996-1991
411 HIGH ST. APARTMENTS
2 Bedrooms
Kerry Town~North Campus!
Quiet Neighborhood!
Heat & Water Included
Cover ParkingAvailable
$895-$925
734-761-8000
primesh.com
515 LAWRENCE
1 Bedrooms~2 Remaining
Fully Furmished
Heat & Water Included
Covered Parking Available
Free Internet
734-761-800
primesh.com
SPRING BREAK CONDO
Craigslist: http://brownsville.en.-
craigslist.org/vac/2723291131.html
AVAILABLE FALL. FURNISHED
modern two bedroom apartments lo-
cated on Central Campus near the Busi-
ness and Law School. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com

Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES. DISTINC-
TIVE Award-Winning rentals in Kerry-
town, Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2012.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
AVAILABLE FALL. FOUR and five
bedroom duplex in a quiet neighbor-
hood. Walk to football games and
Kroger. Call Michigan Commercial
Realty. 734-662-5500.
www.michcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE FALL. STUDIOS, One
& Two bedroom apartments loctaed on
UM Campus. Call Michigan
Commercial Realty. 734-662-5500.
wwwmichcomrealty.com
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
1 Bedroom for 1 Person
at 720 State Street
Short term Feb 1st-Aug. 17, 2012
Furnished, Water Included,
I Parking Pass & Free Internet
$730
734-761-8000
primesh.com
LEASE CANCELLATION...
On Sold Out Building!
2 Bedroom 2012-13
1021 Vaughn-The Dean
Fully Furnished
Heat & Water Included
Parking & Free Internet
734-761-8000
primesh.com
AVAILABLE RETAIL SPACE on U-
M campus. 1400 s.f., street level: fast
food, ice cream/yogurt, cafe, deli, exer-
cise/spinning/yoga/martial arts/tatoo
studio, hair/massage/tanning salon. 734-
995-5454.

nnBARTENDING** $300/DAY PO-
TENTIAL. No exp. nec., training
avail. AGE 18+ 800-965-6520x125
BE A GOOGLE Guide! Student temp
jobs to support U-M's move to Google.
Go to google.umich.edu to apply.
NOW HIRING
Spring 2012 Campus Reps
Contact jobs@GoEnnounce.com
PERSONAL ASSISTANT NEEDED.
Ann Arbor area professional seeking as-
sistant for family of 4. Flexible hours.
Send resume to dtbemail@gmail.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

0I

SIABLE, WELL-EDUCAIE
married couple looking to adopt a new-
born. We will cover all legal adoption-
related expenses. Contact Andrea and
Matt at 800-895-1376.


7 - Friday, January 20, 2012
Wolverines tame 'Cats

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Michigan gets first look at Notre
Dame's new Lefty Smith Arena

By MICHAEL LAURILA
Daily Sports Writer
EVANSTON - Walking into
Welsh-Ryan Arena, the old-
school wooden bleachers and the
one side of actual stadium seats
gave it the look of a high school
gym.
Coinci- MICHIGAN 58
dentally, N'WESTERN 48
the first
half of the Michigan women's
basketball game against North-
western looked just like that - a
high school ballgame.
The score was 24-15, but that
wasn't even the big story of the
first half. The Wolverines played
one of their worst halves of the
season, shooting 26.7 percent
from the field, but were able to
take a nine-point lead into half-
time because of its stingy defense
and ability to drain 3-pointers.
But coming out after halftime,
the Wildcats looked like a dif-
ferent team. Northwestern lim-
ited itself to just eight turnovers,
while shooting 50 percent from
behind the arc - compared to 11.1
percent during the first half.
At one point midway through
the second period, the Wolver-
ines led by as many as 12 points,
but Northwestern went on a
12-2 run to cut the deficit to two
points. Their run consisted of
four straight 3-pointers while
Michigan only got a lay-up from
junior forward Sam Arnold.
Junior center Rachel Shef-
fer, who went scoreless in the
first half, stepped up late in the
second half. She knocked down
a 3-pointer to give Michigan a
34-30 lead with 11:36 left, slow-
ing down a stampeding North-
western team. Sheffer's offensive
production didn't stop there.

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Junior center Rachel Sheffer led Michigan with 12 points against Northwestern.

During the next possession she
split a pair from the charity
stripe, and then drained another
layup two possessions later.
"I started out slow but I knew
I needed to come back out in the
second half and go at it," Sheffer
said. "We switched it up in the
second half and threw a lot of dif-
ferent offenses at them."
Sheffer finished with a team-
high 12 points and also added
five rebounds and two steals. The
second-half switch allowed Shef-
fer to play more on the perimeter,
and use her speed to beat North-
western center Dannielle Dia-
mant to the basket.
The late push was accompa-
nied by a surge from the bench.
Arnold, Sheffer's backup, came
in and found success in the post
against Diamant. Though Shef-
fer struggled scoring in the paint,
Arnold used her 6-foot-4 body to
her advantage and finished with
nine points.
"Down around that block I

thought (Arnold) did a great job,"
said Michigan coach Kevin Bors-
eth.
Defensively, Michigan did just
what Northwestern tries to do.
The Wildcats have three play-
ers - Diamant, junior forward
Kendall Hackney and freshman
guard Morgan Jones - that aver-
age a combined 43.6 points per
game.
The Wolverines held the trio
to 39 points. But more impor-
tantly, Michigan limited them to
a mere 41-percent shooting per-
centage. Though Northwestern
isn't one of the strongest teams
in the Big Ten, any road win is
important, and senior guard
Courtney Boylan recognized the
significance of the victory.
"Every game in the Big Ten is
a big win, that's how we see it,"
Boylan said. "So when we pre-
pare for a team, there's not one
opponent that we see as being a
bigger win than another because
every team is so good."

By MATT SLOVIN
Daily Sports Editor
Ask Michigan coach Red
Berenson aboutLefty Smith - the
father of the Notre Dame hockey
program - and he'll speak like
he's known
Smith since Michigan at
birth. Though
Smith passed Notre Dame
away earlier Matchup:
this month, Michigan
Berenson's 14-8-4; Notre
recounting Dame 13-8-3
of his vibrant When: Friday,
memories of Saturday
the man who 7:35 P.M.
brought hockey Where: Lefty
back to South Smith Arena
Bend makes TV/Radio:
you feel as ifyou NBC Sports
knew him.
Though 25
years have passed since Smith's
time at the helm of the program,
his name hasn't left it. He served
Notre Dame diligently as the
facility manager of the arena until
mere weeks before his death - a
father figure caring deeply for
the brand-new rink that bears his
name.
Nobody dared tell Smith to
retire.
Today, the Notre Dame pro-
gram starkly contrasts the one
he started. No longer is it housed
in a shoddy multipurpose venue,
which Berenson said was a "det-
riment" for the Fighting Irish. In
its stead sits the newest arena in
college hockey, a gem of a build-
ing where the Wolverines will be
tasked with winning two tough
games this weekend.
"When we watch tape, we see

the inside of the (arena)," Beren-
son said. "It looks like a nice rink
- I've heard it's really nice. Good
for them, it's about time."
Within its confines plays the
CCHA's best power-play unit.
And as the current state of the
Notre Dame program contrasts its
humble roots, the Fighting Irish
man advantage makes the Michi-
gan power play look even more
abysmal. Since the Wolverines
capitalize just 10 percent of the
time, there's no question which
team needs to stay out of the box.
Berenson always stresses that
special teams can decide a criti-
cal road series. The trip to South
Bend should be no exception.
"They play an aggressive style,"
Berenson said. "They take penal-
ties. That's how they play. Hope-
fully, we can make them pay."
The Wolverines haven't been
making any teams pay for their
trips to the box lately. And though
Berenson says his special teams
units are "improving," Michigan
hasn't notched a power-play tally
in the first two series of 2012. But
with some significantly improved
attacking-zone passing, it doesn't
feel as far away as it once did.
When the Wolverines are
shorthanded - something Beren-
son wants to limit to two or three
times per game - they would be
happy to continue exactly what
they did on their Ohio swing. In
the Michigan sweep, the Buck-
eyes had eight opportunities and
scored just once, their lone goal of
the weekend.
"We can't take six or seven
penalties in a game," Berenson
said. "That's what we were doing
in the early part of the season. We

wantto get in an honestgame and
... hopefully, we can handle that."
The penalty-kill unit relies sig-
nificantly on its senior leaders,
who are expected to get the puck
out of danger - and fast.
"We did a much better job
(against Ohio State)," said senior
defenseman Greg Pateryn. "The
penalty kill's an opportunity for
us to get some momentum in
the game and take it away from
them."
For him, it's all about the posi-
tioning of sticks and of bodies.
Pateryn's never been afraid to end
up black-and-blue, so long as a
passing or shootinglane is erased.
And that grind is notoriously
more difficult away from Yost
Ice Arena. Berenson says it takes
confidence and leadership to win
on the road. But major road games
have a tendency to build on each
other, which can either propel a
team up the standings or bury it.
Berenson couldn't be more thank-
ful it became the former for the
Wolverines.
"I thought we started to build
at Alaska, and then we got better
at Michigan State, and we're bet-
ter now," Berenson said. "It's not
one big thing (that causes road
success), it's alot of little things."
By continuing to build on those
little things, whether it's sacrific-
ing the body in the name of pen-
alty killing or avoiding a needless
penalty, Michigan could hold the
trump card in South Bend.
Berenson will gaze around the
Lefty Smith Rink as he shuffles to
the bench thisweekend. He won't
mindhis players doingthe same -
as long as it's not from the penalty
box.


Men's basketball heads south to
Arkansas for non-conference tilt

'M' wins on late push

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
Considering that two of the
Michigan men's basketball
team's three wins away from
Crisler Center have come below
the Mason-Dixon Line, there are
worse places
for Michigan aa: i, a
to play a game MIhiIaft
this weekend Arkansas
than Fayette- Matchup:
ville, Ark. Michigan 15-4;
The Wolver- Arkansas 13-5
ines (5-2 Big
Ten, 15-4 over- when: S P
all) have yet to
win a true road Where: Bud
game, but they Walton Arena
will be looking TV/Radio:
for their first CBS
when they head
to Bud Walton Arena to take on
Arkansas for their only non-
conference game during Big Ten
play.
"There's not anything more
significant than just staying
the course and trying to win as
many as you can," said Michigan
coach John Beilein about playing
on the road. "We've got to play
the best we can and we have to
win several. But which two are
important, I can't tell you. Some
are more important than others.
"I do know that it's usually
very good if you're going to get
into the NCAA Tournament,
winning on the road is usually
very important. Teams have got-
ten in without being real suc-
cessful. I prefer to be successful
on the road."
The Wolverines are spending
their weekend off from Big Ten
play differently than most other
teams in the conference do when
they get a break from the confer-
ence schedule.
Instead of using its bye week-
end to get rested and gear up for
trips to Purdue and Ohio State
next week, Michigan is headed
south to take on the Razorbacks,
who have yet to lose at home this
season.
Arkansas (2-2 SEC, 13-5
overall) has been playing well
despite losing its leading scorer,
Marshawn Powell, for the sea-
son to a knee injury in Novem-
ber. Underclassmen guards B.J.
Young and Mardracus Young
have picked up the scoring bur-
den since then. Both are shoot-
ing over 40 percent from behind

By C2 LLEEN THOMAS
.ily Sports Writer
EVANSTON - It was a tale of
two halves.
Northwestern began the
game on a 6-0 run and made
the Michigan women's basket-
ball team look like just another
mediocre Big Ten team that
couldn't win on the road. The
Wildcats seemed to have all the
momentum as shots weren't
falling for the Wolverines.
Eighteen turnovers later, it
was a completely different story.
Michigan (4-2 Big Ten, 15-4
overall), led by an outstanding
defensive effort by junior guard
Jenny Ryan, forced seven turn-
overs and kept Northwestern off
the scoreboard for the last 8:02
of the first half.
The Wildcats (2-4, 12-7)
looked like they wanted to give
the game to the Wolverines,
committing 18 turnovers in the
first half alone.
But Michigan's shooting woes
kept it close. The Wolverines
shot an abysmal 27 percent in
the first stanza, converting on
just eight of 30 shots. Junior
forward Rachel Sheffer - who
has held the hot hand in Michi-
gan's past few games - came up
empty, and none of the bench
players provided a spark for the
Wolverines.
Neither team capitalized on
its chances, and by the end of the
first half, the score was 24-15,
Michigan.
"We really started slow," said
Michigan coach Kevin Borseth.
"It was very lethargic. We just
couldn't get anything going, we
couldn't find any rhythm at all.
You want to be able to steal the
ball and go down and lay it in
(and) we didn't get alot of those
tonight."
Northwestern coach Joe
McKeown agreed, saying that
turnovers and low shooting per-

cencage were the two big prob-
lems in the first half.
But the second half was dif-
ferent, as the Wolverines heated
up and went on to win 58-48.
Northwestern did a better
job protecting the ball and went
on a 9-0 run early in the second
half to closethe gap to one point.
It seemed like the Wildcats
were going to keep the game
close, but Michigan responded.
The Wolverines looked to their
bench for a spark, and this time
it worked.
Redshirt sophomore Kendra
Seto, on defense, and junior for-
ward Sam Arnold, on offense,
were the two key players for
Michigan. Arnold continued her
hot streak, shooting 4-for-9, and
Seto had seven rebounds to limit
Northwestern's second-chance
opportunities.
"I think our defense did a
good job getting some turnovers
that really enabled us to get to
the free throw line and get some
things happening for us," Bors-
eth said. "I thought (Kendra) did
a great job giving us a lift on the
defensive end of the court. She
had six (defensive) rebounds
(which were) pretty key."
Once the defense was in place
for the Wolverines, and unfor-
tunately for Northwestern -
who couldn't seem to hit shots
when it needed them most - the
Michigan offense followed suit.
Sheffer heated up and finished
4-for-9 on the night, and senior
guard Carmen Reynolds, who
hasn't been a factor lately, hit a
couple of key 3-pointers down
the stretch.
The difference, Borseth said,
was the energy the team played
with in the second half.
"Our kids really played hard,
(and) I thought that was the key
for us," Borseth said. "We played
extremely hard with a ton of
energy and togetherness ... and
we needed to."

Michigan coach John Beilein and the Michigan basketball team have yet to win their first true road gawe of

the arc, which is better than any
of the Wolverines' marks. Senior
guard Zack Novak has Michi-
gan's highest 3-point percentage
at 37.5 percent.
But the Razorbacks ran into
a brick wall when they went to
Rupp Arena on Tuesday and
were blown out by No. 2 Ken-
tucky, 86-63. Arkansas was
out-rebounded by 15 and was
no match for Kentucky's size
down low. Freshman sensation
Anthony Davis dominated the
Razorbacks all night, putting up
27 points, 14 rebounds and seven
blocks.
"We've got to get this taste
out of our mouth," Arkansas
coach Mike Anderson told the
Arkansas Traveler after Tues-
day's loss. "It's got to hurt 'till
midnight. We'll turn our atten-
tion to get ready for a Michigan
team. We've done well at home
so maybe that's what this team
needs - a little dose of home
medicine."
The Wolverines had dif-
ferent luck on Tuesday. They
took down No. 9 Michigan

State, 60-59, to earn their third
straight win over their in-state
rival. Freshman point guard
Trey Burke vaulted himself
into the national Freshman of
the Year discussion, scoring 20
points on 8-for-11 shooting and
notching the game-winning
assist when he pulled down a
rebound, dribbled the length of
the floor, and dished it to senior
guard Stu Douglass for the deci-
sive layup with 35 seconds left.
Anderson, however, is con-
cerned with the rest of the Mich-
igan backcourt.
"They have size and they have
great players in the (Tim) Hard-
away (Jr.) kid and the Novak
kid," Anderson said. "So we're
going to have our work cut out
for us."
While the non-conference
contest gives Beilein an oppor-
tunity to rest his starters and
tinker with his rotation without
being hurt in the Big Ten stand-
ings, he must also be wary of
how a loss can affect the Wolver-
ines' resume as it looks ahead to
the NCAA Tournament.

On Tuesday, Beilein moved
struggling sophomore forward
Evan Smotrycz out of the start-
ing lineup in favor of Douglass.
Douglass, the Carmel, Ind.
native, responded with nine
points, which included a four-
point play and the game-win-
ning layup.
Smotrycz only saw 10 minutes
and made two of his six shots,
both coming on consecutive
layups off the dribble in the first
half.
"It was two things in mind,"
Beilein said of his decision. "We
want to put our best five on the
floor from the beginning and
most importantly, the guys that
we felt understood our defense,
understood what we were doing
the best.
And Stu is such a great
defender that I wanted him on
the floor from the very begin-
ning. We hadn't had a good start
against Northwestern, we hadn't
had a good start against Iowa.
We just said, let's change this up
and let them match up with us a
little bit."

WANT TO JOIN
DAILY SPORTS?
Check out the madness.
MEETINGS EVERY SUNDAY AT 1
P.M. AT 420 MAYNARD STREET


$ - Friday, January 20, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

8 - Friday, January 20, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

TV/NEW MEDIA NOTEBOOK
Glittery 'Toddlers'
deserves no crown

TV/NEW MEDIA NOTEBOOK
Addicted to 'Little
Liars' and proud of it
By KAYLA UPADHYAYA
Senior Arts Editor -__ _ _

Questioning the
TLC show's cultural
permeability
ByJULIA SMITH-EPPSTEINER
Daily Arts Writer
Currently, there is a surfeit of
horrifying happenings on televi-
sion, but TLC takes the cake (the
low-fat, non-cake type of cake
that's acceptable for toddlers try-
ing to make it big). This channel
runs the gamut of shows, from
"I Didn't Know I Was Pregnant,"
to one chronicling untrained tat-
too artists starting a shop, to the
show that takes the word exploit-
ative to the extreme: "Toddlers &
Tiaras."
When "special juice" and pad-
ded butts aren't being depended
upon for the toddlers' success,
they have to rely on their dance
routines and personality. This
season there is a clear title-taker
of personalities, and it very much
borders on creepy - Carley, or
rather, Carley's alter-ego: Darley
or Darla. "I'm not a diva, Dar-
ley is," Carley says , her mother
beside her, proud as can be.
The part that makes this even
more pathetic is how vicariously
the moms are living through
their daughters - something
that possibly shows up even more
obviously in a similar show called
"Dance Moms." While that show
airs on Lifetime, this vicarious
living is definitely a characteris-,
tic of "Toddlers & Tiaras" as well:
"Carley is as close to an exact
replica of me as there could ever
be," the toddler's mother tells
national TV. "I feel like her and I
are the same person. We live the

"I'm a Barbie gir, in the Barbie world."
same life, and we're best friends.
Ijust feel like that is me on stage."
Watching baby beauty pag-
eantry is an immensely odd fas-
cination of our generation, along
with a number of questionable
enthrallments including Lolcats,
diet protein shakes and www.
morphthing.com, but it's undeni-
able ... and unavoidable for cul-
tural characters like Tom Hanks
to poke fun at.
Hanks produced a short spoof
on "Toddlers & Tiaras" intro-
duced on Jimmy Kimmel Live.
As he prepares his make-believe
daughter Sophie Hanks - whom
he named Sophie because it
rhymes with "trophy" - for Miss
Ultimate Sexy Baby Nevada com-
petition, the satire rings rather
loudly.
Hanks screams, "Sexy feet!
Sexy feet!" at his daughter as she
tries to imitate his exemplary
pageant walk, sprays her away
when she tries to eat a cookie and
adorns her with a wig and exces-

sive makeup until she appears
"Just like a Bratz Doll!" If you
didn't know it was a spoof yet,
shame on you, but you'd have to
realize it when Sophie Hanks
loses the title to none other than
Rhonda Howard, "daughter" of
Ron Howard ("The Andy Griffith
Show").
It puts me more at ease with
the way our society is headed to
know that famous figures public-
ly humiliate programs like "Tod-
dlers & Tiaras," but after four
seasons of the show have aired,
it's impossible not to question
how the public's interest has sus-
tained itself.
What is most amusing but also
terrifying to ponder is: Who are
these bejeweled toddlers going
to be when they're adults? Will
they fit in the real world, will they
try out for "The Real World" or,
because of the presently astound-
ing superficiality in today's cul-
ture, will they assimilate just fine
into the normal working world?

I've got asecret. Can you keep
it? Last spring, I discovered the
ABC Family teen drama "Pretty
Little Liars," and blew through
the first season at an embarrass-
ingly rapid pace. I then followed
the first half of the second sea-
son on a weekly basis, lamented
over its several-month-long
break and celebrated when it
returned earlier this month.
My favorite shows can be found
on esteemed networks such
as AMC and FX, so what am I
doing investing so much time
in a high school soap based on a
young adult book series?
I love "Pretty Little Liars" "Oh Go(
for a lot of the same reasons I
loved "Gossip Girl" in its heyday more!
(a.k.a the first three seasons) - the rid
it's lavish, full of twists and has becaus
an ethereally beautiful cast. On so del
top of that, "Pretty Little Liars" pensef
is darker than "Gossip Girl" and crave i
sometimes downright frighten- I'm
ing. I'm actually more afraid of the mi
the ubiquitous text-stalker 'A' of the
and his/her/their overuse of Little:
the word "bitches" than I am of Before
any of the vampires, werewolves Meliss
and witches that frequent popu- Hastin
lar teen dramas these days. ty Lit
The dialogue is often ridicu- teen se
lous ("Why are you talking to teen d
me like Ben Franklin?") and the compa
story can at times be absurd. shows.
Why have the Liars still not
informed their parents that
someone has been stalking them
for more than a year? Why do
Spencer's parents serial-aban- C
don her? Why does Toby act like
a serial killer 100 percent of the w
time? Why do the Marins have
a fax machine in their kitchen
- no one has fax machines any-

jot
R r z.

0

ABC FAMILY

But I'm willing to forgive he's not ready. But just the idea
iculousness and the gaps, that teen girls are interested in
:e ultimately this show is having sex just like teen boys
iciously twisty and sus- is something television doesn't
ul that I can't help but often give us. While "Secret
t. Life of the American Teenager"
also willing to forgive repeatedly insinuates that sex
ore problematic elements leads to bad things, "Pretty Lit-
show, because "Pretty tle Liars" recognizes the sexual
Liars" is groundbreaking. aspects of high school in a way
you call me crazier than that says having sex isn't neces-
a "worst-sister-ever" sarily a bad thing and not having
igs, let me explain. "Pret- sex also isn't necessarily a bad
tle Liars" has handled thing ... what a novel concept!
exuality better than most The Liars are all played by
ramas, particularly when stunning 20-somethings who
red to other ABC Family look not a thing like your aver-
age high school girl. They some-
how always have time to do
their hair and apply their lip-
gloss in between the mystery-
solving and trying not to get
1haracters murdered. These things aren't
realistic, but the way these girls
1ak dialogue. care about each other is true
g to real-life teen female friend-
ships. They have their drama,
but they would never do any-
t notably, it's the only TV thing to hurt each other. Even
currently airing that fea- more refreshing is the realistic
not one, but two homosex- portrayal of strong platonic girl-
men of color. Right away, guy friendships.
her Liars are completely Maybe it's because I need
rtive of Emily's relation- to know who 'A' is. Maybe it's
with other girls, and the because I'm still waiting for
e when Emily is basically the musical episode show cre-
out of the closet when ator I. Marlene King suggested
nted by her homophobic might be forthcoming. Maybe
r was heartbreaking and it's because I'm secretly envious
that my high school life wasn't
ile many shows preach nearly as action-packed as the
'en boys are pushy when Liars's - OK, I'm not jealous of
tes to sex, the opposite the murders, stalking and black-
in season one of "Fret- mail but, hey, running around
tle Liars" when Hanna like little detectives, hanging
es frustrated that her reli- out in graveyards and dressing
boyfriend won't have sex like designer catalogue models
er. Of course, this arc isn't to school every day looks like
fits problems - the only fun.
Hanna wants to have Whatever the reason, I'm not
because her best friend going to stop watching "Pretty
it's weird that she hasn't Little Liars," even if it means my
y, and she also shouldn't television street cred has been
ssuring her boyfriend if revoked.

I n --- I I

Approximately 40 percent of every incoming PharmD class
consists of former LSA students.

So. You want
one good reason
to earn a
pharmacy degree
from the
University of
Michigan?
Here are 12 good reasons,
for starters:
1. Financial support unequalled by any other US.
pharmacy school.
2. Outstanding pay.
3. Job security in economically uncertain times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve people's lives.
5. Unparalleled career choices.
6. Continuous growth potential.
7. Life and career mobility.
8. The power to apply medical knowledge at
the forefront of technological innovation.
9. Membership in an influential alumni network
spanning the globe,
10. The prestige of owning a degree from one
of America's top-ranked pharmacy schools.
11. One-to-one learning with world-renowned
faculty.
12. A small college environment within a major,
academic institution.

Mos
show
tures n
ual wo
the ot
suppor
ships'
episod
forced
confro
mothe
real.
Whi
that te
it com
occurs
ty Lit
becom
gious!
with h
free of
reason
sex is
thinks
alread
be pre

Choosing the right career requires equal parts knowl-
edge, insight, and planning. If you are weighing your
career options, please be sure to attend one of the pre-
pharmacy counseling sessions listed below.
To learn more about Michigan's PharmD Program, visit
the College Web site at www.umich.edu/-pharmacy.
Or contact the U-M College of Pharmacy at 734-764-
7312 or at mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu.
Pre-Pharmacy Sessions at the U-M College of
Pharmacy: Academic Year 2011-2012:

Thursday, Sept. 15, 2011-
Room 1019
Thursday, Oct. 20, 2011 -
Room 1567
Monday, Nov. 21, 2011 -
Room 1567
Thursday, Dec. 8, 2011 -
Room 1567

- 4-5 pm, Pharmacy Building,
- 4-5 pm, C.C. Little Building,
4-5 pm, C.C. Little Building,
4-5 pm, C.C. Little Building,

EINSTEIN
From Page 1
thetic and distinctive working
methods onto a new genera-
tion of performers," Musicology
Prof. Mark Clague and direc-
tor of research at the School of
Music, Theatre & Dance, said.
The original team's noncon-
ventional approach extends
beyond the narrative and into
the production's underlying
music. Glass's arrangement
forsakes traditional orchestral
instrumentation for an eerie
combination of synthesizers,
woodwinds and voice. In lieu
of intermissions, audiences set
their own breaks and are free to
walk in and out of the theater at
leisure.
When "Einstein on the
Beach" premiered in 1976, as
Clague explains, the opera's
style was misunderstood and
over-simplified, described as
Minimalist and more than a lit-
tle off-putting. Musicians strug-
gled to perform the play as much
as audiences struggled to wit-
ness it due to its lack of a clear
narrative structure. However,
Clague said he believes that
modern musicians and popular
taste have since caught up.
"This ... is anything but (Min-
imalist)," Clague said. "The
opera was prophetic and today,
artists have developed the tech-

nical understandings to play it
and audiences can embrace the
concepts in ways that are fresh-
ly intriguing."
When asked for suggestions
on how to comprehend "Ein-
stein," Clague said the audience
shouldn't concern itself with
meaning. Instead, it should try
and interact with the opera,
because its core theme isderived
from a combination of the per-
formance and the person.
"The most important thing
to know about 'Einstein on
the Beach' is that the audience
member brings the story to the
theater," Clague said. "Einstein
was a cultural icon - a concep-
tual physicist certainly but also
a philosopher, humanitarian
and a figure of worldwide noto-
riety."
After all, theoretical relativ-
ity fundamentally changed the
way we understood the uni-
verse, shifting from an absolute
notion of time to one dependent
on perspective, which Clague
explained is a central focus of
the opera's visual elements.
"Watch the stage change;
experience it as a kind of medi-
tation on symbols and signal-
ing itself," Clague said. "It's all
fascinating - the light, the slow,
detailed movements, the musi-
cal environment. It'll be slightly
different for everyone, but an
audience member willingto give
him or herself to this artwork
may well be transformed."

*I

Monday, Jan. 23, 2012 - 4-5 pm, C.C. Little
Building, Room 1567
Thursday, Feb. 16, 2012 - 4-5 pm, C.C. Little Building,
Room 1567
Tuesday, Mar. 27, 2012 - 4-5 pm, C.C. Little Building,
Room 1567
Friday, Apr. 6, 2012 - 4-5 pin, C.C. Little Building,
Room 1567

I Your future never looked brighter. J

A 4


