1iE £EidEHan &AIjFj
ON I-I 1'I~ )1111)-'1EN FrY- IIl{EIEYI ARS OF EDIT ORIAL FEI LEDO

Ann Arbor, Michigan

., w- - ,,
f _- --.'S Y- - X41 =.S-.
.: -:. ..,: :. .; '. . ., .. :.._, .. t.- : . 1. . of ., ,. .3 :.: 'r- . '.- r. . ... e ..a +'i
,,.. _ .. ,,; y-._. e...r < ,h. !5 , . ny?~_c M + , ... .kAx, r+'i ....uh3.. ny .., a..u.: H3k..Yn ... ......r . ti:.Y.+., Y:: .vf e r rt'.+,S7 u , f':i_ x -1:: . ,, a x_. _sqi .vrr'r.. .: "a r' 3 ; . ..x Y .:"k;' _, r .i ;. r ._, ,'.'

Friday, October19, 2012

michigandaily.com

CAMPAIGN FINANCE
GOP Super
PAC to air
ads in Mich.

Restore our - which Kall deemed a turning
point in the election - races in
Future to spend statesthat were previouslynon,
competitive, including Penn-
$12 million across sylvania and Michigan, have
become more contested.
nine swing states Obama led by six points in
Colorado prior to the Denver
By ANDREW SCHULMAN debate, but a Public Policy Poll-
Daily Staff Repoter ing survey released Thursday
indicates his lead has shrunk to
Weeks after withdrawing three points. Meanwhile, polls
television advertisements from in Florida have shown Romney
the Michigan airways, the pro- leading by as many as seven
Romney Super PAC Restore our points.
Future announced Thursday On Thursday,in what appears
that it will reinstate its adver- to be a sign of confidence, the
tisements beginning next week. Romney campaign diverted
The advertisement purchase resources from North Caro-
which is part of a $12-mil- lina, where Romney and Obama
lion expenditure in nine battle- have been evenly matched, to
ground states - is one of the states like Ohio, according to
most extensive advertising the Raleigh, N.C.-based News
campaigns for Republican pres- and Observer.
idential nominee Mitt Romney Political Science Prof.
thus far, The New York Times Michael Heaney said the
reported. Super PAC's ad purchase was a
The push could give Romney response to fluctuating support,
an advantage in crucial swing in which more battleground
states, including Ohio, Florida states are "within competitive
and Colorado, where he has range" for Romney.
seen significant gains in the "The electoral map has really
polls since the first presidential changed," Heaney said. "States
debate in Denver two wdeks that were considered out of
ago. reach for Romney are, all of a
It could also offer Rom- sudden, nowwithin reach."
ney, who led President Barack The states Heaney said are
Obama by seven points in a winnable for Romney include
Gallup poll released Thursday, Colorado, Ohio, Wisconsin,
a broader path through the Iowa and Virginia, all of which
Electoral College to the White are among the nine states the
House, according to Aaron Kall, advertisements will target.
the director of the University's The $12-million expenditure
debate program. consists of $1 million for Wis-
"That path is very narrdw consin and Iowa, $2.3 million
for Gov. Romney for that magic for Florida and $2.5 million for
number of 270, so putting more Ohio, according to the Times.
states on the table will certainly The report did not include the
increase the chance ofgetting to amount of funding that will be
that number," Kall said. allocated to Michigan ads.
In the aftermath of Romney's The race in Michigan has
performance in the first debate See SUPER PAC, Page 3

ELECTION 2012
In Ohio,
Bruce,
Clinton
rally for
Obama
Campaign hopes
Springsteen will
appeal to working-
class voters
By JOSEPH LICHTERMAN
Editor in Chief
PARMA, Ohio - Bruce
Springsteen planned to sit this
election cycle out, but when
President Barack Obama called
him asking to write a song for
his re-election campaign, the
Boss couldn't say no.
"He called me a few weeks
# ago and said, 'Bruce, I don't
have a campaign song,"' Spring-
steen said at an Obama cam-
paign event on Thursday, where
he performed after a speech by
former President Bill Clinton.
"'There's a country guy who
wrote a song about Mitt Rom-
ney. There's a song gap. I need
something."
Springsteen, of course, was
joking, and after campaigning
for John Kerry in 2004 and for
Obama in 2008, the musician
had said repeatedly in the lead
up to the 2012 election that he
wasn't planning on publicly sup-
porting a candidate.
But as polls show a tighten-
ing race between Obama and
Republican presidential nomi-
nee Mitt Romney, Springsteen
decided to lend his support
to the President's re-election
efforts, performing in Ohio
before traveling to Iowa for
another concert Thursday after-
See BRUCE, Page 3

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) discusses women's rights in the Michigan Union on ThursdayA
State, nat'l offi cials,
laud women s righS
In campaign (D-Mich.) and other promi- equality and urged political
nent Michigan Democrats in activism while expressing their
event, panel shows the Michigan Union on Thurs- support for President Barack
day to campaign for President Obama and his stance on social
support for Obama Barack Obama and Staben- issue .
ow's re-election efforts, while Aside from Stabenow and
By DANIELLE emphasizing the importance of Richards, the panel also includ-
RAYKHINSHTEYN women's issues amid an election ed State Sen. Rebekah War-
Daily StaffReporter cycle rife with controversy over ren (D-Ann Arbor) and Debbie
issues such as rape and contra- Dingell, wife of U.S. Rep. John
Planned Parenthood presi- ception. Dingell (D-Mich.) and was
dent Cecile Richards joined Each woman stressed the hosted by Organizing for Amer-
U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow importance of health care See RIGHTS, Page 7

GO BLUE, BEAT MSU STATE BALLOT PROPOSALS
Prop. 3 focuses on energy
Voters to determine opportunityto decide to institute of their services from renew-
environmental policy in the state able sources by 2025, while rais-
how state uses constitution, an effort that no ing the costs to consumers by no
other state has undertaken. more than 1 percent.
renewable energy Proposal 3 - officially titled Michigan already currently
Michigan Energy, Michigan a Renewable Portfolio Standard
By TUI RADEMAKER Jobs - which would expand the in place as a result of the Clean,
Daily StaffReporter state's efforts in renewable ener- Renewable and Efficient Energy
gy, has power companies and Act of 2008, which requires 10
In the third of six ballot pro- environmental groups divided. If percent of energy output to be
posals Michigan voters will face passed, energy companies would produced from renewable sourc-
on Nov. 6, voters will have the be required to provide 25 percent See ENERGY, Page 7

CAMPUS EVENTS
Panel weighs impact of Fisher
Experts consider U.S. Supreme Court case, the student, who was denied admis-
University is capitalizing on the sion to the University of Texas,
merits of race- potentially precedent-setting which uses race as a factor in
court decision to talk about the admissions.
based admissions importance of affirmative action If the Supreme Court rules
at public universities. in favor of Fisher, it could over-
By MOLLY BLOCK On Thursday, the National turn the decision of Grutter v.
Daily Staff Reporter Center for Institutional Diver- Bollinger, a 2003 case involving
sity hosted a symposium in the the University of Michigan Law
In the wake of last Wednes- Rogel Ballroom at the Michigan School'that affirmed the legality
day's oral arguments in the Union to discuss the case, which of affirmative action policies at
Fisher v. University of Texas involves Abigail Fisher, a white See PANEL, Page 3

tINKIKKLAND/Uaily
Senior quarterback Denard Robinson and other students gather on the Qiag for the Go Blue Beat MSU pep rallyto rev
up the student body before Saturday's game against Michigan State at the Big House.


WEATHER H1; 57 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail DPS to hold fourth public crime meeting
TOMORROW LO: 41 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX NEW S .........................2 ARTS ...........................5
Vol.CXXIIINo. 32 AP NEWS ...................3 CLASSIFIEDS ...............6
©2012TheMichiganDaily OPINION.................4 FOOTBALLSATURDAY.1B
michigundoily.com



2 - Friday, October 19, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 exr. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
lichterman@michigandailycom rh~ein@michigandaily.com

Newsrnnn
734-418-4115 spt.3
torrections
corectsionsmeichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Sectin
sports@michigandailyssem
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@m~ichigandaily.com

News Tips
news@micigandaily.com.
Letters tnthe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@mxichigandaily.comr
Photography Sectin
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
clzaified@michigandaily.om
Firarce
finance@m ichigandaily.com

I

I

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Disappearing Parked swipe
skateboarders WHERE: 1600 Medical
WHERE: Thompson Car- Center Drive
port WHEN: Tuesday at about
WHEN: Tuesday at about 9:20 p.m.
9:30 p.m. WHAT: A parked car was
WHAT: Multiple individu- hit by an unknown vehicle
aix were allegedly skate- inside the parking struc-
boarding in the parking lure, University Police
structure, University Police reported. The driver's-side
reported. No skaters were of the car and the right fog
found on the premises when light were damaged.
an officer arrived.
Seedy situation
WHERE: University Hospi- Laptop located
tal Emergency Room
WHEN: Wednesday at WHERE: Michigan Union
about 9:20 p.m. WHEN: Wednesday at
WHAT: Suspected marl- about 4:30 p.m.
juana seeds were found in WHAT:. An unattended
the personal property of a laptop was allegedly stolen
patient, University Police betwen 3:15 and 4:05 p.m.,
reported. The seeds were University Police reported.
confiscated. The laptop was later found.

Open skate Kinesiology Tagg Romney said
WHAT: Have you ever careers Wednesday that at times
wanted to skate on the sameI he wants to. "take a
ice rink where the Michigan WHAT: A career center swing" at President Obama,
hockey teanm plays? Well program called i-Plan will ABC News reported. Later, a
here's your chance. Open help Kinesiology stodents campaign aide clarified that
skating at Yost Ice Arena think about their career teyugrRme' ut
costs $3. Skates are avail- interests.waajoerfrigtth
able for rental on site for $2. WHO: The Career Center waustratijorfter pin g n h
WHO: Yost Ice Arena WHEN: Today at 4 p.m. futain ftecmag
WHEN: Today at noon WHERE: Central Campus trail.
WHERE: Yost Ice Arena Recreation Building.
The Michigan footall
team is trying to break
a four-game skid
Orchestra Halloween against Michigan State in the
teams' rivalry match this Sat-
performance UMIX urday at Michigan Saim
>> FOR MORE, SEE FOOTBALL SATUR-
WHAT: The University WHAT: UMIX will turn DAY, INSIDE

EDITORIAL STAFF
Andrea Weiner ManagingtEditoer zexweiner@michigandaily.cox
Bethary Birnn ManagingNesxEditor biron@michigandaily.com
SENIORNES EsDIT~ORS:Haley Glathon, Hal1e Gldberg, Rayza Godsmith,
Paige ea.ry,Adam Rubenfire
ASITANT NEWSEDITORS: Gacoo Bonn, AnnasRozxbersg, .Andrew Schulman,
Timothy Rabb ard opinioneditors~micigadily.com
Adrierre Roberts Editorial PagetEditors
SENIORsDITORIAsLPAGEEDIORS: MlaeluveisoE,:,o,xsHarsa NvEa, aesaycliski
ASSISeTAN sEITORIALeAExEDIOSJeslin, SarahSkaluba
Stepher Nesbitt Maxaging SportsEditor nesbitt@michigandaily.com
SEsNORSOS E DIORxoS: EveCok,oBEstes, Zah Hlfnd, Luke Pash,
sNlothschild, Matt Slovin
AsSSISTANSPRS E DOS:Steve Braid,nMichael Luri,:IMatt o li,,
ColleenThomas, Liz Vukelich, Dniel Wassema
Leah Burgin MaxagingAets Editre burgin@michigandaily.com
SNOARSEI OEliot AleEE, DaidTa, Kyla Updhyya
ASSISTAT RTSEDOS:005.Jacob Aelrad,Luren Caserta, MattEaston,KellyEt,
Erin Kirklard and photo@michigandaily.com
Alden Reiss ManagixgePhototEditosr
ASSISANT HOOE DITOR:550damln51n mn,AustO.en ufd, Allin KOuslx
Alitia Kovalcheck ard design@michigandaily.com
Amy Matkers Managing DesignxEditos
Dylar tinti ard stateents@michigandailyscom
JenniertX agazineEditor
DEUTY MAGAIE EDITO: Zah Begn., Kaitlin Wiliams
Harrah Poindexter Copy Chief copydesk@michigandaily.com
SO OP5YEIORS:Josehinedsdn, Beth Colowitz
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh AssciateBsinessManxee
SearlJackson Sales Maxagee
SophielGreenbaumProdutionsMaager
tCorror Byrd Finaxce Managee
Meryl HultengxNatioxalAccouxntMaxnager
The Michigan Daiy (ISS 0745-967l is publishrd Monday trosughFriay dingtherfll and
wintrtrsy studrnts at tle UierstfMichigan.Onescopy is available freeof charge
tosall raders.Additional copemybe pickediupat theDl's ffice fr.Sub1 scsiptios sfsr
falltrm, startinginSeptrembr, vsia.S. mal:are$110.VWinrrermOur~eJeythrough April)is
$15, yarlsogSepeberthrsoughpil) ist15. Uiversity affiliats arSe subet tsa.educed
suscrsiptisnraOte.Onpussuscriptios ffll trerae,Su sriptinsmu erpaid.
The eichigan Daily is a:membr ofThe SAssociatedPressindThe Associateollestgiate Press.

0

0

Philharmonia Orchestra to a Halloween theme with
Will perform Mozart's piano a creative buffet, pumpkin
concertos. Christopher carving, a haunted house
James Lees conducts Wag- in the Michigan Union, a
ner and Mozart composi- hypnosis show and a screen-
tions. ing of the movie "The Dark
WHO: School of Music, Knight Rises."
Theatre & Dance . WHO: Center for Campus
WHEN: Tonight at 8 p.m. Involvement
WHERE: Mendelssohn WHEN: Tonight at 10 p.m.
Theatre WHERE: Michigan Union

3An Idaho Falls news
anchor struggled to
keep his composure
while a spider dangled in
front of his face, The Huff-
ington Post reported. View-
ers called the station worried
that the spider was crawling
on top of his jacket.

I

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Friday, October 19, 2012 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October 19, 2012 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
WASHTENAW COUNTY
Fifth Michigander
dies in Menigitis
outbreak
Authorities are reporting a fifth
Michigan death in a national out-
break of fungal meningitis linked
to contaminated steroids.
The Michigan Department of
Community Health said Thursday
that its death count has risen by
one inthe last day. Mlive.com says
the latest victim was a 62-year-old
Washtenaw Countyman.
The state agency now reports
45 Michigan cases of fungal
meningitis, plus four non-men-
ingitis infection cases related to
the same contaminated steroids.
Michigan's death toll stands
at five, including the death of a
Cass County woman whose men-
ingitis was linked to treatments
for back pain across the border at
an Indiana clinic.
NEW ORLEANS
BP: Sealed ocean
well isn't source
of Gulf sheen
A sheen on the Gulf of Mexico
likely came from oil seeping out
of a piece of discarded equip-
ment that failed to contain BP
PLC's massive 2010 oil spill, the
company and the Coast Guard
said Thursday.
A statement from BP said a
three-day inspection confirmed
that its Macondo well, which
blew out and led to the nation's
worst offshore oil spill, isn't leak-
ing. A relief well that intercepted
the blown-out well and sealed it
isn't leaking, either, BP said.
The company said the survey
determined oil probably leaked
from an 86-ton steel container
the companylowered over aleak-
ing drill pipe in efforts to funnel
oil to the surface. The container
was one of several methods BP
used in its months-long effort to
contain its blown-out well.
BEIRUT, Syria
Airstrikes in
northern Syria kill
at least 43
Syrian warplanes hammered a
strategic city captured by rebels,
leaving behind scenes of carnage
captured Thursday on amateur
videos that showed a man hold-
ing up two child-sized legs not
connected to a body and another
carrying a dismembered arm.
Activists said airstrikes over
the past two days on opposition
targets across Syria's north have
killed at least 43 people.
The city of Maaret al-Numan,
located strategically on a major
north-south highway connect-
ing Aleppo and Damascus, was
captured by rebels last week
and there has been heavy fight-
ing around it ever since. Rebel
brigades from the surrounding
area have poured in to defend the
town. Online videos have shown
them firing mortars at regime

troops, and they claimed to have
shot down a government helicop-
ter on Wednesday.
BAGHDAD, Iraq
Iraq presses U.S.
for faster arms
deliveries
Iraq's prime minister pressed
for faster deliveries of weapons
to help arm his country's military
during a Thursday meeting with a
senior U.S. defense official.
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki
made the request during talks
with U.S. Deputy Defense Secre-
tary Ashton Carter in Baghdad,
according to a statement by the
Iraqi leader's office.
Al-Maliki said Iraq needs to
beef up its defenses to protect the
country's security and national
sovereignty, and to tackle terrorist
groups that continue to threaten
Iraq's stability more than nine
years after the U.S.-led invasion.
Carter visited the Iraqi capital
during a Mideast tour that includ-
ed stops in U.S. allies Kuwait and
Qatar.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

BRUCE
From Page 1
noon.
Standing shoulder-to-shoul-
der inthe blue- andwhite-walled
gymnasium at Cuyahoga Com-
munity College, 3,000 people
gathered to listen to Springs-
teen's six-song set, while another
700 watched from an overflow
room. Though he didn't get a
request from the President,
Springsteen did unveil a new
song - "Forward" - which he
named after Obama's re-election
slogan.
"Let's vote for the man who
got Osama. Forward, and away
we go," Springsteen sang as the
crowd, encouraged by the rock
legend, yelled "Forward" back.
Springsteen said he had trou-
ble finding words that rhymed
with Obama, so in the second
verse he sang about his love for
the state of Ohio.
"I came to Ohio looking for
a date," Springsteen sang. "We
kissed and I said it's a hell of
a state. We made love, but it
wasn't so great. Forward, and
away we go."
On a more serious note,
however, Springsteen said he
believed the "distance between
the American dream and real-
ity" continues to grow, adding
that Obama will help unify the
country.
"I'm here today because I'm
deeply concerned about the
deepening disparity in wealth
between our best off citizens
and our everyday citizens,"
Springsteen said, while lightly
strumming his guitar. "That's
a disparity that I believe our
honorable opponent's policies
will increase and it threatens to
divide us into two distinct and
foreign nations."
Springsteen listed a litany of
Obama's policy achievements
- the passage of the Affordable
Care Act, the bailouts of Chrys-
ler and General Motors and the
repeal of the military's "Don't
ask, don't tell" policy - in order
to further showcase his support
PANEL
From Page 1
public universities.
The event featured vari-
ous speakers, including Nancy
Cantor, chancellor of Syracuse
University; Uma Jayakumar,
a University of San Francisco
professor; Katherine Phillips,
a Columbia University Busi-
ness School professor; and Gary
Orfield, a University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles professor
and co-director of UCLA's Civil
Rights Project.
Cantor, a former University
provost and dean who played a
key role in the 2003 case, defend-
ed affirmative action, claiming
that diversity is beneficial to
everyone.
"Diversity means better sci-
ence, more innovation and
healthier communities," Cantor
said. "In higher education, it's
not something extra on the plate.
Diversity is the plate."
Cantor added that despite
arguments that race-based
admissions policies neglect tal-
ented students, they are crucial

in providing diverse perspectives
and they foster better-informed
collective work when solving
public problems.
"If we're to ensure prosperity
in social justice, our efforts to
maintain and strengthen the fab-
ric of society must continue and
must succeed," Cantor said.
Jayakumar said during her
presentation that high numeric
diversity increases interactions
across races, which reaps signifi-
cant educational benefits. Low
minority representation, how-
ever, allows racist attitudes to

for Obama.
With early voting in Ohio
already underway, and with
several recent polls giving
Obama anywhere from a one- to
five-point advantage over Rom-
ney, both campaigns are heavily
emphasizing the importance of
winning the Buckeye State.
Republican vice presidential
nominee Paul Ryan campaigned
in Ohio on Wednesday for the
fifth day in just more than a
week. Obama also held a rally on
the campus of Ohio University
in Athens, Ohio on Wednesday,
and Vice President Joe Biden is
expected to visit the state early
next week, according to the
Associated Press.
Still, one of the most active
Democratic surrogates through-
out the election season has been
former President Bill Clinton.
He has traveled exhaustively
throughout the country to
campaign for Obama and other
Democrats, even stopping in a
Detroit suburb last Friday to
headline a fundraiser for Sen.
Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.).
In one of two rallies Clinton
held in Ohio on Thursday, the
former president delivered an
impassioned 30-minute speech
to supporters, emphasizing
time and again his belief that
Obama brought the economy
back from the brink of disaster
and is leading the country to
prosperity.
Clinton highlighted the bail-
out of GM, which has a metal
processing plant in Parma, as
one of the ways the Obama
administration has helped revi-
talize the economy.
He also discussed the admin-
istration's efforts in making
college more affordable as a
means of long-term economic
growth. Clinton said some of
the Obama administration's
greatest achievements were
lesser-known reforms that
were passed along with the
Affordable Care Act to feder-
ally back student loans.
"If you get out of medical
school with a debt of $200,000
- which is the average medi-
persist.
"This is a call to action," Jaya-
kumar said. "We need to con-
tinue to think about the triage
in doing affirmative action ...We
haven't found anything more
effective than affirmative action.
We should continue to look at
that, but we should also look at
ourselves and how we perpetu-
ate everyday racism."
Each speaker asserted that
without affirmative action
policies, the diversity of public
universities will significantly
decrease, creating social stigmas
and isolation for minority stu-
dents.
"A consequence, of course, of
isolation and exclusion is ste-
reotyping gone rampant which
can and does limit and kill edu-
cational opportunity for all those
thatget swept into its indiscrimi-
nate net," Cantor said.
Since the use of affirmative
action at the University was abol-
ished in 2006, minority enroll-
ment has begun to decline. In fall
2005, minorities made up 24.2
percent of total students, accord-
ing to a report from the Universi-
ty Office of the Registrar. By fall

2011, minorities represented 19.6
percent of University students.
Phillips said her research has
shown that diverse groups out-
perform homogeneous ones,
but perceived effectiveness in
diverse groups is inversely relat-
ed to performance. Because of
this, she urged that the public
become comfortable with pro-
moting diversity in the learning
process.
She added that affirmative
action leads to diversity not only
within universities, but also in
the workplace.

cal school debt in America now
- and you want to be a family
practitioner in small-town rural
Ohio or in inner-city Cleve-
land, you can do it because your
repayment obligation is deter-
mined by your salary, not the
other way around," Clinton said.
While Clinton elicited cheers
throughout his speech, the ova-
tion Springsteen received when
he took the stage was deafening,
though he joked that following
Clinton was like performing
after Elvis Presley.
Nevertheless, Springsteen
was the main attraction Thurs-
day, and the crowd hung on to
every lyric, singing along to hits
such as "The Promised Land,"
"Thunder Road" and "We Take
Care of Our Own," which has
been a staple at nearly every
Obama rally throughout the
campaign.
In a nod to northeast Ohio,
Springsteen also performed
"Youngstown," which includes
the lyric, "Them smokestacks
reachin' like the arms of God,
into a beautiful sky of soot and
clay" - paying homage to the
manufacturing industries that
have long defined this region,
and which Springsteen said
Obama helped save.
Springsteen even followed up
one line in "Youngstown" about
sending "our sons to Korea and
Vietnam," with a new addi-
tion about the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, before singing the
song's next written lyric: "Now
we're wondering what they
were dyin' for."
Springsteen's song choice,
along with his spoken remarks,
illustrated his deeply felt rela-
tionship with working-class
America, which he is using to
help the Obama campaign reach
out to working-class voters. It is
crucial for Obama to carry this
demographic in order to win the
election, according to Kim Fari-
nacci, a Peninsula, Ohio resi-
dent who attended the rally.
"He speaks to the point, to
the heart, like he writes in his
songs," she said. "He may be a
millionaire, but he's one of us."
"Race still matters," Phillips
said. "It matters to people with
high socioeconomic standing
and it matters to people with
low socioeconomic standing, and
until we recognize that, we're
going to go backwards. If this
Fisher case comes out in favor of
Fisher, turning back the times,
we are going to see greater seg-
regation not only at the elemen-
tary schools and the high schools
where we see it now but at the
college level."
Orfield, who helped write an
amicus brief for Fisher with 444
signatures from 172 educational
institutions and research centers
in support of affirmative action,
said potentially overruling Grut-
ter would have vast consequenc-
es.
"(Universities) are at risk of
losing the capacity to select their
students in a way that produces
a diverse student body," Orfield
said. "It's a radical thing to think
that our court may actually be
taking that away from them,
superimposing the judgment of
the court on the autonomy of all
of our education institutions."
Rebecca Silverblatt, a Uni-

versity of Texas alum who is
currently pursuing a master's
degree in higher education at the
University of Michigan, said the
symposium hit home for her.
"For me, this is important in
an all-encompassing way ... it's
much broader than just one court
decision," Silverblatt said. "It
affects business, it affects higher
education, it affects secondary
education, it affects social issues.
There's just so much to it and
this event is doing a good job at
(bringing) together all of those
perspectives."

Court ofAppeals
rejects Defense
of Marriage Act

NY judges strike
down law in a 2-1
decision
NEW YORK (AP) - Saying
the gay population has "suffered
a history of discrimination," a
divided federal appeals court in
Manhattan ruled Thursday that
a federal law defining marriage
as a union between a man and
a woman was unconstitutional,
adding fuel to an issue expected
to reach the U.S. Supreme Court
soon.
The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals seemed interested
in adding its voice to several
other rulings already at the high
court's doorstep by issuing its
2-to-1 decision only three weeks
after hearing arguments on a
lower court judge's findings that
the 1996 law was unconstitu-
tional.
In a majority opinion writ-
ten by Judge Dennis Jacobs, the
2nd Circuit, like a federal appeals
court in Boston before it, found
no reason the Defense of Mar-
riage Act could be used to deny
benefits to married gay couples.
It supported a lower court rul-
ing after a woman sued the gov-
ernment in 2010, saying the law
required her to pay $363,053 in
federal estate tax after her part-
ner of 44 years died.
Jacobs, though, went beyond
the Boston court, saying dis-
crimination against gays should
be scrutinized by the courts in
the same heightened way as dis-
crimination faced by women
was in the 1970s. At the time, he
noted, they faced widespread
discrimination in the workplace
and elsewhere. The heightened
scrutiny, as it is referred to in
legal circles, would mean govern-
ment discrimination against gays
would be assumed to be uncon-
stitutional.

"The question is not whether
homosexuals have achieved
political successes over the years;
they clearly have. The question is
whether they have the strength
to politically protect themselves
from wrongful discrimination,"
said Jacobs, who was appointed
to the bench in 1992 by President
George H.W. Bush.
He said it was difficult to say
whether gays were under-repre-
sented in positions of power and
authority without knowing their
true numbers.
"But it is safe to say that the
seemingly small number of
acknowledged homosexuals so
situated is attributable either to a
hostility that excludes them or to
a hostility thatkeeps their sexual
preference private - which, for
our purposes, amounts to much
the same thing," Jacobs said.
Lawyer Paul Clement, who
had argued in support of the law
on behalf of the Bipartisan Legal
Advisory Group of the House of
Representatives, was traveling
and did not immediately return a
message seeking comment.
Brian Brown, president of the
National Organization for Mar-
riage, which filed arguments
with the appeals court before
the ruling, called the decision
"yet another example of judicial
activism and elite judges impos-
ing their views on the American
people."
He urged the Supreme Court
to take up the case, saying: "The
American people are entitled
to a definitive ruling in support
of marriage as the union of one
man and one woman, as 32 states
have determined through popu-
lar vote."
Dale Schowengerdt, an
attorney with the Scottsdale,
Ariz.-based Alliance Defend-
ing Freedom, called the ruling
"off base" and predicted the
Supreme Court will disagree
with it.

Heaney said. "It seems unlikely
SUPER PAC that Romney will win Michi-
From Page 1 gan, and I would bet money
that Obama will win, but ... still
remained less contested than Michigan is back within com-
in other battleground states, petitive range."
though Romney has trimmed Kall said the advertisements
Obama's lead with strong debate could also bolster the Republi-
performances. Obama led Rom- can ticket in the state, from the
ney by a six-point margin of race between Senator Debbie
52 percent to 46 percent in a Stabenow (D-Mich.)andformer
Detroit News/WXYZ-TV poll of Rep. Pete Hoesktra (R-Mich.) to
likely Michigan voters released the six ballot proposals.
Thursday, up from three points "Even if it's notlikelythatthis
in a Detroit Free Press poll on is going to end up being a win-
Oct. 8, but down from a double- ning strategy, it's worth spend-
digitmargin this summer. ing that money because they
While the margin between have it," Kall said. This strategy
the candidates is larger in is not really going to hurt Gov.
Michigan than in other states, Romney's ability to compete in
Heaney and Kall agreed the these other states."
expenditure could still benefit Despite Romney's deficit
Romney's campaign. in the polls, LSA senior Jared
If the advertisements in Boot, chair of the University's
Michigan tighten the race, chapter of Students for Rom-
Heaney said it could force the ney, wrote in a statement that
Obama campaign to spend he believes the state is winnable
additional resources or time in for the Republican presidential
Michigan, diverting the cam- nominee.
paign's attention from closer "This race has been volatile
swing states like Ohio. but the number are starting to
"If you start running ads, trend and solidify for Romney
what that also does is it forces so the PACs are keeping the ads
Obama to defend Michigan," here now," Boot wrote.
5050MM

FOLLOW THE DAILY
ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
@m ichdailynews
@michdailyarts
@theblockm
@michdailyphoto
@michdailyoped


4 - Friday, October 19, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

4 - Friday, October19, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4C Micigan 4a1*1
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
TIMOTHY RABB
JOSEPH LICHTERMAN and ADRIENNE ROBERTS ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F R OM T HE D AILY
No need or speed
Prescriptions only for those that need them
dderall and similar prescription drugs have become promi-
nent on college campuses in the past several years - how-
ever, stimulants aren't just used by stressed and overworked
college students, but younger students as well. Recently, doctors have
prescribed children in low-income areas Adderall so they can get
ahead in school - whether they have ADHD or not. Doctors falsely
diagnose children who struggle in school and prescribe them medica-
tion as a coping mechanism. Adderall is a quick but dangerous fix to
the larger problem of underfunded and low-performing school dis-
tricts, and it's not the way to improve low-income districts' test scores.

Haven Hall hate crime

There's been a lot of misin-
formation and confusion
on this campus regarding
the vandalism
in Haven Hall
on Monday, Oct.
8. So let me help
clear the air.
It was a hate
crime.
Don't believe
me? Let's go
straight to the YONAH
source. From LIEBERMAN
the FBI: "A
hate crime, also
known as a bias crime, is a criminal
offense committed against a person,
property, or society that is moti-
vated, in whole or in part, by the
offender's bias against a race, reli-
gion, disability, sexual orientation,
or ethnicity/national origin." Seems
clear enough.
Let's rewind a bit and go over
exactly what happened in Haven
Hall. In the wee hours of the night,
either one person or a group of peo-
ple went through all of the floors of
Haven Hall and intentionally tore
down flyers and personal effects
outside offices of GSIs, profes-
sors and department heads in Arab
American Studies, Native American
Studies, African American Studies
and Women's Studies. The items
torn down had to do primarily with
ethnic and gender studies, as well as
flyers promoting LGBT groups and
other progressive causes. People
don't just wander around the upper
floors of Haven Hall - this was an
intentional act targeted at ethnic
studies departments.
Even more maddening than the
disgusting act itself was the com-
plete lack of response by our com-
munity. There was no DPS crime
alert. It took three days for a cam-
pus-wide e-mail to be sent out by
University Provost Phil Hanlon.
Most people heard about it via

Facebook, a forwarded e-mail or
word of mouth. This is completely
unacceptable for a university that
has the "deepest respect for diver-
sity" according to Hanlon's e-mail.
The University community should be
embarrassed by the delayed response.
More so than even the lack of
response, the type of response infu-
riates me. The first official line from
the University came in an article in
The Michigan Daily about graduate
students who took it upon them-
selves to re-flyer the area in pro-
test. University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald is quoted as saying, "Our
understanding is that (the DPS)
investigation determined that the
incident was not hate-related ... that
said, we certainly understand that
many people would still be con-
cerned about this type of incident
happening on our campus."
In other words: There was no
intentional discrimination, but
we're sorry if you felt that way.
The tone changed a bit the next
day in Provost Hanlon's e-mail. He
wrote that "Posters, flyers and deco-
rationswere removed from the walls
and tossed to the ground, and some
had push-pins placed on them," but
refused to categorize these items as
related to race, gender or sexuality.
Without that crucial specificity, the
average student has no idea of the
oppressive implications of the act.
He continued, "This act of
destruction and intolerance is not
Michigan." While I appreciate
labeling the hate crime as intoler-
ant, this is clearly not far enough.
The words "hate" or "bias" are not
mentioned once in the e-mail. He
attempts to tie the entire response
back to the idea that Michigan is a
diverse community. By doing so,
Hanlon and the administration are
shoving this hate crime under the
rug by asserting that the perpetra-
tors don't occupy the mainstream
Michigan community.

But this is simply not true -
there's more to the story. Our
campus is not the integrated, open-
minded, magical place the admin-
istration would like to portray it as.
The University
needs to call a
spade a spade.

4

During move-in this fall, some-
one hung a noose in a Mary Markley
Residence Hall where only one black
student lived. The Reflection Room
- located on the first floor of Angell
Hall and intended as a space for Mus-
lim students to pray - was defaced
twice in the pastyear. Our University
grossly underfunds the same eth-
nic studies departments that were
targeted last week. These are just
three examples, but the list is much
longer. To get a glimpse of the issue,
read the Daily personal statement
published last week, "Being Black
in Ann Arbor," which pointed to the
constant pressure that blackstudents
face in our community.
Our administration must change
its tune when it responds to future
incidents of this nature. It must be
proactive instead of reactive to such
incidents. Instead of painting the
perpetrators as "bad apples," our
administration must own up to the
fact that such hate crimes are an
extension of the forms of discrimi-
nation that people across campus
deal with every day.
It can start by admitting that the
vandalism in Haven Hall was a hate
crime.
-Yonah Lieberman can be
reached at yonahl@umich.edu.

In Canton, Ga., Dr. Michael Anderson diag-
noses lower-income children with ADHD and
prescribes them stimulants. But Anderson
places the blame on the economic status of the
students rather than the disease itself; indeed,
he considers the prescriptions he writes an
evening of the scales. According to Anderson,
society hasn'tspentthe time or the money to fix
the real problem, so these stimulants give some
lower-income children a boost they wouldn't
otherwise receive. Parents reportedly don't
object, but rather support the quick fix.
The prescription of Adderall to children
without ADHD creates numerous issues, pri-
marily the negative side effects. Basic side
effects are loss of appetite and insomnia, but
there are other, potentially dangerous, com-
plications. These include irregular heartbeat,
high blood pressure, severe headaches, hal-
lucinations and psychotic episodes - a psy-
chological effect one of Anderson's young
patients experienced. Many who regularly
take Adderall also develop a dependency on

the medication. Any growing child should not
be subjected to this addictive and dangerous
drug during crucial developmental periods.
These false diagnoses also discredit real
cases of ADHD, taking away from students
who actually do have the disorder and
require the medication to keep up in school.
Parents certainly want their kids to succeed,
but that requires hard work to overcome bar-
riers, not a prescription pad. It's true that
many children in low-income areas struggle
with a unique set of circumstances; however,
parents should attempt to wrestle with these
problems to the best of their abilities before
endangering their children with unneces-
sary medication. This "solution" effectively
accommodates under-performing school dis-
tricts instead of dealing with the underlying
administrative issues that cause this dispar-
ity. Giving these children Adderall may help
them in school, but it does nothing to address
the larger issue at hand. We need to treat the
schools' ailments - not the children's.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Shank Bashir, Eli Cahan, Nirbhay Jain, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Patrick Maillet, Harsha Nahata, Timothy Rabb, Adrienne Roberts,
Vanessa Rychlinski, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Gus Turner
Abolish race-based standards

NOTABLE QUOTABLE
The Supreme Court uses certain factors to decide whether a
new classification qualifies as a quasi-suspect class ... In this
case, all four factors justify heightened scrutiny."
- Chief Judge Dennis Jacobs of Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York on
the court finding the Defense of Marraige Act puts unconstitutional burden on LGBT Americans.
DAR-WEI CHEN ( VIEWPOINT
An swer to the jobs dilemma

4

a

think of society as a progressive, evolv-
ing place - a community that cherishes
individual differences, supports every

student and fosters pas-
sionate learning. How-
ever, it takes just a few
minutes of watching the
morning news or scan-
ning the paper to quickly
realize that our nation
isn't emblematic of this
little utopian community
we call Ann Arbor.
As University students,
we're fortunate to attend a
fabulous school that holds


dents into groups based on their ethnicity and
then creating set standards for each ethnic
group is hurting the next generation of lead-
ers and scholars. By implementing race-based
standards, Florida public schools are, in a way,
teaching children that they are only as intelli-
gent as the color of their skin. They're teach-
ing these young students that achievement at
school should vary by ethnicity rather than
work ethic.

SARAH
SKALUBA Reading standards
based on ethnicity are

us to the highest standards and pushes us to
succeed beyond our limits, but many students
across the nation can't say the same. Just last
week, the Florida Board of Education approved
new reading and math standards that vary
according to ethnicity. It's not a system based
on age, grade level or even school district, but
an achievement system based solely on race.
Not only is this demeaning, but it will also
shatter the self-confidence and motivation of
young students all across Florida.
The Florida Board of Education is striving
for 74 percent of black students, 81 percent of
Hispanic students, 88 percent of white stu-
dents and 90 percent of Asian students to be
reading at or above grade level by 2018. No, I
didn't fabricate these numbers, and I most cer-
tainly couldn't tell you what in the world the
board was thinking. Maybe the sunny weather
has altered their minds, but to create a system
that's so backwards and obsolete is incompre-
hensible.
The implications of these race-based goals
will be devastating to young students across
the state - all 2.6 million of them. The Florida
public school system is clearly flawed and in
dire need of change, but creating a system like
this isn't the way to go about fixing it. Instead
of holding children to different standards
based on the color of their skin, we should be
working to reform the educational system as a
whole so that 100 percent of students will be
reading at or above grade level.
All children, regardless of race, should
have the right to a solid education - this idea
should not be controversial. Classifying stu-

detrimental to young
students.
Florida was actually notthe first state to cre-
ate achievement standards based on race: Vir-
ginia implemented a similar program earlier
this year and other states may soon follow suit.
We live in an era that values personal freedom
and equal opportunity. However, concepts like
this one move our society backward in time
and further divide us as a community.
Will separate achievement standards based
on gender be next? Say, 80 percent of boys need
to be reading at or above grade level and only
70 percent of girls? The whole concept is just
ridiculous. If legitimate solutions cannot be
created to fix these flawed school systems, our
society has avery serious problem on its hands.
The education of young Americans needs to be
a top priority, but breaking down standards by
race certainly isn't the answer.
If students are taught at a young age that
they will never be as smart or successful as
their classmates because of any social identity,
then this negative concept is bound to follow
them to college and beyond. Such a dangerous
concept will only hurt our society and hin-
der talented young students from taking full
advantage of their education and striving to be
the best students possible.
- Sarah Skaluba can be reached
at sskaluba@umich.edu.

In politics, very few questions
have "right" answers. Much of
this ambiguity comes from endless
spinning that both major political
parties engage in to win 24-hour
news cycles. Even statistics aren't
useful in clarifying anything
because politicians of conflicting
beliefs can assess the same situ-
ation and deploy data to advance
their own causes. One example
of this phenomenon is the debate
over jobs: GOP presidential hopeful
Mitt Romney says unemployment
has been above eight percent for 43
straight months under the current
administration (until the Septem-
ber jobs report came out), while
President Barack Obama claims
there have been "31 straightmonths
of private-sector job growth."
Same situation, two starkly differ-
ent assessments, neither wrong!
Sometimes, the only right
answers that Democrats and
Republicans seem to agree on are:
A. always praise the troops, and B.
offering prayers to disaster victims.
However, these two ideas are obvi-
ous and not worth discussing.
Therefore, to find some useful
right answers, we must look past
combative words and fluffy rhetoric
to carefully examine what politi-
cians actually do. And although few
answers in politics are definitively
right, you can get pretty close to a
right answer by seeing what Demo-
crats and Republicans agree on when
they're away from the debate lec-
terns. A good case study for across-
the-aisle agreement is President
Obama's stimulus bill, one of his first
major pieces of economic legislation.
The Obama stimulus bill has
been pilloried in public by Repub-
licans for the past few years, and
these attacks are in keeping with a
chief tenet of modern conservatism:
The government is inept at creating
jobs. As Romney said earlier this
year, "Government doesn't create
jobs. It's the private sector that cre-

ates jobs." Most GOP congressmen
would agree with Romney if pub-
licly asked about this statement.
But what happens when those
same GOP congressmen have to
govern? In July 2009, Senate Minor-
ity Leader Mitch McConnell - one
of the GOP's many Obama stimu-
lus critics - applied for up to $235
million from the stimulus to invest
in electric vehicles for Kentucky,
the state he represents. His appli-
cation, which had to be approved
by Energy Secretary Steven Chu, is
a tacit admission that the govern-
ment is able to create jobs through
economic stimulus. McConnell even
states in his memo: "I hope you will
realize the importance of such job
creation to Kentucky."
Current Republican vice-presi-
dential nominee Paul Ryan has also
derided the Obama stimulus over the
years, but he too is guilty of pursu-
ing money from the very stimulus he
condemns. In October 2009, Ryan
asked Chu to approve a geothermal
project for a company in Ryan's home
state of Wisconsin. Apparently, he
believes that government stimulus
can create jobs for his constituents.
And many GOP congressmen actu-
ally agree with him (quite a few of
them have applied for money too) -
just not in public.
Since stimulus money is a finite
resource, congressmen not only
have to apply for it, they have to
make specific and compelling cases
to the White House regarding the
money's job-creation potential.
Therefore, when GOP congress-
men simultaneously rail against
the stimulus and apply for funding,
they must know that they're being
dishonest and hypocritical. Ryan
and McConnell would find more
friends across the aisle if they sim-
ply admitted to the stimulus bill's
virtues. After all, they've lobbied
explicitlytothat end -just ask Chu.
Ofcourse, Republicans have often
championed the government's abil-

ity to create jobs in defense (that's
why they're always against defense
cuts), so government job creation is
not without evidence. But they're
never willing to publicly admit that
government could extend its job-
creating capacity to other economic
sectors. Somehow, FDR's New Deal
isn't a relevant precedent.
Some conservatives might argue
that regardless of rhetoric, the
Obama stimulus was implemented
and hasn't produced adequate jobs. !
I won't contest the notion that the
economic recovery has been some-
what sluggish. However, since we
now know that both Democrats
and Republicans believe in govern-
ment job creation, the public needs
to consider the possibility that
the stimulus wasn't large enough,
instead of the theory that govern-
ment cannot create jobs. Nobel
Prize-winning economist Paul
Krugman has critiqued the Obama
stimulus in this way, stating that
while the president has passed a
"somewhat disappointing economic
plan," at least "a third of a loaf is
better than none." Krugman also
contends that the Obama stimulus
was watered down by unnecessary
tax cuts, and I think we all know
which party pushed for those reck-
less cuts. Imagine what a whole loaf
of stimulus would have done and
imagine how excited (albeit secret-
ly) McConnell and Ryan would be
about more economic stimulation.
My main motive here is not to
demagogue Republican economic
policy, but to assert that Keynesian
economics is alive and well in both
parties. We may never know exact-
ly what the right answers are to
our country's most pressing issues,
but when both sides agree on an
answer, that agreement might be as
close as we get. Let's move forward
from there.
Dar-Wei Chen is a University alum
and a former columnist for the Daily.

WANT THE DAILY ON THE GO?
Now you can access your favorite Daily opinion content on your phone.
Check out the Daily's mobile website at m.michigandaily.com.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com h

Friday, October 19, 2012 - 5


EVENT PREVIEW
Poetry to reunite
student, teacher

More than a 'Wallflower'

By JOEY STEINBERGER
DailyArts Writer
Stop. Pause. Breathe. Take a
minute or two for poetry, that
beautifully elusive form forgot-
ten by pop cul-
ture and the
mainstream, to One Pause
receive atten- Poetry Fall
tion from only
enthusiasts Conference
and academia. Reading
Living in Ann
Arbor, we might Friday at7 p.m.
have an inflated METAL
sense of the
popularity of Free
poetry. Stu-
dents study it, the Neutral Zone
hosts poetry workshops for teens
and the University brings in poets
from around the world to recite
their work.
In 2010, a new organization
appeared on the poetry scene in
Ann Arbor: One Pause Poetry, a
nonprofit arts organization work-
ing to make poetry accessible to
all. They often organize poetry
readings and workshops around
Ann Arbor, in spaces that range
from an active metallurgy work-
shop to an organic farm.
One Pause Poetry will host a
reading at METAL with Matthew
Rohrer Friday night, a faculty
member of the Creative Writing
Program at NYU, and Residential
College Lecturer Ken Mikolows-
ki. The combination isn't happen-
stance - many years ago, Rohrer
was Mikolowski's student.
"Matt was always a good
writer, but then he started dis-
covering his own unique style,
which is very funny and yet he
is able to carry some emotion,
too," Mikolowski said. "There
is enough going on in his poems
that makes him complex and
always interesting to read."
The two have kept in contact
since Rohrer graduated, but this
will mark their first joint reading.
Rohrer won a Hopwood awrd
for poetry at the University, and
graduated from the Residential
College in 1992. Shortly after
graduating, he wrote his first
published book of poetry, "A
Hummock in the Malookas,"
which won the National Poetry
Series award.
"A Hummock in the Maloo-
kas" was Rohrer's first published
work, but not his first book. As a
student in the RC's Creative Writ-
ing major, Rohrer and his class-
mates worked closely with their
professors for multiple semes-
ters in courses called "tutorials."
Mikolowski, who supervises
tutorials, has his students write a
book before they graduate.
"You get to know someone
pretty well doing class and tuto-

rials because you share poetry,
it's pretty personal," Mikolowski
said. "The great thing about doing
that is you get to watch some-
one grow and develop as they go
along."
During his time at the Univer-
sity, Rohrer developed his dis-
tinct writing style.
Mikolowski started writing
poetry when he went to college
at Wayne State University. He
began college as an engineering
student but a writing class caused
him to change his mind.
"You should have seen the look
on my father's face when I told
him I'm going to become a poet,"
Mikolowski said.
Mikolowski has written three
books of poetry, but he plans to
read mostly from "That, That," a
book he is currently working on.
The book has approximately 75
poems, and its longest poem is
two lines.
Rohrer won the
National Poetry
Series award for
his first book.
"I keep getting briefer and
briefer and briefer," Mikolowski
said. "Haikus are too long for
me."
Mikolowski became more eco-
nomical with his wording after
running the Alternative Press
for thirty years. The press, which
published poetry giants such as
Allen Ginsberg and Robert Cree-
ley, was all hand-set and hand-
printed.
"It was a letter press. You set
the type one letter at a time,"
Mikolowski said.
Mikolowski's own poems
shrunk in length because print
ing longer poems, in the Altepna-
tive Press was such an intensive
process.
As part of their mission to
make poetry accessible to all,
One Pause Poetry records these
events.
"We record audio and video of
all our programs and put them
on our website so people can see
them if they don't get out to the
event," said Sarah Messer, the
director of One Pause Poetry.
The organization hopes to
work collaboratively with poetry
groups around Ann Arbor to help
the scene be more cohesive and
grow.
"We really want to be a place
with our website where different
poetry groups can come togeth-
er," Messer said.

Leading man Logan
Lerman discusses
passion for film
By ADITI MISHRA
Daily Arts Writer
The pressure of bringing a
beloved fictional character to
life isn't new to Logan Lerman,
who has previously played the
titular character of Rick Rior-
dan's fantasy series "Percy
Jackson" and D'Artagnan of
"The Three Musketeers." But
even he realizes the importance
of not disappointing the small
yet hugely devoted fan-base of
author Stephen Chbosky's "The
Perks of Being a Wallflower,"
one of the most relatable and
acclaimed coming-of-age tales
of this generation.
"From my perspective, I've
known characters in my life who
were similar to characters in the
book and the movie," Lerman
said in a recent conference call
with journalists. "At that age, dis-
covering who you are and being
comfortable with yourself are
relatable issues. I feel like (the
movie) is a very faithful adapta-
tion of the book, especially since
Chbosky wrote the novel and
wrote the screenplay forthe film."
Lerman's name isn't the most
recognizable in the industry.
In an era of absurdly popular
pubescent actors (who have
most probably depicted vam-
pires, werewolves, wizards or
all of the above), Lerman is rela-
tively unknown to even those
who've seen his films. In pub-
lit, Lerman appears shy and
reserved, choosing to let his
often more famous co-stars -
for "Perks," this includes Emma
Watson in one of her first post-
"Potter" roles - do all the talk-

"You simply don't understand. Hogwarts is real"

ing.
But all it takes is a phone con-
versation with him to quickly
realize that YouTube videos
shouldn't be mistaken for real-
ity. Without a camera in front
of him, Lerman is seemingly
unafraid to joke candidly about
kissing a male co-star, pretty
generous with F-bombs - which
he admits is his favorite curse
word - and has none of the arro-
gance that one would expect of
an actor who has been in show-
biz for over half of his life.
"I haven't really grown up in
the spotlight," Lerman said. "I
did films but no one really knew
who the hell I was, and they still
don't. So it's nice having some
sort of anonymity."
Most noticeably, Lerman is
nothing like the introverted, bor-
derline-depressed character he
plays in "Perks." Living in 1990's
Pittburgh, his character, Charlie,
is an unconventional and intelli-

gent teenager whose only friend
in high school is his English
teacher - in other words, Char-
lie embodies the very definition
of "wallflower." For Lerman, it
wasn't an easy task to get into his
character's head.
"(Charlie and I) are very dif-
ferent. I'm not as introverted or
naive as he is, but he reminded
me a lot of close friends of mine
and I definitely understood his
perspective," Lerman said. "It
was pretty tricky to figure out
his intentions, just getting in the
mind of such a sweet, genuine
guy. That was tough."
Anyone who has read "Perks"
knows that this book doesn't
just document Charlie's depres-
sion. It introduces him to Sam
(Watson) and Patrick (Ezra
Miller, "We Need to Talk About
Kevin") - two somewhat crazy,
live-in-the-moment seniors who
embrace Charlie as one of their
group and breathe life into his

otherwise dull existence. His
entertaining divulgence into the
life of the "cool kids" is a neces-
sary break from the more seri-
ous aspects of this film.
"I loved the whole Charlie-
getting-stoned for the first time
sequence. That was a lot of fun...
a little break from the depress-
ing scenes that were hard to get
into," Lerman said.
"Perks" is a distinct book-
to-screen adaptation; it's writ-
ten and directed by the book's
author. But working with the
man who would accept noth-
ing less than perfection for a
story he so passionately created
wasn't as scary for Lerman as
one would think.
"It wasn't intimidating at all.
I was nervous about my charac-
ter, he was nervous about mak-
ing a film for the first time. We
complemented each other a lit-
tle bit," Lerman said.
See PERKS, Page 6

ERar tob riist tO ssiCS

By PAIGE PFLEGER
For the Daily
"A Bard by Any Other Name"
would smell as sweet, or at least,
it's anticipated to in Ann Arbor
Civic Theater's
Studio space. b
Residential A Brd by
College gradu- AtyOther
ate and local Name
playwright
James Ingagio- Friday and
la re-imagines Saturday at
three of Shake- 8 p.m. and
speare's most Saturday
popular plays and Sunday
- "Hamlet," at 2 p.m.
"Macbeth" and
"Two Gentle- A2CTlCivicTheater
men of Verona" From $12
- in the style of
modern play-
wrights Harold Pinter, Tennes-
see Williams and David Mamet,
respectively.
Though the Bard's work over
the years has been interpreted in
myriad ways, Ingagiola's vision
is distinct, according to Director

Amanda Barnett.
"There are a lot of movies
out that are loosely based off of
(Shakespeare's) stories, like how
'Ten Things I Hate About You' is
based off 'Taming of the Shrew."'
Barnett said. "We do a closer rein-
terpretation with a very specific
style, making it very unique."
Each play has been consolidat-
ed so all three can be presented in
one showing. Due to the extent of
each show's settings and charac-
ters, Ingagiola and Barnett opted
for a minimalistic approach to the
show. The actors will wear their
normal street clothing, and props
and extraneous scenery are kept
to only the essentials.
These staunch differences
between "A Bard by Any Other
Name" and a typical extravagant
Shakespeare production are pur-
poseful. Barnett hopes that the
minimalistic approach will elimi-
nate distraction for the audience
and make the language of the
text take center stage. Barnett
means to avoid the feeling that
the audience is being placed into

someor
ported
She ant
instead
audien
togethe
Inga
modern
ridicule
nal wo
by tho
using S
ferentI
Bard h
She
M,
an
"Wh
Shakes
feet, as
giola s:
to term
and d

ne's life, or being trans- change them or bring them up."
to another time or place. With the help of the diction
ticipates that the show will and stylized voice of the modern
i be an experience that the playwrights, he creates humor
ce and the actors can enjoy from these absurdities.
er. The works of British play-
giola draws from what wright Harold Pinter are known
n audiences find to be for sparse language and the use
ous in Shakespeare's origi- of pregnant pauses, a style that
rks and the humor created Ingagiola applied to "Hamlet,"
'se absurdities. However, giving the play a more menacing
hakespeare's plays in a dif- edge by creating horror movie-
light wasn't as easy as the style tension.
uff had hoped. Author David Mamet has a
similar style to Pinter, but with
a more American sensibility. His
k a work is paced faster and has a
more colloquial dialect. "Two
am et Pinter Gentleman of Verona" is reinter-
preted in this style and re-inter-
[d W illiam s prets the play similar to Mamet's
"Sexual Perversity in Chicago".
"It's somewhat crude," Ingagi-
olaadded. "But crude in an almost
iat was difficult was that poetic way."
peare's plays aren't per- Tennessee Williams has writ-
great as they are," Inga- ten Pulitzer-Prize winning hits
aid. "I had to try to come like "A wStreetcar Named Desire"
ns with the imperfections, and "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," ele-
ecide whether I should See BARD, Page 6

TIME IS RUNNING
OUT.
IT ALL ENDS AT MIDNIGHT.
HELP US BEAT STATE!
TELL YOUR FRIENDS!
WE DON'T WANT TO WEAR GREEN.

Attend a Cooley Law School Open House in November and talk to Cooley Tsy "br
administrators, department representatives, students, and faculty members at ANN ARBOR,
all five of our campuses.
Register online for one or all five Open Houses at cooley edu or LANSING, MI
register onsite the day of the Open House.You are encouraged
to visit more than one campus. Thursday, November 5
Lead Today. Lead Tomorrow. Cooley Law School. Q
40Years of Success dCANy&,LEARNNMOREmr
Thomas M. Cooey Low School is ed to o far and obK
Cooley abides by a fedeal and stat elws agastdis
mainta "e ~ .r"opotntinp.leu'in.
seuloinain g rdsability


6 -- Friday, October 19, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Friday, October19, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Viewing life through
the lens of'Samsara'
By SEAN CZARNECKI
DailyArts Writer

BARSUNK
Looking for a new girl
Death Cab Iingers

Gib
Ben
album
of his,
knows
Cab
was p
Gibba
projec
may
why
album
stray
from
Cab d
kens 1
the F
pop g
stripp
Cab a
the fr
separa
better
And
track,
opens
half-c]
on ha
boom-
tion t
tuning
made
first p
"Drea

bard struggles to as an introduction to the more
traditional Death Cab. Flush
edefine sound with acoustic guitar chords
that bounce back and forth and
on solo debut anchored by a steady bass line, it
sounds warmly familiar. Already
ByMATT BURNS apparent in the second track,
For the Daily Former Lives focuses on several
themes laced in past Death Cab
Gibbard's debut solo and Postal Service lyrics: sleep-
, Former Lives, evokes much ing, dreaming, unrequited love,
well, former life. Everyone etL If anything, it's efficient.
Death Surethere are many bandsthat
for Cutie **M write about the same things over
rimarily a and over. As the old saying goes,
rd-driven Benjamin "Go to the well 'till the well runs
t, which Gibbard out." Gibbard goes to the well, but
explain instead of drinking the water, he
his solo Former lives tries to purify it then add some
i doesn't Kool Aid mix. Granted, Kool Aid
too far Barsunk may taste good, but in this case, it
his Death doesn't taste right.
lays. If anything, it har- Take "Something's Rattling
back to earlier albums by (Cowpoke)." The track is, in the-
Pacific Northwest indie- ory, a simple ooh-ah melody with
roup. Lives offers a more a mariachi guitar section that
ed down version of Death should be effective in its modesty.
nd a brighter spotlight on In reality, it sounds like an odd
ont man, who is trying to mix of Los Lobos and Beirut with
te himself from his past, for a regular white dude singing.
or worse. It's ambitious, and the rhythm is
I boy, does he try. The first admittedly memorable, though
"Shepherd's Bush Lullaby," bordering annoying.
to Gibbard half-singing, This is the paradox Gibbard
hanting, backed by himself and so many other front men face
rmony with an a cappella when breaking off from a success-
bop. It's an odd introduc- ful band. Do they try to redefine
hat may confuse listeners or create a new sound for them-
in to hear more of what selves? Or do they stick to what
Gibbard so popular in the they know they're good at and -
?lace. Luckily, the opener, maybe more importantly - made
m Song," functions more them popular in the first place?

Try the former, and you risk end-
ing up ridiculed for not produc-
ing the quality music everyone
expects (see: Plastic Ono Band).
Stick with the latter, and get
ripped for laziness.
Gibbard seems aware of this
line and tiptoes along it. There
are the quintessential Death
Cab songs: the aforementioned
"Dream Song," "Teardrop Win-
dows," "Bigger than Love," "A
Hard One to Know." These are
what Gibbard fans have come to
know and expect in his music:
upbeat piano, acoustic, yet twangy
guitars and vocals that crescendo
in a drawn out, yetinfectious cho-
rus. Ballads, lullabies and elec-
tric-guitar numbers. Gibbard has
proven to be effective with the
optimistic, yet heartbroken style
of Death Cab as well as the dark,
moody, electric vibes of the Postal
Service alongside Jimmy Tambo-
rello's production.
From seemingly outofnowhere,
Gibbard has ascended to The Twi-
light Saga: New Moon Original
Motion Picture Soundtrack and
UPS commercial fame (and Zooey
Deschanel). He is sidestepping his
previous careers in an effort to fly
solo. He has written lyrics about
being left wanting more, usually
regarding a romantic relationship.
This theme continues in Former
Lives, but in a nuanced way. Gib-
bard is still unfulfilled and long-
ing for love, but this time, it's the
listeners who are left yearning for
more.

Disclaimer: By saying any-
thing about "Samsara," the
latest pseudo-documentary/
guided meditation from Ron
Fricke ("Baraka"), I unavoidably
become a pretentious douche.
Yes, I'm that guy: the B+ student
trying to sound like the A+ stu-
dent talking about big things he
doesn't yet understand.
Freed of any traditional sense
of narrative and without a sin-
gle line of dialogue, "Samsara"
spares us the lecture. Instead,
it shows you a series of camera
shots and images from around
the world - with the exception
of maybe one scene - and builds
its argument. It simply guides us,
asking for the viewer's diligent
participation. Strangely, the film
dodges any preachiness - its Don't sneeze.
message is developed through
the individual's engagement. challenges.I
"Samsara" shows us many begin and
religions, but whether or not Would it ev
they are merely superstitions is the places
irrelevant. With the way the film sara," we r
is shot, there's something plainly their name:
divine about the scenes and the names. I th
land where they developed. And poseful. Aft(
from the land, human culture and done, wI
was grown. We forget that some- to time, any'
times.
We celebrate our ingenu-
ity, and "Samsara" shows us Dretet
cities of glass and steel and
concrete that should mark the asi
horizon forever. Then, we see
a decrepit school after a natu--film
ral disaster. We mold our own
image: a man preparing for lipo- you
suction, a woman undergoing -'
plastic surgery. What we get is
dissatisfaction: personalized
sex dolls, a single tear dropping To state t
from a Geisha. We celebrate ous: There':
life: A father kisses his newborn there. For a
daughter. We commemorate its exciting of n
end: a golden sarcophagus. But rations mig
do we celebrate life by actu- "Shark Wee]
ally living? "Samsara" shows us of "Samsara,
long sequences of languishing awe; I was uj
assembly line workers - as hol- An hour la
low and mechanic as the prod- coffee shop,'
ucts they piece together. er, stressing
Though aware that the Coffee follov
world's not in equilibrium, we more readinE
remain skeptical of revolu- In the be;
tion and change. We face great a group of:

r
,
h
b
,
t
I
a
t
,,
n
r
t,
t]
t
.
.,

Where does change over a sand painting, painstak-
how will it end? ingly creating their ritualistic
'en matter? For all image a few grains at a time.
explored in "Sam- At the end, they nonchalantly
emain unaware of erase all their hard work, and
s not one of their put it into a bowl, throwing it
hink that was pur- all away as easily as we might a
er all has been said Kleenex. And then there's me,
hat's a name to land, an hour after exiting the Michi-
way? gan Theater: a conceited writer
strugglingto delete the inconse-
quential scraps of this article's
r s first draft. Had I the discipline
ItiOUE~3IiA to create something so beauti-
de this ful,I wouldn't erase it and start
anew - I'd publish it.
can blow While I was watching "Sam-
sara," I didn't feel like I was
ir mind. being a "pretentious douche." I
had surrendered control. And
"like tears in rain," (see: "Blade
Runner") I took helpless com-
the banal and obvi- fort in its vision of timelessness.
s a big world out For those 99 minutes, the entire
ll I know, the most world was there on screen and
my sight-seeing aspi- everything outside was a reflec-
ht be relegated to tion of it. I'm not the first to
k." But walking out notice or write about this movie-
" I was briefly left in going phenomenon. But for once,
plifted. I wished that revolutionary
:ter, I was back at the ethos would somehow translate
back at my comput- outside that dark theater into the
g, writing, reading. Other World. But the screen had
wed by more coffee, already blackened, and it was
g, more writing. gone.
ginning of the film, Pretentious douche: over and
monks are huddled out.


PERKS
Call: #734-418-4115 From Page 5
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com In the sh
he had with th
rmlnt hnv-a


i

couia n ave e.

RELEASE DATE- F
Los Angel
Edi
ACROSS
1 Kool Moe Dee's
genre
4 Response to a
drought ending
10 Spotthat many
avoid
14 Words of
attribution
15 Inspiration for
jambalaya
16 Jaunty greeting
17 *Components at
39-Across
20Yao-like
21 Guwmmy
22 *Components of
39-Across
28 Ughtsobar
wielders
29 Getready for a
drive
30 Elem. school
staple
33 Some
emoticons
37 Barbera d:
Italian wine
38 Soshi sapper
39 Symbolicsumof
17-, 22- and50-
Across
41 Key forgetting out
of a jam
42 Humble reply to
praise
44 Visit
45 _ Cabos,
Mexico
46 Chowderhead
48 Gaseous: Pref.
50*Components of
39-Across
56 Signal to try to
57 They're often
bruised
59 Classicmanual,
with"The,"and
what the starred
answers'
components are
vis-ai-vis 39-
Across
64 Greg's love on
"House"
65 Hard pieces
66 Flicks
67 Pup without
papers
68 Writer de
Beauvoir
69 Miss Pym's
creator

Friday, October 19, 2012
es Times Daily Crossword Puzzleu
Red by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
DOWN 35Go after, puppy- 52 Gangster Frank
1 Lake floater styie 53 Briefly

2 Burka wearer's
deity
3 Comedian Shore
4 CPA's busy time
5 Mai __.
6"Dancing withthe
Stars"judge
7 Bayer painkiller
8 Knocked off
9 Tibia neighbors
10 Why, I never,"
11 "Fast Five" star
12 Sushi tuna
13 One of a toon
septet
8 Cutlass maker
19 ManyalSt.
Andrews golfer
23 Jazz lick
24iOthers, abroad
25 Spirit
26 Bats
27 Books thatrequire
a commitment
30 Tops
31 It mightmakeyou
forget yor lines
32 Ex-Laker
silhouetted in the
NBA logo
34 Detective's
pronoun

36 Serious 54 Abu Sim
40 "Eli's Coming" 55"Honestr
songwriter 58 Steamy
43 Support fora 59 Sunbloc
downward-facing 60 Sch. wit
dog Riverhe
47 Campbell of "Wild campus
Things" 61 Prefix w
49 "is this what __ for 62 Marshla
...?" 63 Lubbock
51 Tampico tots Laredo
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P

xwordeditor@aol.com

bel's land ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
tr" ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !
k of a sort
ha ! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
ad now for 2013 (Spring or fall). U-M's
BEST housing sold out early 2012. Re-
ith meter serve your space for 2013 today. 2
nd blocks from Central Campusand down-
k-to- town. I to 4 bedroom, private baths
dir. available. Rates from $665. 734-998-
UZZLE: 4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
I R E S !!LARGE CENTRAL
A R K CAMPUS HOMES!!
 S L E www.nancylat.com 734 663-1370
H(734) 332-6000
* www.CarlsonProperties.com
IP E R Now Leasing!
J R S A
I S T 4 BDRM/2 BATH House
V E E Central Campus. Parking and Laundry.
I A N D Avail. Sept. 2013. 734-395-6823
C T C AVAIL FALL '13: 5 & 6 bdrmbhouses
C E L www.joycea2.com or (610) 952-5269
E AML or email louisbreskman@gmail.com
Y A M
E L o CENTRAL CAMPUS
10/19/12 6 and 7 bedroom houses
a 1 great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2013
horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368
2s2 HAVE YOU HEARD...?
We have BRAND NEW LUXURY
APARTMENTS ON
THE 2ND FLOOR
We are taking reservations for
2013/2014
The 2nd Floor apartments are
Right on Central Campus with the
Best
umenities,
ss the Best service and the Best prices!
a You've seen all the rest, NOWrent
with the BEST!
734-761-2680
The2ndfloorSU.COM
HOUSE AVAILABLE: MAY 2013
720 Arbor. 8 bdrm, 4 bth. Central air.
10/19/12 Washer, dryer. 6 prkg spaces.
$5200 + utilities. 734-996-1991
cappomanagement@gmail.com

for films more
WE ARE TAKING20 frequent refere:
RESERVATIONS for 2013/2014 feq nteee
like Redford's
You've seen all the rest, NOW rent ple" to make I
with the BEST! enthusiasm fc
This is where U belong
UNIVERSITY TOWERS and character-i
Affordable ON Campus Apartments
SOLD OUT IN MAY LAST YEAR,
DON'T WAIT UNTIL IT'S TOO BARD
LATE.
Visit us at From Page 5
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104 elements of wh
734-761-2680 tried to recrea
WWW.HOUSING.UMICH.EDU Williams's char
(734) 769-7520 to have large p
I & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet a slight southe
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
contribute to the
ingto one of Sha
drama-heavyw
Once the ligh
down and the

ort conversation
he Daily, Lerman
xpressed his love
clearly. From his
nces to old films
"Ordinary Peo-
his points, or his,
or visual-effects
driven films, Ler-


ich Ingagiola has
te in "Macbeth."
acters are known
personalities with
rn sensibility that
e melodrama, add-
kespeare's already
orks.
hts of the stage go
curtain is closed,

Ingagiola's hopes the audience has
beenthoroughly entertained. They
should expect funny moments,
not because the show is written
as a parody, but because the play-
wrights in and of themselves have
humorous styles reflected and
maximized by the application to
Shakespeare's works.
"The show will give (the audi-
ence) a different perspective on
modern theater, and even Shake-
speare, for that matter," Ingagiola
said.

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
orgunization, formut. All disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELP WANTED
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILI
& pub at 310 Maynard is pleased to an
nounce they are currently hiring fo
punctual, proficient COOKS that pay:2
great attention to details. Apply within,
No phone culls.
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILC
& pub at 310 Maynard is pleased to an-
nounce they are currently hiring fo:
punctual, proficient FLOORMAN tha
pay great attention to details. Apply
within. No phone calls.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys
SUPPORT CHILD ABUSE VIC-
TIMS! Volunteer at Washtenaw Child
Advocacy Center. Staff the waiting
room. Work with kids. Must be 18+
yr(s). Will be screened for background
& criminal history checks. 4 hr shifts a
least once a week for at least 4 months
M-F 8:30-4:30. Call 734-544-2925.

INTERESTED IN NEW
MEDIA OR VIDEO
GAMES?
YOU SHOULD WRITE FOR THE TV/
NEW MEDIA BEAT!
WE HAVE THE BEST KILL/DEATH
RATIO.
To request an application, e-mail
arts@michigandaily.com

man claims to love every aspect
of filmmaking. And household
name or not, behind the camera
or in front, Lerman's not plan-
ning on saying goodbye to the
silver screen anytime soon.
"I really want to get behind
the camera. That's why I got into
acting in the first place," Lerman
said. "I love everythingthat goes
into filming so I could be any-
thing - I could be a props guy,
who the hell knows?"

A

I

By JeffChen
(c>2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.


A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, October 19, 2012 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, October19, 2012 - 7

panel. Lyon estimated that for
the average household paying
$200 a month in energy costs,
Michigan Energy, Michigan Jobs
would produce an increase of.
about $12 a month, adding that
he disagrees with CARE's over-
all estimate that the amendment
would cost $12 billion.
Irwin said the amendment is
vital to Michigan's energy inde-
pendence and has vast advantag-
es for both the environment and
the economy.
"It has the potential to create
and improve economic growth in
Michigan," Irwin said. "There's
a jobs component of it - there
are literally billions (of dollars)
in opportunities that Michigan
could invest in wind, solar and
geothermal power and mak-
ing those opportunities a real-
ity would be very good for our
state."
Irwin also said environmen-
tal and health factors are crucial
when considering the adoption
of Proposal 3.
"Coal is one of the dirtiest
forms of (energy)," Irwin said.
"Right now we are dealing with
the consequences of our heavy
investment in coal and our heavy
reliance on coal in Michigan, and
we've seen that in terms of respi-
ratory problems, high childhood
asthma rates, and - the most
important - pollution in our
Great Lakes."
LSA senior Rachel Jankows-
ki, the chair of the University's
chapter of College Republicans,
said the amendment would dis-
courage companies from cre-
ating and sustaining jobs in
Michigan, a state already riddled
with economic troubles.
"I think any kind of restriction
like that on a business is going to
cost a ton of money," Jankowski
said. "I think the government
mandating that we need 25 per-
cent of renewable in the next
12 years is honestly completely
unrealistic."
LSA senior Lauren Coffman,
the communications director for
the University's chapter of Col-
lege Democrats, echoed Irwin's
assertion that the amendment
will improve Michigan's future.
"Proposition 3 will protect the
environment and increase our
state's energy independence,"
Coffman said. "It will improve
economic growth, bringing man-
ufacturingjobs back to Michigan
and ensuring a better future for
Michigan's residents."
In a poll conducted by Bay-
doun Consulting - a Michigan-
based political research group
- released on Oct. 5, about 40
percent of likely Michigan vot-
ers supported the Clean Energy
initiative amendment, about 45
percent opposed it and 15 per-
cent of those polled were unde-
cided.
The numbers indicate a sig-
nificant change in opinion
from Baydoun's September
poll, in which about 47 percent
of respondents supported the
initiative and about 36 percent
opposed the measure.

RIGHTS
From Page 1A
ica, Obama's grassroots cam-
paign effort. The event was one
of several the Obama campaign
has held on college campuses
around the country.
The panelists discussed
how the Affordable Care Act
specifically benefits women.
According to Richards, the leg-
islation is especially important
because women no longer have
to pay more for insurance than
men, given the variety of ser-
vices newly covered by the law
- including mammograms,
birth control, pap smears and
other preventative measures
- without-requiring a co-pay,
and it also forbids insurance
companies from denying cov-
erage due to pre-existing con-
ditions.
"For the -first time in our
lives, being a woman is no lon-
ger a pre-existing condition in
America," Richards said dur-
ing her speech.
Richards - who has taken a
leave of absence from Planned
Parenthood in order to cam-
paign for Obama - said she
is passionate about helping
the America's college-aged
women.
"I'm really focused on
women and women's health
and students," Richards said in
an interview afterthe event. "A
lot of the folks who depend on
Planned Parenthood are stu-
dents."
Richards said her main con-
cerns about the upcoming elec-
tion are claims by Republican
presidential nominee Mitt
Romney that he would defund
Planned Parenthood if he were
elected. Though the organiza-
tion is best-known for its role
as an abortion provider, Rich-
ards noted that the non-profit'
organization performed about
750,000 preventative breast
exams in 2011.
Stabenow said in an inter-
view after the event that pre-
ventative health care measures
are especially important fore
women of all ages.
"Whe+her nn'enne is wo--

ried about their mom or their
sister or their girlfriend or
their wife, it's very much about
whether or not women will
have access to the preventative
care they need - to discover
cancer or other diseases early,
to be able to stay healthy," Sta-
benow said.
She added that she strongly
supports the president and his
stance on social issues.
"What I appreciate about
the president is he consistently
supports access to health care
for women, nondiscrimina-
tion, (and) equal pay for equal
work," Stabenow said. "There
is no doubt where he stands
and there never has been."
Public Policy senior Michael
Jacobson said he thinks it's
important for more men to get
involved in the fight for wom-
en's rights.
"I grew up really interested
in abortion issues - really
pro-life. I realized eventually
that those policies don't work
for anyone in the long run,"
Jacobson said. "And I believe
in understanding Planned Par-
enthood's philosophy about
prevention."
LSA junior Stefanie Rubin-
stein, the campus team leader
for Organizing for America and
facilitator of the event, said she
hopes to be an advocate for
women's rights like the panel-
ists do.
"I really welcome any
chance I can to hear women
who have made a name for
themselves, especially advo-
cates of women's health and
pay equality," Rubinstein said.
"So, I definitely felt very ener-
gized by the event."
Richards said that an
increasing number of young
people, especially men, have
become interested in advo-
cating for women's health
rights.
"I think (for) this next gen-
eration, it's sort of unthinkable
to them that men and women
would lose rights, and I've been
very encouraged by the num-
ber of young men who have
become active with Planned
Parenthood over the last year,"
Rihardaid

From Page 1A

es by 2015.
Statewide television airwaves
have been cluttered with adver-
tisements opposing the ballot ini-
tiative. To date, the interest group
Clean Affordable Renewable
Energy for Michigan Coalition
has spent almost $5.7 million in
advertising in opposition to the
proposal.
Among CARE for Michigan
Coalition's primary donors is
DTE Energy. DTE spokesman
Alejandro Bodipo-Memba said
officials feel that energy policy
should be addressed in the state
Legislature, rather than in the
form of a constitutional amend-
ment. He also expressed concern
over how the proposal would

impact consumers' energy bills.
"We believe this is bad energy
policy," Bodipo-Memba said. " ...
We think this is bad for custom-
ers, we think this is certainly
going to increase costs. (The
1-percent cap) does not take into
account a host of other costs that
are associated with the produc-
tion of energy."
In contrast to DTE's position,
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) said Proposal 3 is a policy
he is most excited about and in
support of this election season.
Irwin said many renewable
sources are actually more eco-
nomically efficient than building
new coal power plants.
"That argument that (power
companies are) going to increase
electricity rates, I believe, is sim-
ply their political effort to encour-

age you to vote no and to scare
people away from voting yes."
Irwin said.
In a panel discussion hosted
by the Ford School of Public
Policy Center for Local, State,
and Urban Policy, Sanya Carley,
an assistant professor at Indiana
University School of Public, and
Environmental Affairs, said that
to date, 33 states plus the Dis-
trict of Columbia have adopted
Renewable Portfolio Standards.
She noted that Michigan's
Clean, Renewable, and Efficient
Energy Act of 2008 makes the
state the most competitive in
terms of renewable energy stan-
dards.
Thomas Lyon, the Dow chair
of sustainable science, technol-
ogy and commerce at the Univer-
sity, also spoke at the Ford School

GOING
TO THE

WANT TO JOIN DAILY NEWS?
E-MAIL RAYZA GOLDSMITH AT
RAYZAG@MICHIGANDAILY.COM TO GET STARTED TODAY

Al RPORT?
/ AirRide
Every day.
$12 one-way*
www.MyAirRide.com
a4bus
For U of M breaks. $7one-way*
www.msa.umich.edu/airbus


8 -- Friday, October 19, 2012

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Friday, October19, 2012 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4

I

i I

mrwmw-"zr

4 f


w w0

0 w

Michigan looks to end four-year skid vs. MSU

October 20, 2012: Michigan State
sal efrtcga 4ail


By BEN ESTES
Daily Sports Editor
The Paul Bunyan Trophy might
just be the ugliest thing in college
football.
Whoever designed it nearly 60
years ago seemed to eschew logic
in some of the choices made. They
decided, for one, to color it instead
of leaving its natural metallic hue,
the way most
trophies are. And MU a
their choice of
paint is question- Michigan
able at best, with Matchup:
the mythical fig- MSU 4-3;
ure wearing an Michigan 4-2
orange-brown When: Satur-
shirt and dark day 3:30 p.m.
green trousers. Where Michi-
(One would hope gan Stadium
Bunyan would
have better fash- TV/Radio:
ion sense, if he BTN
were real.)
Yet never has anyone desired
such an unsightly object as much
as the Michigan football team
wants that trophy.
The Wolverines will welcome
Michigan State on Saturday for
the 105th edition of the schools'
heated in-state rivalry, hoping
to reclaim that trophy. With the
Spartans having won the last four
games in the series, it's been in
their possession since 2008.
This is typically the most physi-
cal and most intense game on the
schedule for both teams. Perhaps
Michigan's rivalry with Ohio State
is more important, but it doesn't
match the hatred that permeates
the in-state clash.
Look no further than last sea-
son's game, which is remembered
as much for the tussles between
Michigan offensive tackle Taylor
Lewan and Spartan defensive end
William Gholston as it is for the
r result itself - a 28-14 Michigan
loss.
To a man, the Wolverines know
what Saturday's game will be like.
"It's a rivalry game. It's going to
be intense," said fifth-year senior
center Elliott Mealer. "It'll be my
first time starting against Michi-
gan State and I'm excited about
it. ... Everybody knows what to
expect going into a game like this.
It's going to be physical."
Beyond getting that ugly trophy
back, Michigan will be trying to
prevent Michigan State from mak-
log history.
The Spartans' four-game win-
ning streak is their longest since
they also won four straight from

1959-62, and should the Wol-
verines lose again this season,
it'd mark the first time ever that
they've lost five straight games to
their brethren from East Lansing.
But if you believe the team, the
ignominious recent history isn't
on its mind.
All week, players have said that
they aren't thinking about the los-
ing streak - they're just focusing
on this year's game. And Michi-
gan coach Brady Hoke denied
that he was feeling any pressure
to reverse the current direction
of the rivalry. Clearly, Hoke has
more than bragging rights on his
mind.
"I think it's important because
we're trying to get our fifth win,"
Hoke said. "We're trying to get a
conference championship just like
everyone else. That's important.
(But) obviously the in-state - you
know there's a pretty direct line
drawn in the sand about if you're
University of Michigan or Michi-

gan State. You understand."
The prospects of that confer-
ence championship that Michigan
so desires look much rosier now,
after the Wolverines' two domi-
nant wins over Purdue and Illinois
to open Big Ten play.
The defense is coming off a
shutout against the Fighting Illini,
and the offense hasn't been slowed
much since the second half of the
Notre Dame game.
A rededication to the running
game has fueled the offense's
resurgence, with offensive coordi-
nator Al Borges relying on senior
quarterback Denard Robinson's
legs more than ever. (The run-
ning backs flashed improvement
against Illinois, but there's still
no consistent threat with redshirt
junior Fitzgerald Toussaint find-
ing it difficult to replicate his form
of last season.)
It's probably no coincidence
that Robinson's passing has also
been better since the change in

strategy, since he's had less pres-
sure to make plays with his arm.
After he threw a career-high four
interceptions against Notre Dame,
Robinson hasn't thrown any in the
last two games - it's the first time
in his three years as the starter
that he's done so during confer-
ence play.
"I think he's just gotten more
comfortable," Borges said. "He's
more grounded. His fundamentals
have improved. The Notre Dame
game had an effect on him, a great
effect on him."
Robinson, though, will have to
buck the trend of his play against
the Spartans.
Like the team at large, he's
struggled against Michigan State.
In two games as the starter, the
Deerfield Beach, Fla. native has
combined to complete 26-of-53
passes with four interceptions,
and he's averaged just 3.3 yards
per carry.
Should the quarterback and the

rest of the offense put up a better
showing this season, it'll help the
defense that much more, though
the rapidly-improving unit hasn't
looked like it has needed any help
recently in holding its last four
opponents to 39 combined points.
The defense will face a chal-
lenge in that, after playing more
unique offenses in the last five
games, the group returns to play-
ing a smashmouth-type attack in
Michigan State's traditional pro-
style offense.
"They've been the same for
a while," said senior defensive
end Craig Roh. "Power offense.
It's going to be a physical game.
They're going to try to run the
ball at us and we've got to stop the
run."
But just like Michigan State's
offense, the results of the rivalry
also haven't changed much in
recent years. The Wolverines,
clicking on all cylinders now, will
try to remedy that on Saturday.


.
rur ..
. ,
,.-
,; ,
5= . s
p

Many otWgeat gif ideas on sale toot.
J~bLbm~n8ugor

8 FootballSaturday, October 20, 2012




-W

Uq

v - W .

The Michigan football team hasn't heaten rival Michigan State
in tsar years; could this he the game that turns the tide hack
in Michigan's favor? The Spartans come to town nursing their 2 0 1 2 S
wounds after losing to Iowa last weekend to drop to 4-3 on theA
season. Michigan is atop the Big Ten Legends Division and has its Alabama (Sept.1): Michgan's memory needs to
sights set on a Big Ten title at the year's end. be short after this one. It should be anyway with
some of the hits the Crimson Tide dealt out.
Ben Estes, Zach Helfand, Stephen J. Nesbitt, Luke Pasch
Air Force (Sept. 8): Air Force ran all over
TABLE OF CONT ENT SMichigan, but Denard Robinson returned the
favor to squeak out the 31-25 victory.
Dueling Columns: Football beat writ- Massachusetts(Sept.15): Michigan thoroughly
ers from the Daily and The State News dominated its weakest opponent, trouncing
square off in an annual write-off. Massachusetts, 63-13.
Notre Dame (Sept. 22): Robinson threw four
The Forgotten Man: Unearthing the long- interceptions and Vincent Smith added another,
lost legacy of former Michigan football star as the Fighting Irish barely scraped out a 13-6 win.
Willis Ward.
Purdue (Oct. 6): Kirk Herbstreit picked Purdue
Advance: Michigan is on a quest to retain to win the game and the Big Ten before the
8 the Paul Bunyan Trophy and return it to its game. He went tail-between-the-legs quickly.
display case in Schembechler Hall. Illinois (Oct. 13): Ouch! Michigan knocked out
IL IS Nathan Scheelhaase and burst past the Fighting
cover illustration by Marissa McClain// Photo courtesy of Bentley Historical Library Ilini, 45-0.

schedule

S

Michigan State (Oct. 20): Wolverines could
snap a four-game losing streak to Sparty. If it
happens, avoid fans' (or players.') raging fists at
all costs.
Nebraska (Oct. 27): Michigan handed the
Huskers a rude welcome to the Big Ten in 2011.
Prime time in Lincoln could be different, though.
Minnesota (Nov.3):This game wasa confidence
booster last year - a 58-0 drubbing. The Little
Brown Jug will stay in Ann Arbor again.
Northwestern (Nov. 10): In a late season
matchup, we'll find out who scraps harder: A
wildcat or a wolverine.
Iowa (Nov. 17): It's not heaven. It's Iowa - the
utterly mediocre squad that handed Michigan
one of its two losses in 2011.
Ohio State (Nov. 24): The reincarnation of the
Bo-Woody dynamic, Hoke and Meyer will com-
pete in 'The Game' for the first time at the Shoe.

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers pick
against the spread to predict
scores for the top-25 and Big
Ten in the 2012 football season.
No 23 Michigan (-95)vs. MichiganState
No.1 Alabarna (-20) at Tennessee
No. 2 Oregon(-8) at Arizona State
No.3 Florida(-3.5) vs.No.9South Caroina
No 4 K-State aNo .17 W. Virginia (-3)
No. 5 Notre Dame (-13.5) vs. BYU
No6LSU(-3.5)atNo.20TexasA&M"
No.7Ohio State(-18.5)vs. Purdue
No 8 Oregon State10)evs.Utah
No.10 Oklahoma(-35)vs. Kansas
No.T1 USC (-40.5) vsColorado
No.12 Forida Sta(-2)atMiami
Noe. 13 Georgia (-27.5) at Kentuaky
No. 14 Clems(-a) s . Virginia Tech
No. 15 Mis. State -00evs. Mid. Ten. State
No6 isvile-6.5)v..South Florida
N.'t5 Texas Techi-t5)vs. caU
No. 19 Rutg s(-5) at Terple
No 21Cicinniaati (-6.51 at Tledo
No. 22 Staford (-2.5) at Califoria
No. 24 Boise Stt -28)vs.5UNiLV
Neraska(-6.5)atNrthe strn
Wisconsin (-17) vs. Minnesota
Ioa (-3s av. Penn Slate
I rdiaaat Nav(-25)
Overaii

Ben
Estes

Mihigan State
Tennessee
Oregon
South Carolina
West Virginia
BYU
LSU
Ohio State
Oregon State
Oklahoma
USc
Georgia
Mississippi State
Louisvlle
TcU
alra
9e-as
cisonsin
Intdianaa

Zach
Helfand
Michigan
Tennessee
Oregon
Florida
Kansas State
Notre Darne
LSU
Ohio State
Oregon State
Oklahoma
Colorado
Msispp tate
Loui silie
Rutges
l iciaati
Northw eter
Indiaa

StephenJ.
Nesbitt
Michigan
Alabama
Oregon
Florida
Kansas State
Notre Dame
LSU
Ohio State
Oregon State
Oklahoma
Colorado.
iaii
Kentucky
Caleson
Miesipitate
Louis il
Ruters
BoiseeSta
ibraska
97-73-5

Luke
Pasch
Michigan State
Tennessee
Oregon
Florida
West Virginia
Notre Dame
LSU
Ohio Statei
Oregon State
Oklahoma
usc
Flotida State
eoreia
Cemson
Mississippi State
Loiville
TexasTech
Rutgr
ert a
Cincinnati
Staniard
Boise State
wNebrasia
Wisconsin
India74
100T-70-

Joseph
Lichterman
Editor in Chief
Michigan State
Alabama
Oregon
South caroina
West Virginia
Notre Dame
LSU
Ohio State
Oregon State
Kansas
USC
Florida State
Georgtaa
Mississippi State
Louivaie
Teape
Ciniati
Buise State
Nebraska
wsa
Navy

said. "But in many ways, the
exception proves the rule. The
students stood up. The faculty
stood up. Many of the alums, pow-
erful alums, the clergy, almost
everyone but Alexander Ruthven,
the president, stood up.
"If you see the University of
Michigan as a family, 95 percent
of the family got it and responded
accordingly. I think it made Mich-
igan a better place afterwards. But
you cannot take these values for
granted - you'll have to fight for
them, you'll have to stand up for
them and you'll have to pay aprice
for them."
It was April 13, 1934: Michigan
vs. California.
Bing Crosby was betting against
Willis Ward.
Rumbling up the West Coast
by train from Los Angeles to
Berkeley, Calif., two of Ward's
teammates - Dave Hunn and
Bill Kositchek - met Crosby and
struck up a conversation. Before
walking away, there was a bet on
the table.
For $10, who would win the
100-yard dash later that day
between Ward and California's
George Anderson? Crosby took
Anderson, the Michigan track-
sters took Ward.
Anderson edged Ward by a
hair at the finish line, and Hunn
and Kositchek paid up their half
of the bargain by taking out an
ad in the corner of the Daily later
that week congratulating the
crooner.
Ward didn't lose often. For all
Ward's prowess on the gridiron, it
was nothing compared to his skill
on the track. He was referred to
again and again as "the one-man
track team."
During the spring of his senior
year, the track and field commu-
nity was building to a fever pitch
in preparation for the 1936 Berlin
Olympics. Ward, who regularly
participated in the dash, high
hurdles, low hurdles, high jump
and shot put for Michigan, was
eyeing a berth for Team USA in
the decathlon.
Anderson wasn't Ward's only
competition. The main billing
that spring pitted Ward against
Ohio State's Jesse Owens. The
duo traded blows in the 100-yard
dash and the 220-yard low hur-
dles, passing new world records
between them each time they
met.
In the final meet of the year,
the Big Ten Championship at

Ferry Field in Ann Arbor, Ward
and Michigan took the confer-
ence crown, but Owens shattered
three world records.
Owens punched his ticket to
the Olympics. But Ward, ham-
pered slightly by injuries, decid-
ed to give up his dream of an
Olympic berth.
The simple explanation? He
didn't want to get shut out by
Adolf Hitler at the 1936 Berlin
Olympics like he did by Georgia
Tech - and his own school - at
Michigan Stadium.
"He would have without ques-
tion been an Olympian in 1936
had he not been so turned off
about what he'd gone through
in 1934 that he couldn't stomach
any more," Bacon said.
Owens won four gold medals
in Berlin, but his return home
was a crude juxtaposition.
He arrived to a ticker-tape
parade down Fifth Avenue in
New York. That night, Bacon and
Kruger both explained, there was
a reception held in Owens' honor
at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel. But
Owens, the honored guest, was
forced to take the freight elevator
up to the reception.
Ward, meanwhile, took a job
at Ford's River Rouge' plant.
According to Kruger, once Ward
rose to become the highest-rank-
ing African-American executive
officer in the country, he turned
back and hired Jesse Owens to
join him at Ford.
The story of Willis Ward is as
old as the cracked, worn leather
ball that sits in Susan Marino's
kitchen in southern California. It's
the game ball from the Michigan-
Georgia Tech game 78 years ago
Saturday. given to Marino by her
father, John Regezci, Michigan's
fullback that day.
There aredsignatures etched
into the leather, butthey're impos-
sible to make out. rnger and
Dooley have scoured Marino's
images, but every indication is
that Ward didn't sign it.
Ward and Ford went on to
leadsomewhat parallel careers,
both graduated from law school,
served in the armed forces and
entered politics. When Ford was
campaigning for Congress in 1956,
he drove from Grand Rapids to
Detroit to help Ward campaign for
a seat as probate judge in Wayne
County.
They both got the jobs.
When Ford took assumed the
presidency in 1974, he remem-

bered his friend Ward, inviting
him to Washington D.C. for a visit.
And the seed planted at Michi-
gan spread nationwide. In 1976,
he pushed to create Black History
Month, which is now celebrated
every February.
"You can say (Ford's) first true
stand as a man in the public eye
was in 1934 and Georgia Tech,"
Bacon said. "His life of public ser-
vice honored that the rest of his
life. And if you're a Michigan alum
or Michigan student, that's a guy
you can say is a Michigan Man."
Ward, to his credit, though he
never ran at the Olympics, was a
pioneer every step of the way.
"You might argue that his life
after Michigan was at least as
impressive as his life at Michi-
gan, which is in his case a hell of a
statement," Bacon said.
It just took some time for
Ward's legacy to come to the fore.
Melanie Ward was caught com-
pletely by surprise. She knew that
her great-uncle - her grandfa-
ther's brother - played football at
Michigan and befriended Gerald
Ford but that was all she knew.
It wasn't until Kruger reached
out to Melanie, now an LSA senior,
while Kruger and Moorehouse
were creating the Ward documen-
tary that she finally understood
the significance of Ward's legacy
at Michigan.
Kruger didn't even hear Ward's
story until then-President George
W. Bush mentioned Ford and
Ward's relationship and the Geor-
gia Tech game during a nationally
televised eulogy at Ford's funeral
in 2006.
Somewhere along the line,
Ward's story got lost in the mix.
But thanks to Genna Urbain, an
8-year-old 3rd-grader from How-
ell, Mich., the state legislature
passed a resolution to make Satur-
day, Oct. 20, 2012 - the 78th anni-
versary of the Michigan-Georgia
Tech game - Willis Ward Day
across the state. Urbain watched
the documentary and then came
to petition the Board of Regents to
get his achievements recognized
by the University..
The Michigan football team
included the Ford-Wardconnec-
tion in a tribute video last week-
end when Ford's No. 48 jersey
was put back into circulation,
and the program plans to "have
an acknowledgement" of Willis
Ward Day on Saturday, according
to Athletic Department spokes-
man Dave Ablauf.
It's Oct. 20, 2012: Michigan vs.
Michigan State.
Finally, Ward will have his day.

"FINALLY,
WARD WILL
HAVE
HISDAY"

_. . i

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@THEBLOCKM

2 FootballSaturday - October 20, 2012

The6lockM - www.theblockm.com I 7


0

9

U

I

DUELING COLUMNS
In the week leading up to the Michigan-Michigan State football
game each year, football writers from the Daily and the student
newspaper at Michigan State exchange columns. As the teams
prepare to clash in Ann Arbor, here's this year's installment:

TERESA MATHEW/Daily
A small Michigan flag distinguishes Ward's resting place from the rows of other gravestones.

The Michigan Daily: Stephen J. Nesbitt

The State News: Jesse O'Brien

Then-senior Willis Ward (61) stands aside Gerald Ford (48) in Michigan's 1934 team photo.,

his momentum threw him into a
series of involuntary somersaults
that made the man on the flying
trapeze just a low, slow-going thing
in comparison," he continued.
Ward had whiffed on the tackle.
But that play meant more than a
blow to his pride.
Ward had broken the color bar-
rier for the Michigan football team
- again. The Wolverines' varsity
team had not fielded a single black
athlete in 40 years since George
Jewett graduated in 1892.
Kipke kept Ward in the game for
a full quarter, long enough to catch
-a 15-yard pass down to the four-
yard line that set up Michigan's
fourth score of the afternoon.
The next week, Ward was the
starter at left end as Michigan
topped Princeton, 14-7, en route to
the Wolverines' first of two consec-
utive unbeaten seasons and nation-
al titles in 1932-33.
It was Oct. 20, 1934: Michigan
vs. Georgia Tech.
Willis Ward was out of sight.
A football game was played on a
muddy field that day, a back-and-
forth battle in a downpour. But
Michigan's star was gone.

When Michigan athletic direc-
tor Fielding H. Yost scheduled
the matchup a year earlier, he had
neglected to remember one glar-
ing problem: teams from the South,
in that day and age, abided by Jim
Crow laws and refused to face
black players.
Ward had run, tumbled and
blown through the color barrier
two years earlier, but it didn't erase
the black eye from the Michigan
football program. That racial battle
was far from over.
As the matchup approached,
people throughout the Univer-
sity began to realize the potential
conflict. In late September, just a
few weeks before the game, the
National Student League on cam-
pus dispatched a committee - the
United Front on the Ward Issue -
to investigate whether Ward would
be allowed to play against Georgia
Tech.
Yost stayed mum, as did Kipke
and Ward.
"Yost was genuinely naive about
this situation," Bacon said.
The backlash eventually came in
full force. A week before the game,
it was clear that Ward would sit out
the game; Yost explained that he
simply failed to take Ward's situa-
tion into account when he arranged

the matchup.
Students, professors and Ann
Arbor clergy split on both sides of
the issue, some demanding that
Ward be reinstated, others plead-
ing that for Ward's own sake he
should take the game off.
Arthur Miller, the future Pulit-
zer Prize-winning playwright,
was a staff writer for the Michi-
gan Daily at the time. According
to Kruger, Miller drove to Atlanta
the week of the game demanding
an audience with Georgia Tech. He
never had a chance. He returned to
the Daily and wrote a scathing edi-
torial that his editors determined
unwise to print, leaving it lost to
history.
An overcapacity crowd jammed
into the auditorium in the Natural
Science Building on Friday eve-
ning for an open-forum debate on
whether Ward should play the fol-
lowing day.
"Smoldering feelings on the
question of Willis Ward's partici-
pation in the Georgia Tech game
burst into flames last night in
what was probably the wildest and
strangest night rally in Michigan's
history," read the Daily's story
about that night.
There were hecklers on both
sides of the aisle. Some students

booed and tossed coins at speakers.
At the end of the night, the Nation-
al Student League drafted a letter
that it then delivered to the Georgia
Tech team at its hotel in Ypsilanti,
Mich.
"You have your blue-blood -
what seems to be the fraternity
type, maybe higher social class
folks - saying, 'Look, it's a football
game. It's their rules,' "said Michi-
gan football historian Greg Dooley.
"But the most vocal group is this
United Work Front, which said,
'Hey, we're Michigan. This is what
we stand for. We don't want to live
in a society like this. We can't play
this game if Ward doesn't play."'
Even many of Ward's closest
companions were split.
Harvey Smith, captain of the
track team and Ward's room-
mate during spring trips, claimed
that those who were demanding
that Ward play didn't know Ward.
Those who knew Ward best, he
said, were more interested in his
welfare than his pride.
Gerald Ford, Ward's room-
mate during the football season,
marched up to Kipke and said:
"I quit." Before the team rendez-
voused at the Barton Hills Country
Club on the night before the game,
Ward convinced Ford to play.

Despite the 11th-hour protests,
Ward didn't play against Georgia
Tech. The Daily and Time maga-
zine reported that Ward watched
from the press box, but in a 1976
interview uncovered in "Black and
Blue," Ward said he listened to the
game on the radio in his bedroom.
In his autobiography, Ford
claimed Michigan "hit like never
before." Charlie Preston, a Goer-
gia Tech lineman, hurled racist
insults toward Ford for defending
an African American. Five plays
into the game, Georgia Tech punt-
ed. On that play, Preston took a
heavy block from Ford and fellow
lineman Bill Borgman and was
knocked out of the game with a
couple of bruised ribs.
"Gerald Ford was a man who
never engaged in that his entire
life," Bacon said. "He was a genuine
gentleman. By all accounts, Ford
went out there, took it personally
and flat-out made it a point to kick
Mr. Preston's ass. And he did so
repeatedly."
Michigan won that game, 9-2. It
was the team's only win all season.
As Kruger points out, Ward scored
all 20 points the Wolverines scored
the rest of the season.
"People say this was a dark day
for Michigan, and it was," Bacon

Barely visible at the base of one of the
display cases in Schembechler Hall is
a sentence etched in small black let-
tering on the white backdrop:
"The Paul Bunyan Trophy is temporarily
located in East Lansing but will return next
year."
For a program on the upswing, those
15 words inked into the Michigan football
team's headquarters in Ann Arbor mark the
Wolverines' fatal flaw, their final stain: their
inability to beat Michigan State.
No one really expect-
ed it to drag on this long.
Here we are today, y
with the Spartans rid-j
ing a four-year winning
streak in the rivalry
against Michigan.
I'm a numbers guy. I
call 'em how I see 'em -
balls and strikes. STEPHEN J.
Losing to Michigan NESBITTM
State four years straight?
That's painful. That's a
long, long time.
(Not quite as long as The State News' sev-
en-year skid to the Daily in our annual touch
football match, though.)
Michigan leads the series 67-32-5. If you
squint hard enough, it really looks a lot closer.
Keep in mind that the Wolverines kept
the Paul Bunyan Trophy for six consecutive
years before this stretch began in 2008.
And Michigan is going for win No. 900
on Saturday, hoping to push its title as win-
ningest program in college football to the
next level by becoming the first team to sur-
pass 900 wins.
900. Try squinting. That number just
keeps getting bigger. Michigan State would
need 22 consecutive unbeaten seasons to hit
that mark.
I know what this weekend is like around
East Lansing. It's got the air of the Super
Bowl. The Spartan Marching Band adapts
its cadence to insert 'Go State, beat Mich'gan'
and swaps the fight song lyrics to: "Smash
right through that line of blue" and "Mich-i-
gan is weak-en-ing."
But Michigan's not the one weakening
right now. The Spartans are boasting a 4-3
record this fall - and let's be clear, that's a
bad 4-3. Like the Michigan State studentsec-
tion, the Spartans just didn't show up against
Iowa last week.
With a loss this weekend, Michigan State
is poised to plummet off everyone's radar.

So it's going to be a circus. It's just too bad
Michigan State even has to make the trip to
the Big House. -
Michigan coach Brady Hoke hasn't lost a
game in the friendly confines of Michigan
Stadium. The Wolverines are a perfect 11-0 at
home since Hoke took the reins last January.
And they've got this quarterback. I think
you've met him. Denard Robinson, meet
Michigan State. Guys, Denard.
You probably know him quite well. Oh,
and you know who else knows him? Every-
one.
Robinson sat beside wide receiver Devin
Gardner at the Michigan-Michigan State
women's soccer match in Ann Arbor last
week, and in the closing moments of half-
time, a group of elementary-aged girls lined
up along a fence behind the goal line about50
yards away to catch a glimpse of the dread-
headed quarterback.
"DENARD!" the troupe of six girls
shrieked in unison. He didn't hear. They
tried again, and this time he turned, smiled
and motioned them over.
They slowly ambled two-by-two along the
sideline to meet him. He posed for photos
with them, noticing only when they started
to walk away that they were all bundled up
in Michigan State jackets.
"Hey now!" he laughed.
Somewhere in East Lansing, Andrew
Maxwell whimpered off in a lonely corner:
"But I'm your quarterback!"
On the gridiron, the ferocious Spartan
defense has shut Robinson down twice,
knocked him out of the gamectwice and given
him a terrific little facemask yank along the
way. But he looks like a different player
today. For the first time since his first month
as starting quarterback back in 2010, Rob-
inson hasn't thrown an interception in two
games - backhanded compliment, eh? - and
the offense has averaged a healthy 40.1 point
per game at the Big House the last three sea-
son with Robinson at the helm.
Get your chirps in quickly, because this
honeymoon is coming to an end. It's time for
Paul Bunyan to come home. Michigan State
has won the battle, but Michigan still leads
this war.
Sure, maybe it's been 1,812 days since
Michigan beat Michigan State, but I just
went 800 wordswithout making a joke about
that naked professor.
- Nesbitt can be reached
at stnesbit@umich.edu.

Michigan State head coach Mark
Dantonio might have said it best
in his press conference Tuesday.
"I think you're green or blue in this
state by the time you get to age 14," he said.
"Maybe 10."
And once that affiliation is determined, as
2Pac once said, "It's on for life."
There's no denying the University of
Michigan is one of the nation's premier insti-
tutions - as I'm sure you might have heard
this week from at least one student, alum,
faculty member or middle-aged band wagon-
er who happened to pick
up a $5 Michigan T-shirt
when Steve and Barry's
had its blowout sale.
The football team is
storied. The institution
itself has produced sev-
eral Nobel Prize winners
and an American presi-
dent. So what makes it so JESSE
hard for the Wolverines O'BRIEN
to count to four?
You might not remem-
ber the last time Michigan beat Michigan
State in football, which is understandable..
Back then, you probably had more important
things on your mind, like remembering the
right order of dance moves to "Crank That
(Soulja Boy)."
Of course, that hasn't stopped Michigan
from continuing to allege its dominance over
the Mitten State.
In case you've been living under a rock
- or just happen to be one of the many
Michigan fans living in denial - it's been
four years since the Wolverines last beat the
Spartans.
Of course, those games don't really
count. I mean, 2008, 2009 and 2010 were
all rebuilding years. And last year, Michi-
gan State only won because they cheated,
and because then-sophomore defensive end
William Gholston is a "thug."
It's the same old rhetoric. And as we all
know, excuses are like excrement - it all
stinks, and Ann Arbor's full of it.
With each new season, I get the pleasure
of hearing about the Wolverine resurgence,
how this will be the year they'll run rough-
shod over the Big Ten and the Spartans -
and then get to watch Michigan's season fall
apart following a loss at the hands of "non-
rival" Michigan State.
Each season, I get to hear about Denard
Robinson's Heisman candidacy before

Michigan has played a game, how the soph-
omore, then junior, now senior quarterback
will shatter every NCAA Division-I record
en route to New York for the trophy presen-
tation. And each year, Robinson blows up in
spectacular fashion - though this season's
fall from grace was my personal favorite,
when he threw four interceptions on four
straight passing attempts against Notre
Dame.
But please, tell me again how "Shoelace"
torched an 0-6 Massachusetts team fresh
from Division II for 397 total yards and four
touchdowns. That impresses me.
So what does Michigan have that the
Spartans don't? Aside from a quarterback
who throws the ball with the type of accu-
racy usually displayed by the male clientele
in a Rick's bathroom.
Well, Ann Arbor is home to a fanbase so
inflated with self-importance, they refuse to
acknowledge the past four Michigan State
victories without prefacing the conversa-
tion with, "Well, what about the previous
six?"
This is the same program that insists
Michigan State isn't a real rival, yet when
the Wolverines preposterously found them-
selves playing in a BCS Bowl, a group of
fans took it upon themselves to remind the
nation that "Spartan tears taste like Sugar."
And although the Wolverines were able
to stumble backwards into the Sugar Bowl
last year, they still needed overtime and a
bungled touchdown reversal to secure a
three-point victory over an 11-3 Virginia
Tech team that finished second in the ACC.
This is the same program that plastered
Dantonio's words on its own weight room
wall, but will tell you Saturday is just anoth-
er game. That's like Kanye West visiting the
site of Occupy Wall Street while he's in the
middle of promoting an album titled "Watch
the Throne."
Whether or not you want to admit it,
"Little Brother" is in your head. You're the
Johnny Drama to Michigan State's Vincent
Chase. You're Donnie Wahlberg.
You're Tito Jackson.
The truth is, a whole graduating class has
come and gone since the last time Michigan
beat Michigan State in football.
That's 1,812 days, if you're keeping track.
And come Saturday, that will be 1,813 -
and counting.
- O'Brien can be reached
at obriel51@msu.edu.
TheBlockM - www.theblockm.com 1 3

6 FootballSaturday - October 20, 2012


V V YT W U V V V

i

w


a

w

0

v

w

WILl
DAY

HONOR INC
A MICHIGAN
FOOTBALL
PIONEER

DETROIT - Willis Ward is a man lost to
time.
His gravestone, settled in the shadows of
three pine trees in the northwest corner of
Memorial Park Cemetery, has sunk beneath
the level ground here over the last 30 years.
It's barely visible from any distance, distin-
guished only by a small blue Michigan flag
planted at the corner.
Ward, a standout Michigan football player
from 1932-34, was laid to rest on Dec. 30,
1983, two days after his 71st birthday. His
story was buried with him.
The block 'M' flag was planted by Brian
Kruger, one of the loyal historians responsi-
ble for unearthing Ward's story and preserv-
ing his legacy. Kruger paced up and down
rows and rows of sunken stone markers for
three hours before finding Ward's plot this
spring. He didn't even see the gravestone
until he was standing on top of it.
Kruger bent down, pushed away the
grass cropped over the edge of the stone and
brushed off the dirt to unveil the forgotten
name: Willis Franklin Ward.
The name means something different to
everyone.
For Gerald Ford it meant his closest friend
at Michigan.
For Jesse Owens it meant his fiercest com-
petitor.
For the man himself, it meant being etched
in Michigan lore as the only player banned
from Michigan Stadium for the color of his
skin.
Harry Kipke knew a special athlete when
he saw one. And Willis Ward was special.
As a senior at Northwestern High School
in Detroit in 1930-31, Ward set the national
high-school record for high jump at 6-foot-
4 - for reference, the Big Ten-champion
heights were just clearingsix feet at the time
- and was named to the all-state football
team alongside Gerald Ford.
Ward knew playing football at Michigan
was just a pipe dream, since there were no
African Americans on the roster, so he was

bound for Dartmouth. But Kipke, Michigan's
head football coach, couldn't let that hap-
pen. He stormed into the office of Athletic
Director Fielding H. Yost and demanded that
Ward be allowed to join both the football and
track teams.
"There's some debate over whether it actu-
ally came down to a fistfight in Yost's office,"
said Michigan historian John U. Bacon, who
documented much of the Ward-Ford story in
his 1996 book "A Legacy of Champions."
"It at least threatened to come to blows,"
Bacon said. "By all accounts, the meeting
between the two was very pitched, intense.
Physical violence was at least a possibility."
Yost was Michigan's head coach from
1901-23 and 1925-26. He won six national
titles while compiling a whopping 165-29-10
record. But as Bacon points out, Yost, the son
of a Confederate soldier born just six years
after the Civil War, never played a single
black player.-
Kipke won out, with or without Yost's per-
mission, and brought Ward to Ann Arbor.
The college decision didn't come without
a price; the Ward family couldn't afford to
send two sons to college, so Ward's brother,
Henry II, went to work for the Ford Motor
Company instead of attendingaschool.
The relationship between Ward and Ford
has been well publicized of late, brought to
light by a documentary, "Black and Blue:
The Story of Gerald Ford, Willis Ward and
the 1934 Michigan-Georgia Tech Game,"
released this spring by filmmakers Brian
Kruger and Buddy Moorehouse.
During freshman orientation at the Water-
man Gym along North University Avenue in
fall 1931, the pair finally met. That day, Ford
and Ward struck up a friendship that would
span the rest of their lives.
Working alongside Ford, Ward became
the first African-American employee at the
Michigan Union, Kruger said.
After biding their time on the freshman
squad in 1931 - freshmen were ineligible
to play on varsity at the time - they both
earned a spot on the varsity squad the next
year. During their first round of spring prac-
tices, Ford edged out Ward for the Chicago

Alumni Trophy, given to the most impressive
freshman gridder every spring.
It was Oct. 22, 1932: Michigan vs. Illinois.
Harry Kipke motioned for Willis Ward to
join him on the sidelines. Kipke, Michigan's
fourth-year head coach, had the Wolverines
ahead 20-0 in the second quarter and had
already funneled in four substitutes.
Kipke gestured toward midfield and his
captain right end Ivan "Ivy" Williamson.
"Let's give Ivy a rest during the remain-
der of this quarter," Kipke said. "You take his
end."
Kipke knew the kid could play. Ward, a
sophomore flanker, had given the varsity
team fits asa freshman during weekly scrim-
mages against the yearling squad.
Ward couldn't contain his nerves or his
excitement. He'd toiled for years for this
moment.
"Are you all right, Willis?" Kipke asked.
"J-just let me g-get in there," Ward chat-
tered, "and I'll b-be all right, Co-oach, hon-
estly, I w-will."
Kipke relayed that conversation in full
two years later in a feature he penned for
the November 1934 edition of Esquire, then a
one-year-old men's magazine. Kipke's essay
posited: "The first hundred seconds of any
football game are always the hardest."
"Willis Ward's first hundred seconds were
a classic," Kipke wrote.
After Ward finally shirked the nerves
enough to get out a sentence, Kipke sent him
into punt coverage. On the snap, Ward burst
out ofhis stance and down the field, flying far
ahead of his teammates.
The punt returner started in Ward's direc-1
Lion, immediately realized his mistake and
ducked.
"When he was still ten yards from the
man, Willis sort of took of, like one of these
fast-climbing jet planes," Kipke wrote.
"Ward flattened out parallel with the
ground about six feet high and sort of
brushed the ball carrier's headgear and
sailed on over him into open territory where

vp

DESIGN: KRISTEN CLEGHORN,
MARISSA McCLAIN and ALICIA KOVALCHECK
4 FootballSaturday - October 20, 2012

w

TheBlockM - www.theblockm.com


