Ube 1id~ign 0a1
4 1C I fi I)i '[X L ' 'I L \IS )I lI(I X!11 i ()I

1 vu c .:-" .n_ i -.. ,... .:. t . ' ..... .-. : k'^ r£.S i 7...,r r, F, rr.,:,.... .3.- ._, .. ' -. ,..,



Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, February 6, 2012

michigandaily com .

COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
'U'ranked in
top five for
Peace Corps
involvement

93 alumni serve
in 43 countries
around the world
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily Staff Reporter
The University is continuing
its reputation as leader in the
Peace Corps, moving up on a list
of top colleges participating in
the program.
TheUniversitynowranksfourth
in the nation amonglarge universi-
ties for Peace Corps involvement,
with93alumni servingincountries
around the world, according to the
2013 Peace Corps Top Colleges
rankings. Last year, it ranked fifth.
Carrie Hessler-Radelet, Peace
Corps acting director, announced
the new rankings in a conference
call on Tuesday.
"The University of Michigan
is really the birthplace of Peace

Corps," Hessler-Radelet said. "U
of M has always been a fantastic
volunteer (University, which) has
generated over 2500 (volunteers),
making it fourth in all-time pro-
duction of volunteers."
Among large universities -
those with more than 15,000 stu-
dents - the University trails the
University of Washington, Seattle;
the University of Florida; and the
University of Wisconsin, Madison,
which all have more than 100 vol-
unteers servingin the Peace Corps.
Students entering the Peace
Corps serve for 27 months in a
variety of social, econtomic and
political roles around the world.
Many students join before going
on to a wide range of other
careers, Hessler-Radelet said.
"Peace Corps prepares gradu-
ates to be global citizens and
succeed in the 21st century,"
Hessler-Radelet said. "In today's
highly competitive job market,
See PEACE, Page 2A

1TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Freshman Nik Stauskas celebrates with fans in Crisler Arena after Michigan defeated Ohio State in overtime yesterday.
'M' blocksBuckeyes

Defensive stop
seals OT thriller
over Ohio State
By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan students, equipped
with tents, began lining up out-
side Crisler Center at 11 p.m.
Monday night. More than 25

hours and one low-scoring over-
time period later, they walked
away happy campers.
On the possession after get-
ting stripped by opposing point
guard Aaron Craft, sophomore
Trey Burke blocked Craft's
would-be go-ahead jumper
with just nine seconds left.
Freshman forward Glenn Rob-
inson III hit one of his two
free throws, and with less than
three seconds to play, junior

Tim Hardaway Jr. blocked a
Craft layup to secure the 76-74
win for the No. 3 Michigan bas-
ketball team.
Controversy immediately
ensued, as many, including
Hardaway, thought Craft was
fouled on the last play, which
would've sent him to the line
with a chance to send the game
into double overtime.
"I thought Trey fouled him,
and I thought the whistle was

going to blow, and I just went
for the ball," Hardaway said. "I
saw the ball in my face, so I just
wrapped it up and probably got
his arm or something like that,
but it's up to the refs to make
that call, and they let it go."
Burke opened overtime doing
what he couldn't do in the clos-
ing seconds of regulation. The
point guard, who missed a buzz-
er-beating 3-pointer to end reg-
See BUCKEYES, Page 7A


CAMPUS LIFE
Speaker
calls for
equality
Gonzalez discusses
undocumented
students
By CASSANDRA BALFOUR
Daily StaffReporter
Robert G. Gonzalez, an assis-
tant professor at the University
of Chicago, started off his pre-
sentation discussing the lives of
Americans raised by undocu-
mented immigrants by telling
the story of Alex, a boy he worked
with in Chicago. Alex wasn't able
to attend a private Arts high
school in Chicago because he
lacked nine critical digits.
"A social security number," many
peopleinthecrowdofprofessorsand
students in the Union Ballroom mur-
mured in response Tuesday morning
Gonzalez, who has spent 20
years researching undocument-
ed immigrant youth and working
directly with this demographic,
She EQUALITY, Page 2A

GOVERNMENT
Student debt could
cause financial crisis

University President Mary Sue Coleman met with students during a fireside chat in the Michigan Union Tuesday.
Tuition and crime topics of
Coleman's fireside chat

Trillion-dollar
problem threatens
to rival mortgage
collapse
By KATIE BURKE
Daily News Editor
In 2008, subprime mort-
gage lending shocked the U.S.
economy, leading to a major
economic crisis from which
the nation is still recovering.
In 2013, a more overt concern
could repress the economy
once more: student loan debt.
Combined federal and pri-
vate student loan debt is cur-
rently more than a trillion
dollars. According to a Sept.
2012 Pew Research report, 95
percent of households in debt
owed $92,842 or less, while only
25 percent owed $6,190 or less.
University researchers and
professors see a cause for con-
cern with this level of debt,
though opinion varies on what
will actually result from the
record levels. A variety of
causes have been identified and
solutions have been proposed.

WHAT HAPPENED
IN 2008
Mortgage contracts were not
the main concerns of the Fed-
eral Reserve and economists in
2007. More people were able to
borrow money for homeowner-
ship, but were also responsible
for bearing most of the risk of
these loans.
Economics Prof. Miles Kim-
ball said the burden of these haz-
ardswasoneoftheleadingcauses
ofthehousingmarketcrash.
"Somebody bearing that risk
wouldn't have caused problems
ifithadbeensomebodywithvery
deep pockets," Kimball said.
However, homeowners and
banks were shouldering the debt,
leading to financial failure of
firms, such as Lehman Brothers,
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Kimball added that those in
trouble expected the govern-
ment to bail them out and pro-
vide assistance, but Congress
was slow to act. This increased
the national sense of panic. The
nation entered the crisis in an
era of optimism, but the coun-
try's outlook became pessimis-
tic even as the economy slowly
See DEBT, Page 7A


Students join the vice president 'for academic
affairs, answered questions
in intimate posed by more than 30 stu-
dents yesterday at the Michigan
discussion Union.
Each month, Coleman and
'JENNIFER CALFAS Harper randomly select stu-
Daily StaffReporter dents to participate in these
"fireside chats" to create a bet-
an intimate setting, Uni- ter connection between the
y President Mary Sue administration and students.
nan and E. Royster Harper, The students represent a vari-

ety of the University's cplleges,
schools and disciplines.
In the first fireside chat of
the calendar year, Coleman
and Harper answered ques-
tions about access to higher
education, the University's next.
capital campaign and campus
safety, among other topics.
Multiple students, including
Ross senior Harry Eun, asked
See COLEMAN, Page 7A

By
In
versit
Colen

... li n it , .,"+"" _ ! .
r
AI ^'f cmY


WEATHER HI: 34 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
[R0'28 Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Behind the scenes at MHacks
TOMORROW L 8 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE WIRE

INDEX
Vol. CXXII, No. 63
011 The Michigan Daily
michigondoily~com

NEW S .........................2A SUDOKU.... ...........5A
OPINION ...................4A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
SPORTSMONDAY......... 5A THE STATEMENT..........1B

s, ... . ., n:.3 ., x........ .:a _. .. pia:,, L.. _< :.'.i.: nr.c w¢: . , i .i i iNw...n75', :c -i .; .ei Fcu: ?xxv+' y


2A'- Wednesday, February 6, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, February 6,2013 - ~N~W The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

)AY: FRfCDAY: a~e htso h ek hm * 0
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ADVOCATING PEACE ANDREWWEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1212 734-418-4115ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com rngrein@michigandaily.com

DOZENS OF STUD NTS FOR ED TO DISENROLL
Harvard University addresses scandal

Michael D. Smith, Harvard
University's dean of faculty of
arts and sciences, sent out an
e-mail to the Harvard com-
munity on Friday to offer clo-
sure on the cheating scandal
that shocked the University last
spring, The Harvard Crimson
reported Tuesday.
Following an investigation of
the mass cheating, Smith said
about 70 undergraduates were
forced to disenroll. Of the other
students implicated, about half.
were put on probation.
Smith wrote that he hoped the
scandal would "shine a bright
light on the important issue of
academic integrity and what we
are doing on this issue.

Princeton University
expandsgender-neutral
housing options
Princeton University will
expand gender-neutral housing
into its residential colleges, The
Daily Princetonian..
The change will expand upon
the 278 gender-neutral beds
already available for upperclass-
men.
Emily Vander Linden, the for-
mer recruitment chair for Princ-
eton Equality Project, an LGBT
student organization at Princ-
eton, expressed her enthusiasm
for the newhousing options.
"We're really excited to see
the continuing expansion - to

see the option of living with a
roommate, no matter their gen-
der, be open to every student on
Campus," Vander Linden said.
Northwestern athletics to
partner with Chicago Cubs
Northwestern University
and the Chicago Cubs will team
up for an athletic and market-
ing partnership for the next five
years, The Daily Northwestern
reported Tuesday.
NU will have the opportunity
to use Wrigley Field for athletic
events and student-athletes will
be able to intern in the Cubs
office.
-4ARONGUGGENHEIM

Newsroom
734-418-4t5s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaity.com
Arts Section
arts@eichigandaily.com
Spots Section
sports@mihigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaity.com
Photognaphny Section
photo@michigandaity.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandailycom

University alum Steven Heydemann of the U.S. Institute
of Peace discusses the Syrian war at the Union yesterday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Mercedes
bends?

Employment Ice hockey

issues

WHERE: 1900 Fuller WHERE: C.S. Mott Chil-
WHEN: Monday at about dren's and Von Voigtlander
5:55 p.m. Women's Hospital
WHAT: There was a two- WHEN: Monday at about
vehicle car accident with 3:50 p.m.
no reported injuries, Uni- WHAT: A supervisor possi-
versity Police reported. The bly assaulted a staff member
damage to the vehicles is on Friday, University Police
unknown.- reported.
Artistic
differences
WHERE: 1521 Simpson
WHEN: Monday at 11:05
a.m.
WHAT: An easel was
reportedly stolen from a
conference roomt on the
second floor of the build-
ingsometime Thursday
evening, University Police
reported.

workshop
WHAT: Yost will hosta
workshop that foucses on
ice hockey skills, such as
stick handling while skating
with traffic flowing in one
direction. Cost is $5.
WHO: Yost Ice Arena
WHEN: Today at Ip.m.,
WHERE: Yost Ice Arena

Sex lecture
WHAT: David Sandberg
will give a speech on the
disorders of sex develop-
ment, includingdecisions
regarding gender assign-
ment and genital surgery.
WHO: Center for Bioethics
and Social Sciences in
Medicine
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: North Campus
Research Center

T HREE THINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
Britain's House of Com-
mons voted overwhelm-
ingly in favor of a bill
approving same-saex mar-
riage, the BBC reported.
David Cameron, the Prime
Minister, described the bill
as "an important step" in
stregthening society.
In its first "Detroit
Issue," The Statement
shows a side of Detroit
that often goes unseen: the
creativity and culture rising
in the rebuilding city.
FOR MORE, SEE INSIDE
St. Thomas Moore Hos-
pital in Colorado admit-
ted that it was wrong
to argue against a malprac-
tice suit on the grounds that
fetuses aren't humans, the
Denver Post reported. The
lawsuit may reach the state's
Supreme Court.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewSlovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaiy.com
AdaMTRUhentfireManagingNewsEditor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Austen Hufford, Peter Shahin,
K.C. Wassman, Taylor Wizner,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Molly Block, Jennifer Calas, Aaron Guggenheim, Sam
Gringlas,DanielleStoppelmann,SteveZoski
Melanie Kruvelisand opinioneditors@michigandaiy.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:JesseKleini,SarahSkaluba,DerekWolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Sharik Bashir, Daniel Wang
Everett Cook and
Zachelftand Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Stephen Nesbitt, Colleen
ThomasLivkelichDanielWasserman
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Daniel Feldman, Greg Garno, Rajat Khare, Liz Nagle,
JeremSnummitAleandross ,,iea
Kayla Upadhyaya Managing Arts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, Brianne Johnson, John Lynch,Anna Sadovskaya
uSSISTANT ARTSnEDITORS: Sean Czarnecki, Carlina Duan, Max Radin, Akshay Seth,
Katie St,t5,ev nweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew,Todd Needle
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS:KatherinePekala,Paul Sherman,AdamSchnitzer
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.viw
Haley Goldberg Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUY MAGAZINE EDITOR:PaigePearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien copychiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleman, Kelly McLauglin
BUSINESS STAFF
AshleyKaradsheh AssociateBusinessManager
SeanlJackssn SalesnManaer
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
QUy VO Circulation Manage
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 074s-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is available free of charge
toallreadersAdditionalcopiesmay be pickedupatthe Daily'sofficefor$2.Subscriptionsfor
fall term, starting in September viaU.S. mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through April) is
$ilt, yearong(September through April)is195. University affliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate On-campussubscriptionsfor fall termare35.iSubscriptionsmust be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily isa memberof The Associated Pressand The Associated CollegiatePress.

9

SHARP Center Perfectionism

lecture
WHAT: Deborah Lar-
kin, executive director of
USTA Serves, will speak
on research, advocacy and
collaboration in the field of
women's sport.
WHO: Institute for
Research on Women and
Gender
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m
WHERE: Lane Hall, Room
2239

workshop
WHAT: Students can learn
how to cope with the stress
of perfectionism in various
facets of life to achieve opti-
mal performance inside and
outside of the classroom.
WHO: Counseling and Psy-
chological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:15
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Annex Room


Give your Valentine a gift that everyone will s
Buy a Cupid Gram from
Deadline: 3:00pm, Friday, February 8th
Cost: Only $5
Pu blication Date: Thursday, February 14th
Recipient's Email Address:
Text:
- ---- n - --r--r -r-rr----- r-r-- ---r--nr

I II II II II I i


&"wows& S.- Ml b.0-0" &.-.a
wftft rm r.--" r..-.%

n'-'I~-I-~I"~I-I 1 I I I I I I I


ee! PEACE
From Page lA
Peace Corps volunteers have a
huge advantage."
The top schools in each cat-
egory - small, medium and large
colleges - came from the state
of Washington, a unique result
in the history of the rankings.
Schools with significant Peace
Corps involvement often have
similar programs or teaching phi-
losophies, Hessler-Radelet said.
Mackenzie Knowling, a Peace
Corps recruiter at the University,
manages the Peace Corps Office
in the International Center where
interested students can get infor-
mationaboutpossibleopportunities
and application procedures. The
University currently has volunteers
in 43 countries, Knowling said.
i"The Universityof Michigan has
alot of activist students,"Knowling
said. "People are looking to con-
tinue their work in social justice or
social policy and the Peace Corps is
EQUALITY
J 1L] From Page lA
said those with the undocumented
status straddle the line "uncom-
fortably between experiences of
belonging and illegality." He said
the DREAM act, a legislative act
which allows youngundocumented
immigrants a stay of deportation,
creates a "second-class" citizenship.
OR ."The DREAM act was first
introduced in 2001 and many of
inline the first intended beneficiaries of
the act have aged out of eligibili-
ty," Gonzalez said. "Many of these
young people have been waiting
and waiting and waiting while
Congress debates their futures."
"Dreams deferred" was the
overarching theme of Gonzalez's
talk, part of the MLK symposium,
as he stressed that out of 11.1 mil-
lion undocumented immigrants,
2.1 million have been here since
childhood. Despite their Ameri-
canized upbringing, these students
lack access to the same opportuni-
ties as their American-born peers
by the time they finish high school.
"While our laws treat children
and adults differently, they don't
account for the continuity of chil-
by dren becoming adults," Gonzalez
said. "These young people are very

L .,J...L..J...L.-.It........U.J1 - I t I U - J - I f 11it- _...- L ..,..
Please stop into the Michigan Daily office at
420 Maynard (behind the LSA building) with
this form and $5. CASH ONLY PLEASE.
If you wish to pay by credit card, simply scan the t
code and you will be taken to The Michigan Daily's o
store to place your order.
or internaiuUse
Gram#_ Ad# Student Group Ad taker

different from their parents who
are absorbed from day one into low
wage jobs and life in the shadows...
many of these young people by con-
trast growup in the sunshine."
Gonzalez discussed his exten-
sive multi-state research studying
undocumented children moving
from "spaces of belongingto rejec-
tion, from inclusion to exclusion."
Although these children grew up
pledging allegiance to the Ameri-
can flag and using American slang
during their K-12 education, they
eventually hit a wall when their
immigration status becomes the
most salient part of their identity.
Gonzalez quoted many of the
undocumented students he inter-
viewed throughout his presenta-
tion, including one young man,
Rudy, who started feeling out of
place when he graduated high
school and realized he didn't
have the social security number
required of many job applications.
Ultimately, Gonzalez wanted to
shed light on these undocument-
ed students who are somewhere
in-between, and point out the
deficiencies in the United State's
immigration policy, which is fail-
ing young people who feel like
American citizens but lack the
paperwork to back it up.
Gonzalez .also discussed the

agreatwayto (dothat)."
Knowling said she believes the
Peace Corps provides not only job
experience,but also ameans for stu-
dentsto explore new interests while
serving in avolunteer setting.
"I think a lot of people do seek
out the Peace Corps as a way .to
jumpstart their career, butI think
that some people see the Peace
Corps as something they are really
passionate about," Knowling said.
"It doesn't really pertain to their
career path in the future I think,
though, the skills that they learn
in the Peace Corps definitely help
them out in (any) career path."
Experiences in the Peace
Corps are often challenging for
students, providing them with a
variety of skills and experiences
to use after their involvement in
the organization, Knowling said.
"I think the experience and
learning how to work in difficult
situations with limited resources
- working with people who are
extremely different, who may not
speak the same language as you,

being resourceful, being proxi-
mal, being patient ... all serve you
really well in whatever career
path you choose to do after the
Peace Corps," Knowling said.
For students interested in
applying, Knowling recommend-
ed applying nine to 12 months in
advance. The University holds
monthly information sessions for
students to learn more about pos-
sible programs.
The University has a strong
historical connection to the Peace
Corps, originating with an address
by John F. Kennedy in 1960 at the
University, calling for the forma-
tionof such an organization.
"Alot of students feel aconnec-
tion to the Peace Corps because of
the history here at the University
of Michigan," Knowling said. "It
is a unique situation here with
JFK's history - standing on the
steps of the Union, proclaiming
the Peace Corps at 2 a.m. - so
I think, (for) a lot of students ...
it's one of the reasons they know
about the Peace Corps here."


e

pivotal role of the "underground
railroad" of teachers who shep-
herd undocumented students into
college by mentoring them and
assisting undocumented students
in finding ways to pay for college
without the help of federal aid.
Public Policy senior Kevin
Mersol-Barg, a Daily columnist
and the founder of the Coalition
for Tuition Equality, which had
a booth set up at the event, noted
that Gonzalez stressed that plac-
es of education should serve as
inclusive spaces and believes the
University is closing off the very
population that Gonzalez spoke
about since these instate students
cannot apply for federal finan-
cial aid or loans. CTE is a student
organization that is dedicated td
achieving in-state tuition rates
for undocumented students who
were raised in Michigan.
"Professor Gonzalez said that
institutions of higher education
like the University of Michigan
have a role to play to make society
more inclusive for undocument-
ed students," Mersol-Barg said.
"Unfortunately, the Coalition for
Tuition Equality believes that its
really not living up to the poten-
tial that it could in terms of really
providing more opportunities and
inclusivity."
4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 6, 2013 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, February 6, 2013 - 3A

WORTH THE WAIT

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
k Final arguments
in Kilpatrick
corruption trial
A judge says Wednesday will
be the last day of testimony in the
corruption trial of former Detroit
Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick, his
father and a city contractor.
Federal Judge Nancy Edmunds
P sent jurors home Tuesday after
no defense witnesses were avail-
able because of illness and other
conflicts. She apologized. Closing
arguments are planned for Mon-
day.
Kilpatrick, his father Bernard
and a third man, Bobby Ferguson,
are accused of a sweeping scheme
to enrich themselves through
extortion, bribery and other ille-
gal tactics while Kwame Kilpat-
rick was mayor.
LOS ANGLES
Detectives review
charges of clergy
abuse
Detectives will review recent-
ly released clergy abuse files from
the Roman Catholic Archdiocese
of Los Angeles to see if there's
4 evidence of criminal activity by
church authorities, including
failure to report child abuse to
law enforcement, Police Depart-
ment officials said Tuesday.
Police will focus on the cases
of about a dozen previously
. investigated priests and are
auditing those past probes to
make sure nothing was missed,
said Cmdr. Andrew Smith. The
department will also look at
the files for all 122 priests that
were made public Thursday by
court order after the archdiocese
fought for five years to keep them
sealed, he said.
NAIROBI, Kenya
Microsoft to sell
new smartphone
in Africa
Chinese phone maker Huawei
and Microsoft are combining
forces to sell a new smartphone
in Africa, which they say is the
world's fastest growing mobile
phone market.
The two companies launched
the Huawei 4Afrika Tuesday.
The phone runs Windows Phone
8 and comes pre-loaded with
applications designed for the
African market.
According to the GSM Asso-
ciation, Africa is the world's
second largest mobile market by
connections after Asia, and the
fastest growing mobile market in
the world.
The phone will initially be
available in Angola, Egypt, Ivory
Coast, Kenya, Morocco, Nige-
ria and South Africa later this
month.

TIMBUKTU, Mali
French troops
may start pulling
out of Mali
French troops may start pull-
ing out of their anti-extremist
operation in Mali as early as next
month, handing over to a still-
developing African force.
The potential pending with-
drawal, floated by French For-
eign Minister Laurent Fabius in
a newspaper interview published .
Tuesday night, came as forces
from France and Chad secured a
key bastion in northern Mali, the
city of Kidal.
French aircraft and troops
also are targeting suspected
hideouts of Islamist fighters in
the sparsely populated Saharan
desert. There are fears that the
extremists who have fled Mali's
cities during the three-week
French-led operation could try
to stage attacks from remote
bases.
The French foreign minister is
quoted in France's Metro news-
paper as saying, "I think that
starting in March, if everything
goes as planned, the number of
our troops should diminish."
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Students line up outside of Crisler Arena in anticipation of the Michigan-Ohio State men's basketball game
yesterday. The last time these rivals faced Ohio State won, 56-53.
PPE expanding progra-m,
hiring faculty-me-mber

Interdisciplinary program once resources are
available.
major looking Last winter, about 40 stu-
dents applied to the program.
to accept 20 for This year, more applicants
are expected because of the
winter semester increasing publicity of the pro-
gram, Anderson said.
By CHELSEA HOEDL Students who are currently
Daily StaffReporter enrolled in the program also
said they expect the program to
The program in Philosophy, become more popular.
Politics and Economics, new as "One of the great challenges
of fall 2012, consists of approxi- that we all face at the Universi-
mately 20 declared students ty is that its size can sometimes
and is looking to accept 20 more cause us to miss out on impor-
in the upcoming admissions tant information," LSA junior
season, which opened Friday. Phillip Schermer said. "I think
However, the program is fac- that as more students hear
ing significant demand as stu- about PPE, hear about its ben-
dents gain greater awareness of efits and opportunities, a sub-
the program. Similar programs stantial portion of the student
are offered at the University of body will become interested."
Pennsylvania and University of The program is in the pro-
Arizona. cess of its faculty expansion.
Elizabeth Anderson, direc- "We have been bringing out
tor of the program, said PPE a number of applicants for our
is resource-constrained and, advertised position for inter-
until another faculty member is views, and they are currently
recruited, will be able to accept being reviewed," Anderson
only a small number of students said.
each year. PPE is in the process Short-term plans include an
of recruiting a professor with expansion to 30.students per
expertise in political economy round of applications.
and plans on expanding the "The prime reason to recruit

someone is to expand our
capacity, to serve students,"
Anderson said. "It would be
very exciting if the program
grows, and we would certainly
enjoy such prospects but at this
stage we can't say one way or
another. "
LSA senior Trevor Grantham
said because PPE is a program
that consists of three interwo-
ven disciplines, it should inter-
est a wide range of students.
"Having a background in
all three really gives you the
ammunition to address any
problem and know how to han-
dle it," Grantham said. "If you
have an interest in either dis-
cipline, it's a really great way
to expand your knowledge and
your approach to any particular
issue."
PPE has also been increasing
the number of approved classes.
"In this first full year of the
program, a number of classes
have been approved for the pro-
gram. However, it's hard for the
professors to know every single
class that might fit within PPE,"
Grantham said. "I believe they
will gradually make this list
exhaustive and this will make
the program much stronger."

Club leadersN
to encourage
entrepreneurs
at March events
New CSG rently working with the MUSIC
Matters organization to plan an
commission asks "entrepreneurial battle of the
bands" competition, the logis-
org. leaders to host ticsoof which are still under dis-
cussion.
events on theme Other events will include a
"Linking-In" event organized
ByAMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR. in, conjunction with the LSA
Daily StaffReporter Student Government where
faculty members will be given
This March will be filled a platform to network and dis-
with more than just snow and cuss entrepreneurship with
shamrocks. interested students. MPowered
The newly formed Entrepre- will also be holding a four-day
neurship Commission of the summit for students in correla-
Central Student Government tion with the Month of Entre-
will host a Month of Entre- preneurship.
preneurship, a collaboration "it will be an opportunity for
among student organizations entrepreneurially-minded stu-
on campus. Through the month, dents to get together and solve
various campus groups will the problems we see on cam-
have the opportunity to host pus," Christopher said.
entrepreneurial events for the About 15 to 20 events are
student body. proposed to take place during
ECommission Chair Scott March.
Christopher said the main "We are trying to make
goal of the Month of Entre- something that extends the
preneurship is to "change the whole month to have an impact
way people think about entre- on campus," Christopher noted.
preneurship and removing the "We also want to make sure
stigma that entrepreneurship is that we don't sacrifice the quali-
only for business and engineer- ty and the participation in these
ing students." event (by having too many)."
Followinguponhiscampaign Last Tuesday, CSG allocated
promise, CSG President Manish $8,100 to the ECommission for
Parikh urged the ECommission the winter semester, the largest
last October to "support and sum out of all CSG executive
foster collaboration" between commissions.
entrepreneurs, to be a resource However, Christopher noted
for student entrepreneurs and that the Month of Entrepre-
to foster the "entrepreneur- neurship would not drain the
ial mindset" among Michigan ECommission of its allocated
students. Currently, 18 student funds because participating
organizations are members of student organizations will pro-
the commission. vide the funding for their own
"As an ECommission, we events.
will probably only plan one or "If student organizations
two events," Christopher said. need funding, we are working
"We are talking to student with the Student Organiza-
organizations and figuring out tion Funding Commission to
how their events will line up make sure that there are suffi-
with the Month of Entrepre- cient funds allocated for thet,7"
neurship." Christopher said. "Being entre-
The commission is working preneurial-minded, we're able
to incorporate a variety of Uni- to bootstrap a lot of things."
versity organizations to take SOFC Chair Eric Kibler
part in the event. noted that funding applica-
Christopher added that the tions from organizations for
Month of Entrepreneurship the event would be evaluated by
includes collaboration with the the same standard with which
Detroit Entrepreneurial Net- SOFC deals with other applica-
work, a local organization that tions.
plans to bring Detroit metro- "We fund based on finai-
politan high-school students to cial need of organizations,
campus for entrepreneurship the nature of the event, how
initiatives. many people are going to be
MPowered, a student orga- involved," Kibler said. "Basi-
nization that seeks to foster cally, what does the event add
entrepreneurship among stu- to our campus community and
dents, will also be involved in how much does it benefits t e
the event. MPowered is cur- students on campus."

Tsunami in South Pacific
kills several, causes damage

Earthquake
cause of 1.5 meter
tidal wave near
Soloman Islands
SYDNEY (AP) - A power-
ful earthquake off the Solomon
Islands generated a tsunami of
up to 1.5 meters (about 5 feet)
that damaged dozens of homes
and likely killed sever-al peo-
ple in the South Pacific island
chain on Wednesday.
Authorities canceled warn-
ings for tsunamis on more dis-
tant coasts.
Solomons officials reported
two 1.5-meter (4 foot, 11-inch)
waves hit the western side of
Santa Cruz Island, damaging
around 50 homes and prop-
erties, said George Herming,
a spokesman for the prime
minister. Many villagers had
headed to higher ground as a
precaution, Herming said.
Solomon Islands Police
Commissioner John Lansley
said local police patrols had
reported that several people
were presumed dead, though
the reports were still being
verified.
"Sadly, we believe some
people have lost their lives," he
said. "At the moment we poten-
tially know of four, but there
may of course be more."
Four villages on Santa Cruz
were impacted by the waves,
with two facing severe dam-
age, Lansley said. Other areas
of the Solomons did not appear
to have been seriously affected.
The tsunami formed after
an 8.0-magnitude earthquake
struck near Lata on Santa Cruz
in Temotu province, the east-

ernmost province of the Solo- and in the capital are ringing
mons, about a 3-hour flight in and trying to get informa-
from the capital, Honiara. tion from us and the National
The region has a population of Disaster Office and are slowly
around 30,000 people. moving up to higher ground,"
The Pacific Tsunami Warn- Tahu said. "But panic? No, no,
ing Center said a tsunami of no, people are not panicking."
about a meter (3 feet) was mea- Dr. Rooney Jagilly, the
sured in Lata wharf, in the Sol- medical superintendent at
omon Islands. Smaller waves the National Referral Hospi-
were recorded in Vanuatu and tal in Honiara, said the hos-
New Caledonia. pital asked about half its 200
The center cancelled earlier patients to leave and stay with
warnings for tsunami waves family or friends as a pre-
further away. cautionary measure because
Richard Dapo, a school prin- the hospital is located near
cipal on an island near Santa the shoreline. Those patients
Cruz, said he lives inland but who weren't mobile enough to
has been fielding calls from move stayed, but the hospital
families on the coast whose remained ready to evacuate
homes have been damaged by them.
the waves. Jagilly said there had been
"I try to tell the people liv- no flooding and he hoped the
ing on the coastline, 'Move hospital would return to nor-
inland, find a higher place. mal Thursday. He said his
Make sure to keep away from staff was ready to mobilize to
the sea. Watch out for waves,"' Santa Cruz because the small
he said. ,hospital there has no doctor
He said he's heard the waves after the previous one died
have swamped some smaller recently.
islands, although he's not An official at the disaster
aware of any deaths or serious management office in Vanuatu
injuries at this point. He said said there were no reports of
it's difficult to contact people damage or injuries there.
because cellphone coverage is More than 50 people were
patchy in the region. killed and thousands lost their
In Honiara, the warnings homes in April 2007 when a
had prompted residents to flee magnitude 8.1 quake hit the
for higher ground. western Solomon Islan Ia,
"People are still standing on sending waves crashing into
the hills outside of Honiara just coastal villages.
looking out over the water, try- The Solomons comprise
ing to observe if there is a wave 'more than 200 islands with a
coming in," said Herming, the population of about 552,000
prime minister's spokesman. people. They lie on the "Ring
Atenia Tahu, who works for of Fire" - an arc of earth-
the Solomon Islands Broad- quake and volcanic zones that
casting Corp. in Honiara, said stretches around the Pacific
most people were remaining Rim and where about 90 per-
calm. cent of the world's quakes
"People around the coast occur.

LIKE NEWS?
WRITE IT!,

TO JOIN THE MICHIGAN DAILY
NEWS SECTION, EMAIL:
kwassman@michigandaily com


-mmDO


4A - Wednesday, February 6, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, February 6, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

L 4e Michigan wily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
ostly duplcates
A central grant database for public research should be created
SA Jan. 2013 study published in Nature in found that "an esti-
mated $69 million of possible overlap funds were found" after
surveying more than 630,000 grant and contract summa-
ries since 1985. The Federal government funds most public research
in the United States through several agencies, including the National
Institutes of Health, Veterans Administration, National Science Foun-
dation, Department of Defense and Department of Energy. Most agen-
cies don't permit or encourage research projects funded by more than
one agency. However, this notion is difficult to enforce since research-
ers can concurrently apply to any number of agencies. Since many of
these agencies don't routinely communicate with other organizations
when reviewing grants, it's easy to understand how duplicate funding
occurs. Therefore, a central grant database should be created to mini-
mize financial damage and ensure limited research funding is distrib-
uted responsibly.

Equalfunding for equal integrity
C hoosing a college major was and critical thinking. His statement subjects of their choosing.
one of the hardest decisions raises concerns about equal oppor- Taking away academic opportu-
I've ever made. Like many, I tunities for education, as well as the nities, like McCrory implies, isn't
arrived at Michi- monetary value of different types of the answer. We need to instead edu-
gan with no degrees. cate students at the high-school level
burning interests A 2012 study by Georgetown Uni- about what job opportunities are in
and soon found versity illustrates the governor's demand. This allows individuals to
myself in the point. It claims that "the risk of discover a balanced career path that
non-engineering, unemployment among recent college takes into account their skills and
non-medicine graduates depends on their major ... future earning goals. Furthermore,
academic pur- Unemployment rates are generally streamlining student aid to cut back
gatory. At the TIMOTHY higher in non-technical majors, such on fraud and absurd tuition costs
advice of my aca- TUMOU as the arts (11.1 percent), humanities would save billions. This money
demic advisor, BURROUGHSand liberal arts (9.4 percent), social could then support vocational pro-
I completed my science (8.9 percent) and law and grams and provide incentives for
general require- public policy (8.1 percent)." Addition- students - moving toward the ulti-
ments, hoping something would ally, The Bureau of Labor Statistics mate goal of a balanced workforce
spark my interest. I was constantly states that about 17-million college and reducing the influx of under-
evaluating disciplines, gauging my graduates are underemployed, mean- employed individuals. These are big
interests and, yes, determining prac- ing that they're working in jobs ideas requiring extensive debate,
ticality and future earnings. they're drastically overqualified for and now the stage is set for signifi-
A similar type of evaluation was or working fewer hours than they'd cant education reform.
made by North Carolina Gov. Pat like. The bureau also reports the
McCrory last Tuesday. On a politi- unemployment rate for young people
cal radio program, the Republican with vocational training as signifi- There should be
governor advocated strongly for cantly lower than that of graduates
vocational studies. He explained that with general degrees. no hierarchy for
there's significant demand for skilled McCrory is struggling to justify academic thought.
laborers with six-figure salaries and putting tax dollars toward programs
only more jobs to come. He argued that don't lead to future careers. His
that many courses currently being comments undervalue intellectual
offered at state universities and com- studies and gloss over the countless
munity colleges are not adequately successful gender studies majors. At the end of my sophomore year
preparingstudents for the workforce. Additionally, many educational I became an economics and art his-
At one point he even questioned, subsidies contribute to student aid tory double major. Though an eco-
"What are we teachingthese courses programs, which are critical in nomics degree may seem the more
for, if they are not going to help get a providing equal opportunities to practical choice, many of the art
job?" He immediately retracted this students. Regardless of McCrory's history classes have proved more
statement, however, claiming that flawed commentary, these statistics insightful than any supply-and-
he's not trying to devalue liberal arts demand attention. The goal of edu- demand graph. There's no hier-
education, but simply questioning cation funding should be to provide archy for academic thought, and
the "skills" gained. McCrory further every individual with a fair chance McCrory is wrong to suggest oth-
explained, "if you want to take gen- to succeed academically and in the erwise. I decided on my own career
der studies, that's fine, go to a private workforce. But we aren't effectively path based on my interests, but very
school and take it, but I don't want providing the latter. - much so on my talents and future
to subsidize that if that isn't getting Like leaders from both political employment opportunities as well.
someone a job." parties, I believe that higher-educa- Other students should be allowed
North Carolina college students, tion reform is critical in fixing our that same choice but must under-
the Huffington Post and even con- economy. We need to find ways to stand the realities attached to it.
servatives have attacked these place competitively trained individ-
statements, arguing that McCrory uals in fields where there's demand, - Timothy Burroughs can be
is belittling intellectual thought while also allowing them to study reached at timburr@umich.edu.
YAGO COLAS
Free the banners, free discussion

q

0

Such duplication of federal funding is unpro-
ductive. Federal money should instead be used
to support new projects, and better commu-
nication between federal agencies should be
implemented to facilitate this goal. Currently,
no agencies have systems in place to regularly
check if the grants they fund are also being
funded by another. Given the enormity of
research grants submitted each year for fed-
eral funding, it makes financial sense to create
a central grant database that would allow each
organization to check and thus avoid duplicate
funding. Agencies need to dedicate resources to
determine overlaps and strengthen communi-
cation with each other. Compared to the size of
the grants, the cost of checking for overlaps is a
small, cost-effective investment.
Though the study concedes that duplicate
funding constitutes less than 0.1 percent of
total federal funds dispensed since 1985, the
$69 million represents a significant amount
of taxpayer money that has been used inef-
fectively. From the public's perspective, dupli-
cate funding also wastes researcher's time
and drains productivity, both of which can't
be regained. A significant grant from a federal
agency like the Department of Defense could

sustain a research group for several years.
Researchers receiving duplicate funding may
be using twice as much time to explore a lim-
ited area of inquiry.
Each agency has its own definition of what
constitutes an overlap. For example, although
the DoD may certify that a project's fund-
ing is distinct from a similar project funded
by the NIH, the NIH may request that the
researchers make these projects more dis-
similar in order to receive funding. Multiple
standards amongst agencies convolute the
grant application process.
As federal research funding continues to
tighten to dangerous levels, it's imperative that
federal agencies work together to allocate fund-
ing in a fair, efficient manner. Though research-
ers could be at fault for pursuing duplicate
funding, agencies must also make the effort to
discourage and prevent duplication. By creat-
ing a central database, harmonizing criteria for
what constitutes duplicate funding and dedicat-
ing more energy to scrutinize funding overlap,
agencies will be able to constructively change
the funding system. Failure to do so unfairly
and unproductively drains taxpayer money and
deters scientific progress.

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Jesse Klein,
Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Jasmine McNenny, Harsha Nahata, Adrienne Roberts, Sarah Skaluba,
Michael Spaeth, Luchen Wang, Derek Wolfe
MAURA LEVINE
Breaking the ban

Anthropologically speaking, humans have
a natural tendency to form groups and grow
an "us vs. them" mentality. We not only like
to feel a kinship with other people similar
to us but we also tend to exclude those who
aren't. This principle is at the core of many
cultural issues. As our nation matures, how-
ever, it's apparent that we are beginning to
move from our natural human tendency to
the ethically correct position of acceptance.
This is evident from the repeal of the armed
force's Don't Ask, Don't Tell legislation and
especially pertinent in the Boy Scouts' recent
consideration of allowing gay men to be a part
of their organization.
The true evil of this anthropological phe-
nomenon is illustrated when people are
deniedbasic rights simply because they aren't
in the "right" group - i.e. the majority. The
civil rights movement in the 1960s has taught
us that blacks and other minority groups are
no different than white people in terms of
intelligence, ability or anything besides skin
color. America has since recognized African
Americans as equal citizens. Looking back, it
was ridiculous to discriminate.
Since its inception, the Boy Scouts, a national
organization that receives federal funding, has
banned gays from being members explain-
ing, "The Boy Scouts of America believes that
homosexual conduct is inconsistent with the
obligations in the Scout Oath and Scout Law to
be morally straight and clean in thought, word,
and deed." This week, however, the National
Executive Board is holding a three-day meet-
ing to decide if this ban is still applicable, or if
it should be left up to local chapters to decide
whether or not to ban gay members.
Unfortunately, the Boy Scouts have already
harmed countless gay adolescents with their
exclusion. Will Oliver, for instance, has been
involved in the Boy Scouts since he was six
years old and has earned the organization's
highest award of Eagle Scout. Oliver says,

however, that he would like to "have the
opportunity to be myself." Many people, gay
and straight alike, struggle with finding their
sexuality in adolescence. An awkward phase
is common in all sexual orientations, but is
especially painful for those who feel they
cannot be accepted for their true selves. The
added pressure of being rejected by friends
and national organizations openly harms
the gay youth and promotes an "us vs. them"
mentality in other teens.
Those who wish to keep the ban claim
they don't want their little boys being sexu-
ally harassed by openly gay male scout leaders.
This is an absurd and illogical fear. Perversion
should not be linked to homosexuality. There's
a small percentage of the population - men and
women included - who are sexually attracted
to pre-pubescent children. This group of "per-
verted" people is completely separate from the
many men and women who identify as LGBTQ.
The fear of a gay scout leader "coming-on" to
your little boy is like.fearing a heterosexual
male teacher will "come on" to your six-year-
old daughter. It'sutterly ridiculous. The federal
government should not be funding a program
that condones such false ideas.
Gay people are exactly the same as straight
people. Just because they have a different
sexual orientation than the majority doesn't
mean they're different in any other aspect of
life. People shouldn't be persecuted for some-
thing they cannot change. Like the treatment
of blacks before the Civil Rights Movement,
LGBTQ Americans have been put in a box
and cast aside in the easy-to-fall-into "us vs.
them" mentality.
They've been excluded and persecuted. We
need to continue breaking the natural, anthro-
pological tendency of humans and accept
everyone in our society. Lifting the Boy Scout
ban would be the first step towards this goal.
Maura Levine is an LSA sophomore.

Tuesday morning, The Michigan
Daily reported that former Michi-
gan men's basketball players and
"Fab Five" members Jalen Rose and
Jimmy Ring, participating in the
Student Athletic Advisory Com-
mittee's charity fundraising event
"Mock Rock," expressed their hopes
that the decade-long rift between
their former teammate Chris Web-
ber and University administrators
might be healed. Both men called on
Webber to approach the University
and on the University to be open to
a discussion regarding both the leg-
acy of that era and the disposition of
the Final Four banners - currently
stored in the University's Bentley
Historical Library - earned by the
team in 1992 and 1993. I write as a
faculty member to endorse their call
and urge University administrators
to conduct a free, public discussion
of the issues involved.
Last year during a fireside chat,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman reiterated her opposi-
tion to restoring the banners (Cole-
man remains opposed to raising 'Fab
Five' banners in 2013, 4/11/12). She
had ordered the banners removed
on Nov. 7, 2002 as part of a series
of sanctions the University had
imposed on itself in the wake of an
on-going legal investigation against
Ed Martin.
Mr. Martin had admitted to run-
ning an illegal gambling ring and
funneling funds from the operation
in the form of loans to several Uni-
versity of Michigan basketball play-
ers, among them Chris Webber, a
member of the 1992 and 1993 Final
Four teams. An ensuing NCAA rul-
ing instituted additional sanctions,
including a 10-year dissociation of
the University from the four play-
ers indicted in connection with the
Martin investigation and the teams
they represented. This ban will end
in May 2013, offering the University
an opportunity to reassess its posi-
tion on, among other things, the fate
of the banners.
In a partof her comments notpub-
lished by the Daily, but provided by
the article's author, President Cole-
man stated, "We should think care-
fully about what this would mean."
She added what she may have intend-
ed simply as a rhetorical question:
"How would you justify putting the
banners back up?"
I would like to take President Cole-
man's statement and question as an
invitation to initiate a campus-wide
dialogue on the meaning of the ban-
ners and restoring them to the raf-
ters of Crisler Center. I agree that we
"should think carefully about what
this would mean," and I would like to

get the ball rolling by offering some
justifications for putting the banners
back up and, at least as importantly,
an argument for opening the discus-
sion to the broader Michigan com-
munity.
At the most basic level, the
banners symbolize the accom-
plishments of the 1992 and 1993
Michigan men's basketball teams.
I believe it does a disservice to the
efforts of all the members of those
teams to reduce the banners' sig-
nificance to the poor choices of one
member of those two squads, partic-
ularly since there's no evidence that
those choices garnered any com-
petitive advantage to the Michigan
teams, or were in any way respon-
sible for their success. As symbols of
athletic success, the banners belong
in the rafters of the Crisler Ceniter.
Of course, the meaning of the
banners goes beyond this. They also
symbolize the Fab Five, a group of
highly recruited freshmen who were
starters for Michigan throughout
most of the two seasons in question.
The Fab Five are widely regarded as
more than simply very talented and
effective basketball players. They
ushered in a cultural transforma-
tion of college basketball, the impact
of which has spread in every direc-
tion. It would not be too much to say
that players today at every level owe
something to the Fab Five.,
But this impact goes beyond the
well-known baggy shorts and black.
socks. It goes beyond their self-
expressiveness and exuberance on
the court. It goes beyond sports cir-
cles entirely. The Fab Five were part
of a movement that unashamedly
brought urban, African-American
culture to the center of American
athletic culture. They sparked then,
and continue to prompt today,
urgently needed discussions of race
and racism in American society. As
symbols of cultural innovation and
a courageous stand for diversity, the
Fab Five and the banners associated
with them represent the best that
Michigan can be.
To many, I know, the banners rep-
resent a scandal in which the ideal of
amateur athletics and the repttation
of the University were sullied. For
some, this may be sufficient reason
to keep them out of sight.
For me, on the contrary, it's an
additional reason to put them back
up. As a reminder of this scandal,
and of the larger, still unresolved
issues of the place of money in col-
lege athletics and of the place of ath-
letics in higher education, restoring
the banners shows that Michigan
is unafraid of a candid discussion
of these issues, including frankly

confronting its own participation in
the multi-million-dollar business.
To imagine that hiding the banners
away in the Bentley somehow signi-
fies that Michigan is immune to the
influence of big business in college
athletics seems to me at best naive.
But more importantly, it does a dis-
service to all in the University com-
munity who wish to examine these
issues forthrightly and to learn from
the examination.
Lastly, the banners represent
our past - a complex past both
inspiring and troubling. In having
such a past, the University is no
different from any of us, the indi-
viduals comprising it. We may feel
the impulse to turn our backs on
aspects of our past that trouble us.
But an important part of the pro-
cess of maturing with integrity, as
individuals, as a community and
as a society, involves opening our-
selves to that past. Restoring the
banners sets an example for mem-
bers of the Michigan community
and, indeed, for other universities
and social institutions in general,
that the best way to move forward
is by fearlessly incorporating an
understanding of that past into
the present as we orient ourselves
toward the future.
Thus, I currently believe the Uni-
versity should restore the banners
to Crisler. I feel even more strongly
that any decision on the fate of the
banners should be preceded by a
public discussion in the University
community.
Whatever else it may stand for, the
University certainly must stand for
the free exchange of ideas on mat-
ters of importance to its students,
faculty, staff, alumni and administra-
tors. This is what I try to exemplify
for and encourage in my students.
The banners offer our community
an important opportunity to discuss
publicly, and educate one another on
such issues as the ethics of amateur
athletics in the University, race and
racism and how we relate to trouble-
some aspects of our shared history.
Perhaps the result of such a discus-
sion will be that the University com-
munity decides to keep the banners
where they are. But a free and public
discussion of the banners, I believe,
is the only fitting way forthe Univer-
sity to honor its core values and thus
move forward with integrity
I respectfully call on President
Coleman, Athletic Director Dave
Brandon and all interested members
of the Michigan family to undertake
such a discussion.
Yago Colds is an associate professor
in the Comparitive Literature.

0
6


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 6, 2013 - 5A

Felicity 2.0.
'Americans' brings
thrills to Cold War

HUNGRY MAN*
Leave the gun, take the fish.
Acclaimed live-action
shorts tell big tales

Ke
up

Alre
most c
on tel
fied" a
of Ana
seems
anothe
its ha
"The
cans.";
backdr
later
the C
"The
cans"
to be
with.'
an int
ture fr
origin.
Russel
star c
clever
withoa
it pilot
"Th
KGB s
ing th
admin
and ifM
& Sist
lip Jen
averag
behind
memb.
netwo
ing to

ri Russell heats the American government. Noah
Emmerich ("Super 8") plays
with dynamic counterintelligence FBI agent
Stan Beeman, who complicates
performance the Jennings' cover when he and
his family move in across the
By ALEC STERN street.
For the Daily What makes "The Ameri-
cans" so compelling isn't the
eady home to some of the Cold War setting, but the rela-
ritically acclaimed dramas tionship between Elizabeth and
evision, including "Justi- Phillip. In just one episode, their
nd "Sons marriage is already one of the
rchy," FX most complicated and captivat-
to have ing in all of television, reminis-
er hit on The cent of "Breaking Bad" 's Walter
Ands with and Skyler White. Throughout
Ameri- A the feature-length pilot, Phillip
Set in the Pilot questions his future as a Russian
-op of the spy, while Elizabeth is as dedi-
years of Wednesdays cated to the motherland as ever.
old War, at 10 p.m. Their romantic relationship
Ameri- FX is problematic as well. It's clear
is a force that the two have a devotion
reckoned to one another, but Elizabeth's
The pilot episode provides strong allegiance to the KGB
riguing, emotional depar- and her complex past prevents
om most of the other, less complete commitment to her
al programs out there. Keri partner. Keri Russell's nuanced,
1 ("Felicity") leads an all- Emmy-caliber performance is
ast in this powerful and reason enough to tune in for a
espionage thriller that's, second episode, while Matthew,
ut a doubt, the best dramat- Rhys's Phillip will have you
t of the year. - rooting for the wrong side.
e Americans" follows two In addition to the multifac-
pies living in America dur- eted relationship between the
e early years of the Reagan two spies, the action sequences
istration. Played by Russell in "The Americans" are superb.
datthew Rhys ("Brothers Elizabeth and Phillip make for a
ers"), Elizabeth and Phil- formidable team in the nail-bit-
nings may seem like your ing opening in which they kid-
e American family - but nap a U.S. government liaison.
I closed doors, they're The Jennings continue to cause
ers of an interconnected trouble throughout, and the jux-
rk of Russian agents work- taposition of the two sides of
infiltrate and take down Russell's character (both badass

Russian spy and doting mother
of two) gives "The Americans"
another layer of exhilarating
drama.
Throughout its first season,
"The Americans" will have to
overcome the inevitable com-
parisons to Showtime's beloved
"Homeland." Though the FX
drama is set three decades prior
to the time of Carrie and Brody,
the counterintelligence and
behind-enemy-lines aspects
will no doubt draw similarities.
However, what "The Ameri-
cans" has going for it is a high
level of quality, both in cast and
content, that stands on its own.
"The Americans" has every-
thing you want from a dramatic
pilot. Sharp writing and sure-
handed storytelling make this
series the must-watch show of
the season. Russell's portrayal
of the enigmatic Elizabeth,
alongside strong supporting
players Rhys and Emmerich,
should have audiences aching
for another hour just as this one
ends. While FX is a good home.
for the series, it could just as
easily be on Showtime or HBO's
programming lineup. In fact,
the pilot episode of "The Ameri-
cans" is just as good, if not bet-
ter, than anything "Homeland"
did in it§ second seaso'.
While this may seem like high
praise for just one episode, the
pilot sets up what should be a
mysterious and thrilling journey
well worth taking. "The Ameri-
cans" is so fully realized and
sure of its vision that it seems
destined to become one of tele-
vision's great dramas.

By ANDREW MCCLURE
DailyArts Writer
Short films are tough. Twenty
minutes to shine or be outshined.
Like in poetry, every word and
every frame counts - evoking
extreme emotional temperature.
This year, nothing disappointed.
Disparate like mismatched socks,
each film gently shakes hands
with its audience and then builds
realrapport. They're about death,
erasers, - acceptance, conformity
and ambition, respectively. With
specificity, they cover the after-
life, memory decay, saving grace,
paternal discipline and cheerful
buoyancy.
"Death of a Shadow" (Belgium)
As its contenders all tell great
stories, "Death" creates one. The
core of its creative plotline finds
itself ina sort of museum of pho-
tographed deathshadows. Think:
silhouettes of shadows. Con-
fused? That's what I'm here for.
Our unassuming mustached pro-
tagonist plays the photographer,
a dead man repaying his "debt"
by photographing the shadows of
people as they die.
Our photographer's problem
bifurcates: hate for his afterlife
profession and love for his aban-
doned wife. His dilemma wors-
ens.
Director Tom Van Avermaet
works in sync with his produc-
tion designer to illustrate a pur-
gatory where fun comes to die.
Upon reaching a thousand cap-

funny yet socially suggestive.
The opening aerial shot of our
hero bathing in a tub of murky
blood-water unlocks the door
to an unconventional narrative.
Seconds from deleting himself
with a blade, a corded telephone
rings. It's Iis hateful sister. She's
in desperate need of his help,
reiterating how much of a "last,
last resort" he is. He somehow
agrees, "OK."
Sis needs him to watch over
her adorable, sassy daughter.
Meeting her uncle for the first
time, the girl is not having it. She
insists on following "the list" of
permitted places and inquires
about his pathetic life.
Seasoned short-story writer
Shawn Christensen, who also
plays our hero, tells the tale of the
familyoutcast we all could tell but
dance around. Deeper, he expli-
cates how easily relationships can

be sever
yet also
abandon
consider
you mor
what "C
Th
On
in
"Buzka

red (or never even spark).
can be rekindled. Never
a loved ones, all things
red, because they need.
re than they know. That's
urfew" teaches.
ere's always
e tearjerker
i the batch.
shi Boys" (Afghani-
stan)

game played with a dead goat
instead of a ball). Both boys
inspired by the guts and kinesis
of the game, the urchin declares
his newly minted pursuit tojoin
the ranks of Buzkashi riders.
The less ambitious boy concedes
to workingunder his blacksmith
father forever.
Creator Sam French leverages
current-day Afghan landscape
(and the apparent approval of
the Afghanistan Ministry of
Information and Culture) to
color a crude drawing of how
many lives are spent entirely
under a parent's tutelage. There
seems tobe little range of move-
ment for innovation or recre-
ation. But sometimes, someone
just needs solid teaching to
locate his talents.
Asad (South Africa)
A good drama infused with
timely laughs:creates first-rate
motion pictures. A brief banana
in linear lips can do wonders:
a smile. "Asad" is not bereft of
laughs, even with its solemn set-
ting in war-ridden Somalia.
As his older friends set sail as
pirates to overtake yachts and
other ships, Asad is stuck - too
young for combat, He claims
some of the older soldiers are
"novices" while he knows the
topography and currents better
than his seniors.
He finally gets his chance to
chase his "magnificent catch"
using an elder's boat. His course
randomly leads him to a yacht
where he finds something he can
only title "a white lion."
Commercial director Bryan
Buckley creates tangible value
in the form of laughs and smiles
with "Asad." He enlightens
audiences that although the
Somali people "have lost their
country," they hold onto "their
sense ofhope." Places like Soma-
lia need Asads. They need hope
because there is still so much to
be thankful for. Defogging your
pessimism goggles is the hard
part.

New 'Harm' keeps it simple

By PROMA KHOSLA
Daily Arts Writer
Ever since Hippocrates wrote
"do no harm" in ancient Greece,
the three words have echoed
ominously in
Western soci-
ety. In NBC's
new Thursday Do No Harm
night drama,
the title has a Pilot
few layers of Thursdays
meaning. at10 p.m.
It alludes to
the Hippocrat- NBC
ic Oath taken
by all doctors
from the Hippocratic Corpus.
It refers to the protagonist's
work as chief of neurosurgery
and his promise to always do
right by his patients. But most
of all, it haunts every scene with
the threat that harm may befall
these characters, and that it will
be anything but an accident.
"Do No Harm" tells the story
of Steven Pasquale's ("Rescue
Me") Dr. Jason Cole (or as it says
on the door to his office, J. Cole),
a classic, well-intentioned doc-
tor with all the promise of Jack
Shephard but a whole new trove
of demons. His problem? A par-
ticularly venomous case of Dis-
sociative Identity Disorder. For
12 hours a day, Jason Cole ceases
to exist. In his place is Ian Price,
a rough and vengeful identity
Cole has spent his life trying to
stifle.
At the outset of the pilot, we
find Cole during a peaceful peri-

od. He
mental
into su
that Pr
(when.
alities
that Pri
nity to1
is now:
"Do
strengt
it simpl
tent sur
excessi
patient
the pat:
tic aba
introdu
to Ian
introdu
sibility
teaming
lives -
perhap:
plan is
allow I
his life.
for all.

has been trying experi- Olivia serves as the only anchor in
drugs which put him Ian Price's personality; his obses-
ch a deep sleep at night sion with her bordered on stalk-
'ice is unable to awaken ing and his resurgence threatens
do these dueling person- her life as much as Cole's.
sleep?). It so transpires Other than that, there are few
ice has built up his immu- characters introduced to over-
the drugs and the demon whelm the audience or subtract
unleashed. from the gravitas of Cole's pre-
No Harm" 's greatest dicament. Phylicia Rashad ("The
h is that the show keeps Cosby Show") shines in her few
e. Cole is a highly compe- moments as Cole's boss, com-
geon, but we don't spend manding the screen with envi-
ve time with him and his able presence in every scene she
s. The one time we do, inhabits.
ient is a victim of domes- The best part is the first time
use, and Cole cleverly we witness Cole's transforma-
ces her abusive husband tion into Ian Price: He's in the
Price's fists. That scene shower at a dingy motel when
ces the intriguing pos- he begins to tremble. Panicked,
of these battling minds Cole turns to the steam-covered
g up to better each other's door and begins to write with
a plotline for the future, his fingers: "DO NO HARM." It
s. In the meantime, Cole's should be the tackiest interpel-
to strike up a truce, to lation of a show title in the his-
Price to once again live tory of pilots - but right before
only to end it once and he completes the "M" a hand
swipes across the condensation,
wiping away the words of Hip-
pocrates and leaving in their
whole new place the rancorous counte-
nance of Ian Price.
leaning to At its worst, "Do No Harm"
could fall victim to formula,
)ctor Jekyll. dragging-week to week between
Cole's life as -a daylight doctor
and Price's nighttime escapades
and terrifying trips to Olivia's
e's also the mysterious house. At its best, the show has
(Ruta Gedmintas, "The the potential tobea truly memo-
"), an ex-girlfriend who rable drama, unencumbered by
ed with both sides of embellishments and unafraid of
dentity and ultimately had causing the characters a little
away to start her life over. harm.

tured shadows (fastened to a wall We've seen it a million
space by large daggers), his "mas- times: Stringently fathered boy
ter" will allow him reentry to the befriends free-spirited bastard.
world. With this added existen- Why do filmmakers continue
tialistic layer, a tragic love story to spin this tired tale? Because
emerges. audiences find common ground,
no matter their "cool" or "lame"
"Henry" (Canada) parental backgrounds. "Buz-
kashi" delivers two Afghani
There's always at least one boys, a blacksmith's son and a
tearjerker in the short film cat- street urchin, who learn from
egory. "Henry" is it. All too often each other's stark differences.
do "sophisticated" moviegoers One day, the urchin takes his
reject this emotion of salty dis- conservative friend to a match
charges - they call it "cheap" of Buzkashi (a rough polo-like
and "mawkish." Viewer tears
are almost always legitimate.
Henry, an aged pianist,
plans for his final recital duet
with his wife, Maria, an adroit
violinist. His lovely daughter
will attend and a culminat-
ing moment will unfold. Then
he wakes up. Told his Maria
passed away last year, Henry is prgam t m e'n daC
beside himself. DepartmentfDance21
Filmmaker Yan England
sets two of music's most beau-
tiful instruments in perfect ah.egah . y Bil T.JI e
harmony with the respective faut Am' hvse esc
owners - lovers. It uplifts and Sandra Torijano
despite all the dementia and
senility associated with old
age because it dives into high-
lighting the good memories by
using the bad ones as crutches. February 8 & 9 at8P
"Have I been a good man?" February 10 at 2 PM
Henry begs to his daughter, Power Center
barely recallingher own name.
Intrepid questions like these
make "Henry" exactly that:
intrepid.
"Curfew" (USA)
USA! USA! USA! The rawest
of them all, "Curfew" tackles Students"1 with 1
themes head-on and without Legu Tike ff*
remorse. Not unlike the guy 734-764-2538
who shows up to a wedding tickets.music.umich.edu
rocking a tuxedo t-shirt, it's

A
n
DC

Ther
Olivia
Borgias
interact
Cole's is
to move


6A - Wednesday, February 6, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

fiA - Wedn~sday, February 6, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Still a better love story than 'Twilight.'
Animatedwonders

'Paperman' stands
out among cartoon
competitors
By MATT EASTON
Daily Arts Writer
Short films refresh. The com-
pact nature of the stories forces
intense focus, yielding a greater
appreciation for every frame,
every second. And, while larger
works may revolve around mul-
tiple narratives, themes and char-
acters, the true glory of a short
comes from its immersion into
pure emotional resonance. But
let's not assume "pure" means
"simple" - specifically in the ani-
mated category, where oftentimes
the style and method of the ani-
mation is just as on display as the
stories themselves.
And what kind of stories do we
wantto see?Personally,short films
should be little rollercoasters of
emotion, with occasional dips into
tears and with an ultimate ending
that's a soothing, feeling-affirming
crescendo. Three of 2013's Oscar
entries do just that in innovative
and visuallystunning ways.
"Paperman" is love at first
sight. A black-and-white melding
of hand-drawn and 3-D anima-
tion recalls times past while still
remaining modern. It tells a heart-
felt tale of glances that turn into
love, boy meets girl, Sure, noth-
ing new, but who cares? Classic
themes are classic for a reason.
The Disney short charms with
simplicity. And while its visuals
delight the eyes and its plot lifts
the heart, it is the score that pow-
ers the short toward wonderful

heights. Trickling notes carry you
alongside the protagonists, and it
evokes amagical hope, abeliefthat
dances between the screen and
the audience. "Paperman" builds
slowly. Every step draws us in,
dares us to dream.
Lush water-colored landscapes
backdrop the magnificent "Adam
and Dog." The short reimag-
ines Genesis with the addition of
Man's best friend, Dog. The natu-
ral world, Paradise, is drawn with
an almost Miyazaki-an care. The
style moves from a breathing, rich
forest to stark desertswith mature
ease; and while the backgrounds
are usually immobile paintings,
the inhabitants are not. Adam
lumbers about the forest, a grin
plastered on his face, as panthers
stalk sleekly and Dog-acts ... well,
like a living dog. Dog playfully
leaps throughlilies, chases fireflies
intermixed with stars (an eye-wid-
eningscene) and plays catch.
And, if the visuals don't steal
you, the story will. "Adam and
Dog" reaffirms loyalty and love.
It shows man's callousness - and
Dog's forgiveness. "Adam and
Dog" is a tear-inducing, thought-
ful imagining of Paradise.
"Head Over Heels" is a scintil-
lating stop-motion experiment
portraying an old couple with
opposite gravitational pulls living
under one roof. This is a nice con-
cept, but sadly for many animated
films, concept becomes the sole
driving motivation for creation.
This can be positive when the
concept is supported by power-
ful feeling and characters, or less
than great when the concept ends
up as a giant "look what I can do!"
Thankfully "Head Over Heels"
moves past this trick. The true

center of the piece is the emotional
distance between the old couple
- magnified by their contrast-
ing worlds. The concept is used to
grow the story, not to substitute it.
Thesense ofbitternessis poignant,
but the ending eventually wraps
everything up in a realistic and
touchingmanner.
"Fresh Guacamole," on the
other hand, is a concept short that
relies too much on its concept. In
fact, it really is nothing more. The
film shows a pair of hands making
guacamole out of familiar-objects.
While admittedly fun to watch (a
Christmas light is a pepper!), this
sort of short feels unfulfilling in
comparison to the masterworks of
"Adam and Dog" and "Paperman."
Still though, it's engaging, pithy
and very creative, so it's hard not
to smile while watching.
By far the worst and most out-
of-place short in this year's entries
is "Maggie Simpson in 'The Lon-
gest Daycare.' " Bad because
most jokes miss their marks; out-
of-place because the ubiquity of
"The Simpsons"universe feels too
corporate for a short film compe-
tition. The short brims with ref-
erential humor, which provokes
a sort of bemused "Oh, yeah I
get that" expression. The style
is, obviously, "The Simpsons."
Ultimately, this short seems like
a waste of space in such a limited
amount of nomirnations.
That being said, "Paperman,"
"Adam and Dog" and "Head Over
Heels" deserve to be seen, by
hopefully a wide audience. They
are all works of immense human-
ness, which remind that we don't
need much to feel a whole lot.
These short films are better than
most bigmovies.

AMALGAM
Is that tongue licking the Lord?
ILi B is the real badass

By THOMAS KLEPACZ
DailyArts Writer
Nearly 10 months ago, a cer-
tain, casually 18-year-old New
York rapper released possibly
the greatest mixtape of the year.
It was called 1999, an ode to the
days when Supreme was a brand
that only baggy-jeaned New
York skaters knew about and
when Nautica rivaled the life-
style authenticity of Ralph Lau-
ren. The days of "true hip hop,"
where simple looping drums
and drab piano highlighted pure
lyrical prowess, where content
- the "meaning" of your lyrics,
your own relevance to them -
mattered over everything else.
The good ol' days, when rappers
like Lil B couldn't have survived
among the waves of hip-hop
greatness that sprung from the
"bEast Coast." Joey Bada$$ was
four years old at the time.
On 1999 - released solely over
the Internet and championed by
Internet mogul Hypebeast and
Nah Right frequenters alike - a
member of Joey Bada$$'s crew,
Capital STEEZ (since deceased),
took an old-school "shot" at Lil
B. Referring to the Bay Area rap-
per's alter ego, STEEZ yelped,
"Tell the BasedGod don't quit
his day job!" to a gap in drum
sound, accenting both his emo-
tional cadence and the impor-
tance of his words. To Joey
Bada$$ and his Pro Era crew (as
he calls them), a rapper like Lil
B - a man who gained a legion
of cult-ltke followers purely

from his own devotion to social
media, a man who released a
series of mixtapes named after
impossible flame colors (Pink
Flame is his newest) - seems
like a complete joke. A man who
could never make it in their
hailed golden era, the 1999 of
their high-school imaginations.
What Joey Bada$$ and his
crew didn't imagine was the
trouble that would come from
this line. Earlier this week, Lil
B released "I'm the Bada$$," a
10-month-late response to the
"diss." Over a tweaking soul sam-
ple and heavy drums (a sound
generally uncharacteristic of
Lil B), the BasedGod threat-
ened young Joey, telling him
"If you think / You're a badass /
I'll turn you into trash / You lil'
b*tch." Sure, the song itself was
nothing special - Lil B barely
made any personal attacks on
Joey, instead seeming to direct
the song at the overwhelming
presence of his constant "hat-
ers" - but the overall attack was
tremendous - the Blitzkrieg of
BasedWorld, if you will. Within
hours of the track releasing, "Lil
B" was trending on Twitter, Joey .
Bada$$ had gained thousands of
hate-mongering followers and
innumerable BasedGod fans
(Task Force, as they're called)
had directed their attentions
towards defending Lil B and
destroying the "Bada$$" image
of Joey. They succeeded.
They and Lil B, that is. Joey
Bada$$ has since released his
own diss track, titled "Don't

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

Quit Your Day Job," a completely
underwhelming response to the
man he claimed was "too easy"
to defeat. The man Joey claimed
he wouldn't "waste his time" on
(but then spent days recording
a diss, arguing on Twitter and
addressing the situation to vari-
ous media outlets). The man who
ultimately led Joey to delete his
Twitter account, leaving only
his Tumblr, addressing ques-
tions fromvarious Tumblr girls
offering their own condolences
("I'm so sorry you're having such
a hard time with all this Lil B
sh*t") for Joey's now tragic situa-
tion. Doesn't seem like it was "too
easy," does it?
The Joeyvs.
BasedGod war.
The issue with Joey Bada$$
(and the rest of the internet-
hating contingency) is his own
apparent naivete to the reali-
ties of modern rap.. While Joey
dreamt of VHS recordings and
busted tapes, Lil B constructed
an immense following of dedi-
cated fans through a constantly
entertaining Twitter account
("THEYLOOKAT ME AND SEE
A BLACK MAN? I FEEL LIKE A
WHITE WOMAN") and a note-
filled Tumblr mysteriously titled
"Dior Paint," where Lil B spends
his time making memes of him-
self and re-blogging pictures of
various fans.
His raps aren't to be ignored,
either - Lil B could be the most
versatile rapper in hip hop, a
man who can simultaneously
release songs called "I'm Miley
Cyrus" and "Illusions of Gran-
deur." The man who sprung pro-
ducers like Clams Casino from
his mother's New Jersey home
into mass popularity through
his artistic ear, the man who
invented a style of free-form rap
now called "Based Freestyling,"
the man who tweets dedica-
tions to cancer victims, police
officers and his endless females
alike. The man who broke down
in tears in one of his most recent
videos (for the immensel'y emo-
tional song "I Love You," built
around a Final Fantasy piano
sample) because he was so taken
aback by the beauty of the ani-
mals in the pet store he filmed
it in. "I just ... wanna spread the
love," he said, tears sliding down
his face. "I just got so much love
in my heart, man."
Joey Bada$$ can scoff at Lil
B's skills, YouTube commenters
can lament over his influence on
hip hop, and the Grammys can
mysteriously remove him from
a performance competition, but
The BasedGod's material stands
for itself. Lil B has an entirely
unique perspective on both hip
hop and the world around him,
he makes boatloads of entertain-
ing, creative music and he gar-
ners respect from tween girls,
old men and kittens across the
globe (He made a song featuring
his pet cat, Keke. Look it up).
He is an artist in its tru-
est form, a man who has saved
hip hop by changing the very

parameters which the art form
has been stuck within for years.
He's not the one who needs to
watch out for his day job - that's
the Bada$$. "I need some time
off that sh*t," Joey wrote on his
Tumblr. "Do you know how it
feels to know the whole world
is watching you ... it kinda sux
... but I'm not gone tho my n*gga
I'll be back just taking a break."
Take your time, Joey - I'll be lis-
tening to Pink Flame.

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, February 7, 2013
P K NG!NOW LEASING FALL 2013! F+RE ALE
Great Location! 721 Church, I hd opts
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle Gstudiosquiet/greatforhmaturestus-
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis dents! Across from East Quad. free
ACROSS 5 Baba who 46 MIT's 56 Automatic www.churchstreetrenals.com
1 FomeIdol" outwitedthieves newpaper, with transmission2734-320-1244.
udge, totfans 7 Shillitg'sufive 'The" gear . 2013-1473-214. CLUMSY HEARTS
4 Head oftSlytherin 8 Soldier in a war 48 Tryst at 58 Skin pictures, PARKING FOR SALE A slightly misguided romance
House, in Potter film, e.g. twelve briefly *Great Locations EFFICIENCY 1&2 BDRM. Fall By Hysteria Molt
books 9 Whatfreelancers 51 Gets rid of 59 Doodlet ride *Central Campus 2013-14. -750200. Most include heat Available via Amazon.com
9 "The Hobbit' may work on? 52 St. Anthony's 60 Not quite a *Great Rates & water. Prkg extra cost where avail. And weep for literature
dragon 10 Star givers, often home crowd, so they 734-761-8000 cappomanagement.com 734-996-1991.
14 Rower's tool 11 Stout relative 54 Magnetic say www.primesh.com
15 Fax ancestor 12 "My dog has induction unit 61 Swing or jazz WWW.800FULLER.COM
16 Gdansk dance fleas" instrument 55 Aptlfmt name o follower (734) 769-7520H
18 n uctapnon1this 9 Ap e Fleming's 62 "'Tain' rebuttalE1U& 2bdrm.,modern, clean, quiet
puzzle time Goldfinger 63 Squealer S IC5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
20 Food fish 21unternational ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: 2Irs amlyflwerPcnCsAwEh
23Lg bone micnme M C C C S M I L E C B S HELP WANTED
24lnamorato 24 Proveotherwise A L I A S TO DO S ORE T
25 Goesout to sea 26Italian bowling H U N G A R Y J A C K W A X PREMEDADVISOR.COM
2Bygone dpgger 27ameasclr E C C E H O M O I R O N Y Your personal advisor for all things
31 Coketmpetor 27 Run, a mIsors R K 0 A L I D E M U R related to preparing, applying, and
3Reaplnye" 35 Pirei Ban? G R E E C E M O N K E Y getting accepted to medical school.
35 Spans custard 32 Bounder F L O R A R AM S E SA Dental and veterinary school included. STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM F O B L
38 Curved 33 Old enough 9 U R E F A I R Y 0 R A L Don't Wait! Paid survey takers need in A2.
39 Small, numbered 34 __ among thieves C N S P A N C I S 5 U Contact me today to know you're on 100% FREE tojoin. Click on Surveys.
0-Acrses 3 Hood ncarver Q A T A R the right track!
40 Childtet me,37Brzn'uauho CL I T C N A N 0 A B O
familiarly 40 Children's author THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE, WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
43 Poet Pound Asquith O F T E N A L S 0 R A N S organization, format. All disciplines. Summer - Make lifelong friends. The YET?
44 Bil' adventurous 41 Daniel- Kim: P A R T 0 N G A T R CKS 734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net Islusd House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
partner "Hawaii Five-0" iU Z I E /ER s Y av EMnCEE ne r nn ,,-rhn nal ra


45Swellhead actor SE C RAGASPAY S_
47 Caesar'u 1 42 BHO but not IC R G S P Y
came" uW xwordeditor@aol.com 0207/13
49 "Jeopardy!" 1 2 3 4 7s 8 n 9 10 11 12 13
creator Griffin
50 Seelfrom afar 14 1it16
53 Set ofleight
57 ' Sketch:toy in7 in8it
59 Pretender
60 Whatyoull draw 20 21 22
in thisgrid if you 2 25 2 27 2
18-Across with
six straight lines 29 t 31 32
64 _ Lanka
65 Reprimander's m3 4 it an o37 s
sap pingspot?
66 uaristEddy 3 to4at
67 Actress Ulmann
68 Caravan
stopovems4 7 4
69 Luttlodeity
70 Highcard 49 o n1 s1 so it to 45
DOWN i7 in 50
1 Knightgame
2 Hawaii's 6t 264
Pineapple Island o nn s67
3 Dental brand
4 Title subject of a 69 70
G.B. Shaw play
5 Broadway light By MikeoBuckley nn as

Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com


ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
1 Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
**3 BEDROOM HOUSE** Newly
renovated. Near Yost. Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
SAVE OVER $10,000 per year.
WHY PAY $1,500 FOR A BED???
Our bedrooms ON SUNIVERSITY
start at $660.00
**Rent & Save $150.00**
Call 734-761-2680 to find out how.
Visit us at universitytowers-mi.com

I, JYOTHI RUPENDRASINGH
VARMA age 48 resident of Ann Arbor
Michigan USA, will also be known as
Jyothi K Varma (United States pass-
prt) vide affidavit No. 31AA 681622
dated 02/05/13.
I, PRITHVIRAJSINGH RUPEN-
DRASINGH VARMA age 21 resident
of Ann Arbor Michigan USA, will also
be known as Prithvirajsingh R Varma
(United States passport) vide affidavit
No. 3lAA 681621 dated 02/05/13.

DO THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE.


(c)2013 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

vav ii o




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, February 6, 2013 - 7A


BUCKEYES
From Page 1A
ulation, knocked one down in the
opening 30 seconds of overtime,
which proved to be the game-
winning basket.
The hard-fought battle gave
Michigan coach John Beilein
a win on his 60th birthday and
kept the Wolverines (8-2 Big Ten,
21-2 overall) squarely in the con-
ference title hunt. By the time
Beilein addressed the media, it
was past midnight and his hectic
birthday was over.
"Thank God the birthday's
over, but it was a good one,"
Beilein said, laughing. "This
added a few more years (to my
age). ... That's why the birthday
thing - it's usually in a stressful
situation.
"I'm not a big birthday guy,
but this was a good present."
The teams continually trad-
ed baskets in the game's final"
minutes. With just more than a
minute left, Burke found fresh-
man forward Mitch McGary
wide open on the baseline to
give Michigan a 72-20 lead.
Ohio State tied it up on the
other end when Buckeye for-
ward LaQuinton Ross col-
lected an offensive rebound
and found Lenzelle Smith Jr.
open on the perimeter for a
deep two-point bucket. Burke
missed a 3-pointer as regula-
tion expired to send the game
into overtime.
Burke's miss, so similar to his
miss at the buzzer in Columbus
that Craft told Burke in the final
moments of regulation that he
was having "deja vu," was drawn
up for the Wolverine point guard
to penetrate and at least try to
draw a foul.
"We settled there a little bit,

but if it goes in, it looks great,"
Beilein said.
After taking aone-point lead
into halftime, the 10th-ranked
Buckeyes' hot shooting from
the first half didn't skip a beat.
Ohio State (17-5, 7-3) built an
eight-point lead in the open-
ing seven minutes of the second
stanza:
But after a three-point play
from freshman forward Glenn
Robinson, Hardaway took over
to keep Michigan in it, scoring 15
of the Wolverines' next 19 points
- all from five-consecutive
3-point makes. With Michigan
down one, redshirt sophomore
Jon Horford blocked an Ohio
State layup, firing up the sold-out
Crisler Center heading into the
official timeout.
"There were some times
where we could've quit," Beilein
said. "There's some times where
some other teams, going way
back, they just turn around
(and say), 'This is just too much.
I'm getting every shot blocked,
they're getting easy baskets ...
it's not our day.' We didn't have
that at all today, and that was
huge."
Hardaway's fourth 3-pointer,
moments after play resumed,
gave the Wolverines a two-point
advantage, but the Buckeyes
went on another run to retake
the lead. The Miami native, who
Burke said was "definitely the
player of the game," finished
with 23 points on 6-of-9 3-point
shooting.
"Some of them were heat
checks," Hardaway said. "If the
ball's going in, the ball's going in.
I can't do nothing about it."
Added Beilein: "He was terrif-
ic. We couldn't dial up plays (for
him) fast enough.",
Four other Wolverines -
Burke, Robin- son, McGary

and freshman guard Nik Staus-
kas - registered double-digit
points. Bukre finished with 16
points and eight assists, despite
being seemingly stifled by Craft
all night.
"Those two, you're watching
two of the finest point guards
in America play against each
other," Beilein said. "Craft is
like none other I've ever seen....
That was a great battle and they
have a lot of respect for each
other, too."
Craft finished with 11 points,
while DeShaun Thomas led the
Buckeyes with 17 points.
McGary's best half as a Wol-
verine wasn't enough to stop
Michigan from entering the
locker room with just its sec-
ond home halftime deficit of
the year. The freshman scored
a game-high 10 first-half points
and pulled down five rebounds,
while also recording two steals.
After Ohio State jumped out
to a 4-1 lead, Michigan scored
the game's next 12 points and
led by as many as 10 points, but
after going 5:25 without a single
field goal, the Buckeyes stormed
back. With two minutes left in
the period, they regained the
lead, and after a Wolverine bas-
ket, the Buckeyes regained the
one-point lead, 31-30, and took
it into halftime.
Michigan connected on five
3-pointers in the first half but
was unable to score a single point
in transition. Ohio State shot 50
percent from the field, while its
stifling defense blocked three
shots and held Burke to just five
points and two assists.
The Wolverines managed
to outrebound the Buckeyes,
despite getting just four minutes
- all in the first half - from its
regular post man, redshirt junior
Jordan Morgan.

COLEMAN
From Page 1A
questions about the widening gap
of access to higher education and
its effect on the University. Eun
cited a speech by Bill Gates that
addressed the difference between
reaching higher education for
people with and without access to
academic and financial resources.
Coleman said the University
has been able to continuously
achieve "an uncommon educa-
tion for the common man," in the
words of former University Presi-
dent James Angell. She added that
though the University accepts an
equal amount of students from
each sect of socioeconomic sta-
tuses, there is still the possibility
that some high-school students
from lower income areas may
be discouraged from applying
because they believe they won't
be able to afford an education
here.
"The challenges that we're all
facing is how do we change that
dynamic, how do we get that mes-
sage to students everywhere,"
Coleman said. "You shouldn't
be afraid to apply. We'll be able
to give you the financial aid you
need once you get in."
Since writing a letter to Presi-
dent Barack Obama last year
about support for the country's
universities, Coleman said she's
working at the state and federal
levels to increase state appropria-
tion and federal legal support for

public universities. She added
that she has seen increasing sup-
port from executives of multiple
corporations in the state in the
past year as a result.
"Everybody's got to play a
part," Coleman said. "Tuition will
always play a role, but we have to
have tuition balanced with finan-
cial aid. I'm actually optimistic
because I think people are begin-
ning to realize that the U.S. has
a fantastic higher education sys-"
tem."
Coleman also gave some
insight into the University's focus
for the next capital campaign, in
which the administration deter-
mines the focus of fall fundrais-
ing efforts.
LSA senior Feiman Ding told
Coleman she was concerned that
her one-credit orchestra ensem-
ble class is losing participants
because of the University's policy
on increasing tuition for students
takingmore than 18credits.
In response, Coleman said she
hopes to challenge issues like this
with the University's next capi-
tal campaign, which will focus
primarily on student support.
Since each school and college
can propose ideas for the cam-
paign, Coleman said she will talk
to Christopher Kendall, the dean
of the School of Music, Theatre &
Dance, support to students with
this issue.
"I think the degree to which we
can engage students in the arts,
even if that's not going to be their
main focus, will impact their lives

tremendously," Colemansaid.
In light of several crime alerts
issued recently, Rackham student
Huichao Ma said she is concerned
for her safety on campus.
Coleman believes the Universi-
ty has a safe campus, but warned
students to use safety precautions
regularly.
Referencing a report by Ann
Arbor Police that a taxi driver
raped a University student, Harp-
er said the University intends to
work with the city of Ann Arbor
on changing current laws that
allow unregistered taxis - many
registered as limosuines - to pick
up passengerswithin the city lim-
its.
In an interview after the event,
Harper said the fireside chats are
an invaluable forum in which
Coleman can receive student
feedback.
"It gives her the ability to hear
what's going on for herself, and
then when she's with faculty
members and deans, she'll share it
with us," Harper said. "She'll hear
it, and then if there's something
that we can do to make the place
better for students, she'll follow it
up. She really takes it seriously."
After the event, Rackham stu-
dent Chris Bennett, who asked
about a long-term approach to
integrating North Campus and
Central Campus, said he thought
Coleman was very approachable.
"If you had a problem, issue, a
complaint - good or bad - she
was open to hearing it, and I
thought it was great."


DEBT
From Page 1A
recovered.
The scale of the crisis was due
to the nature of the housing mar-

II I

The public-private g

F

C2 -

Percent and number of full-time freshmen who received any student loans

For-profit Universities
DeV University
Universiy, Phoenix,
Michigan Metro Detroit
3 647
6 10

Non-profit Universities
Grand Michigan University
Valley State State
University University Micigan
2,417 3,643 2,412
2,272 *3,616 2,f397

ket in which the subprime loans
were being handed out by finan-
cial firms to borrowers who were
unlikely to make their payments,
Kimball said.
"Usually, the big crashes come
after some sort of big increase in
asset prices,"
WHAT'S HAPPENING NOW
College affordability has been
a policy issue for decades, and
changes in legislation and state
funding in recent decades cou-
pled with rising tuition rates have
added to the ever-increasing debt.
Under Title IV of the Higher
Education Amendments of 1992,
private, for-profit institutions
became eligible for federal loans
and grants.
According to the Institute for
College Access and Success, the
average amount of student loans
received by full-time freshmen at
Devry University, was $9,017 in
the 2010 to 2011 school year and
$9,154 at the University of Phoe-
nix-Metro Detroit Campus. Both
schools are classified as private,
for-profit, four-year institutions.
In the same data, the University
of Michigan, Grand Valley State
University and Michigan State
University, which are all public,
four-year institutions, reported
$6,502, $6,288 and $6,207 for the
same year, respectively.
Donald Grimes, senior research
specialist and economist at the
University's Institute for Research.
for Labor, Employment and the
Economy, said too much money is
being given to for-profit institu-
tions, adding that students often
are unable to earn as much with
those types of degrees.
"The government became too
generous," Grimes said. "They
were giving (loans) to go to ... for-
profit colleges and universities,
and more people are actually not
making money after they get a
degree to repay the charges."
All 100 percent of full-time
freshmen students at Devry
received student loans in the 2010
to 2011 school year, compared to
37 percent at Michigan, 66 per-
cent at Grand Valley and 50 per-
cent at Michigan State.
Grimes said loan debt is grow-
ing at about 10 to 15 percent per
year, which is similar to the rate
mortgage loans were growing
before the recession.
Worsening the problem, 9.1
percent of students default on
their federal student loans within
two years, according to the U.S.
Department of Education report
from Sept. 2012.
Under the Health Care and Edu-
cation Reconciliation Act of 2010,
the Federal Direct Loan Pfogram
was instituted and banks were cut
out of the lending process.
The increased dependence on
the government for loans would
cause it to be the institution that
would suffer most from loan
defaults.
"When people don't make the
payments on the loans, the person
who holds the bond portfolio will
go to the federal government and
say, you guys pay," Grimes said.

Grimes added that private
lenders make up only about 10
percent of all loans made, putting
the majority of the burden on the
government.
Unlike mortgage loans, there are
no assets that can be seized to make
up for unpaid debts, leading to a
direct financial hit to those lending.
Among forefront policy issues,
student loan debt isn't high on the
list, and was only briefly mentioned
inPresidentBarackObama'ssecond
inauguraladdress.
Grimes said in the cases of
2008 and 2013 loan debt, lowered
standards for lending made it
easier to own a home or go to col-
lege, and the nature of these loans
makes for "an unnerving paral-
lel" between the past and present
situations.
WHAT COMES NEXT?
There is no clear solution to the
mounting debt that student loans
are creating; however, University
expertshavebeen considering the
future of the issue.
Education Prof. Edward St.
John said federal loan programs
aren't running as proficiently as
they should.
"Pell Grants has been an obama
issue. He sacrificed funding for
other need-based grant programs
in order to maintain Pell, but we
haven't maintained Pell at a level
that is efficient to pay the average
need ofalow-income student," St.
John said.
He suggests education fund-
ing should be worked out within
states in order to increase levels
of efficiency and fairness in policy
for such programs.
Low community college fund-
ing adds to the attractiveness of
for-profit institutions, leading to
higher completion rates for such
trade-specific schools compared
to less-costly community schools.
St. John said the problem lies
in the inaction of past generations
and explains the current admin-
istration must work to decide
the future attitude of the nation
towards student loan debt.
"In general, we haven't faced
up to the issue as a society as to
whether we want to be a lending
nation or not," St. John said.
Kimball, the economics profes-
sor, said the current pessimism
will prevent any major student
loan debt crisis fromoccurring on
the same scale as the 2008 mort-
gage debt crisis.
"There will always be some
losses on student loans," Kimball
said.."I don't see anything sudden
happening."
Grimes said it is important
to continue to encourage col-
lege enrollment and lending for
all socioeconomic backgrounds;
however, caution must be exer-
cised in which institutions the
investments go to. He added that
along with potential reforms,
standards for lending should be
tightened on the federal level.
"It's really hard to think about
what's happening, what sort of
monster we may have set up here.
We don't need another financial
crisis."

by Iul-time freshmen wobroe
N4OS4 4 ' * 9 / 4r 010 4 0
. a's ~ iv t P s) e ~'5Ol e - S ,y Ss 9 *-

Michigan State
University

Grand Valley'
State
University

University
of
Michigan

DeVry
University, University of
Michigan Phoenix, Metro
Detroit Campus

Design by Nick Cruz
Source: The Institute for College Access and Success


Sports

8A - Wednesday, February 6, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


I

TODD NEEDLE
Junior guard Tim HardawayiJr. ignited the crowd with tive straight 3-painters. In that stretch, Hardaway scared 15 at 19 paints tar Michigan, and hriefly gave the Wolverines a lead. Hardaway ieished with 23 paints an 6-at-9 shaating from deep.

This time, Burke
outmatches Craft
in filal seconds of
instant classic
By STEVEN BRAID
Daily Sports Editor
One day prior to Michigan's
76-74victory against Ohio State on
Tuesday, sophomore guard Trey
Burke took to the podium and
declared, quite emphatically, that
it was Michigan vs. Ohio State,
and not Burke vs. Aaron Craft.
But late in the contest, as the
two teams
slugged OHIO STATE 74
their way MICHIGAN 76
into over-
time, there were the two point
guards, dueling against each
other, trying to will their respec-
tive teams to a victory.
There was Burke, opening the
extra period with a 3-pointer, and
there was Craft answering mint
utes later with a layup. There'was
Craft, making Burke look foolish
as he stripped the ball from him
with less than 30 seconds remain-
ing. And there was Burke, deter-
mined to atone for his miscue,
blocking a Craft pull-up jumper
with eight seconds left in the con-
test.
Yes, the Wolverines edged outa
four-point victory in overtime, but
the score could have easily read:

Burke, 3, Craft 2, as Burke's three
points were the difference in the
extra stanza.
"You're watching two of the fin-
est point guards in America play
againsteach other," said Michigan
coach John Beilein. "That was a
great battle."
Tuesday's game started out
like so many others between Ohio
State and Michigan. Craft, the
Buckeyes' point guard and defen-
sive stopper, hounded Burke, get-
ting over screens and contesting
every jump shot. Entering half-
time, Craft had rendered his Wol-
verine counterpart ineffective.
Burke didn't record an assist dur-
ing the final 16 minutes of the half
and turned in a mediocre stat line
of five points and two assists. He
made just two of his six field-goal
attempts, shooting 1-of-3 from
beyond the arc.
But exiting the locker room,
Michigan made the necessary
adjustments for its offense to suc-
ceed.
"We tried to open the court up
more and create more spacing,"
Burke said. "We know that with
the ball in my hands, Craft does a
good job of not letting me use the
screen. We tried to allow other
people on the team to get pick-
and-roll action."
Added Beilein: "We tried to go
other- ways offensively to make
sure he did not have the ball the
whole time."
And that's exactly what Burke
did. He played off the ball and

allowed other players to step up Burke did miss a potential
and make big plays, biding his game-winning attempt at the end
time until there were just four of regulation, but he, didn't let it
minutes remaining in regulation. affect him going into the final five
With Michigan trailing 64-60, minutes of the contest.
Burke asserted himself. He caused "I know that basketball is a long
a Craft turnover, which led to a game, so you can't dwell on one
fastbreak dunk. On the ensuing play or you'll continue to mess up
defensive possession, he corralled on the offensive or defensive end,"
a rebound and found a wide-open Burke said.
Nik Stauskas, the freshman guard, And in the end, after each
on the break, which gave Michi- had thrown their best punch
gan its first lead since the opening at the other, Burke was the one
stanza. left standing. Craft lay on floor
And after Ohio State had knot- after his game-tying attempt was
ted tioe score at 65, Burke nailed a blocked at the buzzer. Three over-
huge 3-pointer to give the Wolver- time points were all the Wolver-
ines anotherlead. ines needed.

Sophomore guard Trey Burke elevates over Ohio State point guard Aaron Craft.

Burke battled his way to the
finish line, ending with 16 points,
eight assists and just two turn-
overs - his best statistical game
against the Buckeyes. Though

it wasn't Burke who ignited the
second-half run by the Wolver-
ines, Beilein knows it was his play
down the stretch that clinched the
game.

r.

ICE HOCKEY
Sucess starts inneutral zone

My Unions are:

By LIZ VUKELICH
j Daily Sports Editor
In its most basic form, the neu-
tral zone isn't a complicated part
of hockey. The area between the
blue lines belongs to nobody, so
when a player has the puck within
those confines, one of two things
can happen: possession will either
move down toward the oppo-
nent's goal, or the same player will
lose the puck and the game will
migrate toward his zone.
It's such an obvious concept
that it almost bears no explana-
tion, but as with all things, it's a bit
easier said than done. The Michi-
gan hockey team has seen first
hand this season how its neutral-
zone play can break a game, but in
last weekend's series over Michi-
gan State, the Wolverines finally
found a rhythm in no man's land.
A handful of the Wolverines'
eight goals against the Spartans
were set up by smart plays in the
neutral zone, be it by forced turn-
overs or quick passes.
"I think (neutral-zone play this
weekend) was pretty important,"
said Michigan coach Red Beren-
son. "Ithoughtwe did agood jobof
getting it in (Michigan State's) end
and not just dumping it (but) pass-
ing it and chipping it. I thought we
dictated alot of the territorial play
and alot of that was because of the
neutral zone."
Hockey box scores don't track
time of possession, but if they did,
this weekend's would have been
lopsided in Michigan's favor.

And the time of possession all away... nobody else might be open
goes back to the decisions the (and) I might be the only guy that's
Wolverines made in the neutral open."
zone. The key to playing smart in A forward has to break free, but
that area is almost as simple as the keep in mind there are three of
concept of the zone itself: don't get them on the ice at a time to keep
too fancy. track of. Each has his own duty,
"The key to the neutral zone but being in sync with the other
is just making simple and quick two is perhaps the greatest chal-
plays," said senior forward Kevin lenge associated with playing well
Lynch. "Not trying to make cute in the neutral zone.
plays at the blue lines, which "The centerman (has) to be
we've done in the past when we're open, he's got to come down low
trying to beat a guy one on one. and give a defensive play," Beren-
Just making simple plays whether son said. "The strong-side wing-
er's got to get up on the boards ...
then the weak-side winger, he's
got a chance to either come back
or look for a seam and go hard
across."
i pl pay. And what if the forwards aren't
in sync? Well, a player can try to
dump the puck, but it will prob-
its getting pucks in deep, or fore- ably just end up in his own zone
checkinghard." again. Both the defensemen and
Berenson has time and again forwards have equal responsibil-
singled out Lynch as being one of ity for what happens in the neutral
the team's most physical forwards zone, and for effective play, there
who consistently battles well in has to be seamless communication
the neutral zone. But the team's between the two corps.
success there over the weekend Communication during games
stemmed from much more than can be difficult, though. Which is
one forward's play. why, at the end of the day, noth-
Consider all the decisions that ing helps Michigan's performance
have to be made in the span of between the blue lines more than
about two seconds when the puck good old-fashioned practice.
enters the neutral zone. "Hockey is a game of repeti-
"If I'm a forward and our defen- tion," Berenson said. "The more
seman has the puck, I've got to you do things, the more you just do
be working hard to get where I them. You can't think in a game or
should, so he can get me the puck," it's already too late. Youjust react,
Berenson explained. "But if I have and you react the way you have in
my back turned and' I'm drifting practice."

a
0

During That , aWwa d br ~k" between classesatop in the
'ILeaguUnion or Pierpont to grab a snook, use a eomputer,
meet frnd orjuet hang out.
FreshenB

Computer 9howesse
Ifo rti0tn and ethsi Ogy vicis
I"

s itr i book, )
s Ni obie

lug'


IM8B rsaFbur ,21 TeSae et-h eri s

satemn



.wr

0

-

U

Weneda, ebury6,203 /Th Satme- TeSerotisu

the detroit issue by the statement staff the science of it all: more than caffeine by jenniferxu

Detroit. For many students and faculty on campus, the
city only forty minutes to the east remains an after-
thought. We've seen the pictures and heard the news de-
scribing how the city has crumbled. But this issue of The
Statement isn't showing the struggles of Detroit, which
are known too well. Instead, we want to show the culture
rising in the city. CriticCar Detroit and The Heidelberg
Project are just two examples of the creativity that is
emerging in the city's communities. By adding color to
the gray and a voice to the people, these projects bring
the city alive - a city many people on campus call home.
The people of Detroit are working to make something out
of what many consider nothing.

My friend claims she can't get
any work done unless she's sitting
in a coffee shop with a latte in one
hand and acopyofBorges in another.
Aspects I write off as distractions -
the whirr of the espresso machine,
the attractive barista at the counter,
the gaggle of girls dissecting last
night's exploits at Skeeps - seem
to fuel her productivity level rather
than stymie it.
She's clearly not alone. J.K. Row-
ling wrote the first draft of "Harry
Potter" on a cafe napkin. in the
acknowledgements of his book
"Blink," Malcolm Gladwell thanked
the staff of the Savoy restaurant in
Soho. And while there's no definitive
answer as to why coffee shops have
become such hubs of productivity, a
couple hypotheses have been raised.
They impose restrictions on
time. You know how it goes: you
open up the entire day to finish that
15-page paper. Eight hours and hun-
dreds of tossed Angry Birds later,
you find you've only drafted an out-
line and a hastily constructed thesis
statement.
The philosophy goes that when we
have wide expanses of time with one
task to do, we tend to waste them.
But when hours are restricted, we
just suck it up and do ourwork. This
way of thinking has been incorpo-
rated into a 1980's time-management
method called the Pomodoro tech-
nique. Meant to maximize efficiency
and preserve focus for long periods
of time, the Pomodoro technique is
pretty simple: You work for 25 min-
utes and take a break for five min-
utes, cycling through four of these
iterations before taking a longer,
20-minute break.
The coffee shop can act as a sort
of real-life Pomodoro timer. And
whether it's because our batteries are"
dying or the counter is closing in 45
minutes, restricting the time we're
allowed to work can significantly

increase our efficiency.
other people scare you into
being productive. Coffee shops are
notoriously open places. You can see

be used for evil - such as bystander.
apathy - but it can also be used for
good, like finally finishing up those
PoliSci readings.
They provide the optimal level

of noise. Close your eyes and visual-
C 00 00 0ize a bustling coffee shop. What do
you hear? People chattering? Synthy
background music? The comforting
grind of coffee beans?
' ,t, According to a study published in
the Journal of Consumer Research,
we're at our most creative when sub-

J
y
,

.} _

exactly what everyone else is doing
from any part of the room. We gaze
enviously at the lines of text that
cover our neighbor's laptop screen,
knowingthe same neighbor is watch-
ing us, being demonstrably less pro-
ductive as we Gehat a friend about
whether to get Thai food tomorrow.
By the power of peer pressure, the
stranger's gaze drives us to shut off
our WiFi and get to work.
This is a classic example of Asch
conformity. In a series of experi-
ments, Solomon Asch demonstrated
that he could get people to select the
wrong answer to very simple ques-
tions if they thought their neighbors
were selecting the same thing. Asch
conformity bolstered the idea that
neighbors could mutually intimidate
each other into doingsomethingthey
wouldn't.ordinarily do alone. It can

.

jected to a moderate level of ambient
noise. In aseries of experiments, sub-
jects were exposed a range of sounds
from50 to 85 decibels and then asked
to engage in a creative task, such as
brainstorming new ideas for a new
type of mattress. Those exposed to
mid-level ambient noise - at around
70 dB - were found to come up with
more creative solutions.
The researchers hypothesize
that the noise induces kinks into
the brain's processing mechanism,
which impairs our ability to fixate
on one task. Interestingly, it's this
impairment that allows.us to think
more creatively. A noisy environment
can disrupt our normal way of think-
ing and activate the sort of abstract
cognition that comprises real cre-
ativity. Coffee shops, according to
the researchers, are something like
the Goldilocks of ambient noise - not
too loud, not too silent, butjust right.

PHOTOS BY MARLENE LACASSE,
NATASHA JANARADAN, and ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily

ERIN KIRKLAND


W

4F

xv~~ I~

w'

Wensa, eray ,2 1S / h tae e- TeIetoi Isu

An oasis of art

S OJT- Driving through Detroit, the rem-
' s of a once-thriving metropolis surround
The 127-square mile city houses an esti-
d70,000 abandoned buildings. Many of
-ighborhoods boast at least one of these
y dwellings which can make convenient
uaries for criminals ina city struggling
some of the nation's worst crime rates..
comes as little surprise, then, that the
mediarepresentation of the Motor City's
vie has become "ruin porn": stark pho-
t half-burnt, empty buildings situated in
c ted lots grace the pages of publications
the globe, where journalists and crit-
i moan the state of the city, but do little to
a lly improve it.
t this attitude often fails to portray the
ot side of Detroit, the side with a tight-knit
comiinunity working together to create last-
ing change. And while an emerging art scene
promises to breath new life into the city, it's
another, older art project that has made a posi-
tive impact throughout the city and its com-
munity for almost three decades.
The Heidelberg Project is an art initiative
on the east side of the city started by Detroit
artist and resident Tyree Guyton. In 1986,
Guyton reclaimed his childhood neighbor-
hood, transforming vacant lots into what is
now\- considered world-renowned outdoor art
instllations. Founded with the belief that the
community has the right to grow and flourish,
the Project has turned two rui-down blocks
in the heart of Detroit into an oasis of art.
:he installation boasts a polka-dotted
ho , a stuffed animal-covered boat and vari-
ou, other "discarded object" installations. It's
beyuse of these colorful, uniquely Heidelberg
st cs that visitors - roughly 275,000 each
yea, - flock to the city from across the world.
1I:owever, it's not just the reclamation of
the potentially destructive abandoned build-
ings that has earned the Heidelberg Project
its sterlingreputation. In addition to installing
art, the Project hosts education programs for
school children as well as the Emerging Artist
Program, which showcases the artwork of an
artist who has yet to present in a formal gal-
lery.
Amanda Sansoterra, the executive direc-
tor of the Emerging Artist Program, said the
Project not only provides an outlet for emerg-
ing artists and programs for Detroit's youth,
but is also an indisputable economic asset to
the city. While the Project itself doesn't gener-
ate money, visitors to the installations patron
local restaurants and other business, sending,
money back into the community.
It is this help to the city that really solidifies
why the Project was created.
"We have a huge economic impact on the
city of Detroit," Sansoterra said. "$1.3 million
on a yearly basis ... and that's awesome;we just
couldn't have asked for anything better."
UniversityalumPhillip Simpson,agraduate
of the School of Art & Design, has volunteered

by Alicia Adamczyk
&
-r
-E C . j

outtakes photo by ruby wallau/daily

at the Project for five years. Now an employee,
he said though he grew up in Detroit and had
a vague idea Heidelberg existed, it wasn't until
he began volunteering there that he realized
the positive impact it has on the community.
"Actually getting a chance to know what
the Project means to Detroit and to the people
was a wake-up call for me," Simpson said.
In his five years, he has had the opportunity
to really connect with community members
and get their take on the art. He said the com-
munity has taken especially well to the visi-
tors who travel to the Project from across the
globe.
"They meet all these people from around
the world they never would have met any
way outside of this art," he said. "It's not only
brought a change in the art community, it's
brought a change to their homes as well."
The Project's impact reaches farther than
the locals who see it everyday, according to
Simpson. He said though many people just
pass through, there are certain visitors that
the art really speaks to.
"Every now and then you get that couple or
that family who just want to engage a conver-
sation about art and about Detroit, and, you
know, I'm so happy to be here, at this moment,"
he said. "I've seen it put some smiles on faces."
He cited one defining moment in his time
at the Project: After months of researching,
a family from the East Coast made its way to
Heidelberg during a brief stop on a road trip.
Simpson said the way the family reacted to the
Project is one of his favorite memories from
* his time involved with the installation.
"Not knowing what to expect, they just
fell in love," Simpson said. "They painted a
polka dot and they took a picture by it, and I
just knew that they would never forget that
moment."
While the Heidelberg Project has been
expanding in recent years, times haven't
xr - -me always been as sunny. Twice the city has
demolished parts of the Project, but the art
has always found its way back, a fact Sanso-
terra said cannot be overlooked.
"You have people who still look at it as an
eyesore, that it is junk," Sansoterra said. "But
those are the people who don't understand
what 'found object' art is, or 'discarded object'
art. It's become a project that is respected, and
so you're obviously going to-have people who
challenge the ideology behind it, that chai-
lenge the aesthetic of it - that's still there. And
we welcome it."
Though "ruin porn" and the city's decline
may dominate the national conversation about
Detroit for now, the Heidelberg Project offers
hope that, at least little by little - or in this
case, block by block - the city can make a
comeback.
"Obviously we hear all these things about
how dangerous it still is," Sansoterra said.
"(But) it is a changing city - there are still
TERESA MATHEW great things goingon."

"Photo from Jason Segel's short lived folk career?"
- LSA senior Adam Lefferts

on the record
"It would be so helpful if we could change things at the
state level and do it as a comprehensive plan because I
feel it's just an issue this country has stuck its head in the
sand about forever. And it's not right"
- UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT MARY SUE COLEMAN on the
University's desire to provide tuition equality to undocumented
Michigan residents.
"Thank you, '30 Rock,' for giving us the best days of our
'flerm.' Lemon, out!"
- KAYLA UPADHYAYA, Daily managing arts editor, on thefinal
episode of Tina Fey's NBC comedy.
"We're part of the basketball history and we want to
remain a part of that history."
- JIMMY KING, former Michigan basketball player and Fab Five
member, lobbyingfor the return oftheFinalFour bannersfrom 1992
and 1993 to Crisler Center.
Disney released
their short, animated
film "Paperman" on
YouTube'just in time for
the Oscars. Nominated
for Best Animated
Short Film, the short
centers around paper
airplanes, a lost love at
first sight and a killer
musical score. Swoon.

Submit your own photo caption on The Michigan Daily's Facebook page for next week's outtake.
trending HOUSE of CARDS
#houseofcards 0 -- --
The Netflix original series features Kevin
#Richard III remains Spacey and other top notch actors. The
first episode is free online. Consume all 13
# Ravens episodes"in one day? Challenge accepted.


I

"Insert clever line shared via social media
about the the 30-minute Super-Bowl power
outage here."

F

Beyonce brought
the house down
in leather and
sass on Sunday.
But did she reveal
her allegiance to
the Illuminati by
flashing a triangle
sign, confessing
she is working
to control world
events? Don't
know. Don't care.

PH OTOS BY,



4B B- 0 - P 5Bay6 03 h taeen -h etot su

Wednesday, February 62013 . SB

ler's "This is Detroit, This is What We Do"
ad featuring Eminem aired during the Super
Bowl, Conlin's article on Detroit, "36 Hours
in Detroit," was published. It quickly became
the most e-mailed article on The New York
Times website, a feat that Conlin admits sur-
prised her.
To craft the article, Conlin spent a night
in Detroit's Westin Book-Cadillac Hotel and
ventured around the city's restaurants, his-
toric sites and art attractions. She encouraged
readers to visit Detroit venues such as Cliff
Bell's jazz club, Cafe D'Mongo, Slows Bar BQ
and Eastern Market.
"DESPITE recent news stories of a popula-
tion exodus from Detroit," the article opened,
"there are many reasons to make a pilgrim-
age to this strugglingcity right now - and not
bust because Eminem's slick Super Bowl com-
mercial showcased the inner strength of the
Motor City. No video can portray the passion
ne finds on the streets of Detroit these days,
where everyone from the doorman to the D.J.
will tell you they believe in this city's future."
The article praised Detroit's most promis-
ing neighborhoods, stating "midtown, down-
town and Corktown - are bustling with new
businesses that range from creperies and
barbecue joints catering to the young artists
entrepreneurs migrating to Motown."
Though excited with how many attractions
the city offered, Conlin also saw the city's
+struggles.
"Having lived in cities our whole life - in
=Paris, in Brussels, in London, in Cairo -we're
such urbanites that we could just see the kind
of sadness that had taken over (Detroit),"
Conlin said.
After the article's success, she wanted to
do more. She thought about ways she could
.help Detroit and considered following up "36
Hours" with more articles about the city. But
her husband suggested a different approach.
He suggested not to "drive your editors
crazy" with more Detroit articles and encour-
aged her to try something more permanent.
Challenge Accepted

allow anyone to say how they felt about a play,
concert or exhibit?
This team, CriticCar Detroit, would collect'
video reviews of plays, concerts, festivals and
other events, publish the reviews in one place
and help elevate the discussion of arts events
in Detroit. The real, genuine people of Detroit
could have a voice, and maybe their apprecia-
tion for art could increase, Conlin believed.
CriticCar would be like a Yelp or Rotten
Tomatoes, but instead of restaurant or movie
reviews it would be the go-to place for on-the-
scene reviews of Detroit's 'cultural events.
Conlin said culture is the reason people go to
a city.
While Conlin said people easily make emo-
tional attachments to music or television,
Conlin hoped to explore the idea that "you
can have that feeling in a museum with paint-
ings, or in a sculpture garden, or through
dance." Maybe CriticCar could show that.
After an intense competition, it became
apparent that the Community Challenge's
judges agreed that CriticCar could help ele-
vate the arts in Detroit. In April 2012, it was
declared one of three winners, beating out
232 other proposals from across the coun-
try to win an $80,000 grant. The Cultural
Alliance of Southeastern Michigan, a local
National Endowment for the Arts agency,
receives the funds, funneling them to Critic-
Car and Artrain, a non-profit with a mission
to bring the arts to developing communities.
In a city that has a suffered so much, per-
haps CriticCar could revolutionize arts jour-
nalism and bring art to the community.
Before hitting the streets of Detroit, the
team tested elements of their idea, and the
plan evolved. After finding that people did
not necessarily like the idea of getting into
the back of a strange car, it was decided that
reviews would take place in the lobby or on
the sidewalk outside where events are held.
And after a normal video camera seemed
troublesome to transport, it was decided that
the team would record the interviews using
iPads and a microphone, which people seem
to find more personal. Lastly, while the origi-
nal idea of the concept had the team driving
around in a big orange-and-black CriticCar
vehicle, the team does not yet have acar, other
than team members' personal vehicles.
"I'm not going to be as obsessive about
getting a huge, vintage, cool, outfitted car
because I don't want to blow my money on
that," Conlin said.
Conlin said the NEA was concerned during
the competition, wondering whether Critic-
Car could actually elevate the arts, but so far
- a month into the program - she is "amazed
by how articulate how people are." She added
that the Detroiters who understand the leg-
acy and greatness of the city, and those who
she seeks to interview, might be underrepre-
sented in other media outlets.
"You could have somebody sitting there
going, 'The allegory of the cars shaking as
Detroit is rattled by the changes in the auto-
motive industry,' but this is what I wanted.
These are real Detroiters," Conlin said.

* Lights. Camera. Action.
Back inside the Hilberry, the blood-curdling
screams of a dying character onstage erupt
from within the auditorium, and the CriticCar
team waiting out in the lobby stands to atten-
tion upon hearing a loud applause. They're
ready when the large brown metallic doors
of the auditorium open, and grinning faces -
young and old - pour out into the lobby.
Conlin approaches the patrons and quickly
asks if they would like to go on camera and
provide a thirty-second review of the play
they had just seen - "Goodnight Desdemona
(Good Morning Juliet)" - a comedy inspired by
Shakespeare's tragedies "Othello" and "Romeo
and Juliet" that has been running at the Hilber-
ry since last November.
If they are interested, and they usually are,
Conlin's associate from Artrain, Shoshana
Hurand, approaches.them with a clipboard,
release forms and a pen. After signing the
forms, interviewees are lead over to Ostrander,
who stands with an iPad and microphone in one
of the lobby's few favorablylit areas.
Again and again, playgoers come over to
Ostrander, pick up a microphone replete with
the orange-aid-black CriticCar logo, and stand
in front of the iPad's gaze, where they say what
they think.
Two college-aged friends, Denzel Clark and
Shane Nelson, come up to Conlin and say they
would like to give a joint review. Standing next
to each other, they take turns offering their
comments.
"I was very impressed with the overall cast
as a whole, to kind of go back and have that mix
of modern, as well as Shakespearean language
- they really did a great job at doingthat," Nel-
son said, before putting the microphone toward
Clark's mouth.
"I thought thathelped keep it moving," Clark
said, making a face. "If it was, like, all Shake-
speare people would havebeen like 'what?'"
Conlin said she has found it does not help to
give people a long-winded explanation about
what CriticCar is, how it has-a grant and how
it will help Detroit. It's pretty effective to'just
prompt them for a short review. Ostrander
silently holds the iPad, and interviewees have a
lot to say.
Over time, the team hopes that the CriticCar
presence will draw people to Detroit's events by
feeding the desire people have to get their opin-
ions on camera.
"(Venues) want us to come in and promote
their space, but they also want CriticCar to do
well," Hurand said.
CriticCar left the Hilberry that night with
eight interviews, adding to the 12 interviews
recorded earlier in the day at the Detroit Inter-
national Auto Show, an event that Conlin notes
might not fit in with CriticCar's usual itinerary.
In the Detroit Cobo Center, amidst the
crowds, loud music and parade of people wear-
ing paper mache costumes of famous Detroit
figures like Sparky Anderson, CriticCar weaved
its way around to interview attendees of all ages
about the vehicles on display.
"The main thing is I just want to get a diver-

sity of opinions and personalities," Hurand said,
while holding the clipboard of release forms
and scanning the crowd for people who look
particularly interested in the cars on display. "I
want the people who are often in thatscene and
the people who are experiencing that scene for
the first time."
On CriticCar's YouTube page - the current
platform for the project - users can already see
diversity in the growing collection of reviews
CriticCar has collected in its first month. In a
27-second video, Emily New, a girl who looks to
be of elementary-school age, stands in front of a
car, looking into the iPad.
"I'm at the Detroit Auto Show, here in front
of the smart car for stars," New said. "It has a
sunroof that goes from front to back, and it
has beautiful color. On the front it looks like it
has a smiley face, and the rims look really cool,
because they are black and orange and very
shiny."
Next, a grinning Rahid Chowdhury, who
appears to be in his 20s, offers another enthusi-
astic review of a BMW, talking about the car as
ifhe just purchased it.
"I'm on the BMW Z, Z-4. Oh, yeah - this
baby's sick! There's this crazy-ass car righthere,
ya know? I love the CD player, leather interior
- it's an amazing car ... driving on the freeway
with the roof down, oh, man, this is like luxury,
going110 down the freeway, the speed limit, the
V8 engine."
And another video takes the CriticCar team
to a DLECTRICITY puppet performance in
October. On Oct. 5 and 6, DLECTRICITY
hosted a nighttime art festival across the city
that aimed to highlight antique architecture
through new art technology. After attending
a puppet show that was part of the festival, a
young girl, Amara Small, gave her review.
"I like the show after they showed all the
puppets; this was a very fun day at the puppet
show, and I like Detroit because Detroit is very
special."
Though Conlin recognizes the growing care
people have for Detroit, she's realistic about the
challenge the city faces.
"(You) can't think this automotive sector is
going to save it again because it's just not, can't
pretend the creative community can save it
because they can't and you can't pretend com-
munity gardens should be everywhere because
they shouldn't," Conlin said. "It's a combination
of all these things."
And for Conlin, she hopes CriticCar can
show how, in the midst of adversity, creativity
has taken hold in the city.
"I think a lot of people are drawn to Detroit
because it doesn't have all these things that
other cities have," Conlin said. "Novrit's getting
a Whole Foods and a Meijer, and that is good in
terms of employment ... But on the other hand,
Eastern Market has become this place that feeds
everybody, Honeybee's has become thisplace in
Mexicantown that feeds everybody. There's all
of these cottage industries, guys making bagels
because there's no bagel place. And you see the
fact that the city doesn't have a lot has made
people be really creative, and now they don't
necessarily want it to have everything."

.4


