)NE-IHoUNDhInr IWENTYayJ T ELEYEASOF EDIT OmIALFiE)OMlc
Ann Arbor, Michigan Friday, January 25, 2013 michigandailycom

REACHING OUT


ADMINISTRATION
Search for
new social
media head
begins
Administrators take, and I'm very sorry," Miller
wrote in an e-mail in December.
look to fill position When Miller applied for the
position in Oct. 2011, the position
after previous was listed with a salary between
$90,000 and $110,000.
director resigned The position also requires
"exceptional written and oral
By JEN CALFAS communication skills with a pas-
Daily Staff Reporter sion for sharing knowledge," and
proficiency in social media plat-
Earlier today, the University forms like Twitter, Facebook,
posted a job opening for a new Tumblr and Instagram.
social media director, hoping to . The new director will serve as
fill the position left empty upon the University's primary social
Jordan Miller's resignation from media advocate and create con-
the position a month ago. versation within the social media
The position posting lists a community, according to the
salary between $85,000 and job posting. He or she will also
$100,000, and requires a bach- "make U-M a notable personal-
elor's degree or equivalent work ity that'sfollow-worthy and like-
experience in marketing, com- able."
munications, journalism or other Lisa Rudgers, vice president
related fields. for global communications and
Miller, the University's first strategic initiatives, will super-
social media director, was hired vise the hiring process. The
in Feb. 2012 and resigned in director will work under Rudg-
December amid allegations post- ers and supervise a social media
ed on Reddit that she falsified specialist and interns.
aspects of her education on her In ablog post on Jan. 14, Rudg-
resume. ers wrote that University's social
"My intention was never to media presence has expanded
deceive the University, but I over the past year. The @umich
acknowledge that I made a mis- See SOCIAL, Page 5

TODD NEEDLE/Daily
Tim Hardaway Jr. attempts a 3-pointer during the Michigan vs. Purdue Men's Basketball Game on Tuesday. Michigan
) PAGE 9 defeats Purdue at home 68-53. Hardaway scored a total of 13 points.
ADMINISTRATION
Online ed. counsel hired

Kaul to advise
University on
digital ventures
By MATTHEW JACKONEN
Daily StaffReporter
Hopingtoexpand thebreadth
of technology use inside and
outside the classroom, the Uni-
versity has appointed Gautam
Kaul as special counsel for digi-

tal education initiatives within
the Office of the Provost.
According to a University
press release the appoint-
ment was made to ensure the
University is "thinking strate-
gically about educational tech-
nologies."
Kaul currently serves as John
C. and Sally S. Morley Profes-
sor of Finance at the Business
School and has been at the Uni-
versity for nearly three decades.
Last year, Kaul taught an

introductory finance class on
Coursera, a massive open online
course website that attracted
roughly 133,000 registered stu-
dents. Coursera is the Universi-
ty's primary MOOC vehicle, but
is just one of the avenues that
Kaul will oversee in his work on
digital education.
Kaul earned his Ph.D. from
the University of Chicago in
1985 and has served on several
technology-related committees
during his time at Michigan. He

is currently managing director
of the Social Venture Fund and
serves on the advisory board of
the Erb Institute for Global Sus-
tainable Enterprise.
There are currently seven
University faculty members
who have composed courses to
be used on Coursera, with more
planned for the future.
Dan Russell, one of Google's
top research scientists, told
the Daily last week that while
See ONLINE, Page 5

ORGANIZED LABOR CHOICE WORDS
GEO weighs impact of
right-to-work law '

Leaders concerned
about impact on
health insurance
By STEPHEN YAROS
Daily Staff Reporter
Although Wednesday night
was only their first meeting of
the year, the Graduate Employ-
ees' Organization was already
focused on what will define their
group for 2013: figuring out how
to function under Michigan's
new right-to-work legislation.
Right-to work legislation,
which has been passed in 23
other states, allows employees

in union represented workplaces
to not automatically have dues
deductedfromhisorher pay.The
law's moves through Michigan's
legislature at the end of the 2012
session drew headlines nation-
wide.
Although the new rules offi-
cially goes into effect in March
of this year, GEO's current con-
tract runs through March 1,
2014. While this does not affect
GEO employees as of now, future
membership is at stake, union
officials say.
Rackham student Emily How-
ard, communications co-chair
for GEO, wrote in an e-mail
interview that the fear among
union advocates is that, with

less members and money, unions
around the state risk diminished
bargaining power.
"GEO's bargaining power is
people power," Howard wrote.
"As long as members stay orga-
nized keep active, bargaining
should proceed as usual."
Non-members and the media
were prohibited from attending
Wednesday night's GEO meet-
ing, but Howard wrote that
health insurance was a major
concern expressed.
"The benefit most in danger
under this legislation is ... health
insurance," Howard wrote.
"Staff organizers have talked to
dozens of members who have
See GEO, Page 5

Students for Choice man a table in Mason Hall on Thursday to commemorate the 40th anniversaty of the U.S.
Supreme Court's decision in Roe v. Wade.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG pilot program gives grants
to students studying abroad,

CAMPUS LIFE
Hackathon aims to be
largc~est in country
Inaugural event to hackathon in the country next to new technology and program-
draw hackers from weekend. ming languages that are evolv-
Engineering jnior David ing so rapidly that they haven't
throughout nation Fontenot, one of the students begun to be taught at the Univer
,1eAuni,.BL.,e...au eu TAT-norlrs ciky.

Six students using
CSG funds for
projects around
the globe
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily Staff Reporter
While Central Student Gov-
ernment announced the pro-
gram only a month before the
start of this semester, Take
U-M Abroad has already given
six University students study-,
ing abroad this semester $1,000
each for an individual project.

The program, which was
described as stamping the block
'M' across the globe, had over
40 applicants, according to LSA
freshman Nicole Mott, the CSG
intern who headed the program.
Student participants in the pro-
gram are traveling to countries
such as South Korea, Australia
and Spain.
The program had few stipu-
lations for applicants; Mott said
CSG was originally expecting
only 20 to 25 applications. She
was pleased that the original
estimation was exceeded and
added that most of the projects
were hard to pass on.
"We actually had ahard time

deciding between different
projects becausethey were all
prettygood," Mottsaid.
The program originally only
allotted money for five scholar-
ships, but Mott said a sixth was
added when CSG found one pro-
gram submitted after the dead-
line to be deserving.The money
awarded to students is not being
used to fund the trips, but is to
be used only to fund projects
that students start while abroad.
Mott said she will be check-
ing in with the participating
students during the semester
to ensure their funds are being
used appropriately. She added
See ABROAD, Page 5

By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
If all goes according to plan,
students from across the nation
will be flocking to Palmer Com-
mons for the largest college

headting the inaugural miacxs
Hackathon, said the program
aims to draw 500 students to the
36-hour programming competi-
tion.
In addition to aspiring to be
the, biggest hackathon in the
nation, Fontenot said he hopes
MHacks-will also bring exposure

sity.
"Technology is changing so
fast and a lot of the stuff you learn
in the classroom could be a few
years behind," he said. "What
hackathons allow you to do is
they allow you to try out a tool
you would never use in class."
See HACKATHON, PageS5


WEATHER HI: 28 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Sophia's Study-A-Blog: Home away from home
TOMORROW LO:15 news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS ..........................2 SPORTS............8
Vol. CXXII, No.55 OPINION .....ION ............4 CLASSIFIEDS .................6
©2013TheMichiganDaily ARTS.............................6 SUDOKU........................3
michigundaily.com

alis
,,.z


2 - Friday, January 25, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Friday, January 25, 2013 The Michigan Oaily - michigandailycom

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY:
This Week in History Professor Profiles In Other Ivory Towers Alumni Profiles

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241'
anweiner@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michigandaily.com

LEFT Graduate students are
changing bus stops to 'bus
spots' by constructing different
installations at stops across
campus Saturday.
(NICK WILLIAMS/Daily)
TOP RIGHT WASHINGTON
- Soldiers observe the
Washington Monument before
President Barack Obama's
inauguration ceremony
Saturday.
(ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily)
BOTTOM RIGHT Music
students Gary Donald, Thomas
Erickson, Matthew Geiger, and
Daniel Piccolo perform 'The
Whole Toy Laid Down' by Dave
Hollinden at the University
of Michigan School of Music,
Theatre, and Dance Percussion
Ensemble.
(PATRICK BARRON/DAILY)

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily,com
Arts Section
artsemichigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaiy.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@emichigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaiy.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

40

CRIME NOTES

Restroom
renovations
WHERE: Michigan Union
WHEN: Wednesday around
10:00 a.m.
WHAT: Three incidents of
graffiti have been reported
this month in the lower
level men's restroom and
two other locations. There
are currently no suspects.
Hey, that's
my coat

Hit and run
WHERE: 2500 Hayward
WHEN: Wednesday around
4:10 p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle was hit
by another vehicle while
it was parked in the lot at
some point duringthe day,
University police reported.
There were no injuries, but
the vehicle sustained minor.
damage.
Sign of
the times

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Sexpertise Internship
WHAT: Multiple Univer- seminar
sity groups invite the public


to this educational, 3-day
event on sexuality and rela-
tionships. The theme of this
year's seminar is "Out of the
Dark"
WHO: Sexperteam,
Univeristy Health Service
WHEN: Today from 4:00
p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
State of
Exception
WHAT: This exhibition
is on the objects left in the
desertby undocumented
migrants. The exhibition is
the culmination of the work
of Richard Barnes, Jason De
Leon and Amanda Krugliak.
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHEN: Today from 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
WHERE: 202S. Thayer

WHAT: A career advisor
will assist in a seminar to
help undergraduates in
their search for internships.
Undergraduates may regis-
ter for just one workshop.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at 3:00 p.m.
WHERE: Student Activities
Building
CORRECTIONS
" AJan. 22 article ("CSG
outlines new budget")
misspelled the name
of CSG Treasurer
Chris Osborn.

T HREE THINSYOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
Facebook CEO Mark
Zuckerburg will host
a fundraiser for New
Jersey Governor Chris
Christie's campaign in his
home in Palo Alto. Zucker-
burg worked with Christie
in 2010 when he pledged a
donation of $100 million to
Newark public schools.
With a 68-53 win over
Purdue Thursday, the
Michigan basketball
team i4,likely one win away
from the No.1 overall ranking
in the nation for the first time
since 1992. The Wolverines
play at Illinois Sunday.
Agroup of scientists has
recently stored audio
and text in pieces of
DNA, according to a
published article inthe scien-
tific journal Nature. The sci-
entists were able to retrieve
the data from the DNA almost
completely unhindered.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewlSlovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamRubenfireManagingNewsEditor arube@ ichigandaiy com
^SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Austen Hufford, Peter Shabin,
K.C.Wassman, Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Molly Block, Jennifer Calfas, Aaron Guggenheim, Sam
Gringlas, Danielle Stoppelmann, Steve Zoski
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Sarah Skaluba, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Sharik Bashir, Daniel Wang
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand Managing Sports Editorssportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIORS PORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Stephen Nesbitt, Colleen
Thomas,LizVukelich,DanielWasserman
ASTNT SR TSET Oaniel Feldman, GregGarno, Rajat Khare, Liz Nagle,
Kayla Upadhyaya Managing Arts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern,BrianneJohnsonJohnLynch, Anna Sadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Sean Czarnecki, Carlina Duan, Max Radin, Akshay Seth,
Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzmanand
Terra Molengraff ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew, Todd Needle 4
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Katherine Pekala, Paul Sherman, Adam Schnitzer
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Maazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
Josephine Adams and
TomMcBrien copyChiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:uJennieColeman,Kelly McLauglin
BUSINESSSTAFF
Ashley Karadsheh AssociateBusinessoManager
SeanlJackson SolesManaer
SophieGreenbau Production Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Connor ByrdFinancesManager
QUyoVOcirculation Manage
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967)isnpublished Monday through Friday duringthefall and
winter terms by students at thesUniversity of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in september,viaU.S.malare $110. Winterterem (anuary through April)is
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195.University affliates are subject to areduced
subscription rate. On-campus subscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

WHERE: Michigan Union WHERE: 2500 Hayward
WHEN: Wednesday around WHEN: Wednesday around
5:20 p.m. 8:10 p.m.
WHAT: A coat was WHAT: A vehicle hita
reported stolen from a coat signpost near the parking
room on the first floor. lot, University police
University police report reported. The accident
that it may have been taken resulted in no injuries but
because it was mistaken for did result in damage to the
a similar coat. vehicle and sign.

" Please report any
error in the Daily
to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

i

Envoy: S. Korea's Park open
to dialogue with N. Korea

North continues keeping promises," he said.
She also advocates returning
satellite and rocket to the six-nation disarmament
negotiations, Rhee said. North
launches as part of Korea walked away from those
talks in 2009 and has said future
new phase' disarmament talks are out off
the table.
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) On Tuesday, the U.N. Security
- South Korea's new president Council voted unanimously to
will not tolerate North Korean condemn North Korea's Dec. 12
provocations but will contin- rocket launch as a violation of a
ue to push for dialogue with ban against missile activity. The
Pyongyang, a special envoy to council, including Pyongyang
President-elect Park Geun-hye ally China, expanded sanctions
said just hours after the North's against the regime.
top governing body declared it North Korea's National
would continue atomic tests and Defense Commission responded
rocket launches. Thursday by declaring that the
Park is strongly urging North regime is prepared to conduct a
Korea to refrain from conduct- nuclear test in defiance of U.N.
ing a nucleartest that could punishment, and it made clear
only worsen the tensions on the that its long-range rockets are
Korean Peninsula in the wake of designed to carry not only satel-
a provocative long-range rocket lites but also warheads aimed at
launch in December, envoy Rhee striking the United States.
In-je told The Associated Press The commission, North
and selected news outlets in Korea's top governing body led
Davos, Switzerland. by leader Kim Jong Un, pledged
"President-elect. Park makes to keep launching satellites and
it clear that North Korea's nucle- rockets and to conduct a nuclear
ar ambitions and further provo- test as part of a "new phase" of
cations against the South will combat with the United States,
not be tolerated," Rhee said on which it blames for leading the
the sidelines of the World Eco- U.N. bid to punish Pyongyang.
nomic Forum on Thursday. "In It said a nuclear test was part
particular, she strongly urges of "upcoming" action but did
North Korea to refrain from fur- not say exactly when or where it
ther worsening the situation by would take place.
conducting a third nuclear test." "We do not hide that a vari-
But Park, who takes office ety of satellites and long-range
next month, wants to leave the rockets which will be launched
window open to constructive by the DPRK one after another
dialogue with Pyongyang and and a nuclear test of higher level
will continue to provide food which will lie carried out by it
and medical aid as part of a in the upcoming all-out action,
"trust-building" policy for the a ner phase of the anti-U.S.
two Koreas. "It is a gradual pro- struggle that has lasted century
cess based on mutual trust and after century, will target against
respect, which can begin with the U.S., the sworn enemy of the

Korean people," the commission
said, referringto North Korea by
its official name, the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea.
U.S. Defense Secretary Leon
Panetta said he has seen no out-
ward sign that North Korea will
follow through soon on its plan
to conduct atest. But that doesn't
mean preparations aren't taking
place.
"They have the capability,
frankly, to conduct these tests
in a way that make it very diffi-
cult to determine whether or not
they are doing it," Panetta told
reporters in Washington.
North Korea claims the right
to build nuclear weapons as
a defense against the United
States, its Korean War foe.
Their bitter three-year war
ended in a truce, not a peace
treaty, in 1953, and left the
Korean Peninsula divided by the
world's most heavily fortified
demilitarized zone. The U.S.
leads the U.N. Command that
governs the truce and stations
more than 28,000 troops in ally
South Korea, a presence that
North Korea cites as a key rea-
son for its drive to build nuclear
weapons.
North Korea is estimated to
have stored up enough weapon-
ized plutonium for four to eight
bombs, according to scientist
Siegfried Hecker, who visited
the North's Nyongbyon nuclear
complex in 2010.
In October, an unidenti-
fied spokesman at the National
Defense Commission claimed
that the U.S. mainland was
within missile range..And at a
military parade last April, North
Korea showed off what appeared
to be an intercontinental ballis-
tic missile.

LIKE TO FOLLOW
BREAKING NEWS?
How about covering it? Join the Daily.
CHECK US OUT MICHIGANDAILY.COM FOR MORE INFO

0


The Michigan Daily- michigandaily.com

Friday, January 25, 2013 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 25, 2013 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Soccer player
at Northern
Michigan drowns
A Northern Michigan Univer-
sity women's soccer player who
drowned during a team workout
in a campus pool had epilepsy
and may have had a seizure as
recently as last summer, accord-
ing to newly released investiga-
tive reports that detail the frantic
attempt to revive her.
The medical examiner's office
ruled Arianna "Anna" Alioto's
death an accidental drowning,
and didn't mention her epilepsy
or suggest that any health condi-
tion may have contributed to her
drowning.
The newly released reports,
which The Associated Press
obtained through Freedom of
Information act requests, don't
contradict the medical examiner's
findings, but they do show that the
18-year-old freshman midfielder
needed medication to keep epilep-
tic seizures at bay.
SALT LAKE CITY
Freezing rain ices
roads, paralyzing
transportation
A rare freezing rain caused
major havoc in Salt Lake City
Thursday, creating sheets of ice
on roads, sidewalks and airport
runways.
The Salt Lake City Internation-
al Airport was closed for about
three hours, delaying hundreds
of passengers. The closure came
after a Frontier Airlines plane
landing from Denver slid on a
patch of ice while on the runway.
Nobody was injured.
Morning commutes were
brought to a crawl by the icy con-
ditions, which caused dozens of
accidents that closed lanes. Utah
Highway Patrol called in off-
duty officers to deal with all the
accidents.
"CAIRO
Conflicts arise
on eve of uprising
anniversary
Egyptian security forces fired
tear gas and protesters hurled
stones and Molotov cocktails in a
day-long demonstration on Thurs-
day, raising fears of a violent anni-
versary of the 2011 uprising that
toppled long-time authoritarian
President Hosni Mubarak.
Youth activists and opposition
groups have called for large ral-
lies on the anniversary Friday
in Cairo's Tahrir Square and in
front of the president palace in
the upscale suburb, Heliopolis.
The protests, which left doz-
ens injured, began before dawn
in central Cairo when protest-
ers tried to tear down a cement
wall built to prevent them from
reaching the parliament and
the Cabinet building. The street
clashes continued after darkness

fell on the Egyptian capital.
BEIRUT
Syrian jets bomb
rebel areas, killing
at least 13 people
Syrian warplanes bombed
rebel areas near Damascus on
Thursday as President Bashar
Assad's troops battled opposition
fighters for control of the road
linking the capital to the coun-
try's largest airport.
Assad's forces are trying drive
out rebels who have established
enclaves in the suburbs. While
the government has lost control
of large swaths of territory in the
country's north and east, includ-
ing parts of the northern city
of Aleppo, the capital remains
tightly secured.
Conditions in the city have
worsened howeverwith prices for
basic goods rising and fuel in short
supply. U.S. officials said Thurs-
day they believe Assad's sister and
.mother have left the country, sug-
gesting that hardship has reached
even the leadership's families.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Steven Senne/AP
State Rep. Frank Ferri (D-Warwick) center left, and his partner Tony Caparco, far left, greet Wendy Baker and her
partner Judy McDonnell both of Providence, R.I., in the gallery of the House Chamber at the Statehouse.
Rhod Islandoe approves gay
marriage bill after debate

Vote overcomes
Catholic opposition
to legislation
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP)
- The Rhode Island House of
Representatives on Thursday
overwhelmingly passed legisla-
tion to allow gays and lesbians
to marry in the only New Eng-
land state where they can't.
The House voted 51-19 after
an often emotional debate that
touched on civil rights, reli-
gion and the nature of mar-
riage. The bill now moves to
the Senate, where both sup-
porters and opponents of gay
marriage say it is difficult to
predict the bill's fate.
"This has been a long jour-
ney," said House Speaker
Gordon Fox, who is gay and
supported same-sex legisla-
tion when it was first intro-
duced in 1997. "Today is a great
day. Today ... we stand for
equality, we stand for justice."

Thursday's vote posed the
most significant challenge
yet for gay marriage in Rhode
Island. While the five other
New England states already
allow gay couples to marry,
attempts have fallen flat in this
heavily Catholic state.
"I wanted to be here to see it,"
said 70-year-old Warwick resi-
dent Ken Fish, who is gay. Fish
showed up at the Statehouse
hours early to ensure he had a
seat in the crowded viewing gal-
lery. "Go back 10 years, even five
years, and I wasn't sure we'd
ever get here. We're not done
yet, but this is a big one."
Nine states and the District
of Columbia now allow gay and
lesbian couples to marry.
Gay marriage opponents vow
to press their case in the Sen-
ate, where Senate President
Teresa Paiva Weed, D-Newport,
remains opposed to the legisla-
tion. Chris Plante, director of
the state chapter of the National
Institute for Marriage, said he
believes state leaders who sup-

port gay marriage aren't reflect-
ing public sentiment.
"Rhode Islanders care about
marriage, and they don't want
to see it redefined," he said.
Some opponents have sug-
gested placing gay marriage on
the ballot as a referendum, but
the idea is a nonstarter with Fox
and independent Gov. Lincoln
Chafee, agaymarriage supporter.
A handful of lawmakers rose
during the debate to criticize
gay marriage as a dangerous
social experiment. Rep. Arthur
Corvese, D-North Providence,
warned lawmakers that same-
sex marriage was an "irrevo-
cable societal game-changer"
that would redefine "the fun-
damental building block of our
community" and could lead to
the legalization of polygamy or
plural marriages.
"Truth must not be sacrificed
on the altar of political correct-
ness," he said. "Is this the vision
you want for Rhode Island's
future? Is this the future you
want for America?"

Sex abuse claims made
against LA teacher.
Third grade conducted during the police
investigation, and 20 female stu-
teacher and dents were found to have been
victimized, Los Angeles police
principal removed Capt. Fabian Lizsarraga said.
Another victim was a female
teacher who complained. that
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Just Pimentel had inappropriately
weeks after the arrest of a third- touched her, police said.
grade teacher accused of sexu- The alleged abuse occurred in
ally abusing nearly two dozen Pimentel's fourth-grade class-
students engulfed Los Angeles room during school hours and
school officials in a scandal last in some cases was witnessed
year, word surfaced that chil- by other students, Lizarraga
dren were being fondled by a said. The sexual abuse involved
fourth-grade teacher at another fondling over and underneath
school. clothing, he said.
Havingbeen jolted by the first The Pimentel case may have
case, Los Angeles Unified School been the first in the district that
District officials moved swiftly, fell under the new policy, district
The fourth-grade teacher, Rob- Superintendent John Deasy said.
ert Pimentel, was pulled from "It was very close to the first,
his classroom, the state teacher if not the first," he said. "I don't
credentialing commission was know if it was a direct result (of
notified, and parents were alert- the Miramonte case). There was
ed. When it became clear that a potentially serious problem
years-old allegations against there and we acted and did what
Pimentel hadn't been thorough- we did."
ly investigated, the principal at Lizarraga added that although
his school was also removed. there was a spike in parent com-
While it took nearly a year to plaints after the Miramonte
bring charges against Pimentel, case, there wasn't any tie to the
the reaction by the school dis- Pimentel case. .
trict shows how recent reforms "These were some really alert
put in place have reshaped how parents knowing their kids and
the school system deals with noticing subtle changes in their
sexual abuse by teachers. personalities," Lizarraga said.
Those reforms came after the The accusations against
February 2012 'arrest of Mira- Pimentel, 57, span eight months,
monte Elementary School third- dating back to September 2011.
grade teacher Mark Berndt, who is He was arrested Wednesday and
accused of blindfolding pupils and charged with 15 felony counts.
feeding them his semen in a tast- When the investigation
ing game. The district has since against him began in March,
mandated that parents be noti- the district was already reeling
fied within 72 hours of a report from Berndt's February 2012
of a suspected abuser, and that arrest. Berndt has pleaded not
each case be reviewed by sev- guilty to 23 counts of lewd acts
eral human resources staffers to and is awaiting trial. More than
ensure it is reported to the Com- 225 parents and students are
mission on Teacher Credentialing. involved in various claims for
District officials have also damages against the district
vowed to investigate molesta- regarding that case.
tion claims and move quickly to In a separate case, a jury in
remove suspected teachers from December ordered the district to
classrooms while investigations pay a boy molested by an elemen-
are ongoing. tary school teacher $6.9 million
Police were contacted in March - among the largest awards in
by the parents of five students at the history of the school system.
GeorgeDe La Torre Jr. Elemen- The jury found the district liable
tarySchoolwho said Pimentelhad for the repeated molestation of
touched their children inappropri- the 10-year-old student in 2008
ately. District officials immediate- and 2009 byteacher Forrest Sto-
ly removed him from campus and bbe at Queen Anne Elementary
notifications were sent out. School in the city's mid-Wilshire
More than 70 interviews were district.
Mali rebel group splits
France continues aid

Inspired by Obama, global leaders
to focus on climate change issues

World Economic
Forum attendees
discuss new
political tactics
DAVOS, Switzerland (AP)-
Hurricanes, floods, droughts
and a newly climate-conscious
Barack Obama are helping
boost efforts around the world
to fight climate change.
Top political and finan-
cial leaders at the World Eco-
nomic Forum in Davos say
recent natural disasters, along
with Obama's inauguration
announcement this week that
he's making the battle against
rising temperatures a pillar of
his second term, could rev up
the glacially slow climate pact
negotiations and revive fund-
raising for global action to cool
the planet.
"Unless we take action on
climate change, future genera-
tions will be roasted, toasted,
fried and grilled," Internation-
al Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde told
participants at Davos.
The U.N.'s climate chief,
Christiana Figueras, told The
Associated Press in an inter-
view- Thursday that Obama's.
emphasis on climate "definitely
is a political boost." She said
Hurricane Sandy and drought
in the Midwest last year helped
push climate change back onto
the U.S. political debate.
"We also need to see clearly,
much more engagement from
the United States, we need to
a confirmation from the new
leadership in China that they
remain on course and are will-
ing to engage further. From the
Europeans, we need to see that
they also remain on course,"
Figueras said. "And then all of
the emerging economies, in
addition to China, need to begin
to explore the opportunities
that they have."
The U.N. climate talks, now
two decades in the making,
have so far failed to reduce car-
bon dioxide and other green-

house gas emissions that most
scientists say are warming the
Earth.
Participants at the Davos
forum - which identifies
extreme weather as one of the
top three risks to the global.
economy - called for global
action.
Until now, rich and poor
countries have accused U.S.
leaders of hampering the global
fight against climate change,
which scientists say is caus-
ing a rise in temperatures and
sea levels, threatening island
nations and other low-lying
areas, and shifting weather
patterns to produce more
droughts, floods and devastat-
ing storms.
Figueras, the daughter of a
former Costa Rican president,
and Costa Rican President
Laura Chinchilla both said
their country could serve as an
example.
"Costa Rica is already pro-
ducing 90 percent of the energy
we are consuming from renew-
able sources," Chinchilla told
AP. "We are encouraging the
policies of many different com-
panies - many are already
adopting the right policies. For
example, in the agricultural
sector, we already have coffee
which is certified carbon-neu-
tral coffee."
European Union Climate
Commissioner Connie Hede-
gaard called the battle against
global warming the greatest
economic challenge of this cen-
tury.
Several CEOs of major banks
and businesses said there
have been robust discussions
at Davos on potential private
financing for "green" technolo-
gies to produce cleaner sources
of energy.
So far, nations have ponied
up about $30 billion toward the
$100 billion a year goal by 2020
set at Copenhagen's U.N. cli-
mate talks in 2009.
A U.N. climate conference in
Doha, Qatar, agreed in Decem-
ber to extend the Kyoto Pro-
tocol, a treaty that limits the
greenhouse gas output of some

rich countries, and agreed to
adopt a new global climate pact
by 2015. But hopes for stronger
U.S. leadership in the ongo-
ing U.N. climate talks were
dimmed when legislation to cap
emissions stalled in Congress.
"We're coming out of two
years of climate silence," said
Fred Krupp, president of the
U.S.-based Environmental
Defense Fund. "The impacts
of extreme weather are now
affecting everybody in the wal-
let."
Krupp said while no one is
going to invest in unprofitable
new technologies, a growing
number of clean-energy invest-
ments are highly profitable.
Nations also agreed at the
U.N. climate talks in Copen-
hagen to set a goal of limiting
global warming to 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahren-
heit). But because of inaction,
Figueras said, the world is now"
on "somewhere between a 4
and 6 degree (Celsius) trajec-
tory."
"But the door is not closed,"
she .quickly added. "We have
the technology, we have the
capital. We have the possibil-
ity."
U.N. Secretary-General Ban
Ki-moon says one of his top
hopes for 2013 is to reach a new
agreement on climate change.
"Slowly but steadily, we are
coming to realize the risks
of a carbon-based economy,"
he told the forum Thursday.
"Those supposedly longer-
term issues are actually silent
crises with us today: the death
of children from preventable
diseases; the melting of the
polar ice caps because of cli-
mate change. ... Let not our
inaction today lead to harsh
judgment tomorrow."
Prince Albert II of Monaco,
whose foundation focuses on
climate change and other envi-
ronmental issues, said Obama's
inauguration speech gave a
welcome lift toward collective
action.
"That can only be positive,
because we need to have the
U.S. on board," he told the AP.

Military offensive
in former colony
continues advance
SAN, Mali (AP) - Mali's rebel
movement showed new signs of
discord on Thursday in the wake
of punishing French air strikes,
with one wing of the Ansar Dine
group now pledging to negotiate
an end to the country's crisis and
possibly even fight against its for-
mer comrades-in-arms.
France's air and land cam-
paign that began two weeks ago
to save Mali's .embattled interim
government has shaken up the
military landscape and put the
international spotlight on the
former French colony. Mali's gov-
ernment was on a new political
defensive, urging its soldiers to
respect human rights after new
allegations that they had car-
ried out summary executions in
zones of battle against the radical
Islamists.
Three al-Qaida-linked extrem-
ist groups have controlled Mali's
vast northeast for months, capi-
talizing on chaos that followed
a coup d'etat in Mali's capital,
Bamako, in March. But in a new
sign of splintering, former Ansar
Dine leader Alghabass Ag Intal-
la told the Associated Press on
Thursday that he and his men
were breaking off from Ansar
Dine "so that we can be in control
of our own fate."
"We are neither AQIM or
MUJAO," he said of the other
groups, al-Qaida in the Islamic
Maghreb and the Movement for
the Unity and Jihad in West Afri-
ca, known by its French-language
acronym. "We are a group of peo-
ple from the north of Mali who
have a set of grievances that date
back at least 50 years."
The comments suggested that

at least some of Islamist fighters
are searching for, an exit in the
wake of the French airstrikes.
French radio RFI reported ear-
lier Thursday that Intalla's new
group will be called the Islamic
Movement for the Azawad, a
Tuareg term for northern Mali,
and his men are willing to fight
their former comrades-in-arms
in Ansar Dine.
"We are not terrorists. We are
ready to negotiate," Intalla told
the AP.
A French diplomatic official
said Francewas taking seriously
the claims of a split within Ansar
Dine - but needed proof, not just
words.
AQIM and MUJAO have been
classified as terror groups by the
U.N., and Ansar Dine has been
"clearly associated" with them -
even if some of its members have
raised doubts about how close
those ties are, the official said.
"The other groups that have
formed need to show which side
they're on ... and prove it on the
ground," said the official, who
was not authorized to discuss the
matter publicly. "Are they with
the terrorists, or not?"
"They could, for example, free
up territory themselves and no
longer say that the Malian army
is not welcome in the north - and
instead work with it," the official
said.
Late last year, Ansar Dine held
talks in neighboring Burkina Faso
with Malian government repre-
sentatives, and one of the sticking
points was a disagreement over
whether Malian law or Islamic
Shariah law would be applied.
Rebels have at times applied
their interpretation of Shariah
to carry out public executions,
amputations, and whippings
- for infractions ranging from
possessing cigarettes to women
going out without headscarves.


4 - Friday, January 25, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Friday, January 25, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

C 1
4C Michigan 43at4olij

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

NOTABLE QUOTA LE
Well, it didn't sound like a man. It sounded
like a woman. fthe somehow made that
voice, that's incredible.

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROMTH EDAIL
Advanced (dis)placement
Denial of AP credit at Dartmouth will cost students
Beginning with the entering class of 2014, Advanced Placement
scores will no longer count for college credit at Dartmouth
College. While students can still place out of certain courses
with high AP scores, the scores will not count as progress toward their
degrees. Because strong AP scores in certain subjects might qualify a
student to place out of specific courses, they should be awarded college
credit as well. Not doing so disregards a key purpose of taking AP tests:
earning college credit to lessen the ever-increasing cost of undergradu-
ate education. This sets a troubling precedent for other colleges.

- Notre Dame libbacker Manti Te'o said during
Thursday
Gone (cat)fish

Developed in the 1950s by the College
Board, the AP Program offers more than 30
college-level courses that students cAn take
in high school. Students who receive high
scores on end-of-semester exams can receive
college credit for those courses and possibly
be exempt from some introductory college
classes. For many high-school students, the
purpose of taking an AP course is to gain col-
lege credit and enhance their college applica-
tions. The program even endorses this view,
advertising on its website that taking AP tests
is a way to "earn college credit and place-
ment." Refusing to accept strong AP scores
for college credit runs contraryto their origi-
nal purpose. This practice takes advantage of
students who take AP courses to gain entry
to competitive colleges but are then denied
credits for those courses.
Denying AP credits has resounding finan-
cial implications. At the University of Michi-
gan, for example, a student with AP Calculus
BC scores of 4/5 or 5/5 can be exempted from
introductory math courses and earn four
credits toward his or her degree. If the stu-
dent is part-time, this 4-credit sequence
would cost $2,432 if coming from in-state and
lower division or $6,639 if from out-of-state
and lower division. By doing well on the AP

Calculus BC exam, which costs $89, a stu-
dent can save $2,287 or $6,639, depending
on where they live. Alongside these savings,
granting AP credits also creates opportuni-
tiet for students to pursue other courses,
intellectual interests or employment - which
is increasingly relevant given the rising costs
of tuition.
While some schools like Dartmouth pro-
vide generous financial aid that aims to meet
100 percent of the students' need, the vast
majority of colleges do not have this capa-
bility. While certain schools might deny AP
credits and still cover the financial burden
of taking credits that one would'have other-
wise earned, most colleges cannot. Schools
that refuse to grant AP credits are setting a
dangerous precedent for other institutions
to follow. Should this trend be realized in
schools that are not as wealthy, our institu-
tions of higher education will become even
less accessible.
Colleges that don't grant AP credit must
realize that one key reason students take AP
exams is, in fact, to earn college credit. Dis-
regarding this not only denies the useful-
ness of enriching high-school education with
advanced classes, but also places an unfair
financial burden on students.

By now you've likely familiar-
ized yourself with the Manti
Te'o debacle. The cuckolded,
football star; the
girlfriend who
died, then didn't
die, of cancer;
the lonely Chris-
tian band singer;
the lazy sports
magazine fact
checkers. Clus-
tering around E
like bees protect- XU
ing their queen,
the media outlets
do their best to make appropriate
reparations. Sorry, they buzz. We are
so,so sorry.
"No, never," Teo said when asked
if he played any part in the ruse. Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, doing what
all athletic departments do when
backed into a corner, rallied behind
its star player with ferocious convic-
tion, releasing a statement claiming
that "this appears to be, at a mini-
mum, a sad and very cruel deception
to entertain its perpetrators."
Then, faster than you could say
"Lennay Kekua," Te'o changed his
tune. In an exclusive interview with
Katie Couric on Thursday, he admit-
ted that, whoops, he knew his girl-
friend hadn't passed away when he
received a phone call from a stranger
purporting to be her in early Decem-
ber. And yet, he still grieved for her
"death" on national television two
days later.
"You stuck to the script. And you
knew that something was amiss,
Manti," Couric said, sternly.
"Katie, put yourself in my situ-
ation," Te'o pleaded. "I, my whole
world told me that she died on Sept.
12. Everybody knew that. This girl,
who I committed myself to, died on
Sept.12."
Te'o is better on the field than
under the muted lighting of a net-
work soundstage. Watching him
gracefully sack opponents on the

20-yard line, his face shielded by his
gold helmet, there's something vul-
nerable about him - almost poetic.
You want to root for this guy; this
sweat soft-hearted hunk of a hero.
In interiews, he's fine - calm, enun-
ciates well - but is still somehow dis-
ingenuous and unreadable.
Ever since the sad, strange nar-
rative exploded on Deadspin a little
more than a week ago, ESPN has
been covering the aftermath in
careful, pointillist detail. Was Te'o
complicit in the hoax or a victim of
it? Experts dish up new theories by
the hour, reading his eyebrows, the
timestamps of his cell phone calls, a
receipt from 1-800-FLOWERS and
anything else they can grasp onto
that would indict or salvage the hap-
less football player.
What's struck me most about the
coverage of the Te'o storyline is the
witch-hunt-like, us-versus-them
mentality writers have taken on. Te'o
is either vilified as a publicity-seek-
ing faker or a sweet, spotless fool,
with in-between. The audience,
for it part, has eaten it up with the
breathless excitement of a criminal
wiretap. But, why all the fascination?
Why do we feel personally offended
that agirl we never knew didn't die of.
cancer and that a guy we've only seen
onthe Big Ten Network might have a
fetish for whisperingsweet nothings
to a wall of static?
The kicker is that Nev Schulman,
creator of the film "Catfish" and the
MTV show of the same name, has
been crowned the authority on all
things Internet hoax, oft sought-
after in interviews to arbitrate Te'o's
innocence. Never mind that Schul-
man's own "discovery" that the girl
he was so in love with who ended up
being a lonely, overweight lady from
rural Michigan had its own whiffs
of deceit. It seems suspicious that
this twenty-something Jewish boy in
skinny jeans could have been hood-
winked by a woman two times his
senior, and that the whole endeavor

an interview with Katie Couric on q
regarding his fictitious girlfriend.
zing
wasn't really just an excuse to cash
out and become famous - that the
making of "Catfish" wasn't a kind of
catfish in itself.
We all throw half-
truths of our lives
into cyberspace.
In my humble, non-evidentiary
opinion, Te'o probably had some idea
of what was going on - maybe not at
the beginning, but certainly at the
very end.:Why am I so sure?
Because we all do it: we all cat-
fish. Ever since our lives migrated
online, there's been this American
Dream-like possibility of self-con-'
structing how the world should see
us. We throw fabulist, half-true-
half-not tales of our lives into
cybersphere, carefully editing and
tagging our photos to produce the
lives we'd like to have. We're not
so different from Te'o, who cat-
fished a beautiful Stanford student
with a "warm smile and soulful
eyes," or from Sports Illustrated,
who catfished a great, Greek epic
in its fawning October profile of
Te'o, titled "The Full Manti." This
mutual exchange of fact and fiction
is part of an invisible contract we
sign when we power up our laptops
and log onto Facebook. The story
of the fallen Heisman contender
resonates because we have all been
Manti Te'o. We've been both ver-
sions of him: the cuckoldee and the
cuckolder.
But what happens when the con-
tract breaks, as Te'o's has? Then the
shimmering versions of the selves
we'd like to be dissolve like Pepto-
Bismol tablets. No, that can't be what
I really look like. Oh, but it is.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan,
Eli Cahan, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet, Jasmine McNenny,
Harsha Nahata, Adrienne Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski,
Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth, Derek Wolfe
AARICA MARSH I
It's legalization time

0

Jennifer Xu can be reached
at jennifxu@umich.edu.

The irony of gentlemen's night'

In the United States, a marijuana user is
arrested every 42 seconds. With that many
people arrested, imagine the even greater num-
ber of people who are associated with someone
who was once incarcerated for using, possess-
ing or growing pot. It could be anyone: perhaps
it was your college friend just having some
weekend fun or your great uncle with stomach
cancer who was once locked up on possession
charges. Maybe it was you who was arrested
and suffered the consequences of the outdated
U.S. marijuana laws. What are the police really
solving by busting these users? Are they actu-
ally creating a safer and freer country as they
have been telling us for years?
Approximately half of all drug busts in the
United States are pot-related with 87 percent
of these arrests being for the non-violent pos-
session of marijuana. Because most of the drug
arrests are non-violent offenders, their time
spentincorrectionalfacilitiesisoftenmoreinju-
rious than beneficial. Instead of being "rehabili-
tated," many of the nonviolent citizens actually
become more aggressive and spiral deeper into
the criminal system. In order to survive, they
must mimic the ways of actual violent offend-
ers surrounding them. To solve'this issue, the
federal government must reclassify or totally
eliminate marijuana - and potentially other
drugs - from the Drug Enforcement Agen-
cy's controlled substance list. Drug offenders
need authentic rehabilitation, not seclusion or
repeatedexposure to violence.
Under the Controlled Substances Act of
1970, marijuana is classified as a Schedule I
drug with no use for medicinal purposes and
high potential for abuse. It occupies this cat-
egory alongside more dangerous drugs such
as heroin, LSD and crack cocaine. It's ridicu-
lous that pot is classified as a higher risk than
extremely addictive drugs like cocaine and
oxycodone.
By classifying weed as a Schedule I drug,
people who have exposure to the drug may
believe the government is implying that other
drugs have similar side effects. This, however,
is deceptive and dangerous. Compared to pot,
the other drugs in the Schedule I class are

extremely dangerous. More than one-third
of U.S. citizens have tried marijuana with no
reports of addiction or death. Furthermore, as
of the November election, 18 states and Wash-
ington D.C. now have marijuana-friendly
legislation. The majority of the American pop-
ulation recognizes the harmlessness of THC.
Why can't the federal government?
"Marijuana should be legalized for many
reasons, but the most important reason is
because it is a civil rights infraction," Miles
Gerou, president of Eastern Michigan Univer-
sity's chapter of Students for a Sensible prug
Policy, said. "There is too much fact to show
that marijuana is relatively harmless, and cer-
tainly not lethal, to keep putting good citizens
in jail for making healthier choices than the
legal recreation drugs offered in our country."
Though many Americans have come to
the same conclusion, the federal government
refuses to budge. THC is still described as
more dangerous than Xanax, morphine, oxy-
codone and many other legal substances in
the United States. So instead of rolling up a
doobie I should pop apill, right?
Wrong. It's outrageous to believe that weed
is more harmful than the subsequent drugs in
lower class schedules. The idea that marijua-
na is a "gateway" drug is also absurd. In most
instances, people.experiment with nicotine or
alcohol before trying marijuana. Therefore,
the two most commonly used legal substanc-
es in the United States are the first gateway
drugs into the illicit substance community.
For decades, marijuana has been wrong-
fully labeled amongst our society. The time
for change is now. Much of our country has
legalized pot in some way, which alludes to
the majority of American's acceptance for pot.
Our right to use marijuana in a similar way
we use tobacco and nicotine needs to be rec-
ognized. The first few steps have been taken:
marijuana prohibition is slowly ending state
by state. Now it's time to tackle the federal
government and their illogical classifications.
It's legalization time.
Aarica Marsh is an LSA sophomore.

Last week, we had a "gentle-
men's night" at my co-op.
Just wait for the irony of
that statement.
Gentlemen's -
night is essen-
tially a Thurs-
day ' night our
co-op designates!
for fancy vests,
unfortunate
fedoras and good
beer. Female KATHERINE
house members STEEN
are invited, too,
although we're
technically the gentlemen's "dates."
Basically, it brings in the weekend
with a modest gathering of well-
dressed gals and gents.Atleast, that's
the way it's supposed tobe.
This particular gentlemen's night
ended up being a bit larger in size
than I'm used to. I leaned against
a doorway, surveying my gentle-
menly kingdom, and I felt a hand on
my waist - a grab. I hardly noticed
it until I saw the hand that touched
me wasn't attached to my boyfriend.
He walked by without turning back.
It was as if it didn't even happen, and
for a little bit, I believed that it didn't.
Then I saw him, again, come up
behind a female housemate and
clamp her body like bear trap, almost
picking her up off the ground. She
didn't even respond. Not a smile, not
a playful shove, nothing. Hmm.
"Maybethey'refriends",Ithought.
"I shouldn't assume things."
So I sat at a dining room table,
watching him. But, as I sat there, a
friend sitting next to me was busy
asking me who even invited that guy.
And while she began to list off all
the women he had rubbed, groped
or left a grease mark on that night,
I watched him walk up to a house-
mate sitting across me. I watched
her pause, petrified, as she tried to
process whose thick arms were now

draped around her neck and chest.
I asked her if she wanted him to
be doing that, with the response of
a nervous smile and "No." It seemed
simple enough.
I told him that he had grabbed half
the women in this house. I received
a response implying that I wished he
would touch me. I told him to get the
fuckoj.
I f ticed a few things in the
moment after he wandered off. I
could feel the red rage glow on my
face, my heart pound and the fight-
or-flight response through every
vein. I felt tense but poised, stand-
ing a little taller than I usually do -
maybe because I was wearing heels
that night for the first time since
high-school prom. And I slowly
began to gain consciousness of the
voices surrounding me offering
their gratitude.
That night, I had five women from
my co-op thank me, citing their own
personal grievances with that oily,
oversized creep. Let me clarify: Five
women from my own house thanked
me for kicking a guy they all didn't
feel comfortable with out of their
own house. Why did it take grope
number one, two, three - whatever
- for us to finally do something about
it? In our own damn house?
Maybe for the same reason that
I almost completely forgot he had
grabbed me: It's easier to just do
nothing. It's actually kind of awk-
ward, even, to do something - or
worse, terrifying. Was this a matter
.of giving someone the benefit of the
doubt four too many times? Or were
we scared in our own house even
when surrounded by our friends
and housemates?
I'm not being completely honest
when I say I kicked him out. I told
him to get the fuck out, sure, but the
person to actually kick him out was
a male housemate. He didn't leave
when I told him to; he actually just

moved to another room. What am I
going to do about it, right? a ,
So, success - he left. But I still
feel unsatisfied with the collective
response of that night.
We shouldn't need

a guy to kick a
creep out of
the house.

0

First, I don't think he realized
he did anything wrong. Perhaps he
woke up the next day in a groggy,
skull-splitting, hungover fog and
then remembered some dude kicked
him out of a co-op the night before.
After which, he probably shrugged
and ate a hearty breakfast of bacon
and nice guy syndrome. I really don't
think I got through to him, which is
why I want to doit all over again..
I was more than capable of
explaining the house rules to him in
a civil, composed, cold fox manner.
In fact, I wanted to prove that I was
neither the damsel in distress nor a
frantic feminist chucking ashtrays
at his neck as he fled off our porch.
Moral of the story: I just wanted to
do it myself.
We shouldn't need a gentleman
to kick a creep out of the house. And
you know what? We didn't really
need him to. Yes, that night was
termed a "gentlemen's night", butin
reality, it should have belonged to
the ladies - fuck it, to the women.
We don't have to be polite or even
nice. Actually, we should be angry.
Maybe not ashtray-chucking angry,
but we should be angry enough to
say something.
- Katherine Steen can be
reached at kathelizaumich.edu.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 25, 2013 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 25, 2013 - 5

SOCIAL
From Page 1
Twitter account's followers tri-
pled from 9,9000 to 30,200, and
the University's Facebook page
received 100,000 new likes.
In a March interview, Miller
said she hoped to establish the
University as a national leader in
the use of social media.
"In the same way that the Uni-
versity is a top school in so many
other ways, we can and should be

a ground-breaker and a thought-
leader in social media," she said.
"We should be a school that other
schools can look to and say 'That's
how the University of Michigan's
doing it. They're doing it right and
that's how we should be doing it
too."'
While Miller served inthe posi-
tion, she curated the University
of Michigan Social Media plat-
forms and social profiles. She also
launched the @umichstudents
Twitter account in July, which is
hosted by a different University

student each week.
Each department and specific
position at the University under-
go unique interviews and employ-
ment processes, which all involve
a background check, according
to University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald.
When asked how the Universi-
ty may have missed Millers claim
that she had her diploma on her
resume, Fitzgerald said that this
was an unusual circumstance,'
and that it does not happen often.
The job listing closes on Feb. 13.

HACKATHON
From Page 1
The competition offers $5,000
in prizes with a $1,500 cash prize
for first place.
Students will arrive Friday
evening and the competition will
begin at midnight and end Sun-
day morning.
"(On Sunday morning) we're,
going to have an expo similar to,
like, a science fair where we're
inviting the public in," Fontenot
said. "You're going to pretty
much be demoing your hacks to
anyone who's interested."
MHacks has already spent
about $50,000 on the event so
far. The majority of that money,
$23,600, will pay for transpor-
tation costs, including buses to
shuttle students from students
from other schools in the region.
The next highest expenditure is
$16,500 on food - with $3,000
allodated for Red Bull alone.

The hackathon will be financed
by donations from several spon-
sors, including Mail Chimp, ven-
ture capital firm Andreessen
Horowitz, Groupon and others.
Despite its sizeable budget,
MHacks has allocated no money
for lodging. But Fontenot said
that's deliberate.
"At a hackathon, you usually
take, like, a 3-hour nap or some-
thing in the middle, but you don't
get a full night's sleep," he said.
Nonetheless, there will be "desig-
nated nap rooms" with neck pil-
lows, Fontenot added.
At the end of the competition,
Fontenot said the best app isn't
necessarily the most profitable
app, but the most usable. Teams
cheating by teams is a possibil-
ity, but preparing an app before
the competition could do little to
help ateam's cause.
"(Cheating) has happened
before and it's somewhat hard
to detect," he said. "I honestly
think that the most innovation

comes in this kind of setting
where you're completely under
pressure."
He continued by saying the
limited time forces apps to be
fairly basic, but these form the
foundation for later development.
"A lot of the most successful
apps ... started off really, really
simple," he said.
Last weekend, programmers
from the University traveled to
the University of Pennsylvania
for PennApps, which Fontenot
said is the nation's premier col-
lege hackathon. Fontenot said
MHacks intends to overtake Pen-
nApps in terms of prestige and
student involvement.
440 students participated in
PennApps and MHacks already,
has about 450 students signed
up, Fontenot said still shy of the
500-student goal.
Students interested in sign-
ing up for MHacks can sign up at
the Hackathon's event page. The
event is free.


ONLINE
From Page 1
MOOCs are very important as a
new forum for education, they are
also limited in many ways.
"MOOCs are an incredibly
handy vehicle for packaging up
material that can be taught effec-
tively in this style," Russell said.
"Having said that, not all educa-
tional material fits into this for-
mat equally well."
Performance studies such
as music or theater complicate
the matter, but Russell said
he believes new technologies
will arise to satiate the need to
advance these disciplines.
"You will start to see the inte-
GEO
From Page 1
said that without zero-premium
GradCare, they could not afford
to attend grad school at UM."
However, Howard argued that
this will not be a problem for
GEO. She noted that as long as
most members stay active, right-
to-work legislation will have little
to no effect.
"GEO has an advantage because

gration of different sorts of real-
time interaction technologies
in a sort of collaborative sense
and in an individual one-on-one
sense that will allow us to evolve
in ways that will allow this stuff
to happen," Russell said.
However, MOOCs also stand
as a potential threat to the Uni-
versity's revenue. Russell added
that while the fear is that MOOCs
will deteriorate the need for uni-
versities, the institutions retain
an "experience that is difficult to
reproduce" in an online platform.
Russell also noted that the use
of MOOCs is still in the experi-
mental phase, and many factors
are unknown, such as how they
will be funded and whether free
MOOCs will prove to be viable
since we have a completely demo-
cratic structure and such a high
turnover rate in our membership,
bottom-up, member-to-member
organizing is already what we're
used to," Howard wrote.
Howard worries the discon-
nected unions will suffer the
most, and GEO's member-focged
strategies are more effective than
the traditional top-down model.
GEO's membership consists of
graduate student instructors and
graduate student assistants, total-

against premium, paid versions.
At the September meet-
ing of the University's Board
of Regents, several members
expressed concerns about pro-
viding the online courses for free
in light of a perennially difficult
budget situation. University Vice
Provost for Academic and Bud-
getary Affairs Martha Pollack
told the regents that while the
University is currently offering
online courses for free of charge,
it could begin charging for pro-
fessional and continuing-educa-
tion courses.
Kaul was not immediately
available for comment.
-Daily News Editor Peter
Shahin contribtued to this report.
ing approximately 1,600 members
per year.
Although the legislation is
unpopular within union ranks,
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder and
the Republican-majority Michi-
gan House of Representatives and
Senate created the legislation in
hopes of making Michigan's econ-
omy more attractive to business.
Legislators hope that more
businesses and workers will move
to the state because of the added
freedom.


ABROAD
From Page 1
that maintaining "cultural sensi-
tivity" was also a top priority for
the students participating in the
Take U-M Abroad program.
"You don't really want to
impose your views on any-
one else," she said. "I think it's
important to look for projects
that are not only a good idea, but

also are adaptable."
One student is going to make
a "cross-cultural cookbook" that
'draws from the foods of Michi-
gan and Cape Verde, an island
nation in the Atlantic Ocean near
Africa, where the student will be
studying. Sales of the cookbook
will go toward funding charities
in Cape Verde.
Following the participating
students' trips abroad, Mott said
CSG will be creating a book-
let and a presentation with the

results. She added that CSG is
looking to continue the program
through summer term and may
look for more ways to institution-
alize it.
In an e-mail interview, Busi-
ness senior Manish Parikh, the
president of CSG, called the pro-
gram "spectacular" and noted
its ability to "create impact glob-
ally,"
"A program like this is unique
to Michigan," Parikh wrote.
"(It's) our small way of making

LIKE THE PAPER?
YOU'LL LIKE OUR FACEBOOK
AND TWITTER EVEN MORE.
LIKE US AT FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY
FOLLOW US AT @MICHIGANDAILY
Yemen: Al- Qaida's No. 2 dies
after U.S. drone strike in Oct.
Caeed al-Shihri's

de

Charles Dharapak/AP
Egyptian protesters try to tear down a ceinent wall built to prevent them from reaching parliament and the Cabinet
building near Tahrir Square, in Cairo, Thursday.
V 0 iolent clashes in Egy on
of u

SAN
Qaida's
of wou
drone
ern Yer
news a
cialsai
Saee
al who
spent si
prison
wound.
souther
accordi
The
fallen i
was no
died.
A se(
missile
-operat
craft. F
anonyn

o1 government for spreading
ath considered the "rumor about my death ... as
though the lbilling of the mujahi-
major blow deen (holy warriors) by America
is a victory to Islam and Mus-
lims."
AA, Yemen (AP) - Al- Al-Shihri went through Saudi
No. 2 in Yemen died Arabia's famous "rehabilitation"
ands sustained in a U.S. institutes after he returned to his
attack last year in south- home country, but then he fled
men, the country's official to Yemen and became deputy to
gency and a security offi- Nasser al-Wahishi, the leader of
d Thursday. an al-Qaida group.
d al-Shihri, a Saudi nation- Al-Shihri's death is considered
fought in Afghanistan and a major blow to al-Qaida's Yemen
ix years in the U.S. military branch, known as al-Qaida in The
at Guantanamo Bay, was Arabian Peninsula. Washington
ed in a missile attack in the considers it the most dangerous
rn city of Saada on Oct. 28, of the group's offshoots.
ng to SABA news agency. Al-Qaida in Yemen has been
agency said that he had linked to several attempted
nto a coma since then. It attacks on U.S. targets, includ-
rt clear when he actually ing the foiled Christmas Day
2009 bombing of an airliner over
curity official said that the Detroit and explosives-laden
had been fired by a U.S. parcels intercepted aboard cargo
:ed, unmanned drone air- flights last year.
He spoke on condition of In 2011, a high-profile U.S.
nity because he was not drone strike killed U.S.-born

Anwar al-Awlaki, who had been
linked to the planning and exe-
cution of several attacks target-
ing U.S.. and Western interests,
including the attempt to down a
Detroit-bound airliner in 2009
and the plot to bomb cargo planes
in 2010.
Yemen, the Arab world's poor-
est nation, has fallen into lawless-
ness during a yearlong uprising
starting in 2011, when millions
of Yemenis took to the streets
demanding the ouster of their
longtime authoritarian ruler Ali
Abdullah Saleh.
Al-Qaida militants exploited
the unrest and took control of
large swaths of land in the south
until last spring, when the mili-
tary, backed by the U.S., managed
to drive hundreds'of militants
out of major cities and towns.
Since then, the group has
carried out deadly attacks tar-
geting mostly security and mili-
tary officials, including suicide
bombings that targeted military
and security compounds.

r
an
CAI
rity foi
protest
Moloto
demons
raising
versary
toppled
Preside
Yout
groups]
lies on
in Cairc
front o
the ups
The
ens injt
in cent
ers trie
wall b
from r
and the
street
darkne
capital.
Thre
that er
eventua
of office
Since
gone a
under t
military
tion la
Morsi

Morsi urges hood group. His first six mont t
eaCe among in office were markedby politic
tensions, street protests and an L
ti-corruption economic crunchthat sapped his t
popularity. i
protestors As the protests continued,o
Morsi visited the western city i
RO (AP) - Egyptian secu- of Ismailia to inaugurate a mari- a
rces fired tear gas and time project, but he was received m
ers hurled stones and by activists who blocked a rail- v
V cocktails in a day-long way station, tore down the wel-
tration on Thursday, coming banners and issued a a
fears of a violent anni- statement stating that they were t
r of the 2011 uprising that opposed to inaugurating new s
long-time authoritarian projects while there's corruption t
nt Hosni Mubarak. in the railway system. p
h activists and opposition Later in the day, Morsi urged u
have called for large ral- Egyptians to mark the anniver-
the anniversary Friday sary peacefully. C
o's Tahrir Square and in "I call upon Egyptians to cel- e
f the president palace in ebrate the revolution ... with g
cale suburb, Heliopolis. civilization - and peacefully to t
protests, which left doz- preserve our nation, our institu- n
ured, began before dawn tion, our souls, our streets and i
ral Cairo when protest- our sons," he told agathering in a
d to tear down a cement speech meant to mark the birth-
uilt to prevent them day of Muslim Prophet Muham-
eaching the parliament mad.
e Cabinet building. The "We have to feel that we are
clashes continued after all in one ship and we have to
ass fell on the Egyptian preserve its safety and respect
the people and their free will
e weeks of mass protests which they express in their bal-
upted on Jan. 25, 2011, lot boxes," he added.
ally forced Mubarak out But die-hard fans of Egypt's
e. most popular soccer team, Ahly,
then, Egypt has under- who took part in the clashes,
* tumultuous transition warned in a statement: "The

hat left 74 dead.
The soccer fans, known as
Ultras, also called for mass pro-
ests on Jan. 26, the day a court
s expected to rule on the fate
f security officials being tried
n connection with the deaths
t the soccer game, one of the
world's bloodiest instances of
iolence at a sports event.
On Tuesday, in an attempt to
ssuage anger, Morsi announced
hat the victims will be con-
idered "martyrs." That means
heir, families will receive com-
pensation like those killed in the
prising against Mubarak.
That same day, Egypt's prose-
utor general, who was appoint-
d by Morsi, asked the court to
ive the prosecution more time
o introduce new findings and
new defendants before issuing
ts verdict.

authorized to speak to the press.
Yemen had previously
announced al-Shihri's death in a
Sept. 10 drone attack in the prov-
ince of Hadramawt. A subse-
quent DNA test however proved
that the body recovered was not
that of al-Shihri.
On Oct. 22, al-Shihri denied 4 7 1 5
his own death in audio message
posted on Jihadi websites. , 7 6 8
Also known by the nom de
guerre Abu Sufyan al-Azdi, he 1 6 8 7
denounced at the time the Yeme-


he interim leadership of
y generals until the elec-
st June of Mohammed
of the Muslim Brother-

price of blood is blood." It was a
reference to the deaths of many
of their friends last year in a vio-
lent rampage at a soccer game


6 - Friday, January 25, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com.

6 - Friday, January 25, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Irritating cast
holds back 'Nerds'

4

New TBS reality
program zooms in
on nerd culture
By EMILY BODDEN .
For the Daily
Our society ' seems to be
saturated with an obsession of
so-called "nerd culture." After
experienc-
ing great suc-
cess with its
popular sitcom, King of the
"The Big Bang Nerds
Theory," TBS
green-lighted Pilot
the creation
of its newest Thursdays at
series, "King of 10:00 p.m.
the Nerds." TBS
The show
is the station's
first unscripted competition pro-
gram in seven years. Beginning
with 11 cast members, the contes-
tants compete in weekly challeng-
es that eliminate a contestant each
episode. The ultimate goal is to be
crowned "King of the Nerds," sit
on "the Throne of Games" and
win the $100,000 grand prize. A
clever pun on "Game of Thrones,"
the physical throne represents the
fantasy show's Iron Throne com-
posed of Nerf weapons and game
pieces. In the first few episodes,
the contestants will compete on
teams before splitting into an
"every man for himself" setup.
"King of the Nerds" is the work
of the same people who produced
"The Amazing Race," "Survivor"
and "Mythbusters," so if this show
is to become as successful as these
three, it certainly has the team to
accomplish it. The producers pos-
sess an ideal mix of backgrounds
with competition and science
shows, and their previous work
has proven to be both interesting
and entertaining.
The show tries to celebrate
their intellect and geekiness, but
it seems to fall short. While some
contestants are feasibly real peo-

ti
20TH CENTURY FOX
Babushkas are so 2012.
Powerhouse cast can't
fix drab 'Broken City'

"It's wizard's chess!"
ple, others seem to act like exag-
gerated stereotypes.
Danielle, for instance, not only
sports a head full of neon-pink
hair, but calls herself the "Queen
of WoW" ("World of Warcraft,"
a popular massively multiplayer
online role-playing game). She
also claims to have played over
6,500 games of "Halo" ... which
begs the question: Howis she get-
ting in her "WoW" time if all she
is doing is playing "Halo"?
Then there is Jon, with his styl-"
ish ombre-red hair, who claims
(somewhat unconvincingly) to
love math and theoretical phys-
ics. Hendrik, meanwhile, tries
to speak raven (yes, he wishes to
learn to speak with birds) in one
of the interviews.
The first episode has the 11
contestants split into two teams
to compete in a "Nerd War." This
results in a hilarious scene of the
nerds competitively nerd-offing.
The contestants are constantly
trying to one-up each other with
their talents. Danielle is in awe of
Celeste, who is a pro gamer who
can also solve Rubik's Cubes in
record time. Brandon, a neuro-
scientist, tries towinthe affection
of the team captains by dancing
enthusiastically (well, spastically)
to the popular video game "Just
Dance."
Picking their teams, the nerds

had to pour paint on their choic-
es. Between each pick, the cam-
era cuts to the contestants and
reveals them bragging about their
respective skills. In no way are
the interviews endearing; the
contestants actually seem less
likeable than high-school seniors
bragging about their ACT and AP
scores. When neither team choos-
es Alana, she pathetically whines
about being a nerd until she finds
that she has been granted all of the
power. The editing does not paint
flattering portraits of the contes-
tants, and it certainly doesn't cre-
ate any emotional attachments
with the viewers.
To create a successful real-
ity show, you need to either build
strong connections with the con-
testants or showcase challenges
so exciting or ridiculous that it
draws viewers back each week.
The characters in "King of the
Nerds" are not strange enough
to be entertaining and cross the
line into being irritating.
With more episodes, we will
see if TBS's plunge into this par-
ticular brand of reality-based
competition series was a wise
decision by the studio's execu-
tives. If they wish to last more
than one season, the producers
need to rethink their approach
on both how they present their
contestants and their challenges.

By CARLY KEYES
Daily Arts Writer
Some things are simply essen-
tial: A cheeseburger needs the
cheese, or it's just a plain old burg-
er; a pop song
needs a catchy s
hook, or it cer-
tainly won't be Broken City
very popular; a
thriller needs At Qualityl6
anticipation, and Rave
suspense, unex- 20th Century Fox
pected events
and, well, thrill.
But in "Broken City," the twists
- a staple of this genre - are wide
and meandering jaunts, rather
than the sharp, abrupt and shock-
ing turns that set a memorable
crime drama apart from the gar-
bage bin of forgettable attempts.
It's a slow, predictable ride that
never picks up, so it might be bet-
ter to just not get into the car in

the first place.
Mark Wahlberg ("Ted") stars
as Billy Taggart, a cop-turned-
private investigator, who's hired
by Nicholas Hostetler (Russell
Crowe, "Les Miserables"), the,
New York City mayor currently
seeking re-election, to investi-
gate hiswife, Cathleen (Catherine
Zeta-Jones, "Playing For Keeps"),
who he suspects is having an
affair.
As Billy tails Cathleen, he dis-
covers her frequent companion is
none other than opposing cam-
paign manager, Paul Andrews
(Kyle Chandler, "Zero Dark
Thirty"). But as Taggart dives
deeper into the case, he unveils
more "cheating" than he initially
expected, and it's a far cry from
just the bedroom.
Unfortunately, writer Brian
Tucker - in his first attempt to
pen a major feature film - misses
the target entirely. The backbone

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Friday, January 25, 2013
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Casbah 36 Beloved 52 Trig function
1 Fair share, headgear 38 Uffizi hangings 53 XXX, at times
maybe 5 Had a little 39 Hubbub 54 Three-handed
5 Polite denial something 42 Pays to play game
11 Pro-.. 6 Frere de la mere 43 Into a state of 57 Singer
14 Arch type 7 Dent, say decline DiFranco
15 Commensurate 8 Big lug 45 Ocean borders 58 Bookmarked
(with) 9 Travel org. since 46 Patch plant item nowadays
16 Soaked ' 1902 47 Rock'so- Boingo 59 "Gloria in
17 Cryfrom a 10 "Captain -Sar tE ,,elsis
duped investor? Kangaroo"
19 Brother character who 49 One may follow 60 British rule in
20 "l" strain? told knock-knock a casing colonial India
21 Where to find jokes ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Ducks and 11 Really bad
Penguins: Abbr. 12 Haggard of M A 0 R I W H I G H A S P
22 Eyes country music EXXON W I P E EWE R
24 Cryjust before 13 Flight part R E Y 0 F L I G H T Y O G I
dozing off? 18 Ocean-bay N A C H 0 0 F L A c
28 Eschewed the connector A ENA HOG FL X
backup group 23 Someone to T R E Y T A B L E A V A S T
31 Mra. IGorbachev admire
32 Influence 24 Grouch T A M S W E E C L E N C H
33Took in 25Sung approval? I M U P AL OH A R A R A
37 Lab medium 26 Prison area C A R R E Y NOR A C A T
38Thinking out 27 Bring on board A S S E T B E Y 0 F P I G S
loud, in a way 28 Injury reminder Y A L E A L F 0 N S O
40 Farm father 29'70s Olympics J U S T A H S E A T
41 Anthem name O P I E D E Y T R I P P E R
fortifications 30Good earth D O L L L A N A R I C C 1
43 Cupid's boss 34 Pixie dust
44 Free leaver, to Peter I N TL EDEN SE T UP
45 Dog named for 35 Deco designer xwordeditor@aol.com 01/251t3
the bird it 1 2 3 4 a s 7 9 10 11 12 13
hunted,
 amiliarly a45
46eCr from a
ry 17 1a 1s
superfan?
50 Hose 20 21 22 23
St Dig in
52 John, Paul and 2a 25 2627
George, but not
Ringo: Abbr. 08605s000O3
55 Electees 32 33 34 35 36
56 Crytfrom a
Jeddah native? 37 3s 3s 40
61 Iron..
62 Troubied state 41 42 43
63 Vronsky's lover, 44 45
in Tolstoy
64 "Balderdash!" 4a47 as 49
e5 Some aces
DOWN 55 505 58 59 60
1 Clinton's 61 6263
birthplace
2 Bug-yed n4 4 6566
3 Jay related to a
peacock? -yKutKnwus r01/25/13
(c)2013 Tribune MediService,In.112 3

CLUMSY HEARTS
A slightly misguided romance
By Hysteria Molt
Available via Amazon.com
And weep for literature

2013-14
PARKING FOR SALE
*Great Locations
*Central Campus
*Great .tes
734-761-800s
www.primesh.com
!!!!NOW LEASING FALL 2013!!!!
Great Location! 721 Church, 1 bd apts
& studios, quiet /great for mature stu-
dents! Across from East Quad. free
pkg, free heat, free water, laundry.
www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244.
5 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT
May to May
423 Benjamin
Beautiful house, great location, fur-
nished, remodeled kitchen w/ 2
fri/yes,
washer &,dryer, parking for 3
vehicles.
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS ON
Central Campus: WHY PAY $1,500
FOR A BED???
Our ONE bedroms ON
S.UNIVERSITY start at $660.00
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
TAKE $150.00 OFF YOUR SECU-
RITY DEPOSIT*n Visit us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
*AVAILABLE FALL 2013*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side;
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC..
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgtcom
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Coisultant, Pat at
734-663-4101.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
ANCIENT YOGA MEDITATION -
FREE CLASS - 7 Saturdays Jan 26 -
Mar 9, 2013, 10:15 - 1l:45am.
Friends
Mtg. Hse. 1420 Hill St. A2.
Registration required. Must join by
second session. Diane 734-678-8587
STATE PARK RESERVATION
agent (Call Center). 25-35 hrs a week,
$12.00/hr+$1.50 Quality Bonus. Job
located in Downtown AA. Interested?
Submit resume to Jobs@camis.com
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, formaL All discip'lies.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WANT TO GET noticed & gain a
career competitive advantage with an
Internship? Learn & Intern!
Go to http://www.internvue.com/ the
unique site connecting students to com-
panies. Start. Search. Connect. Succeed.

CLINSITE, A LOCAL research site,
is hiring for a FULL TIME, 8-5 M-F,
Research Assistant I and a FULL
TIME, 8-5 M-F, Clinical Research Co-.
ordinator I. For job requirements and
to apply for these positions call
(734) 930-3700 or click here:
www.ihacares.com/index.cfm/careers
SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY
ON CAMPUS JOB
Study and earn estra cash! Looking
for
underclassmen to promote a new aca-
demic networking website. For details
contact; lucas@wikigrads.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
TEACHERS POSITION FULL or
part time for infant toddler age for a
center-based program. Must have early
or elementary education background.
Send resume with references to kozy-
heart@gmail.com. Must be a non-
smoker. Committed and dependent
team player.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
OA^ -71 4' ...... . '_a" .

of any enticing crime drama is a
story with depth and creativity
- a plot that moves at a "one step
ahead" kind of pace - but here,
the writing is seriously predict-
able, vapid and not very inventive.
Looks like it's
time to bring.
back Marky
Mark.
The dialogue feels like it's dia-
logue - like it's a bunch of lines
written on a page to be recited by
actors rather than actual jargon
usedbypeople ofthe "realworld*'
It's a manufactured microcosm
that even a talented cast of sea-
soned professionals can't authen-
ticate. But crappy script aside,
this promising lineup of actors,
an aggregation of heavy hitters
boasting a catalogue of critically
acclaimed performances, fails to
impress as awhole.
Wahlberg dons his usual attire
as the brutish, curt, irreverent
leading man who hits people
really hard, but unlike the arche-
typal "troubled" protagonist
who undergoes the maturation
process to become a "good guy,"
Wahlberg's character is as flat as
a pancake. It's almost impossible
to conjure an iota of sympathy for
Billy because he brings all of his
troubles upon himself: He loses
his girlfriend (an aspiring actress)
after punching out her co-star at a
movie premiere, he goes to prison .
for shooting a delinquent in cold
blood and, when he relapses after
seven years of sobriety, he only
has himself to blame.
Zeta-Jones's on-screen pres-
ence is severely muted and
rather nonexistent despite the
integral nature of her role. She's
a powerhouse performer, who
is idiotically and entirely unde-
rutilized - as is Chandler, who
brings a vivid, albeit brief, por-
trayal of a passionate political
motivator.
The saving grace is Crowe,
who effortlessly embodies an
arrogant, ruthless, win-at-all-
costs scoundrel on a power trip,
and it's a pleasure to loathe him
as he weaves a web of economic
corruption. His scenes are rays
of sunshine among a dim and
drab storyline that would oth-
erwise be nearly fully devoid of
any brightness.
A more experienced writer
(just one previous screenplay
under his belt would've been
encouraging), a less brood-
ing, bumbling Wahlberg and a
way more electric Zeta-Jones
and charming Chandler might
have been enough to repair
this flawed film. But, while the
trusty politicians of New York
- and the rest of the country -
will always have the chance to
make improvements to society,
it's too late now to fix "Broken
City."


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, January 25, 2013 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 25, 2013 - 7

I

HBO
"It must be summer love.
Stimulating'Girls'

Du
with

By
"Girl
of the
shows l
writer
Lena D
a ho
name.
nothing
lutionar
the pre
it focus
group
lege-edu
young
in their
ties, str
with lif
HBO's
distinct
wants t
Prem
heels o
Golden
quickly
world o
ham, "T
(Allison
Dreams
"Tiny F
na (Zos
All Rig
bit uns
itself to
uncerta
The
unsure
(Adam.
Hannah

nham returns About Time" did little to clear
1unpredictable it up. But given their current
vague situation, the ambigu-
premiere ity is understandable. Following
Adam's car accident, Hannah
RADHIKA MENON has been delegated to take care
DailyArts Writer of her crippled ex-lover while
also unsure of her emotions
s" was arguably one for him. Adam's future within
most talked-about new "Girls" is uncertain, which is
ast fall that made creator, unfortunate because he is one of
and star the few characters comfortable
)unham with telling it how it is, no sugar
usehold on top - a much-needed voice of
There's Girls reason among the jaded girls.
revo- Shonda Rhimes, creator of
y about Seasn Two "Grey's Anatomy," openly com-
mise - Premiere plained about "Girls" 's non-
es on a Sundaysat diverse depiction of New York
of col- 10:00 p.M. City, and season two seems
ucated determined to address that with
women HBO Sandy (Donald Glover, "Com-
r twen- munity"), who takes up a casu-
uggling al relationship with Hannah.
e in the Big Apple - but Sandy is a welcome distrac-
"comedy" darling knows tion for Hannah, though it is
ly what it is and what it unclear whether or not he will
o say. be a constant fixture or sim-
iering directly on the ply a placeholder. "It's About
f the show's two major Time" doesn't spend much time
Globe wins, "Girls" characterizing Sandy - or even
settles us back into the showing him as more than a
of Hannah (Lena Dun- booty call - but he's easier to
Piny Furniture"), Marnie like than Adam was at the start
Williams, "American of season one.
"), Jessa (Jemima Kirke, In the short time that we've
urniture") and Shoshan- known Hannah's roommate,
ia Mamet, "The Kids Are Marnie, her entire world has
ht"). The premiere is a changed. After breaking up
tructured, which lends with Charlie (Christopher
the unpredictability and Abbott, "Martha Marcy May
inty of the cast's lives. Marlene"), the next blow to
season-one finale left us life-as-she-knew-it comes as
of the status of Adam she's fired from her job as an
Driver, "Lincoln") and art gallery assistant. In a series
'is relationship, and "It's of increasingly bad decisions,

she hooks up with Hannah's
ex-boyfriend-and-now-homo-
sexual roommate and then runs
back to cuddle with Charlie by
the episode's end. Having once
had it all together, Marnie's tra-
jectory this season is truly one
of growth and reexamination,
forcing her to address her inse-
curities head-on.
Though Shoshanna is nor-
mally relegated to the back-
ground, this episode brings her
into the main fold by addressing
her blossoming romance with
Ray (Alex Karpovsky, "Tiny
Furniture"), who took her vir-
ginity last season. Shoshanna
and Ray's relationship is one
of the bright spots in the series
- both are slightly wacky and
inexplicably attracted to each
other, making their scenes
together a delight to watch.
Shoshanna's scenes come at
the expense of Jessa, who is
noticeably absent until the end
of the episode. When she reap-
pears, she is with her new hus-
band, the two basking in their
new marital bliss. But there is a
passing look of uncertainty that
shadows her face, suggesting
that her spontaneous marriage
may not have been as great of a
decision as she thought..
This uncertainty ties the four
girls together: Each one embarks
on a new life and struggles to
escape the baggage of their old
selves. The premiere sets season
two up to be one of rediscovery
and new beginnings, a march
toward new identities - and it
seems to be headed in the right
direction.

CINEMATIC
Shouldn't you be in school, young man?
Breaking down the
best mixtapes of 21

By JACKSON HOWARD
DailyArts Writer
2012 was a chaotic year for.
rap music. Just as important as
ever were mixtapes, the free
semi-albums that rappers put
out online. Ultimately, the mix-
tape catalogue of 2012 provides
an eclectic mix of thought-
provoking, speaker-breaking,
strip-club-shaking free music.
Without further ado, I give you
the top eight mixtapes of 2012.
8. Gucci Mane - Trap Back
(DJ Holiday)
Gucci Mane has made so many
mixtapes that, at this point, it
seems impossible he'd have any-
thing left to say. Wrong. Comple-
mented by production and guest
spots from Southside, Lex Luger,
Waka Flocka, 2 Chainz and
more, Gucci uses his usual half-
decipherable drawl to weave
together a more-than-enjoyable
tape full of nonsensical similes,
eerie synths and obscure drug
references that should satisfy
diehard fans. Brrrr.
7. Juicy J - Blue Dream &
Lean(DJ Scream)
Let me say this: If you have
the chance, and are in decent
health, go see Juicy J live. It'll
change your life. And maybe kill
you. Since splitting from Three
6 Mafia, Juicy has re-invented
himself as a solo artist - at
the age of 38. BD&tL is a never-
ending barrage of trap beats,
pre-school-level rhyme schemes
and X-rated content and, though
horrifically long at 28 tracks,
Juicy's energy carries the tape
along. Turn up.
6. Wale - Folarin (DJ Clark
Kent)
Wale rose to fame through
his incredible Seinfeld-inspired
debut mixtape, so it only makes
sense that in preparation for

his upcoming third album he'd
release a tape to hold his fans
over. Folarin finds Wale trading
bars with Rick Ross, 2 Chainz,
Trinidad James and others,
while also displaying his usual
blend of witty and pensive lyr-
ics. Though the tape is fun, let's
hope the new album is a little
more experimental.
5. Fabolous - The Soul Tap
Vol.2(No DJ)
The first The Soul Tape was a
refreshing attempt by a rapper

For his first mixtape in two
years, Big Sean sounded hungry
again. Boasting features from J.
Cole, Kendrick Lamar and Chris
Brown, among others, Sean put
together a project that simulta-
neously was fun to listen to and
demonstrative of his tremendous
growth overthe lasttwoyears. No
longer Kanye's side-act, Sean has
staying power, andDetroitis more
than enough proof.
2. Rick Ross - RichForever(DJ
Scream)

who h
too lon
only s
IOus's
nal for
street
with t
Trey S
the pe
throug
dr

as been around for a little The Bo$$ cannot be stopped,
ig: an entire mixtape using and he wants the world to know.
oul-inspired beats. Fabo- Every song on Rich Forever
sequel sticks to the origi- affirms in its own way that Ross
mula, blending New York will indeed be, well, rich forever.
lingo and '70s soul music Spitting as confident as ever over
he help of J. Cole, Pusha T, a landscape of menacing instru-
Songz and more, creating mentals and with the help of
rfect late-night-cruising- Diddy, 2 Chainz, Nas and Drake,
;h-the-city soundtrack. to name a few, Rozay absolutely
suffocated any doubt as to wheth-
er he was indeed the "Biggest Art-
Did YOU ist inithe Game," as proclaimed on
his Twitter. Notonly is he, maybe,
op a Bada$$ the biggest physically, but Rich
P Forever reaffirmed emphatically
mnixtape at that Rick Ross was the biggest
artist in the game in 2012.

FX highlights politically
incorrect humor with 'Legit'
By KELLY ETZ a pilot. manages to make the strenuous
DailyArts Writer As proven with "Louie" and search for the perfect hooker
"The League," FX knows how seem awkwardly heroic. The
There's no point in cross- to work with comedians in parting sequence, complete
ing every politically-correct an outside-the-cookie-cutter with an extremely satiated
line ever drawn for the sake approach to sitcoms. And while looking Billy rolling out while
of shock fac- "Legit" doesn't have the matu- fun.'s "Carry On" blasts in the
tor alone. Too rity of an established comedy background, certainly comes
often, sitcoms yet, it certainly showcases good off as inspirational.
that want to be Legit bones. The non-stop, say-any- There's no doubt that, as with
new and out- thing crudeness never becomes most of FX's programming,
rageous think Pilot a crutch, and typical beginning- "Legit" is an acquired taste.
that string- Thursdays at of-series stumbles are the only It's not for everyone, and will
ing together a 10:30 p.m. things that drag the premiere inevitably offend more than its
half-assed plot down. fair share. But, as FX proves
with as much FX time and again, even vile, boor-
profanity as ish nastiness is palatable when
possible is all the work they there's the tiniest bit of heart
need to put in. W ARNING: shining through.
Only a standout series can It's that heart, more than
take exceptionally crass vul- Content may unconventional formats and
garity and skillfully finagle lengthy pauses, that pushes
the obvious denial and throw- Contain many "Legit" past ordinary. Sure, Jef-
away laughs into unsuspecting, dick jokes feries is a selfish, useless stoner
should-I-even-laugh-at-this . with a bad habit of saying what-
humor. FX's new half-hour ever the hell he wants, but the
comedy, "Legit," plays perfect- audience can tell he actually
ly into this dynamic, pulling cares about Billy. That is, for
cautious snickers from every The loose premise of the more than just the handicapped
uncensored line out of Jim Jef- series plays out in the first parking space and unlimited
feries's mouth. two minutes, with Jefferies's wingman potential. And that's
A successful stand-up come- mother's plea for him to legiti- nice. Nice enough to make a
dian before partnering with mize himself before she dies, road trip to an out-of-the-way
FX, a la Louis C.K., Jefferies a task he. takes as seriously as dive bar into a surprisingly poi-
essentially plays an overblown he's able. The pilot focuses on gnant moment of male bonding.
version of himself in front of his first "legit" good deed: hon- It might even provoke a reluc-
the camera. Still, the delivery oring his best friend's brother tant smile.
is spot-on and Jefferies, who Billy's (DJ Qualls) request to In true FX style, buried
looks like Ricky Gervais's mel- get laid for the first time - a beneath all the male postur-
lowed-out twin (the series does unique request as Billy is 32 and ing and obvious dick jokes is a
have an odd similarity to "Life's at an advanced stage of muscu- series that might just make you
Too Short"), makes the comedy lar dystrophy. Jefferies takes feel something. And hey, the
look effortless - a mean feat for this all in stride (mostly) and dick jokes can be fun too.

age 17?
4. Meek Mill - Dreamchasers
2 (DJ Drama)
Here's a number for you:
3,858,845. That's the number
of times this project was down-
loaded from mixtape giant
Datpiff, setting a record and actu-
ally crashing the site. The tape
featured huge single "Amen" with
Drake, and loads of head-splitting
trap music, double-time rapping
and tales of life on the streets.
Coupled with his mostly well-
received debut, Meek Mill had a
huge 2012, and will most likely
have a bigger 2013.
3. Big Sean - Detroit(No DJ)

1. Joey Bada$$ -1999(No DJ)
Joey Bada$$ was 17 years
old when he released 1999 last
summer, but listening to the
tape, you could've sworn it was
released 20 years ago. Joey,
without any major label help,
released a project that chan-
neled Golden Era hip hop for a
new generation. Flowing over
beats from MF DOOM ("World
Donination"), Lord Finesse.,
("Funky Ho'$") and J Dilla
("Snakes"), Joey and his Pro
Era crew managed to bring back
the heyday of rap with a mix of
lyrical dexterity, wit, introspec-
tiveness and swagger. It may
be the 21st century, but for 15
songs, Joey Bada$$ is happy to
take you back to '92, even if he
wasn't born yet.

ARE YOU AN A2 GURU?
DO YOU LOVE GOING TO COMMUNITY EVENTS?
ARE YOU THE HERO GOTHAM DESERVES?
If you answered yes to any of these questions (especially the
last one), you should apply to be a Community Culture writer
for Daily Arts!
E-mail arts@michigandaily.com to request an application!


8 - Friday, January 25, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A trip home to face
nation's top teams

By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Writer
For the No. 11 Michigan water
polo team (1-3), the stakes are
raised this weekend as it heads to
California for three games against
top-10 competition. The Wolver-
ines will play No. 1 Stanford on
Friday before taking on No. 9 San
Jose State and No. 4 California on
Saturday.
But the pressure to beat the
nation's most talented teams
might be superseded by some-
thing else this weekend. There
are 15 Michigan players from
California on this season's roster,
and Michigan coach Matt Ander-
son attended San Jose State as an
undergraduate. Eight of the Cali-
fornia natives come from the Bay
Area ofNorthern California - the
same region where this weekend's
top-ranked competitors are locat-
ed. This weekend is about friends,
family andtmemories for a good
chunk of the squad, and many
players hope to use that as more
motivation against their home
state's highly touted programs.
"Having friends and family
there (watching), you want to do
well," said junior attacker Kelsey
Nolan. "You don't get to do much
of that here."
The Golden State is home to
seven of the nation's top 10 teams.
Year in and year out, California
remains a recruiting goldmine for
coaches across the nation.
"Every high 'school has water
polo in California, so they will
have a lot more athletes to draw
from," Anderson said. "The hot-
bed of water polo is an in-state
school for most of those girls."
Anderson's ties to Northern
California surely have him excit-
ed for this upcoming weekend,
but those connections are also the

reason why Michigan can consis-
tently hang with the top talent on
the West Coast.
"You establish a lot of your
recruiting with any sport in col-
lege with your contacts," Ander-
son said. "I spent so many years
at the high-school level - I have
a lot of contacts, and thus we've
always been NorthernCalifornia
top-heavy in our recruiting."
All of the Wolverines will be
challenged this weekend, to say
the least. Stanford boasts a roster
with three Olympians from this
past summer's gold-medal team
in London - Annika Drips, Melis-
sa Seidemann and Maggie Stef-
fens - as well as the 2012 NCAA
player of the year, Kiley Neushul.
"We need to execute," Ander-
son said. "We understand who
we're playing. On paper, (Stanford
is) the best water polo team ever
put together. But we need to make
the effort to do the things we
want to do, and then we should be
able to head home with a victory
over a higher-ranked team."
A good portion of the Bay Area
natives will play against for-
mer high-school teammates and
coaches this weekend, adding a
bit of extra fuel and passion to the
Michigan sideline. A 1-3 record
following last weekend's Michi-
gan Kick-Off Tournament in Ann
Arbor may have lefta sour taste in
their mouths.
For Nolan and her fellow Cali-
fornians, this weekend is certain-
ly time to cherish past memories
and reminisce with familiar faces.
But Anderson says this weekend's
goal is purely to come home with
awinningrecord.
A few wins would be some-
thing this team is used to, some-
thing comfortable and exciting
- reminiscent of a place just like
home. .

q
I

Freshman long jumper Antonio Whitfield and the rest of the Michigan track and field team will face Michigan State in a dual meet for the first time in three decades.
For first time in 30 years, rivalr eee

By NATE SELL This dual meet has garnered
Daily Sports Writer so much hype that the event is
taking place at Grand Valley
In 1982, Bo Schembechler State's Kelly Family Sports Cen-
was head coach of the Michigan ter in Allendale, Mich. to ensure
football team, and Jim Harbaugh that there will be enough room
was just a freshman. This was for spectatators. The facility
the last time the Michigan men's seats 800 people - much more
track and field team met Michi- than the track buildings in Ann
gan State in Arbor or East Lansing - and a
a dual meet. . sellout is expected.
Now, Bo MIdligdn VS- The Wolverines and Spartans
has passed, Michigan State have met in triangular meets
Harbaugh When:Sator- only three times since their last
is preparing day 6 P.M. dual, most recently in 1999. Both
to coach the teams are excited to finally lace
San Fran- Where: Kelly up and meet on the track after
cisco 49ers Center at Grand their long hiatus.
in the Super Valley State "They are all looking forward
Bowl against to it, as is State," said Michigan
his older coach Fred LaPlante. "That's
brother, and Michigan is prepar- what will make it a good meet."
ing to finally dace head-to-head Senior Aaron Taylor echoed
with the Spartans again. LaPlante's message.

"We all just want to beat them
so much," he said.
Saturday, the Wolverines have
a chance to make their mark on
the rivalry. The Wolverines have
dominated the Spartans histori-
cally, with a record of 27-2-1 in
past meetings - including a19-2-
1 record in true dual meets.
This will only be Michigan's
second meet of the season and
the first one that will be scored.
The team is looking forward
to the level of competition that
comes with a dual meet.
"You have to hold serve in
every event," LaPlante said. "You
don't want to get slammed in any
event so you're trying to avoid
them going one-two in anything.
Every guy on the team matters."
One phase of the meet that
Michigan will expect a big per-
formance in is shot put, an event

where the Wolverines finished
with the top three places in their
non-scored opening meet. Red-
shirt sophomore Cody Riffle was
the leader of this group, throwing
17.82 meters. Riffle is currently
ranked third in the Big Ten.
Michigan has five other ath-
letes ranked in the Big Ten's top
eight, and the team will be count-
ing on them Saturday. This group
includes junior Justin, Clarke in
the 60-meter dash, Taylor in the
200-meter dash, junior Herman
Washington in the 60-meter
hurdles, redshirt junior Bradley
James in high jump and redshirt
junior Ethan Dennis in weight
throw.
Though the hype will be
aplenty - even for spectators and
coaches - the Wolverines don't
plan on doing anything different
leading up to the meet.

6

American University of the Caribbean
School of Medicine

4
ATTEND OUR OPEN HOUSE:
Saturday, February 2nd at 10 am
Courtyard by Marriott Detroit Downtown
REGISTER BY SCANNING THE
QR CODE OR VISIT AUCmed.edu.

6

For comprehensive consumer information visit aucmed.edu/consumer-info.html
© 2013 Global Education International. All rights reserved.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Friday, January 25, 2013 - 9

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, January 25, 2013 - 9

Wolverines bounce back

PAULISHERMAN/Dai
Freshman forward Boo Nieves said the team's mentality changed entering last weekend's series against Lake Superior State.
For 1st time in weeks,
high spirits for hockey

Fel
ing st
team
State
perat
agitat
inabil
togeth
But
splitti
the
and n
as ba
ing th
ous c
defeat
top-t%
in the
ence,
verine
in h
its.
will
Kalam
weeke
two-g
Michi
4 over
inCC
"I t
chang
said
Nieve
in th
team
in the
Add
Beren
sense
team.
last w
but I t
last ga
we are

ByGREG GARNO Despite their ninth-place our responsibility is to defend
Daily Sports Writer ranking in the conference, the our ice here."
Wolverines' (5-11-2-2, 8-14-21) Michigan will be riding it's
lowing a three-game los- demeanor has changed for the own offensive hot streak, com-
reak, the Michigan hockey better. ing from a slew of players who
arrived at Lake Superior Their attitude alone won't be haven't consistently produced in
last weekend with a des- enough, though, as the Broncos the past. Junior forward Luke
e attitude, boast the third-best defense in Moffatt led the Wolverines in
ed by its the NCAA, allowing just 1.88 goals over the weekend with two
ity to put Michigan goals per game. Sophomore goal- in Friday's game, despite being
her a win. at Western tender Frank Slubowski, ranked shut down Saturday.
after in the nation's top 10 with a .920 Although he didn't record a
ng with Michigan save percentage, is part of the point, sophomore forward Alex
Lakers - Matchup: reason behind Western Michi- Guptill will be called upon to
ot feeling Michigan 17-7; gan's success. continue taking cracks at the net
ad know- WMU 17-9 Michigan, on the other hand, after leading the team in shots
heir previ- When: Friday ranks 54th out of 59 teams in against Lake Superior State.
opponents 7:05 P.M., goals against nationally, allow- The power-play unit, ranked
ted the Saturday ing 3,5 per game as it struggles 49th out of 59 teams nationally
wo teams 7:35 p.m. to find a consistent netminder. with 13 goals on 100 chances,
e confer- Where: Law- Junior goaltender Adam Janecyk has also bounced back over the
the Wol- son Ice Arena is expected to start again, even weekend, under freshman defen-
es are TV/Radio: Fri- after giving up seven goals in two seman Jacob Trouba's leadership.
igh spir- day: Comcast games against the Lakers. The Winnipeg Jets draft pick has
Michigan Saturday: "It doesn't matter who we're recorded five of his eightgoals on
travel to FS Detroit playing - it's a huge series for the season on the power play, and
nazoo this us," Berenson said. "We know continues to reap the benefits of
end for a there's only 10 games left, and we the return of junior defenseman
:ame set with No. 9 Western know we're going to have to do Jon Merrill.
gan (10-4-2-1 CCHA, 14-6- our work on the road." Western Michigan ranks 19th
rall), which is tied for first Janecyk will be tested by the on the power play, scoring on 24
HA. Broncos' leading goal-scorer of 123 chances while sitting at
think our mentality really Dane Walters, who has 11 on the 11th place in the NCAA in penalty
ed going into Lake State," season. Walters has been far and kills. The Broncos have killed off
freshman forward Boo away Western Michigan's go-to an impressive 84 out of 97 chant-
s. "We definitely took a step leader, but Janecyk has had suc- es this season.
e right direction, and our cess against the Broncos in the The Broncos are coming off of
mentality is definitely going past. His first start of the season a series split with Bowling Green.
right place." came in a 2-0 victory on Dec. 15 Western Michigan has won three
ded Michigan coach Red against the Broncos, when he of its last four meetings with
son: "I think there's a new recorded 25 saves in his first- Michigan, including last year's
of energy on the whole career shutout. CCHA championship.
We can't keep relying on "We expect toplay hard and "It'll be tough," Nieves said.
eek or the week before last, win," said Western Michigan "Strategy can only get you so far.
hink you're as good as your coach Andy Murray. "I don't It comes down to will, determi-
ame, and our team feels like care whether it's the Detroit Red nation and coming together as a
e starting to play better." Wings coming into this weekend, team to figure it out."


Michigan easily
downs Indiana to
avenge its first loss
in 11 games
By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Writer
After dropping its first con-
ference game of the season
against Penn State on Monday,
the Michigan women's basket-
ball team hit the road to face
Indiana (1-5 Big Ten, 10-9 over-
all), and it didn't miss a beat.
The 23rd-ranked Wolverines
started off slowly, but never
looked back once they got their
offense going, winning 61-43.
After a season-worst 27-per-
cent shooting from the field
against
Penn State, MICHIGAN 61
Michigan INDIANA 43
(5-1, 16-3)
found more success on offense,
shooting 42.6 percent from the
field.
"I thought we came out a lit-
tle tight," said Michigan coach
Kim Barnes Arico. "I don't
necessarily think we came out
ready to play from the get-go.
But after the first few minutes, I
think we woke up a little bit and
really started to play well and
(we) ended the first half strong.
And I really like how we came
out and started the second half
as well."
The Wolverines went into
halftime with a 13-point lead
and came out fast in the second
to build their lead to as much as
24.
But with 11 minutes remain-
ing, the Hoosiers went on a 10-0
run that stopped Michigan's
momentum and cut its lead to
13. After a timeout, the Wol-
verines continued to struggle,
enduring a 6:49 stretch without
scoring, but were able to pull
away in the end.
The last time these two
teams met, on Jan. 3, senior for-
ward Nya Jordan had a dou-
ble-double with 14 points and
12 rebounds., Tonight proved
no different, and Jordan ended
the game with 10 points and
added 11 rebounds. It was
the fourth time this year that
she has grabbed double-digit
rebounds.
Meanwhile, the play of
senior forward Kate Thomp-
son was vaguely familiar to the
last time these teams squared
quff as well. It was another slow

night f
held sc
second
ended t
on 3-for
the arc
"I t
really t
Barnes
good jo
On tI
"Al
fey
thi
Michig
leading
Sinclair
33-perc
18.1 poi
Mich
its seco
center l
after re

Senior guard Kate Thompson finished with 13 points despite tight defense.

or Thompson who was mark, Sheffer continued her
oreless until the last five hot streak. She ended the game
s of the first half. She with 19 points, 12 of which were
the game with 13 points scored in the first half.
r-9 shooting frombehind "I thought Rachel did a tre-
mendous job of really recog-
hought (Indiana was) nizing what the officials were
trying to take Kate out," letting go and not letting go,"
Arico said. "They did a Barnes Arico said. "She really
b at that." did a great job to get to the free-
he other side of the court, throw line, and we talked about
that at halftime.
"I didn't think we did as good
a job in the second half (with
ter the first our free throws). They did a
better job at getting to the free-
v minutes, I throw line in the second half.
That's what,(helped) their run."
Fouls ended up being the big
UP." storyline for the Wolverines,
who found huge success (14-
for-18) at the line, including
11-for-13 in the first half. Senior
guard Jenny Ryan found herself
an held the Hoosiers' in foul trouble early in the sec-
scorer, forward Aulani ond half, after picking up three
r, to just 14 points on quick fouls, but she ended the
ent shooting, below.her game with 10 points and seven
nts per game average. rebounds.
sigan heavily relied on The' Wolverines have little
nd-leading scorer, senior time to rest, with their next
Rachel Sheffer. Four days game only three days away
eaching the 1,000-point against Iowa in Ann Arbor.



ROBINSON
From Page 10
talent, Robinson is proving to be
the most important Wolverine
freshman.
This weekit was the dunk over
Byrd; last week it was a 360-dunk
against Minnesota.
These highlight-reel plays are
what get the attention, but that's
not necessarily where Robinson's
value lies.
The hyper-athletic freshman
is leading the team in rebounds,
averaging even more than
McGary and redshirt junior Jor-
dan Morgan, two big men whose
biggest jobs are rebounding and
defense.
On Thursday, Robinson got
most of his nine boards from the
wing, from where he was able to
crash into the post. He's 6-foot-
6, but he's quick and agile, so
he gets his rebounds from out-
maneuvering, not out-muscling.
Offensively, he has the high-
est field-goal percentage of any-
one who isn't a post player on
the team, but his range extends
from the post to the 3-point line,
where he is shooting 41 percent.
He also plays like an upper-
classman, and is the calming
THE HEB:

presence of this talented, hyped
freshman class. McGaryis known
for his energy, his screams and
his frantic pump-up gestures to
the crowd. Guard Nik Stauskas is
known for the goggles he forms
on his face with his hands after
he makes a 3-pointer.
Robinson is known for his
highlight-reel plays and the focus
and intensity that come with
them.
"He's just doing the little
things to make our team better
and knocking down open shots,"
said junior forward Tim Hard-
away Jr.
On Thursday, Purdue could
have been just any other team,
another Big Ten opponent Michi-
gan needed to defeat at home.
Robinson makes those plays
against everyone, not just the
Boilermakers.
The stare, though, gave it
away.
LIKE US ON
FACEBOOK!
FACEBOOK.COM/THEBLOCKM

MICHIGAN
From Page 10
Stauskas guarded Byrd in the
first half, but after leaving the
Boilermakers' second-leading
scorer open on, multiple occa-
sions,' the Michigan coaching
staff decided in the locker room
to let junior guard Tim Hard-
away Jr. defend Byrd. It worked,
as Byrd was held scoreless in the
second half, and Purdue failed to
connect on a single 3-point bas-
ket after halftime.
"Nik is improving like crazy
with his defense," Beilein said.
"But when he was guarding D.J.

Byrd, he forgot that D.J. Byrd is
him - he can shoot from deep.
"Tim has really become not
only really good at guarding the
particular person, but getting
Nik and everybody else, Glenn,
where they should be. ... When
D.J. Byrd got going, we just said,
'Alright, (Nik's) still a work in
process."
Burke paced Michigan in the
first half, scoring seven points
and adding four assists, but his
3-of-lO 3-point shooting and six
turnovers allowed the visiting
Boilermakers to not just keep
pace with the high-flying Wol-
verines, but enter halftime tied,
33-32.

GOING
TO TH

Registration now open!
Beginning & Advanced Taekwondo
Taught by Grand Master Hwa Chong
10 Dan Black Past President,
Belt United States
Taekwondo Union,
US Coach of the
Year-1981 Former Executive
Council,
Teacher of two US The World
Olympic Taekond
Medallists Federation
US Team Manager, Lecturer, Div. of
1988 Olympic Kinesiology
Games
Teaching Martial Arts at UM sihee 1968
Learn self-defense and Olympic-style fighting
Improve conditioning and flexibility
FREE UNIFORM! Register online at www.umich.edu/~umove


10 - Friday,;January 25, 2013Th

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


One down

Robinson plays
I 'Big Dog' role

Michigan takes first
of two wins likely
needed to secure
top ranking
By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
The explosive, put-away-its-
opponent run came later than
expected for the No. 2 Michigan
basketball team. After all, the
Wolverines entered Thursday
night's game against Purdue as
decisive,_
double-dig- PURDU E 53
it favorites. MICHIGAN 68
But at
the 14:46 mark of the second half,
with the Wolverines trailing by a
point, freshman forward Glenn
Robinson III hit a 3-pointer that
would soon turn into 10 unan-
swered points for Michigan. By
time the run, which stretched to
14-2, ended, the Wolverines had
an 11-point lead and control of the
game, winning 68-53.
With the victory, Michigan
controls its fate heading into
Champaign on Sunday, where the
Wolverines will have the chance
to play for the presumptive No.
1 ranking. After No. 1 Duke fell
to No. 25 Miami on Wednesday,
a win over Illinois would almost
certainly place Michigan atop the
rankings for the first time since
Nov. 30, 1992, which came in the
midst of the Fab 5 era.
Robinson's 3 was followed by
a tip-in from freshman guard
Nik Stauskas. After a timeout,
sophomore point guard Trey
Burke connected on a 3-pointer
and Robinson followed with a
3-pointer of his own, which came
on the heels of a game-changing

play from freshman forward
Mitch McGary.
With the ball loose near half
court, McGary made a play that
Wolverine fans used to see from
another Chesterton, Ind. native,
former guard Zack Novak.
McGary out-jumped a Boiler-
maker, tipping the ball in the air,
and beat his opponent to the ball
downcourtbefore drawing a foul,
bringingthe crowd to its feet even
before he emphatically waved his
hands in the air at the student
section.
"Whether it's diving on the
floor, or going after something or
talking to the crowd - enhancing
the crowd's spirit, he's really good
at all of them," said Michigan.
coach John Beilein.
After the run ended, Purdue
was never able to regain the com-
posure it showed in the game's
first 25 minutes. Michigan out-
scored the Boilermakers in the
second half, 36-20.
"I wasn't crazy about some of
our poise in the first half," Beilein
said. "We tried to hit some home
runs instead of some singles. In
the second half, we really played
smart, both on offense and
defense."
Part of that turnaround can be
attributed to Beilein calling out
his team's mental toughness at
halftime.
"We're playing against better
and better teams,' which you're
going to see everyday in the Big
Ten," Beilein said. "Those days of
playing a team that maybe you can
go for some home runs and still
win, it doesn't work. We learned
that when we were in Columnbus."
Burke led all scorers with 15
points - one of four Wolverines
to finish in double figures - while
adding eight assists. Robinson
finished one rebound shy of a


By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Editor
Glenn Robinson III got the
ball on the wing, felt his man on
one side then spun his body the
other way. It took the freshman
forward two dribbles to get to
the edge of the key, where Pur-
due forward DJ Byrd tried to
meet him.
But Byrd can only rise so
high. Robinson can fly - Byrd
cannot.
Robinson hung in the air,
passing the inaptly named Byrd,
before viciously dunking the
ball with his right hand.
The St. John, Ind. native took
an extra second to hold onto
the rim, then shota look over to
Purdue's bench on his.way back
down the court.
Robinson has a relationship
with Purdue. It isn't just anoth-
er Big Ten school for him.
After No. 2 Michigan's 68-53
win over the Boilermakers,
Robinson was asked whether
the game was personal for him.
He looked down at the ground,
and paused for a couple sec-
onds before answering, "No,
I wouldn't say it got personal.
Nothing against (Purdue coach
Matt) Painter or Purdue."
After all, Purdue isthe school
his father played for back in
the early 1990s, the school that*
Glenn "Big Dog" Robinson aver-
aged more than 30 points a
game for and the school where
the older Robinson played
alongside Painter for a year.
Robinson went on to be the
No. 1 overall pick in the NBA
Draft, where he had an 11-year
career. It made sense that Pur-

due was one of the interested
schools when it came time for
the recruitment of the younger
Robinson.
You'd think that an Indiana
native would wind up at the
alma mater of his father, the
former NBA All-Star, who just
so happened to play with the
current head coach. That would
make sense.
But Purdue ran out of schol-
arships, and Robinson commit-
ted to Michigan and coach John
Beilein.
So it's hard to believe the
game wasn't a little personal for
Robinson, playing his father's
team - the team that couldn't
take him on.
"He might not say this, but
it's personal for all of us guys
from Indiana," said freshman
forward Mitch McGary, anoth-
er Indiana native. "They all talk
smack if they beat us because
we're from Indiana and we
came here to Michigan. So, we
have to win."
Purdue or not, Robinson
turned in another efficient
night. He scored 12 points,
including two 3-pointers, and
missed only two 'shots to go
along with his game-high nine
rebounds.
He also played a team-high 37
minutes, often rotating from the
wing to the post depending on
the other Wolverine personnel
on the floor.
"Tonight, he just had the
urgency," McGary said. "Not
just with the dunk, but he hita
couple 3s and-was crashing the
glass all night."
On ateam loaded with young
See ROBINSON, Page 9

Freshman forward Glenn Robinson III (top) scored 12 points against Purdue.
Sophomore guard Trey Burke (bottom) had eight of Michigan's 11 assists.

double-double, putting up 12
points and nine rebounds and
another highlight-reel dunk.
"I like making those high-
lights, getting the crowd excited,"
Robinson said. "It feelsgood to do
that.... We all got excited, wanted
to play defense."
Uncharacteristic of past
Michigan-Purdue games, the
Wolverines outrebounded the,
Boilermakers, 35-29, while out-
scoring them inthe paint, 36-24.
But the first half was a very
different story than the latter
half. Just 1:15 into the game, after
Burke beat the Purdue defense
to the basket for an uncontested
layup, Boilermakers coach Matt
Painter called atimeout. Knowing

the explosive offensive capabil-
ity the Wolverines have displayed
time and time again this season,
Painter sensed that Burke's layup
- which gave Michigan a5-3 lead
- could springboard into an early
blowout, so he called timeout.
It proved to be a good move,
as the two teams changed leads
eight times in the first half, and
Purdue gave the Wolverines their
first halftime deficit at home this
season.
The story of the opening stan-
za was the Boilermakers' 3-point
shooting. Led by guard D.J.
Byrd's three first-half 3-pointers,
Purdue shot 7-of-13 from deep in
the half.
See MICHIGAN, Page 9

4


