46F 46F 46F
I - i an
I'll 11 4 41 .al b.. . i dJ i OFF l lr\R .,.FREEDOM.

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, March 14, 2013

michigandaily.com

ENVIRONMENT
Students
recycle in
national
contest
RecycleMania
competition runs
through end of March
By DANIELLE WALLICK
Daily Staff Reporter
When LSA freshman Julian Tabron
came back to Ann Arbor after spring
break, he brought back a lot more than
he took home. Along with his luggage,
he returned with multiple bags full of
recyclable materials in tow, collected
during the week at his home in Detroit.
He brought cardboard materials, plas-
tic bottles, scraps of aluminum foil and
more to compete in the University's
RecycleMania competition.
RecycleMania is a 10-week compe-
tition among more than 600 colleges
and universities across the country to
see which school can collect the largest
amount of recyclables, the least amount
of trash per capita, and have the high-
est recycling rate over the course of the
competition. The competition began on
Jan. 20 and will run until March 30.
"There are not that many places
where you can recycle in Detroit, so I
thought that I should go to the extreme
limits and keep track of things that
could be recycled in my home," said
See RECYCLING, Page SA

STATE GOVERNMENT
'U' alum
could be
EFMfor
Detroit
D.C. attorney
speculated as Snyder's
choice for post
By JENNIFER CALFAS
Daily StaffReporter
Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder has not
appointed the emergency financial
manager for the city of Detroit, but
there has been speculation about a
frontrunner.
University alum Kevyn Orr, a part-
ner in the Jones Day law firm in Wash-
ington D.C., is, according to a report
from the Detroit Free Press, Snyder's
leading candidate for the position.
Snyder spokesperson Caleb Buhs
said it is too premature to identify
the candidates for the appointment,
since the decision to implement an
emergency manager is still under-
way. Snyder is set to announce
whether he will appoint an emer-
gency manager in a press conference
Thursday at 2 p.m.
Buhs said a qualified emergency
manager would have significant finan-
cial experiences and would be capable
of communicating and collaborating
See DETROIT, Page 5A

Psychology Prof. Shelly Schreier was surprised with the Golden Apple Award during her Psychology 353 lecture on Wednesday.
'Apple' of their eyes.
Lecturer Shelly their way to the lectern carrying flow- p.m. in Rackham Auditorium.
ers and balloons. These students were "One of the best predictors of hap-
Schreier tearfully there to honor Schreier with the Gold- piness is work satisfaction," Schreier
en Apple, an award for outstanding said. "I (have) said to students that I
accepts student- faculty teaching. would hope for them that they had the
. dThe Golden Apple is awarded to opportunity to be able to find some-
nominated award a student-nominated teacher each thing with work that they loved to do
year who is paricularly inspiring and as much as I love to do this, so thank
By AARON GUGGENHEIM engaging. you for acknowledging and recogniz-
Daily StaffReporter Schreier, in tears as she received the ing that."
award in front of her family and mem- Public Policy senior Gabriel
Psychology lecturer Shelly Schreier bers of Students Honoring Outstand- Pachter serves on the executive board
was speaking in front of an auditorium ing University Teaching, said she was of SHOUT, the student organization
crowded with students in her social incredibly thankful for the award. that gives the award. He said Schreier
development course when a parade of Recipients are invited to give their was chosen because of the quantity
dancing students interrupted her. ideal "last lecture," a lecture they and quality of student nominations
Dancing to the Blues Brothers' would give if they had only one left. submitted.
"Can't Turn You Loose," they made Schreier will present hers April 4 at 7 See AWARD, Page 5A

INTERNSHIPS
Students use several
University resources
to look for internships

Colleges, Career Center
and Alumni Assoc. offer
advice, services
By ALEXANDRA MONDALEK
Daily StaffReporter
The internship search process for stu-
dents has become an inescapable battle
to find the best summer opportunities.
Though each person is looking for a
unique experience, many students are
taking advantage of University resourc-
es to make their search easier and more
fruitful.
The avenues to learn more about
internship opportunities are no longer
limited to corporate website links. The
 professional networking site LinkedIn
allows prospective employees to cre-
ate professional profiles highlighting
work experience, education and skills,
while also connecting users with indus-
try management directly. Another site,
InternSushi.com, gives those trying to
break into an industry the ability to craft
an interactive digital profile through a
self-made promotions video tailored to
employers.
The University also provides students
with resources like the Career Center
and the Alumni Association to work
toward professional goals.

Hail It Forward, a networking pro-
gram run by the Alumni Association,
allows for students to connect with
Michigan graduates in their respective
industry. This resource was used widely
by students until it was recently discon-
tinued. Ayanna McConnell, the manag-
er of Student and Diversity Initiatives
of the Alumni Association, explained
that other popular resources such as
30-Minute Mentor and the Alumni
Association's LinkedIn accounts are
still available.
"Last year over 170 students partici-
pated in the three 30-Minute Mentor
programs we hosted at the Alumni Cen-
ter, and 2,250 students placed business
card orders," McConnell said. "This year
we were excited that over 200 students
participated in the LinkedIn event we
held on Feb. 11."
Though McConnell could not com-
ment directly on the discontinuation of
the Hail It Forward program, alumni
embrace the LinkedIn group and she
hopes that it will play the same role that
the Hail It Forward program once did.
"We want to help students figure out
what their brand is either online or in
person," McConnell said.
For LSA freshman Grace Hargrave-
Thomas, that brand has not yet been
developed, though she said that her lack
of professional experience has not dis-
See INTERNSHIPS, Page 5A

PAULSH ERMA N/Daily
State Rep. John Olumba (1-Detriot); Margaret Dewar, an urban planning and architecture professor; and Meagan Elliott, urban planning and
architecture graduate student, discuss the gentrification of Detroit at Weill Hall Wednesday.
Panel discusses Detroit's housing issues

State rep., Taubman
faculty offer views
on gentrification
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily Staff Reporter
In the last 20 years, the population
of Detroit has shrunk dramatically,
causing concern among many cities
about gentrification, which is the pro-
cess by which higher income individu-
als occupy low-income urban areas,
raising prices forcing residents to leave
their homes and relocate.

Wednesdaynight at Weill Hall, a panel
of urban planning experts and a city offi-
cial discussed the definition of gentrifica-
tion and the effects it has on Detroit.
About 60 students and faculty
attended the event, sponsored by the
Detroit Partnership, a student organi-
zation advocating education and ser-
vice in the city.
State Rep. John Olumba spoke at the
panel and discussed his experiences
representing Detroit.
Olumba said the traditional definition
of gentrification sometimes overlooks the
social factors involved in suchmovements.
"It's OK to have a hard and fast defi-
nition of(gentrification)," Olumba said.

"You should all understand that those
definitions don't always work."
At various points during the panel,
Olumba referred to gentrification as
"disenfranchisement," "injustice" and
"starvation" - demonstrating the com-
plex social, economic and political issues
involved in such a discussion. Olumba
blamed the city's government for many of
the current issues facing the metropolis.
"People arebeingstarvedofresourc-
es and there are clearly resources out
there to improve people's livelihood,"
Olumba said. "That's what I would call
gentrification - intentional moves by
the government to starve out certain
See HOUSING, Page SA



WEATHER HI:45
TOMORROW- LO:29

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Don't be a virgin to the Vagina Monologues
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THEPODIUM

INDEX NEWS .........................2A SUDDKU.....................3A
Vol. CXXIII, No.82 OPINION .....................4A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
@2013TheMichiganDaily SPORTS.. . ..........7A B-SIDE....................1B
michigandailycom


,


2A - Thursday, March 14, 2013

Noteworthy alum
Carol Jantsch, a 2006 forced me into music when which is weird but very cool
graduate of the School of I was like six years old with because now I've got friends
Music, Theatre & Dance, plays piano, and I added the eupho- in all these random places all
the tuba in the Philadelphia nium when I was nine, which over the world.
Orchestra, making her thefrst is like a baby tuba. I started
female to hold a principal tuba to play the tuba when I was Why did you choose to
chair in a national symphony about 12. start teaching?
orchestra. She also teaches
music at Yale University. During your time at the I like teaching; it's a way
University you competed in different challenge than just
Why did you start play- several international com- playing in the orchestra. Part
ing the tuba? petitions. What was it like of the reason I chose to go to
competing at this level? the University of Michigan
That's a really good ques- was to get a well-rounded
tion that I have yet to find a It was a really fun way education. I didn't want to
good and clever answer to, to meet people because you go to conservatory and only
but maybe fate, or I just want- go to a few of them and you know anything about music.
ed something different that start seeing some of the same So I feel like teaching chal-
other kids weren't playing. people. The guys I saw there lenges both sides of my brain.
You know it's not a normal have sort of become my inter-
kid instrument. My parents national tuba friend circle, - KAITLINZURDOSKY

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Chemistry Librarian Ye Li shows collegue Sarah Barborow how
to update Wikipedia pates at the GLAM: Wikipedia Edit-A-Thon.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
itle 1Midiigan 1ail
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michigandaily.com
Newsroom News Tips
734-418-4115 opt.3 news@michigandaily.com
Corrections Letters tothe Editor
corrections@michigandaily.com tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Arts Section Editorial Page
arts@michigandaily.com opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section PhotographySection
sports@michigandaily.com photo@michigandaily.com
Display Sales Classified Sales
display@michigandaily.com classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales Finance
onlineads@michigandaily.com finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matthew Slovin ManagingEditor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamRubenfireManagingNewsEditor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: AliciaoAdamczyk, Katie Burke, Austen Hfford, Peter Shahin,
K.C. Wassman, Taylor W izner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Molly Block, Jennifer Calfas, Aaron Guggenheim, Sam
Gringlas, Danielle Stoppelmann,Steve Zoski
Melaie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editorn
SENIOREDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:JesseKlein,SarahSkaluba,DerekWolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: SharikBashir, Daniel Wang
EverettCook and
Zach Helfand Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaiy.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Stephen Nesbitt, Colleen
Thomas, Liz Vukeich, Daniel Wasserman
ASSISTANSSE DORSDanielFeldman, GregGarno, Rajat Khare, Liz Nagle,
JeremySummni,Alandro Z~iga
Kayla Upadhyaya Managing Arts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, Brianne Johnson, John Lynch, Anna Sadovskaya
S5SISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Sean Czarnecki, Carlina Duan, Max Radin, Akshay Seth,
KaiSee, ,Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzmanand
Terra Molengraff ManagingPhotoEditors photo@michigandaity.com
SENIORPHOTO EDITORS: TeresaMathew,Todd Needle
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:KatherinePekala,rPaulSherman,Adamschnitzer
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz Managing DesigntEditors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Gldberg MaaninEgdito r statement@michigandaily.com
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien copychiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleman, Kelly McLauglin
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate Business Manager
Sean Jackson SalesManager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Quy Vo Circulation Manage
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Fridayduring the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be pickedupat the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via U.S.mail are $110. Winter term(januarythrough April) is
$110, yearlong (September through Aprils $195. University affiliates are subject to areduced
subscriptionrate.On-campussubscriptions for falliterm are$35.Subscriptionsmust be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

a
I
6
6

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

hiPad, byePad Pole dancing | Comedy show

WHERE: Earl V. Moore
Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about
5 p.m.
WHAT: An iPad was
reported stolen from a
music practice room on
March 9 between 6:30 p.m.
and 7 p.m., University Police
reported. There are no
suspects.

WHERE: 2145 Hubbard
Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about
2:20 a.m.
WHAT: A vehicle drove
into a light pole, University
Police reported. A light on
the vehicle was damaged
and the driver was not
injured.

WHAT: A comedy show
called "It's Black, It's White,
It's Funny" will feature the
celebrated comedic duo
Black Pedro and Johnny
Walker covering various
topics about race.
WHO: University of
Michigan Detroit Center
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Detroit Center,
Ann Arbor Room

U.S. gun efforts
WHAT: Claudio Lomnitz,
an Anthropology professor
at Columbia University, will
give a lecture on public gun
and drug control policies in
the United States.
WHO: Department of
Romance Lanuages &
Literature
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
League, Michigan Room

Dazed driving League me

Arab American From house-
identity wife to worker

Scott Prouty, a bartender,
admitted on MSNBC that
he was the person who
caputured Mitt Romney's
"47-percent" speech that
marred his campaign at a
Baca Raton, Fla. fundraiser.
Ann Arbor's famed deli
Zingerman's is about to
celebrate its 31st anni-
versary. Daily Arts takes a
look at the establishment's
history and the speciality
baking classes they offer.
>> FOR MORE, SEE INSIDE
Water is currently the
nation's most popular
beverage, The Huffing-
ton Post reported. Soda was
previously occupied the top
spot, but in light of research
blaming soda for increasing
obesity rates, more people
have switched to water.

WHERE: State Street
WHEN: Tuesday at about
1:45 a.m.
WHAT: During a traffic
stop, a driver was arrested
for Operating Under the
Influence of Drugs, Univer-
sity Police reported. He was
then taken to jail.

alone
WHERE: Michigan League
WHEN: Tuesday at about
6:30 p.m.
WHAT: An intoxicated sub-
ject was yelling at patrons,
University Police reported.
An officer escorted the
subject from the building.

WHAT: Samples from the
Arab American National
Museum will beon display
and used in interactive
exhibits along with personal
narratives from
community members.
WHO: Museum Studies
Program
WHEN: Today at 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham
Graduate School, East
Conference Room

WHAT: Ofra Goldstein-
Gidoni, the chair of the
Department of Sociology
and Anthropology at Tel
Aviv University, will give a
lecture on changing gender
roles in Japan after its
period of isolation.
WHO: Center for Japanese
Studies
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building, Room 1636


a

i

SCHOFL'S IN FOR
SUMMER SESSIONS 2013
Enjoy all that Chicago and Loyola have to offer this summer while
taking a class to lighten your load for the fall. Choose from several
convenient locations and more than 300 courses.
Chicago . Online - Study Abroad
Cuneo Campus (Vernon Hills, IL)
Retreat and Ecology Campus (Woodstock, IL)
Apply and register today at LUC.edu/summer.
LOYOLA
UNIVERSITY CHICAGo
rO seO
Preparing people to lead extraordinary lives

Mitch Seavey puts boots on his dog team before leaving White Mountain in Alaska during the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog
Race.
Winner of Iditarod Race 
oldest in history at 53

One year after son
wins race, Mitch
Seavy claims title
NOME, Alaska (AP) - Last
year, the youngest musher ever
to win Alaska's Iditarod Trail
Sled Dog Race said his 25-year-
old stamina gave him the advan-
tage to get his dogs to the finish
line first.
Just one year later, Dallas
Seavey's own father proved
youth doesn't always win out,
using careful strategy and an
all-out sprint to the finish line to
become the oldest winner ever
of the grueling, 1,000-mile race.
"This is for all of the gentle-
men of a certain age who think
it ends at 50, because it doesn't,"
53-year-old Mitch Seavey said
late Tuesday after cruising
across the finish line almost
three hours ahead of his son.
Youthful mushers may have
somephysical advantages - they
can do some things more easily,
such as running with their dogs
to give them a break, rather than
just sitting on the sleds, on their
way to the finish line in the old
frontier town of Nome.

But dog mushing, in fact, is
among the few extreme sports
with such a huge age range.
That's because experience takes
a long time to acquire and, more
importantly, because the true
super athletes in the game are
the dogs- a factor Dallas Seavey
is quick to acknowledge.
"The dogs can be enough,"
he said last year in an Iditarod.
com video. "There are certainly
mushers that can win the Idi-
tarod and have won the Iditarod
and never set foot off the sled.
Those are some impressive dog
teams."
Older mushers may not have
the vigor of their younger coun-
terparts, but they have more
experience and more lessons
learned from past mistakes, and
they often are better prepared to
handle things like the numbing
sleep deprivation along the trail.
In the past decade, other Idi-
tarod winners have included
Jeff King, who was 50 when he
won; John Baker, who was 48;
and Norwegian Robert Sorlie,
who was 47.
The elder Seavey, who also
won in 2004, apparently had
the best dog team this time. His
son, now 26, ended up placing

fourth, behind older competi-
tors, 43-year-old .Aly Zirkle,
who was followed by four-time
champion King, now 57. Before
this year's race, King had been
the oldest Iditarod champion
after he won in 2006 at age 50.
Also, Dallas Seavey's win at
such a young age is in some ways
unique. He grew up in the sport
in a multigenerational family,
unlike most mushers - not all
- who come to the race later,
sometimes well into middle-age.
So the experience - which
older mushers say is so crucial
to winning -was there along
with the youthful stamina when
Dallas Seavey forged ahead in
the 2012 race, beating Zirkle to
the finish line by one hour. Most
other young mushers with stel-
lar performances also come
from a mushing background.
"Last year, you had a boy who
was raised around the sport,
knew dogs from the time he was
old enough to sit in a sled," race
marshal Mark Nordman said
Wednesday.
At the end of the trail, how-
ever, mushing doesn't favor any
age, said Baker, who won the
race in 2011 and placed 21st in
this year's race.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
PONTIAC, Mich
Mich. woman
'feared' grandson
she shot and killed
A 75-year-old woman charged
with first-degree murder sobbed
on the witness stand Wednesday
as she told jurors how she repeat-
edly shot her teenage grandson
afterhe kicked her inthe abdomen
and demanded money and a car to
leave Michigan.
Sandra Layne described herself
as an overwhelmed grandmother
who took Jonathan Hoffman into
her Detroit-area home after his
parents divorced and moved to
Arizona. She said she "adored"
the 17-year-old, but their relation-
ship changed when the teen got
involved with drugs.
STEUBENVILLE, Ohio
Prosecutor: Ohio
school rape victim
didn't consent
A "substantially impaired"
16-year-old girl was unable to con-
sent to sex and suffered humili-
ation and degradation when she
was raped by two high school
football players after an alcohol-
fueled party, a prosecutor said
Wednesday at the start of a trial
that's drawn international atten-
tion to a small, football-loving city
in eastern Ohio.
The first day of the juvenile
trial became a contest between
prosecutors determined to show
the girl was so drunk she couldn't
have been a willing participant
that night, and defense attorneys
soliciting comments from wit-
nesses that would indicate that the
girl, though drunk, knew what she
was doing.
HERKIMER, N.Y.
Upstate man fires
on police and
civilians, kills four
A man neighbors said rarely
spoke to them started a fire in his
apartment on Wednesday, shot
four people dead at a couple of
 businesses in his hometown and
a neighboring village and then
exchanged gunfire with police
officers who surrounded an aban-
doned building where he appar-
ently was holed up, authorities
said.
Police officers were fired on
from the upstate New York build-
ing on Wednesday afternoon
while looking for 64-year-old Kurt
Myers, state police Superinten-
dent Joseph D'Amico said. At least
one officer returned fire, and later
it was unknown if Myers was still
alive, D'Amico said.
"We're in no rush to bring this
to a conclusion," D'Amico said,
adding that the main objective
was to make sure no one else was
hurt.
CAIRO
Brotherhood blasts

UN women's safety
 document
Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood
sharply criticized an anticipated
U.N. document on combatting vio-
lence against women, saying on
Wednesday that it was "deceitful,"
clashed with Islamic principles
and undermined family values.
The text of the document has
not been published because nego-
tiations are continuing, regarding
how to address sexual violence
and rights of women to control
their sexuality as well as sexual
and reproductive health and
rights.
Diplomats and observers track-
ing the debate are optimistic of
agreement before the two-week
meeting of the U.N. Commission
on the Status of Women wraps
up Friday in New York. One par-
ticipant said Egypt is seeking to
introduce an opt-out clause to
allow each country to implement
thedocument accordingto its own
- Complied from
Daily wire reports

Pope Francis speaks from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican, Wednesday. Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio
who chose the name of Francis, is the 266th pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church.
New Pope chosen, first
ever from Latin America

Jorge Bergoglio
takes name
'Francis'
VATICAN CITY (AP) -
Jorge Bergoglio of Argentina
was elected pope Wednesday,
becoming the first pontiff from
the Americas and the first from
outside Europe in more than a
millennium. He chose the name
Francis, associating himself
with the humble 13th-century
Italian preacher who lived a life
of poverty.
Looking stunned, Francis
shyly waved to the crowd of
more than 100,000 people who
packed a rain-soaked St. Peter's
Square for the announcement,
marveling that the cardinals
needed to look to "the end of the
earth" to find a bishop of Rome.
In choosing a 76-year-old
pope, the cardinals clearly
decided that they didn't need a
vigorous, young pope who would
reign for decades but rather a
seasoned, popular and humble
pastor who would draw follow-
ers to the faith and help rebuild a
church stained by scandal.
The cardinal electors over-
came deep divisions about the
future of the church to select the
266th pontiff in a remarkably
fast, five-ballot conclave.

Francis asked for prayers for
himself, and for retired Pope
Benedict XVI, whose stunning
resignation paved the way for
the conclave that brought the
first Jesuit to the papacy. Fran-
cis also spoke by phone with
Benedict after his election and
plans to see him in the coming
days, the Vatican said.
"Brothers and sisters, good
evening," Francis said to wild
cheers in his first public remarks
as pontiff from the loggia of St.
Peter's Basilica.
"You know that the work of
the conclave is to give a bishop to
Rome. It seems as if my brother
cardinals went to find him from
the end of the earth, but here
we are. Thank you for the wel-
come," he said.
In one of his first acts as pope,
Francis on Thursday morning
planned to visit Benedict at the
papal retreat in Castel Gandolfo
south of Rome.
American Cardinal Timothy
Dolan said Wednesday night at
the North American College,
the U.S. seminary in Rome, that
Francis told fellow cardinals fol-
lowing the conclave that made
him pope: "Tomorrow morning,
I'm going to visit Benedict."
The visit was significant
because Benedict's resigna-
tion has raised concerns about
potential power conflicts emerg-

ing from the peculiar situation
of having a reigning pope and a
retired one.
No such worries troubled
people in Francis' home conti-
nent.
Latin Americans burst into
tears and jubilation at news that
the region, which counts 40 per-
cent of the world's Catholics,
finally had a pope to call its own.
"It's a huge gift for all of Latin
America. We waited 20 centu-
ries. It was worth the wait," said
Jose Antonio Cruz, a Franciscan
friar at the St. Francis of Assisi
church in the colonial Old San
Juan district in Puerto Rico.
Bergoglio had reportedly fin-
ished second in the 2005 con-
clave that produced Benedict
- who last month became the
first pope to resign in 600 years.
The speed with which he was
elected pope this time around
indicates that - even though
he is 76 and has slowed down
from the effects of having a lung
removed as a teenager - he still
had the trust of cardinals to do
the job.
After announcing "Habemus
Papam" - "We have a pope!" -
a cardinal standing on the bal-
cony of St. Peter's Basilica on
Wednesday revealed the iden-
tity of the new pontiff, using his
Latin name, and announced he
would be called Francis.

Prosecutor yells
in Arizona death
penalty trial
Defendant that Arias took time to think
about what she was doing during
concludes testimony the attack.
"You didn't have the knife in
after 18 days your hand when you shot him,"
he said. "So that means, if you
PHOENIX (AP) - A pros- didn't have the knife in your
ecutor spent much of Wednes- hand, you had to go get it from
day pointing at Jodi Arias and somewhere, right?"
angrily raising his voice, clearly "I don't know," Arias replied.
frustrated with her unresponsive Alexander suffered nearly
answers on the witness stand in 30 knife wounds, was shot in
her Arizona death penalty trial. the head and had his throat slit
Arias concluded her testimony before Arias dragged his body
after more than six weeks. Trial into his shower.
was set to resume Thursday as Arias has said she remembers
defense attorneys call additional little from the day of the killing
witnesses. but recalls Alexander attacking
Arias is charged with first- her in a fury. She says she ran
degree murder in the June 2008 into his closet to retrieve a gun
death ofherloverinhis suburban he kept on a shelf and fired in
Phoenix home. self-defense. She said she has no
She testified for 18 days during memory of stabbing him.
which she described her abusive Martinez seized on her mem-
childhood, cheating boyfriends, ory lapses, noting it seemed
dead-end jobs, a raunchy sexual unusual she could remember
relationship with the victim and some key details, like Alexander
her contention that Travis Alex- screaming ather and threatening
ander had grown physically abu- her life, but not much else.
sive in the months leading to his "Youdon'trememberanything,
death, once even choking her into right?" Martinez asked loudly.
unconsciousness. "In general there is a huge
Authorities say she planned gap," Arias replied softly, her
Alexander's killing in a jealous eyes fixed on jurors.
rage, but Arias says it was self- The questioning elicited
defense when he attacked her repeated objections from defense
after a day of sex. attorneys as Arias often replied
"You fired the gun. You shot smugly to yes or no questions
him in the head and then you with answers such as "If you say
killed him, right?" prosecutor so" and "I presume."
Juan Martinez asked loudly on "I would like some certainty
Wednesday. from you," Martinez barked at
"Yeah," Arias replied softly. one point.
Martinez repeatedly pointed Jurors peppered her with
out that Arias' version of the their own questions, clearly not
events on the day Alexander died satisfied with her ever-changing
seems impossible. He showed her stories in the case - about 220
two photographs taken 62 sec- queries last week and an addi-
onds apart - one of Alexander tional10 on Wednesday.
alive in the shower, the other a Arizona law allows jurors to
portion of his bloodied body. quiz defendants through written
Arias has said she was tak- questions read aloud bythe judge.
ing provocative pictures of At least one juror question on
Alexander in the shower when Wednesday seemed to indicate
she dropped his camera and he the panel still isn't satisfied with
became enraged, forcing her to Arias'story.
fight for her life. "If you still felt threatened
"You drop the camera ... you after having shot Mr. Alexander,
are body-slammed, you get away, why did you use a knife rather
you go down the hallway, you go than just shooting him again?"
in the closet, yougetthe gun, you the judge read.
go into the bathroom ... You shoot "I know I dropped the gun
him, he goes down ... and then, when he hit me and I don't know
after you're able to get away, you where the gun went," Arias
go get the knife and you end up replied. "I don't remember pick-
at the end of the hallway? All of ing up the knife. I just remember
this in 62 seconds?" Martinez feeling threatened."
snapped. Arias has acknowledged try-
"No, that's not what I'm say- ing to clean the scene of the
ing," Arias replied, reminding killing, dumping the gun in the
the prosecutor of her memory desert and leaving the victim
gaps from the day of the killing. a voicemail on his cellphone
"Definitely after the gun wentoff hours later in an attempt to
I don't know, it starts to get a avoid suspicion. She says she
little more confusing." was too scared and ashamed to
Martinez was trying to show tell the truth.

Fla. politician resigns, 57
charged in money scandal

Lieutenant style games, which have come
under scrutiny in Florida but
governor stepS are in a gray legal area.
down after Even so, investigators said
the charity was a fraud and
gambling charges executives gave precious little
to veterans while lavishing
millions on themselves, spend-
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) - ing it on boats, beachfront con-
Florida's lieutenant governor dos and Maseratis, Ferraris
resigned and nearly 60 other and Porsches.
people were charged in a scan- Florida Attorney General
dal involving a purported vet- Pam Bondi called the alleged
erans charity that authorities scam "callous" and "despica-
said Wednesday was a front for ble" and said it "insults every
a $300 million gambling opera- American who ever wore a
tion. military uniform."
The organization, Allied Lt. Gov. Jennifer Carroll was
Veterans of the World, runs not among those charged but
nearly 50 Internet parlors with resigned a day after she was
computerized slot machine- questioned by investigators.

The public relations firm she
co-owned, 3 N&JC, did work
for St. Augustine-based Allied
Veterans. A Navy veteran who
served in the Gulf War, Carroll
also appeared in a TV ad in 2011
promoting the organization's
work on behalf of veterans and
their families.
Authorities refused to discuss
any ties between the 53-year-old
Republican and the investiga-
tion. Her aides had no comment.
Carroll said in a statement
Wednesday that neither she nor
the public relations firm was
targeted in the probe, and she
stepped down so that her ties to
the organization would not be a
distraction for Republican Gov.
Rick Scott's administration.


C

)litics & Economics


Applications are now being accepted for the Undergraduate Program
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)
Deadline is March 27. Visit
www.isa.umich.edu/ppe
for more information

i


4A- Thursday, March 14, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, March 14, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4e Michinan l 3atim

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynatd Sc.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

I urge Congress and the president to
come up with an alternative to
across-the-board cuts in
the current sequestration."
- University President Mary Sue Coleman said Wednesday at an alumni breakfast in
Washington, D.C. about the upcoming massive federal spending cuts, The Detoit News reported.

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Aidingfinancial aid
The University should direct donations to combat tuition costs
Last week, the Zell Family Foundation made the largest single
donation in the history of LSA. The $50 million gifted - the
third largest donation in the history of the University - will
go toward continuing the school's prestigious Master of Fine Arts Pro-
gram in Creative Writing. While this massive investment will undoubt-
edly boost the program, the donation will also serve the University as a
whole. This money will allow the University to continue to attract the
best writers from around the world while cultivating liberal arts, an
area that has been the target of funding cuts across the country. But as
the University continues to receive large donations, it's critical that the
funds be directed towards not just programs and building renovations,
but also financial aid to students.

a
I

In the past two decades, the University has
been fortunate to see its massive endowment
grow by almost 20 percent, one of the fastest
rates for any university in the United States.
This growth is due to a plethora of substan-
tial donations allocated to various schools,
departments and programs at the University.
In 2004, Stephen M. Ross, a University alum
and real estate mogul, donated $100 million
to build the new Business School, while A.
Alfred Taubman, another alum and devel-
oper, has donated more than $140 million
in various ways, including a 2011 gift of $56
million for medical research. Considering
the history of large donations from wealthy
alumni, along with the potential for massive
gifts from others down the road, the Universi-
ty will likely continue to receive huge checks
for programs, departments and research.
Therisingcostoftuition atthe Universityhas
made financial aid more important in allowing
for the best and most diverse groups of students
on campus. The vast majority of large dona-
tions go to particular programs, funding the
construction of new buildings, research, schol-
arships and teaching, among other areas. These
donations are a great addition to the University.
However, without financial aid that keeps up
with tuition rate increases, fewer qualified and
diverse groups of students will have access to
these amazing facilities and instructors.

While campaigning for regent last fall, Uni-
versity Regent Mark Bernstein suggested cre-
ating a stipulation for all University donations,
where a small percentage is required to go
directly to financial aid. The University's Board
of Regents should work on moving this plan
forward. By requiring a small percentage of a
donation to go directly to aid - likely between
1 and 5 percent - the school would drastically
increase funds for students in need of assis-
tance. Expanding on Bernstein's idea, the Uni-
versity could also add an option for a higher
percentage of the donation to go to financial aid
if the donor chooses. Not only would the school
automatically increase its funds for deserv-
ing students, but donors who might not have
considered giving to student aid would now be
directing donations to an area that offers an
incalculable benefit to campus.
Last week, University President Mary Sue
Coleman said the University's next capital
campaign would redirect the school's financial
focus from renovations to providing financial
relief to students through an increase in aid.
This shift in attention is well-directed and
much needed. While the outpouring of finan-
cial contributions continues to improve specific
schools, programs and facilities that boost the
University's reputation, donors and the Univer-
sity should consider financial aid to be a priority
when directing the use of funds.

ast spring, I intervit
returning veteran f
for a narrative jourr
project, and my
task was to get
his story in his
own words. He
was a former
Marine who
took part in the
initial invasion
in Iraq. The H
story I heard lHAR.
from him was NAH
heart-rending
and eye-opening
in many ways. But most imi
tantly, it was my first introt
to the widely ignored issue
many returning veterans fa
coming back home, specific
erans from the state of Mic
not being officially recogni.
Michigan residents once th
returned from overseas ser
This initial account sho
It seemed as though there
some loophole in the syster
one caught. Or this was an
case. The fact that some
spend their entire life Ii
paying taxes in this state,
seas to serve the country
come back to find they'rer
a resident of their state
frankly, a little ridiculous.
And yet,that's exactly wh
uation is. Despite a lack of a
it's a huge injustice to thos
given so much for this count
Not only does this hurt
when it comes to reintegra
civilian life and gaining
careers, but it also provides
stress in a time when they re
need to have one. It's enougl
someone who has just retur
war to adjust to a new env
and lifestyle, while coping
realities of war they've just

A GI injustice
ewed a to ask them to figure out the techni- veterans
rom Iraq calities of their residency status is Michigat
nalism just too much. state Rep
The veteran I spoke to didn't resolutiot
even know he wouldn't be consid- duty, rest
ered a Michigan resident when he servicenm
returned. He had spent his entire at any M
life in the state and went through cited met
12 years of public schooling, only ment of v
to come back and realize he didn't Michigan
qualify for in-state tuition at the to benefit
SHlA public universities. ington D.
AHA And the sad truth is that this inevi- Needless
ATA tably affected his college decision. much nee
Inaccessibility to college is
already a growing problem in this
por- country. With rising tuition costs, Mii
duction there's an increasing number of stu-
that dents who simply can't afford to pur- In V
ce when sue a higher education. Add in the
ally vet- huge gap at many public institutions to b
higan: between what in-state and out-of-
zed as state students pay and you'll see the Chan
ey've extent of the problem. It's unfair to
vice. ask someone who, for all intents and
cked me. purposes, has been a Michigan resi- Some
was just dent his or her entire life, to pay the at the nt
m that no substantial differences, especially The Nav
isolated considering he or she was overseas was intr
eone can serving the country. Represet
ving and While many argue that the GI public c
go over- Bill is in place to help accommo- from bei
and then date returning veterans, a closer veterans
no longer look offers a different explanation. they char
is, quite Yes, the GI Bill offers added tuition and fees:
assistance to returning veterans they do f
at the sit- beyond just what the military pro- It's co
wareness vides. However, according to the has final
e who've new post-9/11 GI Bill, those who isn't eno
try. enroll at publicly owned colleges ensure tb
veterans and universities receive up to 100 are passe
ting into percent of "in-state" tuition cov- is never,
skills for ered, while those at a privately erans. T
an added operated college or out-of-state col- have give
ally don't leges receive only up to $17,500 on try - th
h to ask of tuition. Again, we see this disparity their tra
ned from that shouldn't exist. bit easier
ironment Thankfully, this issue has finally
with the come to light. There's an initiative
seen. But by lawmakers to see that returning ret

are given in-state status at
n universities. Proposed by
. David Knezek, these joint
ns would provide active
erve or honorary discharged
temberswithin-statetuition
ichigan university. Knezek
asures from the U.S. Depart-
Veterans Affairs, stating that
n ranks 53 inveteran's access
ts. Yes, we're behind Wash-
C., Puerto Rico and Guam.
to say these measures are
eded.
higan ranks 53
eterans' access
enefits. Clearly,

0

ges are needed.
a

progress is being made
ational level. According to
y Times, in January, a bill
oduced in the House of
ntatives that "would bar
olleges and universities
ng approved to receive any
education benefits unless
rge the same rate of tuition
for nonresident veterans as
or in-state students."
mmendable that this issue
ly come to light, but that
ugh. Now it's essential to
hat the necessary measures
ed so that residency status
a worry for returning vet-
hese are individuals who
en so much for the coun-
e least we can do is make
nsition back home a little
r.
- Harsha Nahata can be
ached at hnahata@umich.edu.

I
I

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Letters should be fewer than 300 words.
Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.
MARION BERGER, MARISSA SOLOMON AND SERGE FARINAS
Divest for the future

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Jesse Klein,
Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Jasmine McNenny, Harsha Nahata, Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman,Sarah Skaluba,
Michael Spaeth, Luchen Wang, Derek Wolfe
Note to sel (and others likeme)

This week, students at the University can
make a difference for our campus and the
world. On Thursday, hundreds of students
will gather for Dive in and hear from expert
speakers, such as prominent environmental
activist Bill McKibben. The event is hosted by
the Divest and Invest Campaign at the Uni-
versity, one of 256 fossil-fuel divestment cam-
paigns nationwide. Our coalition of students,
faculty and alumni aims to align the invest-
ment activities of the University with its sus-
tainability mission and ethical responsibility
as a public institution. We plan to work with
the University to remove all endowment
money invested in fossil-fuel-industry stocks,
bonds and other financial assets - invest-
ments that directly finance the acceleration
of climate change.
From Hurricane Sandy to Midwestern
droughts, people across the country have been
waking up to the realities of climate change.
Yet, companies keep finding and extracting
more fossil fuels that release greenhouse gases
into our atmosphere while simultaneously
blocking any federal or state action to address
the climate crisis.
On an international level, the Global
Humanitarian Forum estimates more than
300,000 deaths were linked to climate change
in 2009 and 99 percent of them were in devel-
oping countries thatccontributed only1 percent
to global emissions. If we don't take significant
action, this number will grow exponentially.
To avoid the worst-case climate-change
scenarios, the majority of scientists agree that
the global average temperature cannot rise
more than two degrees Celsius, relative to
pre-industrial temperatures. We've already
allowed a rise of 0.8 degrees, and without
immediate action, we will hit two degrees in
20 to 30 years.
Now is the time to ask, "How can I help?"
The truth is, although important, individual
action isn't enough when facing this threat to
our existence. Effectively combating climate
change means putting the brakes on fossil
fuel companies. To avoid drastically alter-
ing our climate, we must stop these compa-
nies from burning 80 percent of their energy
reserves. Such a feat can only happen through

legislative and regulatory action at federal
and state levels.
The University's massive endowment
funds facilitate the fossil fuel industry's grip
on an unsustainable system that is destroying
the climate. The University is a significant
contributor to the field of climate science, yet -
we have at least $900 million invested in the
fossil fuel industry. These investments repre-
sent more than 284-billion tons of fossil fuel
reserves, out of the only 495 tons left to burn
before reaching the two-degree warming
limit. This continued investment in the fossil
fuel industry is antithetical to the core mis-
sions of the University.
Our goals are trifold: We ask the Univer-
sity to disclose all current investments in the
fossil fuel industry, while immediately freez-
ing new ones; divest from ownership in fos-
sil fuel industry public and private financial
securities within five years; and finally, invest
a substantial portion of such funds in socially,
environmentally and economically respon-
sible companies.
The idea behind divestment is not to bank-
rupt fossil fuel companies - even if all uni-
versities divested, the industry would still
be one of the wealthiest worldwide. Rather,
divestment campaigns seek to generate a
national shift in attitude toward fossil fuels,
and we hope to do so by shining the spotlight
on the harmful business model and political
clout of the fossil fuel industry. If divestment
succeeds, politicians may stop accepting
money from fossil fuel companies and start
casting votes in favor of our planet.
As Bill McKibben states, "If your college's
endowment portfolio has fossil-fuel stock, then
your educations are being subsidized by invest-
ments that guarantee you won't have much of
a planet on which to make use of your degree."
Make sure to visit divestUM.org and sign
the petition, and come to the Dive In event
on Thursday, March 14 at 6 p.m. in 1040 Dana
Building. This is your chance to join the big-
gest student movement in decades - because
together, we're greater than fossil fuels.
Marion Berger and Marissa Solomon are LSA
sophomores. Serge Farinas is a Rackham student.

Unless you accept a full-time
position as the double-
jointed woman at the
circus, you'll
probably never
have fewer true
responsibilities
than you have
right now. Sure,
you need to fin-
ish that paper on
Plato's theory of EMILY
love, but when PITTINOS
you're faced
with the choice
between rewriting your outline and
watching Jupiter rise in the Arbore-
tum, put on a second pair of tights
and grab your coat. The field will be
thick with fog. The frogs will sing
their ghastly songs. The solar sys-
tem, romance and youth won't wait.
Always choose Jupiter.
If you consume a psychedelic
substance in Tennessee, avoid the
crawfish and beeline it for Memphis
where a white horse and bedazzled
carriage are itching to tour you
around the city.
Your intuition is both a blood-
hound and a bullshit detector. Don't
ignore its wisdom out of fear or
self-doubt. If you suspect your boy-
friend and close friend are steal-
ing caresses in a cedar swamp by
the old school, dump them. If the
guy from astronomy seems like he
wants to see you naked, feel free to
put your mouth on his.
When you're in high school and
your best friend comes to your house
with a cooler full of vodka and Min-
ute Maid popsicles and stares up at

you with eyes like bowls full of water
that will never empty and tells you
she had a vivid dream about touch-
ing you everywhere, forget that you
both have boyfriends away for the
summer and that your parents are
asleep downstairs. Lay her down on
your lilac bedspread. It's likely that
you're in love; you'll never get this
chance again.
It's all right to flee your loneli-
ness. Even in the midst of an Ann
Arbor August, after a tequila-
drenched evening on someone's
covered porch, your empty bed can
feel like the dimmest, most bone-
cold corner of the earth. It's all right
to want a warm body quietly snor-
ing on the other side of the mattress.
It's all right to daydream about wak-
ing a sleeping lover with pancakes
you cooked while smiling over the
skillet, groggily remembering the
night before - fallen bedside lamps,
gripped pillow cases. Craving close-
ness makes you vulnerable, but it
doesn't make you weak.
If you cannot squash your lone-
liness, harness it. Plenty of poems,
scripts, essays, stories and art have
been born in a lonely place. Spend
some quality time with the person
living in your brain. Knit a beer
koozie. Invent a new kind of sand-
wich. Learn to juggle ladles. A dose
of lonesomeness is healthy, but
wasting hours Facebook-prowling
for perspective sex partners is bad
for the soul.
Over your weekly brunch, a good
friend will tell you there's no point in
pining over someone who won't love
you back. Buy him a mimosa. Tattoo

his words on your forehead back-
wards so you can reread them while
brushing your teeth each morning.
Spend some more
quality time with
the person living in
your brain.

a

Write an apologia to your body.
You've probably wrung it out like
a wet rag more times than you can
count. Your body is more than a set of
hips you can swing on the streets of
Philadelphia to make men wet their
lips and whistle, tossing their hard-
hats in the air. Thank her for being
the impossibly intricate culmination
of your ancestry - Italian women
blowing glass in the basements of
Murano, Vikings whittling pipes in
the bellies of thrashing ships, Greek
bards reciting verses by rote in the
town square. Your tits may be noth-
ing special, but your body is a miracle
of science and ordinary magic.
When you have trouble fall-
ing asleep because you are hollow
or regretful or anxious about your
future, read Mary Oliver's "Wild
Geese" aloud over and over. Remem-
ber that even when you are lost inside
yourself, you are here. You are here.
You are here.

- Emily Pittinos can be reached
at pittinos@umich.edu.

0

FOLLOW DAILY OPINION ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.


The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 5A

AWARD
From Page 1A
This year there were close to
twice as many nominations than
previous years, the most in the
23-year history of the award.
Business junior Jake Levey,
another member of SHOUT, said
putting together the award has
involved fundraising the $1,000
cash prize for the recipient,
selecting the winner and is now
shifting to marketing Schreier's
last lecture through social media,
booths in Mason Hall and flyers.
Levey said he is proud to be a
part of an award that is consid-
ered to be a prestigious prize by
RECYCLING
From Page 1A
Tabron, who is a Planet Blue stu-
dent ambassador at the Univer-
sity. "I made a conscious effort to
make sure I recycled everything
I could possibly recycle in Ann
Arbor."
The collegiate competition
started in 2001, and the Uni-
versity joined in 2006. Alison
Richardson, the recycling coordi-
nator with the University's Waste
Reduction and Recycling Office,
said the campaign not only helps
get the campus community ener-
gized about waste reduction and
recycling, it also boosts aware-
ness.
"Our goals are to increase
the campus community's waste
reduction and awareness and
to get people to stop and think a
little more about their own waste
habits and how their individual
behaviors can help our efforts,"
Richardson said.
Currently, the University's
recycling and reduction rates
INTERNSHIPS
From Page 1A
couraged her in improving for
the future. Hargrave-Thomas
has spent recent summers as a
full-time nanny, but said that she
wants to broaden her professional
horizons.
"I don't want to be in an
internship where I'm getting
coffee all the time, but I'll do
whatever it takes to be success-
ful," Hargrave-Thomas said. "I
want to get valuable work expe-
rience professionally and in my
field."
Hargrave-Thomas said the
University's competitive envi-
ronment has motivated her to
pursue summer job options that
she wouldn't have anticipated
doing when she was in high
school.
"So many people here are doing
big things," Hargrave-Thomas.
"That environment is inspiring
me to get on the bandwagon and
do something significant. These
are the types of people I'm going
to be competing with for jobs in

the University faculty.
"It was really important for
us this year," Levey said. "We
realized that there hasn't been a
woman who has won the award
for 11 years and that is not a
representative (statistic) of the
University of Michigan and the
professors here."
Schreier is scored an average
score of 4.7 out of five -out of 166
ratings - on RateMyProfessor.
com, a user-generated review site.
Students on the site comment-
ed on their appreciation for her
passionate, energetic and humor-
ous lectures.
LSA freshman Ariel Shoagtook
Schreier's introductory psychol-
ogy class in fall 2012. Shoag said

when she needed assistance on a
paper for the class, Schreier was
more than willing to help despite
her numerous other obligations.
"She didn't make you feel like
you were one of 300 students,"
Shoag said. "You'd go to her office
hours once and she would recog-
nize you for the rest of the semes-
ter."
LSA freshman Erica Mindel,
who also took Schreier's class last
fall, said she is a verytalented lec-
turer.
"It seemed that she cared about
all of her students and wanted
you to do the best that you could,"
Mindel said. "She was the most
engaging (lecturer)... I was never
really bored at all."

DETROIT
From Page 1A
effectively.
Orr - who graduated from
LSA and the Law School -
helped Chrysler through its
bankruptcy in 2009. According
to a report from The Detroit
Free Press, he spoke to both the
governor and Detroit Mayor
Dave Bing about Detroit's
finances.
Bing announced Monday
that Orr's law firm was selected
as the reconstructing counsel
for Detroit. The firm has expe-
rience in employee benefits,
municipal finance, public proj-
ects and infrastructure, public
pensions and litigation.
"The experience of the Jones
Day law firm will be a valuable
asset as we proceed with our
plan for reconstructing the City
of Detroit," Bing said in a state-
ment.
University Law Prof. John
Pottow, who specializes in
bankruptcy and commercial
law, said the law firm has a large
national presence. He added
that Orr specifically is prepared
for the emergency manager role
due to his background in corpo-
rate reorganization.
"He's used to dealing with
tough, really painful situations

that you have to do to keep a
company alive," Pottow said.
"I think that will make him,
I hope, a cool and dispassion-
ate actor in the restructuring
realm."
Appointing an out-of-state
lawyer would ensure the posi-
tion was not motivated by polit-
ical aspirations that could be
attractive to a politician seek-
ing political affluence, Pottow
said.
Although he works at a large,
national firm, he isn't a com-
plete stranger to Michigan life.
He added that since Orr has
University degrees, he holds
some "cultural affiliation" with
the state.
After Snyder signed the emer-
gency financial manager bill on
Dec. 27, a team of six members,
including Andy Dillon, the state
treasurer, has been meeting
with city officials to determine
whether Detroit is in a state of
financial emergency.
Accepting the report the
team produced, Snyder declared
financial emergency on March1.
The report revealed that Detroit
has $24 billion in long-term
liabilities and a $327-million
deficit.
The city has lost 200,000 res-
idents between 2000 and 2010,
and the population decreased
from 1.5 million to fewer than

700,000 between 1970 and 2012.
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-
Ann Arbor) .said earlier this
month that he believes the
emergency manager appoint-
ment will not be a an effective
solution for the city. He added
that most emergency manager
position holders have driven
their respective environments
further into debt.
"Obviously, it's a bad thing
for the city of Detroit," Irwin
said. "It's a great city with a
really proud history, and I think
everyone's hoping that Detroit
is able to come back and have
resurgence and be a part of the
state's future."
He added that the state
should support Detroit, rather
than punish the city for "the
effects of globalism and urban
decay."
LSA senior Rachel Jankows-
ki, chair of the University's
chapter of College Republi-
cans, said she believes an emer-
gency manager is necessary to
get Detroit "back on its feet
again."
"We need someone who is
willing to actually face the
problems that the city is actual-
ly having," Jankowski said. "We
need someone who is definitely
serious about it, is responsible
and is willing to make difficult
decisions."


are in the top half of the results
for each of the four separate cat-
egories. The University currently
holds ninth place in total pounds
of recyclables with a total of
408,355 pounds.
Richardson said in the last
eight years the University has
participated in the competition,
it generally performs similarly
to other participating Big 10
schools.
"We are always striving to
reduce our waste and recycle
more, so hopefully that will
be reflected in this year's final
results," Richardson said.
As a Planet Blue student
ambassador, part of Tabron's
responsibilities are to inform stu-
dents about RecycleMania and
other environmentally friendly
practices among students in resi-
dent halls.
"Normally, people feel like they
don't get anything out of recy-
cling," Tabron said. "(Planet Blue
is) trying to promote recycling as
it's fun to do, it's easy and not only
are (students) helping the envi-
ronment, but (they) are helping

the community by making it more
clean and safe."
Tabron believes that recycling
will become second nature for
students eventually. Until then,
however, the contest puts the
environmental responsibility into
students' conscious thoughts.
"Since it's a competition, peo-
ple want to recycle more, but usu-
ally they don't do that during the
school year," Tabron said.
Nicole Berg, a Plant Blue
ambassador coordinator with the
Graham Sustainability Institute,
said the Planet Blue ambassadors
in the residence halls throughout
campus have been handing out
information, posting flyers and
hosting events to promote the
competition.
"(RecycleMania) is a way to
show that we are the Leaders and
Best in every category, including
sustainability," Berg said.
Both Berg and Tabron believe
that there is room for improve-
ment among students on
campus, and they hope to see con-
tinued interest in the competition
through until the end.



the future."
While the University offers
resources to the entire student
population, specific schools
such as the Ross School of Busi-
ness offer alternative student
career services to help increase
student professional prepara-
tion.
Damian Zikakis, director of
career services for the Business
school, said both workforce com-
petition and industry preference
for business students have main-
tained steadiness in the last few
years.
"Students continue to be inter-
ested in finance-related roles,
investment banks and corporate
finance positions as well as con-
sulting firm opportunities," Zika-
kis said.
While Ross offers similar pro-
grams as the University's Career
Center or Alumni Association,
like networking workshops, Zika-
kis said students are being proac-
tive in making their professional
goals a reality.
"Students are doing more
preparation, more research and
more practice to earn the intern-

ships that they want," Zikakis
said.
The University's Career Center
still remains the primary resource
students can use to begin explor-
ing their professional options.
Genevieve Harclerode, the assis-
tant director at the Career Center,
said the number of unique client
users for workshops and appoint-
ments is around 18,000 per aca-
demic year, not including those
students who use online resourc-
es such as the Career Center Con-
nector.
"All employers are going to
be interested in the question of
'why are you applying to this
job' or 'what about our company
interests you' and prior experi-
ence in their field makes that a
lot more clarified for students,"
Harclerode said. "I think you
can also find ways through vol-
unteer positions, shadowing
and informational interviewing
to start to get a feel for whether
a particular field is the right
'fit.'"

HOUSING
From Page 1A
groups of people."
Olumba pointed to Daniel
Gilbert, chairman of Quicken
Loans, who moved the compa-
ny's employees to Detroit, as one
of the perpetrators of injustice in
the city, claiming the company
used confusing loan offers to
drive individuals into bankrupt-
cy. Olumba alleged that Gilbert
facilitated the purchase of large
numbers of foreclosed homes in
Detroit after the occupants were
forced out.
"Companies like Quicken
Loans came into these areas
- where people were ignorant
about mortgage practices - and
they kept mailing them over and
over and calling them," Olumba
said. "They're harassing these
people, getting them to put their
houses up for collateral - houses
that are paid off."
Margaret Dewar, a professor
of urban and regional planning,
agreed that predatory lending
practices by financial corpora-
tions led to many of the current
housing issues. These foreclo-
sures are "extremely disruptive
to the city" because they tend to
cause a cascading effect within
communities.
"You introduce plight into a
neighborhood," Dewar said inthe
panel. "Neighbors begin to lose
confidence and stop investing in
their homes, quite understand-

ably, and people begin to leave."
However, Dewar said, gen-
trification is usually indicated
by spikes in rent for low-income
communities, which has not yet
been observed in Detroit. She
pointed out that Gilbert has pri-
marily been purchasing property
downtown, not in low-income
communities.
Meagan Elliott, an Architec-
ture and Urban Planningstudent
on the panel, said the nature of
gentrification makes it hard to
define in many situations. In
complex urban environments,
many different factors can affect
population movement.
"Gentrification can mean any-
thing from pushing residents out
to segregation of populations
in the city to ... redevelopment
work," she said.
Elliott said when people move
to the city the political dis-
cussions often take on a racial'
basis, regardless of other factors
involved.
"(Gentrification) is often a
coded way of talking about race
politics and racism," Elliott said.
"Detroitisthefourth mostsegre-
gated city in the nation."
During the open discussion,
Michael Canter, an Architec-
ture and Urban Planning stu-
dent, suggested some of the
potential benefits of gentrifica-
tion for Detroit.
"Detroit can use a little bit of
gentrification ... the population
has hollowed out so much," Can-
ter said. "They need some higher

income people to move in to pay
taxes so those city services can
better be displayed through the
rest of the city."
Canter added that gentrifica-
tion and race are often analyzed
together, which can be mislead-
ing in some cases. Although race
is often seen as a factor in gentri-
fication, the process can occur in
any area, no matter the popula-
tion demographics.
"Gentrification is not black ver-
sus white - it's not meant to be
a racial term," Canter said. "It's
sometimes takenthat way because
of the processthatgoes on."
The city of Indianapolis,
which faced similar population
issues in the 1970s, alleviated
many of its issues through mas-
sive government consolidation.
Though Canter said this pro-
cess would not work in Detroit,
he suggested that other similar
solutions should be explored.
LSA junior Samantha
Edwards, education director of
the Detroit Partnership, said
the organization holds similar
campus education events each
semester to promote multicul-
turalism and social justice.
"We came up with the topic
of gentrification because ...
I don't feel much is known
about it within the University,"
Edwards said. "We had a nice
diverse panel that offered very
different views of gentrification,
and I think people were able to
learn and gain new perspec-
tive."

A


6A -- Thursday, March 14, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Libya's militarized youth
feed into economic woes

State funds militias
while private sector
struggles and
unemployment rises
BENGHAZI, Libya (AP) -
More than 18 months since the
end of Libya's civil war, the most
attractive job for many of the
young is still to join a militia. In
fact, just under a tenth of Libya's
labor force may be working as
gunmen.
Libya's government coffers
are rapidly filling with cash as oil
exports return to near pre-war
levels, powering a 100 percent
increase in GDP in 2012, accord-
ing to a report this month by the
International Monetary Fund.
But the economy of this North
Africanoil giant remains in disar-
ray. Unemployment, officially at
15 percent, is estimated by some
as high as50 percent. The private
sector, decimated under ousted
dictator Moammar Gadhafi, still
barely functions. Reconstruction
investment is largely on hold, and
the weak central government is
funneling much of its oil wealth
into public handouts to quiet
discontent, as Gadhafi often did.
Other money is lost down the
drain of corruption.
And still other funds end up
fueling the growth of militias.
The state pays many militias,
relying on them to serve as secu-
rity forces since the police and
military remain a shambles. The
regular salary has drawn a flood
of young Libyans.
Militias first rose up as "bri-
gades" during the eight-month
civil war against Gadhafi, and
at the time their fighters likely
numbered in the thousands.
Now an estimated 200,000
people are registered by the gov-
ernment on the rolls of militias,
according to the commanders in
two of the biggest militias, Hafiz
al-Agouri, of Libya Shield, and
Ismail al-Salabi, of the Rafallah
Sahati brigade.
That would mean more than
8 percent of the country's entire
work force are in militias. The
most recent World Bank esti-

force at 2.3 million people.
A Libyan businessman and an
owner of a private construction
company that has government
contracts for rebuilding infra-
structure in the eastern region
bemoaned the lure of militia
work among his own staff.
"My very skillful welder left
because he got a job in a brigade
that would not only give him triple
the salary but he could work four
days and take a week off," Nasser
Ahdash told The Associated Press.
He said he is unable to carry out
the reconstruction work because
the price of his contracts doesn't
cover the rising costs of equip-
ment, material and labor.
Saad al-Arily, a veteran Libyan
economist, estimated that the
government spent the equivalent
of nearly $1 billion on militias in
2012. Each militiaman gets a sal-
ary ranging from $400 to $2,300
a month.
"The money spent on militias
resembles the budget of an Afri-
can country," he told AP. "Every
day a young man forms a brigade
just to get a salary."
In effect, the state pays forces
that undermine its own rule and
increase lawlessness. Militias
carry out assigned security duties
like guarding sensitive buildings,
forming security belts around
cities, or patrolling neighbor-
hoods. But otherwise, they often
act as renegades with their own
agenda. Residents complain they
run their own prisons, enforce
their own rule over neighbor-
hoods or towns, engage in kid-
nappings and extortion and spark
gunbattles with rival militias.
Some have hardline Islamist ide-
ologies and have become noto-
rious for imposing Islamic law
restrictions.
In many ways, Libya's new rul-
ers are continuing a patronage
economy that Gadhafi propagated.
During Gadhafi's 42-year rule,
the economy was solely depen-
dent on oiland gas revenues. The
state's sprawling bureaucracy
was practically the sole employ-
er, and most of the population
depended on heavy subsidies on
food and fuel and cash handouts.
Bribery and embezzlement were
common practice among govern-

sight.
Gadhafi largely wiped out the
private business class, confiscat-
ing their assets. For most of his
rule, private business was depict-
ed as exploitation and theft. At
the same time, Gadhafi used the
oil wealth to build a patronage
system, buying off tribes and
opponents with cash that was
never accounted for.
Many Libyans say that Gad-
hafi left their country with two
functioning institutions: oil and
corruption.
Continuing the patronage
style, the post-Gadhafi govern-
ment has added more govern-
ment employees. Around 1.5
million people now work for the
state in a country of 6 million
people, according to Abdel-Salam
Nassaiya, head of the budget
committee in National General
Congress. Their salaries amount-
ed to some $15 billion in 2012, a
third of the budget, up from $6
billion in 2010.
During Feb. 17 celebrations
marking the second anniversary
of the start of the anti-Gadhafi
revolution, Mohammed el-Mega-
rif, the country's leader and head
of the first elected National Gen-
eral Congress, proclaimed that a
cash gift would be given to every
citizen.
"In this glorious occasion, I
would like to inform the great
Libyan people of the generous
award," el-Megarif told a crowd
in Benghazi, where some chant-
ed, "Leave, leave. You are no dif-
ferent than Gadhafi."
After Gadhafi's fall, Libyans
saw oil revenues as the key for
transforming their economy.
Aftercomingtoanearhaltduring
the war, oil production stormed
back, reaching around 1.4 million
barrels a day in 2012. The oil min-
ister has said he expects that to
rise to 1.7 million, close to prewar
production. Oil revenues makeup
some 90 percent of the govern-
ment's income.
As a result, the government
budget in 1012 swelled to 65
billion dinars, ($53 billion) its
largest ever. A new budget has
not been approved by the parlia-
ment, which suspended its ses-
sion after coming under assaults
by militias.

Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP
A Palestinian woman walks past posters showing US President Barack Obama in the West Bank city of Ramallah.
Obama's trip to Jerusalem and the West Bank will take place March 20to22.
Middle Eastern politicians
prepare for president's Visit

Israeli an
Palestinian off
each will try to
Obama's sup
JERUSALEM (AP) -
before President Barac
is set to arrive in th
Middle East politics ar
casting a cloud over th
Israeli and Palestinian
plan a series of event
mote their agendas.
Jerusalem city offi
offering visiting jour
free tour of Israel's m
tentious archaeologica
tion, a sprawling dig int
of contested east Je
Israel has also sugges
journalists could avo
to the West Bank wit
when he meets with Pa
leaders.
On the other side
divide, Palestinian
hope to introduce the U
dent to the family of a
held by Israel.Activists
will also greet Obama w
ers and demonstration
to draw attention to l:
Israeli military occupa
These events offer a
of the political minefiel
will have to navigate
7,

d visits Israel and the West Bank
next week, the first time he has
icials come to the area as president.
Each side will be trying to win
gain his support for some of the most
contentious issues between
port them.
Israel will be looking for
- A week assurances that the U.S. is seri-
k Obama ous about stopping Iran's sus-
e region, pect nuclear program. Obama
e already will also be seeking to 'repair
e visit as a strained relationship with
officials Israeli Prime Minister Benja-
s to pro- min Netanyahu. While he has
said he will not present any
cials are grand peace plan, Obama will
nalists a also be under pressure to con-
sost con- vince the Palestinians that he
i excava- is serious about getting peace
the heart efforts restarted - and presum-
rusalem. ably pressing Israel to make new
sted that concessions.
id going With so much at stake, Israe-
h Obama lis and Palestinians are hoping
lestinian to capitalize on their moment in
the spotlight.
of the In a statement to reporters,
officials Jerusalem municipal officials
.S. presi- said they would be "taking
prisoner advantage" of the visit to put
s say they the holycity's best face forward.
with post Crews have been pulling up
ns meant weeds along the roads Obama's
ife under motorcade will take. Decora-
tion. tive lights will be illuminated
glimpse all night long on the ancient
Id Obama walls of the Old City, opposite
when he Obama's hotel, "to allow the
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com


RELEASE DATE- Thursday, March 14, 2013
HELP WANTED
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS DOWN 33 Soak 46 Left (to)
1 Retained 1 Actor Penn who 35 LeSoleil: 48 Blindfollowers
5 Music storage has worked for Louis XIV 49 Unanimously
medium the Obama 36 Dream up 52 Nonnative
9 In the thick of administration 37 Common star Hawaiian
13 Kirsnoal 2Tbat, south of the characteristic 53 Dahl's "Fantastic"
lb Arp's art border 38 Chew out title critter
16 Scale pair 3 Deli order 39 German article 56 Dope (out)
17 Last one in 4 Spring sign 43 Atlas abbr. 57 Lush
18 Howb58-Across 5 French bean 44 Met cheers 59 Burst open noisily
20 Diamond deal 6 Blast on 45 Start of a Beatles 61 DDE's birthplace
22 Heartfelt Broadway title 62 Lash
23 oterfrom a 7Farter out? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
pitcher? 8....Lawn
25Rigid 9PartofLPGA: P U R R D I L L F R E S H
26 USN clerk Abbr. 0 P I E A R E A L I M I T
27 34-Across factor 10 Isn't in a big hurry C O N S E R V A T I 0 N I S T
29 "A Doll'sHouse" 11 "Let me check" O N D E C K K I TOG R I P
playwright 12 Ohio home oftthe A L A S N B A T
31 Mil. honor Wright Brothers V I L L A G E C 0 M M 0 N S
32 Shout in la 14 Hopping mad
arena 19 Valuabletfur E CO TEAL A N OUK
33 ForensiclID 21 Construction D E N S S T U F F E R M A
34 58-Across times sight A U G E R N ARC M A T
27-Across 23Throwin P U T T I N G S U R F A C E
401967 NHL rookie 24 Blu-ray buy B E T A T I E S
ofttheyear 25 Its pages are a o P A A B C T A C O M A
41 Long time often numbered i, THE DC L 0R0 F M O N E Y
42One oftthem, ii, iii, etc. O S A K A B E L LMT EL E
maybe 28 Common street R
44 "Let's Dance" name WORIT awAv TATI
singer 30 Outlaw xwordeditor@aol.com 03/14/13
47 Mathematically, 1 2 4 s a a9 10 11 12
what 58-Across
is 13 1 16
50 Walkoff hit stat
51 Sighed line 7
54 Elect 20 21 22
55 Top player
57 Gluten-rich grain 23 no u
58 Subject of an
annual March 14 27 2 n s30
celebration and 3
oftthis puzzle,
celebrated in its 34 ns a3 37 3 39
circled squares
in both a literal 40 41 42 43
and a numerical4
way
60Sendsout so o 52 53 s4
63 Works that
glority 55 56 on
64 Minneota's state
bird no 59 eo e1 en
85 Leiurely stroll n4
66 Caesar and
others no an an
67 Fair
68 Poast office call By Don Gagliardo and C.. Burnikel 03/14/13
(c)2013 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

NORTHERN MICHIGAN CO-ED
summer camp is looking for male
counselors for the 2013 season to work
on Waterfront, Tennis, Tripping,
Sailing and other areas. Apply online at
www.c'mpwaldenmi.com
Click on "Want a job?"
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILL
& PUB located at 310 Maynard St., is
proudly hiring MANAGERS. Apply
within after 5pm M-F. No phone calls
please.
SCOREKEEPERS SPORTSGRILL
& PUB located at 310 Maynard St., is
proudly hiring FLOORMAN &
SERVERS. Apply within after 5pm
M-F. No phone calls please.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! CAMP
WAYNE FOR GIRLS -Children's
summer camp, Pocono Mountains,
Pennsylvania 6/15 - 8/12. If you love
children and want a caring, fun environ-
ment we need Counselors, Instructors
and other staff for our summer camp.
Interviews on UMich campus March
20th. Select The Camp That Selects
The Best Staff! Call 1.215.944.3069 or
apply at www.campwaynegirls.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
2013-14
PARKING FOR SALE
*Great Locutions
*Central Campus
*Great Rates
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
" perfect 180 on LSAT
* Michigan Law grad (3.85 GPA)
' licensed attorney
" 20+ years' teaching experience
* hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. i
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
your 2013-14 bed space at U-M's Best
housing. Sold out early for the last 3
years. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. For a limited time
come to the leasing office and choose
your fortune. Your fortune will include
gift cards ranging from $50-150, no se-
curity deposit or FREE cleaning of
your apartment for 3 months. Room-
mate matching, parking and private
baths available. Rates starting at $675.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
SAVE OVER $10,009 per year.
WHY PAY $1,588 FOR A BED???
Our bedrooms ON SUNIVERSITY
start at $680.00
**Rent & Save $150.00**
Call 734-761-2680 to find out how.
Visitus at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com

EFFICIENCY 1 BDRM. Fall 2013-
14. $750-I100. Most include heat &
water. Prkgextracostwhere avail. cap-
pomanagement.com 734-996-1991.
jUniversity
"ALMOST FULL"
Rent and Save $150.00
*call us to find out how*
Save Over
$1000O Per Year
Our bedrooms start at $680.00
WHY PAY OVER $1,500
FOR A BED!!!
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND
DRINK COUPON WITH
EVERY NEW TOUR**
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680
PLAY SPORTS! HAVE FUN! SAVE
MONEY! Maine camp needs fun lov-
ing counselors. All land, adventure &
water sports. Great summer! Apply:
888-844-8080, www.campcedar.com
STONEBRIDGE GOLF CLUBjobs:
grounds crew, beverage cart servers, &
pro shop workers. 734-429-8383
www.stonebridgegolfclub.net

president to view them from
his room and for the hundreds
of journalists broadcasting
throughout the night to the U.S.
to see the city's beauty."
City officials are also prom-
ising to escort journalists to
"important and famous histori-
cal sites." Among the spots are
the "City of David," a politically
sensitive archaeological site in
an Arab neighborhood just out-
side the Old City.
The dig, named for the bibli-
cal King David thought to have
ruled from the spot 3,000 years
ago, was conducted by Israeli
government archaeologists.
The project has generated con-
troversy because it was funded
by a nationalist Jewish group
that buys up properties in Arab
neighborhoods of east Jerusa-
lem, then moves Jewish settlers
into the homes - which critics
say is meant to make it impossi-
ble to divide the city in a future
peace deal.
Palestinians and some Israeli
archaeologists have also criti-
cized the City of David dig for
what they say is an excessive
focus on Jewish remains, and
have called into question some
of the dig's claims that attribute
ruins to the King David.
East Jerusalem, home to the
Old City and its sensitive holy
sites, was captured by Israel in
1967 and subsequently annexed
in a move that has never been
internationally recognized.
The Palestinians also claim
east Jerusalem as the capital of
their future state. Resolving the
competing claims to the area is
the most explosive issue in the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Brachie Sprung, an adviser to
the mayor, said the City of David
is one of Jerusalem's most popu-
lar attractions. She rejected sug-
gestions that the free tours were
politically motivated.
"In 2012 the city of Jerusalem
experienced record breaking
tourism which boosted eco-
nomic growth, benefitting all
segments of the population,"
Sprung said in an email.
After spending the first day of
his visit next Wednesday with
Israeli officials, Obama is sched-
uled to journeyto the West Bank
the following day for talks with
the Palestinians.
But Israel's Government
Press Office says journalists
need not make the trip, which
involves crossing through a
military checkpoint. It said a
special media center in Jerusa-
lem will provide a live feed of
Obama's meeting with Palestin-
ian President Mahmoud Abbas
"in order to obviate the need to
travel back-and-forth to the Pal-
estinian Authority areas."
GPO Director Nitzan Chen
said the live feed was meant
solely for convenience. "We are
not encouraging people to go
or not" to go to the West Bank,
Chen said.
The Palestinians, mean-
while, are intent on showing the
president what life is like under
Israeli occupation. Abbas leads a
self-rule government that enjoys
limited autonomy in the West
Bank. But Israel wields overall
control of the area, which the
Palestinians claim as the heart-
land of their future state.
Palestinian officials said they
have notified American officials

that they want Obama to meet
the family of a Palestinian pris-
oner held in Israel. The Palestin-
ians said the U.S. hasn't replied.

f


- - ;G
-
- ''

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
rouba named to
all-league team

N I I , -'q


Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 7A
Rag-tag Michigan
shines at Nationals

By MATT SLOVIN
ManagingEditor
Sophomore forward Andrew
Sinelli quickly ducked through
the on-ice door at Yost Ice Arena
after practice on
Wednesday. NOTEBOOK
At the blue
line stood Jacob Trouba, named
to the CCHA All-Conference team
earlier in the day. If Sinelli didn't
step off the rink fast, he'd be in
the path of one of Trouba's signa-
ture slapshots. Forgive Sinelli if he
didn't want to be on the wrong end
of a Trouba laser.
Earlier this week, Michigan
hockey coach Red Berenson
expressed surprise at freshman
forward Boo Nieves's omission
from the CCHA's all-rookie team.
Trouba's inclusion on the all-
league list surprised, well, no one.
"As he should be," said junior
defenseman Mac Bennett, when
told of his defensive partner's
accolade.
Added Berenson: "I think
Jacob's had a strong year right
from the start. When you're a
freshman, you have to have an
impact season to be selected
for that level. And good for him
because there aren't many fresh-
men.
"He did it on a team that maybe
didn't impress people for most of
the year."
Trouba received eight first-
place votes, the most for any
freshman, and 43 total votes,
good for third overall. The only
other freshman on the first team
is Miami (Ohio) forward Riley
Barber.
Berenson believes that Trouba
and Bennett form the best defen-
sive pairing to play for Michigan

PAUL SHRMA/aild
Freshman defenseman Jacob Trouba was a top-10 pick in last year's NHL draft.

in quite some time. They began
skating together against Notre
Dame in February, and though
the results weren't immediate,
the team is currently riding a six-
game unbeaten streak thanks, in
part, to its solid defense.
"We're getting good consisten-
cy from our defense," Berenson
said. "As good as Jacob is, and as
good as Mac is, you need a good
partner. Ironically, the player that
Mac played with last year (then-
senior Greg Pateryn) is playing for
the MontrealCanadiens (Wednes-
day) sothat justshows you that it's
good to have a good partner."
According to Bennett, what
makes the duo so special is their
off-ice friendship.
"I think that really makes a
huge difference in terms of chem-
istry," Bennett said. "I can laugh
with that guy, I can joke with that
guy, but at the same time, I know
he's got my back no matter what.
And I think that makes a differ-
ence when it comes to game time."
Berenson said that, though the
program has had its share of high-
profile freshmen in the past, "very
few" have lived up to the lofty

expectations that Trouba faced
coming into Ann Arbor.
"He's a first rounder, a top-10
pick (in the NHL Draft)," Ben-
nett said. "Obviously there's a lot
of hype that he had to live up to,
and he did it. There's a reason he's
drafted so high. He's just a really
solid, skilled - can be a shut-down-
guy, can be a physical guy, can be
an offensive guy - there's a little
bit of everything.
"He's a very special part of this
team."
PARKER HANGS'EM UP: When
legendary Boston University
coach Jack Parker announced his
retirement Monday after 40 sea-
sons at the helm, it meant Beren-
son could add another distinction
to his laundry list of them.
Berenson is now tied for the
longest-tenured coach in col-
lege hockey with Gary Wright of
American International. They've
been at their respective programs
for 29 years.
"I look up to (Parker) because
he was a college coach for a long
time before I came here," Beren-
son said. "It was a very respectful
relationship."

By SHANNON LYNCH
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan ski team isn't
a varsity or club sport. In fact,
it isn't actually recognized as
a team on campus at all. The
"team" doesn't have coaches or
train regularly, it isn't funded or
sponsored bythe University and
its members aren't recruited.
So when the men's alpine
team placed second at the Mid-
west Regional Qualifier in Feb-
ruary, the skiers were surprised
and thrilled to have earned
a position at the U.S. Colle-
giate Skiing and Snowboarding
National Championships.
The team was an underdog in
every event when it traveled to
Sun Valley, Idaho, to participate
in the championship, and no one
was expecting to place. So when
Michigan earned third place in
the slalom and seventh overall,
the Wolverines shocked their
competition and themselves.
"(Slalom) was substantially
longer than what we've ran all
year and substantially harder,"
said freshman All-American
Kane Boynton. "We really had
no expectations going in. We
were just out there to have a
good time and have a lot of fun."
Six Michigan skiers and one
female snowboarder were cho-
sen to compete in Idaho. The
difference in conditions at Sun
Valley compared to the courses
the team raced at this season
was incredibly overwhelming.
"The longest course we ran
this whole year in the Midwest
was 25 seconds, and then we got
out there and the course was a
1:10 at 8,000 vertical feet," said
sophomore All-American Tay-

for Hunter. "So, we weren't very own level of competitiveness
prepared for that." and commitment.
But Hunter did well, finish- According to junior skier and
ing his first giant slalom run captain Nick Hill, the almost-
with a time of 1:08:25 and his casual nature of the team
second with a time of 1:03.72, results in a group of students
bringing his total to 2:11.97. He who really care about improv-
finished only about nine sec- ing their own performances
onds behind first-place finisher while also benefitting the team
Nils Hoegbom, skiing for pow- as a whole.
erhouse Rocky Mountain Col- The team races just four
lege. weekends out of the year at
Hunter, along with Boynton Crystal Mountain in Thomp-
sonville, Mich. and competes
regularly against club sports
at the regional level and even
"W e would the occasional varsity teams.
"We don't train, and we
be thrilled to don't have a coach," Hill said.
"Everyone meets at a house
be Division I on Friday, drives up north,
,, (races) and (stays) up north
eventua y." over the weekend. But during
the week, everyone is kind of
on their own."
The way the team is run in
and freshman skier Stephen comparison to otherschools' ski
Siddall, all of who are All- programs is definitely unortho-
American scholars, competed dox, but the system works. It
in the men's slalom event and gives students who ski at any
finished third, with a team time level the opportunity to be a
total of 5:04.08. This was a huge part of a group that works to
victory, considering they only compete ata high level.
scored behind Rocky Mountain Hill said that he and the
College and Sierra Nevada Col- other team captains hope that
lege, both which recruit stu- the ski team will eventually be
dents in the United States and given the title of club sport at
overseas. Michigan. It's been some time
Michigan's student skiers since the team has been so suc-
have their own form of recruit- cessful, and a year like this will
ing by networking, working only encourage more skiers, and
through social media and hav- snowboarders to join the team.
ing a booth at Festifall each As they continue to foster young
year. This group is open to any talent, the Wolverines objective
and all ski and snowboard rac- is closer than ever.
ers that attend the University. "The goal is eventually to
The entire team consists of be a club sport," Hill said. "We
about 50 members in total, men would be thrilled to be Division
and women, who choose their I eventually."

A


8A - Thursday March 14, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Michigan faces Penn State in first round of Big Ten Tournament

By COLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Editor
As multiple chances to control
its destiny were wasted and an
opportunity to win a share of the
Big Ten title slowly fell off the rim
at Crisler Center on Sunday, the
Michigan men's basketball team
is headed to Chicago a day earlier
than expected.
The sixth-ranked Wolverines
(12-6 Big Ten, 25-6 overall) fin-
ished fifth in the conference with
their loss to Indiana, meaning
they'll have to win four games
in four days to claim the Big Ten
Tournament title.
And that road runs straight
through teams that Michigan has
struggled with all season: Penn
State, Wisconsin and Indiana.
Fifth-seeded Michigan faces
12th-seeded Penn State (2-16,
10-20) in Thursday's second game
- the third time the Wolverines
have faced the Nittany Lions
since Feb. 17 and the first time
since Penn State upset Michigan
in State College two weeks ago.
"(Penn State) is a whole dif-
ferent team than it was early in

the tournament. rim and dropped to the floor.
"You can see (the improve- Morgan especially had a dif-
ment) in the backcourt," Beilein ficult time letting go of that loss.
said. "Newbill was not a point But after watching "Space Jam"
guard. It took him a while - he to get his mind off the game, he's
was turning the ball over - now refocused his mind and has a
he's finding the guys. His assist- positive mindset heading into the
to-turnover (ratio) is great. He tournament - something he says
and Marshall - they were shoot- the entire team has embraced
ing 28 percent the first time we've after Sunday's heartbreaking
played them - they've shot 50 game.
percent from 3-point (range) the "We still feel like we've got
last five games." some fight back," Morgan said.
While Penn State is gaining "We've lost a couple games
momentum - its two conference recently, but we've started to get
wins have come in the past two a little more passionate about
weeks - Michigan has faltered things, see the value in some of
down the stretch. After start- the smaller things."
ing the Big Ten slate with an 8-2 And now, with the Wolverines
record, the Wolverines have gone as a five seed after being one of
4-4 while losing heartbreaking the favorites to win the confer-
games against Wisconsin in over- ence, Beilein hopes his team has
time and at the end of regulation refocused and found a new drive
against Indiana, either of which to win.
would've given them a share of "I hope we go out with a chip
the Big Ten title. on our shoulder every game, try-
The game against the Hoosiers ing to show that we're as good a
was probably the toughest pill to team as anyone in the country,"
swallow. Michigan watched its he said. "I think once we get in it,
championship hopes fall away as into the atmosphere, we're focus-
redshirt junior forward Jordan ing on one game at a time - Penn
Morgan's shot bounced off the State."

01

TERRA MOLENGRAFF /Daily
Redshirt junior forward Jordan Morgan watched "Space Jam" to get his mind off the loss to Indiana last Sunday.
the season," said Michigan coach In the teams' first matchup, State guards Jermaine Marshall
John Beilein. "Six of the last Michigan had a difficult time and D.J. Newbill led its second-
seven games, they've shown they pulling away from the Nittany half comeback, scoring 42 of the
can beat anyone. They've played Lions, hanging on for a 79-71 84 points in the win.
us twice very tough, they all but victory. Sophomore guard Trey According to Beilein, Marshall
beat Wisconsin the other night, Burke had a career-high 29 points epitomizes Penn State's late-sea-
they went to Northwestern and - 15 coming in the second half - son surge. The Nittany Lions have
won and they had Illinois on the in the game to help the Wolver- had to deal with the loss of their
ropes as well. ines hold onto their lead. star player, Tim Frazier, to inju-
"This is a team with seven guys Just 10 days later, Michigan ry, and though it's taken them a
that have been playing together, was stunned as the Nittany Lions while to finally congeal as a team,
they have a great chemistry right came back from a 15-point deficit Beilein sees Penn State as ateam
now." for their first Big Ten win. Penn ready to upset any opponent in


~t* )Pcrot

0

9

f

A 4


The Michigan Daily ( michigandaily.com Thursday, March 14, 2013
I
S
r
Cortle
t
rF 'e. .l+. iSro! Ale
f
Ilk
x 1 .p I J .p
ZpMy
Set.
wr.- . . _ Ka +t r
k.
r

f
r s
.
' -

S
SI
I
I

DESIGNED BY: MELISS FREELAND AND JOE MURRAY


2B -Thursday, March 14, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

28 -Thursday, March 14, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

baked.buzzed-bored.
in this new series, three daily arts writers
in varying states of mind visit the same
place and write about their experiences.
this week's destination:
Zingerman's

The good in running away

0


I don't think I've been this content in my life. Not happy, not excited -
but content. You know: Like butter running through your veins is how I
feel. I ate both a reuben and a BBQ chicken sandwich.
Well, OK, also this cookie and a black-cherry soda. Oh, man, this cook-
ie. There were these squishy raisins, and it was so soft and the cinnamon
was just like ughhhhhh. It was at this point when I ate the cookie, before
the sandwiches came, my muscles started twitching and, to be complete-
ly honest, they haven't stopped since. My thigh has been spazzing for 20
minutes.
So, anyway, I ate the sandwiches and, oh my God. I tackled the reuben
with a tiger-like force, and this roast beef was swimming in my stomach
- I mean seriously magical. It was like magma flowing in slow motion.
I thought I was full, and then I saw the #85 and I knew S wasn't done. I
destroyed this thing. This chicken - the BBQ was dancing like a fucking
madman all over my mouth - was just so tender and wow.
Plus, this black-cherry cola is literally the equivalent of God water.
Yes. God water. So, basically, if you find yourself in a mind-warping,
neck-snapping, hungry-hungry-hippo pot high, I highly (see the pun?)
recommend Zingerman's. My thigh is still twitching.
- DAILY ARTS WRITER
"Hi, please help me," I desperately exclaimed, bracing my wobbling body
between shelves of bread and vinegar and brightly colored walls. "I called ear-
lier to order, and I don't know where to go or what I'm supposed to be doing
right now."
Because Zingerman's was big- bigger than IShad remembered - its dizzy-
ing number of aisles, rooms and sandwich options flooded my senses like the
Blue Moons I downed an hour or so before.
Fortunately, however, help was immediately on its way: Within seconds, I
was rescued by a perky employee who took my arm, walked me through the
restaurant and told me how to buy my food. I was grateful for the hospitality
and, after dousing her in blearythank yous and apologies ("Please don't judge
me, I swear I'm not usually like this") I stumbled outside and fell into a patio
chair with my sandwich-packed paper bag.
Joy washed over me. It was finally time. I couldn't remember what I
ordered, but those details weren't important: As I pulled away the paper
wrapping, I knew I was holding a specimen of deli perfection. Puffy bread.
Pale, melty cheese. Enough spicy honey mustard to cut through my sinuses
and tequila-tinted breath. A thick, pillowy pile of turkey that spilled out in
meaty folds all over the table.
"I'm going to eat all of this," I announced to anyone who was listening.
The next few minutes were a messy blur of mustard, crumpled napkins and
pure jubilation. I obliterated my meal in as few bites as possible, careful to not
to miss any scraps of Challah or deli meat that might have fallen in the pro-
cess. It didn't matter that IShad paid over $10 for a four-ingredient sandwich
or that I was sitting outside in a frigid, metal chair - it was the best damn
sandwich IShad tasted, and if the restaurant hadn't closed a few minutes into
my outdoor feast, ISprobably would've sloshed back inside to order another.
-CHLOE STACHOWIAK
I walk into Zingerman's on a sunny Wednesday afternoon without a hint
of mind alteration. Decaf coffee, ahealthy butsensibly sized breakfast - I've
even had a good night's sleep. In other words, I could not feel more average.
It's been a few years since I've paid the famed delicatessen a visit, but my
memory of the market/restaurant's layout is more or less accurate. Cheeses
to the left, breads and the like at 4 o'clock and a sneaky passage enshrined in
coffees, oils, vinegars and other exotic delicacies.
Because I'm able to trust my unchanged perception, it's relatively easy to
avoid other customers and place an order with the friendly and ever-helpful
staff manning the sandwich station. I order a chicken, bacon and ranch,
and my friend orders a Detroit-style BBQ chicken sandwich. I immediately
regret my decision, but because I'm not brazen or drunk enough to ask for a
change, IStake my seat and accept my fate.
The sandwich is tasty - a little dry and a little expensive, but I'm defi-
nitely glad I decided to come here. The bacon is peppery and crispy, and
combined with the chickenbreast and creamy ranch dressing, I wolf down a
half before I realize what I've done. But since I'm not under the influence of
any hunger-inducing substances, I decide that the other wedge would make
a tasty snack later, and I get it wrapped to go (however, my friend receives
bakedbeans cooked with bacon, and I happily volunteer to help finish them).
I leave Zingerman's feeling pretty happy overall. True, it did cost about
$30 for a lunch for two, but it's rare to find such a carefully-crafted lunch
with such quality ingredients. And, forgoing the morning joint/Jack Dan-
iels, I'm ultimately happiest that I didn't waste $30 on a meal I'd barely
remember.
-ELLIOT ALPERN

By LOUIS MARINARO
Besttobeginthis storywith an
explanation about the prevailing
attitude andbeliefthatcorporal
punishment was good for the
child and encouraged in our com-
munity. Punishment was meted
out with some glee in the parochi-
al school systemin the earlyl1960s
in Philadelphia. The preferred
weapon of choice? A three-foot
wooden ruler, and for tougher
hides, the half-inch maple pointer.
Both instruments were employed
on a regular basis, especially on
boys who had a propensity for
wildness.
As a young boy growing up in
a practicing Catholic household,
it was assumed that we would all
attend Catholic school. I, like all of
my Italian-American neighbors,
was part of the Stella Maris parish
in south Philadelphia.
I had spent a total ofnine years
in Catholic school, and it was
beginning to wear very thin on my
gluteus and hands, not to mention
my pride. By the eighth grade,
my reputation as a troubled and
troublemaking student was well
known. As the sisters of the Saint
Joseph order so delicately putit, "I
would grow up tobe a wife beater
and a criminal."
The details of my mistake
involve two other classmates,
Nick Del Asandro and Richie
Crowbar. The three of us had the
dubious distinction of spending
most of our first semester in grade
eight standing in the back of the
classroom, a form of detention for
not completing our homework.
The problem with detention was
that it gave us an opportunity
to spend time with one another,
size each other up and eventually
decide that not doing homework
was the easiest way to be sent to
the back of the room and goof
off. After a few weeks of our plot-
ting and goofing off, Sister Mary
Catherine Marie got wise to our
scheming and decided to include
some severe corporal punishment

in addition to our standing deten-
tions.
We had had enough. The past
nine years had been a constant,
unwinnable battle and we wanted
a way out. Bishop Neuman High
School, an all boys' Catholic
school, was looming on the hori-
zon, and no pleading with our
parents was goingto getus out of
that inevitability, which would
undoubtedly be an extension of
the torture. Rumors on the street
had made us wise to the fact that
corporal punishment in Bishop
Neuman High School was meted
out not bythe sisters of St. Joseph,
but by the brothers and priests,
who weren't afraid to dole out a
much heftier class of punishment.
Our parents turned down our
repeated requests to transfer us
to the local public school. Even if
it was peopledby the "unclean"
non-Catholics of the neighbor-
hood, we were willing to take our
chances. Left with no alternative,
we decided that we were going to
run away. Our plan was simple. No
notes were to be left announcing
our departure. We would pre-
tend to go to school and pack our
school bags with food and cloth-
ing. We left one morning headed
for League Island Park at the most
southern end of the city. Atthe
edge of the park was the train yard
for the Philadelphia waterfront.
Our plan was to hop a freight train
and be out of townbefore anyone
was the wiser.
It was a cold morning, and

we built a small fire in a wooded
area next to thetrain yard while
waiting to begin our journey.
We didn't know where we were
going, butwe were getting out of
Catholic school one way or the
other. What we didn't know was
that the school had called our
parents to inquire as to why three
boys from Sister Mary Catherine
Marie's class weren't in school. By
11 a.m. that morning, there was
a citywide search on for three
missing children. Our camp was
discovered around noon, but we
managed to escape the first set
of police officers thatwere dis-
patched. We weren't so lucky with
the second, larger contingent. We
were arrested and brought to the
local police station. We were sur-
prised to find our parents waiting,
looks of worry plastered across
their face.
Though at the time this was an
incredibly difficulteventfor my
parents and I to get through, being
expelled from Catholic school
allowed me to meet many great
teachers in the public-school sys-
tem. These teachers were instru-
mental in changing my behavior
and ultimatelythe direction of my
life. The sculptor Iam today in
large part is directly a result of my
expulsion from parochial school. I
can sayI am proud of the mistake
I made.
Marinaro is a professor
in the Penny W. Stamps
School of Art & Design.

0
6

4

a

0

4

0

0

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, March 14, 2013 - 3B

ZINGERMAN'S
From Page 1A
Zingerman's has achieved
extraordinary success, but
instead of keeping their formula
to themselves, they share it freely.
Weinzweig has written several
books about effective manage-
ment. ZingTrain offers consult-
ing on the art of customer service.
BAKE!, a hands-on teaching bak-
ery shares the secrets of Zinger-
man's most delectable breads and
pastries with over 60 different
courses.
School of Music, Theatre &
Dance sophomore Heather Ken-
drick has worked for Zingerman's
for two years and has taken three
of the BAKE! courses.
"It's super fun, and it's really
worth your dollar because you
end up leaving with so many
things you make," Kendrick said.
"I took a donut-making class - my
mom and my sister and I took it
together, and we ended up with
160 donuts!"
Though firmly rooted in Ann
Arbor, Zingerman's has a mail-
order program that extends the
business's reach to the entire Unit-
ed States. In 1994, Mo Frechette
became a founding partner of the
mail order, which now rivals the
deli in terms ofsales volume. When
Frechette was first startingout, his
business was a curiosity inthe food
world.
"There was no food mail-order
business industry; there were
no television shows about food;
there were no blogs about food,"
Frechette said. "It wasn't com-
mon for people to have an interest
in food, or to have that as a pas-
sion."
Another passion of the Zinger-
man's gang is travel. Frechette and
the other Zingerman's partners go
on epic adventures, sort of culi-
naryvision quests, to find the ideal
foods for their businesses.
"Ifyou travel with me, I'm going
to drag you to a grocery store,"
Frechette said. "It's my museum."
On a whirlwind tour through
Spain, from Bilbao to San Sebas-
tian, Frechette spent hours perus-
ing the grocery stores' seafood
aisles.
"You consider tinned seafood
to be a low-end commodity,"
Frechette said. "They treat it like
a great and amazing thing. Things
you'd never think would be in a tin

Give old-
fashioned, local
bookstores a try

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
Zingerman's offers a customer service training program called ZingTrain that teaches their effective management strategies.

can be found there - barnacles off
the side of a boat, for instance."
After these journeys, employees
share their finds with the rest of
the discerning staff. On an aver-
age month, Zingerman's employ-
ees will taste 200 foods and maybe
two will be considered worthy
additions tothe menu.
"What's considered mundane in
one place and sold in a gas station
is sometimes special somewhere
else," Weinzweig said. "Almost
everything we sell is poor people's
food, but if you're not from the
area where it's produced, it seems
exotic."
The haters are out there
Another partner with a global
perspective is the Bakehouse.
For 20 years, Frank Carollo and
his staff have hand-crafted every
hearth-baked loaf. They've also
scouredthe globe in search of new
recipes.
Since 2011, members of the
Bakehouse staff have traveled to
Hungary three times to eat and
to learn traditional artisan bread
baking. The bakers brought their
experiences back with them, sell-
ing Hungarian torts, breads and
soups in the Bakehouse shop.
Zingerman's also offers Hungar-
ian baking classes. As Carollo put
it, "We want our customers to
learn with us."
Weinzweig has a unique busi-
ness philosophy, which may have
been a catalyst for Zingerman's
success. As a Russian history
major, his focus was on the anar-

has shaped his managerial style
and noted that there are striking
similarities between hundred-
year-old anarchist writings and
modern progressive business
books.
"Except one group was going to
jail and one was on the best-seller
list," Weinzweigsaidwithalaugh.
Weinzweig's anarchist utopia
stresses free choice and respect
for individuals, with the belief
that a strong work ethic comes
from conviction in one's work. In
fact, Zingerman's is a place where
the employees truly run the busi-
ness.
"We wanted to push decision
down as far as in the organization
as we could, so that decisions were
not going to be made based on who
had the most authority, but who
has a good idea - who has a solu-
tion," Saginaw said.
Zingerman's has been called
"The Coolest Small Company in
America" by INC Magazine and
received high praise from celebrity
chefs Bobby Flay and Mario Batali.
But as Saginaw put it, "The hat-
ers are out there. They hate us to
the bone." These detractors take
to Internet forums bitterly moan-
ing that Zingerman's food is over-
priced, as if they'd been tricked
into ordering a $12 sandwich.
After AnnArbor.com published
a story about Bobby Flay tweeting
from Zingerman's, user "Goober"
griped: "He has the moneyto eat at
Zingerman's."
Saginaw was quick to admit that
Zingerman's isn't a necessity.
"Nobody gets up and says, 'If
I don't get an $8 loaf of bread, life
isn't worth living.' We don't sell
anything that anybody needs,"
Saginaw said.
Despite the naysayers, Zing-
erman's has flourished by offer-
ing traditional, full-flavored food
whose production value explains
the price tag. The specialty ingre-
dients are imported; Saginaw
noted that by definition you can
onlyget parmigiano reggiano from
Italy.
Being a good corporate citizen
However, many of the ingredi-
ents in Zingerman's goodies are
grown with pride in Michigan.
"I believe that the local busi-
ness is the backbone of the eco-
nomic system," Saginaw said. "It
is what will drive it and help cre-
ate vibrance."
"You earn your right to do
business in a community by
being a good corporate citizen,"
Saginaw added. "You need to be
profitable but you need to make a
profit responsibly and share that

responsibly with the people you
work with and the community
from which that profit comes."
Saginaw tries to support the
Ann Arbor community by buy-
ing locally whenever possible
and through other philanthropic
endeavors. After taking stock of
the rampant waste in the food
industry he founded Food Gather-
ers, a hunger relief organization.
"The reality is that a line cook
after working 12 hours isn't driv-
ing across town to look for home-
less people," Weinzweig said.
That's where Food Gatherers
comes in. The organization liber-
ates perfectly good leftovers that
would otherwise end up in trash
heaps from local restaurants and
distributes them to community
kitchens.
Weinzweig added, "For some-
body who is in need of a nutri-
tious meal, it's totally healthy, but
maybe it wasn't as tasty as the res-
taurant wanted."
In a time when many busi-
nesses are struggling to stay open,
Zingerman's is already planning
its business strategy for the com-
ing decade.
The plan states that Zinger-
man's will run up to 18 indepen-
dent businesses by the year 2020.
A Tunisian restaurant is already
in the works.
"We've been selling many
Tunisian products that come from
one family, and we've become
very close with the family," Sagi-
naw said. "They are consulting
on this, and the two employees
who are interested in doing this
have stayed with the family and
learned from them."
Always the overachievers,
Zingerman's bought a herd of
Tunisian sheep in order to serve
a very specific type of Tunisian
lamb in the restaurant.
From a tiny delicatessen with
four employees, Zingerman's
has grown to a nationally known
enterprise. They will end this fis-
cal year with $47 million in sales,
18 partners, eight businesses and
about 600 employees.
Though their official birthday
is March 15, Zingerman's will
commemorate over three decades
of service, philanthropy and culi-
nary exploration with an evening
entitled "Celebrating 31 Years
with Ari," on April 3.
The event will highlight the
deli's history and provide a tanta-
lizing glimpse of things to come.
"It'll be a lot of good food and
probably some of the things that
I'm excited about moving for-
ward," Weinzweig said. "A little
past, a little present and a little
future."

The first book Ilever
bought at Dawn Treader
was "Dostoevsky" by
Nicholas Berdyaev. When I
found it, or rather when it found
me, I had
never even
heard of
Berdyaev,
but I couldn't-
be happier.
During my
senior year of
high school,
I took a lot JOHN
of interest in BOHN
Dostoevsky.
His existen-
tial treatment of Christianity
served to guide me through
what was then my vague, liberal
Protestantism. In "Dostoevsky,"
Berdyaev articulated what he
thought were the main themes
of Dostoevsky's work, and I con-
sumed the book quickly.
Unlike many, that was howI
spent my freshman year's wel-
come week. I don't know exactly
how I would view the book and
its ideas today - Ithave yet to
reread it - but what I won't ever
forget was that rush of excite-
ment I experienced when I
thought I had found the book I
needed to be reading at this time
in my life.
I love browsing bookstores.
The prospect of findingwhat
you didn't set out to find, of
coming across the unexpected,
provides me with a secret thrill.
This past summer, I experienced
that rush of excitement again.
I sat down in one of the chairs
at Dawn Treader, and when I
looked in front of me at the shelf,
there sat "The Rise of Eurocen-
trism: Anatomy of Interpreta-
tion" by Vassilis Lambropoulos,
a professor at the University. I
don't know why this book was
there (especially a practically
new hardcover copy), but it was.
For many reasons, it seemed as
if this was the book I needed to
read. I hadn't heard of it, nor
had Iever really looked at that
shelf before, the one where gen-
eral history meets conspiracy
theory books.
At the time, I didn't have the
sufficient background to fully
understand what it discussed,
and while I probably still won't
understand all the references
ranging from the Reformation
to Derrida, that excitement
rushed over me. Having just
come out of a course on Samuel
Beckett, and in a crisis over the
question of interpretation, this
booked seemed to offer some
light.
Obviously, there are plenty
of other opportunities by which
I could have attempted to
reconcile my anxieties about
interpretation; feel free to write
me off as a mystic for defend-
ing this one. There's definitely
room for that interpretation. Or
call ita gambler's addiction, if

you fancy. Nevertheless, I cher-
ish the experience of walking
into an old bookstore and let-
ting my mind wander. For this
reason, I find myself sensitive
to the possibility of losing this
experience.
Businesses come and go
in Ann Arbor; every student
has a different memory of the
city. The welcoming signs of
old State Street businesses
hung overhead my Freshman
year while construction work-
ers busily reminded us that
things were changing. During
my experiences in Ann Arbor,
bookstores seem to have been
most affected. I never got a
chance to check out the famous
Shaman Drum; I only ever saw
the sign hanging above the
door leading into its gutted-out
insides. Borders and Dave's
Books, two bookstores close to
campus, closed within my first
year in Ann Arbor. These places
I went to during my freshman
year no longer existed by the
end.
Let the book
find you.
So I'm a mystic, and now you
have the opportunity to call me
a luddite or a cultural conserva-
tive after the following: Part of
me laments what the Internet
has done to browsing culture.
Looming in the background, the
cheaper alternative of Amazon
ruins the browsing culture
experience. Now I buy books
because I've been told I need
them. Chance encounters with
new knowledge no longer slip
through the cracks; my life and
my readings now all have a pur-
pose and isn't it wonderful?
Certainly Amazon and other
sites have chipped away at
these bookstore's profits. No
one would deny that. I don't
know if this column makes a
good enough case, butI really
encourage those reading to look
at next semester's reading lists
and head over to Dawn Treader,
West End Books and Common
Language among others and see
if they have the book you need.
Who knows - they might! And
I make this argument especially
today because we have coming
to our community a new book-
store, Literati. True,the book-
store sits a little bit off campus,
but the trek out there would
really make a difference.
And even if you don't have a
particular book in mind, check
it out anyway. You'll never know
what you didn't know unless you
step in and see.
Bohn is wandering in a
bookstore. To join, e-mail
obohn@umich.edu.

MARLENE LACASS/Daily
On April 3, Zingerman's will have an event to celebrate its 31st anniversary.


4B - Thursday, March 14, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, March 14, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

R

FOOD COLUMN
Famous deli
just isn't worth
the dough

I

-a a a
MARLENE LACASSE/Daily MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
The structure of the classes allows newbies to work alongside seasoned cooks. Most people in the classes are over 30, but students occassionally sign up.
A baking beginner's quest

Zingerman's hosts years ago, the Bakehouse trans-
formed the space next door to a
classes to teach "school" - now complete with
two classrooms specifically des-
cooking cr aft ignated for BAKE! classes, year
By CARLINA DUAN round, five days a week.
Daily Community Culture Editor "In our country, learning how
to bake was a lost art. We thought
Sugar cookies. Walnut brown- one thing we could do for the con-
ies. Slices of chocolate cake munity is actually show people
smattered in rich, bossy frost- how (to bake)," Emberling said,
ing. When it comes to sugar, my "So when you leave (class) you
belly is no stranger. Every night will have confidence and inspira-
at dessert, I evolve into all-cap- tion to try it again at home."
ital-lettered euphoria, fiercely On the morning of my class, I
elbowing my way to the table and lacked confidence. Dry-mouthed,
piling plates to skyscraper height. I drove through aslayer of snow to
Friends can attest: I tweet about reach the Bakehouse, wringing my
sugar; I dream about sugar. The hands with pre-bake anxiety. Iwas
most recently tagged photo of me probably going to make the world's
on Facebook? A slice of velvety floppiest cream puff. In fact, it'd
tiramisu. It shouldn't come as a probably look so monstrous that
surprise, then, that my ultimate folks would dub it the "Ugly Puff."
dream is to open up a bakery Already envisioning failure, I
named Mount Olympus. Each parked the car with dumb spirits.
baked good will be coined after Set in a complex of brick, facto-
a Greek God/Goddess. Zeus will ry-style buildings on Plaza Drive,
be a triple-decker brownie cake, the Bakehouse stands out. Next
drizzled in marshmallows. door, signs in funky fonts and
Only problem with this grand fresh colors beckon you to taste
plan: IShave no idea how to bake. coffee. If you're taking a class,
In fact, I'm famous for kitchen drinks within the Bakehouse
failures. Once, I made macaroni buildingarecomplimentaryAfter
and cheese with Greek yogurt walking next door to the class-
(first mistake: using Greek yogurt) room building, I found myself in a
and rested the heaping bowl onto room with spacious tables, stoves,
the dinner table with proud hands. folded white aprons, baking racks,
My family took small bites with an iPod trumpeting jazz and ...
plastiospoons, swallowing politely elderly couples. Around the table
until my Dad finally spliced the sat a retired pair, Matt and Linda,
silence: "What is this shit?" who revealed their tradition of
Baking classes, then, were just "pie-crust throwing," a ritual
what I needed. And not just any sparked in their youthful, just-
baking class, but a Zingerman's married days. Meanwhile, Cheryl,
BAKE! "Who You Callin'A Cream a woman clad in swirly, candy-
Puff?"class.As a college kid strug- shaped earrings, introduced her-
gling to fling together brownie self as a BAKE! connoisseur who
mix from the box every weekend, had taken dozens of classes. Cher-
I needed to dip my hands into yl was accompanied by her per-
some flour - start familiarizing sonal trainer, Cathy. Both giggled
myself with real, out-of-the-box, as Cathy mock-whispered, "So,
home-cooked food. we can work off the calories after
And Zingerman's, as I'm sure today!"
any foodie will attest to, can be Total class size? Seven stu-
dubbed as real food. The Bake- dents, including me.
house, born in 1992, was the According to Emberling, most
second Zingerman's business to students in BAKE! classes are age
open. Bakehouse Managing Part- 30 and above, and each course is
ner Amy Emberling, who was one capped at 12 students. Class fees
of the original staffers at the time, range from $40Oto $250, with $100
described the original mission of as the average. As a hungry-yet-
the Bakehouse: to supply bread. poor student, I'm not surprised
"We intended to be only a that there aren't more college kids
wholesale bakery and only to here. You'd have to be very pressed
make fantastic bread for (the for baking skill to pay $100 for an
Deli's) sandwiches," she said. apron-clad morning.
At the Bakehouse, public class- Despite the older demographic
es were established even before of my classmates, the energy in
BAKE! classes came along. "We the air was still crisp and young.
would have people in one Sun- Perhaps this has to do with the
day a month, for two hours in the structure of the course. Our
afternoon, and we'd teach them a instructor, Nikki Lohmann, stood
bit about bread making," Ember- at the front of the room, dem-
lingexplained. "There was always onstrating how to separate egg
a waitinglist." yolks, mash dough and cook pas-
As the monthly waiting lists try cream in a saucepan.
continued to grow, the demand "Being a pastry chef is all about
for classes became apparent. Six multitasking," she confided as she

navigated a stirring spoon with
wild, prancing hands. Lohmann
demonstrated stirring technique
for the cream pastry, our first
task. Then, we students dove in.
Across the room, spatulas
clunked. Eggshells crackled. In
front of us lay shiny pots, stir-
ring spoons, pats of butter in wax
paper and Tupperware cups of
sugar, salt, flour, eggs and vanilla
bean. Everything smelled like
butter. Running frantically from
the stove back to my chair with a
saucepan, my muscles trembled.
Cooking equaled exercise. I was
sweating for these cream puffs.
Furtively, ISglanced at my peers,
strainingto peer inside their pans.
Was I falling behind? Was I doing
okay? Could everybody see the
sweat stains draped beneath my
armpits? Cheryl smiled at me and
glanced nonchalantly into my pot.
"Lookin' great!" she enthused as
she whisked her bowl with wiry,
done-this-before flair.
According to Emberling, stu-
dents aren't arranged in class by
baking talent. In fact, newcom-
ers and oldtimers alike are placed
together. This is due to the BAKE!
mission, which focuses on culti-
vating teachable material, rather
than skills.
"What we're trying to do in
each class is teach technique,
and it is the case that everyone
who comes may be at a differ-
ent level, but the basic info you
need to share can be the same,"
Emberling said. "There's often
not advanced knowledge. There's
advanced practice. But the knowl-
edge is the same."
Despite four hours of instruc-
tion, I never felt weary with any
task. In fact, my intimidation
wore off as Lohmann routinely
cycled our tables to check on our
progress. In between the chat-
ter of my peers, the hiss of cream
sauce on the stove and croon of
jazz on the stereo, I fell into rou-
tine. Lohmann demonstrated,
then students tried. The pastry
dough was kneaded, baked and
puffed. The cream was piped -
squeezed through plastic, trian-
gular bags in order to create afros
of lush, swirly cream. Eclairs
were garnished with powdered
sugar. The whipped cream was
whipped.
"Although we want (these
classes) to be full of content, we
want them to also be relaxed,
enjoyable and fun, so it's a safe
learning environment, and not
like the things you see on TV -
not like the scary chef," Ember-
ling noted.

Surprisingly, as the class wore
on, I wasn't sensing an ounce of
Scary Chef from Lohmann, nor
from the other students. True,
I splashed some of the cream
sauce out onto the stove, almost
hitting the baker next to me (she
flinched). And, yes, my cream
puffs were the smallest of the
batch because my arms started
wheezing midway through the
piping process (to be fair, Ihad the
smallest biceps).
But ultimately, I felt pretty
badass.
When our cream puffs were
placed into a take-home box, we
all chuckled. My apron heaved
with egg yolk and vanilla bean
smudge. My face was pummeled
in a permanent hot-stove flush.
But I conquered those puffs.
Like crisp, brown jewels, they
winked inside my box. I chomped
into one, and my teeth sung. Hal-
lelujah, sugar.
For the epilogue of our class,
Lohmann demonstrated how to
make cream puff swans - adorn-
ing their wings with plushy puffs
of cream. What's more, she tout-
ed the versatility of the pastry
dough, proving its multifunction
by teaching - and serving us! -
homemade tomato-and-cream
gnocchi, citrus-glazed donuts,
cinnamon churros and my favor-
ite: cheese puffs that boogied in
my mouth with dollops of Mon-
terey Jack, cheddar, pepper and
buttery groove.
At the Bakehouse, quality ingre-
dients are used not only in the in-
house goods, but also in classes. In
fact, the origins of the ingredients
used in my class - chocolate, vanil-
la bean, eggs - were all explained
with loving passion by Lohmann,
who then gave us tips on where to
find the finest and most affordable
ingredients in Ann Arbor.
BAKE! class Principal Shelby
Kibler added that the recipes
shared in class are also the Bake-
house's very own. "When we
opened the school, it was deliber-
ately to show people how to make
what we make here, so the focus
was taking our recipes at the bak-
ery," he said.
Walking to my snow-encrusted
car, my belly bulged. In my trunk:
an entire Tupperware can of pas-
try cream, another filled with
warm chocolate ganache and,
finally, my babies - my cream
puffs, cradled in their cardboard
cribs.
Driving home, I called my mom
on the phone. "Guess what?" I
hollered, mid-sugar rush. "No
more Pillsbury dough boy for me."

I've been avoiding reviewing
it for a long time - because
everyone loves this place
and I, well, don't. My friends
brag endlessly about the thick-
stacked
sandwiches,
freshly baked
breads,
outrageous
selection
of cheeses_
and desserts
galore. NATHAN
"It's an WOOD
Ann Arbor - -
classic,"
I hear from every University
acquaintance. "You're not just
paying for the sandwich but for
the whole experience."
You guessed it: We're talking
Zingerman's Deli.
Now, before you call blas-
phemy, let me explain myself. I
will concede that Zingerman's
is adored by Ann Arborites and
University alumni the world
round, and that this popularity,
coupled with the restaurant's
history, rightfully dignifies it
as an Ann Arbor classic. The
sandwiches are thoughtfully
crafted, the side dishes sophis-
ticated, the decor cultured and
weird (typical Ann Arbor) and
the business model clever and,
respectable. But as a deli, I just
can't overlook the fact that their
sandwiches simply don't taste
that good.
I mean, I've had much bet-
ter pastrami. Here it's dry - an
unforgivable fault, severely
lacking in salt (Hello, this is
supposed to be brined?), truly
underseasoned and, on the
whole, bland. The expanse sep-
arating the superior pastrami
at Katz's in New York City from
the inferior at Zingerman's Deli
here in Ann Arbor is inarticu-
lately vast. And, as the cherry
on top, Katz's Manhattan deli is
still cheaper.
I've never found the breads
particularly exquisite, either.
Zingerman's "best-selling" Jew-
ish rye is too dense for my taste,
lacking a satisfying texture,
deep color and any unique char-
acter ... save the crusty, grilled
edges, which require at least a
minute of forceful chomping on
before disintegrating into a con-
sistency capable of being swal-
lowed without puncturing your
esophagus. My jaw has gotten
a more facile workout from a
softball-sized jawbreaker (you
know, the kind you break your
teeth on).
Any bread here given a gener-
ic, unrevealing name is simply
that: generic. I'm talking to you,
"farm bread" (overcooked white
bread), "soft buns" (glorified
hot dog buns), "Country Wheat
bread" (let's just call it wheat
bread) and "Bakehouse white
bread" (the extra adjective does
little to distinguish this loaf
from Wonder).
The pickles accompanying
the sandwiches are an atrocity,
too. Why anyone would ever
serve an "old pickle" - yes,
that's what they call it - is
beyond me. They taste just as
their name implies.

But aside from the sandwich-
es and pickles, I must admit that
nearly everything else is really
quite delicious. The spinach feta
salad is simple, light, tangy and
- with a hint of mint - subtly
refreshing. The garlic potato
salad is a modern, tastytake on
the traditional German variety,
and the macaroni and cheese is
OUT. OF. THIS. WORLD. I'm
not exaggerating when I say
that this is literally the best mac
and cheese I've ever had and
probably will ever have. With
a creamy housemade bechamel
sauce, artisanal Tuscan maca-
roni and plenty of Cabot Ver-
mont cheddar and cracked black
peppercorn, a side of this hearty
mac is a must. The sauce is silky,
but not artificially so. The mac-
aroni are cooked perfectly, pro-
viding a decent cohesiveness;
the cheese is strikingly perva-
sive. The crunchy charred bits
of cheese and pasta on top add
depth of texture and flavor, and
the product's mouthcoating is
slippery smooth. I'm impressed
to the highest degree.
Take note, however, that only
one pan of macaroni and cheese
is made each day. The pan rolls
out at 11 a.m., and once it's gone,
it's gone. So get there early.
Skip the
sandwiches,
stick to the
sides.

The next-door dessert shop
boasts a variety of delectable
confectionaries, beautifully dec-
orated cakes and pastries, sweet
espresso drinks and Sicilian-
style gelato made with Michigan
milk at Zingerman's Creamery
down the road. While I don't
find the gelato exceptional, it
does cap off a Zingerman's meal
sweetly and can be just the ticket
on a hot summer's day.
In all fairness, Zingerman's
is an experience. Everyone in
Ann Arbor should dine there a
time or two and be willing to
graciously escort interested out-
of-state guests there when they
come to visit. It's an experience
to stand wrapped around a his-
toric brick building in anticipa-
tion, sampling sides, meats and
cheeses outside the door. It's an
experience to order from the
expansive sandwich menu and
peruse the rare cheeses, expen-
sive oils and aged vinegars. It's
an experience to dine in the
crowded upstairs of the renovat-
ed house or out on the patio, and
it's an experience to sip a creamy,
red birch beer with friends and
family over a relaxed meal. Just
remember that it's actually not
about the $16 sandwiches - as
much as everyone wants you to
think that it is - as they're sim-
ply not extraordinary.
Wood is definitely not eating
at Zingerman's. To fight him,
e-mail nisaacw@umich.edu.

0

6

a

"


4

0

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
BAKE! offers over 60 courses throughout the year.


