it £klign 0aIj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, February 19, 2013

michigandaily.com

RESEARCH
Forrest: 'U'
R&D could
be harmed
by gov. cuts

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
Rutgers Prof. Frank J. Thompson speaks about fractions federalism and the future of Medicaid at Weill Hall on Monday.
Rute sprof,, talks Medica-id
Attributes bad ing his new book "Fractious provided health care have entitlement to you," Thompson
Federalism and the Future of transitioned from a federal said.
reputation to Medicaid," in which he evalu- responsibility to a state-provid- Thompson commended
ates how the Clinton, Bush and ed service. Thompson attrib- Medicaid on its improvement
government distrust Obama administrations have uted this transfer to the use of of services, including the trans-
affected Medicaid, federalism waivers beginning in the 1990s, fer of care to home and com-
By ROBERT ARENELLA and health care reform. which created and tested new munity programs rather than
For theDaily . The federal grant program methods of providing care to institutions.
insures more than 65 million citizens with Medicaid. Despite these obstacles,
Medicaid took a front seat in low-income citizens across the "The Clinton administration Medicaid has expansded
the contentious 2012 election country, while the government was a clear watershed moment between 1992 and 2013. The
as both sides debated the pros spends $400 billion of federal in this regard," Thompson said. Affordable Care Act of 2010,
and cons of the system, includ- and state funds every year. Thompson blamed growing also known as Obamacare, has
ing its drain on federal spend- Thompson said most of the distrust in government and opened up health care to 30
ing money. money is dedicated to intensive its redistributive programs - million Americans. Accord-
Monday in Weill Hall, Frank health programs. originating in the 1960s - as ing to Thompson, 15 million
J. Thompson, professor of pub- "A lot of it - a majority of it the source of much of the pes- are slated to gain benefits from
lic affairs and administration - is going to long term care," simisan surrounding Medicaid. Medicaid.
at Rutgers University, defended Thompson said. "(The public opinion has Thompson said the contro-
the federal health aid system. In recent years, Medic- led to) a steady erosion in this versial nature of the Affordable
Thompson was promot- aid and other government- sense that Medicaid is a legal See MEDICAID, Page 5

University is the
largest recipient
of federal research
funds in the nation
By AARON GUGGENHEIM
Daily StaffReporter
Stephen Forrest, the Univer-
sity's vice president for research,
spoke before the Senate Assem-
bly about maintaining competi-
tive research funding in the face
of declining federal funds on
Monday.
Forrest cautioned that the
looming federal sequestration,
which will ocdur March 1 if
deficit-reducing measures are
not passed, could affect Univer-
sity efforts to maintain an annual
$1.27 billion research budget.
Although sequestration could
bring a 5-percent cut across the
board to federal research fund-
ing, Forrest said any impact on
the University budget would not
be apparent until early April.
The University has been
planning for the congressio-
nal sequestration measure
because it could affect the fed-
eral resources - such as grants

from the National Institute of
Health - that many University
faculty members use to conduct
research.
During an Oct. 8 interview
with The Michigan Daily, Uni-
versity President Mary Sue Cole-
man expressed similar concern
during the fiscal-cliff negotia-
tions, stressing how crucial the
funding is to basic research.
"The value, of the federal gov-
ernment is that the federal gov-
ernment funds the basic research
that is the beginning of all the
others," Coleman said.
Forrest said University
research was important in help-
ing drive the innovation that is
crucial to a growing economy,
implying that a decrease in
research funding could undercut
continued economic growth.
"No natter what happens with
sequestration, we have been in a
period of flat or declining fund-
ing for research," Forrest said. "It
is goingto be a rough few years."
Despite a nearly 15 percent
decline in federal funding for
research over the last decade,
the University has increased
its research expenditures from
roughly $800 million in 2007 to
the current level of $1.27 billion.
See FORREST, Page 5


SENATE ASSEMBLY
Faculty draft
statement on
lack of diversity

Decreasing
minority numbers
worry assembly
By AARON GUGGENHEIM
Daily StaffReporter
In response to concerns raised
by an article in The Atlantic that
called attention to declining
diversity at the University com-
pared to peer institutions, the
University's Senate Assembly -
the largest faculty governance
body on campus - discussed a
drafted statement that called for
increased attention to the issue.
The statement, drafted by the
Senate Advisory Committee on
University Values, said the lack
of diversity was "already having
a deleterious effect on the edu-
cational experience" at the Uni-
versity.
"(We) fear that if trends con-
tinue, the University will suffer
greatly in its ability to attract
persons of diverse backgrounds,"
the statement read. "We there-
fore urge the University admin-
istration ... to embark on a
comprehensive and public pro-
gram to increase (diversity)."
African American enrollment
at the University has dropped
precipitously in recent years,
falling from 8.5 percent in 2002
to 4.4 percent in 2011 according
to estimates from the National

Center for Education Statistics.
Hispanic enrollment has also
declined from 5.9 percentin 2002
to 4.3 percent in 2010. Part of the
decline can be attributed to the
passage of Proposal 2 in 2006,
which outlawed the use of race
consideration in the admissions
process for public higher educa-
tion institutions in the state of
Michigan. The ban was declared
unconstitutional but faces fur-
ther scrutiny.
Despite its application to
public higher-education institu-
tions statewide, other Michigan
institutions have maintained or
increased their enrollment of
minorities over the past decade.
The University has attempted
to blunt the effects of the ban
through outreach to minority
groups, strengthening a central
diversity office on campus and
the independent initiatives of
several colleges.
Associate Prof. John Carson
briefly spoke on the subject and
addressed questions from fellow
Senate Assembly members.
"The University hasn't been
performing as well as we would
like," Carson said. "(It would be
best, to) see the implementation
of a program ... (that his) a whole
set of ways that Michigan can
move forward."
In response to Senate Assem-
bly members who spoke about
their appreciation of the Univer-
See DIVERSITY, Page5

NATASHA JANARDAN/Daily
A panel including Public Health Prof. Ed Goldman and Debbie Dingell, wife of Congressman John Dingell, inform
students on the importance of reproductive justice in Weill Hall on Monday.
Groups host discussion on
Mich. abortinrestrictions

ADMINISTRATION
Regents
to approve
West Quad
redesign
$114.5-million
renovations include
elimination of
dining hall
By PAIGE PEARCY
Deputy Magazine Editor
At the University Board of
Regents meeting Thursday, the
board will seek approval for pro-
posed renovations to West Quad
that will amount to $114.5 mil-
lion.
The proposed improvements
include updating the plumbing
and heating systems, replacing
the roofs and removing the din-
inghall in favor of"much-needed
spaces for student interaction,
creation of community and liv-
ing and learning activities,"
Timothy P. Slottow, the Univer-
sity's executive vice president
and chief financial officer, and E.
Royster Harper, the University's
vice president for student affairs,
wrote in a communication to the
regents.
The funding for the project
will come from the University
Housing budget, which is a por-
tion of the remodeling and reno-
vation auxiliary fund and valued
at about $121:4 million last year.
Built in 1937, West Quad hous-
es about 1,100 students. After the
construction, residents will dine
See REDESIGN, Page S

Experts sound off
on recent state
legislation
By DANIELLE
RAYKHINSHTEYN
Daily StaffReporter
On Monday night, the Uni-
versity's chapter of the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union and
Students for Choice hosted a
panel on reproductive rights
called "Can't Say It? Don't Leg-
islate It - Issues in Reproduc-
tive Justice."
The groups' efforts first
took root after the state legis-
lature's lame-duck session in
December passed a law that

placed many more regulations
on abortion clinics.
The name of the event paid
homage to an incident in June
in which Democratic state
Representatives Lisa Brown
and Barb Byrum were banned
from speaking on the House
floor after both saying "vagi-
na" in their protests against
the legislation.
The panel included Debbie
Dingell, Democratic National
Committee member and wife
of Congressman John Dingell;
Ed Goldman, adjunct assis-
tant professor in the Depart-
ment of Health Management
and Policy; and Liz Ratzloff, a
representative from Planned
Parenthood Associates of
Michigan.

The discussion focused
on abortion legislation and
affordable health-care access.
Dingell said her interest in
reproductive rights stems from
her endometriosis, a disease in
which the uterine lining backs
up into the fallopian tubes,
which often causes infertil-
ity. She said, at the time of her
diagnosis, no doctors could
give her any answers about
her infertility due to a lack of
research funding.
"Am I going to have prob-
lems later in life?" Dingell
said. 'No one can answer the
question because, they don't
spend the money on research
for women's health. And that
should bother everybody."
See ABORTION, Page 5


WEATHER c Hi 23
TOMORROW LO:17

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ONI HI AN AIY Y.CM
The Working Ethic: College ethics 101
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS .........................2A SUDOKU.....................3A
Vol. CXXIII, No.55 0PINION ...................4A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
2013 TheMichiganDaily' SPORTS....................7A B-SIDE....................1B
michigaiidoily.com


2 - Tuesday, February 19, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

mtie ffidiigan 0aUly
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief easiness Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com rmgrein@michigandaily.com

TIME TO DUEL

Economics is a hig game

Tilman Bdrgers is an econom-
ics professor who focuses on game
theory and microeconomics. He is
originallyfrom Germany and con-
sults on utilities license auctions.
What do you teach?
This semester, I am teaching
Econ 401: Intermediate Micro-
economics, as well as gradu-
ate courses Econ 603: General
Equilibrium Theory; Econ 617:
Game Theory; Econ 619/620:.
Advanced Theory. This year I
teach an incredible number of
courses.
What inspired you to go
into the field of economics?

When I left high school I
went to a career adviser, and I
explained to the CA that I liked
math and I liked politics. The
adviser said that's the ideal
combination for economics. He
himself had gotten an under-
graduate economics degree and
explained to me that he hated
it. However, I was just the right
person for that combination.
What led you to conduct
research on voting systems
and voting rules?
My main research field is
game theory. Voting involves
strategic behavior, and you have
to think about where your vote

is useful. So it is an application
of game theory. There is an area
of game theory that studies how
to design the rules of the games
so that good outcomes occur, and
I'm tryingto apply that to voting.
I do that partially because in the
theory of voting there are a lot
of negative impossibility results,
which say voting systems should
have 'this feature and this fea-
ture' and so I am more interested
in using game theory to discover
what is possible, the area of fea-
sible games. There is another
reason: My brother has written
a book on voting, and I want to
compete with him.
- BENATLAS

. Newsroom
734-418-415 opt.3
Corrections
orrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sorts@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com
Online Sales .
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.comn
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

0

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
LSA juniors Zach Rickerman and Guy Lin duel at the
Yu-Gi-Oh! meeting in Mason Hall Monday.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

CRIME NOTES

Who are you? There's an app Islam and

WHERE: Angell Hall
WHEN: Sunday at about
3:05 p.m.
WHAT: A visitor to the
University was arrested for
larceny of a laptop, Univer-
sity Police reported. The
man was 31 years old and
was taken to jail for the
crime, which occurred in
Mason Hall.

for tnat economics

WHERE: Shapiro Under-
graduate Library
WHEN: Sunday at about
4:20 p.m.
WHAT: An iPhone was
reported as stolen, Univer-
sity Police reported. It is
thought to have been stolen
on Saturday between 9 p.m.
and 12 a.m.

WHAT: Prof. Timur Kuran
will lead a discussion on how
Islamic institutions impacted
economic development.
WHO: Center for Middle
Eastern and North African
Studies
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building
Seeing Bolivia
WHAT: Southern District,
Bolivia's entry into the
Academy Awards' foreign
language film category, will
be screened. The movie
focuses on a family in Zona
Sur, the country's most
affluent and exclusive
neighborhood.
WHO: Department of
Romance Languages & Lit-
erature
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: North Quad Resi-
dence Hall

Covergiri.
WHAT: A reception will be
held for science professors
from the University whose
work has the cover of a pub-
lication.
WHO: Shapiro Science
Library
WHEN: Today from 4 p.m.
WHERE: Shapiro
Undergraduate Library,
Shien-Ming Wu Current
Periodicals Reading Room
Physicality
and success
WHAT: Prof. Jersey Lang
will lead a discussion about
how the physical perfor-
mance of elderly Chinese
people effects their socio-
economic status as individ-
uals and in the community.
WVO: University Center for
Chinese Studies
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: School of Social
Work Building

Danica Patrick became
the first woman ever to
win the pole position
at the Daytona 500, CNN
reported. She won with a
speed of 196.434 mph, and
will start her next race onthe
inside df the track, leading
the rest of the drivers.
Though the United
States Postal Service
may be past relevance,
columnist Jennifer Xu will
miss the Saturday mail.
> FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
Oxazepam, an anxiety
drug, has been found
to cause fish to become
less social and more physical-
ly active, The New York Times
reported. This is potentially
dangerous because traces of
the drug can be found in riv-
ers due to excretion.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matthew Slovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamRubenfireManagingNewsEditor arbne@miohigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Austen Hufford, Peter Shahin,
K.C. Wassman, TaylorWizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Moly Block, Jennifer Calfas, Aaron Guggenheim, Sam
GringlasDanielle Stoppelmann,Steve Zoski
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienre Roberts EdinorialPeEediors
S NIOR EDIOILAEEIOSe sn, Sarah Skaluba, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Sharik Bashir, Daniel Wang
Everett Cook and
Zach Heltand ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Stephen Nesbitt, Colleen
Thomas, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Daniel Feldman, Greg Garno, Rajat Khare, Liz Nagle,
JeremySummnitt,sAleandro isa
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArtsEditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: ElliotAlpern,BrianneJohnson, John Lynch, Annaadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS: Sean Czarnecki, CarlinaDuan, MaxRadin,Akshay Seth,
Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew,Todd Needle
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS:KatherinePekala,Paul Sherman,Adam Schnitzer
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick CruzManaging Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR:PaigePearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien Copy chiefs copydesk@michigandaity.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleman, Kelly McLauglin
BUSINESS STAFF
AshleyKaradsheh AssociateBusiness Manager
Sean lackson sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Quy Vo Circulation Manage
The Michigan Daily (IssN 0745-967) is published Mondaythrough Friday during theifall and
wnter terms by students at the University of Michigan. one copy is avalable free of charge
to al readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's officefor $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via U.S.mail are $110. Winter term (anuary through Aprilis
t115 yearlong(SeptemberthroughlApri)sist. Universityaffliatesaresubjecttoareduced
subscription rate.on-campus subscriptionsforfolItermare35.Subscriptionsmust beprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.


Ailing Chavez returns
to Venezuela from Cuba

TAKING POINTERS

Moved to military
hospital in Caracas
after surgury
Venezuela (AP) - President
Hugo Chavez returned to Ven-
ezuela early Monday after more
than two months of treatment in
Cuba following cancer surgery,
his government said, triggering
street celebrations by supporters
who welcomed him home while
he remained out of sight at Cara-
cas' military hospital.
Chavez's return was
announced in a series of three
messages on his Twitter account,
the first of them reading: "We've
arrived once again in our Ven-
ezuelan homeland. Thank you,
my God!! Thank you, beloved
nation!! We will continue our
treatment here."
They were the first messages
to appear on Chavez's Twitter
account since Nov. 1.
"I'm clinging to Christ and

trusting in my doctors and nurs-
es," another tweet on Chavez's
account said. "Onward toward
victory always!! We will live and
we will triumph!!"
Vice President Nicolas Madu-
ro said on television that Chavez
arrived at2:30 a.m. and was taken
to the Dr. Carlos Arvelo Military
Hospital in Caracas, where he
will continue his treatment.
Chavez's announced return
to Caracas came less than three
days after the government
released the first photos of the
president in more than two
months, showing him looking
bloated and smiling alongside
his daughters. 'The government
didn't release any additional
images of Chavez upon his arriv-
al in Caracas, and unanswered
questions remain about where
he stands in a difficult and pro-
longed struggle with an undis-
closed type of pelvic cancer.
Chavez was re-elected to a
new six-year term in October,
and his inauguration, originally

fl-I,,,

scheduled for Jan. 10, was indefi-
nitely postponed by lawmakers
in a decision that the Supreme
Court upheld despite complaints
by the opposition. Some specu-
lated that with Chavez back, he
could finally be sworn in.
Government officials didn't
address that possibility.
Information Minister Ernesto
Villegas broke into song on tele-
vision early Friday, exclaiming:
"He's back, he's back!"
"Bravo," Villegas said, before
state television employees joined
him in the studio clapping and
celebrating.
A giant inflated Chavez doll
was placed beside a corner of the
National Assembly building.
Villegas reiterated in an inter-
view with Venezuelan broad-
caster Union Radio that Chavez
is going through a "difficult,
hard and complex" recovery
process, and that his return
doesn't change the "difficult cir-
cumstances he has been in."
Villegas said that he hadn't
yet seen the president and that
the government will provide
updates about his condition
"whether they're good or they're
bad.".
The vice president later
announced that a Cabinet meet-
ing would be held Monday
evening at the military hospi-
tal where Chavez is staying to
"revise a number of issues," but
he did not provide any details.
Hundreds of Chavez sup-
porters celebrated his return in
downtown Caracas, chanting
his name and holding photos of
the president in Bolivar Plaza.
A man holding a megaphone
boomed: "Our commander has
returned!"
Fireworks exploded in some
parts of Caracas while the presi-
dent's followers celebrated.
Dozens of supporters gath-
ered outside the hospital, where
a sign atop the building is
adorned with a photo of Chavez.
Holding photos of Chavez and
wearing the red T-shirts of his
socialist movement, they chant-
ed: "He's back!" As cars passed,
drivers honked in support.

Plan previously
rejected by council,
moratorium if
decision passes
By FARONE E. RASHEED
Daily StaffReporter
After the Ann Arbor City
Council deferred, and subse-
quently rejected, plans presented
by the Ann Arbor City Planning
Commission to develop the resi-
dential project at 413 E. Huron St.
downtown, the City Council will
vote on a resolution Tuesday to
establish a moratorium on plans
at that site and others downtown.
If passed, new proposals for
the D1/D2 zoning area will be
suspended. This comes after a
Feb. 5-3 vote by the commission
failed to reach the necessary six
votes for approval.
City Council members have
stated concerns that granting Dl/
D2 zoning allowance for build-
ing expansion, particularly the
expansion of high-rise apart-
ment buildings, could negatively

impact adjacent residential neigh-
borhoods.
The Planning Commission has
postponed review of the area to
allow for further research on
development. Recent projects
that the commission has passed
include the newly completed
high-rise Zaragon West and The
Varsity, soon to be completed on
East Washington Street, located
at 215 N. Fifth Street.
The commission plans to eval-
uate any negative effects of these
new complexes and has opted to
potentially postpone proposals
altogether for the site, pending a
possible rezoning of the area.
Of the proposed bids in
jeopardy, the 413 T. Huron St.
Project - which has been repeat-
edly discussed - includes plans
for a 14-story, 271,855 square-foot
building. The proposal, which
includes 537 bedrooms and a
two-floor underground parking
facility, would provide additional
options for housing closer to cam-
pus.
Council will also vote on a
sustainability framework proj-
ect, which outlines 16 objectives

toward a more sustainable city.
The project, which began in Jan.
2011 with a full-funding grant
from the Home Depot Foun-
dation, will establish a broad
20-year plan of objectives and
strategies, including the reduc-
tion of greenhouse gas emissions,
the promotion of energy efficien-
cy and the building of sustainable
buildings designed with a more
environmentally conscious dis-
posal of carbon and construction
waste.
Along with the sustainability
framework, the City Council will
vote on a resolution authorizing
Property Assessed Clean Energy
bonds, postponed from an ear-
lier Feb. 4 meeting. The proposal,
which Ann Arbor Mayor John
Hieftje has openly expressed
his support for, is supported by I
$432,800 Energy Efficiency and
Conservation Block Grant from
the U.S. Department of Energy,
authorizing the chief financial
officer and the treasurer to dis-
tribute bonds of an allocation of
up to $1 millionwiththe objective
of increasing the use of clean
energy amonglocal businesses.

NATASHA JANARDAN/Daily
Director of the Patrick G. and Shirley W. Ryan Center at Lyric Opera of Chicago Gianna Rolandi critiques and advises
Music, Theatre & Dance junior Francesca Chieyna on her performance of "Va! laisse coulee mes Larnmes.
Ci0tyCouncil to vote
on residential .project

0
6
.0
0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 19, 2013 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 19, 2013 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Lawsuit pending on
domestic partner
benefits ban
People who lost domestic part-
ner benefits under a2011 Michigan
law say they're feeling the pinch
as they wait months for a judge to
decide whether the ban affecting
public school and local government
employees is unconstitutional.
A law passed by the Republi-
can-controlled Legislature and
signed by Gov. Rick Snyder ended
health insurance for people whose
domestic partners work for cer-
tain public employers.
"I feel like a second-class citi-
zen," said Gerardo Ascheri, 55,
of Lansing, who lost insurance
available through his partner's
employer. "At my age, I'm begin-
ning to think about retirement,
trying to save as much as I can.
This complicates it."
ATLANTA, Ga.
Coast guard look
into troubled cruise
A leak in a fuel oil return line
caused the engine-room fire that
disabled a Carnival cruise ship at
sea, leaving 4,200 people with-
out power or working toilets for
five days, a Coast Guard official
said Monday.
Cmdr. Teresa Hatfield
addressed the finding in a con-
ference call with reporters and
estimated that the investigation
of the disabled ship, the Carnival
Triumph, would take six months.
Hatfield said the Bahamas -
where the ship is registered, or
flagged - is leading the investi-
gation, with the Coast Guard and
National Transportation Safety
Board representing U.S. interests
in the probe. The vessel was in
international waters at the time of
the incident.
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti
U.S. attorney
general meets with
Caribbean leaders
U.S. Attorney General Eric
Holder discussed regional crime
with Caribbean leaders on Mon-
day during a summit in Haiti.
Holder talked with the lead-
ers of mostly English-speaking
Caribbean countries about crime
problems, efforts to curb weapons
and drugtraffickingand a need to
alert countries in the region about
imminent deportations at the con-
ference of the Caribbean Commu-
nity, known as Caricom, held at a
hotel in the Haitian capital.
Hundreds of thousands of
people from Haiti, Jamaica,
Mexico and other nations have
been deported to homelands they
barely know since the U.S. Con-
gress mandated in 1996 that every
non-citizen sentenced to a year or
more in prison be booted from the

countryupon release.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Ahn Young-joon/AP
South Korean army soldiers patrol along barbed-wire fences at the lmjingak Pavilion, near the demilitarized zone of
Panmunjom, in Paju, South Korea
FamilyofOscar Pistorius'
girlfriend wants answers.

Olympic athlete
says deadly shooting
was accident
JOHANNESBURG (AP) -
The family of Oscar Pistorius'
slain girlfriend wants answers,
her mother told a Johannesburg
newspaper, as South Africans
braced to hear why prosecutors
believe a national hero murdered
the model who was shot multiple
times.
June Steenkamp, Reeva
Steenkamp's mother, told The
Times in a front page interview
published Monday: "Why? Why
my little girl? Why did this hap-
pen? Why did he do this?"
"Just like that she is gone," the
newspaper quoted her as saying
in what it described as an emo-
tional telephone interview. "In
the blink of an eye and a single
breath, the most beautiful person
who ever lived is no longer here."

Pistorius, who remains in cus-
tody in a red-brick, one-story
police station in Pretoria, is set
to return to court Tuesday for
the start of his bail hearing. It
will be the first opportunity for
the prosecution to describe evi-
dence police gathered against
the 26-year-old double-amputee
runner and the reasons why he
was charged with murder. Pros-
ecutors allege the killing was
premeditated.
Pistorius' family denies he
committed murder though they
have not addressed whether
he shot her. When word first
emerged about the killing there
was speculation in the local
media that Steenkamp had been
mistaken for an intruder in Pis-
torius' home. Police have said
that was not something they
were considering.
In an email to The Associated
Press on Monday, Pistorius' long-
time track coach - who was yet
to comment - said he believes

the killing was an accident. .
"I pray that we can all, in time,
come through this challenging
situation following the accident
and I am looking forward to the
day I can get my boy back on the
track," Ampie Louw wrote in his
statement. "I am still in shock
following the heart-breaking
events that occurred last week
and my thoughts and prayers
are with both of the families
involved."
Pistorius' top sponsor, Nike,
said in a brief statement to the AP
on Monday that it "has no plans
for Oscar Pistorius in upcoming
campaigns." They declined to
give any further information.
While Pistorius goes to
court, Steenkamp's funeral
will also be held Tuesday in her
hometown of Port Elizabeth on
South Africa's southern coast,
her family said. It is to be a pri-
vate ceremony at a local crema-
torium, closed to the public and
media.

Boy's suspensions
renew debate over
zero tolerance
Sandy Hook has our school community feeling
unsafe or threatened would be
influenced a string irresponsible and negligent."
The boy's mother, Sheila
of suspensions Cruz-Cardosa, said school
officials are responding irra-
(AP) - Waiting in line for the tionally in the wake of Sandy
bus, a Pennsylvania kindergar- Hook. She said they should be
tener tells her pals she's going concentrating on "high school
to shoot them with a Hello kids or kids who are more of a
Kitty toy that makes soap bub- threat, not an innocent 5-year-
bles. In Maryland, a 6-year-old old who's playing with Legos."
boy pretends his fingers are a Though Newtown intro-
gun during a playground game duces a wrinkle to the debate,
of cops and robbers. In Mas- the slew of recent high-profile
sachusetts, a 5-year-old boy suspensions over perceived
attending an after-school pro- threats or weapons infractions
gram makes a gun out of Legos has renewed old questions
and points it at other students about the wisdom of "zero tol-
while "simulating the sound of erance" policies.
gunfire," as one school official Conceived as a way to
put it. improve school security and
Kids with active imagina- maintain consistent discipline
tions? Or potential threats to and order, zero tolerance was
school safety? enshrined by a 1994 federal law
Some school officials are that required states to mandate
taking the latter view, suspend- a minimum one-year expul-
ing or threatening to suspend sion of any student caught with
small children over behavior a firearm on school property.
their parents consider perfect- Over the years, many states and
ly normal and age-appropriate school districts expanded zero
- even now, with schools in a tolerance to include offenses
state of heightened sensitiv- as varied as fighting, skipping
ity followingthe mass shooting school or arguing with a teach-
at Sandy Hook Elementary in er.
December. Some experts say there's lit-
The extent to which the tle evidence that zero tolerance
Newtown, Conn., shooting - in which certain infractions
might influence educators' dis- compel automatic discipline,
ciplinary decisions is unclear. usually suspension or expul-
But parents contend admin- sion - makes schools safer,
istrators are projecting adult and contend the policies leads
fears onto children who know to increased rates of dropouts
little about the massacre of 20 and involvement with the juve-
first-graders and six educa- nile justice system. Supporters
tors, and who certainly pose no respond that zero tolerance is
threat to anyone. a useful and necessary tool for
"It's horrible what they're removing disruptive kids from
doing to these kids," said the classroom, and say any
Kelly Guarna, whose 5-year- problems stem from its misap-
old daughter, Madison, was plication.
suspended by Mount Carmel The original 1994 federal law,
Area School District in eastern and most state and local zero
Pennsylvan'ia last month for tolerance policies, give school
making a "terroristic threat" administrators the flexibility to
with the bubble gun. "They're tailor punishments to fit the cir-
treating themas mini-adults, cumstances, noted school safety
making them grow up too expert Kenneth Trump.
fast, and robbing them of their "Contrary to the myth of zero
imaginations." tolerance, most school board
Mary Czajkowski, superin- policies provide options and
tendent of Barnstable Public flexibility for administrators.
Schools in Hyannis, Mass., What you see is poor decision-
acknowledged that Sandy Hook making and poor implementa-
has teachers and parents on tion of the policies, rather than
edge. But she defended Hyan- the fact school administrators
nis West Elementary School's are handcuffed in terms of their
warning to a 5-year-old boy discretion," he said.
who chased his classmates with Trump said most school
a gun he'd made from plastic officials bend over backward
building blocks, saying the stu- to be fair. But he added there's
dent didn't listen to the teacher no question that Sandy Hook
when she told him repeatedly weighs heavily.
to stop. "It's a normal occurrence to
The school told his mother if have a heightened sensitivity
it happened again, he'd face a after a high-profile tragedy, but
two-week suspension. that does not negate the need for
"Given the heightened common sense," he said.
awareness and sensitivity, Maryland father Stephen
we must do all that we can to Grafton said common sense was
ensure that all students and in short supply in a case involv-
adults both remain safe and ing his 6-year-old son, who he

feel safe in schools," Czajkows- said was suspended from White
ki said in a statement. "To dis- Marsh Elementary School in
miss or overlook an incident Trappe for using his hand as a
that results in any member of "gun" duringrecess.

Singer Mindy McCready
dies in apparent suicide

lea
HE
(AP)
heart
McCr
Th
appar
Sund
Sprin
McCr
self-i
head
She w
youn
Mt
suici(
since
cope
ous p
'much
Sp
Press
wryly

Country star string bf issues she'd dealt with
over the last half-decade.
[ves behind two "It is a giant whirlwind of
chaos all the time," she said of
young Sons her life. "I call my life a beauti-
ful mess and organized chaos.
tRBER SPRINGS, Ark. It's just always been like that.
- Perhaps there was one My entire life things have been
:break too many for Mindy attracted to me and vice versa
ready. that turn into chaotic night-
e former country star mares or I create the chaos
rently took her own life on myself. I think that's really the
ay at her home in Heber life of a celebrity, of a big, huge,
gs, Ark. Authorities say giant personality".
ready died of a suspected This time it seems the whirl-
nflicted gunshot to the wind overwhelmed McCready.
and an autopsy is planned. Her death comes a month
was 37, and left behind two after that of David Wilson, her
g sons. longtime . boyfriend and the
cCready had attempted father of her youngest son. He
de at least three times is believed to have shot himself
2005, as she struggled to on the same porch of the home
amid a series of tumultu- they shared in Heber Springs,
tublic events that marked a small vacation community
of her adult life. about 65 miles north of Little
eaking to The Associated Rock. His death also was inves-
in 2010, McCready smiled tigated as a suicide.
y while talking about the It was the most difficult

moment in a life full of them.
McCready issued a state-
ment last month lamenting his
death. And she called him her
soul mate and a caregiver to
her sons in an interview with
NBC's "Today" show.
"I just keep telling myself
that the more suffering that I go
through, the greater character
I'll have," she said, according to
a transcript of the interview.
Melinda Gayle McCready
arrived in Nashville in 1994,
still in her teens with tapes of
her karaoke vocals and earned
a recording contract with BNA
Records. She had a few memo-
rable moments professionally,
scoring her first No. 1hit almost
immediately.
"Guys Do It All the Time," a
self-assured dig at male chau-
vinism, endeared her to female
fans in 1996. She also scored
a hit with "Ten Thousand
Angels," and her album of that
title sold 2 million copies.


4 - Tuesday, February 19, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, February 19, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

C I
4e fitichipan+aily

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, Mt 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

You can do anything you want to do and
gender doesn't matter. Your passion is
what matters. And that's cool.:
- NASCAR driver Danica Patrick said to CNN's Don Lemon on Sunday. Patrick is the first female racer to
win the pole position at the Daytona 500.
Mailing it in

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
A higher purpose
Mich. Supreme Court's rigid ruling will hurt patients in need
n Feb. 8, Michigan's Supreme Court ruled that medical mar-
ijuana patients in the state cannot transfer marijuana from
patient to patient. The decision was based on an ambigu-
ity in the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act regarding how patients
acquire marijuana, and will likely result in the closing of medical
marijuana dispensaries across the state. While consistent with the
letter of the law, this ruling is an impediment to the legitimate needs
of medical marijuana patients and will likely result in wasted police
time spent closing marijuana dispensaries. Michigan's legislature
should pursue a proposal that would ensure medical marijuana
patients' ability to get their medication easily and economically.

While the ruling's effects on Michigan's
medical marijuana industry are not immedi-
ately clear, they aren't likely to be beneficial.
The Supreme Court case involved a marijuana
dispensary in Mt. Pleasant, which local offi-
cials will now shut down. Though the stated
reason behind the ruling was that the facility
violated health code, a broader implication
of this decision is that State Attorney Gen-
eral Bill Schuette has told county prosecutors
across the state that they now have author-
ity to close all marijuana dispensaries on the
grounds that they're a public nuisance. With-
out these dispensaries, the MMMA states
that patients will either have to grow their
own marijuana or rely on an approved care-
giver to procure it for them. Caregivers, who
serve a third of Michigan's 126,000 medical
marijuana users, are allowed to supply only
up to five patients with marijuana.
This decision, as the lone dissenting
Supreme Court justice asserted, goes against
the MMMA's intention of providing relief to
those who are ill. In effect, it contradicts the
will of the 63 percent of voters who passed
the MMMA in 2008. Enforcing the Supreme

Court's decision by shuttering the state's dis-
pensaries would require a considerable expen-
diture of local police time and resources, both
of which continue to be scarce in a time of tight
government spending and a tepid economy. The
state's net revenue from medical marijuana
sales, which was $6.3 million last year, could
also be endangered asa result of the decision.
Fortunately Republican state Rep. Mike
Callton introduced a bill co-sponsored by
Rep. Jeff Irwin, a democrat representing
Ann Arbor, that would make dispensaries
legal under Michigan law. Such a bill would
be a boon to the financial situations of local
and state level government, establishing the
legality of dispensaries and a clear set of rules
and regulations for their operation. More
importantly, it would ensure that medical
marijuana patients are able to get their medi-
cation promptly and cheaply.
Michigan's legislature should give their full
attention to this piece of legislation, consider-
ing how dispensaries operate currently and
then acting to ensure that no dispensary oper-
ating in compliance with the law will fear hav-
ing police shut their doors.

Come Aug. 1, the United
States Postal Service will
no longer be engaging in
Saturday mail
delivery. The _
post office will
still be open for
the purchase
of stamps and
shipments, and
packages will
still hurtle their
way across state JENNIFER
borders, but XU
letters - those-
slim, stiff folds
of paper - will no longer be part of
the weekend delivery flow.
The fact that the U.S. Postal Ser-
vice has been steadily going bank-
rupt is not news: For every day it
has remained open in 2012, the post
office lost a cool $36 million. Multi-
ply that a couple hundred times and
you get an annual $15.9 billion defi-
cit. Not much of a surprise that an
institution with such massive fiscal
failures would want to shut down a
couple days out of the year. No, the
real surprise was how upset I got
over the announcement.
I've only recently started appre-
ciating the benefits of living a few
steps away from the post office.
Years of accumulating on-sale
clothing that doesn't fit me has cul-
minated in my creation of an eBay
seller's account; I've now become
increasingly well-versed in all
things bubble wrap, Paypal subsidi-
zation and the weight limits of First
Class Mail.
I'm hesitant to bemoan the loss of
letter-based contact because paper
messages, in my eyes, are kind of
overrated. I mean, so what if war
wives no longer write tearstained
love letters to their sweethearts,

opting instead to jot down their
best wishes in a concisely com-
posed e-mail or sepia-toned Insta-
gram pic? We don't cry that we no
longer use the telegram to convey
our Morse code-encrypted emer-
gencies, soI don't see why the death
of a letter should result in any kind
of call to arms.
The post office has always sym-
bolized a'tangential mode of com-
munication anyway - whether
it's a text, e-mail, chat message or
letter, they're all a way of saying
flirty nothings to someone without
actually speaking to them. While
not necessarily a bad thing, such is
the truth of the letter. Even when
we stand in line on Christmas Eve,
silently clutching the care packages
we've carefully assembled for our
loved ones, speaking is pretty much
taboo. We can exchange know-
ing glances about the length of the
wait or incompetency of the postal
workers, but rarely is the compan-
ionable silence broken with some-
one asking you: Oh, hey, what's in
that duct-taped box you have there?
But the post office is, in a large
sense, a community. The first time I
filed mytaxes, I did it with the help of
the good old USPS. Neither rain, nor
snow, nor sleet, nor hail could have
prepared me for the gala of smiles,
coffee and powdered donuts that pre-
ceded my envelope's fortuitous drop
into the mailbox. Huddled amongst
the other last-minute taxpayers, I felt
like we were really connecting.
And I think what really upset me
about the announcement was what
the change symbolized; that this
bizarre little community of second-
ary communication was steadily
downsizing, one day at a time. That
basically, the communiques we
used to seal so lovingly have dis-

solved into digital bytes.
Detractors say that the post office
is an obsolete institution. Such
remarks pain me, because USPS is
trying- reallytrying- to take steps
into the 21st century. Mail is less
frequently lost and delivery is fast-
er and more precise. And the new
touch-screen machines are heav-
en-sent; I don't have to wait in line
in order to buy stamps or weigh a
package anymore. It's in and out ina
matter of minutes: touch, pay, print,
stick and drop in the box - done.
Despite USPS's
plucky attempts to
adapt and evolve, it's
still failing.
So that's why the loss of Saturday
delivery, to me, is a big deal. Because
the postal service isn't some fud-
dy-duddy. institution with its head
buried inthesand; it's makingadjust-
ments, daily, in response to our digi-
addled universe. That's what makes
the final outcome so depressing: that
despite USPS's plucky attempts to
adapt and evolve to the new world,
it's still failing - miserably.
I'm certainly not saying we're
entitled to Saturday mail delivery
if the government has to lose more
than $30 million a day to keep these
institutions open, but it's distress-
ing to know that one-sixth of the
days I can receive mail has been
forevermore curtailed. R.I.P., my
Saturday pre-approved credit cards.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan, Eli Cahan, Jesse Klein,
Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet, Aarica Marsh,
Megan McDonald, Jasmine McNenny Harsha Nahata, Adrienne Roberts,
Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba,Michael Spaeth, Luchen Wang, Derek Wolfe
ERIC FERGUSON
Death drone

Jennifer Xu can be reached
at jennifxu@umich.edu.

6

INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES? POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every Monday and Thursday
at 6pm, the Daily's opinion staff meets to discuss both University and national affairs
and write editorials. E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.
JULIA MILTON -
(IUnIdef ined feminnism

a

Near the end of an episode of "Law and
Order: Special Victims Unit," a court rules
against the wishes of police and parents,
allowing 17-year-old Janey to live with her
lover Greg, 13 years her senior. After the
show's protagonist meets his new crime-fight-
ing partner by informing her that she can't
arrest Greg for kissing Janey, who appears a
lot younger than she is due to Turner's syn-
drome, he offers up a cynical greeting: "Wel-
come to the world of grey."
"50 Shades" jokes and the context of a
show about victims of sexual violence not-
withstanding, this phrase lodged itself into
my head two years ago and I haven't yet been
able to get it out. For those of you who are
unfortunate enough to have never watched
this episode of SVU, Stabler's line rejects the
notion that the courts and the law can always
divide the world into things that are "right"
and things that are "wrong." It asserts what
should be fairly obvious to those interested in
American politics, particularly small-govern-
ment advocates: laws, policies and court deci-
sions inevitably conflict at times with group or
individual concepts of morality, despite gov-
ernment's best intentions.
There's no shortage of examples of policies
fitting this description: Consider the contra-
ceptive provision in the Affordable Care Act,
or the practice of reducing the charges filed
against suspects who testify against those
accused of more heinous crimes. Though some
oppose it based on their religious beliefs, the
ACA provision provides-needed coverage to
women in need, and incentivizing criminals to
squeal on other criminals can be an essential
component of a successful conviction. Given
recent media coverage of a memo outlining
President Barack Obama's administration's
legal rationale behind its drone assassinations
of terrorists abroad who are also U.S. citizens,
some might think that the use of drones in the
global "war on terror" is one of these "grey"
issues - one that leaves a bad taste in the
mouth, but that is nonetheless lawful and nec-
essary. Those people would be wrong.
Proponents of the drone program argue
that it has been effective in enhancing national
security. CIA director nominee John Bren-
nan, whose position as chief counterterrorism

adviser to the president made him a central
figure in the drone program, also claimed in
2011 that it was achieving its goals "(without)
a single collateral death." But this rosy claim,
along with the program's supposed effective-
ness in increasing security, doesn't hold up to
scrutiny. The Bureau of Investigative Jour-
nalism has reported that the drone program
has killed thousands of civilians in at least
three different countries since its inception
in 2001. The number of civilian (and militant)
deaths is especially hard to measure because
of the administration's policy of counting all
"military-aged" males in a strike zone as mili-
tants, and there is evidence that the civilian
deaths caused by drone strikes have become a
major recruiting tool for Al Qaeda. Finally, the
program's targeting of U.S. citizens and the
administration's repeated denial of requests for
information about the program from members
of Congress raise deep concern and questions
about the program's constitutionality and the
abuse of presidential power.
The way the program has been conducted
shows that the administration has treated
the law and judicial oversight as inevitable
roadkill on the path to a terror-free world. In
spite of this, some may still find it tempting to
dismiss the drone war as just a controversial
policy that is nonetheless necessary to main-
tain the safety of the United States - that poor
oversight and civilian deaths are inevitable in
this world of grey. Obama himself seems to
agree with that assertion. But taking a closer
look at the program shows that this world's
moral landscape isn't just a washed-out mess:
When some issues are brought into focus and
adjusted for contrast, they're revealed to be
fundamentally wrong. No matter how hard
the president, his likely CIA director and
others try to justify it, the drone program is
morally repugnant and doubtfully effective.
It cannot be allowed to persist. Without some
kind of outcry against the program from the
public, the courts and lawmakers, there's an
excellent chance that the continued use of
drones will end up hurting U.S. national secu-
rity in the long run and result in even more
innocent lives obliterated by drone strikes.
Eric Ferguson is an LSA sophornore.

A couple ofweeks ago I was riding
the Friday night Oxford Shuttle -
the S.S. Keg Stand as I fondly call it
- when a pack of dudes approached
me. I don't remember what started
the conversation, but they were
drunk and suggested without the
slightest hint of subtlety that I had
"the potential to be a solid seven"
if I "grew some boobs." I'm not
entirely sure what this says about
my upbringing, but my gut reac-
tion to those kinds of comments is
generally to respond by singing the
"Spider Pig" song, except the ver-
sion where I replace all the words
with "hop off my nuts". In this par-
ticular instance, I also asked him if
he had any breast-growing tips for
me, as I so admired his full and lus-
cious manboobs - sorry, I'm not an
expert at the art of witty banter.
As I later recounted this story to
a friend, primarily with the intent
of brainstorming better future
comebacks, he casually mentioned
that he was glad that I don't "act
like a feminist" in situations like
that. I found this off-handed com-
ment unexpectedly troubling and
confusing. First of all, what exact-
ly does "acting like a feminist"
entail? Running around the streets
unshaven, burning bras and writ-
ing vagina monologues? Demand-
ing the sacrifice of first-born sons
to Wiccan goddesses via a. chain
of furious comments on Jezebel? I
mean, obviously. That's all implied.
But I began to wonder about
what draws the line between a
successful, powerful .woman and
a feminist in the eyes of society or
whether they are the same. I also
wondered whether that idea went

the other way. Does one;
cally get inducted into
circle of feminist role mo
they've achieved some cot
of being both pro-gend
ity and successful, or is
sary to explicitly state tf
a feminist? Technically sy
know the answer. I knom
tory of the feminist move
book definitions of "femin
I know where society's
often gets it wrong (Hint
zis, everything I justn
above). However, I still ha
questions about what pop
ion has decreed as falli
the spectrum of current
and, frankly, whether o
peers and I should even ct
The second reason m
comment caught me off g
that it was true. I've neverc
being a feminist as one of
ing characteristics and I
Professionally, I am a strai;
getting a degree in a male-
field. My intent in pursuit
isn't the outright promotio
.nism as a self-containede
intent is to be unequivocal
what I do. Socially, nearly
of my best friends and I c
ably be described in somec
"total bro" - and by that tf
we like playing Mario Kart
ing pizza and drinking che
participate in the occasio
tification of women and
- "Dude, but seriously, M
is hotter than humans
allowed to be." And while
on social justice issues f
exactly in line with what3
expect from someone to:

automati- the importance of gender equality, I
the close don't think I've ever really contem-
'dels once plated whether I want to be thought
mbination of as a feminist or not. I don't think
er equal- any of my actions thus far in life
it neces- would place me in the societal-per-
hat you're ceived spectrum of what a feminist
peaking, I is. Unless you count that one time I
w the his- got my skinny, pale, "almost a solid
'ment, the seven" ass kicked out of a Victoria's
ism," and Secret for prancing around.making
portrayal faces like the Krakeriwhile yelling "I
: Femina- am the newest Angel!" - though I'm
nentioned not sure that really counts as scath-
:ve a lot of ing social commentary.
ular opin- I think what I was unnerved about
ng within was the answer to what; if anything,
feminism our generation considers to be inher-
r not my ently feminist. Is it the Lena Dun-
are. ham's of the world, boldly declaring
y friend's on cable television that women who
guard was don't have meant-for-cable-television
onsidered bodies can be - and are - romanti-
my defin- cally pursued by men with demigod-
still don't. like bodies and degrees in medicine?
ght female Is it the gay, straight and transgender
dominated activists who devote their lives to
ng success pursuing equality through politics?
in of femi- Is it me and my fellow women in engi-
entity. My neering who switch between steel-
ly good at toed boots and high heels, between
every one poetry and off-color jokes, without
ould prob- givingthe slightestthought togender
circles asa roles or if we should be taken seri-
hat I mean ously? We already know the answer
while eat- and don't particularly care what
eap beer. I other people think in that regard.
nal objec- We believe strongly in social equal-
men alike ity but shy away from being labeled
lila Kunis "feminist." Some people might call
should be that empowerment; some might call
my views itignorance; I want toknowifanyone
all almost calls it feminism.

you would
uching on

Julia Milton is an Engineering senior.

14


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 19, 2013 - 5


FORREST
From Page 1
Forrest said the 2009 federal
stimulus package and an increase
in University expenditures of its
own funds have made this growth
in research funding possible, a
process funded in part by tuition
rate increases.
"This is the place that has the
infrastructure," he said. "That is
why we remain extremely com-
petitive."
He added that a key strength
of the University research com-
munity is its ability to develop
research projects that utilize
the resources of many depart-
ments at the University. Forrest
said these major interdisciplin-
ary research projects, including
a $152-million project partner-
ing with NASA to improve its
satellite system and a venture on
transforming mobility through
re-examining our transportation
system, were key to the Univer-
sity's future in research.
"We see this (innovation) as a
nucleus of the next Silicon Val-
ley," Forrest said.
In an interview on Friday,
University Provost Phil Hanlon
echoed Forrest, saying that cuts
in research funding would affect
each portion of the university dif-
MEDICAID
From Page 1
Care of Act has had a polar-
izing effect on partisanship.
Despite Republican opposition,
six Republican governors have
accepted the Medicaid expan-
sion. He attributed this coop-
eration to Latino populations in
DIVERSITY
From Page 1
sity's proactive measures, Car-
son added that it could always
do more.
"We would be foolish not
to (do more to) confront this
problem, but we would be also
foolish not to applaud current
University efforts," Carson
said.
Many Senate Assembly mem-
bers also raised concerns that
the University is not muster-
ing all available resources to
increase diversity.
This concern was echoed by
University Provost Philip Han-
lon in a Jan. 28 Senate Assembly

ferently.
"There are certainly areas of
the University where sponsored
research funding is a larger piece
of the operating budget," Hanlon
said. "You might say that they're
the ones that are most at risk, but
they're also the ones that ben-
efited the most when the (various
research) budgets doubled."
He added that despite the prob-
able decline in overall funding,
the University would make its
case to federal officials that the
University deserved more of the
funding for basic research.
"We certainly will work as
hard as we possibly can to make
the case for U of M research to be
an ever-growing part of the fed-
eral pie, so that's one way that we
can react to the shrinking federal
budget is to improve our percent-
age of funding that comes our
way," Hanlon said.
One way the University has
tried to offset declines in federal
funding are partnerships with
private industry. While these
partnerships have provided
crucial funding for some com-
mercially-viable projects, they
are also more targeted and less
focused on basic research. .
"It's a small part (but) I think
it's a very important part because
industry collaborations can often
bring interesting things to the

table that you don't get through
federal research funding," Han-
lon said. "I think for example
(private industry partnerships
provide) internships and oppor-
tunities for students to work in an
actual industry environment and
be recognized for potential future
jobs."
Engineering Prof. Rachel Gold-
man said with the delicate federal
funding situation, the College
of Engineering was being more
conservative in its fall-semester
admission process for graduate
students.
Goldman added that a decrease
in federal funding would affect
her own research lab - in which
he employs 10 graduate students
in addition to other staff - at the
University.
"(It's) not insignificant, but it
wouldn't shut down my research
program," Goldman said.
Dentistry Prof. Graham Hol-
land said he was happy with the
manner in which the University
was addressing the decline in fed-
eral fuhding considering all of the
recent economic difficulties.
"I would have great confidence
in the University," Holland said.
"It has done very well in very dif-
ficult circumstances."
-Daily Staff Reporter Jennifer
Calfas contributed to this report.

REDESIGN
From Page 1
in South Quad Residence Hall.
This is the third residence hall
to be approved for improvement
as a part of the Residential Life
Initiative, which works to update
facilities and programs on cam-
pus associated with living in the
University's residential commu-
nities.
With the board's approval,
Integrated Design Solutions
LLC will design the project and
present the schematic design for
approval once complete.
BOARD TO APPROVE
SOUTH QUAD SCHEMATIC
PLAN
The board is also set to con-
sider the schematic design for
the upcoming South Quad reno-
vations created by the Smith-
GroupJJR, as requested by
Slottow and Harper.
At the Sept. 2012 meeting, the
board approved the project and
the appointment of the archi-
tecture firm. At an estimated
cost of $60 million - funded by
housing resources - the proj-
ect will renovate approximately
106,700 square feet of space on
the ground floor and first floor of
the residence hall.
The renovation will expand
student dining facilities, update
bathrooms throughout the
building and create new spaces
- including group study spac-
es, music practice rooms and
refurbished lounges - to "revi-
talize the residence hall and
create much-needed spaces for
student interaction and commu-
nity development," Slottow and
Harper wrote in a communica-

tion with the regents.
New infrastructure, plumb-
ing, heating and fire detection
systems will also be added to the
renovated areas.
The process is expected to
create 131 on-site construction
jobs and is expected to be com-
plete in the summer of 2014.
REGENTS TO VOTE ON
MUSEUM COLLECTIONS
TRANSFER TO VARSITY
DRIVE BUILDING
Pending approval at Thurs-
day's meeting, planning will
begin to transfer dry museum
research collections from several
buildings on Central Campus
to the off-campus Varsity Drive
building, which will undergo
extensive renovations.
In addition to the transfer of
dry collections, the project will
also relocate related lab spaces
and select offices of the anthro-
pology,.paleontology and zool-
ogy departments to the new
space as well. These resources
are currently located in the
Ruthven Museums Building, the
Campus Safety Services Build-
ing and the C.C. Little Science
Building.
The Varsity Drive building,
which is currently a warehouse,
is located off of East Ellsworth
Road between State Street and
Stone School Road. It borders
Interstate 94.
The resulting changes are
expected to make administra-
tion of the collections more effi-
cient by locating them with the
wet specimen collections already
stored in the Varsity Drive build-
ing. The move will also create
40 new Central Campus parking
spaces.
The project will renovate

71,000 square feet of the Varsity
Drive building for an estimated
cost of $27.5 million, funded by
LSA. The improvements will
include temperature and humid-
ity controls to protect the collec-
tions, as well as architectural,
mechanical and electrical work
to repurpose the space.
If approved, architectural
firm SmithGroupJJR will be
contracted for the project and
will create 63 on-site construc-
tion jobs.
In the recommendation, Slot-
tow wrote that design will begin
immediately and the construc-
tion schedule will be released
when he seeks approval of the
schematic design at a future
meeting.
SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
RENOVATIONS TO BE
VOTED ON
The regents will also seek
approval of the schematic design
proposed for renovations made
to the basement and first floor of
the College of Pharmacy build-
ing. The construction, scheduled
to be completed by this fall, will
cost about $2.6 million and fund-
ing will come from the school's
budget.
The 12,000 square-foot proj-
ect, which was approved at the
Nov. 2012 meeting, aims to create
smaller offices and build a small
lobby entrance with the extra
space. The project is also slated
to improve the main entrance,
"to address accessibility issues
and provide for a more welcom-
ing entry," Slottow wrote.
-Daily Staff Reporters
Jennifer Calfas and Sam Gringlas
contributed to this report.


southwestern states that rely on
the federal grant program for
assistance.
Michigan and Ohio have also
signed on despite both having
Republican majorities. Thomp-
son believes that the 10 most
populous states in the nation,
especially Georgia, Florida and
Texas, will dictate the success of
the program.
Students in attendance were
meeting, when he said the Uni-
versity has hired a marketing
director to correct the popular
perception that students from
lower-income families couldn't
afford to attend the University.
"We are not getting the mes-
sage across," Hanlon said.
Engineering Prof. Kimberlee
Kearfott, the chair of SACUA,
said there is a lot of work to do
regarding diversity initiatives
in the long term.
"It is not a matter of how
much money we are spending,
it is a matter of focusing on our
goals," Kearfott said. "There
is plenty of room for increased
communication."
E.J. Westlake, an associ-
ate professor in the School of

curious about the sustainability
of the program in the future.One
member of the audience asked
if shifting demographics, espe-
cially the population of aging
baby boomers and potential
inefficiencies made the program
worth continuing.
"(In) cutting it, there really
will be a price to pay," Thompson
responded.
Music, Theatre & Dance, said
her classes have been directly
affected by a lack of diversity
in her class on American dra-
mas. She said a lack of diversity
among students makes for a
narrower variety of viewpoints.
"We need to have students
who come from different socio-
economic backgrounds, differ-
ent racial backgrounds in order
for us to have a real discussion
about what is really going on in
this country," Westlake said.
Westlake added that any ini-
tiative to increase diversity has
to be spearheaded by the Uni-
versity's executive officers.
"The upper level of admin-
istration really need to be the
ones who drive this."

Jerry Buss, Lakers'
famed owner, dies at 80,


ABORTION
From Page 1
Dingell said she feels the leg-
islation passed in the lame-duck
session is moving backwards
from the progress made with
Roe v. Wade in 1973.
"No man has the right to tell
me what I am going to do with
my body," Dingell said. "What
you've seen in the legislature -
women not being allowed to say
words that men say all the time;
having men try to tell women
what they can do with their
bodies; what kind of access to
healthcare they are going to have
- is quite frankly unacceptable."
Ratzloff said there is even
more legislation in the works
that aims to limit women's repro-
ductive rights.
"(This legislation) made Mich-
igan, unfortunately, a national
embarrassment in terms of
health care and the way that we
view women," Ratzloff said.
Ratzloff said she hopes newly
elected legislators will send the
message that women's health-care
rights are an important issue. She
believes it is necessary for citizens

to speak up against these issues
and enact a change, but also that
the first-step in that change was
switching out legislators.
Goldman said a common mis-
conception surrounding abor-
tions is that the doctors who
perform them are bad people
who don't care about their
patients.
"What if I'm a physician
who has a conscience that says
I should do abortions?" Gold-
man said. "Why shouldn't I be
allowed to do that? Why should
conscience laws just say if there's
something you don't want to do,
you don't have to do it?"
Goldman recognized that
some people view unborn fetuses
as people, and, therefore, abor-
tions as harming another person.
To support his claim, Gold-
man told the story of a woman
who was willing to have a Cesar-
ean section and risk her life in
favor of her baby's if the doc-
tors waited until the fetus was
28 weeks old. The doctors per-
formed the surgery at 24 weeks,
and both baby and mother died,
he said.
"Ultimately, what the court of
appeals said is that we can't put
the rights of the unborn over the

rights of the already born," Gold-
man said.
Dingell said the most inipor-
tant aspect overall is that women
have access to health care for
anything they might need, such
as breast exams.
"In this country, every person
should have access to quality,
affordable healthcare," Dingell
said. i'I think it's a right."
LSA sophomore Jacob Light,
chair of the University's chap-
ter of the ACLU, said attention
to these issues is of particular
importance given the December
legislation and upcoming debates
over similar issues.
LSA sophomore Carly Manes,
president of Students for Choice,
said her goal is to educate stu-
dents on what is really going on in
the legislature and how it affects
them personally.
"Students don't realize the
implications of legislation that
goes on in Michigan," Manes said.
"It's seen as a very far away, far-
reaching concept, but it's not. A
lot of us are students who are still
on our parents' insurance plans,
but once we're not, we don't have
insurance covering our birth con-
trol - we don'thave insurance for
our abortions. That's an issue."

Had a background
in science, went on
to build basketball
team's empire
(AP) - Jerry Buss built a glit-
tering life at the intersection of
sports and Hollywood.
After growing up in poverty
in Wyoming, he earned suc-
cess in academia, aerospace and
real estate before discovering
his favorite vocation when he
bought the Los Angeles Lakers
in 1979. While Buss wrote the
checks and fostered partner-
ships with two generations of
basketball greats, the Lakers
won 10 NBA titles and became a
glamorous global brand.
With a scientist's analytical
skills, a playboy's flair, a busi-
nessman's money-making savvy
and a die-hard hoops fan's heart,
Buss fashioned the Lakers into a
remarkable sports entity. They
became a nightly happening,
often defined by just one word
coined by Buss: Showtime.
"His impact is felt worldwide,"
said Kobe Bryant, who has spent
nearly half his life working for
Buss.
Buss, who shepherded his
NBA team from the Showtime
dynasty of the 1980s to the cur-
rent Bryant era while becoming
one of the most important and
successful owners in pro sports,
died Monday. He was 80.
"Think about the impact that
he's had on the game and the
decisions he's made, and the
brand of basketball he brought
here with Showtime and the
impact that had on the sport as
a whole," Bryant said a few days
ago. "Those vibrations were felt
to a kid all the way in Italy who
was 6years old,before basketball
was even global."
Under Buss' leadership, the
star-studded, trophy-winning
Lakers became Southern Cali-
fornia's most beloved sports
franchise and a signature cul-
tural representation of Los
Angeles. Buss acquired, nur-
tured and befriended a stag-
gering array of talented players
and basketball minds during
his Hall of Fame tenure, from
Magic Johnson, Kareem Abdul-
Jabbar and James Worthy to
Bryant, Shaquille O'Neal and
Dwight Howard.
Few owners in sports his-
tory can approach Buss' accom-
plishments with the Lakers,

who made the NBA Finals 16
times during his nearly 34 years
in charge, winning 10 titles
between 1980 and 2010. What-
ever the Lakers did under Buss'
watch, they did it big - with
marquee players, eye-popping
style and a relentless pursuit of
success with little regard to its
financial cost.
"His incredible commitment
and desire to build a champi-
onship-caliber team that could
sustain success over a long peri-
od of time has beenunmatched,"
said Jerry West, Buss' long-
time general manager and now
a consultant with the Golden
State Warriors. "With all of his
achievements, Jerry was with-
out a doubt one of the mosthum-
ble men I've ever been around.
His vision was second to none;
he wanted an NBA franchise
brand that represented the very
best and went to every extreme
to accomplish his goals."
Buss died at Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center in Los Ange-
les, said Bob Steiner, his assis-
tant and longtime friend. Buss
had been hospitalized for most
of the past 18 months while
undergoing cancer treatment,
but the cause of death was kid-
ney failure, Steiner said.
"When someone as celebrat-
ed and charismatic as Jerry
Buss dies, we are reminded of
two things," said Abdul-Jab-
bar, the leading scorer in NBA
history. "First, just how much
one person with vision and
strength of will can accom-
plish. Second, how fragile
each of us is, regardless of how
powerful we were. Those two
things combine to inspire us to
reach for the stars, but also to
remain with our feet firmly on
the ground among our loved
ones. ... The man may be gone,
but he has made us all better
people for knowing him."
With his condition worsen-
ing in recent months, several
prominent former Lakers vis-
ited Buss to say goodbye. Even
rivals such as Dallas Mavericks
owner Mark Cuban and Clip-
pers owner Donald Sterling
hailed the passion and bonho-
mie of the former chemist and
mathematician who lived his
own Hollywood dream.
"He was a great man and an
incredible friend," Johnson
tweeted.
Buss always referred to the
Lakers as his extended family,
and his players rewarded his
fanlike excitement with devo-

tion, friendship and two hands
full of championship rings.
Working with front-office
executives West, Bill Sharman
and Mitch Kupehak, Buss spent
lavishly to win his titles despite
lacking a huge personal for-
tune, often running the NBA's
highest payroll while also pay-
ing high-profile coaches Pat
Riley and Phil Jackson.
"Jerry Buss was more than
just an owner. He was one of
the great innovators that any
sport has ever encountered,"
Riley said. "He was a true
visionary, and it was obvious
with the Lakers in the 80's that
'Showtime' was more than just
Magic Johnson and Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar. It was really the
vision of a man who saw some-
thing that connected with a
community."
Ownership of the Lakers is
now in a trust controlled by
Buss' six children, who all have
worked for the Lakers in vari-
ous capacities for several years.
With 1,786 victories, the Lakers
easily are the NBA's winningest
franchise since he bought the
club, which is now run largely
by Jim Buss and Jeanie Buss.
"We not only have lost our
cherished father, but a beloved
man of our community and a
person respected by the world
basketball community," the
Buss family said in a statement
issued by the Lakers.
"It was our father's often-
stated desire and expectation
that the Lakers remain in the
Buss family. The Lakers have
been our lives as well, and we
will honor his wish and do
everything in our power to con-
tinue his unparalleled legacy."
Johnson and fellow Hall of
Famers Abdul-Jabbar and Wor-
thy formed lifelong bonds with
Buss during the Lakers' run to
five titles in nine years in the
1980s, when the Lakers earned
a reputation as basketball's
most exciting team with their
flamboyant Showtime repartee.
The buzz extended through-
out the Forum, where Buss
turned the Lakers' games into
a must-see event. He used the
Laker Girls, a brass band and
promotions to keep Lakers fans
interested during all four quar-
ters. Courtside seats, priced at
$15 when he bought the Lak-
ers, became the hottest tickets
in Hollywood - and they still
are, with fixture Jack Nichol-
son and many other celebrities
attending every home game.

JOIN THE JOURNALISTS OF
TOMORROW...
AND DRINK CHEAP WINE.
JOIN THE DAILY'S STAFF BY APPLYING AT
MICHIGANDAILY.COM.
HIT "JOIN THE DAILY" TO START.


6 - Tuesday, February 19, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

'Creatures' unable
to find beauty

Supernatural teen
drama doesn't know
what it wants to be
By NOAH COHEN
Daily Arts Writer
The best thing that can be
said for "Beautiful Creatures"
was that it wasn't sure what it
wanted to be.
Another angsty (
teenage love
story wherein Beautiful
one of the teens creatures
happens to be
supernatu- At Quality16
rally talented? and Rave
Yes. But where
"Twilight" Watter Bros
monopolized on
romance and "Hunger Games"
forced its young adults into
macro-scale heroism, "Beautiful
Creatures" is more quaint, and
brushes up against a lot of differ-
ent moods. The way its execution
fluctuates between serious and
goofy (and occasionally swerves
into stupid), saves it from the dol-
drums of cliche that its plot easily
falls victim to.
Ethan Wate (Alden Ehren-
reich, "Tetro") is a sophisticated
high schooler in a small town in
South Carolina where thinking
can get you into trouble, and his
closest company - Kurt Vonne-
gut, Anthony Burgess, Charles
Bukowski - just can't occupy a
16-year-old boy like a 15-year-old
brunette can. Cue the new girl,
Lena Duchannes (Alice Englert,
"Ginger & Rosa"), some darkly
mysterious fresh blood from that
old mansion over the way, whom
all the Good Christians shun and
whom our protagonist approaches
like amothto a flame.Ethan comes
to support Lena as she faces her
own challenges: the challen es of
a young woman coming of age in
a town that does not respect her;
the challenges of a young woman
with magical powers doomed by
'her witch mother's influence to

0

'Hi, msm'
Marsalis's 'World' full
of polyrhytlims

Humpty Dumpty.
be claimed by eternal darkness
on her 16th birthday. Needless to
say, the script doesn't suffer from
a lack of conflict.
Lena's evil mother, Sarafine,
and the Boo Radley-esque Macon,
Lena's protective uncle (Emma
Thompson, "Sense and Sensibil-
ity," and Jeremy Irons,"The Man
in the Iron Mask" respectively)
play it heavy as the creep adults.
It's very strange to see these Eng-
lish veterans of the theater chew-
ing the Southern scenery with
clownish swagger, and it makes
you think that the director, Rich-
ard LaGravenese, is having a bit
too much fun with the whole
enterprise. Having written "The
Fisher King" and directed such
films as "Paris, je t'aime," it seems
that LaGravenese, whether con-
sciously or not, considers himself
above the likes of teen angstblock-
busters, and so he strips the meat
of the film away and commands
his actorsto dance, which isjust as
well, because every single actor in
this production is better than his
or her lines.
Particularly one Viola Davis
("Won't Back Down"), who plays
the stereotypical "Wise Black
Woman" Amma, and frankly,
that might have been her actual
tagline in the credits, because it
was intensely unclear what spe-
cific role she actually held. The

household librarian? The mag-
nificent Emma Thompson, too, is
ill put to use in her double role,
and, playing two caricatures, is
twice wasted by LaGravenese.
The protagonists, at least, are
given some dynamism, and the
silly-serious Ehrenreich and
anxious Englert do admirably in
their parts despite holding them-
selves a bit too well to pass for
high schoolers.
The film is a mixed message.
It promotes freethinking and
imaginative rebellion against
one's culture, yet it is not free-
thinking or imaginative itself.
Indeed, for a movie that pokes at
Christian traditionalism, the val-
ues that ",Beautiful Creatures"
sponsors as "the Light side of
magic" are as Christian as it gets.
The film does not go pink enough
to ride "Twilight" 's coattails
and does not go blue enough to
ride "True Blood" or, God for-
bid, "Fifty Shades of Gray." It is
a tentative romantic fantasy that
skates easily over itself and does
not leave a mark. The film's finish
(and the fact that it is based on a
book that is the first in its series)
puts it in potential-for-a-sequel
territory, but only the box office
can decide whether or not the
franchise will get the chance to
improve, because it does not win
that opportunity on merit.

By SHAMIK GANGULY
For the Daily
Jason Marsalis defies expec-
tations on In a World of Mallets,
his new album with the Jason

Marsalis
Vibes Quartet.
This master of
rhythm from
the First Fam-
ily of Jazz has
made Dave
Brubeck-like
strides with
his use of time
on the drum

In a World
of Mallets
Jason Marsalis
Vibes Quartet
Basin Street

set. Now, with a vibraphone as
his weapon, he makes Wayne
Shorter-esque explorations in
his compositions.
Jason Marsalis condemns
the reduction of jazz into exclu-
sive technicality. In fact, he
wrote "Blues Can Be Abstract,
Too," the second track on Mal-
lets, to elaborate on this. He
fancies himself a guard of the
true essence of jazz, and he
stands his ground in his new
release. Marsalis exhibits tech-
nical mastery, but shows how it
can be used to express unique
melodic and rhythmic ideas.
Polyrhythm, the combina-
tion of different rhythms and

meters, has always. fascinated
Jason Marsalis, given his use of
it on The Year of the Drummer
and other earlier releases. This
expertise surfaces at the begin-
ning and end of the LP. "Dis-
cipline Discovers a World of
Mallets" and "Discipline Gets
Lost in a World of Mallets"
show off his rhythmic ability
in the form of layered melodies
- as a drummer, polyrhythm
appeared in the background,
but now he uses it to play many
contrasting vibraphone lines
all at once.
His experimentation with
time reaches in more direc-
tions than just polyrhythm in
this album. The tempo changes
often and abruptly, allowing his
band to showcase its tight com-
munication and comfort with
time as it nails the transitions.
In songs like "Blues Can Be
Abstract, Too," "Ballet Class"
and "Blues for the 29-ers," the
tempo varies just as much as
the chords - whenever you get
used to one speed, the band
will suddenly drop into a slow
groove or accelerate to a frantic
pace. Marsalis uses this extra
element of surprise to spice up
his composition.
As far as the vibe goes, a lot

of the quartet's recordings glide
and sing in a way that reminds
you of the Modern Jazz Quar-
tet, but it grooves with that
deep New Orleans pocket.
Marsalis runs down the vibra-
phone like he's Milt Jackson in
"Characters" and "Ill Bill," but
the rhythm section grinds deep
into the beat, reminding us that
their heart lies in the delta.
Jason Marsalis makes some
notable thematic choices, too.
"Ballet Class" sounds like a tra-
ditional waltz, and the chord
changes and lead voices show
heavy classical influence. The
first track, "Discipline Discov-
ers a World of Mallets," rings
of eastern themes. His use of
chromaticism and atonal melo-
dies intrigues even more - the
vibraphone lines in "My Joy"
defy the ear's expectation and
transcend key signature. The
dissonant intro and chromatic
solo licks in "The Nice Mail-
man's Happy Song to Ann" lilt
and inflect like human voices.
Do they give
a Grammy
fnr bncrt >Ueso

0
0
0
6

i


vibrophone?
Call: #734-418-4115 Just as the oldest of the Mar
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com salis brothers has a knack fo
hearkening back to the root
of jazz, the youngest has a

r-
ar
is
no


RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, February 19, 2013 III
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzlez
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

ACROSS
1 Edged out
5 Haka dancers of
New Zealand
10 NetZero, e.g.,
briefly
13 South American
chain
15 36-yearSenator
Htch atfIUtah
16 Neither partner
17 Reached an
agreement
19 Civil War
nickname
20 Bordeaux
buddy
21 Motherson a
farm
22 "I'd liketosay
something"
23 Thoroughly evil
28 Laundromat
lineup
29 Snug as a bug in
a rug
30 Follower: Sluf.
31 Doesn't
enunciate
33 Magazine VIPs
34 Very eager
38 Ay's group
41 Nasal slammers
42 Peril
46 Rainy season
48 Family support
group for some
rehab patients
50 "My pleasure!"
53 Squeezes (out)
54'" Yankees"
55 Calitornia ball
club, in sports
crawl lines
56 Census datum
57 Sibling who
stereotypically
feels left out, and
a hint to the little
one hiding in 17-,
23-, 34-and 50-
Across
61 Having four
sharps, in
music
62 Bit of broccoli
63 Singer
Tennessee _
Ford
64 Do simple math
65 Hal Prince's
record 21
H6 Quantoath

DOWN 38 Memorvmalady d49soilh58-own

1 Rum brand with
a cocktail named
for it
2 Bewitches
3 Fess upr"
4 Golf bag item
5 Choral work
9 Childish
comeback
7 Bruin great
Bobby
8 Part ofamost
eyeglasses
9 Car owner's pmt.
10 Having serious
debts
11 Gotserious
12 Docs-in-training
14 Herd member
18 Holds
22 Make a move
24 New Ager John
25 Letter-shaped
fasteners'
26 Haus husband
27 Pump name
seen in Canada
31 Stretch
32 Fireplace fuel
35 Wind in the
orchestra
36Halked all over
37Airs: Florida-

39 Shelf support
40 Took over, as
territory
43 Hint
44 Horn of Africa
country
45 Preparedfor
baking, as bread
dough
47 French

judge in '90s news
51 Not in a
predictable way
52 Spillsothe beans
57 Rockies hrs.
58 See 49-Down
59 "The _ Patrick
Show": sports
talk program
so Centuries-long

2013-14
PARKING FOR SALE
*Great Locations
*Central Campus
*Great Rates
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

possessive realm dissolved
48 [Sigh!] in 1806: Abbr. 'IW N E
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
A RK S M A LE S S E W S
W I N O 0 S A G E A L A W
L O O P M I D G E L E V I
T HMO M A S 0RDAVIS BETWEEN COLLEGE AND LAW
SCHOOL? Boutique Ann Arbor civil
G E O R G E 0 R I R V I N rights law firm is seeking exceptional
R E L A Y E D I E candidate for a two year position. Past
AMEN O N T O P CL A W and current staffsmembers who held
A P E R O H A R E this position have been accepted into
A N D R E W o R B R O W N E top law schools. This position requires
C R E A M E Y E R o D attention to detail, ability to multitask,
H A R R Y 0 R C A P O T E great organizational skills, great com-
A B U T T I A R A U N D O munication skills and phone demeanor.
T I D E I S L E S S CAN This is a full-time posiion withbene-
T I 9 IS L 5 0c A fits. www.nacbtlaw.como Submit your
S C A D S E E D S K E N 0 resume to nwalter@nachtlaw.com
xwordeditor@aol.com 02/19/13

CLUMSY HEARTS
A slightly misguided romance
By Hysteria Molt
Available via Amazon.com
And weep for literature

EFFICIENCY 1&2 BDRM. Fall
2013-14. $750-1200. Most include heat
& water. Prkg extra cost where avail.
cappomanagement.com 734-996-1991.
SAVE OVER $10,000 per year.
WHY PAY $1,500 FOR A BED???
Our bedrooms ON S.UNIVERSITY.
start at $680.00
**Rent & Save $150.00**
Call 734-761-2680 to find out how.
Visit us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fl.
Um
n Univemsity
WJowe~5
"SWEET DEAL"
Now until 2-15-13,
Rent & Save $150.00
*call us to find out how*
Save Over
$10,000 Per Year
Our bedrooms start ai$660.00
WHY PAY OVER $1,500
FOR A BED!!!
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND
DRINK COUPON WITH
EVERY NEW TOUR"
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. FQrest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48104
734-761-2680

affinity for forging an unprec-
edented sound. In previous
recordings, Jason Marsalis
has run the risk of letting his
technique overpower his com-
positions - despite his strong
disdain for others who make
the same mistake. In a World of
Mallets pierces with his inner
voice, and there's no denying
that Marsalis has grown to be a
wiser musician. This is a break-
away record for 21st-century
jazz.
ARE YOU
SUPA
DOPE
FUNKY
FRESH?
BECOME A
COMMUNITY
CULTURE
WRITER FOR
DAILY ARTS!
E-mail arts@
michigandaily.
cor to request an
application!

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8' 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16
17 18 19
20 21
23 24 25 26 27
28 29 .
30 31 32 33
34 35 36 37
38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45
46 47 46 49
50 s1 52
53 54 55
56 57 58 59 60
61 62 63
164 65 66

DOMINICK'S NOW HIRING all
positions for spring/summer F/PT. Call'
734-834-5021.
PERSONAL/HOUSEHOLD ASSIS-
TANT WANTED
for a busy professional. Please email
resume to DFBemail@gmail.com
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
! STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
your 2013-14 bed space at U-M's Best
housing. Sold out early for the last 3
years. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. For a limited time
come to the leasing office and choose
your fortune. Your fortune will include
gif cards ranging froms $50-i0, nose-
curity deposit or FREE cleaning of
your apartment for 3 months. Room-
mate matching, parking and private
baths available. Rates starting at $675.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
!NOW LEASING FALL 2013!
Great Location! 721 Church, 1 bd apts
& studios, quiet /great for mature stu-
dents! Across from East Quad. free
pkg, free heat, free water, laundry.
www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com

0
0

By c.C.Burniket
(c)203 Tribune Media Services, Inc.,

02/19/13


I The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 19, 2013 - 7

v

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 19, 2013 - 7

TV REVIEW
Contrived 'Cult' seeks a
following of its own

Matt Davis stars
in a new CW show
about a CW show
By KELLY ETZ
Daily Arts Writer
The new CW series "Cult"
centers around the frantic fans
of a series on the CW called
"Cult" ... con-
fused yet?
Don't worry.
The show- Cuft
within-a-show
execution is Tuesdays
surprisingly at 9 p.m.
seamless, play- CW
ing on the com-
mon TV-fueled
fantasy: What if this was all Alaric, come buck!
real?
The plot follows shady, out- and it's the sheer difference that
of-work journalist Jeff (Mat- makes "Cult" the best offering
thew Davis, "The Vampire out of the CW in a while, since
Diaries") in his search for his "TVD" has slipped into cure-
missing brother Nate, a fanatic fueled monotony, "Beauty and
of the fictional "Cult" series. He the Beast" is dead on its feet and
meets up with a researcher from "The Carrie Diaries" is destined
the show, Skye (Jessica Lucas, for a pre-teen-inspired melt-
"Friends with Benefits"), and the down.
two start investigating linked Even with a radical storyline
occurrences between the show and a wealth of twists and turns
and real-life. Meanwhile, detec- to work around, "Cult" stumbles
tive Kelly (Alona Tal, "Veronica a bit. The whole thing feels a
Mars") investigates the disap- bit contrived, and the actors
pearance of her sister, Meadow, fumble with cheesy dialogue
somehow related to a-bit-too- and forced interactions. Jeff and
aptly named charismatic cult Skye's meeting is too much of a
leader Billy Grimm (Robert coincidence, every clue seems
Knepper, "Prison Break") in the glaringly obvious and there
show within the show. wasn't really a need to beat us
The amount of trust "Cult" over the heads with "Well, hey,
places in its audience is refresh- these things just snap right off."
ing, there's no dumbing-down At least Matthew Davis is back
here. The concept is ambitious, on our TV sets, a blessing and a

cw

curse (Alaric, why did you have
to die?!), even if he isn't in top
shape.
It's a shame that "Cult" will
debut after the fantastic series
"The Following" is just reach-
ing it's groove. "Cult" comes off
as a less-than-stellar knockoff,
though the series was originally
ordered to air on the former WB
Network in 2006, right before
the network merged with UPN
to form The CW. "Cult" was
tossed out until Mark Pedowitz
took over The CW and made the
series his top priority.
The network could end up
working in "Cult" 's favor, even
though there isn't a lot of faith
in the CW for producing more
than just mediocre program-
ming. "Cult" does bring togeth-
er creator Rockne S. O'Bannon
("Farscape") with executive

producers Josh Schwartz and
Stephanie Savage ("Gossip
Girl"), an awkwardly awesome
pairing of science-fiction-style
kitsch and heavy-handed, soapy
drama. With a diverse team
behind it, "Cult" certainly has
more to say than the pilot sug-
gests.
Set to air only 13 episodes
each season, "Cult" will have to
pull itself together in order to
keep viewers invested - shock-
ing violence and a wealth of
suspicious glances just aren't
going to do it - and hopefully,
the rather unexciting pilot will
morph into a realistic version
of what it's trying to be. God
knows the CW can't afford
another flop right now, and the
network deserves a successful
series for daring to think out
side the cube.

ALB UM RE V IE W
With 'Miracle Mile,' STRFKR
forges funky, danceable sound
By ERIKA HARWOOD
-For the Daily '
The past few years have
become a lackluster gold-
mine for electro-pop fusion,
a sound that
has morphed B+
from an excit-
ing novelty Miracle Mile -
into the unin-
spired white STRFKR
noise that polyvinyl
can be heard
while walk-
ing through any given Urban
Outfitters. ST RFKR (have
they officially decided on that
abbreviation, or are we spell-
ing out the full "Starfucker" '
now?) stands out, not only with
its quirky albeit absurd moni- POLYVINYL

FILM COLUMN
Eliminating
pretension from
fim taste
S ay it with me: "I like bad hate?
movies and I'm proud." Or, you may ask, why the love?
OK, with feeling this Let me explain.
time. You have to really mean it. What's better than a Rachel
"I like bad movies and I'm McAdams-Anna Faris-Rob
proud." Schneider genderbender? How
Scream about a Rachel McAdams-Anna
it from the Faris-Rob Schneider gender-
rooftops, or bender featuring cameos from
fetch a mirror the Mowry twins, a slew of
and practice quotable scenes and a catchy,
your best new schoolyard rhyme? The
SpongeBob 2002 comedy, "The Hot Chick,"
impression - is subtly progressive for its time,
embrace your weaving transvestism, trans-
taste in mov- BRIANNE genderism and female homo-
ies and shake JOHNSON sexuality into its plot without
off the shame. addressing these "taboo topics"
This is a guilt- with the melodrama and disap-
free column: no walls, no judg- proval attributed to controver-
ments, no elitist pretensions; sial social issues. But that's not
just open minds and maybe a why I like it and other "chick
couple of Rob Schneider jokes. flicks."
But, first, what exactly quali- Whether one cares to admit it,
fies as a "bad" movie? Ask your low-brow humor can be funny,
roommate, your best friend, and it's often laced with social
your professor or your parents, commentary too overwhelmed
and the answer will range from by bare butts and creative dis-
"anything inspired by a Nicho- coveries of genitalia for us to
las Sparks novel" to "remember notice. OK, maybe not "social
'The Last Airbender'?" Maybe commentary," but each movie
a co-worker will exclaim that has a message, and those mes-
"The Perks of Being a Wallflow- sages tend to, at least, be pro-
er" was "horrible" and "unre- social. That's enough for me.
alistic" and "dude, the sexual Or, to turn my back on any
harassment was such a cop-out." scholarly instinct, I like "chick
Deep breaths. flicks" because (and it pains
Everyone is entitled to their me to write this) they're likea
own opinion (remember, deep paid vacation for my brain - a
breaths). But many moviegoers vacation during which Josh
seem to think their opinion is Duhamel's glorious face is the
the definitive factor of a film's sun, and I am free to bask in an
quality, whether because it escapist's ultimate weekend of
aligns with the general consen- rain-drenched kisses, makeover
sus, or because his or her fall montages and elevator run-ins.
enrollment in that screen arts I'd lament The "Chick Flick"
class has provided him or her as a guilty pleasure if, well, I'd
with a knowledge surpassing felt any guilt. Remember: I like
that of the uneducated masses. "bad" movies and I'm proud!
Hey, forget your fancy jump_______
cuts! We don't need 'em! We
just ( want Ryan Gosling to flex GoslIing makes
(again)! G s n a e
lesBeforeI indulge in my defense"bdmoesImutakwl
edg the fine line betweendea y ai g e t
film - cinematic art - and a
movie. I understand that "The But what about The Blood-
Shawshank Redemption" is not and-Guts-and-Boobs Slasher?
comparable to "The Cinderella Surely the sexual objectification
Story." The two evolved from of women and desensitization
vastly different creative and eco- infamous of the horror genre are
nomic conditions. However, if enough for me to turn a blind
one feels the urge to debate the eye - that is, if it hasn't already
acting prowess of Tim Robbins been gouged out.
with that of a star-studded the- Unfortunately, no.
atrical goddess like Hilary Duff As I write, a complete VHS
(and the dashing good looks boxed set of "The Nightmare on
of the three-name king, Chad Elm Street" series supports a
Michael Murray), I will not hesi- stack of books on my shelf
tate to play along. Shoddy effects and the regur-
But, for a moment, let's be gitation of similar storylines (and
serious: I really, really, really boobs) seem to define the horror
need to defend a movie in which genre. Friends write off "Drag Me
Rob Schneider is a woman and to Hell" and "Thirteen Ghosts"
stuff. like atired parent dismissing a
I wish I were kidding. two-year-old's closet monsters.
"Bad" movies generally fall "Ghosts don't exist," they insist,
into one of three categories: "And neither does artistic merit

The Blood-and-Guts-and-Boobs in these cheesygorefests!" But
Slasher, The "Chick Flick" and there's a thrill in peekingthrough
The Made-for-TV Original the holes of an afghan blanket
Movie. However, honorable as you track the course of death
mentions include The Romantic through five "Final Destination"s.
Comedy (a dimension of The Be afraid. Be very afraid - it's half
"Chick Flick"), The Coming-of- the fun.
Age Teen Roadtrip (often evolv- As for The Made-for-TV Origi-
ing into The Slasher or softcore nal Movie, I have but one argu-
porn) and Yet Another Adam ment: Atsome point, we have
Sandler Movie. all wanted to live in the "Smart
Despite the resentment House," join the ranks of "Cadet
these genres seem to provoke, Kelly" or saunter down the run-
and the Internet memes that way with a pre-"Suit & Tie" Justin
they inspire, studios continue Timberlake in "Model Behavior."
to churn out cinematic ... well, Yes, Disney really does know
shit. But "Friday the 13th" has what dreams are made of.
spawned nine sequels, a 2009 We can't all be Roger Ebert,
remake and a battle of the bad- or even that one eloquent com-
dest with horror head honcho, menter on Rotten Tomatoes
Freddy Krueger. Channing whose repertoire puts my horror-
Tatum has more romcoms heavy DVD collectionto shame.
under his belt than he has abs. But who cares? I like movies
And we all know someone who - the good, the bad and the Rob
live-tweets Disney's "Hallow- Schneider.
eentown" years after its 1998
release. Case in point: The "Bad" Johnson is currently having a
Movie is here to stay, so, please, Channing Tatum marathon. To
let us enjoy it in peace. Why the join, e-mail briannen@umich.edu.
CALL ME,
TWEET ME.
@michdailyarts

ker, b
1 willin
synth
ate d
band's
Mile.

T
if
gb

ut with an unashamed STRFKR prom.
gness to embrace every following the formulaic outline
and guitar riff that cre- of a classic pop track (catchy
ance/pop bliss on the hook, simple baseline and, over-
latest album, Miracle all, 100-percent danceable), it
demands attention. From the
song's jarring, electronic shifts
or the roll-off-the-tongue rep-
urn on this etition of "While I'm alive!" it's
hard to completely figure out
you w ant to why the song is so compelling.
In theory, there should be noth-
t your head ing special to the song, yet that's
exactlythe reason Miracle Mile is
Jobbing on. such a success.
Pulling what sometimes seem
to be exhausted elements from
heroes of indie-pop past, the
album asserts its sound upbeat tempos and soul-infused
he start as the crooning riffs are refreshing to a sound
and funk guitar assail on that can easily become stale.
ening track and lead sin- Tracks like "Malmi" - where
While I'm Alive." Despite lead singer Joshua Hodges's

voice combines with a chorus
so catchy that, naturally, they.
whistled some of it - bring up
comparisons to groups like Peter,
Bjorn and John.
Sprinkled throughout the
record are shorter songs like
"Isea" and "Yayaya" that range
from 50 seconds to around two
minutes. There's nothing par-
ticularly profound about these
mini-tracks aside from the fact
that they maintain the flow of
the album and will keep people's
heads bobbing, but that's exact-
ly what they do, and they do it
well. The funk guitar is cru-
cial to this album's sound, as it
guides Hodges's breathy vocals
throughout, making sure the
slower paced songs (such as the
memorable, two-minute-long

"Yayaya") are still danceable.
ones.
Miracle Mile isn't a ground-
breaking work, but STRKFR
makes it clear that isn't the goal.
In an attempt to make a polished
and catchy pop album, STRFKR
clearly embraces all the sounds
and tropes that are all too
commonly heard and, frankly,
exhausted in typical pop music.
Instead of hyping up the.
synths and overproducing songs
to make them digestible at best,
STRKFR brings out the quality
in these elements and produces
its best album to date. Miracle
Mile combines the best of elec-
tro-pop and makes an album
that will have people danc-
ing until these guys decide to
change their name again.

The
from t
vocals
the op
gle, "V


MISS THAT EPISODE OF'THE WALKING DEAD'?
WE'VE GOT YOU COVERED.
Visit michigandaily.com/blogs/the+filter

A


8 - Tuesday, February 19, 2013 o rts

0

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Bond between Barnes Arico
and Brandon shines over weekend

By DANIEL FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
After making the NCAA
Tournament last season for the
first time in 10 years, expecta-
tions were high for the Michigan
women's basketball team for the
current year.
The Wolverines (8-4 Big Ten,
19-6 overall) were coming off a
20-win season, and five seniors,
including four current starters
would be returning.
Then on April 4, 2012, then-
head coach Kevin Borseth
resigned, and accepted the same
position at Wisconsin-Green
Bay - the school he had previ-
ously coached at for nine seasons
before his five-year stint in Ann
Arbor.
Two weeks later, Michigan
athletic director Dave Brandon
announced the hiring of Kim
Barnes Arico as the ninth coach
in program history.
"Kim is an elite coach that will
help elevate our women's basket-
ball program to new heights,"
Brandon said in a press release
on April 20. "Kim has been suc-
cessful at every coaching stop
and has built teams that compete
for championships. She is a tire-
less recruiter who will accom-
plish great things at Michigan.
"We are extremely happy that
Kim and her family chose to join
Michigan athletics."
These assertions made by
Brandon were true - Barnes
Arico had led her former school,
St. John's, to seven postseason
appearances, which included
four NCAA Tournament appear-
ances and three WNIT appear-
ances in her 10 years there. Her

time at St. John's ended with the
Red Storm making the Sweet 16.
At Barnes Arico's introduc-
tory press conference on April
23, 2012, Brandon continued his
approval of the hire of Barnes
Arico with his opening state-
ment that spoke of the potential
success for the program.
"We can put a lot more fans
in the seats, we can create a lot
more energy around it, and we
can be even more competitive
than-we've been in the last few
years," Brandon said.
Such was the case on Satur-
day, as Michigan played in front
of its largest home crowd of the
regular season - 5,800 people.
Following losses at home ear-
lier in the season against Duke
and Penn State, Saturday's
matchup against Michigan State
was Michigan's toughest home
battle in a month.
After suffering 12 losses in a
row to the Spartans, Saturday
marked the last chance Michi-
gan's senior class would have to
dethrone the heir to the state of
Michigan women's basketball.
The team had suffered a bru-
tal 61-46 loss to Michigan State
just two weeks prior, and a win
on Saturday would go perfectly
with the weekend-long festivi-
ties of rededicating the Crisler
Center.
In the time between Michi-
gan's two games against the
Spartans, the Wolverines beat
Illinois at home and then-No. 13
Purdue in West Lafayette.
It was sometime in between
those two games that Brandon
once again had words to describe
Barnes Arico and her team.
However, this time they
weren't in a press conference or

I
I
6
0

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Michigan coach Kim Barnes Arico, after being hired by athletic director Dave Brandon in April, has led the program to new heights in her first year at the helm,

through a press release - they
were in a closed-door conversa-
tion between the pair.
"It was really exciting because
he has a lot of faith in our team
and he had said to me after a
recent win, 'We're going to get
Michigan State and when we
get Michigan State, we're going
to celebrate,' " she said. "In my
mind, that felt really good when
he said that at thc iime. I felt

really good about Michigan State
coming here, but of course as a
coach you would never say that.
"But he's been tremendous,
extremely supportive. He's real-
ly trying to support our program
to get the type of backing that
Michigan State's program gets."
Meanwhile the crowd at
Crisler Center got to see a very
public display of affection by
Brandon on Saturday when he

bear-hugged Barnes Arico as the
rest of Michigan's bench erupted
in giddiness after upending the
Spartans.
"Yeah, he even lifted me off
the ground," Barnes Arico said
regarding the hug. "Good thing I
didn't eat much today."
While Barnes Arico might
have gone hungry because of the
butterflies in her stomach for the
game, the outcome of the game

produced yet another milestone
for Michigan's program and the
people involved in it from top to
bottom.
- "I think it's been a season of
things that haven't been done for
a long time or a season of firsts,
but this for our University, and
the players in the program, and
for me and for Dave Brandon as
well is really special," Barnes
Arico said.

Bye week brings defensive focus

TODD NEEDLE a/
Sophomore point guard Trey Burke missed only one of his nine free-throw attempts Sunday in the win over Penn State.
Finally, 'M' gets to line

By STEVEN BRAID
Daily SportsEditor
Sunday's victory against Big
Ten bottom-feeder Penn State
wasn't exactly filled with many
positives for the Michigan men's
basketball team, buta bright spot
might have been its ability to cre-
ate contact and get to the charity
stripe during the 79-71 victory.
Struggling
to get to the NOTEBOOK
free-throw
line during the past few weeks,
the seventh-ranked Wolverines
took advantage of the foul-prone
Nittany Lions to get to the char-
ity stripe a season-high 35 times.
Michigan had only been to the
foul line eight times in its previ-
ous two games, with just two
attempts against Wisconsin on
Feb. 9.
"We need to do that (bet-
ter)," said Michigan coach John
Beilein. "That's always been a
point of emphasis. But at the same
time, guys have to be comfortable
with it, so we worked on it really
hard."
Entering the contest, Michigan
was averaging 15 free throws a
game and had attempted just 19
free throws in its previous three
games, but it almost equaled that
number in the first half alone on
Sunday.
Countering a poor shooting
first half in which they shot just
36 percent from the field, the Wol-
verines converted on12 of 16 shots
from the charity stripe.
Michigan drew 25 fouls on
Penn State and was in the bonus
in both halves.

"We watched film on Michi-
gan State and we shot entirely too
many jump shots," said sopho-
more guard Trey Burke. "Once we
got Penn State in the bonus, we let
that be known to everyone that
we were in the bonus. We did a
good job of getting fouled and we
knocked down free throws."
Burke missed only one of his
season-high nine free-throw
attempts, while freshman swing-
man Nik Stauskas (six) tied a
career high and freshman for-
ward Glenn Robinson III (11) set
a career high in free throws. The
trio combined for 23 of Michi-
gan's 27 makes at the foul line.
Getting to the free-throw line
seemed to get both freshmen
going on the offensive end. Staus-
kas' 18 points were his highest-
scoring output in nearly two
months and Robinson's 21 points
tied a career high, which was set
in the first week of the season.
"It helps the offense and it
helps individual players too,"
Burke said. "Glenn got to the line
a lot and that kind of opened up
his offensive game."
RARE SIGHTING: It had been
three months since Matt Vogrich
had seen significant minutes for
the Wolverines, so it was sur-
prising when the senior guard
checked into the game midway
through the second half with
Michigan holding a nine-point
lead.
Vogrich scored two points in
five minutes of action. Though
he did knock down his only field
goal of the night, it was waived off
because of a Robinson offensive
foul.

"I would have loved it if
Glenn wouldn't have (committed
the) charge, and Matt Vogrich
would've hit that three," Beilein
said.
It's been a rough season for
Vogrich, who started the first six
games of the season for Michi-
gan. Figured to give the Wolver-
ines productive minutes entering
the season, the senior has mostly
spent time on the court during
mop-up duty. He's averaging a
career-low1.1points in seven min-
utes per game - the least amount
of game action he's seen since his
freshman year. He's appeared in
18 of Michigan's 26 games4
"He's been working hard and
he deserved an opportunity,"
Beilein said. "He got the two foul
shots. When you haven't shot a
foul shot in about three months
in a game, it's hard to go in and go
2-for-2, so I'm proud of Matt."
TREY FOR TREY: For the third
time this season, Burke was
awarded the Big Ten Player of the
Week award.
The sophomore might have
been the only thing separating
Michigan from a three-game los-
ing streak this past week, as he
poured in a season-best 29 points
to go along with five assists, three
rebounds and two steals against
Penn State.
Burke opened the week with an
18-point, four-assist performance
against Michigan State on Tues-
day. Over the two games, he aver-
aged 23.5 points, 4.5 assists, 2.5
rebounds and 2.5 steals. He shot
nearly 60 percent from the field
and connected on six of his nine
attempts from beyond the arc.

By GREG GARNO
Daily Sports Writer
While Michigan coach Red
Berenson might not be aware of
Monday's Family Day holiday in
his native Canada, he's aware his
hockey family needs to improve
its defense.
With a bye week before it
heads to Ohio-State this week-
end, Michigan is looking to use
its time off to figure out a game-
plan to stop
opposing NOTEBOOK
offenses
from wreaking havoc.
"You have to make the most of
the week, whether you're in first
place or last place," Berenson
said. "I think for the most part
we've got something out of it."
The Wolverines not only sit in
last place in the CCHA in goals
allowed per game, giving up
3.63, but they also rank 57th out
of 59 teams in Division I. Only
three-win Alabama-Huntsville
and winless Sacred Heart have
allowed more goals this season.
"We'regoingto needeveryone
bought in, everyone pulling their
weight for the team," said senior
defenseman Lee Moffie. "That's
going to start with defense. We
start locking down on defense ...
I think it will give us some confi-
dence and get us going."
After being paired with soph-
omore defenseman Mike Chias-
son on the third pairing, Moffie
will be moved up to the second
pairing with junior defenseman
Jon Merrill, according to Beren-
son.
Despite the return of junior
defenseman and alternate cap-
tain Mac Bennett last weekend,
Michigan looked disorgani eed
in its own zone in being swept by
No.11 Notre Dame.
Bennett's presence is expect-
ed to make an impact after he
regains his stamina and tim-
ing with his partner, freshman
defenseman Jacob Trouba, on
the first pairing in practice.
It will be just the second time
that the Wolverines' four best
defensemen will all see the ice
in the same game since Jan. 8
against Bowling Green.
"We've got to do better than
we've done," Berenson said.

PAUL SHERMA/Daily
Junior defenseman Jon Merrill will be counted onto help a struggling defense.

I
a
6
I

"Whether it's on the road or at
home, whether defensively or
offensively. We need to have a
turning point."
MORRISON RECOGNIZED:
Former Michigan forward Bren-
dan Morrison returned to Ann
Arbor for the weekend for his
induction into the Michigan Hall
of Honor, chosen by the Athletic
Department.
Morrison is one of Michigan's
two Hobey Baker winners -
college hockey's most valuable
player award - and was induct-
ed alongside swimmer Gustavo
Borges and football standout Rob
Lytle.
"It was pretty obvious that
he was more than deserving,"
Berenson said. "His career here
at Michigan was like a Hobey
Baker career. It wasn't just a
Hobey Baker season."
According to MGoBlue.com,
candidates must have met all of
the following criteria in order
to be inducted into the Hall of
Honor: a University graduate;
NCAA champion or national
championship team mem-
ber; All-American; national or
conference player of the year;
individual or team Big Ten
champion; all-conference award
recipient; University, Big Ten,
NCAA, world, U.S or Olympic
record holder; team captain;
Olympic team member or med-
alist.
The three-time All-American
helped lead Michigan to its 1996
national championship after a
34-year title drought, scoring the

game-winning goal against Col-
orado College and being named
the MVP.
Morrison is still Michigan's
all-time points (284) and assists
(182) leader. He's one of a select
few graduates to compete as an
Olympic hockey player, repre-
senting Canada in the 2006 Win-
ter Olympics.
"He did it all," Berenson said.
"He made players around him
better. We had a lot of talent on
that (championship) team, but he
definitely was the leader of the
pack."
A LOOK AHEAD: Although
Michigan didn't play last week-
end, the rest of the CCHA did.
The Wolverines now sit in
10th place after Northern Michi-
gan split its series with Michigan
State.
If the season were to end
today, Michigan would travel
to Satilt Ste. Marie to face Lake
Superior State - which split a
series with the Wolverines ear-
lier in the season.
The Wolverines have four
games before the end of the reg-
ular season, and as Berenson has
noted, they'd like to avoid travel-
ing to Alaska - which currently
sits in sixth place - if he could
control that.
"I think I'm pretty aware of
the standings," said senior for-
ward Kevin Lynch. "I think
we're just focusing on having
four good games. We're worried
about the CCHA Tournament
right now and focusing on win-
ning that."

i


