~11E £ dpan 0.axlj
(IIW 111 )1 4 INI 111 iikS1 118 I HI IIO

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, September 5, 2013

michigandaily.com


Gift benefits
high-profile
departments

Big day for big money

Reaction mixed
among students on
donation recipients
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily StaffReporter
The Ross School of Busi-
ness and the University Athletic
Department are not first-time
beneficiaries of real-estate mogul
Stephen Ross.
Though many students

expressed appreciation for Ross's
$200-million donation at a glitzy
celebration Wednesday crowded
with top University officials and
students, others took to social
media to question the choice of
recipients - units of the Uni-
versity that some argue affect a
small percentage of the school's
overall population or are already
well-funded.
Justin Pope, a former Associ-
ated Press national education
reporter who was once a Knight-
See GIFT, Page 6A

Stephen Ross gets
the maize-carpet
treatment for
$200-million gift
By PETER SHAHIN AND
JENNIFER CALFAS
Daily NewsEditor and
Daily StaffReporter
A maize carpet lined the
entrance to the Ross School of
Business Wednesday morning.
Just hours after the University
announced the largest single
donation in the school's history,
a celebratory event - including
a performance by the Michigan
Marching Band - welcomed
Business students and adminis-

trators.
The event was held to thank
philanthropist and real estate
mogul Stephen Ross's record-
breaking$200-million donation,
which will be split between his
namesake school and the Ath-
letic Department. Nearly 10
years after a $100-million dona-
tion to the business school that
bears his name, Ross said the
newest donation will "finish the
job and do it right."
Students packed the event,
donning maize shirts that read
"Welcome Home" with a quo-
tation from Ross on the back:
"You get by giving." The crowd,
which included many high-level
University administrators, col-
lected in the Business School
atrium and heard speeches
from Ross, University President

Mary Sue Coleman, Business
School Dean Alison Davis-Blake
and Business graduate student
Damian Chatman, president of
the school's student government
association.
Ross, who is founder and
chairman of the Related Compa-
nies and has a Forbes-estimated
net worth of $4.4 billion, said
while his first donation helped
advance the Business School,
the new gift will take it to new
heights.
"It's really exciting also to
know that we can see this facil-
ity knowing that we can finish
the rest of the campus and really
make it the best business school
in the country," Ross said.
Coleman spoke to the audi-
ence before Ross, first joking
about the timeliness of the

announcement: "I think the first
day of classes every-year should
start this way."
Coleman said she was
with Ross in 2004 when he
announced his first $100-mil-
lion donation, adding that she
was thrilled the most recent
donation happened during her
term as president.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily, Ross said he
was actively recruited by the
Business School for the lat-
est gift. Besides the extensive
renovations to the "business
campus," the donation will also
help provide financial aid and
an expansion of career services.
Separately, the $100-million gift
to the Athletic Department will
help fund a variety of programs
See MONEY, Page 6A


CITY GOVERNMENT
Mixed Use Party loses
candidate for council

ANN ARBOR
AnnArbor.com rolled into main
MLive website in media shakeup

University alum
drops out of City
Council race for
personal reasons
By TAYLOR WIZNER
Daily News Editor
University alum Jaclyn
Vresics, who was running
for the first ward seat on the
Ann Arbor City Council this
November as an independent,
has withdrawn her campaign
for personal reasons, according
S to her co-chair in the Mixed

Use Party, Will Leaf.
The Mixed Use Party is a
group of students and Ann
Arbor residents that want to
simplify Ann Arbor's zoning
plan. The party is running on
a platform of "non-discrimina-
tory zoning" which deals with
assigning districts based on the
potential harms of individual
buildings rather than on the
type of neighborhoods.
Mixed Use Party candidate
Conrad Brown, a University
alum is still running against
incumbent city council mem-
ber Jane Lumm (I-Ward 2). The
party's other candidate, Sam
DeVarti, a student at Eastern

Michigan University, is also still
running against Councilmem-
ber Stephen Kunselman (D-
Ward 3).
In a statement, Vresics said
she will continue to support the
party, though she can no longer
continue campaigning for per-
sonal reasons.
"Although personal reasons
require that I withdraw from
the election; the Mixed Use
Party has my unwavering sup-
port," Vresics said in a state-
ment. "I have full confidence in
Conrad and Sam as candidates,
and I maintain my belief that
the party's platform will bring
See COUNCIL, Page 7A

Print edition to be
rebranded as The
Ann Arbor News
By AUSTEN HUFFORD
Online Editor
In an effort to streamline pro-
duction and content delivery, the
MLive Media Group announced
Wednesday that AnnArbor.com
would cease to exist as a stand-
alone website, instead integrated
into the larger MLive.com.
This move puts the news out-
let in line with several other city
papers around the state, includ-
ing The Grand Rapids Press and

The Flint Journal, which are
housed on MLive. AnnArbor.
com was its only separately mar-
keted website.
MLive said there would be no
staff changes as a result of the
website's closure.
In an open letter to readers,
Dan Gaydou, MLive's CEO and
president, and Laurel Cham-
pion, the company's southeast
Michigan General Manager, said
AnnArbor.com was a "huge suc-
cess," citing high market pen-
etration.
"This transitionbrings togeth-
er two of the most successful dig-
ital news platforms to leverage
the best of them both," the letter
stated.

The publication's twice
weekly print editions will also
be rebranded as The Ann Arbor
News, and will contain Ann-
Arbor-focused content froni
MLive.
AnnArbor.com is the latest
incarnation of the 174-year-old
Ann Arbor News, a daily print
publication that covered and
the University's campus, which
ceased printing amid gener-
al financial difficulties in the
industry in 2009. At the time of
the paper's closing, Ann Arbor
became the largest city in Amer-
ica without a professional daily
newspaper, and The Michigaa
Daily became the only daily print
See MLIVE, Page 7

I

WEATHER HI:76
T OMORROW L 59

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS.......................2A SUDOKU................2A
The Liner Notes: Gearing up for an exciting fall VolCXXIIINo.125 OPINIIO N........,...........4A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
MICH IGANDAI LY.COM/BLOGS/TH EFI LTER ©2013The Michigan aily S P RTS ......................7A B-SIDE. . . B........1
michigondaily.com

4'


2A - Thursday, September 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

2A - Thursday, September 5, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Selling television
Jared Zerman, a 1980 alum world, to people, to thoughts, industry. Then, who knew such
with a bachelor of general studies to activities, to interests that I a place existed?
degree, currently serves as vice didn't know before, in ways that
president of daytime network could not be more widespread, What values, ethics, ideals
sales for CBS Television Network. from silly to serious; from local and key takeaways would you
For more about Jared Zerman, to global; from personal to pro- say the Michigan community
visit michigandaily.com. fessional. instilled in you, as a person,
In Ann Arbor, I met my first overall?
How did Michigan contrib- close black associate with whom
ute to your success, personally I worked at the campus radio Specifically in the athlet-
andprofessionally? station, and Mr. Upper-Mid- it arena, I love the commit-
dle-Class Jewish got his first ment to doing things the "right
The diversity of the school, exposure to kids from the kind way" that I genuinely believe
the student body and my expe- of working-class culture that the Michigan community has
riences among them all con- Bruce Springsteen grew up on. always demanded. There is no
tributed to developing me in a To this day, one of my best Ann doubt in my mind, for all his on-
myriad of ways. Though I grew Arbor friends is someone who field success, Jim Tressel would
up in a big city, my perception grew up in a small shoebox of a never have coached a Michigan
of the world was colored by house in a neighborhood where team.
relatively narrow experiences. every house is the same and -BRANDONSHAW
Michigan introduced me to a every father worked for the auto

RA ANCING ACT

Ertld~udian Bilij
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREWWEINER KIRBYVOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaity.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
tlassified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

ALLISUN FARRAND/Daily
Graduate student Brandon Seward uggles anduni-
cycles around the diag on Wednesday.

CRIME NOTES
A vicious cycle Dent-al
WHERE: Shapiro insurance
Undergraduate Library '
WHEN: About 11:05 p.m. WHERE: 1600 East Medi-
Tuesday evening cal Center
WHAT: A bicycle was WHEN: 6:50 p.m. Tuesday
stolen from outside the evening
library sometime between WHAT: The door of a car
3 p.m. Sept. land and 7 p.m. in a structure was dented
Sept. 3. There is no further by an unknown vehicle. The
information at this time. accident happened between
1 p.m. and 6:30 p.m.
Pulling more Over-charged
than teeth WHERE: West Quad Resi-
dence Hall
WHERE: Medical Inn, WHEN: About 2:50 p.m.
1495 Simpson Tuesday
WHEN: About 6 p.m. Tues- WHAT: An unknown sus-
day pect asked for a student's
WHAT: A wallet was sto- credit card information.
len from a lab coat hanging The exchange was later
inside a local dental clinic. thought to be fraudulent
The incidence occurred and the victim cancelled
between 9 a.m. and 2:45 his card before damage was
p.m. done.


CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES


Back-to- Pearl and
school sale the Beard

WHAT: Computers, tablets,
software and other tech
items are on sale.
WHO: Information and
Technology Services
WHEN: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Union, ground level, and
Pierpont Commons, main
concourse.

WHAT: Pearl and the
Beard is performing inAnn
Arbor. Admission is free
for students, as long as they
show a valid Mcard.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: 8 p.m.
WHERE: The Ark; 316 S.
Main St.

T H REE TI NGS YOU
SH OUL D KNOW TODAY
Bill Nye has agreed to
join the cast of Dancing
with the Stars, report-
ed The Los Angeles Times.
After the announcement, the
Science Guy turned dancer
announced, "It's all physics+"
One of his competitors will
be the Jersey Shore's Snooki.
2 This week the b-side
explores Ann Arbor's
newest addition to the inde-
pendent book scene: Literati
Bookstore and its relation to
local independent publish-
ers. FOR MORE, SEE THE B-SIDE.
Jack Nicholson
announced that he
will be retiring from
he film business, reported
Radar Online. The Academy
Award Winner, according
to the source, is unofortu-
nately retiring on the basis of
increasing memory loss.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewSlovin ManagingEditor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
Adam RUbenfire ManagingNewsEditor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:AliciaAdamczykPeterShahin,K.C.Wassman, Taylor Wizner
ASeSSANTNWSsEInORS: AianAssf, Jennifer Calfas, HilaryCrawtord, Ian
DllinghaWill e rS AGna, AM tJacoen,Rache Prmack, "Stepan
Shenouda, Christy Song
MelanieKruvelisand opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adienne Robents EdinorialrPageEditors
SEIR "" OI AEE DITORS:d t a Dn WangDerek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald
EerettCook and
ZachHelfand ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zunigs, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Raat
Khare, Daniel wasserman, Liz Vukelich
AnSSTNSORSED O Greg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Danielreldman, Erin
KaylaUpadhyaya ManagingArtsEditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: ElliotAlpern,BrianneJohnson,JohnLynch,AnnaSadovskaya
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS: JohnBohn,SeanCzarnecki,Max
Radin, AkshaySeth, KatieSteen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Mlengraff ManagingPhoto Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: TeresaMathew,Todd Needle
ASSISTANT PHOTOEDITORS:KatherinePekala,Paul Sherman,
McKenzieBerezin,RubyWallannPatrickBarron
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz ManagingDesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Ma gzNin e E ry statement@michigandaily.com
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien CopytChiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:JennieColeman,KellyMcLauglin
AustenlHufford OnlineEditor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-PrescottC lassified Manager
LeXi DerasmO LocalAccounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Mondayhthrough Friday duringthe fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to al readers. Additionanlcopies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, startingin September, viaU.S.mailare $110.Winter term January through April) is
$115, yearlong (September through Apriltis $191. University affiliates are subjectto areded
subscription rate.On-campussubscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsnmustbeprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated CollegiatePress.

I
a
6
I

RENT musical Fresh Produce

auditions
WHAT: For all of those
interested in singing and
acting on stage, auditions
are being held for Musket's
Fall musical. This year's
musical is Jason Robert
Brown's hit RENT.
WHO: University Activities
Center- Musket
WHEN: 5:30 p.m. to 12 a.m.
WHERE: The Michigan
Union UAC Office, 4th floor

WHAT: Eat Smarter:
Fresh Produce Series gives
students access to locally
grown fruits and vegetables.
The cart is part of the
University's sustainability
initiative.
WHO: MHealthy
WHEN: 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
every Thursday
WHERE: Towsley Triange
at University Hospitals and
North Campus Research
Complex.

Syrian rebels linked to Al- Qaida
hit Christian village in new clash

I
0


Rebel attacks a Senate panel voted to give regime change.
President Barack Obama author- Obama has been lobbying for
continue as world ity to use military force against international and domestic sup-
Syria - the first time lawmak- port for punishing President
awaits possible U.S. ers have voted to allow military Bashar Assad's regime, which
action since the October 2002 the U.S. says fired rockets loaded
military actilon votes authorizing the invasion with the nerve agent sarin on
of Iraq. rebel-held areas near Damascus
BEIRUT (AP) - Al-Qaida- The measure, which cleared before dawn on Aug. 21, killing
linked rebels launched an assault the Senate Foreign Relations hundreds of civilians.
Wednesday on a regime-held Committee on a 10-7 vote, was So far, however, he has won
Christian village in the densely altered at the last minute to little international backing for
populated west of Syria and new support "decisive changes to action. Among major allies, only
clashes erupted near the capital, the present military balance France has offered publicly to
Damascus - part of a brutal bat- of power" in Syria's civil war, join the U.S. in a strike.
tle of attrition each side believes though it ruled out U.S. combat In a parliament debate,
it can win despite more than two operations on the ground. It was France's Prime Minister Jean-
years of deadlock. expected to reach the full Senate Marc Ayrault made a passion-
As the world focused on pos- floor next week. ate appeal for intervention in
sible U.S. military action against The Syria conflict, which Syria, placing the blame for
Syria, rebels commandeered a began with a popular upris- the alleged chemical attack on
mountaintop hotel in the vil- ing in March 2011, has been Assad and warning that inac-
lage of Maaloula and shelled the stalemated, and it's not clear tion could let him carry out
community below, said a nun, if U.S. military strikes over more atrocities.
speaking by phone from a con- the regime's alleged chemi- The debate ended without a
vent in the village. She spoke on cal weapons use would change vote since President Francois
condition of anonymity for fear that. Obama has said he seeks Hollande can order a military
of reprisals. limited pinpoint action to deter operation without one.
The attack came hours before future chemical attacks, not Obama has called chemical
weapons use a "red line," and top
administration officials argued
before the Senate on Tuesday
that Assad would take inaction
by Washington as a license for
further brutality against his
people. The fighting has killed
more than 100,000 Syrians and
1 7 2 9 uprooted nearly 7 million from
their homes.

Sebastian Scheiner/AP
Ultra-Orthodox Jewish men pray ahead of the Jewish New Year at the Western Wall, the holiest site where Jews can
pray in Jerusalem's old city, Wednesday, Sept. 4, 2013. Israelis happily welcomed the Jewish New Year late Wednesday
despite uncertainty and turmoil brewing on both its northern and southern borders.
Israel celebrates Rosh
Hashana am--id confli*ct

The Jewish New
Year was celebrated
despite turmoil
JERUSALEM (AP) - Israelis
happily welcomed the Jewish
New Year on Wednesday despite
uncertainty and turmoil brew-
ing on both its northern and
southernborders.
Rosh Hashana, whichbegins

at sundown, ushers in 10 days
of Jewish soul-searching -
known as the "Days of Awe"
- capped by Yom Kippur, the
Day of Atonement. The two-
day holiday commemorates the
creation of the world - which
this year reached the age of
5774, according to the Jewish
calendar.
But all around Israel, the
region is in upheaval. Egypt has
experienced weeks of unrest
since the military overthrew
its Islamist president in July,
and al-Qaida-linked fighters are
roaming the lawless Sinai Pen-
insula on Israel's doorstep. In
Syria, a bloody civil war that has
killed more than 100,000 rages
on as the U.S. weighs a military
strike in reaction to the regime's
alleged use of chemical weapons.
Israel fears violence could
spill into its territory. Syria's
Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, pos-
sesses thousands of rockets
and missiles that could be used
against Israel if a U.S. strike
sparks a wider conflagration.
The Jewish state has been
careful not to take sides in the
conflict but is believed to have
carried out three airstrikes
inside Syria, targeting weapons

reportedly headed to Hezbollah.
"The world around us has
turned upside down," colum-
nist Eitan Haber wrote in the
Yediot Ahronot daily. "The
picture is still not clear, but in
any case it is not an easy one
for ... Israel, which is trying to
live a normal life in destruc-
tive and turbulent surround-
ings."
His colleague, Sever Plock-
er, said the year could prove
to be one of the most fateful in
Israeli history.
"Israel and its government
will be called upon to cope -
first on a conceptual level and
then in diplomatic and mili-
tary terms - with a different
Syria, a different Egypt, a dif-
ferent Iran, and different Pal-
estinians," he wrote. "The year
5774 is expected to be a year
that can be called challenging,
or more simply put: difficult."
A small glimmer of hope
exists in the newly restarted
peace talks with Palestinians.
Though both sides remain
skeptical a final peace accord
can be reached, the talks offer
a boost after more than five
years of stalemate in peace-
making efforts.

0
0

Seniors & Gra
Make a Difference & I
Apply by S
Spring/Summer 2(
eacecor s

I Students...
aunch your Career.
pt.30 for
14 assignments.
aov/ aD Iv

i

91

Campus Office: 734.647.2182 r peace.corps@umich.edu

It


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
ROCKFORD, Mich.
E. coli detected
in Western Mich.
water system
Tests have revealed E. coli
in the water system that serves
Rockford, a city north of Grand
Rapids.
Health officials advised
residents to use bottled water
Wednesday or boil tap water
before using it for drinking,
brushing teeth or preparing
food. Officials say public drink-
ing fountains should be turned
off.
The Kent County Health
Department says there were
equipment problems at the Rock-
ford water plant over the long
holiday weekend. Rockford has
approximately 5,800 residents
and draws its water from wells..
CHICAGO
Minneapolis mayor
invites Illinois gay
couples to marry
With all of Illinois' finan-
cial woes, residents have grown
accustomed to politicians from
other states trying to raid its
companies, jobs and best work-
ers.
Now one of them is making a
similar pitch to the state's gay
couples: Come north to get mar-
ried, and spend lots of money.
Minneapolis Mayor R.T.
Rybak, who recently married
46 same-sex couples follow-
ing his state's passage of a law
legalizing gay weddings, will
appear in a predominantly gay
Chicago neighborhood Thurs-
day to launch a campaign called
"Marry Me in Minneapolis." He
plans to follow with campaigns
in Colorado and Wisconsin,
two other states that haven't
approved same-sex marriage..
MOSCOW
Putin accuses
John Kerry of
lying about Syria
Russian President Vladimir
Putin on Wednesday called U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry a
liar, claiming he had denied that
al-Qaida was fighting with the
Syrian opposition in that coun-
try's civil war.
Speaking to his human rights
council, Putin recalled watch-
ing a congressional debate where
Kerry was asked about al-Qaida.
Putin said he had denied that
it was operating in Syria, even
though he was aware of the al-
Qaida-linked Jabhat al-Nusra
group.
Putin said: "This was very
unpleasant and surprising for me.
We talk to them (the Americans)
and we assume they are decent
people, but he is lying and he
knows that he is lying. This is sad."
It was unclear exactly what
Putin was referencing, but Kerry

was asked Tuesday while testi-
fying before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee if the Syr-
ian opposition had become more
infiltrated by al-Qaida.
STOCKHOLM
Obama compares
Wallenberg's war
efforts to Syria
President Barack Obama is
drawing parallels between the
actions of a Swedish diplomat who
saved Jews during the Holocaust
and the action he wants the world
to take to help Syria's people.
On his first presidential visit to
Sweden, Obama said Raoul Wal-
lenberg's actions are a reminder
"of our power not simply to bear
witness, but also to act."
Obama is trying to rally the
world to retaliate against Syr-
ian President Bashar Assad (bah-
SHAR' AH'-sahd) for his alleged
use of deadly gases against his
* people in the country's civil war.
Obamaspoke Wednesday after
visiting the Great Synagogue of
Stockholm and examining arti-
facts related to Wallenberg.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Mexican Senate
passes education
reform to restore
country's schools

Senate voted 102-22
to approve the
new system

InstitutionalRevolutionaryParty
and the teachers unions, which
gained increasing control of the
education system in exchange for
throwing their strength behind
the government in the voting box

Danny Johnston/AP
Former President Bill Clinton speaks about health care at the Clinton Presidential Center in Little Rock, Ark. Wednesday.
Clinton's speech comes with the Affordable Healthcare Act in final countdown mode, just a few weeks before the
scheduled Oct.t launch of online health insurance markets in the states.
Clinton shows support for
federal health care law

Clinton challenges
opponents to change
law, not repeal
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -
Bill Clinton urged opponents
of the federal health care law
Wednesday to stop trying to
repeal it and instead work to
improve it, as the White House
enlisted the former president to
make the case for its signature
domestic accomplishment.
Speaking at his presiden-
tial library in downtown Little
Rock, Clinton offered a detailed
defense and explanation of the
law as a key part of its implemen-
tation nears. His nearly hour-
long speech was the first in a
series of addresses expected by
administration officials and allies
defending the law this fall.
"It seems to me that the ben-
efits of the reform can't be fully
realized and the problem cer-
tainly can't be solved unless both
the supporters and the oppo-
nents of the original legislation
work together to implement it
and address the issues that arise
whenever you change a system
this complex," Clinton told more
than 300 people. "There are
always drafting errors, unintend-

ed consequences, unanticipated
issues. We're going to do better
working together and learning
together than we will trying over
and over again to repeal the law
or rooting for the reform to fail."
Clinton's speech comes with
the Affordable Care Act in final
countdown mode, just a few
weeks before the scheduled Oct.
1 launch of online health insur-
ance markets in the states. The
markets - also called exchang-
es- are supposed to be a one-
stop portal to the benefits of the
law. Middle-class people with no
access to health care on the job
will be eligible for subsidized pri-
vate coverage, while the poor and
near-poor willbe steered to Med-
icaid in states agreeing to expand
the program. Markets will open
in all the states, even those refus-
ing to expand Medicaid.
Even though Clinton's speech
was overshadowed by the Syria
debate, the White House hopes
to geta much-needed boost from
the former president. Obama,
who has dubbed the 42nd presi-
dent the "secretary of explaining
stuff," tapped Clinton's persua-
sive powers during the congres-
sional debate over the health care
law, sending him to Capitol Hill
to cajole worried Democrats.
Clinton, who unsuccessfully

pushed for health care reform as
president, praised the 2010 law
for addressing the cost and avail-
ability of health care.
"This does give us the best
chance we have to achieve nearly
universal coverage, provide high-
er quality health care and lower
the rate of cost increases, which
we have got to do in a competitive
global economy," he said.
Clinton offered suggestions
to improve the law, including
expanding the availability of tax
credits for small businesses. He
also called on Congress to address
a glitch in the law that prevents
some workers who can't afford
the employer coverage that they
are offered on the job from get-
ting financial assistance from the
government to buy private health
insurance on their own.
Clinton's home state has
turned into a major battleground
over the health care law, and an
example ofhow even Republican-
trending states are still willing to
embrace some elements of the
federal overhaul. The GOP-led
Legislature approved an alter-
native to expanding Medicaid
under the law earlier this year,
backing a plan to use federal
funds to purchase private insur-
ance for thousands of low-income
residents.

Obama defends NSA spying
program while in Stockholm

MEXICO CITY (AP) - Mex- and on the streets.
ico's Senate overwhelmingly Over the years the unions
passed a sweeping reform of the developed avirtual lock on teach-
notoriously dysfunctional public er hiring and promotion. Almost
school system early Wednesday, every new teacher must go
handing President Enrique Pena through a union to gain a school
Nieto an important victory in assignment, a practice that has
his push to remake some of his spawned notorious levels of cor-
country's worst-run institutions. ruption, including the sale and
The Senate voted 102-22 in inheritance of teaching positions.
favor of a standardized system Particularly in states with
of test-based hiring and promo- schools controlled by the CNTE,
tion that would give the govern- critics say, union influence has
ment the tools to break teachers transformed schools from edu-
unions' near-total control of cational institutions into mecha-
school staffing. nisms for extracting funds from
That control includes the the state. The CNTE has become
corrupt sale and inheritance of notorious for threatening elect-
teaching jobs, and it has been ed officials with debilitating
widely blamed for much of the strikes and marches in order to
poor performance of Mexican maintain and increase benefits
schools, which have higher rela- that make teaching one of the
tive costs and worse results than primary sources of legal income
any other in the 34-nation Orga- in much of rural Mexico.
nization for Economic Coopera- Mexico today spends a great-
tion and Development. er share of its budget on educa-
"The inheritance and sale of tion than any other member of
jobs has ended," Education Set- the OECD except New Zealand.
retary Emilio Chuayffet said Out of that budget, the country
on Twitter. "Merit is the ideal spends more than 90 percent on
means of access to, and progress staff compensation, again higher
in, a teaching career." than any other member of the
The late-night vote clears a OECD. That spending doesn't
path for Pena Nieto to move for- translate into better results or
ward with a series of even more smaller class sizes, however.
controversial reforms, includ- Only 47 percent of Mexican chil-
ing a measure that would violate dren graduate from the equiva-
one of modern Mexico's longest- lent of high school and Mexico
standing taboos by allowing pri- also has the OECD's highest stu-
vate investment in the state-run dent-to-teacher ratio --25 pupils
oil company. to every teacher, on average.
But there is potential trouble Among the benefits ended by
ahead. the educational reform are pay-
Education advocates say ments of more than $100 mil-
a series of concessions to the lion a year by some estimates
smaller of the two main teachers to thousands of teachers who
unions undermined the reform's work full-time as union orga-
ability to create true change in nizers and rarely, if ever, set
the national education system. foot inside a classroom. Educa-
And despite those conces- tion reform groups have found
sions, the smaller teachers union some union representatives
continued days of debilitating earning hundreds of thousands
demonstrations in Mexico City, of dollars per semester.
sending tens of thousands of The rest of the reform focus-
supporters to shut down the cap- es on reasserting government
ital's main boulevard and protest control by awarding teaching
outside key government building jobs to the highest scorers on a
Wednesday. Thousands attend- standardized test instead of fun-
ed smaller protests in cities neling them through a teachers
around the country. The union union, a measure weakened by
also pledged to throw its sup- a series of back-room compro-
port behind a weekend protest mises withthe CNTE.
against the oil reform by leftist The law maintains union
leader Andres Manuel Lopez control over the current crop of
Obrador. teaching students by delaying
"When Congress is rendered purely test-based hiring for two
void, the only thing that remains years. Serving teachers will have
is the streets," leftist Sen. Mario three chances to pass an annual
Delgado said as a series of his performance test. If they fail
Democratic Revolution Party's all three, they will be moved to
objections to specific measures an administrative job or given
of the reform were rejected in the chance to retire instead of
relatively narrow votes. being fired. In another compro-
The education reform initially mise, failing teachers can appeal
pitted Pena Nieto against the transfers to local labor law mag-
country's main teachers union - istrates, a measure that reduces
LatinAmerica'slargestunionand federal control in favor of local
once one of the most important officials more easily influenced
allies of his Institutional Revolu-
tionary Party. The union, known
by the Spanish acronym SNTE, A
fell into line after its head, Elba
Esther Gordillo, was arrested on
corruption charges in February.
She remainsjailedpendingtrial. 0l £i
A smaller, dissident union
known as the National Educa
tion Workers' Coordinating
Committee, or CNTE, continued
protesting and eventually rallied
thousands of teachers from poor t 5 0
southern states, paralyzing large

sections of the capital for more n -A Udy
than a week.
In the end, the CNTE won a Abrowdp rgrm
series of concessions that help
protect its members. Reform
advocates called the law an y 1
important first step but said
much more remained to be done
in order to change the system.
"It's not everything we would
have hoped for butit's anhistoric
change," said David Calderon,
director of the education reformcea
advocacy group Mexicans First. Learn your potential
"Of course it's just a change
in the rules that still has to be www.ceaStudyAbroad.com
turned into reality." p: 1,800.266.4441
Much of Mexico's educational
dysfunction is attributed to the *Pleasementionthisadwhenyou
relationship formed more than speakwith your CEA rep.
a half-century ago between the


Prey
aim
El
STC
Presid
Wedn
Unite(
survei
ing to
the N
spying
fashio
even t
progr,
sprea
effort
"I
the
arouni
not g
people
to thi
said i
report
news
Minis
he bet
trip to
do is t
areas(
Stil
edged
vacy v
Europ
protec
for so
bubble
Germ,
newsp
based
forme
Edwa
Des
of a m
the Sn
show
stores
throu
ing e
instan
such c

sident's remarks as Prism, the government can
obtain secret court orders and
aed at assuaging gather mass amounts of data
from major Internet companies
uropean allies such as Google, Apple, Micro-
soft and Facebook.
misgivings The documents also revealed
how other NSA programs can
)CKHOLM (AP) - tap into trans-Atlantic fiber
lent Barack Obama on optic lines so the agency can
esday defended anew the collect and store raw Internet
d States' controversial traffic, including email mes-
illance programs, try- sages sent overseas.
reassure Europeans that Those programs incensed
ational Security Agency's Europeans. Germany's Social
g apparatus acts in limited Democratic leader Peer Stein-
n to root out threats - brueck, the main election chal-
though recently revealed lenger to Chancellor Angela
ams show a more wide- Merkel, said last month he
d information-gathering would suspend negotiations
with the U.S. over a free-trade
can give assurances to agreement until Washington
publics in Europe and clarified details about the NSA's
d the world that we're surveillance programs. Merkel
oing around snooping at also raised the issue with
e's emails or listening Obama when he visited Berlin
eir phone calls," Obama earlier this year.
n response to a Swedish The controversy surround-
ter's question during a ing the NSA surveillance pro-
conference with Prime grams is sure to follow the
ter Fredrik Reinfeldt as president when he attends the
gan a whirlwind, 24-hour Group of 20 economic sum-
Sweden. "What we try to mit in Russia, the second stop
to target very specifically on his three-day overseas trip.
of concern." Russia's government granted
1, the president acknowl- Snowden temporary asylum,
that questions about pri- defying Obama's demands that
were likely to trail him in the 30-year-old American be
e - a continent that is returned to the U.S. to face
ctive of privacy rights - espionage charges.
me time. The issue also Snowden is accused of leak-
ed up during his trip to ing highly secretive documents
any in June, shortly after to The Guardian and Washing-
tapers published reports ton Post newspapers.
on documents leaked by Russia's decision to allow
r government contractor Snowden into the country
rd Snowden. worsened the already tense ties
pite Obama's assertions between Obama and Russian
tore narrow-scope effort, President Vladimir Putin. The
owden-leaked documents U.S. president called off plans
the NSA collects and to hold one-on-one talks with
all kinds of data traveling Putin in Moscow before the
gh the Internet, includ- G-20, choosing instead to add
mails, video chats and a last minute stop in Sweden to
tt messages. Under one his travel itinerary.
lassified program, known While the Swedish govern-

ment bills itself as a champion
of Internet freedom, officials
said ahead of Obama's visit that
they wouldn't raise the sensi-
tive issue with the U.S. presi-
dent.
However, Internet freedom
advocates protesting U.S. sur-
veillance programs were among
thousands of demonstrators
who gathered in Stockholm
for a peaceful protest against
Obama's visit.
Swedes reacted with outrage
in 2008 over a law that gave a
Swedish intelligence service
the green light to snoop on
email traffic crossing the coun-
try's borders. Sweden's small
Pirate Party, which advocates
freedom on the Internet and
is highly critical of govern-
ment surveillance, has inspired
the creation of similar parties
across Europe and beyond.
Air Force One touched
down in Stockholm Wednes-
day morning after an overnight
flight from Washington. Obama
was greeted on the mild, sunny
morning by crowds that lined
the "streets in central Stock-
holm to watch his motorcade
speed by.
Obama's trip marked the
first bilateral visit by a sitting
U.S. president to the northern
European nation. Thousands
of armed police were deployed
on city streets, many roads
and parks were closed in the
downtown area, and concrete
barriers and steel fences have
sprung up in many locations
near where the president was
staying.
Following his meeting with
the prime minister, Obama
paid tribute to the late Swedish
diplomat Raoul Wallenberg,
who is credited with saving
at least 20,000 Jews during
World War II. Wallenberg was
arrested by Soviet forces in
1945 and mysteriously disap-
peared.
4


4A - Thursday, September 5, 2013

Op Fl 101

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A.

C he fil

Heartbreaking slowness

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T HE DAILY
Thank you, Mr. Ross
Moving forward, development focus must be financial aid
Going even beyond the generous recent donations from
Charles Munger, Penny Stamps and Helen Zell, Stephen
Ross donated $200 million to the University this Wednes-
day. Ross is now the largest individual donor in school history with
a total of $313 million gifted, and the funds will be split between the
business school that bears his name and the Athletic Department.
The donation will be used to renovate and build facilities for the
business school, including study spaces for students and a career
service office, and to expand scholarships for Business students.
The Athletic Department will be developing spaces for its 31 teams,
building new athletic stadiums and creating academic resources for
athletes to succeed in the classroom.

n Aug. 23, a physicist by
the name of John Main-
stone died. He was 78 years
old. During
his lifetime,
he held an
appointment
as a lecturer
in physics at
Australia's
University of
Queensland BARRY
for more thanB
50 years, he BELMONT
helped raise
three daugh-
ters with his wife and he oversaw
the world's longest running labora-
tory experiment, the famous "Pitch
Drop Experiment" - an experi-
ment whose critical moments he
never had a chance to witness.
The experiment began in 1927,
years before Mainstone was born,
and sought to prove that some sub-
stances that appeared to be solids
- in this case a petroleum deriva-
tive referred to as "pitch" - may,
in fact, be highly viscous fluids. To
prove this, some of this pitch was
placed ina funnel and allowed to
settle, and eventually, it dropped
through the bottom - much like
water through a faucet, albeit
about a billion times slower. The
first drop of pitch fell more than
10 years after the beginning of the
experiment. The subsequent seven
drops took 8.3, 7.2, 8.1, 8.3, 8.7, 9.3
and 12.3 years to fall, respectively.
It has been more than 13 years since
the last drop and physicists around
the world wait with bated breath
over a live-streaming webcam.
Why? Well, in the 86 years since
the beginning of the experiment, no
one has seen a drip drop. Not even
Mainstone, its caretaker of 52 years.

To have so fully devoted one's
life to one thing and never see it
come to full fruition is nothing
short of existentially devastating
to many of us. As physicist Halina
Rubinsztein-Dunlop, a colleague of
Mainstone's, noted, "John's death
is particularly sad as ... he did not
see a single drop fall."
But perhaps the point of the
experiment - to watch pitch drop
- isn't the point of the experi-
ment at all. Perhaps it's not just an
experiment in watchingstuff move
slowly - though this does have
important ramifications in fluid
dynamics, continuum mechanics
and tribology. Instead, maybe this
experiment is a profound expres-
sion of the difference in scales
between human beings and
their surroundings.
Simply put, we are middle-sized
primates on a middle-sized world
capable of observing middle-sized
things. So much is beyond our scope
- the size of an atom, the weight
of a sun, the smell of dark matter,
the taste of a black hole, the sound
of the continents moving - that it
wouldn't be an exaggeration to say
we perceive next to nothing at all.
Just about every sound our spe-
cies' ears have heard has fallen
between 20 and 20,000 Hz, a
woefully small margin incapable
of hearing the tides or appreciat-
ing a dog-whistle quartet. Every
sight our species' eyes has seen has
come from electromagnetic waves
approximately 390 to 700 nano-
meters in length, a sliver less than
0.00000000000000000001 per-
cent the spectrum of waves we can
currently measure. As nature made
us, we are blind, deaf and dumb in
a very real sense.
That we have found out the

extent of our ignorance is perhaps
the crowning achievement of sci-
ence. Through careful observation,
objective reporting and sharing
what we learn, we've been able
to develop a knowledge base and
methodology powerful enough to
predict the movement of stars tril-
lions and trillions of miles away
simply from the light they left
billions of years ago. It's power-
ful enough to make instantaneous
communication across the planet
nearly trivial and strip atoms of
their electrons. We have come a
long way since the savannah.
So much is beyond
our scope - we
perceive next to
nothing at all.
Mainstone's missed drops are
only buta few in the bucket of stuff
we miss in our universe. If John
Mainstone's death is sad for miss-
ing these, we might weep every day
for all that is seen and unseen. We
might also well up in gratitude that
such people exist, willing to face
down nature and watch it work.
Though we were not equipped to
do so, we have equipped ourselves.
With patience, perseverance and
cunning we have equipped our-
selves to study the invisible.
We've split the atom, seen stars
explode and seen rocks flow, and it
was all because of people like
John Mainstone.
- Barry Belmont can be reached
at belmont@umich.edu.

i

I
I

Most importantly, the University com-
munity owes a serious debt of gratitude to
Ross. Asa private citizen, he has done more to
advance higher education in recent years than
the Michigan state legislature, whose job it is
to support Michigan's public universities.
Undoubtedly, this donation will be a huge
benefit for business students and athletes. But
Ross's program-specific donation is part of a
growing trend among donors of supporting
already well-funded programs or initiatives
that help a select few of a vast student body.
Lastyear, the Athletic Departmenthad amas-
sive $124.5-million budget that went under-
utilized, as the department left $1.3 million
on the table. The Business School budgets
for about $26,000 for each of its students,
compared to approximately $18,000 per LSA
student. These programs' wealth should not
be held against them, but there needs to be
focus on how donors can impact the greatest
number and most vulnerable populations on
campus.
Late last May, the University announced
plans for the next major capital campaign.
The development drive, to be chaired by Ross
and launching this November, pinpointed the
priority for all incoming funds as expanding
financial aid for students. But considering
the yearly tuition increases that create unim-
pressive socio-economic diversity by pricing
out students from lower-income families, the
expansion of financial aid is more than a pri-
ority - it's a need.
During his successful campaign to the Uni-

versity's Board of Regents, Regent Mark Ber-
nstein proposed that a single-digit percentage
of each donation the University receives
should be set aside automatically for financial
aid. That proposal should be policy. The Uni-
versity has a robust development office that
meets the needs of each donor by designing
individualized donation plans. But that office's
efforts must shift from nudging donors toward
financial-aid donations to clearly articulating
that financial aid is the number-one item the
University needs in order to live up to its repu-
tation as aleader in diversity.
Asking donors to broaden the impact of
their funds isn't unheard of: New York City
Mayor Michael Bloomberg has gifted more
than $1.1 billion to Johns Hopkins University,
with donations supporting a wide variety of
campus needs. According to The New York
Times, Bloomberg's contributions include
not only a school of public health, a stem-cell
research initiative and library expansions,
but also "20 percent of need-based financial
aid grants." The University's donors need to
be encouraged to follow Bloomberg's model
and look at the core missions of the school.
The University should rightly be proud
of the Business School and the University
athletic program - the students and staff
involved are our friends and peers - and of
the fact that the school inspires passion like
Ross routinely displays. But moving forward,
building the best Michigan means supporting
diversity, and that means supporting finan-
cial aid for the widest array of students.

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michdailyoped and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily.
STEPHEN YAROS I
My second freshman year

All college students remember their fresh-
man year. They remember the excitement,
the nervousness - the feelings of total possi-
bility and complete fear. It's a unique experi-
ence. It's as joyous as nerve-wracking and as
exciting as terrifying. It's great, but only if it
happens once.
I came to the University a year ago as a
transfer student prepared to continue my
education in full stride. I had been a college
freshman once and even a sophomore. I had
endured all of the wonderful and not-so-
wonderful experiences that went along with
those years and learned from them. I had
become a capable and successful student able
to maneuver through the arduous maze that
is college life. I was ready.
When I came to this fine school, I expected
to continue my glorious path to straight As
and an excellent undergraduate degree with-
out skipping a beat. I had already endured so
many late nights studyingthat I knew it could
get only easier. I knew what study routines
worked; I had eliminated my mistakes and
trained myself to think at a collegiate level.
I was ready. I was going to be a junior in col-
lege, and I was goingto act like it.
I was wrong. I was a freshman all over again.
At first, I wasn't sure what was happen-
ing, and I wasn't willing to consider any-
thing worse than just first-day nervousness.
But then it became first-week nervousness,
after that first two-week nervousness. After
walking around campus for several weeks
camouflaging my many inquiries with an
omnipotent fagade, I finally gave in. I had
been so successful at my previous institution
that I had forgottenthe troubles that new and
exotic situations can cause.
I wanted to have it all together on my own,
but I didn't. I didn't know where things were
on campus, wasn't used to running on Michi-
gan time and certainly didn't understand
what kind of workload was in store for me.

I was a freshman, and hadn't figured it out
until just then.
Now, that isn't to say I hadn't received a
fine education from my previous university,
or that I didn't have the mental capacity to
handle classes at the University of Michigan
- but I didn't feel like a junior college stu-
dent. I needed to ask questions, to make mis-
takes and to do things twice.
And so I sought outhelp from others - even
those students at the University that were
younger than me - and decided to do what
was necessary to be successful. The tipping
point finally came when I realized that my
success was more important than my pride.
So ask questions. That goes for not only
transfer students and freshmen, but also
for sophomores, juniors, seniors, fifth-year
seniors and anyone else enrolled in a class.
College is hard, and although this University
is one of enduring quality and tradition, it
will not hesitate to vigorously challenge and
discourage its students. From time to time,
we all find ourselves feeling and acting like.
freshmen. It's painful and inevitable. Stu-
dents should not and must not combat these
instances with begrudging disregard, but
rather take them head-on. Students need to
embrace the moments when they feel like
freshmen and take a second to ask a ques-
tion or look something up. Spend extra time
double-checking and triple-checking things,
because in the end, it's worth it.
Now that one year has passed, it's much
easier for me to see where I went wrong and
what I should have done. I made it through my
firstyear and came out the other side smarter,
more qualified and with a simple message of
hope. It does get easier. If you work hard, suc-
cess is on the horizon, so keep at it. And to all
of the transfer students out there: Welcome
to your second freshman year, and good luck.
Stephen Yaros is an LSA senior.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850
words. Send the writer's full name and University affiliation to
tothedaily@michigandaily.com.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Eric Ferguson, Jesse Klein,
Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald,
Jasmine McNenny, Harsha Nahata, Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba,
Michael Spaeth, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
WILLIAM TOMS I VIEWPOINT
Blood, semen and Craigslist
A scanner authenticates my handprint as I'm ush- were positively dignified. I once attended a charity
ered briskly into Booth C. A spring-loaded lancet jabs auction at the Meadow Brook Hall, a mansion built by
my fingertip and my arm is passed under an ultravio- the widow of automotive maven John Francis Dodge.
let beam, revealing a watermark known only to staff This fertility clinic, nestled in an affluent Detroit sub-
members. I lie down on a contoured vinyl bed as a urb, featured neither the Dodge mansion's valet, nor
tourniquet is tightened against my bicep, wincing as its platters of marvelous port-glazed duck caaps.
the needle enters my arm. Blood fills the adjoining With that in mind though, it's still worth retelling as
tube like mercury in a thermometer, terminating at a it was the second time in my life I have ever experi-
softly-whirring machine with a passing resemblance enced such overwhelming deference and discretion in
to a reel-to-reel deck. I'm told that under no circum- the same day.
stances am Ito fall asleep. Fortunately, the confidentiality agreementsigned in
Allow me to pause. the clinic's wainscot-paneled drawing room not only
This isn't the memoir of a CIA officer, nor is it an prevents me from disclosing anything more than the
expose on a narcotics ring. This is a grubby clinic on tasteful Ansel Adams prints on the wall and the com-
the south side of Ypsilanti, and this is my first day as a plimentary beverages provided by the secretary, but
for-profit medical donor. also relieves me from the tired, euphemistic winking
For the last month, I've traveled across southeast and nudging required to describe the experience in
Michigan engaging in every legal donation service, print. It's exactly what you think it is. The compen-
study and trial available to me inan effort to shed light sation is highly competitive. The genetic criteria are
on an increasingly popular practice among college stu- highly restrictive, and the list of forbidden activities
dents faced with meteoric increases in tuition and liv- in your "off-hours" is equally so. Far from a frat-boy's
ing expenses. Nothing is off limits: Blood, sperm and dream, it was the most professional medical appoint-
even the electrical activity of your prefrontal cortex ment of my life.
can been commoditized. If you've read this far with arched brow and mouth
The hunt begins every morning on Craigslist, home agape, then you're neither alone nor entirely unjusti-
to dozens of cash offerings for body fluids, cooperation fied. For the same reason that we recoil at museum
in pharmaceutical trials and in one standout case, the exhibits describing the Middle Passage or at insurance
eggs of "extraordinary young Jewish women." From tables describing the price of reattaching a dismem-
here I place a handful of cold calls, pack my schedule bered finger, we humans intrinsically reject placing
to the limits of medical ethics and begin the lengthy a price on a pound of flesh. My experiences have vio-
process of peddling my flesh. lated every cultural and religious norm on the books,
The scene above takes place on Friday, my designat- and even the most "progressive" individuals manage
ed dayfor plasmadonation, though callingit a donation at least one furtive grimace per minute when we talk
is playing fast and loose with the definition of philan- about this. However, despite the unflattering respons-
thropy. This is the sale of vital fluids for cash - plain es, what I do, and what students all across the country
and simple. While the company clearly makes a pitch are doing, is fully voluntary and non-coercive.
in their pamphlets for "heroes," the process is uncer- So if you're in good health, have a light walletand can
emonious and - like many programs angled toward manage to suppress your basic urges (for volunteerism),
low-income clients - professionally condescending. then you too may sleep soundly with a petty collegiate
Knowing that the U.S. Food and Drug Administra- fortune, knowing that elements of your body are stowed
tion doesn't approve any "paid-donor" specimens for in anonymously-labeled refrigerators across the coun-
life-saving operations, the experience left me feeling try. I may not continue donating, but for the record, I
slightly cheapened, and though the $50 provided by did pay this month's rent with the dividends.
the receptionist did help put my mind at ease, I still
didn't feel likea hero. William Toms isma senior at the
By comparison, my Wednesdays spentselling sperm University of Michigan-Dearborn.
INTERESTED IN CAMPUS ISSUES? POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every Monday and
Wednesday at 6 p.m., the Daily's opinion staff meets to discuss both
University and national affairs and write editorials.
E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com


. ': Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom W S Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 5A

Ross' donation to the 'U'
raises concerns in Florida

A pair of women react after a stabbing during a fight involving multiple students inside Spring High School in Spring,
Texas on Wednesday. A 16-year-old boy has been airlifted from the high school in suburban Houston with stab wounds.
School stabbng fight leaves
one dead and three injured

Police remain
mum on what
precipitated the
confrontation
SPRING, Texas (AP) - A
fight inside a Houston-area
high school escalated into a
series of stabbings Wednesday
that left a 17-year-old student
dead and three others wound-
ed, sheriff's officials said.
The stabbings happened
during a fight between several
students in a school corridor.
The Harris County Sheriff's
Office said 17-year-old stu-
dent Luis Alonzo Alfaro pulled
a knife during the fight and
fatally stabbed one student and
wounded three others.
Alfaro admitted to the stab-
bing under questioning by
sheriff's homicide detectives
and was charged with murder,
the Sheriff's Office said in a
statement released Wednesday
evening.
Sheriff's spokesman Alan
Bernstein referred queries
about whether Alfaro had an
attorney to the district clerk's
website, which had not been
updated as of Wednesday
night. Alfaro also was not yet
listed in the jail's booking sys-
tem.
Authorities provided few
details on what may have led
to the fight, and no other infor-

mation was available on the
teenager who was killed.
"We believe a confrontation
of some sort occurred ... that
ultimately led into a physical
confrontation that produced
weapons," Sheriff Adrian Gar-
cia said. "There has been some
information that this may have
been gang related."
School district officials can-
celed classes at the high school
for the rest of the week.
Some parents said the fight
was the continuation of a dis-
turbance that broke out Tues-
day. Officials at the school,
which has about 3,500 stu-
dents, would not confirm their
comments.
"Every parent sends their
child to school believing
school should be one of those
safe haven places," Spring
Independent School District
Superintendent Ralph Draper
said. "This is what we spend
our nights and days working
toward and what I lose sleep
over.
"In my nearly 30-year
career, this is the one thing you
pray never to experience."
Parent Tara Campbell said
she received text messages
from her daughter about the
fight and that her daughter
said students who witnessed
the episode snapped cellphone
photos of the victims as they
lay on the ground.
Campbell said she intended
to have her daughter home-

schooled, saying she's grown
tired of fights at the school.
"Last year there were gang
fights consistently," she said.
"This is ridiculous. This is an
ongoing situation."
Lakesia Brent said her son, a
sophomore at the school, sent
her multiple text messages
asking her to come pick him
up.
"He's just afraid," she said,
adding that fights at the school
were a problem in the last aca-
demic year.
The school was placed on
lockdown following the stab-
bings, which occurred about
7 a.m., and students were
released to the care of their
parents later Wednesday.
Many parents were upset
that the school district did not
provide them information in a
timely manner.
Draper defended the dis-
trict's actions, saying they
focused on two goals - secur-
ing the school and making
sure no action was taken to
compromise the investiga-
tion - before communicating
information to parents about
what had happened. He said
students were not immediately
released because some of them
were potential witnesses who
needed to be interviewed by
investigators.
"When street violence pours
into the school, it compromises
the safety of all our students,"
Draper said.

Billionaire insisted
that taxpayers help
pay for Dolphins
stadium renovation
DETROIT (AP) - Miami
Dolphins owner Stephen Ross
is donating $200 million to the
University of Michigan, his alma
mater announced Wednesday,
making it the biggest single gift
in the school's history but rais-
ing questions about Ross' insis-
tence on taxpayer funding to
make improvements to his NFL
team's stadium.
Ross' donation is among the
largest ever given to a U.S. col-
lege or university. It will be split
evenly between the Stephen M.
Ross School of Business and the
university's athletics depart-
ment, which will rename its
campus the Stephen M. Ross
Athletic Campus, the school
said in a statement. It brings the
total amount Ross has given the
school to more than $313 mil-
lion.
Although the donation is a
huge boon to his alma mater, it
will make it more difficult for
Ross to seek taxpayer help for
the $350 million improvements
he wants to make to the Dol-
phins' stadium, said Andrew
Zimbalist, a sports economist at
Smith College in Northampton,
Mass.
"It strikes me as peculiar
timing that Mr. Ross decided to
have this made known as this
time," Zimbalist said. "If I were
in Miami, then I would have
additional questions about why
he needed public funding for his
stadium."
House Speaker Will Weath-
erford, who killed Ross' plan
by not putting it up for a vote,
declined to comment on the
Michigan donation. But Miami

documentary filmmaker Billy
Corben, a critic of Ross' stadi-
um plan, tweeted: "Props on @
MiamiDolphins owner's gener-
ous donation. He can do what-
ever he wants with his money.
He can't do whatever he wants
with ours."
Ross has said an upgrade
of the 26-year-old stadium
is needed if Miami is to host
future Super Bowls and college
championship games. He says
the Dolphins are already heav-
ily in debt and one of the NFL's
most leveraged teams, making
upgrades impossible without
taxpayer help.
Last spring, Ross sought up to
$289 million from an increase in
the Miami-Dade County hotel
tax and up to $90 million in state
sales tax rebates, but the Florida
Legislature turned down his
plan.
In a statement, Ross said the
donation and stadium issue are
different subjects.
"I think it is important to be
committed to both," Ross said.
"As I've often said, I've prom-
ised to pay a large portion of
the stadium upgrade costs, but
the community who would sub-
stantially benefit also needs
to be involved. I also think it's
extremely important to be a
good citizen from a philan-
thropic standpoint, and to set
an example for others to do the
same. Both commitments are
important to me and both have
the potential to leave a lasting
legacy that will benefit so many.
people."
A New York real estate devel-
oper, Ross has a net worth esti-
mated at more than $4 billion.
He graduated from Michigan
in 1962, and completed his pur-
chase of the Dolphins and their
stadium in early 2009.
The athletics campus in Ann
Arbor is expected to be named
the Stephen M. Ross Athletic

Campus.
"Stephen Ross' vision has
always been about the abil-
ity of facilities to transform
the human experience," Michi-
gan President Mary Sue Cole-
man said in the statement. "He
understands the power of well-
conceived spaces, and his gener-
osity will benefit generations of
Michigan students, faculty and
coaches."
According to lists from The
Chronicle of Higher Education
and The Chronicle of Philan-
thropy, Ross' gift is the third
biggest to a higher education
facility in 2013. Earlier this
year, it was announced that New
York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
would donate $350 million to
Johns Hopkins University, and
in July the A. Eugene Brockman
Charitable Trust gave a $250
million donation to Centre Col-
lege in Kentucky.
Ross' $200 million donation
is among the 30 single largest
donations to a U.S. college or
university, according to The
Chronicle of Higher Education.
In Michigan, specific proj-
ects will be announced in the
coming months, the school
said. In addition, scholarships
will be available to Ross stu-
dents.
The Ross School of Business
proposes to create new spaces
for students to study, collaborate
and connect with each other,
faculty and potential employ-
ers. Classrooms will include
advanced technology to support
in-person and virtual collabora-
tion.
With the additional funding,
University of Michigan Athlet-
ics plans to improve its campus
to help athletes succeed on the
playing field and in the class-
room, improve its facilities and
build sites to be a destination for
local, state, national and inter-
national competitions.


Afghan woman sought in
inside $1.1 million bank theft

Police suspect
mafia involvement
after woman flees
to India
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -
The young woman worked for
three years at the Afghan bank,
officials say. Then one day she
vanished. As did $1.1 million.
Afghan authorities have
been scrambling to track down
the suspected thief and sev-
eral alleged accomplices, and
an international arrest war-
rant has been issued. Still, the
revelations are another embar-
rassment for the banking sector
in this country, which has seen
corruption already unravel one
major institution amid ongoing
security threats from militants
and criminals.
Shokofa Salehi, 22, worked
in the money transfer division
at the headquarters of Azizi
Bank, a major Afghan lender in
Kabul, officials said. She dis-
appeared around two months
ago, according to Azizi chief
executive Inayatullah Fazli.
Investigators say she is sus-
pected of transferring some
$1.1 million out of the bank's
0 coffers to accounts of relatives.
Besides Salehi, at least nine
people are believed involved in
the case.
"They are a mafia group,"
Fazli alleged.
An Interpol red notice - the
equivalent of an international

arrest warrant - describes
authorities as seeking Salehi on
charges of fraud and misusing
her authority. Afghan officials
believe Salehi used fake docu-
ments under the name Samira
to reach India after transfer-
ring the money; her current
whereabouts are unknown.
Two suspects in the case
have been detained in Dubai,
senior Afghan police official
Gen. Aminullah Amarkhail
said, adding that he's in touch
with counterparts in Dubai and
India for help tracking down
Salehi and other suspects. He
said one suspect is alleged to
have spent some $850,000 of
the money to invest in a tire
business and possibly other
ventures in Dubai.
Amarkhail said Salehi's
parents were among the sus-
pects, and are believed to have
returned to Kabul after going
with her to India. Another top
police official, Mohammad
Zahir, said investigators were
still seeking the parents.
Azizi Bank's website says
it began operating in 2006,
and that it now has "a 1,500-
plus strong team of employees
and with a 20 percent female
workforce is playing a quiet
but effective role in women(s)
emancipation and empower-
ment." It also calls itself "the
bank you can trust."
As striking as it is, Salehi's
alleged pilfering pales in com-
parison to some other examples
of corruption in Afghanistan's
banking sector.

In 2010, regulators seized
Kabul Bank, Afghanistan's
largest lender, amid allega-
tions of severe levels of graft.
Its near-collapse and subse-
quent bailout represented more
than 5 percent of Afghanistan's
gross domestic product, mak-
ing it one of the largest banking
failures in the world in relative
terms.
An independent report
described Kabul Bank as being
run like a Ponzi scheme. Inves-
tigators said some $861 million
in fraudulent loans had disap-
peared into the pockets of asso-
ciates of the men behind the
bank.
Earlier this year, an Afghan
tribunal sentenced two top
Kabul Bank executives to five
years in prison for misappro-
priating funds. Critics said the
punishments were far too light
and raised questions about
President Hamid Karzai's com-
mitment to rooting out corrup-
tion.
On Tuesday, Afghanistan
announced it was trying once
again to privatize what it had
salvaged of the bank, which is
now called New Kabul Bank.
Banks in Afghanistan have
also been targeted by Taliban
militants and criminal gangs.
Not only are they prime tar-
gets for people seeking to steal
money, they also are gather-
ing places for many govern-
ment employees seeking to
make deposits or cash their
paychecks, thus making them
attractive to suicide bombers.

JOIN THE DAILY! ALL SECTIONS TAKING NEW HIRES
MASS MEETINGS ON SEPT. 12,15,17 AND 19
7:30 P.M. AT 420 MAYNARD STREET


6A - Thursday, September 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Thursday, September 5, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

MONEY
From Page 1A
for student-athletes and new
construction projects.
"Athletics - just knowing the
spirit and importance of athlet-
ics - led me to give my gifts to the
Athletic Department, knowing
how it helps the whole Univer-
sity," Ross said.
When asked about his role as
chair of the University's soon-to-
launch capital campaign, Ross
said he hopes to help raise money
for various realms of campus life.
"I hope we raise the funding
that we need for scholarships,
additional facilities, endowment
of professorships and meet the
future needs of the University,"
Ross said.
The public event was followed
by a more intimate one in the Col-
loquium Room of the Business
School, which overlooks campus
and much of Ann Arbor. Members
of the media, a select group of
students and the University's top
administrators gathered to hear
additional remarks from Regent
Katherine White, Coleman,
Michigan Athletic Director Dave
Brandon, Davis-Blake and Ross.
"We are delighted and grate-
ful for alumni and donors like
Stephen Ross, who understand
so well that public universities
increasingly rely on donor sup-

port to maintain and strengthen
our excellence," White said on
behalf of the University's Board of
Regents. "We also know when the
University of Michigan thrives,
the state of Michigan thrives."
In an e-mail interview after
the event, White added that she
was hopeful that Ross's donation
would spur other large donors to
consider what they might be able
to contribute to the upcoming
campaign.
"I am very hopeful we can
raise a lot of money for student
scholarships," White said. "It is
so important the University of
Michigan remain accessible to
those whose talents gain them
admission. The more we can do
to ease their burden, the more
they will be able to thrive while
they are here and after they
graduate."
While there are no formal
construction plans yet, Brandon
emphasized the importance of
the gift in building new, state-
of-the-art facilities for Michigan
athletes. The donation will also
help provide student-athletes
with better academic resources
for success off the field as well.
"There are hundreds and hun-
dreds of athletic directors wak-
ing up all over America today,
and Ican assure you I'm the hap-
piest one," Brandon said. "This
important investment will also
provide them with the tools they

will need to be successful in their
lives after athletics.".
A pre-recorded video message
from Republican Gov. Rick Sny-
der was also played for attendees
in which he thanked Ross for his
generous donation and support
for the state of Michigan. He also
quipped that Michigan graduates
like himself and Ross go on to
achieve some "moderate success."
In an interview after the
event, Coleman said there were
many discussions among her-
self, Ross, Davis-Blake, Brandon
and Jerry May, vice president for
development, to ensure that the
donation fulfilled Ross's vision.
Part of that vision, Coleman
added, was to ensure that Busi-
ness undergraduate students in
would have the same experience
and resources available to them
as the graduate students.
"He wanted to have this whole
dynamic of career services, mak-
ing sure that we provide the best
opportunities for our students,"
Coleman said. "These discus-
sions take a while, but at the end
of the day we feel fabulous about
the outcome."
Davis-Blake told the audience
that the donation will further
innovate the Business School's
campus.
"This historic gift is a testa-
ment to that and will further
transform the Ross School into
a true business campus," Davis-

Blake said.
Tim Slottow, the Univer-
sity's executive vice president
and chief financial officer, said
Ross's donation set the bar for
the upcoming capital campaign,
which will focus on endowing
scholarships and financial aid
for both in-state and out-of-state
students with demonstrated
need. He added that philanthro-
py is key to the University's sus-
tainablity.
"Having the chair of the cam-
paign seta $200-million starting
point for the campaign is huge,"
Slottow said.
After the event, Business
School spokeswoman Tamra
Talmadge-Anderson saidthe
donation will keep the Business
School among the top in the
country.
"We will be truly the busi-
ness school of the future, not
only because we will have these
facilities, but they will match our
best-in-class programs," Tal-
madge-Anderson said.
In an interview after his
speech, Chatman said Ross's
philanthropic efforts inspire him
to give back.
"Being part of this Univer-
sity, part of this school, this
gift is something that us as stu-
dents shouldn't take lightly and
shouldn't take for granted and
should appreciate and support
Mr. Ross," Chatman said.


COUNCIL
From Page 1A
much needed and beneficial
change to Ann Arbor."
Vresics was facing Ann Arbor
councilmember Sabra Briere (D-
Ward 1) for her seat in the upcom-
ing general election in November.
Briere has maintained a high
MLIVE
From Page 1A
publication in Washtenaw
County.
AnnArbor.com continued
with a much-reduced staff and
printed on Thursdays and Sun-
days. At the time, it was market-
ed as an "innovative community
news and information service."
The Ann Arbor News clos-
ing was widely regarded as

attendance record for city meet-
ings, as she was the only member
of the City Council to participate
in a Beyond the Diag effort, wel-
coming students living off cam-
pus.
Still working to develop the
party's infrastructure, Leaf said
members have worked with pro-
fessors and city planners to devel-
op their zoning plan and party
one of the first large-scale
experiments in finding alterna-
tive revenue models for local
newspapers. Critics have said
AnnArbor.com's much-reduced
staff has severely diminished its
investigative reporting powers
while others contend its cheap-
er costs allow it to survive in the
long run.
In an August 2012 interview
with The American Journalism
Review, Charles Eisendrath,
director of the University's

platforms.
Leaf said the party is also
working on reaching out to resi-
dents who might share concerns
about the city-zoning plan but are
not students.
"This month we are going to
approach environmental groups
that want to stop urban sprawl
and air pollution."
While some are skeptical that
Knight-Wallace journalism fel-
lowship, said the demise of The
Ann Arbor News had a negative
effect on the city and AnnArbor.
com was incapable of filling the
void it left.
"If you pay people a third of
what they were paid before,
and you have a third as many of
them, the results aren't exactly
rocket science," Eisendrath told
the Review.
MLive has five senior-level
"content" employees listed on

students registered to vote inAnn
Arbor may not cast their vote dur-
ing a non-presidential election,
Leaf said he believes a concerted
group of students will show up at
the polls for this election.
The party is holding a mass
meeting Sunday for students
interested in assisting the cam-
paign. Leaf said details will be
released on their website.
its website and 16 senior-level
"sales and marketing" employ-
ees.
Communications Prof. Derek
Vaillant said the loss of a daily
city paper has left a hole in the
Ann Arbor community.
"It's an embarrassment to
this community and this state,"
Vallant said. "The people in
Ann Arbor are the least well-
informed in the state. You have
to really work hard to get your
news."

GIFT
From Page 1A
Wallace journalism fellow at
the University, voiced disdain
for Ross's choice over Twit-
ter, noting that the Univer-
sity should be embarrassed for
accepting the gift when there
are other programs with higher
financial need.
In an interview Wednesday
evening, Pope said universities
have engaged in a "facilities-
building arms race," in which
institutions constantly try to
outbuild one another. Ross's
donation exclusively funds
facility-building, and half of it
goes to a part of the University
that actually generates revenue,
he added. This is in contrast to
other large donations, such as
Helen Zell's $50 million dona-
tion to improve the LSA Masters
of Fine Arts Creative Writing
Program earlier this year.
"I think the reaction on cam-
pus is goingto be a little bit more
complicated in some corners,"
Pope said.
The responses to Ross's dona-
tion beg the question: How do
donors decide where and how to
give?
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily last March,
Jerry May, University vice
president for development, said
fundraising involves matching
the University's needs with the
interests of potential donors.
Judy Malcolm, the Office of
Development's senior director
of executive communications,
added that the development
process is not about convincing
people to give ina certain area.
"We can't go make some-
one be excited about scholar-
ships when what they want to
do is cure cancer or support
research," Malcolm said. "What
we're trying to do is present our
dreams in the best way possible
and then find people who really
want to support students."
Although the University has
limited influence in changing
a donor's investment target, it
has at times proven effective at
encouraging potential donors to
"up"their commitment. In 2004,
Ross originally offered $50 mil-
lion to the Business School in
exchange for renaming it in his
honor. Bob Dolan, then dean of
the Business School, managed
to negotiate an increase in the
final donation to $100 million by
articulatingthe school's specific
need for extensive physical ren-
ovations, which Ross indepen-
dently verified with the school's
architect.
Pope, the former education
reporter, acknowledged that
the University can't realisti-
cally ask a donor to support a
cause they're not passionate
about. But, he said Ross' dona-
tion puts administrators in an
awkward position with other
schools, colleges and programs
that must be assured of their
significance despite being less
high-profile.
"U of M is right," Pope said. "If
this is what Stephen Ross is pas-
sionate about, then they have to
work with him, but I think they
might also have to communicate
to the rest of the university com-
munity that they understand
some of these other issues."

Though Ross's $200-million
donation will endow some finan-
cial scholarships, a priority Cole-
man and other administrators
have repeatedly emphasized for

the next capital campaign, it will
also fund upgrades at the Busi-
ness School and athletic campus.
May said studentscholarships
and fellowships resonate with
donors more than any other
form of philanthropy.
"However, there are some
donors that enjoy building beau-
tiful learning environments and
great facilities and, yes, we ben-
efit from those donors who have
that aspiration, who value learn-
ing spaces and important archi-
tectural spaces on a campus,"
May said.
Last spring, University alum
Charles Munger donated $110
million - the single largest 4
gift in University history until
Wednesday - for the construc-
tion of a graduate residence hall.
In an April interview with the
Daily, Timothy Slottow, Univer-
sity executive vice president and
chief financial officer, said these
types of relationships leading up
to a donation evolve over a num-
ber of years.
Munger had previously fund-
ed and supervised the construc-
tion of a graduate residence hall
at Stanford University, fascinat-
ed by the challenge of creating
an on-campus living community
for graduate students.
His donation earlier this
year joins Ross's $200 million
on the 2013 list of top contribu-
tors to universities and colleges,
according to The Chronicle of
Philanthropy.
Like Munger, many of Ross's
philanthropic counterparts have
chosen specific academic units,
schools or areas of the university
governance when handing out
the bigbucks.
In January, New York City
Mayor Michael Bloomberg gave
$350 million to his alma mater,
Johns Hopkins University,
where his donations exceed $1
billion. The $350 million to be
used for cross-disciplinary edu-
cation and financial aid. It will
also endow 50 faculty appoint-
ments in the fields of global
health and water resource sus-
tainability, Forbes reported.
It will also fund an estimated
2,600 need-based scholarships
over the next decade.
Another real estate mogul,
Mortimer Zuckerman, pledged
$200 million to endow a Mind
Brain Behavior Institute at
Columbia University, according
to Forbes. In 2012, Phil Knight,
the chairman of Nike, pledged
$125 million to the Oregon
Health Sciences University Can-
cer Institute at Oregon Univer-
sity.
In 2011, Raymond and Ruth
Perelman donated $225 million
to endow the University of Penn-
sylvania's School of Medicine as
part of that school's capital cam-
paign. Much of that money went
to endowing professorships and
providing financial aid, the Uni-
versityofPennsylvania's website
stated. Mr. Pereman's wealth
comes from the finance, manu-
facturingand miningindustries.
The Knight and Perelman
donations were also the largest
in the history of their respective
universities. None of the above
donors placed restrictions on
how their funds would be used.
Ross has maintained his foot-
hold at the forefront of higher
education philanthropy, in the
company of donors like Bloom-

berg, Zuckerman, Knight and
Perelman.
Although not unanimous in
their applause, most at the Uni-
versity are grateful.


Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

ANTD T R ENT
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 65 Lip, 38 La.._.Tar Pits 46 Raters ad
1 Behld, Io Ovid 66 Sunset 39 3Talladega's ratlers Cndl
5 Graded 67 Campus official home 47 Ignatius of Loyola CLEAN, QUIET RM. in lovely home
10 Stow on board 40 Capybaras, e.g. follower for female. Reduced rest is exehange
14 Decembre event DOWN 41 Coca-Cola 48 Garden for pet-siing & light housekeeping.
15 Mosul resident 1 Puts in a vault, in producer intruder Near Briarwood. 734-973-8699.
16 Supply-and- a way 43 Apple pie order 51 Hosp. area
demand subj. 2 Refined, as 44 Remote, 55 Zoo primates
17 Group for jive manners undesirable 57 ... peas in _F N
fools? 3 Positive locale, 59 Last of the
19 Boat that can 4 Sexy Sommer figuratively Mohicans?
navigate in 5 Saudi capital 45 Pay heed, in 61 Year in Claudius'
shallowwaters 6 Parenthesis, e.g. literature reign
20 Big name intaco 7 Loquacious es ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
arce 8 Like same .trackt NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
21 Smooch stars T O O T H A C I 5 P A T S ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
23 NHLlegend 9 "Minel" A M N I 0 N O S E A X E L ! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
14 Kingston Trio 10OArles acle PAUL__B____NYAN__RITA
song that 11 Camp David P ANSLOB ALNMY A R I CTPAO
inspired the 12 Likea Hail Mary N 1 0 N A L M A 0 R I CARLSONPROPERTIES.COM
Boston subway's passB t N N G 0 0 D M A N 734-332-610.
CharlieCard 13 Swaddle R E C E S S R A R E
25 "Superman 18 They mayclash I T 0 N T E A T S S K A CENTRAL CAMPUS
Retuns" on a set T A R Z A N O F T H E A P E S 6 and 7 bedroom houses
character 22 Bolivian capital E L K L A T T E L U RE great furniture/decor
27 Fed. nutrition std. 26 Calif. law group ethernet and wireless
29 Great joy 28 Poorly made I R E I B t R I A free laundry and parking
31 Quick swim in la 30 Shrimp dish M I C K E Y M A N T L E for rent NOW for May 2014
mer? 32"The Lion King" A LL I N L I C E A F T horvathproperties.com or call
33 Lip-._ lioness L I A R H U G H H E F N E R (734) 972-7368
34 FDR had three of 34Tres T A R T E I A I P E T R I __ __ _ VI_ _
them 37 Hit thebig A D E S N O E L S W I N GIF
35 Started the day leagues xwordiedtorwaolncom u091003
36Lkeingle-malt , '"2u3a"a5 n a e a*i7 in'6 _9'.__10__,,11 '__'12__1A3E
scotch
38 Ran when wet 14 15 16
39 Iron clothes?
41 Ungerietop 1 7 a19
42Short run FAMILY ASSISTANT / homework
46GI unlikelyto w 21 22 23 aide needed. A UM-based family with
pass inspection? 22 m 25 7a two daughters, 17 and 13, is looking
48 "When Worlds for a super-reliable, fun, smart, dedi-
Collide"co-author 29 so 31 32 cated family asst. for after-school
Philip homework help and chauffeuring. Flex.-
49 Zenith'sopposite m34 3 hrs, afternoon to early evening. Min.
50 Tour de France $12/hr + gas & mileage. Must have
stage 37 own car. Residence is near campus in
52 Jurisprudence org 4so 1 42 43 44 4s Ann Arbor Hills. Please e-mail with in-
53 JusticeFortas terest and refs to tareid@umich.edu.
54 Drying oven ea 4n 4 Thanks!
56Boringtool
58 Longtime Lucci 49 55 51 52
role s 4a e o U
60 Reneged on
olitically 5so as 6so a
funding"? 0 ___62________64____
62 Re ueteams,
briefly 66 67 THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
63 Kiddie's refrain organization, format. All Disciplines.
64 Jim Davis pooch By Robin Stears 09/05/13 734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
(c)2013 Tribune Content Agency, L"C

H ELP WANT ED
LOOKING FOR EXPERIENCED
servers and bartenders, eves. and
wknds. Apply within at Village Pub.
3452 Washentaw, AnnArbor 48104.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
UM LAW PROF. and wife seeking
mature college student to drive our kids
approx. 4 times/week to local activities
in the afternoons and wknds. We live
close to the campus. Greatljoh for
someone looking for extra money with-
out a big time commitment. Car req.
Call Steve or Nancy at 761-7752.

ARTHUR MILLER
ADAM SCHEFTER
BARACK OBAMA
These are just a few of the famous
people who've written for the Daily...
just kidding on that last one.
So, maybe we can't claim a U.S.
president, but our alumni from the past
123 years are an accomplished bunch.
JOIN A LEGACY OF EXCELLENCE:
ATTEND A MASS MEETING ON
SEPT. 12,15,17 OR 19, AT
7:30 P.M. AT 420 MAYNARD

0

0


T,
S
'LLx Y"
f
' -.. ; -

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 7A

Beilein riding high
into new school year

By NEIL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
The year 2013 has treated John
Beilein well.
He's working his dream job.
He made the national champi-
onship last season. He has a Big
Ten ring. He's continuing to reel
in the country's premier recruits
to support the two potential NBA
first-round picks that elected to
stay at Michigan. He spent part
of his summer in Russia coaching
the US University Games team.
He went to New York to see his
former star point guard become
an NBA lottery pick. And to top
it off, University alum Stephen
M. Ross has just endowed the
Athletic Department with $100
million.
And after all of that, the best
part of his job?
"Favorite part of the job is
going to the individual work-
outs early in the year and seeing
the progress people have made,"
Beilein said.
Sounds like an upset selec-
tion, but considering how much
Beilein relishes the minutiae -
the process involved in his job
rather than the results - it makes
some sense.
The least favorite part of his
job?
"There's very few things that
I dislike about, you know, living
your dream right now. How can
you not just love every bit of this?"
Yeah, that sounds more like it.
Coming off the summer fol-
lowing the most successful sea-
son of his career, Beilein has
much to be happy about. He
strolled into the Crisler Center
media room Wednesday after-
noon, still seemingly in summer
mode, with a pearly white polo, a

McCallister plays for
Team USA at U-21 worlds
By ZACH SHAW went out on the field I just tried
Daily Sports Writer to control the controllables and do
what I could to put myself in the
After watching the 2012 Michi- best situation possible."
gan field hockey season from the Upon making the team, McCal-
sidelines, redshirt junior midfield- lister and her new teammates
er Ainsley McCallister was itching travelled to the Netherlands for a
to get back on the field. week of practice before the event
The two-year captain didn't in Germany. Learning in a sum-
have to wait long, as she was mer practice setting proved to be
selected to represent the United arewardingexperience.
States in July's Junior World Cup "Surrounding myself with the
in Monchengladbach, Germany. United States team and gettingto
McCallister - the first Wolverine practice with them allowed me to
to participate in the event since learn so much," McCallister said.
2005 - appeared in all six of the "I was able to see strategies, tac-
United States' games, making one tics and other cool things I had
start. The team went 3-3 en route never seen before."
to a program-best seventh-place The competition itself proved
finish. to be even more educational. In
As a longtime participant in their six games, McCallister and
various national team develop- the U.S. squad were exposed to
mental programs, playing for the other countries' completely dif-
junior World Cup squad brought ferent styles of play. McCallister
several new opportunities. One in found herself particularly in awe
particular - an opportunity only of perennial powerhouses Argen-
the top athletes in the sport get to tina and the Netherlands.
experience - stood out the most "Playing them was very eye-
to McCallister: the feeling of put- opening," McCallister said. "They
ting on the red, white and blue and just play at another level that is so
playing for her home country. fast and so skilled. It was very cool
"It was one of the coolest feel- to see a completely different style
ings of my life," McCallister and try to adjust to their level."
said. "When we did the national McCallister carried a smile
anthem for the first time and during the opening week of prac-
we were all lined up, I got chills tice in Ann Arbor, just happy to
through my spine. It's such a great be back on the field once again.
nation and very great to play for She joins a Wolverine team whose
them." expectations are already very
Following her Michigan team- high,since they graduated just one
mates' first-round exit in the senior in the offseason. McCal-
NCAA Tournament during her lister's return will undoubtedly
absence - she missed all but contribute to fulfilling those
two games of last season with an expectations, and the experience
injury - McCallister was forced of competing internationally only
to set her eyes on tryouts for the adds to what she brings to the
national team. Competing among field.
the nation's best gave her little "My eyes have been opened
time to shake off any rust caused even more to how much I have
by her months off. to learn and how much I can
"I came in with no expecta- improve," McCallister said.
tions," McCallister said. "I have McCallister will carry memo-
faith in my ability to play, and I ries of the experience with her for
love the game. But every time I a lifetime.

Michigan coach John Beilein is in the 38th year of doing what he dreamed of doing his whole life.

heavy tan and an ear-to-ear grin.
And lucky for him, it just so
happens to be the time of the
year for his stated favorite part of
his job. With the players coming
back for the school year, he's busy
conducting individual workouts
- with no more than four players
allowed per session two hours a
week - before official team prac-
tices start up Sept.15.
The individual sessions,
Beilein said, would be used to
emphasize individual defense
before team defense becomes
the focus when full-team prac-
tices begin. Aside from that, the
offseason has been about assess-
ing the freshmen, developing the
sophomores and fine-tuning the
two other players on the roster -
fifth-year senior Jordan Morgan
and redshirt junior Jon Horford.
"It continues to amaze me.
We have Jon and Jordan and

then we have the sophomores,"
Beilein said of the returning play-
ers. "I look at them and the one
thing that differentiates these
sophomores is they're prep-
school guys. Spike (Albrecht) has
already turned 21 years old. He's
the only 21-year old alter boy still
out there. Mitch McGary is 21
years old, so they're a little bit
older and I feel that from them,
that they have maturity about
them that we trust."
As for when the new Wolver-
ines' place in the rotation might
become more clear to Beilein,
that might take a few weeks.
"We had that opportunity this
summer to just look a little bit at
(the freshmen). We call (those
looks) the blinks, 'what if' this
and that. But I think in time it
will tell. But having those young
men out there, I think we have
some real versatility again. I

think there's some great possibil-
ities out there given the makeup
of this team in regards to how we
play and who plays."
There was some light shed on
certain players' development.
McGary looks to be "in really
good shape." Indications are
that freshman point guard Der-
rick Walton can pick concepts up
quickly. Sophomore guards Nik
Stauskas and Caris LeVert both
look stronger, though LeVert
had some minor injuries over the
summer
But there are no glaring causes
for concern for Beilein at the
moment. In fact, he's doing pretty
well for himself.
"Thirty-eighth year of doing
what I have dreamed of doing
my whole life - teach and coach.
Thirty-eight straight.... I do love,
love this environment that the
Beilein family is in right now."

i

Green cements spot as No. 2

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Editor
In the span of about a week,
freshman Derrick Green has gone
from being a question mark to the
No.2 ball carrier behind fifth-year
senior running
back Fitzgerald NOTEBOOK
Toussaint.
On Wednesday, Michigan
coach Brady Hoke didn't hesitate
to name Green the No. 2 running
back for Saturday's game against
Notre Dame in the wake of red-
shirt freshman Drake Johnson's
season-ending anterior cruciate
ligament injury.
"He's a pretty intelligent kid,
he picked it up really well," Hoke
said, praising not just Green's
running ability, but pass protec-
tion as well.
There were some concerns
with Green's weight heading into
the season opener, but it evident-
ly didn't pose a problem in the
season opener against Central
*Michigan. Offensive coordinator
Al Borges said that running backs
coach Fred Jackson is directly
monitoring Green's weight for the
remainder of the season.
Five different running backs
saw playing time against the
Chippewas, but Green's 58 yards
and touchdown made him the
strongest candidate to back up
Toussaint.
"He carried the ball and didn't
fumble it, number one, that's
huge," Borges said. "Didn't fum-
ble it, didn't make a lot of bad run-
ning decisions. Ran the ball pretty
much where we wanted him to.
He grew a little bit with those
carries.
"He's a pounding-type back.
He's a big strong kid that, I'm sure
they feel him when they tackle
him."
Even with Johnson out, Michi-
gan still has enough depth in the
backfield - enough so that Borges
is considering the idea of having
the backs take on specialty posi-
tions as the season progresses. It
would only be situational, though.
"We'll feature different backs
in different situations based on
what they do best (but) it could
change week to week," Borges

running back
of the day and a film session. Let
them rest, let them watch foot-
ball. Once you get past 1 o'clock, it
moves pretty quick."
NOTES: Senior safety Court-
ney Avery has recovered from
his knee surgery last week and
worked out with trainers this
week. Hoke said he expects him
to be available to play Saturday,
and that he'll probably split time
with sophomore Jarrod Wilson.
... Hoke said the fact that the Wol-
verines have never lost a home
game under his tenure has never
been a point of discussion. ...
Hoke confirmed that senior wide
receiver Joe Reynolds will play
against Notre Dame. Reynolds
was injured last Saturday against
Central Michigan. ... Defensive
coordinator Greg Mattison said
that he doesn't anticipate the
increased noise in Michigan Sta-
dium on Saturday night will cause
communication problems for the

Freshman running back Derrick Green ran for 58 yards and one touchdown last week and was named the No. 2 tailback by Michigan coach Brady Hoke yesterday.

said. "I like a feature back, a guy
that's going to carry the ball more
than the rest of the guys. You'll
see, they're interchangeable in
certain situations."
THE CAMPUS THAT ROSS
BUILT: Hoke met with Stephen M.
Ross on Wednesday morning as
part of an event honoring Ross for
his $200-million donation to the
University, half of which will go
to the Athletic Department.
The money for the Athlet-
ic Department will be geared
toward student-athlete programs,
resources for the athletic aca-
demic center and construction
projects. Last fall, the Athletic

Department announced a renova-
tion of South Campus that is now
expected to reach $341 million. It
will take seven to 10 years to com-
plete.
As a thank you to Ross, the
Athletic Department will rename
it the Stephen M. Ross Athletic
Campus.
"I think it means a whole lot to
the University as a whole when
you look at the $100 million for
the academics and $100 million
for athletics," Hoke said. "It's
pretty significant."
But when the two met, there
was little discussion about how
the money would benefit the

football program. Hoke said the
only thing that Ross wanted to
talk about was former Michigan
safety Jordan Kovacs, a practice-
squad player for the Miami Dol-
phins - the NFL team Ross owns.
A LATE DINNER: Despite the
hype surroundingthe nightgame,
an 8 p.m. kickoff has never been
Hoke's preference - he'd rather
get the game over with earlier in
the day.
But he sees more night games
as an inevitable part of college
football's future due to television
programming.
"I don't know if it's the best
thing for student-athletes because

they are students," Hoke said.
"Especially when you're the away
team and you get home at 3:30 or
4 in the morning, there's a lot of
stress on the guys who physically,
and mentally, they've got to per-
form."
Another less-than-ideal side
effect of playing in prime time?
The players will spend most of
their day playing the waiting
game.
Hokes tries to organize some
structured activities to alleviatej
time spent just sitting around.
"We'll let them sleep in a little
bit," he said. "We'll have two
walk-throughs during the course

www.ceaStudyAbroad.com
p: 1.800.266.4441
"Please mention thisadwhenyou
speak with your CEA rep.


8A - Thursday, September 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Soccer Preview: New year, new legacy

By SHANNON LYNCH
Daily Sports Writer
The 2012 season will be
remembered as one of develop- 79
ment for the Michigan men's
soccer team for both its young
players and head coach, Chaka
Daley.
The season was by no means
a disappointment - the Wol-
verines advanced to the second
round of the NCAA Tournament
before fallingto Akron, 2-1.
But the expectations for this
season are much higher.
Now back for his second year,
Daley is gearing his young team
up for a season meant to instill a
sense of pride in soccer at Michi-
gan similar to that of hockey,
football and men's basketball.
"There's Michigan athletic 7
culture, which is one of the best
athletic cultures in the country
bar none, but there's really not
a big Michigan soccer culture,"
Daley said. "We want to continue
to impress upon them that that's
the legacy they leave."
Daley is tasked once again
with one of the toughest sched-
ules in the country, including?
three games against ranked top-
10 teams outside of the strong Big
Ten.
Two weeks ago, the Wolver- Junior midfielder Tyler Arnone was na
ines were picked to finish fourth said. "How they complement the
in the Big Ten preseason coach- returning guys is going to be the
es' poll, behind first hurdle we
Indiana, Mich- face as a group
igan State and and as a staff."
Northwestern. "...There's With that,
With 10 the Daily
freshmen on really not a big breaks down
the roster, the e. this season.
team will need Michigan soccer
to adapt quick- CAPTAINS
ly and find the culture."
on-field chem- Senior
istry it needs to goalkeeper
earn victories. Adam Grinwis
"Having a turnover of players returns for his third year as the
always makes it a challenge, and Wolverines' starter and his first
having 11 new faces on the roster year as a co-captain. The Ada,
increases that challenge," Daley Mich., native led the Big Ten and

one-assist performance ina two-
game stretch against Loyola-
Chicago and Bowling Green.
Murphy, a second-year starter
for the Wolverines, developed
quite a resume last season, play-
ing 21 of 22 games and finishing
with four goals and two assists.
Another player to keep an eye
out for is transfer midfielder
Marcos Ugarte. In his first sea-
son at Michigan following two
years at Providence, Ugarte will
be paired with Arnone.
"I'm fairly versatile, so I can
definitely play other spots,"
Ugarte said. "I'm looking to
establish myself as a starter and
contributor to score goals and
add assists, and above all, help us
win games."
ROOKIES
The freshman class is diverse
and promising, featuring four
midfielders, three defensemen,
two forwards and a goalkeeper.
The class boasts four players
who ranked in the 2013 IMG
Academy 150 - the most in the
Big Ten - while Top Drawer Soc-
cer ranked it the No. 6 recruiting
class in the nation.
Six of the signees are ranked
amongthe top 150 players in Col-
lege Soccer News' Class of 2013,
led by midfielder Matt Miazga,
who comes in at No. 17. Defender
Rylee Woods, who earned his
first start in the home opener4
last week, holds down the No.
26 spot, while midfielder Brett
Nason is ranked at No. 47 to
round out the top 50.
START OF THE SEASON
After week one, Michigan is
1-0-1 and leads all Big Ten teams
with six goals and 19 points, a
major improvement from an
inauspicious 2012 start. The next
home game is scheduled for Fri-
day, Sept. 4, at the U-M Soccer
Stadium against South Florida.

med first team All-Big Ten last season after a stellar 2012 campaign. This summer, he was named a co-captain.

ranked eighth nationally with 92
saves last year and was placed
on the 2013 Big Ten Preseason
Watch List. Grinwis has a new
pair of players to get used to on
defense followingthe graduation
of defenseman Brian Klemczak
and the selection of Kofi Opare
by Major League Soccer's Los
Angeles Galaxy, but he seems
confident in the young talent.
"Lucky for me, these guys
aren't too hard-headed," Grin-
wis said. "As a defensive unit, we
can coach and mentor these new
faces as we complete our transi-
tion into a new era of Michigan
soccer."
The other co-captain, redshirt

junior midfielder Tyler Arnone,
will also take on an important
leadership role as he works to
outdo his stellar 2012 season. He
ranked second on the team in
2012 with 16 points - five goals
and six assists - and tied for
the team lead in shots with 46.
He has racked up a number of
awards in his time at Michigan,
including being named to the
first team All-Big Ten last sea-
son.
PLAYERS TO WATCH
Arnone and Grinwis aren't
the only players who made the
Big Ten Preseason Watch List.

Senior midfielder Fabio Pereira
was also recognized, and right-
ly so. Pereira led Michigan in
scoring in its last two seasons
and begins this season with 18
career assists, just 10 behind the
program record of 28. A year
ago, he ranked second in the Big
Ten with eight assists, fourth in
points with 20 and fifth in goals
with six. And in his season debut
Monday, he gave the Wolverines
their only goal in a 1-1 tie with
Bowling Green.
Sophomore forward James
Murphy proved himself in the
first week of regulation games,
earning Big Ten Offensive Play-
er of the Week for his two-goal,

Howard scheduled
ph so Calculated net
for autograpsesson present values.
Then netted

By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Editor
Michigan football fans were
expecting to see Heisman Tro-
phy winner Desmond Howard
on ESPN's College GameDay in
Ann Arbor on Saturday before
the Notre Dame game, but fans
might not have anticipated being
able to meet the legend. Thanks
to a new ad campaign, they will.
Teamed up with Nissan, How-
ard will appear at a variety of
events for the company's "Heis-
man House" campaign, which
creates ad spots centered around
the idea of every Heisman win-
ner living in the same house.
Because of his national TV pres-
ence, Howard is prominently
featured in many of the commer-
cials.
On Saturday, the Wolverine
legend will be at Michigan's Fan-
Fest on the southwest corner of
Main Street and Stadium Boule-
vard across from the Big House
participating in a "Chalk Talk"
session with ESPN anchor Neil
Everett from 5-5:15 p.m., fol-
lowed by an autograph session
with fans from 5:15-6:15.
Former Michigan and NFL
player Dhani Jones will also be
in attendance, doing a Chalk
Talk from 3:00-3:30 followed by
a 3:30-4:30 autograph session.
"When we go to these tour
stops, the lines are always out
the door to get autographs," said
Josh Clifton, the public rela-
tions manager for Nissan, in a
phone interview with the Daily.
"Usually there's a great response
and the home team gets fired up
during the Chalk Talk session.
Desmond is more of a prominent
player in the public eye because
of GameDay and his on-air stuff,
but as these other schools bring
some of these players back, it
might be one of the first times
they are back in the public eye in
a long time."
This is the third year of the
advertising campaign, but the
first time that Nissan is rolling
out a physical "house" for fans to

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Former Heisman Trophy winner Desmond Howard will be signing autographs
for fans before Saturday's game as part ofan ad campaign from Nissan.

interact in. The structure is built
to resemble the house that the
commercials were shot in, and
the interior is filled with pictures
of former Heisman winners, as
well as the actual Heisman tro-
phy.
There will be challenges, priz-
es and giveaways in the house,
but the main draw will be How-
ard, one of the program's most
famous alumni. The GameDay
schedule fluctuates week to
week, so it wasn't certain that
Howard would participate in
the Heisman House activities
until the GameDay stop was
announced last weekend.
But with a bit of foresight and
planning from Nissan and its
partner, ESPN, it worked out for
Michigan fans who want to get
an autograph and meet Howard.
"GameDay changes on the fly,
so we try to align ourselves with
what we think are going to be big
stops and where College Game-

Day will be," Clifton said. "We
knew this would be a big one."
Nissan will be bringing the
house to 10 stops this year,
including the Rose Bowl and
National Championship both in
Pasadena, Calif.
The campaign spots mock the
idea of all the Heisman legends
living together, but ended up
being a good way to get the play-
ers to actually spend time togeth-
er. They had seen each other at
Heisman ceremonies every year,
but in a club that's adding new
players every year, many of the
younger players hadn't ever met
the older players in the group.
"This Heisman House has
brought an elite fraternity of
players together," Clifton said.
"They had never really met and
didn't really have a gateway to
interact and share stories. That's
been kind of cool to see - Nissan
facilitate bringing together some
of these elite football players."


the b-side
The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com Thursday, September 5, 2013
IUTERAlTI
story continues to
UNFOLD

By: Noah Cohen, Daily Arts Writer

I 1 t,:J 2 u)1 >k - C)i e


2B - Thursday, September 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

28 - Thursday, September 5, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

The freshman
guide to good eats
n Ann Arbor

baked.buzzed.bored.
in this series, three daily arts writers in
varying states of mind visit the same
place and write about their experiences.
this week's destination:
Friends Karaoke

4

Welcome to campus,
freshmen. As you
either already know
or are about to find out, Ann
Arbor is one of the greatest col-
lege towns
known to
man; there
are great
shops, great
people, great
events and W
festivals,
great venues, NATHAN
great talent WOOD
and - most
importantly
- great food. Really. There's
so much more than Noodles &
Company, Jimmy John's and
Five Guys Burgers and Fries.
And to prove it, I've compiled
the list below, which I encourage
you to use asa guide as you sam-
ple some of your first restaurants
in this vibrant city of ours.
1. Best Cheap Eat: No Thai!
A favorite of frat stars and
Honors students alike (but
especially frat stars), No Thai!
is the essence of college. The
food is filling and flavorful. The
service is fast. The value is good
and, as an added bonus, the
take-out containers are totally
reusable. Why buy Tupperware
when you can just go to No
Thai!?
2. Best Brunch: Cafe Zola
Here, brunch is modern and
sophisticated yet just a little
"rusty." It's full of character
and rough around the edges in a
somehow-chic way. The crepes
are classic, the waffle creations
inventive and the omelettes
worth waking up early, though
everything here's a safe bet. My
go-to is the salmon hash with
horseradish cream sauce topped
with over-easy eggs.
3. Best Grab-N-Go: Oasis
Mediterranean Grill
This joint is a fantastic place
to get lunch to-go. The menu is
full of options, most of which
I find to be pretty healthy and
fairly inexpensive. You can't go

wrong with a falafel or chicken
shawarma wrap. And to drink?
Three-dollar smoothies. Oh,
yes.
4. Best Post-Party Grub: BTB
Everything here is greasy,
carb-laden and cheap, exactly
what you'll want after a night
painting the town red. Thanks
to the advice of a wise senior
who came before me, I always
get the $4.25 grilled chicken
quesadilla, but the burritos are
obviously most popular (BTB
does stand for Big Ten Burrito,
after all).
5. Best Outdoor Seating: Palio
This may seem frivolous, but
there just really is something
extra relaxing about eating
outside. Here, not only can you
eat outside, but you can also eat
outside on the roof. There aren't
many places in Ann Arbor that
give you this option unfortu-
nately, so be sure to make a trip
out to Main Street to experience
it while the weather's still nice.
From brunch to
BTB, the most
delicious treats
A2 offers.
6. Best Sushi: Saica
There are plenty of closer
places at which you can feed
your addiction to this Japanese
treat, but I'm a firm believer in
not wasting your time on medi-
ocre sushi. The seaweed salad,
anything tempura and specialty
rolls here are all excellent.
Bonus: free delivery on orders
over $20!
7. Best Greasy Eat: Frita
Batidos
I'm kind of obsessed with this
Cuban spot just off Main Street.
The name comes from its classic
offerings: fritas (Cuban burg-

ers served with shoestring fries
on top) and batidos (refreshing
smoothie-milkshake hybrids).
Order the classic chorizo frita
with your choice of toppings
(mine is muenster, thick-cut
bacon, avocado spread and a
sunny-side-up egg) and a coco-
nut cream batido for a meal
you'll never forget.
8. Best Lunch Spot: babo
At this pay-by-the-pound deli
counter, you can rest assured
that you're in for an exceptional
lunch. With a variety of fresh
and creative salads, pressed
sandwiches and funky-cool
drinks, you'll never run out of
new things to try. Seating is lim-
ited, but classy and casual out
on the patio.
9. Best Place to Use Blue
Bucks: Ahmo's Gyros & Deli
The newest addition to the
Michigan Union, Ahmo's is a
demanding presence in the com-
petitive student-lunch market.
The staff is speedy, and the chick-
en gyros plentiful. The battered
fries are succulent any time of
day and the wild berry smooth-
ies just waiting to be made. And,
I mean,you've gotta spend those
Blue Bucks somewhere!
10. Best Everything Ever:
Sav's
There aren't enough posi-
tive adjectives in the English
language for me to adequately
describe Sava's, so just trust me
and go try it for yourself. Some
of the best things I've had here
include the asparagus-and-goat
cheese omelette, spinach dip,
chicken saltimbocca, pan-seared
sea scallops and the ham, spin,
brie, pear panini. The Sunday
brunch buffet? To die for.
With this list in tow, grab a
couple of friends, #exploreA2
and get to eating! That fresh-
man 15 isn't going to put itself
on, you know.
Wood is devouring a panini
from Sava's. To join, e-mail
nisaacw@umich.edu

dE
0m


Yo. SHIT WENT DOWN TONIGHT, MAN. I show up to S.C's place
with Morgana, and we roll into this tight-ass basement in the ground.
THERE ARE BOOKS EVERYWHERE. I'm absorbing the knowledge
through my eyes. HOLD UP. We're on a porch now and M.E. texts me.
What does everyone want to drink? I WANT TO DRINK THE MOON,
SON. BRING ME THE LIQUOR STORE, SON. Next thing I know,
D.Panda rolls in with M.E. and I lose it. They didn't bring the moon.
WHY ARE WE TALKING ABOUT SKYLER WHITE?
Friends Karaoke is HERE. I go up the stairs and I think I see the
Devil, but at this point, I'm like fuck it, we #rideordie tonight, bitches,
because I #cantstop. Warm smell of colitas rising up through the air.
Rrraaaaaaadddiooooo Heeeeaaaaaaddd. I fist pump with Morgana and
D.Panda to some Fitty, but then I realize that life is so meaningful that I
have to sit down for a moment. I take a picture of this madness and send
it to K.S.P. WHY AREN'T U HERE, BITCH?? He asks me to "rank Tits,
Nuggets, Ass."
AND I'M LIKE, "1 Ass 2 Nuggets 3 Tits. DUH."
"What would you do ifa naked Lena Dunham showed up at your door?"
AND I'M LIKE, "JUZT SAY NO."
The videos at Friends Karaoke are so fucking random and have noth-
ing to do with the song. THERE IS A DUDE FLYING IN CALIFORNI-
FICATION. That's some existential-level shit, kids. But Friends Karaoke
also got your back, you know? There is a dude outside CONSTANTLY
watching the door to make sure the fuzz don't take me. The room is so
dark and the couch is like the warm, soft hand of God. I wanna live on
that hand. I scream something about being wasted and pass out.
- DAILY ARTS WRITER
The songs that make it glorious are never the good songs. No one sings
Radiohead. No one wants to hear that tasteful Led Zeppelin lullaby. Sing
karaoke like you're a one-man opera, and if you're not actively attempt-
ing to make fun of yourself, the booze will take care of that for you, no
worries. Destroy your secret favorites, destroy your favorite secrets,
bond over the mutual giggling shame. You like REO Speedwagon? So the
fuck doI! Duet me, baby. I just want to add, as an addemdum, that in our
Friends sesh, I absolutely smashed my rendition of Hilary Duff's mag-
num opus.
Friends is all about looking backward and also looking forward. Going
back, back to the beginning, back to when the earth, the sun, the stars
were all aligned, and reliving the past in new time. It's about washing
away your sanity.
Stop trying to fit a square into a circle, that's no life. You have to defy
the compulsion to run screaming from the embarrassment. You have to
find a pigment of truth beneath your skin. Because you want to feel the
thunder, you want to scream. Karaoke is all about that, starting again,
coming clean. M
Friends teaches you, in baby steps and huge handles of alcohol that,
wait, dear lord how did we drink all of that how are we still alive what
the jesus, that you really can trust your friends. They won't attack you
when you show them what you really are, and what you really like.
They'll be right there, singing their heads off with you and for you. Being
fools together, that's what Friends is, and it's what friends are.
-NOAH COHEN
I don't know what I did to deserve this, but I'm crowded into the
corner of a sticky leather couch, watching D.Panda attempt to spoon a
puddle of Ben & Jerry's ice cream into his mouth. And I'm at a karaoke
lounge. Sober.
Karma is real.
Vengeful, I slip the carton from Panda's hands, hand him a micro-
phone and hope - in my own sober amusement - that maybe he'll try to
eat that, too. But he doesn't notice, so I paw at what's left of Liz Lemon
(Daily Arts has good taste in TV and dairy treats), praying that no one's
found their way to Don Mclean's eight-minute "American Pie." To take
advantage of my unaffected sense of good judgment, I pull my phone
from my purse. Say cheese, bitches.
Because this piece is only 200 words, and a picture is worth so much
more, the rest of my sobery-soberiffic-sobertastic night can be described
by a series of photos: past, current and future editors lined up like a shit-
faced family of Russian nesting dolls; a blossoming bromance huddled
around a microphone; fists and bottles raised to rock music as we stum-
ble over verses in "Mr. Brightside"; that one writer going solo because,
dude, nobody else knows that song, hurryup. And many more too incrim-
inating for publication in a newspaper. Or on Facebook, for that matter.
Until I'm 21 and can party like it's, accordingto our musical selection,
2005, let's stick to our day jobs. All right, guys?
- BRIANNE JOHNSON


CHECK OUT THE DAILY ARTS BLOG THE FILTER FOR
YOUR POP CULTURE FIX.
Visit michigandaily.com/blogs/the+filter right now!

,I

a

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, September 5, 2013 - 3B

LITERATI
From Page 1B
"Now that we've read each oth-
er's favorites, we're agreeing more
about authors," she said.
But the manner with which she
reads continues to boggle Michael's
mind. Hilary always reads the last
page of a book before she gets to the
end.
I asked Michael whether he
thought it might be better not to
have any expectations at all.
"Hilary's answer might be much
different than mine," he said imme-
diately. But for him, "All their hope,
it fires me up. It gets me going."
He acknowledges differing opin-
ions on the future of the bookstore.
As Michael explained, the store is
attracting support from other busi-
nesses in the community.
Businessfromscratch
Two months after making the
hitherto bravest decision of their
lives, and amid the chaos that
accompanies opening a small busi-
ness, the two married on the first of
June, on the edge of Ann Arbor.
"It's funny," Michael said. "We
talked to the owners of Sweetwa-
ters (Coffee and Tea)," the Ann
Arbor cafe chain. "They're a mar-
ried couple, and they run Sweetwa-
ters together. So we went to them a
month ago, to ask advice about how
they work together as a married cou-
ple who run a business."
From this, they came up with a
system to compartmentalize work
and play. "We have our work rela-
tionship and then we have our per-
sonal relationship," Michael said.
"When we were working at our
apartment, we really had to make
rules. Like, no talking about Lite-
rati after midnight, because we'd go
crazy."
Starting a small business from

Michael and Hilary Gustafson opened the Literati bookstore after getting engaged.

talk to each of them alone, they each
worry about how the other is hold-
ing up.
"Hilary had a 100-degree fever
the day before we opened," Michael
said. "But we couldn't change
course. She had to be here, because
she's the book lady. She knows the
computer; she knows everything. So
that was long days for her."
"I think just putting everything
in perspective," Hilary said. "I have
to remind myself that we're so lucky
to be here and tobe embraced by the
community; I had to remind myself
of that in college a lot - that I'm

freedom to be studying and to do
all of these wonderful things. When
I think back on it now, I wish I had
taken more time to appreciate how
lucky that was."
"So just putting things in per-
spective as much as Ican. It'sso easy
to get wound up in the everyday and
get freaked out by all the deadlines
and papers and bills. You gotta take
a moment to just say, 'this is a really
cool thing."'
Continuing to expand
When I asked them what stresses

fearlessly unfazed by the passing of
Borders.
"Borders number one was 41,000
square feet. We are 2,600, which
is just a fraction. So we hope that
downtown Ann Arbor can support
that," Michael said.
Later, Hilary explains their phi-
losophy more organically, "We can't
beat Borders, but at the same time,
people talk to each other about what
excites them, and I think the things
that people get excited about will
grow here, and we'll expand, and
things'll grow."
They stress over what they have
control over. Michael described one

technical difficulty: "We ran out
of receipt paper, which is needed
when you are running a business.
Of all the details that were floating
around in our heads, we didn't think
there would be a limited amount of
receiptpaper! So I sprinted to office
Depot."
The biggest technical thing, for
any bookstore, is choosing what
books to stock. With her experience
as a sales rep, Hilary handles most of
this load.
"A lot of our inspiration and busi-
ness model is Greenlight," Michael
said of an independent bookstore
that Hilary worked at in Brook-
lyn. "When we first started playing
around with opening a bookstore,
Hilary hadn't worked in a bookstore
yet. We thought maybe we should
work in a bookstore first to make
sure it's something we want to do."
When I asked Hilary how it's
done, she outlined the basics of
bookstore management. "I have
sales reps that rep all of the pub-
lishers, which is what I used to do.
They have a list of a thousand titles,
of which you take 100, and they tell
you which ones they think might be
worth taking, and you can pick them
out yourself from there. They have
author history: they have review
attention - if they're going to beon
NPR; if they're going to be on Rachel
Maddow."
"We have 11,000 units. So that's
7,700 titles. We have about 1,000
with multiples. There's 3,172 units
of 986 titles. So we have about 8,000
one-copy books," Hilary said.
Hilary also explained that the
store shifts its inventory based on
the interest of its staff.
"They have the hugest impact
on what the store is," Hilary said.
"One of our staff members is really
into philosophy, soI said, 'Justmake
a list and I'll go through it' I don't
really read philosophy, but I'm really
glad that's becoming part of our
store."
Realism and idealism
Michael summed up the staff as
follows: seven starters, three for-
mer Borders employees, a former
Shaman Drum employee, two MFA
poetry graduates and the executive
director of the Great Lakes Book-
sellers Association.
"Everyone has brought their
own knowledge," Hilary said. "Jill
has brought some real parenting
knowledge. Poetry, obviously, we
have our two poetry guys. John
really knows philosophy and Deb's
really into social politics. Michael's
all about environmentalism; it's
really great."
The shelves in Literati were
bought from what was left of Bor-
ders. They purchased them the day
before the store went into demo.
"It was like a Ghost Town,"
Michael said. "We thought it would
be really cool to repurpose these
iconic pieces."
The typewriter in the display
case at the register, a 1930s Smith-
Corona, belonged to Michael's
grandfather. The typewriter is
where Literati got its black-and-
white checkerboard theme.
Michael emphasized how
they've tried to keep all the store

supplies local, or at least domestic.
The bookmarks and bags posed a
particular challenge.
"Somehow we need to encour-
age people to use their own bags,
because we don't philosophically
agree with the printing of all this,
so we wanted a 100-percent recy-
clable paper bag without heavy use
of dye, so we're hand-stamping all
the bags," Michael explained. "See,
five years ago, I created a stupid
little Facebook group that said, you
know, 'ban plastic bags.' I can't go
ahead and offer plastic bags. That
would just drive me nuts."
Literati tries to compromise
between realism and idealism,
between providing sanctuary for
the quiet relics of an evolving liter-
ary culture and acting as a tiny con-
cert hall for young slam poets from
The Neutral Zone (Ann Arbor's
teen center).
"I think it will bring people from
the community together," Hilary
said. "From a bunch of different
backgrounds - I think it'll be a
melting point, so we expect to have
people linger."
Beyond the books
In the first two months of Litera-
ti's existence, it had six events. Hil-
ary lists what they've hosted so far:
live music, authors, story time, a
woman who had walked the shores
of all of the great lakes.
Literati aspires to be a commu-
nity epicenter, as Borders was.
"The communication that hap-
pens around books is... ifbookstores
go under, that communication is
lost, and you will never get that
whimsy again; you will never get
that community feel," Michael said.
It's part of the reason Michael
and Hilary committed to a ship so
many people said was sinking: They
felt like there's something about the
ship itself that deserves saving.
"Strangers coming together
around books is exactly why we
wanted to be here. To see it happen
so immediately has been wonder-
ful," Hilary said.
Michael described watching a
pair of people in the store make a
pact to start pickling because they
were looking at a pickling book.
"I don't know if they bought the
book or not, but it doesn't really
matter," Michael said. "Those
types of interactions are lost if you
download your books by yourself in
your room."
"In a perfect world, our prices
would increase and we would buy
this building. ... In a perfect world
we would live nearby and walk to
the bookstore," Michael said. "And
we would be here all day, and we
would have fulltime employees. Oh
yeah, this is the dream."
The young couple talks about
their dream like storybook protag-
onists. Whether the story goes well
depends on whether Ann Arbor
keeps reading.
Literati will be providing the
Daily with advance copies of
books for future reviews.This
article was assigned and written
before the partnership began
and is in no way affected by the
professional arrangement.

Literati's bookshelves originated from the now closed Ann Arbor Borders.

FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED IN THE DAILY
BY COMING TO OUR MASS MEETINGS!
Come on down to 420 Maynard at 7:30 p.m. on September 12, 15, 17, and 19!

It's been four days since
"Rabid Dog." Four days since
Jesse Pinkman finally wises
up. Four days
since "I never
should have
let my dojo Rabid Dog
membership
run out." Breaking Bad
And at long, AMC
last, the sup-
porting cast
begins to stoop to Walt's level.
No one, not even Hank, can
help but classify Jesse as anoth-
er throw-away casualty, easily
disposable if it means getting
the skinny on Walt. In a sense,
it's sad. Characters who had,
whether through ignorance or
sheer resilience, steered clear of
Heisenberg's evil machinations
finally show signs of succumb-
ing to them.
Viewers no longer face the
same Walt who coordinated
multiple prison murders in the
span of a few minutes. More


4B - Thursday, September 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

A N0VVEE.U, j

l

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
Michael Gustafson showcases the Smith & Corona Typewriter his grandfather used the in college. Though many typewriters are on display in the store, Literati's logo is based off of the family heirloom.
New bookstore osters growth or

4

A2 inde

Literati opens doors
for readers and
writers to connect
By JOHN BOHN
Daily Community Culture Editor
In the basement, philosophy,
history and science books line the
shelves. Generally, a few tables
are available for people looking
to sit down and peruse a title.
But tonight, rows of chairs and a
microphone turn the downstairs
of Literati Bookstore into a cozy

performance s
On this occ
are organize
Press, a local
lisher. Ann Ar
Burch and E
for Hobart, w
online journa
titles.
Burch walk
room to annou
To introduce a
he likes to play
him of them.
Mary Miller,
Jane's Last Da
As he explain

)endent publishing scene
pace. are both fans of Petty and listened ing network of independent pub- thought about writing stories in verges on the edge of perfoi
asion, the readings to him a lot during their most lishing. A brief look at the fiction terms of a collection." art. The narrator of the stoi
d around Hobart recent summer reading tour. And section of any bookstore can make That collection would become help but break things. In f
, independent pub- of course, Mary Miller and Mary one queasy with a sense of not "Big World," a final product that tion, he breaks a chair
bor residents Aaron Jane share the same first name. knowing what's out there. Chanc- Miller and Hobart worked on and don't make them like the
lizabeth Ellen edit Miller walks to the mic as Burch es are, however, that even within designed together. After publica- to!") and then accidentally
vhich comprises an plays the Tom Petty song on his that stock, a multitude of titles tion, she and Ellen went on a bi- hole in a wall, which he pre
l and some printed iPhone. She then begins to read a and authors have been edited out. coastal tour doing readings in bars wad sturdier. All this time
short piece of flash fiction. And that's where a store like Lite- and independentbookstores. is playing from various ma
s to the front of the With the closing of Borders, rati comes in. It provides authors, "You know, I think I've pretty one of which McClanahar
ince the first reader. the space for a general bookstore like Mary Miller, a chance to share much only read at independent by stomping on.
writer, he explains, in Ann Arbor opened back up. On their work. bookstores and bars," Miller said. "I'm friends with both
a song that reminds April 3, 2013, Literati opened its "I started writing flash fiction "Independent bookstores are and Elizabeth," McClanaha
For the first reader, doors to fill that gap in the down- probably when I was about 27 much more supportive of inde- "We've known one anotl
he's chosen "Mary town community. But as an inde- years old," Miller said. "I joined pendent presses and unknown years."
tnce" by Tom Petty. pendent bookstore, Literati brings a group called Zoetrope, which writers. ... There's a bookstore in While good friends
s, Miller and Ellen its own unique opportunities. Francis Ford Coppola started. It's Oxford, Mississippi called Square Hobart, McClanahan ha
Hilary Gustafson, co-owner just a free online writers work- Books that's been around forever. published with a few di
C for, U R of Literati, does the buying. She shop.I was living in a small town, They've sold so many copies of my groups such as Six Gall
works with a variety of distribu- and I didn't really have access book, through word of mouth and Pittsburgh, Lazy Fascist Pr
tors and publishers, some of to other writers. So I just found recommending it to people." Two Dollar Radio.
- which, like Consortium and Small people from all over the world While much of the sales of "Big "I've always got to knou
Press Distribution, provide Gus- through this writing workshop." World" come from online shops people personally," McCls
tafson with an array of alternative Miller originally comes from such as Amazon and Powell's said.
and indie press titles with which Mississippi but now lives in Aus- Books, occasionally "Big World" After McClanahan f
to stock the shelves of the store. tin, Texas. Her collection of short can be found on the shelf or at a Hobart brings out a cake t
However, Gustafson isn't the only stories, "Big World," is published counter, like it can at Literati. Escoria a happy birthda
person who makes the decisions by Hobart Press and is the sec- "When I went to Square Books cake has a giant pictureo
on stock. In addition to Gustafson, and printed text that Hobart pro- at Oxford and saw a stack of them nem on it. Earlier that day
there is a team of workers all with duced. It was through Zoetrope at the counter, even that was just ria, Ellenand her daughter'
previous experience in writing, that Miller and Ellen came to really exciting," Miller said. "And Eight Mile Road to settle a
literature and bookselling. Some know one another. it's exciting to go into a bookstore who was the biggest fan.
came from Borders, others from "We've known each other for and sign their stock. If they have "I'm thinking of Gregory
Shaman Drum (another recently years just through the online com- 15 books in there, to sit down with for some reason," McClE
V closed local book dealer) and some munity," Miller said. "She started a pen and signthem. You feel likea said. "He said, 'The Bea
come from the University's MFA publishing her work online, and I real writer." eration ... that wasn't a 1
poetry program. started publishing online and we Mary Miller finishes her read- tion. That was like seveno
"I allow them to be more became fansofeachother's work." ing. Then Burch introduces the friends."'
involved in the buying process," Shortly after Ellen and Burch second writer, Juliet Escoria, with
said Gustafson. "Having input had started their smallbooks divi- a song by Ministry. After Escoria, Literati will be provi
from everybody on the team is sion of Hobart, Ellen asked Miller Burch introduces Scott McClana- Daily with advancec
something that Borders didn't if she had enough stories for a col- han with "Sweet Child of Mine." books for future revi
have, at least when it was corpo- lection. Apparently McClanahan made article was assigned and
rate." "I said, 'I don't think so,'" Mill- a short video called "Sweet Ass before the partnershi
MARLENE LACASSE/Daily From this collaborative process er said. "And then I started putting O' Mine" where he's dancing to and is in no way affecte
emerges a small node in the dizzy- things together because I never the song. McClanahan's reading professional arran

rmance
ry can't
rustra-
("They
y used
kicks a
esumed
e music
chines,
n stops
Aaron
an said.
her for
with
s also
ifferent
Lery in
ess and
w these
anahan
inishes,
to wish
y. The
of Emi-
, Esco-
went to
abet on
y Corso
anahan
t Gen-
genera-
or eight
ding the
copies of
ews.This
written
4p began
d by the
gement.

E
U
U

The store attracts readers ofall ages.


6
0
S

*I


