(. ,CiN 1l\\ nI A IN

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, November 8, 2013

michigandaily.com

CRIME
Police arrest
three people
in DeWof
murder case

University President Mary Sue Coleman outlines goals for the Victors for Michigan campaign at a press conference at Hill Auditorium Thursday.
*Capaign h goal

Victors for
Michigan launches
with record-setting
fundraising goal
By SAM GRINGLAS
and JENNIFER CALFAS
Daily StaffReporters
The. University announced
Thursday that the Victors for
Michigan campaign will be
the largest fundraising drive
for a public institution in his-
tory - with an ambitious $4

billiongoal.
Victors for Michigan, the
University's sixth major fund-
raising campaign, will launch
Nov. 8. The University's last
campaign, The Michigan Dif-
ference, raised $3.2 billion
between 2000 and 2008 -
surpassing its original goal of
$2.5 billion.
University President Mary
Sue Coleman said last winter
that the primary priority for
the campaign will be student
support through financial
aid. At Coleman's leadership
breakfast last month, Cole-
man reiterated that $1 billion

in campaign funds will be
focused on student support.
Just like the last campaign,
Coleman said in an interview
after the eventthat passingthe
$4-billion mark is possible.
"It is always possible that
if the campaign is phenom-
enally successful, then maybe
midway we could raise it,"
Coleman said. "There's a lot of
analysis that goes into doing it,
but I feel really good about this
number. It's a very audacious
campaign."
Campaign organizers have
made students central to
campaign strategy, not only

creating goals for student sup-
port, but also in involving stu-
dents in campaign planning
and marketing. The Office of
Development created a stu-
dent campaign committee
- the first of its kind at the
University - consisting of 19
members from various under-
graduate and graduate schools
to assist in the fundraising and
planning process.
The campaign will also
focus on raising funds for
developing a more engaged
learning environment in the
classroom and producingidea
See VFM, Page 3A

Medical Student
murdered in July at
Phi Rho Sigma house
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily News Editor
Three people have been arrested in
connection with the July murder of
Medical School student Paul DeWolf.
DeWolf, a Second Lieutenant in the
United States Air Force, was found
dead from a single gunshot wound to
the neck in his room at the Phi Rho
Sigma medical fraternity on North
Ingalls Street on July 24. Police have
been investigating the DeWolf case
for nearly three months.
In a statement, Ann Arbor Police
Chief John Seto said the three sus-
pects arrested do not have any
apparent affiliation with DeWolf,
the University or the Air Force. The
suspects have not yet been arraigned
and police are continuing their inves-
tigation and evidence gathering.
Police do not believe there are any
further suspects.
DeWolf was discovered dead in
his apartment by a coworker after

he failed to report to his shift at the
Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs Health-
care System. According to reports,
nothing was stolen from DeWolf's
apartment and Ann Arbor Police
Lieutenant Robert Pfannes said in
July that the apartment was "orderly
and valuables appeared to have been
untouched." No firearm was found at
the scene.
The Ann Arbor Police Department
was assisted in. their inquiry by the
Air Force Office of Special Investi-
gations, FBI, the U.S. Marshals Ser-
vice and University Police. In the
immediate aftermath of the homi-
cide, police increased patrols around
the North Ingalls area. AAPD also
offered a $10,000 reward for anyone
with information about the homicide.
Pfannes said Thursday the reward
was not claimed in the investigation.
University President Mary Sue
Coleman concurrently issued a
statement addressing the arrest and
thanking AAPD for their diligence in
continuingthe investigation.
"We hope today's developments
provide some solace to Paul DeWolf's
family and friends, who remain in
our thoughts," Coleman said. "We
See MURDER, Page 3A


DEVELOPMENT
May discusses
fundraising
initiative target
.Development Office The University also estimates
that it can raise at least $1 billion
identified donors, from a shortlist of mega-donors,
like philanthropists A. Alfred
made estimates on Taubman or Stephen Ross, the
campaign's chair. The mega-gift
potential giving category includes part of the
$1.7 billion already raised for the
By SAM GRINGLAS campaign.
Daily StaffReporter From the group of potential
major donors who haven't yet
No, it wasn't just pulled out of given to the University, develop-
a hat. ment officers then make educat-
Jerry May, the University's ed guesses about what they can
vice president for development, expect these people to contrib-

GLOW BLUE!

Engineering junior Amanda Ejups passes out free glowsticks at the #GlowOut on North Campus Dia
on Thursday.
CITY COUNCIL
Council members discuss
Big House digital bllboard

FACILITIES
University
looks for bids
on Arthur
Miller home
South Division house
would be moved from
current location
By ARIANA ASSAF
DailyStaffReporter
A historical house may be given
a new home, if the University can
find someone to buy it.
Earlier this week; the University
opened bidding on a residence pre-
viouslyinhabited by Arthur Miller,
University alum and Pulitzer Prize-
winning playsvrite, when he was a
student. Miller is known for plays
such as "The ,Crucible," "All My
Sons" and "Death of a Salesman."
Currently, the goal is to secure a
buyer who will remove the entire
house from its foundation at 439 S.
Division Street. Once the house has
been removed, the University plans
to use the space asa parking lot.
Jim Kosteva, the University's
director of community relations,
said some parties have expressed
interest in purchasing the house,
but could not provide details on
See MILLER, Page 3A

said choosing the Victors for
Michigan campaign's $4 billion
goal was a fairly scientific pro-
cess.
First, the University recogniz-
es that it will need to raise more
money than was gathered during
the past campaign, The Michigan
Difference, May said.
Development officers then per-
form a name-by-name analysis of
donors with the potential to give
more than $100,000 - a critical
category that May estimated will
bring the campaign total to about
$3 billion in the approximately
next seven years.

ute.
May said he plans to spend time
on the U.S. coasts courting some
of these billionaires during the
course of the campaign. The Uni-
versity's Board of Regents, along
with May, will travel to New York
City in January in lieu of their
regularly scheduled meeting - a
jaunt that will certainly include
time to engage with potential and
longtime benefactors.
"We'll keep working on them
and we hope we'll become a pri-
ority for them," May said.
Still, he noted that for every
See MAY, Page 3A

University has
pushed back
against complaints
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily StaffReporter
At its meeting Thursday
night, the Ann Arbor City
Council revisited its request

that the University remove
the newly installed digital
billboard located off the East
Stadium Boulevard near the
entrance to Michigan Sta-
dium.
After discussing the dis-
turbance caused by the mar-
quee at previous meetings,
Councilmembers Christo-
pher Taylor (D-Ward 3) and.
Marcia Higgins (D-Ward 4)

proposed an ordinance to
request the University take
down the $2.8 million bill-
board.
The councilmembers said
the billboard violates city
ordinances by projecting
moving, illuminating images
that are distracting to driv-
ers and residents. Taylor said
he'd like to collaborate with
See COUNCIL, Page 3A



WEATHER HI: 56 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
TOMOROW _ L:_37 Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Boom lift catches fire
TOMORROW [ news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No. 26
@2013 The Michigan Daily
michigondaily. com

NEWS .............2A SUDOKU.....................22A
OPINION....................4A CLASSIFIEDS.,.............6A
ARTS .................S........ 5A FOOTBALLSATURDAY...1B

t


2A - Friday, November 8, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com I

MONDAY: TUESDAY: WEDNESDAY: THURSDAY: FRIDAY:
This Week in History Professor Profiles In Other Ivory Towers Alumni Profiles Photos of the 4kan
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
LEFT Michigan Football Equip- www.michigandaily.com
ment Manager Jon Falk works ANDREWWEINER KIRBYVOIGTMAN
in his office on Thursday. (ERIN - . dIPJ wn Editor in Chief Business Manager
KIRKLAND/Daily) 734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
TOP RIGHT Herb Frederick, anweiner@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
correctionsmichigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@ichigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmailcom
Online Sales
onlineads@miichigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
D SClassified Sales
classied@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

i

CRIME NOTES CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Smoky smell Crash and ... Freshmen Math career fair

.,..ss=..,sJ ...,as...,s _, _....,ss_.____..

WHEIRE:1000 Block of
South Univeristy
WHEN: Wednesday at 7:32
a.m.
WHAT: A container was
reportedly smoking near the
West Hall arch, according to
University Police. Officers
were not able to find any
problem after surverying
the area.

WHERE: 1500 Block of E.
Hospital
WHEN: Thursday at 4:57
a.m.
WHAT: A collsion betwen
two vehicles occured,
resulting in them both being
towed, University Police
reported. One driver was
cited for failure to yield.

Fridays
WHAT: The career center
is holding a gathering Friday
to allow freshmen to meet
the Career Center's staff.
The meeting will also have
free food.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today at 12:00
WJIERE: Student Activities
Building

WHAT: This career fair will
feature University alumni
and will focus on careers
and graduate opportunities
in mathematics programs.
WHO: Mathematics Career
Conference
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m.
to 4:00 p.m.
WHERE: East Hall, Math-
ematics Atrium

wheels away ...Burn

WHERE: 1300 Block E. Ann
WHEN: Wednesday
at 8:50 p.m.
WHAT: A bike was
reported stolen from outside
Couzens Hall, University
Police reported. There are
currently no suspects.

WHERE: 611 Church
WHEN: Thursday at 2:52
a.m.
WHAT: A construction lift
was found in flames, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
fire was putout by the Ann
Arbor Fire Dept. The fire
was likely caused by electri-
cal failure.

Whirling
Business Dervishes
et i nettePaph P

A 13-year-old boy from
Kansas was suspended
from school Wednesday
because he did not take
off his purse, KCTV reported.
Anderson County School
District superintendent said
both boys and girls are not
allowed to wear purses or any
type of bag.
Ann Arbor is amending
its housing law so that
tenants bear the conse-
quences and fines of litter on
housing property instead of
landlords.
> FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
3A cop in Arkansas
reportedly tasered a
woman because she
did not show him her breasts,
New York Daily News report-
ed. The victim is now suing
the accused officer, and she
claims the police department
ignored her complaints.

EDITORIAL STAFF
-Matthew Slovin ManagingEditor mjslovin@michigandailycom
Adam Rubenfire Managing News Editor arxbe@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman,
Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf, Jenniferl clas, Hillary. Crawford, Ian
Dillingham, Will Greenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel Premack, Stephanie
Shenouda, Christy Song
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:DanWang.Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Aarica MarshMegan McDonald
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Rajat
KhareDanielWasserman,LizVukelich
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Greg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel FeldmanErin
Lennon, Lev Facher, Max Cohen
Kayla UpadhyayasManagingArts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENORATSEDsRS: Eltrl rSn,nBiatmansnJohnLynch,Anna Sadovskaya
ASSISTANTuASE ITORnS:John BonSa~ nCarnseki,xMax
Radin, Akshay Seth, Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
ASSSrTATPHOODTORS:Kath eriePkala,Paul Sherman,
McKenzieBerezin, RubyWallau, Patrick Barron
Kristen Cleghornand
NickCruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Paige Pearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien CopyyChiefs eopydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleian,Kelly McLauglin
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar DigitaAccounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo LocalAccunts Manager '
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
The Michigan Daily (ISS550745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
inteerms by students atthe University of Michigan. One copy is available free of charge
to all readersAdditional copies may be picked up at theDaily's office for $2.Subscriptionsfor
fall term, starting in September, viaiU.S. mailare$110. Winter term anuary through April) is
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate.On-campus subscriptionsfor ialllte$are$35.subscriptionsmust beiprepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

S1

WHAT: The Center for
Campus Involvement will
teach the do's and don'ts of
formal dining. A four course
meal will be offered for a
cost of $15.
WHO: Center for Campus
Involvement
WHEN: Today at 12:00 p.m.
WHERE: Pierpont Com-
mons, Boulevard Room

WHAT: This performance
will feature Sufi dances and
music.
WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Aud.
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

After IPO, Twitter stock
instantly rises 70 percent B

Company valued at
nearly $31 billion
after first day
NEW YORK (AP) - Shares
of Twitter went on sale to the
public for the first time Thurs-
day, instantly leaping more than
70 percent above their offering
price in a dazzling debut that
exceeded even Wall Street's
lofty hopes.
By the closing bell, the social
network that reinvented global
communication in 140-charac-
ter bursts was valued at $31 bil-
lion - nearly as much as Yahoo
Inc., an Internet icon from
another era, and just below
Kraft Foods, the grocery con-
glomerate founded more than a
century ago.
The stock's sizzling perfor-
mance seemed to affirm the
bright prospects for Internet
companies, especially those

focused on mobile users. And
it could invite more entre-
preneurs to consider IPOs,
which lost their luster after
Facebook's first appearance
on the Nasdaq was marred by
glitches.
In Silicon Valley, the IPO
produced another crop of mil-
lionaires and billionaires, some
of whom are sure to fund a new
generation of startups.
Twitter, which has never
turned a profit in the seven
years since it was founded,
worked hard to temper expec-
tations ahead of the IPO, but all
that was swiftly forgotten when
the market opened.
Still, most analysts don't
expect the company to be profit-
able until 2015. Investors will be
watching closely to see whether
Twitter was worth the premi-
um price.
Thursday's stock surge was
"really not as important as you
might think," said Kevin Lan-

dis, a portfolio manager with
Firsthand Funds, which owns
shares in Twitter. "What really
matters is where the stock is
going to be in six months, 12
months."
The most anticipated initial
public offering of the year was
carefully orchestrated to avoid
the dysfunction that surround-
ed Facebook's IPO.
Trading on the New York
Stock Exchange under the sym-
bol "TWTR," shares opened at
$45.10, 73 percent above their
initial offering price.
In the first few hours, the
stock jumped as high as $50.09.
Most of those gains held
throughout the day, with Twit-
ter closing at $44.90, despite a
broader market decline.
The narrow price range indi-
cated that people felt it was
"pretty fairly priced," said JJ
Kinahan, chief strategist at TD
Ameritrade.
The price spike "clearly

0

AP/NA5A
Cosmonaut Fyodor Yurchikhin holds the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics torch brought aboard by fellow cosmonaut Mikhail
Tyurin as Tyurin, Rick Mastracchio of the United States and Koichi Wakata of Japan enter the station on Thursday.
Russian rocket takes Sochi
Olympic torch into space

snows tnat oemandoexceeds tne

HEI .'

supply of shares," said Wedbush
analyst Michael Pachter.
Earlier in the day, Twitter
gave a few users rather than
executives the opportunity to
ring the NYSE's opening bell.
The users included actor Pat-
3 rick Stewart, who played Cap-
tain Jean-Luc Picard in "Star
9 7 Trek: The Next Generation";
Vivienne Harr, a 9-year-old
girl who ran a lemonade stand
for a year to raise money to
end child slavery; and Cheryl
3 8 Fiandaca of the Boston Police
Department.
Twitter raised $1.8 billion
Wednesday night when it sold
70 million shares to select inves-
tors for $26 each. But the huge
first-day pop left some analysts
wondering whether the compa-
ny could have raised more. Had
Twitter priced the stock at $30,
6 for instance, the company would
have taken away $2.1 billion. At
$35, it would have reaped nearly
$2.5 billion. That's a lot for a
company that's never made a
profit and had revenue of just
$317 million last year.

Flame soar to space,
along with three
astronauts
MOSCOW (AP) - A Russian
rocket soared into the cosmos
Thursday carrying the Sochi
Olympic torch and three astro-
nauts to the International Space
Station ahead of the first-ever
spacewalk for the symbol of
peace.
Video streamed by the U.S.
space agency NASA reported a
flawless docking with the space
station about six hours after the
craft blasted off from Russia's
manned space facility in Bai-
konur, Kazakhstan.
The unlit torch for the 2014
Winter Olympics in the Rus-
sian city of Sochi is to be taken
on a spacewalk Saturday, then
return to Earth 'on Monday
(late Sunday EST) with three
departing space station astro-
nauts.
The arriving crew members
Thursday were Russia's Mikhail
Tyurin, American Rick Mastrac-
chio and Koichi Wakataof Japan.

Now that the newcomers have
entered the space station follow-
ing a long hatch-opening pro-
cess, the orbiting lab has nine
people aboard for the first time
since 2009. Fyodor Yurchikhin
of Russia, NASA's Karen Nyberg,
and Italian Luca Parmitano are
the crew scheduled to return to
Earth with the torch via a Mon-
day landing on the steppes of
Kazakhstan.
The Olympic torch will not
burn onboard the space outpost
because lighting it would con-
sume precious oxygen and pose
a threat to the crew. The crew
will carry the unlit torch around
the station's numerous modules
before takingit out on a space-
walk.
The Olympic torch was taken
aboard the U.S. space shuttle
Atlantis in 1996 for the Atlanta
Summer Olympics, but this is the
first it time it will be taken out-
side a spacecraft.
"It's a great pleasure and
responsibility getting to work'
with this symbol of peace,"
Tyurin told journalists on
Wednesday before the launch.
Russians Oleg Kotov and

Sergei Ryazanskiy will take
the torch out of the space sta-
tion on Saturday while Ameri-
can Michael Hopkins remains
inside.
The four-month Sochi torch
relay, which started in Mos-
cow on Oct. 7, is the longest in
the history of the Olympics. For
most of the 65,000-kilometer
(39,000-mile) route across Rus-
sia, it will travel by plane, train,
car and even reindeer sleigh.
Some 14,000 torch bearers
are taking part in the relay that
stops at more than 130 cities and
towns.
Last month, the Olympic
flame traveled to the North Pole
on a Russian nuclear-powered
icebreaker. Later this month it
will sink to the bottom of the
world's deepest lake, Lake Bai-
kal. In early February, it will
reach the peak of Mount Elbrus,
at 5,642 meters (18,510 feet) the
highest mountain in Russia and
Europe.
The torch will be used to light
the Olympic flame at Sochi's sta-
dium on Feb. 7, markingthe start
of the 2014 Winter Games that
run until Feb. 23.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaiiy.com

Friday, November 8, 2013 - 3A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 8, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Man convicted
of second-degree
murder in Lansing
A Lansing-area man convicted
of second-degree murder in the
stabbing death of a 23-year-old
Michigan State University senior
has been sentenced to 20 to 60
years in prison.
The Lansing State Journal and
MLive.com report that 19-year-
old Connor McCowan learned his
punishment Wednesday morning.
A jury in Ingham County
Circuit Court earlier convicted
McCowan in the attack, which
happened at an off-campus apart-
ment. Authorities say McCowan
went to Andrew Singler's apart-
ment in Meridian Township on
Feb.23 with a plan to kill him.
Authorities say the fight
stemmed from an argument
between Singler and McCowan's
sister.
ESCALON, Calif. -
Thief takes nearly
140,000 pounds
of Calif. walnuts
Authorities in California are
trying to crack the case of a nut
thief who made off with 140,000
pounds of walnuts.
The theft, estimated at nearly
$400,000, occurred Sunday in
the small Central Valley town of
Escalon. Investigators say it was
one of the biggest to hit the boom-
ing industry. Last month, about
12,000 pounds of walnuts worth
$50,000 were stolen from a trailer
parked on Highway 99 north of
Sacramento.
This time several truckloads of
walnuts were taken from the facil-
ity. Authorities say rising prices
- about $2 per pound - is what
appears to be driving the recent
walnut thefts.
No arrests have yet been made.
TORONTO
Bombings in Iraq
leave 30 dead, 19
soldiers killed
A series of attacks in Iraq,
including a double suicide car
bombing targeting a military base,
killed 30 people across the coun-
try Thursday, officials said.
The deadliest attack took place
when the two suicide bombers
drove their explosive-laden cars
into a military base in the town of
Tarmiyah late Thursday, killing at
least 19 soldiers and wounding 41,
authorities said.
Soldiers guarding the base
opened fire on the first car bomber
as he approached, but he still was
able to detonate his explosives
against a gate at the facility, police
said, Two minutes later, the sec-
ond suicide bomber rammed his
car through the gate and exploded
when he reached a crowd of sol-

diers who gathered after the ear-
lier blast, police said.
DUSHANBE, Tajikistan
President of
* Tajikistan wins
fourth election
Tajikistan's president has won
a fourth term in an election that
has been criticized by Western
observers and extends his more
than 20-year rule in the ex-Soviet
Central Asian nation.
The Central Election Commis-
sion said Thursday that Emomali
Rakhmon won 83.6 percent of
the vote, but monitors from the
Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe, the top
trans-Atlantic security and rights
group, criticized the previous
day's vote.
They say that state media had
been dominated by coverage of
Rakhmon's campaign and that
registration requirements were
designed to limit competition.
"While quiet and peaceful, this
was an election without a real
choice," Gerdana Comic, Special
Coordinator for the OSCE mis-
sion, said in a news conference in
Dushanbe
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

MURDER
From Page 1A
will now join the greater Ann
Arbor community in awaiting
the outcome of the judicial pro-
cess in this case."
UMPD Chief Joe Pier-
sante echoed Coleman in his
remarks, adding that he hopes
the latest development will
help bring closure for DeWolf's
family.
"We very much appreci-
ate the diligent and persistent
efforts of the officers in the
Ann Arbor Police Department
who tirelessly continued to

seek justice for our commu-
nity. We are extremely pleased
with this development, which
will help bring closure to this
tragedy for our community and
the DeWolf family. Our thanks
to Chief John Seto for the col-
laborative investigation that
included the involvement of sev-
eral U-M police officers. While
we all should remain vigilant for
our personal safety, thanks to
the efforts of these officers, we
know that our streets are a little
bit safer and that justice will be
served."
The University of Michigan
Health System also released a
statement, saying it will con-
tinue to provide support to stu-

dents and staff as the inquiry
continues.
"The loss of Paul DeWolf was
a terrible shock and tragedy
for our entire Medical School
community, and we are heart-
ened by this development and
thankful for the diligent work
of the U-M police and the Ann
Arbor Police Department," the
statement read. "We trust his
family will draw comfort from
this development, and that clo-
sure will ensue for them, our
Medical School community
and the broader Health System.
We will continue to provide
support to our students, faculty
and staff as the judicial process
unfolds."


VFM
From Page 1A
to aid worldwide problems. After
the event, University Provost
Martha Pollack said the three
priorities for the campaign inter-
sect, meaning that students could
participate in research projects
addressing global issues, and gain
valuable learning experiences
outside the classroom.
"As the chief academic offi-
cer, I couldn't be happier about
the priorities," Pollack said. "I
think those three priorities are
just perfectly aligned with what
we want to be as an educational
institution."
The University's newest
campaign launches against a
backdrop of depressed state
appropriations and rising tuition
rates. In June, the University's
Board of Regents approved a
1.1 and 3.2 percent increase in
tuition for in-state and out-of-
state students respectively - the
lowest 29 years.
"We believe that by judiciously
controlling our costs and tuition
increases, while also committing
university funds for financial aid,
we can join with donors to make
it possible for the best students,
from any socio-economic back-
ground, to afford to get a Michi-
gan education," Regent Andrea
Fischer Newman (R) said in a
statement.
Many institutions across the
country are carrying out simi-
MAY
From Page 1A
four prospects it courts, the Uni-
versity usually achieves one gift
at the sought level.
Lead gifts, at $5 million or
more apiece, are expected to
generate $1 billion of the cam-
paign's total. May said he is cur-
rently involved in about six gift
discussions that include poten-
tial donations that are more than
$5 million each.
As to timing of the gifts, May
said they are announced as they
arrive. However, the Univer-
sity plans to create some dead-
lines to continue the campaign's
momentum, including a halfway
celebration in 2015. May said sig-
nificant amounts of money are
also raised every fall when alum-

lar fundraising drives - but
the University's goal is closer to
many private schools than public
peers. Harvard University is cur-
rently in the midst of the largest
fundraising drive in the history
of higher education - with an
ambitious $6.5 billion goal. The
campaign launched earlier this
year and will conclude in 2018.
LSA Interim Dean Susan Gel-
man wrote in an e-mail that her
priorities for the campaign focus
on financial aid, including schol-
arships dedicated to assisting
students pay for study abroad and
internship experiences, as well as
undergraduate research oppor-
tunities.
"We are committed to the lib-
eral arts, and we have evidence
from the stories of our alumni
that scholarship support makes
a tremendous difference, . not
only for an individual student -
maybe the first in his or her fam-
ily to attend college - but also
for siblings, relatives, and entire
communities who are inspired
and encouraged by seeing dreams
become reality," Gelman wrote.
The University has received
$1.7 billion in gifts in the two
years leading up to the official
kickoff on Friday. ,
In the last few months, dona-
tions from philanthropists
including Stephen Ross, Charles
Munger, Penny Stamps, Helen
Zell and the Rogel and Frankel
families have donated gifts ear-
marked for an array of new facili-
ties, scholarships and programs.
Coleman said these leadership
ni return for football season.
"Frankly, we just want the
money to come in when it will
come in," May said.
May said donor experiences
also assist development officers
in courting donors. He added
that celebrations, like Friday's
kickoff for Victors for Michigan,
are some of the few times the
University can get a large num-
ber of donors to campus for a
special event.
Giving after an event like the
kickoff, "people are doing some-
thing rational, butthey're having
fun," May said.
But when recruiting donors
and determining the campaign's
goal, Chief Financial Officer
Timothy Slottow said it's key
the campaign matches a donor's
capability to give with the Uni-
versity's most significant priori-
ties and needs.

gifts highlight diverse areas of
the University - ranging from
arts and humanities to the Busi-
ness School, student support and
athletics. She added that the flag-
ship donations serve as examples
for smaller benefactors.
Ross, who donated $200 mil-
lion in September to his name-
sake business school and the
Athletic Department, serves as
chair of the campaign.
On Wednesday the University
announced a $50 million dona-
tion from Richard and Susan
Rogel - which will benefit the
Medical School and the Center
for Chinese Studies. Richard
Rogel served as chair of The
Michigan Difference campaign
and will serve as vice chair of the
Victors for Michigan campaign -
spearheading the overall push for
student support.
Three students attended the
press conference to answer
questions about how the cam-
paign will support them. LSA
senior Katherine Man, a non-
resident student and a member
of the Global Scholars program,
said without her financial aid,
she would not have been able to
attend the University.
"This opens the opportunities
for students who are good stu-
dents but don't have the financial
means," Man said.
The Victors for Michigan cam-
paign kick-off will begin Friday
at 5.p.m. with a community fes-
tival in Ingalls Mall, the main
event in Hill Auditorium and an
after-party, ending at 10 p.m.
"And it's not an easy thing to
do," Slottow said.
Though specific projects may
appeal to donors, Slottow. said
the University must also secure
donations for less attractive ini-
tiatives, like endowing capital
maintenance. Capital mainte-
nance is used to maintain and
periodically modernize existing
buildings.
Recently, the University has
begun asking donors for capital
projects to include funds ear-
marked for a facility's future
maintenance. So far, that
plan has raised $30 million
in endowed funds for capital
upkeep.
"With lots of creativity, we're
finding new ways to really get
donors interested in the most
important things that wouldn't
necessarily be obvious to a
donor," Slottow said.

COUNCIL
From Page 1A
the University and find a com-
promise for the situation.
"This resolution constitutes
a resolution among friends,"
Taylor said, but noted that the
billboard is distracting to driv-
ers and "degrading to the com-
munity."
Councilmember Chuck
Warpehoski (D-Ward 5)
expressed discontent with the
use of animation andvideo on the
billboard. At an "absolute mini-
mum," the University should be
following federal highway regu-
lation rules, Warpehoski said.
The Federal Highway Admin-
istration discourages billboards
that have flashing, intermittent
or moving lights.
Many of the councilmembers
expressed discontent with the
failure of the Board of Regents
to speak with the city council
before starting the project. Jim
Kosteva, the University's direc-
tor for community relations,
was present at the meeting but
declined to comment on why the
University did not tell the coun-
cil their plans for the billboard
beforehand.
In a previous statement,
Kosteva said the University
doesn't believe the sign consti-
tutes a safety threat.
"This may simply be a matter
of the city and University dis-
agreeing about the marquee's
use, size and effect," Kosteva
said. "We believe the marquee
can safely inform patrons about
events that they or their fami-
lies might enjoy that wouldn't
receive attention otherwise."
University President Mary
Sue Coleman has previously
addressed the issue, noting that
the University was careful to
position the sign away from resi-
dential areas.
"I believe it's the driver's
responsibility to not be distract-
ed," Coleman said. "My opinion
specifically is irrelevant, but I do
like the idea of informing people
about lesser known sports on
campus, such as women's vol-
leyball."
Councilmember Stephen
Kunselman (D-Ward 3) said the
conflict between the cityand the
University has created too much
conflict: he said the two bod-
ies should be talking instead of
throwing resolutions back and
forth.
An innovative, tech-oriented
Ann Arbor should have a digital
billboard, said Councilmember
Sally Hart Peterson (D-Ward
2). She expressed optimism that,
rather than just advertising,
the billboard could be used as a
public service, to issue AMBER
alerts or messages from city
council

All were in favor of the city
ordinance and motion was
approved.
Council members review DDA
funding
Discussion also continued
on changes to the tax-funding
mechanism for the Ann Arbor
Downtown Development
Authority.
Kunselman spearheaded an
ordinance to amend the way tax
increment financing is captured
the DDA. TIF is a form'of public
financing where future gains in
tax revenue are used to subsi-
dize future projects.
Though he's a consistent critic
of the DDA, Kunselman argued
that the DDA isn't getting
enough funding for affordable
housing projects downtown. He
proposed an amendment where
DDA tax funds would be bud-
geted no less than $200,000 for
affordable housing downtown.
Ann Arbor Mayor John Hief-
tje expressed skepticism at Kun-
selmdn's amendments, arguing
that the DDA rarely declines an
affordable housing request.
But after much deliberation
and many amendments, Kun-
selman succeeded in gaining
approval for two amendments
for the''IF capture ordinance.
Audience members express
concern at treatment of
homeless
Before council members dis-
cussed items on the agenda,
several people spoke during the
public commentary period about
the topic of homelessness in
the city. Councilmembers were
planning to address the issue
indirectly through a resolution
to accept a public parks ordi-
nance, which would change the
process of renting public parks.
Liberty Plaza, a downtown
park located at the' corner of
South Division Street and East
Liberty Street, is a common
gathering place for many mem-
bers of the homeless popula-
tion. On Fridays, the Vineyard
Church of Ann Arbor passes out
food to people at the park.
Speakers expressed concerns
that the homeless population
in Ann Arbor was being treated
poorly, and asked council mem-
bers for welfare or "humanitar-
ian help."
Various councilmembers
addressed these concerns in
their communications after the
commentary period. Council-
member Peterson asked Hieftje
to urge churches to keep their
doors open longer in the winter
for homeless shelter.
Later in the meeting, coun-
cilmembers decided to post-
pone voting on the decision for
the parks resolution to a later
date.


MILLER
From Page 1A
the individuals who may end up
submitting bids. A tour of the
house will be offered to inter-
ested buyers later this month,
and bids are due in the middle
of December.
"The University doesn't
necessarily see a need for the
facility, and so we're making it
available to be purchased and
moved," Kosteva said.
Kosteva said no final deci-
sion has been made concern-
ing what would happen if no
bids are submitted, but other
potential uses for the house
would be explored.
As of now, the house is being
used as an office for construc-
tion workers who are expand-
ing the Institute for Social
Research building.
Ideally, Kosteva said the
Arthur Miller house would be
relocated this summer. The
buyer would be responsible for
covering the cost of relocation.
The University undertook
a similar project 15 years ago,
when the James D. Reader,
Jr. Environmental Education
Center, previously the Burn-
ham House, was relocated

from Wall Street near the Kel-
logg Eye Center to the Washing-
ton Heights entrance to Nichols
Arboretum.
Given ideal conditions, trans-
porting an entire house can
actually be more economical
than tearing down one house
and building another, Kosteva
said.
Although it can be expen-
sive to close streets and adjust
things like street signs, traf-
fic lights and electrical wires,
houses in good condition that
are relatively close to their
next location can sometimes be

moved without serious difficul-
ty, Kosteva said.
"It's not an inexpensive activ-
ity. However, depending upon
how far one has to move it obvi-
ously saves construction cost,"
Kosteva said. "You have to own
a lot and build a new founda-
tion, but you might be able to
dramatically reduce overall cost
of construction."
The University purchased the
house for $919,424 in December
2010 after receiving approval
from the Board of Regents in a
meeting the previous month. .

LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY
EVER HAD A CONCUSSION??
Participants needed for a study on the
long term effects of concussion
Who: Males and females in their 40's & 60's
who had a concussion(s) from sport or
recreation when 18yrs or younger
Activities: walking, hand and foot coordination
& reaction time test
Test Duration: 1 session, 2.5hrs
Payment: $50
Contact: Doug Martini at (734)615-9330 or
neurotraumalb.umich@gmail.com


4A -- Friday, Novemrber 8, 2013
I~diii d ad ictn-zuaged-by students at
All; Ak :' 1h Univritiy ofJMichiganz since 1890.

Thle Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com*

420 May naid St.'
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tc11 ladrryt« r ichiyandad~iy.cnt
M4ELANIE KRIUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERT.Z"S MATT SLOVIN
LI Dii1 Al I s-'(L D I S IVIANAGING EDIJOR

ANDREW WEINER
11[)111INI Cl-III

Uiisigned editoriaisseflectihe official piositionl oflie tDily's editotrial board.
All oilier sigiied aricnles andililiistratioins repireseitisolely the views of their authors.
Com-municatting responsibilities
Tenants will now he ticketed directlyfo any accrued fines
T he responsibility of cleaning up Anti Arbor lawns littered with
red solo cups from football Saturdays may soon shift from land-
lords to tenants. Recently delibert aed aimenadments to sections 72
and 132 to the "Hou~rsiing Law of, Michiganl" would directly ticket tenants
for any fines accrued froni violating ordinances regarding conimunity
standards of cleanliniess and public welfar e. Although .the amendments
may seem like an attack oii student poecetbookIs, these potential chaniges
would create an iinptoved level of.iiotificatioin for tenants. Students will
now be made aware of what behaviors caii result in fities, and they will
now kcnow the triagntude of the cotsaequences. This new chantiel of com-
municatioti betweeni the city, teniants and the landlords displaces some of
the uneasiness students caii feel as thecy move off campus.


Biefore these amiendmiieits wetre suggescted,
the responsibiility of painlgatoy finies issued
by Aim AthoarfItlito the liidlord, and the city
wasn't requiiied to tiotify tie occupas of the
building. Noiw, the rvised cases iif, the lill
state that its the duty oifithe occupnts of a
dwelling to keep the tatelmise "lice fromtithe
accumoulationa of dirt, filth, rubbish, garbage
or other mailer ina the yards, couitis, passages,
areas or alleys conntected or bielonigt thia
dwelling." If thle teniants of ain atartmeniitir
house fail to do so, the city ._ini tiaticular lie
Cotmmtuntity Stanadc isot ot Ain Atiiiri-
will issue a,;"' writeninotice of violaiitin to
the occupant. The ldcloof thle buildinii
will receive tite 11s well.
Inithe past, whieiiailaindlotrd ieceived a
notification of a ine, lie could iiiforiiithic
tenants at his discrction. lane to iiifecctive
comnhticationa, a tenant coutld totentilly
commit the same offeiisc'iver aiiil over and
unconsciously accitie a nitiiibir of ines.
Dependigtipoit the laiidloi c, the paymtieiit
could caone oit if the oiviiris tiocket iii taos
sibly the secuirity detiosit of his teniaiits; and,
there are myriad citations capabileiii niaik
lng secentity deposit cdisatipear. tHowever, the
landlord piossesses the optioin to tuirii the Ie
over hifs tenaiits. Accoiding toi the city, teli'
ants can tie ined for iiifenses raiigin fom ilii
overgrowvn grass, 0tdvii accuiiiulai, artkl-
DEREK MAGILLI

hng in tihe y aird to eveni "abanldonaed refrig-
craor. xIni p ~ articilar, tenaniscan be haeavily
fiued Icir placing aiiicithostered couchl upon
th oc ftheir cdwelling oii the grociids
thiti is 5aIipotential fire hazard.
'11111 Koetsier, a meniher of the Reiital
Propelrty ownoers of Michigant, uses this
examipie to illustrate his support for the hill.
tHe claimls that "laiidlords doi't pot couch-
es o porches, tetnants doi, and if they (tie
mnicipality)uanlt it iceiovccl thaey soold
cite the cenant for thatit
In the iteesis of proteccitig students and
their seemrily depositsiliceiUnivcrsity irecent-
iy held 111ninrmatilonlscssioniregaiditag the
iegall deticils ptoent~li linats should kiaow
befoi esligiig a lease. Couplcd with the pro-
posal1 of ihis aiiieidcd billthec University aiid
11115 e li s 15in Lmiiiiiii ar doiiig a mlore effec-
live job of priividing stucdcnts with iformla-
luoau t th111 e duties thalt coiie uith relting.
I tolievet, these tio enitities shloulcdn't have to
continueliccmlipenlsatiilg for thae lack of coin-
miunlicatliionllictweenldllllorcds aiid stcudeiits.
Stuicits also iieed to lie adults atad accept
lie ic spoiisiiilitiis that coime with living off-
camiipus --cceii if iliactimeans paying for occai-
siiiin aiiiiuts if lzinless. However, studeiats
are: capabdilile of fclfilliiig these obligaltionls
if 1landlordd contine to provide tlheii with
Iitsufllicitilt iiifiirmiatioii.

Intersection of Greek Life and LGBTQ
Jwaited patieitly outside of take bung to see that le was't keep- it appear so honophobic?
wrhat t thought sas the side lng oiie rather, lie was concealig It's worth coisidering, however,
doior of the hicuse. oii the glass his sexual orientatitin froia a key that iiaye the issue isn't that the
door was a white eleiieit ini his life: his fraterniaty Greek commlunity is homophoic,
decal if three ----- aid the broader Greek-life cultuiie. rather hyper-heterosexual. As a
Gieekc frateriity "So it's really not a secret that Greek life nenuer, I can attest that
letters that, to you're keepinig. Crrct iae if 'iiiwheiaI lived in a sorority house,
aia isider, rep- , wrong, ht it's noe so that you conversations at the dinner table
resent a variety doi't want to sake thiiig p?" I were largely driveii y heterosex-
of experienices askedlhiln. aity - "That guy you met at Alpha
froii brother- "Yes. It's not that inteestingIm leta Chal last night ... are you taking
hood, ' oi- ._ a normial person." hitm to formal?" It isn't homopho-
radeship atid SARA Jackie Simtpson, director of the ic, it just isn't inclusive language.
coimiounity to MOROSI Spectroto Ceter, explained that But the sate can e said for the
football tail- ovr the yeas, acceptanlce of the wider campus culture, not to men-
gates, Ilatitus LGBiTQ commuity in Greek life tioti all across society. When viewed
Special Light, dronkeit hookups, has been a topic of conversaioit. h's broadly, we wonder how it can ps-
cleavage, itfatuatioti, regiet atid routitnely brought up y studeitts to sily change, ut that doesn't mean
tile occasiottal smell of sount. the Spectruma Advicacy Board as we shouldn't do our part in mak-
I ad rarely come to the frater- an issue they would like to pursue. ing all corners of our University
nity house on a weekday nighnt.The Accorditig to Simnpson, about six an acceptitg place for the LGBTQ
feel was very diffeieint. Thee was years ago, the Spectruiai Center, im comiaunity. Ote way is to continue
no music blaritig aiad iiy oots were 'colaoratioia with Geek life, led a cotsciously elitinating micro-
not stickintg to spilled alcohol ott the survey that explored the erceived aggressiots, like usitg "gay" or
tile as I walked dowit tiemiii hall- level of acceptatmce of LGiTQs "faggot" in a negative connotation.
way. The same three Geek letters withinth le Greekllomon iy. There is itucha to e cone before
were painted in white onthle wall. I "I found the _________ the Greek com-
taoticed a hal-full otle of off-bratad results to e very imunity, as an
Sprite onth ie floor, ptobably a leftover fascitatitig," Greek Life entity, can tote
bottle of chaser fronthtie vweekentd.- Simtpsoil said. *f acceptance of
Todd Needle, a senior photo edi- What the str- . isnt necessariiy LGBTQ mem-
tor at The Michigata Oaily, sat across vey fountd was hom o u ti es utI
frotmi tme o00is edrooma floor, lie sat that the perceived honpho ibuf t1 believe were
witha his legs crossed - a position we level of accep- hme~ eeoe u l noving for-
referred io itteettettary schtool as tance of LGBTQ .yVe -eeosx a ward. Person-
"Indian style." it mtade his body ook membuers varies ally, I have
cratmped, ht the iifortaaity of his across cotitimuti- seet a change
posture made him appear relaxed at ty, chapter ad the itdividual. itt acceptance withint Greek life
the samie titme. onu the wall above his Sinpsont recounted that whena over the past four years that I've
bed was a posier that read "Forward students were asked, "hDo you feel beet part of it.
with Obama." said level is suportive of LGiTQ Last February, Needle told me,
For years, Needle has struggled maembahers?" te vast mlajority of stu- "We're just not there yet, as a Geek
to coute to termas with his sexual dents claitmed that as a communtity, culture. It's disappointing. Ito not
orientation. Beinlg a studenti at the Greek life is not accepting, and that even there yet as a person, to e rn-
University, a fairly liberal shool their chapter is somewhat accept- ning around taking guys to formal.'
at that, has bothicm ipicatedhatd ing, atd, as an idividual, tey are With a snie he added: "Although
cleated his path to self-discovery. accepting. we'd totallyhave matchi nghowties."
Needle is a nember of Greek life on Simpson explained that judging Since then, Needle has become
campuus. Htowever, it hasn't ahays by the needs of siudenas consult- moe and mmre open abot his sex-
baen ati environimuent itt whichi he tgat the Spectrumut Ceter, shie has uah preferetce. This fal, le posed
felt coimfortable expessiuglhis sex- ot noticed a catge ini the level of for pictures ext to ii boyfriend
ual orientation. accepatce itt LGB'Qtmeners i at his fraternity's Gatbyitspired
Greek cultue stignmatizes gays. Greek life sincethesurvey was ctin- date party.
"It's not auueuviuomunaet conducive to duced oe thata half a decade ago. And yes, uhey wore bow ties.
homosexuality, to openahomoseual- "I would say that students exp- "I've beeti very impressed by
ity," Needle told tme. Because of this, rietnce it ie saue. They continue to eeryone who knows me person-
iin tihe pst le has consciousy filtered bring this cp as somoethitg they feel ally - especially nmy brothers. They
himselthie with his brothes. He needs to e worked on. What that haven't atted an eyelash." Needle
has spoken in a mtoe masculine tone. says to me is that it has't changed." told te ita ate October. "But when
lie has joiedlitt convesations aboiut Simtpsonm added, "For tme persotn- I ear people say fag' or 'itat's
hmot sorority girls, ally, as director of the Spectrumi Cen- so gay,' h want to tell themm that it
Last- semtester, I tottk a course ter, I viewv ty colleagues ini Greek life doesn't nake you ound cool; it
ini narrative journaismt. I chose to and sudemnts I've worked witha iiiFC miakes you soutd like an assoe."
write muy marrative about Needle's -and anhel as very supportive." "It retminds me that we still have
extperienmce withnthe ittersectioum So what's goitg ou? If the major- a ways to go."
of hotmosexuality anld Grek life. ity of surveyed Greek miembuers are -________- -
I originally set out to tell a story allegedly acceptlig of the LGBTIQ - Sara Moosi can e reached
about keepitug a secret, hut it didn't conuntity, why, as an entity, does a sunuisi,uiched.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan,
Eric Ferguson, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis, Maura
Levine, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Adrienne
Roberts, Paul Sherman, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
No excuse for slut shaming

r

0

0
0

A party of their own

'The hibe'rtatrianiPtty didl rit cost tile
RepubliucantlParty the VtrginlialgovetroI lice,
they did thuat oumtiheir own.
'There ar~etmvouways ithue tcc-tblicllll hParry
can view its narrowtlos11s tilirlillciais illth
Virginmiaugubierniatoriahlh race: Eithier tile party
needs further reforimtaout social polic ies or
those peskey Liber tatiahut 1lieu s 'cosi LuS tile
electionu." 'lie formler would be warmilly wv']
copted hay a ppuclace thalt's demiandcilt;-- wimli
an everm itmreasitig fervorit-sociaill ibetrties.
Thl~m atter wtuuldi ha savage hmypocrisy. Whiai
khm itofmessauge cdoes it sendc whenut a hiltty
that allegedly suppoimts cuimimpeitininilmar-
kets wants tut e-njvoy It lmonopotiliy ilmhe ticc
tiusmlprodess? Whtilohe par 111ties alie * uiltiy of
doing everythitng itt their tiuwer to tmlalgiiil
ice third patrtic's, tile iepulicanl treatment of
the LibartarianPtaiy is 1par1ticulatrly galling
with is cheaguttips. "a svote fur a Liei
tariani is a vote for a Decmocralt." A }par1ty thati
as to smaumue tiole inmto votimig fur it is niii a
party wor t votig ftutu . iids, hase eubah-
licans ever tutghit 110w silly thalt soudcs?
Atid, as imuchi as Repuicanllus wotiul hiy'
to lay claium totm thembetartianim o uvementll,
there are clearl y enoughil ilsertrian~ voters
who tiimkusiconismm- Libertrianls "mar~try-
ing" Rtepubllic-ans-- is an illegit imtacte lceans
toward a motre liettrianlsuociety. Insteivdof,
placiig lalmetd'oilpeuiplewhvoted forcm h e
LibertariantFarty canidcate Robe'rtiSarki.,,
Republicanus iced to as5k themtselvs: l~"u iy
didn't these peouple vote RepcublicanE AWhy did
the Democrats still wsina wietchtie majority of
voters mm Virginial, if youucomblaie til epaulb-
licanmanatdiLibertarianutsc, viated for freei
nmarketis? Whit is thec disconniect bietwseli
Lietrtaills aild1tle hte-pubsicanita1yR'
Whuiluthelm ss I vious Ireasontlis 111111iii-
emrtrianteli'acltulii;lyii40c1' free lual~c'I .,il's
social liertices tha~t meouill have had the milti
imnediate imipauct odilleilic' ltuftit lecdi-c
litn. If thu Reubiican11 Party canldildatelienl
has no role whaatsoever ini the marial amnd sc-
ual relationtships of Virgimiia citizents, I dcan say
with counfideclie lilactil'wsldd avelce ivdl
nore Libertarianm votes despite thie fact that
we would have still had disagreements.

hibler~tains atremit time rigid ideologues
that1 the .Reiubiliicant patty hats paimnted us to
be. We 1recognize that mm politics, as mm any
lite of imfhue, you 1can'lt always ave your cake
anid ea~t it lul. I louver, we litu accept the
plhilosopicallyi;illiteralte antchmoatlly hank-
Irtupt shlutdhmlelt that social liberties aren't as
importantlull as econmommic liberties. Cemntral to
lilert 111. 11 phtilosopihy is time ecognuitionm thalt
suiiuuuitiuy, peaceful associationus hetweena
ipiee 1'etile focundationm for free imarkets.
Fuir LibeaiIuhatns, Cuecitacii's stances out
Iariage, the citrcg var, sex andc immuigration
wevt-tlollfar iniviolatimng this tarinciple.
lv iiredllhy .a hlardhprincipsle t accept that peoi-
plie shld lcble fice to do whalt they wish in their
plivile hlides, stoun115sit's peaucefuoh? Republi-
calls 1ha1e1'ld ibc hertatrianis thteyre "stubbornm,"
bsut sttubornnetss ia defetnse of liberty cannot
seriuly;bfe coiisidiered a vice. Iftwe locuk at time
diretiondurl llctultcmre is mtovinhgin,uwmo is really
bingitugodbblorni: those whmo would lilt social
.rcstr ictiions, or those whmo would immpose themn
.again~st lie veishes of mtost individuals? Thme
result (tul"lie electilun speakis for itself.
D~oes this tmeanu Libaertamrianms wanted time
Dhemoucratic cauldidiie 'ferry McAuliffe to
lie electedi'Far fruomm it. It simpltay man th at
Repubihlians have not yet cuome far enoughaout
socdilibier ties io uterit time early 150,00 Lib-
ertaianIl voles thalt they cli~mRIobert Sarvis
'Siiihiiledi' awaly 11111 thtemm. While I have mo
doiubhtt he Rei ~publicanstvwoucld halve tlakeni
the elct1101 if tile Libsertarianm party had not
fieldied iaumadidate, I have eqoally ito doubt
ihiat the Repuictanlts would iaave wonm if they
hadrildheselves of soume of their more
meieiivall sic ill policies - some of whaichm,
,)rnt icthy shutre with ODumocrats.
Apparnl ity, thoutghI, that was wishmfumi
hiri. Redpubilicanms ha~ve already taken
toi sociailimedlia to blame Libertarians for
evslti" itieiiithe electionm of 1a "tree mmarket
I aiicdidtiitha a siimpe relaxautiona of social
pliieds mlighlthlved wonm. I woinder whuether
thely have ever hueard that tinmeless hit of wis-
domth: "Inlsanuity is cdoing time sante tiing over
n~di v-slidc tin~gcdifferemnt results?"
Derek Magill iv an LSA sophomore.

Halliuweena is time onme
night a yeahr whena
girls canm dress ike
a total shut amid
no oter girls
canm say anythinug
about it," said
Cady Hcrmonminm
"Meam Girls,"
whichl is becomm-
tug a generationu-
al culi classic. As MA R
commedic as this
statementtaugust LEVINE
sounmd, it could --_. -
not he truer in
time cuillege memtaity. With Hal-
loween 2013 in our rear-view mir-
roes, we are left withnbluhrry i~imoume
pictures of ouor triemads dressed in
outfits thmat would he considered
"shutty" ottany other day of the year
sinmply because they canm get away
with it tutu"H~allo-weekenhd." hBut just.
beeause this hotliday has becohmle time
one day a year in which it is cultural-
ly acceptable to dress in a less-than-
traditional mmanner does not make it
OK for wotnenm to he "shut shanmed"
or for menm to harass wutomen slot-
ply hecacuse of whmat thmey are wear-
ing. thme Michuiganmlawvs ona sexual
huarassmmenut still apply evenm when a
woman is wearing a sexy schoolgirl
costunme tin Halloweema.
Accordinag to a self-proclaimed
femnmist blog, "Filnally a Femmi-
nistn 101 Blog," "slut shaming"
occurs when a womaan is attaeked
or shamed for beimag sexual tar act-
ing on sexual feeliings. It is also, "..
the implication that ifsa woman has
sex that traditional society disap-
proves of, she should feel guilty anmd
inferior." Slut shaming can ead to
women having low self-esteem and
to mnieatinikinag that womena are

nmere sexual objects and are able to
he tharownm arounid with little cont-
sequemnce. Just because a wonuma is
dressed a certaimi way on Hallow-
een - or ammy other day of the year -
does not mean that site is "easy" to
get into bed, that she can be treated
withaout respect tue that she can bae
touched simmply because youu wanmt to
toucih lier.
iUfortunately,umuanmy cllege nmen
overstep their houdaries - "Hallo-.
weekenad" or not. Maybe they are shut
shuamimgammd thinuk that itheycanmuouch
a woman inappropriately because
of time way she
is dressed, or
umaybe they wvere M~len she
mever tauighit
manr.It; is beforei
imuportanut tim
realize, however, advance!
that unless you schoolgi:
know a womanuu
personually and
you know that
she consents to physical contact, you
shouldn't touch lier. Regardless of
whether or not youm thimnk it is fumnny
or hiarmlmess to grab lier tout closely
while takimng a group pictdure or thu sip
your artm aroutud lier wvaist durinig a
preganme, thieve actions maay mmake her
uncomofortable.
More than making her uncom-
fortable, these actionms are actually
proluibited by law. Accordinig to thme
Rape, Abuse and Incest National
Network, sexual assault is any,
"umnwanted sexual conmtact that
stops short of rape or attempted
rape. This includes sexual touch-
ing and fondling." So while mere
touchinug at a bale may seem harm-
less, even this eould pursue into a
form of sexual assault punishable
by law. In Michigan, there are four

0
n
.
.r

degrees of Criminal Sexual Con-
duct. These degrees differ in both
definitionus and guidelines for pun-
ishment, depemding on the type of
inappropriate contact sustained.
Furthermore, resistamace by the
victim is not mnecessary to establish
CSC has oceurred; therefore, if a
womana is too scared or ashanmed to
speak out, renmove herself fronm an
unucomfortable situation or tell her
assailamnt to stop, the perpetrator.
canm still he crimnally prosecuted.
It would be wrronmg to assumoe that
just because a womman did tot com-
plain of discom-
fort, she was not
)uld ask affected. Fear of
shanme or rid-
naking cule may pro-
hibit her from
s - sexy resisting at that
ri or not. timie~ ha
beciome desensi-
tized to women
being called "shuts," to women
beling touched inappropriatehy or
feeling uncomfortable. Pop cul-
tore makes it seena OR for a man
to touch a woman when he finds
her sexy; it supports the idea that
nmen can take what they want when
they want it. But neither a womnan
wearing a playboy bunny costume
nor a woman wearing a turtleneck
sweater is juistifiably "asking for it."
Men should always ask before mask-'
ing advances on a woman - regard-
less of what she is wearing. If not,
they could find their slut shaming,
selves in a courtroom, whether or
not it was a harmless joke nr a mis-
taken gesture taken "too far."
- Maura Levine can he reached
at mtoval@umich.edu.

0
0

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out (ae-mirhigandaily to got updates nun Daily content throughout the day.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 8, 2013 -- 5A

Spiritual dance
troupe honors poet

Whirling Dervishes
to translate Rumi
work in performance
By GIANCARLO BUONOMO
Daily Arts Writer
"Poetry is what gets lost in
translation" - a cliche yet pro-
found statement. This is cer-
tainly true
when translat- The
ing from one Whirling
language to
another. How- Dervishes
ever, whatifone of Rumi
translates lan-
guages beyond Friday at 7 p.m.
the written
word? On Fri- Rackham
day, the Whirl- $15
ing Dervishes
of Rumi will be
coming to campus to translate
the works of the Persian poet
and mystic Jalal ad-Din Muham-
mad Rumi, known as Mevlana or
Rumi, into dance and music.
The dance troupe .performs a
unique ritual known as Sema, in
which the spirit of Rumi's poetry
inspires a dance of graceful spin-
ning, accompanied by drumbeats
and recitations from his poetry
and from the Koran. This is not
mere entertainment; in fact, the
Dervishes ask that there be no
applause until they have left the
stage, for they are performing
a sacred act. The Rumi Club of

Michigan, which is bringing the
Whirling Dervishes to campus,
views this performance as educa-
tional as well as spiritual.
"We try to engage people
through dialogue - interfaith
and intercultural dialogue," said
second-year Ph.D student Ziah
Dean.
Far from being an insular dis-
cussion group about the poet
himself, the Rumi Club, much
like the Whirling Dervishes,
applies the values that Rumi
espoused in his poetry to the bet-
terment of the intellectual, spiri-
tual and social culture of campus.
"We basically derive our mis-
sion from Rumi's perspective, in
the sense that he sought to engage
people through love (and) com-
passion, and he really thought
that the sort of connection with
God was through those," Dean
said.
In even a brief look at some of
Rumi's poetry, this multifaceted
approach is apparent. Consider,
for example, his poem, "Light
up the Fire," in which he states,
"Light up the fire of love inside /
And blaze the thoughts away." In
these lines, for Rumi, as with Sufi
thought, the divine infuses the
personal.
"When he does write his poet-
ry, he's basically talking about his
personal journey to reach that
realm of divine existence," Dean
said.
The Whirling Dervishes take
all of these ideas and convert

them into the ritual Sema. Each
Sema contains four different
musical movements anchored by
a whirling dance.
"Whirling in of itself is sort of
trying to connect oneself to the
heavenly bodies that also whirl,
like the earth that rotates," Dean
said.
One does not need to be per-
forming the Sema, or even believe
in its theological affirmations, to
appreciate the Dervishes' perfor-
mance.
"Even if you are a spectator of
the whirling, you can also benefit
in the sense that you also sort of
put away all of the problems and
troubles you have, the things that
are going on around your world,
and just focus on this beautiful
music. And you can also experi-
ence that same sort of ascension
that they're trying to seek," Dean
said.
Rumi's work might be unfa-
miliar to many students, but that
is precisely why the Rumi Club
of Michigan is bringing the Der-
vishes to campus.
"It's really important that we
sit down and get to know each
other, especially because we
are living in this turbulent time
where there's a lot of strife going
on between people who are not
sitting down and getting to know
each other," Dean said.
So, in the words of Rumi:
"Come, come, whoever you are.
Wanderer, worshiper, lover of
leaving. It doesn't matter."

Introducing the new Urban Outfitters male line.
Diving into Ocean s
past with 'Lonny' tape

Britney Spears reveals personal
heartbreak on Perfume' track

By GIBSON JOHNS
Online Arts Editor

It's no secret that the first
single from Britney Spears's
upcoming eighth album, Brit-
ney Jean, "Work Bitch," vastly
underperformed across the
board, so it was imperative
that Brit Brit deliver something
bigger and better ahead of the
album's release. She needed to
reassert her power over pop
music - fast. Enter "Perfume.";
It has been a decade since
2003's "Everytime," Spears's Scratch n' sniff.
last truly iconic power ballad,

You
intens
have
For ti
release
nel OR
critica
gave
Bout
"Swee
a featu
the Th
Wild,"
associ,
Gatsby
Be
OR
wa
Wit
it seern
for thi
what
of pe
don't k

By ALLENDONNE is who Frank Ocean was'before
Daily Arts Writer hecoming "Frank Ocean."
Prior to his name change
don't have to be an in 2008, Ocean garnered a
e follower of music to following under the name
heard of Prank Ocean. Lonny Breaux. At first, Breaux
hose unfamiliar, Ocean intended to stay in Los Ange-
ed his debut album, chan- les temporarily to continue a
RANGE, in July 2012 to few recording projects. After
1 acelaim. This album further connecting with some
us the singles "Thinkin significant players in the music
You," "Pyrarnids" and industry, however, Breaux
I Life." Ocean also made decided to settle down. Dur-
are appearance on Watch ing .this time, Breaux helped
rone's "No Church in the compose songs for many big
the song that became name artists, including Justin
ated with "The Great Bieber and Beyonca. Breaux
" trailer. also successfully recorded some
original tracks in an attempt to
obtain a record deal.
fore Channel If you look on Ocean's official
discography list, the R&B sing-
AANGE there er only lists two main projects:
nostalgia, ULTRA and channel
s only Lonny ORANGE. There is no men-
tion of anything he recorded as
Breaux. Lonny Breaux.
Fortunately, while Breaux
sought recognition, he released
material not only to obtain that
h such rising popularity, elusive record deal but also to
is as if the sky is the limit reward loyal fans of an artist
s young R&B singer. But who was only known behind-
a lot the-scenes in the R&B com-
'ople First seen on munity. After Ocean found
now -the filter success with nostalgia, ULTRA,

the tracks he had previously
recorded were comnpiled into
a mixtape, fittingly titled, The
Lonny Breaux Collection.
Sure, channel ORANGE >and
nostalgia, ULTRA are great
albums, but fans may tire of
repeatedly listening to the same
30 tracks. Without much recent
material, Frank Ocean fans may
be eager to discover new mate-
rial while waiting for Ocean's
next album. The Lonny Breaux
Collection, then, should act as
a satisfactory treat for Ocean
fans.
Spanning 64 tracks, The
Lonny Breaux Collection pro-
vides not only an enjoyable
listening experience but also
a look at the versatile styles
Ocean experimented with
before recognition. It provides
a background to such a talented
artist. Even if you aren't a Frank
Ocean fan, the mixtape should
be a pleasant listening expe-
rience. If you're still not con-
vinced, I can only say that I've
had the tape for half a year and
"it still receives constant play.
Just trust me on this one.
- A version of this article
originally appeared on the
Daily Arts blog, The Filter, oit
Oct. 31.

RcA

and upo
diately
ready to
co-penn
was rel
and is
Britney.
We
hi
Br

in first listen, it is imme- wick, and she was feeling emo-
clear that "Perfume" is tional, y'all. But by releasing a
fill that void. The track, first single like "Work Bitch,"
ned by Spears and Sia, a banging club track devoid of
eased on Sunday, Nov. 3 any emotion, Spears confused
the second single off of her fans. Where was the con-
Jean, due out Nov. 29. nection? Where was our look
into the increasingly guarded
heart and soul of our beloved,
smell a neW down-home southern gal, Brit-
ney Jean Spears?
t single for "Perfume" answers all of
these questions and then some.
'itney Jean The revealing, declarative
record grows upon every listen
Spears. and lets us hear the rawness
Sp s of Spears's voice for the first
time since, really, ... Baby One
More Time. With little autotune
ughout her promo tour and an absence of EDM synths,
I, Spears has promised "Perfume" gives us all that Brit-
r eighth album would ney Jean has promised it would
most personal yet; she be. With lines like "Sometimes
nd recorded most of the it feels like there's three / Of us
while dealing with her in here, baby," Spears discloses
p her paranoia about her man
ex- .becoming unfaithful to her.
First seen on Relatable isn't usually a word
Cra- - the filter used to describe Spears's music,

but "Perfume" totally is.
"And while I wait, I put on
my perfume / Yeah, I want it
all over you / I gotta mark my
territory," she proclaims on
the record's chorus. Though
some of the more recent tracks
she helped write ("Mmm Papi"
and "My Baby" from Circus)
are rather questionable, Spears
shows some serious songwrit-
ing skills that put her vulner-
ability on display.
"Perfume" is a complete tri-
umph for Spears and has put her
back on track leading up to Brit-
ney Jean's release. Though air-
play isn't a given for the record,
I'd argue that fans don't even
care how it does on the radio or
the Hot 100 - with "Perfume,"
Brit Brit has given her fans (and
presumably herself) what they
want from the Queen of Pop
Music. This is her; this is Brit-
ney Jean.
- A version of this article
originally appeared on the Daily
Arts blog, The Filter, on Nov. 4.

Thro
this fal
that he
be her
wrote a
songsu
breakul
with
fiance
Jason T


DO YOU
LIKE
READING
BOOKS?
BECOME A BOOK
REVIEWER FOR
THE DAILY BY
APPLYING TO
THE FINE ARTS
BEAT.
To request
an application,email
arts@michigandaily.com.

GREAT THINGS ARE HAPPENING
" ON THE DAILY ARTS BLOG.
Visit michigandaily.com/blogs/the+filter.

INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
INTHE ARCTIC REGION
University of Michigan undergraduate students
receive grants of up to N000
towards summer research/internships
in the Arctic Region.
Interested? To learn more, visit
ii.umich.edu/pics/fundingresources
[SA INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE
UNIVERSITY OF MICH IGAN

h p f


f


6A - Friday, November 8, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com ,*I

- Friday, November 8, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

New series stares
down 'Death'

Showtime follows
people through
grief, final days
By GRACE HAMILTON
For the Daily
Death is "the elephant in the
room that no. one wants to talk
about," says terminally ill can-
cer patient
Maria. In that A
case, Show-
time's new Time of
series, "Time Death
of Death," is an
hour of staring Fridays at
at the elephant 9p.m.
and maybe even
sitting on top of Showtime
it.
The new
documentary series, which pre-
miered Friday, Nov. 1, follows
several men and women of vary-
ing ages through their last days
of life. If this were drama, it
might be described as poignant
or bone-chilling, but that doesn't
seem to cut it here.
The ability of the dying to talk
about their imminent end is strik-
ing. It offers a remarkably inti-
mate glimpse at mortality, a topic
most consciously avoid. While
such issues might have been
touched upon in a show like "Six
Feet Under," the fact of the mat-
ter is that this is an incomparable
experience for viewers. Nowhere
else is the matter taken so head-
on; the show's first two minutes
features a single shot of a9tcall,
in which an unnamed girl tells
the operator, "I just found my
mother dead." And there we are,
staring the elephant in the face.
Confronting? Yes. Uncom-
fortable? Absolutely. But mor-
bid? Impressively not. In fact,
the show is very careful to avoid
this. Emphasisis placed on the
daily interactions and often the
very ordinary struggles of sub-
jects, like the frustration of a
deficient car engine on the way
to work or the decision of which

Terminal patients celebrate life in 'Time of Death.

sibling washes the dishes on.
Thursdays. These are the ways
in which the audience begins
building connections with those
in the process of dying, just as
they do with the healthy around
them. Of course, it is also what
makes viewing that much more
difficult. "Time of Death" does
not necessarily intend to leave
you in tears, but it probably will.
It is truly a skillful method on
the part of directors to draw
out such a strong emotional
response from the audience.
Above all, the show is hon-
est and lays all bare. The emo-
tions are complicated enough,
interactions speak for them-
selves and any embellishment
is unnecessary. In moments
where the crew is absent, family
members are given hand-held
cameras and the interviews
continue. The audience hears
both sides of the lens. "Tada!"
Maria exclaims, revealing her
post-mastectomy chest to the
camera held by her 24-year-
old daughter. Her self-con-
sciousness is evident when the
moment lingers too long, but
Maria presents an impressive
image of strength. This kind of
footage leaves the show literally
raw.
Each person talks about
death in a different way. Their
particular attitude influences
the everyday moments and

routines that "Time of Death"
so carefully observes; in other
words, how they cope with life
in the face of death. Different
difficulties arise for different
people: a father's inability to
express his grief, a daughter's
anger at her mother's denial or
an ex-wife who is able to let go
of 20 years worth of anger.
But what . is ultimately.
revealed is that those dying fear
most not for themselves but for
the others they leave behind.
This unites the subjects of
"Time of Death." The series is.
about relationships as much as
it is about mortality itself.
Part of its importance lies
in the fact that these relation-
ships and their accompanying
battles are not limited to the
literal time of death at all. We
deal with them every day, and
seeing the way that people face
and overcome them, even in try-
ing circumstances, should be a
powerful inspiration..
Obviously, for University
students with their lives ahead
of them, this may seem like an
unappealing way to fill your
Friday night. That being said,
the aversion is universal. No
one wants to face these issues
and fears, especially in such a
gritty way. Following the whole
season may be unrealistic, but
committing yourself to the hour
is well worth it.

SHOWTIME
"Wow, what a diverse and respectful representation of women!!"
to hit excitement phase

0

By CHLOE GILKE tune in to the first episode and
Daily Arts Writer nothing more.
I suspect many viewers still
Showtime's "Masters of share my mistake. Whether you
Sex" is critically acclaimed, chalk it up to the unrelatable
but it still seems to be missing '50s setting or just the simple,
a steady fanbase. I blame this fact that the word "sex" is
tragedy partly on the ridicu- actually in the title, there's no
lous promos that circulated doubt that "Masters" initially
this past summer: One high- appears*off-putting. The show
lighted a certain glass appara- practically dares its viewers
tus called "Ulysses" that Lizzy to skip tuning in, perhaps on
Caplan displayed for a very the assumption that they are
confused Beau Bridges. "Mas- not mature enough to handle
ters" looked pretty weird tone- the awkward material the
wise, and I wasn't sure whether show deals with. But though
I was supposed to laugh or take the show airs on cable (where
it serious- some nudity is allowed), that
ly. I knew First seen on shouldn't be the reason to scare
I would you away.
probably -the filter People who aren't tuning in

to "Masters" are actually miss-
ing out. The show has grown a
lot since its uneven pilot epi-
sode. Thankfully, the formerly
slow plot has picked up the
pace quite a bit, and there's
more action than anticipation.
Side characters in particular
are becoming'more developed
with each week: Libby Masters
has avoided the typical 'pitfall
of stereotypical whiny wife and
is sympathetic and interesting,
and the addition of Allison Jan-
ney as Provost Scully's "beard"
wife has made the Scully char-
acter much more fun to watch.
I had my doubts about
Michael Sheen (best known
for playing everyone's favorite
crusty, old Volturi vampire in
the "Twilight" series) having
enough star power to carry a
series, but he is delightful as
straightlaced obstetrician/
sex-traordinaire William Mas-
ters. Rather than clinical and
heartless, his performance is
full of intelligence and dedi-
cation. And I'll call it right
now: Sheen will get a deserved

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

1

RELEASE DATE- Friday, November 8, 2013
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS e Library 40 Lakeside 58 Bar order
1 Something to requirement Pennsylvania city 57"The devourer of
pass or lower 7"The wolf _ the 43 Love letters? all things": Ovid
7 Crocus kin door" 44 Ark units 58 Statue of Vishnu,
11 Samosaveggie 8 Get to 45 "As I was e.g.
14 Biblical dancer 9 Sit in traffic, say sayin'..." 59 Oenophile's
15 Iem in a 10 Very, in Vienna 46 They may be criterion
musician's kit 11 Words of tribute straight 60 _ Squalor:
17 Westem, e.g. 12 Golden State 47 4 x 4, briefly Lemony Snicket
18 Kind and caring motto 48 Policy at some character
19 Stadium secion 13 Califomia Zephyr restaurants 63 Composer Rorem
for charity operator 49 Align carefully 64 English cathedral
corkers? 16 "Law &Order: 55 Prefixwith culture city
21 Kats work SVU" rank
23 Steam 20 Bottom line ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
24Cal relative 21 Worctof C G I U S E D T O S C T V
25 Keats'Sylan pssession ARN LAVE1
historian" 22 Westem A
26 Really old challenge S E V E N D E A D L Y Z I N S
hardwood? 27 Terse refusal H E A R A F B I M E N
32"Phooey!" 28 Who, in Paris E N D U R E S I N A D A Z E
34 Give a damn? 29Item shortened at W E EP S HOT S A L
35Disney's bitly.com T A P A S SPEC K
"Bambi"? 30 Md. hours
41 Paralyze with 31 Cooperative
dense mist, as an group FU DIS K I D D O
airport 33 Cake recipe word A I L D A T A S A P
42"HorseFeathers" 36Aswell S P A R K L E S K E L T E R
familypname 37 Massage W H O O P S L E O N E
44"Merrie beneficiary L I F E I S A C A B E R N E T
Melodies"theme 38Itsatomicnumber
sung? is50 B U
50Oneoftwosingle- 39Commonsorting S A L T S T R A T A L A Y
digf Yankee basis xwordeditor@aol.com 11/08/13

I

Emmy award nomination f
CRIBSPOT.COMCKE his excellent work this seasot
715/721Deserving of
715/721 CHURCH - CENTRAL CARRIAGE )MOUSE APT. WANTED TO BUY: 2 Ohio State vs.
CAMPUS!!Available Fall 2014, 1&2 2 Bedroom Apartments, 1.5 Baths ' Mich. FB tix. Call Dave 614-761-7653. Em m ys or
bedroom apartments. Just one block Price: $2,600 per month
from South University, near the b- Contact: 734-741-9300
school Large bedrooms/living roomns. Email: cmb@cmbmgmt.comat least m ore
Free heat/water/parking! I bedroom Link: cribspot.com/listing/959
starting at $805, 2 bedroom starting at HAVE
$1445. www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244. cimgtllc@yahoo.com GEDDES HILLAPT. PUED
1 Bedroom Apartment, I Bath
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful Price: $1,650 per month
home. Near B-School. Off-street park- Contact: 734-741-9300 Not to mention his chet
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777 Email: cmb@cmbmgmt.com istr with Lizz Capla
t ~~~~~Link: cribspot.com/listing/964isrwthLzyCpa
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath, L c h gVirginia Johnson! The sho
parking, laundry, $1900/month. Avail wastes no time highlighti
Fall 2014. dklemptner@conicast.net ZARAGON PLACE 619 E University her unrestrained sexuality a
4 Bedroom Apartments; 2 Bathshr esa de liu
Price: $1,125 permosah LL his hesitance, and puts the to
934 DEWEY HOUSE Features: Wshr/dryer in unit, fully fur- in many situations in whi
4 Bedroom-Fall 14-15 nished, wifi, 43" flat screentv included he must navigate his attra
Fully Furished Contact: 734-786-3890
Plenty of Parking Link: cribspot.com/listing/2860 EJLO Ktion to his secretary/resear
Off Packard & Granger partner. Anyone familiar wi
Call today to see your new home! the real life Masters and Joh
734-761-8880 0EWIE son (best known for researt
primesh.comYn
ing the four stages of sexu
CENTRAL CAMPUS LARGE And response) knows that the tv
Smallllouses __'_______ _et married in the end. but i

for
gn.

m-
n's
ow
ng
ad
wo
ch
c-
ch
th
in-,
h-
al
wo
it's

.

union numbers
thataren'tretired
51 A, in Acapulco
52"Mazel)_."
53 Ranch handle
54 Emperor Justinian
as ayoung man?
61 "That'smy
intentian"
62 Aondthe bend,
sotospeak
65"Flavor"
singer/songwriter
66 Beat badly
67 Letters to the
CoastGuard
68 TV component?
69 Quick
DOWN
1 Chicken general?
2 Boar's Head
product
3 Like November,
in away
4 Simple tie
5 First name in
flight

1 2 3 4 T-6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 i6
17 18
19 20
21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
32 33 34
35 36 37 38 39 40
41 42 43 j
44 45 46 47 48 49 50
51 52 53
54 55 56 57 58 59' 60
61 62 63 64
65 66
67 68 69
By Jeffrey Wechsler 11/08/13
(c)2023 Tribune Content Agency, LLC

www.CappoManagement.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartdfients,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATES
www.The2nsdFloorSU.com
UNIVERSITY TOWERS
*NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS*
Renta FULL 2 bedroom w/ FREE
HEAT as low as $1629.00. Great Loca-
tion, Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-nii.com
734-761-2680

IMMEDIATE OPENINGS IN A2
@ Bigalora. Family restaurant special-
izing in Neapolitan Pizza & fresh Ita-
lian fare. Hiring: line cooks, prep cooks,
dishwashers, hostesses, bartenders,
managers, servers, bussers. Apply at
3050 Washtenaw,A2, 48104 between
10am-2pm. Opening Day Nov 8, 2013
LOCAL ANN ARBOR Restaurant
seeking MANAGERIAL help. Please
send resume to P.O. Box 468 Chelsea,
MI 48118
NORTHERN MICHIGAN'S PRE-
MIER co-ed summer camp is looking
for counselors for the 2014 season.
Please visit our website to learn more
about us, www.campwaidenmi.com
To apply just click on "Want a job?"

DO THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE.

rcL iiniilc III cic cu , U i
fun to see their relationship
go through its own stages of
development.
Though only six episodes
have aired so far, I know
that "Masters" will continue
the high quality it's already
established in its "excitement
phase." I have full trust in the
show to improve its game and
get even better as the season
progresses. The series may
be called "Masters of Sex,"
but it's so much more than
just boobies and glass dil-
dos. It balances intelligence
with plain old entertainment,
romantic tension with medical
cases and mature content with
heartfelt story.
- A version of this article
originally appeared on the Daily
Arts blog, The Filter, on Nov. 5.

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE, WWW.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com
organization, format. All Disciplines. Paid survey takers need in A2.
734/996-0566 or writon@iserv.net 100'/o FREE to join. Click on Surveys.


i

I



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, November 8, 2013 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Friday, November 8, 2013 - 7A

What to Watch For: Nebraska

In third year, rugby
seeks Big Ten Title

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor.
1. Can Michigan find any consis-
tency?
There's a reason why Michigan
coach Brady Hoke still struggles
to name his team's identity. Name-
ly, that identity seems to change
every week. Heading into their
ninth week, the Wolverines have
still yet to find any sort of on-field
consistency.
Many of the same problems
have plagued Michigan this year.
The offensive line has yet to play a
stellar game, or even close to that,
and the secondary has always,
been loose. But mostly, each week
has varied vastly from the one
preceding it, from the highs of
the Notre Dame victory and the
record-setting Indiana perfor-
mance, to the lows of Akron and
Penn State and Michigan State.
Some of that is on youth or
inexperience. Defensive coordi-
nator Greg Mattison says that,
often, nine guys will execute per-
fect on any given play. But all 11?
"We're not there yet," Mattison
said. "And we have to get there."
The frustrating part, he said,
is that a different player will err
on different plays. The key is get-
ting the entire unit to play in cho-
rus. The same can be said of the
offense.
It has been a turbulent ride so
far, and right now the Wolver-
ines are riding a downswing. This
team doesn't need to put up 751
yards of total offense each week,
as it did against Indiana. It just
needs to find something it can rely
on.
2. Will the receivers have time
to get open?
Or maybe the question is, will
the line protect Gardner?
Michigan's offensive strength
is the passing game. That's no
secret. The Wolverines rank 10th

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Fifth-year senior running back Fitzgerald Toussaint and the offensive line will be major factors on Saturday.

in the Big Ten in rushing yards per be another long day.
game, in front of just Illinois and
Purdue. 3. How will the sec
When they're successful, it is its leaks?
because fifth-year senior wide
receiver Jeremy Gallon and soph- The defense playe
omore tight end-receiver hybrid against the Spartan
Devin Funchess make plays considering the fiel
downfield. And even against the was given by a stag
stout Michigan State secondary, Against the run, the
those plays were there for redshirt held its own. Thep
junior quarerback Devin Gardner. was a slightly differe
"We have to get Devin a little The secondary
more of an opportunity because passing yards per ga
there were plenty of them down age. That's second t
the field," Hoke said Monday. Big Ten. Opponents
The problem, of course, was more passes per g
protection. The Spartans sacked Michigan (38) than
Gardner seven times and hurried other Big Ten team,
him seven more. For the routes that the Wolverines
that develop more slowly - think able there.
Gallon's double moves - Gard- On Tuesday, H
ner was hit before he had time to the secondary need
release the ball. up. The fact that
The coaching staff expects will field backup
more interior blitzes similar to Tommy Armstrong J
the ones it faced against Michi- freshman, will help.
gan State. And Nebraska averages Michigan's defensen
slightly less than three sacks per coverage is tighter?.
game, same as the Spartans. If the "I don't know," 1
offensive line doesn't adjust, it'll got to be. If I knewt

ondary patch
d serviceably
Ls, especially
d position it
nant offense.
e front seven
passing game
nt story.
allows 255
me, on aver-
to last in the
also attempt
ame against
against any
an indication
are vulner-
attison said
ds to tighten
Cornhuskers
quarterback
Jr., a redshirt
But how can
make sure the
he said. "It's
that, I would

probably feel a lot better about
that, but we have to. We have to
get tighter in coverage. We just
have to. We have to contest more
balls. And that's what we'll work
on very hard this week."
4. What's the answer to Ameer
Abdullah?
Unlike the pass defense, Michi-
gan's rush defense has been
among the Big Ten's best this sea-
son. On ateam lacking much con-
sistency (see No.1 above), the rush
defense supplies some depend-
ability.
Still, . the Wolverines' front
seven has yet to see a back like
Nebraska's Ameer Abdullah. He's
the Big Ten's leading rusher with
1,108 yards. Multiple Michigan
players or coaches said he is the
best back Michigan will see this
year.%
If the Wolverines can at least
contain Abdullah - who hasn't
gone for less than 98 yards in a
game this year - the defense will
be OK. Abdullah has shown just
how difficult that is to do this year.

By MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
At a school that prides its
teams on nothing if not tradi-
tion, it's fitting that the Michi-
gan club rugby team got its
battle cry from a 123-year-old
news article.
The first-ever issue of The
Michigan Daily featured an arti-
cle.previewing the rugby team's
upcoming clash with Cornell.
Somewhere inside the article's
now charmingly outdated ver-
biage lies a phrase that the team
has since adopted as its rallying
cry - soiled meat and sand.
The phrase is meant to con-
jure feelings of toughness and
grit within the players and has
become central to the team.
Before every match, the team
cries out "soiled meat and sand!"
The words even appear on the
header for the team's website.
"It really sticks with us," said
Michigan coach Matt Trenary.
"We're representing a lot of
people that have spanned a lot
of years."
Saturday, the 12th-ranked
Wolverines will represent their
long tradition of alumni at the
Big Ten Finals against No. 9
Indiana.
Unlike many sports, which
feature long tournaments at the
end of the season, Big Ten rugby
simply pairs the two top teams
in the standings for one winner-
take-all match.
In that type of high-pressure
environment, the Wolverines'
preparation will be key.
"We get a lot of benefit from
the intelligence of our players,"
Trenary said. "They have a blue-
collar attitude. They want to
work."
Michigan's 'A' squad has only
lost one game this season, a
27-18 loss at No. 11 Wisconsin.
Senior captain Aiken Andutan
called the loss a good wake-up
call, saying it helped the team
stay focused.
Junior Sequoyah Burke-

Combs, who recently switched
positions from wing to flanker,
will be key to the Wolverines'
success on Saturday. Burke-
Combs is among the team lead-
ers in both tries (seven) and
points (35) and usually plays the
role of motivator for Michigan.
"He just tears up the field,"
Andutan said. "When he gets
the ball in hand, he can run over
anyone. He gets us all really
pumped up."
Andutan is soft-spoken off the
field and in interviews, but his
grounded nature keeps the team
together when things get tough
on the field.
"He doesn't get flustered,"
Trenary said. "It helps provide a
nice, even keel for the guys."
Andutan's five tries and 25
points have been important
to the Wolverines this season
and will be magnified against
an Indiana defense that hasn't
allowed a point since Oct. 5
The Hoosiers finished the
season undefeated and show-
cased their dominant capabili-
ties three weeks ago in a 96-0
win over Iowa.
Michigan won't be afraid
going into the match, though.
Andutan says the Wolverines
are preparing for this challenge
like they do every other, with
one exception.
"We weren't as focused dur-
ing the bus ride to some of the
earlier away games," Andutan
said. "This time, we'll really
emphasize concentrating and
visualizing what we need to do
in the game."
Added Trenary: "It'll be a fun
and exciting game. This isn't
baseball where you get a bunch
of games. You just get one."
The undefeated Hoosiers
haven't been challenged much
this season, but Sunday they'll
be up against much more than
the men lined up across from
them. They'll be staring down
decades of=history and tradi
tion. They'll be goiig p against
soiled meat and sand.

Mustaches for a etter cause

By GREG GARNO including the players, the coaches
Daily Sports Writer and even the administrative staff.
"As a team, it's kind of just a fun
Sophomore forward Andrew thing for us," said junior forward
Copp predicts that Travis Lynch Alex Guptill. "We can raise aware-
will look the best. Senior defense- ness for this, and hopefully make
man Mike Chiasson, meanwhile, it into a big thing. Maybe, one day,
likes forward Andrew Sinelli as it will turn into something bigger
a quiet underdog who could sur- than this."
prise his teammates. Senior defen- Added Copp: "I think it's defi-
seman Mac Bennett believes he nitely a team-building thing that
could finish the strongest. we didn't do last year."
Freshman defensemen Michael Guptill has kept the idea float-
Downing and Nolan De Jong like- ing around for over a year, but it
ly won't have much to boast about, wasn't until the middle of July that
though. Neither will freshman the idea came to fruition. Guptill
goaltender Zach Nagelvoort. and Chiasson approached Michi-
It's not a competition on the ice. gan coach Red Berenson with the
In fact, don't call it a competition. idea of growing out mustaches for
Instead, call it one of the many men's health.
team-bondingexperiencesthe No. Since another popular move-
2 Michigan hockey team has had ment, Movember, has been trade-
this year. But this time around, marked, the Wolverines are
the Wolverines are working for working just to raise awareness
a cause bigger than their team - for issues like prostate cancer or
Mustaches for Men's Health. depression, as opposed to raising
Since the beginning of Novem- money. Updates will be regularly
ber, the Wolverines have been posted to the Athletic Depart-
growing mustaches - strictly ment's website.
mustaches, no beards - in an The hockey team is the first
effort to raise awareness for men's program among Michigan's 13
health. Everyone is on board, men's varsity sports to partici-

pate in such a movement for men's
health, though. Female programs,
like the softball team and women's
basketball team, have worn pink
on their uniforms to raise aware-
ness for breast cancer.
"Next year, hopefully we can do
something with other men's teams
on campus," Chiasson said.
For a team that has gone paint-
balling and organized trips to
the movies, events like these fur-
ther demonstrate a change in the
team's mentality from a team that
failed to make last year's NCAA
Tournament after 22 consecutive
appearances.
The Wolverines joined together
at the beginning of November to
shave together, posing for pho-
tos where they pretended to use
skates as razor blades. Thus far,
much of the team has a noticeable
mustache forming. That includes
Berenson, whose gray mustache
is an unusual sight for the 30-year
veteran. According to Berenson,
1977 was the last time that he can
remember growing a mustache.
"It feels fine for me, but my wife
doesn't like it," Berenson said.
Near the end of October, the

captains - Bennett, Copp and
senior forward Derek DeBlois -
approached Berenson with the
idea to join his players in growing
a mustache. It didn't take long to
convince him.
"I know you're not asking me to
join," he said at the time.
"Actually, coach, we are," Ben-
nett said.
"Alright. I can do it," Berenson
responded.
Younger players like Downing,
De Jong and freshman forward
Evan Allen are struggling to keep
up with their teammates, some of
whom are nearly six years older.
Downing and De Jong were both
born in 1995, but also happen to be
6-foot-2.
"I told them they better get a
sharpie out," Guptill said.
Other players, like Bennett, can
grow out facial hair, but not neces-
sarily a successful mustache:
"He's got a little bit better chest
hair than facial hair," Guptill
added.
But there might be one problem
with the month-long activity for
some members: the scruff could
make it hard to find a date.

cOURTESY OF MRUGBY.COM
Junior Drew Vecchio has started nine games this year for No.12 Michigan.
STUDENT LEADERS NEEDED
to hlp michigan's best
j-LULG 1

For details gobluetan.org and look under
"Our Fans" for Current Students or
email Mike at michajam@umich.edu

NICHOLASWILLIAMS/Daily

Senior defenseman Mike Chiasson helped organize the Michigan Mustaches for Men's Health campaign. He currently has a filthy stache.


8A - Friday, November 8, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com,'

8A ~ Friday, November 8, 2013 The Michigan Daily - mithigandailytom *

Roa to Fial Four egins

FIELD HOCKEY
Late-game magic
comes to an end

By SIMON KAUFMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The last time Final Four ban-
hers were in motion at the Crisler
Center, they were coming down
from the rafters - not going up.
Friday night, for the first time
since the ban-
ners from the
1992 and 1993 UMaSS
Final Fours Lowell at
were removed Michan
because of
NCAA sanc- Matchup:
tions, a banner UMass 0-0;
will be lifted to Michigan 0-0
the rafters. This When: Fri-
time, it sees to day 7 p.m.
remain there Where: Crisler
permanently. Center
After the TV/Radio:
lights go down BT N
and the banner
commemorat-
ing last year's
Final Four run goes up, a new era
of Michigan basketball will com-
mence, as the Wolverines kick
off their regular season against
UMass Lowell.
But Michigan won't be playing
with its eyes on the banner. It'll
be looking toward another trip
to the championship game in 150
days.
"Any time we have a banner
raised, you know it's something
special," said Michigan coach
John Beilein. "At the same time,
we just get ready to play again
because we do want to have more
success obviously. We want to
keep this program growing."
This Michigan team will have
a different look than the one that
came up just short against Louis-
;*yille in last year's championship
ame. Namely, former stars Trey
Burke and Tim Hardaway Jr. left
for the NBA. But in two exhibi-
tion showings, it's clear that this
team still has many of the parts
that contributed during its NCAA
tournament run.
Last year, a cast of freshmen
played supporting roles to Burke
and Hardaway. This year, the

By MATTHEW KIPNIS
Daily Sports Writer
With the No. 18 Michigan
field hockey team down by one
late in Thursday's game against
Iowa, Michigan coach Mar-
cia Pankratz called a timeout.
Could the Wolverines find their
late game magic that led to five
wins in their last six games of
the regu-
lar sea- MICHIGAN 0
son? IOWA 1
The
magic ran out, though, as Michi-
gan exited earlier than expected
in the Big Ten Tournament to
Iowa on Thursday morning in
Columbus.
Despite the 1-0 upset, Pan-
kratz believes the Wolverines
"may have an outside shot" at
making the NCAA Tournament,
but it seems unlikely. -
"We expected a lot of our-
selves, which is why everyone is
pretty upset about it," said.fifth-
year senior goalkeeper Haley
Jones. "When you expected to
do great things, it's worse when
you lose, and you really feel it. It
is a sign that we were proud of
where we could have gone, and.
it is unfortunate that we lost so
early, but the sun rises tomor-
row. We have to move on and be
thankful for the season we had."
The Wolverines won on last-
second goals in three of their
last five wins, including the
last game against Iowa. They
couldn't pull out another one in
Columbus.
"Up until the last second, I
really thought we would be able
to tie it up," Pankratz said. "It
just didn't work out for us today,
and we just couldn't quite fin-
ish."
Neither team scored until the
58th minute, when Iowa scored
off a counter attack from a turn-
over at midfield. Iowa forward
Natalie Cafone brought the ball

into the Wolverine circle and
crossed to forward Stephanie
Norlander, who knocked the
ball into the net around Jones'
diving attempt to block the ball.
After the timeout with one
minute left in the game, Michi-
gan had possession of the ball
near the Iowa 25 and substi-
tuted all their offensive threats
into the game. The Wolverines
couldn't get the ball into the
circle, and the Hawkeyes man-
aged to take control of the ball
and finished the clock.
Michigan had the advan-
tage in shots, 11-8, and penalty
corners, 5-3, but couldn't take
advantage of these breaks. Jones.
played well in the cage with four
saves, but the lone goal was all
Iowa needed.
"It is a battle to get the ball
in the net, and they had a good
break and got the goal in," Jones
said. "Their defense held up and
ours just had a flaw, and they got
lucky with the goal."
After being upset by Michi-
gan in early October, it looked as
if Iowa was happy to-return the
favor and avenge its earlier loss
when it really mattered. Iowa
will now play Penn State, which
beat Michigan 2-0 in the finals
of last year's Big Ten tourna-
ment.
"It's the end of the line for
the seniors, which I have been
very proud of," Pankratz said.
"They have had a very outstand-
ing career as they are two-time
Big Ten champs, and they have
represented the program with
grace and a championship men-
tality. And the underclassman,
we are going to get back at it in
January. We are going to come
back and start training and keep
our sights on the 2014 season.
We have a great incoming class
and a lot of really experienced
returnees, who I know will be
ready to avenge this disappoint-
ment."

TERRA MOLLENGRAFF/Daily
Redshirt junior Jon Horford is expected to start in place of injured sophomore center Mitch McGary on Friday.

sophomores will share the spot- In two lopsided exhibition
light. With sophomore forward wins, the Wolverines won 117-44
Mitch McGary out with a back and 79-60, respectively. It's likely
injury, Beilein will be forced to get that they'll be on the right side.

more creative
with his lineup.
In the two exhi-
bition games,
he started red-
shirt junior Jon
Horford and
fifth-year senior
Jordan Mor-
gan to make up
for McGary's
absence in the
post. Beilein

of another
crooked score
Friday night.
"We want UMass Low-
.eli won't just
to keep thS be playing its
first regular-
program season game
r n against Mich-
grow ing. igan - it'll be
its first game
as a Division-
I team. Last

to highly-touted freshman Jahad
Thomas to the equation, and it
looks as though UMass Lowell's
welcome to the top tier of college
basketball could be a quick reality
check.
But don't expect Michigan to
get caught up in the banner cel-
ebrations or the beatings it may
dish out to the inferior teams
that fill many of its early-sea-
son games. They know a trip to
Arlington won't come easy.
"We didn't get the job done, but
we had a great season (last year),"
said sophomore guard Caris
Levert. "We'll be feeling really
excited but not accomplished,
though, because we still have a lot
of work to do. We have a long sea-
son ahead of us."

wouldn't share his starting five year, the River Hawks went 15-13,
for Friday night's game though, and 10-2 in the Division-II North-
saying only, "I like our starting east-10 Conference.
lineup." Add a new coach and an injury


MEN'S SOCCER
Wolverines look to.
keep Big Bear Trophy

Michigan faces early litmus test "

By MINH DOAN
Daily Sports Writer
Like its football counterparts,
the Michigan men's soccer team
is looking to walk out of East
Lansing with a win. But the Wol-
verines can only hope their result
turns out better than the football
team's fortunes did last weekend
and they retain the Big Bear Tro-
phy, given to the winner of the
annual rivalry
game. Michigan
Last year, .Raig
Michigan won at vICuigan
the trophy after State
a goal by Kofi Matchup:
Opare - now Michigan 8-5-
playing with 3; MSU 9-4-3
the Los Angeles
Galaxy of Major dhen: Sat-
League Soccer
- off acorner Where:
kick in the 70th DeMartin Soc-
minute lifted cer Complex
for an exciting TV/Radio:
and physical 1-0 mgoblue.com
victory in last
season's match-.
up between the two teams. But
the Spartans had the last laugh as
they beat the Wolverines in last
season's Big Ten Championship
overtime thriller, 2-1.
"There's alittle bit of a revenge
aspect," said senior midfielder
Dylan Mencia. "But the game
means a lot in other aspects too
in that we could clinch an NCAA
spot while also being a local
rivalry."
But getting revenge and over-
coming Michigan State's home-
field advantage could prove
difficult for Michigan.
The Wolverines have won just
two out of six road games this
year and going into East Lan-
sing to win won't be an easy task.
Michigan will be looking for just
its second-ever win at Michigan
State and its first in10 years.
"We're in a very great place,
mentality-wise," Mencia said.
"We're excited and ready to go."

JAMES cOLLER/Daily
Senior midfielder Dylan Mencia said "there's a little bit of a revenge aspect."

The Wolverines will enter
the DeMartin Soccer Complex
in their last game of the regular
season looking to take the No. 2
seed in next week's Big Ten Tour-
nament in Columbus. Penn State
wrapped up the regular-season
title last Sunday. Michigan could
also wrap up an NCAA Tourna-
ment at-large bid with a win.
- "I think if we win this game,
we're in (the NCAA Tourna-
ment)," Daley said. "But it will
certainly be a tough game."
No. 22 Michigan State, cur-
rently fourth in the Big Ten
standings, comes in two points
behind the Wolverines and would
jump to 2nd place with a victory.
The Wolverines come in riding
a 1-0 victory over Valparaiso on
Monday night. Senior midfielder
Fabio Pereira scored the game-
winning penalty kick in his final
regular-season game at the U-M
Soccer Stadium. The game ended
a successful five-game home-
stand in which Michigan was
victorious over No. 16 Wisconsin
and No. 25 Creighton.
But to get the all-important
win in East Lansing on Saturday,
the Wolverines offense will need
to get past a stalwart goalie, 2012
All-Big Ten Freshman Zach Ben-
nett.

Bennett leads the Big Ten in
shutouts, with eight. While only a
sophomore, Bennett has already
rewritten the Spartan record
book - he is Michigan State's all-
time leader in wins, saves, save
percentage and minutes played
by a goalie. The Michigan offense
will need to play its best attack-
ing game to get a goal past Ben-
nett.
The Spartans, led by fifth-year
coach Damon Rensing, will look
to attack and pressure ahead
early and throughout the game to
try to create chances. They will
also look to create corners and
free kicks close to the Wolverine
goal and convert those chances.
At the head of the Spartan'
attack are forwards Adam Mon-
tague and Tim Kreutz. While the
reigning All-Big Ten first-teamer
Montague is the all-time Spartan
leader in both goals and assists,
Kreutz has taken over the spot-
light this season. He leads the
team in goals, with eight, and
will look to increase that count
against Michigan.
"(The Spartan offense) is orga-
nized, they don't make a lot of
mistakes," said Michigan coach
Chaka Daley. "They're also very,
very good on set pieces. That will .
be very challenging for us."

By LEVFACHER
Daily Sports Writer
After a 26-point exhibition win
against a Division I team last Fri-
day, the short honeymoon is over
for the Michigan women's bas-
ketball team
and the 2013-
14 season. Michigan
Now Bowl- atBowing
ing Green
awaits, fresh Green
off a 24-11 Matchup:
campaign Michigan
and looking 0-0; Bowling
to build on Green 0-0
its run to the When: Fri-
third round day 4 p.m.
of the WNIT Where: New
last year. Rochelle,
But the New York
faces of both TV/Radio:
teams have
changed dras- mgoblue.com
tically. When
the Wolver-
ines tip off the Iona Tournament
in New Rochelle, N.Y., they'll find
themselves in a battle between
two teams that lost the bulk of
their scoring ability from last sea-
son. The graduations of Chrissy
Steffen and Danielle Havel leave
Bowling Green in search of a com-
bined 17.1 points and 9.7 rebounds
per game, but the Falcons are
still the more experienced squad,
given Michigan's youth.
The Wolverines are likely to
sport the same starting five they
used last week against Wayne
State. That's in large part to an
impressive performance by soph-
omore guard Madison Ristovski,
who scored 15 points and added
four assists in 31 minutes.
Three juniors - forward Cye-
sha Goree and guards NicoleElm-
blad and Shannon Smith - had
already been considered probable
candidates to start, along with
freshman guard Siera Thompson.
That left the final spot up for
grabs. Barnes Arico and her staff
decided to go with Ristovski in
the exhibition game after the
team's practice the day before,
and it's more than likely Ristovs-
ki will be on the floor from the
game's beginning.
The second-year coach has
indicated a willingness to switch

up her rotation based on recent
performance, but none, of the
original four starters did any-
thing to cost themselves a spot in
the starting lineup last week, and
Ristovski's performance went a
long way toward impressing the
coach.
"I thought she did a great
job," Barnes Arico said following
Michigan's 81-55 win last Friday.
"(She was) able to contribute on'
the offensive end, and knock
down some shots."
The tournament opener
against Bowling Green, of course,.
is by no means a must-win game.
However, it's games like these
that will come to define Michi-
gan's season.
The Wolverines will struggle
to compete against the Big Ten's
top tier, but they'll coast through
the easier parts of their sched-
ule, which features matchups
with the likes of Alcorn State and
Western Michigan.
It's the games against teams
that are good but not elite that
could make or break Michigan's
season and push the Wolverines
over or under the .500 mark,
and the Falcons will provide an
early test for a Michigan team
that's too youngto have found its
identity just yet. The Wolverines
hold a slight size advantage over

the Falcons, but that's certainly
not a luxury they should get
used to. Michigan's tallest play-
ers - Goree and senior forward
Val Driscoll - stand 6-foot-3
and 6-foot-4, respectively, which
would make both of them taller
than anybody on the Falcon ros-
ter. But throughout the rest of the
season, Michigan's guards will
have to pickup the slack rebound-
ing-wise, a trend that might need
to begin as, soon as Saturday,
when the Wolverines take on
either Iona or Arizona, depending
on Friday's results.
"We pride ourselves on being
the hardest-working team in
America," said Ristovski after the
victory over Wayne State. "We
have to make sure we work hard
in practice, and in games too,
to make sure that we pull those
boards."
A weekend in New Rochelle
isn't going to decide much, if
anything, about Michigan's sea-
son. But the first step this young
team takes in what Barnes Arico
admits is a transition year is an
important one nonetheless. If
Michigan wants to play a factor
in the Big Ten race and turn itself
into a surprise contender, it's
games like these that will show
whether those hopes are realistic
or a year premature.

maCsY KO/Daily
Junior guard Nicole Elmhlad is a veteran who started 32 games last year.

0


0

0

0 0

For better or worse, season
begins or ends with Nebraska

By EVERETT COOK
Daily Sports Editor
For a team that has professed
a "Big Ten champion or failure"
mentality from the get-go, it's time
to put up or shut up.
Coming off one of the worstloss-
es in Michigan coach Brady Hoke's
three-year tenure, the Michigan
football team is entering a four-
game gauntlet that is perhaps the
.toughest in Hoke's coaching career.
Go 4-0, and the possibility to
play in the Big Ten championship
game still statistically exists. Win
one, and the underwhelming but
solid Capitol One or Outback Bowl
is in play. Win only one, or go win-
less, and the Wolverines are look-
ing at the Texas or Buffalo Wild
Wings Bowl.
The renaissance - or continued
downward spiral - begins on Sat-
urday with Nebraska, one of three
teams currently ahead of Michigan
'*n the Legends Division standings.
"You know, coming off not the
way you want to start the five-game
stretch, the meat of your sched-
ule, Saturday is something we're
all disappointed with and every-
thing that we have to do from a
coaching standpoint and a playing
standpoint," Hoke said on Monday.
"Obviously, it was evaluated and
we all need to do abetter job. That's
just a part of it."
Even without star quarterback
Taylor Matinez - who won't play
in Saturday's game due to a litany of
injuries - Nebraska is a dangerous
offensive team.
Starting in place of Martinez
is freshman Tommy Armstrong
Jr., who is talented but raw. He's
thrown three interceptions in each
of his last two games, and wasn't
on the field when Nebraska com-
pleted an improbable last-second
Hail Mary to beat Northwestern
last week. That was senior Ron Kel-
-sgg IL
' Armstrong will bethe first quar-
terback in the game, but don't be
surprised if Nebraska coach Bo
Pelini goes to Kellogg if Michigan
forces a few early turnovers.
"It's the same plays, same offen-
Rive line, same running backs, great
running back, great receivers,"

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Michigan coach Brady Hoke needs a rebound performance from his team after MSU.
defensive coordinator Greg Mat- running back, fifth-year senior
tison said on Tuesday. "Taylor not running back Fitzgerald Toussaint,
being in there, I mean, their quar- is averaging 3.7 yards per carry and
terback that we play against will be has rushed for less than 600 yards
very good." on the season.
Regardless, the play of the quar- "All I know is (Abdullah) is real-
terback might ly, really good,"
be a' moot point Mattison said.
anyway. "He's fast, he
The star of the "...it was breaks tackles,
offense is junior he's a really good
running ' back evaluated and athlete, he steps
Ameer Abdul- over people. He
lah, who leads we all need to could be one of
the conference the best running
in rushing yards do a better job." backs we've gone
per game with up against. In my
more than 160, opinion he can
and is having one do it all."


PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Fifth-year senior tackle Taylor Lewan needs to keep his cool on Saturday.
share of turnovers, though, inter- in East Lansing.
cepting 12 passes so far this year. The offensive leader of this
That's before facing redshirt junior team, fifth-year senior tackle Tay-
quarterback Devin Gardner, who lor Lewan, lost his cool and was
has thrown 11 picks on the year and reviewed for a suspension this
has an interception in every game week for a dirty series of plays last
except for one, weekend.
against Minne- Michigan will
sota. need him, and
Saturday is "All I know is the other leaders
the beginning of this team, to
of a month-long (Abdullah) is be better against
test for this a Nebraska team
Michigan foot- really, really that might be
ball team. justgood enough
All week, good. to ruin the Wol-
coaches and verines' season.
players have "Well not just
emphasized that the captains but

0
U
N
a
m
w
I
70

of the best seasons of any running
back in the country. He's averaging
more than seven yards per carry
and has already rushed for more
than 1,100 yards this season.
For perspective, Michigan's lead

Defensively, the Cornhuskers
aren't spectacular. They are 70th in
the country in total defense, allow-
ing close to 400 yards and 24 points
per game. -
Nebraska does force its fair

there will be no hangover from the
wrecking ball that was Michigan
State.
But that responsibility falls on
the captains and seniors, who had
their fair share of embarrassment

the whole group of seniors because
of what we ask of them," Hoke said.
"There's no question this is a time
when your leadership always either
steps forward or stays the same or
steps back."

8 FootballSaturday - November 9, 2013




They come out of the stalks, like so many over-popped demon
kernels - which also play football. There are too many other
types of corn to count. Corn on the cob. Corn off the cob. Corn
chowder. Corn bread. Creamed corn. Popcorn: Hardcore corn.
(Typo, sorry). None are as good at football as the Cornhuskers.
Sorry this got so corny. Enjoy the game.
Everett Cook, Zach Helfand, Matt Slovin and Liz Vukelich.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
3 Nebraska has a powerful offense. Mich-
igan has a mediocre defense. Who has
the advantage?
The last man left from the Bo Schem-
bechler days will retire at the end-of the
year. A look at their friendship.
This is Michigan's last chance to be the team
it wants to be. Win, and the season is sal-
vagable. Lose, and it could go downhill.
Cover photo by Erin Kirkland

0 e
2013in ScheduleE

i
"
n

Central Michigan (Aug. 31): Michigan beat the
Chippewas by their largest opening-day margin
since 1905.
Notre Dame (Sept. 7): Eminem is still in the
ESPN booth, wondering where he is and where
all the people went.
Akron (Sept.14): Unfortunately, Akron is chick-
ening out of this great rivalry after this year's
game.
Connecticut (Sept. 21): UConn lost to Buffalo.
Buffalo. Buffalo. But almost beat Michigan. Buf-
falo.
Minnesota (Oct. 5): Against Michigan last year,
Minnesota promoted epilepsy awareness. For
information, visit: epilepsyfoundationmn.org.
Penn State (Oct. 12): Unhappy Valley! Crappy
Valley! Funny play on wordsl

[
III
S

Indiana (Oct. 19): How high must one man fly
before he hits the sun? Jeremy Gallon almost
found against Indiana. What a game, what a
game.
Michigan State (Nov. 2): This was a freaking
beatdown in every sense of the word.
Nebraska (Nov. 9): The problem with Nebraska
fans is they're much too nice to hate. Unless, of
course, the 'Huskers win again this year.
Northwestern (Nov. 16): The best 0-5 Big Ten
team around.
Iowa (Nov. 23): Vodka Saml
Ohio State (Nov. 30): Urban Meyer has been
playing eshibition games for two years now.

ing up his pant leg to reveal
a brand-new pair of cowboy
boots, courtesy of the Dallas
Cowboys, emblazoned with
his name.
That afternoon, players
and coaches were gather-
ing to begin practice, and
uncharacteristically, Bo
was nowhere to be found.
He eventually made it into
the equipment room and
half-dragged, half-carried
Falk into the coaches' locker
room, slamming the door
behind them.
As Falk remembers it,
Bo said, "Look, I'm going to
have you do something to
me: If I ever hear that you
tell' somebody what you're
about to do, I'm going to hit
you in the face. Now pull
these boots off my feet!"
Falk straddled Bo's legs

and yanked on the boots to see your ugly face in all my
until they came off. life,' " Falk recalled Bo say-
"He and I giggled about ing.
that for a good five minutes," Once Bo was in Falk's pas-
Falk said. "But that's the senger seat defrosting, on
fun you have with a coach. the way to the airport for a
That's the fun you have with recruiting trip, he grumbled
the players." that three state troopers had
Then there was the time passed him - the most cel-
in 1985 when Falk rescued ebrated personality in the
Bo. He was cruising along on history of Michigan athlet-
Interstate 94 near Ypsilanti ics shunned mere miles from
when he saw a hitchhiker up the Big House.
ahead. Falk listened to Bo's com-
"It's almost 40 below. plaint but didn't fully sympa-
February. Snowing," Falk thize.
remembers. "I say, 'Wow! "Bo, you gotta remember,"
That guy's got a hat that Falk said, "you were 6-6 last
looks just like Bo's hat.'" season."
Falk drove up a little fur-
ther and noticed Bo's car on ***
the side of the highway. He
pulled over right next to a The last time Falk saw
red-nosed, red-cheeked Bo. Bo - the Monday before he
"'I've never been so happy passed away - isn't how he

remembers him.
The feeble man Falk
helped out of his car hard-
ly resembled the power-
ful man that Falk truly
believed could do anything.
After all, he transformed a
would-be farmhand from
a rural corner of Ohio into
the epitome of a Michigan
man.
Bo stumbled out of Falk's
car and, despite the coach's
protests, Falk grabbed his
arm and assisted him into
his house.
Then Bo did one thing
that night that reminded
Falk that this was the same
coach he'd grown up under,
the one his mother had accu-
rately predicted would take
care of him.
One last time, Bo took his
index finger, "like he always

does," Falk said, and jabbed
it in the meaty part between
his ribs.
"Falk, I know exactly
what you're doing to me," Bo
growled. "If something hap-
pens to me tonight, you'll tell
everyone, 'I got him in the
house. He was OK when I
left.'"
Four days later, Bo was
dead.
Falk and Bo had spent
countless hours in a car
together, but that final ride,
like Bo's last trip to Colum-
bus, felt different. All Bo
cared to talk about was his
rivalry with Woody Hayes
and their battles that would
outlive both of them. It was
as if the last link to Woody
knew his time was coming,
and he wanted to share every
last story before it came and

there was noone left to share
them.
Falkitakes the responsibil-
ity of being the last remain-
ing tie to Bo in the Michigan
locker room very seriously
He sees it as his duty to keep
Bo's presence alive there.
When he addresses the team,
like he did the week leading
up to his last Little Brown
Jug game against Minnesota
earlier this season, Bo's mas~P
terful speeches linger in his
head.
Now, Falk's time with the
football team is coming too.
He strolls across the locker
roomto setup the barricades
that prevent anyone from
stepping on the block 'M'
logo on the floor. Then, he
pauses and looks up. He has
one more story to tell about
his friend Bo.

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER:
@MICHIGANDAILY
IT'S GOOD FOR YOUR SOUL

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers pick
against the spread to predict
scores for the top-25 and Big
Ten in the 2013 football season.

Zach
Helfand

Liz
Vukelich

Melanie
Kruvalis,
Editorial
Page Editor

Everett
Cook

Matt
Slovin


I I

No.1 Alabama (-13).vsNo. 13 LSU
No. 2 Florida State(-35)at Wake Forest
No. 3 Oregon (0.5) at No. 5Stanford
No. 6 Baylor (-15) vs. No.10 Oklahoma
No. 8 Missouri ( 14)t Kentucky
No. 9 Auburn (-8) at Tennessee
Nol Miami (FI) -7) vs.VirginiaT ech
No. 14 Oklahoma State-31) vs. Kansas
No 15 Texas A&M (-9)vs.MississippiState
No.16 Fresno State (-10) at Wyoming
No.19UCLA(-1) at Arizona
No.20 Luisville (-28) atConnecticut
No. 21 UCF(-0.)vs. Houston
No. 22 Arizona State (-7) at Utah
No. 23 NotreDm (-4.5)atPitsburg
No. 24 Wisconsin (-7.5) vs. BYU
No25 Texas Tech -3) vs. Kansas State
Minersota(-3)rvs. PenneState
I owa(-15)atPurduee
Indiana(-l0) vs. llinois
Michigan (-7) vs. Nebraska
MichiganState (-271vs. urdue
Indiaver-10)avs.tllinois
Overall

LSUO
Florida State
Staford
Baylor
Missouri
Auburn
Miami (FL)
K ansas
Mssissippi State
Fresno State
UCLA
Connectirut
UCF
Airzona State
Notre Dame
BYU
Texas Tech
Penr State
Indiana
Michigea
Purdue
I21iaea
22-e0

Florida State
Stanford
Baylor
Miseuri
Auburn
Miami (FL)
Oklahoma State
Ter As&M
Fresno State
UCLA
Louisville
UCF
Arizona State
Notre'Dame
Wisconsin
TeasTech
Penn ate
Indiana
Nebr2ska
112-d10

Wake Forest
Oregon
Oklahoma
Missouri
Tenessee
Miami (FL)
Oklahoma State
Mississippi State
Fresno State
UCLA
Conneticut
UCF
Arizona State
Pitsburgh
Wisconsin
Texas Tech
Per State
Illinois
Nebraska
Purdue
140-82

Alabama
Wake Forest
Oregon
Baylor
Missouri
Auburn
Virginia Tech
Oklahoma State
Texas A&M
Wyoming
Arizona
Louisville
UCF
Utah
Notre Dame
BYU
Texas Tech
Mineesota
Indiana
Mi cigar
Michigan State
I2dian2

Alabama
Wake Forest
Stanford
Oklahoma
Kentucky
Auburn
Virginia Tech
K ansas
Mississippi State
Fresno State
Arizona
Conecticut
Arizona State
Pittsburgh
BYU
Kansas State
Minnesota
Indiana
Michigan
Purdue


2 1 FootballSaturday - November 9, 2013

TheMichiganDaily - www.michigandaily.com 7


Breadown:
Nebraska

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan football team no
'longer controls its own destiny in
the Big Ten, but that doesn't stop
the team's rhetoric that a Big Ten
championship is within reach.
Never mind the fact that the Wol-
verines would have to win their
last four games, while Michigan
State would have to lose its last
three games of its season.
The Wolverines gave Nebraska a
rude welcome to the Big Ten when
it played in Michigan Stadium
two years ago, and the Huskers
returned the favor when Michigan
made the trip to Lincoln last sea-
son.
Here's where each team will
have an edge on Saturday.
Michigan pass offense vs.
Nebraska pass defense:
Remember the seven sacks of
redshirt junior quarterback Devin
Gardner last week?
Thought so. And so does the
'Michigan offensive line, the group
on which most of the responsibility
for Gardner's beating lies.
At this point, it won't matter
how many times the offensive line
is shuffled around. It's inexperi-
enced, and nothing except a few
more years is going to fix that. That
probably won't do much good for
when Nebraska arrives in town.
The Huskers aren't known for
having the same kind of defensive
threat as Michigan State, but they
still do have 22 sacks on the season.
The combination of Jeremy Gal-
lon and Devin Funchess is always
there for Michigan - assuming
Gardner has enough time in the
pocket to get the ball off.
Edge: Nebraska
Michigan rush offense vs.
Nebraska rush defense:
Michigan fans canbreathe, since
negative 48 rushing yards probably
isn't in the cards for the Wolverines
for a second consecutive week.
The Huskers are a relatively easy
team to run the ball against, allow-
ing 182.6 rushing yards per game.
Saturday will likely continue to
be the Fitzgerald Toussaint show.

Offensive coordinator Al Borges
said he would probably refrain
from giving freshman Derrick
Green carries until "the game is in
balance."
Edge: Michigan
Nebraska pass offense vs. Mich-
igan pass defense:
Last week's game-winning Hail
Mary against Northwestern aside,
the Huskers' strength most cer-
tainly isn't in their passing game.
With starting quarterback Tay-
lor Martinez out for a second-
straight week, Nebraska is rotating
between Tommy Armstrong Jr.
and Ron Kellogg III. Though Kel-
logg is a more reliable passer, Arm-
strong has taken the majority of the
snaps, and has thrown six intercep-
tions in the past two games.
The Wolverines' secondary,
though nothing exceptional, has
had its moments, even last week-
end against Michigan State when
it had one late-game interception.
And with Nebraska's offensive line
weakened after a season-ending
injury to senior guard Spencer
Long, any type of pressure the
Wolverines are able to put on Arm-
strong means they'll be able to keep
the Huskers' pass offense under
control.
Edge: Michigan
Nebraska rush offense vs. Mich-
igan rush defense:
Hello, Ameer Abdullah. You
don't need much of an introduc-
tion.
The Huskers boast the Big Ten's
premiere running back in Abdul-
lah, who's rushed for over 100
yards in every game but one this
year for a total of 1,108 rushing
yards on the season, good for sixth
in the nation. Defensive coordina-
tor Greg Mattison called him the
best running back the Wolverines
will face this year.
Abdullah is fast. He's athletic.
If there's any kind of hole, he'll be
running through it and down the
field.
Good luck to the Wolverines try-
ing to stop him.
Edge: Nebraska
Special teams:

he'd never done in his time at
Michigan - miss a game.
Then-coach Lloyd Carr
walked into the trainer's
room after the game and
noticed Falk was crying.
"'You must be in unbe-
lievable pain,' "Carr remem-
bered telling Falk in a press
conference. "(Falk) says,
'No, I was just thinking next
Saturday is going to be the
first Michigan football game
have missed in '30-plus
years.'"
The Monday after the
Iowa trip, Falk had surgery.
At 11 p.m., when the doctors
had finished operating on

his broken leg, Bo, his wife
Cathy and Michigan Radio
Network sportscaster Jim
Brandstatter walked in.
They stayed for an hour,
talking and laughing. For
a while, Falk forgot he
wouldn't be on the sidelines
for the first time in decades
the next week.
"That's the type of friend-
ship I was able to have with
Bo," Falk said. "I valued
that."
Letters from well-wish-
ers poured in from across
the country, including one
with a White House return
address. President George

W. Bush watched the game
with the first lady and want-
ed to let Falk know he was in
his thoughts.
But unlike his encoun-
ters with Clinton and Bush,
Falk's relationship with
Gerald Ford was more than
a quick handshake or a
thoughtful note. It began
when Ford evicted him.
In 1976, Bo called Falk into
his office and told him that
President Ford was return-
ing to Ann Arbor and need-
ed a place to stay. Bo didn't
ask but rather told Falk that
Ford would be staying in his
apartment that overlooked

the U-M Golf Course - but
on one condition.'
"'Is the place clean?' "
Falk did his best Bo impres-
sion, which, having spent
decades together, is quite
precise.
"'What do you think Iam,
an animal?' " Falk replied.
"For two weeks, every day,
Bo would say, 'Hey Falk, is
your apartment clean? The
president is coming into
town. The president of the
United States.'
"Two days before he
showed up, they threw me
out of my apartment and
brought in a professional

cleaning crew."
When Ford finally arrived
at the pristine apartment, he
chatted with Falk for a few
minutes. Ford thanked him
for the hospitality, assuring
him that everything looked
to be in order. Falk, never
the type to shy away from
an opportunity to stay in his
coach's good graces, made
one request of the president,
in exchange for the use of his
bed.
"Make sure that Bo knows
the place is clean," he boldly
requested of the command-
er-in-chief.

Falk could never fully
repay Bo for thinking of him
when the head equipment
manager position opened
up in 1974. But that doesn't
mean he didn't try his hard-
est.
His attempts to keep his
coach happy, which seem-
ingly knew no bounds,
ranged from the hilarious to
the heroic.
One day, Bo walked into
the office a little taller and a
little prouder than usual. He
had a big grin on his face and
strolled over to Falk, lift-

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily
Fifth-year senior wide reciever Jeremy Gallon and his ability to get open will be one of the key's to the offense on Saturday.

Last weekend against the Spar-
tans was a special teams battle.
Though the Wolverines started
off strong with a 49-yard field goal
from Matt Wile, they ultimately
came out on losing end of that
battle, specifically when it came to
punts and kickoff returns.
The Huskers fare fairly similarly
to Michigan, averaging 22.9 yards
per'kickoff return and 41.3 yards
on punts.
Edge: Push

Intangibles:
The Wolverines were embar-
rassed last weekend against Michi-
gan State, and Hoke has been under
more fire from the fans this week
than he has been in the entirety of
his tenure in Ann Arbor.
Still, the Wolverines seem opti-
mistic coming off this week of
practice. Save for last year's games
against Ohio State and South
Carolina, Michigan has never had

back-to-back losses under Hoke.
Michigan is fired up.
This will also be Nebraska's
third time on the road this season
and Armstrong's second-ever road
start. Earlier this week, Abdullah
called Michigan fans "ruthless."
They can be even more ruthless
when their program's dignity is on
the line.
Edge: Michigan
Prediction: Michigan 30,
Nebraska 26

6 FootballSaturday -November 9, 2013

3 ' FootballSaturday - November 9, 2013



a ~a__- ________ S


_Sr

Vi

-fir
it

)

last year of

u'Jonny, it h
to tell you this
saying." 'But t(
calling Bo Sc
going to Mid
and Michigan

a reunion. They trea
their own .In some v
-D,. - a-.

idn't take long for Falk
had been right - the or
new job would afford
>ple it would allow him
t be found anyplace els
cherishes the friendsh
and he's formed a lo1
e came to Ann Arbor. H
with former Detroit Tig
Sparky Anderson and
ill-time MLB hits lea
also a good friend of Fa
Ad lunch in Las Vegas
r.
thrv- tip + , n a

Now, Falk is the new
- the last remnant of 1
Michigan locker room.
game, former All-Am,
tackle Ed Muransky,
to finish his duties. W
emerged from the lock

e football coach,
play, but he'd be
e team.
ilk would like to
talk had no idea
aras or what the
coach told him
everything the
rou, nothing has
ears," Falk said,

prided him
house. Eve
Bo's reques
all of the
for him, he
mother an(
ing.
That nij
awakened

4 FootballSaturday - November 9, 2013

TheMichiganDaily - www.michigandaily.com15


