ONEH1U NI1)-TWENTIY TREE YEARS OF EDITORIAL 1EREE)OM

Ann Arbor, Mich

igan

Friday, September 27,2013

michigandaily.com

ADMINISTRATION
Faults exist
i summer
camp safety,
says director

TRACY KO/Daily
Models showcase the garments of fashion designer Xu Rui during the "To See the Invisible" exhibit at the Michigan Union Thursday.
DEVELOPMENT
*Capital cmag rne

'The Victors of
Michigan' to
officially begin
early November
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily News Reporter
When the Michigan Dif-
ference capital campaign con-
cluded in 2008, it was hailed
as the most fruitful fundrais-
ing effort in University his-
tory.
Five years later, senior Uni-
versity officials are preparing
their vast networks of donors,
alumni and brand power in

the hopes of replicating and
surpassing the previous suc-
cess.
Though primed by a serious
of record-breaking donations
over the past year - includ-
ing gifts from Stephen Ross,
Charles Munger, Helen Zell,
Penny Stamps and Jean and
Samuel Frankel totaling over
$400 million - the University
hadn't yet distinguished the
campaign with a name.
Thursday, the University
officially introduced "The Vic-
tors for Michigan" as the cam-
paign's title, just over a month
before its official launch on
Nov.8.
In addition, the Univer-
sity announced details for the

campaign's kickoff, includ-
ing an outdoor celebration on
Ingalls Mall and a primetime
reveal at Hill Auditorium
hosted by University Presi-
dent Mary Sue Coleman and
campaign chair Stephen Ross.
The University is asking
students, faculty and commu-
nity members to join donors
and campaign volunteers at
both events In the evening,
students will share "why
Michigan needs victors."
University spokesman
Rick Fitzgerald said the cam-
paign branding ties to the
University's "The Victors"
video that was released ear-
lier this month. Many of the
themes stemmed from the

University's extensive brand-
ing research that lead to the
release of a new branding
focus last year.
In a May interview, Tom
Baird, assistant vice president
of development campaign
strategy, said Lisa Rudgers,
vice president for global com-
munications, would likely play
a role in naming the campaign,
as well as adding a greater
emphasis on social media.
"The Victors for Michigan"
campaign will focus on three
overarching priorities. In the
release, financial support was
listed as the highest prior-
ity and has been repeatedly
emphasized by top-level offi-
See CAMPAIGN, Page 3

On panel, head of
athletic camps admits
to serious gaps in
counselor checks
By RACHEL PREMACK
Daily StaffReporter
In candid discussion at a forum
Wednesday night, the head of the
University's athletic camps acknowl-
edged "significant gaps" in the Uni-
versity's ability to ensure the safety
of minors who participate in sports
camps over the summer.
More than 9,000campers between
the ages of 10 and 18 participate in
24 summer athletic camp programs
offered by the University. Participat-
ing on a panel Thursday regarding
the safety of minors on college cam-
puses, Athletic Camp Administrator
Katie Miranto expressed her concern
that the Athletic Department doesn't
do enough to vet its counselors.
"I can't even describe to you how
many gapsthere are and how nervous
I get over the summer," Miranto said
Thursday. "It's very hard to sleep."
Athletic Department spokesman
Dave Ablauf said in a statement that
Miranto's comments focused on how
the camp should improve as well
as issues that are actively receiv-
ing attention or have already been
addressed.
"All programs should constantly
be looking for ways to improve -

and we're no different," Ablauf said.
"There's no way anyone could get
everything right all the time. We
were part of a public seminar to do
just that - to be open and transpar-
ent about our strengths, as well as
our areas of improvement."
One issue Miranto pointed out
was the thoroughness of the depart-
ment's background checks on coun-
selors. At the panel, Miranto said
the department runs ICHAT Michi-
gan background checks on potential
employees. However, ICHAT crimi-
nal history records provided by the
state of Michigan include only crimes
committed in-state, according to the
state'swebsite..
This means that crimes commit-
ted in staff members' home states,
including crimes that signify that
they should not be around children,
could be unknown tothe University.
At the panel, Miranto expressed
concern at this fact, noting that the
majority of the camp staff are from
outside the state of Michigan, but
Ablauf later clarified thatonly 33 per-
cent are from out-of-state.
Miranto said the department can't
afford to do a broader background
check in the short time they have to
vet counselors. The Athletic Depart-
ment has a budget of $137.5 million
for the 2013-14 year and projects a
$8.9 million surplus.
"That is a huge area of concern
right now, but the way the system is
built, it's really our only option for
cost reasons, for how fast we need to
See CAMP, Page 3


HOUSING
Markley home
to cockroaches,
students report

University Housing
cites next-door
construction as
reason for pests
By JUSTIN DAWES
For the Daily
Students in Markley are
reporting some unwelcome visi-
tors.
There have been about two
dozen complaints of cockroach
sightings at Markley Residence
Hall this semester, two of which
occurred in food preparation
facilities. The complaints began
shortly after the start of a demo-
lition project in the lot next to the
residence hall.
University Housing spokes-
man Peter Logan said the roach-
es are migrating from the Arbor
Heights demolition site and
entering Markley through open
windows or doors with loose
thresholds.
University Pest Management
services and Plant Operations
have responded by taping off
manholes. They will continue to
monitor the premises every two
weeks while also responding.to

complaints, Logan said.
Inside the residence hall,
pest-management staff placed a
food-safe treatment in the main
kitchen and one in the former
Hideaway restaurant, both areas
with complaints. They have also
placed roach-bait pesticides in
living quarters and other areas
with known cockroach activity.
"And then when they do put
down ... roach bait, it's placed
out of the way of residents just so
there's no contact there," Logan
said. "Their approach is actu-
ally more towards monitoring
and prevention than just broad
application of pesticides in living
areas."
Logan said the type of Ameri-
can roach found in Markley
doesn't thrive and probably won't
breed in the residence hall's dry
environment. The roaches are
expected to return to the pipe
systems after the project is fin-
ished mid-October.
LSA freshman Natalia Estes,
a resident of Markley, said she
and others have seen multiple
roaches.
"You just hear people scream-
ing, and you know there's a cock-
roach," she said. "We had one in
here (our room) last week. It was
See COCKROACHES, Page 3

TRACY KO/Daily
EPA administrator Gina McCarthy speaks at the Environemental Law and Policy Program conference at Hutchins Hall
Thursday.
EPA administrator kicks off
conference on environment

ADMINISTRATION
Students
and faculty
weigh in on
pres. search
Diversity and
access focal
points of public
search forums
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily News Editor
The Presidential Search
Advisory Committee got an
earful. And that's exactly
what they wanted.
On Thursday, members
of the University's Board of
Regents and the Presidential
Search Advisory Commit-
tee heard from faculty, staff
and students at two sepa-
rate forums held on campus
- soliciting feedback on the
opportunities and challeng-
es that await the University
in the near future as well as
what qualities they'd like to
see in the next president.
While not all regents or
committee members were
present, Alison Ranney, the
University's search consul-
tant from Russell Reynolds
Associates, took comments
from speakers and help the
audience better understand
See SEARCH, Page 3

McCarthy reflects tal Law and Policy Program
hosted Gina McCarthy, admin-
on record-long istrator of the Environmen-
tal Protection Agency, for an
confirmation address in Hutchins Hall on
public health issues related to
process, Obama climate change. Her speech
kicked off the program's two-
By TYLER GRIN day conference on environ-
For the Daily mental law and public health,
which ends Friday afternoon.
It wasn't certain that she McCarthy, nominated by
could get here, but finally the President Barack Obama in
U.S. Senate decided it'd be March to fill the EPA's top
alright. spot, was previously an envi-
Thursday, the Environmen- ronmental policy adviser to

five Massachusetts governors
- including former Repub-
lican presidential candidate
Mitt Romney. The U.S. Senate
confirmed her for the position
in July after a record-long con-
firmation battle.
McCarthy began her speech
poking fun at her confirmation
hearing, saying she would have
been at the University earlier if
the hearing had been shorter.
"The confirmation wasn't
the smoothest of confirmation
processes," she said. During
See EPA, Page 3


WEATHEYR H I:75
TOMORROW { LO: fO

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail The Podium: Reforming povertyv
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS ....................... SPORTS .................7
Vol.CXXIIINo.140 OPINION ....................4 CLASSIFIEDS ...........,...6
2013 TheMichigan Daily ARTS..................... 5 S U D O K U.................... 2
michigondailycom

.. '. . .... ... : .: ' ,. r, .. ...., ,-, < '-..-.: ...... ..... . :... a . z - ad Zf i.' 4 .' 1 ..t i.. tl tR .,. y -' C < ., ;' .. F. V ) .., i. .
.:.;,,.
. r. ,

I

I I -



2 - Friday, September 27, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
e 1Midgan 1ail
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREWWEINER KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com


TOP LEFT Demolition crews
tear down buildings on Division
Street near Blimpy Burger Tues-
day. (Virginia Lozano/Daily)
BOTTOM LEFT Business
sophomore Angie Pae works
on her personal writing while
participating in the Grout Write
Ott ut Espresso Royule on Stut
Street Tuesday. (Erin Kirkland/
Daily)
RIGHT LSA senior Nick Otto
participates in the MHacks
Hackathon with virtual reality
goggles at Michigan Stadium
Friday, (Ruby Wallau/Daily)

734-418-4115opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.comn
Arts Section
arts@michigandailyxcom
Sports Section -
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmailcom
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

news@michigadaily.com
letters to thetEditor
tothedaity@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaiy.com
Finance
finance@michigandaiy.com

I

CRIME NOTES

Staff infection
WHERE: Von Voigtlander
Women's Hospital
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 1:30 p.m.
WHAT: University Police
reported that cash and an
iPod were stolen from an
employee's locker. A staff
member was arrested and
released in relation to the
theft.
Packed pack
WHERE: Chemistry
Building
WHEN: Thursday at
about 5:15 p.m.
WHAT: A backpack with a
laptop and headphones was
stolen Thursday, University
Police reported. The back-
pack was reportedly stolen
when it was left unattended
in a lower-level room
between land 5 p.m. There

Too hard to
say no
WHERE: Northwood III
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 6 p.m.
WHAT: A resident report-
ed that after being solicited
to purchase goods she gave
the subject money. The
subject is said to be a white
female with short brown
hair.
Rack-jacked
WHERE: 400 Block of
State St.
WHEN: Wednesday at
about 1:30 p.m.
WHAT: A bicycle was
reportedly stolen from
the bike racks near Mason
Hall, University Police
reported. It was reportedly
stolen between 9 and 11:30
a.m. There are no suspects.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Environment Mongolian
and health festival

WHAT: A conference on
environmental law and pub-
lic health will cover environ-
mental protection and public
health values, pollution and
others issues.
WHO: Michigan Law Envi-
ronmental Law and Policy
Program
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: South Hall
President
search forum
WHAT: The public forum is
seeking input on the search
for the next president.
WHO: Campus Information
Centers
WHEN: Today from 5:30
p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Ross School of
Business

WHAT: The festival will
feature three games: horse
racing, wrestling, and
archery, as well as a photo
booth.
WHO: Center for Human
Growth and Development
WHEN: Today from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m.
WHERE: Diag
Pres. forum
WHAT: The public forum is
seeking input on the search
for the next president.
WHO: Campus Information
Centers
WHEN: Today from 5:30
p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
WHERE: Ross School of
Business
CORRECTIONS
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

T HREE T HINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
California passed a law
protecting celebrities'
children from paparaz-
zi. According to Today
Entertainment, Governor
Jerry Brown signed the bill
on Tuesday. Hollywood par-
ents Halle Berry and Jennifer
Garner actively supported the
bill.
Wayne State University
will hike its tuition by
8.9 percent for the 2013-
14 fiscal year. This comes
after the state has witnessed
a 11.35-percent decrease in
funding for higher education.
a FOR MORE, SEE PAGE 4
Burger King released a
new item on their menu
called "Satisfries."
According to Today Health,
The fries have 20 percent
fewer calories and 30 percent
less fat than regular fries.
They will cost about 30 cents
more per serving.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewSlovin Managing Editor mjslavin@michigandaily.com
Adam Rubenfire Managing News Editor arube@michigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman, Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf, Jennifer Calfas, Hilary Crawford, an
Dillingham, Will Greenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel Premack, Stephanie
Shenouda, Christy Song
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaiy.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial PagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Dan Wang, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald
Everett tank and
Zach Helfand ManagingsportsEditors sportseditors@michigandailycom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Rajat
Khare,DanielWasserman,LizVukelich
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Greg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel Feldman, Erin
Lennon, Lev Fache, Max Cohen
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArtsEditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:ElliotAlpern, Brianne Johnson, John Lynch,Anna Sadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: John Bohn, Sean Czarnecki, Max
Radin,Akshay Seth,KatieSteen,StevenTweedie
AdamGlanzmanand
Terra Molengraff Managing PhotoEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew, Todd Needle
nSSISoenTHOOEI nOR PathrinenPekala,PaulSherman,
Mcoenie a,,,in, RbyWal, aroickarron
Kristen Cleghornand
Nick CruzManaging Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
HaleyGOldberg Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Paige Pearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien Copychiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleman, Kelly McLauglin
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal MUzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasmO Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum ProductionManagers
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) i is pubished Mondaythrough Friday during the fall and
winterterms by students at the University of Michigan.One copy is availablelfree of charge
to all readers. Additional copies maybe picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fal term, starting in september, via U.S.mail are $110. Winterr tm (Januarythrough April) is
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affilates are subject to a reduced
subscriptionrate. On-campussubscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmestbe prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is amember of The Associated Pressand The AssociatedcCollegiate Press.

a

Confucius Institute hosts
cultural fashion show

Three-day exhibit
features Chinese
designer Xu Rui
By ARIANA ASSAF
Daily StaffReporter
Thursday through Saturday,
the University of Michigan's
Confucius Institute is bringing
a unique multimedia fashion
exhibit to the Michigan Union.
Chinese designer Xu Rui cre-
ated the exhibit, "To See the
Invisible." It focuses on express-
ing the 'unseen' in Chinese cul-
ture by emphasizing form in
the evolution of and contrast
between traditional Chinese
clothing.
Apart from traditional dis-
play, the designs were shown at
a fashion show Thursday cho-
reographed by Zang Cunliang, a
renowned member of the exper-
imental Chinese physical the-

ater community.
Rui's designs incorporate the
work of Jiang Kinor, an asso-
ciate professor at Hong Kong
Polytechnic University who
combines materials research
and design into his work. His
metalized textiles lend a holo-
graphic, 3-D effect to each piece,
allowing them to take on new
visual attributes when viewed
from different angles.
Rui, who hails from Beijing,
is a professor and director of the
fashion design department at
the China Central Academy of
Fine Arts and an active designer
and lecturer.
The idea of the exhibit was
sparked by her interest in the
inheritance of Han clothing
and the exploration of culture
behind traditional Chinese cos-
tumes.
Rul's motivation, she
explained through a translator,
was her search for a "symbol of
Chinese cultural essence" that

came from a different, more
spiritual place than the normal
historical and academic repre-
sentations.
She hopes University students
who attend the exhibit will real-
ize the importance of fashion
and international culture.
"Fashion in China is not
restricted to the narrow geo-
graphical region and the unilat-
eral folk custom," Rui said. "It
is an important branch of world
culture with highly condensed,
unique qualities. It deeply influ-
ences the cultural system of the
world."
Students, professors and com-
munity members have filtered in
and out of the exhibit already.
Associate Prof. Emily Wil-
cox, who visited the exhibit
Thursday, said Rui's designs are
reminiscent of current trends in
China.
"(Tight-calved pants are)
really common to see in China,
and now I'm wondering if that's
where the fad came from, this
research into Chinese culture,"
Wilcox said.
LSA sophomore Erica Gray,
added that she had seen many
aspects of Rui's designs before
but never realized they origi-
nated in China.
"I've seen a lot of people in
the U.S. wearing that, too, so it
was fun to learn about the his-
tory along with the fashion."
FOLLOW
US ON
TWITTER
@michigandaily

Onlookers watch as a large plume of smoke rises above an abandoned building on the corner of Martin and Pittsburgh
Roads on Detroit's west side Thursday.
Detroit granted money to
destroy vacant buildings

--.5 OK

U.S. Government
gives city more
than $100 million
DETROIT (AP) - The U.S.
government directed more than
$100 million in grants Thursday
to help bankrupt Detroit tear
down vacant buildings and spur
job growth, but the help falls far
short of the wider bailout some
city leaders had sought.
Gene Sperling, chief econom-
ic adviser to President Barack
Obama, said the administration
scrounged through the federal
budget and found untapped
money that "either had not
flowed or had not gotten out or
not directed to the top priorities
for Detroit."
But considering the Motor
City is at least $18 billion in debt,
it will take a far larger infusion of
cash or historic deals with bond
holders, insurance companies
and other creditors to correct
the problem.
Sperling will join on Friday in
Detroit three other top Obama
aides - U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder, Transportation
Secretary Anthony Foxx and
HUD Secretary Shaun Dono-
van. The closed meeting also

will include city and state lead-
ers, and the emergency manager
leadingDetroit through the larg-
est municipal bankruptcy in U.S.
history.
The Obama administration
repeatedly has signaled it won't
offer a massive federal bailout
like the one credited with help-
ing rescue Chrysler and General
Motors.
"There is not goingto be abail-
out," Democratic U.S. Sen. Carl
Levin told The Associated Press
on Wednesday. "We have enough
problems with the federal defi-
cit. We need to be creative and
look at existing programs. There
are still some funds there."
The funding announced by
Sperling will include $65 mil-
lion in Community Develop-
ment Block Grants for blight
eradication, $25 million in a
public-private collaboration for
commercial building demolition
and nearly $11 million in funds
to ensure working families can
live in safe neighborhoods.
Holder will announce $3 mil-
lion that, in part, will be used to
hire new police officers. About
$25 million also will be expe-
dited to Detroit to hire about 140
firefighters and buy new gear.
"It wasn't enough to try and
free the resources," Sperling

said. "We had to make sure they
are well-used and targeted."
In addition, Kevyn Orr, the
city's emergency manager
appointed by Gov. Rick Snyder,
has told the city's two municipal
retirement systems he wants to
freeze Detroit's pension plans
and move to a 401(k)-style sys-
tem.
The gathering follows a series
of meetings with the White
House to plot ways to pull
Detroit from a fiscal pit that this
summer made it the largest U.S.
city to file for bankruptcy pro-
tection.
Detroit has had a poor record
in making sure grant money is
used properly and even spent at
all.
In 2011, Mayor Dave Bing
fired the director of the city's
Human Services Department
after an internal investigation
revealed $200,000 intended
for poor residents was spent on
office furniture for staff mem-
bers.
The following year, his office
had to scramble to use about
$20 million in grants that had
been left sitting for demolitions
of thousands of vacant houses.
The city's Police Department
also allowed a $400,000 grant to
lapse for a new armored vehicle.

I


L

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 27, 2013 - 3


NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Man charged in
hit-and-run death
of 8 year-old boy
A 47-year-old man has been
charged in the hit-and-run death
of an 8-year-old boy whose
bike was dragged by an SUV in
Detroit.
Wayne County prosecutors
say Alfonso Butler of Detroit is
scheduled to be arraigned Friday
on a charge of leaving the scene
of an injury accident causing
death.
Butler was in custody Thurs-
day. Prosecutor's office spokes-
woman Maria Miller says she
didn't know if he had an attor-
ney.
Police say Butler turned him-
self in to authorities Wednesday
and acknowledged his involve-
ment in the incident.
TORRANCE, Calif.
Toyota recalls
615,000 Sienna
minivans
Toyota is recalling 615,000
Sienna minivans in the U.S.
because they can inadvertently
shift out of park and roll away.
The recall involves Siennas
from the 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008
and 2009 models years.
Toyota said Thursday that the
shift locking device can poten-
tially be damaged. If that hap-
pens, the minivans can shift out
of park even if the driver isn't
depressing the brake pedal.
Toyota said it has gotten
reports of 21 accidents and 2 inju-
ries related to the problem.
Owners will be notified of
the recall by mail. Dealers will
replace the shift-lock device for
free.
UNITED NATIONS
United Nations
Security Council
discusses Iran
The United States and the
other permanent members of
the U.N. Security Council said
Thursday they were pleased by
a new tone and attitude from
Iran in talks aimed at resolv-
ing the impasse over its nuclear
program and set a new round of
negotiations for next month.
After agroup meetingand then
a one-on-one session between
Secretary of State John Kerry
and Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif, Kerry
called the talks "constructive"
and said he was struck by a "very
different tone" from Iran. But
he stressed that words must be
translated into action if Iran
wants to prove it is not seeking to
develop a nuclear weapon.
"We've agreedtotrytocontinue
a process that would try to make
concrete and find a way to answer

the questions that people have
about Iran's nuclear program,"
Kerry told reporters. "Needless to
say, one meeting and a change in
tone, that was welcome, does not
answer those questions."
NAIROBI. Kenya
Still dozens
missing from
Nairobi attack
After almost a week, there is
no precise death toll, no word on
the fate of dozens still missing and
no details on the al-Qaida-linked
terrorists who attacked Nairobi's
most upscale mall.
As al-Shabab militants struck
two Kenyan border towns and
threatened more violence, rela-
tives of the mall victims wept
outside the city morgue Thursday,
frustrated by the lack of informa-
tion and a holdup in the release of
bodies of the victims.
Roy Sam, whose brother,
33-year-old Thomas Ogala, was
killed, said hehadbeengoingtothe
morgue since Mondaybutworkers
there had not prepared his broth-
er's body, which was mangled by a
close-range gunshot wound to the
head - an apparentexecution.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

the deans and heads of individ-
SEARCH ual units-are so powerful at the
From Page 1A University, faculty often gravi-
tate to one "silo," instead of
reaching out to their colleagues
the firm's role in the selection in other areas.
process. "One (way to overcome that)
The first of the day's two is to give a little more power
forums, held at Hutchins Hall, to the provost," Schultz said.
was geared primarily toward "They always say, 'We don't
faculty and staff from the Ann have any carrots to do this.' It's
Arbor campus. The forum was okay for them to hold a little bit
the third so far, after one at the of tuition and general revenue
University of Michigan-Flint money to foster interdisciplin-
and one on the Medical Campus. arity."
Two more forums are planned In an interview after the
for Friday, one at the Univer- meeting, White, who is acting
sity of Michigan-Dearborn and as spokeswoman for the regents
the other in Blau Auditorium, during the search process, said
which will be geared toward she was intrigued to hear that
the Ann Arbor community and there is a need for increased
general public. collaborative programs at the
The forum opened with brief University - something that is
remarks from Regent Katherine often perceived to be one of the
White (D), the vice chair of the University's strengths.
board, who said the purpose of "I was really struck by the
the session was to help the com- repeated concern about collabo-
mittee better understand the ration across the disciplines and
needs and challenges facing the making that more available,"
staff. White said. "The University of
The Presidential Search Michigan is known for its inter-
Advisory Committee is com- disciplinary studies and work
posed of seven faculty members and research, but there were
and all eight members of the still concerns that there may
Board of Regents. The commit- not be resources that are easy to
tee's role, however, is purely get across the disciplines, and I
advisory as the final decision of think we really have to look at
whom will be selected will be that and make sure that we take
left to the regents. that to heart."
Search Advisory Committee others added that, although
members Lynn Perry Wooten, the University is rapidly
associate dean of undergradu- increasing its global opportuni-
ate programs at the Ross School ties for students and faculty, a
of Business; Jeffrey MacKie- future president needs to ensure
Mason, dean of the School of that they are devoting sufficient
Information; Tiya Miles, chair attention to the Ann Arbor com-
of the Afroamerican and Afri- munity and surrounding areas
can Studies department; and affected by economic hardship.
Regent Julia Darlow (D) were "We don't want to abandon
sitting behind the rostrum tak- our commitment to the local
ing notes on speakers' com- as we're going more global,"
ments. said Gloria Thomas, director of
Ranney briefly addressed the the Center for the Education of
faculty, saying the purpose of Women.
hiring a search consultant is not Later in the day, more mem-
to pick the next University pres- bers of the Presidential Search
ident, but to assist the Board Advisory Committee gath-
of Regents in finding qualified ered at the Modern Languages
candidates. Building to hear from students
"What you'll see is that this about many of the same issues.
is really a discussion session, a Regents Mark Bernstein (D),
listening session," Ranney said. Shauna Ryder Diggs (D) and
Several issues recurred Denise Illitch (D) were also in
throughout the faculty forum, attendance.
including faculty development About 75 students, includ-
and retention programs, provid- ing many members of Central
ing growth for basic research Student Government and large
opportunities and not just student organizations on cam-
applied research, refocusing on pus, commented on many of the
creating a diverse University same issues that the faculty had
and increasing cross-disciplin- addressed - as well as some
ary collaboration. others.
"We have a very unique posi- Student leaders presented
tion with Detroit not too far their findings from a campus-
away and other urban areas wide survey that solicited feed-
that we can draw from," James back from the student body
Logan, a BBA program outreach about what qualities they want-
coordinator at the Business ed to see in the next president
School, said. "I think it needs to as well as what issues should be
be a focus of the strategic plan prioritized during their admin-
of the University, not a subset or istration.
an aside. ... If we continue to go The results indicated that
down this path of not improv- students want the next presi-
ing declining underrepresented dent to focus on holding down
minority enrollment, it will tuition and related costs fos-
send the message that we are tering an inclusive and diverse
not the leaders and best in our campus environment, and
thoughts and our actions." developing quality capital cam-
Many faculty members said paigns.
they were not concerned solely "The majority thought that
with racial diversity, but also cost of attendance should be
deeply worried about socio- the next president's priority,"
economic diversity at the Uni- Kinesiology senior Jared Hunt-

versity. er, president of the University's
Engineering Prof. Bill Schul- chapter of the National Panhel-
tz spoke in favor of increasing lenic Council, said. In an inter-
interdisciplinary opportuni- view after the forum, he added
ties at the University for fac- that annual tuition increases
ulty - something that has been have made the University one of
a priority for students in recent the most expensive public insti-
years. Schultz said that because tutions in the nation.

"It is imperative that the
president maintains academic
prestige and expands experien-
tial research," Business senior
Dalia Adler, chair of the Univer-
sity of Michigan's Hillel govern-
ing board, said.
Public Policy junior Bobby
Dishell, vice president of CSG,
said the University needs to
reprioritize student input on
major renovation projects and
that fundraising efforts should
be more equitable - a barb
apparently criticizing a per-
ceived lack of student input
on the Munger Residence and
Stephen Ross' donation to his
namesake business school and
the Athletic Department earlier
in September.
One of the most passion-
ate arguments came from LSA
senior Tyrell Collier, president
of the Black Student Union,
who criticized the decline in
minority enrollment at the Uni-
versity in the wake of Proposal
2 - which outlawed the use
of affirmative action policies
in 2006. Citing a Bloomberg
Businessweek report from ear-
lier this week, Collier said the
University had failed to stanch
the decline through alterna-
tive recruitment programs in
districts with large numbers of
underrepresented minorities.
"I know the policies that we
have been trying after its pass
have not been working," Collier
said in an interview after the
event. "There has been a 30-per-
cent drop within a seven-year
span of black students, which is
completely unacceptable."
Collier's sentiments were
echoed by student speakers
throughout the evening. Some
said the minority communities,
but particularly black students,
felt as though they didn't have a
voice on campus and occasion-
ally experience bias incidents
from both peers and faculty.
Other students also emphasized
the socio-economic divide that
exists at the University.
Several students also spoke
about sustainability and climate
change - something they'd like
to see the next president com-
mitted to.
"The next president, as leader
of the world-renowned academ-
ic institution, needs to make
that sustainability is. part of
every student's lifestyle," LSA
junior Becca Liebschutz said.
In an interview after the
event, White said she was
excited to hear some student
perspectives that are often
addressed at regents meetings
and by the administration, but
seldom by students in a public
forum.
"What was different in this
session, I thought, was kind
of taking it to a new level,
it's this hope for integrating
sustainability into the cur-
riculum and making it more
how we teach, how we train,
how we educate, and that was
something I had not heard
before," White said.
While no timeline has been
set for selecting a new presi-
dent, historically, most recent
candidates have been picked in
November or December of the
year preceding a president's

retirement. Coleman will step
down in July.
Those who were unable to
attend a presidential search
forum may emailUMich.Presi-
dent@russellreynolds.com with
thoughts on priorities and chal-
lenges for the University and

CAMPAIGN
From Page 1A
cials over the past year, includ-
ing Coleman.
In a February interview with
The Michigan Daily, Coleman
said the campaign's strategy
would call on students to share
the impact giving has had on
their University experience,
especially as the University
intends to ramp up donations
earmarked for financial aid.
"We need to fashion this in
a way donors can get excited
about the difference they can
make in people's lives, so a
lot of this will be storytelling

about what students have done
and what the impact of having
various scholarships has been,"
Coleman said.
Whereas the Michigan Dif-
ference placed a significant
emphasis on capital projects like
new and expanded facilities,
the next campaign intends to
leverage fundraising dollars for
extending classroom experienc-
es with real-world immersion.
In April, University Pro-
vost Martha Pollack said the
campaign would also focus on
securing funding for "public-
good" projects centered around
four areas: human and envi-
ronmental health, poverty and
inequality, sustainable trans-
portation and K-12 education.

South Quad Residence Hall's
COCKROACHES cafe, Ciao Down Pizzeria,
From Page 1A temporarily closed because of
a cockroach infestation.
"Ann Arbor is no differ-
climbing up the wall." ent than any other city in the
Logan said roach prob- United States. We have cock-
lems are not unheard of at the roaches living in the sanitary
University. In January 2012, systems."
watching the kids? No, because
we don't have that training
From Page 1A mechanism for getting the peo-
ple that are properly trained that
are watching the kids."
turn the background check The camp is not accredited
around," Miranto said. by the American Camp Associa-
Ablauf later stated that back- tion, a century-old nonprofit that
ground checks include self- has accredited more than 2,400
reporting of any criminal history camps nationwide.
and online monitoring of camp The ACA's 300 standards for
employees. health, safety and program qual-
Miranto also said coaches at ity are geared toward lengthy
the camp receive no training in camps. Miranto said seeking
regards to sexual-abuse preven- accreditation for some of the
tion. Coaches may interact with short clinics the camp hosts
minors for a three-hour clinic or "would not be feasible."
up to weeks at a time. Campers Collegiate athletic depart-
who stayin University Residence ments across the country host
halls overnight are monitored by summer camps. Miranto said
residential staff. these camps typically function
The department said that differently than the University's.
camp directors, who train "Do they do it better?" she
their own staff, are extensively said. "I'm sure there's absolutely
trained. Instruction focuses schools that do it better than us
on procedures, protocol, pre- right now."
camp logistics and child-safety Ablauf later noted in response
training. Coaches are told not to Miranto's comments that
to spend one-on-one time with the athletic camps are lauded
campers. nationwide as model structures
LSA senior Lexi Erwin, senior for similar programs.
outside hitter on the Michigan The head coaches of each
volleyball team, coached volley- individual sportpersonally own
ballplayers at a Universitycamp. their camps, Miranto said. The
Erwin said she and the other camps are limited liability com-
coacheswalked themto the gym, panies, for which the University
dorms and dining hall, escorting and coaches are not personally
them for most of the day. She responsible for the actions of the
said her training consisted of 30 company. This system allowed
minutes of street-safety lessons coaches to make a profit from
and two concussion-detection their camps, an activity that's
tests. not allowed by the nonprofit
When Miranto assumed her University.
role at the University two-and- "You're dealing, essentially,
a-half years ago, she said there with third parties," Miranto
was no central policy or resource said. "Yeah, they're employed by
in regards to safety policy for the University, but essentially a
minors. third-party vendor that's com-
The Jerry Sandusky case ing on and giving you money to
at Pennsylvania State Univer- use your facility and they want
sity shifted Miranto's previous to run their business the way
finance operation role into one they want to run it."
of safety and risk management. Miranto said the coaches'
Since becoming the athletic preference to operate their
camp administrator, Miranto camps independently can
has developed a policy to pro- thwart the University's mission
tect minors. She said it's "by no for hosting young athletes: to
means perfect" She said her establish future Wolverines.
intention at the minor-safety "We want them to be stu-
seminar was to gather informa- dents here someday," Miranto
tion from childcare experts to said. "We want them to maybe
improve the policy. become our student athletes
A typical risk at the summer someday. So the experience that
camps, Miranto explained, is a they get, and this is actually
student athlete escorting camp- really challenging for us to dis-
ers down hectic State Street. seminate to our coaches, is that
"The one that's supervising experience could shape what
and he's walking and he's tex- they do in the future.... We want
ting," Miranto said. "Is he really them to be safe."
LIKE US ON
FACEBOOK!

I:


EPA
From Page 1A
his introduction, Law School
Dean Mark West said the Sen-
ate Committee on Environment
and Public Works asked McCar-
thy more than 1,100 questions
during her hearing.
McCarthy's career started
in public health, working in
Canton, Mass. During her ten-
ure there, the city discovered a
mismanaged hazardous waste
site, which was linked to high
cancer rates.
"It really was an opportunity
for me to see how important
environmental issues were to
public health and how much
people cared about them,"
McCarthy said. She added
that it was a turning point that
focused her career toward both
environmental protection and
public health.
During her address, McCar-

thy applauded the University
of Michigan for its Planet Blue
Sustainability Program among
other initiatives.
"U of M has the only environ-
mental justice Ph.D. program in
the country" she said, adding
that environmental justice was
"capsulized" at the University
in 1990 when two University
professors founded a council
dedicated to sustainability.
Outside Hutchins Hall, a sin-
gle demonstrator tried to gather
signatures for a petition to ban
hydraulic fracturing - often
called fracking - in Michigan.
McCarthy briefly commented
on fracking during the Q&A ses-
sion that immediately followed
her speech, saying it wastes
water and contains pollution
risks, but could become eco-
nomically and environmentally
feasible with further research.
A large portion of McCar-
thy's address was devoted to
global climate change. McCar-

thy said she received a "boost"
halfway into her confirmation
hearings when Obama made
a speech stating that climate
change is real and accelerated
by humans.
"It is a speech that I have
been waiting for an American
president to give for at least 15
years," McCarthy said.
The conference will continue
on Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
in the McDowell Room in South
Hall, and will include panels
on environmental and public
health topics. David Uhlmann,
the director of the Environmen-
tal Law and Policy Program,
moderated the question-and-
answer session.
"We're very much look-
ing forward to having a ter-
rific turnout at the conference
tomorrow and a lively discus-
sion of the challenges we face,
which the administrator talked
about so eloquently today," he
said.

FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY

i


4 - Friday, September 27, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Friday, September 27, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

C I
he firtchioan l 4:lat*lv

Weeding through the laws

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F RO0M THE DAIL
Poorly performed funding
Wayne State is being punished for its unique student body
n 2013, fourteen Michigan public universities will split $534,700 in
state funding that was originally intended for Wayne State Univer-
sity, one of Michigan's top schools. On September 10, State budget
director John Nixon notified Wayne that the university would be forfeit-
ing its performance-based funding due to its 8.9-percent tuition hike for
the 2013-14 fiscal year. The state's performance fund program evaluates
all universities by the same measures. Due to the universal standards that
the state has set for all universities, Wayne has been unfairly punished for
its unconventional approach to education. A funding system based on per-
formance may seem intuitively beneficial by incentivizing improvement;
however, the state needs to recognize that all educational institutions are
unique and cater to differing populations and these differences should not
be penalized.

The University is well known
not only as a great school, but also
for being in the quintessential col-
lege town of
Ann Arbor. Ann
Arbor is world-
renowned for
being a liberal
hotbed of art,
music and youth
activity. It's also
renowned for its
unique and pro- MAURA
gressive local LEVINE
laws regarding
the use, posses-
sion and distribution of marijuana.
Students proclaim, usually in a
haughty, above-the-law manner,
that they can light up a joint on the
streets and receive consequences no
harsher than aparking ticket - but
this isn't quite accurate. University
students should be more careful in
their use of marijuana in public and
understand that law enforcement
has legal loopholes that allow them
to get students in trouble.
In 1969, the Detroit poet John
Sinclair was imprisoned for giving
marijuana to undercover police.
Citizens organized a freedom
rally in Ann Arbor - attended by
John Lennon and Stevie Wonder
at Crisler Arena - to boycott Sin-
clair's imprisonment. Three days
later, the state's Supreme Court
voted Michigan's marijuana laws
unconstitutional and ordered Sin-
clair's release. A year later, the
Ann Arbor government essentially
voted to decriminalize marijuana.
The city's charter it states that vio-
lations of possession, use or control
of marijuana will result in no more
than a civil infraction, which is a
non-criminal violation. This is sim-
ilar to receiving a parking ticket. In
the city of Ann Arbor, a $25 fine is
all you might receive for smoking

marijuana in publi
But here's the
versity does not o
charter of the city
a public university
land belongs to th
gan, meaning stud
to state laws ant
enforcement if t
smoking on ca
Many people cele
in the Diag in the
they will get noth
simple citation. Bu
campus police ma
possession of mari
iday. In other wor
to smoke in Ann t
you're not on camp
Actually, mak
nowhere in public
smoke mari-
juana. What so
many students
fail to realize is
that the unique
decriminalized
marijuana laws
in the city of
Ann Arbor con-
flict with fed-

c. Contrary to common miscon-
catch. The Uni- ceptions, even if you are in the city
perate under the of Ann Arbor and you possess a
of Ann Arbor. As Michigan-issued medical marijua-
, the University's na card, you're still not invincible.
e state of Michi- Even medicinal marijuana is lim-
dents are subject ited in Michigan. You can only have
d campus police 2.5 ounces of usable marijuana or
hey are caught 12 plants at one time. Furthermore,
mpus property. in an opinion by the U.S. Supreme
brate Hash Bash Court in 2004 during the Gonza-
spring, thinking les v. Raich case, it was determined
ing more than a that the commerce clause allows
it last year alone, the federal government to prohibit
de 16 arrests for "local cultivation and use of mari-
juana on the hol- juana, despite state law to the con-
ds, if you're going trary." The Court decided that the
Arbor, make sure marijuana market was national in
pus property. scope and thus fell under Congress'
e sure you're jurisdiction. In other words, fed-
if you choose to eral agents can always get you in
trouble, no mat-
ter what city you
The federal are in or what
kind of a medical
government holds card you possess.
Students need
final power in the to understand
a o a a the contradictory
laws and juris-
diction issues if

0

The state of Michigan participates in a
performance pay program that funds schools
according to their ability to meet certain cri-
teria, such as graduation rates and STEM
degrees earned. The state has $21.9 million to
allocate to its 15 public universities - given
that the institutions do not increase their
tuition by more than 3.75 percent. Since WSU
violated this statute, it's no longer eligible for
performance pay for the 2013-14 fiscal year.
According to Wayne President M. Roy Wilson
in a recent Crain's Detroit Business article,
"The concept of a performance funding sys-
tem is fine, and I don't really see any issue
with that, but the metrics are particularly
important," he said. "One size does not fit all,
and depending on the nature of the metrics
you use you can penalize some schools and
reward others."
Wayne contends that their tuition increase
was planned and necessary. In an interview
with The Michigan Daily, WSU director of
communications, Matthew Lockwood said,
"We knew that we would be raising tuition;
this wasn't news to us. ... (the tuition hike)
will help us remain on stable financial foot-
ing so we can continue to offer the programs

and support that our students expect." With
the increased tuition, Wayne State Univer-
sity expects to gain $14 million in revenue
this year - far more than the university
would gain under Michigan's performance
pay program. Last year, Wayne received the
lowest amount of performance funding from
the state. By considering criteria such as the
six-year graduation rate, Michigan's per-
formance pay program seems to overlook
universities that attract a large number of
students who are working part-time and are
unable to finish in six years. This is an over-
sight that unfairly punishes schools that have
an unconventional student body.
Since Governor Rick Snyder took office in
2009, the state of Michigan has witnessed an
11.35-percent decrease in state funding for
higher education. Universities must resort to
tuition increases in order to compensate for
these cuts in funding. There is something to
be said about the performance pay program
that clearly does not represent the students at
Wayne. Blanket policies such as Michigan's
performance funding plan do not support
low-income students who are working - and
studying - to achieve their educational goals.

eral law. The
distribution and possession of mari-
juana is still federally illegal and is
prosecuted similarly in someregards
to other drugs such as heroin, LSD
and ecstasy. There's no "accepted
medicinal use," in federal laws,
either, meaning the medical mari-
juana card you may possess means
nothing to a federal officer. In the
eyes of the U.S. government, mari-
juana is still illegal. Federal agents
can (and will) still arrest you for
the use, distribution or possession
of marijuana and charge you crimi-
nally - whether or not you are in
the city of Ann Arbor. The only force
who will honor the city ordinance is
the Ann Arbor Police Department.

they so choose
to use marijuana in Ann Arbor. We
are lucky to live in such an accept-
ing city with progressive laws, but
we are still citizens of the United
States. So before you light up in
public, understand your rights and
your legal limitations. The federal
government holds final power in
the area of marijuana, and they
will exercise that right, despite the
unnecessary target of harmless stu-
dents. The law is the law and when
you choose to break it, you choose
to subject yourself to the conse-
quences - student or not.
- Maura Levine can be
reached at mtoval@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Eric
Ferguson, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick
Maillet, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Harsha Nahata,
Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba,
Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
ERIC FERGUSON I
Limit NSAs scope

CHRIS TAKAHASHI I
Forget fracking, Michigan

Earlier this month, the University
announced preliminary findings from a two-
year study on the effects of hydraulic fractur-
ing in Michigan. The Hydraulic Fracturing in
Michigan Integrated Assessment is regarded
as the most comprehensive study on hydrau-
lic fracturing in the state to date. Featuring
the research of seven University professors,
the integrated assessment draws on various
disciplines, ranging from public health to
economics. Although the findings are con-
clusive for only the first year of the two-year
report, they are nonetheless important.
Integrated assessments are commonly pre-
pared for policy makers, and since regulation
pertinent to hydraulic fracturing is an active
debate at the state level, this is a good step
to take. At the present, the state of Michigan
permits hydraulic fracturing. Well opera-
tors must follow certain guidelines, such as
reporting chemical additives within 60 days
to the state's Department of Environmental
Quality. However, energy companies are not
required to publicly disclose chemicals used
in the process. Because many of the chemi-
cals used are carcinogens, citizens in Michi-
gan and across the country are demanding
public disclosure. Many companies claim
that these chemical additives are proprietary,
and are thus afforded a right to withhold the
chemical content.
States have taken diverse approaches to reg-
ulation concerning hydraulic fracturing. New
York has issued a moratorium on the practice,
while California had no regulatory oversight
concerning hydraulic fracturing until very
recently. This past Friday, California Governor
Jerry Brown, a Democrat, signed Senate Bill 4
into law, a measure establishing a permitting
process and public disclosure system. Many of
the key tenets of SB 4, including disclosure of
chemicals, do not take effect until 2015. Ironi-
cally, the Western States Petroleum Asso-
ciation, a trade association representing oil
interests in California, praised the regulation
while environmental groups such as Sierra
Club and Food and Water Watch pulled sup-
port for SB 4. The bill was significantly weak-
ened through provisions added two weeks
before the Senate vote Sept.19.
Commonly referred to as "fracking,"
hydraulic fracturing has been described as
a "game changer" for domestic natural-gas
production by industry and energy analysts.
The American Petroleum Institute has run

numerous commercials with one prevail-
ing and convincing theme: Natural gas is the
bridge fuel to American energy independence.
The Hydraulic Fracturing in Michi-
gan Integrated Assessment, in addition to
another non-industry funded study done by
Post Carbon Institute, should be consulted
by policymakers before such a conclusion
is established in Michigan. PCI fellow and
geoscientist David Hughes examined 65,000
wells from 31 shale gas plays in the United
States for his report. The key findings of the
report conclude that the majority of shale gas
comes from five plays, with overall produc-
tion at a relative plateau since December 2011.
Individual wells experience steep decline
rates - ranging from 79 to 95 percent - after
36 months. In order to maintain production,
thousands of new wells must be constructed
each year, posing enormous financial costs.
An estimated $42 billion must be spent annu-
ally to merely maintain production by drilling
more than 7,000 new wells. In 2012, the value
of shale gas was estimated at $32.5 billion.
You may be thinking, "Why should I care
about 'fracking' in Michigan?" After all, the
state's natural gas resources have not been
tapped to the extent of Pennsylvania, and we
probably will not be able to light the Huron
River on fire anytime soon. However, the con-
versation regarding natural gas as an effec-
tive bridge fuel needs reexamination.
The University's report contains signifi-
cant statements that have been relatively
absent from the national debate on fracking
for natural gas. Regarding the economics of
shale gas extraction, University research-
ers conclude that the job-creation potential
of fracking in Michigan will not "make or
break" the state's economy. Secondly, a signif-
icant oil or gas boom in the state of Michigan
is "unlikely," even with advanced technology
such as hydraulic fracturing. If the economic
picture sounds mediocre, there are very real
and unquestionable impacts on public health,
the climate and regional ecosystems that
result from hydraulic fracturing. The eco-
nomic and geological constraints of hydrau-
lic fracturing alone underscore a need for
stronger, long-term energy policy in the state.
A majority of Michigan citizens already sup-
port increased renewable energy - increased
fracking is not required.
Chris Takahashi is an LSA senior.

You've made a phone call or sent
an e-mail or text message in the
last few weeks, right? You called
your parents to check up on them,
or texted your friend so you could
meet up on Friday night. Maybe
you had to call University Health
Service to set up an appointment or
e-mail a professor about an assign-
ment. Or perhaps you've been so
busy that you have no idea how
many people you've contacted.
In that case, you're going to
want to drop the National Security
Agency a line. Thanks to Edward
Snowden, it's public knowledge that
under the authority of the Patriot
Act and with the approval of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court, the NSA has been collecting
a vast array of communications as
part of its efforts to conduct sur-
veillance on those it suspects are
involved in terror plots.
This may not surprise you - after
all, gathering intelligence in order
to prevent terrorist attacks is the
NSA's raison d'etre. But the means
by which the NSA has pursued this
information is the subject of intense
debate.Accordingto Time magazine,
an FISC order gave the NSA blanket
access to the call records of millions
of Verizon customers and allowed
installation of agency equipment
directly onto AT&T and Verizon net-
work equipment, which comprise a
significant portion of the country's
communications networks.
While President Barack Obama
suggested reforms to these policies
would be somewhat helpful in allevi-
ating citizens' concerns, the reforms
don't go nearly far enough. If we
truly value privacy and are adamant
about operating within a system of
laws, nothing less than immediate
restriction of the NSA's power to col-

lect communications pertaining to
U.S. citizens in bulk pending a full
review of the FISC's opinions and
their constitutionality is acceptable.
Obama's response to these con-
cerns consistsofanumberofreform
measures he outlined in August.
He says that these measures will
introduce oversight and transpar-
ency into the NSA's process while
maintaining the agency's ability to
do its job. Some kind of action is
clearly necessary, as, according to
The Washington Post, there were
more than 2,700 violations of agen-
cy rules in 2012. These range from
simple human errors to an instance
where an analyst blatantly oper-
ated in violation of a court order.
These violations and a new aware-
ness of the various programs used
to collect data have contributed to
the privacy debate.
But Obama's reforms aren't suf-
ficient, and they barely address
what is perhaps the most unsettling
part of the whole affair: the role the
FISC has played in permitting the
NSA to seize so much information
with so little evidence of its useful-
ness. Until recently, all of FISC's
decisions and the legal rationale
behind them were classified infor-
mation and as such were unreach-
able for scrutiny from any outside
party. The only reform specifically
aimed at FISC is the addition of an
"adversarial voice" to the court's
proceedings. If that single voice is
able to alter the system, my faith
in both FISC and NSA might stop
falling by the day. This seems more
than unlikely, especially consider-
ing how the Associated Press has
reported that the final report of
the NSA review panel will have to
be reviewed by the White House
before being released to the public.

Worryingly, the implications of
leaving the NSA's bulk collection
programs in place - or subjecting
them to a mere review and allow-
ing them to continue to operate in
the meantime - depend largely
upon the character of those the
NSA has chosen to work within the
program. According to NBC News,
there are roughly 1,000 people who
have the same system administra-
tor access to NSA files as Snowden
did. In other words, there are a
thousand points within the agency
that an outside party could target
in order to gain access to informa-
tion about citizens who aren't even
a target of an investigation.
In the short run, these restric-
tions will certainly reduce the
NSA's capability to conduct surveil-
lance. Losing the call-collection
program and others like it would
have a slight but entirely justifiable
negative effect on national secu-
rity, as they are only a small part
of the government's intelligence
apparatus. The entire NSA is just
one of sixteen government entities
involved in intelligence-gathering.
Moreover, the NSA's track record
of using bulk data to thwart terror-
ist plots isn't exactly stellar - it has
been key in stopping a single plot.
Enough is enough. At present,
the body of evidence effectively
establishes that the NSA - with
FISC's authorization - has violated
Americans' privacy on a massive
scale. Freezing NSA's bulk collec-
tions programs while their con-
stitutionality is reviewed would
reaffirm the federal government's
commitment to obey the law and
protect its citizens' privacy.
Eric Ferguson is a
Public Policy junior.

.

9

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and
viewpoints. Letters should be fewer than 300 words while
viewpoints should be 550-850 words.
Send the writer's full name and University affiliation to
tothedaily@michigandaily.com.

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, September 27, 2013 - 5

Katzman to take new,
personal direction

"Let's go to the mall today."
'S.H.I.E.L.D' pilot
too safe to be super,

By REBECCA GODWIN
Daily Arts Writer
If you were to ask University
alum and musician, Theo
Katzman, what effect the
University had
on him as an Theo
artist and as Katzman
a person, he
would tell you Saturday
that it was the at 8 p.m.
"single most
influential The Ark
experience of $5
his life."
But
Katzman, who has an upcoming
performance at Ann Arbor's
famous nonprofit club, the Ark,
developed a passion for music at
a young age, which he described
as an "evolutionary accident."
"My father was a jazz musician
by profession and he played on
'The Tonight Show Starring
Johnny Carson,' " Katzman said.
"And then my mom's parents
were both classical musicians,
my mom's father was in the
Detroit Symphony Orchestra. So
I come from a history of music."
Music came naturally to him,
starting not with an instrument,
but with his voice and his mom.
"I've been singing since I was
a little kid, and I didn't know it
was a thing. I was just singing
with my mom," Katzman said.
"My mom has a beautiful voice
and loves to sing, so singing
came very naturally to me. I was
always doing it."
Singing eventually
transitioned into playing
instruments: guitar, drums and
bass. His interest for instruments
pointed him toward songwriting,
which started his "high school
doldrums" phase.

How
any of h
"The
teenage
you'll n
"They'r
His;
develop
years i
bands,i
which
Chamu
runner-
But fit
decidet
own an
Roman
"Quit
favor o
was a1
took al
Katzm:
attemp
I would
own id

ever, don't expect to hear songs, some of them I hadn't even
is music from that time. recorded yet."
y were just typical Katzman has decided to
heartbreak songs, which introduce a couple new songs,
ever hear," Katzman said. beyond his own personal
e buried somewhere." experiences, for his next album,
abilities as a songwriter which he hopes to put out in 2014.
ted, and he spent several "My whole catalog (of songs)
n a variety of different up to this point is all personal
including My Dear Disco, experience as opposed to
also included Michelle storytelling," Katzman said. "I'm
el, fellow alum and recent starting to move a little bit more
-up on NBC's "The Voice." into the realm of storytelling
nally in 2011, Katzman with some of my new stuff that
d to venture out on his isn't released yet."
d self-released his album, Those include his newest
ce Without Finance. single, "Pop Song," which
tting (My Dear Disco) in he debuted on the tour this
f starting my own band summer with Criss. The
big step for me and that song was officially released
otoffaith and confidence," September 19, but fans all
an said. "It was an over the internet had been
t to conquer my fear that waiting anxiously for a while
dn't be able to achieve my to purchase the official release.
entity in music." Several mishaps on Katzman's
part ("My bad, guys,") had led
to the single being delayed for
LUsIClan to several days.
Katzman intends to release
ring stories a couple more singles before
putting out his second album,
:o the Ark. but his overall hopes for the
future range from the simple
- which basically involves him
maintaining his status as an
couple of years, though, independent artist and playing
an has managed to make music to people who want to
e for himself and has hear it - to the ambitious.
ently drawn large crowds "I feel inspired to recreate
shows. This summer, he the demand for consumer-
across the country as the supported music. As we've
g act for Darren Criss, transitioned to the new internet
'ersity alum and star of model, people are saying that,
"Glee." 'Oh, the music industry is
was a super, awesome, failing,"'Katzman said. "I don't
time (to open for Criss)," agree. I think it's just changing
an said. "To open as an and I want to be one of the guys
was incredible. By the out there flying the freak flag
show, I felt like all the of 'Hey, it's all good, we're still
new all the words to my doing it.'"

Whedon takes his
'Avengers' realm to
the small screen
0
By KAYLA UPADHYAYA
ManagingArtsEditor
Three years after "Dollhouse"
came to an end, Joss Whedon
returnstotelevisionwith"Marvel's
Agents of
S.H.I.E.L.D.," B
Disney's full-
throttled Marvel's
attempt to Agents of
bring its Marvel
super-franchise S.H.I.E.L.D.
to the ABC Pilot
network.
Agent Tuesdays
Coulson (Clark at 8 p.m.
Gregg, "The
Avengers") ABC
lives, thank God
(or Thor). He's back in action at
Strategic Homeland Intervention,
Enforcement and Logistics
Division (S.H.I.E.L.D.), a C.I.A.-
like shadow agency of supers
and normals working together
to fight baddies and protect the
public from information it isn't
ready for, like those flying aliens
who wreaked havoc on New York
City in Whedon's "The Avengers."
Don't worry if you didn't catch the
2012 mega movie: The characters
spend plenty of time bringing you
up to speed, at times overdoing it
with the exposition.
"S.H.I.E.L.D." comes out of the
gate with a lot going for it. It's a
prepackaged idea with a built-in
audience, and everything from the
swelling strings to the stunning
fight choreography makes the
pilotfeel not all that differentfrom
watching a big-screen superhero
origin story. While the cinematic

production values enthrall, a
"Marvel movie every week"
premise, despite sounding fun on
paper, simply isn't sustainable, nor
is it all thatcompelling.
But this is Whedon we're
talking about - the genre-
slayer himself. The man sticks
to his own superpowers in the
"S.H.I.E.L.D." pilot, which he
directed and co-wrote with
"Dollhouse" writers Jed Whedon
and Maurissa Tancharoen.
For one, he has once again
crafted a dream team of complex
characters. Coulson is already
a fan favorite, but the pilot
introduces us to the other faces of
"S.H.I.E.L.D.," like Brett Dalton's
Grant Ward, who's shown as a
stiff, individualistic field agent
who Coulson hopes to turn into
a team player. Chloe Bennet
steals the show as the wickedly
smart but impulsive hacker Skye,
who's a part of the Anonymous-
like group the Rising Tide.
Ming-Na Wen kills it as Agent
Melinda May, who reluctantly
re-enters the field upon orders
from Coulson and turns out to
be one of the toughest agents
on the "S.H.I.E.L.D." payroll,
and relative newcomers Iain
De Caestecker and Elizabeth
Henstridge provide geeky banter
as the tech and science geniuses
Leo Fitz and Jemma Simmons
(affectionately referred to as
FitzSimmons).
Their quips are full of the
sharp, meta punches Whedon
excels at. The pilot is at its most
powerful when its characters
are fully aware of the universe
in which they exist. Just as
Whedon's "Cabin in the Woods"
deconstructed torture porn and
held up a mirror to the slasher
genre, "S.H.I.E.L.D." teases its
own genre, poking self-aware fun

at the ridiculousness of comic-
book worlds. When Coulson
emerges from darkness to deliver
a snappy one-liner, he pauses to
muse on his own melodrama.
"With great power," Skye begins
in a serious tone, "comes a ton of
weird crap."
Ultimately, there's a safeness
to the pilot that's atypical for a
Whedon production. But with
his previous television projects,
Whedon could throw away
conventions and expectations
because the shows were under-
the-radar enough to get away
with it. With "S.H.I.E.L.D.,"
Whedon is situated in the
mainstream more than ever
before. His political capital in
Hollywood (he's up there with
J.J. Abrams as one of the most
powerful men in the industry at
the moment) gives him creative
freedom not all creators possess,
but onlyto an extent. Disney's the
boss in the end.
Whedon once wondered what
it would look like if the woman
walking alone down a dark
alley were the one the sinister
creatures of the night feared
instead of the other way around.
From that thought, "Buffy the
Vampire Slayer" was conceived.
Whedon continued to subvert
tropes throughout the series and
in his other work, and that kind
of rejection of norms is what
could elevate "S.H.I.E.L.D." from
an "X-Files"-plus-superheroes
procedural to something that
packs a little more punch. The
pilot's self-awareness achieves
this to an extent, but still plays
out as a fairly by-the-numbers
origin story. Sure, watching
Coulson fly away in his bright red
car is fun, but give me more of
that biting human emotion you're
so damn good at, Joss.

x
bi
l

In a
Katzm:
a nam
consist
to his
toured
openinj
a Univ
FOX's'
"It
joyous
Katzm
artist
second
fans ke

Reflecting on the 10 years
since 'Speakerboxxx'

B
Out
Love B
TI
second
10 ye
Outka
But it
since
agains
"Hey'
school
been 1
Xanga
pre-te
you, th
sh
pls

By KENDALL RUSS influence (would we have
OnlineArtsEditor Janelle Monde without The Love
Below?) and, ultimately, impact
kast's Speakerboxxx / The on Outkast's demise. And while
elow turned 10 Monday. the album plays and feels as well
hink about that for a 10 years on as the giant fur Big
d. Sure, it has been Boi sports on the album cover,
ars since we've heard it's hard to shake the lingering
st's last great record. sense of gap, permeating with
has also been 10 years nostalgia. Forget the music for
you awkwardly rubbed a moment, and think about your
:t a fellow sixth grader to life. Now, are you where you
Ya!" at your first middle- wanted to be 10 years ago?
dance. It has (hopefully) Is 20 too young to pine for
0 years since you took to youth? Maybe. Probably. But
* to spew that hormonal, just reading that makes me
en #angst. For most of wish for a time when I didn't
hat's halfofyour life. say things like "pine for youth."
Most of us may be too young to
have any real responsibilities,
You cant but how many of us still spout
pretension, desperately striving
take it like a for the esteem of others? How
many of us fluff our resumes and
aroid picture apply for jobs we morally oppose
but think we need to get rich
anymore. and become miserable in the
process? Ten years ago, I may
have worried too much about
which two popped polo collars
now, there are plenty of I would match with my puka
ions on Speakerboxxx / shell necklace, but I always tried
ove Below's importance, to worry about more important

things - like whether or not we
were having pizza for dinner.
"Baby, take off your cool
/ I want to get to know you,"
Three Stacks and Norah Jones
croon on The Love Below track,
"Take Off Your Cool." The song
shines in its simplicity, and
it's one that resonates with me
today in a way that "Unhappy,"
"Roses" and "Hey Ya!" don't. It's
really easy to fall into a negative
feedback cycle of anxiety and
inauthenticity, of aiming at
that high-paying job both your
current and 10-year-old selves
would abhor. Take off your cool
and be authentic - but don't be
selfish, and don't succumb to
cynicism.
Instead, be honest - with
yourself, your friends and
your ambition. Big Boi gives
us some advice on "Unhappy:"
"Let strangers play while you
graduate and move on / True
happiness is not acquired and
you won't find it for sale." It's as
true today as it was 10 years ago.
We may not have been listening
when we graduated elementary
school, but we can't afford to
ignore it now.

By
reflect
The L

I



6 - Friday, September 27, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Friday, September 27, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Vocalists to unite
for A Grand Night

6

Multiple singing
groups to come
together at Hill
By PAIGE PFLEGER
Daily Arts Writer
It's rare to have a group of
almost 350 people gathered for
the same purpose, and even rarer
still to hear 350
voices singing A Grand
the same song.
At the third Night for
annual "A Singing
Grand Night
for Singing," Sunday at
audience 4 p.m.
members can H
gather in Hill
Auditorium From $5
for such an
experience this
Sunday.
The event stemmed from
recognizing the gap in
showcasing choral abilities at the
University. The bands on campus
had Band-O-Rama, the orchestra
had the Halloween Concert,
yet no event brought each choir
together - then, "A Grand Night
for Singing" was born. The event
includes groups such as the Men's
and Women's Glee Clubs, the
Orpheus, Chamber and University

Choirs, as well as excerpts from
the musical theater and opera
program's current productions.
"It's both wonderful and
terrifying," saidDirectorofChoral
Activities Jerry Blackstone.
"There is a great deal to do in a
very short amount of time with a
whole lot of folks. We have to be
very organized and very focused
so we can get everything done.
People are excited to hear each
other."
School of Music, Theatre &
Dance junior Nora Burgard, a
vocal performance major, will
solo in the Chamber Singers piece,
"Festival Te Deum" by Benjamin
Britten, conducted by Blackstone.
"I had never really been good
at anything in school," Burgard
said of her pre-singing past. She
started off in middle school and
later went on to study privately.
"Doing something like singing
was really exciting to me,"
Burgard said. "To be able to share
something so fun with other
people, and something I was
actually good at."
Burgard performed in"A Grand
Night for Singing" her freshman
year, and recalled the impact of
the event: It was the moment she
realized that the University and
vocal performance were for her,
and that she was in the exact right
place to make singing her career.

"Last semester, I had a solo
as well at the (University of
Michigan) Museum of Art. I was
so scared by the end of the solo
(that) I had sweat so much my
glasses were at the end of my
nose," Burgard said, laughing. "I
am thrilled and excited to have a
solo at Hill, but I just hope I don't
sweat all over everyone."
Hill Auditorium is a world-
renowned performance venue,
and the stage has seen the likes
of Bob Marley and the New York
Philharmonic Orchestra.
"It is awesome, awe-inspiring,"
Blackstone said, speaking of the
legacy of Hill."It is exciting to walk
onto that stage and feel the energy
that room always produces and
the energy that always happens
when there is a good crowd. There
is something very special about
making music together with your
friends and your colleagues in that
environment and on that stage -
knowing what has gone on before,
and knowing what will follow.
"It's a very special place
acoustically, it's a very special
place emotionally and musically.
The tradition is remarkable."
"A Grand Night for Singing"
gathers audiences around a
University community that comes

GLASSNOTE
"Where's my brie?"
Phoenix frontman
talks France and fame

By ERIKA HARWOOD
DailyArts Writer

togetheronen
their love fo:
in any numb

DO YOU LIKE STAYING UI
DATE ON THE LATEST IN
CU.LTURlE lNEWSo?
CHECK OUT MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BL
T HE+FILTER!

night ayear,joined by With five albums, a Grammy
r the art of singing, and a perfectly strange
er of capacities. collaboration with R. Kelly
under its belt, French rock
group Phoenix has assured the
world that it's unstoppable.
With the release of its latest
album, Bankrupt!, last April,
the band embarks on a new
tour with a stop in Ypsilanti
on Sept. 29 at Ypsilanti's EMU
Convocation Center.
With the enormous success
that surrounded 2009's
Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix,
PO P the album that for the most
part introduced the band to
American audiences, it would
follow that stress levels would
run high for the-group, but
lead singer Thomas Mars has a
OGJ/ different perspective.
"I think we're less anxious
and stressed out about it," Mars
said. "It's more of a reward, this
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

tour, t
Sin
'90s,
an
disco
tries t
possil
stalle
viewe
"W
show
that's
thing
they'r
show,
with
alway
an ol
mold
so yom
Ai
its so
is ex
introd
stage
this
bigge:
they
the gr
"Ignit
just a
did to
"W
(colla
becau
music
Mars
no ref
stage
was vi
better
ba
Yp
As
Phoen
interv
said,
hear
health
For
of hi
super:
big en
city-st
to sta)
famili
"I
have
when
stop
sort o
took

than anything." that," Mars said of the band's
ce forming in the late ability to spend time with their
the group has developed families. "The other guys, they
extensive and varied live (in Paris), so they get back
graphy. However, Phoenix often. I go back pretty often ...
to keep its sets as fresh as It's a good hometown to have
ble in order to avoid being because it will always be the
d in the past or being same. That's sort of what you
d as a "greatest hits band." want with your hometown. It's
e always approach the there, it's not changing and it's
with playing everything comforting."
new ... There are other The comfort of a hometown
s that are included, but is more of a necessity during the
-e not the main part of the constant travelling, but that's all
" Mars said. "I think that, part of the excitement of touring
this idea, that something for Mars.
's has tobe new. Even if it's "I like the weird places.
d song, it has to somehow When I saw ... how do you say
or melt with another song it, Ypsilanti? I've never heard
u see it in a new way." of it, but I thought it sounded
prime example of seeing cool. I like the places that you've
ongs in a different light never heard of. I'm more excited
xemplified through the to play places in between or in
duction of R. Kelly on the middle, places I wouldn't go
during a set at Coachella to," he said. "More than Vegas
past April, the band's or L.A. There's usually more
st show to date. Together excitement."
performed a mash-up of Despite his love for touring in
oup's "1901" and R. Kelly's the hidden crevices of America,
tion," a show that seemed Mars has one major gripe with
s unlikely to the band as it its venues.
the audience. "The one thing that's
e never thought about frustrating is that sometimes
borating with R. Kelly) when you play in the U.S., the
se we never thought our shows are 21 and over. When I
would work together," was a kid, I saw shows when I
confessed. "There were was 10, 12,13, and I never would
hearsals. He came up on have started a band if I went to
pretty late. Everything a show after 21. I think when
ery stressful and made ita you're after 21, it's too late. It's
r experience. stupid."
Even with a massive tour,
gears have started to turn for
aris-based the next record,but donexpect
a release in the near future.
nd to come to "Everything you start with,
you never end up choosing. It's
silanti for the always a struggle ... almost the
first year," Mars said. "It usually
first time. takes us a year to come up with
one decent song, and then the
other ones come together, so
I'm just curious to get that one
for when R. Kelly compared song ... the song that's good
iix to the Beatles in a recent enough so the others can exist."
'iew with Pitchfork, Mars For now, Phoenix's focus
"I pretended that I didn't is the upcoming tour, where
that just for my mental each show will provide an
. I blocked it out of mind." unexpected adventure for both
r most people, that kind the band and its audience,
gh praise from an R&B since Mars claims that it's
star would result in a head "never really prepared." But, he
sough to consume a small added, "that's what makes us
tate, but the group manages interesting."
y grounded thanks to their While this laid-back method
es and hometown, Paris. to its madness may result
think the luxury that we in disaster for most bands,
now is that we can play looking back upon the years of
ever we want and we can Phoenix's headlining shows,
whenever we want, so we world tours and successful
f steer our own ship. That albums, unpreparedness seems
a lot of time for us to do to be working out pretty well.

"

RELEASE DATE- Friday, September 27,2013
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Itlmay be covered 43 "Three Sisters" 51 Enjoys a lucky
1 Williams' partner 6 "_ Chicago": playwright streak
in paint 1937 Tyrone Chekhov 52 Editor Marshall
8 Vivid Powerfilm 45 Bits of advice and singer Lisa
15 Formerand 7 Exploding stars fromgramps, 55 Toledothing
comrentYankee 8 Brts oath perhaps 56e"Strars"
Alfonso 9 Balderdash 47 Jalopies creature
16 "Howsexy!" 10 Contented sigh 48 "Sesame Street" 57 Kin of-ess
17 *Doing morethan 11 "Say__" striped-shirt 59 "Woo-_!"
is necessary r2ConMie y earer 60 Old Oprynetwork
19 Deoraes on 13 Actress Massay 49 Cuhan 6r r942 FOR
mischief night, 14 French royal girlfriend creation
briefly name of yore 50 Latin stars 62 Asian occasion
20 Norwegian saint 18 ViolinistZimbalist
21 Bad marks in high 22 The Colorado ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
school? runsthrough i TB AR1S T AID A A B L E
22*Wheresecrets 23 R.E.M.'s "The~G
are kept Looe"E OS P AL
26 MD's"ronto!" 24 Bonkers P I E P I P E R S T R A I L
29 Habituate 25 Use a Pink Pearl U A L E R I U R S
30 New nork 26Proectdetail, P R E P A R E S C 0 A9RN
governor befnre briefly nANY9 9A I Sa nR
Spitzer 27 They're run at A N G I E E S M E O L E
33 Prefix with tarsal bars M E N D W I THAN E E D L E
34 Mean: Ahbr. 28 Chem lab ahbr.
37*'TheEeentsof 31Dfeatas,asabill M A A M O O N P R A Y S
Style"co-author 32European prefix 0 P T S T 0 V I A
39*"We'reeven!" 34Greenmachines? T A K E A P I C T U R E
41 OK hours 35 Medical lab B A Y 0 U R A I N N O G
42 Hot stuff vessel I CECREAMTOPP I NG
44 Toady 36 Item in a pool TASK N S E C C R O C E
45 "BlueJasmine" 38 "Did you -?!
director 40 Surplus store a I M 0S 7TBE0SIH 0 Y'N5O0D
46 Map k 4c sapls s t ordeditor@aol.com 09/27/13
47 *Words before a 1 2 3 4 s 7 8m 9 re0 11 1 31
flip
53 Household name 1 1s
in household
humor 17 18
54 Bolognao no
Local cener? 1s 20 21
58 Celebration 00 24 a5
suggested by
wod)hatndu am6 or7 as8s
angwe hem
samredclaess 300 3ar32a 3m 3e an as
63 Frequentmpark
64 'Shon Boat' 41 2 43 4
19361 sandou
en Giveo a kick 45a4
66 Hanging inlthe
balance 47 48 49 50 51 52
DOWN 50 34 5 55 657
1 Army NCO m 59 no a1 62
2 Earring shape
3 Mostmassive 64
known dwarf
plane 5s4asrst
name? By Mat Sikoczn as,11

DO YOU HAVE ADD or ADHD?
Try this helyful book, ONE PAGE AT
A TIME: Getting thrugh college
with ADHD. A first-hd, insightful
experience. Available on Amazon.
WWW.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All Disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net


ANNOUNCEMENT
MARCH FOR ELEPHANTS!
Marchers needed @ State & North U
10 AM Fri, Oct 4. Elephants in crisis!
35,000 killed last year for ivory!
Extinction less than l0yrs! Sign up at
MarchforElephantsSF org or google
March for Eleyhonms Ann Arbor

0

i

CAMPUS REALTY
8month leases
am tbe Crawford IHoose
for neat year !!!
734-665-8825
www.campusrealty.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS
6 and 7 bedroom houses
great furniture/decor
ethernet and wireless
free laundry and parking
for rent NOW for May 2014
www.horvathproperties.com or call
(734) 972-7368
WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
COM 734-332-6000.

JOIN THE DAILY ARTS
DREAM TEAM.
E-MAIL ARTS@MICHIGANDAILY. 0
COM TO REQUEST AN
APPLICATION TODAY.

t

()213 ribuneConntAgenocrL t

UU'21 /



I

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Fridau, September 27, 2013 - 7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Fridau, September 27, 2013 - 7

Standout Osika
poised to lead

ALLISON FARRAND/Daly
Junior defender Chloe Sosenko nearly went to Central Michigan, but after a coaching change, some phone calls and faith, she ended up playing soccer at Michigan,
Sosenko quieting doubters

Jun
has be
igan
lineup
until C
of hig
would
gan.
Tho
player
ines' p
SoS
outsid
one d
consis
522 o
minut
traile
attack
Stil
miles
for a
ing ch
Michi
his fa
under
road.
***
Sos
prove
the e
High
Shivra
out. S
the se
posur
come
"w
Shivr
with
ers, it
get ac
was r
We ne
like a
vetera
She
work
tuniti
ton's b
was re
tain a
her le
"Yo,
qualit
player

By JAKE LOURIM Shivraman said. "When your own my prc
Daily Sports Writer teammates are unable to be criti- felt in
cal of a playerlike Chloe, you have "I did:
aior defender Chloe Sosenko that leader in you." any of
come a fixture in the Mich- It wasn't long before Sosenko ing. If
women's soccer starting was showing her ability on the oppori
p. Which is strange, because practice field. literall
Christmas of her senior year "At practices, she really caught The
th school, she thought she our attention," Shivraman said. He
I be going to Central Michi- "You have a 14-year-old going Sosenl
against a 17- or 18-year-old. Right Novi
ose plans changed, and a key there, she caught our eye. She was Thing:
was added to the Wolver- not out of place. She felt very com- had to
program. fortable in that environment." a visit
enko is Michigan's premier Sosenko became one of the best He
le defender, its best one-on- players Shivraman has coached, the se
efender and one of its most earning second-team all-state neede
tent contributors, playing honors her senior year and being -On t
f the Wolverines' last 550 elected captain her junior and was ta
es - she sat only when they senior years. Three months later, tant D
d Butler and needed extra she started all over as a member were c
ers. of the Wolverines. and sa
1, Sosenko would be 130 Sosenko was set to continue you -
north of Ann Arbor if not hercareerbymovingonto Central here?'
Central Michigan coach- Michigan. She liked the Chippe- Aftc
hange, some phone calls to was' style of play and their coach, decisic
gan coach Greg Ryan and Tom Anagnost. But that winter, wenti
aith in the hard-working Anagnost took the job at Miami decisic
dog from 20 miles up the (Fla.), changing everything. goingt
andn
*** to a s
soccer
When Anagnost left, it forced third(
enko has always had to Sosenko to weigh her options. walk-c
herself, but she first caught Go with Anagnost to his new "Ye
ye of her Brighton (Mich.) job at Miami? Too far away. Go Wit
School coach, Deepak to Michigan State? Didn't have of peai
aman, at her freshman try- space on the roster. Stay at Cen-
osenko could compete with tral Michigan? Sosenko, who was ***
eniors because of her com- named an Academic All-Big Ten
e, and those players don't honoree last season, knew there Liki
around often. were better options on the table. Sosenl
e said, 'We'll take her,' " That left Sosenko with one "W
aman said. "Generally, option: become a Wolverine and about
some of the younger play- not play soccer. Three years after cious,'
t takes a little bit of time to her high-school career started to player
climated.... With Chloe, it blossom into a college future, it Thats
ight away, she was ready. appeared her dream would die. of play
ever looked back. She played "All my friends and family didn't
veteran, she practiced like a were shocked that I even consid- Onc
an, it was fantastic." ered that option," Sosenko said. "I dence
stayed after practice to started to realize that the reason In her
on finishing scoring oppor- for going to school was academ- season
es and became one of Brigh- ics, and I'm not going to play soc- earner
iggest weapons. Shivraman cer the rest of my life." later a
eady to name Sosenko a cap- Sosenko tried to be happy with SoS
as a sophomore because of going to Michigan, but she wasn't assign
adership. complete. She had the opportu- marks
au know you've got a captain nity to get a top-notch education, for the
:y when you can't find any but it wasn't perfect. switch
s who are critical of her," "Every time I went through enko f

os and cons list, something
ncomplete," Sosenko said.
n't have that confidence in
the decisions I was mak-
felt lost, and then once this
tunity came around, it was
ly a no-brainer."
n, Ryan came knocking.
said he first got a call from
ko's club coach with the
Jaguars, Paul Tinnion.
s moved quickly, as they
. Ryan invited Sosenko for
after their first phone call.
saw her play twice during
ason, and that was all he
d.
the visit, Sosenko said Ryan
lking with Michigan assis-
Dean Duerst as if Sosenko
oming. Ryan turned to her
aid, "I haven't even asked
- are you going to come
er what seemed like a sure
on, months of wondering
into the next word. The
on seemed to be between
to a better academic school
ot playing soccer or going
maller school and playing
. It turned out there was a
option: join Michigan as a
on.
s," Sosenko said quickly.
h that word came a moment
ice.
e Shivraman, Ryan liked
ko immediately.
hat impresses me most
Chloe is that she's tena-
Ryan said. "She's that
that refuses to get beat.
separated Chloe from a lot
yers, and that's something I
know about her."
ce Sosenko gained the confi-
in her ability, her role grew.
r first two weeks in pre-
n camp as a freshman, she
d a small scholarship, then
larger one.
enko now has a major
ment: each game, she
the best outside player
e other team. If that player
hes to the other side, Sos-
ollows her.

Opponents expect to have to
account for senior forward Nkem
Ezurike and senior defenders
Shelina Zadorsky and Holly Hein,
but Sosenko often surprises them.
"Chloe is constantly stepping
onto the field ready to prove her-
self," Ryan said. "When she has
to play against the best attacking
player every week, I know she's
stepping out there going, 'I've got
to prove myself again today."'
Sosenko's rise at Michigan
happened as quickly as it did at
Brighton. First was her first col-
lege assist against Oakland on
Aug. 21, 2011.
Then her first goal against
DePaul on Aug. 28 of that year.
Then her first start against West-
ern Michigan on Sept. 9.
She surprised everyone -
except Shivraman. When he
called coaches at other colleges
about Sosenko, they were skepti-
cal because of her 5-foot-4 height.
"It's a joke to me," Shivraman
said. "It always makes me laugh.
These are coaches who have no
idea."
Last season, Sosenko played
in all 24 matches and started 23.
This season, she has played in all
eight and started seven.
She was set to play at a Mid-
American Conference school, and
now she's starting for the No. 13
team in the country. Anagnost
was fired after two seasons at
Miami. Last season, Michigan
trailed Central Michigan in the
NCAA Tournament until Sos-
enko assisted on the game-tying
goal with 40 seconds left. Sosen-
ko played all 95 minutes, and the
Wolverines won in overtime en
route to their first Sweet 16 since
2003.
Anywhere else she went,
things would have worked out
differently - for Sosenko and for
Michigan.
That was in the past. Friday
night, Sosenko will make her
eighth straight start for the Wol-
verines, helping them chase their
first-ever Big Ten regular-season
title.
That would have surprised
everyone three years ago. At least
until they saw her play.

By MICHAEL KESSLER
DailySports Writer
The transition to college can
be challenging. Enrolling half-
way through the academic year
certainly doesn't make the pro-
cess any easier.
Tacking on a starring role on
the Michigan women's track
and field team? All in a day's
work for standout redshirt
sophomore Shannon Osika.
Joining the Wolverines half-
way through the 2011-2012 sea-
son, Osika made an immediate
impact as a freshman, earning
All-Big Ten first-team honors
and running the 1,200-meter
leg of the Big Ten-winning dis-
tance medley relay.
It might have been over-
whelming for some, but the
soft-spoken, even-keeled Osika
took it all in stride.
"I didn't really expect any-
thing, I just wanted to come in
with an open mind," Osika said.
"I knew the other girls had been
training, I did a lot of work too
coming in, so I knew I'd be able
to transfer over pretty well. But
it was just exciting to be a part
of that top group because there
are a lot of good strong runners
on the team."
Much of that top group, how-
ever, was reaching the end of
their collegiate careers, leav-
ing behind a youth-laden, inex-
perienced squad looking for
underclassmen to step up to the
plate and establish the future
of Michigan cross country and
track. Osika was in a perfect
position to oblige.
It shouldn't come as much of
a surprise that Osika adapted
to the collegiate environment
so fluidly; not only did both of
her parents run track in col-
lege, they were both coached
by Michigan coach Mike McG-
wire. That Osika ended up at
Michigan herself, then, is no
coincidence.
"What I really wanted was to
be on ateam where the girls are
really close, and are excited to
go to practice," she said. "And I
really liked coach McGuire, so
it just seemed like a perfect fit."
While Osika found her per-
fect match at Michigan, the
Wolverines could not have
been happier with her consis-
tent production. Following her
shortened, yet breakout fresh-
man season, Osika returned in
2012 for her first full season of
collegiate competition as a red-
shirt freshman.
And she didn't disappoint.
Playing a major role in Michi-
gan winning the Big Ten and
Great Lakes Region titles in the
2012 season, Osika was reward-
ed with All-Big Ten second-
team honors and the Big Ten
Freshman of the Year award.
But she wasn't done yet. Dur-
ing the indoor track season,
she finished 14th in the mile

run, her signature event, at the
NCAA Indoor Championships,
and made the All-America sec-
ond team. All in all, the year
could not have gone better,
but Osika was quick to shift
the focus away from her past
achievements and toward her
upcoming sophomore season.
"I'm really happy with how
it went, I think it was a really
good season," said Osika. "But
I'm really excited for this sea-
son too because we did lose
some top girls, but a lot of peo-
ple are stepping up. So while it's
great that we had a great sea-
son, I think we'll have an even
better one this year."
Though Osika's pedigree may
have foreshadowed her current
standout status for the Wol-
verines, her general demeanor,
described by McGuire as "shy,"
is certainly not a typical trait
of an athlete on a team. But
that's only because Osika pre-
fers to let her running do the
talking, leaving behind a mod-
est, unassuming backdrop that
only accentuates her talent and
potential on the track.
This is not to say she doesn't
feel the pressure of a young
squad looking for a rock to rely
on. Far from it, in fact.
"I feel it a little bit, but it's
not bad pressure," she said.
"It's good, it's motivating and
encouraging. We've talked
about it, and we're pretty excit-
ed about taking that leadership
role and keeping the ball roll-
ing."
In that vein, Osika said she
stepped up her offseason rou-
tine, putting in more miles and
working to be more fit than she
was a year before. The early
results have certainly been
encouraging. She defended
her title in the season-opening
Michigan Open event, winning
Big Ten Athlete of the Week in
the process. Though she has
been sidelined the past few
weeks with a shin injury, she
hopes to be back for Michigan's
next event at the Rim Rock
Farm Classic on Oct. 5.
Considering Osika's across-
the-board success in both cross
country and track and field,
one might be hard-pressed to
discern her favorite of the two
sports.
But Osika refuses to play
favorites herself.
"Cross country is my favor-
ite when it's cross country sea-
son, and track is my favorite
when it's track and field sea-
son," Osika said. "I think that's
a good way to look at it, too. I
never want to just compete, I
want to embrace the season I'm
in."
It's an attitude befitting an
athlete who always keeps her
sights focused straight ahead,
letting her maturity, poise and
talent shine through every step
of the way.

*After summer of training, Bektas, Bolender ready for season

By CLAIRE KINTNER
For The Daily
With tournament play just
getting underway for the Michi-
gan women's tennis team this
past weekend at the Wolverine
Invitational, a new and improved
work ethic was brought to the
court to start the season. After
a long summer of individualized
training, the team seems excited
to make some breakthroughs
this year and is certainly ready
to redeem itself after a loss to No.
7 UCLA in last spring's NCAA
Sweet 16.
Junior Emina Bektas and
senior Brooke Bolender trained
and competed both at home and
around the country this summer
before transitioning back to the
team environment.
Bektas came onto Michigan's
tennis radar early in her fresh-
man year when she was named
Big Ten Freshman of the Year
and earned All-America hon-
ors in singles while cruising to

a 33-10 record in doubles. As a
sophomore, she was a two-time
Big Ten Athlete of the Week and
earned a berth in both the NCAA
singles and doubles champion-
ships.
Now, as an upperclassman,
Bektas finds herself in a lead-
ership position and is ready to
make some strides in her game,
both physically and mentally.
She went 2-1 last weekend in sin-
gles in the Wolverine Invitation-
al, with a key win over Tulane's
No. 23 Klara Vyskocilova.
"This summer was more pro-
ductive as a whole," Bektas said.
"After freshman year, I took a lot
of time off and felt slower and
a little more burnt out, but this
year has been easier. I'm excited
to see what I can do."
Most of Bektas's summer was
spent with Bolender, as the two
traveled and followed a proper
training regime of lifting three
times a week, playing two hours
of tennis a day and running
when there was time in between.

I

made me really want to get back
to the team and keep going with
the momentum."
Bolender is definitely one to
keep an eye on this season as
well.
The Florida native was the
first Michigan freshman to win
30 matches in a season - set-
ting a new record with 35 singles
wins - earning Big Ten Fresh-
man of the Year as well as All-
Big Ten. Her sophomore year,
she was named to the All-Big
Ten team and began to play with
Bektas, advancing to the semi-
finals at the USTA/ITA Mid-
west Regional tournament. As
a junior, she was voted captain,
had an extraordinary 7-0 win
over Ohio State to seal the Wol-
verines' fourth straight Big Ten
championship and, along with
Bektas, was the nation's fourth-
ranked doubles pairing. She went
3-1 at the Wolverine Invitational
last weekend.
"The back-to-school transi-
tion has been a little tricky for me

personally," Bolender said. "I'm
taking my elementary education
classes in the morning, which
means I'm sometimes left to
practice on my own. As a whole,
though, everyone is coming in
with high expectations, and the
work ethic is really solid."
As for her summer competi-
tion, Bolender said, "I was a little
disappointed with the singles
outcomes in most of my individ-
ual tournaments back home in
Florida, but Emina and I played
really well together in Evans-
ville, and it was great to compete
outside of our dual matches. I
can't complain about that. There
was even good and bad this past
weekend, but that just shows
what I need to work on.
"I know I'll work through
the struggles and get better this
year."
Next up, the Wolverines are
set to compete inthe Riviera/ITA
Women's All-American Champi-
onships in California from Sept.
28-Oct. 6.

FILE PHOIO/Daily
Junior Emina Bektas lifted three times
a week this summer, played two hours
of tennis a day and ran in between,
While back in their respec-
tive hometowns, Bektas and
Bolender were able to have more
freedom with their individual
coaches and even had the chance
to play in tournaments against
some Big Ten rivals.
"Competition-wise, this sum-

mer was really good for me,"
Bektas said. "I wasn't expect-
ing much, but Brooke and I took
the doubles title at the Women's
Hospital Classic in (Evansville,
Ind.) in July, and I took the sin-
gles title as well. P felt like things
were starting to pick up, which

i


r
O)OVI

8 - Friday, September 27, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SprsTeMcia aiy-mciadiyo

.6

In'Fourth and Long,' a look into scandal-ridden sport

By EVERETT COOK
Daily SportsEditor
In an era when getting access
to one college football program is
hard, author John U. Bacon decid-
ed to immerse himself in four of
them.
In his new book, titled "Fourth
and Long: The Fight for the Soul of
College Football," Bacon immers-
es himself with a quartet of Big
Ten programs - Michigan, Ohio
State, Penn State and Northwest-
ern - to get a clearer picture of the
operations of college football in its
current, scandal-ridden state.
The book,publishedby Simon&
Schuster, came out on Sept. 3 and
can be purchased at Barnes and
Noble, Amazon, the MDen and
Literati Bookstore, among other
retailers.
While every program and
school had their own subplots and
information, perhaps the most
interesting chapters covered the
Penn State program the year after
it received impossibly strict pun-
ishments from the NCAA the year
after the Jerry Sanduskyscandal,
In one of the most turmoilous
situations in the history of col-
lege football, Bacon had complete
access to the players, coaches and

the walls, not everything was
crumbling.
"The week after the sanctions,
they were trying to field enough
players to fill out the schedule,"
Bacon said in a phone interview
with the Daily. "I didn't realize
and appreciate how close it was
to actually closing. I was equal-
ly surprised and impressed by
how much effort it took from the
coaches, staffers and players to
keep that thing from falling apart.
It was not a task operation. It was
not dumb luck.
"If they had done anything less
than what was done, Penn State
might not have had a team last
year."
Bacon - who grew up in Ann
Arbor, teaches a class at Michigan
and wrote a book two years ago
about the Rich Rodriguez tenure
- has been around the Wolver-
ines long enough to know most
of Michigan's interworkings. But
there were still some surprises
behind the curtains in Ann Arbor,
so to speak,
"One of the better surprises was
just how hard working the band
is," Bacon said. "I really didn't
fully appreciate that even though
I've been around it my whole life.
That was a very happy aisle to turn

to. Also, the budget was an eye-
opener. How much goes in and
where itgoes. Evenifyou're accus-
tomed to certain things, certain
things in there still surprised me."
By the end of the book, it's clear
to the reader that the system is
broken.
There were enough stories out
of Penn State alone to know that
massive television contracts and
money had corrupted the people
supposed to be running the opera-
tion.
But for Bacon, the saving grace
was in the players, not the suits in
charge.
"By meeting the players at all
the schools, it restored my faith
that this things is worth protect-
ing and saving," he said. "The
players I encountered had a better
sense of what college football is
supposed to be about and a stron-

ger moral compass than many of
the people who are leading the
enterprise. While that's wonder-
ful,that's notthe wayit'ssupposed
to be. I'm not getting cynical about
the players in the same way I'm
getting cynical about the NCAA."
In a backwards way, it's the
players - the amateur athletes -
saving the adults, the multi-mil-
lionaires.
"The players were much more
sincere than even the most opti-
mistic fans could ever hope for,"
he said. "Taylor Lewan came back.
What does that tell you? The Penn
State players were being lured
in the parking lot, knowing they
could probably get some money E
to go other places. Almost all of
them stayed. That's amazing. The
biggest surprise is that the biggest
believers in college football are the
players, not the people running it."

Penn State coach Bill O'Briengave John U. Bacon unrivaled access to Penn Stale.

meetings, and it showed.
The most telling section came
in the week after the sanctions
were handed down, when the
NCAA ruled that Penn State
players could transfer anywhere
without penalty. Players like then-
senior linebacker Michael Mauti
had to convince the team to stay
together, even while knowing

that the Nittany Lions weren't
bowl eligible and would be facing
severe scholarship reductions in
the upcoming years.
For the last two years, almost
every bit of news out of Happy
Valley has been negative, Bacon's
reporting flipped the view back
onto the players and new coach
Bill O'Brien, showing that inside

>of

FOOTBALL
EA Sports to end NCAA Football series in'14

featuring Dr. Rajeeb Chakraborty (sarod)
and Pandit Samar Saha (tabla)
MONDAY, SEPT 30, 2013-8-9:30 PM
Stamps Auditorium, Walgreen Drama
Center,1226 Murfin Ave. d to the public,
For more information visit
ii.umich.edu/cwps or
call 734.936.2777. k

40

0

0'


1


