4)II 4\)ilI \IN IS 111 I I { W~\

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, October 7, 2013

michigandaily.com


CAMPUS LIFE
Health orgs
encourage
- global focus

Student organizers
say campus lacks
interest in worldwide
health issues
By CHARLOTTE JENKINS
Daily Staff Reporter
Twenty-six health-related
student organizations came
together Sunday for Students
Taking Action, an event host-
ed by the Global Health and
Development Coalition, a net-
work of health-focused student
groups.
The event, which lasted most
of the day, included several
prominent speakers, including
School of Public Health Prof.
Kenneth Warner and James
Holloway, vice provost for global
and engaged education.
In addition to speakers, the
event included a professional
development panel. One panel
member spent 10 months in
India on a Fulbright scholar-
ship, and another is working
on a mobile app-sensor pair for
monitoring blood pressure with-
out a cuff.
LSA seniors Nick Majie and
Samantha Cunningham formed

the Coalition in December 2012
because they wanted to form
an umbrella organization that
could unite health groups on
campus to increase effective-
ness.
The coalition meets biweekly
with a delegate from each mem-
ber organization in order to plan
events that will help achieve
common goals.
"We wanted the effort of
these groups to be as great as
possible," Cunningham said.
"Sometimes it is counterproduc-
tive to have groups overlap, and
we wanted to encourage collabo-
ration."
Majie said he started think-
ing about the need for a group
like the coalition when he
learned that the University's
Center for Global Health had
dissolved in July 2012. He said
the closing of the center wor-
ried him that the University
may not put a big enough focus
on global health.
Cunningham and Majie
said they want the coalition to
include a focus on professional
development, innovation and
support dealing with cultural
issues abroad. They also want to
help student groups gain access
to University resources.
See GLOBAL, Page 5A

TERSA MATHEW/Daily
LSA senior Christopher Horn, Mr, Blue, and LSA senior Tiffany Steele, Ms. Maize, walk down the aisle at the Black Homecoming dance in the Michigan Union Saturday,
Celebrati-nglakstdet

Sister 2 Sister
and H.E.A.D.S.
organize Black
Homecoming

dent groups Sister 2 Sister
and Here Earning A Destiny
Through Honesty, Eagerness
and Determination of Self, stu-
dents had a blast from the past
this weekend.
On Saturday, the two orga-
nizations held their 14th annu-
al Black Homecoming Dance.
The dance celebrated the
accomplishments of the black
community and was open to
all University students.
The annual celebration,
held this year in the Michigan
Union, was "an event for the

community," said Alma Wor-
thy, Sister 2 Sister co-external
executive,
The University's Sister 2 Sis-
ter organization was formed in
1997 by several black women
who didn't feel that there were
any safe spaces for African
American women on campus.
Today, its mission is to
give back to the community
through fundraising and ser-
vice, as well as to providea safe
space for minority women.
H.E.A.D.S. was formed a
year after Sister 2 Sister by

several like-minded individu-
als who wanted to provide a
safe space for African Ameri-
can men on campus, and it
retains that focus on dialogue
and discussion today.
The April before the dance
is to take place, two groups got
together and began planning.
It's now one of several annual
staple events for both groups,
and each year it grows in size
and prominence.
"Just to give people a sense
that there is a light at the end
See STUDENTS, Page SA

By SHOHAM GEVA
For the Daily
Formal dances, while an
important rite of passage
in high school, tend to fade
away once students enter col-
lege. But thanks to the stu-


ANN ARBOR
Protesters
march in
* A2 against
poaching of
elephants
Activist group fears
eventual extinction,
cites growing Chinese
demand for ivory
By CHARLOTTE JENKINS
Daily StaffReporter
A world without elephants seems
too hard to imagine - but a national
advocacy group says that will be a
reality if people don't take action.
On Friday, March for Elephants
held a protest against elephant
slaughter on the corner of State
Street and North University Avenue,
followed by a march to the Federal
Building on Liberty Street between
Fourth and Fifth Streets.
The group is concerned about
the increased level of poaching of
African elephants and fears that the
species could be extinct within 10
years. According to the World Wild-
life Fund, sporadic enforcement of
poaching bans and increased land
See ELEPHANTS, Page SA

First Days in
Flemig1
Administrators, confront a host of issues, includ-
ing affordability, diversity and a
experts outline most changing face of higher educa-
tion. On top of those hurdles, the
significant issues for 14th president will need to earn
the respect of the community he
next U president or she has been tasked to lead.
Tobin Smith, vice president
By SAM GRINGLAS for policy at the American Asso-
Daily StaffReporter ciation of Universities, said a new
president must be ready to inno-
The President's Office on vate around an arrayof issues.
the second floor of the Fleming "I don't see it getting any
Administration Building will easier for university presidents,
likely sit empty for a few days this and the challenges will become
summer. even more difficult in the coming
That is how the University's years, given financial challenges
next president will find it when at both the federal and state
he or she arrives in Ann Arbor level," Smith said.
and looks out on Thompson
Street for the first time. College affordability
When University President
Mary Sue Coleman's term con- In interviews with The Michi-
cludes in gan Daily, Smith, as well as Uni-
July, the versity Provost Martha Pollack
presidency, and former LSA Dean Terrence
and some McDonald, immediately listed
of the Uni- affordability as the top challenge
versity's for the next president.
greatest The average annual increase
Filling Fleming challeng- in tuition revenue during the past
es, will be decade was 5.09 percent, accord-
passed on to a new leader who ing to data provided by the Uni-
will greatly influence the Uni- versity.
versity's course over the next Between academic years
decade. 2004-05 and 2013-14, LSA in-
The newleader willbe asked to See FLEMING, Page 3A

Students attend the 100th anniversary celebration of the Department of Recreational Sports on
Intramural Sports Building.



WEATHER HI:64 GOT ANEWSTIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO:44 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The Podium: The fall shutdown blues
MICHIGAN DA LY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS ...................... 2A SUDOKU............... 2A
Vol.CXXIV, No. 6 OPINION .............,.... 4A CLASSIFIE D............ ..6A
S W03ThegMichieanDaily ARTS. . ..............6A SPORTSMONDAY,.., ..,1B
michigondsilyronm


2A - Monday, October 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com *I

pi Photos ' the e (e k ficloni
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
S TO R M T H E F I E L D www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Osiness Maaer
x734-418-4115 ext. 1202 734-410-4110 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com keoigtmo@miehigandaily.com

Students seek funds for voter registration

Fifty years ago this week
(October 10, 1963)
In order to raise funds, the
University Friends of the Stu-
dent Non-Violent Coordinat-
ing Committee, or SNCC, asked
campus sororities and frater-
nities for financial support.
According to SNCC's plan,
each fraternity and soror-
ity would contribute a certain
amount each week to voter reg-
istration drives in the South.
Twenty-five years ago this
week (October 12,1988)
After the National Gay Rights
Advocates declared Oct. 11 as
"National Coming Out Day," an

Alice Lloyd Hall Resident Adviser
created an educative "gay rap."
The rap was turned into forums
for students to discuss homo-
sexuality and curb homophobia.
Nearly 40 students attended the
first forum. The forums were
targeted at freshmen, who may
have come to campus with less
experience around homosexuals.
Although some were confused
by the raps and did not believe
it changed their perceptions of
homosexuals, others found the
discussion to be enlightening.
Ten years ago this week
(October 8,2003)
The University braced
itself for state budget short-

falls, after calculations of Sep-
tember revenues estimated
a gap of about $800 million.
Cuts in state funds led to small-
er budgets for state universities,
causing University officials to '
reconsider funding allocations.
Mitch Bean, director of -
the Michigan House Fiscal
Agency, said the state legisla-
tors were just as concerned
with the fiscal shortage.
"This is a very substantial
problem we are looking at,".
he said. "This is going to be a
very difficult round of cuts."
ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
A fan dresses up as a storm trooper at Michigan Stadium
-ALLANA AKHTAR AND to cheer onthefootball team duringtheirgame against
KATIE BURKE Minnesota on Saturday.

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Phototraphy Section
photo@michigandaity.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

CRIME NOTES

That sinking Crime stats
feeling for Saturday's
WHERE: West Quad game
WHEN: Friday at about
9:20 a.m. WHERE: Michigan
WHAT: Several sinks Stadium and surrounding
were found damaged in areas
a third floor restroom in WHEN: Saturday
West Quad, University WHAT: The University
Police reported. There are Police and its partners
currently no suspects. made 6 arrests at Saturday

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES H
Medical ethics Soundscapes
A 70-foot-long mobile
WHAT: To help students of childhood home was stolen from the
with their medical school parking lot of a Hampton,
interviews, Emergency WHAT: Students in the N.Y., diner last Friday, accord-
Medicine Prof. Andrew Bar- Reading and Writing Land- ingto the Huffington Post. The
nosky will hosta seminar scapes of Childhood class police reported that the sus-
discussing the ethical issues will present an open house pect took the home on Sept. 28
of medicine and how to of audio-walks representing after hitching it to a truck and
approach them. childhood tales. heading toward Vermont.
WHO: Career Center WHO: Utiversitve ihrar h

'ps

EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewSlovin ManagingEditor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
Adam Rubenfire ManagingNews Editor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Peter Shahin, K.C.Wassman, Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf, Jennifer Calfas, Hilary Crawford, Ian
Dillingham, Will Greenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel Premack, Stephanie
Shenouda, Christy Song
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditorsmichigandaily.com
-Adienne Roberts Editoiat PagetEditors
'EIO ADrITRIArPAGEEDITORS: DanWang Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand ManagingSportstEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Rajat
Khare, Daniel Wasserman, Liz Vukelich
ASISAN POTSEDTRS: Greg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel Feldman, Erin
Lenon,, Leaceraoa, MaxCohen
Kayla Upadhyaya Managing ArtstEditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTS EDITORS: ElliotAlpern,Brianne Johnson,John Lynch,AnnaSadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: John Bohn, Sean Czarnecki, Max
Radin, Akshay Seth, Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing PhototEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew,Todd Needle
SnSISNBPnenObDIOSu KatherinePekala, Paul Sherman,
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTYMAGAZINE EDITOR:PaigePearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien copychiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:JennieColeman,Kelly McLauglin
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
HillarypWang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
wite trms bny studentat tep iersit oeMck hiahn.One copeisavailable free o hrge
fall termstarting in Septembervia U s mail are $110. Winterterm (Januarythrough Aprilis
$15 yearlong (September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate On-campus subscriptions for fall term are $35. Subscriptions must be prepaid.
The Michigan Daly is amember of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0i

WHEN: Today at 3:30 m

WHEN! Todnvaoe ant40n0m

Bumper cars
WHERE: Palmer Parking
Structure
WHEN: Friday at about
10:50 a.m.
WHAT: Between 10 a.m.
and 11 a.m. on Thursday, a
parked car was struck by an
unknown vehicle and sus-
tained damage to its fender,
University Police reported.

football game: two for
resisting and disrupting
a police officer and four
for Minor in Possession
of Alcohol. 18 people were
ejected from the game: 12
for disorderly conduct,
three for possessing
another person's ID, two
for possession of alcohol
and one for throwing
projectiles. Emergency
medical personnel treated
74 people; four were taken
to University Hospital.

WHERE: Student Activities WHERE: Hatcher Gradu- The Michigan football
Building' ate Library team retained the
. au eLittle Brown Jug for
America and Student rcital the sixth straight year with
a 42-13 win over Minnesota.

smoking
WHAT: Public Health Prof.
Kenneth E. Warner will give
a lecture on cigarette use and
smoking history in America,
examiningpast policy efforts
and advertisement both for
and against cigarettes and
tobacco.
WHO: Center for Local,
State, and Urban Policy
WHEN: Today from
4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall

WHAT: The University
Voice Department presents
a free recital. A short Q&A
will follow.
WHEN: Today at 6:45 p.m.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHERE: Moore Building,
Britton Recital Hall
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily
to corrections@
michigandaily.com.

SEE SPORTSMONDAY INSIDE
At least 15 people are
dead in Cairo, Egypt
after confrontations
between crowds of Morsi
and military supporters on
Sunday, the New York Times
reported. The events started
as a anniversery celebration
of the country's last war with
Israel before turningviolent.


Jamaicans' consumption of

Stocks rise on hope that

crocidiles endangers species DC will end its bickering

Global conservation
groups call for
action in Jamaica
CASCADE, Jamaica (AP) -
Crocodiles were once so abun-
dant along the salty rim of
southern Jamaica that images
of their toothy jaws and spiny
armor crown the tropical island's
coat of arms and are stenciled on
the bumpers of military vehicles.
Now, the big reptiles are

and not just because they blend
into swampy backgrounds.
These days, a growing taste for
crocodile meat and even eggs
in Jamaica has conservationists
worried that the reptiles might
be wiped from the wild altogeth-
er, although they've been pro-
tected by law since 1971.
"I went from never hearing
about anyone eating crocodile
meat, much less.crocodile eggs,
to hearing about it all the time.
There's just so much carnage
going on," said Byron Wilson,

University of the West Indies.
Crocs have steadily reclaimed
their range in Florida, their only
U.S. habitat, after rebounding
from the edge of extinction. But
experts believe the reptiles may
be reaching a tipping point in
economically struggling Jamai-
ca. A recent newsletter from the
Crocodile Specialist Group, a
global network involved in croc
conservation, said the situation
appears dire on the island as the
impact of habitat loss deepens
with a "new demand for croco-
dile meat, both for personal con-
sumption and for local market
distribution."
The poaching problem has
gotten so bad in Jamaica that a
passionate reptile enthusiast,
Lawrence Henriques, has set up
a crocodile sanctuary and cap-
tive rearing program just outside
a tiny northern mountain town
called Cascade, far from the ani-
mals' southern habitat, as insur-
ance against future loss. He also
hopes to educate islanders who
revile them or want to barbecue
them.
His facility's fenced pens and
ponds now hold about 45 gray-
green crocs, including a nearly
11-footer (3.3 meters) nicknamed
"Stumpy" because of a severed
tail. Nearby, opening its big jaws
to display sharp interlocking
teeth, a nearly 8-foot (2.4 meter)
female dubbed "Doris" basks in
her new home. Last month, Hen-
riques rescued her in southern
St. Thomas parish after her mate
was fatally shot in the head.
"It's very worrying that so
many people just have no regard
for the laws protecting these
animals," said the wiry and tena-
cious Jamaican, speaking over
a forest symphony of insects in
his croc retreat, which has a sign
warning the rare visitor that they
enter at their own risk.
According to Henriques, some
poachers use baited shark hooks
to bag crocs, mostly sub-adults
measuring about 7 feet (2 meters)
long. People in St. Thomas also
reportedly dig up eggs after
nesting females deposit them on
beaches.

'Modest optimism'
calms fears of
government default
NEW YORK (AP) - Wall
Street thinks Washington's grid-
lock could be easing.
Stocks posted modest gains
Friday, driven by budding opti-
mism among traders that Wash-
ington's bickering politicians can
reach an agreement on the bud-
get and on increasing the govern-
ment's borrowing limit soon.
"Call it 'modest optimism,"'
said Frank Davis, director of
sales and trading at LEK Securi-
ties.
The stock market rose for just
the third time in 12 days. The
Dow Jones industrial average
closed up 76.10 points, or 0.5 per-
cent, at 15,072.58. The Standard
& Poor's 500 index rose 11.84
points, or 0.7 percent, at 1,690.50
and the Nasdaq composite index
gained 33.41 points, or 0.9 per-
cent, at 3,807.75.
Traders aren't expecting a
miracle. The rhetoric between
Democrats . and Republicans
remains as hot as ever. But the
pressure to end the shutdown
and raise the debt ceiling is
climbing quickly.
"The thought is that the
Republicans and Democrats will
soon work this out before Oct.
17," Davis said, referring to the
date the Treasury Department,
said the government's borrowing
authority would be exhausted.
On Friday, House Speaker
John Boehner reemphasized
that he won't let the U.S. govern-
ment default on its debts. There
were also reports that Boehner
was looking to bring House
Republicans together to pass
some sort of budget compromise
that would include raising the
debt ceiling.
Davis noted that it's a positive
sign that investors are buying

stocks heading into a weekend,
especially-with how volatile the
political climate in Washington
has been.
Despite Friday's gains, the
trend for the last three weeks in
the stock market has been lower.
The Dow is down nearly 4 per-
cent since hitting an all-time
high on Sept.18.
While remote, the possibility
of the U.S. failing to pay its bills
or creditors remains a deep con-
cern to investors.
"Credit markets could freeze,
the value of the dollar could
plummet, U.S. interest rates
could skyrocket, the negative
spillovers could reverberate
around the world, and there
might be a financial crisis and
recession that could echo the
events of 2008 or worse," the
Treasury Department said in a
report Thursday.
Investors went through a
similar case of political brink-
manship in August 2011, which
ultimately led to Standard &
Poor's downgrading the United
States' credit rating. The S&P
500 fell roughly 12 percent in the
weeks that followed.
Because of that precedent, the
political noise out of Washington
has come to dominate nearly all
conversations on Wall Street.
Under normal circumstances,
traders would have the govern-
ment's monthly jobs report to
parse through on the first Friday
of the month. But the shutdown
has forced the Labor Depart-
ment to postpone the release of
September's data for at least the
foreseeable future.
And few traders are talking
about third quarter corporate
earnings reports either, which
start next week.
"The market is goingto remain
completely occupied by Wash-
ingtonuntil this is resolved," said
Bob Doll, chief equity strategist
and portfolio manager at Nuveen
Asset Management, which over-

sees $126 billion.
Despite these concerns, Doll
and other investors believe the
possibility that the U.S. govern-
ment would willingly default on
its debt is remote.
"It's hard to really say how
this is going to end, but I think
it's unthinkable that it will end
with a.default of the U.S. gov-
ernment," said Steve Auth, chief
investment officer at Federated
Investors.
Not all parts of the market
were optimistic Friday. Yields
for the one-month T-bill that
mature around the time the U.S.
government is expected to hit
its borrowing limit have risen to
their highest level in a year. The
yield on one-month T-bill was
0.12 percent, up sharply from
0.01 percent five days ago.
Bond market observers said
that fund managers for money
market funds, who primarily
invest in these types of securi-
ties, have been selling short-term
Treasuries. Fund managers
don't want to be stuck holding
U.S. government debt maturing
around the time the federal gov-
ernment hits its borrowing limit.
Average investors have also
been moving out of riskier assets
as well. Roughly $300 million
was pulled from stock mutual
funds last week, according to
fund tracking firm Lipper. It was
the first time this year that mutu-
al funds saw net outflows, Lipper
said. Exchange-traded funds
also saw investors head toward
the exits, with $2.8 billion leav-
ing ETFs last week.
"We have seen a pull out of
(stocks) and investors moving
to cash," said Kristina Hooper,
head of U.S. investment strate-
gies at Allianz Global Investors.
"We're very focused on being
there, holding our client's hand
and helping them think about
the long-term so they're not get-
ting rattled by what is short-term
event."

g @MICHIGANDAILY


. The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 7, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
SUTTONS BAY, Mich.
FBI raids multiple
sites in potential
chemical searches
Dozens of federal agents with
help from, Michigan authori-
ties have raided two sites in the
northern Lower Peninsula, tak-
ingprecautions for possible expo-
sure to hazardous chemicals.
The Leelanau County sheriff's
department says about 60 federal
agents are participating in the
investigation, which led to raids
Friday in Suttons Bay and Leela-
nau Township.
Sheriff Mike Borkovich says in
a Web posting that "other search-
es are being conducted related to
the case in other states."
He didn't identify those states,
but the Houston Chronicle says
the Michigan raids are linked to
searches in Houston and Bryan,
Texas, at property owned by
Houston art expert Cicely E.
Horton and her husband Andrew
E. Schneck.
SALT LAKE CITY
Mormon leader
defends stance vs.
same-sex marriage
More states and nations may
legalize same-sex marriage, but
human laws cannot "make moral
what God has declared immoral,"
a top Mormon leader said Sunday.
Apostle Dallin H. Oaks, in an
address at the Mormon church's
biannual general conference in
Salt Lake City, said the faith's
stance against same-sex mar-
riage might be misunderstood or
prompt accusations of bigotry.
But he urged members to
remember that their first pri-
ority is to serve God, and The
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints' policies are based on
God's decrees, The Salt Lake Tri-
bune reported.
RAPID CITY, S.D.
Snow melt turns
* Black Hills into
soggy mess
Residents in the Black Hills
were navigating through a slop-
py mess Sunday after warmer
temperatures began melting
record-setting snowfall, leav-
ing standing water on plowed
roads rather than making its way
through drainage systems.
Law enforcement officials
shifted their focus to recovery
after having caught up with a
backlog of emergency calls from
the weekend storm that dumped
4 feet of snow near Deadwood
and 3.5 feet near Lead. No fatali-
ties were reported as a result of
the bad weather.
"We're even Steven. We don't
have 911 calls holding at this
point," Rapid City-Pennington
County emergency manager

Dustin Willett said Sunday.
"Most of our life safety missions
have been completed and as we
start out today, it's going to move
to snow removal, debris removal
and power restoration."
POTISKUM, NIGERIA
US, Russia set to
talk at summit
The U.S. and Russia are set to
hold their first high-level talks
since sealing a deal to secure and
destroy Syria's chemical weap-
ons and the onset of an apparent
warming between Iran and the
West.
U.S. Secretary of State John
Kerry and Russian Foreign Minis-
ter Sergey Lavrov planned to meet
Monday to discuss both issues
on the sidelines of an economic
summit in Indonesia. They will
be comparing notes on progress
made since they negotiated the
Syria agreement last month.
International disarmament
inspectors began work Sunday to
destroy Syria's estimated 1,000-
ton stockpile of chemical weap-
ons. They're working against a
Nov. 1 deadline set by the U.N.
last month to destroy the Assad
government's capability to pro-
duce the weapons.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

of its passage, Coleman gave a
PFmINGdramatic address on the Diag
From Page lA promising the University would
remain committed to diversity.
state tuition increased by 60 per- Despite alternative efforts to
cent. For out-of-state students, boost minority enrollment, Pol-
the nine-year trend of increases lack said the University has seen
added up to55 percent. . a decline in racial and ethnic
In a presentation given at the diversity.
April Board of Regents meet- Even in the last four years,
ing, Pollack listed declining state between fall 2008 and fall 2012,
funding - comparable to 1964 the number of black undergradu-
levels when adjusted for inflation ates has decreased. According to
- as the major reason for tuition University enrollment data, male
increases. African American undergradu-
Despite aggressive cost con- ates decreased by 27 percent and
tainment measures over the last females by 38.5 percent between
decade, increasing costs ina few those years.
major areas have also played a , The outcome of Schuette v.
role in tuition increases. Coalition to Defend Affirmative
Additionally, the University Action could weigh on the next
has increased its commitment to president's challenge in expand-
financial aid, further adding to ing access.
the necessity of tuition increas- "I think part of our excel-
es. As the only public institution lence comes from our long com-
in Michigan to meet 100 percent mitment to diversity, so I think
of financial need for in-state stu- we need to continue to focus on
dents, the University is also one that," Pollack said.
of the top three Association of Pollack also said the Univer-
American Universities institu- sity has seen slow but steady
tions in terms of the amount of progress on socio-economic
institutional aid provided. diversity for in-state students,
However, these issues are not but not as much for out-of-state
completely new. When Coleman students, another challenge she
arrived in Ann Arbor in August hopes increased financial aid
2002, she articulated similar can address.
challenges in an interview with
the Daily. Changing face of higher
"Michigan has taken a stance, education
and I have certainly admired it
from afar, that it wants to be a The University's new leader
really great University," Cole- will also guide the debate on vir-
man said in 2002. "And that tual classrooms, as universities
has been driving the tuition and colleges increasingly change
increase. We always have to be platforms for the delivery of
careful though. We always have instruction and student engage-
to be aware of the. issues that ment.
students face, and their fami- "We are undergoing a real
lies face. We don't want to make transformation in how teach-
Michigan a place that only the ing occurs and will occur in the
wealthy can attend." future at large research univer-
However, Coleman could not sities and it will be driven, in
predict the economic recession part, by technology," Smith, the
that occured during her term. AAU vice president, said.
Despite efforts to increase finan- Much of the challenge has
cial aid and contain costs, the emerged with the advent of
downturn accentuated issues of MOOCs, or massive open online
affordability and propelled them courses, designed to provide
into the next decade. higher education to students
Though the University has without the university price.
kept tuition increases slightly The University has partnered
lower than the national AAU with Coursera, a MOOC pro-
average over the past decade, vider, and, as of July, offers nine
students at the presidential online courses.
searchforums consistentlyartic- Regents and administrators
ulated that the cost of attending also discussed MOOCs when
the University is too high. they visited California last win-
"The way the University got ter to meet with administrators
through a lot of (the decline in from the University of California
state funding), quite frankly, system, as well as an executive
was by increasing tuition," from Google.
McDonald, the former LSA dean "Universities all ,over the
said. "So the national conversa- country are engaged in this
tion now that universities are too debate," Pollack said. "I think it's
expensive and tuition increases a good thing. I actually welcome
are too high ironically is setting the discussion. I think we will
up a situation where the next look different, but I don't think
president is going to be work- we are going away. I don't see
ing in an area of constrained the University of Michigan edu-
resources." cation being replaced by a set of
For the 2013-14 academic year, online modules."
tuition increased by the lowest "I think it's a real mistake
amount in 29 years - just a little to think that an education is a
more than 1 percent series of courses and a course
But simultaneously, the is a series of lectures," Pollack
University was attempting to said. "I think that demonstrat-
increase financial aid, an effort ing and clearly articulating
that was partially funded by what that value is and also mea-
development efforts. suring the accountability of
If tuition increases level off learning outcomes is becoming
to maintain affordability, the a big issue."
University will be forced to cope Though the University has
with decreased revenues. increased focus on exploring

"The national controversy new experiential and global
over the increasing cost of learning initiatives, McDonald
higher education is also going said the debate over higher edu-
to have a downward effect on cation's format will move "front
revenue from the University," and center" over the next decade
McDonald said. "How to main- and the next presidency.
tain quality and opportunity
and variety of experiences for Flemingin transition
students, at a time when the
tuition increases will be quite But apart from tangible chal-
low, will be a challenge for the lenges, the new president's
next president." most arduous challenge may
And'as college costs increase, be respecting Coleman's legacy
Matt Chingos, a fellow at Brook- while crafting his or her own
ings' Brown Center for Educa- long-term plan for the institu-
tion Policy, said presidents must tion.
also ensure continuing quality. "That's not an easy task and
"It's important for leaders of a misstep can cause a president
institutions to think about how great amounts of problems "
it is they're going to provide a Smith said.
better education to all of their He said any new president
students," Chingos said. must balance their own vision


vost. Sullivan had been appoint-
ed to the position in 2010.
The Board of Visitors said
Sullivan had lost the mandate
of the board, as she failed to
aggressively pursue MOOCs and
a more business-centered model
of higher education. Sullivan
was later reinstated in the face
of outcry from faculty and stu-
dents, a public embarrassment
for the University of Virginia's
governingboard.
Smith said a presidential
transition also requires balanc-
ing relationships. He said new
presidents have an initial "hon-
eymoon" period as they begin
building rapport with students,
faculty, regents, lawmakers and
donors.
E. Royster Harper, vice presi-
dent for student life and one of
the University's most veteran
administrators, helped Cole-
man transition into office back
in 2002. Harper said the admin-
istrative team, including deans
and other executive officers, are
charged with moving the Uni-
versity forward as the new presi-
dent adjusts.
"People who are really good at
what they do -.and I think the
leadership team here is really
good - know how to keep going
while you recalibrate," Harper
said. "It's kind of like you keep
your eye on the horizon where
you're tryingto go, realizingthat
what comes up on the horizon
changes and so then you adjust
as that happens."
Coleman advised incoming
freshman - newcomers to Mich-
igan like herself - to be flexible.
"Don't come in with blind-
ers on," Coleman 'said. "Don't
start out thinking that you know
exactly what you want to do.
Take a little sideway step every
once in a while."
University administrators and
higher education experts have
echoed Coleman's suggestion;
not for wide-eyed freshman,
per se, but for the next president
who fills the second-floor office
Coleman will leave behind.
Welcoming a new leader
When that new leader
arrives in Ann Arbor, he or she
will probably give an inaugura-
tion speech. Former University
Provost Phil Hanlon delivered
his last month when he became
president of Dartmouth Col-
lege while Coleman stood at his
side.
Coleman delivered her inau-
gural speech during a formal
ceremony in Crisler Arena in
March 2003. In a photo on the
front page of the Daily the next
morning, Coleman is seen beam-
ing at the crowd in a black robe
and cap.
Beside the expected compo-
nents of an inaugural speech
- among them the embrace of
public higher-education insti-
tutions and allusions to former
University presidents whose
names now grace campus build-
ings such as Tappan, Angell and
Fleming - Coleman lingered for
a moment on the Sankofa bird,
the species from Ghana that
moves forward with its head
turned backward.
The species is typically asso-

ciated with a proverb: "Look to
your roots in order to reclaim
your future."
"The glory of the University
of Michigan resides in its ability.
to reinvent itself continually, to
cherish its roots while inventing
the future," Coleman said.
Only a few months into her
term, Coleman recognized the
challenge of the presidency. She
knew she needed to balance
vision and future hurdles with
the insight and tradition of the
Wolverines who came before
her.
Whoever the University's 14th
president is, he or she will need

APPHOTO
Egyptian security forces and civilians detain a supporter of ousted Egyptian
President.Mohammed Mors near Ramsis Square, Cairo, Egypt. Deadly
clashes left tens dead and scores injured as rival crowds of supporters of the
military and backers of Morsi poured into streets around the country Sunday
Syria begins
U.N. sanctioned
chemical weapons
destruction
Inspectors given ties that created it. Damascus
nine months to developed its chemical pro-
gram in the 1980s and 1990s,
ensure comlete building an arsenal that is
believed to contain mustard
disarmament gas and the nerve agents sarin
VX and tabun.
The production and storage
BEIRUT (AP) - Interna- facilities are understood to be
tional disarmament experts scattered around the country.
on Sunday began dismantling The OPCW-U.N. advance
and destroying Syria's chemi- team arrived last week to lay
cal weapons arsenal and the the foundations for a broad-
equipment used to produce it, er operation of nearly 100
taking the first concrete step inspectors. Those already in
in their colossal task of elimi- Syria have been double-check-
nating the country's chemical ing the Assad regime's initial
stockpile by mid-2014, an offi- disclosure of what weapons
cial said. and chemical precursors it has
The inspectors from the and where they are located.
Organization for the Prohi- Members of the team are
bition of Chemical Weap- planning visits to every loca-
ons have about nine months tion where chemicals or weap-
to purge President Bashar ons are stored - from trucks
Assad's regime of its chemi- loaded with munitions up to
cal program. The mission, full-on production sites.
endorsed by the U.N. Secu- Inspectors can use any
rity Council, faces the tight- means to destroy equipment,
est deadline in the watchdog including crude techniques
group's history and must like taking sledgehammers to
simultaneously navigate Syr- control panels or drivingtanks
ia's bloody civil war. over empty-vats. But the sec-
Sunday marked the fifth ond phase - destroying bat-
day that an advance team of tIe-ready weapons - is more
around 20 inspectors have difficult, time-consuming
been in the country and the and eipensive. It can be done
first day that involved actu- by incinerating materials in
ally disabling and destroying sealed furnaces at ultra-high
weapons and machinery, an temperatures or by transform-
official on the joint OPCW- ing precursor chemicals or
U.N. mission said. diluting them with water.
The team oversaw Syr- . It's an arduous task in the
ian personnel who used cut- best of times, and Syria offers
ting torches and disc saws to anything but an easy work
destroy and disable a range environment.
of items, including missile The civil war has laid
warheads, aerial bombs, and waste to the country's cities,
mixing and filling equip- shattered its economy, killed
ment, the OPCW said in a around 100,000 people and
statement. driven more than 2 million
The Syrians are responsible people to seek shelter abroad.
for the actual physical demo- Another nearly 5 million
lition of the materials, while people have been displaced
OPCW inspectors monitor within the country, which has
the process and verify what become a patchwork of rebel-
is being destroyed, the official held and regime-held terri-
said. He declined to provide tory.
details or say where the work Underscoring the physical
took place. The official spoke perils the inspectors face, four
on condition of anonymity mortar shells landed Sunday
because of the sensitivity of in the Christian quarter - of
the matter. al-Qasaa, killing at least eight
This is just the beginning people, according to Syria's
of a complicated process to state news agency. It was
eliminate Syria's estimated unclear whether any OPCW
1,000-ton chemical weap- experts were close to the
ons stockpile and the facili- explosions.

Diversity on campus
Within a year of taking
office, Coleman confronted
two U.S. Supreme Court cases
that challenged the Univer-
sity's use of race as a factor in
admissions.
The next president will like-
ly face the repercussions of
another case appearing before
the Court this fall - Schuette v.
Coalition to Defend Affirmative
Action. That case is challeng-
ing a 2006 ballot initiative that
banned the use of affirmative
action in Michigan. In the wake

with the opinions of the Uni-
versity community.
"You need to both listen,
have an idea in your mind o
where you would like to go,
but also listen and be willing to
shift and make sure you don'
get yourself crosswise," Smith
said. "A vision at all costs, par-
ticularly at large public institu-
tions, can sometimes get you i
trouble."
Earlier this year at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, the Board o
Visitors, the institution's gov-
erning body, ousted then-pres-
ident Teresa Sullivan, a forme
University of Michigan pro-

to o t-e same.
Buy one sandwich get one FREE!
rnLimit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer.
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Sagets
Westgate Shopping center
25t5 Jachson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(704) 652-2435 www.barrybagefs.comI
Expires: October 10, 2013
L-------------------- --- - -- ----J

A

'a


4A- Monday Octobor 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com - I

4A - Monday, October 7, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

. ,

b ffiidriian &it
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
ANDREW WEINER and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F ROM T HE DA ILY
New president, new priorities
Mary Sue Coleman's replacement
As the Presidential Search Advisory Committee concludes its series of
public forums, the search continues for University President Mary
Sue Coleman's successor. The University's next president must
maintain not only Coleman's excellent track record with regard to fundrais-
ing, community engagement and involvement with Detroit, but also as a lead-
er with a vested interest in increasing the school's socioeconomic diversity.

The beauty of b

"CS mile, forgive, appreci-
ate the small pleasures,
unplug, exercise, make
time for leisure.
You'll find these
among other
commonly used
"guidelines" to
happiness that
media dissemi-
nates across the
Internet: "Hab-
its of Supreme- SARA
ly Happy MOROSI
People," "12
Things Happy
People Do Differently," and my per-
sonal favorite, "How to Be Happy: 11
Steps (with Pictures)."
I understand how some may find
comfort in said pieces. "I smiled at a
stranger in Trader Joe's today...check.
I appreciated the smell of fall and the
sound ofcrunchingleavesbeneath my
boots this morning... check."
Happier yet?
While I agree that many of these
so-called "steps" to happiness har-
vest a positive lifestyle, it's naive to
believe following them to a T will
result in an altogether perfect life.
I'm currently taking English Prof.
Ralph Williams's "Memoir and Social
Crisis" course. We're finishing a mem-
oir by Primo Levi - an Italian Jew
who recounts his story of survival in
Auschwitz. While many of the pas-
sages are incredibly salient, our dis-
cussion last week on Levi's perception
of happiness resonated with me most.
"Sooner or later in life everyone
discovers that perfect happiness is
unrealizable, but there are few who
pause to consider the antithesis:
that perfect unhappiness is equally
unattainable.... In fact it is not a
question of a human incapacity for a
state of absolute happiness, but of an
ever-insufficient knowledge of the
complex nature ofthestateofunhap-
piness; so that the single-name of the

major cause is give
which are compos
an order of urgenc
immediate cause o
an end, you are grie
see that another on
in reality a whole s
Let's break thisc
Our culture isa
elusive idea of hapl
of the most infamo
piness occurred ov
Led by George Vail
hensive study foll
268 Harvard men
graduates when th
1938. Though ther
ent limitations to
as the exclusion o
insights into
the value we
place on happi-
ness can still be
widely applied
today - the most
notable being
personal experi-
ence over mate-
rial success.
It's a findingu
and again, and or
to understand.
social expectation
nature, we do our
hold onto happin
them. We become
-ating and mainta
image, we enter a
our peers and w
sures to pave thev
future now, belie
puts us on the faa
We are constantly
infallibly falling s
ined nirvana. In d
thin our relations
and with ourselvi
guilty of both.
Though we con
unreasonable cult
think we can all ag
- EDITORIAL BO

eing (un)happy
n to all its causes, mentally impossible to uphold them
ite and set out in and be blissfully happy at all times.
y. And if the most But Levi is right - we often don't
f stress comes to consider that it'sjust as impossible to
evously amazed to be wholly unhappy, either.
e lies behind; and What I think Levi meant is that
eries of others." while lows are inevitable, resilience
down. is a choice. Not only that, but we as
obsessed with the humans experience unhappiness at
piness. In fact, one the capacity to which we are able.
'us studies of hap- Amid the merciless conditions of the
er a 75-year span. camps - unfathomable to ordinary
Ilant, the compre- people - Levi found happiness in giv-
owed the lives of ingItalianlessons.Indoingso,exhibit-
who were under- ing that even in circumstances beyond
he study began in understanding, perfect unhappiness
e are some appar- remains as unattainable as its counter-
the study, such part, perfecthappiness.
f female subjects, Levi also suggests that even if we
overcome what
we believe to be
We're constantly the cause of our
reaching for and unhappiness,
surely more lies
infallibly falling short of beyond it. We
an imagined nirvana, could follow the
guidelines put
forth in every
"happiness how-
we've heard time to" article, yet the vast majority of
ne that we claim outside factors - both tragedies
Yet somehow, and blessings - remain out of our
s remain, and by control.
- best to find and Vaillant simplifies his findings
ess by mirroring in his own words by saying: "The
e fixated on cre- seventy-five years and twenty mil-
ining the perfect lion dollars expended on the Grant
n arms race with Study points to a straightforward
e fall into pres- five-word conclusion: 'Happiness is
way for our dream love. Full stop.' " In a fast-paced cul-
ving one misstep ture where productivity is the means
t track to failure. to every end, we easily forgetto pause
reaching for and and be present.We have become con-
hort of an imag- sumed by the fear of wasting time,
ioing so, we wear when actually, the only time lost lies
hips with others in our inability to accept that it's OK
es. I, for one, am to reject the notion of perfect happi-
ness. I think Levi would agree.

0

Throughout Coleman's 12 years at the Uni-
versity, she has brought in many large dona-
tions; in the past year alone, donations from
Stephen M. Ross, Charles Munger and the Zell
Family Foundation have totaled $360 million.
These donations contributed to the Ross School
of Business and the Athletic Department,
established plans for new graduate-student
residence and supported the Masters of Fine
Arts in creative-writing program. Coleman's
drive to find new funding is no accident: State
appropriations for higher education declined
by more than 26 percent between 2002 and
2012. The previous decade's fundraising cam-
paign, called The Michigan Difference, focused
largely on facilities, including the various resi-
dence hall renovations. The . next campaign,
The Victors for Michigan, set to launch on Nov.
8, is focused on extending financial aid to Uni-
versity students. It's critical that Coleman's
successor prioritizes fundraising that benefits
a wider variety of students than some of the
recent large-sum donations.
Many students have recently taken issue
with policies and campaigns implemented
under the leadership of Dave Brandon, the
University's athletic director, who assumed
his position in 2010 and will remain through
2018. Although the Athletic Department is
governed by its own written policies, the
position is monitored by and accountable to a
chain of command ending with the Universi-
ty's president andthe Board of Regents. Under
Brandon, the Athletic Department has enact-
ed unpopular admission protocol regarding
student football and basketball tickets with-
out informing students ahead of time, deny-
ing them the opportunity to respond prior to
the decision becoming policy. Even though
the future University president won't have
direct control over the Athletic Department,
he or she should not -treat it like an entirely
autonomous body with goals separate from
those of the University's mission. Coleman's
successor should put pressure on Brandon to
communicate with students before making
significant changes and to make more well-
prioritized expenditures. -

Under Coleman, the University's relation-
ship with Detroit has flourished. The Detroit
Center, a home for Detroit-based student
and faculty projects located in the heart of
downtown, opened in 2005. In 2008, Semes-
ter in Detroit began, and the Detroit Partner-
ship volunteering initiative was re-focused to
include more long-term service projects such
as tutoring and mentoring. These programs
provide excellent opportunities for students
to experience and contribute to Detroit, and
the future University president should use
funds to maintain and expand what has already
been achieved under Coleman. But giving cur-
rent students an opportunity to connect with
Detroit isn't enough. The upcoming president
needs to prioritize recruiting students from
Detroit to the University.
Coleman has been a staunch supporter of
affirmative action and minority enrollment,
which is essential to the University's mis-
sion. Despite this, minority enrollment has
stagnated in recent years, and as of 2011 was
approximately 14.5-percent and 13-percent
lower than the national averages for both
black and Hispanic students, respectively. A
new president should be innovative in his or
her ways of increasing minority enrollment
and should develop more programs that fos-
ter a diverse and inclusive community. He or
she should also focus on larger socioeconomic
diversity, which can be achieved in part by
devoting more fundraising to the creation of
scholarships and financial aid. In general, the
next University president should be sure to
advocate for continued quality undergraduate
education. Hiring of top-tier professors is key
to maintaining an accurate reputation for edu-
cational excellence and attracting a continu-
ous and diverse group of students and donors.
The University's next president will need
to work hard to match Coleman's fundrais-
ing prowess and maintain and expand the
University's. Emphasis on increased finan-
cial aid and reasonable control of the Athletic
Department are crucial. Above all, students
should be involved in the processes that
shape their University experience.

0
0

tinue striving for
ural standards, I
ree that it's funda-
ARD MEMBERS

-Sara Morosi can be reached
at smorosi@umich.edu

Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan, Eli Cahan, Eric Ferguson, Jesse Klein, Melanie
Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Harsha Nahata,
Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe

WILLA ADAMO

dl
nc
to
fl(
ui
su
le
m
in
br
th
af
cc
fil
th
o
bo
w
m
re
PE
sa
fu
m
lo
m
pa
ti
ni
I'
B
p1
p1
ti
is
ta
ta
sc
to
th

Enter Detroit with respect
First, I want to establish that I am a mid- flight, economic recession and many Devil's
le-class white woman. I grew up in the Nights. If you're lucky enough to enter
orth suburbs and made the trek down I-75 Detroit, here are a few things you should
help at the family business, a 60-year-old consider:
oral shop on the east side of Detroit. I grew 1. Take a moment to check your privilege.
p with a different picture of Detroit than my Examine your different social identities like
rburban comrades. race, class and gender. Think about how the
I spent this past spring semester living, power your identities give you affects the way
arning and working in the city and earning you view the world and your values. Be hon-
y Urban Studies minor through Semester est with yourself about your own shortcom-
Detroit. The time I spent in Detroit was a ings. Enter Detroit with humility.
reath of fresh air. The people of Detroit - 2. Realize that people have a wide range
re 700,000 people who remain in the city of life experiences, privileges and belief
fter Tigers games - have created a strong systems. Forget all the things you think you
ommunity. Grassroots organizations have know. Your college education doesn't make
lied gaps the government left: They patrol you more- intelligent than others. Enter
reir own neighborhoods nightly, grow their Detroit with an open mind, ready to listen.
wn fresh produce and found community- 3. Now forget how awkward you feel. Just
ased schools. like the city, you're not without error and
Detroithas an unexplainable,honest charm. never will be. Recognize your discomfort but
Valking down the street, people say hello and allow your curiosity and desire to learn guide
ake eye contact with you. That simple daily you. Enter Detroit with confidence.
minder thatI exist inthe greater world com- 4. Start looking at the bigger picture. Is
elled me to rethink my values and lifestyle. I your student initiative listening to and hon-
iw a brighter, more sustainable and healthier oring the desires of Detroiters? Is your pres-
ture in Detroit. It gave me hope and excite- ence worthwhile? Enter Detroit with genuine
lent for my own future. intentions.
I began this school year with a new out- 5. Use your brain. Detroit has danger, but
ok, incorporatingthe lessons Detroit taught danger exists everywhere, including Ann
e into my existence in Ann Arbor. On cam- Arbor. Be aware and trust your gut. Enter
us, I have noticed an influx of Detroit initia- Detroit carefully.
ves. Fromvolunteers togroupsthat focus on 6. Your experience in Detroit is what you
ightlife, everyone wants a piece of Detroit. make of it. Be patient and put yourself out
m sure they all have the best intentions. there. You're lucky to have this opportunity.
ut please, all who take interest in Detroit - Enter Detroit with a smile on your face.
ease enter the community respectfully. I am a middle-class white girl, and a one-
Detroit is a city, not a playground. It's not a time citizen of Detroit - even if just for a bit. I
lace to get,drunk and leave only broken bot- invite you to prove me right or wrong by hav-
es behind when the weekend's over. Detroit ing your own experience through Semester
not a blank slate and doesn't need designer in Detroit, the MDetroit Center Connector or
impon boutiques or gourmet dog-food res- independently. But please remember, Detroit
urants. To my peers sporting "Detroit isn't is someone's home, and you're representing
ary, guys!" t-shirts purchased in mid-Cork- your fellow Wolverines. Treat Detroit with
wn: this is not the way to do it. respect.

ceiling
headlin
past fe
But h
people
know
means?
Norr
just a
ity, and
increas
ceiling
of cour
much
rent po
system,
ceiling
import,
taking
everyor
So, h
works.
Whe
money,
bonds.
paper t
for cash
pay bac
a certai
that en
on the f
ly, it's a
the peo
the Tre
ing the
that the
The
otherc
tries, h
by the
allowec
have r
debt -
gress h
the deb
can isst

It's time to raise the debt ceiling
or those of you who fol- pay the country's bills. effects on the global economy.
low the news, you've prob- Let us be clear: The debt ceiling When something that has longbeen
ably seen the phrase "debt is not about spending. Saying that considered a sure, stable thing such
in the we shouldn't raise the debt ceiling as U.S. bonds, is suddenly unreli-
res these because we need to be spending less able, there are sure to be shock-
w weeks. is like saying you won't pay your elec- waves to the world economy. The
ow many tricity bill at the end of the month Treasury released a statement last
actually because you're trying to cut back Thursday saying that failure to raise
what it on spending. You already spent the the debt ceiling "could have a cata-
money when you were using electric- strophic effect on not just financial
mally it's - ityall month and now you're just pay- markets but also on job creation,
formal- ing the bill for it. And if you don't, you consumer spending and economic
I Congress LISSA may find yourself having a hard time growth - with many private-sector
es debt KRYSKA getting electricity in the future. analysts believing that it would lead
as a matter Right now, U.S. Treasury bonds to events of the magnitude of late
se without are considered risk-free investments, 2008 or worse."
publicity. However, the cur- because the United States has always Given the potential magnitude
litical climate has changed the paid its bills. This distinctionmeans of the consequences for the United
, and, unfortunately, the debt- the nation get to borrow at very low States and the global economy if
proceedings have become very interest rates. Congress doesn't raise the debt ceil-
ant. Most media discussions Although it hopefully won't come ing, it's irresponsible for them to
place wrongly assume that to this, since Speaker John Boehner even consider it. It would accomplish
ne already knows what it is. (R-Ohio) indi- nothing. It's not
iere's a quick outline of how it cated that he a decision about
will not allow Even the possibility that spending, and
m the United States borrows a default, what E the only effect it
it usually does so by issuing would happen if Congress will fail to would have on
A bond is essentially a piece of Congress didn't r. t.b.l . the deficit would
hat promises that in exchange raise the debt raise the debt ceilig is be to increase
hnow, the U.S.government will ceiling? harming the economy. it by increasing
k the face value of the bond in If it isn't interest rates.
n period of time. And up until raised, there Even the possi-
d date,they will pay out interest won't be enough bility that Con-
ace value every year. Essential- cash on hand for the Treasury to pay gresswill fail to raise the debt ceiling
loan to the U.S. governmentby all of its obligations. Any number of is already harming the economy,
pie who buy the bonds. When expenses could go unpaid, including according to some economists. And
asury issues these bonds, sell- paying back the debt on bonds that some experts have started investi-
m to raise cash today, we say were issued in the past. A default gating extraordinary measures Pres-
eyhave issueddebt. on past debts, meaning the United ident Barack Obama could take to
United States, unlike most States fails to pay back its loans on raise it on his own, justin case.
developed, democratic coun- time, would mean that U.S. Treasury It's important that we all under-
has a debt ceiling controlled bonds are suddenly no longer risk- stand what's going on with the debt
legislature. The Treasury is free, and the United States would ceilingandwhyitmatters.The public
d to issue bonds until they have to pay higher interest rates to needs to make sure Congress under-
eached a certain amount of make up for it. This would mean that stands that the debt ceiling is not an
the debt ceiling. Then, Con- the deficit would go up as the United opportunity for political posturing.

S

as to pass legislation raising
at ceiling so that the Treasury
ue moreto raise more cash and

States pays more for every dollar it
borrows.
There would also be adverse

-Lissa Kryska can be reached
at Ikkryska@umich.edu.


LETTER TO THE EDIOR
Search committee is
not representative off
University community
TO THE DAILY:
To the University of Michigan
Regents:
The choice of our next Univer-
sity president affects all members
of our community: undergraduate
students, graduate students, ten-
ured and non-tenured instructors,
staff and the cities of Ann Arbor,
Dearborn and Flint. We all work
together to make the University
the transformative educational and

SEND LETTERS TO: ToTHEDAILY@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

research institution that it is. We
are all stakeholders, not bystand-
ers, in this decision.
Therefore, we feel strongly that
the current Presidential Search
Advisory Committee does not rep-
resent the diversity of our commu-
nity, our questions, our needs and
our hopes for the new president.
A committee , made up solely of
tenured faculty departs from the
University's own practices in past
searches.
We respectfully request that the
University take the opportunity to
strengthen the Presidential Search
Advisory Committee by including
members who are undergraduates,

graduate students, non-tenured
instructors and staff. We look for-
ward to welcoming a president who
will listen to the many voices that
make up our campuses and lead the
whole University community into
the challenges of the future.
Sincerely,
ForUM, The Student Union of
Michigan, The Lecturers' Employ-
ee Organization, The Graduate
Employee Organization and The
University of Michigan Skilled
Trades Union
Ian Matchet, Liz DeLisle
Rodrigues and Ismali Ali
LSA/Art and Design senior, Rack-
ham graduate student, LSA junior

0

There are many people who call Detroit
eir home, who stuck with it through white

Willa Adamo is an LSA junior.

. ,


The Michigan Daily - michigandai(y.com

Monday, October 7, 2013 - 5A

GLOBAL
From Page 1A
Public Policy junior Tracey
Fu said she attended the con-
ference to hear the speakers
and learn from other passionate
leaders on campus.
LSA senior Rina Joshi said
she expected to learn from
the event how she could effi-
ciently serve as a student

leader of her organization,
FreeHearts.
Majie and Cunningham said
they are beginning to plan the
next coalition event. In the long
run, Majie said he hopes one day
the coalition might not have to
exist.
"If the University took a
strong enough interest in their
students' engagement, then
there wouldn't have to be an ini-
tiative like this," he said.

STUDENTS
From Page 1A
of the tunnel," Worthy said.
"There are people who have
been in your shoes. And yes,
(black students) don't have a
huge community here to sup-

port you, but the ones who are
here, we're definitely here and
prevalent."
Complete with photogra-
phers, freestanding chande-
liers and a red carpet, the event
featured plenty of dancing,,
music, food and the crowning
of the 2013 Ms. Maize and Mr.

Blue.
The two honorifics are tra-
ditionally given to two seniors
- one male and one female -
who attain high academic suc-
cess and represent the values of
community service and social
awareness that Sister 2 Sister
and H.E.A.D.S espouse.

This year's Ms. Maize and
Mr. Blue were LSA and Kine-
siology senior Tiffany Steele
and LSA senior Christopher C.
Horne.
"Winning this is special
because it's based on what you
do and what you put into the
community," Steele said.


From Page lA
100 years later,
. RecSports still
playing strong

Students, alumni,
administrators
celebrate centennial
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
In 1972, University alum Jim
Warner and his housemates
formed a team called "Mor-
row's Men," named after their
" landlord. They competed in 16
intramural sports, and Warner
became the Intramural Athlete
of the Year.
Forty-one years later, Warner
- wearing his Morrow's Men
team shirt - looked around the
Intramural Building gym and
saidwith agrin, "The smellis the
same as 40 years ago."
Warner was one of about 350
intramural athletes and employ-
ees of past and present to fill the
gym in celebration of the pro-
gram's centennial Friday.
In 1913, the University was
first in the nation to create a for-
mal department for recreation
on a college campus. Fifteen
years later, it builtthe first dedi-
cated intramural facility in the
country.
"Recreational sports is yet
another contribution that this
remarkable university has
made to all of higher education,
and in so doing, to the lives of
millions of people in this coun-
try - especially millions of
students," said Loren Rullman,
associate vice president for stu-
dent life.
In its 100 years, the program
has expanded from a couple
thousand students to nearly
18,000, playing on more than
2,000 intramural teams, in
addition to 2,000 students on
32 competitive club teams, Rul-
Iman said. The IM Building was
eventually joined by the Cen-
tral Campus Recreation Build-
ing, North Campus Recreation
Building, 38 acres of fields, ten-
nis courts, basketball courts
and several other programs.
Since the intramural pro-
gram was established, approxi-
mately 35 million games have
been played in recreational
facilities, according to Bill Can-
ning, outgoing director of Intra-
mural Sports.
Michigan Radio Network
Color Commentator Jim Brand-
statter, the event's emcee, dis-
cussed +his own memories of
playing IM sports and said they
help students realize their love
for sports even if they can't play
on varsity or club teams.
"The purpose of the pro-
gram is to create transforma-
tive experiences for students
to learn, grow, contribute and
lead," Brandstatter said. "That's
exactly what the University
of Michigan is all about. The
words of the fight song - 'lead-
ers and best' - aren't just lyrics.
They're an attitude."

Canning attested to this sen-
timent with statistics: nearly
70 percent of students played
varsity sports in high school,
whereas only one percent play
on varsity teams at the Univer-
sity, he said.
He said the IM program suc-
cessfully epitomizes the "sports
for all" vision of its founders,
former Michigan basketball
coach Elmer Mitchell and for-
mer Athletic Director Field-
ing Yost, providing avenues for
competition even when varsity
athletics are not a reality.
Though 100 years is a great
milestone to celebrate, it also
means it's time for the Universi-
ty's recreational facilities to be
renovated. As a result - thanks
in part to lobbying by student
coalition "Building a Better
Michigan" - the University's
Board of Regents approved a
$65 per semester charge as part
of every student's tuition that
will go toward funding the ren-
ovations. The fee will ultimately
raise $173 million, $80 million
of which will go specifically to
improving intramural and rec-
reation buildings and resources.
Law student Jessica Kraft,
who played a role in starting the
"Building a Better Michigan"
campaign, said the University
has a "bright future" in recre-
ational sports.
"Hopefully when you come
back and visit again, you'll see
amazing new buildings with
new students in them doing the
same old, great Michigan thing
of being the leaders and the
best," Kraft said.
In a night that focused both
on the history and future of
Michigan's recreation program,
the National Intramural-Rec-
reational Sports Association
paid tribute to the University's
impact on intramural sports
over the years.
NIRSA president-elect Stan
Shingles presented a NIRSA
resolution that recognized "the
contributions of the University
of Michigan to the profession of
collegiate recreation, and com-
mends this university for their
significant role in establishing
collegiate recreation - the pro-
grams, facilities, and dedicated
professionals to the mainstay of
today's college experience."
Equally as important as the
program's national influence,
Canning said, are the social net-
works it creates between par-
ticipants, employees, student
leaders and sponsors.
Warner, the University alum,
is a testament to the intramural
sports social web - he met his
wife at the last intramural game
he played at Michigan. She was
visiting a mutual friend and
ended up filling in at third base
on his co-ed softball team.
"I can attribute my marriage
of 37 years to intramurals at the
University of Michigan," War-
ner said.

PATRICK BARRON/Daily

Protesters picket on State Street Friday against the poaching oftelephants for their ivory tusks.

ELEPHANTS of 43 marches that occurred on, "The ivory black market in mately 400 people signed the
six continents Friday, coordinat- China is growing," Batlemento March for Elephants petition
From Page 1A ed by the David Sheldrick Wild- said at the march. "Ivory is worth calling for government action
life Trust's "iWorry" campaign. more than cocaine, diamonds and regarding poaching. March for
use have threatened elephant The issue has garnered nation- gold." Elephants also distributed more
herds in many African nations. al attention as the U.S. govern- Batlemento, a legal assistant in than 100 "say no to ivory" brace-
About 40 protesters attended ment plans to crush six tons of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., became lets and informational packets.
the march, holding signs declar- seized illegal ivory this month. involved in elephant advocacy Several students talked with
ing "all ivory is blood ivory," Looking at the rising demand after connecting with a wildlife her about forming a group on
"every tusk saves a life" and "let for ivory in China, March for photographer in Kenya through campus dedicated to the organi-
them live." Protesters chanted, Elephants organizer Andrea Facebook. She recruited others zation's goals. Batlemento said
"Passing by you'll let them die" Baltemento said iWorry blames to join the cause through social she hopes the students will help
and called out facts - including a recent increase in coordinated media outlets, as well. Most of the work toward March for Ele-
the claim that one elephant dies slaughter of elephants, such as march's participants were adults phant's ultimate dream: to enact
every 15 minutes. attacking entire herds and poi- who live outside of Ann Arbor. a complete global ban on ivory
The Ann Arbor event was one soning water supolies. During the event, aporoxi- trade.

LIKE US ON
FACEBOOK
FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY

.1,

;.

I 4 4

A


6A - Monday, October 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Monday, October 7, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

The glass ceiling of
television's golden age

CBS
"So how about that 'Arrested' movie?"
Mediocre 'Millers'

Will Arnett can't
save derivative
family sitcom
By EMILY BODDEN
Daily Arts Writer
Laugh tracks are never a good
indicator. Empty and.studio-pro-
duced, they exude desperation.
In this case, the
robotic claps (-
heralded an
imminent and The Millers
looming death Pilot
for CBS's new
family-based Thursdays at
sitcom, "The 8:30 p.m.
Millers."
Undisput- CBS
edly hilarious
on "Arrested
Development," Will Arnett doesn't
meet his potential with his new-
est character. The writing has
moments that are mildly .amus-
ing, but that's the strongest praise
it deserves. After his portrayal of
Gob, his latest endeavor as Jack
seems desperate and hasty. Arnett
has already paid his dues in the
industry and should be landing,.
and choosing, well developed
characters. Having him on their

side may be a way for the show to
save itself but the writing needs to
cater to his comedic style - which
they clearly didn't in this season
opener.
When Jayma Mays walks
onscreen as Jack's sister, Deb-
bie, it's tough to see anything
beside "Glee" 's Emma. While
Mays has been in other shows,
including ".The League," it's
hard to see her as anyone
besides Emma, especially due to
her continued choice to portray
sickly sweet and mildly con-
fused characters. In this case,
her character wasn't developed
at all, and there was no chem-
istry between her and her TV
brother, Arnett.
None of the situations the
characters find themselves
in feel inspired. The funniest
scene finds Jack buckling to
his depressed mother's whim
to dance at an apartment party.
Newly divorced, which actually
helped lead to his parents' own
split, Jack hopes to find a woman.
to distract him. The punchline is
his mother's staying at his apart-
ment, drugged on sleeping pills.
If not for a renowned TV series
known as "Friends," this would
have been pretty funny. Instead,
Jack's choreographed dance

with his mother is strongly rem-
iniscent of the brother-sister
dance. Considering both shows
are sitcoms, the similarity is
eerie and a bold move for "The
Millers." Sometimes invoking
older shows can be rewarding,
but this time, it proved a com-
parison point that "The Mill-
ers" cannot hold their ground
against.
"The Millers" needs to forge
its own path to be a success-
ful sitcom. As seen by shows
like "How I Met Your Mother,"
"Friends" and "Arrested Devel-
opment," creating a strong
niche audience is crucial. Sit-
coms require cult-like follow-
ings of people who will vouch
for the show. And to create that
following capably demands a
fresh take on situations and
continued character growth.
Audiences have already met
dysfunctional families. It's time
for the writers of "The Millers"
to make us want to care about
what happens to theirs after
this pilot.
With only one episode out,
"The Millers" may yet see an
upswing. Judging by what was
seen on the premier, the only
way to go is up because if not,
cancelation looms in the future.

Soap has turned into a
dirty word. When it
comes to television, the
history of soap operas began
with daily serialized programs
like "Guiding
Light," "As
the World
Turns" and
"All My Chil- ,
dren." Day-
time soapsp
- oft-derid-
ed for their KAYLA
over-the-top UPADHYAYA
plotlines,
ridiculous
twists and schmaltzy romance
- belong to a fading breed of
television. But the soap opera
genre is far from dead. Instead,
it has evolved, strands of soapy
DNA seeping into primetime
programming on both cable
and network TV.
But because of the genre's
roots, when I call a show
"soapy," it's often taken to
mean "ridiculous," "indulgent"
and "sensational." These gen-
eralizations - while possessing
some truth - are often exag-
gerated, but what's more prob-
lematic is how people regard
primetime soaps as "women's
shows."
Soap is a gendered genre.
Again, there's historical
context to that assumption.
Daytime soaps were initially
marketed to women (who were
presumed to be at home during
airtime), examined the private
and public lives of women and
featured female-dominant
casts. But that's exactly why
the undervalued genre plays
such an important role in TV
history: It was one of the first
television movements that was
for and by women.
In 1930, Irna Phillips created
the radio program "Painted
Dreams," which critics regard
as the first soap ever. From
there, she went on to develop
"Guiding Light" and "As the
World Turns," and was, at the
time, one of the only women
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
WWW.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click o Surveys

in television with the same
amount of creative power
and financial success as her
male contemporaries. On soap
operas, female characters
flourished and played essential
roles in the action. That's not to
say that these early manifesta-
tions of the genre weren't also
rife with problematic gender
politics - but in the early days
of television, soap operas were
the only programming where
you could find female charac-
ters who weren't just defined in
terms of the men around them.
Just as films labeled as
romcoms become marginal-
ized under the sexist label
of "chick flicks," primetime
dramas labeled as "soaps"
become "women's shows." And,
unfortunately, once it's limited
to that label, the show loses its
credibility.
Just look at "Scandal."
The Shonda Rhimes-helmed
ABC series is one of - if not
the - most intelligent series
on network TV. With its emo-
tional intensity and complex,
always-twisting plot, "Scandal"
embraces its identity as a full-
out soap. Sure, its storylines are
often implausible and some-
times straight-up unbelievable,
but since when is plausibility
essential to great television?
While "Scandal" often isn't
taken seriously for its more
outlandish moments, other
shows like "Breaking Bad" are
given free pass after free pass.
We let "Breaking Bad" get away
with improbable feats, because
the things that truly matter
- emotions, characters - are
believable.
The same is true for "Scan-
dal," which may get wacky
with its plot points, but is bit-
ingly real when it comes to its
characters' emotions and the
complex issues that inform the
story: power, race, sex, moral-
ity. And yet, people pigeonhole
"Scandal" into the category
of "guilty pleasure" TV, while
more male-centric series that
stay clean of the gendered
"soap" label are held up as
beacons of today's golden age
of television. Other female-
centriceprograms - "The Good
Wife," "Revenge," "Nashville,"
"Damages" and "Orange Is
the New Black" - are heavily
influenced by soapy devices,
like complex storylines driven
by many characters and roman-
tic arcs. Like "Scandal," these
series are similarly margin-
alized and undervalued by
viewers due to the gendered
assutmptions about their genre.
"Orange Is the New Black" is
one of the most female-centric
television shows on TV right now,
and while it has received huge
critical acclaim, it's still trivial-
ized and referred to as alesser,
diluted version of its more male-
centric, prison-set predecessor .
"Oz." "More 'Gossip Girl' Than
'Oz', " boasted the New York
Times of "Orange," in what's
an offensive - not to mention
entirely inaccurate and mislead-
ing - analysis of the series. Other
critics similarly gloss over the
show's more violent and threat-
ening aspects, focusing instead
on the witty, "Weeds"-y humor

that flows throughoutthe dark-
ness. "Orange" features an almost
entirely female cast and crew, but
that in no way means it's a show
"for women." The character-
driven series captures human
emotions and experiences that
speak to a whole range of demo-
graphics, and if you think it offers
a fluffy take on prison life, you
aren't watching very closely.
The soap genre also informs
and influences a whole slew of
male-centric dramas like "Mad
Men," "Breaking Bad" and
"House of Cards." Yet, even at
their soapiest, these four series
are rarely described as such.

"House of Cards," in particular,
with its melodramatic, border-
line theatrical characters, is an
overtly soapy show, but critics
often refer to it with the more
male-centric term "noir." "Cards"
pushes the line of believability
with its far-fetched storylines
and, unlike "Scandal," the Netflix
series fails to construct convinc-
ing characters and lacks entirely 4
in emotion.
But it still got an Emmy
nomination, because male-cen-
tric melodrama is simply taken
more seriously than female-
centric melodrama. In fact,
in the past 15 years, the eight
series that have won Emmys for
Best Drama - "The Practice,"
"The West Wing," "The Sopra-
nos," "Lost," "24," "Mad Men,"
"Homeland," "Breaking Bad"
- have all been male-centric
shows. They were all created
and run by male showrun-
ners, and with the exception of
"Homeland," all feature men as
protagonists (despite Carrie's
prominent role in "Homeland,"
I still think it plays out as a
very male-centric series).

'Scandal' may
be soapy, but
that's far from a
bad thing.

a

RELEASE UAT- Monday, uctober B, 2U01
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 34 Falco of "The 52 Necklace gem
1 Anromedary has 1 Labanleaderwhu Sopranon" 5Softleather
use vanished in 1975 35 *Jalupees, fruone 55 Plumber's
5 Smart guy? 2 Range dividing 37 Listen to concems
10 txec's'i need it EuropeandAsia 40 Polar explorer 7 gReek
nuw!" 3 Suuthwestern Richard 57 Football game
14 Black-and-white tablelands 41 Menu words division
snack 4 Kiln users 44 Mostoff-the-wall 58 Hodgepodge
15 Military training 5Adaptable, 46 Sounded like a 60 Real estate
group eletrically chicken measurement
16 Actress Hatcher 6 Wilderness 48 Buttocks, 61 Cumed
17 kegacluck home informally 62 "That makes
r5 : B Reactstu7 a m 50 Loos,nfor short sense"
18 "Eat!" tearjerker ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
19 Tenant's expense B Pet's home away _
Space-saving homshome J A DOA C R A P S T A B L E
computermonitor 10Some hotel A R A L O E D I P U S R E X
22 Fateful Marchday lobbies B R E D I C A N R E L A T E
23 Equipmentana 1 "Start-upcapita" I A W O F F S K I O C A
balance sheee.g. 12 "Rule, BSani
24 Immunity builder composer Y O G I T H E T OW E L
26 Cubandance 13 Depressing S O U R E R D E R L O B
30 Defectivecars situation, with C E L I A A R E N A
33 Deviouslaughs "the" D i S C 0 M B 0 B U L A T E D
36"That stings" 21 Eady te U N H I P LOPE Z
38 Often..about Sutcliffe 5 H IP L P C
half the time 25 Enjoy King and I N I AC C S A X 0 N Y
39 Foofaraw Koontz O H P LEAS E A1R1OO
40 Undywaking-up 27CohosoCurly A C T T S N L I M B R U B
hair condition, 28Future blossoms R A Z Z M A T A Z Z A T T A
and what thefirst SB Peltpain I S U Z U R 0 D E 0 C 0 W S
wordnofthe 31Diectoir Ephron. au C0 co
anrwersto 32 Kentonofjzz S E SAME S E E D K N OT
stared clues can 33 Difficult xwordeditor@aorcom 10/073
be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 91 1 11 3
42 Hstorical span
45 Freezer bag
feature rn a
luishhue 20 21 22
47 Gonaway
49 Southern speech 23 24 2
feature
51 Tan outto n w e27 29 31 32
53 Zodac transiton
points 33 34 35 36 37 38
57 Arizona Indian
59 *Title racehorse in3BB
a 2003 film4
63 Mont Blanc, par
example 4an48aa 9 so
64 Rabbit relatives
65 Foreign Legion 51 s2 53 54 ns sB
cap
66 Falsehoods sr 5B s BO r162
67 "Fame" singer
Cara 7 6465
68 Firstamilys
gren site? BB B7 B6
9 iOatermsonghd a nor
70 Tickle pink
71 Cubicletfumnishingne~u~~~n
l,By Gai Grabwski n Bue Benen.10107/13

DO YOU HAVE ADD or ADHD?
Try this helpful book, ONE PAGE AT
A TIME: Getting thrugh clege
with ADHD,. A firs-hand, insightful

experience. Available on Amazon.
ANNOUNCEMENT
CANNABIS UNIVERSITYTM &
Cannabis Engineers
*AVA ILABLE FALL 2014* Grand Opening Cookout Oct 12,
Large 3 bdrm. house.GaP, Ann Arbor

In his book "The Revolu-
tion Was Televised: The Cops,
Crooks, Slingers, and Slayers Who
Changed TV Drama Forever,"
longtime TV critic Alan Sepinwall
chronicles the 10 drama series
that epitomize this golden age
of television. "Buffy the Vam-
pire Slayer" is arguably the only
female-centric show that makes
his list. He, as most critics do,
gives credit almost entirelyto
"The Sopranos" and "Oz" forthe
rise of HBO, eventhough "Sex and
the City" played a huge role in the
cable network's beginnings. In
their analyses of the golden age,
critics like Sepinwallunknowing-
ly perpetuate the assumption that
a showhas to be "manly" inorder
to be consequential. The golden
age of television has come to be
associated with hyper-masculine
programming bursting with vio-
lence and voyeurism. "Soapy" has
turned into a coded way of saying
aTVshowis "for chicks," and as
aresult,brilliant, female-centric
shows (and shows createdby
female showrunners) are com-
partmentalized and regardedas
somehow lesser forms of their
golden-age brethren.
When a dead-behind-the-eyes
show like "House of Cards" can
manage to nudge out an emotional
andvisual knockoutlike "Scan-
dal," there's something wrong.
Part of why we don't see more
female-centric seriesbreak into
the Best Drama category at the
Emmys is a numbers game: There
simply aren't enough women-cen-
tric shows on television, and that
has to do with the gender barriers
that exist in the industry, making
it more difficult for female show-
runners to break in.
A series like "Orange is the
New Black" - with its cast of over
a dozen diverse female characters
and women-filled writers room -
feels revolutionary. There's truly
nothing else like itcon television.
Sepinwall's revolution was led
mostly by Dons, Walters,Vics
and Seths. The revolution I'm still
waiting to be televised will be one
where shows like "Scandal"
and "Orange" feel less like a
divergence from the status quo
and are treated as seriously as
anything else on television.
Upadhyaya is soap issed.
If you hated that pun, e-mail
kaylau@umich.edu.

FOLLOW
@MICHIGANDAILY
FOR ARTS-RELATED
CONTENT AND MORE!

0




A ft I 4

I




The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, October 7, 2013 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, October 7, 2013 - 7A

TV NOTEBOOK
Hope for broadcast
in premiere week

MUSIC NOTEROUK
Despite criticism, EDM
and disco have merit

I
ne
In t
the b
was on
for av
specul
May a
work's
week fI
new s
belove
premie
Instea
siasm
execut
nowfe
broadc
can the
mean I
Despit
this ye
prising
behind
glimm
Anx
broadc
Over t
ratings
cable
 ing. N(
nence
and m
televis
Hulu
to broai
This ti
tainme
Blatt to
our bu
Tho
broadc
the te
broadc
blockb
ful of c

The Big Four "The Walking Dead" and A&E's
"Duck Dynasty," have led people
etworks aren't to proclaim broadcast's death, the
Big Four networks (CBS, NBC,
dead yet FOX and ABC) still drawthe most
consistently high numbers -
By ALEC STERN night in and night out.
DailyArts Writer Luckily, this past week's pre-
mieres were surprisingly success-
he past, the first week of ful, inspiring cautious optimism
roadcast-television season for what's to come.
ie of the most exciting times Each network had at least one
id fans. After months of very big series premiere. Lead-
ation, stemming from the ing the pack was ABC, whose
nnouncements of the net- highly anticipated "Agents of
new schedules, premiere S.H.I.E.L.D." won its Tuesday 8
inally allows us to explore p.m. timeslot with a 4.7 18-49 rat-
hows and reunite with our ing. Not only did "S.H.I.E.L.D."
d ones. Recently, however, convincingly beat TV's No. 1
re week has been marred. drama, "NCIS," but it was also
d of being filled with enthu- the highest drama premiere since
and promise, television 2009. On NBC, "The Blacklist"
ives and ratings enthusiasts premiered to a big 3.8 18-49 rating
artheworst. Isthistheyear and12.58 millionviewers. FOXhas
ast will crumble? How low found success with "Sleepy Hol-
e ratingsgo? What does this low," which premiered one week
for the future of television? early to a 3.5 18-49 rating. Con-
e these lingering questions, versely, FOX's short-lived "The
ar's outcome was quite sur- Mob Doctor" opened to a 1.5 at the
. Now, with premiere week same time last year. Even better,
I us, there may actuallybe a "Sleepy Hollow" held onto much
er of hope. of its audience in week two (3.1 rat-
dety over the future of the ing), despite the onslaught of pre-
ast networks is warranted. mieres and heavy competition. For
he past decade, broadcast CBS, "The Crazy Ones," coming
have been falling while offofamonster "BigBangTheory"
ratings have been climb- premiere, earned a 3.9 rating and
ot only that, but the promi- was seen by 15.52 million viewers.
of DVR, "binge-watching" Veteran series also continued
sore originals outside of to deliver over the week. "Grey's
ion (including Netflix and Anatomy" 's 3.4 premiere rating
Plus) have all contributed may seem low compared to the
adcast's continuing decline. show's blockbuster history, but
rend even led NBC Enter- for a show in its 10th season, that
nt chairman Bob Green- number is practically a slam dunk.
o declare, "At this point in FOX's "Bones," now in its ninth
siness, flat is the new up." season;held onto its 2.3 rating from
ugh this may be true, last year. Both "NCIS" iterations
ast networks do still rule maintained last year's momentum,
levision landscape. While while fellow CBS series "How I
ast's slipping numbers and Met Your Mother" began its final
uster ratings for a hand- season very strong. Over on NBC,
able shows, such as AMC's the fifth season of"The Voice"gar-

nered its highest rating since the
season two premiere and "Sunday
Night Football" continues to be
TV's highestrated program.
Of course, it's never all good
news. FOX's Tuesday comedy
block, led by "New Girl" in the 9
p.m. hour, drew miniscule num-
bers in week two despite OK
premieres earlier in September.
Additionally, most of CBS's new
series and revamped schedule
hashadtrouble findingits footing
- worth noting, given the net-
work's utter dominance in past
seasons. ABC also had to endure
"Lucky 7," a lottery drama that
premiered DOA Tuesday night.
So what do all of these num-
bers mean? Most importantly,
it proves that viewers are still
most tuned into what's going on
in broadcast; that with intriguing
premises and solid buzz, these
networks can still bring in excep-
tionally higher numbers than
anything on cable or elsewhere.
However, as TV fans know all
too well, premiering high means
nothing if you can't hold onto
most of the number. Whereas
cable series typically premiere
lower and build their audience
over the years (see "Break-
ing Bad," "Dexter" and "True
Blood"), network series most
often hit their highest ratings at
the start. While "Revolution" had
the best premiere last year with a
4.1 18-49 rating, its season finale
earned only a 2.0 rating (and fell
to as low as 1.8 over the course of
its season).
The solid premieres for many
of broadcast's new series are
promising, but the next few
weeks will be of the utmost
importance. I'm not saying
"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D." or "The
Crazy Ones" are goingto save the
Big Four ... but if they can hold
onto a solid audience, they could
buy broadcast a little more time.

By KEN SELANDER
For theDaily
Electronic music has been all
the rage (pun intended) since
its mainstream breakthrough
around 2010. What makes elec-
tronic music so unique is that
it's largely unprecedented. For
every other genre of music
today, there has been some sort
of imagined precedent or mile-
stone set for that given genre by
earlier artists, meaning that it's
rare that an artist or band can
escape comparisons to other
past groups. This constant
urge to compare artists can
be detrimental for musicians,
because in some ways it deters
creativity by making artists
avoid straying from the beaten
path. Many rock drummers, for
instance, face a daunting com-
parison from rock aficionados
to the drumming machine that
is Neil Peart, which must be
quite unnerving.
Unlike most genres, elec-
tronic music does not date
back much further than about
a decade, and it's difficult to
compare it to most traditional
genres of music. You might be
able to make a weak compari-
son between electronic music
and punk rock, simply because
they have a subversive lifestyle
connected with them; however,
the strongest comparison you
can make is between the emer-
gence of electronic music and
disco.
Luckily for electronic music,
there is no beaten path to fol-
low, and this allows artists to
explore all forms of electronic
music. It's not unusual for an
artist to have a whole host of
songs that are nothing like
each other. When Rush strayed
from its usual sounds with Per-
manent Waves, a more radio-
friendly album, many loyal
fans flipped a shit.
Similarly, disco was a largely
unprecedented genre at its birth
in the late 1970s and could be
whatever an artist wanted it to
be. The spastically high-pitched
vocals of the Bee Gees feature
a much different sound than
Rick Dees's quacktastic and
creepy "Disco Duck," yet both
were still regarded as perfectly
acceptable disco music.

The
both eli
is that
either g
or rap.
electron
elemen
remixe
rap art
over a
the fun
many d
concret
no easy
a guitar
Tryir
parison
moguls
cal vali
music a
step an
broadca
comput
achieve
want to
they h
radio.
pr(
MU
Alth,
accept
tronic
tiresom
piecing
song. N
EDM p
and car
samer
musicia
drumm
be chal
differer
betwee
it musi
to note
not yet
day ofc
had a;
only pe
were tl
Rock a
gain an
perforr
deal.
Simp
basic D
Joe ca
electro

biggest trial faced by the Internet to make it available
ectronic music and disco to millions of people world-
people try to compare wide. The visibility means that
enre to others, like rock thousands of sub-par DJs- and
While both disco and quality DJs alike can distrib-
nic music usually feature ute their music to whomever
ts of either genre - like wants to take a listen. Unlike
d verses from a hardcore rock, electronic music domi-
ist like Tupac of Biggie nates online music-sharing
filthy dubstep beat or outlets like Soundcloud that
iky bass lines anchoring are extremely popular and host
disco songs - they are anyone who wants to create an
ely dissimilar. There is account. By default, this realm
way to try and compare of music does have a significant
riff to a dubstep drop. lack of quality control.
ng to make such a com- Disco, on the other hand,
leads many music could be considered respon-
to question the musi- sible for the start of the "club
idity of both electronic drug," and its drug culture was
nd disco. Many see dub- certainly comparable to the
d hear the harsh noises drugworld entrenched in EDM.
asted by an old Gateway Both raves and discotheques
:er in an attempt to feature lots of very involved
dial-up connection and dancing, flashing lights and
pull their hair out when booming music, which many
ear disco come on the feel can be enhanced and
intensified with the use of
club drugs. Occasionally, this
doesn't work out so well, such
lectronic as when I witnessed guy scal-
ing a wall at the Royal Oak
S ar Music Theatre during a rave.
OG ~ r are In fact, many club drugs
Isicians, tood originated and gained popular-
ity during the disco era. The use
of club drugs like molly has now
spilled over in to other genres as
ough many refuse to well, most predominately rap.
it, making a solid elec- Some rappers seemingly can't
song often is a long, go an entire verse without mak-
ae process, much like ing a reference to the drug. It's
together a disco or rock safe to say that disco, in its own
Many critics claim that way, has had a sizable impact on
roducers are talentless the music scene today outside of
nnot even be put on the just electronic music.
playing field as "real" Those musically inclined
ans (guitarists, bassists, people who still refuse to
ers, etc.). This belief can regard electronic music or disco
lenged by looking at the as an acceptable music genre
nces in music culture are missing the point. Regard-
n the rock and electron- less of one's thoughts on either
i genres. It's important genre, music provides a differ-
that the Internet did ent experience for each person
exist during the hey- who listens to it. The overall
classic rock. If someone energy and vibe provided by
shitty garage band, the the powerful, fast-paced bass
ople who would hear it of dubstep and the sheer groovy
heir cranky neighbors. feeling one gets from listen-
rtists usually only ever ing to disco is undeniable. Just
audience through live because you might not like
nances and/or a record something doesn't mean anoth-
er person can't form a strong
ly by downloading some connection to it. Some people
J software, any average just simply enjoy listening to
n attempt to create an electronic music and disco. And
nic song and then use that's what makes it music.

FI LM R EVIE W
- Parkland' spreads camera thin
with too many characters

By JAMIE BIRCOLL
Daily Arts Writer
The assassination of John F.
Kennedy is certainly one of the
most discussed and fascinat-
ing events of
recent history. C_
It's founded
in political Parkland
intrigue and AtState
murder, an
investigation Excusive
shrouded in
secrecy, basi-
cally all the elements of a great
film. "Parkland" attempts to
re-examine the assassination
by focusing on the support-
ing, lesser-known players of
the three-day ordeal. Unfortu-
nately, it spreads its runtime on
too many subjects and too many
points of view to create a cohe-
sive narrative.
The audience is introduced
to no less than eight main char-
acters in six different locations
in the first 10 minutes of the
film, making it all too easy to


EXCLUSIVE

"This is going on Instagram."

get los
Among
ti's ("R
Zapru
who fi
sinatio
("Puss
rels, t
Agent
the Pr
Again'
rico,'
upon
Hospil
Fe
a r(
Sa

t among the commotion. own, sort of), that is its Achilles
g them are Paul Giamat- heel; only two or three charac-
Rock of Ages") Abraham ters are onscreen for more than
der, the businessman 15 minutes. Due to this lack of
ilmed the entire assas- focus, no character really gets
in, Billy Bob Thornton's the chance to develop - instead,
in Boots") Forrest Sor- they react and then disappear.
he Dallas Secret Service That's really the best way to
charged with protecting describe "Parkland": a reaction
esident, Zac Efron's ("17 piece. It seeks not to provide
") Dr. Charles 'Jim Car- answers or even to ask more
who operated on Kennedy questions. Rather, it shows
his arrival at Parkland another side of the assassina-
tal and many, many more. tion that doesn't get as much
attention and then concludes. In
that sense, "Parkland" would be
els more likegreat as a History Channel film,
hut certainly not one most audi-
eaction piece ences would consider if they're
looking for drama, secrecy and
than an exposition.
There is one storyline that
irtful film, is an exception to this, and it is
that of Robert Oswald (James
Badge Dale, "Iron Man 3"),
brother of suspected assassin
s "Parkland" 's expan- Lee Harvey Oswald (Jeremy
ist, featuring all talented Strong, "Lincoln"). Dale is real-
(even Efron carries his ly quite outstanding, managing

in only 20 minutes to really
explore his character - we
see his torn loyalties between
his love for his brother and
his hatred for the act he com-
mitted and, most importantly,
the fear in his eyes at the pros-
pect of living with the name
Oswald. It's fairly heartbreak-
ing to watch Robert frantically
bury his brother as though he
can also bury the consequenc-
es of the assassination in an
attempt to save some face for
the future.
"Parkland" spends a plu-
rality of its time on Robert
Oswald's story, a wise decision
from first-time director Peter
Landesman, but it's not enough
to lift the film or to convey the
raw emotion and deeper char-
acters of its subjects. Instead,
it paints a picture of an event
and, like all paintings that are
"just OK," it fails to hold atten-
tion - very quickly, you'll go
looking for something a little
more breathtaking.

DO YOU HAVE
AN INTEREST
IN REPORTING
FOR THE DAILY
ARTS SECTION?
Do yOu attend
arts-related
events and
performances on
campus?
APPLY TO
BECOME A
DAILY ARTS
REPORTER FOR
THE
COMMUNITY
CULTURE OR
FINE ARTS
BEATS.
E-mail arts@
michigandaily.
com to request an
application.,

WATCH
'THE X FACTOR'
EVERY WEEK?
Visit michigandaily.com/blogs/
the+filter for weekly recaps of the show.
CONNECTIONS CONFERENCE
SREIMR: LSA.UMICH.EDU/LSAIT/CONNECTIONS
m THE KALEIDOSCOPE OF U-M
LCJ..L 0 TECHNOLOGY FOR RESEARCHERS

It i
sive ca
actors

ISAINFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

k


r5

p


8A - Monday, October 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6

6

Since when does Olivia drink anything other than red wine?
'Scandal' returns,
builds on success

0

My So-Called Undercover Life
TOo much melodrama

Washington and another layer to the show,
helping to elevate it to a higher
Gladiators deliver level,
The series follows Olivia
peak performances Pope (Kerry Washington,
"Django Unchained"), whose
By ALEX INTNER job is to help the Washington
For theDaily elite fix their problems, her cli-
ents and her associates as they
Over the course of its sec- go through their lives and their
ond season, "Scandal" grew work. The premiere, specifi-
from a mediocre procedural to cally, deals with the truth about
a great seri- the relationship between Olivia
alized series, A Pope and the President of the
as its focus United States being revealed
changed from Scandal to the press. At the same time,
"client of the Olivia's father decides it's time
week"- ies Seasonthree
to longertory premiere a ,v Ones00 eelements that real-
arcs. The writ- Thursdays ly makes "Scandal" work as well
ers tightened at10 p.m. as it does is the performances.
up the show's At the center of the ensemble
storytelling ABC is Washington, an Emmy nomi-
and used it to nee, giving a fantastic, layered
build tension. performance. In this episode,
And just like that, it elevated she shows a wide range of emo-
itself to one of the best dramas tions, displaying Olivia at her
on network television. highest and her lowest, and
The self-proclaimed "Gladi- Washington handles this task
ators in Suits" return for their well.
third season in an episode that It doesn't hurt that the cast
highlights "Scandal" at its best. surrounding Washington is
This season's premiere con- working at, or even sometimes
tains exactly what makes this above, her acting level. Bel-
show great. The rapid-fire, lamy Young ("Mission: Impos-
almost Sorkin-esque, dialogue sible III"), in particular, gives a
is extremely well performed great performance. When she's
by the show's cast. Structur- on the screen, she commands
ally, it has both the great mon- it. Her character, the first lady
tages and the fantastic scenes, of the United States, is forced
the kind where they just leave to deal with the revelation of
great performers in a room her husband's infidelity and
and let them act. The twisty she does a great job with that.
and creative plotting also adds She has one major scene in

the premiere with Washing-
ton and President Fitzgerald
Grant (Tony Goldwyn, "The
Unknown"), and she owns it.
Joe Morton ("Eureka") is fan-
tastic in a guest role as Oliv-
ia's father. He plays angry and
intimidating very well, which
is a big change from his role on
"Eureka."
This was Olivia's episode,
which unfortunately means
that the rest of the ensemble
didn't get to do a lot. Each had
a standout moment or two,
but none get more than that.
As last season unfolded, the
Nvritersgave the supportilk
cast quitAit t do, leading
to their characters being more
than just Olivia's employees.
Hopefully, this season will do
the same thing, continuing to
develop and expand the role
the ensemble plays.
Like every good episode of
"Scandal," this episode ended
on a great cliffhanger (with
the President's Chief of Staff
looking at a piece of paper con-
taining classified information),
hinting that the show is going
to begin to reveal information
about the President's past. This
reveal sets up a great arc that
should carry the show through
its third season.
If one cog in the machine
stops working, the entire show
can fall apart. "Scandal" 's
premiere showed no signs of
slowing down and sets up what
looks to be a great third season
for the series.

in Homeland'remere

Tho
episod
"Hom
for an
ibly e
and
ous ri
cosin
season
creati
- giv
meani
phrase
watch
ending
Men"
at the
on cr
and A
anticil
miere
over t.
tinual
"Hom
status
sion d
three
be in
"Hom
the se
radica
and e
that
to ha
almos
It 1
Nicho
Lewis
CIA H
Saul (
nal M
leader

By ALEC STERN terrori
DailyArts Writer (Claire
din") 1
ugh only having aired 24 her bil
les in total, Showtime's hol an
eland" has sent viewers strang
incred- called
motional B- ate re
tumultu- her w
de. After Homeland Thoug
g its first absent
a at a Seasonthree family
ve high premiere point
ing new Sundays at Baccar
ng to the 10 p.m. with t
e "binge- single
ing" and Showtime in the
g "Mad Saylor
's streak attemr
Emmy's - all eyes were at a rel
eators Howard Gordon
klex Gansa. With much
pation, season two pre-
d in September 2012 and
he next few months, con- si
ly diminished pieces of
eland" 's credibility and th
in the top tier of televi-
ramas. Now, with season faV
just beginning, it will
teresting to see where
eland" goes. Judging by
ason three premiere, the In o
illy fluctuating quality land"
xtreme crisis of identity impor
sarred season two seem where
ve bled in, despite the The fi
t year-long hiatus. flawle
has been 58 days since troubb
las Brody's (Damian protec
, "Life") alleged attack on for wh
eadquarters.Inthattime, that r
Mandy Patinkin, "Crimi- las Br
inds") has emerged as the a terr
of the CIA's counter- at an

sm unit while Carrie Remarkably, somewhere in
Danes, "Temple Gran- season two, "Homeland"
has been self-medicating became a forbidden love story,
polar disorder with alco- throwing almost all credibil-
d the sexual company of ity and believability aside. In
ers. She has also been season three, it already seems
to testify before the Sen- as if "Homeland" is continu-
garding the attack and ing to drift further and further
thereabouts thereafter. from its early accomplish-
h Brody is noticeably ments. "Homeland" 's build-up
from the episode, his was impressive, but how it's
continues to-be a major handled the lasting effects of
of focus. essi (Morena Brody's attempted suicde mis-
in, "V") is struggling sion has been less than stellar.
:he media scrutiny and It's as if "Homeland" doesn't
parenthood, especially know exactly what to do with
wake of Dana's (Morgan Brody anymore, let alone his
,"K-Ville") failed suicide family. Season two's most obvi-
pt and months-long stay ous narrative slip-up (Dana
hab facility. and Finn's highly unnecessary
hit-and-run) has been replaced
this season with an even more
The show nfuriating "sexting" story-
line. Of course, it's important
hould ditch to detail the effects Brody's
admission has had on his fam-
e romance in ily (and a stint in rehab actu-
ally makes sense for Dana).
nor of action. But being forced to watch
Dana navigate her love life, on
top of Carrie and Brody's silly
romance, is completely gratu-
rder to analyze "Home- itous.
's 25th episode, it's With each episode, "Home-
tant to look back at land" begins to feel more and
"Homeland" has been. more like a combination of
rst season was an almost "24" and "Scandal" - in the
ss 12-hour story about a worst possible way. Between
ed CIA agent trying to the Brody family and Carrie's
t her country and fight alcohol-fueled sexual antics,
at she knew to be true - the series plays like a CIA soap
eturned war hero Nicho- opera.
ody had been turned into Despite all this, comparing
orist while held prisoner anything to "Homeland"'s first
Al-Qaeda compound. season is a dangerous game. In
the grand scheme, "Homeland"
has continued to be a well acted
and engaging drama, despite
3 ' 9 AM -5 PM not always giving us what we
hoped for. "Homeland" is also
IN great at leaving viewers want-
ing more, and this week's epi-
AS Asode was a perfect example
of that. The final minutes are
ERSITY AVE. quite surprising and give the
series a few viable options for
re the season. It also ensures a
ism great confrontation between
ty Claire Danes and Mandy Pat-
inkinwhose chemistry togeth-
id er has continued to shine since
e fthe pilot episode.
Ultimately, the season three
premiere of "Homeland" proves
that the first season was both a
(1 blessing and a curse. The excel-
lence and skill with which sea-
son one evolved now loom over
the series like a reminder of
what once was (and what could
have been). And while that may
sound like a death sentence,
"Homeland" probably has the
f I(11 foundation to recapture the
magic at some point. With each I
passing episode, however, it
seems as if "Homeland" will
eventually be cemented as a
flawed drama, hampered by a
good, yet not great, legacy.

FRIDAY a OCTOBER 11, 2014
ISLAMISIM
SOUTHEASi
1636 SSWB, 1080 S. UNIVI
The aim of this symposium is to explo
the different manifestations of Islami
and its impact in both Muslim-majorii
states and Muslim-minority states; ar
to provide a comparative perspective
so as to stimulate discussion among
scholars with different regional
expertise.
For more details and full event
schedule, visit ii.umich.edu/isp.
Cosponsored by
Centor forSoutheast
Asian Studies (CSEAS)
and Weiser Center for
Emerging Democracies
(LACED) 7i -T7

k

p a &I


#r
'


Sports] onday

H E JUG STAYS HERE
Michigan 42, Minnesota 13

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Daily ADAM GLANZMAN/Da
The Michigan football team (top) touches the banner before its win over Minnesota. Redshirt junior linebacker Jake Ryan (left) holds the Little Brown Jug. Members of the team celebrate in the student section. This was the 100th game in the series.

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Editor
On Saturday, streaks continued
and streaks were broken in the
Michigan football team's 42-13
win over Minnesota:
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
improved his home record - to

18-0.
The Wolverines beat the Gold-
en Gophers for the sixth consecu-
tive year to keep the Little Brown
Jug in Ann Arbor.
And redshirt junior quarter-
back Devin Gardner played in
his first game as starter without
throwing an interception.
The Wolverines waited two

weeks to prove themselves after
their questionable non-confer-
ence play ended. Finally, on Sat-
urday, they looked a little more
like the Michigan team everyone
had expected to see from the
beginning.
"We were thinking about Min-
nesota, and Minnesota was it,"
Gardner said. "It was the first Big

Ten game. Like we always say,
you never get a second chance to
make a first impression. It's the
Jug game, it's our homecoming
game. There's a lotgoing on."
As a way to try to minimize
turnovers, Michigan initially
resorted to the only fool-proof
method - not allowing Gardner
to throw the ball at all.

Gardner didn't attempt his first
pass until a little more than half-
way through the second quarter.
Michigan couldn't stay pass-less
forever, but the Wolverines even-
tually found a happy medium
between its number of runs and
throws in a game that finally
played out exactly as Michigan
hoped.

"We were going to do what
was working, and (running the
ball) was what was working at the
time," Gardner said. "So if it's not
broke, don't fix it."
When the coaches did feel
comfortable calling passing plays,
they spread the ball between
multiple receivers,' with red-
See JUG, Page 3B


FQOT BAw Lt
5 things we learned: Minnesota

FOOT BAL
Resurgent offensive
line carries Michigan

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
1. Devin Funchess:good at tight
end, better at wide receiver.
With sophomore tight end
Devin Funchess, Michigan
faced a growingly apparent
problem heading into its game
against Minnesota. When
involved in the passing game,
Funchess had developed into
one of the Wolverines' most
potent offensive weapons on
a team with limited receiv-
ing options. When blocking,
though, Michigan had better
options at the position in sopho-
more A.J. Williams and fresh-

man Jake Butt.
So on Saturday, the Wolver-
ines solved the problem: they
shifted him to wide receiver for
much of the game. The result
was instantly positive. Funch-
ess was Michigan's leading
receiver with seven catches for
151 yards and a touchdown, the
best performance of his career.
Funchess still played at tight
end for portions of the game,
but he made the biggest impact
when split wide. At 6-foot-5
and 235 pounds, Funchess can
create mismatches at either
position. At tight end, he is fast
enough to beat linebackers and
safeties. Against Minnesota, he
exploited the size of the Golden
Gophers' cornerbacks.

On Funchess's touchdown
pass, against a cornerback
six inches shorter than him,
Funchess ran a post, boxed out
the defender with his body and
broke free for the 24-yard score.
In the fourth quarter, Funch-
ess caught a 46-yard pass over a
cornerback five inches shorter.
Funchess beat the defender on
a streak, and redshirt junior
quarterback Devin Gardner
threw a pass over the top for the
completion.
Funchess is talented enough
to create mismatches in the
passing game, and Butt and
Williams are better in the
trenches. Funchess's shift to a
more receiver-heavy role allows
Michigan to add an impact play-

er at a thin position, and it will
improve the offensive line, too.
2. Michigan has found an
acceptable combination on the
offensive line.
Redshirt sophomore left
guard Chris Bryant was one of
the first players to hold up the
Little Brown Jug. That may
have just been because he was
one of the first players in line.
Or maybe nobody wanted to say
no to the 6-foot-4, 316-pound
Bryant.
In any case, it was fitting:
with the addition of Bryant to
the front five, the Wolverines
had their most impressive per-
See FIVE, Page 3B

By ZACH HELFAND
DailySportsEditor
At some point during a long two
weeks off for the Michigan football
team, the scuffling offensive line
made a pledge to Devin Gardner.
Allegedly, at least.
At that point, the line had strug-
gled against two meager oppo-
nents in Akron and Connecticut.
Gardner was, sacked four times
and hurried eight, and he suffered
through his two worst games as
the starter. As Gardner tells it, dur-
ingthe week, the line "told me they
weren't going to let me get hit. So I
like that."

Fifth-year senior left tackle Tay-
lor Lewan disputed that, saying he
would never pledge something he
couldn't deliver. ("If they bring too
many guys, if they bring 11 guys
and we have six protecting, I'm not
going to be like, 'OK Devin, good
luck!' " Lewan said.)
And yes, Gardner was sacked
once during the Wolverines' 42-13
win over Minnesota on Satur-
day, and he was hurried twice.
But Michigan's adjustments paid
dividends. Hoke inserted redshirt
sophomore guard Chris Bryant
into the lineup and moved redshirt
sophomore Graham Glasgow to
See LINE, Page 3B


BLURRED LINES
U It's time to stop playing a song about
rape in a stadium full of 100,000 chil-
dren, families and, well, humans. Sports-
Monday column: Page 2B

WATER-BOO
In its first exhibition game, the Michi-
gan hockey team lost to Waterloo, of the
Canadian Interuniversity Sport league.
Page 2B

A


2B - October 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.cam .

Let's be better than Blurred Lines

. W

Piped-in music at the Big
House, while generally
awful, is still bearable.
Music over the loudspeakers
may notbe traditional, butI
don't mind "Don't Stop Believ-
ing," "Lose Yourself" or even the
dreaded and overplayed "Seven
Nation Army."
What 0
do have a
problem with
is the song
"Blurred
Lines." It's'
time for
Michigan EVERETT
Stadium to COOK
stop playing a -
song with the
lyrics, "I'll give you something
big enough to tear your ass in
two," and remember who is in
attendance at Michigan football
games.
This is where Bo Schem-
bechler coached and Tom Brady
played and equipment manager
John Falk has worked for the past
40 years. This isn't a club, where
people dance to the beats of songs
without really listeningto the
lyrics.
And yes, it's a catchy songthat
is currently pretty popular. But
you know what other catchy pop
songs are popular right now?
"Wake Me Up" by Avicii.or "We
Can't Stop" by Miley Cyrus or lit-
erally any other song that doesn't
have lyrics that make it seem like
rape is remotely acceptable. Any
song, really, that doesn't have
the lyric, "I know you want it/
You're a good girl," which is an
expression many sexual assault
survivors have reported that
their attackers used to justify
their actions..

impression that stuff like this is
OK in our society and that this is
totally acceptable."
The song is catchy. It gets peo-
ple going. Even Neiss-May wrote
the songtitle down to listen to
later before she heard the lyrics.
There are other catchy songs.
Many, many other catchy songs.
The football gameday staff,
which didn't return an interview
request for this story, needs to
choose another songto fill the
dead time during football games.
"People like listening to catchy
tunes and dancing to them, but
it's the words that are highly
problematic," Neiss-May said.
"We don't need examples of
grand theft auto because we have
stuff that's OK for our 6-year olds
to listen to that gives the impres-
sion that women are sex objects
that are to be treated differently."
This isn't just a Michigan prob-
lem. At Connecticut two weeks
ago, the song was played during a
"Kiss Cam" segment, which is far
worse than anything done in the
Big House.
But this is Michigan, where
we like to think we're better than
that. We're supposed to be better
than that. We shouldn't be a uni-
versity that plays a song condon-
ing rape to try and make people
dance. Five British universities
banned the song from playing
in campus bars two weeks ago
amid claims that it excuses rape
culture.
There are countless other
songs that could be piped in dur-
ing a break in the action. Let's be
better than "Blurred Lines."
Cook can be reached at
evcook@umich.edu and on
Twitter @everettcook

I
I
I
I

Michigan Stadium has more than enough piped-in music to choose from. A song condoning rape shouldn't be part of the football game playlist.
The song was played three want by saying, "Nothing like What message is it sending to Barbara Niess-May, the execu-
times Saturday during Michi- your last guy, he too square for those women? What message is tive director of the Ann Arbor
gan's 42-13 win over Minnesota. you/ He don't smack that ass and that sending to the younger boys Safe House Center, a shelter
Twice, the song cut out after the pull your hair like that." and girls in attendance who hear and support center for women
lyrics "Everybody get up," but the There are more than 100,000 the lyrics, "But you're an animal, impacted by sexual assault or
third time the song played over people in attendance for each and baby, it's in your nature/Just let domestic violence. "Nothing
the speakers at the Big House, every Michigan football game. me liberate you," and see people could be further from the truth.
it reached the chorus. This is a Accordingto a government study dancingto that music? . Sexual assault and domestic
chorus that repeats the words, "I conducted in 2011, nearly one out "People don't realize that violence are learned behaviors.
know you want it," over and over of every five women have been the people who commit sexual You either learn them from the
again by an artist who clearly sexually assaulted in their life- assault and domestic violence homne or from society, and songs
knows exactly what all women times. The math isn't difficult. aren't all sociopaths," said like 'Blurred Lines' give off the


r

v


Penalty kill shines,
power play falters

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Senior defenseman Mac Bennett said he's not worried about the loss. "We just played nine freshmen, who have never played college hockey before," he said.
olverinWes falto capitalize,
lose to Waterloo in ehiito

By GREG GARNO have to bury those chances."
Daily Sports Writer The Wolverines finished with
35 shots on net compared to
Just over three minutes into Waterloo's 22, a stat that doesn't
the third period, sophomore for- include their advantage in time
ward Boo Nieves waited outside of possession. Though Michi-
the left circle for the puck As gan maintained a forecheck and
it slid his dominated possession, it was
way from WATERLOO 2 outmuscled at the net and unable
behind MICHIGAN 1 to grab rebound chances.
the net, he "We just need to bear down
wound his stick up and fired a and be stronger in front of the
shot that deflected off the goal- net," said sophomore forward
tender to the left and into the Andrew Copp. "I didn't think
boards. we got enough guys in front of
An audible groan followed as the net, but we had tons of 2-on-
Nieves skated back with a gri- is, tons of shots and their goalie
mace, forced to regroup. He was played well, so give him credit.
no closer than before to tyingthe Going strong to the front of the
game at two. net will be huge going forward."
Like many of his teammates, Michigan's offense impressed
Nieves would come close, but early in the game by firing
not close enough to capitalize on shot after shot, a sign that the
chances as the No. 11 Michigan unit was as strong as had been
hockey team fell in its exhibition rumored. But each time there
opener to Waterloo (Ont.), 2-1. was a chance, the Wolverines
"I'm not really that discour- were left to regroup in the offen-
aged," said senior defenseman sive zone to go through the same
Mac Bennett. "We just played process that had put them there.
nine freshmen, who have never Waterloo got on the board first
played college hockey before, so midway through the opening
I think we did OK. period when sophomore goalten-
"I think there were a lot of der Steve Racine made an initial
offensive chances, but we just save that was deflected back up

the middle. The Warriors' Andy
Smith found the open half of the
net when he reached the deflec-
tion.
Racine played halfofthe game,
finishing with 11 saves and two
goals allowed before making way
for freshman Zach Nagelvoort. A
late commit to this year's team,
Nagelvoort stopped nine shots in
his exhibition debut.
"You can't do everything as
a goalie, and we've got to give
(Racine) a little more protec-
tion," Berenson said.
Michigan came out of the
locker room for the second
period looking more energized,
and it wasted little time in scor-
ing. Waterloo goaltender Justin
Leclerc brought the puck out
from behind the net following a
clearance, but a handling error
allowed sophomore forward
Andrew Copp to knock in the
loose puck.
But the Warriors grabbed the
lead for good, 11 minutes later,
after a 4-on-3breakaway attempt
that was originally stopped by
Racine again but was knocked in
by Smith.
"When you play from behind
sometimes it's harder to score,

we just couldn't get that goal we
needed," Berenson said. "Had
we gotten the lead against them,
it could have been a different
game, but when you're playing
from behind at home, it takes
away from your home ice."
The Wolverines' struggles to
capitalize extended to the power
play, which went 0-for-5.
Waterloo doesn't boast
National Hockey League pros-
pects and draft picks like upcom-
ing opponents Boston College or
Massachusetts-Lowell. Rather, it
has some former members of the
Canadian Hockey League, whose
careers are coming to a close.
Senior goaltender Adam
Janecyk is the oldest player on
the team, and the only one born
prior to 1991. The Warriors didn't
release the date of birth for each
player on their roster but were
several years older, for the most
part.
"They're probably two years
older per man than our team,"
Berenson said. "That's not an
excuse, but like I told our guys,
they're older, stronger and more
experienced than we are, and
we're going to really have to play
well."

Penalty kill is
perfect, power play
shut out in loss
By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
Special teams were both a
blessing and a curse for the No. 11
Michigan hockey team in its 2-1
exhibition loss to Waterloo (Ont.)
on Sunday.
The Wolverines were unblem-
ished on the penalty kill, erasing
all three of its minor penalties
with ease, but the strong defen-
sive effort was in sharp contrast
to Michigan's 0-for-5 mark on
the power play.
While shorthanded, the Wol-
verines created multiple odd-
man rushes that generated more
scoring chances than the War-
riors could muster with the
man advantage. One of the most
promising of those opportunities
came when junior defenseman
Mike Chiasson found himself
on a breakaway out of the box
just seconds after his penalty
expired, but he was tripped up
in front of the crease before he
could get a shot off.
In the defensive zone, Michi-
gan rarely allowed Waterloo to
get organized on the power play.
The goaltenders, sophomore
Steve Racine and freshman Zach
Nagelvoort, split time and were
hardly tested on the penalty kill
thanks to strong play in front of
the crease.
Michigan coach Red Berenson
shuffled the penalty-kill lines
throughout the evening, tryingto
find combinations that will work
best moving forward. Multiple
freshmen were mixed into the
equation, including defensemen
Michael Downing and Kevin
Lohan.
Berenson made no promises as
to which group will be the go-to
quartet with the Wolverines
down a man, but liked what he
saw from the experimenting.
"The penalty killing was
good," Berenson said. "This time
of year, your power play is prob-
ably less in sync than your pen-
alty killing. We couldn't make'
really good plays, and neither
could they. I think the (penalty
kill) has the advantage this time
of year."

Most of the offensive woes the
Wolverines experienced Sunday
can be attributed to being held
scoreless on the man advantage.
Michigan put plenty of shots on
the pair of Waterloo netminders,
who also split time, but failed
to convert its handful of quality
chances into goals.
Entering the zone on -the
power play"wasn't the problemt,
and movement in the offensive
zone looked smooth and orga-
nized. The Wolverines just strug-
gled to find ways to finish.
"I thought we moved it really,
really well," said senior defense-
man Mac Bennett. "Everything
seemed like it was tape to tape,
and it was moving fast. When you
get pucks to the net, chances are
it's not goingto be a clean goal, so
rebounds, tips, whatever it takes.
We have to find a way to put it in."
Michigan had multiple
unlucky bounces on the power
play, which certainly contributed
to the offensive shortcomings.
None of those were more tanta-
lizing than a pass that hopped
over freshman forward Ryan
Allen's stick in the final min-
ute, squandering the chance of a
potential equalizer.
On the power play, the Wolver-
ines should benefit from creating
more traffic in front of the net.
Keeping up a pace of 35 shots on
net each game won't hurt, either.
"We just need to bear down
and be stronger in front of the
net," said sophomore forward
Andrew Copp. "I didn't think
we got enough guys in front of
the net, but we had tons of 2-on-
is, tons of shots, and their goalie
played well, so give him credit.
Going strong to the front of the
net will be huge going forward."
Optimism continues to radi-
ate from Yost Ice Arena for a
Michigan team that had nine
freshmen suit up for their first
college game. The signs are
there that this team isn't the
same one that plummeted from
a No. 5 preseason ranking last
season.
Berenson and Bennett had
high praise for the play of the
freshmen . class, and rightly
so. The Wolverines will aim
to mesh the offense together
quickly, though, with the sea-
son-opening matchup against
No. 4 Boston College looming
Thursday.

I
U
6

i

,.


Spr:M)

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

October 7, 2013 - 3B

lw .


GAME
STATISTICS

Sloppy fourth set dooms Michigan

Teamstats
First Downs
RshS/ards
Passing lards
Offensive Plays
Total Offense
Kick rturns/yds
Punt returns/yds
Comp/Att/Int
Punts/Avg
Fumbes/Lost
Palis/Yards
Timeof Possession

Michigan Minnesota
17 16
35/113 41/136
235 145
52 62
348 281
2/52 5/93
2/13 11
13/17/0 14/21/1
3/51.7 3/38.3
1-0 2-1
2-10 6-35
26:12 33:48

PASSING
Gardner
Totals
RUSHING
Player
Toussant
Gardner
TEAM
Toas

M I C H I G A N
C-A' Yds TD Int
13-17 235 1' 0
13-23 235 1 0

, By ZACH SHAW The Wolverines were treated
Daily Sports Writer not only to crowds of 1,320 and
1,780 fans respectively, but spe-
Leaves continued to fall, tents cial appearances by the drum-
were folded up and leftover food line, pep band and dance teams
was stowed away. The sun was as well.
setting "It was really great to play at
on the N'WESTERN 1 home," said junior setter Lexi
first day MICHIGAN 3 Dannemiller. "We feel very com-
of home- fortable here. We had a bit of a
coming ILLINOIS 3 startling start to Big Ten play
weekend, MICHIGAN 2 on the road, so it was very nice
but the to come home. Having the home
women of Cliff Keen Arena were crowd behind us really boosts
just getting started. our confidence."
In a weekend headlined by Added Michigan coach Mark
homecomings all over campus, Rosen: "It's always fun to play
the No. 14 Michigan volleyball at home. I thought this weekend
team (1-3 Big Ten, 11-4 overall) the fans were especially loyal.
had its own variation of the time- They came in both nights and
honored tradition. But there created a great atmosphere for
were no alumni gatherings, bar- our match."
becues or touch football games The maize-clad crowd helped
to be found, just a team's desire Michigan overcome its slow start
for its first Big Ten victory. Friday in a win over Northwest-
After dropping their first two ern in four sets. After dropping
Big Ten matches on the road to the first set, 25-23, the Wolver-
No.12 Ohio State and No.5 Penn ines kept improving, taking the
State last week, the Wolverines next three by scores of 25-19,
were eager to return home. Hav- 25-19 and 25-13. Senior -outside
ing won nine straight games in hitter Lexi Erwin led the way
Ann Arbor dating back to Oct. 20 with 19 kills, while Dannemiller
of last year, Michigan ultimately chipped in with 44 assists and a
split the weekend against North- career-high nine kills.
western (1-3, 9-7) and Illinois "Early on, you could tell our
(2-2, 6-8) in back-to-back night team had some nerves,", Rosen
games. said. "We hadn't gotten that

Big Ten win yet and were com-
ing off of two losses. But by the
end of the match, we had a nice
rhythm and were really flowing
and playing really well."
The following night began in
very similar fashion as Michigan
once again dropped its first set,
this time to Illinois. As they did
Friday, the Wolverines bounced
back in increasingly dominant
fashion, winning the next two
sets, 25-15 and 25-10. The third
set, headlined by a 13-1 start,
warranted a standing ovation by
the fans as the Michigan players
emphatically slammed the floor
with their fists, piled on top of
each other with glee and waved
their arms at the crowd, asking
for more. Anticipation of a sec-
ond consecutive Big Ten victory
was in the air.
But the elation quickly faded
in the fourth set. The Fighting
Illini stormed out to an early
10-5 lead to begin the fourth
set, forcing Michigan to call
two early timeouts. The time-
outs brought back the energy,
particularly by the senior duo of
Erwin and middle blocker Jenni-
fer Cross, but frustration began
to set in as every ball bounced
the wrong way. Despite hav-
ing dominated the previous two
sets, the Wolverines found them-

selves playing sloppy volleyball,
committing 10 errors en route to
a 25-20 loss.
"I think we could've been
more consistent," Dannemiller
said of the fourth set. "We had
moments where we played really
well, but we had a lot of moments
where we played really awful.
We need to focus on trying not
to let other teams get on runs or
streaks and just being balanced
all the time."
The fourth set ultimately
proved to be the difference-
maker. The set loss not only
killed all momentum the Wol-
verines had attained, but turned
an opportunity to clinch into a
tiresome comeback effort.
"We got into a good rhythm
in the third set and dominated,"
Rosen said. "But the score resets
to 0-0, and I felt like we came out
a little flat in the fourth set. We
didn't take care of the ball as well
as we could have at the begin-
ning, and suddenly we have to
play the entire set from behind.
We finished strong and made it
close at the end, but that's very
taxingto our team."
With the match suddenly
even, the final tiebreaker, which
Rosen likened to rolling dice due
to its unpredictability, repre-
sented the back-and-forth play

the teams had shown all night.
After seven ties and three lead
changes, a spike by senior out-
side hitter Molly Toon fell just
out of bounds, clinching the
15-13 set win and 3-2 match Vic-
tory for Illinois.
"The fifth set's very short and
very intense," Rosen said. "It can
go either way. A 15-13 game can
be decided by a bad call here or a
missed play there, so you want to
avoid that situation if-you can. If
we had taken care of business in
the fourth'set, we would've done
that."
Playing in the nation's tough-
est conference, things don't get
much easier for Michigan. The
Wolverines have just five days to
regroup before taking on No. 10
Nebraska at home. While the loss
to an unranked opponent stings;
Rosen remained unfazed about
his team's efforts.
"One of the things we talked
about in the locker room is that
the growth from last weekend
to this weekend is tremendous,"
Rosen said. "Now we need to
keep it going. Every week we
need to go into practice and
training with the idea of getting
better for the next week. That's
our mission. If we can get better
every week like this, we're going
to be pretty darn good later on."

Att Yds
7 17
1 -5
35 113

Avg
2.3
2.4
-5
3.2

Lgs
14
14
-5
14

RECEIVING
Player No. Yds Avg Lg
Funchess 7 151 21.6 46
Chesson 3 33 11 22
Gallon 2 39 19.5 30
Dileo 1 12 12.0 1
Totals 13 235 18.1 46
PUNTING
Player No. Yds Avg
Wle 3 155 5. 7
Totals 3 155 51.7
KICKOFF RETURNS
Player No. Yds Avg
Nor let 2 2 2.
PUNT RETURNS
Plyr No. Yds Avg Lg
Total 2 13 6.5 9

Ls
22
30
6

TD
1
0
4
TD
1
0
0
0
1
Lg8
5
55

TACKLES
Player
Morgan
Tatlo
Wilson
Beyer
Avery
Gordon,G.
Henry
Countess
Ojemudia
Washington
Black
Pipkins
Norfleet
Heitzman
Houma
Stribling
Totals
PASSING
Player
Whitmer
Totals
RUSHING
Player A
iiams, M.
Cobb
Gillum
MJonga
Totals
RECEIVING
Player
Williams, M.
Cobb
Kirkwood
Wllams R.
Totals

Solo
6
4
4
3
4
3
3
3
3
2
1
1
t
0
0
7
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
46

Asst
4
5
t
2
0
1
1
0
0
1
2
2
t
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
24


Lg TD
29 0
Lg TD
9 0
Tot
10
5
4
3
3
3
2
1
1
1
1
70

LINE
From Page 1B
center, replacing redshirt sopho-
more Jack Miller. The Wolver-
ines also used anunbalancedline
for the first time, with Lewan
and fifth-year senior right tackle
Michael Schofield on the same
side of the line.
The moves worked. And (just
about) good to its (alleged) word,
the line finally showed signs of
life against the Golden Gophers.
This time, Michigan owned
the line of scrimmage. Gardner
had enough time in the pocket,
and he finished with the first
interception-free game of his
career. The rushing numbers,
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
admits, were unremarkable: the
Wolverines rushed for 113 yards
on 35 carries, an average of just
3.2 yards per carry.
But that average dipped as
Michigan milked the clock at
the end. And, importantly, the

line limited the negative plays
that plagued Michigan's offense
against Akron and UConn. Until
Michigan was running out the
clock at the end of the game,
Minnesota had just three tackles
for loss. Akron and UConn each
finished with eight.
"We wanted to run the ball,
and we wanted to send that mes-
sage," Hoke said. "I really believe
the threat was there consistently
throughout the game that we
were going to run the football."
That threat had been missing,
and it had turned the offense
one-dimensional. On Satur-
day, though, Michigan's first 10
offensive plays were runs. Gard-
ner didn't throw the ball until
midway through the second
quarter.
Hoke said the offensive line
was "very happy" with that
game plan. Hoke seemed pleased
too. After Michigan's first touch-
down run, on their first offen-
sive drive, Hoke found Bryant,
whose first six plays ended with


a touchdown,
"Nice job," Hoke told him
with a smile and a high five.
Michigan averaged just less
than six yards per carry on that
drive. Fifth-year senior run-
ning back Fitzgerald Toussaint
scored on an eight-yard rush. He
was hardlytouched.
That would become a theme
on Michigan's three other rush-
ing touchdowns. The line exe-
cuted nearly flawlessly on all of
them.
In the third quarter, freshman
running back Derrick Green
scored on a two-yard run to the
left side of the line. Bryant pulled
and neutralized his man. Kalis
pancaked his. Lewan dominat-
ed the end and Glasgow cut a
defender. Green wasn't touched
until he reached the goal line,
but even there, redshirt sopho-
more fullback Joe Kerridge pro-
vided a lead block.
"We're going to play Michi-
gan football," Lewan said. "Re-
establish the line of scrimmage,

power run game, inside zone,
downhill, fullback, running
back."
Later in the third quarter,
Toussaint scored again on a
12-yard rush to the left side. He
was destined for the end zone
before he even received the
handoff. The unbalanced set left
Minnesota out-manned.
By the time he took the ball
from Gardner, Schofield and red-
shirt freshman guard Kyle Kalis
had doubled the tackle, and Kalis
peeled off to the linebacker.
Lewan, playing on the right side
in the unbalanced look, kicked
the end out to the sideline.
Freshman tight end Jake Butt
motioned and sealed the corner-
back. Kerridge took on the line-
backer. By the time Bryant had
finished pulling, he had no one
to block. Again, Toussaint just
had to brush off an arm tackle to
glide to the touchdown.
Lewan said he is encouraged
by the turnaround, but he still
sees room for improvement.

Bryant, despite jitters, was a
road grader inside. ("He's a big,
big man," said the 6-foot-8, 315-
pound Lewan. "He's a very big.-
man.") But, Bryant was also beat
on a swim move for a sack.
Glasgow, Lewan said, actually
grades out better asa center than
a guard. With Glasgow coordi-
nating the blocking schemes, the
Wolverines owned the inside for
the first time all year. But Lewan
said the line should've gotten -
Toussaint to 100 yards. He fin-
ished with 71.
It certainly wasn't a perfect
showing. But when Michigan
needed to take the pressure off
a struggling Gardner, the line
answered.
"It felt like it felt prior to the
previous two weeks," Gardner
said. "We were a pretty good
offense and we were rolling
pretty good. Like I said, we were
wayward these past two weeks
but we got back to the basics, and
feel like our offense is ready to
roll again."

M I N N E S 0 T A

C-A Yds
14-21 145
14-21 -145

TD Int
1 1


Att Yds
18 66
8 33
7 22
2 9
5 6
1 0
41 146

Avg
3.7
8.0
7.0
3
Avg
10.8
3.0
14.0
10.0
10.4

L9
18
9
13
Lg
16
18
14
14

TD
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
TD
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1

No.
5
2
1
1
14

Yds
54
6
14
145

PNTING
Playcr
Mortenl
Totals
KICKOFF RETURNS .
Player
Jones -
Olsonl
Toal

No. Yds Avg
3 115 38.3 43
3 115 38.3 43
No. Yds Avg Lg
2 . 63 31.5 45

Playe Solo Asst Tot
Wilson 4 4 8
Thompson 3 4 7
Hill 3 1 4
Balaza 3 0 3
legemn 2 1 3
Murray 2 0 2
Matilus 2 0 2
Johnson 1 1 2
Veen 0 2 2
Myic~k 1 0 1
Campybell 1 0 1
Travis 1 .0 1
Ralis 1 0 1
Ttl 37 18 55
LIKE US ON
FACEBOOK
www.facebook.com/
michigandaily

JUG
From Page 1B
shirt freshman Aehu Chesson,
fifth-year senior Jeremy Gallon
and sophomore Devin Funch-
ess catching passes for an aver-
age of 13 yards over the 10-play
drive to give Michigan the lead
entering the locker room.
With his arm sufficiently
warmed up, Gardner capped
the Wolverines' final posses-
sion of the half with a 24-yard
touchdown pass to Funchess,
thanks in part to solid field posi-
tion, starting the drive at Min-
nesota's 38-yard line. Gardner
finished 13-of-17 for 235 yards
and one touchdown each pass-
ing and on the ground.
Michigan - with its recent
turnover woes - benefited from
one to start the game. During
the opening drive, senior defen-
sive end Jibreel. Black forced
a fumble, recovered by sopho-
more linebacker James Ross III,
on Minnesota's third play of the
game. Starting on the Golden
Gophers' 35-yard line, the Wol-
verines scored their first touch-
down on a series of runs split
between tailbacks freshman
Derrick Green and fifth-year
senior Fitzgerald Toussaint.
Minnesota also ran the ball
for the majority of its next drive,
rushing for 52 yards on 10 car-
ries. The Golden Gophers con-
verted on all five of their third
downs, including a seven-yard
pass for a touchdown that Blake
Countess narrowly missed tip-
ping away.
The second half finally saw
the marriage between the Wol-
verines' run and pass game.
Consecutive runs from Tous-
saint started the drive, and a
22 and 21-yard pass to Chesson
and Funchess, respectively, set
Michigan up on the 2-yard line.
From there, Green bulldozed
his way into the end zone.
With the Wolverines com-

fortably in a rhythm, they con-
tinued to utilize the ground
game, and Toussaint ran for his
second touchdown of the game
with 11 seconds left in the third
quarter, all while the defense
held the Golden Gophers to just
two field goals in the second
half.
Despite the shared workload
between the running backs, it
still wasn't enough for Hoke.
Minnesota dominated time of
possession in the first half -
almost 19 minutes, compared to
Michigan's 11 - and Hoke said
that impeded Green's ability to
get even more carries.
"We wanted to run the ball,
and we wanted to send that
message. I thought we did a
pretty good job of it," Hoke
said. "We didn't have as much
yardage probably as we'd like
to have from that aspect, but
I really believe the threat was
there consistently throughout
the game."
Gardner also continued to
rely on Funchess, who had
relocated from his normal spot
at tight end to wide receiver.
Funchess caught seven passes
for 151 yards over the course of
the afternoon and scored once.
And above all, Gardner's
Superman complex, his try-to-
do-it-all attitude, didn't come
crashing down around the Wol-
verines.
This time, Gardner felt com-
fortable that he never gave up
control.
"If it calls for me to throw
it to Devin Funchess 17 times
in a game or to Jeremy Gallon
17 times or for me to throw 17
passes in total ... whatever we
need during that day, on that
given day, we're going to do it,"
Gardner said.
"But today I was able to man-
age the game and be pretty effi-
cient with ... the things we've
been good at in the past and
kind of slipped on the last two
weeks."

FIVE
From Page 1B
formances in the trenches to
date. The move has paid off
on several fronts: with Bry-
ant, Michigan gets a physical
presence on the interior, which
had failed to control the line of
scrimmage.
It also allows redshirtsopho-
more Graham Glasgow to move
to center. Fifth-year senior left
tackle Taylor Lewan said that
Glasgow, who played at left
guard for the first four games of
the season, actually grades out
better at center. He excels with
the added responsibilities at the
position. The struggling interior
line looked much improved with
the reshuffled lineup.
Bryant had suffered through
injuries for much of his Michi-
gan career. Against Minnesota,
Lewan said, he showed some
nerves in the first start of his
career, and he allowed Michi-
gan's only sack when he was
beaten on a swim move. But the
interior neutralized nose tackle
Ra'Shede Hageman, one of the
best defensive linemen in the
conference.
The addition of Bryant and
offensive coordinator Al Borg-
es's use of the unbalanced look
helped Michigan finally estab-
lish a ground game. In the unbal-
anced set, Lewan and fifth-year
senior right tackle Michael Scho-
field play on the same side of the
line. Several times on Saturday,
that created a situation where
Michigan had more blockers on
the play side of the field than
defenders.
On fifth-year senior Fitzger-
ald Toussaint's 12-yard touch-
down run in the third quarter,
Michigan had both tackles, a
guard and a pulling guard, a
tight end and a full back to clear
the way. Toussaint was hardly,
touched.
Plays like that had been rare

before Saturday.
3. The defense must improve
against rushing quarterbacks.
As far as the mobile quarter-
backs Michigan will see this
year, Minnesota quarterback
Mitch Leidner ranks somewhere
below Nebraska's Taylor Marti-
nez, Northwestern's Kain Colter
and Ohio State's Braxton Miller.
He's dangerous, but not exactly a
game-changing runner.
Still, Michigan struggled to
corral Leidner on the scramble.
He finished with 66 yards on
18 carries. Those aren't great
numbers, but many of his yards
extended drives and converted
third downs.
In the first half, Minnesota
gashed Michigan with a'16-play,
75-yard drive that lasted nearly
10 minutes. On that drive, and
the drive after it, Minnesota
converted on seven consecutive
third downs. Leidner had three
of them on the ground alone.
The inability to corral Leidner
was partially a result of an
adjustment in pass coverage.
Earlier in the season, Michigan
allowed an abundance of passes
between the linebackers and the
safeties. During the week, play-
ers said that could be corrected
with deeper drops from the line-
backers. But that gave Leidner
more space to run.
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
said tackling was also an issue.
"I don't know if it's that con-
cerning," Hoke said. "When you
look at it, there's some issues
when you don't tackle well,
when you're reaching instead of
running through. I was watch-
ing it, and we didn't run through
enough."
It didn't hurt Michigan sig-
nificantly against Minnesota.
But three of Michigan's tough-
est opponents all feature mobile
quarterbacks. Before then, the
Wolverines will have to make
some corrections.

4. Matt Wile and the punting
game have shown improvement.
Punting is rarely noticed
until something goes wrong. For
junior punter Matt Wile, some-
thing was going wrong.
Earlier in the year, Wile was
inconsistent. Against Akron
especially, Wile's punts put
Michigan's defense against the
wall.
Saturday, though, Wile punt-
ed three times for an average
of 51.7 yards. One punt rolled
all the way inside the one-yard
line and helped the Wolverines
win the-field-position battle that
ended with a touchdown before
halftime.
5. Bold Prediction: Blake Count-
ess will equal Charles Woodson's
mark of eight interceptions in a
season.
Interceptions is- a fickle stat.
Redshirt sophomore cornerback
Blake Countess had none his
freshman year. This season, he .
already has four. That puts him
in a tie for first in the nation, and
he's all alone in first in return
yards with 149.
The Michigan record for
interceptions is 10, set by Tom
Curtis in 1968. Countess is on
pace to eclipse that record in
13 games, but that's probably
unlikely. A more reachable mile-
stone is Woodson's eight inter-
ceptions in 1997, the year he won
the Heisman Trophy.
Here's why: Countess plays
often at the nickel, where he can
roam and ball hawk. He also isn't
a pure lockdown corner who will
prevent passes to his side of the
field.
Countess is already having a
historically significant season.
He's just 33 return yards off the
Michigan record, also set by
Curtis.
And he's already eighth on the
all-time return yard list for his
career.



4B - October 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

0

4B - October 7, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP-10 POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on,

1.ALABAMA (27): 2. OREGON: Colorado's
Georgia State's offense defense is more
is less effective than dysfunctional than
Congress. Justkidding. Congress. Just kidding.

3. CLEMSON: Syracuse's
entire team is more
useless than Congress.
Just kidding.

4. STANFORD: Congress S. OHIO STATE: All-time
sucks. great cover.

O b. FLORIDA STATE: The 7. TEXAS A&M: Johnny 8. GEORGIA: Crazy 9. LOUISVILLE: The 10. SOUTH CAROLINA:
Seminoles beat Maryland A Football! Autographs! game. Daily Sports Editor Cardinals went to Temple Kentucky jerked the Cocks
63-0. Good news, Terps, Beer! Jokes! Laughter! Daniel Wasserman's this week and won. around, but the Cocks
the Big Ten awaits! friend was there. Mazel Tov! managed to slipby.

a

STAFF PICKS
The Daily football writers do their best
to predict, against the spread, what
happens in the 2013 football season.

Zach Everett
Helfand Cook

Pat Stansik,
Former Host of
Pre-Gaming
with Pat

i

No.IAlabama (-55) vs Georgia State
No.2 Oregon (-39) at colorado
No.3 Clemson (-14) at Syracuse
No. 4 Ohio State (-7) at No.16tNorthwestern
No. 5 Stanford(-7.S) vs No.15Washington
No. 6 Georgia (-10.5) vs. Tennessee
No. 7Louisvile -34) at Temple
No FloridaS)tate(-6)vs .25Maryland
No. 10 LSU (-1) at Mississippi State
No 11 Oklahoma (-10.5) vs. TCU
No. 12 UCLA (-6) at Utah
No.13 South Carolina (-21) at Kentucky
No.14Miami 01) (-6) vs Georgia Tech
No. 17 Baylor (-28) vs West Virginia
No. 18 Florida()o vs Arkansas
No.19Michigan(19.5)vs. Minnesota
No. 20Texas Tech (17.5) at Kansas
No. 21 Oklahoma State (-14) vs. Kansas State
No. 22 Arizoa State (-e) at Notre Dame
No. 23 Fresno State (-26) at Idaho
No. 24 Ole Miss (-3) at Auburn
Penn State (-3.5) at Indiana
Iinois (+9.5) at Nebraska
Michigan State(-1.5) at Iowa
This week

Georgia State
Oregon
Clemson
Ohio State
Washington
Georgia
.ouisville
Maryland
LSU
Oklahoma
UCLA
Kentucky
Miami
West Virginia
Florida
Michigan
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
Notre Dame
Fresno State
Auburn
Penn State
Nebraska
Michigan State
17-7
81-59

Alabama
Oregon
Clemson
Northwestern
Staeford
Georgia
Temple
Maryland
MississippiState
Oklahoma
UCLA
South Carolina
Miami
Baylor
Arkansas
Minnesota
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
Arizona State
Idaho
Ole Miss
Penn State
Nebraska
Iowa
9-15
74-66

Matt
Slovin
Georgia State
Oregon
Clemson
Ohio State
Washington
Georgia
Louisville
Florida State
Missi ippiStlate
Oklahoma
UCLA
South Carolina
Miami
West Virginia
Florida
Michigan
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
Arizona Sate
Fresno State
Auburn
Penn State
Nebraska
MichiganState
5-9
92-48

0

Oregon
Clemson
Ohio State
Sanford
Georgia
Louisille
Florida State
LSU
TCU
UCLA
Kentucky
Miami
West Virginia
Florida
Michigan
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
NotreDame
Fresno State
Ole Miss
Penn State
Nebraska
Iowa2
15-9 -
78-62

Oregon
Clemson
Ohio State
Stanford
Georgia
Temple
Florida State
LSU
Oklahoma
UCLA
South Carolina
Miami
West Virginia
Arkansas
Michigan
Texas Tech
Oklahoma State
Notre Dame
Idaho
Ole Miss
Penn State
Illinois
Iowa.
11-13
11-13

I
I

Murphy leads Wolverines past Defense rules in win
Buckeyes for first Big Ten win

a

By MIKE PISCIOTTA
For the Daily
In the hostile territory of
Columbus, the Michigan men's
soccer team recorded its first Big
Ten win of the season by beating
Ohio State, 1-0, on Sunday. For
the second
straight MICHIGAN 1
year, the OHIO STATE 0
Wolverines
beat the Buckeyes after losing to
them the previous three seasons.
It was also the second confer-
ence road win in two years under
Michigan coach Chaka Daley
"It was important to stake our
claim," Daley said, "to put our-
selves back in the mix to com-
pete for the championship."
At the start of the match, the
Wolverines (1-1 Big Ten, 3-2-3
overall) controlled play. They
dominated possession for the

majority of the first half and out-
shot Ohio State, 6-0.
The breakthrough for Michi-
gan came in the 25th minute.
After a short stoppage, junior
midfielder Marcos Ugarte played
the ball to sophomore forward
James Murphy. Murphy, who
hadn't scored since his two-goal
performance against Loyola
of Chicago in the first game of
the season, lashed a volley from
outside of the box past Buckeye
goalkeeper Alex Ivanov. The
goal gave the Wolverines their
first goal of the Big Ten season
and a one-goal lead.
Michigan's possession-based
play and strong defense over-
whelmed Ohio State (0-2, 2-6-3)
for most of the first half. For the
first 33 minutes of the game, the
Buckeyes were held without a
shot.
Then, before intermission,

the Ohio State attack had a brief
surge that finally tested red-
shirt junior goalkeeper Adam
Grinwis. But its efforts were for
naught, as the score remained
1-0 at halftime.
After the break, the offensive
intensity began to pick up for
the Buckeyes. With the wind at
its back, Ohio State continued to
pressure the Wolverines' back
line and created more quality
scoring chances.
"We dealt with pressure pret-
ty well," Daley said. "(The Buck-
eyes) were much more direct in
the second half."
Ohio State's inspired second
half performance brought out
the best in Grinwis, who was
hardly tested in the first half.
Grinwis made five saves and
recorded his second shutout of
the season. His performance
was highlighted by the save
he made in the 51st minute,
when he stonewalled a header
attempted by Max Moller from
point-blank range to preserve.
the shutout.
"Grinwis was very clean in
everything that came into the
box," Daley said. "He covered
his goal pretty well and that
helped a lot."
For the Wolverines, scor-
ing opportunities in the sec-
ond half were hard to come by.
They managed to fire six shots
at the Buckeye goal butonly put
two on target. The best chance
for Michigan came after senior
forward Malcolm Miller was
brought down in the 70th
minute with the Wolverines
leading, 1-0. Senior midfielder
Fabio Pereira stepped up for
the ensuing free kick and shot
the ball just over the goal.
The Wolverines, fresh off
back-to-back wins for the first
time this season, will look to
make it three Friday in State
College against Penn State,
which is off to a 2-0 start in Big
Ten play.
"Everyone did their jobs
today," Murphy said. "That
gives us confidence going into
our next game versus Penn
State."

By DAN VARGOVIK
For theeDaily
The Michigan women's soccer
team traveled down to Lincoln
Sunday afternoon and returned
to Ann Arbor victorious fol-
lowing a 2-1 win against No. 23
Nebraska.
Defense has been a constant
point of
emphasis MICHIGAN 2
this sea- NEBRASKA 1
son, and the
21st-ranked Wolverines (3-1-1 Big
Ten, 9-2-1 overall) were up to the
task against Nebraska's attack.
After the game, Michigan
coach Greg Ryan couldn't stop
praising his defense.
"(Nebraska's) been scoring a
lot of goals against everybody,"
Ryan said. "The defense from the
whole team was fantastic."
Nebraska (4-1-0, 9-3-1) plays
a very aggressive brand of soc-
cer, and Michigan made key
tactical adjustments to limit the
Cornhuskers' chances. The Wol-
verines played with five at the
back because Nebraska played
with four up top, and Michigan's
defense performed exception-
ally.
"Nebraska is a team who puts
a lot of numbers forward, so it
was definitely a challenge," said
junior defender Chloe Sosenko.
"We were prepared for it. We had
our scouting report."
Freshman goaltender Tay-
lor Bucklin was the backbone of
the defense, making three saves.
Even though the Cornhuskers
didn't put too much on target,
they kept her busy all night.
"I told her, after the game she
played today, it takes her from
being a freshman goalkeeper to
being an upperclassman because
Nebraska keeps- the pressure
on," Ryan said. "They must have
knocked 25, 30 balls into our
box that she had to deal with. I
thought her decision making was
just fantastic today."
The turning point of the
game was senior forward Nkem
Ezurike's goal to break the
scoreless tie in the 54th minute.
Freshman forward Madisson
Lewis cut in, saw the goalkeeper

is

4

Senior forward Nkem Ezurike broke the stalemate with a 54th-minute goal.

coming out at her and was able to
find Ezurike in the middle of the
goal by herself.
It was Ezurike's seventh goal
of the season and 42nd of her
career, two goals behind Kacy
Beitel's program record of 44
career goals.
"It's always great to see Nkem
get on the board again and score
the first goal," Ryan said. "She's
such an important player for us.
Nkem getting on the board was
the turning point in the game."
Less than four minutes later,
Madisson Lewis scored her
fourth goal of the season, giv-
ing her an assist and a goal on
the day. A long throw bounced
right in the middle of the18-yard
box, and Lewis was able to beat
everyone else to the ball to hit it
in with her left foot.
In the 75th minute, Nebraska's
Jordan Jackson pulled the Corn-
huskers to within one, but they
were unable to find the back of
the net in the remaining 15 min-
utes.
Despite the victory, Michigan
wasn't completely satisfied with

its performance. There were
missed opportunities that could
have been converted had players
been more patient.
"We could have finished a
couple more, which would have
changed the game completely,"
Sosenko said. "Nebraska would
have rolled up a little bit."
With the win, Michigan pulls
within one -half game of first
place in the Big Ten standings,
behind Penn State and Nebraska.
The Wolverines have never won
a Big Ten title since becoming
a varsity sport in 1994, but they
feel like this could finally be
their year.
"The players were really dis-
ciplined in the way they car-
ried out our tactics," Ryan said.
"Penn State is another team that
always causes tactical problems,
so we need to come up with a
good game plan for them, and
we need to execute very well if
we're going to have a chance. We
play them next Sunday, so if you
want a shot at winning the Big
Ten you're going to have to get a
result against Penn State."

4

&.,


