Ulie 1i 1a ig

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, April 22, 2013

michigandaily.com

UNION RENOVATIONS
Ahmo's to
join Union
food court

Participants dressed in Mario-Kart-themed costumes run at the MRelay event at Ferry Field Saturday.

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily

MRelay raises over$ 300K

2,000 students
come out for event
at Ferry Field
By ALICIA ADAMCZYK
DailyNewsEditor
While libraries and cof-
fee shops across campus were
filled with University students
cramming for exams this past
weekend, more than 2,000 stu-
dents took a study break to raise
money for cancer research.
Against a backdrop of live
music performances, on-site
fundraisers and appearances

by members of the Michigan
football and men's basketball
teams, MRelay - the Univer-
sity's annual Relay For Life
event - was held Saturday
through Sunday at Ferry Field
outdoor track. Relay For Life is
a national 24-hour fundraising
event for the American Cancer
Society, and MRelay is the sec-
ond largest collegiate event in
the country.
Though the MRelay team.
doesn't stop counting monetary
contributions until August,
this weekend's event raised
$310,388.71 for cancer research.
By August, MRelay's goal is to
raise $372,000, $2,000 more

than the 2012 event took in.
Despite the cold tempera-
tures and new location, more
than 130 student organiza-
tions formed teams to partici-
pate activities, which included
Relay Idol, flag football, a scav-
enger hunt and the Mr. Relay
male pageant.
The teams of students
camped out around the field
from 10 a.m. Saturday until 10
a.m. Sunday. Reflecting on the
theme "Celebrate, Remem-
ber, Fight Back," there was an
opening celebratory ceremony
to empower participants, a
night-time Luminaria Cere-
mony to remember those who

lost their battles with cancer
and a Fight Back ceremony
to inspire students to take
action.
Kinesiology junior Sara
Knysh, a member of MRelay's
executive team, said she was
inspired to join the effort to
cure cancer because several
people in her family have been
affected by the disease.
"It's pretty personal for me;
it means a lot to my family,"
Knysh said. "It just means a lot
to be able to help everyone else
out."
Knysh said planning the
event was a rewarding process,
See MRELAY, Page 5A

Mrs. Field's, Auntie
Anne's to depart,
Wendy's and
Subway will stay
By K.C. WASSMAN
Daily News Editor
After anticipation and spec-
ulation, including fake signs
suggesting Chick-fil-A and
McDonalds would be leasing
space, University Unions has
announced the tenant line-up
for the Michigan Union's ground
floor food court, the Michigan
Union Grill.
Ahmo's Gyros and Deli will
join current vendors Wendy's,
Subway and Panda Express in
MUG in August, while Pizza
Hut, Mrs. Fields, Freshens and
Auntie Anne's will vacate their
spaces after their leases expire
at the end of the month.
Union officials have not yet
made a decision on whether
they plan to allow Amer's
Mediterranean Deli to renew
its first-floor lease, Laura
Seagram, marketing and com-
munications specialist for Uni-
versity Unions, wrote in an
e-mail. Seagram said they hope

to have a final decision over
the summer.
After it was suggested that
Amer's would likely close, a
Facebook page was created to
rally support to keep the deli
in the Union. Though the deli's
owner said the page was created
by a customer, E. Royster Harp-
er, the University's vice presi-
dent for student affairs, accused
the owner of creating the page
himself.
Ahmo's, which currently is
a guest vendor one day a week
at Pierpont Commons, will sell
Mediterranean staples like
falafels, gyros, hummus and
pita sandwiches. Owner Majed
Issa said the restaurant's food
seems to be very popular with
the students at Pierpont. He is
currently planning for Ahmo's
to stay in the Union for at least
10 years, with two five-year
leases.
"We're looking forward to
being there," Issa said, "hope-
fully all the students are looking
forward to it too."
Issa said Ahmo's will replace
the space currently occupied
by Auntie Anne's pretzels, Mrs.
Fields cookies and Freshens
smoothies. It will be operational
by Aug. 16.
See UNION, Page 5A


CAMPUS LIFE
NAACP hosts
Image Awards
at art museum

Ceremony honors
students for
contributions to
community
By SAM GRINGLAS
DailyStaffReporter
Beneath the University of
Michigan Museum of Art atri-
um, more than 70 University
students gathered to recognize
the achievements of their peers
during the fifth annual Nation-
al Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People Image
Awards.
The gathering was hosted by
the University's chapter of the
NAACP, which presented 21
awards to University students
and campus groups at Sunday's
ceremony.
"We try to make sure we
recognize all the hard work
students have put in through-
out the year," said LSA junior
Michael Dalton, the chapter's
president-elect.

The University's NAACP
chapter began holding Image
Awards to mirror a ceremony
held by the national organiza-
tion since 1967. Image awards
recognize achievements in
television, literature, film and
music, as well as achievement
in social justice through cre-
ative outlets. Similarly, the
campus awards acknowledge
scholastic advancement and
social justice contributions by
University students, faculty
and administrators.
Before the event,Kinesiology
senior Dexter Mason reflected
on what he called a bittersweet
moment as he attended the
Image Awards for his fourth
and final time.
"Events like this are very
important because in the black
community I feel like there
aren't any other events that
highlight what the black com-
munity does," Mason said. "It's
a good way to have a sense of
community."
A few rows behind Mason,
LSA sophomore Toni Hemby
See NAACP, Page 5A

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG leaders
clean parks
to thank A2
About 100 students
pickup trash in
seven local parks
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
Whether students were raised
here or halfway around the
world, Ann Arbor becomes their
home for their college years.
Saturday, about 100 students
picked up garbage and engaged
in service work at seven parks in
their adopted hometown as part
of the Big Thank You A2 event
organized by members of the
Central Student Government.
CSG President Manish Parikh
spent one of his last days as the
CSG executive picking up gar-
bage. He wrote in an e-mail it
was important he show apprecia-
tion to the city he called home for
the duration of his undergradu-
ate experience.
"The goal for Big Thank You
A2 is to thank the city of Ann
Arbor for being such a wonderful
and kind neighbor to U-M and its
students," Parikh wrote. "Hope-
fully in the future the number
of students volunteering will go
from 100to1,000."
See THANK, Page SA

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
Rackham student Jimmy Schneidewind, organizer of the Boston Solidarity Run, leads the first lap on Saturday.
Com-munity runs for Boston

Student organizes
run in solidarity
with victims
By AMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR
Daily StaffReporter
One by one, runners from
all over Ann Arbor and metro
Detroit crossed the one-mile
mark at the Diag. There were no
fists in the air, no cheers from
the crowd. Instead, there were
thoughts of those who had lost

or were fighting for their lives
after the events following the
Boston Marathon.
Wearing marathon bibs that
uniformly read "We are all Bos-
ton Marathoners at Heart," run-
ners came together Saturday
morning for a Solidarity Run -
circling a one-mile loop as many
times as they could in support
of victims of the bombings and
shootings in Boston.
Three people - including
eight-year-old Martin Richard,
29-year-old Krystle Campbell
and graduate student Lu Lingzi

- were killed and over 170 peo-
ple were wounded after a ter-
rorist attack involving several
bombs at the race's finish.
In conjunction with numer-
ous other solidarity runs being
held across the country, Public
Policy graduate student Jimmy
Schneidewind organized the
event to give an opportunity for
local runners to show Boston
runners that they stood with
them.
About 200 runners partici-
pated in the run, includingsome
See BOSTON, Page 5A


WEATHER HI: 65
TOMORROW Lo 42


GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail Campus Corner: Ann Arbor's stable spots
news@michigandaily.com and letus know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THEPODIUM

INDEX NEWS .........................2A SUDOKU....................3A
Vol. CXXIII, No.108 OPINION.....................4A CLASSIFIEDS..............6A
©2013TheMichiganDaily ARTS......................7A SPORTSMONDAY..........1B
michigondaily.com


2A - Monday, April 22, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, April 22, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

- TRASHED

420 Maynard Sn.
Ann Arbor, M1 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Managee
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michtigandailyeom irmgrein@michigandailyecom

Hillel begins serving Passover meals

75 years ago this week nomics department, was
(April 20th, 1938): selected to become the dean
of LSA by the University's
The University of Michi- Board of Regents.
gao Hillel began serving University Vice President
Passover meals for Jewish Roger Heyns said the Univer-
students who wished to keep sity was lucky to have Haber
kosher per the holiday's as the new dean as the college
requirements. was confronting increasing
The meals were made pox- enrollment and competition
sible by a $100 donation from for faculty.
the Hillel Poondation. The "We are unusually fortu-
prices for breakfast, lunch and nate that we can torn to a man
dinner were 25 cents, 55 cents whose career is filled with
and 75 cents respectively, distinguished accomplish-
ments," Heyns said. "These
50 years ago this week are critical titaes ahead."
(April 24th, 1963):
25 years ago this week
Economics Prof. William (April 20th, 1988):
Haber, chairman of the Eco-
CRIME NOTES t
Bike bashing Hit and run 1
WHERE: 2800 Plymouth WHERE: Washington V
Road Street I
WHEN: Priday at about WHEN: Priday at about t
2:20 a.m. 5:00 p.m. R
WHAT: An unidentfied WHAT: Abicyclist was i
subject damaged a bicycle struck by a driver who ini- r
that was parked near tially drove away, but later t
building 10 some time returned and was cited or r
between 10 a.m and 7:15 failure to stop, University V
p.m. the previous day, Police reported. The bicylicsts
University Police reported. declined medical attention. V

The Michigan Student
Assembly retracted its call
for LSA Dean Peter Steiner to
resign after passing a resoslu-
lion that criticized Steiner for
"racist comments."
MSA voted 14-11 to rescind
the former resolution after
stating that educating Stein-
er about racism was more
important than ousting bins.
Steiner argued that previ-
ous statements he had made
were taken out of context.
- AARON GUGGENHEIM-
CAMPUS EVENTS & NO]
Research talk Chan

Newsrnnn
734-418-4115sopt.3
tntrections
correctiona@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@icigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
display@michigandaily.com,
Online Sales
onlinead@mih~igandaily.com

News lips
news@soichiganslaily.com
leterstonthe Editor
ttedaily@michigandaily.com
Editnrial Page
opinion@michigandaity.con
Photography Sectin
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.coo,
Finance
finance@mihigadaily.com

Ann Arbor resident Hal Brannan shows offithe trash ho
collected daring the Gallup Park cleat up Saturday.

Overcooked
WHERE: Northwood III,
1700 block of Murfin Street
WHEN: Saturday at about
2:50 a.m.
WHAT: A pizza box that
was on top of a stove caught
fire, University Police
reported. The resident was
able to put the fire out
without further incident
using an extinguisher, and
no injuries resulted.

Stealing spree
WHERE: Intramural
Sports Building
WHEN: Priday at about
7:10 p.m.
WHAT: A wallet and
iPhone were stolen from the
basketball gym between 2
p.m. and 4 p.m, University
Police reported. An unau-
thorized charge was made
to a credit card, but there
are no suspects.

ai
t
v3

WHAT: Staff from the
nter-university Consor-
tium for Political and Social
Research will discuss find-
ings of their social science
esearch. The event is open
to the public, and light
refreshments will be served.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library, room 100
Common
concerns
WHAT: Led by Todd Sevig,
interested students can
voice their concerns withosit
making an appointment.
Sevig will offer advice and
information for coping
with such concerns.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Annex Room

Music
WHAT: A student brass
chamber music recital that
is free of charge will include
works such as Skirmish
Dance and The Duncan Trio.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre and Dance
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Stamps Auditorium
Voice students
recital
WHAT: Students in the
University's Voice depart-
ment will hold an end of
the year recital. The perfor-
miance is free of charge and
open to the public; no tick-
ets are required to attend.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre and Dance
WHEN: Today at 6:45 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building,
IBrittomn Recital Hall

1A mother in Long Island,
New York was arrested
after purchasing BB guns
for her children who then shot
at parked cars as she drove,
NBC News reported. Long
Island police said there were
more than 60 reports of dam-
aged cars in the areauover.
2The men's gymnas-
tics team won the
team National Cham-
pionship on Saturday. Sam
Mikulak and Adrian De Los
Angeles placed first and sec-
ond, respectively, in the indi-
vidual competition, as well.
3Nearly 2,700 New York
City students were
wrongly informed that
they were ineligible for gift-
ed and talented programs
in public schools due to an
error in exam scoring, the
New York Times reported
Priday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
MathewSloinMain Eseditor mjaovin@michigandaily.com
Adan RubefieManigingxNewsitoir arube@mihigandaily.com
SENIOR5NWS EDTORS:AliciaAdamczyk, Katie Burk,,, Autn Hforda, PeterSahi,
K.C. Wssmn, TaylorWizner
ASSISTNTs sNsS EIORS:osMolly Block, Jennt, ife ala,Aaronugnhei, S m
Grls,: anielleu:Stopeln, Stveos~toki
MelanieKruveis and opinioneditorsnihigandaily.com
Adrienne Rbertsi toriulrPageEditos
SENtIORIOIALAEDsIORS:Jse ins,,SarahSkauba, DerkWolfe
ASSITANT E D 0ITO IALPAEaEDOR~oStShaksBasir, anilWan
EveetlCookand
Zach Helfand ManagingeSportditorsiaoteditors@niSizadaiy.on
SENIOR SPORTS EDIORS tos eenBi,ichael Lurila, tehe n est, Colen
Thoas,Lz Vk,5,:, Dane asermn,
ASSITANSPODT so O RnioS : iledan,GregGarno,oRja h arse, Liz Nagle,
Jeremy Summitt,Alejado Zusiga
Kayla lipadhyaya Manuging Artditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEOS:oEliot::,Aen, Bin o so n, J,ohn Lyc, Anna Sadovskaya
sKatie, Stee,tn wedi
Adan Glanman and
Tetra Molengraff MnuginerhototEditos: photo@mihigandaily.com
SENIOOOOR H O IOS:TresaMathe, Todd5Nedl
ASSSTATOsTOnEDITOSs,: Kathrinekal,:PuShermn, A.dam trioitze,
Kisen Cleghorn and
NcktCruz MunagingDeignEitoes deign@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Maguzine uditor satemenot@michigandaity.com
DsEUTYoMAGAINEoEDITOR: ieearcy
Josephine Adans and
TomeMclrien Copy Chiehs copydesk@micltigandaily.com
SENIaOCOPY EDITORS~a: Jennie olea,KeiyoMc~ugin
BUSINESS STAFF
AshleytKanadsheh Assoite Business Manager
SeanlJackson SlesiManager
SophielGreenbaunroduction Munager
Meryl Hulteng National AcountMunauer
Connor BydrFinneMunaeer
Qay VOCirulaion Manage
The Migin Daily (ISN075-6i)lis pusheiMondythrough Fiay drigtheifall and
wnte temiby sdents atithe Unisersity oflMicigan.Oe copy iavailable free ofichage
to all eaders. Additinal copiesmay e pikeduate aily's ofief, 2. Sbsriptis for,
tall tem, startiguinSepteme,via U.. mal:are$110. Winteterm(auary throuh pril)is
$t15,yealong(Septemer thrugh pil)is$15. Uivesity fltiate aeisbet toa eiscei
suscr:iptionrate. On-campsusssciption s: fll ters ire $35. Subscriptiosimust ie prepaid.
The MiianDaily i is a e e o sscited Pess and The Asssiated Colleg:itePress.

i

JUST LIKE DATING PROFILES,
WE LOOK BETTER ONLINE.

0

4

I

4

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 22, 2413 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, April 22, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
VASSAR, Mich.
Spring storms
affecting Michigan
sugar beet farmers
Heavy rainstorms this spring
have forced Michigan sugar beet
growers to postpone planting.
Michigan State University
Extension educator and sugar beet
expert Steven Poindexter says it's
not time to panic despite the delay.
He tells MLive.com that
although earlier planting of sugar
beets means more growing time
and usually larger beets, farmers
have planted them as late as June
some years and still had a success-
ful harvest.
Dave Zwerk of Tuscola County-
based Zwerk & Sons Farms says
he's hoping his 1,200 sugar beet
acres will be ready for planting in
the coming weeks.
Zwerk says if he "can get in
there in the next week or so," he
"might not lose a lot of yield."
DENVER
Snowboarders
killed in
avalanche ID'd
Authorities have released the
names of four Colorado snow-
boarders and one skier killed over
the weekend in the state's dead-
liest avalanche in more than 50
years.
Clear Creek County Sheriff Don
Krueger said search and rescue
crews recovered the men's bod-
ies from a backcountry area on
Loveland Pass several hours after
Saturday afternoon's slide, which
was estimated to be about 600 feet
wide and eight feet deep. All of
the men were equipped with ava-
lanche beacons.
The sheriff identified the vic-
tims Sunday as Christopher
Peters, 32, of Lakewood; Joseph
Timlin, 32, of Gypsum; Ryan
Novack, 33, of Boulder; Ian Lan-
phere, 36, of Crested Butte; and
Rick Gaukel, 33, of Estes Park.
CLARKSVILLE, Mich.
Rivers crest across
Midwest; more
rain in forecast
Those fighting floods in several
communities along the Missis-
sippi River were mostly success-
ful Sunday despite the onslaught
of water, but an ominous forecast
and the growing accumulation of
snow in the upper Midwest tem-
pered any feelings of victory.
The surging Mississippi was at
or near crest at several places from
the Quad Cities south to near St.
Louis - some reaching 10-12 feet
above flood stage. Problems were
plentiful: Hundreds of thousands
of acres of swamped farmland as
planting season approaches; three

people died; roads and bridges
closed, including sections of major
highways like U.S. 61 in Iowa and
Missouri and crossings at Quincy,
Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
NEW DELHI, India
Condition of Indian
child who was
raped improves
The condition of a 5-year-old
girl who was raped, tortured and
then left alone in a locked room
for two days has improved, a doc-
tor said, as protests continued in
India's capital over the authori-
ties' handlingof the case.
The girl was in critical condi-
tion when she was transferred
Thursday from a local hospital to
the largest government-run hospi-
tal in the country. But D.K. Shar-
ma, medical superintendent of the
state-run hospital in New Delhi
where the girl was being treated,
said Sunday that she was respond-
ing well to treatment and that her
condition had stabilized.
Police say the girl went miss-
ing April 15 and was found two
days later by neighbors who heard
her crying in a locked room in the
same New Delhi building where
she lives with her family.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports.

Rural China rushes relief after Bombing suspects
quake kills 186, injures 11,000 planned more attacks

Earthquake with 7.0
magnitude leaves
survivors struggling
to access aid
LUSHAN, China (AP) - Luo
Shiqiang sat near chunks of con-
crete, bricks and a ripped orange
sofa and told how his grandfa-
ther was just returning from
feeding chickens when their
house collapsed and crushed
him to death in this weekend's
powerful earthquake in south-
western China.
"We lost everything in such
a short time," the 20-year-old
college student said Sunday.
He said his cousin also was
injured in the collapse, but
that other members of his fam-
ily were spared because they
were out working in the fields
of hard-hit Longmen village in
Lushan county.
Saturday's earthquake in
Sichuan province killed at least
186 people, injured more than
11,000 and left nearly two dozen
missing, mostly in the rural
communities around Ya'an city,
along the same fault line where
a devastating quake to the north
killed more than 90,000 people
in Sichuan and neighboring
areas five years ago in one of
China's worst natural disasters.
The Lushan and Baoxing
counties hardest-hit on Satur-
day had escaped the worst of
the damage in the 2008 quake,
and residents there said they
benefited little from the region's
rebuilding after the disaster,
with no special reinforcements
made or new evacuation proce-
dures introduced in their remote
communities.
Luo said he wished more had
been done to make his commu-
nity's buildings quake-resistant.
"Maybe the country's leaders
really wanted to help us, but
when it comes to the lower levels
the officials don't carry it out,"
he said.
Relief teams flew in helicop-
ters and dynamited through
landslides Sunday to reach some

of the most isolated communi- cine and rescue equipment to
ties, where rescuers in orange the disaster areas.
overalls led sniffer dogs through United Nations Secretary-
piles of brick, concrete and wood General Ban Ki-moon said Sun-
debris to search for survivors. day thatthe U.N. stood ready"to
Many residents complained provide assistance and to mobi-
that although emergency teams lize any international support
were quick to carry away bod- that may be needed," according
ies and search for survivors, to a statement released by the
they had so far done little to U.N. spokesperson.
distribute aid. "No water, no In his condolence message,
shelter," read a hand-written Ban said he "is deeply saddened
sign held up by children on a by the loss of life, injuries and
roadside in Longmen. destruction" caused by the
"I was working in the field earthquake and aftershocks
when I heard the explosions of that struck Sichuan province.
the earthquake, and I turned Lushan, where the quake
around and saw my house sim- struck, lies where the fertile
ply flatten in front of me," said Sichuan plain meets foothills
Fu Qiuyue, a 70-year-old rape- that eventually rise to the Tibet-
seed farmer in Longmen. an plateau and sits atop the
Fu sat with her husband, Ren Longmenshan fault, where the
Dehua, in a makeshift shelter 2008 quake struck.
of logs and a plastic sheet on The seat of Lushan county
a patch of grass near where a has been turned into a large ref-
helicopter had parked to reach ugee camp, with tents set up on
their community of terraced open spaces, and volunteers dol-
grain and vegetable fields. She ing out noodles and boxed meals
said the collapse of the house to survivors from stalls and the
had crushed eight pigs to death, backs of vans.
"It was the scariest sound I have A large van with a convert-
ever heard," she said. ible side served as a mobile bank
The quake - measured by with an ATM, military medi-
China's earthquake adminis- cal trucks provided X-rays for
tration at magnitude 7.0 and by people with minor injuries, and
the U.S. Geological Survey at 6.6 military doctors administered
- struck shortly after 8 a.m. on basic first aid, applying iodine
Saturday. Tens of thousands of solution to cuts and examining
people moved into tents or cars, bruises.
unable to return home or too Patients with minor ailments
afraid to go back as aftershocks were lying in tents in the yard
continued to jolt the region. of the local hospital, which was
The quake killed at least wrecked by the quake, with the
186 people, left 21 missing and most severely injured patients
injured 11,393, the official Xin- sent to the provincial capital.
hua News Agency quoted the With a limited water supply
provincial emergency command and buildings inaccessible,
center as saying. sanitation is a problem for the
As in most natural disasters, survivors.
the governmentmobilized thou- One of the patients receiving
sands of soldiers and others, care in the hospital's yard was
sending excavators and other the son of odd-job laborer Zhou
heavy machinery as well as Lin, 22. The baby boy was born
tents, blankets and other emer- a day before the quake struck.
gency supplies. Two soldiers Zhou said he was relieved
died after their vehicle slid off that his newborn son and wife
a road and rolled down a cliff, were safe and healthy but was
state media reported. worried about his 60-year-
The Chinese Red Cross said it old father and other relatives
had deployed relief teams with who have been unreachable in
supplies of food, water, medi- Baoxing.

Police say wealth
of weapons suggest
other possible hits
BOSTON (AP) - As churches
paused to mourn the dead and
console the survivors of the Bos-
ton Marathon bombing Sunday,
the city's police commissioner
said the two suspects had such
a large cache of weapons that
they were probably planning
other attacks. The survivingsus-
pect remained hospitalized and
unable to speak with a gunshot
wound to the throat.
After the two brothers
engaged in a gun battle with
police early Friday, authorities
found many unexploded home-
made bombs at the scene, along
with more than 250 rounds of
ammunition.
Police Commissioner Ed Davis
said the stockpile was "as dan-
gerous as it gets in urban polic-
ing."
"We have reason to believe,
based upon the evidence that was
found at that scene - the explo-
sions, the explosive ordnance
that was unexploded and the
firepower that they had - that
they were going to attack other
individuals. That's my belief
at this point" Davis told CBS's
"Face the Nation."
On "Fox News Sunday," he
said authorities cannot be posi-
tive there are not more explo-
sives somewhere that have not
been found. But the people of
Boston are safe, he insisted.
The suspects in the twin
bombings that killed three peo-
ple and wounded more than 180
are two ethnic Chechen brothers
from southern Russia - 19-year-
old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his
26-year-old brother, Tamerlan.
Their motive remained unclear.
The older brother was killed
during a getaway attempt. The
younger brother, Dzhokhar Tsar-
naev, was still in serious condi-
tion Sunday after his capture
Friday from a tarp-covered boat
in a suburban Boston backyard.
Authorities would not comment
on whether he had been ques-
tioned.
Sen. Dan Coats of Indiana,
a member of the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee, said Tsar-
naev's throat wound raised
questions about when he will be
able to talk again, if ever.
The wound "doesn't mean he
can't communicate, but right
now I think he's in a condition
where we can't get any informa-
tion from him at all," Coats told
ABC's "This Week."
It was not clear whether Tsar-
naev was shot by police or inflict-
ed the wound himself.
In the final standoff with
police, shots were fired from the
boat, but investigators have not

determined where the gunfire
was aimed, Davis said.
In an interview with The
Associated Press, the parents of
Tamerlan Tsarnaev insisted Sun-
day that he came to Dagestan and
Chechnya last year to visit rela-
tives and had nothing to do with
the militants operating in the
volatile part of Russia. His father
said he slept much of the time.
The younger Tsarnaev could
be charged any day. The most
serious charge available to fed-
eral prosecutors would be the
use of a weapon of mass destruc-
tion to kill people, which carries
a possible death sentence. Massa-
chusetts does not have the death
penalty.
Across the rattled streets of
Boston, churches opened their
doors to remember the dead and
ease the grief of the living.
At the Cathedral of the Holy
Cross in South Boston, photo-
graphs of the three people killed
in the attack and a Massachusetts
Institute of Technology police
officer slain Thursday were dis-
played on the altar, each face illu-
minated by a glowing white pillar
candle.
"I hope we can all heal and
move forward," said Kelly McK-
ernan, who was crying as she left
the service. "And obviously, the
Mass today was a first step for us
in that direction."
A six-block segment of
Boylston Street,where the bombs
were detonated, remained closed
Sunday. But city officials were
mapping out a plan to reopen it.
Mayor Thomas Menino said
Sunday that once the scene is
released by the FBI, the city will
follow a five-step process, includ-
ing environmental testing and a
safety assessment of buildings.
The exact timetable was uncer-
tain.
Boston's historic Trinity
Church could not host services
Sunday because it was within
the crime scene, but the congre-
gation was invited to worship at
the Temple Israel synagogue
instead. The FBI allowed
church officials a half-hour
Saturday to go inside to gather
the priests' robes, the wine and
bread for Sunday's service.
Trinity's Rev. Samuel T.
Lloyd III offered a prayer for
those who were slain "and for
those who must rebuild their
lives without the legs that they
ran and walked on last week."
"So where is God when the
terrorists do their work?" Lloyd
asked. "God is there, holding
us and sustaining us. God is in
the pain the victims are suffer-
ing, and the healing that will go
on. God is with us as we try still
to build a just world, a world
where there will not be terror-
ists doing their terrible dam-
age."

Officials say at least 185 killed in
Nigeria gun and grenade attack

Officials unable
to discern civilian
deaths from
extremist fighters
BAGA,Nigeria(AP) - Fighting
between Nigeria's military and
Islamic extremists killed at least
185peopleinafishingcommunity
in the nation's far northeast, offi-
cials said Sunday, an attack that
saw insurgents fire rocket-pro-
pelledgrenadesand soldiersspray
machine-gun fire into neighbor-
hoods filled with civilians.
The fighting in Baga began
Friday and lasted for hours,
sending people fleeing into the
arid scrublands surrounding
the community on Lake Chad.
By Sunday, when government
officials finally felt safe enough
to see the destruction, homes,
businesses and vehicles were
burned throughout the area.
The assault marks a sig-
nificant escalation in the long-
running insurgency Nigeria
faces in its predominantly Mus-
lim north, with Boko Haram
extremists mounting a coordi-
nated assault on soldiers using
military-grade weaponry. The
killings also mark one of the
deadliest incidents ever involv-
ing Boko Haram.
Authorities had found and
buried at least 185 bodies as of
Sunday afternoon, said Lawan
Kole, a local government official
in Baga. He spoke haltingly to
Borno state Gov. Kashim Shet-
tima in the Kanuri language of
Nigeria's northeast, surrounded
by still-frightened villagers.
Officials could not offer a
breakdown of civilian casual-
ties versus those of soldiers and
extremist fighters. Many of the
bodies had been burned beyond
recognition in fires that razed
whole sections of the town, resi-
dents said. Those killed were
buried as soon as possible, fol-
lowing local Muslim tradition.

Brig. Gen. Austin Edokpaye,
also on the visit, did not dispute
the casualty figures. Edokpaye
said Boko Haram extremists
used heavy machine guns and
rocket-propelled grenades in
the assault, which began after
soldiers surrounded a mosque
they believed housed members
of the radical Islamic extremist
network Boko Haram. Extrem-
ists earlier had killed a military
officer, the general said.
Edokpaye said extremists
used civilians as human shields
during the fighting - imply-
ing that soldiers opened fire
in neighborhoods where they
knew civilians lived.
"When we reinforced and
returned to the scene the ter-
rorists came out with heavy
firepower, including (rocket-
propelled grenades), which usu-
ally has a conflagration effect,"
the general said.
However, local residents who
spoke to an Associated Press
journalist who accompanied
the state officials said soldiers
purposefully set the fires during
the attack. Violence by security
forces in the northeast target-
ing civilians has been widely
documented by journalists and
human rights activists. A simi-
lar raid in Maiduguri, Borno
state's capital, in October after
extremists killed a military offi-
cer saw soldiers kill at least 30
civilians and set fires across a
neighborhood.
Sundayafternoon,the burned
bodies of cattle and goats still
filled the streets in Baga. Bullet
holes marred burned buildings.
Fearful residents of the town
had begun packingto leave with
their remaining family mem-
bers before nightfall, despite
Shettima trying to convince
some to stay.
"Everyone has been in the
bush since Friday night; we
started returning back to town
because the governor came to
town today," grocer Bashir Isa

said. "To get food to eat in the
town now is a problem because
even the markets are burnt.
We are still picking corpses of
women and children in the bush
and creeks."
The Islamic insurgency in
Nigeria grew out of a 2009 riot
led by Boko Haram members in
Maiduguri that ended in a mili-
tary and police crackdown that
killed some 700 people. The
group's leader died in police cus-
tody in an apparent execution.
From 2010 on, Islamic extrem-
ists have engaged in hit-and-run
shootings and suicide bombings,
attacks that have killed at least
1,548 people before Friday's
attack, according to an AP count.
In January 2012, Boko Haram
launched a coordinated attack in
Kano, northern Nigeria's largest
city, that killed at leastl185 people
as well. However, casualty num-
bers remain murky in Nigeria,
where security and government
officials often downplay figures.
Boko Haram, which means
"Western education is sacri-
lege" in the Hausa language of
Nigeria's north, has said it wants
its imprisoned members freed
and Nigeria to adopt strict Sha-
riah law across the multiethnic
nation of more than 160 mil-
lion people. While the admin-
istration of President Goodluck
Jonathan has started a commit-
tee to look at the idea of offering
an amnesty deal to extremist
fighters, Boko Haram's leader
Abubakar Shekau has dismissed
the ideaout of hand in messages.
The Boko Haram network,
which analysts and diplomats
say has loose links to two other
al-Qaida-aligned groups in
Africa, has splintered into other
groups as well. Its command-
and-control structure also
remains unclear. Recent Inter-
net videos featuring Shekau
have shown him with fighters
carrying military weapons he
said were stolen during attacks
on Nigeria's military.

Ero Now - Offer en ds M ay 2nd
. . Classes preparing fortheJunelJuly 2013
MCATtart assoon as: 5/5&516
C Riewn 800-2ReviewI1800-273-8439
Relw PrincetonReview.com
R iven " "20agfa a "'' ATC'c~ocusasnlviigentisodatier ionewetim. 6besee A,i5,2M1-May2.2M3


4A - Monday, April 22, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A -MonayApri 22 203 Th Mihign Daly mihigadauyco

SMIitan 4a1*y
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.

Stigmatizing poverty

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE*EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
On the wrong side of history
Public college requirements should encourage broad learning
bill filed by state Sen. Dan Patrick (R-Houston), aims to
restrict the scope of the six U.S. history credits required
to graduate from a public university in his state. If the bill
passes, students won't be able to satisfy their graduation require-
ments by taking ethnic or cultural history courses and will instead
be forced to choose a history course pertaining to "economy, poli-
tics, war and other significant events" according to a post on Pat-
rick's Facebook page. A case study by the National Association of
Scholars, titled "Recasting History: Is race, class and gender domi-
nating history?" explored the various history courses offered at the
University of Texas and Texas A&M University. Ultimately, it was
this report that motivated Patrick to file the short-sighted bill.

The English language con-
tains a host of words and
phrases meant to brand,
stereotype and
dehumanize.
Chief among
these are the
various labels
set to describe
those who
"lack sufficient
money" - but, JAMES
instead of aptly BRENNAN
describing this
group of people,
we decide to use
words that effectively dehumanize
them. We call them poor, homeless,
destitute, impoverished, in need,
in want, lower-income, lower class,
broke, bankrupt and needy. In real-
ity, "the poor" are just people, albeit
with less money.
Our language, our culture and
our institutions have led to a char-
acterization of indigent people as
not just an underclass, but as dis-
tinctly differenthumanbeings infe-
rior to other members of society.
There's a tendency to describe "the
poor" as lazy, morally bankrupt
and a detriment to society. They're
characterized as criminals, junk-
ies and moochers, looking to make
money only by panhandling or tak-
inggovernment handouts.
These stereotypes are patently
false and insulting to millions of
hard-working people who simply
live under a different set of circum-
stances than some of us. Maybe
most Americans don't overtly think
of indigent people this way, but the
somewhat subconscious, reflexive
way that society stigmatizes "the
poor" - such as the lower prop-
erty values that automatically come
when a neighborhood has several
low-income people living in it - is
extremely harmful.
Negative perceptions of the poor .
lead to very similar consequences as
those experienced by black Ameri-

cans in pre-civil-rights America. them off and leave them with no way
The perception of blacks as lesser back to get back. "The ride" is just
people made whites demand sepa- another example of indigent people
ratism in schools, public places, being treated as lesser human beings
private businesses and housing. by society, forced out of a popular
This separation limited opportu- entertainment district because they
nities for blacks in education and make middle- and upper-income
work while feeding the stereotype people uncomfortable.
that black people were inherently Now I'm sure that no one likes
inferior to whites - a perception to be panhandled or bothered, but
prevalent in both black and white being poor is not a crime. Standing d
communities during the period. around on the streets because your
The exact same thing is hap- shelter is closed and you don't have a
pening with low-income people job in one of the worst recessions-in
now. The poor, for the most part, history doesn't justify police round-
live in separate neighborhoods, go ing you up and moving you out of
to separate schools, work separate sight. This type of law enforcement
jobs and live completely separate crackdown may be effective in mak-
lives. They're rarely the focus of ing parts of Detroit more appealing
television or mov- to young profes-
ies, and the media sionals and others
predominantly who could bring
caters to middle- Living on the streets in much needed
and upper-income use your shelter income for the city,
people while but it's a huge vio-
characterizing is closed doesn't lation of the civil
the poor mostly in . . . rights and civil
a negative light. justify polce action. liberties of some
The concept of the of the most vulner-
American promise able individuals
itself is harmful to - not to mention
the poor: It's the land of opportu- a group of people who have, for the
nity, where anyone who works hard most part, lived in the city for their
can get ahead. This breeds an ideol- entire lives.
ogy that says because indigent peo- There's a tendency in society to
ple aren't ahead, they must not be ignore indigent people, to write
working hard enough. This ignores them off as useless, lazy, criminal
the barriers to success that society individuals who bring down the rest
has put up all around them. of society. That's why it's always so
Just last week, we were hit with easy for politicians to advocate for
yet another example of the horrible cutting welfare, raising sales taxes
harm done by popular dehuman- and improving things for "the mid-
ization of the poor. The American die class" rather than the poor. You
Civil Liberties Union of Michigan and I are no better than indigent
conducted a yearlong investigation people, regardless of what the news,
in which they discovered a com- popular culture orpoliticians tell us.
mon occurrence that Detroit police volunteer at a soup kitchen, shelter
call "the ride." Officers force home- or warming center in Detroit, keep
less people in the Greektown area your mind open, and I'd be willing
of Detroit to hand over their spare to bet you'll feel the same way.
change and get into a police van. The
police proceed to drive them miles - James Brennan can be
away to the city's outskirts, drop reached at jmbthree@umich.edu.

The research conducted by the NAS seems
to be an overstep, as it marginalizes multicul-
turalism and ethnic studies. Proposing such a
drastic bill requires far more research. This
demonstrates a serious lack in understanding
the value of all types of history. Fundamental
to the study of history is a difference of opin-
ions, debate and case-specific research. The
teaching and learning of history would not
flourish in the restrictive environment this
bill would create.
In 2010, another bill in Texas was passed
making it mandatory for high-school students
to take two of the three social-science courses:
"United States History Studies Since 1877,"
"United States Government" and "Economics
with Emphasis on the Free Enterprise System
and Its Benefits." This structure is very broad
and adequately introduces students to Ameri-
can history before they graduate. Enforcing
Patrick's American history requirements on
college students would be counterproductive
and perhaps repetitive. Students attend col-

lege to expand their knowledge base, and they
should not be restricted to take certain history
classes while barred from others.
Furthermore, if the bill is passed, some
experienced professors who are renowned in
their field of research will be ignored. Classes
such as "History of Mexican Americans in the
U.S." and "The Black Power Movement" that,
according to the NAS report, are being taught
right now at University of Texas and Texas
A&M wouldn't count towards the American
history requirement for students to graduate.
This doesn't only avoid the study of diverse
communities, but this requirement would also
restrict students' options and limit their expo-
sure to a diverse array of topics. What Pat-
rick fails to realize is that these cultural and
ethnic topics are wide-ranging because they
surpass the borders of our nation. Ignoring
ethnic minorities and different cultures isn't
just undervaluing these groups, but denying
students the knowledge and tools they need in
such an intercultural, globalized world.

#therealm *c igandifference

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Eric Ferguson, Jesse Klein,
Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet, Sam Mancina,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Jasmine McNenny, Harsha Nahata,
Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth,
Daniel Wang, Luchen Wang, Derek Wolfe
MAYA MENLO
Justice delayed 1s Justice denied

Imprisoned in aBirmingham jail cell, Mar-
tin LutherKing, Jr. reflected,"Justice too long
delayed is justice denied." Indeed, it's this
exact sentiment that we hold in our hearts
this week as we look forward to both the fifti-
eth anniversary of the March on Washington
for Jobs and Freedom in August, and the two-
year anniversary of the closure of PT Kizone,
an Indonesian factory that produced Adidas
apparel for the University of Michigan.
The Worker Rights Consortium, a labor
watchdog organization, first reported on
Adidas' refusal to pay $1.8 million in legally
owed severance to 2,700 Indonesian workers
soon after the closure of the PT Kizone fac-
tory in April 2011. For two years now, Adidas
hasn't budged on the issue of severance, even
though its contracts with various universi-
ties across the nation - including the Univer-
sity of Michigan - require that Adidas take
responsibility for paying its subcontracted
factory workers legally mandated benefits.
Adidas' intransigence is all the more alarm-
ing when compared to the actions of Nike.
Nike was also producing in PT Kizone at the
time of the factory's closure but, unlike Adi-
das, Nike complied with the WRC's recom-
mendation and agreed to pay $1.5 million in
severance to the former PT Kizone workers.
Denying workers their legally owed sever-
ance pay for two years certainly falls under
King's definition of "justice too long delayed."
With each passing day, the former PT Kizone
workers are continually denied their rights.
And this delayed justice has real consequenc-
es. In a survey conducted by the WRC, 87
percent of former PT Kizone workers report
that since the factory's closure, they have
been unable to afford food that meets their
families' basic nutritional needs. Most have
fallen behind on rent and children's school
fees. When asked how they were dealing with
health care, most workers reported that they
couldn't afford to see any kind ofmedical pro-
fessional and could only buy over-the-coun-
ter medication from a neighborhood vendor.
These are only a few of the laundry list of
hardships former PT Kizone workers face
on a daily basis as a direct result of Adidas'
refusal to pay their legally-owed severance.
Yet, fearless and unwavering workers

and students have matched Adidas' ruth-
less inhumanity with fierce determination.
This week at Adidas headquarters in Ger-
many, PT Kizone workers are delivering a
petition demanding their legally owed sev-
erance signed by nearly a thousand former
workers. This is a campaign of international
proportions; former PT Kizone workers have
joined in solidarity with other Adidas work-
ers across the world, from Honduras to Haiti
to India, to take on the company's sweatshop
supply chain. And the capacity for change is
enormous.
United Students Against Sweatshops, the
national organization spearheading this cam-
paign, knows that, based on past victories,
university actions can force Adidas to change
its ways. In 2009, 25 universities across the
country cut contracts with uniform supplier
Russell Athletic until the company agreed to
re-open a union factory and implement union
neutrality throughout its Honduran plants. In
2010, contract terminations compelled Nike
to pay more than $2 million in severance pay
to 1,800 Honduran garment workers. Today,
the University has the historic opportunity
to be a part of a global movement for brand
responsibility, human rights promotion and
worker solidarity.
United Students Against Sweatshops at
the University of Michigan is demanding
that University President Mary Sue Coleman
stand in solidarity with these workers by cut-
ting ties with Adidas due to the company's
past of worker abuse and negligence of human
rights. Ten universities have already termi-
nated their contracts with Adidas, including
big-name sports schools like the University of
Washington, Pennsylvania State University
and Georgetown University. The University
of Michigan should be next.
Each day the University waits to take
action, another' PT Kizone worker's fam-
ily falls deeper into debt and poverty. As this
week marks the two-year anniversary of Adi-
das' workers struggle for justice, USAS asks
University President Mary Sue Coleman to
recall MLK's words, and to cut ties with Adi-
das over its flagrant denial of justice.
Maya Menlo is an LSA sophomore.

Whenever anything note-
worthy happens in rela-
tion to the University,
someone out -
there is certain
to tweet about it
and tack on the
obligatory #the-
michigandiffer-
ence.
As of late, The
Michigan Dif-
ference's online HEMA
presence has KARUNA-
been reduced KARA
to sophomoric
tales such as "fed
a squirrel on the Diag" or "chugged
four Natty Lights before 8 a.m. on a
football Saturday." Originally start-
ed as a marketing and fundraising
campaign, the real intention of The
Michigan Difference is to highlight
the great impact that Michigan's
students, faculty and staff have in
the world.
Since the campaign was launched
in 2005, these three words have
been used (and misused) every-
where to set the bar for achieve-
ment and success among everyone
on this campus. From the moment
freshmen set foot in the Carl Milles
Fountain outside the Michigan
League during orientation, they are
expected to become a part of The
Michigan Difference. In fact, just
getting in to this University means
they already are The Michigan Dif-
ference. And every internship or
job they get where they beat out
the rest of the crowd helps them be
The Michigan Difference. And once
they graduate, they'll be a part of
the largest alumni network in the
world - that is, The Michigan Dif-
ference. And one day, they'll join
the ranks of Gerald Ford, Arthur
Miller and James Earl Jones as they
make a positive impact on soci-
ety and they'll have achieved The
Michigan Difference.
While in all fairness I feel
extremely proud and honored to be
a Wolverine whenever I hear such
great tales, I have to wonder if we
set the bar too high. The Michigan
Difference undoubtedly exists, but
by focusing so much on achiev-
ing that difference, on being of
importance to society, on changing

the world - are we losing sight of conversations I've had with those
something more important? three won't. That's value.
I recently landed a really great The first professor I ever had at
engineering co-op, and as excited Michigan, Gavin LaRose, is to date
as I initially was, it's just start- still the best one in my opinion. But
ing to sink in that I'll be gone for it wasn't that I loved calculus that
a while. Doing a co-op means tak- much. It's the personal touch that
ing a semester off, so I'll be out of Gavin added to his lectures, how he
the state for six months. I won't went out of his way to learn all of
see everything in this campus that our names, the fact that three years
means so much to me until January. later, I still remember Stoke's theo-
it's OK, though, because I'm fur- rem just because he was so excited
thering my career goals and getting to teach it. That's value.
closer to that dream job where I'm I went home this past weekend
providing real value to society. Isn't and ran into several members of
that what the College of Engineer- my community who've watched me
ing wants me to do? grow up. I don't remember exactly
Focus on the goal. Think about what we talked about, but I do know
the difference you want to make how excited they all were to see
in the world. Work hard enough me nearing the end of my college
in your classes career already,
so that your GPA and how much
doesn't hold you faith they had that
back. Get involved. Be the best person I was poised to be
Build an impres- successful. That's
sive resume. Get you can be now. Your value.
the perfect intern- legacy will fill those Where do you
ship for the perfect see The Michigan
job for the perfect footprints over time. Difference really
life. Be The Michi- impacting your
gan Difference. life? You have
Sound familiar? to bring value to
It's not just the College of Engi- those around you before you can
neering. Nearly every academic dis- even begin to change the world.
cipline forces down the idea that we I have my whole life to keep net-
need to work hard to become lead- working, job-hunting and improv-
ers in our field. Even campus orga- ing my skills. The University might
nizations that are the livelihoods of challenge me to leave a legacy, but
so many students often push us to today those personal connections
feel the need to leave behind a leg- are more important. The Michigan
acy. I know I've fallen into this trap Difference trickles out from each of
over the years, the trap of expect- those connections, whether they're
ing the effect before fully executing with family and friends at home or
the cause. This is Michigan fergod- peers and teachers on this campus.
sakes and upon graduation we're College is tough, and "the real
supposed to do something great world" is tougher, but it isn't a race.
with our lives. After all, we go to the 12th best uni-
But it takes baby steps. We can't versity in the world and every day
just leave here and change the world we're surrounded by diversity, pas-
in one fell swoop. We're taught to sion and opportunity. There's noth-
believe we must bring value to soci- ing wrong with walking through it
ety, but it might do us all well to all slowly, really stopping to get to
consider who really brings us value. know people and know yourself.
Eight students were arrested That's the real Michigan Differ-
last week during a protest on cam- ence. So stop running and be the
pus organized by the Coalition for best person you can be right now.
Tuition Equality. While their cause Your legacy will fill those foot-
is undoubtedly admirable, the fact prints over time.
that I knew three of them person-
ally was what really struck me. The - Hema Karunakaram can be
headlines fade, but the impassioned reached at khema@umich.edu.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words.
Send the writer's full name and University affiliation. to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.


The Michigan Daily -: michigandaily.com

Monday, April 22, 2013 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, April 22, 2013 - 5A

RELAY
From Page 1A
especially for a cause so easy to
rally around.
"It's something where when
you're dealing with hun-
dreds of thousands of dollars
... you know the difference
that you're making," she said.
"Putting on a 24-hour event is
like nothing else, it's one-of-a-
kind."
In addition to Knysh, there
are about 70 other students on
the planning committee, includ-
ing 20 directors who have been
planning the event for more
than a year. Knysh said plans
for next year's event are already
under way.

MRelay partnered with
Kaplan Test Prep to fund the
event. Local businesses, includ-
ing Domino's, Pizza Hut and
Chipotle, also donated lunch to
the participants.
LSA sophomore Michael
Miller, Relay for Life chair
for the University's chapter
of the Sigma Chi Fraternity,
wrote in an e-mail that he
had never realized the impor-
tance of the cause before this
year, previously believing it
was only a way to raise money
and awareness about cancer.
He said his favorite part of
the event was the Luminaria
Ceremony.
"I literally was able to see the
community of the University
come together and remember

the reason we were all there,"
Miller said. "It was definitely
a moment I will remember for-
ever."
LSA sophomores Kristin
Soreide and Erin Farley, mem-
bers of University Students Act-
ing Against Cancer, said they far
exceeded their personal fun-
draising goal of $2,500 for the
event.
"My dad passed away when I
was in second grade ... so I like
to fight and be here for Relay
for Life to help other people
not lose their parents," Sore-
ide said. "It's a fun way to raise
money."
"Everybody in some way or
form is affected by cancer,"
Farley added. "It's a great
cause."


NAACP
From Page 1A
said the Image Awards provide
the opportunity to dress up and
celebrate other students as a cap-
stone to the academic year.
"This event is really impor-
tant because it celebrates our
achievements , through com-
munity service, academics and
involvement in the black com-
munity," Hemby said.
Nominated for the Ida B.
Wells sophomore award, Hemby
attended the event for the sec-
ond time Sunday. Like the other
nominated students, Hemby is
active in many organizations
including Kappa Omega Alpha
pre-law fraternity and the Big
Ten Network and serving as

secretary of the Black Student
Union.
"The other nominees are just
as involved as I am," Hemby
said. "Even if I don't win it, I'm
still proud of them."
Between award presentations
bearing the names of historic
figures such as civil rights lead-
ers Martin Luther King Jr. and
Supreme Court Justice Clarence
Thomas, musical performances
punctuated the evening. The
Black National Anthem, "Lift
Every Voice and Sing," brought
the crowd to its feet.
Interpretive dancer Devon
Jones, paused between melo-
dies - including a song by pop
artist Bruno Mars - to offer
life lessons to the audience.
Reflecting on the award night,
Jones reminded nominees that

the plaques did not represent a
culmination, but rather a begin-
ning.
"Success is not a destination,"
Jones said.
The ceremony also included
a tribute to University political
science Prof. Walton Hanes, Jr.,
who passed away earlier this
year. Elizabeth James and Ron-
ald Woods, both Afroamerican
and African Studies professors,
lauded Hanes' work in advanc-
ing the study of Civil-Rights-era
politics.
James also noted that the
University produced more
black political scientists than
any other institution in the
nation due to Hanes' mentoring
efforts.
"He was authentic, as only a
superhero can be."

UNION
From Page 1A
Susan Pile, director of the
Michigan Union, said in a state-
ment that Ahmo's will bring
more variety and healthy options
to MUG.
"As we looked back on our
partnership with Ahmo's at
Pierpont Commons this past
year, we have been impressed
with their dedication to cus-
tomer service and healthy offer-
ings," Pile said. "We know this
long-standing Ann Arbor opera-
tor has been a popular destina-
tion and we're excited to bring
a new location to this part of
campus."
Wendy's and Subway are
returning after their leases end,
but with expanded options.
Subway will be adding a break-
fast menu, Freshens' smooth-
ies and a second line for more
THANKS
From Page 1A
Organizers of the event includ-
ed Parikh; LSA freshman Tanner
Waterstreet, the co-chair of the
CSG External Relations Commis-
sion; LSA junior Jill Clancy, the
CSG chief programming officer;
and LSA freshman Nick Swider, a
CSG intern.
Waterstreet said he would like
to see this event, as well as other
community service events, resur-
face in the future.
The future of community
service through CSG received
another boost as the incoming
CSG president and vice president,
Business junior Mike Proppe and
LSA sophomore Bobby Dishell
attended the event.
"I think service projects like

efficient service. Wendy's will
also update its food preparation
and add a Coca-Cola Freestyle
machine, a soda fountain that
allows customers to customize
their drink orders with more
than 100 soft drink flavor com-
binations.
Adam Kleven, chair of the
Michigan Union Board of rep-
resentatives, said in a statement
that Subway and Wendy's allow
students a variety of options
at reasonable prices. He added
that student feedback made it
clear that an American-style
restaurant needed to stay in the
Union.
In addition to the new res-
taurants, the release announced
renovations to MUG beginning
May 5. The renovations are
expected to update the operat-
ing spaces of the restaurants
and improve the seating area.
While the area is undergoing
renovations, guest operators
this are something that student
government should probably do a
little bit more of (and) hasn't done
a lot of in the past," Proppe said,
adding that he's already talked
with CSG's Peace and Justice
Commission about doing more
service projects.
Dishell said it's important to
be thankful for a city that does so
much for its student residents.
Parikh said several student
groups were partners in the
event, including the African Stu-
dents Association, Smile Bringer
Singers, Michigan Izzat, Michi-
gan Club Wrestling and buildOn.
All involved students were split
among the seven sites.
LSA sophomore Benjamin Far-
rell and LSA senior Chloe Prince
were two of the volunteers at Gal-
lup Park. Both said they heard of
the event through the campus-

will provide food service on the
first floor.
"I like Mediterranean food,
but it sucks that they're taking
out more than one restaurant,"
LSA freshman Saba Keramati
said.
"I like Mediterranean food,
but the pretzels are my favor-
ite," LSA freshman Ryan
McDonough said. "I'll be open
minded, but I'm not happy about
it."
LSA freshmen Nisha Gopal
has never been to Ahmo's, but
said she might try it since she
comes to the Union so often.
Gopal also said that she thinks
a lot of people would have been
upset if Panda Express was
replaced.
"I'll definitely miss Mrs.
Fields," Gopal said, "but thank
God they're keeping Subway."
-Daily Staff Reporter Ariana
Assaf contributed reporting.
wide e-mail that Parikh sent.
Prince said she likes to run
through Ann Arbor parks and
saw the opportunity as a way to
say thanks.
"For me, I'm a senior here. The
e-mail (invitation) was framed
as a way to give back to the Ann
Arbor I've enjoyed over the
last four years," Prime said. "I
thought the least I can do is help
clean up."
Farrell is an Ann Arbor native.
He used to come to Gallup Park
with his father while growing
up, but it had been years since
he'd been there last. He said he
was glad that student leaders
were supportive of keeping the
city clean.
"It's good to have people at the
school that are thinking about
things like this because someone
needs to."


BOSTON
From Page 1A
who ran in the April 15 Boston
Marathon. They logged a com-
bined 543 miles.
Schneidewind said the call for
the event was natural because
running has a feel of community
and camaraderie absent from
any other sport.
"When people run in races,
it's not a competition; typically,
you are trying to beat your own
time," Schneidewind said. "Run-
ners don't feel badly about helping
each other during a race or cheer-
ing for one another because they
just want to see everyone do well."
In Boston, runners were a part
of an inseparable community. The

community showed itself to be
tight-knit in Ann Arbor as well,
Schneidewind said.
"Part of the people that will
show up today will do so because
they saw runners in Boston going
through something difficult and
it resonated with them," he said.
"They wanted to stand up for
their running brethren."
Many University students par-
ticipated in-the run. LSA-fresh--
men Grace Carbeck - who has
family in Boston - and Mike
Lokey said they were running in
memory and support of everyone
in Boston who were victims or
witnesses of the violence.
Ann Arbor resident Lindy Alfa-
ro said as she ran, she was keep-
ing in mind friends who ran in
the Boston Marathon or lived on

the campus of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, which
was the location of a police offi-
cer's death Thursday night.
"After everything they've gone
through, we're showing that we
support them," Alfaro said with
tears in her eyes. "People who
run Boston usually work so hard
all year to train for it, and to
have such a tragic event happen
and- have people get hurt is just
unthinkable."
Schneidewind said Saturday's
event would show that, despite
the disaster in Boston, Americans
are resilient in face of terror.
"This is not going to be some-
thing that is divisive or makes
people turn on each other, but
it'll be something that brings us
together."

Presidential candidate Horacio Cartes greets supporters after election results were made official in Asuncion, Paraguay,
April 21. Cartes won a five-year term with 46 percent of the vote.
Tobacco tycoon elected as
president of Paraguay


Colorado Party
retakes power
executive office
ASUNCION, Paraguay
(AP) - Paraguayans elected a
tobacco magnate as their new
leader Sunday, returning the
conservative Colorado Party to
the presidency that it held for
61 years before former Roman
Catholic bishop Fernando Lugo
won the office in 2008.
Horacio Cartes won a five-
year term with 46 percent of
the vote over 37 percent for
Efrain Alegre of the Radical
Liberal party, the Electoral
Court announced after most
votes were counted. Five other
candidates trailed far behind.
"I'll need help from all the
Paraguayans to govern in the
next five years. Poverty, the
lack of jobs for young people
and international issues await
us," Cartes said Sunday night.
Poverty is widespread in
Paraguay, which is an agrarian
nation that is South America's
No. 3 producer of soy, corn and
sunflowers. About 1 percent
of the population controls 77
percent of the arable land. The
U.N. estimates more than half
of Paraguayans live in pover-
ty, while the country's census
bureau puts the number at 39
percent.
Alegre recognized his defeat
despite saying earlier that he
might challenge the outcome.
"The Paraguayan people have
spoken. There's nothing more
to say," he said in a brief conces-
sion speech.
Cartes, 58, is part of the tiny
elite that controls just about
everything in Paraguay. His
father represented the Cessna

airplane company in Paraguay,
which enabled Cartes to get
schooling in the U.S. state of
Oklahoma.
The president-elect owns
controlling shares in banks,
investment funds, agricultur-
al estates, a soda mtaker and
tobacco plantations. Most pre-
election polls predicted his vic-
tory, despite this being his first
run for public office. Cartes has
been well-known in Paraguay
as president of Libertad, the
club that won last year's nation-
al soccer championship.
Many Paraguayans hope
this election will encour-
age other countries to restore
full relations that were sus-
pended after last year's
impeachment of Lugo, which
neighboring nations saw as
a threat to democracy in the
region.
Nobel Peace Prize laureate
Oscar Arias led an observer
mission from the Organization
of American States, and said
Sunday that he had complete
confidence in the Electoral
Court because it had spent
months observing and support-
ing the process. There were 515
observers from the OAS, Euro-
pean Union, the Union of South
American Nations regional bloc
known as UNASUR and the
Union of Latin American Elec-
toral Organizations.
International election
observer Martin Sequeira
said voting proceeded calmly
with a high turnout. He said
there were some unconfirmed
reports of election fraud com-
plaining that some ballots had
been pre-marked.
But Arias said those were
only "some small incidents,
which you see even in the most
consolidated democracies."

The Colorados held the pres-
idency during and after Alfredo
Stroessner's 35-year-dictator-
ship, until Lugo, a leftist, san-
dal-wearing former bishop,
joined up with the Radical Lib-
erals and was swept into office
on promises of land reform. But
Lugo lacked even a handful of
supporters in congress, made
political missteps within his
own coalition and was stymied
at every turn.
The Radical Liberals finally
joined with the Colorados to
vote Lugo out of office for "poor
performance" last year. The
impeachment process is well
defined under the constitution,
but Paraguay's neighbors criti-
cized the ouster of a popularly
elected president as anti-demo-
cratic and suspended the coun-
try's membership in UNASUR,
the Mercosur trade bloc and
CELAC, which brings together
Caribbean, Latin American and
European Union countries.
Lugo's vice president, Fed-
erico Franco, a Radical Lib-
eral politician who took over
as caretaker president, said he
expects Paraguay's status to
be swiftly normalized after the
new head of state takes office
Aug.15.
Turnout was more than 68
percent among the estimated
3.5 million of Paraguay's 6.2
million citizens who are regis-
tered to vote. They elected 45
senators, 80 deputies, 17 gov-
ernors and 18 delegates to the
Mercosur parliament based in
Uruguay.
Millions more eligible voters
live outside Paraguay, but after
a poorly funded registration
process, fewer than 22,000
people were registered, most
in Argentina, Spain and the
United States.

DO YOU
CHASE
POLICE
CARS?
DO YOU
FOLLOW
MARY SUE
AROUND
CAM PUS?
DO YOU
THINK
CSG IS
NIFTY?
You sound weird
enough to
work here.
COME JOIN
OUR STAFF:
Click "Join the Daily"
at michigandaily.com


6A - Monday, April 22, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Monday, April 22, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Six police officers, three
civilians killed by Taliban

April already the
deadliest month of
year in Afghanistan
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -
Insurgents killed six police offi-
cers at a checkpoint and a suicide
bomber killed three civilians
at a shopping bazaar in sepa-
rate attacks Sunday in eastern
Afghanistan, while an indepen-
dent security group warned 2013
is on track to be one of the most
violent years of the war.
April already has been the
deadliest month this year for
security forces and Afghan and
foreign civilians as the U.S. and
other countries prepare to end
their combat mission by the end
of next year. According to an
Associated Press tally, 222 peo-
ple have been killed in violence
around the nation this month,
including Sunday's nine fatali-
ties.
The Taliban ambushed the
checkpoint in the Dayak dis-
trict of Ghazni province, killing
six police officers, wounding
one and leaving one missing,
said Col. Mohammad Hussain,
deputy provincial police chief.
The checkpoint was manned
by Afghan local police, forces
recruited at the village level that
are nominally under the control

of the Afghan Interior Ministry.
On Friday, Taliban insur-
gents attacked a local police
checkpoint in Andar, a district
of Ghazni province neighboring
Dayak. They killed 13 officers,
according to Sidiq Sidiqi, the
Interior Ministry spokesman.
The second attack on Sunday
hit Paktika province, which bor-
ders Ghazni. A suicide bomber
detonated his explosives in a
shopping bazaar around midday,
killing three people and wound-
ing five civilians and two police
officers, said Mokhlis Afghan,
the spokesman for the provincial
governor. Among the dead was
Asanullah Sadat, who stepped
down as the district's governor
two years ago.
Zabiullah Mujahid, a spokes-
man for Taliban, claimed respon-
sibility for the suicide bombing.
In an email to reporters, he said
the Taliban used the bomber to
target Sadat because of his close
relations with the Afghan gov-
ernment and the U.S.
In other violence, the Tali-
ban cut a hand and foot off each
of two villagers they accused of
helping escort coalition convoys,
a spokesman for the provincial
chief in western Herat province
said.
Noor Khan Nekzad said the
men were admitted to a hospital
in Herat city on Sunday. two days

after the amputations. The Tali-
ban have long killed government
employees and those who help
the coalition, considering them
enemy collaborators, but rarely
have they meted out punishment
by cuttingoff limbs.
Hostilities have surged in
Afghanistan as the spring fight-
ing season begins. This year is
being closely watched because
Afghan forces must operate with
less support from the interna-
tional military coalition. With
foreign forces due to hand over
combat responsibilities to the
local forces next year, the current
fighting is a test of their ability to
take on the country's insurgency.
Reflecting the rise in blood-
shed, the Afghanistan NGO
Safety Office said Sunday there
were 2,331 insurgent-initiated
attacks in the first quarter of
this year, a 47 percent increase
over the same January-March
period last year. "We assess that
the current re-escalation trend
will be preserved throughout
the entire season and that 2013
is set to become the second most.
violent year after 2011," which
suffered 2,755 such attacks in the
firstthree months oftheyear, the
report said.
The U.S.-led NATO coalition
has stopped releasing statistics
on insurgent attacks in Afghani-
stan.

Denver Paramedics, Denver Police officers and good Samaritans tend to a shooting victim at Civic Center Park after the
4/20 pot rally Saturday in Denver.
Gunfire erupts at Cob.
pot event, two wounded

Victims sustain
non-life-threatening
injuries, police
searching for leads
DENVER (AP) - Authori-
ties are hunting for suspects
after shooting broke out during
a massive marijuana celebration
in Denver, leaving two people
with gunshot wounds.

The gunfire scattered thou-
sands attending Saturday's 4/20
counterculture holiday, the first
since Colorado legalized mari-
juana.
A man and a woman each
suffered non-life threatening
gunshot wounds, officials said.
Local media reports said a third
person was grazed.
Denver Police spokesman
Sonny Jackson said investiga-
tors are looking for one or two
suspects, asking festival attend-

1110 OAKLAND
Availability: 5/5/13-8/31/13
Price: $625 per month (neg)
Features: 2 bdrm, 2 floor apt. Reno-
vated kitchen & bath. 2 parking spots,
A/C, all utilities incl except electricity.
Link: cribspot.com/sublet/52
631 EAST UNIVERSITY
Availability: 5/6/13-8/28/13
Price: $450 per month
Features: 5 bdrm, large basement, ldry,
2 fridges, 2 full baths, big kitchen with
dishwasher Fullyfamished. Wifi.
Close to campus!
Link: cribspot.com/sublet/51
LANDMARK: 1300 SOUTH U
Availability: 5/5/13-8/16/13
Price: $529 per month
Features: Great location! Includes
dish-
washer, water, wshr/dryer, full access
to building's gym, theater, fitness cen-
ter, tanning beds, patio, & jacuzzis.
Link: cribspot.com/sublet/50

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
" perfect 180 on LSAT
" Michigan Law grad (3.85 GPA)
" licensed attorney
" 20+ years' teaching experience
" hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
SUMMER STORAGE STUDENT
Specials- Indoor and closest to campus.
Book online now annarborstorage.com
or call 734- 663-0690
THESIS EDITING, LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
WANT: FEMALE TO walk large dog
& clean house in A2. $10/hr cash. I-
3hrs, 2-3x/wk, days vary. 810-845-0777

COLLEGE PRO IS now hiring
painters all across the state to work o
doors w/other students. Earn $3k-51
Advancement opportunities +
internships. 1-888-277-9787 or
www.collegepro.com
HEADED BACK TO the Gro
Pointe area this summer? Want to wo
outside? We are looking for stude
painters. 40 hrs/wk. $8.50/hr. Bon
based on work completed. Em
William to apply at willcall@umich.e
WORK ON THE Beach This Sum
mer! Are you sick of classes? Are yo
ready for summer? Do you want to g
paid to work on the beach??? Tele-
scope Pictures and 85&Sunny is loo
ing for dynamic, motivated,and hart
working college students ready to exp
rience the best summer of their liver
We offer competitive pay, the BEST
work environment, and a summer yo
wilnver forget! ousing andnaidii


wiijGC ugt Fwmg uPu1
RELEASE DATE- Monday, April 22, 2013 leanships are available! Apply Onlin
resortentertainmentgroupinc.com
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle 443.878.2377
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 One in a rush 39 __-Globe: 50 Ascot wearer
1 Sw hblade 3"Your money's no thkable 51 Fundamentals
5 Frenth agoodhre!" cllecibln 53 Ward aftercmim
revolutionarywho 4 Calf meat, in 40 Balaam's mount or landing
was murdered in Provence 41 Lamyer:Abbr. 56 Cop's suspect
a tub 5 Coated buttonlike 42 Cotryhbumpkin 57 Eggs_.easy
10 Hardtooutwit candies 45 Double-cross 58 Move, in
14Trumpetmuffler 6"Slicing Up 46 Lures by brokerese 2013-14
15 Rolled out of bed Freshness" fast- phishing, say 59 Wintertoy PARKING FOR SALE
16 One-named food chain 47Afraid ofruing 60Ta lopeAKG oRis
Gaelicfolk singer 7 Reddish horse out as gaug e- 61 Olympic Grea Locations
17 Bear in two 8 On theocean o g 6 Olympic nCentral Campus
constellations 9 _ paper: school als diner's* Great Rates
18 Pro cager composition 49 Drlyunaracive pedfectin734-761-8000
19 Folksy Joan 10 Devicenfora ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: www.primesh.com
20 Behavior of a Skype chat__
community 11Very agitated E T O N C O L L A R S S N S
23 Martini liquor 12Soap ingredient R O G E R M 0 O R E H O O P "PRIME" PARKING FOR SALE
24AOLchat 13'60s-'80sRed O N O N E S T 0 E S E L M 0 2013-14
components Sax legeed, I I D 0 A M A I L 0 E R Great Locatiens:
25 Turkish _..: spas tamiliarly72S.Frs$10
2824-hourautorace 21 Ford namedfora ISK I I I N E E A T 71320S. Fverity500
cty phorse J A Y EITT E Y OIDE LIS 320.Universit$600
30 "Star Trek" 22 Selectric maker F L 0 O D Z O N E N I C A D 5520 Packard $960
catchphrase 26"Whadjasay?" K L U M A R N I E N O S E 515 E. Lawrence $720
33 Standing straight 27 Double agent 511 Hoover $720
34Aimforpins 29"Oh"deCologne? L O G E S M I N T M A R K S Parkingforless than the rest!
35 "Howcome? 30 Drilling tool I 1 0 N T 0 1 E R A D A K Call 734-761-8000
36 Storage items 31 Potter's pitcher B A T S U I T S E N D
near outdoor 32 Tavern brew R U T B L O B M A R L A
faucets 34Lugosiwho A 8 0 N E L 0 N 0 A T I 0i
40 Satisfied sigh playedDracula
43 Soxplayer, e.g. 37 Cul-de- R U M P R E L I E D U P O N
44 Preface, briefly 38 Pharmaceutical Y S E R S T A B L E M A T E
48 Mlitary officer's giant Eli xwordeditor@aol.com 04/22/13
ride _________________
51Attempttocool, 1 2 3 4 5 6 78 9 1031 13 3
as steaming hot
ssp 14 s 16 !'NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
52P efx with foam Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.
52 mtwom 17 18 19 ! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
H3 Magle or Mines
54 Unlock, poetically 20 z1 2
55Nurturing network ! STERLING 411 LOFTS has limite
oftmilyand 3 24 05 200 summer only bed spaces available sta
,a sah f o 9 0 31 02 ing at $599 all inclusive. Lease date
30-, 36- and 48- '3are May 3rd -August 13th, 2013. 2
Atross 33 34 s blocks from Central Campus and
60 Corncobpipe part downtown. 734-998-4400
62 "The First Time 36 30 38 35 www.4elevenlofts.com
Saw Your 404 2 4 4 4 64
a o,, 04 42 ox a 4s 46 00 6 BR HOUSE avail fall - 2 bathroom
63 Speech problem a 49o 01 new kitchen with dishwasher, lar
64 Stayfresh common area, wshr/dryer, 3 back
65 Dig artifact 52 53 54 back prkg spaces, 1 in garage, no pe
66 Send out, as rays 13-mo lease starting Augl. 1132 Wh
67 508-mile race, 55 sn 57 58nn 9 near State/Packard intersecti
69 a Ph sn sage. 1 6 63 3450/month plus utilities 734-996-19
68 Phones on stage, so 6 2 3
e.g.
69 Contradict 64 65 nn ARBOR PROPERTIES
DOW 7n a no Award-Winning Renials in Kerryow
DOWN 6Ceiitral Campus, Old West Side,
dBring ally th 2essithBnen sc4 Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
bodr legly i(203rrbribsuneMedrvies, Inc. 04/22/13 734-994-3157. svww.arborpropsecom

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC- EL ANE
invites you to visit
M www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac- GROUNDS CREW TEAM
tively priced, most include parking, LEADER
ut- many are fumished and some include We are looking for an experienced
k. utilities. Contact us for details. Com- person to lead our grounds crew.
plete listing for Fall 2013 available Full-time seasonal position offers wag
now! Or call and speak with our based on experience, E..E.
Leasing Consultant, Pat at Apply immediately at: Forest Hills Co
734-663-4101. operative, 2351 Shadowood Drive
sse Ann Arbor, MI - Mon., Tues.,
irk CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED Thurs. - 9:30 am to 3:30 pm
ent rooms for students, shared kitch., dry.,
us bath., internet, summer from $350, fall I'M LOOKING FOR a Customer
ail from $500. Call 734-276-0886. Service Sales Assistant/ Personal
du Assistan t. English speaking employee
EFFICIENCY I BDRM Fall 2013- with strong communication
14. $825-925. Most include heat & wa- skills...$700 weekly. Email me if
ter. Prkg exra cost where avail. cappo- interested at aadrain18l@aol.com
- managemencom 734-996-1991.
)u
et HALF OFF SALE LOCAL NON-PROFIT foundation
EXPRES 4-30-13 looking for interns. Preferable if you
k- HALF OFt PROCESSING FEE have own transportation. Contact
d- HALF OFF SECURITY DEPOSIT henryhlin@gmail.com and see
re- PLUS GET $250 OFF 1ST MONTH'S www.scottfoundation.org
s. RENt!
 (FULL 2 BEDROOMS AND MAY STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
u TO MAY ONLY) Paid survey takers need in A2.
n- Visit us at 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
www.unversitytowers-mi.com
536. ForestAve. WORK ON MACKINAC Island Thi
Ann Arbor, MI 48160 Summer- Make lifelong friends. Th
734-761-2680 Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudg
* Shops are looking for help in all areas
* STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff
your 2013-14 bed space at U-M's Best Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous
housvg. Sold out early for the last 3 ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906
years. 2 blocks from Central Campus 847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
and downtown. 1 - 4 bedroom apart-
ments with May to May or August to
August lease terms available. First H
month FREE on a Mayto May lease.
Sign within 48 hours of a tour on an
August to August lease and receive a
$500 gift card. Limited academic P
leases available. Roommate matching,
parking and private baths available.
Rates starting at $675. 734-998-4400 T
www.4elevenlofts.com
TH
University FOOTBALL
*Toer~BOOK
"HAL Yj)YET?
"AFOFF SALE"
(Expires April 30, 2013)
Half off processing fee
ed
rt- Half off security deposit'
Plus get $250 off
first month's rent!
is, (Full 2 bedrooms DO THE
to and May10 Ma only)
ite
on CROSSWORD
91 Visit us at
- universitytowers-mi.com ORDER
n, 536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48160
734-761-2680 ONE.

ees for possible photo or video of
the shootings.
He said police had no motive
for the gunfire.
Witnesses described a scene
in which a jovial atmosphere
quickly turned to one of panic
at the downtown Civic Center
Park just before 5 p.m. Several
thought firecrackers were being
set off, then a man fell bleeding,
his dog also shot.
"I saw him fall, grabbing his
leg," said Travis Craig, 28, who
was at the celebration, saw the
shooting and said he used a
belt to apply a tourniquet to the
man's leg.
"He was just screaming that
he was in pain, and wanted to
know where his girlfriend was.
She was OK. And then the cops
showed up real quick, like, less
than a minute. They put him on
ambulance and left."
The annual pot celebration
this year was expected to draw
as many as 80,000 people after
recent laws in Colorado and
Washington made marijuana
legal for recreational use.
A sizable police force on
motorcycles and horses had
been watching the celebration
since its start earlier Saturday.
But authorities, who generally
look the other way at public pot
smoking here on April 20, didn't
arrest people for smoking in
public, which is still illegal.
Police said earlier in the week
that they were focused on crowd
security in light of attacks that
killed three at the finish line of
the Boston Marathon.
"We're aware of the events
in Boston," said Denver police
spokesman Aaron Kafer, who
declined to give specifics about
security measures being taken.
"Our message to the public is
that, if you see something, say
something."
Stephanie Riedel, who trav-
eled to the pot celebration from
Pittsburgh, said she was danc-
ing with a hula hoop when she
heard pops. A man ran past her,
then she said the crowd started
screaming and running away.
She was about 20 feet from the
shooting and heard four or five
shots.
"I couldn't make sense of
what it was at first," she said.
"We were all having a good time
and I was in the mindframe of,
we're here at a peace gathering.
I thought it some guys playing."j
Rapper LUP Flip was per-1
forming when the shootings
occurred.
Aerial footage showed the
massive crowd frantically run-
ning from the park.
Ian Bay, who was skate-
boarding through Civic Center
Park when shots erupted, said
he was listening to music on his
headphones when he looked to
his right and saw a swarm of
hundreds of people running at
him.
"I sort of panicked. I thought
I was going through an anxiety
thing because so many people
were coming after me," he said.
Before the shooting, reggae
music filled the air, and so did
the smell of marijuana, as cele-
brants gathered by mid-morning
in the park just beside the state
Capitol.
Group smoke-outs were
planned Saturday from New

York to San Francisco. The ori-
gins of the number "420" as a
code for pot are murky, but the
drug's users have for decades
marked the date 4/20 asa day to
use pot together.


f


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, April 22, 2013 -- 7A

Hypnotizing 'Trance'
thrills with cerebral story

FINE ARTSCOLUMN
Confronting
a fear offirst
drafts

A mesmerizing
Rosario Dawson
shines
By ANDREW MCCLURE
Daily Arts Writer
The Psychological Thriller:
an ambitious project for any
filmmaker. Though most of them
suck, and the
label itself has B
grown a shitty
connotation, Trance
they can com-
pel if they're AtState
resourceful Fox Searchlight
with charac-
ter depth, plot
tangents and original insights.
"Silence of the Lambs" (1991)
and "Memento" (2000) embody
this formula to perfection. They
confound and trip you up with-
out ever losing grip of your mini
attention span. "Trance" follows
the formula, too, but inflates its
details to overcapacity.
Director Danny Boyle ("127
Hours") is no stranger to the
collective audience gasp and
cringe - think of the dead baby
crawling on the ceiling in his
"Trainspotting." He disrupts
any predictability in your emo-
tions, as he did through his zom-
bies in the scary-as-hell "28 Days
Later" or the nerve-ripper, "127
Hours." If you consider yourself
unfeeling, Boyle will quash your
streak. "Trance" allows him
to enter an increasingly perti-
nent realm in these digital days:
obsession.
Simon is an art auctioneer
(James McAvoy, "X-Men: First
Class"), and his secrets used to
haunt him. Now, he's golden and
has forgotten the dirty past. In
the event of a highly efficient
heist to steal a priceless Goya
painting, Simon's ready to dodge
the bullet. During his getaway,
he receives a hard bludgeon
to the brainpan - effectively
unerasing certain erased memo-
ries. In other words, his brain
goes berserk. Captured by the
criminals, Simon is forced to
sign up to see a shrink to hope-
fully unearth where he hid the
Goya.
Immediately, Simon and his
therapist Elizabeth (Rosario
Dawson, "Zookeeper") share
an inexplicable bond, as if they
had once known each other.
Eventually, Elizabeth catches
on to the antics of Simon and
confirms she "wants in" on the
deal: extract the memory imag-
es inside Simon to lead them to
the painting. Simple, right?
Simon's thought patterns
inundate themselves with imag-
es of Elizabeth, not the paint-

about h
years fo
from w
only to
him wo
upon hi
return.
was ble
rhymed
the assi
ment ...
was stil
rible. I
there w
charact
pose to
sort of 1
"Glitter
knew el
ing that
wrote a
Like,
takes ti
writing
ly, corr(
takes ti
and sty
much la
down t,
myself,
as muc
all my n
them.
Nc
dau
b
This
Maybei
zoningi
way toi
lems be
terror.
as "righ
mistake
ness.
"I wr
I got to
I had to
of thew
good,":
teacher
We'd lis
good ab
writing
yet terr
writing
gent dis
other st
Babi:
experie
versity
and nai
tiple En
continu
writing

nce, I wrote this terrible slammed with four papers due
story for my creative within a few days of each other,
writing class. It was all seven-page monsters and, oh,
ow a princess waited yeah, don't forget the chemistry
r her prince to come back midterm! Everythingsucked,
ar, and I didn't have time to focus
find on "getting the bad writing out
unded of the way," because I was too
is busy sinking.
It And so, the bad-writing hab-
ak, it its began. I wrote defensively,
, it fit preventing any wrong word
gn- from slipping out - I didn't
but it ANNA trust myself to write without
1 ter- S getting off-track, and so the
mean, things I wrote were safe, boring
as no and, sometimes, terrifying.
er development, no pur- I was in my Upper-Level
anyone's actions. It was Writing class, toiling away on
ike muddling through my comparison of Dostoevsky
," only worse, because I and Tolstoy, when my friend
ven before I started writ- first brought it up: "Do you ever
it would be bad, butI get too scared to write?" At first
nyway. I didn't understand the ques-
any other skill, writing tion. It's not like essays were a
me. Not even "good" dangerous mission - the worst
- just writing succinct- thing that could happen was
ectly, grammatically carpal tunnel.
me. All the flourishes But soon, it started mak-
listic touches come ing sense. Staring at an open
ater. But every time I sit document, the single blank page
o write, I don't really let waitingto be filled is daunting.
practice. Rather, I spend Writing badly is intimidat-
h time possible fixing ing. Filling up 20 pages with
mistakes before I make excellent phrases like "his skin
was like marble, only soft" is
mortifying. And so, writing
defensively and dispassionately
)thin more is abetter alternative to finding
enough time to weed through
inting than a hours of poorly written plot and
dialogue.
ldank page. Perhaps the reason more
people aren't writers is because
no one has time to witness
their stupidity over and over
is not a good thing. again. Maybe there are few
in any other pursuit, and far between courageous
in on faults is a quick enough to spend the time
identify the small prob- needed confronting their inner
fore they erupt into writer. Even now, as I write this
But writing isn't as easy column, I'm reminded of my
it" and "wrong," and unedited draft waiting in my
es can often lead to great- documents. It sends a shiver of
panic down my spine: Do I ace
rote like 20 pages before the paper, spending far more
the good stuff. It's like time than I have on it, or do
get the bad writing out I study for my midterm? Do I
vay in order to reach the conquer my fear or doI cower,
my high school English prolongingthe inevitable spew-
would endlessly tell us. ing of shitty writing? Maybe I'll
sten, engrossed, feeling start tackling the art of writing
gout the importance of well this summer. Or, maybe
. A simple concept, and not. The possibilities, though
ibly deceiving: Though few, seem hard to accept.
may benefit from dili- But somewhere, among the
sappointment, not many archived essays and B+ papers,
ubjects do. there's a document dedicated to
ed by my high school the suckage that is my bad writ-
nces, I reached the Uni- ing, and every once ina while,
with high hopes. Young the number of pages grows.

"What do you mean you haven't seen 'Atonement."

ing. An obsession, a mania, is
underway. Now they all must
play against the clock to save
what might be long gone. But
Elizabeth's game of hypnosis
distances them from reality,
instead drifting into sub-reali-
ties that mask truth and adorn
lies.
McAvoy essentially plays a
toddler - always curious yet
overwhelmingly ignorant of
all actuality. He rarely pro-
gresses with his objective, liter-
ally freezing when he thinks of
Elizabeth. One moment shows
Simon getting electroshocked
for every thought of Elizabeth;
he convulses despite the nonex-
istent electroshocks. Yeah, he's
whipped. He wins the dual-role

of maniac and mannequin, giv-
ing his manipulators precisely
what they need.
Dawson tantalizes like that
unattainable babysitter you
crushed on in elementary
school. She's too smart for us,
and her stoic face trivializes
every toothy smile we "think"
means something. Her motives
could be ulterior, superior or
entirely predictable - we'll
never know because she masters
the art of "tease." Insisting, "We
keep secrets from ourselves, and
that's called forgetting," Eliza-
beth doesn't let us forget her.
"Trance" is a film about for-
getting. Visually, Boyle ven-
tures into a forgetful place,
often revisiting unexplained

dreamlike venues, blurring
every other shot and flooding
vivid rainbows into frames. The
camera's eye prefers whirlwind
speeds and constant discomfort
to poetic air-gliding. We careen
into inner projections before
realizing where we were origi-
nally. Boyle makes sure you're
always a tad puzzled but still
antsy to battle onward.
Once the whodunit template
tires out, the residue weighs
more than three good actors
in an OK movie tantamount
to Soderbergh's recent "Side
Effects." Rather, it corners us to
entertain an everyday dilemma:
Do you want to remember or
forget? Both can hurt, but Boyle
suggests thinking for yourself.

've, I signed up for mul-
iglish courses, hoping to
te on my self-righteous
path. And then, I was

Sadovskaya is working
on a rewrite. To help, e-mail
asado@umich.edu.

Judging people based on the
content of their TV characters

By RADHIKA MENON
Daily Arts Writer
If within five minutes of
meeting me you reveal that
you love "Friday Night Lights,"
chances are I will pronounce
you my newly christened BFF.
The same goes for "30 Rock,"
"Breaking Bad" and "Lost," to
name a few others. But if you
even mention "Two and a Half
Men" around me, you can get
out of my face.
I tend to judge people based
on their taste in television.
I don't even feel catty about
doing it - it's my chosen win-
dow into one's soul. Television
is a growing medium that con-
tinuously churns out some of
the best visual content. So, if
you're watching shitty televi-
sion, that's your own fault. You
will be scrutinized.
It was a cold winter day last
January when I was hanging
out with my friend in his apart-
ment. Bundled beneath blan-
kets, he turned the TV on and

his eyes lit up when they landed
on the words "The Big Bang
Theory" in the guide.
My eyes rolled deeply within
their sockets.
What followed was the most
boring 30 minutes of television
I have ever had to endure, and I
wouldn't wish it upon my worst
enemy. As that dull half hour
dragged on, I found myself not
laughing. That's fine - the show
isn't for everyone. But I realized
that every time he laughed, I
scoffed and prayed for the show
to end, both right now and per-
manently. "How does he like
this crap?" I wondered. And as
his laughs piled up, my annoy-
ance did, too.
I left his apartment that
day with uneasiness about the
future of our friendship. If he
could laugh at a Chuck Lorre
creation, could I really continue
to respect him? If he didn't find
Jim Parsons to be the most irri-
tating actor on television, how
in God's name were we sup-
posed to agree on anything?

His i
out to I
acted n
pens to
site. I tI
"losing
based o
it were
inside o
agree:N
tennis 1
show yo
friend
Bang T
favorite
but lose
him.
I'm
be)
you
and

dea of "hilarious" turns always right. Two summers ago,
be a poorly written and I tried watchingthe critical dar-
erdy comedy. Mine hap- ling "Mad Men." I mean, I really
be the complete oppo- tried. But damn, season one is
hrow around the phrase about as dry as they come. So
respect" for people I gave up and badmouthed the
n their tastes, and I wish show to everyone who loved it,
n't true. But something totally and completely judging
f me cringes when I dis- them for loving this snoozefest.
Wy eyes will get as big as But then I got to season two.
balls, and I will kindly And then season three. Shit, I
u the door. So, when my was hooked. Quickly my feel-
claimed that "The Big ings toward those who had sung
heory" was one of his its praises changed - I was
shows, I couldn't help now one of them. Soon I began
a tiny bit of respect for judging those who didn't watch
it, even though I knew exactly
where they were coming from.
Right or wrong, in crowd or out
not oing to crowd, I was still judging peo-
notgoipe.
rour friend if A person's television choices
reflect his or her personality.
watch 'Two The shows that I deem my favor-
ites reflect my ideas of humor,
a Half M en. crisp characters and storytell-
ing, and overall quality produc-
tion. I know that no one is right
or wrong, but that doesn't mean
that's not to say that I'm I'm not judging you.

500 DAYS OF
SUMMER AT
THE DAILY.
IT'LL BE MORE FUN
THAN YOU THINK.
... BUT IT'LL BE LESS ZOOEY
DESCHANEL THAN YOU THINK.
JOIN THE SUMMER DAILY ARTS
STAFF!
E-mail arts@michigandaily.com to
request an application.

Now,


8A - Monday, April 22, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

FiLM REVIEW

FILM REVIEW
Robinson biopic'42'
knocks it out of the park

"Do you have a quarter?"
Limited Oblivion'
lacks ines

By CONRAD FOREMAN
Daily Arts Writer
Every year on April 15, every
single player in Major League
Baseball dons the number 42 to
pay homage to
Jackie Robin-
son, who broke
baseball's race 42
barrier in 1947.
The new film AtQualityl6
"42" memorial- and Rave
izes Robinson Wamer Bros
by translating
his story to the big screen.
So ... why hadn't this movie
been made before? (Aside from
the 1950 film "The Jackie Rob-
inson Story," which starred
Jackie Robinson as himself.)
As frequently as Hollywood
capitalizes on inspirational true
stories ("Argo," "A Beautiful
Mind" - even crappy ones like
"Dolphin Tale"), it's surprising
that over 60 years have passed,
and we're just now getting a big-
budget film about true American
hero, Jackie Robinson.
"42" chronicles Jackie Robin-
son's journey from the second-
rate fields of the Negro Leagues
through the minor-league
system and all the way to the
Brooklyn Dodgers, becoming
the first black man to play in the
MLB. All the while, Robinson
(Chadwick Boseman, TV's "All
My Children") deals with the
hardship and turmoil of break-
ing racial barriers in a country
filled with people not ready to
let a black man share their bath-
rooms, let alone play the game
they love.
In his first starring role, Bose-
man harnesses raw emotion to
portray Robinson believably:
After relentless heckling from
the manager of an opposing
team, Robinson storms into the
tunnel beneath the dugout and

Script weighed connect"). They're going to go
"home" in two weeks.
down by weak But Jack isn't happy.
"Doesn't seem right," Jack
dialogue says. "We won the war ... now
we have to leave."
By MAYANK MATHUR "Oblivion" immediately sucks
DailyArts Writer you into its viewing experience
with spectacular establish-
This is "Oblivion" in a nut- ing shots of a post-apocalyptic
shell: The beginning intrigues, world, depicting desolated land-
and the end excites, but it scapes and famous monuments
leaves much to such as the Golden Gate Bridge
be desired at in varying states of demoli-
its core - an tion. These shots combine with
adventure left Oblivion Harper's eerie narrative to
unexplored. AtQuality16 cast a spell over the audience,
"Oblivion" as each person begins to think
grips you right and Rave and feel like Jack Harper. You
at the outset Universal know something's wrong with
and entices you the situation. You know there's
to embark on a something else out there. You,
promising journey but commits too, want answers. You're as
the sin of resting on its laurels involved as you can possibly
for far too long. be, and you're willing to be sur-
It's 2077. Jack Harper (Tom prised and astounded.
Cruise, "Mission: Impossible") That feeling lasts about 10
tells you that 60 years earlier, minutes.
Earth was attacked by an alien Ten minutes in, and you're
race. During the course of the forced to come to terms with
subsequent war, humans were the fact that Jack Harper's life
forced to use nuclear weap- as the last man on Earth is actu-
ons. Even though the humans ally ... boring. Sure, viewers are
won the war, half the planet treated to some visually superb
was destroyed. Jack tells you shots, and Jack does stumble
that he's now the last man on into interesting experiences
the planet. His job is maintain- with rogue alien survivors
ing robotic enforces, known as (known as "Scavs"). Beyond
"drones," which drain the plan- that, there isn't any susbstantial
et of its most essential resourc- plot development that can stand
es in order to prepare human the weight of expectations cre-
life to continue elsewhere in ated at the outset.
the universe. Jack currently You're waiting for something
lives in a plush watchtower to happen, but you're forced
located thousads of feet above to watch on as Jack recounts
the surface of the Earth with haunting memories of a time he
his teammate and lover, Victo- was never a part of and a woman
ria (Andrea Riseborough, "Dis- he's never seen. Even the intro-

duction of two new characters
- an eccentric rebel leader in
the form of Malcolm Beech
(Morgan Freeman, "The Shaw-
shank Redemption") and the
woman in Jack's dreams, Julia
(Olga Kurylenko, "Hitman"),
does nothing to stimulate any
meaningful flow of events.
It takes the better part of one
hour before things begin to take
a turn for the better. By then,
you're most likely frustrated
by a screenplay that needlessly
drags - exasperated by dia-
logue that's shallow at best. It's
almost as if the characters are
being made to repeat the same
lines in different ways. The pac-
ing is strongly reminiscent of
director Joseph Kosinski's pre-
vious venture, "Tron: Legacy"
and, at times, serves as an excel-
lent cure for sleep deprivation.
Despite being pinned down
by a paper-thin script, the two
female leads, Kuyrlenko and
Riseborough, manage to deliv-
er memorable performances
as Harper's love interests. The
man himself, Tom Cruise, turns
in a restrained performance,
which is at its best in the film's
quietest moments that see
Harper spending time alone
with what's left of the planet.
Due to poor pacing, the
majority of the film is left as an
exercise in patience and atten-
tiveness, before it attempts to
find its way back by explod-
ing onto the scene in an explo-
sive climax. However, having
remained in "delta sleep" for
most of its running time, you
wake up to an ending that leaves
you feeling a little dazed and
tired.

"Brooklyn's Finest."
shatters his bat against the wall. unnecessary. One such scene
He screams out in frustration. shows Jackie staring out of his
He contemplates quitting the hotel window when his wife,
entire endeavor before he col- Rae (Nicole Beharie, "The
lects himself and trots out to Express"), comes up behind
take the field for the next inning. him and tells him she loves him.
Harrison Ford ("Raiders of He replies likewise; the scene is
the Lost Ark") shines as Dodgers over. While it's clear that this
owner Branch Rickey. He steps scene is trying to convey how
into the complex mindset of a much a source of strength Rae
man trying to bring change to is for Jackie, it doesn't con-
the game he loves, yet unable to nect with the scenes around
do it himself. John C. McGinley it and thus falls flat. Still, the
(TV's "Scrubs") adds a humor- beautiful look of the film and
ous theme to the film as deadpan magnificence of the story make
Dodgers' play-by-play announc- the film's shortcomings easy to
er Red Barber. overlook.
"42" isn't a perfect movie.
Some will be disturbed by
H ovis this ust acts of racism, while oth-
his just ers will believe there should
being made? be more in order to make the
film more realistic.-Some will
love the old-school roots of
the soundtrack, while others
Detailed and faithful digital will lament the lack of a single
recreation of some of baseball's Jay-Z song (Really? No "Brook-
most famous ballparks adds to lyn Go Hard"? Not even in
the authenticity of the story. the credits?). But "42" tells an
From Brooklyn's Ebbets Field inspirational story that should
to Pittsburgh's Forbes Field and never be forgotten. And given
the historic Polo Grounds, "42" that MLB currently has its low-
places Jackie and the rest of the est percentage of black players
1947 Dodgers seamlessly into since the Eisenhower adminis-
the ballparks of yesteryear. tration, it's a story that's just as
Some scenes feel forced and relevant as ever.
rI

VISIT THE FILTER
AFTER TONIGHT'S
"GAME OF
THRONES."
michigandaily.com/blogs/the+fiIter

TELL US
YOUR
HOPES
AND
DREAMS.
FOLLOW US.

. WOLVERI
ITORELLLEL
Lease summer storage today and get up to a
vailable at
lect stores
I Convenient Locations!
KSON ROAD** STATE STREET *EXTENDED
0 Jackson Rd 2333 S State St HURS!
747-9060 734-222-0277 April 27th
'NATIOSAL 'S1UOMGE Et 9 3-73P
M A pri 28th
MOUTH ROAD* WEST LIBERTY zZ-4PM
Plymouth Rd 3033 W Liberty
663-6990 734-663-6443 'expires 5/8
dailv13

W
JACI
3871
734-
PLY!
1645
734-

i
i
I

@michdailyarts

, w1
selfstoragespecialistsocom

i


y' Y
e ' .Fyt k
I Ufa
S E
'Y p ' !. 1 L fyt
The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com April22, 2013

Men's gymnastics
I takes national title
by widest margin in
29 years
By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Writer
Going into the final rotation
of the NCAA national champi-
onship on Saturday night, the
Michigan men's gymnastics team

held a half-point lead over Okla-
homa with only its floor routine
to go. But while the Sooners and
the other four teams were anx-
iously waiting to begin their last
event rotations, the Wolverines
couldn't help but smile.
No. 3 Michigan (7-1 Big Ten,
27-2 overall) was up on the floor,
where it ranks first in the nation,
and knew it was only a rotation
awayfromwinningthe program's
fifth national championship.
But the anticipation of winning
wasn't the only thing bringing

smiles to the Wolverine bench.
Junior Sam Mikulak was up by
2.95 points in the all-around com-
petition over his teammate, soph-
omore Adrian de Los Angeles. So
with first and second place locked
up in the all-around, a huge floor
routine was all that stood in
Michigan's way to a team title.
The Wolverines did more than
rise to the occasion on their floor
exercise, where they scored an
event-high 75.250, which gave
them a 443.200-440.100 blowout
over the second-place Sooners.

It's been 29 years since a team
won the NCAA team titleby more
than three points.
"I knew we could score higher
on floor then Oklahoma could
on high bar, we just had to hit
our sets," said Michigan coach
Kurt Golder. "But it can happen
where one guy misses, then the
next guy, then the next guy, and it
can be really hard to get it turned
around.
"We didn't have it clinched
(and) even though we had the
pressure on us, the guys were

ready for it and handled it really
well."
Michigan's success on floor
also kept Mikulak in the lead for
the all-around championship,
where he ultimately edged out Los
Angeles with a career-best 91.150.
It's Mikulak's second all-around
title in three years, and the pairs'
1-2 finish for the all-around is the
first time teammates have done
that since the 1980s.
"Mikulak is special because of
his unselfishness," Golder said.
"Every interview that he has, he

just talks about how he didn't
have personal goals and (that)
everything was for the team. He
kept saying all he wanted was to
get one or two in the all-around
no matter the order, (just) as long
as it went to Michigan.
"He just wanted the team to
win, and that approach was really
great - just get out there and be
the best."
All in all, it was a storybook
weekend for the Wolverines, who
started out as well as they fin-
See CHAMPIONS, Page 3B

Wolverines extend streak to 21 games

Softball sweeps
Iowa to extend the
nation's longest
winning streak
By ERIN LENNON
Daily Sports Writer
Whether it's winning by 10 in
five innings or with a comeback
rally in the sixth, one thing is cer-
tain: the No. 9 Michigan softball
team has forgotten how to lose.
A three-game sweep of Iowa
tied a program record for con-
secutive
wins in the IOWA 3
Big Ten MICHIGAN 5
(16) and
extended IOWA 6
the Wolver-
ines' win- IOWA 0
ning streak MICHIGAN 8
to 21 - the
longest in the country.
When a 2-1 change-up pitch
from Iowa right-hander Chel-
sea Lyon was called for a strike,
freshman Sierra Romero gri-
maced, knowing she had let her
pitch get by. Romero took a big
swing at the next pitch, but the
result was nothing more than her

first strikeout in conference play
this season.
The first inning was the last
time that Romero and the Wol-
verines (16-0 Big Ten, 39-7 over-
all) would be frustrated in the
doubleheader on Sunday.
With two outs in the bottom
of the second inning, sophomore
catcher Lauren Sweet drove her
fifth home run of the season over
the left-field wall to put the Wol-
verines up 3-0. Hitting from the
nine spot in place of her usual
lead-off position, junior center-
fielder Lindsay Doyle continued
the two-out hitting with a line
drive to center but was caught
stealing to end the inning.
Two walks and a single loaded
the bases for freshman left fielder
Sierra Lawrence in the bottom
of the third inning. Lawrence -
hitting from the cleanup spot in
the lineup for the first time this
season - drove the second pitch
of the at-bat over the wall. Again,
Sweet extended the inning with a
two-out single to right.
The Hawkeyes answered in
the top of the fourth, silenc-
ing the crowd with two straight
home runs to centerfield off of
sophomore left-hander Haylie
Wagner. In the fifth, Iowa short-
stop Megan Blank drilled a three-

run home run into the right-field
bleachers, cutting the Wolverine
lead to just three.
Sophomore pitcher Sara Dri-
esenga entered the circle for the
Wolverines in the sixth in relief of
Wagner. Holding onto a two-run
lead with two outs and the bases
loaded in the top of the seventh,
Driesenga came through with a
strikeout to complete the two-
pitcher effort and the win.
In the second game of the dou-
bleheader, Michigan opted to end
early.
Hutchins was forced to take
an early trip to the mound in the
top of the first inning after Dries-
enga found herself with runners
on first and third with one out.
She was bailed out by junior first
baseman Caitlin Blanchard, who
threw a grounder to Sweet for
the tag out at home. Like she had
in game one, Driesenga recorded
a strikeout to escape the inning
unscathed.
But without further ado,
Romero drove a pitch off the
scoreboard in left field. With her
19th home run, the freshman
became the sole conference lead-
er in totalbases, hits, runs scored,
home runs and RBI.
"She could play for the Tigers,"
Hutchins told Big Ten Network.

"She has some of the quickest
hands in Michigan softball his-
tory."
A .583 hitter in bases-loaded
situations, Blanchard stepped up
to the plate in the bottom of the
third inning with an opportunity
to crack the game open. She did
just that with a single into right
field and two more singles put the
Wolverines up 5-0 with one out.
After a solo shot from senior
second baseman Ashley Lane put
Michigan up 7-0 in the bottom of
the fifth inning, Hutchins sent
freshman utility player Kelsey
Susalla in to pinch hit. Susalla
came just shy of her fifth home
run in two weeks but settled for
her first career triple off of the
right-field wall. The Wolverines
completed their eighth mercy-
rule victory in conference play.
On Saturday, Michigan played
comeback against the.Hawkeyes,
etchingout a 5-3 win.
Trailing 2-1 in the bottom of
the sixth on Saturday, the Wol-
verines did what they do best: bat
around.
After consecutive walks to
Romero - who had a home run
in the second inning - and senior
second baseman Ashley Lane,
Blanchard extended her hitting
See STREAKING, Page 2B

Freshman shortstop Sierra Romero hit her19th home run oftthe year this weekend.


TITLE TWO
Junior Joanna Sampson took home
more hardware for Michigan by winning
the national championship on floor.
Page 2B

WINI FOR TEAM 2
The Michigan men's lacrosse team
defeated St. Joseph's on Saturday for its
first victory of the season.
Page 4B


2B - April 22, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - April 22, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

One last time, an overdue story for Papa

The other day, my father, a
French and Spanish teacher,
looked down at his precise cursive
scrawl, chuckled, and shook his
head. His pen still hovered above
a student's paper, above his signa-
ture: Stephen
J. Nesbitt.
Except, he
is Stephen M.
Nesbitt.
He later
admitted his
gaffe and
said it was a STEPHEN J
humiliating S
sign of being NESBITT
eclipsed by
his children.
I smiled. That couldn't be further
from the truth.
This was always Papa's dream,
this sportswriting.
A tall, lanky kid from Birming-
ham, Mich., he went to Michigan
State to be a sports reporter. He
had the know-how, he knew how
to crafta story, and he certainly
had the writing talent.
But there, in the shadows of
Spartan Stadium, he reversed
course. He'd say his motivation
was ill-founded. He'd say he was
in it for the wrong reasons. He'd
say his pursuit was only of the
opportunity to meet famous ath-
letes and to tell their stories.
So, he left East Lansing,
instead, with a French degree to
become a teacher. He met Brenda
Knopf, they married, and their
adventure quickly took them far,
far away from where either of
them had imagined.
In 1984, with 1-year-old Steph-
anie in tow, my parents moved
to France to become evangelical
Christian missionaries. Daniel
was born in 1987, followed two
years later byDavid, followed two
years later by Peter, who was fol-
lowed seven minutes later by me.
In total, my parents would
spend 13 years there in northern
France, working tirelessly to
spread a gospel of love and grace
and truth as they raised a family
thousands and thousands of miles
away from Michigan, from their

home.
Home for me was never Michi-
gan, though. Home wasn't any-
thing like Michigan.
My home was in northern
France, in the Somme region,
where fields and grasslands were
stitched together likea patchwork
quilt, where memorials and cem-
eteries and craters were everyday
reminders of the battles fought in
those same fields during World
War I.
Home was Lille, then Har-
gicourt, and then ipehy. Home
was ared-brick farmhouse that
somehow fit all of us and a golden
retriever under the same roof;
home was a wiffle-ball field,
bomb casings and bayonets in the
backyard, fool's gold rocks in the
driveway, and six acres of land
littered with sheep, chickens and
turkeys on the north end of town.
But that was simply the back-
drop. The life of this story was in
our home. There is nothing better
than growing up in a house brim-
ming with laughter and children.
But, in time, the novelty of a
large family began to fade for
some. After receiving some criti-
cism from a number of financial
supportersback in the United
States, my parents dropped the
official title of missionary soon
after their 10th anniversary, and
they severed all financial support.
Now, contrary to popular
belief, being "professional Chris-
tians" in the first place doesn't
exactly align with a life of riches.
Not at all, actually. Papa found
work teaching English courses
at the chamber of commerce in
nearby St. Quentin, then he start-
ed working as a sporting-goods
salesman.
Rachel was born in 1993, fol-
lowed two years later by Eliza-
beth, followed two years later by
Carol.
We lived meager paycheck to
meager paycheck. We first drove
a yellow Volkswagen van, then a
small, grey sedan, then no car at
all, and then my dad's white sales
truck. We faltered, but we never
fell.
Mama, our rock, never left
the table empty. When zucchini
from our garden was all we had to

COURTESY OF NESBITT FAMILY
Stephen J. Nesbitt with his father at the 2003 Bronco state title in Lansing, Mich.

eat, that's what we ate. Zucchini
bread for breakfast; zucchini and
squash salad for lunch; zucchini
pasta for dinner.
There wasn't always much, but
there was something on the table,
and there was family around it.
It was a happy and healthy and
bustling home. What more could a
kid ask for?
I learned faith. I learned work
ethic. I learned sacrifice.
And I learned sports, of course.
Even in a land where soccer
and soccer alone rules the sports
world, Papa's love for sports, espe-
cially for baseball, became his
sons' love.
Every night, we played wiffle
ball in the backyard. Every Sat-
urday duringthe baseball season,
we'd drive an hour northeast,
across the Belgian border, to the
city of Mons and its sprawling
NATO base - Supreme Head-
quarters Allied Powers Europe
(S.H.A.P.E.) - for baseball. We
played on the Belgian team
against all the Americans since
our dad wasn't in the military.
And, at long last, Papa tried
his hand again at sportswriting.
He began writing, designing and
producing The European Baseball
Report, a baseball magazine tar-

geted at spreading the popularity
of baseball in the region.
My first venture into journal-
ism, I suppose, was at the dining-
room table, as I helped fold the
magazines, slide them into their
envelopes and lick the envelopes
closed.
But Papa's sportswriting career
finished almost before it started.
We movedback "home."
We moved to Marlette, Mich.
in Oct. 1998 to help my grandfa-
ther take care of my ailing grand-
mother as she reached the final
stages of her battle with Alzheim-
er's. We moved home for exactly
the right reason, but it wasn't easy
to accept. Gone was the pastoral
French countryside. Gone were
the sheep and the chickens. Gone
was home as I knew it.
But Papa couldn't find a teach-
ing job nearby, so he did what he'd
always done - he found a way
to make it work. Despite owning
a Masters degree in curriculum
development, he worked for a
full year at two milking parlors.
Twelve-hour shifts, minimum
wage, and he'd never even get so
much asa hug afterward - but
not because we didn't miss him.
It was because he'd come home,
exhausted, with his black jacket

splattered with manure.
Still, he found time to ferry us
to baseball games, near and far,
and to coach from the third-base
box whenever he could.
Bethany was born in 2000.
That year, the Nesbitts, a family of
11, survived on $10,000, faith, and
a lot of prayers.
This sportswriting was always
his dream. I've just been fortu-
nate enough to have lived it out
these lastcfour years.
A tall, lanky kid from Grand
Ledge, Mich., I went to Michi-
gan to bea news reporter, to do
something vigilant and important
and different, but I couldn't steer
myself away from the sports sec-
tion. I was told that I had the
know-how, that I knew how to
craft a story, and that I had the
writingltalent.
But there in the shadows of
Michigan Stadium, I nearly
reversed course. I worried my
motivation was misguided. I
worried I was in it for the wrong
reasons. I worried my pursuit was
only of the opportunity to meet
famous athletes and to tell their
stories.
But as I watched Denard Rob-
inson fumble, recover, then gallop
for a touchdown in my first game
at the Big House, I knew I was
in the right place. I stayed the
course.
I found The Michigan Daily,
and 420 Maynard became my
home. I found my best friends
here. I found an education and a
career here. I found my passion
here.
Here, I learned that everyone
has a story, a beautifullyunique
storyto tell. Sometimes, though,
people don't understand the
weight and gravity oftheir story
until they finally tell it, until they
chip away the layers bitby bit,
until they see it spelled out in
front of them.
I've told Maureen Moody's
story. Her father never missed a
moment as Maureen grew up, but
terminal metastatic pancreatic
cancer stole him awayat the start
of her senior season.

I've told Dave Molk's story. He
cried in Schembechler Hall as he
told me memories of his mother
who died a decade earlier. It was
a story he'd never told before,
something he never liked to think
about, but he let me in. The story
almostnever ran. It was sensi-
tive; it was personal. But, in the
end, it went to print. "I'm glad I
agreed to this story," he wrote in
an email. "More importantly, I
waited for the right reporter."
And I've told Denard Rob-
inson's story. The soft-spoken
quarterback told of his journey to
escape the danger of the streets in
his hometown of Deerfield Beach,
Fla. He told of his humiliation
when college coaches came on in-
home visits. He told of his brother
Timothy's death and of his own
dream to become the first college
graduate in his family.
If I getto tell people's stories
for the rest of my life, I'll be a
happy man.
But there was one story I
wanted to tell while I still had
the chance. It's the story of an
aspiring journalist, someone
who wanted to meet the rich and
famous, who wanted, to some
extent, to be known. It's the story
of a man who always did things
the right way, who always fought
to keep his family together. It's
the story of a teacher, an expert
in a selfless field. It's the story of
the man whose youthful dreamI
am living.
He wanted to tell people's sto-
ries. He wanted this life, but he
gave itup. He never accomplished
his dream, but he was a better
father than he ever could have
been a sportswriter.
And he gave me the opportu-
nity to come here to Michigan, to
the Daily, to this farewell column,
to tell this story today.
Papa, after four years, Stephen
J., your son, salutes and thanks
you. I wish it could have come
sooner, but here's your story.
- Nesbitt can be reached
at stnesbit@umich.edu and on
Twitter: @stephenjnesbitt. He will
be interning at The Indianapolis
Star this summer and at The
Miami Herald this fall.

4

4


STREAKING
From Page l B

Sampson captures title, team places fourth

streak to 16 games with a
single. With the bases loaded,
Lawrence punched a single
through the middle to tie the
game.
Hutchins went with Susalla
in the pressure situation, call-
ing on the freshman to pinch
hit for senior third baseman
Knapp. Just as she had in the
final game against Michigan
State last weekend, Susalla
delivered on the first pitch she
saw, drilling a single up the
middle to take the lead and
secure a victory. A sacrifice fly
from Sweet gave the Wolver-
ines their fifth and final run of
the game.
"I kept the same one-pitch
mentality, worked on fol-
lowing the pitcher's tenden-
cies and adjusting to them,"
Susalla said. "I knew she was
throwing a certain pitch that
I wanted to look for. Waiting
for that pitch helped a lot, and
that's what I went for."
Two Wolverines extended
streaks of their own this week-
end.
Romero has reached base in
25 straight games. Blanchard
holds an 18-game hitting
streak, improving her batting
average to just under .500 on
the season.
"The coaches have taught
me how to finish my swing,"
Blanchard said. "The hitting
streak isjust an outcome of the
process of getting better."
During the Big Ten tirade,
Michigan is outscoring oppo-
nents 157-56.
With the majority of con-
ference play in the rearview
mirror, Michigan has a shot to
go undefeated in the Big Ten
for the first time in program
history. But for this team, the
most important game is on
Tuesday.
"People ask me about the
winningstreak, and I tell them
I don't care," Hutchins said.
"You can't control what you've
done in the past, you just play
one game."

By CINDY YU
Daily Sports Writer
Despite falling one spot short
of advancing to the NCAA Super
Six, the most prestigious meet in
collegiate gymnastics, the cap-
tains - senior Katie Zurales and
junior Joanna Sampson - led the
No. 7 Michigan women's gymnas-
tics team to the second-highest
NCAA Championships team score
in program history. Maintain-
ing composure throughout the
NCAA Semifinals at Pauley Pavil-
ionin Los Angeles, the Wolverines
scored a 196.850 in the evening
session on Friday night.
Based on top-four finishes in
individual events at the NCAA
Semifinals, Zorales and Sampson
were named first-team All-Amer-
icans and qualified to Sunday's
NCAA Event Finals on balance
beam and floor exercise, respec-
tively. Additionally, Sampson
qualified to the vault finals, and
both gymnasts were named first-
team All-Americans in the all-
around after tying for first with
scores of 39.525 in the second ses-
sion.
"Those two absolutely had a
great competition," said Michigan
coach Bev Plocki. "It was down
to the wire whether Katie would
be in the bar lineup. She had her
elbow tweaked at Big Tens and
didn't train or compete there at
Regionals. She potentially wasn't
even going to be an all-arounder
tonight and look what she did. I'm
very excited for them both.
"Joanna is a very powerful
athlete and Katie is an artistic
athlete... I don't think either one
of them could have done a better
job."
Only four teams have ever took
home an NCAA Championship
title, and three of them - Ala-
bama, UCLA and Utah - were in
the same subdivision as Michigan.
Though Michigan (17-2 Big Ten,
31-5 overall) competed in a tough
session, the team made quite an
entrance on bars, scoring a 49.400
- the school's highest team total
on that event at the NCAA Cham-

Junior Joanna Sampson won the national championship in the floor exercise.

pionships since 1998 - to lead
after the first rotation. Stuck land-
ings punctuated the team's per-
formance, as Zurales and senior
Brittnee Martinez led the team
on that rotation. The two seniors
scored matching 9.900s to earn
them second-team All-American
honors, but not enough to qualify
them to bars finals.
"(Brittnee's) the one right now
that's hurting the most," Plocki
said. "Katie gets to delay her end
of gymnastics emotion until after
event finals and Natalie is com-
ing back next year. Brittnee felt
that brunt of that tonight, but she
certainly had a phenomenal year,
probably her best season at Michi-
gan.
"I don't want her to remember
this last competition. I want her to
remember the fabulous season she
had and how valuable she has been
to this team all year long."
On the second rotation, Michi-
gan struggled on beam, totaling
a 48.775 on the event, its worst
team score of the season. While
no one in the lineup fell, the Wol-

verines were unusually shaky all-
around, especially after nailing
routine after routine in the two
weeks of practice leading up to
NCAA Championships. Balance
checks and steps on landings cost
them valuable tenths that could
have been the difference between
competing in the Super Six on
Saturday and missing out. Zura-
les kept the fire alive by scoring a
9.875 for her near flawless routine
that landed hera spot in the beam
finals.
The Wolverines had a bye after
beam, slowing their momentum
and affecting them negatively, as
their mentality switched from a
time to relax to panic mode.
"It's very hard to come off an
event you're a little disappointed
with and go to a bye," Plocki said.
"We had an empty rotation to sit
around and think about (beam).
During the year when you don't
have byes, you can move onto
something else and your mind
changes. We came out, picked
ourselves up and performed, but
it wasn't with the same exuber-
j

ance that we started the meet out
on bars."
Added Sampson: "I think we
just went in with a different mind-
set than we normally do... We
had talked about controlling our
energy and using it in a good way
but I think we controlled ita little
bit too much, which made us ten-
tative versus going out there and
being aggressive like we are in
practice."
At the halfway point, Michi-
gan sat in fifth ahead of Arkan-
sas, trailing Alabama, Oklahoma,
UCLA and Utah by over three
tenths.
The Wolverines narrowed the
gap on floor after scoring a 49.400
for their efforts. Their floor total
ties for a school-best at the NCAA
Championships. Sampson led
her team on the rotation, scoring
a 9.925 for her explosive routine
highlighted by arguably her best
tumbling of the season. Not only
did she stick all of her passes with
ease, but her body also opened out
on her double layout and double
pike, a rare technique to master on
such difficult skills.
"I tried to have as much fun as
I could, especially because when
we're having fun - myself includ-
ing everyone else on the team -
we usually do our best routines,"
Sampson said.
Zurales showcased power-
ful tumbling, as well, to receive
second-team All-American hon-
ors for her routine that scored a
9.900. Zurales was in the race for
the coveted all-around title, as she
needed a 9.925 to tie Florida fresh-
man Bridget Sloan.
Finishing the meet up on vault,
Zurales scored a 9.850 for her
stuck, yet slightly piked down,
Yurchenko full. Freshman Austin
Sheppard had only a tiny step on
her landing to score a 9.875 for her
vault, while Sampson carried over
her explosiveness on the floor to
this rotation. She scored a session-
high 9.950 for her Yurchenko full
that featured a huge block, great
height and a perfect landing.
Michigan's comeback from
beam was not enough to surpass

Alabama, UCLA and Oklahoma
after their second bye. Even so, the
Wolverines have much to be proud
of, as they finished their season
with the most wins ina single sea-
son since 2005.
"We fought until the very end,"
Zuralessaid."Myheartjustbreaks
for this teambecause we're so spe-
cial. I don't think anyone under-
stands just how much work we put
into this coming from where we
were last year to this year."
Reflecting and ready to prove
that they belong in that group of
six next year, they told Plocki,
"Next year starts Monday."
Although the team competi-
tion was over for the Wolverines,
the Block 'M' would still be repre-
sented at Sunday's event finals by
the captains.
Eighth up in a group of twelve,
Sampson delivered her usual pow-
erful floor routine, displaying her
clean dance and monstrous tum-
bling. She scored a 9.9375, enough
to take home the NCAA floor title.
Having been ranked No. 1 for
the majority of the season on
floor, Sampson emphasizes the
added pressure of hitting that one
routine in NCAA Semifinals and
NCAA Event Finals, as the quali-
fiers and winners are based solely
on those routines, not the past
meet history.
Additionally, Sampson compet-
ed a clean Yurchenko full with a
small step back in the vault finals,
scoring a 9.8583 to tie for 14th
place on the event.
Zurales, competing the last
routine of her career in the beam
-finals, executed a wobble-free
performance to finish runner-up
by 0.0025 to Sloan. She scored
a 9.8875 for her routine that
featured sticks on an aerial to
backhandspring flight series, con-
nected beat to sheep jump and
roundoff double twist dismount.
Speechless and in tears, Zurales
said: "From being able to repre-
sent my team to just going out on
astrongnote, I don'tevenhave the
words to describe what it meant to
me and how honored I was to be
out there."

i 4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

April 22, 2013 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom April 22, 2013 - 3B

MICHIGAN
ATHLETICS
SCOREBOARD
L A S T W E E K
TUESDAY (APR. 16)
Softball: Michigan 7, Indiana 4 (9 inn.)
Baseball: Michigan 8, Notre Dame 2
FRIDAY (APR. 19)
Men's Gymnastics: 443.50 (1st of 6)
Women's Tennis: Michigan 5, Penn State 2
Men's Tennis: Michigan7, Penn State 0
Women's Gymnastics: National Championships
196.850 (4th of 6)
SATURDAY (APR. 20)
Women'sRowing:(morning session)6:34.4
(2nd of 6)
Men's Larosse: Michigan 11, Saint Josephs 8
Softball: Michigan 5, Iowa 3
Women's Rowing:(afternoonsession) 6:19.0
(3rd of 7)
Baseball: Northwestern6, Michigan 0
Men'sGymnastics:NationalChampions443.200
(tREof 6)
SUNDAY (APR. 21)
Women's Tennis: Michigan 7, Ohio State 0
Bsebal: :(Game1) Mchigan5, Northwestern 0
Softball)(am 1E) Michigan 8, IoaT 6
Men's Tennis: Ohio State4, Michigan 0
Baseball: (Game 2) Northwestern 3, Michigan
2 (10 inn.)
Softball: (Game2)Michigan8, owa0
N E X T W E E K
TUESDAY (APR. 23)
Softball: Michigan vs. Central Michigan 6:00
PDT. ( )
Baseball: Michigan at Eastern Michigan 6:00 p.m.
Ypsilanti, Mich.
Baseball: Michigan at Eastern Michigan 8:00 p.m
Ypsilanti, Mich.
THURSDAY (APR. 25)
Women's Track: Drake Relays 9:30 a.m. CDT (Des
Moines, Ia.)
Wmen's Track: Penn Relays10 a.m. (Philadel-
phia)
Men'sTrack: Penn Relays10a.m. (Philadelphia)
Men's Tennis: Big Ten Tournament TBA (Colum-
bus)
Women's Tennis: Big Ten TouramentTBA
(Bloomington)
FRIDAY (APR.26)
Women's Track: Drake Relays T a.m. CDT (Des
Moines, Ia.)
Men'sTack: PeRly s E Y9a.Ym. (Philadelpha)
Women's Trck Penn Reays 9 a.(Pahiadelp)hia)
Softball: Michigan at Nebraska 6 p.m. CDT
(Lincoln)
Baseball: Michigan at Indiana 6:05 p.m. (Bloom-
Water Polo: Brown or Connecticut College 7:20
Men's Tennis: Big Ten Tournament TBA (Colum-
bus)
WT s Tennis:Big Ten Tournament TBA
(BloomingtonD,)
MenDs Gof: Big Ten Championships TBA (French
LiEk, Ind.)
Women's Golf: Big Ten Championships TVA
(French Lick, Ind.)
SAT U RDAY (A PR. 27)
Women's Track: Drake Relays 8 a.m. CDT (Des
Moines, Ia.)
Men's Track: Penn Relays 9 a.m.(Philadelphia)
Women's Trck: Pen Rlays 9a..(Phladelphia)
Sftbal: Michigan at NebraskT pDm.YCDT
(Lincoln)
Lacrosse: Michigan at Denver 1 p.m. MST (Den-
Ter)
Baseball: Michigan at Indiana 4:30 p.m.(Bloom-
intoYD)
Women's Tennis: Big Ten TournamentTBA
(Bloomington, Ind.)
Men'sTennis:BigTen TournamentTBA (Colum-
Water Polo: TBD TBA
Women's Golf: Big Ten Championships TBA
(French Lick, Ind.)
Men's Golf: Big Ten Championships TBA (French
Lick, Ind.)
Softbal: MiDhigan at Nebraska 12 p.m. CST
(LincoIn)
Baseball: Michigan at Indiana 1:05 p.m.(Bloom-
yoen's Golf: Big Ten Championships T BA
(French Lick, Ind.)
Men's Tennis: Big Ten Tournament TBA (Colum-
bus)
Mken Gof: Big Ten Championships TBA (French
Water Polo: CWPA Eastern Championship TBA
Women's Tennis: Big Ten Tournament TBA
I(Bloomington)

JOIN THE
SUMMER DAILY
SPORTS STAFF
Maybe by July it
will be warm out.
Probably not
though.
HOLLA AT A
BOY WHEN YOU
SEE HIM IN THE
STREET:
SPORTSEDITORS
@MICHIGANDAILY.COM

Fourth straight Big Ten title for 'M'

By ELI SPARKMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Friday, the No. 6 Michigan
women's tennis team walked into
the Varsity Tennis Center for its
last home meet of the year, sport-
ing a special senior day T-shirt.
On the front was the word Mimi,
the two'M'sbeingMichiganblock
'M's. On the back, it said, "All we
do is ... Nguyen, Nguyen, Nguy-
en." Nguyen, pronounced "win,"
is in reference to Michigan's
lone senior, Mimi Nguyen, and is
a play on the words of the 2010
DJ Khaled MICHIGAN 7
song, "All I OHIO STATE 0
Do is Win."
With the T-shirt, the Wolverines
successfully crafted a very fitting
mantra for not only the day, the
weekend and the season, but also
the last couple years.
Michigan (8-1 Big Ten, 17-4
overall) rolled into the week-
end having dropped only one
of its last 13 meets, a streak that
included six wins against ranked
opponents, even knocking off No.
2 Duke on March 1. Now the only
thing that stood in the Wolver-
ines' way of a fourth consecutive
Big Ten regular-season title was
Penn State (3-6, 13-6) and Ohio
State (3-6,10-11).
Iftheyhappened to slip against
either of the two beatable teams,
they knew No. 12 Nebraska was
looming right behind to steal the
title.
Friday, sophomore Emina
Bektas and company showed up
determined. Michigan secured
the doubles point early on with
wins from the No. 2 seed, senior
Mimi Nguyen and sophomore
Sarah Lee, by a margin of 8-4, and
the No. 3 seed, freshman Ronit
Yurovsky and sophomore Kristen
Dodge, in an epic 9-8 tiebreaker.
The No. 1 doubles team of Bektas
and junior Brooke Bolender also

Bolender came storming out of
the gate, not allowing the Buck-
eyes to win a single game. The
Wolverines' Nos. 2 and 3 seeds
each won handedly as well, 8-5.
Just like that, the doubles point
advantage was capturedby Mich-
igan. When taking the doubles
point, the Wolverines have yet to
lose.
The Wolverines won five of the
six singles matches in straight
sets. Unlike Friday, Bektas was
on the board first. She defeated
Ohio State's Kelsey Dieters rather
quickly, 6-3, 6-1. Next was No.
3 seed Sarah Lee, who made up
for her loss on Friday by beating
Kara Cecil, 6-2, 6-2. Michigan's
No. 2 seed Yurovsky and No. 6
seed Dodge were the other two
to finish their opponent in two
sets. In what was the longest and
most exciting match Sunday, Zhu
came back from losing the first
set 1-6, to win the second set in a
tiebreaker and ultimatelywin the
match in a third-set tiebreaker.
"This is the right time to be
peaking," said Michigan coach
Ronnie Bernstein. "I was glad to
see one of our best performances
today."
Looking back, the Wolverines
were spot on with their senior day
T-shirts. And for Nguyen, her four
years in the program have meant
four consecutive Big Ten regular-
season titles for the Wolverines.
"It has been really exciting
to be a part of the great history
here at Michigan," Nguyen said.
"We have to stay focused though,
because we're going to have to
play all these tough teams again
in Big Tens."
The Wolverines look to con-
tinue the trend of "Nguyen-ning"
in both the Big Ten and the NCAA
Tournaments. They will head to
Bloomington for the first round
of the Big Ten Tournament on
Thursday.

NATASHA JANARDAN/Daily
Senior Mimi Nguyen, along with doubles partner Sarah Lee, won an 8-5 match to help Michigan to a title over Ohio State.
reached atiebreaker againstPetra winners down the line to break no problems putting her oppo-
Januskova and Chelsea Utting but Januskova's serve. Bektas' power nent away in straight sets. After
lost, 3-7. was too much the rest of the way, Michigan had already reached
The tiebreaker set up a No. S as her serve pushed Januskova far the magic number of four points,
singles duel perfectly. The most back behind the baseline. Once the No. 3 seed Bolender won in
intense moment of the day came pushed back, Bektas hit timely straight sets, 7-6, 7-6, playing her
in the third set of the Bektas drop shots that Januskova had best when it mattered most dur-
vs. Januskova match. With the no chance to retrieve. Bektas was ing two tiebreakers. The Wolver-
match tied 3-3, the momentum able to close the match out, 6-3, ines' only losses were at the Nos.
had been wavering all day. Bektas, 2-6,6-3. This was the Wolverines' 4 and 5 seeds, where sophomore
who looked as if she was out for fourth point, clinching the meet. Sarah Lee and freshman Amy
revenge after losing the doubles Beforehand, Michigan's No. 2 Zhu were both defeated.
point, dominated the first set, 6-3. seed, freshman Ronit Yurovsky, Only one win away from the
Januskova won the second set was dominating her opponent, Big Ten title, Michigan traveled to
convincingly, 6-2. 6-2, 4-1, before the Penn State Ohio State on Sunday and didn't
At 3-3 in the third set, Bektas player withdrew. No. 6 seed soph- disappoint. The No. 1 doubles
returned two strong forehand omore Kristen Dodge also had team of Bektas and


CHAMPIONS
From Page 1B
ished.
In the NCAA Qualifier on Fri-
day afternoon, the top 12 teams
in the nation competed for six
spots in the team finals Saturday.
Michigan needed to place in the
top three of its session in order to
advance, and the Wolverines set
the tone early, ultimately grab-
bing first place in their session.
Last season, Michigan also
finished in the top spot in their
session but ultimately ended
up in last place after Saturday,
so the Wolverines knew they
couldn't let their early success
lead to overconfidence heading
into the finals.
"Last year's problems really
helped us to get there this year,"
Golder said. "I mean, just about
the whole team was there last
year so that experience just
helped everyone this year.
"After we won our session last
year in the prelims, we were cel-
ebrating, but this year it was just
as usual and we had a 'We're not
done' mentality. So that really is
experience and maturation as a
competitor."
Friday, Michigan scored
70-plus points on all six events,
but its performance on the par-
allel bars stole the show on the
first day of competition, scoring
a season-best 75.90. All three
Wolverine competitors broke the
personal 15-barrier, with senior
Syque Caesar leading the way
with his 15.60.
This time, Michigan's expe-
rience stood out in every event
Saturday. The confidence Golder
had in his team was reflected
by his decision to start the meet
off on championship Saturday
with pommel horse, widely con-
sidered the hardest of the six
events. The Wolverines scored
their third-highest mark of the
season, hitting an event-high
72.250.
Michigan moved onto the
rings, where it had a terrific sec-
ondrotation.Junior AlexBubnov
went first and set a career-high
15.25, followed by junior Jor-
dan Gaarenstroom, who also hit
a career best with his monster
15.600-point performance.
From there, the Wolverines
made everything look easy.
Mikulak took on his best event,
the high bar, where he scored a
15.650. Saturday night's podium
was filled with maize and blue,
but it didn't end there for Michi-

gan, which continued its domi-
nance Sunday.
Eight Wolverines qualified for
individual finals, and five came
out with spots on the podium. In
addition, gymnasts who finish in
the top eight in individual events
are awarded All-American sta-
tus - Michigan tied a program
high with 13.
Like the rest of the weekend,
Mikulak led the way on Sun-
day, earning individual titles in
high bar and parallel bar, while
grabbing third place on floor.
The 13-time All-American and
five-time NCAA champion's
high-bar performance was so
dominant that he notched more
then a point higher than the next
closest competitor and scored a
weekend-high 16.100.
"I honestly don't think I have
(had a better weekend)," Miku-
lak said. "Olympic trials were
definitely really exciting for
me, but overall for this entire
weekend, I didn't miss a single
routine. It just kind of felt easy
going with the flow, I'm just real
pleased with howI did."
In addition to Mikulak's
achievements, Caesar got second
on the parallel bars and third on
the high bar. He also tied with
teammate senior Rohan Sebas-
tian for fourth on floor.
With a hugely success-
ful NCAA weekend under its
belt, Michigan will walk away
from this season accomplish-
ing everything it wanted to. The
Wolverines not only earned the
team title, the all-around title
and two individual titles, but
they also won the Big Ten cham-
pionship two weeks ago. The Big
Ten proved to be no cakewalk, as
four of the six teams that quali-
fied for Saturday came from the
conference.
And as if all of his team's suc-.
cess wasn't enough, Golder got
to watch the program in con-
ference rival Penn State's home
gym. The Nittany Lions spent
most of the season one spot
above the Wolverines in the con-
ference standings and the Asso-
ciated Press standings.
In the end, it was a perfect
weekend for Michigan.
"It's great to be a Michigan
Wolverine," Golder said. "We
had a great championship, you
get a one-two sweep, and the
all-around and win the team
title, (13) All-Americans and
one national champion on two
events. It doesn't get a whole lot
better than that. I'm very, very
pleased and anxious to host next
year."

On the road and at Wrigley,
Wolverines finally stumble

By MAX COHEN
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan baseball coach Erik
Bakich frequently preaches that
pitching and defense are the keys
behind all winning teams. Never
did that seemmore apparent than
this weekend, as the Wolverines
dropped
two games MICHIGAN 0
in a three- N'WESTERN 6
game series
against MICHIGAN 5
Northwest- N'WESTERN 0
ern. MICHIGAN 2
The first N'WESTERN 3
two games
of the series were characterized
by dominant pitching, as the
Wildcats (5-9 Big Ten, 17-14 over-
all) earned a 6-0shutout on Satur-
day night, and Michigan pitched
a shutout in the first game of the
doubleheader on Sunday, win-
ning 5-0. In the rubber match of
the series - and the second game
of the doubleheader Sunday - the
Wolverines' late-inning defense
faltered while their offense failed
to pull away, costing them the
game and their third-straight Big
Ten series victory.
With Friday's game postponed
until Sunday because of rain, the
series began Saturday night at
Wrigley Field. While playing in a
major-league stadium was a first-
time experience for both teams
this season, Northwestern right-
hander Luke Farrell pitched as
though he belonged, throwing a
complete-game shutout. Farrell,
the son of Boston Red Sox man-
ager John Farrell, stymied the
Wolverine lineup, allowing just
three Michigan batters to reach
base - all on singles.
"You have to tip your cap to the
pitcher once in awhile," Bakich
said. "He forced a lot of weak
contact."
The Wolverines (8-4, 22-16)
didn't advance a runner into scor-
ing position until they had one
out in the eighth inning, when
sophomore left fielder Zach Zott
headed to second base after soph-
omore designated hitter Kevin
White laid down a bunt single.
Farrell responded promptly by
recording consecutive strikeouts,
ending the Michigan threat. One
inning later, he retired the side,
ending the Wolverines' 10-game
winning streak.
In Sunday's first game, Michi-

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Freshman shortstop Travis Maezes hit a three-run inside-the-park home run.

gan received strong starting
pitching of its own, as freshman
left-hander Evan Hill pitched
seven shutout innings. Hill
allowed four hits and three walks
in the outing.
"I was attacking hitters early,"
Hill said. "I still walked a few
guys, but overall I kept the big
inning out of the picture."
Michigan freshman short-
stop Travis Maezes provided the
needed offense with his third-
inning, three-run, inside-the-
park home run. The Wolverines
tacked on insurance runs in the
sixth and ninth innings, and
sophomore right-hander Matt
Ogden pitched two scoreless
innings to end the game, extend-
ing his streak of scoreless innings
to 21.2.
For seven innings, Sunday's
second game looked as if it was
going to be the third-straight
shutout in the series. Michigan
built a 2-0 lead while redshirt
junior left-hander Logan McA-
nallen cruised through seven
innings, allowing just four hits
while surrendering two walks,
bouncing back after a start
against Penn State last week-
end in which he lasted only one
inning.
After his exit, things became
dicey for the Wolverines, when
freshman right-hander Jacob
Cronenworth - normally auto-
maticfor Michiganinlate innings
- struggled in the eighth inning.
Northwestern scored its first run
of the inning on two singles, a
sacrifice bunt and a sacrifice fly.
The Wildcats then tied the game
on a fielding error by Maezes.
"Nine out of 10times, he makes
that tough play, but he just wasn't

able to come up with it today,"
Bakich said.
The Wolverines failed to
respond in the ninth inning
despite good opportunities to
score. Zott led off the inning,
with a single and then advanced
to second on a sacrifice bunt, but
he was thrown out attempting
to steal third on what Bakich felt
was a questionable call.
"The umpire didn't see it the
way that we saw it, the way peo-
ple in the stadium saw it," Bakich
said. "He saw it the way he saw
it and made the call the way he
thoughthe should make the call."
Had he stayed put at second or
made it safely to third, Zott likely
would've scored after freshman
first baseman Jack Sexton singled
in the same at-bat in which Zott
was thrown out. To make mat-
ters worse, Northwestern robbed
junior catcher Cole Martin of a
likely double to right field in the
next at-bat.
The game remained tied
until the bottom of the 10th
inning, when . Northwestern
won on a walk-off fielding error
by Cronenworth. It was one of
two Cronenworth errors in the
inning. Like Maezes on his error,
Bakich believes Cronenworth
makes both of those plays the
vast majority of opportunities,
attributing some of the struggles
to the long grass on Northwest-
ern's field.
"The real issue was we didn't
separate ourselves offensively
from the third inning on," Bakich
said. "We need to do a better job
of scoring more runs and separat-
ing our leads so we are not even
in that position where it's a nail-
biter in the end."


4B - April 22, 2013

1) rt>Nd

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
A breath of relief as
Blue wins first game

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Freshman forward Mitch McGary, who announced his return to Michigan Thursday, will be a key piece for the Wolverines.
ProjectingTeam97

By LEV FACHER Freshmen midfielders Mike
Daily Sports Writer Hernandez and Brad Lott scored
within six seconds of one another
Normally, it takes decades for midway through the first quar-
a team to double its all-time win ter, giving Michigan an early
total. Saturday afternoon, the 2-0 lead. Hernandez' score came
Michigan lacrosse team did it in with 6:39 left in the period, and
less than three hours. Lott's first career goal with 6:33
The Wolverines (0-6 ECAC, remaining, directly off of the
1-12 overall) defeated non-con- ensuing faceoff.
ference ST. JOSEPH'S 8 Despite the hot start, the
oppo- . MICHIGAN 11 Wolverines couldn't keep the
nent St. momentum on their side for
Joseph's, 11-8, earning their first longer than a minute in the first
win of the season and the second half. The Hawks countered with
in the two-year history of the a goal of their own just 34 sec-
program. onds after Lott's tally, and when
On senior day at Michigan Sta- Paras scored an unassisted goal
dium, senior midfielder Thomas with less than two minutes in
Paras scored three goals and the first quarter, the subsequent
recorded two assists for the St. Joseph's goal came within 40
Wolverines. His skip shot from seconds once again.
the left side with 10:49 remain- With 6:10 left in the second,
ing in the game gave Michigan a sophomore attacker Will Meter
three-goal advantage and all but took a crisp pass from Jackson,
cemented its first-ever home win. moving left to right, and scored
Freshman forward Kyle Jack- from 10 yards inside the "B" of
son added two scores and two the Big Ten logo that rests near
assists of his own, upping his goal the northeast 25-yard line of
total to 17. Michigan Stadium.
"It obviously felt great to get Even after out-shooting the
that monkey off our back," Jack- Hawks 25-15 in the first half,
son said. "We got off to a quick Michigan trailed 6-5 at halftime
start, and we couldn't have asked - the one-goal difference was
for a better result." the smallest halftime deficit the
Added Michigan coach John previously-winless Wolverines
Paul: "One of the great things had faced this season.
about this team is that all year Michigan erased the margin
they really haven't gotten down. early in the third quarter, thanks
... They're going to stick their to another brilliant goal from
chest out a little bit more now." Meter. With 12:48 remaining in
Weather conditions inside the the period, he evaded St. Joseph's
Big House seemed more fitting defenseman Steve Dunn, sneak-
for a contest on the gridiron in ing in towards the right side
late November than for a lacrosse of the crease for an unassisted
game in late April. But the most- backhand goal that tied thegame
ly empty stands, temperatures at six.
that dipped into the high 30s The Wolverines traded goals
and snow flurries didn't stop the with the Hawks throughout the
Wolverines from being energetic third quarter. Jackson's score
from start to finish, refusing to midway through the period came
let their last opportunity for a off an assist from Paras and left

the fourth.
In the final quarter, though,
the home team took over. Paras
opened up the scoring just 49
seconds in with a sidearm strike
from the rightside, giving Michi-
gan a 9-8 lead.
Paras then assisted on Jack-
son'sgoallessthanaminutelater,
which came from eight yards to
the right of the goal, nearly even
with the crease, and gave the
Wolverines a two-goal lead.
The unfamiliar position of
being in control late in the game
didn't faze Michigan, though.
Paras was unstoppable, complet-
ing his hat trick - the last goal of
the contest - with more than 10
minutes remaining.
"We've been close a lot this
year," Paul said. "It's good to go
into the end of the season with
the guys understanding that this
is what it looks like when you put
a complete game together."
Freshman goalkeeper Ger-
ald Logan recorded 15 saves and
was particularly impressive in
the fourth quarter, turning aside
eightshots.Astopthatcamewith
four minutes remainingencapsu-
lated the Wolverines' momentum
perfectly - a St. Joseph's laser
bounced off of Logan's chest, an
unexpected save, and was even-
tually controlled by Michigan.
The Wolverines had to be
restrained by their coachingstaff
in the game's final 30 seconds -
the euphoric players repeatedly
spilled onto the field from the
sidelines, finally rushing toward
Logan and mobbing one another
in the south end zone, victors
for the first time since March 4,
2012.
"It feels good any way you put
it," Paras said. "When the game
was close, we kept reiterating to
the guys that we wanted to go out
and get that first win in the Big

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
Since the day Trey Burke decid-
ed to return to Ann Arbor for his
sophomore season, the 2012-13
Michigan men's basketball team
was expected to contend for a
Final Four. It didn't disappoint,
either, remaining in the nation's
top 10 for the entire season and
eventually reaching its goal in
Atlanta.
Though Burke and junior guard
Tim Hardaway Jr. have since
departed in favor of the NBA
Draft, freshmen forwards Mitch
McGary and Glenn Robinson III
chose to follow Burke's lead and
stay for their sophomore seasons.
Their decisions, along with anoth-
er top-flight recruiting class, posi-
tion the Wolverines for another
Big Ten title and Final Four hunt.
Despite the departure of
Burke and Hardaway, Michigan
essentially returns four start-
ers - McGary started each game
in the NCAA Tournament, while
redshirt junior forward Jordan
Morgan started nearly the entire
regular season after holding the
starting post spot throughout the
previous two seasons.
The Daily broke down the Wol-
verines' upcoming roster, position
by position:
Point guard: When Burke
picked up two quick fouls in the
championship game against Lou-
isville, freshman Spike Albrecht
filled in more than admirably, net-
ting 17 points on 4-of-4 shooting
from 3-point range. In the second
half, everyone was reminded of
the Albrecht we saw - or didn't
see - for much of the season, the
one who hit just four 3-pointers in
his 18 appearances during confer-
ence play.
Albrecht should see a rise in
minutes from his 8.1 minutes per
game average last season, and
as he showed in the Final Four,
his shooting touch gives him the
capability to score in bunches, but
he'll likely play in another reserve
role. Albrecht will probably be
the starting point guard when the
Wolverines open their season in
November, but like Matt Vogrich
this year, he'll likely accept a
diminished role in favor of incom-
ing freshman Derrick Walton Jr.
as the non-conference slate pro-
gresses.
Walton, a Detroit native, is
the nation's No. 37 recruit -
good for the eighth-best point
guard - according to Rivals.com,
which tabbed Michigan's incom-
ing class at No. 12, second in the
Big Ten behind Indiana. Walton,
like Burke, is undersized - each
stands at 6-feet tall -but is lauded
for his passing and shooting abili-
ties. His defense remains a ques-
tion mark, but on offense, he's
consistently been tabbed as a "true
point guard" who could flourish in
a Wolverine offense loaded with a
wealth ofscoring options.
Bottom line: No matter how
well Walton or Albrecht play, this
position will be a downgrade from
the consensus National Player of
the Year, who played more than 35
minutes per game. Inexperience
could hamper Walton early on,
but when given time to jelliwith all
of his surrounding talent, Walton
should be able to facilitate another
dangerously talented Michigan
offense.

Wing: Hardaway's offensive
production can be replaced, but
can his defense? After being a
defensive liability for most of
his first two seasons, Hardaway
turned into one of the Wolverines'
most reliable perimeter defenders,
often guarding the opposition's
top outside threat.
Michigan coaches have already
said they're planning on employ-
ing more lineups with two big
men on the floor at the same time,
which would allow Robinson to
play at his natural position, small
forward, rather than the under-
sized power forward role he
played for most of his freshman
season. Given the circumstances,
Robinson's play was respectable,
but against bigger teams, he was
abused defensively and disap-
peared on the offensive end. At
the small forward position, Rob-
inson could terrorize opposing
teams with his flexibility to play
on the perimeter or post up small-
er defenders, while his ability to
find space in transition is as good
as anyone in the country.
Freshman guard Nik Stauskas
isn't the porous defender he was at
the start of the conference season,
but he'll still benefit greatly from
another offseason of strength and
conditioning, as well as coaching.
Combined with Robinson on the
wing, the Wolverines are already
looking at a formidable one-two
punch, but perhaps the team's top
wingman next season, incoming
freshman Zak Irvin, hasn't even
graduated high school.
The five-star product, Indiana's
2012-13 Mr. Basketball, is Rivals.
tom's No. 24 prospect. At 6-foot-
6, his measurables are similar
to Hardaway, but he possesses
greater ball-handling skills and an
impressive knack for gettingto the
basket or creating his own shot,
which is solid.
With so much top-heavy talent,
it's easy to forget freshman guard
Caris LeVert, who wasn't even a
Wolverine commitment at this
time last year. LeVert's 6-foot-5
frame was so scrawny that coach-
es quickly decided to redshirt
him, but they quickly changed
their course when his play in prac-
tice was too good to keep off the
floor. LeVert is a superb perim-
eter defender who has flashed an
ability to shoot and rebound. His
body should benefit tremendously
from a full offseason in a colle-
giate strength and conditioning
program.
Bottom line: Hardaway took
the basketball program to a new
level, but Michigan has a wealth
of riches on the wing that might
make forgetting Hardaway easy
by the middle of next season. The
top-four contributors here can
score in a variety of ways, both in
transition and in half-court sets,
and despite the loss of Hardaway,
should even provide an upgrade
on the defensive end with Robin-
son playing at small forward.
Post: While Michigan will
certainly miss Burke, McGary's
departure could've rivaled Burke's
in terms of setting the program
back. With the freshman in Ann
Arbor for another season, the
Wolverines have their entire
frontcourt back, which should set
fear into opposing coaches.
McGary averaged 6.2 points
and 5.1 rebounds in under 20
minutes per game during confer-

ence play last season, mostly off
the bench, but took the nation
by storm after a promotion into
the starting lineup to kick off the
NCAA Tournament. In over 30
minutes per game, he averaged a
double-double, dominating some
of the country's best post men,
including Kansas' Jeff Withey.
McGary was admittedly out of
shape and wasn't eating right
until the middle of the season
and should build upon a better
conditioning and eating regimen
with another college offseason
program. In the tournament, he
reminded everyone why he was
once ranked as the nation's No.
2 recruit, and he should only get
better next year.
But the frontcourt doesn't end
with McGary. Earlier this week,
Michigan coach John Beilein
indicated that he'd use two big
men on the floor at the same time
for at least significant portions of
games, something he has done
very little of during his tenure in
Ann Arbor. The days of the Wol-
verines getting absolutely abused
in the post ended this past season,
but Michigan still struggled with
post-orientedteams like Michigan
State. That should change in the
upcomingyear.
Morgan is a three-year starter
but never seemed to fully recover
from a midseason ankle injury.
A healthy Morgan - one of the
conference's top low-post defend-
ers - alongside a still-developing
Jon Horford, gives the Wolverines
three solid post players. Incom-
ing forward Mark Donnal, who
fell just outside the nation's top-
100 prospects, could challenge
for playtime, and redshirt fresh-
man Max Bielfeldt can provide a
reliable few minutes per game if
needed, as well.
Bottom line: McGary flashed
All-American potential in the
NCAA Tournament, and assum-
ing he doesn't regress, Michigan
should actually be able to consis-
tently outmuscle Big Ten teams
in the post - something it hasn't
been able to do in years. While the
Wolverines won't always employ a
two-post man lineup, they'll cer-
tainly have the option to.
So what does this all mean?
Burke had the talent to win games
all by himself, and he did so count-
less times. While he'll be missed,
Michigan will have a combination
of talent and depth it hasn't had
since at least the Fab Five years.
Beilein has proven his wizardry
time and time again when it comes
to adjusting his system to his line-
up, and that could shine through
this year like never before. The
Wolverines have so many offen-
sive options - playing two bigs,
going small, pushing the pace,
playing in the half court - that
their offense shouldn't skip a beat
once Walton gains some experi-
ence.
Defense will again be the ques-
tion mark, but with the ability to
play two men in the post, oppos-
ing teams won't be able to exploit
a weakness down low like they
could in years past.
Michigan will be an even
younger team than last year's,
which was one of the nation's
youngest. But if Irvin and Walton
can adjust to the college game -
and they should - the Wolverines
are poised for another Big Ten title
hunt and a top-10 finish.

0 1


