ON HI N EI- JYTWENTFYPTiI 11EEY EAS1E()1"lDITORIAL ITIE)dOM
Tuesday, March 26, 2013_

Ann Arbor, Michigan

michigandaily.com

CAMPUS LIFE
Students donate
* blood to protest
. FDA restrictions

PROP 2 GOES
TO SCOT US

Donors participate in
honor of individuals
barred from giving
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA
Daily StaffReporter
Every year University students col-
lectively donate thousands of pints of
blood through numerous blood drives
as part of the Blood Battle with Ohio
State University But under current
donation guidelines set by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, some
students can't take pride in donating
their blood.
Per FDA regulations, a man who
has had sex with another man can-
not donate blood. This regulation
has come under scrutiny in recent
years, and on Monday, students held
an alternative blood drive in order to
raise awareness of the issue. In pro-
test of the regulations, students who
donated blood on behalf of a friend

who isn't allowed to.
LSA junior Michael Dalton, an
organizer of the blood drive, said he
the drive represented the launch of
"We Bleed Too," a campaign to raise
awareness about the restrictions gay
men face in blood donation. Dalton
said the blood drive was also meant to
build connections between University
students and the LGBT community.
"I guess (the campaign) doesn't end
until the FDA changes its standards,"
he said. "Its campus goal is for commu-
nities to come together."
Dalton said the event partnered with
Blood Drives United - which runs the
Blood Battle with OSU - and the Spec-
trum Center. Earlier this month, the
Central Student Government passed a
resolution supportingthe blood drive.
According to an e-mail statement
from LSA junior Michael Ho, who has
been part of the educational arm of the
organizing group, the blood drive had
93 people pledge to sign the petition to
the FDA and had 39 successful donors.
See BLOOD, Page 3

FACULTY GOVERNANCE
'U' chief investor
talks endowment
with SACUA

Alumni director also
discusses affirmative
action in admissions
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily Staff Reporter
On Monday, Erik Lundberg, the
University's chief investment officer,
joined members of the Senate Adviso-
ry Committee on University Affairs to

discuss the University's endowment,
which is currently the seventh largest
of U.S. public and private institutions.
Growth of the University's endow-
ment provides much of the fundingfor
University spending. To build a port-
folio, the University invests money
from charitable giving and bequests
it into stocks, bonds, companies and
natural resources. By investing, the
University is able to constantly grow
funding pools.
See SACUA, Page 3


FiLE PHOTo/Daily
Protesters sit outside the U.S. Supreme Court - which is under construction - in October 2012 during the Fisher v. University of Texas hearings.

Shelly Schreier: "' came
and never left... I bleed
maize and blue"

Ten years after
landmark cases, court
revisits race-based
admissions
By ARIANA ASSAF and
PETER SHAHIN
Daily Staff Reporter and
Daily NewsEditor
Monday,inwhatmany called asurprise
decision, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed
to hear a case on the status of Michigan's
Proposal 2. The 2006 ballot proposal that
forbade the use of race-based affirmative
action in the state. Since then, the pro-
posal has faced a series of legal battles
- the latest of which resulted in the U.S.
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals narrowly
overturningthe ban in November.
Since the circuit court's 8-7 en bant
ruling on Schuette v. Michigan Coalition
to Defend Affirmative Action, Michigan
Attorney General Bill Schuette, a Repub-
lican, petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court
to review the case. The eight justices that

ruled in favor of overturning the ban
were appointed by a Democratic presi-
dent and the seven minority jurists were
all appointed by a Republican president.
The case faces strong headwinds in a
court dominated by conservative jurists.
More problematic for the liberal bloc,
Justice Elena Kagan has recused her-
self from the Michigan case because of a
conflict of interest - as she did for Fisher
v. University of Texas, the affirmative
action case that was heard by the court in
October 2012. During her time as solici-
tor general, Kagan helped file an amicus
curiae brief for Fisher v. Texas.
With only eight justices participating,
in the unlikely event of a tie, the Sixth
Circuit Court's ruling would stand but
have no precedential value.
The drive to instate the ban was a reac-
tion to the two 2003 landmark decisions
issued by the Supreme Court in which
the University was a party three years
after the cases. The voters of Michigan
overwhelmingly approved the measure
with 57.9 percent voting in favor of ban-
ning affirmative action.
In Gratz v. Bollinger and Grutter v.
Bollinger cases - bearing the name of

then-University President Lee Bollinger
- the Supreme Court ruled that certain
forms of affirmative action are permis-
sible. Between 2003 and 2006, the Uni-
versity was allowed to use a "holistic"
approach, as outlined in the rulings,
achieve a racially diverse campus.
In an unusual step, the Supreme Court
agreed to take the case before it issued
a ruling on a pending case against the
University of Texas. The case could have
sweeping implications for affirmative
action policies across the nation and
render much of the two University cases
moot.
Fisher v. University of Texas, which
was filed in 2008, brings one interpreta-
tion of the 2003 rulings under scrutiny.
According to University of Texas policy,
every Texan student in the top 10 percent
of their class is automatically admitted
to the university. Abigail Fisher, a white
student from a competitive high school;
says she was forced to compete in a much
harder application pool after she failedto
be in the top 10 percent of her class. She
sued the University, claiming that the
policy, meant to achieve racial diversity,
See SCOTUS, Page 3

Golden Apple Award
recipient reflects on
University career
By ALICIA ADAMCZYK
Daily NewsoEditor
Psychology lecturer Shelly Sch-
reier's office is a testament to her love
of teaching. Children's books - which

she uses to explain the cognitive,
social and emotional development of
children - line the walls, while boxes
overflowing with papers and folders
are stacked in front of the only win-
dow. A Sigmund Freud action figure,
still in its original package, sits on a
bookshelf, while a miniature Bobo
doll - modeled after the dolls used
in the classic psychology experiment
of the same name - is situated on the
See SCHREIER, Page 3



WEATHER HI: 43
TOMORROW LO: 29

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 ore-mail THEINSTITUTION:CSGElection Preview
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGAN DAI LY.COM/BLOGS/TH EWIRE

INDEX N EW S .............. ............ 2 SPO RTS .......... ........ 8
Vo.CXXIII,No.90 OPINION. ..............4 SUDOKU .,..,.............. 3A
2013 TheMichigan Daily ARTS..................... ...5 CLASSIFIEDS ............. 6A
michigondoily, cow

I

4 £ 4 1,



2 - Tuesday, March 26, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, March 26, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

ForDth0l3'eSf Ann SCHREIER
For the love of Ann Arbor

-HIGHER EDUCATION-

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4110 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaiy.com rmgrein@michigandailycom

"I did my bachelor's, my mas-
ter's and my PhD work here,
and then I did my post-doctoral
work here. I love it here. I love
it here."
"I also had a small private
practice that I worked with and
then was raising my children ...
then came back to the teaching
which I've just, it's something I
really love to do. I taught a sem-
inar on divorce and remarriage,
then I taught socialization of
the child, then development
... intro psych, then rotating
through them ... then I was for-
tunate enough to develop a sort
of special topics seminar that I
teach periodically on psychol-
ogy of children's books. "
"I love children's books. And
there is quite a bit known about
how children's literature can
CRIME NOTES
Sleepyhead In
WHERE: Electrical ur
Engineering Building U
WHEN: Yesterday at about WF
3:20 a.m. Res
WHAT: Buildingstaff WI
found a student sleeping ina 3:4(
classroom, University Police WF
reported. The student left fou
after he was informed that wa'
he can not sleep overnight wee
in academic buildings. cur

serve as a source of cognitive, students (to) take classes that
social and emotional promoting you're interested in, but also take
development ... both as a form a broad range of classes because
of bibliotherapy but also a way you might not even know what
to help children come to under- you're interested in. So, one tier
stand themselves in the broader is to really take advantage of the
social world." amazing classes and the faculty
-- that are here ... the second thing
"Ann Arbor, I came and never is the research opportunities."
left. And I still had some Univer- --
sity-affiliation with some things "I think one of the things I try
as I was doing that because the to bring to the teaching environ-
post-doctoral work, I did that ment is the hope that what I do
here and then always stayed con- is inspire students to find the
nected. Loved football Saturdays material as relevant to their lives
... I bleed maize and blue, I abso- and what they're doing as I do.
lutely, I love this place." One of the best things I think a
-- teacher can do is not just teach
"That's one of the things that's so students the material, but hope-
incredible about this University fully get the, to the point where
is that you really get to form rela- what they want to do is ask the
tionships, and there's a multitude next question."
of opportunities that students
can take advantage of. So when I Interview with Shelly Schreier
do advising, I always encourage conducted by Alicia Adamczyk
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTE!

Newsroom
734-410-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@oisigaditly.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmaitcom
Online Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Phatography Section
photo@mchigandaily.com
Classified Sales
dailydisplay@gmai.com
Finance
fisnance@michigandaily.com

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
LSA junior Chane Forsyth reads a book outside in a
tree near the Diag on Monday.

ifrastructure Note workshop Beating

pdateS
HERE: South Quad
idence Hall
HEN: Sunday at about
0 p.m.
HAT: Univeristy Police
nd a seventh-floor hall-
y wall damaged over the
ekend. There are
rently no suspects.

WHAT: Academic coaches
advise students how to
maximize listening and
note-takingskills. The
seminar provides strategies
to improve comprehension.
WHO: Services for Students
with Disabilities
WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
WHERE: Palmer Com-
mons, Great Lakes North
Room

the blues
WHAT: This CAPS session
informs students on what
it's like to fight depression
and shares strategies to feel
more energized.
WHO: Counseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Room 3905

rnMM i H INGS YOU
Computer researcher at
the University of Cam-
bridge developed the
Android Remote Sensing
App, Daily News & Analy-
sis reported. This app helps
pinpoint daily stress by acti-
vating sensors built into the
mobile device.
The Strokes return
with an all-new album
full of '80s-inspired
sounds. OneRepublic also
returns after a long hiatus
with new, dependably pop
tunes.
> FOR MORE, SEE ARTS, PAGE 7
Current Game of
Thrones actor Clive
Mantle was attacked at
the Foster Street Hotel, BBC
News reported. The 32-year-
old attacker allegedly bit off
part of Mantle's ear and has
been charged with wounding
with intent.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matthew Slovin ManagingEditor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
Adam Rubenfire ManagingNews Editor orube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Austen Hufford, Peter Shahin,
K.C.Wassman, Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Molly Block, Jennifer Calfas, Aaron Guggenheim, Sam
Gringlas,DanielleStoppelmann, SteveZoski
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts EditorialtPagenEditoes
SENIOR EDTORIAL PAGEEDIORSesseKein,SarahSkaluba, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Sharik Bashir, Daniel Wang
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Steven Braid, Michael LauriIa, Stephen Nesbitt, Colleen
Thomas, Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
ASSISTANTS TSEDITORS:DanielFeldman,GregGarno, RajatKhare,LizNagle,
Jeremy Summi,Aljado ZSfiga
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArtsEditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS:ElliotAlpern,BrianneJohnson,JohnLynch,AnnaSadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Sean Czarnecki, CarlinaDuan, Gibson Johns, Max Radin,
Kendall Russ, AkshaySeth, Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: TeresaMathew,Todd Needle
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS:KatherinePekala,PaulSherman,AdamSchnitzer
Kristen Cleghornand
Nick Cruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
HaleyAGoldeNg MaEietEdio: r statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAIsNEDIORPigod ePearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien copy chiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleman,Kelly McLauglin
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate Business Manager
SeanJackson Sales Manager
SophieGreenbaum ProductionManager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan,. One copy is avalable free of charge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via U.S. mail are $110. Winter term January through April) is
$115,yearlong ( september through April)is$19s.University affiliates aresubject toa reduced
subscriptionrate.On-campusssubscriptionsfo falltermare$3ssbsriptionsmust be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0

Entry denied Pharmacy in

WHERE: West Hall
WHEN: Sunday at
about 3:05 p.m.
WHAT: The building's
electronic card reader was
displaced from the post in
the archway, University
Police reported. This event
is believed to have occurred
between March 23 and
March 24. There are
currently no suspects.

a purse
WHERE: University
Hospital Emergency Room
WHEN: Sunday at about
2:00 p.m.
WHAT: A visitor reported
that prescription pills and
cash were stolen from her
purse while it was sitting in
a patient's room, University
Police reported.

Saxophone
Game tourney .i
recital

WHAT: The Computer &
Video Game Archive hosts
a video game tournament
highlighting motion-related
consoles. Games include
Fruit Ninja Kinct, Dance
Dance Revolution X and
Eyetoy Excite Bots.
WHO: Computer & Video
Game Archive
WHEN: Today from 10 a.m
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Duderstadt
Center

WHAT: Students led by
Professor Donald Sinta
perform in their biannual
studio recital. The program
includes Lennon, Dubussy,
Muczynski and Giuffre
compositions.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30
p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building,
Britton Recital Hall


THINK JOURNALISM
IS DYING?
NOT US.
Be part of it.
WWW.MICH IGAN DAILY.COM/

CSG looks at
plurality vote

LSA-SG to hold
elections Wed.

Multiple
candidates reduce
chance of majority
decision
By STEPHEN YAROS
Daily StaffReporter

O' N-U!SWith Central Student Gov-
ernment executive elections
this week, the big question
Ltb I bMNI Ut I bul'A Ut b 1UAN I-Ml frUtb I LARLUMU( on campus is: Who will win?
However, the more appropri-
BEST RE? ate question may be: How will
BES h UB? ey t be elected?
Because there's generally a
LET oBAR good chance of more than two
- candidates running in a given
3EST ORE. year, CSG executive elections
3EST ) 'BES1 require the winning candidate
to obtain only a plurality of the
[lZZA BEST total vote, which means they
AST/receive the most votes of any
R AlR AST? candidate, but not necessarily
F F the majority of votes.
This may not seem sig-
nificant, but if last year's
elections are any indica-
tor - current CSG President
Manish Parikh received just
over 30 percent of the total
vote - this year's presidential
election - with five presiden-
tial candidates may result in
7 1 1the winner receiving nothing
close to a majority of the votes
8 5 1 7 cast.
This plurality vote is in con-
trast to conventional demo-
8 5 2 cratic elections, in which the
winning candidate almost
3 1 6 5 2 8 always receives a majority of
the popular vote.
8 5 7 CSG Program Director
Anika Awai-Williams said
this difference in voting pro-
7 8 5 3 cedure seems strange because
the legislative, judiciary and
1 7 executive systems of CSG
were changed in 2010 to pur-
3 '5 1 posely mirror the federal gov-

ernment.
In addition to the pattern
of plurality in CSG elections,
overall student turnout for
CSG elections at the Universi-
ty has traditionally been under
20 percent. This means that in
last year's elections, less than
7 percent of the entire student
population voted for Parikh, a
Ross senior.
Parikh said the lack of stu-
dent support in CSG elections
is not as bad as it seems, con-
sidering most university elec-
tions around the country only
have an 8-to-10-percent stu-
dent turnout. He's especially
optimistic about this year's
CSG elections - because of
promotion of the assembly
voter turnout will be between
25 and 30 percent.
He added that if participa-
tion continues to increase, in
seven or eight years the Uni-
versity could have an election
turnout similar to U.S. presi-
dential elections.
In the event that student
participation does not con-
tinue to rise, both Parikh
and Awai-Williams said they
would be open to the idea of
a new election system that
would include primary elec-
tions. This would ensure the
elected CSG president receives
a majority of votes.
"I think that would be a
great discussion to have in the
assembly in regards to possi-
bly updating the constitution
to reflect that type of system,"
Awai-Williams said.
Though Parikh does have
his doubts about how feasible
such a system would be for
CSG executive elections, he
agrees with Awai-Williams.
"It's definitely an interest-
ing idea, and I think that it
can be tested for the future,"
Parikh said.

Lathia and Johnson connect LSA-SG with the student
body better and help students
will be running better understand the value of a
holistic liberal arts education.
unopposed Only three of 15 candidates
participated in the debate. LSA
ByAMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR sophomore Amirul Amirudin,
Daily StaffReporter LSA freshman Kelsey Pridemore
and LSA freshman Matan Skolnik
As the Central Student Govern- had similar platforms to Lathia
ment candidates gear up for their and Johnson. Skolnik added that
final push during election week, their similar visions for LSA-SG
the candidates for LSA Student were a testament to the fact that
Government are hard at work their common goals are really
prepping for their own contest important.
in which students of the Univer- .Pohl said diversity and out-
sity's longest college will have the reach were addressed by many of
chance to elect the leaders of their the candidates in their platform
own studentgovernment. statements. While candidates in
Business and LSA junior Sagar previous years had similar aims,
Lathia and LSA sophomore Ken- Pohl said he was optimistic this
dall Johnson are running unop- year there would be more "spe-
posed for the position of president cific, tangible goals" from the
and vice president, respectively. candidates.
LSA senior Kevin Pohl, LSA-SG's One of LSA-SG's largest under-
external relations officer, said takings in the last year has been
multiple parties approached him accumulating an archive of past
earlier this year with the inten- syllabi where students can view
tion of running candidates. How- course details before registering.
ever, Lathia and Johnson were the While several syllabi are already
only ones who submitted election available on Wolverine Access,
materials on time. Pohl said it would be up to the
Though Lathia said running new administration to ensure that
unopposed eased the election this project is completed.
process, he thinks competition Johnson added that continuing
would be beneficial to LSA-SG. the pre-existing work of LSA-SG
"I think it is corrosive to the would be a top priority for their
election process," he said. "Hope- administration in order to ensure
fully, in the next year we can an easy transition between their
change the culture of LSA-SG so own ideas and those of the cur-
that multiple groups of candidates rent student government.
want to run." "We are going to continue our
He added that additional can- connections with administration
didates would add authenticity to and students," Johnson affirmed.
the contest. In addition to the the candidate
The competition has expand- selection form, the LSA-SG ballot
ed in the LSA-SG representative contains a referendum on IT sys-
elections, as 15 candidates will vie tems at the University. After vot-
for the nine available seats. ing for representatives, students
On March 18, LSA-SG hosted may vote on desired updates to
its annual candidates' debate CTools and the online LSA Audit
where hopeful representatives System through the Newnan
and executives were given the Advising Center website.
opportunity to reflect upon and Ballots for all elections will
answer questions pertaining to open Wednesday and will remain
their individual platform. open for 48 hours. All LSA stu-
During the debates, Lathia and dents will be able to vote for their
Johnson said their administration representatives through the uni-
would work to increase the trans- fied voting website, www.vote.
parency of student government, umich.edu.

0

Follow us on Twitter
@michigandaily

4

4 A

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Tuesday, March 26, 2013 - 3

NEWS BRIEFS
ROYAL OAK, Mich.
Michigan's first
lady aims to reduce
infant deaths
Michigan's First Lady is back-
ing efforts to prevent infant deaths
that result from unsafe sleeping
practices.
Sue Snyder announced her sup-
port for the Safe Sleep Initiative
Monday at Beaumont Children's
Hospital in Royal Oak.
Michigan's Human Services
and Community Health depart-
ments are launching programs
and releasing an educational video
to teach residents how to prevent
infant deaths from unsafe sleep
environments.
Human Services officials say
about 150 infants die in Michigan
every year from unsafe sleeping
practices that include placing chil-
dren on their stomachs. Infants
should sleep on their backs with
their faces uncovered and without
pillows, toys or stuffed animals.
SIOUX FALLS, S.D.
S.D. Sen. Johnson
plans to retire at
the end of his term
Democratic U.S. Sen. Tim
Johnson of South Dakota plans to
retire at the end of his term, Dem-
ocratic officials said Monday - a
departure that gives Republicans
a prime opportunity to pick up a
seat as they attempt to win back
control of the chamber in 2014.
Johnson, the chairman of the
Senate Banking Committee, suf-
fered a brain hemorrhage in 2006
and later returned to the Senate
and won re-election in 2008 while
sometimes using a motorized
scooter.
The officials who described
Johnson's plans spoke to The
Associated Press on condition of
anonymity, saying they were not
authorized to pre-empt a formal
announcement expected Tuesday
in South Dakota.
LONDON ..
Police determine
Russian tycoon
died from hanging
British police say that a post-
mortem examination has found
that self-exiled Russian tycoon
Boris Berezovsky's death was
"consistent with hanging."
Thames Valley Police did not
specify Monday whether Ber-
ezovsky hanged himself, but said
that a pathologist has found noth-
ing to indicate a violent struggle.
The 67-year-old businessman
- a one-time Kremlin power-
broker who later became a fierce
critic of Russian President Vladi-
mir Putin - was found dead athis
home in England on Saturday.
Police say that further tests,
including toxicology examina-
tions, will be carried out and that

it could take weeks for the results
to be known.
CAIRO
EGYPTIAN pros-
ecutor orders ar-
* rest of activists
After Egypt's Islamist presi-
dent vowed action against oppo-
nents, the nation's top prosecutor
on Monday issued arrest war-
rants against five prominent
activists over clashes between
the Muslim Brotherhood and
protesters.
The warrants heightened the
latest in a series of crises plagu-
ing this nation of some 90 million
since the ouster of autocrat Hosni
Mubarak's ouster.
Rights activists and the oppo-
sition warned the warrants could
mark the opening of an intimida-
tion campaign against their ranks
by President Mohammed Morsi
and the Brotherhood, through
the prosecutor. They accused
the prosecutor - handpicked by
Morsi late last year - saying he
has ignored Morsi supporters'
violence against protesters and
moved quickly against opposition
0 figures.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

PROP 2
From Page 1
was discrimination and illegal
under the 2003 rulings.
She did not receive admission
to the University of Texas and
has since graduated from Louisi-
ana State University.
Accordingto aReuters article,
the Court could release a deci-
sion on Fisher v. Texas as soon
as this week. Alternatively, tak-
ing the Michigan case could be
a signal that the court is deeply
divided over Fisher v. Texas and
has not yet reached a decision.
As a result of the affirma-
tive action ban, the number of
black students has declined
precipitously, from around 10
percent in 2006 to under 5 per-
cent in 2013. The University has
attempted to compensate for the
decline through outreach efforts
to social minorities, but cannot
offer specific advantage in the
admissions process.
BLOOD
From Page 1
Still, he stressed that this wasn't
a protest as much as a way to
raise awareness.
"Blood Drives United want-
ed to be sure to convey that the
sole purpose of this drive was
not a 'protest' but to just give
eligible donors the opportunity
to 'sponsor' ineligible donors
affected by the FDA ban," he
wrote.
Dalton said he hopes to
expand the campaign to other
universities in the Big 10 and
have other universities hold

Law School Prof. Mark
Rosenbaum is arguing against
Schuette's efforts to reinstate
the ban, and hopes affirmative
action will play a role in the Uni-
versity's future admissions deci-
sions.
"Proposal 2 turns the 14th
amendment upside down,"
Rosenbaum said. "It says your
access to government depends
on your view of racial diversity
... if you support racial diversity,
it's going to be very hard to talk
to your government."
He gave the example of
approaching the University's
Board of Regents as opposed
to lobbying the government to
include race under the umbrella
of diversity.
"If I want to say alumni
should get preferential treat-
ment, I can go straight to the
regents and make that case. But
if I want to make the case that
diversity should include race
the same way it includes other
factors of diversity, I have to get
similar events.
Engineering freshman
Flavio Fiszman had a friend
donate on his behalf. He had
gone to a blood drive at the
University before, but it wasn't
until he was at the location that
he learned he would not be eli-
gible to donate blood.
He said while he was glad
that through this event people
could donate blood on behalf of
those that couldn't, it's just not
the same as if he donated blood.
"I don't think people should
have to do this," he said. "I just
wish I could (donate blood) for
myself."
LSA sophomore Jessica

a constitutional amendment,"
Rosenbaum said.
Mary Bridget Lee, com-
munications director for the
University's chapter of College
Democrats, echoed Rosenbaum,
sayingshe believes that the more
diversity on a college campus,
the better.
Lee said the College Demo-
crats support affirmative action
and hope the Supreme Court
takes this opportunity "to really
change the dialogue on affir-
mative action in this country,"
while reviewing the case.
Conversely, Rachel Jankows-
ki, chair of the University's
chapter of College Republicans,
agrees with Schuette. She and
the members of College Republi-
cans identify as anti-affirmative
action.
"Admissions into college
should be based upon merit.
Everyone should have equal
opportunity when grant-
ed admission into college,"
Jankowski said.
Koolick donated blood on
behalf of Dalton.
"(Donating blood) kind of
feels like you're doing some-
thing good for your commu-
nity, for people who you don't
know," she said. "I don't think
it's fair that I should be able
to do that but other people
shouldn't be able to because of
who they are and their iden-
tity."
Koolick added that it was a
way to reaffirm her support of
a friend.
"I hope to show (Dalton) that
I support who he is and what he
does, and that I support him as
a friend."


SHELLY
From Page 1
shelf below.
Between explanations of
Bobo's significance to her field
and the use of children's lit-
erature as bibliotherapy, there's
little doubt Schreier enjoys what
she does. And as the recipient of
this year's Golden Apple Award
- an award given each year to a
student-nominated teacher at the
University who is particularly
inspiring and engaging - her
students appreciate her enthusi-
asm.
A Michigan native, Schreier
attended the University for her
undergraduate, graduate and
doctoral degrees. Earning her
doctorate in clinical psycholo-
gy, she opened a private practice
after completing her post-doc-
toral work in Ann Arbor. Sch-
reier eventually returned to
lecturing at the University and
has been teaching full time
since 1999.
"I came and neverleft...I bleed
maize and blue," Schreier said. "I
absolutely love this place."
She became involved in
research opportunities, project
outreach and even crisis phone
counseling during her under-
graduate career. She said though
the University is a large place,
these extracurricular activities,
paired with "incredible" men-
tors, helped make it a little bit
smaller.
"I took amazing classes from
amazing faculty ... who helped
me learn in creative ways," she
said. "Part of what I do, hope-
fully, is pay it forward."
Indeed, Schreier expressed
over and over that building rela-
tionships with students is the
most rewarding aspect of her job.

Part of her mandate as a teacher
is to positively influence her stu-
dents' lives.
And while she said it's her
duty to ensure her teaching is
worthwhile to her students, she
also hopes students come to her
class with some level of excite-
mentandinterest aboutthetopic.
"I feel very strongly that it is
a responsibility, an honor and
a privilege to teach here," she
said. "I really try to approach
teaching like it's a partnership
in some way between myself
and the students."
According to Business and
LSA junior Jake Levey, a mem-
ber of Hillel's Students Honoring
Outstanding University Teach-
ing committee, which selects the
Golden Apple winner each year,
Schreier was selected as the 2013
recipient because of the mentor-
ing relationship she has devel-
oped with her students.
"We looked for nominations
that said the teacher was really
more than just a teacher. One
was like, 'Shelly is the reason
I'm a psychology major today,' "
Levey said. "It makes you think
about what should an exemplary
teacher be, and that's what really
led us to Shelly."
"We do think about people
who would be ambassadors for
the University, who would really
shine," he added.
Public Policy senior Gabe
Pachter, another member of the
committee, seconded Levey's
assertions, adding that while
many of the submissions had
one or two words on them, most
of the submissions for Schreier
were stories.
Outside the classroom, Sch-
reier is an avid University sports
fan. A mother of three - one
University alum and two cur-
rent University undergraduates

- she said she enjoys taking
her daughters to athletic events
and Camp Michigania, the Uni-
versity's up-north alumni fam-
ily camp, in the summer. While
she enjoys the various activities
provided at the camp, ranging
from archery to rock polishing,
Schreier said one of her favor-
ite things to do at the camp is
attend the faculty lectures.
"I'll turn everything, if I can,
into a teaching moment," Sch-
reier said. "Just ask my kids."
She has .also served on
the Undergraduate Psychol-
ogy Committee and has been
involved with the University
Mentorship Program for about
10 years. Additionally, Schreier
is in charge of the Psychology
Graduate Student Instructor
training program.
Each year, the Golden Apple
recipient delivers his or her "last
lecture," the talk the winner
would give if he or she had only
one left. Schreier will present
hers April 4 at 7 p.m. in Rackham
Auditorium. Ever the mentor, her
speech will focus on the princi-
ple of good decision-making she
bases her life around and tries-to
promote.
Though she's looking forward
to her last lecture, she views the
award as a challenge to contin-
ue to improve her teaching and
material.
When asked what receiving
the Golden Apple Award meant
to her, Schreier paused before
answering, an uncharacteris-
tic moment for the high-energy
speaker.
"(It's) probably the most
incredible honor that an educa-
tor at this University gets," she
said. "For the students to be the
ones to say you have made a posi-
tive difference, I can't think of
anything more rewarding."

SACUA
From Page 1
While the University's endow-
ment was $7.7 billion last year, it
has not always been so large.
Prior to Lundberg's arrival in
1999, the University did not have
an office dedicated to invest-
ments. Lundberg was recruited
to head a new University Invest-
ment Office in downtown Ann
Arbor at the corner of Huron
Street and Main Street, which
now houses 13 investment pro-
fessionals. The office oversees all
University financial assets, and
develops investment strategies
and implements them with sub-
contracted fund managers.
Since Lundberg began, the
University's endowment has
moved its way up the rankings
from the 17th-largest in the
nation to the seventh largest. The
University now competes with
institutions such as Harvard
University, which consistently
ranks first with an endowment
of $30 billion. Lundberg said
the University has passed the
University of California system
and now has the second largest
public university endowment,
remaining behind the University
of Texas system.
"No other University has
moved up so quickly," Lundberg
said. "The idea that having this
group of dedicated professionals
will do a better job than part-
timers has paid off for the Uni-
versity. We hope this trend will
continue."
In order to keep the endow-
ment growing, Lundberg said
the University spends only
about 4.5 percent of it, a slight
decrease from the 5-percent
level of spending prior to the
economic downturn in 2008,
when endowments took a hit
during the financial crisis.
In addition to deciding how
much to spend and invest, the
office must choose where to place
its money, which is spread across
categories such as private equity,
venture capital and real estate.
While Lundberg's office sets
the investment strategy, other
firms often advise on specific
methods for implementation.
For example, if the University
decides to invest in a technology
company or a real estate prop-
erty, fund managers assist in
choosing the specific company
or property.
"We think it's very important
that when people give money
to the University we steward it
the best we can," Lundberg said.
"We take it very seriously."
Lundberg also said the Board
of Regents has established a
policy of selecting investments
based on the best potential for
returns, not social or political
purposes.
"We can't let our personal
views influence the investments
we pursue," Lundberg said.
As an exception, the Uni-
versity does not invest in any
tobacco-related companies. In
the past, the University opted
out of investments tied to South
Africa, then under Apartheid
policies.
Following Lundberg's discus-
sion, Steve Grafton - president

of the University's Alumni Asso-
ciation - and SACUA members
discussed the decreasing stu-
dent-body diversity at the Uni-
versity.
Grafton detailed the goals of
the group that includes 63 alum-
ni clubs in the United States and
98,000 members. In addition, he
focused on efforts to increase
diversity.

While the University can no
longer participate in affirma-
tive-action programs due to a
state law that will soon be test-
ed by the U.S. Supreme Court,
Grafton said the Alumni Asso-
ciation has the opportunity to
spur diversity because it is not
affiliated with the University.
In 2008, the Alumni Associa-
tion began the LEAD Scholars
Program, which awards schol-
arships to accepted students
representing minority groups.
"We can't admit students, but
we can certainly recruit them
from among the students who
have been admitted," Grafton
said.
After four years of the pro-
gram, Grafton said it is making
major strides. Before the LEAD
program, Grafton said 64 per-
cent of accepted in-state, under-
represented minorities - which
includes blacks, Latinos and
Native Americans - enrolled
at the University. With the
LEAD program, the figure has
increased to 75 percent.
Out-of-state numbers show
an even larger increase, rising
from 24 percent to 75 percent
under LEAD.
Grafton added that 100 per-
cent of those receiving LEAD
scholarships have graduated on
time.
"The goal for us is to try to
get as many students enrolled
on campus as we can," Grafton
said.
Still, Grafton said funding the
program continues to be a chal-
lenge. As soon as the program
started, the economy tanked. As
a result, $1.4 million is still need-
ed to fund currently enrolled
LEAD members through their
graduation. The Alumni Associ-
ation, which receives no Univer-
sity funding, is hoping to raise
$8.5 million during the upcom-
ing capital campaign.
With those funds, Grafton
said the Alumni Association
could sponsor 75 to 125 scholar-
ships per graduating class.
"Sometimes it feels like there
aren't a lot of people on campus
taking this program seriously,"
Grafton said.
However, he said University
President Mary Sue Coleman
and her husband Ken Coleman
understand the importance of
affirmative action and have per-
sonally contributed to the fund.
"(With increased funding and
students) we can beginto impact
our shared challenge of achiev-
ing a more diverse student body
and begin to reverse this down-
ward trend," Grafton said.
In addition to the guest
speakers, SACUA held chair and
vice chair elections. The com-
mittee elected Karen Staller,
associate professor of social
work, as chair and Dentistry
Prof. Rex Holland as vice chair.
The new officials will serve one-
year terms.
Staller ran unopposed for
the position and was confirmed
by acclamation of the present
members. Holland ran against
Medical School Prof. Charles
Koopmann, who was not pres-
ent at the meeting.
"I'm excited to be represent-
ing the faculty," Staller said.
"It's such a talented and diverse

group and this particular group
is wonderful, and it's going to be
wonderful to represent the larg-
er University as well."
Staller said there will be
many issues that SACUA will
face in the upcoming year of her
term, including the selection of
the next president due to Cole-
man's impending departure in
2014.



Cypriot banks remain closed through
Economy had ATMs have been dispensing bledbanks. view the safety of banks," said
cash but often run out, and an The country's banks have been Jane Foley, an analyst at Rabo-
reverted to cash- increasing number of stores and closed since March 16 to avert a bankInternational.
other businesses have stopped run on deposits as the country's The initial plan to seize a per-
only system in accepting credit or debit cards. politicians struggled to come centage of all deposits sent jitters
The two largest lenders, the up with a way to raise enough across the eurozone. European
struggling Laiki and Bank of money to qualify for the bailout. officials, anxious to prevent any
Cyprus, have imposed a daily An initial plan that would have further spread of the financial
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) - withdrawal limit of 100 euros raised 5.8 billion euros by seizing crisis that has already left Greece,
Cyprus ordered banks to remain ($130). up to 10 percent of people's bank Ireland and Portugal dependent
closed for two more days over Cyprus clinched an eleventh- accounts enraged depositors and on bailout funds, had been at
fears of a run by customers try- hour deal with the 17-nation was soundly rejected by lawmak- pains to point out that Cyprus
ing to get their money out, after eurozone and the International ersearlylastweek. was a unique case.
striking a pre-dawn bailout deal Monetary Fund early Monday But with the immediate cri- The country of about 800,000
Monday that averted the coun- for a 10 billion euro ($13 billion) sis averted, worry spread across people has a banking sector eight
try's imminent bankruptcy. bailout. Without it, the country's Europe that the deal could boo- times larger than itsgross domes-
The sudden midnight post- banks would have collapsed, merang, spooking investors and tic product, with nearly a third
ponement of the much antici- dragging down the economy and hurting the eurozone's efforts to of the roughly 68 billion euros
pated Tuesday bank opening by potentially pushing it out of the keep its debt crisis from spread- in the country's banks believed
all but the country's two largest euro. ing. to be held by Russians. Germany
lenders was sure to hammer busi- Under the deal, the coun- "The Cypriot bailout has a in particular long insisted that
nesses already reeling from more try agreed to slash its oversized powerful legacy which may alter Cypriot banks, which attracted
than a week of no access to their banking sector and inflict hefty the security with which deposi- foreign investors with high inter-
deposits. losses on large depositors in trou- tors elsewhere in the eurozone est rates, needed to contribute to

Tuesday
the bailout.
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the
Dutch finance minister who
chairs the Eurogroup gathering
of the eurozone's finance minis-
ters, said Monday that inflicting
losses onthe banks' shareholders,
bondholders and large depositors
should become the eurozone's
default approach for dealing with
ailinglenders.
"If I finance abank and I know
ifthebankwillgetintroubleIwill
be hit and I will lose money, I will
put a price on that," Dijsselbloem
said in a joint interview with the
Financial Times and Reuters. "I
think it is a sound economic prin-
ciple. And having cheap money
because the risk will be covered
by the government, and I will
always get my money back, is not
leading to the right decisions in
the financial sector."

.,r..,, _,..

_.... _ - ---o ---r --

A ItA


4 - Tuesday, March 26, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

cp Midhiian Bal
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
ANDREW WEINER and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
F R OM T hE DA ILY
Communicating safety
Federal law didn't serve students best in stopping crime
naApril 2011, the U.S. Department of Education mandated that
Juniversities investigate all cases of on-campus sexual miscon-
duct involving students. At the University of Michigan, the
Office of Institutional Equity handles these allegations, with "high-
ly trained investigators" interviewing those involved and any pos-
sible witnesses. Between September 2012 and February 2013, there
were three cases of sexual assault involving the same alleged perpe-
trator at Zaragon Place, an off-campus apartment building on East
University Street. However, the OIE only reported the first inci-
dent in September and failed to report the second incident - which
occurred later that month - only doing so after the third attack five
months later in February. Although federal laws don't force the OIE
to report off-campus investigations to the University of Michigan
Police Department, here the minimum obligations weren't suffi-
cient in identifying a pattern that may have prevented a third inci-
dent of sexual assault. The University should implement a consistent
reporting process to protect its students on and off-campus.

Equality overdue

This really shouldn't be an
issue anymore.
Freedom isn't a privilege.
It's a right, and
it doesn't make
any difference
how many ref-
erendums deny
the LGBTQ com-
munity their
constitutional
entitlement to ANDREW
marriage - it
doesn't make ECKHOUS
those laws legal.
I'm tired of
the bullshit arguments about how
"redefining" marriage will somehow
render it less valuable. Even with
millennia of marriage history and
tradition, somehow marriage's death
will come at the hands of two men or
two women and their decision to put
some shiny rocks on each other's fin-
gers and sign a few legal documents.
Faulty logic lurks behind every
piece of pseudo-science and pseu-
do-psychology that the anti-equal-
ity folks offer up. No one can prove
either way whether growing up
with a mother and a father holds
more or less value than growing up
with a homosexual set of parents
because the abstract concepts of
good and bad lie outside of science
- thanks Biology 109! As an Ameri-
can - nay, a human - you have the
right to believe any crazy thought
you want. You can believe that one
loving set of parents is worth more
than another, but just because you
put your science pants on and say
something like there are "unique
advantages to a parenting struc-
ture consisting of both a mother
and a father, political interests
notwithstanding," doesn't validate
your arguments.
You look ugly when you lie, and
it would be refreshing for you free-
wheeling bigots just to admit it: You
don't think anyone in the LGBTQ
community deserves the same

"equality" that fills your red, white
and blue arteries. Sure, we're all
created equal, but aren't some of us
more equal than others?
And stop it with the "(I'm) for
equal rights for all Americans, but
no one has the right to redefine
marriage" garbage. Maybe you fell
asleep during civics class or were
busy praying in school, but there
exists a separation between church
and state. Religious arguments have
no place in legal debates, and since
marriage rights inhabit the legal
arena in this context, please don't
use your religious text as exhibit A.
Picket as many gay marriages as you
want, and feel free to tell the newly-
weds they have an eternity of exper-
imental short films waiting for them
in hell, but kindly get the fuck out of
the way of the court's decision.
When the Supreme Court makes
a long-awaited decision on two cases
on same-sex marriage this week,
anything less than a full endorse-
ment of marriage equality for all will
signify that our "precious" rights are
more valuable than the actual people
that use them.
Leave it up to the states, you say?
If we had left slavery up to the states,
would that dark chapter have ever
been completely abolished? If we
had left women's suffrage up to the
states, would my mother, sister or
grandmother have the right to vote
today? I don't know, but the odds
seem bleak to me.
Gay marriage represents more
than two people getting hitched and
having a 50-percent chance of get-
ting unhitched. Gay marriage rep-
resents the ideals that we claim to
stand for. Life, liberty and the pur-
suit of happiness - unless you're gay
-that's gross.
In his famous obituary for Rich-
ard Nixon, Hunter S. Thompson
wrote "some people will say that
words like scum and rotten are
wrong for Objective Journalism
- which is true, but they miss the

point. It was the built-in blind spots
of the Objective rules and dogma
that allowed Nixon to slither into
the White House." Today's situation
is no different. Unless we stop look-
ing at gay marriage objectively, big-
oted laws and hateful statutes will
continue slithering into law books
nationwide. Framing gay marriage
as a blitzkrieg assault on state's
rights conveniently circumvents
the larger issue of equality, and, by
extension, asserts that the voting
public can use its democratic rights
to decide that gays - or any other
group of people - don't deserve the
same liberties that it does. "Never
mind that the anti-gay marriage
rhetoric directly mirrors the anti-
interracial marriage rhetoric," anti-
equality troglodytes will say, "this
time it's different! Marriage really is
under threat!"
Framing gay
marriage as a
state right masks
the bigger issue.
In the 1960s, the American
government knew that without
direct intervention, the scourge
of legal discrimination would not
end. Everything changed with the
advent of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, even if it wasn't overnight,
and our country will never go back
to the way it used to be. If we want
to continue down that path to the
idealized vision of "equality" that
every politician espouses, we have
no choice but to legalize same-sex
marriage. And if you disagree with
me, you're wrong.
- Andrew Eckhous can be
reached at aeckhous@umich.edu.

In September 2012, the OIE was informed
of an incident involving the sexual assault of a
student living in a Zaragon apartment. Though
the survivor didn't want to file a police report,
the OIE informed University Police of the inci-
dent. During their investigation of this first
allegation, an investigator in the OIE learned
of a second incident involvingthe same alleged
graduate student later that month. While the
second survivor also declined to file a formal
police report, this time the OIE declined to
report the allegation to University Police, leav-
ing the incident unreported on campus. Five
months later, a third assault was reported in
the same apartment building with the same
perpetrator. After the survivor of the third
case filed a report with the Ann Arbor Police
Department, OIE investigators discovered
that all three allegations of sexual misconduct
implicated the same suspect. As a result of the
OIE's inconsistent crime reporting, both Zara-
gon residents and students alike were unaware
of the possible threat. With the development of
the third case, the under-reporting of the sec-
ond allegation can be seen as a missed opportu-

nity in preventing additionalcrime.
Under current law, the University is required
to disclose crimes that occur in campus facili-
ties, as well as other specified areas like Greek
Life housing. The Clery Act, passed in 1990,
pulls federal funding from universities that fail
to report campus crimes. In 2011, the Depart-
ment of Education expanded colleges' roles
in crime reporting, threatening to withhold
funding from schools that don't investigate
sexual assaults that occur on campus. While
the OIE's failure to report the second incident
doesn'ttechnicallyviolate federal law since the
incident took place off campus, the University
shouldn't prioritize the safety of students living
on campus over those off. The University has a
responsibility to protect all students - regard-
less of where they live - even if current law
doesn't explicitly require it.
In the absence of federal law, the OIE needs
to set clear standards when investigating off-
campus crime. Consistency and communica-
tion between the OIE and University police are
critical in promoting a safe campus and pre-
venting crime on and off campus.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, Eli Cahan, Eric Ferguson,
Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Patrick Maillet,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Jasmine McNenny, Harsha Nahata,
Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman, Sarah Skaluba, Michael Spaeth,
Daniel Wang, Luchen Wang, Derek Wolfe
Show m#0e the money

ELI CAHAN I
A lesson from Jeb

This weekend's Wall Street Journal con-
tained the gems of a commentary given at the
Conservative Political Action Conference on
Friday by Jeb Bush. Yeah, that Jeb Bush - W.'s
brother and former governor of Florida - who
left much of his legacy in the form of the large-
ly disputed "recount" in 2000. Appropriately
enough, his speech on Friday touched on the
contemporary role of capitalism. It redefines
the American dream in a 21st century con-
text - a context of Obamacare and welfare. It
addressed the need to accept failure as a com-
ponent of social mobility - talk about irony. But
I digress.
Putting aside prior biases, we realize that
Bush makes some remarkable observations.
His perception of the political prerogative to
preserve the American dream is extremely rel-
evant: the idea is "restoring the right to rise."
The government's responsibility is not to prop
up individuals, but to set them loose. And the
mobility of the individual is sparked by the
movement of this country.
The ability to rise as a country relies on tim-
ing. Favorable circumstances cause positive
shocks to the economy, boosting GDP. It's basic
Keynesian economics - for those who aren't
well versed in the joys of Economics 102: A
country benefits most from things it can't con-
trol. Well, the time for the United States to rise
is now. Unemployment is at 7.4 percent - the
lowestit'sbeen since the recession -while con-
sumer sentiment is the highest it has been. The
housing market is back. Natural gas is booming.
The Dow set a new - unadjusted - record last
week. These are all extremely positive signs
that we should be getting back on track as a
nation and as individuals.
So, in the wake of all of this momentum,
what is the government's responsibility? Bush
argues that the principle of the American
dream is founded in the free market, on a sense
of social Darwinism and on a form of capital-
ism where winners are actually beating some-
one. This sense of achievement is an important
motivator. And the "position" gives the indi-
vidual feedback on where he stands, relative to
where he wants to be. The argument is against
the kind of capitalism that parallels little league
haseball - where win or lose, we're going to get
donut holes.
Bush makes a valuable argument for a sys-

tem that permits failure. It's not a top-i-percent
argument that he's making - "too big to fail"
applies up there too. Rather, he holds both par-
ties accountable. Bush's argument says that the
government should be your guardian angel,
not your tooth fairy. It's not about getting gifts
when you're sleeping, but about having your
back when you're climbing.
Bush also sparks a discussion about promot-
ingexcellencethrough risk-taking.Theconcept
of social mobility is at the crux of the American
spirit. I think the distinction of the American
spirit from the American dream is an important
one. There's an active sentiment involved. The
spirit isthe expression of our dreams - dreams
don'tbecome real until we make them so. Thus,
as the movement of our great nation catalyzes
our rise, we are obliged to move with it. Dream-
ing probably won't do the trick. America's about
"living the dream," not just loving it.
Again, what's our government's relation
to all of this? How can the massive body of
legislature move the bodies of the masses?
I submit the role of government is rooted in
empowerment through inspiration. That's
not to say that the White House shouldn't
provide public goods for the public good. I
agree that the "government should fill pot-
holes." But I think it's more important that
the administration gives the individuals the
tools to "fill the holes in the human heart."
That means improving education so kids are
cultivated to rise. That means fixing the econ-
omy so businesses are encouraged to strive.
That means opening the doors so immigrants
are embraced and able to thrive.
Political endorsements aside, Bush creates
a compelling case for the individual in Ameri-
can society. While the American dream can be
propped up en mass on billboards and stim-
uli, the American spirit is found in its people.
Before babies learn how to walk,.they tumble.
They fall. They fail. We could, as caring par-
ents, pick them up every time and put them on
our feet. Or, we could wait patiently until that
magical day when they learn to support them-
selves on their own two feet. Consider the last
five years an American tumble. But also think
of it as a rebirth. Let's learn how to walk again,
and let's fail along the way.
Eli Cahan is a Business sophomore.

t doesn't seem too long ago
that former President George
W. Bush and former Vice
President Al
Gore were bat-
tling for Florida
and the United
States presi-
dency. At the
time, citizens all
over the country
were amazed
by the amount PAUL
of money that SHERMAN
had been raised
- more than
$300 million. I
don't think most people realized
how much campaign finance could
change over the span of 10 years.
During the 2012 presidential
election, President Barack Obama
and Mitt Romney raised record
amounts of money for their cam-
paign war chests: $1.072 billion and
$992.5 million dollars, respectively.
These numbers don't include the
amount of money that so-called
super political action committees
spent to campaign for and against
each candidate. Today, this spend-
ing is out of control and must be
reined in.
After the Citizens United U.S.
Supreme Court case, election
finance changed tremendously. The
Justices in a 5-4 decision decided
that political spending is a form of
protected speech under the First
Amendment, and the government
may not prevent corporations or
unions from spending money to
support or oppose individual can-
didates. This has allowed super
PACs and qualified non-profit
corporations to fund campaigns.
Meanwhile, according to Harvard
Law Prof. Lawrence Lessig, as of
2012, ".26 percent of Americans
give more than $200 in a congres-
sional campaign; .05 percent give
the maximum amount to any con-
gressional candidate; and .01 per-
cent - the 1 percent of the 1 percent
- give more than $10,000 in an
election cycle."
One major problem with current

campaign finance reform isthatcan-
didates have become more focused
on fundraisingthan legislating. Now
more so than ever, instead of trying
to gain the support of the American
people, political candidates have to
focus on appealing to the donors
who will provide the largest con-
tributions. As a result, Americans
have a government that is, accord-
ing to Lessig, "not dependent upon
the People alone, but that is also
dependent upon the Funders." This
dependency on donors also pre-
vents strong third-party candidates
from having their voices heard on a
national stage.
Additionally, candidates don't
have to disclose their donors or
their expenses. Peter Schweiz-
er, president of the Government
Accountability Institute, said in
an article in USA Today that can-
didates don't have to disclose the
names of their 'bundlers,' or those
who collect donations from mul-
tiple donors. Currently, lobby-
ing groups and organizations can
obtain money without having to
worry about revealing their donors,
which makes it easier for these
groups to gain government con-
tracts, loans and jobs.
Despite these glaring problems,
Congress has been slow to pass any
significant legislation. Last sum-
mer, Washington tried to pass the
DISCLOSE Act, which would have
"required groups making more
than $10,000 in campaign-related
expenditures to disclose contribu-
tors who had donated more than
$10,000." However, Congress failed
to pass the bill, after a Republican
filibuster. While this bill would
have been an important step in the
right direction, it wouldn't com-
pletely solve the problem at hand,
since groups wouldn't be forced
to disclose all of their donors.
After the DISCLOSE Act, there
has not been a significant push
to pass legislation related to this
important issue.
Even though Congress has been
slow, there are potential solutions
that could level the playing field

for candidates. Overturning Citi-
zens United would be an obvious
solution but is unlikely given the
current composition of the Court.
Beyond that, if Congress can come
to an agreement, full disclosure
should be employed along with
harsher restrictions on the amount
super PACs can spend. Candidates
would have to be more careful
about their fundraising sources. At
the same time, they would be able
to focus on the important issues
and appeal to their constituents
more. Furthermore, since candi-
dates are running for public office,
Americans have the right to know
their donors.
We should know
the source of
campaign funds.
Another alternative would
require that ordinary Americans
insist their members of Congress
pass legislation that requires dis-
closure and spending limits. This
would help set up a possible chal-
lenge to Citizens United once the
composition of the U.S. Supreme
Court changes. Adding public pres-
sure to the equation may force
Congress to get this done. Clearly,
there's interest in getting legislation
passed, but there needs tobe a push
and the public could be just that.
Campaign finance has been one
of many issues that Congress has
continued to put on the back burn-
er. The longer we putoff reform, the
more it will hurt our government.
In the near future, I hope we can
get back to allowing candidates to
focus on the important issues of the
day as opposed to fundraising all
over the country for several years.
- Paul Sherman can be reached
at pausherm@umich.edu

A A a A


.


0 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 26, 2013 - 5

Emily Hearn to bring
country-pop to The Ark

Lamenting
the decline of
the DVD

Singer-songwriter
to perform
latest work
By REBECCA GODWIN
Daily Arts Writer
Though she's still playing
below the radar, at the age of 22,
Emily Hearn has already opened
for Darius
Rucker, starred Emily
in a music video
with Bill Mur- Ha rn
ray and per- Tuesday at
formed for a 8 p.m.
crowd of 15,000
Girl Scouts. The Ark
Hearn's Free
upcoming per-
formance at The
Ark wouldn't have been possible
just four years ago if it weren't
for a bad breakup that inspired
her to begin songwriting. She
never thought the songs would
take her anywhere, but when fel-
low student-producer Trey Rose
decided to produce them into an
EP, everything changed.
"It was kind of an experimental
thing and maybe just a fun thing,"
Hearn said of her music career's
beginning. "I labeled it as some-
thing I was just doing for me; I
wasn't really thinking it was going
to be a career."
But the first few songs sparked
Hearn's creativity, and she began
writing more. Soon a passion
developed.
"By the time I released (my first
EP), I was like 'Oh my gosh, I real-
ly want to do this,' " Hearn said.
"It developed slowly but surely
into my passion and what I love
doing."
Born and raised in the South,
Hearn grew up listening to coun-
try music artists like The Dixie
Chicks and, like many children,
took piano lessons.

Her upcoming performance in Ann Arbor will be Emily Hearn's first musical tour to take on the North.

"My piano teacher was try-
ing to teach me how to read the
notes, the theory and everything
behind piano, but, for some rea-
son, I was just better at playing by
ear," Hearn said. "So I ended up
quitting piano lessons, but I kept
playing piano by just listening to
songs."
Later Hearn's interests turned
to her dad's old college guitar, on
which she had listened to him
play country songs for years. With
the help of some of his old chord
books, Hearn proceeded to teach
herself how to play.
"You can look up chord charts
to popular songs, so I would just
look up different songs and teach
myself how to play them," Hearn
said. "And after practicing, I could
play those songs and then I start-
ed writing songs from there."
Her writing abilities developed
with each new song and eventu-
ally those songs helped to create
her EP "Paper Heart" in 2010 and

then her follow-up album "Red
Balloon" in 2012.
"I think that I create pop music,
but there are elements of folk to it
and maybe a little country," Hearn
said. "But the main thing that I'm
going for is pop because it's relat-
able - the melodies are catchy
and upbeat, and so it kind of falls
into that category."
Despite the pop classification,
Hearn works hard to make sure
her lyrics are as real and genu-
ine as possible, often putting her
own experiences into some of her
songs.
"While most popular music
might not have lyrics you relate to
- it's just kind of upbeat, fun and
catchy - I think mine has the lyri-
cal elements of someone who tells
the truth about relationships and
life," Hearn said.
With her upcoming perfor-
mance, Hearn is excited to have
those lyrics listened to by unfa-
miliar listeners.

"I've mostly played in the
South in the past, and I just
decided that playing up north, if
I was going to get any opportu-
nities, I was going to take all of
them," Hearn said. "I've gotten to
play some colleges up north, and
I've gotten to play some venues in
a few different states, and relat-
ing to a crowd that doesn't have
the southern or country back-
ground was really fun and inter-
esting for me."
With a new EP coming out
this summer and with multiple
performance stops, (includ-
ing the Key West Songwriter's
Festival) Hearn has very simple
hopes for her future in music.
"I love being able to do this on
whatever level, and I hope that
I get to meet as many people as
possible and see as many cities
as possible," Hearn said. "But
I just want to be able to do this
and pay the bills, and whatever
else comes will be welcomed."

t's 10:43 p.m.: I'm like a
tourist admiring the Lean-
ing Tower of Pisa in an
empty aisle of the local Meijer.
I can feel them staring, those
passers-by
shuffling past
with carts
of frozen
pizza in tow.
Gertrude -
accordingto
a nametag -
pinched BRIANNE
between sags JOHNSON
like laundry
on a limp
line - eyes the bulges of my
coat pockets. How many DVDs
have you got stuffed in there,
sweetie? How many have you
smuggled, darling wrongdoer?
Her suspicion is valid. After
all, Sunday inches toward Mon-
day, and here I am, some college
kid camped out in front of a
four-foot-high cardboard DVD
promotional display. The time
has come. A decision must be
made.
To buy "Les Miserables" or
not to buy "Les Misdrables"
- that is the ... first-world prob-
lem. But a problem nonetheless.
Does anyone buy movies any-
more?
This isn't a hypothetical
question; I'm genuinely curious.
Between Netflix, OnDemand,
local video rental houses, online
streaming and YouTube, why
drop $20 for a movie that can be
so easily accessed for free?
I was raised on a steady sup-
ply of blank discs, the titles of
movie after movie scrawled
onto the surface in permanent
marker. To burn a friend's copy
of"Donnie Darko" or "Eter-
nal Sunshine of the Spotless
Mind" was, and is, as natural as
breathing.
Sure, I've sacrificed the plea-
sure of, say, holding the official
packaged product in my hands.
And who knows how many
directors' cuts I've allowed to
slide by - unwatched and unap-
preciated. What kind of person
would I be today had I not
grappled for that special edition
of "Twilight" five years ago, the
one in which a tiny strip of film
was included then admittedly
lost somewhere beneath my bed
within weeks?
But even that DVD purchase
remains underutilized, and I
must ask myself: Why bother?
Don't sound so surprised.
I - and every other viewer and
potential consumer - haven't
fooled the film industry. Studios
and distributors have combat-
ted our persistent apathy (and
piracy, if we're being honest) for
years, but the urgency to wring
our wallets dry has intensified
with the ever-increasing acces-
sibility of pass-along and online
content, a.k.a.free content.
Rather than coerce audiences
to theaters through notions of
artificial scarcity - if I don't
watch "Spring Breakers" right
now, I'll have to suffer months

in "Breakers"-less limbo until
its DVD release! - retailers
have begun to offer our favor-
ite titles in such a short period
of time that one may say "Les
Misdrables" hit shelves before
the movie itself had even fin-
ished. But why? To coast on
that post-Oscars buzz; to take
full advantage of Les Relevancy
before our collective cultural
memory trades in the giggling
glory of Anne Hathaway, and
we fall for J-Law all over again
(or she falls for us ... literally).
Or because Universal Pic-
tures knows that I've been
itching for a copy since Night
One, and some smart executive
thought to her or himself, "Fans
are going to get their grubby,
little hands on this film regard-
less; we might as well release
it to the masses in the hopes
that some diehard - namely
a particularly obsessive film
columnist - will gawk at the
product during her regular gro-
cery runs."
To buy or not to
buy... that is
the question.
Oh, how right you were,
Universal Pictures. Gawk I did.
I planted myself at the foot of
that "Les Mis" display like a
starry-eyed stalker worshipping
her idol, willing to down what-
ever Kool-Aid that cardboard
shelf had to offer. And yet ...
It wasn't enough. Andrew
Jackson remains snug in my
pocket because my earlier
doubts resurfaced: Really, why
bother? It was no secret that
I'd already attained my own
personal copy of the film for
late-night sob sessions months
ago, yet I was still drawn to the
polished packages nested (call-
ing - no, singing - my name!)
near the check-out line. To buy
or not to buy?
The last hardcopy DVD (for
which a receipt exists) that
found its way into my posses-
sion is "The Artist." It was
last year's stocking stuffer,
still yet to be opened. As much
as j'adore charming, toothy
Frenchmen, I don't think I
could've, or would've, shelled
out the cash even for the best
100-minute silent treatment of
my life.
So, at what point do we
decide that not even the most
beloved of films can persuade
us to break out the big bills?
As any media industry worker
will lament, nobody knows. But
continue to plaster the local
grocery store with the faces of
Hathaway and Hugh Jackman,
and I might just be sold.
Johnson is ballin' on a
budget. To ball with her,
e-mail briannen@umich.edu.

Wavves laments the realities of
adulthood on honest Heights'

By ERIKA HARWOOD
Daily Arts Writer
Usually, public meltdowns
coupled with a fair share of per-
sonal woes breed self-destruc-
tion and a trip
or two to rehab.
Fortunately for
Wavves, this Afraid of
combination
creates Afraid
of Heights: an Wavves
album filled
with (some- Warner Bros
times unset-
tling) honesty
and Wavves's most confident
sound to date.
At times during the past few
years, it seemed hard to really
understand what Wavves was all,
about, mostly because the group
itself had no idea. The attitude
of previous albums Wavvves
and King of the Beach was care-
less yet extremely confident for
a 20-something-year-old guy
who lived with his parents. Lit-
tered with excess noise and an "I can show
apathetic attitude, this earlier
mentality embodied that of a OK, s
generation. Who needs a job? age, ma
We're young! We can go to beach wouldn't
and skateboard and smoke weed of burge
- all at the same time! real-life
Then comes the inevitable phrenic,"
bummer. As Wavves's master- statement
mind/frontman, Nathan Wil- ber of gen
liams, told SPIN, "In general, the can relate
realness of life starts to hit you
later on. That's more prominent
on this record."
Most of those who have lis-
tened to Wavves since the band's V
inception in 2008 are most likely
beginning to feel the same "real- ret
ness of life," which makes Afraid
of Heights resonate that much a
more. The lyrics circle around
topics of paranoia, depression
and anxiety, and Williams even
labels the narration as a whole as While
"schizophrenic." album mu

you the world."

S
s
t
'1
i
C

o maybe the aver- for listeners, for the most part,
turing 20-something it holds onto the surf rock sound
identify his feelings expected from Wavves. "Sail
oning adulthood and to the Sun" glistens and shim-
problems as "schizo- mers before transitioning into
but it's probably a fair a bassline which controls the
tto say that any mem- sound, after which Williams
neration Y and beyond cries, "I don't wanna / Get left
on a certain level, behind." The song has more
control than the pure "noise
rock" from past albums but is
Nathan still aggressive and catchy even
while ending with the repetition
illiam s of Williams singing, "in a grave,
in a grave, in a grave,"
urns with With song titles like "Beat Me
Up," "Everything is My Fault"
ressive LP. and "Paranoid," the catchiness of
the tracks come as a surprise but
also a godsend. Tracks filled with
sing-along-style choruses and
the heavy lyrics of the upbeat tempos keep listeners from
ay result in mild shock fully descending into deep pits of

despair as Williams wails lyrics
like "Holding a gun to my head /
So send me an angel" on "Demon
to Lean On."
Wavves also brings in indie-
rock goddess/former Beverly Hills
girl scout (if you don't remember
"Troop Beverly Hills," what are
we even doing right now?) Jenny
Lewis for the title track. Her con-
tribution isn't obtrusive - it's
helpful with maintaining the
catchiness of the album.
With all of the turmoil and
distress captured in the lyricism
throughout Afraid ofHeights, it's
probably safe to say that Wavves
is growing up. Williams's bru-
tal honesty and more controlled
sound is refreshing but also still
notably Wavves. Growing up
does suck, Nathan, but we're
pretty sure you're doing it right.

JOIN THE SUMMER
DAILY STAFF!
IT'LL BE A BUCKET OF JOY.
TRUST US.
NO, REALLY.
E-mail arts@michigandaily.com to
request an application!

A

N4

I

4t


6 - Tuesday, March 26, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Tuesday, March 26, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

Lii Wayne worsens
Lewd lyrics plague
'IAm Not a
Human Being II'
By JACKSON HOWARD
DailyArts Writer

Debating the sides of
the six strikes system

Since releasing his 2008 mas-
terpiece Tha CarterlI, Lil Wayne
fostered the careers of Drake and
Nicki Minaj,
went to jail C
and started
skateboard- Lii Wayne
ing. Noticeably
absent over this
five-year span, Human Being II
though, is qual- Cash Money
ity music. I Am
Not a Human
Being and Tha Carter IV were
underwhelming releases from
the self-proclaimed "Best Rap-
per Alive," and Wayne's position
as unrivaled rap god faded to the
point of ridicule. On I Am Not a
Human Being II, Wayne tries to
reestablish himself in the public
eye as a rapper again.
Unfortunately, I Am Not a
Human BeingIImakes it clear the
magic of Wayne's art dissipated.
The whimsical and psychotic
lines of his past - once his biggest
strengths - are now his flaws,
having turned into cheesy and
desperate attempts to capture ear-
lier greatness. This void of artistic
direction leaves behind a messy
mixture of sex, drugs, violence
and incoherent rambling. Sure,
there are flashes of old brilliance
here, but Wayne's lyrics on the
project make no sense when put
together; it's as if he wrote hun-
dreds of half-assed one-liners and
smashed them together to create
an album.
Take the opening track,
"IANAHB," a piano-flooded ram-
ble that is supposed to come off as
serious, but instead is riddled with
sexual fantasies about Trans-
formers and lines like, "I'm in the
ocean getting shark pussy." Sex
is Wayne's go-to subject matter
these days, and each track on the
album contains enough vulgarity
and stupidity to make even the
most die-hard Wayne fan blush.
Most vulgar of all is the Soulja
Boy-produced, Trina-featuring
"Wowzers." Soulja's beat sounds
more or less equivalent to an ine-

"The best part of waking up . is breakfast after a nut!"

briated sloth pressing the same
two piano keys, and, over the cho-
rus, Wayne compares his tongue
to an Uzi and his dick to an AK. He
also manages to slip in the word
"Peniscolada," while Trina's verse
contains too much unprintable
trash to even be referenced.
Still, Wayne's ear for produc-
tion can nonetheless pick outa few
great beats, including a handful of
solid tracks from Juicy J, Cool &
Dre and Detail, the latter of which
produces and features on the
bombastic lead single, "No Wor-
ries." FrequentDrake collaborator
T-Minus laces "Rich as Fuck," one
of the better songs, with a head-
bobbing, funk-grooving beat, and
Wayne manages to let some of his
vintage charisma shine. 2 Chainz
steals the show on the chorus, but
his appearance is much too short,
probably because Wayne knew 2
Chainz would outshine him as he
did on the third track, "Days and
Days."
Besides the two 2 Chainz
appearances, IANAHBII benefits
from two other extremely well-
placed features: Gunplay on "Beat
the Shit" and the trio of Drake/
Future/Mike WiLL Made It on
"Bitches Love Me."
Gunplay, Rick Ross's clinically
insane hype-man who has been
rising steadily over the past year,
absolutely demolishes "Beat the
Shit." "I'm a knuckle-throwin'
knucklehead / What that mother-
fucker said?" he roars at the start
of the song, completely destroy-
ing his verse with threats to "beat
a n*gga down 'til he left without

vital sign." Wayne does his part
too, cooing ironically in auto-tune
over the chorus to "beat the shit"
out of somebody on top of a beat
that will certainly incite a riot at
some point.
On "Bitches Love Me," the most
successful single from the album,
Mike WiLL Made It lays down
a hypnotic, codeine-laced that
Drake and Future sing a perfect
chorus over. The song was des-
tined to be a hit - a pairing of the
hottest producer in the game and
the two best chorus-men around
- and Wayne's elementary and
cheesy rhymes serve simply as
placeholders until the chorus.
"God Bless Amerika" seems to
be Wayne's only attempt to create
something meaningful on the LP.
Cool & Dre provide an expansive
and demented beat, and Wayne's
rhymes actually sound some-
what legitimate. The song doesn't
pack the power of Tha Carter III
standout "Dontgetit," but it is the
lone example of introspective
examination on the album.
"Everybody wanna tell me
what I need / You can play a role
in my life but not the lead / I saw
a butterfly in hell today / Will I
die or go to jail today?" Wayne
wonders in the outro, and for
a moment his inner-conflict is
almost tangible. Then "Wowz-
ers" comes on and ruins what
could've been the perfect ending
to the album. Dwayne Carter the
human being might've survived
the seizures he suffered last
week, but Lil Wayne the rapper is
anything but alive.

By MOLLY WEBER
Daily Arts Writer
The most recent effort to com-
bat the illegal downloading of
music, movies and TV launched
Feb. 25 under the name of the
Copyright Alert System. More
commonly known as the six
strikes system (as a result of its
methodology), it was implement-
ed by the Center for Copyright
Information amidst harsh criti-
cism, little support and daunting
challenges. If you're responsible
for one of the 146-million visits to
an online piracy site a day, the six
strikes system is looking at you -
though they claim their efforts
are to educate, rather than pun-
ish you.
The new system is the prod-
uct of a joint coalition of indus-
try organizations such as the
Motion Picture Association of
America, internet service provid-
ers like Comcast and an advisory
council of consumer technology
advocates and experts. Together,
the affectionately named "copy-
right cartel" hopes to encourage
account holders to take respon-
sibility for the illegal activ-
ity occurring on their Internet or
Wi-Fi network.
Under the program, regula-
tory organizations such as the
MPAA will monitor how its copy-
right material is both used and
distributed. If they confirm their
movies or TV programs are being
shared illegally, they can notify
the ISP of the suspected inter-
net protocol address that each
Internet-connected device has.
Basically, this unique association
of numbers to individual comput-
ers allows the ISP to distribute
the necessary alerts or warnings.
In other words, copyright
holders that see your IP address
sharing illegally will tattle on you
to the bigbad ISPs.
A maximum of six alerts will
be ordered, with the varying
degree of seriousness left to the
discretion of the Internet provid-
er. The alerts follow the general
evolution from two educational
alerts to two required acknowl-
edgment alerts and finally two
mitigation alerts. Verizon, for

examp
alert
Intern
archai
The ac
of payi
case re
arbitra
nectior
Adv
Sohn-w
strikes
of whe
enforc
whiles
the rig
second
conten
six str
far be
createc
1989, b
strikes
genera
the las
search
to avoi
vate ne
with tI
I
S1
On(
col
Usir
togeth
of circ
CCI.
Marau
downl
VPN a
shield
spokes
a copy
unnoti
tection
For
downl
vision
are esi
large,
ware
the av
multip
downlc

le, proposes that the sixth "Lost," the software communi-
could render violators' cates with its central server, a
et connection reduced to tracker, to locate other software
c dial-up speeds for days. users with either that same com-
cused will have the option plete file, called seed computers,
ng 35 dollars to have their or those with a portion of it. The
viewed by an independent simultaneous extraction enhanc-
tor. Termination of con- es the quickness of the process.
n will never be an option. But you can't just sneak into
isory council member Gigi Diagon Alley and expect no one
eas quoted as calling the six to notice you trolling about. For
system a "significant test that, you need to hide from the
ther a voluntary copyright CCI with a VPN like ProXPN or
ement system can work, TorGuard. These services only
at the same time protecting tell your ISP when you used the
hts of Internet users." This VPN, but encrypts and secures
i goal has elicited extreme the details of the data you send
tion, and opponents to the and receive, especially from a
ikes system are not few or government-sponsored entity.
tween. Tim Berners-Lee Lifehacker recommends consid-
d the World Wide Web in ering a VPN provider's server
ut these days is calling six exit locations when shopping for
a watchdog system and a your pirating invisibility cloak.
i threat to democracy. In Theoretically, exit locations out-
t week of February alone, side the United States means you
es for BitTorrent and ways are even further protected from
d detection like virtual pri- the CCI jurisdiction.
etworks spiked, coinciding Of course, the University
he launch of the program. explicitly bars users from illegal
file sharing on its networks or
computers, and unsurprisingly
r ne warns that "members of the Uni-
..fun~ IIW versity of Michigan community
ystem no have been prosecuted success-
fully for violations of copyright
e is safe from law." They advise students to
download legally from websites
pyright laws. like MSN Music, Rhapsody and
Ruckus. But for the off-campus
pirates out there, just make sure
you use a VPN that doesn't store 4
ng a torrent site and VPN logs of your activity, or stores
er is relatively easy way them outside of the country.
umventing the eyes of the So far, the test of the Copy-
Think of a torrent as your right Alert System faces some
der's map to whatever serious statistics. The preva-
oads you desire, and the lence of illegal downloading is
s the invisibility cloak to consistently increasing. More
the process. A Comcast than 75 percent of comput-
person even admitted that ers harbor at-least one illegally
'right infraction could go downloaded application, and
ced under this type of pro- similar figures of Internet users
n. find nothing wrong with online
example, you want to piracy. Maybe you side with the
oad the No. 1 pirated tele- majority, maybe you feel guilty
show, "Lost." Torrents about the estimated 750,000 US
pecially great to download jobs that are lost due to illegal
popular files as the soft- downloading, or maybe you just
speedily pieces together don't want to pay to watch "The
'ailable components from Hobbit." When in doubt, per-
le sources. When you click haps it's wise to err on the safe
oad on the first season of side ... whatever that is.

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

4

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, March 26, 2013
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 4 Battleship 34 Gets within a 54 Lead orzinc
1 PC screens barrage stone's throw of 55 Militarychow hall
largelyreplaced 5 Curly-tailed 35 Check for size 56"You're looking at
by LCDs pooch 37 Type of baggy the one and only'
5 Exchange 6"So that's what '40s suit 57 Strange: Pref.
goodbyes that meansr 41 One and only 58Therefore
9 Breed, as salmon 7 Caribbean liquors 44Colored, hippie- 59 Scrapbook
14 Ghostly glow 8 It might be broken style adhesive
15 "Nothin' doin'l" at a party 45 Snooty sort 61 Alaskan seaport
16 "Dallas" matriarch 9 Prepare some 47'60schic 62 Osaka wrestler
17 Sleight-of-hand letterpress 48 "The Godfather" 63 Henry VI's school
scam printing hoodlum Luca 66 Spigoted server
19 Cold 10Appeal 50 Discontinued 67 Came down with
temperatures 11 Author Haley
20 Fountn of Rome 12 Bstrobeverage ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Levies on smokes 13 Stack's role in B°R A FB _ T I P
and booze "TheS
23 Prefixwith Untouchables" R E D B E E T T E A R O S E
present 18 "How low can you A T E I N T 0 R A T E D P G
26 Playfully shy go?" competition M I L K C H 0 C 0 L A T E
27 Houston of Texas 22 Grounding rule, E E E E U P S C A M
30 Agendaitem perhaps D I G S L L A M A
36 World's largest 24 Convent resident D I C E M A P L E S U G A R
rainforest 25 "On second
38 PearlJam singer thought, that's not
Eddie true" S U G A R M A P LE EE N N E
39 Early whirlybird, 27Long stories C R A T E E L M 0
for short 28 Pennsylvania O E R I V E N O T A
40lWinding curve Mennonites C H O C O L A T E M I L K
42 Body wash brand 29 Call before'"Polo!" C H A O T I C B E S I E G E
43 Dressy ties 31 Dogie catcher R 0 S E T E A B E E T R E D
46 Mariachi's 32 Reminderto take
headwear outthetrash? OWE O R B A N C S R S
49 Filmed like most 33 Fritters away time xwordeditor@aol.com 03/26t13
of today'sfilms 1 2 3 4 5a s 8 9 10 11 12 13
51 Hyphenated ID
52 Fair-hiring abbr. 14 1s
53 Wax-wrapped
cheese 17 18 19
55 Alphabetsoup, so 20 1 2
to speak
00 Hae an inkling 05 00 05 21
64Abrasive mineral
65 Fightfiercely to 27 2 29 30 31 32 s 34 s
the end
68 Barelybum 36 37 38
69 Continental cash
70 Armory supply, 300 01 50
nda hinttothe a as s an 47 4
,s o7 30-'
49- and65- 49 50 1
71 Left one'sseat 52 53 54
72 Slight impression
73 Author Uris 55s56n5sn5sn 59 0 6 26
DOWN 64 65 66 s7
1 Plasterbandage s m no7
2 Essen's region
3 "Magic_ 71 72 73
House":kiddie lit
series By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke

2013-14
PARKING FOR SALE
*Great Locations
*Central Campus
*Great Rates
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
"PRIME" PARKING FOR SALE
2013-14
Great Locations:
721 S. Forest $1500
1320 S. University $1500
520 Packard $960
515 E. Lawrence $720
511 Hoover $720
Parking for less than the rest!
Call 734-761-8000
NOW HIRING DELIVERY drivers,
managers & instore team members
both F/T & P/f for Papa John's Pizza
located at3395 Plymouth Rd A2.
Apply in person at Papa John's Pizza
4559 Washtenaw.
POSITION AVAILABLE FOR local
golf course. Ann Arbor Golf and
Outing Club looking to fill seasonal
ground positiol. For more information
call 734-995-1588
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.
SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE at
Stonebridge Golf Club. Grounds crew,
beverage cart servers & pro shop work-
ers needed. Call 734-429-8383, email
golfca stonebridgegolfclub.net, or visit
www.stonebridgegolfclub.net for
more information.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island Hotise Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

PRIVATE TUTORING FOR LSAT,
LAW SCHOOL, BAR EXAM
My credentials:
" perfect 180 on LSAT
- Michigan Law grad (3.85 GPA)
* licensed attorney
" 20+ years' teaching experience
- hundreds of delighted students
734.996.2861 www.TESTGURU.com
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All disciplines.
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
STERLING 411 LOFTS - Reserve
your 2013-14 bed space at U-Ms Best
housing. Sold out early for the last 3
years. 2 blocks from Central Campus
and downtown. For a limited time
come to the leasing office and choose
your fortune. Your fortune will include
gift cards ranging from $50-150, no se-
curity deposit or FREE cleaning of
your apartment for 3 months. Room-
mate matching, parking and private
baths available. Rates starling at $675.
734-998-4400 www.4elevenlofts.com
"GET LUCKY IN MARCH"
Now until 3-30-13,
Lease today for FABULOUS
Prizes & CASH!!!
Plus, you get a
Fabulous Apartment!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
EFFICIENCY 1 BDRM. Fall 2013-
14. $750-975. Most include heat & wa-
ter. Prkg extra cost where avail. cappo-
management.com 734-996-1991.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
(734) 769-7520
1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
5 min. walk. Free Wi-Fi.

ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
CAMPUS MANAGEMENT, INC.
invites you to visit
www.CampusMgt.com
the best local website for a wide selec-
tion of apartments and houses. We spe-
cialize in houses and apartments very
close to central campus. All are attrac-
tively priced, most include parking,
many are furnished and some include
utilities. Contact us for details. Com-
plete listing for Fall 2013 available
now! Or call and speak with our
Leasing Consultant, Pat at
734-663-4 101.
E0w
"GET LUCKY in MARCH"
Now until 3-30-13,
Lease today for
FABULOUS
Prizes & CASH!!!
Plus, you get a
Fabulous Apartment!
Save Over
$10,000 Per Year
Our bedroom's start at
$680.00
WHY PAY OVER $1,500
FOR A BED!!!
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48160
734-761-2680

SINCE
YOU
CAN'T
LEGALLY
'STALK US

4

4

JUST FOLLOW
US ON
TWITTER!

4

@ michdailyarts

a

(c)20t3 Tribune Media services Inc.

uNzbll3

0

I A

,4


I* The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, March 26, 2013 -7

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, March 26, 2013 - 7

COLUMBIA
"Why haven't you brought our food yet?"
Depeche Mode blends
past sounds on 'Delta'

Strokin'.
Strokes strike
again on, new LP

Ma
Wh
the
reveal
edge
band'
ing
had t
The
was
and b
backg
with
group
label,
top, d
layou
Come
fifth
contr
be om
album
name
well 1
consid
tener
This 1
It's
listen
to no
early
vocals
had h
expec
chuck
stage
The
Amer
more i
time
of the
began
group
lies a
grown
pissy
even 1
to act
But
ber tb
1980s
prepa
sound
Hell,

'Comedown 1980s-inspiredwouldbeanunder-
statement: The title song is called
ichine' surprises "80's Comedown Machine." No,
the Strokes aren't quite the same
ith'80s sound band that they used to be at all.
Unfortunately, while the
By KATIE STEEN Strokes have indeed evolved, they
Daily MusicEditor have failed to progress in many
instances on Comedown Machine.
hen the album art for The album has a clean, upbeat
Strokes' fifth album was sound that's less cigarettes and
led, fans with any knowl- Converse and more e-cigs and
of the neon Adidas. "Welcome to Japan"
s record- is a flashy, snappy track that
contract bumps along until it hits a chorus
o chuckle. The Strokes that fails to take itself seriously let
artwork alone make coherent sense. Musi-
simple Comedown cally, it bears strong resemblance
old, a red Machine to Julian's highly electronic solo
round work, but lyrically, it reads like a
the drunken Facebook chat. Julian
's record begs the listener to come over on
RCA, plastered across the Wednesday, later adding, "wel-
ominating the design. This come to Japan" in a tone reserved
t, in light of the fact that for greeting tourists, along with
down Machine is the band's the mysterious line "scuba danc-
album for its five-album ing touchdown" in a deep, mock-
act with RCA, seemed to sensual voice. The Strokes have
ninous. This is, after all, an never been known for ground-
n with "comedown" in the breaking lyrics, but at least they
- an album that could very used to actually mean something.
be the Strokes' last record Comedown Machine also sur-
dering their contract. Lis- prises us with falsetto, an awk-
s have to wonder, then: Is ward first for the Strokes (this is
t for the Strokes? Julian Casablancas we're talk-
almost impossible, when 'ng about - his voice is like dark
ing to Comedown Machine, chocolate smoking a cigarette
t search for traces of the wrapped in velvet, OK). Julian's
days of the band, back when high register in "Chances" ren-
s were filtered, Albert still ders the song pretty much a joke,
is fro and you could almost and yet, it's a joke that boasts a
t Julian Casablancas to pretty damn catchy melody. "One
a microphone across the Way Trigger," the first single off
of any given performance. the album, features the same fal-
Strokes seemed to revive setto that prompted unsuspecting
ican rock overnight, but first-listeners to wonder, "Is this
importantly they had a good even the Strokes?"
doing it. But with the release "Partners in Crime" similarly
band's 2011 LP, Angles, we kicks off semi-offensively with
to see a new Strokes - a a juddering guitar that's obnox-
of men who now had fami- ious more than anything, but the
nd solo careers, who had song blooms into a buzzing, perky
n apart and gotten a little thing with an infectious chorus.
in the process, who couldn't It's a rather delightful track, but
be bothered to get together unfortunately the Strokes had to
ually record the album. provide an alter-ego with "50/50,"
t we have to remem- a quick, angry little monster that
hat Angles, with all of its attempts but fails to harness the
-inspired hooks, at least intensity found in old flames like
red us for the change in "Reptilia" or "Juicebox" or, hell,
I found in the fifth album. even "Take It Or Leave It." The
to call Comedown Machine chorus sounds like something


you'd hear blaring from behind
an eighth-grade boy's closed door
after he just "discovered punk."
And yet, and yet, and yet ... Julian's
voice sounds great with the filter
on. Oh, how we've missed that fil-
ter.
Comedown Machine begins to
wind down around "Happy End-
ing," a misnomer for several rea-
sons - the first being that it's not
the last track. The album actu-
ally ends with "Call It Fate, Call
It Karma," a beautiful, vintage-
sounding track that features a
filtered Julian - his vocals soft
and romantic - with dreamy
flourishes of warm instrumenta-
tion including what sounds like
cellos. The track feels out of place
compared to the jaunty, fast-
paced pieces that compose most
of Comedown Machine, but "Call
It Fate, Call It Karma" really is the
saving grace of the album.
The music video for "All the
Time" - the second single off
Comedown Machine - shows
a montage of clips from the
Strokes' past and present. While
most of the video consists of clips
of past performances, there's
plenty of extraneous footage as
well - Nikolai flipping off the
camera, Julian eating grapes,
the boys playing ping pong and
shooting toy guns. The Strokes
look like they're having fun in
the video because they are hav-
ing fun, and it sounds like they
were on Comedown Machine as
well. Hell, the song "Slow Ani-
mals" ends with the sound of
the Strokes laughing - a sound
we've all missed.
While the band isn't planning
on touring for this album, Niko-
lai offered a glimmer of hope
for the future of the Strokes in
an interview with BBC: "We
just finished the album and I
feel good about it and the atmo-
sphere in the band. Hopefully
it continues." The Strokes don't
have to make any more albums
under RCA, and fans might not
be too pleased with the direction
their music has been heading,
but we can't help agreeing with
Nikolai in that we all still hope
the Strokes keep on being the
Strokes.

By SHAMIK GANGULY
Daily Arts Writer
Depeche Mode has led elec-
tronic music for three decades.
These three seasoned musicians
have entered
their 50s, but
they show no
signs of slow- Depeche
ing down in Mode
the 2010s.
The group's Delta Machine
release of Delta Columbia
Machine has a
lot to prove -
each new decade since Depeche
Mode's formation has been a turn-
ing point in the band's creative
direction. Whenever Depeche
Mode releases its first album of
a decade, it both reflects global
changes in music and breathes
innovative wind into the industry.
Delta Machine, therefore, bears a
lot of weight on its back.
The new record shows influ-
ence from every preceding
Depeche Mode era, and the
band's strategy is seemingly to
pick and choose from its existing
repertoire and bolster these ideas
with new techniques.
Listen to Delta Machine with a
high-quality set of stereo speak-
ers, because one of the main
assets of the album is its produc-
tion and the architecture of its
sound space. This production
quality emerged as a strength
for the band with Exciter in the
2000s, and new technology and
experience have allowed them to
make this new release more of a
sonic experience than an album.
If you're sitting in a room with

some n
the mis
trying
while d
won't I
makes
sory ov
In t
tipped
influenc
synths
synths
Machin
through
and wh
synths
showca
clearly.
Smooth
give up
vibratio
new tec
hop pro
On t

ice speakers, don't make transforms the track, drawing the
take of sitting down and listener in and empowering the
to listen to this record chorus.
oing your homework. You Some of the 1980s Depeche
be able to; the intricacy Mode sound comes out in these
some of the tracks a sen- compositions. The band brings
erload. back the repetitive, chorus-
he 1990s, Depeche Mode focused sound that defines its
its hat to rising grunge first albums, but it still manages
ce with gritty, angsty to work in a modern context. The
in Ultra. Some of these tracks succeed at sticking with
make a comeback in Delta the listener in a way that a lot of
e. There's a strong low end the band's material since the mil-
hout the album in general, lennium has failed to do.
tile sometimes dirty-rock The group even digs into
fill the bottom, the band its 1970s repertoire. The Cure
ses some sounds that influenced Depeche Mode even
represent the new decade. before its official formation, and
, thick bass synths that you can hear it on Delta Machine.
treble for subwoofer-level The guitar work on "Slow" and
sns reveal influence from other tracks and the melodies in
chno styles and even hip- "Heaven" are at times so remi-
duction. niscent of The Cure that you'd
he vocal end, lead singer expect a credit in the CD book-
let.
Depeche Mode presents an
impressive and creative concoc-
tion of past techniques in Delta
ew decade. Machine. Unfortunately, while
some new synths and techniques
appear, the band just doesn't
steer itself or the industry in a
ahan experiments with new directionwith this album. If
e on Delta Machine. A lot of these musical giants still do have
gs on the album are slower a leash around the, rmsi scene,
in the style of the last few they certainly haven't pulled
s, but on some of the tracks hard enough to change its path.
hear a rich bel canto style To its credit, there's no denying
tg, operatic baritone sing- that Delta Machine would have
h Elvis-like vibrato - that been groundbreaking if it had
a hidden power in Dave been released five years ago, and
s repertoire. On "My Little if Depeche Mode's momentum
e," he tries another new hasn't slowed for the last time,
ue by getting up close to maybe its next album will do a
rophone and singing with better job of leaping ahead and
pery intimacy. The effect pulling music forward with it.

C
nf

Dave G
his style
the soni
ballads,
releases
you can
- stron
ing witl
shows
Gahan's
Univers
techniq
the mic
a whisi

Expected pop on'Nati ve'

HAVE AN INTERESTING
PERSPECTIVE OF THE ANN
ARBOR COMMUNITY?
SHARE IT WITH OTHERS!
BECOME A COMMUNITY CULTURE WRITER FOR DAILY
ARTS.
E-mail arts@michigandaily.com to request an application.

By GREGORY HICKS
Daily Arts Writer
Falling off the radar for one
too many years, OneRepublic
answers the call for a return, and
doesn't spare a
single inch of
detail to assem-
ble a third stu- OneRepublic
dio album. Ryan
Tedder certain- Native
ly lost no pace Interscope
with his writing
and producing, Too tall for the photo crop.
parenting the work of numerous
industry record-breakers, includ- final release of the album.
ing hits like Adele's "Rumor Has The album hosts an assort-
It" and "Turning Tables." Now, ment of styles, while remaining
Tedder has taken the time to relatively coherent - a benefit of
release work for his chief musical controlling the majority of writ-
love child that incorporates new ing, producing and performing
sounds for a new decade with the on a record. Native's opening
familiar OneRepublic merriment track, "Counting Stars," resem-
and heartbreak the world will bles a double-time "Stop and
assuredly "feel again." Stare," while "If I Lose Myself"
An established writer in pop- sports new, contemporary elec-
brand music, Benny Blanco col- tronics. Tedder's inspiration for
laborates with Tedder and the "If I Lose Myself" came from his
gang on a few tracks, includ- paranoia of plane crashes.
ing the record's second single Tedder has a superb set of
"If I Lose Myself." Blanco has pipes, and the ambient essence
been showcasing a new fervor of the album - paying particu-
for composing pop-rock music lar attention to "Can't Stop"
for bands, beginning with his and "Don't Look Down" - isn't
work on Maroon 5's Overex- enough to muffle the lead sing-
posed, with the hit single "Pay- er's fiery vocals. Speaking of
phone." Tedder and Blanco "Don't Look Down," there are a
have crossed paths over recent few filler tracks that are nearly
years, both writing and produc- wordless and don't particularly
ing for Maroon S and Gym Class benefit anyaspects of the record.
Heroes, so it's not surprising to Regrettably, however, OneRe-
see this direct collaboration on public drops a few notches on
Native. the originality of these styles,
"Rumor has it" that Adele exhibiting many characteristics
intended to be featured on the of Coldplay's multi-platinum
record (along with her song- worldwide success, Mylo Xylo-
writing partner in crime, Paul to. Chris Martin and his band-
Epworth), but neither are on the mates won the race to releasing

this decade's contemporary
electronic rock album, and the
contrast to OneRepublic's latest
release exposes a few stylistic
areas where Native falls short.
One might say it's trying to live
"Life in Technicolor," rather
than live "Life in Color."
OneRepublic
returns.
OneRepublic's emotional
gusto continues to illustrate
its nearly bipolar creations - a
bitter declaration of expired
affection with the previous hit
"Apologize" in contrast with
the buoyant dance revival, "Feel
Again," Native's lead single. Per
usual OneRepublic, each song
sustains a uniform feeling.
The pop rock band's third
studio album - much like its
previous records - is capable of
stirring a great deal of empathy,
so prepare to share the mind
of the quintet, be it merry or
morose.

INTERScOPE

A


8 - Tuesday, March 26, 2013

9

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


Battle cry for big upset:
The game doesn't know

Michigan uses
Carol Hutchins
motto against top-
seeded Stanford
By GLENN MILLER JR.
Daily Sports Writer
The game doesn't know.
At least that's the theory the
Michigan women's basketball
team hopes to prove in what
would be the most substantial
upset in program history.
That's the theory endorsed by
Michigan softball coach Carol
Hutchins,
who has pro- Michigan vs.
vided inspi- Safr
ration for the
women's bas- Matchup:
ketball team Michigan 22-10;
this year. Stanford 32-2
Hutchins, When: Satur-
the all-time day 9:30 p.m.
winningest Where: Maples
coaches at Pavilion
Michigan, TV.
bestowed her ESPN2
29 years of
experience
on the Michigan women's bas-
ketball team earlier this season.
On Sunday, senior guard Jenny
Ryan recalled the most influ-
ential piece of Hutchins' advice
- the opponent may be ranked
higher on paper, but the game
doesn't know that.
The eighth-seeded Wol-
verines will face off. against
top-seeded Stanford on Tues-
day for the chance to make
the program's first Sweet 16
appearance. And if Michigan's
senior-led squad wasn't already
anunderdog, its attemptto upset
one of the nation's best teams
will occur on the Cardinal's
home court, Maples Pavilion.
"We're going to prepare for
Stanford like we would any
game, and we have a lot of con-
fidence in each other to beat any
team in this country," Ryan said.
"The game doesn't know."
The theory worked last
December for Michigan's vol-
leyball team which, in a similar
situation, defeated the second-
ranked Cardinal on its way to
the Final Four.

NICHOLASWILLIAMS/DaIly
SeniorguardJenny Ryan said she has
used inspiration from Michigan softball
coach Carol Hutchins this postseason.
But even if the game truly
doesn't know, Stanford junior
forward Chiney Ogwumike will
make it evident why the Cardi-
nal deserve the top seed in the
Spokane Region. Ogwumike is
one of nation's premier players,
averaging 22.6 points and 12.9
rebounds per game.
If there were a group that
wasn't concerned with rankings
or seeding, it would be the Wol-
verines. First-year coach Kim
Barnes Arico's squad has tended
to play up to its competition this
season, including a win against
then-No. 13 Purdue on the road.
The Wolverines have faced
dominant athletes such as Duke
center Elizabeth Williams and
Penn State guard Maggie Lucas,
though Michigan has yet to
compete against an athlete as
talented as Ogwumike.
Forward Joslyn Tinkle holds
down the interior for Stanford,
averaging 11.6 points per game
alongside Ogwumike.
The Cardinal's backcourt
is dominated by guard Amber
Orrange, who leads the team
with 4.1 assists per game while
chipping in 10.6 points per con-
test.
Michigan can expect Stan-
ford to stray away from the tra-
ditional motion offense while
relying on Orrange to distribute
and play off screens with Ogwu-
mike and Tinkle.
"(On Sunday) they did a lot of
two-man game late in the game,

which really exposed Tulsa,"
Barnes Arico said. "We know
that it's going to be difficult, but
like these kids said, the game
doesn't know."
In their first-round matchup
with Villanova, the Wolverines
benefited from Barnes Arico's
experience against the Wildcats.
Barnes Arico's prior interac-
tion with the Cardinal should
again play a huge role in the
Wolverines' preparation for the
Cardinal. Two years ago, Barnes
Arico's Red Storm was defeated
by Stanford 75-49 in the second
round at Maples.
"I'm sure I'm going to go
through my notes the same
way (as Villanova) tonight to
see what we have done against
Stanford," Barnes Arico said.
"They play the same offense
and do a lot of the same things
that they've traditionally done.
They shoot the ball exception-
ally well."
Stanford's 18-game winning
streak doesn't make Michigan's
task any easier, not to men-
tion the Cardinal's seven-game
unbeaten record at home during
the tournament.
But the Wolverines are a
streaky team that has the weap-
ons to overcome expectations.
"We have (senior guard) Kate
Thompson on our team who can
light it up, and we have (senior
forward) Rachel Sheffer and
(senior guard) Sam Arnold,"
Ryan said. "Ten threes isn't out
of the question for us."
That's no exaggeration. Mich-
igan has lived and died beyond
the arc all season helping the
squad achieve impressive vic-
tories over Michigan State, but
that has also lead to unexpected
losses, such as to Ohio State. If
the Wolverines come out of the
gates with the hot hand shooting
and contain Ogwumike in the
post, they could potentially earn
their way to the Sweet 16.
And if there is any extra
motivation needed to inspire an
upset of one of the best teams in
the nation, an extra day bask-
ing in the Palo Alto sunshine
wouldn't be a bad one.
"I'm not ready to go home,"
said senior forward Nya Jordan.
"We're in California, so I'll stay
here as long as I can."
for arms

Redshirt Junior forward Jordan Morgan was the starter all season but has played just one minute in the tournament.
Hardaway shines while
M-organ disappears

0

By COLLEEN THOMAS
Daily Sports Editor
Contrary to popular belief,
Jordan Morgan is still on the
Michigan men's basketball team.
The redshirt junior forward
seemed to have
disappeared NOTEBOOK
in Michigan's
second- and third-round NCAA
Tournamentvictories. The start-
ing center for all but four games
during the regular season, Mor-
gan had been the Wolverines'
scrappy, all-around player who
collected rebounds when needed
and played solid defense.
But then the postseason hap-
pened. In the Big Ten Tour-
nament, Morgan got into foul
trouble and couldn't control the
ball in the paint, so freshman
forward Mitch McGary got a
majority of the post minutes and
performed exceptionally well.
McGary played so well that he
took Morgan's starting position.
Before Thursday's game against
South Dakota State, Michi-
gan coach John Beilein started
McGary at the "5" instead of
Morgan, and McGary impressed
and started again against Vir-
ginia Commonwealth. The
freshman tallied career-highs
in points, rebounds and minutes
against the Rams and played a
majority of both NCAA Tourna-
ment games last weekend.
During the Big Ten Tourna-
ment, Beilein said the coaching
staff reevaluates the starting
lineup after each game to prepare
for the next team's post matchup.
But the coaching staff didn't just
switch starters - they jumbled
the entire frontcourt rotation.
When McGary took a breather
and rested on the bench against
South Dakota State, redshirt

sophomore Jon Horford was the
second big off the bench instead
of Morgan. Morgan played just
one minute in the 15-point win
while McGary and Horford
shared minutes.
And against VCU, Morgan
didn't see the court at all. Even
when the Wolverines were up by
31 points late in the second half,
Morgan didn't play, and during
garbage time at the end of the
game, Beilein rightfully played
the seniors over other bench
players, including Morgan.
The recent developments
come as a surprise. When Mor-
gan was injured in late January,
McGary was expected to assume
the starting role, but Horford
got the majority of the starts
instead. When Morgan returned,
the rotation returned to normal,
with McGary, and then Horford
coming off the bench.
When asked whether or not
McGary has secured a starting
spot over Morgan, Beilein still
wouldn'tgive a straight answer.
"With the CBS games and
the extra timeouts, we can give
(McGary) more time," Beilein
said. "We've watched his
growth, he's at his lowest weight
all year long, this is his lowest
body weight he's had, so we can
play him longer."
It shouldn't be a surprise if
McGary gets the nod over Mor-
gan again on Friday. After his:
dominance in the Wolverines'
first two games of the NCAA
Tournament, McGary is eas-
ily the better option at center
against Kansas' Jeffy Withey.
HIDDEN HARDAWAY?:
Though the performance of
freshman forward Glenn Rob-
inson III has gotten much of the
headlines, the contribution of
Tim Hardaway Jr. hasn't been

overlooked.
The junior's hot 3-pointshoot-
ing helped fend off a South
Dakota State run in the first half
on Thursday, and his game-high
21 points helped carry the Wol-
verines into the third round. On
Friday, Hardaway stayed hot,
shooting 45 percent from the
field and 60 percent from beyond
the arc.
Though he has had a streaky
career at Michigan, Hardaway
always seems to step up on big
stages - he has performed well
in the three games the Wolver-
ines played in New York this
season, and was named NIT
Tip-Off MVP for his 39 points
in two games in the tournament.
And Hardawaystepped up inthe
NCAA Tournament, as well.
"Tim Hardaway has not only
been important in this game,
but has been important all three
years," Beilein said after Michi-
gan's win over VCU on Friday.
"When he has had opportunities
like he's had in the past couple
days to pass, to bring the ball
up against the pressure - that
wouldn't have happened last
year - to make the right, smart
plays to defend. I just watch this
young man's game, and it grows i
every day. Mothers may not see
it that way, I see it as growing. I
think his ceiling isvery high."
A (DIFFERENT) FINAL FOUR:
After months of speculation,
there are finally four.
Sophomore point guard Trey
Burke was named as one of four
finalists for the Naismith Men's
Collegiate Player of the Year
award on Sunday. The winner
will be announced April 7.
He is joined by Indiana's Vic-
tor Oladipo, Creighton's Doug
McDermott and Georgetown's
Otto Porter.

BASEBALL
'M' still searching'


as rotation keeps rotating
After the Michigan baseball six flyouts en route to his third Ogden and sophomore right-
team topped Western Illinois win of the season. hander James Bourque - are
in the first game of Saturday's "We have areallygood defense allowing a little too much con-
doubleheader, the classic pop- behind me, and I take that for tact, as opposing batters are bat-
hit "Bye, Bye, Bye" from the boy granted," Hill said. "I get a lot of ting .350 combined against them.
band N*SYNC blared through ground balls, a lot of fly balls and Bakich said the pitchers who
the press box speakers. everyone is really athletic behind are struggling need to work on
Aside from the immediate me, so they're making plays." mastering a quick pitching tempo
flashback to But Hill stands as the lone and continuously force contact.
late-elemen- JEREMY bright spot forMichigan's pitch- "When you do that, it means
tary years, SUMMITT ing staff, and the Wolverines you're pounding the zone and
the song was clearly have questions to answer getting strike one and strike two
reminiscent On Baseball heading into conference play on the hitters quickly," Bakich
of the Wol- next weekend. In fact, Hill is said Saturday. "Hill did a nice job
verines' struggle to operate, shall the only pitcher to start in every of that, and other guys need to do
we say, in-sync all weekend. weekend series this season. a better job following suit."
The most prominent issue lin- Bakich hasn't held back in giv- Ballantine and McAnallen
gering for Michigan is that Evan ing players opportunities to step have joined Hill the past two
Hill can't pitch every game. In up as starters, either. Five other weekends in the weekend rota-
order to successfully compete pitchers havestarted at least one tion, but neither has proven he is
against Big Ten competition, the game on the mound, but have not there to stay.
Wolverines need to fill out a con- maintained enough consistency In McAnallen's last two starts,
sistent rotation and the quicker to earn a regular starting role. he has pitched 9.2 innings, allow-
that happens, the better, with Just two of those five - senior ing 15 hits and five earned runs.
conference play looming next right-hander Ben Ballantine and Ballantine has fared a bit bet-
week. sophomore left-hander Trent ter statistically, and despite his
This weekend, the offense Szkutnik - are holding oppos- inability to pitch long outings
struggled, scoring only one run ing batters to , sub-.300 bat- he seems to be the leading can-
on 10 hits in the rubber match ting average. But Ballantine has didate to remain in the weekend
against Western Illinois. And struggled to record quality starts rotation.
pitching remained inconsistent this season, one reason the eldest When Bakich is fiddling with
besides freshman left-handed of the candidates hasn't stuck the rotation this week, Hill will
pitcher Evan Hill's remarkable around in the rotation very long. be there. No doubt. But this
one-hitter he threw in game one. In his four starts this season, weekend was the first time we've
"He just pounded the zone Ballantine has pitched less than seen a weekend rotation that
and did a nice job of attacking five innings three times. In those matched another from earlier in
the strike zone and forcing con- three lackluster outings, he's the year.
tact," said Michigan coach Erik pitched just 10.3 innings com- In order for the rotation to,
Bakich. bined. His only quality start of well, not alternate every week-
Bakich's pitching philoso- the season came against Holy end, Ballantine and McAnallen
phy focuses on quick tempo and Cross, when he allowed two will have to prove their worth in
forcing contact, two things Hill earned runs in six innings. a jam-packed, four-game sched-
excelled at during Saturday's The remaining three - junior ule this week. If they falter, the
outing. In seven innings of work, left-hander Logan McAnallen, job will be open for auditions, as
he induced six groundouts and sophomore right-hander Matt it has been all season.

-.
k j.

0

Open the door to a rewarding
summer in Boston, and discover:
* More than 700 courses
" 70 academic subjects
" 19 foreign languages
* Summer study internships

BOSTON SUMMER
-- UNIVERSITYTERM
Summer 1 May 21-June 28 2013
Summer 2 July 1-August 9
Register today:
bu .edu/summer
Boston University Summer Term
Anaeual opporunityaffrmat"ve"a"tionnsituton.

0
C

-- v



A #


