~1IE h~il an 0:aItjJ

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, November 7, 2013

michigandaily.com

FUNDRAISING
Campaign
organizers
want to hit
5M people

The University's chapter of the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity (house pictured above) is being investigated after multiple hazing allegations were brought to light.
"AEPi frat accused of hazing

Victors for Michigan
development drive
will kick off Friday
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily StaffReporter
Though the Victors for Michi-
gan campaign won't officially
launch until Friday, the Univer-
sity's Office of Development
is aiming to reach five-million
people regarding the fundraising
effort.
Development officials said
Wednesday that Victors for
Michigan is on track to garner
five-million "touch points" for
the period spanning from Mon-
day to Friday's kickoff party.
Touch points measure instances
of contact with members of the
general public and University
affiliates, which can include
marketing activities and word of
mouth.
Tom Szczepanski, senior exec-
utive director for annual giving,
marketing and student engage-

ment in the office of Develop-
ment, said connecting as many
people as possible is crucial
to meet the a bold fundraising
target. The overall goal for the
campaign will be announced at a
press event Thursday.
"This is going to be an auda-
cious goal," Szczepanski said.
"It's going to be the largest cam-
paign goal in the history of high-
er public education."
The University's last cam-
paign, The Michigan Differ-
ence, ended in 2008 and raised
$3.2 billion, passing its original
$2.5-million goal. Victors for
Michigan aims to shoot even
higher.
Szczepanski said receiving a
host of small gifts is as impor-
tant as snagging multi-million
dollar leadership gifts like Rick
and Susan Rogel's $50-million
donation to the Medical School
and Chinese studies program
announced Tuesday.
"Those gifts rightly get a lot
of publicity," Szczepanski said.
"But the reality is just as there
See CAMPAIGN, Page 3A

President ousted,
'U' and national
office investigating
By YARDAIN AMRON
Daily StaffReporter
New hazing allegations have
been lodged against the Uni-
versity's chapter of the Alpha
Epsilon Pi fraternity, the sec-
ond claim in the past month.

In response, the AEPi national
organization removed LSA
sophomore Andrew Koffsky,
the chapter's president, from
his leadership position and has
opened a formal investigation
into the matter.
John Pierce, spokesman for
the national AEPi organiza-
tion, said Wednesday the latest
allegations came forward in an
anonymous e-mail. Pierce said
he could not confirm or deny
the veracity of the claims in the

e-mail or provide any details
about the message's content.
"Sometimes reports like that
are credible, and they are trying
to protect themselves or trying
to maintain some anonymity for
fear of repercussions," Pierce
said. "In other cases, they're
competitive fraternities who are
trying to get our fraternity in
trouble."
The Indiana-based organiza-
tion acted swiftly on the allega-
tions Tuesday, sending Koffsky

a cease-and-desist letter that
suspended his presidency that
morning and dispatching Alex
Mandel, a regional representa-
tive, to the University's chapter
house in the evening."
Mandel met with Music,
Theatre & Dance sophomore
Aaron Dombey, vice president
of AEPi, and Kinesiology junior
Carl Scheller, the fraternity's
treasurer, for more than three
hours. Koffsky was not allowed
See HAZING, Page 3A

POLITKCS
PubPol student
wins election in
Trenton, Mich.


University
senior's elected
to city council in
hometown race
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
Daily StaffReporter
As the dust settled from city
council elections in Trenton,
Mich., about 40 miles from Ann
Arbor, another Michigan man
became an elected policy maker.
The twist: Steven Rzeppa is a
current Public Policy senior.
Rzeppa became interested in
running for political office after
working on the State House cam-
paign of former Trenton Mayor
Tom Dorigzki in 2012. Early on,
Dorigzki encouraged him to con-
sider running for elected office
in the small city with close to
19,000 residents.
"He brought the idea to me
that there are people who want to
see younger people get involved,"
Rzeppa said.
Four of the six current coun-

cl members were first elected to
office before Rzeppa was born.
When Dorigzki told Rzeppa that
two of the council members were
retiring, he also suggested Rzep-
pa run to replace them.
Even before beginning his
campaign, Rzeppa benefitted
from a strong standing in the
community. His mother worked
for the city for almost 15 years,
which allowed him to build con-
nections with the city's firefight-
ers and police force.
In addition to encouraging
active participation in the com-
munity, Rzeppa also took into
consideration the long-term
challenges of cities across the
state by talking to constituents
about the drop in property values
and declines in state share rev-
enues.
The majority of the campaign-
ing took place during the sum-
mer, when he and his campaign
volunteers knocked on more
than 6,000 doors - at least half
of which Rzeppa said he visited
personally.
Although the former mayor
See TRENTON, Page 3A

Sociology Professor Elizabeth Armstrong talks at the "Let's Talk About Sex, a Conversation on Campus Hookup
Culture" at Rakham Auditorium Wednesday.
Professor debunks mhs
about college hookups

STUDENT LIFE
Speak Out
event gives
survivors a
safe space
At SAPAC event,
students talk about
sexual violence
experiences
By CAROLYN GEARIG
Daily StaffReporter
The Michigan Union ballroom
was filled with over 100 people
Wednesday evening for the Sexu-
al Assault Prevention and Aware-
ness Center's 27th annual Speak
Out.
As a part of the event, students
who experienced intimate part-
ner violence, sexual harassment,
sexual assault and stalking were
invited to speak openly about
their experiences.
LSA junior Kathryn Aber-
crombie and LSA senior Nicole
Corrigan - co-coordinators for
SAPAC's Networking, Publicity
& Activism Volunteer Program
-organized the event. The pro-
gram leads outreach and raises
awareness on campus about sex-
ual assault.
See SURVIVORS, Page 3A

Armstrong speaks
at TEDxUM
salon on campus
sex culture
By AMABEL KAROUB
For theDaily
On a dark, rainy Wednes-
day night, nearly 100 students
gathered together in the fourth

floor of the Rackham Graduate
School to talk about sex.
Seats were filled well before
the TEDx Salon event start-
ed at 7:30 p.m., and students
crowded on the floor to lis-
ten with rapt attention to the
speaker, Sociology Prof. Eliza-
beth Armstrong. TEDxUM,
an independent TED student
group, hosts a conference
once a year along with smaller
events like the salon.
Armstrong, co-author of

"Paying for the Party," dis-
cussed the positive and
negative affiliations with
"hookups," which she defined
as kissing, touching or full
intercourse, on a college cam-
pus. Armstrong relied heav-
ily on results from a Stanford
University survey about sex
on college campuses that com-
pared average hookups, dates
and relationships by college
seniors. She dispelled the pop-
See HOOK-UPS, Page 3A

WEATHER HI: 46
TOMORROW LO: 33

GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail The Wire: Man arrested at Angell Hall
news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICH IGANDAI LY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS .......................2A SUDOKU.....................3A
Vol. CXXIV, No. 25 OPINION.................,...4A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
©20 The Michigan Daily SPORTS ......................7A B-SIDE............ 1 B
michigandail y.con


2A - Thursday, November 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com kveigetean@michigandailycom

DONATINLtI IF 7

A Wolverine among Yalies

Robert Shiller is an economist,
best selling author and current
professor at Yale University. He
graduated from the University in
1967 with a bachelor's degree in
economics. He was awarded the
2013 Nobel Prize in Economics.
What made you want to
become a professor?
I am the first in my family to
become a professor soI didn't get
it from my parents. Although, my
two boys are both professors. I
just think I am a scholarly type.
I like research. I thought I would
be a science professor at first, but
then I got interested in econom-
ics. I just like to read scholarly
works. I have always believed

in those kinds of people. I don't If you could give current
watch much television, virtually Michigan students one piece
zero. I get bored. of advice, what would it be?

What has been your favorite
part about your time at the
University of Michigan?
Well, it wasn't sports. I think I
went to maybe one football game
the whole time. And it wasn't
dating; I didn't do much of that.
I didn't join a fraternity. I was
an assistant night editor at The
Michigan Daily. I actually liked
that experience but I don't know
if that was my favorite part. I
suppose my favorite was just the
interaction with other young peo-
ple, similar students, just getting
to talk to them.

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
University finance employee Valerie Haeussler
donates blood at the Michigan Union during the
Blood Battle drive Wednesday.

CRIME NOTES
Snagging some Careful with
souvenirs the chemicals

WHERE: East Hall
WHEN: Tuesday around
11:05 a.m.
WHAT: An exterior build-
ing sign for East Hall was
stolen, reported University
Police. There are currently
no suspects and the time-
frame is uncertain.

WHERE: Kellogg
Eye Center
WHEN: Tuesday around
4:40 p.m.
WHAT: In the lab, a subject
spilled formalin, University
Police reported. Assistance
was provided and the spill
taken care of.

Better put a Livin' the
ring on it student life
WHERE: University Hos-
pital WHERE: Campus Safety
WHEN: Tuesday around Services
11:30 a.m. WHEN: Tuesday around
WHAT: A wedding ring 2:35 p.m.
was stolen from a patient's WHAT: A subject, who was
purse, University Police previously issued a tres-
reported. The theft took passing warning, was found
place during a procedure on using campus computers,
Oct. 14th. tnivorsitoPolice renorted.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
International Lusophone
storytelling film festival
WHAT: The annual story- WHAT: Come see the 2012
telling event will be open to Virgin Margarida, intended
all students, who can listen to showcase the style of
in on the many stories of Portugese contemporary
international travel that cinema.
individuals have to offer. WHO: Department of
WHO: International Center Romance Languages and
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m. Literature
WHERE: North Quad, WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
Space 2435 WHERE: Michigan The-
#GlowOut on Detroit
North Campus discussion
WHAT: Students and staff WHAT: Rolling Stone
will gather with glowsticks, contributing editor Mark
cider, and donuts, to kick off Binelli will be discussing
this new campaign, where- the future of Detroit, and
by students will discuss the the ways in which we can
problems facing us today, as jumpstart its recovery.
well as their solutions. WHO: LS&A Marketing,
WHO: College of Engineer- Development and Commu-
ing nications
WHEN: Today 8:30 to 9:30 WHEN: Today 5:10 to 7:10
p.m. p.m.
WHERE: North Campus WHERE: Harlan Hatcher
Diag Graduate Library

I tell my students they are com-
ing for a college education. They
should think of it as an opportu-
nity to build some kind of unique
human capital. Human capital
is an economics term for invest-
ment in yourself and education.
But literally it means the kind of
skills and special knowledge you
have that might be, hopefully is,
unique. I tell my students to not
worry so much about grades; it's
really about what you develop
yourself into.
- CLAIRE BRYAN
Read More at MichiganDaily.com
SH REE TH INGS YOU
S HOUL K NOW T ODAY
1Lady Gaga will be the
first artist to sing in outer
space, US Weekly report-
ed Wednesday. The perfor-
mance will be a part of the
three day 2015 Zero G Colony
music festival. Her act will be
taking place on the last day of
the festival.
The University Musical
Society has changed a
great deal in its history
than began with its forma-
tion in 1879. Now, culturally
diverse acts make up the
eight-month season. FOR
Husband and wife
turned rivals in the
elections for the Water-
ville, Maine warden seat,
The Online Sentinel report-
ed Wednesday. The wife,
a Democratic, beat out her
Republican husband in the
race in a 127-76 vote.

Newsroom
734-41s-41s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
DisplaytSales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaiy.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewSlovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamRubenfireManaging NewsEditor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman,
Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf, Jennifer Callas, Hillary Crawford, Ian
llingham, ill Greenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel Premack, Stephanie
Shenda, ChristynSong
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial PagetEditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS:Dan Wang, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh, MeganMcDonald
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand Managing sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Rajat
Khar, DanielWassa, ,LizVukelich
ASSISANTSnRTSEDIORS:neg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel Feldman, Erin
Lennon,LevFacher,MaxCohen
Kayla Upadhyaya Managing Arts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTSEDITORS: ElliotAlpern, Brianne Johnson,JohnLynch,AnnaSadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: John Bohn, Sean Czarnecki, Max
Radin,AkshaySeth,KatieSteen,Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SNIaaORnOnOnEDoITORS eea Mahw., Tdd Ndta
ASIS N nHOT OEDTORSKatenePkala,aPuSherman,
Mc*aeie ere"n, "by Wallau, Patrick Barron
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz ManagingrDesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg MagazineEditor statement@michigandaity.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Paige Pearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien copytChiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPYEDITORS: Jennie Coleman, Kelly McLauglin
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Amal Muzaffar nigital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo LocalAccountsManager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum ProductionManagers
The Michigan Daily ISSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the falland
winterteerms by students at the University of Michigan.O ne copy is available free of charge
to all readers. Additional copiesmay be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in Septembervia U.S.mail are $110. Winter term( Januarythrough Aprilis
$115, yearlongt(September through April) is $195. University affiliates are subject to a reduced
subscriptionrate.On-ampusasubscriptionsforfalltermare$35.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.
The Michigan tailyis amemberofTheAssociatedPressand TheAssociatedCollegiatePress.

s
"

Detroit mayor-elect says
skin color too central in race

Duggan to meet
with Snyder, Detroit
leaders within the
next two days
DETROIT (AP) - Detroit's
mayor-elect said Wednesday
that far too much had been made
of his skin color during ahistoric
write-in campaign and general

election victory that will make
him the predominantly black
city's first white mayor in four
decades.
Appearing at his first news
conference as mayor-elect,
Mike Duggan said he would
meet over the next two days
with Michigan's governor
and Detroit's current leaders,
including the state-appoint-
ed emergency manager who
currently controls the cash-

Do Your Yoga/with a rope!
build
$70 STRENGTH
*E 30 days
unlimited release
classes stress
russayog.com
215 s. state ann arbor
D "

strapped city's checkbook.
With Detroit grappling with
$18 billion in debt and awaiting a
judge's ruling on whether it can
move forward with a bankrupt-
cy filing, Duggan said the race of
the mayor is not a factor.
"I resent it. I've resented it
from the beginning," Duggan
said. "People in this city got past
it almost a year ago, as people
got to know me and we started
to relate as individuals."
Unofficial general election
results Tuesday night showed
Duggan, a former Detroit Medi-
cal Center chief executive,
defeating Wayne County Sheriff
Benny Napoleon 55 percent to 45
percent. Napoleon is black.
Race, more specifically black
and white, has defined Detroit
for generations.
More than 80 percent of the
700,000 people living in Detroit
are black. The last time it had
a white mayor, only about 44
percent of Detroit's 1.5 million
residents were black and the city
was only a few years removed
from a race riot that left 43 peo-
ple dead and dozens of buildings
burned.
"Detroit became 'black
Detroit' and the suburbs became
the 'white suburbs, and people
picked sides," then-mayor and
now convicted felon Kwame Kil-
patrick told The Associated Press
for a story in 2007.
Of the 10 cities of at least
100,000 people with the largest
percentage of black residents,
only New Orleans and Mont-
gomery, Ala., have white mayors.
The others have black mayors.
Duggan's election could help
blur the color lines, but when he
takes office in January Detroit
officially could be bankrupt. He
will be expected to have solu-
tions for lowering one of the
highest violent crime rates in the
country - in a city that struggles
to respond to 911 calls - and fix-
ing Detroit's many crumbling
neighborhoods. Public transpor-
tation is in shambles, as are other
city services.

Kerry hopeful Israelis,
Palestinians find peace
Secretary of State incitement, continuing to cre- to say that they were not aware
ate artificial crises, continuing or we were not aware that there
spoke to Prime to avoid, run away from the his- would be construction but that
toric decisions that are needed to that would be much better off in
Minister Netanyahu, make a genuine peace," Netan- our judgment limited as much
. yahu told Kerry as they started as possible."
President Abbas their two hour and 45-minute Kerry said that Abbas had
meeting in a Jerusalem hotel. agreednottotake the Palestinian
BETHLEHEM, West Bank "I hope that your visit will help case for statehood to the United
(AP) - U.S. Secretary of State steer them back to a place where Nations as long as the talks are
John Kerry waded again into we could achieve the historical ongoingand as longas Israel con-
the nitty-gritty of faltering peace that we seek and that our tinues prisoner releases.
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks people deserve." "I amconvincedthatPresident
on Wednesday, saying he was Despite Netanyahu's slap at Abbas is serious about these talks
optimistic that tensions and dif- the Palestinians, Kerry said he and that he wants to find peace,"
ficulties could be overcome, even was optimistic that the difficul- Kerry said, noting that Abbas had
between "two proud people" ties could be overcome. restated his understanding that
struggling to reach an accommo- Kerry said he would continue compromises would have to be
dation. to plug away despite the prob- made. 4
Kerry was upbeat after sepa- lems. Once he finishes his talks with
rate meetings with Israeli Prime "We need the space to negoti- Abbas in Bethlehem, Kerry is to
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ate privately, secretly, quietly and return to Jerusalem for a meet-
and Jerusalem and Palestinian we will continue to do that," he ing with Israeli PresidentShimon
President Mahmoud Abbas in said. "We have six months ahead Peres and have a working dinner
the West Bank town of Bethle- of us on the timetable we have set with Netanyahu. On Thursday,
hem. for ourselves and I am confident Kerry plans to travel to Jordan,
"As in any negotiation there we have the ability to make prog- where he expects to see Abbas
will be moments of up and ress." for a second time on his current
moments of down," Kerry said, After seeing Netanyahu, mission.
even as both sides traded barbs Kerry traveled to Bethlehem After months of cajoling,
about who is to blame for the cur- where he announced that the Kerry persuaded Israel and the
rent poor state of negotiations. U.S. would give an additional Palestinians to reopen peace
"But ... we are determined to $75 million in aid to create Pal- talks in late July after a nearly
try to bring lasting peace to this estinian jobs and help them five-year break.
region." improve roads, schools and But after being launched
The secretary said, "We other infrastructure. U.S. offi- with great fanfare, the nego-
are convinced that despite cials said the aid is designed to tiations quickly ran into trouble
the difficulties, both leaders, boost Palestinian public sup- with no visible signs of prog-
President Abbas and Prime port for the peace process. ress and both sides reverting
Minister Netanyahu, are also Kerry said he had a "very, very to a familiar pattern of finger
determined to work toward good meeting" and an "excellent pointing. The goal of reaching a
this goal." lunch" with Abbas, during which peace deal within nine months
Yet tension between the two the president assured him that he appears in jeopardy.
sides was running high and on was "100-percent committed to Underscoring the challenge
clear display after the Palestin- the" peace talks. ahead, the Tuesday negotiating
ians said a secret negotiating In a bid to calm rising Pales- session broke down, according
session on Tuesday broke down tinian anger at Abbas for a per- to a Palestinian official who
in an acrimonious dispute over ceived acquiescence to Israeli spoke on condition of anonym-
Israeli settlement construction. settlements, Kerry flatly denied ity because of the pledge not to
Introducing Kerry in Bethlehem, suggestions that Abbas had in discuss the talks in public.
the town's mayor denounced any way agreed to "condone or The official said the out-
Israeli settlements as a "siege" accept" such activity as part of rage over the settlement plans
and Netanyahu opened his meet- the deal to return to the talks. boiled over at a secret negoti-
ing with the secretary by bashing "The Palestinians believe ating session with the Israelis
the Palestinians for their behav- that the settlements are illegal, in Jerusalem. The official said
ior in the peace talks. the United States continues to the meeting, held at Kerry's
_ "I'm concerned about their believe the settlements are not request, "exploded" over the
progress because I see the helpful and are illegitimate," he settlement issue, and that the
Palestinians continuing with said. Kerry added, "That is not talks were abruptly halted.

4


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 7, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
AG proposes new
laws in light of
human trafficking
Michigan's top law enforcer
said Wednesday that the state
should treat teenage prostitutes
as victims, not criminals, as it
works to combat human traf-
ficking.
The recommendation to cre-
ate a "safe harbor" provision for
minors is among many resulting
from a six-month review led by
the state's first human traffick-
ing commission. Attorney Gen-
eral Bill Schuette and lawmakers
who worked on the report also
want to toughen criminal pen-
alties for traffickers and people
who solicit sex from 16- and
17-year-olds.
"What we're doing is putting
in place a presumption that if
you're a minor and you're forced
to have sex, the presumption is
that you are a victim, not a crimi-
nal," Schuette, a Republican, said
during a news conference at his
Lansing office attended by legis-
lators, advocates and trafficking
experts.
SAN DIEGO
Third Navy official
arrested in Asia
bribery scheme
Federal officials say a third
senior U.S. Navy official has been
arrested in connection with a
massive bribery scheme in Asia
that helped a Malaysian defense
contractor overbill the Penta-
gon by millions of dollars in
exchange for prostitutes, luxury
trips and other bribes.
Federal prosecutors said U.S.
Navy Commander Jose Luis San-
chez was arrested Wednesday in
Tampa, Fla.
In a criminal complaint, San-
chez is accused of accepting
prostitutes, luxury travel and
$100,000 cash from a foreign
defense contractor in exchange
for classified and internal U.S-
Navy information.
TORONTO
Amid controversy,
Toronto mayor
refuses to leave post
Toronto's embattled mayor on
Wednesday rejected the advice of
city council allies to take a tempo-
rary leave of absence, returning to
work a day after acknowledging
he had smoked crack.
Deepening the crisis, Rob
Ford's long-time policy adviser
resigned, continuing an exo-
dus that started in May when
news reports emerged of a video
showing the mayor smoking
what appears to be crack. Police
announced last week they had a
copy of the video, which has not
been released publicly.
After months of evading the
question, Ford acknowledged for
the first time Tuesday that he

smoked crack "probably a year
ago" when he was in a "drunken
stupor." But he has refused to
step aside despite immense pres-
sure.
LONDON
WikiLeaks aide
leaves Snowden
for Germany
WikiLeaks staffer Sarah Harri-
son, a key ally of former NSA con-
tractor Edward Snowden, has left
Russia for Germany, saying her
lawyers had advised her against
travel to Britain over fears she
could be prosecuted if she returns
to her native country.
Harrison arrived in Germany
over the weekend, saying in a
statement released by WikiLeaks
late Wednesday that she left
Snowden only after making sure
"that he had established himself
andwas free from the interference
of any government."
The statement also said that
lawyers had advised her to stay
away from the U.K. over fears she
would be prosecuted under anti-
terror laws.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

CAMPAIGN
From Page 1A
are $50-million gifts, there are
also $50 gifts. And to add up to
the total we need to achieve, we
need hundreds of thousands of
gifts. And to motivate those hun-
dreds of thousands of gifts, we
need to influence a lot of people."
For the Office of Develop-
ment, touch points - the term
Szczepanski uses for points of
engagement - are the eyes and
ears on the University's cam-
paign. These points include
contact on Facebook, Twitter, in
the press and physical advertise-
ments like t-shirts and Frisbees
slated for distribution at Friday's
community festival.
However, calculating exactly
how many touch points the cam-
paign has is a challenge in itself.
Campaign strategists have built
estimates from Twitter hashtag
usage, Facebook shares, event
attendees and circulation of
media coverage, aswell as poten-
tial viewers of signs and wear-
able giveaways.
During planning sessions
to market the campaign, Szcz-
.epanski said organizers initially
planned to elicit one-million
touch points during the week
leading up to launch night.
Due to an unprecedented
amount of student involvement,
the Office of Development hopes
engagement will surpass their
original expectations five times
over.
"Because the students have
become so engaged, we're now
confident the reach will be much

HAZING
From Page 1A

into the meeting. Mandel avoid-
ed a reporter who attempted to
reach him for comment near the
fraternity house.
Pierce said there are grounds
for removing a chapter president
if the national office's executive
office "deems it an appropriate
first step." He added that the
office deals with each allegation
separately but do review a chap-
ter's overall reputation.
Thinking back to a previous
statement made by national offi-
cials after the first set of haz-
ing allegations, Koffsky said he
feared the University's chapter
might be cut from the umbrella
organization.
"They said, 'Andrew, if we're
coming back later this year, for
anything, for any reason at all,
we're ending your fraternity,' "
Koffsky said.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said he could not
confirm if the University was
investigating the fraternity. If an
investigation is underway, it is
still in its infancy, he said.
"It's really, really way to
soon to draw any conclusions,"
Fitzgerald said.
Kinesiology senior Michael
Freedman, president of the
Interfraternity Council, said he
could not confirm the allega-
tions. While IFC doesn't con-
done inappropriate behavior like
TRENTON
From Page1A
played a role in the Rzeppa's
decision to run for Trenton City
Council, support came from
a variety of sources. He said
friends here at the University
and his family at home contrib-
uted to the campaign process
from the beginning.
"The moral support is just as
important throughout the whole
thing," Rzeppa said. "There are
definitely some high highs and
low lows that go into it, so hav-
ing people that knew a lot about
what I was doing and encourag-
ing me did wonders."

greater than originally anticipat-
ed, which means our campaign
success will be met that much
more efficiently," Szczepanski
said.
Besides installing a student
advisory committee to help plan
fundraising, campaign brand-
ing and delivery has taken a new
focus on students.
The campaign's primary pri-
ority is student support and
financial aid. At the President's
Leadership Breakfast in Octo-
ber, University President Mary
Sue Coleman announced Victors
for Michigan would attempt to
secure $1 billion for student aid.
"Today, (students) are a lot
more savvy, and they understand
the impact philanthropy has on
their life and how philanthropy
impacts their experience as a
student," Szczepanski said.
In addition, an engaged stu-
dent population is key to reeling
in potential donors.
"Some students will give
financially," Szczepanski said.
"Some students will advocate
on our behalf. But every student
here is tangible evidence that the
University is worthy of financial
support."
The campaign's collaborative
focus will be featured in Friday's
planned kickoff activities, which
include a block party on Ingalls
Mall complete with food, give-
aways and music.
In the past, campaign launch-
es usually consisted of a pri-
vate performance preceding an
invite-only donor event, accord-
ing to Judy Malcolm, director
of executive communications
in the office of Development.
This community-focused event
hazing, Freedman said the board
will always advocate for its mem-
ber chapters.
"We're always going to sup-
port our IFC chapters, whether
they've really messed up or not,"
Freedman said.
The previous hazing allega-
tions were made in early October
and led to a personal visit to the
fraternity house by Jim Fleisch-
er, assistant executive director of
the AEPi national organization.
Koffsky said Fleischer inter-
viewed all 34 pledges to cor-
roborate their stories. He also
reviewed a Facebook group-chat
between the pledges.
The Office of Greek Life also
conducted its own investigation
of the first allegations through
its Hazing Task Force. The body
was created in 2006 and is com-
prised of 14 to 18 students select-
ed and elected from within the
Greek system.
LSA junior Kristina Macek,
current chair of the task force,
wrote in an e-mail that any
actions taken will be considered
confidential for the time being.
"I will not and cannot confirm
or deny if any hazing allegations,
investigations or hearings have
occurred throughout my term as
chair of the Hazing Task Force,"
Macek wrote.
A statement posted on the
Hazing Task Force Facebook
page around 10:30 a.m. Wednes-
day alluded to recentchazing alle-
gations.
"In light of the increase in the
number of hazing allegations, we

Rzeppa said he hopes to keep
Trenton an innovative, youth-
friendly community.
"The main thing I would like
to focus on is making it a place
that will continue to attract
younger people and provide
opportunities for people at
every level in the city," Rzeppa
said. "I wanted to bring a fresh
perspective to the city govern-
ment, and people really received
that well."
At the University, Rzeppa has
previously served as vice chair
of the Diversity Affairs Commit-
tee in Central Student Govern-
ment. He said his experience on
CSG reinforced his longstanding
interest in government and pub-
lit service - and also revealed

is a new endeavor to involve a
broader community of potential
supporters and donors.
The University has also
launched a social media cam-
paign aimed at building student
involvement and communicat-
ing philanthropy's impact at the
University. Shannon Riffe, assis-
tant director of marketing and
online engagement in the office
of Development, has lead the
campaign's overall social media
initiative.
For the past month, the office
of Development's Leaders and
Best social media accounts have
posted an "impact story" each
day leading up to the campaign.
"The whole point is really tell-
ing people's stories in their own
words about how they're impact-
ed by philanthropy," Riffe said.
"And it's really powerful with
social media to show images
specifically, images of people's
faces."
In terms of finding students
and faculty touched by philan-
thropy, Malcolm said that's an
easy task.
"We have far more stories
than we could ever use," Mal-
colm said. "It just reinforces to
us how important donor gifts are
to the life of this University."
As Friday nears and the Uni-
versity gears up for the biggest
fundraising campaign a public
higher education institution has
seen, Szczepanski and his staff
are hoping to keep the conversa-
tion going.
"Hopefully, we've created
something worthy of tweeting
and posting that people want to
talk about for a long time," he
said.
would like to encourage all mem-
bers of the Greek Community to
consult the Hazing Policy, con-
tact us, or contact the office of
Greek Life in order to determine
if an activity, event, etc.is consid-
ered hazingbefore doingit.Igno-
rance is not an excuse to haze!!"
The post was later deleted.
It is unclear exactly what alle-
gations were made against the
AEPi fraternity, but Koffsky said
that the initial set of hazing alle-
gations were "unanimously" true
- "like scarily so," he added.
However, when interviewed
by Greek Life officials, Koffsky
said he and other AEPi brothers
denied the allegations in early
October.
"Essentially, we had to lie
about everything," Koffsky said.
Koffsky was one of four soph-
omore presidents across 30 IFC
fraternities. As only a second-
year student, Koffsky said he
was overwhelmed in trying to
manage 171 members, 34 pledges
and an organization that oper-
ates on a budget of half a million
dollars a year.
"You don't get prepared for
any of it," Koffsky said. "You're
thrown into the fire."
In hindsight, with his chapter
facing investigations, Koffsky
said he would've chosen a differ-
ent path if he could do it all again.
"Looking back on my deci-
sion to be the president of my
fraternity, I probably would have
heeded the advice of the people
who came before me who said
not to."

the rewards that come along
with it.
"It helped me see the people
I was making a difference for,"
Rzeppa said. "And I think that's
sort of what it's all about - see-
ing how other people can ben-
efit from your actions is a very
rewarding feeling."
Although Rzeppa is in the
process of finishing his career
at the University, he plans on
returning to Trenton to main-
tain permanent residency in his
hometown - close to his con-
stituents. Rzeppa said he wants
to wait a year before continuing
his education - his new position
as city council member will give
him plenty to do in the mean-
time.

HOOKUPS
From Page1A
ular notion that a hookup won't
lead to something more.
"People are reporting on aver-
age one and a half serious rela-
tionships in college," Armstrong
said. "It's the same people who
are doing all of these things. The
people who are hooking up are
often also going on dates and
also getting in relationships. So
when the media says, 'the date is
dead and no one can find a rela-
tionship,' it's not true."
Armstrong also covered the
topic of how to close the "orgasm
gap," or the discrepancies in
orgasms among women as com-
pared to men.
Data from the Stanford study
reported that while the orgasm
gap is reduced with a greater
amount of hookups, at all levels
of intimacy women reported less
climaxes.Armstrongsaidthe gap
exists because men are less com-
mitted to female orgasms than
women are to men's orgasms.
Discussion also focused on
SURVIVORS
From Page lA
Fifteen individuals, both
males and females from under-
graduate and graduate schools
at the University, shared stories.
Many talked about alcohol, par-
ties and date rape drugs as part
of their experiences.
Almost immediately after
Corrigan and Abercrombie
finished introductions, the
first survivor walked up to
one of many microphones
placed throughout the room
to speak.
"That's pretty rare," Corri-
gan said. "I've never seen that
happen before. Normally we
actually have to wait in silence
for about 15 minutes before
someone gets up and speaks."
The Michigan Daily was
asked notto publish specific sto-
ries that survivors told because
of their sensitive content.
Throughout the event,
SAPAC advocates and interns
were available inside and out-
side the room for support and
counseling. An advocate is a
professional trained to coun-
sel and support victims and
can also provide legal support,
while interns come from the
School of Social Work to pro-
vide short-term counseling.
interns can help survivors in
reporting their experiences to
authorities.
Long-term counseling on
campus is usually administrat-
ed through Counseling and Psy-
chological Services.
"This can be a really trigger-
ing or intense event," said Alex-
andria Champagne, a Social
Work graduate student and

how common it is for college stu-
dents to have intercourse while
intoxicated. Armstrong said in
an interview after the event that
drunken hookups can be more
dangerous and less satisfying
than sober hookups.
"Maybe if people were more
comfortable with sex, they
wouldn't have to be so drunk,"
Armstrong said. "It's more likely
that people are not going to use
protection or that they're not
going to communicate clearly
about what one of them wants if
they're blindingly drunk."
TEDx Salon events are
intended to be more discussion-
based than regular lecture-style
TEDx events.
To that end, in small groups,
students further discussed the
origins of the orgasm gap. Rack-
ham student Lina Ortiz said she
believed the difference might be
a cultural one.
"I was told sex was the worst
thing you could do unless you
were married," Ortiz said. "So I
think I wouldn't let myself have
one because it would mean I
was accepting that it was what I
wanted."
SAPAC intern, "So we feel like
it's very important to have sup-
port services in place so people
can leave on a safe note, a good
note and not leave feeling over-
whelmed or extremely trig-
gered."
Corrigan said she originally
got involved in SAPAC after
several of her friends experi-
enced sexualized violence in
high school.
"Personally, having to expe-
rience that through them was
very striking and it makes you
think about things that you
never did before," Corrigan
said.
Corrigan and Abercrombie
closed the event with a candle
lighting ceremony, inviting
anyone in attendance to light a
candle in remembrance of those
who have experienced intimate
partner violence, sexual harass-
ment, sexual assault and stalk-
ing. The SAPAC office was open
after the event for anyone wish-
ing to debrief.
University staff were asked to
refrain from attending the event
to guaranteea safe and confiden-
tial space, free from mandated
reporting regulations. Many
staff members are obligated to
forward reports of sexual assault
to the University's Office of
Institutional Equity.
The Networking, Publicity
& Activism Volunteer Program
also runs rEVOLUTION: Mak-
ing Art for Change, an art show
with themes of gender, sexual-
ized violence and empowerment
during the spring semester, and
sponsored a Domestic Violence
Awareness Month rally and vigil
in October.
SAPAC's Crisis Line is open 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, and
can be reachedat (734) 936-3333.
'ollow us On Twitter!
ike us on Facebook!
@michigandaily
acebook.com/michigandaily

EVER HAD A CONCUSSION??
Participants needed for a study on the
long term effects of concussion
Who: Males and females in their 40's & 60's
who had a concussion(s) from sport or
recreation when 18yrs or younger
Activities: walking, hand and foot coordination
& reaction time test
Test Duration: 1 session, 2.5hrs
Payment: $50
Contact: Doug Martini at (734)615-9330 or
neurotraumalb.umich@gmail.com
\14
A

HAVE AN OPINION? LET'S HEAR IT.
SUBMIT IT TO THE DAILY AS A VIEWPOINT. OP-ED
PIECES SHOULD BE FROM 650 TO 800 WORDS IN
LENGTH AND IDENTIFY THE AUTHOR AND UNIVER-
SITY AFFILIATION
Send to opinioneditors@michigandaily.com

I


4A - Thursday, November 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


}t$ Miidiganial 

An expanded definition of 'terrorism'

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM THE DAILY
Restoring trust in Detroit's leaders
The mayor is still the chief administrator and proponent of the city
n Nov. 5, winning by a margin of 55 percent to 45 percent, Mike
Duggan defeated Benny Napoleon to be elected the next mayor
of Detroit. However, the election was overshadowed by Detroit's
recent bankruptcy and the corresponding tightening of Emergency Manager
Kevyn Orr's control over city government. This climate of pessimism culmi-
nated in low voter turnout, with only an estimated 20 to 25 percent of eligible
voters within Detroit participating in the election, according to the city. That
being said, Duggan shouldn't resign himself to a seemingly powerless role
as his term begins. The mayor is still the chief administrator and proponent
of the city, despite the state-appointed emergency manager. And as Detroit
moves forward, the city's residents need someone who can go to bat for them.

As members of a media-
engrossed, perpetually
tuned-in generation, it can
often be difficult
to discern our
own personal
levels of outrage
in response to
someone else's
allegations of
government
misconduct. JAKE
Any involve-
ment, tangential OFFENRARTZ
or otherwise,
with radical poli-
tics only increases the arduousness
of this task, and despite my socialist
leanings and loose ties to anarchist
communities, I'm often unequipped
- with both time and passion - to
address the host of injustices per-
ceived by those on the far left.
consequently, I regularly find
myself mentally sorting the "radi-
cal" issues from the mainstream,
qualifying - sometimes accurately,
sometimes not - an assertion of
government repression as more
legitimate if it comes from a source
with conventional politics. In other
words, because the anarchists,
by definition, feel consistently
oppressed by the actions of govern-
ment, their rational calls for reform
are often dimmed for me by their
idealistic commitment to revolution.
But when the federal government
begins using intimidation tactics to
target those with anti-government
associations, when the mainstream
media demonizes anarchists as vio-
lent extremists, and when the refusal
to testify in a witch-hunt can place
a guiltless political radical in pris-
on, it quickly becomes evident that
my approach is problematic. Fed-
eral grand juries are yet again being
used to suppress political dissidence,
and, aside from few vocal criminal
defense lawyers, no one but the polit-
ically dissident seems to care.
Mandated in the Bill of Rights,
the federal grand jury was original-
ly intended to function as a people's
panel, a pre-indictment proceed-
ing for certain crimes in which the
government presents evidence to
prove that a case merits prosecu-
tion. Since the mid-20th century,
the reality of this well-meaning pro-
tection has devolved to something
else entirely, as the Federal Bureau

of Investigation and United States
Department of Justice have manip-
ulated the coercive power of grand
juries as a tool for instilling fear in
groups hostile to the American gov-
ernment. The use of grand juries as
a mechanism for targeting social
movements can be traced back to the
1960s. Antiwar activists - particu-
larly under President Richard Nixon
- were among the most targeted,
along with members of the Black
Panther Party and, most recently,
environmentalist groups.
When a person is subpoenaed to
testify before a grand jury, they may
not be told the cause of the investiga-
tion or why they are being targeted.
They are denied their Sixth Amend-
ment right to counsel and their Fifth
Amendment right to remain silent.
They may be instructed to inform
on themselves, their friends or any
groups they are believed to have
contact with. Resisting this demand
can land a person in prison for up to
18 months.
Such is the predicament of
24-year-old New York City activ-
ist and anarchist Jerry Koch, who
has spent over five months in prison
for his refusal to meet the demands
of a federal grand jury. Subpoenaed
in 2009, Jerry was believed to have
been in an unspecified bar in which
he may have spoken to a person with
knowledge of a 2008 explosion that
occurred outside a military recruit-
ment station. Koch, only 19 at the
time, stated publi-
cally that he had -
no such informa-
tion and that he The use
would not testify, - - o
at which point he juries to
was released. He social m
was subpoenaed
again last May, undem
and this time his
refusal to testify
landed him in con-
tempt of court for the remainder of
the grand jury - a sentence deemed
just for its intent to "coerce" rather
than "punish." But what exactly is
Jerry being coerced to divulge?
In all likelihood, the federal pros-
ecution has no interest in a half-
decade-old bar conversation that
may have never happened. Rather,
the Joint Terrorism Task Force,
lackingsufficient leads butrecogniz-
ingthe 260$ explosion to be-apoliti-

cally motivated crime, has embarked
on a political fishing expedition,
targeting underground movements
based on their beliefs and using
sketchy tactics of forced coercion to
build profiles on social activists. The
continued imprisonment of Koch
has no morally justifiable purpose.
It's an intimidation tactic used by
the government to suppress dissent,
a form of government harassment
reminiscent of J Edgar Hoover's
COINTELPRO - a series of covert
projects conducted by the FBI to dis-
rupt political organizations.
Koch is not the only anarchist to
have spent time in jail for refusing
to cooperate with a grand jury. Last
summer, a series of FBI raids in the
Pacific Northwest resulted in sev-
eral grand jury subpoenas and the
imprisonment of three anarchists.
The coordinated raids weren't an
attempt to solve a specific crime but
an effort to silence a community,
and one search warrant detailed the
Joint Terrorist Task Force's plan
to obtain black clothing, address
books, flag-making material and
anarchist literature.
Many have pointed to this grand
jury, and a host of crackdowns on
environmentalist and animal rights
groups in recent years, as evidence
that the government is placing a
renewed emphasis on repressing
social movements. Many have also
pointed to these inquisitions as yet
another example of the erosion of
our constitu-
tional rights
being justified
of grand by the ever-
-nim dae expansive
intimidate invoking of the
vements is word "terror-
ism."
iocratic. An individu-
al's politics will
likely dictate
whether they
view this increase in government
hostility toward radical groups as a
legitimate cause for concern or sim-
ply unfounded paranoia from the far
left. What should be apparent for
all, though, is that the use of grand
juries to intimidate social move-
ments is undemocratic and should
not be tolerated.
- Jake Offenhartz can be
reached at jakeoffgumnich.edu.

01

Just assignificant asDuggantakingthe office
is how his predecessor, Dave Bing, is leaving it.
Bing was elected mayor - shortly following the
series of scandals surrounding the administra-
tion of disgraced former mayor Kwame Kilpat-
rick - on a platform of education reform and
urban renewal. However, his polices aimed at
the restoration and the revitalization of a belea-
guered Detroit met a premature end when Orr
was instated as emergency manager and the
city declared Chapter 9 bankruptcy - the larg-
est municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history - on
July 18. Just before the bankruptcy announce-
ment, Bing declared that he would not be seek-
ing reelection, and rumors circulated that his
decision to bow out of the election was due at
least in part to perceived tensions between
him and Orr. On Sept. 13, Bing expressed in a
statement to the Detroit Free Press how he was
"concerned and somewhat frustrated about the
direction of the supposed partnership" with
Orr. As Bing's term ends in January, it's clear
he's leaving on a bitter note.
The low voter turnout is concerning, but
voter ignorance is not the culprit. The per-
ceived division between the offices of emer-

gency manager and mayor has contributed to
Detroit's residents feeling that decisions about
the funding of hospitals, schools and police
programs are outside of democratic control.
The lack of strong, elected leadership unques-
tionably contributes to low participation and
stake in government.
While it's perceived that the mayor has
little influence in the city, Orr will remain
emergency manager for only one more year,
at which point the reigns of city government
will be passed, in their entirety, to Duggan.
In the coming months, Duggan should make
it clear to his constituents and to the state
government in Lansing that he is responsible
to the city of Detroit, not Kevyn Orr, and that
ultimate decision-making authority should
and will reside with him.
Detroit desperately needs a mayor who's
willing to be an advocate for Detroit and gain
back the citizens' trust in its leadership that has
failed so seriously in the past. And, ultimately,
whether Duggan can accomplish this task
effectively will determine the success of his
administration and allow Detroit to continue
its comeback.

..
n

01

LAYAN CHARARA I VIEWPOINT
Language - a tool for imperialism

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan, Eric
Ferguson, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Adrienne Roberts,
Paul Sherman, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe

For the last five semesters, the first ques-
tion each of my Arabic professors has asked is:
"Why are you taking this class?" At this point,
I've heard just about every possible answer, and
the things Ihear never fail to induce an eye roll
or two. The post-9/11composition of students in
Arabic courses at American universities is, for
the most part, characterized by white people
who either want to work for the Department of
State or the Federal Bureau of Investigation, aid
Middle Eastern women in their struggle against
their aggressive male counterparts, or mediate
between the Arabs and Israelis - as if there's a
shortage of Arabic speakers in the Arab world.
Apparently, a clarion call has sounded and help
wanted ads are plastered about.
These ambitions are troubling to say the
least. Learning a language to use it as a tool
against its natives is an inherently imperialistic
endeavor, and breeding people of privilege to
believe it's their duty to save people of color is
problematic for many reasons.
For one thing, such beliefs perpetuate the
white man's savior complex and reinforce anti-
American sentiments abroad. We've waged
several wars in the name of such ostensibly
noble concerns, and to no avail. Imperialism
has constantly proved that it does not solve
problems so much as create them, and project-
ing our chauvinism abroad only exacerbatesthe
divide between "us" and "them." Only when
the hands of imperialism remove themselves
from the Middle East will the region be able to
address the problems that are intrinsically its
own and salvage itself. My intention is not to
undermine anyone's attempts at humanitarian-
ism, but rather to suggest that these aspirations
are misplaced.
This discussion calls to mind Henry David
Thoreau's famous quote from Walden: "If I
knew for a certainty that a man was coming to
my house with the conscious design of doing
me good, I should run for my life." What perpe-
trators of the white man's savior complex fail to
realize is that the marginalized can't continue
to be a bullet point on an agendathatseeks only
to validate privilege.
The sexualized and objectified women of the
West are misguided in their efforts to liberate
Muslim women. Sending bilions of dollars in
aid to the Egyptian military that has violently
suppressed calls for democracy from the mass-
es strips the Egyptian people oftheir autonomy.
The extension of such endeavors, however, con-
tinues to encourage people of privilege to boast

similar pursuits - beginningwith learning the
"other's"'language.
The nexus between language learning and
national security interests was established
decades ago, most prominently known by Title
VI of the National Defense Education Act.
NDEA funds the instruction of "critical lan-
guages," also known as the languages the feder-
al government deems essential to U.S. interests
abroad. This law frames language as a tool for
economic and military advancement, thus com-
modifying it.
In the last few decades, the number of Ara-
bic students has increased under the auspice of
programs, such as the Critical Language Schol-
arship Program, among other things. These
programs provide students with an exemplary
language and cultural immersion opportu-
nity, and more salient, the opportunity to brag
about their adventures in the land of the unciv-
ilized and oppressed upon their return. Those
are always my favorite stories to hear. Alas, I
digress, but such are the laments of a girl whose
parents fear they will not see her safe return if
they send her on a trip to her motherland in the
Middle East.
The commodification of language is noth-
ing new, and the idea of a linguistic market has
existed for quite some time. Language, and
multilingualism specifically, is an essential
resource - especially in the age of globaliza-
tion - but in the case of Arabic, for whom and
to what end? It's unfortunate that the study of
a language so rich and beautiful, with roots in
a region that has given the world some of the
greatestcivilizations and inventions, is pursued
with such regrettable intentions. Arabic is a lin-
guist's delight, and to use it to further imperial-
ist interests and validate privilege rather than
for academic, communication or trade purpos-
es is purely exploitative.
I respect Americans' incessant desire to
help the disadvantaged, but I believe their
desire for such emotional experiences is
poorly rationalized. Help begins by reevalu-
ating foreign policies that muzzle democratic
ambitions and frustrate economic prosper-
ity. Help begins by respecting the agency and
autonomy of people of color. And then, help
should cease. The people of the Middle East
must be given the leeway to reclaim their
identities and freedoms in the absence of for-
eign intervention.
Layan Charara is an LSA junior.

ecent studies in:
term effects ofs
and head trauma

parents across
the nation to
reconsider which
sports they allow
their children
to participate
in. While there
has always been
an accepted
risk associated
with sports at
any level, recent

TIN
BUI

studies

have

caused even President Ba
to voice his uncertainty
let his son play football.
However, former ESP
Sports Illustrated colu
Pearlman has even m
about the effects of teai
youths. In an article ft
Street Journal, Pearln
"My children don't need
ties of organized youth
make them whole. If any
need to do without th
man took issue with th
ing effect a lack of skillc
children, and how over-
parents can undermine
of good sportsmanshil
more, he added that coa
should act as positive
els - sometimes confu
determination with dem
demoralizing players.
Perhaps Pearlman is
the sports story of the
Dolphins' offensive line
Incognito's bullying and
toward teammate Jon:
tin, maybe the whole id
ing teamwork and pos
skills through sports is
outdated myth.
However, Pearlman's1
his children avoid youth
from a solution. Person:
very positive experience
throughout my childhoc

Let the kids play
to the long- lescence. I survived the then-devas- pitfalls in youth sports, studies show
concussions tating no-win soccer season of fifth that the psychological effects are
have forced grade and dealt with the coaches still positive overall. Youth athletes
who held practice while there was who participate in sports through
a tornado warning only a few miles middle and high school are stronger
away. Through my sports career I academically and have better oppor-
learned how, through hard work tunities in job markets. She adds that
and determination, I could maxi- many of the issues Pearlman outlines
mize whatever natural skills I had can be mitigated through balancing a
and achieve lofty goals. For me it was variety of types of activities and par-
never a debate: I was going to play. ticipating above the bare minimum
Pearlman ignores experiences in youth sports.
AOTHY similar to my own and focuses on the Instead of restricting choices, par-
RROUGHS struggles of his then-un-athletic and ents should encourage childrento try
somewhat socially awkward broth- a variety of new things to discover
er. We all had that friend or sibling their own personal interests. That
rack Obama growing up - mine was my brother, may include forcing a year or two
if he would too.Whilehecould,andprobablystill of a musical instrument or signing
can, backpack farther in a day than I up for a few tennis lessons, but it's a
PN.com and could in a week, let's just say by fifth parent's responsibility to create, not
imnist Jeff grade his future prospects of making limit, opportunities for their chil-
ore doubts our beloved St. Louis Cardinals were dren. This encouragement at a young
mi sports on notlookinggood. In Pearlman's eyes, age will force teenagers to make
or the Wall this is the exact individual whose difficult decisions when it becomes
san wrote, confidence is destroyed and whose time to specialize in their respective
the hostili- growth is limited by team sports. activities. My brother had to choose
athletics to As an Eagle Scout, Oberlin College between piano and the saxophone,
ything, they graduate and someone who's cur- I had to choice between baseball
em." Pearl- rently pursuing and soccer, but
he ostraciz- his childhood in both of these
can have on dream of becom- Youth sports circumstances it
competitive ing a scientist, I was our choice -
the lessons think my brother provide a chance for we have to take
p. Further- is doing just fine. responsibility
ches - who Though I won't growth throughout for it.
role mod- begin to guess Knowing how
se teaching what lessons my a s to prioritize and
ianing and brother feels he weigh conse-
learned from his quences is a crit-
right: With years of sports, it is a stretch to say ical skill to learn early. Instead of
week being that any challenges he faced in his impinging on children's interests,
man Richie youth sports career caused any con- parents should take an active role
racial slurs sequential setbacks. in their activities to ensure a posi-
athan Mar- While Pearlman's arguments are tive and healthy experience. While
ea of learn- not without merit, over-emphasizing safety concerns clearly illustrate a
itive social these concerns can quickly lead into new challenge in deciding which
s simply an parentsbeing overprotective. Beyond sports children should play, youth
the proven benefits youth sports sports still provide positive expe-
plan to have have fighting childhood obesity and riences and a chance for growth
sports is far reducing adolescent crime, Univer- throughout adolescence.

0
0
4

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the
debate. Check out @michigandaily and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily to get
updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.

ally, I had a
with sports
d and ado-

sity alum Marilyn Price-Mitchell,
who has a Ph.D. in human develop-
ment, outlines that though there are

- Timothy Burroughs can be
reached at timburr@umich.edu.


,:
'
:; ,;
, . r
.b ' _.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 7, 2013 - 5A

AKEN2013 PREVIEW

By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Writer
Last season, the Michigan
women's basketball team exceed-
ed expectations as it advanced to
the second round of the NCAA
Tournament while tying a pro-
gram-record 22 wins. But this is
not last season. The Wolverines
are in transition mode, and they
welcome a lot ofnew faces to their
sideline.
Michigan returns one starter
from last season - junior forward
Nicole Elmblad - and only two
other players that saw playing
time last year - sophomore guard
Madison Ristovski and junior
forward Cyesha Goree. Besides
them, the Wolverines welcome
junior transfer Shannon Smith,
three freshmen and four players
returning fron anterior cruciate
ligament injuries, who didn't see
action last year. In other words,
of the 14 players on the team, only
four saw NCAA action last season.
Uncertainty with this year's
lineup brings Michigan coach
Kim Barnes Arico to center stage.
The second-year coach will have
her hands full finding offensive
rotations that can push the ball
as well as rebound. Barnes Arico's
squad is small, and her current
starting lineup features only one
listed true forward: Goree.
Guards
The guard position is the
strength of this young team.
Sporting six guards on its roster,
plus one guard/forward swing
player, Michigan is filled with ball
handlers.
Leading the way is Smith, who
Barnes Arico said would be the

team's go-to scorer. Smith played
her freshman year at North Caro-
lina before transferring to Trinity
Valley Community College, which
she led to a junior college national
championship while averaging
15.8 points, 4.6 rebounds and 3.8
assists per game.
After Michigan lost its potent
offensive ability when Kate
Thompson, Jenny Ryan and
Rachel Sheffer graduated, Smith
will have big shoes to fill. Barnes
Arico is going to look to Smith
first on the offensive end and
hopes the transfer can play big
minutes.
Joining Smith is another new
face, freshman Siera Thompson.
The 5-foot-7 point guard has a
strong hold on the starting posi-
tion and showcased her speed in
the team's lone exhibition game,
putting up 13 points on 50-per-
cent shooting to go along with
seven assists.
After Smith and Thomp-
son, the starting lineup isn't as
straightforward. Barnes Arico
made a last-minute decision to
start Ristovski in the exhibition
game because of her strong week
of practice. Ristovski took advan-
tage of her opportunity, finish-
ing the game with 15 points, six
rebounds and four assists.
Last season, Ristovski came off
the bench, averaging 2.3 points
per game in 12.5 minutes. Barnes
Arico praised Ristovski for her
ability to crash the boards from
the guard position, and with a
lack of size on the team, such a
knack could lead to a permanent
starting role.
Behind Ristovski, the Wolver-
ines have two freshman guards
- Paige Rakers and Danielle Wil-
liams. Rakers could've seen play-

ing time early, but she tweaked
her foot early in the preseason,
causing a slight setback.
As for Williams, ESPN.com
ranks her as the 97th-best pros-
pect in the country and Barnes
Arico's already making com-
parisons to a young Ryan. In her
junior season, Williams helped
lead her high school to a national
championship. Her role this sea-
son is still up in the air, but Wil-
liams could see more playing time
if she continues making strides in
practice and Ristovski's produc-
tion falls off.
Lastly, Michigan has redshirt
sophomore Halle Wangler, who
transferred from Oakland. How-
ever, she will have to sit out the
season due to NCAA transfer
rules.
Forwards
The Wolverines have serious
size issues. Last season, Elmblad
started at forward - despite being
listed as a guard - because of
her strong rebounding presence.
The junior had a breakout sea-
son, averaging 4.3 points and 5.4
rebounds in 29 minutes per game.
Barnes Arico will need Elmblad
to step up as the only experienced
starter.
The fifth starter will be Goree,
who saw limited time last year.
But this season, Barnes Arico says
Goree is a different player, having
lost over 20 pounds and improved
her conditioning in the offseason.
In the exhibition game, Goree
started out strong but soon got
winded - something more game
experience can help fix.
BehindGoree, Michiganisvery
thin at forward. The Wolverines
were initially counting on sopho-

TRACY KO/Daily
Junior guard Nicole Elmblad is the only starter returning from the team that earned a No. 8 seed in the NCAA Tournament.

more Kelsey Mitchell, one of the
players returning from ACL inju-
ry, but she suffered a broken foot
during preseason workouts and is
now expected to be out three to
five months. '
Next up is sophomore Rebecca
Lyttle, who is also coming off an
ACL injury. Lyttle didn't play last
season, and her production is an
unknown for this team. In her
sophomore year of high school,
Lyttle helped lead her team to the
state finals averaging 13 points,
eight rebounds and 3.5 assists per
game. After her sophomore sea-
son, Lyttle struggled with inju-
ries, something that's followed
her to college.
While junior walk-on Nicole
Flyer is new to the team, she's not

new to Michigan athletics. The
first-year forward spent her first
two years as a Wolverine on the
rowing team, but when Barnes
Arico assessed her team's size
problems, she had her coach-
es find a Michigan athlete tall
enough to play forward. While
Flyer fit the bill, her role on the
team is still up in the air, as her
game experience is very limited.
Centers
If the Wolverines are thin at
forward, then they're virtually
non-existent at center. Michigan
sports two center/forwards, who
are both coming off ACL injuries.
Senior Val Driscoll last saw
action during her sophomore year

when she averaged one point and
0.7 rebounds per contest. Like
the rest of the team, Driscoll is an
unknown, but Barnes Arico says
the senior is in the best shape of
her life and has shed 30 seconds
off her mile time.
The Wolverines also have
fifth-year senior Kendra Seto.
The Ontario native transferred to
Michigan after her freshman year
at Vermont and sat out her sopho-
more year due to transfer rules. In
her junior season, Seto played 27
games for the Wolverines, averag-
ing 1.5 points and 1.4 rebounds in
8.3 minutes per game. After sit-
ting out last season with an ACL
tear, Seto should see significant
playing time with a relatively
undersized team.

CONFER ENCE PR EVIE W
In Big Ten, gap between haves,
have-nots is bigger than ever

1

By LEV FACHER to make, but the Lady Lions are
Daily Sports Writer in fantastic shape compared to
many of the conference's better
In the early going, the race to teams from last year that have
the top of the Big Ten women's been decimated by graduation,
basketball standings looks to play particularly Michigan and Ohio
out just like it did last season. The State.
difference, though, is that the After missing out on the
number of middle-of-the-pack NCAA Tournament last year -
teams that separate the contend- which cost then-coach Jim Fos-
ers from the rest of the confer- ter his job - Ohio State also looks
ence might shrink drastically, if to play a role in the Big Ten race.
any remain at all. The Buckeyes handed the reigns
Three of the usual suspects - to Kevin McGuff, who compiled
Penn State, Michigan State and a 213-73 record in nine years at
Ohio State - find themselves Xavier before spending two years
popular picks to contend for a at Washington.
conference championship, while Ohio State was predicted to
2012-13 regular-season runner- finish third in the women's pre-
up Nebraska and Purdue, winner season media poll, but its success
of the last two Big Ten Tourna- will be contingent upon senior
ments, are receiving preseason guard Tayler Hill's ability to rec-
attention as well. reate her 2012-13 campaign, in
The conference's preseason which she averaged 21.1 points
coaches and media poll anointed per game and accounted for
Nebraska as the favorite to win almost one-third of the team's
the conference, much to the sur- total scoring.
prise of someone who knows bet- "(She was) one of the most pro-
ter than anyone else exactly how lific scorers in the history of our
good the Cornhuskers are. program," McGuff said. "We're
"I didn't pick us to win the Big still evolving."
Ten," said Nebraska coach Con- As a native Ohioan, McGuff is
nie Yori. "I don't know why any- well aware of the significance of
one else did." the Michigan-Ohio State rivalry,
But Yori's modesty doesn't but the Buckeyes could struggle
take away from the fact that without Hill, and the Wolverines
the Cornhuskers have many of have a lot of work to do in order
the necessary pieces in place to be as successful as they were
to build on their second-place last year, when Michigan entered
finish last year. Leading scorer the NCAA Tournament as a No.
Jordan Hooper is back, as is for- 8 seed.
ward Emily Cady, who averaged The Wolverines are looking
7.9 rebounds per game. Gone is to make the NCAA Tournament
guard Lyndsey Moore, who now field for the third year in a row
plays for the WNBA's Minne- but will need to fill the void left
sota Lynx, but despite the loss, by Jenny Ryan, who averaged
Nebraska still comes into the 10.2 points and 5.2 assists last
season as one of the conference's year and was a consistent force
most experienced squads. on both sides of the ball. The
But the Cornhuskers aren't Wolverines return less than 10
the only team returning the percent of their scoring, but that
backbone of their offense. Penn doesn't mean there isn't talent.
State's Maggie Lucas, the Big Already, three guards - sopho-
Ten Preseason Player of the Year, more Madison Ristovsky, fresh-
will be back for her senior season man Siera Thompson and junior
after averaging 20.1 points and Shannon Smith - have shown
leading the conference in 3-point that they can put up big scoring
accuracy, converting on 46.2 per- numbers for the Wolverines. Size
cent of her attempts. and defense will be concerns, but
But Lucas will have to adapt Michigan is certainly capable of
to life without Alex Bentley, a pulling off a few upsets.
three-time first-team All-Big Ten Barnes Arico expects to rotate
selection, meaning that she'll her starting lineup frequently
have to play the point more often. based on how players have been
Penn State has some adjustments performing recently, an opportu-

nity afforded to her thanks to the
lack of established starters from
last season.
"With a young team, it's
important for us to reward who
is practicing well," Barnes Arico
said. "We're trying to develop a
culture of consistency. ... If that
mean's we're going to switch it
up every game this year, I think
that's something we should do."
Besides, having such a young
and largely inexperienced team
has its silver lining - as of now,
there isn't much to go on when
it comes to preparing for Michi-
gan. Despite that, some coaches
still feel that they know what to
expect.
"One of the things that Kim
(Barnes Arico) does well is that
she has a specific style of play,"
McGuff said. "Even though the
players willbe different, the style
will be the same. They'll be up-
tempo, press.... We'll still have to
be extremely well-prepared."
Michigan State is looking to
make waves aswellbehind senior
guard Klarissa Bell, an East Lan-
sing native who did it all last
year, averaging 10.5 points, 6.1
rebounds and 1.0 steals per game.
But the Spartans, too, lost a key
contributor in Jasmine Thomas,
who averaged 10.3 points and 5.3
boards per game. But Thomas's
absence might open the door for
Bell to take more shots, and with
the Spartans' balanced offen-
sive attack (last year, five players
averaged between 9.1 and 10.5
points per game) it's entirely pos-
sible that the scoring gap will be
replaced and then some in the
aggregate.
The media and coaches' pre-
diction of Nebraska at the top is
a reasonable one, but whether
there's any substantial separa-
tion between the Cornhusk-
ers and the rest of the league's
upper-echelon teams remains to
be seen. Michigan State and Penn
State are both more than capable
of winningthe conference, while
Purdue, despite mediocre regu-
lar-season performances in the
last two years, is still the back-to-
back Big Ten Tournament cham-
pion. Wisconsin is viewed as a
sleeper, and a new coach might
be all it takes to push a talented
Ohio State team into the tourna-
ment.

The Power

of Play

Duncan J. Billing, LLB
Executive Vice President and
Chief Development Officer
Hasbro, Inc.

Reservations required: http://chear.org/meister-lecture

Sponsored by
The Child Health Evaluation and Research (CHEAR) Unit, a collaboration of the Schools of Business,
Dentistry, Information, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health, Public Policy and Social Work


6A - Thursday, November 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Thursday, November 7, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Iowa stuns Michigan
in Big Ten Tournament

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Freshman goalie Zach Nagelvoort and sophomore Steve Racine could split time in net for the Michigan hockey team.
With two options at goalie,
Berenson has a oo problem

By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
The last time Michigan coach
Red Berenson had two goalten-
ders share the starting job doesn't
seem so long ago. Leading up to
the Big Chill at the Big House in
December 2010, Bryan Hogan and
Shawn Hunwick split time for the
majority of the fall schedule.
During warm-ups, Hogan
tweaked his groin, less than an
hour before he was expected to
start. Hunwick got the opportuni-
ty to come in and contribute, and
his 5-0 shutout victory over Mich-
igan State was enough to make
him the starter until he graduated
the following year.
Fast-forward three years, and
djavu kicks in for Berenson.
Freshman goaltender Zach
Nagelvoort stepped in for the
injured Steve Racine on Oct. 18 at
New Hampshire and has made his
case for the starting job ever since.
"We might end up being a two-
goalie team, and we might not,"
Berenson said. "If they both play
as well as they have played, then
they'll both play."
Boasting the nation's sec-
ond-best goals-against average
(1.47) and save percentage (.948),
Nagelvoort was awarded Big Ten
Second Star of the Week for his
performance in a sweep of Michi-
gan Tech. It marked the second

consecutive week -with such rec-
ognition after earning Third Star
honors on Oct. 29.
Berenson has been pleasantly
surprised with Nagelvoort's per-
formance thus far. He knew he
recruited a good goaltender, but
there was some uncertainty after
Racine was sidelined with the
groin injury nearly a month ago.
"I didn't know what to expect,"
Berenson said. "He didn't come in
with the momentum because he
had been on two or three different
teams last year."
Nagelvoort bounced around
between several North Ameri-
can Hockey League teams before
coming to Michigan, and he's been
forced to work his way to the top
for a while now.
"I never got to play in the top
leagues," Nagelvoort said. "Pretty
much my whole career has been,
not so much playing from behind,
but being the underdog. Com-
ing into a big program, that's the
opposite. I'm still kind of pushing
from behind, and I have to make a
name for myself."
Since entering the crease at
New Hampshire, Nagelvoort has
become more consistent and more
confident in his abilities as the
Michigan backstop. He's won four
of his first five starts, and all those
games were decided by one goal.
While many goaltenders have
the tendency to stay loose in prac-

tice but tense up when the game
comes around, Nagelvoort rarely
falls into that category. His team-
mates have mentioned that he
always tries to make practice fun
by throwing pucks back at them
to make sure everyone knows the
puck didn't hit the back of the net.
He's a talker, loves to play the puck
and can be heard from the fifth
floor of Yost Ice Arena, dishing out
advice for his defensemen.
"There's two ways you can look
at it," Nagelvoort said. "You can go
at it and be nervous and that kind
of thing, or you can just go out and
have fun, and that's what I try to
do."
Berenson and the rest of the
coaching staff have taken note,
too.
"He's not only added confidence
in his own mind, but he's added
confidence from his teammates
and his coaches," Berenson said.
"I think that makes the game bet-
ter for everyone. When you're not
worried about your goalie, you're
just playing your game."
Having two goaltenders capa-
ble of leading the No. 2 team in the
country is hardly a controversy,
dilemma or any other word with
a negative connotation. If history
repeats itself, the Wolverines are
in good shape. Last time Michigan
featured two starting goaltenders,
it played in the national champi-
onship.

By JAKE LOURIM
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's soccer
team made plans to be in Cham-
paign all week for the Big Ten
Tournament, along with fellow
Big Ten powers Penn State and
Nebraska.
But Iowa
had other IOWA 1
plans and MICHIGAN 0
sent the
Wolverines packing.
No. 7 seed Iowa (S-S-u Big
Ten, 14-5-1 overall) scored mid-
way through the second half and
shocked No. 2 seed Michigan
(9-1-1, 15-3-1), 1-0, in the quarter-
finals Wednesday.
Hawkeye forward Bri Toelle
scored off her own rebound in
the 62nd minute. Michigan coach
Greg Ryan thought he saw a
handball on the rebound, but the
referee let play proceed. Toelle's
rebound was the fourth Iowa shot
in a 10-minute span.
After that, the Hawkeyes
pulled back their defense and
held on, avenging a 2-1 Michigan
win Sept. 21. The seventh-ranked
Wolverines started generating
more chances in the second half,
but by that time, they were play-
ing into the wind. They ended
up with only three of 16 shots on
goal.
"This is a game of chances,"
Ryan said. "I remember them
having one good chance the
entire day, but that's the one
that counts. Today, we didn't put
our chances away. We had good

chances, but we passed up on tak-
ing those chances."
While Ryan was pleased with
his team's chances in the sec-
ond half, he still didn't have an
answer for why Michigan started
so slow.
Ryan estimated Michigan had
possession for 70 percent of the
first half but couldn't manage a
shot on goal.
"Every single player and
(member of our) staff is disap-
pointed," said senior defender
Shelina Zadorsky. "It's hard to
say, but we underachieved in this
tournament. We're absolutely
disappointed, but we're going to
have to move on.... But it is hard,
especially for the seniors who
wanted a Big Ten championship."
Freshman forward Madisson
Lewis had an open shot from
12 yards out in the first half but
missed wide. She later tried
crossing it to open sophomore
midfielder Christina Ordonez in
the box but couldn't connect.
Ryan refused to attribute Lew-
is's mistakes to her youth.
"I don't think so - everybody
misses chances," Ryan said.
"Madi has matured so much over
the year, I don't consider her a
freshman player anymore."
In the second half, senior mid-
fielder Tori McCombs slipped
behind the defense but couldn't
pull the trigger on a shot in time.
The Wolverines later had two
shots deflected off the wall of the
defense on set pieces.
Because of the threat of
inclement weather, host Illinois

moved the game from the home
grass stadium to two recreation
turf fields. Penn State beat Wis-
consin to punch its ticket to the
semifinals on the field next to the
Wolverines.
Now, Michigan is stuck head-
ing home Wednesday night. It
also likely lost two NCAA Tour-
nament home games and squan-
dered chances for rematches with
Penn State and regular-season
champion Nebraska.
But Ryan downplayed the dis-
appointment.
"Believe me, we never look
forward to a rematch with Penn
State," Ryan said. "We like play-
ing each other because it's a chal-
lenge, but it's a hard game for both
teams. Once a year is enough."
As for the potential title game
against Nebraska, to prove Mich-
igan is better than the regular-
season champion?
"But we are better than
Nebraska," Ryan said. "We beat
them on their home field.
"This wasn't our last game.
If this was our last game, I'd be
sick."
His team will have nine days
off before its next game, the lon-
gest break since the preseason. It
also emerged healthy, while Penn
State and Nebraska could have @
two more games this weekend.
Zadorsky, however, didn'thave
such an easy time moving on.
"I think that's a smart coach
to think like that," she said. "It's
hard for the players to think like
that yet because it's so fresh. We
weren't ready to be done here."

LIKE US ON FACEBOOK!.

0

WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/MICHIGANDAILY

.0

Illinois comes from
Email:dailydisplay@gmail.com beh to
CCall: #73-41-4"' be ind fell Blhue


RELEASE DATE- Thursday, November 7, 2013I
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzleu
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 386aBnst 48 Butler ottfition
1 Holpwooddspecial 1 Nut sed in Asian 37 Illici t 4Ornamental pond ! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
effects, briefly cooking 38 Google goals fish ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
4 Did, but doesn't 2 Novelist 39 Minn. neighbor 51 Draws the short ! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
now Graham 40 Scale notes straw, say
10 1970s-'80s 3 Overrun 43 Hit the road 53 Justice Kagan !! 715/721 CHURCH - CENTRAL
sketch comedy 4 Arm bone-related 45 Like many a John 55 Lasting mark CAMPUS!! Available Fall 2014, 1&2
show 5 Lawn maker Cage 57 Lots of ozs. bedroom apartments. Just one block
14 "Prince Valiant" 6 Celebration composition 58 Keogh plan kin from South University, near the b-
prince time 46 Largest of New 59 Ottoman school. Large bedrooms/living rooms.
15 Brian McKnight/ 7 Fall on _ ears York's Finger dignitary Freeheat/water/parking! 1 bedroom
Vanessa 8 Choice piece Lakes 60 Sci-fi sidekick, starting at $805, 2 bedroom starting at
Williams duet 9 Singer K.T. 47Comely often $1445. www.churchstreetrentals.com
withtheline"It 10Judgedwith ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: 734-320-1244. cimgtllc@yahoo.com
conquers all" 'up"
16 Chainwittacks 11Waters off P A C K L E A R S1 I K H S **4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
17 Wine enthusiast's Taiwan A L 0 U A L O E I S I A H home. Near B-School. Off-street park-
list of killer reds? 12 Cargo unit L A R D V I R G I N M A R Y ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
20 1_ Spmphony": 13Cheneyand A M A Z E T A M E S 511 5. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, 1 bath,
Bupremes it Biden: Ahbr. L P 1 .DVSO eros ah
21 Hoover 18 Lostone's I C A L A W P U parking, laundry, $1900/month. Avail
underlings temper E S S G RN C Y B O R Fall 2014. dklemptner@comcast.net
22 Stands thetest ot19 Sumac ofPeru GERU 0NDI E L A L
tsie s 23Glimpse A P P L E B R O W N BETTY CENTRAL CAMPUS LARGE
25 Out to lunch, so 24_-Pei I R A E E M A I LIS anSmall Houses
to speak 26 Golfer Johnson D O R E M I R N A P I T www.CappoManagement.com
8Shed tears 27Antbered animal A D D E P I C FA T A THE 2ND FLOOR
29 Kaput 31 Neighbhr of Kobe F R A N Z I 0 N 0O EWLsryAatmns
31 Mineo of film and Kyoto 8EC C 0 BIDIECA L 8 A M A NEW Luxury Apartments,.
32 Barcelona bar 33 Mule parent Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
b4s 34'Sammythe 0 K A P I 0 C L A A M E N Apartments come mitt athe BEST
34 Dustpartcle Seal" autbor Haff TERSE5 C S H I P H A R T Service, Amenities and All a1
36 Wine enthusiast's 35 Cat burglar xwordeditor@aol.com 11/07/13 REASONABLE RATES
'That's how it 1 2 3 4a 7 o e r 10 11 12 13 www.The2ndFloorSU.com
goes"? UNIVERSITY TOWERS
401 Bankrolls 14 is 1sNOW TAKING RESERVATIONS0
41 Man-t oy 119ent a FULL 2 bedroom / FREE
address HEAT as low as $1629.00. Great Loca-
42 Feet ill 20 21 tion, Great Service and Great RATES!!
2www.niversitytower-mi.coma
44 Stinging inet 00 00 05 05 2007 ao u734-761-2680
48 Effervesce, as 734-
some wine 2s 29 30 31
52 Helter-- 2 3 a aE
54 "Uh-oh"
56 Sierra _: s s7 s us
Freetown's
57 Wine enthusiast's 4 4 045 a
philosophy? 42 4as44as 4 4 TH ESIS EDITING. LANGUJAGE,
61 Champagne 4 49 so 51 0 2 s 7organzation, format. All Disciplines.
2boicee 734/996-0566 or wrteon@iserv.net
62 Flrstnovel in 54 55un no
Christopher s7 58 ssC TRAVEL
Paolini'ss
Inheritance Cycle or 62 s
63 Take steps
64 Eggs sprinkling 4 00 _s
65 Levels of society
66 _ down the law By Andrea Carla Michaels and GregoryCameron 11/07/13 WANTED TO BUY: 2 Ohio State vs.
(c)2013 Tribune Content Agency, LL Mich. FB tix. Call Dave 614-761-7653.

C-IBSP.
CARRIAGE HOUSE APT.
2 Bedroom Apartments, 1.5 Baths
Price: $2,600 per month
Contact: 734-741-9300
Email: cmb@cmbmgmt.com
Link: cribspot.com/listing/959
GEDDES HILL APT.
1 Bedroom Apartment, 1 Bath
Price: $1,650 per month
Contact: 734-741-9300
Email: cmb@cmbmgmt.com
Link: cribspot.com/listing/964
ZARAGON PLACE 619 E University
4 Bedroom Apartments; 2 Baths
Price: $1,125 per month
Features: Wshr/dryer in uit, fully fur-
nished, wifi, 43" flat screen tv included
Contact: 734-786-3890
Link: cribspot.com/listing/2860
H ELP WANTED
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS IN A2
@ Bigalora. Family restaurant special-
izing inNeapolitan Pizza & fresh Ita-
lian fare. Hiring: line cooks, prep cooks,
dishwashers, hostesses, bartenders,
managers, servers, bussers. Apply at
3050 Washtenaw,A2, 48104 oteen
1lOam-2pm. Opening Day Nov 8, 2013
LOCAL ANN ARBOR Restaurant
seeking HANAGERIAL help. Please
send resume to P.O. Box 468 Chelsea,
MI 48118
NORTHERN MICHIGAN'S PRE-
MIER co-ed summer camp is looking
for counselors for the 2014 season.
Please visit our website to learn more
about us, www.campwadenmi.com
To upply just click on "Want a job?"
WWW.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com
Paid survey takers need inA2.
t100% FREE to ioin. ClickvanSurvevs.

For the second
month in a row,
Illini come back
against Michigan
By WILL HANSELMAN
For the Daily
The Wolverines haven't quite
figured out how to close out that
pesky team from Champaign.
After striding out to a two-set lead
in the match, winning the first
and second frames by comfortable
margins of seven and eight points,
respectively, the Wolverines let
the Illini fight back and win for
the second MICHIGAN 2
time this ILLINOIS 3
season. This
defeat might hurt a little more
than the 3-2 loss at Cliff Keen
Arena on Oct. 5 when the Wolver-
ines relinquished a 2-1 lead.
Michigan (5-8 Big Ten, 15-9
overall) came out of the gates
strongly at Huff Hall in Cham-
paign, with senior middle blocker
Jennifer Cross leading the way.
Through the first two sets, she
had eight kills with no errors and
a .667 hit percentage, helping the
Wolverines cruise through the
first part of the match. She fin-
ished with 14 kills, but the Illini
took over from there.
While Cross had a strong start
for Michigan, the most important
player on the court was senior
outside hitter Lexi Erwin, an All-
American hopeful, who finished
with 20 kills and two aces.
Illinois (7-6, 11-12) must have
had a serious talking-to at the
break before the third set, as it
was penalized for coming out of
its locker room late and started off
the third set down, 1-0. However,
whatever Illinois coach Kevin

Hambley said must have gotten
through to his players, as Illinois
raced out to win six of the first
seven points of the third game.
The Illini wouldn't look back.
A key piece in the momentum
shift was Liz McMahon. McMa-
hon, a childhood teammate and
friend of Michigan setter Lexi
Dannemiller, finished with 15 kills
for the Illini and just as impor-
tantly, got Illinois back into the
matchin the third game.
Illinois looked like an entirely
different team after the break,
winning the next three sets by
no less than four points in each.
McMahon, Morganne Criswell
and Jocelyn Birks combined for 56
kills to lead the Illini to victory.
Michigan finished the match
disappointingly with an abysmal
.049 and .136 hit percentage in the
fourth and fifth games, respec-
tively.
Illinois fans, labeled the Spike
Squad and known as the best stu-
dent section in the country, helped
boost their home team. Cheering
loudly for the entirety of the game
while clad in orange, the crowd
made communication and serving
extremely difficult for the Wol-
verines. They also stomped and
celebrated whenever Illinois gave
them something to cheer for.
"(Illinois) changed, and that
happens in a match," said Michi-
gan coach Mark Rosen. "What I'm
disappointed in is that we didn't
adjust.
"We didn't find a way to raise
our level and I think we got deflat-
ed. You can't get deflated in this
conference against a level of team
like Illinois."
@TheBlockM


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, November 7, 2013 - 7A

Quick to talk, quicker m
i space on the field

By ZACH HELFAND trip. That left an impression.
Daily Sports Editor "I didn't play much, but, just
being there, Michigan fans
The running back took the are nasty, man," he said to the
handoff out of the shotgun snap Omaha World-Herald. "They're
and raced to the left. A charging ruthless.
safety sealed the edge, so he cut "Honestly, I'm not a big fan of
right, the move subtle and explo- Michigan," he continued. "Noth-
sive. His body moved weight- ing would make me happier than
lessly, but he had separated yards to go up there and shut them up."
from the defender. The second Michigan mostly let the com-
safety lunged and dove, but the ment alone, at least publically.
ball carrier hopped back left, legs Mostly, the team praised his abil-
pumping like pistons. ity.
Escaping the attempt, Ameer Michigan coach Brady Hoke
Abdullah was in the open field said Abdullah was a special ath-
now, racing toward the pylon. lete. Junior defensive end Frank
Abdullah, Nebraska's budding Clark said he is the best back
star at running back, has spent a Michigan will see this year "by
lot of time there this season. far," but said the talk is just talk.
In eight "He can
games, Abdul- talk all he
lah already wants," Clark
has 1,108 yards "Nothing said. "A lot of
on the ground people do a
and averages would make me lot of talking
seven yards but can't back
per carry. Both happier than to... it up at the
figures rank end of the day.
first in the Big shut them Up." And we're just
Ten and sixth gonna. go out
in the nation. there and play
He's also the our game."
Cornhuskers' most potent offen- With the ball in his hands,
sive weapon, and this week espe- Clark said Abdullah is small,
cially, the key for the Michigan but he can burst through holes
defense. and lower his shoulder through
"All I know is he's really, really contact when needed. In real-
good," said Michigan defensive ity, Abdullah is 5-foot-9 and 190
coordinatorGregMattison. "He's pounds - undersized but still
fast. He breaks tackles. He's a only one inch and 10 pounds
really good athlete. He steps over less than Michigan's running
people. He could be one of the back, fifth-year senior Fitzger-
best running backs we've gone ald Toussaint. But Abdullah runs
up against. In my opinion, he can with such a feathery quickness
do it all." that he often looks smaller. He
This week, that includes talk- flits through holes with a twitch.
ing. Abdullah, a junior, picked In the open field, he has the
up 101 yards and a touchdown vision and agility to extend
last year against Michigan. As runs and the strength to break
a freshman, he didn't see much through arm tackles.
action when Nebraska came to Abdullah emerged as a sopho-
Ann Arbor, but he did make the more with 1,137 yards, but his

Nebraska running back Ameer Abdul-
lah is the Big Ten's leading rusher.
junior campaign has made him
the best back in the confer-
ence through two-plus months.
Abdullah has rushed for more
than 100yards in every game this
year except for a loss to UCLA.
He had 98 in that game. Against
Illinois, he went off for 225 yards
on 20 carries.
Nebraska will rely on that pro-
ductionon Saturday.Inlastyear's
game against the Cornhuskers,
Denard Robinson was knocked
out with an injury, and Michigan
lost 23-9. This time, Nebraska's
quarterback, Taylor Martinez,
will be out with a litany of inju-
ries. That puts the pressure on
redshirt freshman quarterback
Tommy Armstrong Jr., who is
expected to start (though Ron
Kellogg III replaced Armstrong
against Northwestern last week).
Borges said Armstrong runs
the same offense as Martinez.
Michigan ranks toward the top
of the Big Ten in rush defense,
but it hasn't faced a talent like
Abdullah thus far.
Allow him one twitch, and
he'll find open field. And that will
talk louder than anything he's
said this week.

Irvin hunts playing
time as spot-up shooter

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
Without even looking down,
Zak Irvin back-stepped from
inside the arc in the corner, hands
extended over his head. Mean-
while, sophomore guard Caris
LeVert pounded a hesitation drib-
ble on the left side to get into the
lane, and the Wayne State zone
defense descended on him, leav-
ing Irvin open. After a hop step,
LeVert fired a chest pass to the
corner. With his left foot planted,
Irvin drew the right foot in and
lifted, dropping in a 3-pointer in
the first half of Tuesday's exhibi-
tion win against Wayne State.
A minute earlier, the same
sequence revealed itself. This
time, it was sophomore guard
Nik Stauskas drawing attention
from the left, and Irvin was on
the opposite wing rather than the
corner. No matter - same pass,
same step, same release and same
result.
Two possessions after the cor-
ner 3-pointer, LeVert found him-
self driving once again on the left
side. The Warrior double-team
swarmed him, and he snapped
an overhead pass to Irvin, now
on the left key. With more time
to collect himself, Irvin took an
extra step, left then right, to get in
rhythm and made the shot.
That would be his third
straight 3-pointer, underscoring
a 13-point night on 5-for-8 shoot-
ing for the 6-foot-6 freshman for-
ward in the 79-60 victory.
But more important than
helping to rout an overmatched
Division II opponent, Irvin's per-
formance showed how he can
fill a role in Michigan's dynamic
offense: spot-up shooter.
"Whether he's spotting up in
the corner or whether he's on
the wing or out front, if he stands
there, people will find him," said
Michigan coach John Beilein.
Watch his highlight tape and
you'll see Irvin in high school and
AAU creating for himself, fin-
ishing around the rim, and also

TERRAMOLENGRAFF/Daily
Freshman guard ZaklIrvinis carving a niche as a shooter amid a logjam at the wing.

knocking down the jump shot in
rhythm.
There's a good chance that the
last skill will bringthe most value
to the Wolverines this season.
"That's definitely something
I've been working on, where I'm
able to get the ball quickly and
(be able to put it) in the bucket,"
Irvin said.
With a logjam of talent on the
wing, Irvin may not have a lot of
creative freedom with the ball in
his hands, so he can rely on the
catch-and-release jump shot to
convince Beilein to put him on
the floor.
When and where Irvin will
play will hinge on the lineup
Beilein opts for on a given night
or in a given game situation. In
the preseason, Beilein has started
two big men in the frontcourt in
fifth-year senior Jordan Morgan
and redshirt junior Jon Hor-
ford. He'll concoct a new lineup
when sophomore forward Mitch
McGary is healthy enough to
return to the floor. If that new
lineup retains either Horford or
Morgan, it will be more difficult
for Irvin to see the floor, with
four wings and perhaps even a
second point guard vying for two

positions on the floor.
Sophomores LeVert, Staus-
kas and Glenn Robinson III will
dominate the minutes at the "2"
and "3" positions, penetrating
the lane and needing consistent
shooting on the perimeter to keep
defenses honest.
When Beilein opts for a small-
er five, Irvin has played the "4,"
a similar role to Evan Smotrycz
two years ago, wielding a quick
release from range and the ability
to slash to the rim, but with more
strength and athleticism.
Rather than look to a player
two inches taller than Irvin in
the 6-foot-8 Smotrycz, Beilein
compared Irvin to another recent
"4," one two inches shorter than
Irvin.
"Just having that one extra
shooter - a little bit like when we
would play small and have (Zack)
Novak out there, it's that one
extra shooter out there who can
really impact an offense," Beilein
said.
Split the difference in height,
and you get a guy with the same
first name as Novak with the laid-
back demeanor and quiet confi-
dence of Smotrycz, a neo-Beilein
dynamic offensive threat.


8A - Thursday, November 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

ASKET BALL 2013PREVIEW
For transfer Smith, journey is a family thing

Shar
He had
from ac
Befo
non, n4
on the
ketball
in Ath
acrossi
feeling
Athens
home
TexasI
Dallas1
The
was in
prides
hills ar
test si
nity Co
The
at Trir
college
its nam
women
sion 11(
Now
contem
after
sure sh
had co
ing the
careerl
Yet
it. The

By MAX COHEN willing to wait, believing her dif- shot
Daily Sports Writer ferences with the coaching staff pare
were irreconcilable. North Caro- then
nnon Smith had a visitor. lina declined comment for this K
just gotten off of his plane story through a spokesperson. coac
cross the country. After the season, she decided he p
re the guest arrived, Shan- she would be leaving North Caro- unif
ow a newly added transfer lina. ers,
Michigan women's bas- Looking back, Shannon knows wou
team, found herself alone she needed to become more beta
ens, Texas, a small town mature to be able to handle set- insic
the country from her home, backs, but at the time, she felt like M
defeated. Not only was all she needed was a new oppor- incl
far away from Shannon's tunity. takir
and family, but the East Shannon and her parents did beco
town 75 miles southeast of their due diligence in the transfer Pistc
had little Shannon enjoyed. process. Their process led them later
re was one reason Shannon back to Michigan assistant coach In
Athens. In the town that Chester Nichols, who had recruit- him,
itself on its lush, rolling ed Shannon as an eighth grader Lan$
nd its annual fiddling con- when he was an assistant at West with
is Trinity Valley Commu- Virginia. Nichols had just joined Vita
llege. Michigan as an assistantcas part of Detr
women's basketball team new Michigan coach Kim Barnes elite
nity Valley bore six junior Arico's coaching staff. Shannon trad
national championships to wanted to join them at Michigan. of hi
se. It was a haven for young It looked as though everything close
looking to rise to the Divi- would turn out perfectly. Shan- play
evel. non would get to complete her eli- havi
, Shannon sat in Athens gibility with coaches she liked at a Inst
aplating her future. Days school she wanted to go to. Vita
arriving, Shannon wasn't But Michigan didn't have the ning
he wanted to be there. She scholarship availability for Shan- W
me to play basketball dur- non to come right in and play. dissi
2012-13 season, to get her Either she could go play at a junior cry.
back on track. college for a year, or transfer to a
Shannon wanted none of different four-year school and sit
environment was nothing out for a year before continuing

, this defeat was little com-
d to what Kevin would feel in
months to come.
evin sobbed in Detroit Mercy
h Dick Vitale's office before
layed a minute in the Titan
orm. Surrounded by his play-
Vitale announced that he
ild be retiring from coaching
use of ulcers that plagued the
de of his mouth.
Many on the team, Kevin
uded, believed Vitale was
ng time off so that he could
'me the coach of the Detroit
ons, which he did one year
. They smelled betrayal.
less time than it had taken
to dribble upthe court against
sing Everett, Kevin's future
the program had evaporated.
le was the reason he came to
oit. Kevin held offers from
programs with decades of
ition during his senior year
igh school. He had come very
e to attending Michigan, to
in a big program known for.
ng winning expectations.
ead, he decided to play for
le and help forge a new win-
expectation.
rith Vitale gone and a dream
ipated, all Kevin could do was


like she was used to. There were her Division I career. Thirty-five years later, Kevin
curfew rules that were foreign to At first, Shannon was skeptical got off his flight to Texas and
her, and Athens didn't excite her of taking the junior college route. went straight to Athens to speak
in the least. The closest mall was "I was really against it at first, to his daughter. She was contem-
an hour away. I did not want to do that at all," plating quitting basketball, but he
Shannon had faced enough Shannon said. thought he could show her what
obstacles to this point. These new Now Shannon had made her was best.
ones tested her limits. She told decision, but among Athens' roll- "A parent only wants their,
Trinity Valley coach Elena Lovato ing hills and isolation, she won- child to be happy," Kevin said. "I
that she was considering quitting dered where she had gone wrong. knew my daughter wasn't happy."
the sport, so Lovato offered to And she asked herself: should I Once he arrived in Athens, he
give her four days off. She could give up the sport? reminded her of how much she
get away from the game, some- loved basketball, how much the
thing she hadn't had the opportu- *** game had meant to her through-
nity to do in years. out her whole life. He told her she
Once an elite recruit headed Thirty-five years earlier, Kevin needed to grow up to be the best
to her home state's school, North Smith broke down and cried. person she could be. He told her
Carolina, after a star career at The young man who had given she was staying at Trinity Valley
Gastonia Forestview High School, Earvin "Magic" Johnson a run for the year, whether she played
Shannon never thought she'd end for his money just months earlier basketball or not.
up here. Basketball had become in a Class A 1977 Michigan high- "He is harder on me than any-
complicated for the 2010 Miss school state championship game one I know," Shannon said. "He
Basketball in North Carolina. for the ages had nothing left. He doesn't care if it hurts my feelings.
When she committed to the Tar felt betrayed. He's always been supportive. He
Heels, Shannon's future seemed Kevin had never been scared pushes me to be great, even if I
bright in Chapel Hill. of defeat. With three seconds left don't want to hear it."
"I love their campus and, of in regulation in that game against - Kevin knew that Shannon
course, their coaching staff and Johnson and Lansing Everett couldn't stop playing. In his own
players," she told ESPN. "We had High School with his Birming- career, he had felt the hardship of
chemistry from the beginning." ham Brother Rice team down by transferring.
Shannon's early chemistry with two points, Kevin stared defeat in After the meeting in Vitale's
the Tar Heel coaching staff was the eyes and whisked it away with office, Kevin knew that Detroit
short-lived. She felt as though, no cool confidence. was not his future, yet he could
matter how hard she worked off Defeat didn't scare Kevin as he not fully make it his past. He knew
the court, she wasn't getting the caught the inbound pass, slipped he had to play out the season, and
playing time she deserved on it. by his defender and hoisted the he did, battling through a fresh-
After redshirting her first year in game-tying shot from just steps man season that was not played
2010-11 because of lingering ill- in front of the block 'M' at half under the circumstances he imag-
ness, her redshirt freshman year court. Defeat wasn't an option ined when he committed.
seemed like a constant struggle when the shot glanced off the "I knew that I would still have
for playing time. backboard squarely in the middle options, so I just worked hard
She was assured that if she of the box before gracefully drop- that year and made freshman All-
worked harder, the playing time ping through the cylinder. Defeat American," Kevin said.
would come. Yet her playing time didn't cross his mind when the Despite struggling with inju-
remained relatively stagnant, Crisler Arena crowd showered ries, he was the fourth-leading
much to her chagrin. him with adulation. scorer on that Detroit team,
Shannon was repeatedly told Though Kevin only temporar- averaging eight points per game.
that she was only a freshman, ily delayed defeat that day after Though he experienced success,
that playing time would come if Brother Rice couldn't capitalize in when the season ended he knew
she kept working hard. She wasn't overtime on the momentum of his he wanted to get out. The program
wasn't the one he committed to
with Vitale gone.
THE MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS With his future up in the air,his
presents high-school rival from the 1977
championship game convinced
Is the Financial Industry Now him where his future belonged.

Johnson suggested Kevin trans-
fer to Michigan State. Kevin was
convinced and transferred there
in fall 1978.
Kevin arrived in East Lansing
knowing he'd be limited to prac-
tice that year. He couldn't play. He
worked with the team every day
while his teammates put together
a memorable season.
"It was very difficult watching
your teammates play, knowing
you can contribute," Kevin said.
The Johnson-led Spartans
reached the pinnacle of the sport
in one of the most memorable col-
lege basketball games of all time,
winning the 1979 national cham-
pionship over Indiana State and
its star, Larry Bird.
Kevin was forced to watch
from the sidelines, itching to play
each day. After the 1979 season,
he experienced great success in
his final three years at Michigan
State, becoming a team captain
and two-time All-Big Ten player.
But no matter the success he
would later achieve, Kevin would
always remember how helpless he
felt watching his teammates com-
pete without him.
With that in mind, he knew the
worst was behind Shannon. If she
worked hard and stuck with bas-
ketball, she could achieve great
things.
Shannon's teammates pitched
in to make sure Shannon stayed
on the team. Thoughshe had lived
with them for a few days, she
had previously felt a world apart.
Many of them had been at Trinity
Valley for the summer, while she
had just arrived. They all made
one thing clear: they wanted
Shannon on their team.
Lovato echoed their messages
when she spoke to Shannon. She
cared about Shannon, and she
wanted her to succeed at Trinity
Valley.
At the end of her four days off,
Shannon told Lovato she wanted
to keep playing basketball.
Once she made her intentions
clear, Shannon was determined
to succeed at Trinity Valley. Her
mother, Ramada, would text her
about Cam Newton and made her
learn about his experiences. Shan-
non learned of Newton's mindset
while he attended Blinn College,
a junior college in Texas about an
hour drive from Athens. Newton
viewed his time at junior college
as a business trip, a philosophy
Shannon would adopt.
She did everything she could
at Trinity Valley to ensure that
she would one day be back on top,
just like Newton did when he left
junior college to win the Heisman
Trophy and a national champion-
ship at Auburn. Trinity Valley, she
decided, would just be a blip in the
road on her way to success.
Things changed once Shannon
fully committed herself to her
team's success at Trinity Valley.
Once the season started, the vic-
tories piled up on the court. Off
the court, Shannon was becoming
a new person as well. Her team-
mates became her closest friends,
or as she calls them, her family.
Time not spent in the gym was
spent with them, whether getting
dinner at Applebee's or watching
movies at Athens' lone movie the-
ater. Her business trip was a new
life experience.
"I think that's when the whole
dynamic of our group changed,

0
TRACY KO/Daily
Junior guard Shannon Smith was Miss Basketball in North Carolina, but herjour-
ney took her to a junior college before transferring to Michigan for this season.
when Shannon decided to share the Most Valuable Player of the
herself," Lovato said. tournament.
Shannon's newfound leader- "The growth she showed over
ship showed on the court. Her that one-year timespan was prob-
team didn't lose a game it played ably more than any other kid I've
(its only loss was the result of ever coached," Lovato said.
a forfeit), and Shannon went Her transformational season
through it all with a smile. at Trinity Valley was complete.
"She was the life of the locker She had gone from a girl who
room," Lovato said. "I think that struggled to deal with adversity
they really respected her because to a woman who conquered it. She
she was so talented on the floor. loved basketball again, and bas-
They looked up to her, my fresh- ketball finally loved her back.
men did." As the clock hit zero in the
While many of Shannon's pre- 83-71 victory in the champion-
vious plans didn't unfold the way ship game, Shannon Smith broke
she could've hoped, her time at down and cried.
Trinity Valley couldn'thave ended Then, she talked to Kevin and
more perfectly. Shannon led her said three words.
team to the NJCAA national "We did it."
championship game, where she
scored 14 points and dished out R Read more women's basketball
five assists before being named previews at MichiganDaily.com

STAFF PICKS
The Daily women's
basketball writers
do their best
to predict what will
happen in the world of
women's college
basketball this season.

Max
Cohen

Alexa Lev
Dettelbach Facher

Snanon
Lynch

Deutsche Bank Securites The CarlyleGroup Decision Economics
Five years since the financial crisis of autumn 2008 is a good time to
take stock of the reform of financial regulation. The Dodd-Frank Act
of 2010 enacted the most significant changes to financial regulation in
the U.S. since the Great Depression. The international standards in
Basel III, being implemented in stages, were designed to strengthen
bank capital requirements by increasing bank liquidity and decreasing
bank leverage. But have these new regulations really strengthened the
system? And how do these changes, along with unprecedented monetary
policy, affect the risk and expected return of stocks and bonds looking
ahead? A panel of distinguished experts will discuss these issues and
respond to questions from the audience.
Friday, November 8, 2013
12-1 pm, 140Lorch Hall (Askwith Auditorium)
rGA :'" I OMf .Ii

Michigan regular-season record 12-17 14-15 13-16 13-16
Big Ten champion Penn State Michigan State Nebraska Michigan State
BitTen second place Nebraska Nebraska Penn State Penn State
Big Ten third place Michigan State Penn State Michigan State Nebraska
BigTen MVP Maggie Lucas, Guard, Penn State Lucas Lucas Lucas
BgTen Coach of the Year Coquese Washington, Penn State Kevin McGuff, Ohio State Suzy Merchant, Michigan State Connie YuriNebraska
Big Ten surprise team Ohio State Wisconsin Northwestern Ohio State
Michigan MVP Shannon Smith Smith Smith Smith
National Player of the Year Chiney Ogwumike. 'Staford Ogwumike Breanna Stewart, Connecticut Ogwumike
Michigan's season ends here Big Ten Tournament BigTen Tournament Big Ten Tournament Big Ten Touamr nt
NCAA Final Four Duke California Connecticut Stanford
Connecticut Connecticut Louisville Louisville
Stanford Louisville Duke Duke
Kentucky Stanford Maryland Tennessee


"
' -

u;.
3
i'
'..Su
1'.:i

al

hat do the Whirling
Dervishes of Damas-
cus, Celia Cruz,
Ladysmith Black
Mambazo and the
KODO Drummers of
Japan have in com-
mon? Outside of being world-renowned musical
acts, this seemingly random combination of artists
has performed at Hill Auditorium with the help of
the University Musical Society. For most of UMS's
history, however, classical musicians and white
performers and composers have dominated the
program, with little room for cultural and musi-
cal diversity and nearly no community outreach.
Everything changed, though, in 1987, when Ken
Fischer came to Ann Arbor.
A deeply engrained attitude
Founded in 1879, the University Musical Society
is the one of the oldest collegiate presenters in the
country. Hosting about 60 to 75 performances per
eight-month season in three University venues,
UMS is easily the leading musical authority in Ann
Arbor, if not all of southeast Michigan.
Before Fischer's arrival, UMS was "mainly
white, mainly classical, with barely any commu-
nity outreach," said Joetta Mial, a former UMS
board member and former principal of Huron
High School. Fischer's predecessor, Gail Rector,
had strong relationships in the campus communi-
ty and with local classical musicians, but not much
else.
Fischer's mentor, Patrick Hayes, who spear-
headed the movement to desegregate the theaters
of Washington D.C., instilled in Fischer his per-
sonal and professional policy of inclusion, called
EINO: Everybody In, Nobody Out. With this in
mind, Fischer arrived in Ann Arbor in 1987 as
UMS's next president. The basis of his hiring by
the board at the time was to "get us out of debt
and to put people in seats," he said. As a result, the
first few years were tough. The board was excru-
ciatingly careful of whom it collaborated with,
and Fischer soon found himself fighting against a
deeply engrained attitude of artistic and cultural
exclusivity.
In the first year of his tenure, Fischer traveled
to conferences across the country in order to seek
advice from his contemporaries. Over a six-month
period, Fischer asked nearly 70 fellow musical
directors whom they considered to be the top
musical presenters in the United States. He then
traveled and met with more than a dozen of these
top presenters to ask one simple question: How do
you do it?
A meeting in San Francisco with Ruth Felt, the
founder of San Francisco Performances, proved

to be monumental. Instead of providing Fischer
an answer, she gave him some questions to ask of
himself and his program: "How do you define your
community? How well are you serving it? How are
you diversifying the program?" Fischer remem-
bers.
Suddenly, his entire scope changed. Fischer
understood that though UMS served the Ann
Arbor community, there was a large part of south-
east Michigan that had been ignored since the
program's founding in 1879. If UMS's goal was cul-
tural expression, Fischer realized, there was a lot
of work to do.
Communication, cooperation,
vulnerability and reciprocity
What happened next would later make up what
Fischer calls the "10 Lessons Learned in Diversify-
ing a Performing Arts Organization." In addition
to having an overarching policy that guides the
work, and learning from the experience of leaders
in the field, Fischer also listed, among other les-
sons, "starting where you are, getting out of the
tower (Burton Tower, where UMS is housed) and
into communities of shared heritage, building rela-
tionships with community leaders and practicing
Sharon King's four relationship principles to cre-
ate authentic partnerships."
King's principles - communication, coopera-
tion, vulnerability and reciprocity - are defining
characteristics of UMS's gradual diversification.
Fischer first debuted the 10 Lessons at a forum
for SphinxCon, where he was invited to speak.
Founded17 years ago by Dr. Aaron Dworkin, a Uni-
versity alum, Sphinx promotes youth development
and diversity in classical music by hosting com-
petitions for African American and Latino string
players across the country while also running edu-
cation programs and conferences.
Dworkin, who was a 2005 MacArthur Fellow
and a former member of the Obama National Arts
Policy Committee, started Sphinx as a gradu-
ate student at the University after becoming fed
up with the lack of diversity in the orchestras he
played in as a violinist. He approached Fischer,
who immediately joined the cause and helped
Dworkin launch what is now one of the premier
programs for musical diversity.
However, Fischer's biggest impact came in
the work he did directly with -UMS. In the early
'90s, Fischer said, his first instinct was simply to
bring in ethnic performers and that people would
show up. In retrospect, not only was this approach
exploitative, it was a shallow shortcut. What actu-
ally needed to happen were two of the 10 Lessons:
Get out of the tower and into the communities of
shared heritage and, later, build relationships with
communityleaders.

While King's principles of communication and
cooperation seemed easy enough, it was the latter
two, of vulnerability and reciprocity, that really
changed Fischer's attitude.
In regards to vulnerability, Fischer explained:
"What we eventually found was, the last thing the
Arab community wantedto hear was, 'I'm from the
University of Michigan, how can I help you?'What
they wanted to hear was, 'I'm from the University
of Michigan, and boy doI have a lot to learn.'"
As for reciprocity, Fisher said, "If you're build-
ing a relationship, it has to be win-win. Your part-
ner has to do at least as well if not better in what
they're gaining from the relationship."
With these ideas in mind, Fischer forayed into
establishing a relationship with the massive Arab
community in southeast Michigan, a community
that been quietly ignored by UMS for more than
100 years.
Unprecedented cooperation
Ismael Ahmed, head of the Arab Commu-
nity Center for Economic and Social Services
(ACCESS) and associate provost at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, was the perfect person for
Fischer to talk to. Beginning in 1995, after various
trips between Dearborn and Ann Arbor, Fischer
and Ahmed slowly established a working relation-
ship.
"When you reach a level of comfort, trust, you
really like each other ... then you can ask three
questions," Fischer explained. " 'What do you
want?' 'What do I want?' art 'What do we want
together from this thing?' ":
Ahmed wanted help from+UMS in performing,
promoting and simply bettering the shows that
he and his community put on, which Fischer was
happyto do. For his part, Fischer wanted to learn as
much as possible about the Arab world. As a result,
Ahmed put together a couple of what he called
"immersion days," and, true to his word, Fischer
piled all of UMS - board members and staff alike
- onto buses and down to ACCESS. There, Ahmed
taught about Arabic music, culture and geography,
while also leadingtrips to the mosque and to meals
at a variety of Arabic restaurants.
Finally, after this was done, Ahmed and Fisch-
er decided that what they needed to do together
was something they couldn't do alone and, more
importantly, something that would benefit both
communities. In June 2001, Ahmed and Fischer
submitted aproposalto afundingagencyhopingto
bring the Palestinian Oud player Simon Shaheen to
Ann Arbor for a performance and residency. Being
that Shaheen was from Palestine but had played
violin at an American conservatory, he was the
perfect fit.
See HARMONY, Page 3B


2B - Thursday, November 7, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

LETTERS FROM TH . oO
George Carlin
and the art of
stand-up comedy

NETFLIX PIX
Daily Arts Writers dig through recent
Netflix releases to find the movies
worth revisiting or discovering.

Jeff Dunham,
Lately, I've found
myself ruminating on the
art and influence of stand-up
comedy - fascinated by the
way greats
like George
Carlin could
write a come-
dic piece that
not only com-
pelled people
to laugh but
forced itself JOHN
deep into the LYNCH
consciousness
of its audi-
ence, perhaps even altering one's
perspective of life.
The impact and intrigue of
ventriloquism, however, (it seems
I'm the first to inform you) likely
reached its peak in the middle
ages, when mystified humans
considered it a form of witchcraft.
A 14th-century bloodthirsty mob
of villagers would potentially
be your most receptive demo-
graphic, though, seeing as they'd
actually pay attention to your act
before chasing you with torches
and pitchforks and would laugh at
least as seldom as a modern audi-
ence. Indeed, if stand-up is an
art form, then you are a puppet-
clutching philistine, and calling
you a comedian is a disgrace to
the life and career of someone
like George Carlin.
The only prop Carlin's act fea-
tured was his constantly evolving
and bleakly hilarious mind. His
decade-spanning career reflected
the transition of American soci-
ety through its mosttransforma-

tive er
was a1
tives,C
the col
towns
of hisr
the Su
alread
dom tt
a platf
sophic
I re
parent
VHS c
York"1
- plat
of a pe
sibilit'
doors,
new cc
sequer
illusio
of cho
elderl
angry,
topics
joke.

as. Hating the fact that he will, of course, require having
puppet of television execu- your unbearably racist terrorist
Carlin sought sanctuary in puppet ask the audience, "Why
ffee shops of 1960s college is it that most of the people who
and established the roots are against abortion are people
revolutionary act. Acid and you wouldn't want to fuck in the
mmer of Love granted his first place?" and continuing to
y rebellious mind the free- follow Carlin's routine through
D turn a stand-up stage into the mouth of the puppet for eight
orm for rapid-fire, philo- minutes straight. Your blatant
al routines. mimicry will be lauded as a con-
member witnessing my siderable artistic improvement,
ts be more attentive to a and George will continue to roll
opy of "Jammin' in New over in his grave.
than to liturgy on Sundays Despite his disgust for most
nting in my mind the seed things on earth, Carlin loved
rpetually questioning sen- life and his craft. Recently, I've
y. Carlin opened my young found that even his interviews
of perception to entirely are thought-provoking and
oncepts: humanity's incon- life-affirming. Despite a storied
ntiality in the universe, the history of drug use and trouble,
n of American freedom Carlin described how drugs are
ice and the fact that an mind-opening and construc-
y comedian could follow an tive, and that an intellectual
profound rant on worldly mind would recognize when the
with a lighthearted fart benefits of a drug had run their
course and therefore save itself
from destruction. Thankfully, his
was such a mind, and his desire to
entriloquism entertain and affect people con-
stituted an inspirational life force
went out of that kept him goinguntil the age
of 71- continually innovating
fashion in the world of comedy all the way
up to his death. As Carlin proved,
the 1300s stand-up has the potential to
move audiences and minds, so it
should never be merely moving
the mouth of a puppet.
the sake of my enter- Best,
ent and as an exercise in An Untethered Mind

0
6
6

"Ip Man: The Final Fight" "Pacific Rim"
As the remnant of a proud tradition and mas- "Pacific Rim" is one of those movies that you
ter of Bruce Lee, Ip Man still looms large in the have to watch with a group of people. It's a pop-
imaginarium of Chinese cinema. Yet another corn film in the most classic sense of the word
movie based on his storied life releases this - fiery explosions, massive monsters and even
month on Netflix called, "Ip Man: The Final bigger robots are only some of the reasons it
Fight." becomes fun, 15 minutes into the movie, to turn
Where previous imaginings focus almost your head and watch the moviegoers sitting next
entirely on his stalwart position against West- to you with their mouths agape, letting out var-
ern influence, this Ip Man takes a comfortable, ied expletives as larger-than-life fight sequences
humanistic step forward - creative interpreta- unfold before them. The story is simple: Aliens
tions notwithstanding. This movie should be invade the earth, humans respond with making
watched by Ip Man fans, if only for Anthony massive fight machines called Jaegers. It's fun,
Wong's ("Infernal Affairs") collected and quiet it's simple and above all, it's watching shit blow
portrait. up.

AT

For
tainm(

the betterment of your craft,
I challenge you to open your
next special exactly as Carlin
opened "Back In Town". This

Lynch is opening his
mind. To see what's inside,
e-mail jplyn@umich.edu


CATCH WEEKLY RECAPS OF
YOUR FAVORITE SHOWS, LIKE
"AMERICAN HORROR STORY:
COVEN," "SCANDAL" AND "THE
MINDY PROJECT."
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE+FILTER
AND IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN WRITING RECAPS,
E-MAIL ARTS@MICHIGANDAILY.COM TO REQUEST AN
APPLICATION TO BECOME A DAILY ARTS BLOGG ER.

WARNER BROS
"The Conjuring"
Not alot of scary movies come out nowadays.
It's all just smears of synthetic gore and pasty
ink-blood, but "The Conjuring" provides a sore-
ly-needed exception. The classic scares, framed
by tense, slow buildup take front and center, and
around it, there's an interesting story to keep us
hooked. From the outside, we're just looking at
a haunted house story, but where the film excels
is bringing its inhabitants to life. None of the
actors are off their game, allowing for the oth-
erwise overly melodramatic bits of interaction
flow effectively.

PARAMOUNT
"Flight"
Denzel Washington can act. He has two Oscars,
seeing his face plastered on a poster immediately
draws a crowd and when he laughs, you laugh. So
do yourself a favor and watch "Flight," recently
acquired by Netflix and now available for streaming
online. You probably won't laugh much throughout
the course of the film's 139-minute runtime, but if
one thing becomes clear, it's that Denzel can act. He
plays an airline pilot struggling with alcoholism, and
this film becomes atestament tohisinabilitytoletgo.
There's a bit of overacting, but all-in-all a good film if
you're looking for something gripping and dramatic.

TRAILER REVIEW

0

a


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

T athtb id Thursday, November 7, 2013 - 3B


1711 &1 : A* 'A : li il I l



1987 1987
2.34 million 80%/20%
2013 2013
7.5 million 47%//53%

S1987 1987
o>71,600 40
16%-33%
" "
2013 E 2013
100,000 70

FOOD COLUMN
Pull up a
chair at
Paijo

HAR
From
The
review
Sept.1
that A
oped
attack
happy
order
betwe
especi
events
Ann A
a few
and c
piece h
- inst
dedica
Unive
Thi
tion b
lished
becam
would
lar con
World
each s
by UM
more a
UMS
grams
like th
ern &
worke
contex
Fische
artists
ence to
but, m
abouta
The
Fische
to exp
actual
"If
engage
impor
to that
out as
we cou
Fische
Thi
be an.
that su
of the
For tw
to the
forged
memb
COMM
as the
was wr
Fische
"I re
in whi
munit
"An
what,

MONY remembered. "They said it with
affection and grace, but it was clear
Page lB that they had been waiting."
Around the same time, UMS
e funding agency started to received some funding to bring
the proposal just as the in a diversity consultant, Gwen
1 attacks took place. Stunned Cochran Hadden. After spending
hmed and Fischer had devel- the day sitting in on meetings and
this relationship before the getting to know the staff, Hadden
s, the agency was more than brought the UMS board together
to fund Shaheen's visit in in the Michigan Union and provid-
to promote relationships ed aroadmap for action that would
en the two communities, eventually become one of Fischer's
ally in light of the recent 10 Lessons: Start where you are.
. In 2003, Shaheen came to As Hadden explained, if Fischer
Arbor, where he stayed for took the time to look around his
months as a resident artist, own organization to see who was
ulminated his visit with a already engaged, he would be
he wrote titled "Arboresque" amazed whom he would find just
tead of Arabesque - as a waiting tobe asked.
tion to his time spent at the That's when Fischer met Leti-
rsity. tiafByrd. Byrd had been a singer in
s unprecedented coopera- the UMS choir and a loyal volun-
etween UMS and an estab- teer for years, but UMS had never
shared heritage community really paid any attention to her. As
ie a model for which UMS Fischer began to develop a rela-
continue to work with simi- tionship with Byrd, he took a trip
mmunities. The Arab Music to her house, where he discovered
Festival followed, and with that she was involved in about 30
ubsequent outreach attempt additional organizations, all of
4S, the Arab community was whichshe volunteered for.
and more responsive. Later, "Here was a woman that volun-
began reaching out to pro- teered so much time and was so
within the University itself, involved, and an organization that
he Center for Middle East- was so near and dear to her had
North African Studies, and not had any relationship with her,"
d with them to truly put into Fischer explained.
Kt exactly what UMS does. Somethingneeded tochange.
r's desire to bring in Arab In 1997, the Ann Arbor News
was not only for the audi- decided it would start a Citizen of
o experience a performance, the Year award and deservingly
more importantly, to learn gave it to Byrd. At the same time,
another culture. Byrd joined the UMS board, and
as a result her relationship with
Full-blown change Fischer grew. Everything culmi-
nated one night in Byrd's base-
very first community that ment, where a group of some of the
r thought of when he began most prominent African American
sand UMS wasn't Arab, but organizers and musicians in Ann
ly African American. Arbor and at the University joined,
I could get genuinely with Fischer, to discuss UMS and
ed in something that was diversity.
tant to them and of service Willis Patterson, the first Black
community, and give with- professor on the staff of the Uni-
sking anything back, then versity's School of Music, Theatre
uld really get things going," & Dance and a Professor Emeritus
r explained. of Music, told a story about his per-
s "something" turned out to sonal experience with UMS. He
annual fundraising dinner described how one of the greatest
ipported one of the colleges thrills of his life came from UMS,
United Negro College Fund. when he sang in the children's
to years, Fischer sold tables chorus in the 1930s in Hill Audi-
dinner, and through this he torium, accompaniedby the Phila-
his first relationships with delphia Symphony.
ers of the African American He then stated that one of the
unity. After his second year, most disappointing experiences
team behind the dinner of his life also came from UMS
rapping up its final meeting, and went on to describe the very
r spoke to the group. same event in the exact same way.
eally want to change the way Fischer was confused, until Pat-
ch we connect to your com- terson ended his story: "Reason
y," he told them. is, no one was in the audience that
d it was like, 'You know looked like me." For Patterson and
Ken? About time,' " Fisher for many of the others in Byrd's

basement, this story was a way of
relaying the unavoidable fact that,
in years past, Hill Auditorium
hasn't always been welcoming to
the Black community.
Deeply touched, Fischer asked
those in the room what to do. Byrd
introduced him to two groups of
Black women that support the arts
- the Deltas and Links Incorpo-
rated - and suggested that these
women be placed on the UMS
advisory committee, which at the
time was mostly white.
Furthermore, for subsequent
shows at Hill, Fischer had women
from the two groups stationed at
the various entrances to the audi-
torium, handing out programs and
sayingsimply, 'Nice to see you. You
are welcome here.'
These first steps soon blos-
somed into a full-blown change to
UMS's structure, and subsequent
meetings with Catherine Black-
well in 2005 established astronger
connection between UMS and the
African American communities in
Detroit.
"It was one of the most learn-
ing and exciting experiences to
be on that board and to be on
the inside," Mial remembered.
"UMS, the whole staff and
people involved in it, makes a
true effort not only to integrate
performers and the audience,
they do specific things to make
it work and happen ... they have
staff, starting with Ken (Fisch-
er), that really dig in there and
do the work to make it a more
diverse organization."
10Lessons
Today, though far from per-
fect, UMS is starting to take the
shape that Fischer envisioned
when he signed on to be presi-
dent 26 years ago. In addition
to strong relationships with
the Arab and African American
communities, Fischer has built
connections with leaders such
as Martina Guzman and Wei
Shen, who have brought their
own unique presence from their
respective Latin and Chinese
backgrounds.
The effects of Fischer's "10
Lessons" are visible today.
UMS's budget has jumped from
$2.34 million in 1987 to $7.5 mil-
lion in 2012, while the number
of volunteers has grown from
250 to 750 in the same period.
Maybe most importantly, UMS's
1987 goal of simply presenting
the performing arts has evolved
into connecting artists and audi-
ences in uncommon and engag-
ing experiences.
More, in any given season, 16

to 33 percent of UMS perform-
ers now come from Africa, Asia,
Latin America, Israel and the
Arab world. Artists as diverse
as Gilberto Gil, Doudou N'Diaye
Rose, Ravi Shankar and the
Alvin Ailey American Dance
Theater have all graced the stage
at Hill, while UMS has been con-
sistent in focusing on a variety of
influences by taking turns them-
ing certain seasons after specific
cultures.
As a result of this increased
globalization, UMS has become
one of, if not the premier pre-
senting university program, said
Lester Monts, senior vice pro-
vost for Academic Affairs, who
in addition to being University
President Mary Sue Coleman's
special advisor for undergradu-
ate education, diversity and
arts, is a longtime UMS board of
directors member who actually
played classical trumpet at Hill
Auditorium while in college.
"Some performers often say,
'I will only perform in the great
concert halls of Chicago, or New
York, Philadelphia, etc.' But with
UMS becoming a global institu-
tion and encompassing so much
musical culture, Ann Arbor has
really become a highly desirable
destination for world class per-
formers," Monts explains. "They
know that they will perform
before a very sophisticated audi-
ence in a stellar performance
venue - Hill Auditorium."
As for Fischer, his efforts
haven't gone unnoticed. Last
year, he received the 2012
Mariam C. Noland Award for
Nonprofit Leadership given by
the Community Foundation
for Southeast Michigan, which
commended his work in "creat-
ing relationships with leading
corporations, arts organizations,
area public and private schools
and community organizations."
The work of involving every-
one into UMS isn't finished,
as Fischer, Mial and Monts all
acknowledge.
"The arts are for everybody,"
Fischer stated. "It's our job to
embrace the entire region, to
make them feel welcomed, and
then encourage them to work
together with others."
That being said, UMS has
come a long way from being a
locally based program focusing
predominantly on white com-
posers and performers.
"Ken Fischer is an impre-
sario," Monts said. "And UMS
brings serious pride and prestige
to the University of Michigan -
it is certainly one of the 'jewels
in the crown."'

w
ab
of
I heard
Arbor,
Gratzi
high e
Mia Za
the low
whileb
are goo
their ri
tive re
I'm her
report
is an o
in the
Palio.
Situ
of Will
Palio i
The br
sily pa
broken
light g
faux cr
the res
looks a
repair.
span t
shadin
the sid
decora
lighted
convey
to: "Ita
a conv
Th
cl
t
ou
And
think a
I've bee
celebra
The set
back co
good fo
choice
I'm i
the app
ic menu
more a
is peru:
virtual
Androi
obvious
Each di
for you
gested
progra
over, yo
color, p
otherc
most n
fret not
old-fas
as help
We s
wine th
ate, and
more a
long as
before:
its hous
crusty

ish someone had told me tacky on the inside. It's perfect for
out Palio before the end dipping in the table's dark green
my junior year. Whenever extra-virgin olive oil (first press,
I about Italian food in Ann I'm sure), sea salt and freshly
there was only mention of cracked black pepper. My only
on the complaint is that the bread isn't
nd and served warm.
's on The appetizers ("antipasti") are
. And hit and miss, taste-wise. The piz-
soth zas and bruschetta are mediocre,
d for but the mussels are quite good.
espec- Served in an interesting departure
asons, from the norm - a tomato-cream
e to NATE combination broth spiked with
there WOOD saffron threads - the appetizer
ption makes both a good first bite for a
middle: mussels-loving table to share or
an entre for those with smaller
sated at the intersection appetites.
iam and Main Street, The main courses tend to be
s certainly hard to miss. more uniform in grade. They're
ick exterior is clum- not out-of-this-world amaz-
inted ina pastel yellow, ing, but also fall far from flat.
up only by streaks of In other words, I've never been
ray paint assembled into wowed by the food, but it's
acks and worn areas; always satisfying. The Cavata-
ult is acorner joint that ppi con Pollo, Pumate e Pesto -
s if it's falling into dis- grilled chicken breast, sundried
Circus-like awnings tomatoes, pesto and cream - is
he front of the building, a safe choice enjoyed by all. And
g patrons eating out on with prices comparable to Olive
ewalk, and the rooftop is Garden, Palio is my pick over
ted with long strings of the tired chain any day.
.bulbs. It all effectively The food I can brag about
's exactly what it means here, though, is the dessert.
lian roadside cooking in Made fresh every day, the
ivial setting." rotating list of sweet fin-
ishes leaves nothing to desire.
There's dense carrot cake, rich
pai isth gelato, smooth panna cotta,
e patio is the crunchy-creamy cannois and
osest thing more. But one dessert "takes
st g the cake."
o Florence The tiramis is immaculate
perfection. Its ladyfingers
tside of Italy have soaked up just the right
amount of espresso and booze
and are layered between gener-
ous slathers of whipped, sweet
convivial it is. When I mascarpone heaven. Topped
bout it, the multiple times with cocoa powder and made
n to Palio have all been to to share (or not), this popular
te my or a friend's birthday. Italian dessert is a must.
ting is so conducive to laid- And while winter finds you
nversation, drinks and noshing - obligatorily - inside,
od that it's an automatic one of the most attractive offer-
for such gatherings. ings at Palio otherwise is the
mmediately suckered in to seasonal option to sit outside.
eal ofPalio byits electron- The Palio Del Sol, the rooftop
is. A trend that's becoming at Palio, is an experience that I
nd more popular, the menu wholly recommend to each and
sed by flipping through every University student. At no
pages on the restaurant's other place inAnn Arbor can you
d tablets. And besides the sip Pinot Gris and fork hot ravi-
snovelty, it's alsopractical. oliunder a dimlylit patio while
sh has a pop-up picture overlooking the hustle and bustle
to drool over and sug- of Main Street. It's as close as my
wine pairings from the mind and body can get to what I
mmed-in sommelier. More- imagine dinner in Florence to be.
u can sort the wine list by At the hour of a summer's dusk,
rice, body and a number of there's no better place.
ool features to put even the So - inside or outside - pull
ovice oenophile at ease. But up a chair. Swipe through the
, technology haters: The menu. Dip your bread. Pry
hioned waitstaff is equally open a mussel. Savor dessert
ful and knowledgeable. and, more importantly, the
tart with glasses of dry friends surrounding you who
at we pretend to appreci- are doing the same. Rinse (with
1 move on quickly to the wine), and on the next birth-
ppealing bread and oil. As day, repeat.

they don't run out right
closing, Palio serves up
e-made bread, which is
on the outside and chewy,

Wood is ordering a second
tiramisu. To share, e-mail
nisaacw@umich.edu


4B - Thursday, November 7, 2013 tl 1, c 1) - - .. "

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B- Thursday, November 7, 2013 the b~sidc The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

IASA gears up for yearly cultural show

Each week we take shots at the biggest
developments in the entertainment world.
Here's what hit (and missed) this week.
Chris Pratt reveals he.used to be
a stripper
NBC gives straigh
order to Tina Fey-
comedy
"The Simpsons" pays a heartfelt
tribute to late voice actor Marcia
Wallace ."

na Gunn is headed to Fox's
e Mindy Project"

a

releases second
gle, "Perfumne"

Design by NickCuz


