ONU'lY1N) DTWEY' 'Al NTY TH1i 1 Ir EE YEAIRS OF ED 1'OIT IAI RIEDL OM
Ann Arbor, Michigan Thursday, January 31, 2013 michigandailycom
UNION PURE CHEMISTRY
LEO puts on
flashmob in
Mason Hall
Faculty dances at the right-to-work legislation
recently signed into law, calling
to call attention it a "sham." LEO President Bon-
nie Halloran, a lecturer at the
to contract Dearborn campus, said the union
wants to have its contract settled
negotiations by March 1, before the law takes
effect.
By GIACOMO BOLOGNA She added that right-to-work
Daily Staff Reporter affects the negotiating process
and that LEO is looking at how ALLISON FARRANDAND PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Lecturers put on a show in the law is affecting unions in In an Organic Chemistry 211 Lab, LSA sophomore Lamira Ray (left), LSA sophomore Morgan Bore (top right) and LSA junior Joey Abiragi (bottom right) learn
Mason Hall Wednesday, busting states that have already adopted how to purify compounds using thin layer chromatography methods at the Chemistry Building yesterday.
a move and raising awareness the policy.
about right-to-work legislation. "The legislation in Wisconsin
About 40' supporters of the was much more draconian, but ADMINISTRATION
Lecturers' Employee Organiza- (unions) had huge drops in mem-
tion gathered in the atrium of bership," she said.
Mason Hall for a flash-mob in the Halloran said LEO was look-
midst of LEO's push for higher ing to convey its ideas in a man-
wages during contract negotia- ner outside of conventional
tions with the University. settings.
LEO, which represents about "We had a message that we
1,300 lecturers at the Univer- wanted to deliver, andwewanted Coleman appoints Martha Pollack as the next 6. The University made the the University's chief academic
sity's Ann Arbor, Dearborn and to do it in a fun way." University provost and execu- announcement in a press release officer and chief budgetary offi-
Flint campuses, has been meet- She added that the event was vice provost to fill tive vice president for academic early Wednesday morning. cer. In addition to her current
ing with officials from the Uni- "primarily for students," and , affairs. "I am thrilled to have this role as a professor in the School
versity weekly as its contract is the University administration as Hanlons role Since 2010, Pollack has served opportunity to serve the Uni- of Information and professor of
set to expire on April 20. well. as vice provost for academic and versity of Michigan as provost," , computer science and engineer-
Dressed in bright green shirts, University spokesman Rick By JEN CALFAS, budgetary affairs under current Pollack said in a statement. ing in the College of Engineer-
the group danced in unison and Fitzgerald, who was in atten- SAM GRINGLAS AND Provost Philip Hanlon, who is "This remains one of the world's ing, Pollack will advance and
sangto the tune ofArethaFrank- dance at the event, said Univer- PETER SHAHIN set to become the president of premier institutions of higher oversee teaching and research
oin's "Respect" Their version of sity administrators continues to Daily StaffReporters and Dartmouth College in July. education, and I am both hum- in each of the University's insti-
the song illustrated the impor- negotiate with LEO. Daily News Editor If approved by the $oard of bled and honored to be a part of tutes and 19- schools and col-
tance of LEO and completing a "The real work takes place at Regents at its Feb. 21 meeting, an incredibly dedicated leader- leges.
new contract. the bargaining table, and that's University President Mary Pollack will assume a two-year ship team." In her current role asvice pro-
The song also took a swipe See LEO, Page 5A Sue Coleman has appointed appointment beginning May As provost, Pollack will act as See POLLACK, Page 5A

GOVERNMENT
Students
* compete
to solve
. . Crisis
Teams look for ways
to fix nation's
fiscal problems
By DANIELLE
RAYKHINSHTEYN
Daily Staff Reporter
A group of University students are
gearing up to compete with some of
the best universities in the United
States - but they're not playing sports:
they're trying to solve the nation's fis-
cal crisis.
Up to Us, a competition sponsored
by non-profits Net Impact, the Peter
G. Peterson Foundation and the Clin-
ton Global Initiative University, has
10 universities competing to promote
awareness of the fiscal debt on cam-
pus.
The contest will be judged by Ers-
kine Bowles, former President of the
University ofNorth Carolina system;
Chelsea Clinton, board member of
the CGIU; Alan Simpson, former U.S.
senator; and George Stephanopoulos,
See CRISIS, Page SA

NO PAINT, NO GAIN EVENT PREVIEW
a Colson Whitehead to
visit 'U' for Zell Series

AISON FARRAND/Daily
LIA sophomore Izzy Brourman takes time out of her week to paint at the Art and Architecture Building on
North Campus Wednesday.
UNIVERSITY HOUSING
N. Quad community to
house student veterans.

st
the
(
Jan
Cols
seriou
"Zone
pected
descrij
digres
consur
moder
zombi
Not
fully i
limb-r
on pos
head d
Rac
stated
be att
Lack f
"Be
Tha
sus. I:
called
Writer
even
accola
Henry
ing Ar
a fina
In 20

udents selected MacArthur Fellowship, an award
that proclaimed him a "genius."
author of 'Zone The Janey Lack series is part of
the Zell Visiting Writers Series,
)ne' as part of which is run through the Univer-
sity's Master of Fine Arts Program
ey Lack program in Creative Writing. What dif-
ferentiates Janey Lack from Zell
By JULIA KLINE is that writers in the former ,are
DailyArts Writer selected by the students.
Each year as part of the Zell
son Whitehead has got some Visiting Writers Series, students
s style. His latest novel, choose one novelist and one poet
One," is packed with unex- to give a craft talk, followed by a
I metaphors and dazzling more general reading. The pro-
ptive power. It's a highbrow, gram is run through the Univer-
sive rumination on class, sity's Master of Fine Arts Program
merism and the meaning of in Creative Writing.
'n existence. Oh, and it's got Rackham student Joshua
es. Kupetz said he has been reading
many writers could success- Whitehead's work for 10 years. A
nterweave bone-splintering, chapter of his Ph.D. thesis deals
ending gore and musings with themes of technology and
st-modern ennui, but White- identity found in Whitehead's 1999
oes it with aplomb. novel, "The Intuitionist."
kham student Henry Leung Kupetz, who said he has read all
very succinctly why he will of Whitehead's novels and the vast
ending Whitehead's Janey majority of his assorted articles,
iction reading on Jan. 31. recalled his first experience read-
cause he's cool" oingWhitehead's work.
it seems to be the consen- "I remember being captivated,
n 2009, Esquire magazine by not only the language and the
Whitehead "The Coolest writerly craft that Whitehead has,
r in America." And that's not but also with the breadth of the
one of his most impressive intellect in the writing," Kupetz
des. His 2001 novel, "John said. "He's really a luminary in
r Days," contains intersect- American literature, so it's thrill-
merican narratives and was ing to have him come to Michigan
list for the Pulitzer Prize. and spend some time with stu-
02, Whitehead received a See WHITEHEAD, Page SA

Residence to
serve those who
served America
By MOLLY BLOCK
Daily StaffReporter
Those who have served
the nation's armed services
will find a welcoming com-
munity in North Quad Res-

idence Hall next fall.
The Veterans Living
Experience, which will be
located in North Quad, is
a new housing option for
men and women who have
served in active, reserve or
National Guard forces.
University Housing
spokesman Peter Logan
said VLE is a part of Uni-
versity Housing's initiative
to build communities with-

in residence halls.
"We recognize that
within a larger commu-
nity there are groups of
students who have cer-
tain experiences or affin-
ity that also want to be
brought together within
that larger community,"
Logan said.
Joshua Peipock, assis-
tant director of residence
See VETERANS, Page SA


Th
The p
a corn

it revolution

opular online news aggregator creates
rmunity through user voting.

nINSIDE

WEATHERHI:2 GOTANEWSTIP? NEWONMICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS.........................2A SUDOKU....................3A
EATHRCall 734-411-4115 or e-mail UMPD accredited by inter national organization. Vol. CXXIII, No. 61 O PI NIO N.............4 A C LA S SI FlI tDS....... 6A
TOMORROW LO: 13 news@michigandaily,comand let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS ©2013TheMichiganDaily SPORTS...............7A B-SIDE......................1B
michigondaily.com


2A - Thursday, January 31, 2013

JOB SEARCH

From 'U' football to broadcasting

Jim Brandstatter is a commen-
tator for Michigan football games
as well as Detroit Lions games. He
was an offensive tackle for Michi-
ganfrom 1969 to 1971 under coach
Bo Schembechler. Brandstatter
has been broadcasting since he
graduated from the University in
1972.
So, how has the game of
college football changed since
you
The players are bigger, stron-
ger, faster. The game itself is still
fundamentals of blocking, tack-
ling, speed and playingsmart. It's
gotten a lot more involved from
a mediastandpoint - let's put
it this way: Back when I played

you could still be a college stu-
dent as a scholarship athlete. You
didn't have Twitter, Facebook or
the 24-hour news cycle, and you
could still be one of the regular
guys going to class. Now it's not
so much that way because you're
under a microscope so much more
than you were 30 to 40 years ago.
How did you end up in the
media?
I actually started in school as
an architecture and design major.
I took a speech class, loved it,
and changed my major to general
studies, where I was able to study
things I wouldn't have normally
taken had I been in another pro-

gram. It helped me along the way
in my broadcast career. I've found
a niche, and I've found a job that I
just absolutely love.
What's your prediction for
Team 134?
I think Brady Hoke has done a
great job on the recruiting trail,
using the same attitude as Bo
Shembechler that winningcham-
pionships is the goal. It's a high
bar that he sets, but that's what it
should be at Michigan. That atti-
tude more than anything, I think,
is what challenges young men to
come into.Michigan and become
the best.
-KAITLINZURDOSKY

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily
Students line up to interview with Zynga at the
Engineering Careear Fair at Pierpont Commons.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
At fitdlian DWI;
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREWWEINER RACHEL GREINETZ
Edits, is Chief Bssiness Masager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaity.com rmgrein@michigandaily.com
Newsroom News Tips
734-418-41os opt.3 news@michigandaily.com
Corrections Lettersto the Editor
cvrrections@michigandaily.com tothedaily@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection Editorial Page
arts@michigandaily.com opinion@michigandaily.com
Sparts Section Photogtaphy Section
sortshmichigandaily.cont photomichigandaily.com
DisplaytSales ClassifiedtSales
display@michigandaily.com classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales Finance
onlineads@michigandaily.com finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
MatthewtSlovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaily.voM
AdamRubenfiretManagingNewsEditor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Austen Hufford, Peter Shahin,
K.C.tWassman, Taylor Wiznerl
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Molly Block, Jennifer Calfas, Aaron Guggenheim, Sam
Gringlas, Danielle Stoppelmann, Steve Zoski
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors.
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Jesse Klein, Sarah Skaluba, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Sharik Bashir, Daniel Wang
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS Steven Braid, Michael Laurila, Stephen Nesbitt, Colleen
Thomas,Liz Vukelich, Daniel Wasserman
ASSISTNSPOvvSvDT ODanielFeldman, Greg Garno, Rajat Khare, Liz Nagle,
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArtsEditor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern,Briannelohso,,ohnoLynch, Anna Sadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Sean Czarnecki, Carlina Duan, Max Radin, Akshay Seth,
AdamGlanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing PhotoEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew, Todd Needle
ASSISTANT PHOTO EDITORS: Katherine Pekala, Paul Sherman, Adam Schnitzer
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
HaleyEoldheng MagazneEditor statement@michigandaily.,com
DEPUTY MAGAZIsNE000ITO: PigeoPea rev
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien Copy Chiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Jennie Coleman, Kelly McLauglin
BUSINESS STAFF
Ashley Karadsheh Associate Business Manager
Sean Jackson Sales Manager
Sophie Greenbaum Production Manager
Meryl Hulteng National Account Manager
Connor Byrd Finance Manager
Qay Vo Circulation Manage
The Michigan Daily (SSN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students at the University of Michigan. One copy is avalable free of charge
to all readers Additional copies may be picked up at the oaily's office for $2. Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in septemberviioU.S.mal are$il .Winter term (January through Apri) is
$115, yearong(September through April is $195. University affliates are subject to a reduced
subscription rate.On-campssubscriptionsforfallntermare$.Subscriptionsmust berepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

I
I

CRIME NOTES
Full Nelson
WHERE: University
Hospital
WHEN: Tuesday at about
8:40 a.m.
'WHAT: A patient grabbed .
a nurse around the neck
at around 12:30 a.m. on
Tuesday, University Police
reported. The nurse broke
free unharmed and request-
ed to file a police report.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Backpack boss
WHERE: Rachel Upjohn
Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about
1:50 p.m.
WHAT: A backpack was
stolen from a first-floor
office on Jan. 24 between
4 and 4:30 p.m., University
Police reported. It was later
found with about $20 and
an iPhone missing.

Jazz orchestra Global health I
In a study conducted
performance WHAT: Professor of His- by UCLA's Cooperative
tory and Program in Inter- Institutional Research
WHAT: The Jazz at Lin- national and Comparative Program (CIRP), it was found
coin Center Orchestra, led Studies fellow Nancy Hunt that the pe rcentage of col-
by legendary trumpeter and will givea lecture about lege freshmen drinking beer
composer Wynton Marsalis, ongoing debates in global has declined from 35.4% in
will perform traditional and mental health.2
contemporary jazz music. WHO: International 2011 to 3% 2012, reported
WHO: University Musical Institute Yahoo News.
Society WHEN: Today at 1 p.m.
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m. WHERE: Michigan The University is home
W HER E: H ill Auditorium League, Kalamazoo Room to the first-ever Wiki-

Double down Under the

Fiction read Book talk

WHERE: Medical Profes-
sional Building
WHEN: Tuesday at about
11:55 a.m.
WHAT: $60 was stolen
from a staff member's purse
on Jan. 28 between 8:20
a.m. and 1 p.m., University
Police reported. She also
claimed that $50 was stolen
from her purse on Jan. 15.

hoops
WHERE: Central Campus
Recreation Center
WHEN: Tuesday at about
8:50 p.m.
WHAT: Two iPhones
were stolen from under a.
bench in the basketball gym
between 8:30 and 8:40 p.m.,
University Police reported.

WHAT: Pulitzer Prize
finalist and award-winning
writer Colson Whitehead
will perform exerpts from
his piece Janey Lack.
Esquire magazine has called
him "the coolest writer in
America." Topics like race,
class and commercial cul-
ture will be explored.
WHO: Zell Visiting Writers
Series
WHEN: Today at 5:10 p.m.
WHERE: Museum of Art,
Helmut Stern Auditorium

WHAT: Women's Stud-
ies and Political Science
Prof. Leela Fernandes will
hold a discussion panel for
her new book, Transna-
tional Feminism. The book
explores feminist theory
and research in a global
context.
WHO: Institute on
Research for Women and
Gender
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Lane Hall, room
2239

I pedia interest club.
Wikipedian-in-Residence
Michael Barera discusses the
many advantages of the free
encyclopedia.
so FOR MORE, SEE B-SIDE, PAGE 4B
In Guangzhou, one of
China's largest cities,
a sinkhole swallowed
a group of four buildings,
according to the Telegraph.
The huge ten meter hole
appeared close to the con-
struction site of an under-
ground train station.

01

01

American University of the Caribbean
Schoolof Medicine

ATTEND OUR OPEN HOUSE:
Saturday, February 2nd at 10 am
Courtyard by Marriott Detroit Downtown
REGISTER BY SCANNING THE
QR CODE OR VISIT AUCmed.edu.

For comprehensive consumer information visit aucmed.edu/consumer-info.html
© 2013 Global Education International. All rights reserved.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 31, 2013- 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
PONTIAC, Mich.
Weather varies
across state
Michigan is seeing it all, with
temperatures nearing 70 in the
south and a blizzard dumping
up to eight inches of snow in the
north, forcing a halt in bus service
across the Upper Peninsula.
The National Weather Service
predicts a 30-degree temperature
in parts of the Lower Peninsula,
where Wednesday's highs reached
68 at Pontiac, 65 at Lambertville
near Lansing and 64 in the Detroit
suburb of Troy.
Indian Trails says it canceled
all upper Michigan bus service
Wednesday night. WSGW-AM
says the company cites safety
concerns. By 6 p.m., eight inches
of new snow was on the ground
in Menominee County and seven
inches in Schoolraft County.
NEW YORK
Seven injured
in NYC crane
collapse
A crane operator and a con-
tractor didn't inspect equipment,
failed to take proper precautions
and ran the rig unsafely before it
collapsed while building a New
York City apartment tower and
injured seven construction work-
ers, officials said Wednesday.
Crane operator Paul Geer and
contractor Cross Country Con-
struction LLC have each been
cited with five violations stem-
ming from the Jan. 9 collapse,
which occurred as the crane tried
to lift more than double its capac-
ity, the city Buildings Department
said. Geer and the company each
face at least $64,000 in fines; the
developer and a site safety man-
ager also were cited with a viola-
tion apiece.
"Neither the crane operator
nor his supervisors made sure the
operation was being performed
according to approved plans," city
Buildings Commissioner Robert
LiMandri said in a statement.
SANTA MARIA, Brazil
Nightclub lacked
proper safety
measures
The owner of a nightclub in
southern Brazil where more than
230 people died in a fire last week-
end deflected blame to "the whole
country," as well as to architects
and inspectors charged with mak-
ing sure the building was safe, his
lawyer said Wednesday.
*Attorney Jader Marques said
his client, Elissandro Spohr,
"regretted having ever been born"
because of his grief over the fire,
but still blamed Sunday's tragedy
on "a succession of errors made by
the whole country."
Police investigating the blaze
have said it likely started when
a country music band perform-
ing at the Kiss nightclub in the
college town of Santa Maria lit a
flare, which ignited flammable

soundproofing foam on the ceil-
ing. That initial error was com-
pounded by the near-total lack of
emergency infrastructure such as
a fire alarms or sprinkler systems,
police have said. The club also had
only one working door and a faulty
fire extinguisher.
LONDON
15-year-old Taliban
victim to undergo
final surgery
A Pakistani girl whose defiance
of the Taliban turned her into
an international icon is headed
toward recovery once she under-
goes a final surgery to reconstruct
her skull, doctors said Wednesday.
Dr. Dave Rosser of Birming-
ham's Queen Elizabeth Hospi-
tal said that 15-year-old Malala
Yousufzai needs the operation to
replace the bone shattered when
a Taliban gunman, angered at her
objection to the group's restric-
tions on girls' education, sent a
bullet through her skull. Rosser
said that Malala had made a
"remarkable recovery."
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Union exhibit honors
Holocaust hero, alum

Ross FRANKLIN/AP
A member of the Phoenix Police Department SWAT team leads a female neighbor away to safety.
One dead in Ariz. shooting

Two wounded in
Phoenix office,
armed suspect
still at large
PHOENIX (AP) - A gun-
man opened fire at a Phoenix
office complex on Wednesday,
killing one person, wounding
two others and setting off a
manhunt. Police warned the
public that he was "armed and
dangerous."
Authorities identified the
suspect as 70-year-old Arthur
Douglas Harmon, who they
said opened fire at the end of a
mediation session. They identi-
fied a man who died hours after
the late morning shooting as
48-year-old Steve Singer.
Police said a 43-year-old man
was listed in critical condition
and a 32-year-old woman suf-
fered non-life threatening inju-
ries.
"We believe the two men
were the targets. It was not a
random shooting," said Sgt.

Tommy Thompson, a Phoenix
police spokesman.
Thompson said authorities
believe Harmon acted alone
and fled the scene in acar after
the 10:30 a.m. shooting.
Harmon allegedly shot at
someone who tried to follow
him after the shooting in an
attempt to get his license plate
number, according to authori-
ties.
Police didn't immediate-
ly release the names of the
wounded. But a Phoenix law
firm, Osborn Maledon, said one
of its lawyers, Mark Hummels,
was among the wounded. The
firm said he "was representing
a client in a mediation" when he
was shot.
According to court docu-
ments, Harmon was scheduled
to go to a law office in the same
building where the shooting
took place for a settlement con-
ference in a lawsuit he filed last
April against Scottsdale-based
Fusion Contact Centers LLC,
where Singer was the CEO.
The company had hired him
to refurbish office cubicles at

two call centers in California,
but a contract dispute arose.
Fusion said Harmon was
paid nearly $30,000 under the
$47,000 contract. But the com-
pany asked him to repay much
of the money when it discov-
ered that the cubicles could not
be refurbished, according to
the documents.
Harmon argued Fusion hung
him out to dry by telling him to
remove and store 206 "worth-
less" work stations after the
mix-up was discovered. Har-
mon said Fusion then told him
that the company decided to
use a competitor.
Harmon's lawsuit had sought
payment for the remainder of
the contract, $20,000 in dam-
ages and reimbursement for
storage fees and legal costs.
Pro tempore Judge Ira
Schwartz, who scheduled the
meeting, did not immediately
return an email seeking com-
ment. A message left Wednes-
day at the home of Singer also
wasn't immediately returned.
Hummels was representing
Fusion in the lawsuit.

Wallenberg saved
thousands of
Hungarian Jews
By ERIN FORSYTHE
Daily StaffReporter
Visitors entered the dimly
lit Art Lounge in the Michigan
Union Wednesday evening to
view an exhibition on University
alum Raoul Wallenberg, who res-
cued thousands during the Holo-
caust.
On the centennial of Wal-
lenberg's birth, the University
collaborated with the Swedish
Consulate General of Detroit to
host a historical display on the
incredible life of the Wallenberg,
who is Swedish. Wallenberg
attended the University from
1931 to 1935, graduating with a
degree in architecture. He went
on to save the lives of thousands
of Hungarian Jews from Nazi
death camps.
The exhibition opened in
Budapest last year and has since
traveled to other cities around
the world, including Berlin,
WashingtonD.C. and Moscow.
The atmosphere in the Union
exhibit was quiet, with visitors
shifting between illuminated
panels on the floor document-
ing the humanitarian's life. The
display features notable quotes
by Wallenberg along the paneled
walls and banners of individuals
whose lives he saved during the
Holocaust.
Before the opening of the
exhibit, an event was held in the
Rogel Ballroom of the Michigan
Union to commemorate Wallen-
berg.
A crowd of about 300 gath-
ered to listen to guest speakers,
which included Ingrid Carlberg,
journalist and author of a new
biography on Wallenberg; Mon-
ica Ponce de Leon, dean of the
Taubman College of Architec-
ture and Urban Planning; Swed-

ish Ambassador Jonas Hafstrfm;
and University President Mary
Sue Coleman.
Coleman spoke about Wal-
lenberg's extraordinary contri-
butions to the world and briefly
reflected on his time at the Uni-
versity.
"With this beautiful exhibit
we continue to remember Raoul
Wallenberg and remember the
Holocaust and its devastating
toll," Coleman said. "And most
significantly, we remember a
Michigan graduate who stepped
forward to help others."
Ponce de Leon remarked on
the college's role in relation to the
hero while speaking at the event.
"We have a special respon-
sibility at Taubman College to
preserve and honor the legacy of
thisgreathumanitarian andindi-
vidual," Ponce de Leon said.
Architecture and Urban Plan-
ning seniors are required to take
part in a project inspired by Wal-
lenberg's work. Students submit
proposals based on the humani-
tarian projects they created and
compete for the Wallenberg Stu-
dio Award.
Architecture and Urban Plan-
ning senior Jordan Butler said
the student projects take a uni-
versalist focus.
"All of our projects are cen-
tered around architecture in the
past for humanitarian or service-
based work - kind of as a tribute
to the work that Wallenberg did,"
Butler said.
Architecture and Urban Plan-
ning senior Solomon Tucker said
the competition helped him learn
more about Wallenberg.
"It's a way for us all to be
involved and understand who
Wallenberg is and how he went
to this (University) and what he
meant to the Architecture school
as well," Tucker said. "It's good
for us to see what people were
going through and how we can
intervene and have an impact,
like Raoul Wallenberg did, with
our talents."

Israel strikes Syrian
military in air strike

South Korea launches first satellite

I

Rocket to Pyongyang's banned ballistic
missile technology.
help country North Korearecently acknowl-
edged that its long-range rockets
have both scientific and military
uses, and Kong Chang-duk, a pro-
fessor of rocket science at South
Korea's Chosun University, said

ful" satellite launch.
She said there was no basis
for comparing the South and the
North's rocket programs. Unlike
the North, the South has devel-
oped its technology responsibly
and is an active participant in
international nonproliferation

Hostility increases
between nations
and Lebanese
militant group
BEIRUT (AP) - Israel's air
force launched a rare airstrike
on a military site inside Syria,
the Syrian government and U.S.
officials said Wednesday, add-
ing a potentially flammable new
element to regional tensions
already heightened by Syria's
civil war.
The strike appeared to be the
latest salvo in Israel's long-run-
ning effort to disrupt the Leba-
nese militant group Hezbollah's
quest to build an arsenal capable
of defending against Israel's air
force and spreading destruction
inside the Jewish state.
U.S. officials said the target
was a convoy oftrucks thatIsrael
believed contained anti-aircraft
weapons bound for Hezbollah in
Lebanon. They spoke on condi-
tion of anonymity because they
were not authorized to speak
about the operation.
Regional officials said the
shipment included sophisticated
Russian-made SA-17 anti-air-
craft missiles, which if acquired
by Hezbollah would be "game-
changing," enabling the mili-
tants to shoot down Israeli jets,
helicopters and surveillance
drones.
Regional security officials
said the strike, which occurred
overnight Tuesday, targeted a
site near the Lebanese border,
while a Syrian army statement
said it destroyed a military
research center northwest of
the capital, Damascus. They
appeared to be referring to the
same incident.
The Israeli military and a
Hezbollah spokesman both
declined to comment, and Syria
denied the existence of any such
weapons shipment. All officials
spoke on condition of anonym-
ity because they were not autho-
rized to brief the media.
The strike follows decades of

enmity between Israel and allies
Syria and Hezbollah, which
consider the Jewish state their
mortal enemy. The situation has
been further complicated by the
civil war raging in Syria between
the forces of President Bashar
Assad and rebel brigades seeking
his ouster,
The war has sapped Assad's
power and threatens to deprive
Hezbollah of a key supporter, in
addition to its land corridor to
Iran. The two countries provide
Hezbollah with the bulk of its
funding and arms.
Many in Israel worry that
as Assad loses power, he could
strike back by transferring
chemical or advanced weapons
to Hezbollah, which is neigh-
boring Lebanon's most powerful
military force and is committed
to Israel's destruction.
Israel and Hezbollah fought
an inconclusive 34-day war in
2006 that left 1,200 Lebanese
and 160 Israelis dead.
While the border has been
largely quiet since, the struggle
has taken other forms. Hezbol-
lah has accused Israel of assas-
sinating a top commander, and
Israel blamed Hezbollah and
Iran for a July 2012 attack on
Israeli tourists in Bulgaria. In
October, Hezbollah launched an
Iranian-made reconnaissance
drone over Israel, using the inci-
dent to brag about its expanding
capabilities.
Israeli officials believe that
despite their best efforts, Hez-
bollah's arsenal has markedly
improved since 2006, now boast-
ing tens of thousands of rockets
and missiles and the ability to
strike almost anywhere inside
Israel.
Israel suspectsthatDamascus
obtained abattery ofSA-17s from
Russia after an alleged Israeli
airstrike in 2007 that destroyed
an unfinished Syrian nuclear
reactor.
Earlier this week, Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu warned of the dan-
gers of Syria's "deadly weap-
ons," saying the country is
"increasingly coming apart."

SEIOUL, South Korea (AP) - the same argument could apply agreements, showing its program
South Korea launched a satellite to the South. has no military intent, she said.
into space from its own soil for Seoul may eventually be able "The North should not see
the first time Wednesday amid "to build better missiles and it as a threat because they too
increased tensions after archri- scrutinize North Korea with can enjoy the same transpar-
val North Korea accomplished a a better satellite," Kong said. ency with regard to the program
similar feat and was condemned "... There are dual purposes in that the rest of us have, which
by the United Nations. space technology." is a far cry from how the DPRK
The South Korean rocket State Department spokes- behaves," Nuland told report-
blasted off from a launch pad in woman Victoria Nuland said the ers. DPRK stands for the formal
the southwestern coastal village U.S. had observed the "success- name for North Korea.
of Goheung. Science officials
told cheering spectators min-
utes later that the rocket deliv-
ered an observational satellite o a OOhel
into orbit. Officials expected QO y sfnd ansWers
to know Thursday whetherndr t .
the satellite is operating as The Department of i
intended. at the University of Michigan is conducting a We are looking for:
A crowd gathered around a Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMR1) Men and w
TV at a train station in down- .
town Seoul to watch the to learn how the brain functions of those adults With
launch. "I'm proud we have ADH D as well as healthy individuals without ADHD.Pceate will hi
entered the ranks of satellitetso
powers," office worker Hyun compensation
Day-sun said. Psych-study
The launch is a culmina-
tion of years of efforts by D
South Korea - Asia's fourth-
largest economy - to advance
its space program and cement
its standing as a technology
powerhouse whose semicon-
ductors, smartphones and 1 5 4 9 3
automobiles, command global
demand. North Korea's long- 4 5
range rocket program, in
contrast, has generated inter-
national fears that it is getting
closer to developing nuclear
missiles capable of striking the 7 9
U.S.
South Korea's success comes 1 7 2
amid increased tension on the
Korean Peninsula over North
Korea's threat to explode its
third nuclear device. Pyong-
yang is angry over tough new 2 6 3 1 7 4
international sanctions over its
Dec. 12 rocket launch and has
accused its rivals of applying
double standards toward the
two Koreas' space programs.
Washington and Seoul have
called North Korea's rocket '
launch a cover for a test of

1
3
1
1
l

41


4A - Thursday, January 31, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

C 1.
he Michinan t 4:3at,6,lv


Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

I think video games is a bigger
problem than guns because video
games affect people:"
- Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) said in an interview on gun control policy
with MSNBC on Wednesday.
Stay prestigious, Michigan

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Scout's hypocrisy
Boy Scouts should end anti-gay policies organization-wide
O n Monday, the Boy Scouts of America, one of the largest
youth groups in the United States, announced that it may
end its long-standing ban of homosexuals from its organi-
zation. The BSA's traditional position on denying membership to gay
people and atheists was supported by a 2000 U.S. Supreme Court
case that ruled in favor of the discretionary, discriminatory practic-
es. However, the policy being considered would allow local scouting
groups to determine their own policies regarding openly gay people.
A change in policy is overdue and should be organization-wide, not
left to individual prejudices.
First formed in 1910 to prepare young boys natory practices but this is counter to the val-
to become "ethical and moral" men by instill- ues we should instill in our youth.
ing virtues including trust, kindness and It should not be the business of an organi-
bravery, BSA can be thought of as exemplify- zation, let alone one whose duty it is to teach
ing what it means to work with others. Each children and teenagers "patriotism, courage,
scout must swear an oath that states they will self-reliance and kindred virtues," to pro-
"help other people at all times" as a duty to mote exclusion. As a Title 36 "patriotic" orga-
one's "God and country." An interpretation nization under federal law, BSA's position on
of this standard has typically been the used anti-gay discrimination has lagged behind
as reason for the exclusion of homosexuals, others. Big Brother, Big Sisters of America, for
atheists and agnostics. Several civil cases instance, has been actively supporting openly
have beenbrought against BSA in many states LGBTQ volunteers for over a decade. Similar
including California, Illinois, Kansas and organizations such as 4-H and the Girl Scouts
Michigan. Many teenage members, who have also openly support all members regardless of
come to terms with their sexuality during sexual orientation.
their tenure with the BSA, have found them- However, given the reluctance of much of
selves ineligible for honors, removed from the country to adopt homosexual-accepting
their troops and banned outright. Countless policies until recently, BSA isn't solely to
gay adults have also been barred from being blame. With each passing generation, with
troop leaders and in other capacities. each passing year, Americans are becoming
It tells the youth involved that there are more tolerant and accepting of others. We
numbers amongtheir ranks that are ethically can only hope to be morally righteous when
inferior and morally incapable of performing we are morally right. The Boy Scouts should
the duties of a scout. The'BSA has cited its push forward this progressive policy and bet-
religious affiliation as its reason for discrimi- ter their organization.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan, Eli Cahan, Jesse Klein, Melanie
Kruvelis, Patrick Maillet, Aarica Marsh, Jasmine McNenny, Harsha Nahata, Sarah Skaluba,
Adrienne Roberts, Vanessa Rychlinski, Paul Sherman, Michael Spaeth, Derek Wolfe
EVAN OLEXAI
Rconiionot idolization

4
I

"April17, 2012, the Uni-
versity embarked on a
project that will have last-
ing effects on
the institution
and ensure its
competitiveness
for decades to
come. The Uni-
versity signed
a contract with
Coursera. The KEVIN
California- MERSOL-
based company BARG
partners with
universities
to provide massive open online
courses, in which a huge number
of students participate in an online
classroom via the Internet. For
example, about 90,000 students
participated in the first MOOC
offered by the University.
MOOCs provide an opportu-
nity to change the game of higher
education. They dare to provide
universal access to courses from
prestigious universities. In Thomas
Friedman's op-ed in The New York
Times, "Revolution Hits the Uni-
versities," he paints a picture of
the perfect world MOOCs will cre-
ate. However, like much else in the
world, online courses will not be
perfect in practice. And we need to
prepare for this reality.
This reality poses potential
problems. We can head them off
through deliberate discussion and
conscious efforts to address them.
For better or worse, Coursera will
change how students and educa-
tors interact with the University as
digital coursework is further inte-
grated into the classroom.
Before exploring the implica-
tions of this change, it's important
to understand why the University
is making it. Until recently, presti-
gious universities seemed content
with not offering online courses.
Sure, the University had already
augmented its courses with tech-
nologies such as projectors and

CTools. However, education pri-
marily took place in a physical
classroom. Even when for-profit
universities, such as the Univer-
sity of Phoenix, invested heavily
in online courses, the University
didn't budge.
Why budge now? Because pres-
tige and money are at stake.
Prestige attracts talent and tal-
ent builds prestige. The University
administration recognizes this and
seeks to spur a positive feedback
cycle between the two. Prestige dic-
tates the degree to which the Uni-
versity can compete with other top
schools. It's competing for high-cal-
iber students, distinguished instruc-
tors and a spot at the top of college
rankings. If not now, MOOCs, like
Coursera, will give the University
an edge over its competitors in the
near future. Of course, it depends
on how deeply and successfully the
University integrates online courses
into physical ones.
In terms of money, Michigan's
state legislature annually slashes
appropriations to the University,
and the Board of Regents passes
the cost onto students by increasing
tuition rates. The University needs
new sources of revenue to offset
losses elsewhere. To that end, mon-
etizing its online offerings through
Coursera will help.
The contract with Coursera pro-
vides insight into how to monetize
its online courses. The contract,
which was obtained by The Chron-
icle of Higher Education, suggests
- among other ideas - embed-
ding advertisements in the course
webpage, charging tuition fees per
course and allowing employers to
use courses to vet employees or
prospective employees. In addition,
the University, along with the other
participating institutions " ... will
get six to 15 percent of the revenue,
depending on how long they offer
the course."
The University stands to gain
substantially from its relationship

with Coursera. However, we must
consider what effect it will have
on the University experience in the
long run. The electronic nature of
online courses will change the Uni-
versity experience for students and
instructors.
MOOCs will give the
University an edge
over competitors.
For students, we must avoid
introducing elements that under-
mine the University's strengths.
In addressing this, we should con-
sider the following questions: Will
students have access to the same
support, services and opportuni-
ties regardless of how they access
the University? And what will the
effect of embedding advertise-
ments in courses and catering to
enterprise audiences have on the
college experience? .
We also must consider the effect
that integrating online technolo-
gies into the University will have
on instructors. Will instructors be
fairly compensated for the courses
they teach? Will teaching online
courses distract instructors' and
adversely affect the other demands
of their positions? And will this
drive 'the University to expect all
instr.uctors to teach online courses
in the long run?
Last week, the University
appointed its first special counsel
for digital education initiatives.
The University intends to continue
working with Coursera and under-
stands that the future depends on it.
Now that it's set on this course, the
University community must discuss
how to ensure that a Michigan edu-
cation doesn't lose its value.
- Kevis Mersol-Barg can be
reached at kmersolb@umich.edu.

6

One of the greatest detriments to American
society today is our culture. We've ceased to
draw a line in the sand between recognition
and idolization, and, as a result, we've set our-
selves up for failure and disappointment.
I still believe America is a land of opportu-
nity; but we're recreating a complex system
of social classes based not upon birthright,
which we strived to dissolve years ago, but on
accomplishment. There's nothing wrong with
striving for personal achievement. There's
nothing wrong with recognizing the accom-
plishments of others. In fact, it's in part this
recognition that encourages manyrin a free
nation to achieve. But, there's something
wrong with elevating people with certain tal-
ents above the rest of society. Role models are
beneficial. Idols are not.
In order to demonstrate the existence of
this "higher" social class, we need to look
no further than our athletes oncampus. The
treatment of these individuals and the atti-
tude toward them makes it obvious that we
see them as different from ourselves. "I saw
so-and-so walking across the Diag today!" or
"I talked to so-and-so in one of my lectures!"
The same attitude can be seen in our treat-
ment of celebrities such as actors, actresses,
musicians, models and the very wealthy. We
have gone far beyond acknowledging the won-
derful talents of these individuals and have
placed them on a pedestal, seeing ourselves
as somehow inferior to them. I learned at the
University that you're actually a superior per-
son if you're an excellent football player or if
you've had sex with one.
I don't blame the idolized, and I'm not bash-
ing them. On the contrary, I blame the idolizer,
which I, too, have been at times.
That said, I'm discussing all of this because I
want to point out the damage it does. In a class
society, it's onlynaturalforus alltowanttofind
our way to the top. Unfortunately, noteveryone
can be famous, and our talents, which may be
equal, are different in nature and some are not
recognized by society in the same way others
are. When one attempts to gain fame with a tal-
ent they don't possess - or is unsuccessful in
becoming famous - the results include insecu-
rity, disappointment and unhappiness.

As some seek their personal goals, others
are made pawns in their quest for recogni-
tion; the goal-seeker will view him or herself
as more important than those around, as his
mission is of the utmost importance - this
isn't conducive to a content society. A female
who is a talented poet might try to become a
singer and make her figure model-like, instead
of developing her own talents and beauty in
her own way. A male may occupy his time try-
ing to become an athlete when his true calling
is physics. Such societal pressure could result
in losing the next theory of relativity, but if we
recognize all talents and didn't idolize certain
people, our nation would flourish.
We set goals to become certain people, but
because we're all different and not gifted in
the same way, the results are devastating to
our nation. When we are inevitably unable
to accomplish what we so desired, or can't be
who *e wanted to be, we can't help but feel
we've failed in a certain sense. We must fill
the void that was the desire to be the best, to
be idolized, to rise to the highest class. Even if
we genuinely don't desire fame or idolization,
we're stuck comparing ourselves to celebrated
people in our culture. We may feel that we will
never be as good, but really we're no different.
They may be talented at a certain sport or have
a lot of money, but we have other abilities. This
equality isn't advertised in the United States
and we're often left to feel less than those we
idolize. Our insecurities then manifest them-
selves in ways as varied as eating disorders,
arrogance, the mistreatment of others and
endless pleasure seeking.
I'm writing this not to bash or degrade
anyone or any group, but only in hopes that a
few will recognize this class system and that
we can begin, as a culture, to see and treat
everyone as equal. We're not so different from
the guy asking for change outside the State
Theater, or the guy who makes $27 million a
year swinging a bat for the Yankees. We're all
human beings with hopes, dreams and emo-
tions. When we come to understand this and
our attitude reflects it, I believe we can build a
better culture and a better tomorrow.
Evan Olexa is an Engineering junior.

Pre-chewedfoodfor thought

n December, I was sitting at
the dinner table with extend-
ed family when my Nona, the
most elegant
Italian woman I
know, asked us,
"So, what do you
think about pre-
chewing your
kid's food?"1~
My cousin
nearly choked E
on his ham andEMILY
cheese hoagie. PITTINOS
"Is that a
-thing?" I asked
her, imagining a glob of chicken-
flavored cud dropped into a teething
mouth.
"They call it pre-mastication,"
she said. "It's big on the- West
Coast." My aunt and uncle appar-
ently knew a guy in San Francisco
who pre-chewed his daughter's
peas and carrots instead of buying
jarred baby mush.
"Haven't they heard of a blend-
er?" my cousin and I asked at once,
and high-fived.
"Probably, but it's supposed to
help wean a baby off breast milk."
The logistics of this lifestyle
were called into question. Does the
parent take a bite of turkey and then
baby-bird-it directly into the kid's
mouth? What if they host a dinner
party - would they store a wad
of roast beef in Tupperware and
then spoon feed it to the child with
guests at the table?
Of course, I found myself cringing
as we carried on the conversation,
partly because mouths gross me out
in general. I hate the sticky, juicy,
smacking noises they make, and a
few bad kissing experiences in high
school led me to fear excess saliva.
I can hardly imagine coyly slipping
a piece of gum intoemy bedfellow's
mouth, let alone sticking chewed

food into that of a tiny human.
My mouth hang-up aside - future
lovers take note: It's more of an
endearing quirk than a full-blown
phobia - why did I, and everyone
at the table, jump to "that's nasty"
when pre-mastication came up?
My family has historically sup-
ported breastfeeding because the
contact could create a bond between
mother and child, even in the 1960s
when the practice was out of style.
By that same logic, we should have
welcomed this other form of familial
intimacy, so why didn't we?
Maybe it was too intimate for our
tastes. It's possible that my progres-
sive family hasn't entirely escaped
our culture's Puritan roots, and the
idea of such close contact between
parent and child past the breastfeed-
ing stage made us feel icky. Or maybe
the little psychoanalyst in each of
us wondered if pre-chewing would
create dependency issues that could
lead to Norman Bates-like behavior.
I wanted to know what others
thought, so that night, while all the
other Pittinos family members were
tucked safely into bed, I did a little
reconnaissance. To my amusement,
I discovered that Alicia Silverstone
has become a super vegan since her
highly influential role as Cher in
"Clueless", and is the number-one
celebrity advocate for pre-mastica-
tion. She has her own blog dedicated
to living a "kind" lifestyle and not too
long ago she posted a video of her-
self feeding her son, Bear Blu, some
mochi straight from her mouth.
As to be expected, some of the
comments under the video were
negative. A few said this method of
feeding was just veiled domineering,
and one commenter even stooped
to compare the act to "licking up
her babies vomit." However, the
overwhelming majority of the com-
ments were positive and full of sto-

ries about mothers going through
this "beautiful" process with their
own children and how they became
the world's most perfect kids, etc.
While one person did accuse Silver-
stone of deleting most of the harsher
feedback, these glowing responses
made me wonder if there was some-
thing more to this methodology than
hippy superstition.
Pre-mastication
could develop
intimacy between0
infant and father.
Upon further research I found
that the antibody generators in
a parent's saliva can help a baby
build up its immune system. Also,
the digestive enzymes in that same
parental spit can ease the symp-
toms of colic by giving the baby a
head start on breaking down foods.
Plus, I'd argue that pre-mastication
could invite the co-parent to take
part in an intimacy that is typically
reserved for breastfeeding. Partici-
pating in early feeding could poten-
tially make not-mom feel closer to
the baby and more confident in a
parental role.
However, with all that good stuff
in mind, it's still likely that seeing
this baby-bird behavior take place
in the flesh might be too much for
passersby. If parents believe in the
benefits of the old chew-and-feed,
it'd probably be best to give the rest
of us some time to educate ourselves
before taking the show to a local
Starbucks or Chuck E. Cheese.
-.Emily Pittinos can be reached
at pittinos@umich.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor. Letters should be fewer than
300 words and must include the writer's full name and University affiliation. We do
not print anonymous letters. Send letters to tothedaily@michigandaily.corm.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 31, 2013 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 31 - 2013 - SA

POLLACK
From Page 1A
vost, Pollack works closely with
the Hanlon to craft budgetary
policy, most notably the Univer-
sity's general fund budget. Pollack
plays a large role in supervising
assessments of the University's
schools and colleges and during
has been at the forefront of efforts
to expand the University's rela-
tionship with Coursera, a massive
open online course platform.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily Wednesday, Cole-
man cited Pollack's work with
Hanlonas anintegralfactor in the
selection.
"They've got-such a great team
in that office in terms of analyzing
the budget and where we can look
for cost savings - where we can
make investments that are really
going to move the institution,"
Coleman said. "She worked really
well with the team and with Phil
(Hanlon) over the few years she
was in that role, and it's obvious
to me that she's somebody with
enormous potential."
Pollack has worked in part-
nership with Hanlon, deans and
budget directors not only on bud-
getary issues, but also in develop-
ing and advancing new academic
programs. Last fall, Pollack and
Hanlontaught aone-credit course
on finance in higher education to
help students better understand
the process of budgetary and fis-
cal planning.
In a statement, Coleman said
Pollack's array of experiences has
prepared her to assume the Uni-
versity's second highest adminis-
trative role.
"Martha Pollack is an effective
leader who understands how to
maintain world-class academics
through a disciplined approach to
finances," Coleman said. "She has
a deep understanding of the chal-
lenges and opportunities current-
ly facing higher education. Her
appointment as provost reflects
a deep knowledge of this institu-
tion that is grounded in her work
as a faculty member, department
chair and dean."
Prior to being appointed vice
provost - a position Hanlon held
before his own ascent to provost
- Pollack served as dean of the-
School of Information. During
her 13 years at the University, she
has also served as associate chair
for computer science and engi-
neering in the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Com-
puter Science. Her research has
focused largely on the advance-
ment of artificial intelligence,
and she has also worked as edi-
tor-in-chief of the Journal of the
Association for the Advancement
of Artificial Intelligence.
LEO
From Page 1A
where we focus our effort,"
Fitzgerald said.
Fitzgerald added that the Uni-
versity is not paying much heed
to right-to-work, but will focus on
the contract negotiations.
Halloran said LEO is already
preparing for the effects of
right-to work, which may
leave the union less financially

VETERANS
From Page 1A
education, said the need for on-
campus veteran student hous-
ing has been a heavily discussed
topic.
"We had been hearing around
campus that veterans' issues
and veterans' needs are some-
thing that's on lots of people's
minds," Peipock said. "We
wanted to create some sort com-
munity that amplifies support
and allows some connection and
more specific resources for vet-
eran students, specifically resi-
dents."
Philip Larson, a transition
specialist in the Office of New
Student Programs, realized the
need for veteran student hous-
ing through his discussions with
current students who are vet-
erans of the armed services. He
said veterans living off-campus
told Housing they were missing
a connection to campus and their
fellow veterans.
During its first year, the VLE
expects to house only eight to 10
veteran students, but Housing
has alloted 16 beds for the 2013-
2014 school year, according to
Peipock.
The community will also

lnan interview with the Daily
Wednesday, Pollack said she is
thrilled to fulfill the position,
and hopes to help the University
adjust to dramatic changes fac-
ing higher education.
"You can see that as a chal-
lenge or an opportunity - I think
it's both," Pollack said. "We're
at a moment where there's real
realization where we have to do
things differently."
Pollack attributes much of her
knowledge and qualifications for
the position to Hanlon's mentor-
ship while she worked as vice
provost in addition to her experi-
ence in previous roles at the Uni-
versity.
Her goals include furthering
the use of educational technol-
ogy to adapt to the trend toward
online learning.
"I'm excited about ways to
use that so we can free up time
for more hands-on activities and
to hold down costs," she said. "I
think we need to be more pro-
ductive, and one way we can do
that is making creative use of
online technologies. I think we'll
see how that plays out in the
coming years."
Pollack stressed the impor-
tance of affordability for stu-
dents and added that she will
work to put the University at the
forefront of affordability.
"I think we have to figure out
how to continue to deliver a first-
rate education - one that gives
hands-on education that well
help (students) become leaders
in the 21st century - and do it in
a way that allows access to stu-
dents, whatever their socioeco-
nomic background," Pollack said.
When asked about her future
beyond her new role as provost,
Pollack said she wants to focus
on the next two years ahead.
Pollack earned her undergrad-
uate degree in linguistics from
Dartmouth College in 1979, a
Master of Science in Engineering
in computer science and engi-
neering in 1984 and Ph.D. in the
same subject in 1986- both from
the University of Pennsylvania.
She previously taught at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh in various
capacities from 1991 to 2000.
Judy Lawson, assistant dean
for academic and student affairs
for the School of Information,
said as a fellow colleague she
most admires Pollack's unwaver-
ing commitment to students.
"When Dr. Pollack first start-
ed in her position as dean of
the schoolof information, I was
struck by her incredible energy,
enthusiasm and down-to-earth
approach," Lawson said. "I
always felt that student interests
were a top priority for Dr. Pol-
lack."
Moreover, Lawson said Pol-
secure.
"If people choose not to sup-
port the union because of this
new law ... our income is going
to bealower, we might have to
change office space, we will prob-
ably have to reduce employees -
we don't want to do any of that,"
she said.
LSA senior Alfred Juncaj was
walking through Mason Hall
and stopped to watch the flash
mob.
He wasn't aware of what LEO

lack's information background
aligns perfectly with the role of
provost. She said Pollack often
spoke about the ways in which
the digital age was transforming
many aspects of everyday life,
including the ways people learn
and educate others.
"Dr. Pollack brings an uncan-
ny ability to manage competing
priorities and move an organi-
zation towards greater levels of
success," Larson said. "I antici-
pate that, as provost, she will
foster high levels of engagement
in making the university operate
more efficiently and effectively.
She also has a great sense of
humor, which is always a bonus."
Ina Nov. 29 interview, Pollack
said the University remained
financially solvent, largely due to
the careful planning by Hanlon,
but that serious budget issues
would continue to be a main
issue for the next provost.
"Many of the (challenges) are
going to be continuations of the
ones he had to deal with. Many
of them are of course financial,"
Pollack said. "There's been a
serious decline in state support
for public education, and we'll
have to come to grips with that."
"We're going to continue to
work hard ... but the fundamen-
tal (budget) model is sound."
Pollack will receive a salary of
$450,000 - less than Hanlon's
$509,000 - according to Univer-
sity spokesman Rick Fitzgerald.
Fitzgerald added that there
was no search committee formed
to hire a new Provost, but Cole-
man consulted various people
across campus while making her
decision.
"I consulted with a lot of
people around the institution
because obviously anybody tak-
ing that role you want to make
sure that they are establishing
good relationships - that they
are clear, that they take advice -
and all those things come togeth-
er," Coleman said Wednesday.
In an interview in December,
Hanlon predicted the University
would choose a talented succes-
sor.
"I think we'll get someone
really terrific in the job, some-
one really skilled," Hanlon said.
"They'll know exactly what
they're doing, I'm sure."
Hanlon also granted some
advice, stressing the importance
of facilitating the vast resources
the University offers.
"We have terrific students,
and we have terrific faculty and
we've got the human resources
talent to beat any place," Han-
lon said. "It's really a question of
opportunity to take all this brain
power and talent and really take
this place to perform at an even
higher level than it has been."
was advocating for, and added
that while many students at the
University are socially aware,
he didn't think holding an event
like this in between classe won't
often draw the attention of pass-
ersby.
"No (one) really pays atten-
tion, I think," Juncaj said.
"When it comes to stuff like
this, probably 80 percent of
them kind of blow it off and
only maybe 20 percent actually
care about causes."

CRISIS
From Page 1A
anchor of ABC's "Good Morning
America."
The team with the best solu-
tion to the crisis will be awarded
$10,000, followed by second and
third place prizes of $5,000 and
$2,500, respectively. The win-
ning team will also be recog-
nized by former President Bill
Clinton at the upcoming CGIU
conference in April in St. Louis.
Mary Tam, senior manager of
the Up to Us campaign, said the
economy isn't usually given as
much attention among college
students asother issues.
"A lot of people think of sus-
tainability as social and environ-
mental sustainability, but fiscal
sustainability is equally impor-
tant," Tam said.
Tam said the competition is
aimed at getting college students
involved in a conversation about
our country's fiscal future-a
discussion they're often the least
engaged in.
"So the reason we were really
excited to sign up for this is that
it's another way to really empow-
er young leaders to be able to say
to their peers, 'Hey; guess what?
All these discussions and deci-
sions are happening without us,
and we're the ones who are going
to be affected by them,' " Tam
said.
She expects the variety of col-
leges involved in the competition
WHITEHEAD
From Page 1A
dents."
Megan Levad, assistant direc-
tor of the MFA Program in Cre-
ative Writing said students and
faculty are equally excited to
hear Whitehead speak.
"We're all interested in his
play with the genre," Levad said.
"Colson Whitehead is particu-
larly good at honing in on what's
going on in pop culture and
popular fiction and bringing his

to produce interesting results.
"We're dealing with a bunch
of different campuses with a
bunch of different campaign
perspectives and activities, and
that's great," Tam said. "That's
the whole point, but it makes it
hard to have this objective judg-
ing process."
Business junior Richard Wu,
campaign director of the Uni-
versity's team and vice president
of operations in the University's
Net Impact Undergrad club,
applied for the competition in
October, along with students
from 44 other universities.
Wu said the University's team
is taking a fresh approach to
potential crisis solutions.
"What we're trying to do is
really different from other uni-
versities," Wu said. "We plan to
engage people from a fun and
enjoyable standpoint rather than
lecturing - this is what it is, dry
and boring."
Wu added that the economy
is incredibly relevant to college
students and topics including job
and earning potential and stu-
dent debt.
"Those are all topics that per-
tain to students, and they should
really be more aware that the
federal debt, especially, plays a
really big part in it," Wu said.
Business junior Marcella
Pearl, president of Net Impact
Undergrad, is also on the team.
She said the competition helps
to increase consciousness of the
economic climate outside of the
literary, dark, philosophical way
of understanding our contempo-
rary moment to that."
The purpose of the craft talks
is to have the students carry on
conversations with writers who
are currently creating and pub-
lishing.
"Every program invites writ-
ers, but they don't do it so inti-
mately as we do it here," Leung
said. "It's really easy to access
these writers. It's really easy
to get to know them and have a
casual conversation with them
and learn to speak with them as

University campus.
"As college students, we're the
next people going into the work
force," Pearl said. "It's impor-
tantto be aware of the world that
we're living in, and it's so easy to
just get caught up in classes and
your everyday life that it's just
like a bubble here on campus and
you lose sight of the world you're
going to be living in once you
graduate."
From Jan. 21 to March 3,
the team has many activities
planned, such as Guess the Debt
Fishbowl, a game in which stu-
dents guess the amount of fed-
eral debt flying around in a large
fishbowl and win prizes if cor-
rect: On Federal Debt Awareness
Day the team will hang posters
with facts about the federal debt.
The team was given $2,000
from Net Impact to spend on'
their campaign. Throughout the
competition, the team will be
updating their Causes website so
students can stay on top of prog-
ress and activities.
Park said he views the federal
debt as an even more far-reach-
ing problem than the current col-
lege generation.
"It's somethingthat can affect
the living standards of our gen-
eration especially," Park said. "If
this continues to go on, things
that we actually enjoy nowadays
that we think we are given, like
education - our children and
their children's children will
actually have a problem paying
for those."
people,.not just'as celebrities."
Although the craft talks are
geared toward writers, both
the talk and reading are open
to the public, meaning students
and literature fans alike are
welcome to rub elbows with
MacArthur genius and certified
cool guy.
. The craft talk will take place
at 2 p.m. in the Hopwood Room
in Angell Hall. His fiction read-
ing will follow at 5 p.m. in the
Helmut Stern Auditorium at the
University of Michigan Museum
of Art.

ARE YOU A VISUAL LEARN ER?
DO YOU SKIM THROUGH THE
DAILY AND ONLY LOOK AT THE
PICTURES?
IF YOU CAN'T OUT DOWN YOUR CAMERA,
THE DAILY PHOTO STAFF WANTS YOU.
APPLY ONLINE AT MICHIGANDAILY.COM.
CLICK "JOIN THE DAILY," THEN CHOOSE
"PHOTOGRAPHY."
Got LD?
Need Adaptive Technology?
The Fund for Adaptive Computing Technology (FACT)
, ' Is offering up to $sooo grants
For equipment and software, except computer, for example:
Kindles, iPads, SmartPens, Dragon Naturally Speaking or MacSpeech Dictate, etc.
Students with specific learning disabilities only
Need to be registered with Services for Students with Disabilities Office
Check out Resources for Students at the SSD website
http://ssd.umich.edu


include its own resident adviser
who will be carefully selected
and undergo special training to
provide necessary resources for
the VLE.
"The RA who would ulti-
mately be situated within the
veterans living experience
would go through some spe-
cific training and orientation
about veterans' needs, veter-
ans' perspectives and some
of the challenges of older and
more worldly students," Logan
said.
The new home for veteran stu-
dents was specifically chosen for
North Quad's mix of global and
second-year students.
"Given the needs of veter-
ans, lots of them have differ-
ent life experiences, so they're
not like a traditional incoming
first-year student," Peipek said.
"Also the Global Scholars Pro-
gram and International Impact
in North Quad lends itself to
a global awareness and may
speak to experiences that vet-
erans have."
In addition to the interna-
tional environment of North
Quad, Logan believes that the
veteran students' background
will add to the initiatives of the
global learning communities
and activities sponsored by the

residence hall.
"Having a group of veterans
living in North Quad ultimately
may provide some synergies
in terms of internal program-
ming, international awareness,
multicultural competency and
so forth because veterans do
bring unique perspectives to the
table," Logan said.
In the future, Larson hopes to
provide other housing options
for veteran students, specifically
those with families.
"I think the veterans com-
munity here (is) really excited
about this opportunity," Larson
said. "We're looking at expand-
ing to family options with
Northwood Apartments and
other things that come up down
the lines."
VLE is one of two learning
communities being created by
University Housing this year.
TheGender Inclusive Living
Experience, which will be locat-
ed in East Quad Residence Hall,
has already filled up six of the 12
available beds for the fall 2013
semester.
"We're really excited to be able
to provide these housing options
for residents," Peipock said. "It's
going to start out small, but the
hope is that it will catch on and
grow."

k1


6A - Thursday, January 31, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

U.N. votes to send $1.5
billion in aid to Syria

More than 2 million
Syrians have
been uprooted
KUWAIT CITY (AP) - An
emergency U.N. appeal to raise
$1.5 billion in humanitarian
aid for.Syria exceeded its goal
Wednesday at a conference
with dire predictions of rising
civilian costs and Jordan's king
saying the refugee crunch has
pushed his nation's resources
to the breaking point.
"We are sending a message
to Syrians: You are not alone,"
said U.N. Secretary-Gener-
al Ban Ki-Moon even as he
described Syria as caught in a
"death spiral" and the condi-
tions for many civilians a "liv-
ing hell."
Wealthy Gulf nations - tra-
ditionally on the sidelines as
major donors to U.N. aid efforts
- took the lead in the latest
drive with at least $900 mil-
lion offered in a sign of their
expanding political profile
since the Arab Spring and their
role as critical regional backers
of the Syrian rebels.
But the success of swiftly
pulling together the funds was
tempered by reminders that
the aid is expected to cover the
relief costs only until summer,
highlighting the massive bur-
den to cope with needs from
Syria's civil war and its spill-
over ina region where refugees
are sometimes pouring into
camps at the rate of 3,000 a
day. The concern was evident
from Ban even as he lauded
the current outpouring, noting
that more nations will be asked
to give and others may have to
dig deeper as the Syrian crisis
grows.
The current pledges also
will likely face close scrutiny
on how quickly the money
will reach over-stretched 'aid
groups directed by the U.N.
and other agencies. Officials
in Egypt and elsewhere have
complained that many gener-
ous international offers for
help after the Arab Spring

upheavals have not yet mate-
rialized.
Another serious challenge is
trying to gain access to civil-
ians in rebel-held territory,
aid officials said. The U.N. and
other international groups
must operate out of the Syrian
capital, Damascus, and can be
left struggling to arrange con-
voys through battle lines and
making contacts with opposi-
tion groups.
"We know we are not reach-
ing all the people who need
to be reached," said the U.N.'s
humanitarian chief, Valerie
Amos, who held talks earlier
this week with Syrian officials.
Ban opened the one-day
gathering in Kuwait by. call-
ing for an end to the fighting
"in the name of humanity," yet
noted that the fighting shows
no signs of easing and crises
such as the refugee exodus to
places such as Turkey and Jor-
dan could intensify.
Jordan's economic council
said the country was already
pushed to the limit.
The kingdom has spent
more than $833 million on
aid for refugees - accounting
for nearly half the estimated
700,000 people who have fled
Syria - and that it was unable
to sustain a financial burden
that has so far siphoned off
about 3 percent of its GDP.
Some U.N. officials say the
refugee figures could approach
1 million later this year if the
conflict in Syria does not ease.
"We have reached the end
of the line. We have exhausted
our resources," said Jordan's
King Abdullah II.
Last week, the king ampli-
fied, his appeal for internation-
al help at the World Economic
Forum in Davos, Switzerland,
saying "the weakest refugees
are struggling now just to sur-
vive this year's harsh winter"
and up to 3,000 a day are still
crossing the Syria-Jordan bor-
der.
In his opening remarks to
delegates at the donors' con-
ference, Ban urged all sides
"and particularly the Syrian
government" to halt attacks

in the 22-month-old civil war
that the U.N. says has claimed
more than 60,000 lives.
"In the name of humanity,
stop the killing, stop the vio-
lence," Ban told envoys from
nearly 60 nations, including
Russia and Iran, key allies of
Assad's regime. .
Aid officials estimate that
more than 2 million Syrians
have been uprooted or are
suffering inside the coun-
try as the conflict widens --
including what peace envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi called
"unprecedented levels of hor-
ror" in an address to the U.N.
Security Council after at least
65 bodies were found Tuesday
in a suspected execution-style
killing near Aleppo.
, Before the latest donors'
conference, Ban described
the international humanitar-
ian response to Syria as "very
much limited" in comments
to the official Kuwaiti News
Agency.
But the meeting opened
with Kuwait's ruler, Sheik
Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah,
promising $300 million. It
was quickly matched by Gulf
partners Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates, which
are all major backers of Syrian
rebel factions.
Among other contributions
that pushed the total past the
U.N. goal was $184 million
from Gulf non-government
groups and charities.
On Tuesday, the European
Union and the U.S. promised
a total of nearly $300 million.
The head of the U.S. del-
egation, Assistant Secretary of
State Anne Richard, lauded the
donations from Gulf nations,
which often bankroll their
own aid efforts but are not
traditional top donors to U.N.
programs. She noted, however,
that the humanitarian funds
are to deal only with imme-
diate needs over the coming
months.
"It's good for now, but pre-
dictions are that it's not going
to be over soon," said Richard,
who deals with refugee and
migration affairs.

A

SUSAN WALSH/Daily
Former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), who was seriously injured in the mass shooting that killed six people in Tucson, Ariz,
two years ago, sits with her husband, Mark Kelly, on Capitol Hill in Washington Wednesday.
Giffords pleads for gun reform

At Senate hearing,
former rep. makes
emotional remarks
WASHINGTON (AP) -
Severely wounded and still
recovering, former Rep. Gabri-
elle Giffords begged lawmakers
at an emotional hearing Wednes-
day to act quickly to curb fire-
arms because "Americans are
counting on you." Not everyone
agreed, underscoring the nation-
al political divide over gun con-
trol.
Giffords' 80-word plea was
the day's most riveting moment,
delivered in a hushed, halting
voice two years after the Arizona
Democrat suffered head wounds
in a Tucson shooting spree that
killed six people. The session
also came two months after 20
first-graders and six womenwere
slain by a gunman who invaded
Sandy Hook Elementary School
in Newtown, Conn.
At the same hearing, a top.
official of the National Rifle
Association rejected Democratic
proposals to ban assault weapons

and high-capacity ammunition
magazines and said requiring
background checks for all gun
purchases would be ineffective
because the Obama administra-
tion isn't doing enough to enforce
the law as it is.
Even if stronger background
checks did identify a criminal,
"as long as you let him go, you're
not keeping him from getting
a gun and you're not prevent-
ing him from getting to the next
crime scene," said Wayne LaPi-
erre, the NRA's executive vice
president. He said poor enforce-
ment is "a national disgrace."
Giffords, who retired from
Congress last year, focused dur-
ing her brief appearance on the
carnage from armed assailants.
"Too many children are
dying," she said at the Senate
Judiciary Committee hearing.
"Too many children. We must do
something. It will be hard, but
the time is now."
Guiding her in and remain-
ing to testify was Mark Kelly,
the retired astronaut who is
Giffords' husband. The cou-
ple, who both owns guns, has
formed a political action com-
mittee called Americans for


Cal

RELEASE DATE- Thursday, January 31, 2013 H
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis

: #734-418-4115
ail: dailydisplay@gmail.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2013*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
WWW.800FULLER.COM
3N - (734) 769-7520
26 - 1 & 2 bdrm., modern, clean, quiet
. 5 min. walk. Free Wi-Ft.
by kU v
587.
ION
eek,
ob
ted?
m

ACROSS 2"Who Needs the
1 Treehouse Kwik-E-Mart?"
feature singer
7 Matured, as 3 "Makes no_'
cheese 4 Lawyer, at times
11 Some 5 Renewable
condensation energy subj.
14 For one 6 Equipsuafresh
15 One whosall 7 Nelson, e.g.: Abbr.
action 8 Hit the road,
16 Eggs in aclinic musically
17 llusionist'seffect 9 " mouse!"
19 Bushranger Kelly 10In one's Sunday
20 Novelist Wiesel best
21 "DaystofThunder" 11 Makea bank
org. deposit?
23 Duck 12 Top of the world
26 Diplomat'sforte 13 jump
28 Feedswithdut 18 Heplayed James
needinguseconds 32 Hutf-_.: cofes
30 Arrive order
31 Major bore 23 2002 Olympics
33 Pull (for) host, briefly
35 Kicked oneselfafor 24 "As if'
36 BBQ heat rating 25 Howshysters
37 County fair practite
competitn, 27Small crown
41 Flooring wood 29 Onetime Beatles
43 Busy time for a bassistdSutcliffe
cutoo clock 32 Led_:"Stairway
44 Italiansoccerstar to Heaven" group,
Maldini tofans
47 Manytowns have 34One whoturns a
one placeupside down
51 "Voulez-_":1979 38 Foldablesleeper
ABBA album 1 2 3 4 5
52 Big name in fol
53 Make a fine 14
impression
54 Outer limit 37
55 Discipline 20
involving slow,
steady movement 23 24 25
57 Toppled, as a
poplar 30
59 Goose egg

39 Blasted 56Audiophile's
40 Purple hue setup
41 Org. with an oft- 58 Witch costume
quoted journal stick-on
42 More racy, as 59Wet behind the
humor ears
45 Tote 61 "Spring forward"
46 Sugary suffix letters
48 "Oh, wn'tI" 62Oneoffour in a
49 Tunel effect grandsulam
50 Flve-f nger 63 ildspitze, for
discounts, so to one
speak 64 "__willikers"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:

BABYSITTER NEEDED
Two energetic 7-yr-old boys
email:sgronewold@gmail.com
CLINSITE, A LOCAL research site,
is hiring for a FULL TIME, 8-5 M-F,
Research Assistant I and aFULL
TIME, 8-5 M-F, Clinical Research Co-
ordinator I. For job requirements and
to apply for these positions call
(734) 930-3700 or click here:
www.ihacares.com/index.cfm/careers
SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY
PERKINS PICKLES IS HIRINGI
(<20 hrs) pickle slingers for sales & de-
mos in AA. Exp. in sales/restaurant/
farmers markets prfrd. Clean appear-
ance, reliable transport, & open wknds
area mast. Send resume & references
to trperkins@gmail.com. Up to $10/hr.
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100%FREE to join. Click onSurveys.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, and discounted meals.(906)
847-7196. www theislandhnne m

ANCIENT YOGA MEDITATIO
FREE CLASS - 7 Saturdays Jan
Mar 9, 2013, 10:15 - 11:45am.
Friends
Meeting. House. 1420 Hill St. A
Registration required. Must join
second session. Diane 734-678-85
STATE PARK RESERVATI
agent (Call Center). 25-35 hrs a w
$12.00/hr+$1.50 Quality Bonus. Jt
located in Downtown AA. Interes
Submit resume to Jobs@camis.cot
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAG
organization, format. All disciplint
734-996-0566 or writeon@iserv.ne
WANT TO GET noticed & gai
career competitive advantage wit
Internship? Learn & Intern!
Go to http://www.internvue.com/
unique site connecting students to
nanies. Start. Search. Connect. Suc

Responsible Solutions that
backs lawmakers who support
gun restrictions.
"We're simply two reasonable
Americans who realize we have
a problem with gun violence and
we need Congress to act," Kelly
said.
Wednesday's session played
out in a hearing room packed
to capacity. While both sides
appealed to their followers
beforehand to arrive early and
fill the room, most in the public
audience of around 150 appeared
to be gun-control sympathizers,
including relatives of the shoot-
ings at Virginia Tech.
"There should be gun control,"
said Neeta Datt of Burtonsville,
Md., who with Christa Burton
of Silver Spring, Md., was first
on line for public seats. Both
are members of Organizing for
Action, the Obama political orga-
nization that is now pushing his
legislative agenda.
The hearing kicked off a
year in which President Barack
Obama and members of Con-
gress are promising to make gun
restrictions atop priority. Obama
has already proposed requir-
ing background checks for all
gun sales and reviving both
an assault weapons ban and a
10-round limit on the size of
ammunition magazines, and
several Democrats have intro-
duced bills addressing those
and other limitations.
After the hearing, Giffords
and Kelly met privately with
Obama at the White House.
At the Capitol, senators'
remarks during the hearing
illustrated the gulf between
the two parties.
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas,
joined others in lauding Gif-
fords but expressed little inter-
est in curbing firearms.
"Unfortunately in Wash-
ington, emotion I think often
leads to bad policies," said
Cruz, a freshman elected with
strong tea-party backing. He
said gun control efforts too
often "restrain the liberties
of law-abiding citizens," not
criminals.
Republicans blamed the
nation's gun troubles on a list
of maladies including a lack
of civility, violent video games
and insufficient attention to
people with mental problems.
Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa,
top Republican on the panel,
said that while he welcomed
the renewed focus on guns,
"The deaths in Newtown
should not be used to put for-
ward any gun control proposal
that's been floating around for
years."
Democrats countered
that a need to improve gun
restrictions was obvious. Sen.
Charles Schumer of New York
said omitting gun limits from
the debate "is like not includ-
ing cigarettes when discussing
lung cancer."
Republicans and the NRA
are not the only hurdles Demo-
crats face in trying to push gun
legislation through Congress
this year. It is also unclear what '
several Democratic senators
facing re-election in GOP-lean-

ing states in 2014 will do, such
as including Sens. Max Bau-
cus of Montana, Mark Begich
of Alaska and Mark Pryor- of
Arkansas.

0

0

0

les.
iet
n a
h an
the
com-
icceed.

This is where "U"belong
Affordable Apartments
WHY PAY OVER $1,500
FOR A BED!!!
OUR ONE BEDROOMS
START AT $660.00
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
Take $150.00 off your security deposit"
**FREE BUBBLE ISLAND
DRINK COUPON WITH
EVERY NEW TOUR*o
Visit us at
universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
Ann Arbor, MI 48160
734-761-2680

xWordeditor@aol.com 01/31/12

ng ms,
describe17-,31-,
S 37-r 47-Across
65 Traditinal
London pie-and-
mash ingredient
66 New newts
67 Stereo knob
68 Funny, and a bit
twisted
69 One way to run
70 Nine-ball feature
DOWN
1 Slurp (with "up')

2013-14
PARKING FOR SALE
*Great Locations
*Centrat Campus
*Great Rates
734-761-8000
45 an www.primesh.com
"PRIME" PARKING FOR SALE
2013-14
Great Locations:
721 S. Forest $1500
1320 S. University $1500
63 64 1021 Vaughn~l Pass $960
726 State- ~1 Pass $960
520 Packard $960
515 E. Lawrence $720
511 Hoover $720
01131113 Parking for less than the rest!
Call 734-761-8000

-

AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS ON
Central Campus: WHY PAY $1,500
FOR A BED???
Our ONE bedrooms ON
SUNIVERSITY start at $660.00
**FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY,
TAKE $150.00 OFF YOUR SECU-
RITY DEPOSIT** Visit us at
www.universitytowers-mi.com
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old :West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2013.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
5 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT
May to May
423 Benjamin
Beautiful house, great location, fur-
nished, remodeled kitchen w/ 2 fridges,
washer & dryer, parking for 3 vehicles.
Prime Student Housing
734-761-8000
www.primesh.com
! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Waster/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992 !

0

CLUMSY HEARTS
A slightly misguided romance
By Hysteria Molt
Available via Amazon.com
And weep for literaturer

By Paul Hunsbeer
(c)2013 Tribune Media Services, Inc.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, January 31, 2013 - 7A

The Michigan Army ROTC received some tutoring from the Michigan women's track and field team to prepare for the competition for a prestigious badge.
To prepare for competition, ROTC
takes marc ing orders from athletes

Cadets competing
for German Armed
Forces Proficiency
Badge
By NATE SELL
Daily Sports Writer
While most of Michigan's stu-
dent body was still sleeping on a
rainy Wednesday morning, mem-
bers of the Michigan Army ROTC
program unloaded from their
vans and filed into the Indoor
Track Building. As they jogged
around the track to warm up, the
Michigan women's track team
trickled in and reported to the
locker room.
MembersoftheROTCprogram
are training to earn the German
Armed Forces Proficiency Badge
- an award given by the Ger-
man Army that is one of the few

foreign-army awards that can be
worn on the U.S. Army dress uni-
form. To earn this award, cadets
must meet standards in high
jump, long jump, shot put, sprints,
a 5,000-meter run, first aid, pistol
shootirig and a road march. Each
year, Michigan sends 10 members
of its ROTC program to the com-
petition, which is held at Indi-
ana's indoor track, where they get
to meet cadets from around the
Big Ten and Notre Dame.
The award has three levels,
depending on which standards
are met - gold, silver and bronze.
Last year, juniors Dan Sutton and
Caroline Holdren went to Indiana
and came away with the silver
badge.
"In the Army, we are only test-
ed onpush-ups, sit-ups and atwo-
mile run," Sutton said. "It was fun
to change it up and do some track-
and-field events."
Sutton and Holdren are now

serving as coaches for the cadets
headingto Indiana in February.
"It's more relaxing (as a coach),
but at the same time we want to
come out with a good outcome
and show that our training is
going to help them in the compe-
tition," Holdren said.
This year, for the first time, the
indoor track was opened up for
the ROTC program. This allowed
them to use the long-jump and
high-jump pit as well as the shot-
put cage. In addition to using the
facility, Michigan senior jumper
Sara Nitz volunteered to help
teach the cadets how to high
jump, which is one of the more
technically difficult events.,
"It was the first time I had to
put in my own little high-jump
mini-camp," Nitz said, "I hope
they got something out of it."
Nitz spent 20 minutes each
with a number of groups that
spent an hour rotating between

field events. She spent her limited
time with the cadets by setting
up their approaches and teaching
them the basic form used to get
over the bar.
"In the past we've never really
had anybody to help out," Hold-
ren said. "It's definitely a good
experience because a lot of the
times, we'll have people teaching
the events that don'tknowhow to
teach them."
One of the cadets trying to
earn the badge is sophomore Nick
Cromell, who studied at Indiana
over the summer. Using the high-
jump knowledge he acquired
from Nitz, Cromell is excited to
go back to Bloomington and com-
pete at its indoor track.
"Having someone who actually
knows what they're doingis obvi-
ously really helpful," Cromell said.
"If people are willing to come out
and help you, why wouldn't you
take advantage of that?"

Gophers top off
grueling stretch
By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team is exhausted.
After playing three games in
seven days, the Wolverines have
finlly completed the tough-
est stretch of their schedule.
The first game was against No.
8 Penn State, which edged out
Michigan (5-2 Big Ten, 16-4
overall), 59-49. Four days later,
the Wolverines went on the road
to Indiana where they trounced
the Hoosiers, 61-43. With three
days to rest, Michigan returned PATRICK BARRON/Daiiy
home to face Iowa in a disap- Michigan coach Kim Barnes Arico
pointing 63-57 loss on Sunday. called this stretch "incredibly tough."
"This was the first stretch senior center Rachel Sheffer.
for me where we had to play After a hot start, teams have
three games in a week and it was made stopping Thompson a
incrediblytough," said Michigan point of emphasis.
coach Kim Barnes Arico. "Start- "I think teams are really key-
ing with Penn State then having ing on (Thompson), and they're
to travel to Indiana and then really setting their defense to
returning (home) and having take her out of what she's capa-
to play Iowa ble of doing," Barnes Arico said.
for a second "She needs to make some adjust-
time, having Michigan at ments (and) be able to curl off
us coming off Minnesta screens.
beating them. Matchup' "We need Kate, and we need
I don't think Michigan 16-4; Rachel to make some shots for
that's an easy Minnesota 13-8 us."
week for any- When' Thurs- Sheffer, who scored her
body." day8 m s 1000th career point against
The Wol- Penn State, was held scoreless in
verines looked Where: Wil- the loss to Iowa.
fatigued in liams Arena The Golden Gophers boast
their most TV/Radio: their own 1000-point scorer
recent loss to WTKA (AM in guard Rachel Banham, who
Iowa. Hav- 1Moluecom red 37 points in Minneso-
ing outplayed ta's loss to Illinois on Monday.
the Hawkeyes Banham leads the team with
for most of the game, Michigan 21 points per game, which is
couldn't keep up in the last few good for second in the Big Ten.
minutes when fatigue started to Junior forward Micaella Riche is
kick in. That was especially true another offensive threat, averag-
for senior guard Jenny Ryan, ing 12.6 points per game and 7.2
who played just shy of all 120 rebounds.
minutes ofthe tough three-game Overall, Minnesota is a high-
stretch. powered offensive team. The
"I think I took (Ryan) out for Golden Gophers are second in
six seconds," Barnes Arico said the Big Ten in points pergame,
after the loss to Iowa. "That's averaging 71.5, so the Wolver-
probably all she's going to get. I ines will have to rely on their
think obviously she's worn out." defense to slow them down.
Unfortunately for the Wol- Meanwhile, Minnesota is in
verines, they only had a four-day the middle of a four-game losing
break before hitting the road to streak and will do everything it
face Minnesota (2-5, 13-8) on can to end it against Michigan.
Thursday. "We have to get prepared for
"Our schedule is incredibly a very good Michigan team and
tough, but we have had the abil- leave this (streak) behind us so
ity to bounce back this season," we can get better for Thursday,"
Barnes Arico said. "It's going to said Minnesota coach Pam Bor-
be tough on Thursday. Anytime ton.
you go on the road in the Big The Wolverines are tired, but
Ten, it's really hard, and I think their extra day of preparation
we have to get our toughness will prove to be critical come
back and the chip on our shoul- game time.
der back and be ready to go at "We have to rest up and get
Minnesota because everybody is a couple of days of practice in,"
gunning for us now." Barnes Arico said. "We haven't
Michigan will need an been able to do that with the
improved offensive showing three games in a week so hope-
from its leading scorers, senior fully (we'll) be more energized
forward Kate Thompson and and ready to go by Thursday."
THE NEW LINE CHINESE CUISINE
1(ai qarden CRYU
SPECIALIZING IN HONG KONG, TAIWANESE, U
SZECHUAN & HUNAN STYLES

734-995-1786
116 S. MAIN STREET
ETWEENHURONAND WASHINGTON ST.)
ANN ARBOR
WWW.KAIGARDEN.COtM

For Caesar, a
surprise record

By ALEX TAYLOR
Daily Sports Writer
When fifth-year senior Syque
Caesar walked onto the mat for
his parallel bars routine for the
Michigan men's gymnastics
team Saturday, he did so as a cap-
tain, an Olympian and a national
champion.
-After sticking his dismount,
Caesar jumped off the mat as a-
NCAA record holder.
Setting the NCAA record on
parallel bars with a score of 15.90,
Caesar eclipsed the previous
record of 15.85, set in 2008.
However, setting the record
was the last thing on Caesar's
mind as he prepared for the rou-
tine.
"Honestly, I was just trying
to hit a decent, clean routine
because we had a couple of falls
before I went," Caesar said. "I
just wanted to contribute to the
team."
Even after finishing his routine
and seeing the reaction from the
fans and his teammates, Caesar
still didn't grasp what he had just
accomplished.
"I didn't think I beat the
record," Caesar said. "All I know
is that when the score came up,
I was just pretty amped and
psyched about it. The whole team
was comingup to me congratulat-
ing me. I was just pumped."
Caesar credits a record board
hanging in the gym as his main
motivation. This board lists the
Michigan gymnast with the high-
est score in each event. Under
the parallel bar section, Caesar
had been at the top with a score
of 15.65 until the end of the last
season when junior Sam Mikulak
scored a 15.75 on the event. That
score served a constant reminder
to Caesar.
"I've been just staring at that
all preseason long, and I've been

mentally and sub-conciously
thinking, 'Man I really would
like to tie that score or beat it,"'
Caesar said. "And luckily, it just
happened this weekend. I wasn't
expecting it."
Now, Caesar's score will be
the one serving as motivation for
gymnasts on his team, as well as
gymnasts from all over the coun-
try.
Competing with gymnasts
from around the country is noth-
ing new to Caesar, who competed
for Bangladesh in the 2012 Lon-
don Games.
Unfortunately for Caesar, he
tore his left bicep just eight days
before the Olympics were set to
begin. Caesar had just recovered
from a tear in his right bicep
that ended his season that Janu-
ary. Despite this injury, Caesar
still managed to eompete in four
events while in London..
"He was 4-for-4 on routines,"
said Michigan coach Kurt Golder.
"(That) was pretty incredible to
be on that big stage when his last
meet was back in January, and
now here you are in July compet-
ing in the Olympic Games. Andhe
rocked his routines."
The Olympics were not just a
competition for Caesar, but also
a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
"My Olympic experience was
everything I could have dreamed
of and then some," Caesar said.
Caesar was particularly
impressed with the Olympic Vil-
lage, where all the athletes stay.
"The biggest thing was, when
you walk outside your apartment
in the village, no matter who was
around you, every person around
you is an Olympian," Caesar
said. "You are just surrounded
by Olympians from all over the
globe. That was just a real cool

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Fifth-year seniorSyque Caesar competed in the 2012 Olympics for Bangladesh.

experience just meeting all the
different athletes."
During the Games, Caesar was
able to interact with U.S. sprinter
Tyson Gay, men's all-around gold
medalist Kohei Uchimura as well
as the "Fierce Five", the gold-
medal-winning United States
women's gymnastics team.
In addition to meeting other
athletes, Caesar also attended
other competitions such as div-
ing, track and field and the gym-
nastics events.
In addition to the memories
Caesar acquired while in London,
he was able to take some valuable
lessons back to Ann Arbor with
him.
"In terms of gymnastics, I've
just raised my personal stan-
dards, my gymnastics potential
and where I want to be," Caesar
said. "My standards weren't as
high before, but now I have a bet-
ter understanding of what is pos-
sible, and what I can do and how
far I can go."
The lessons and experiences

he obtained during the Olym-
pics, coupled with the Olympic
experiences of fellow Olympian
Mikulak, have helped out each
gymnast individually, as well as
their teammates.
This higher standard is appar-
ent in the way the Wolverines
carry themselves each day to the
expectations and goals they have
for themselves.
"No. 1 goal is not anything
personal: it's all about the team,"
Caesar said. "We know exactly
what our goal is. Our goal is to
win the Big Ten team title and
win the NCAA team title."
If anyone knows how to lead
his team to these goals, it's Cae-
sar. As a freshman, he was part of
a Michigan team that took the Big
Ten team title. This was followed
up by a sophomore season that
included a NCAA team title.
With this experience under his
belt, along with his newly minted
NCAA record, Caesar's full atten-
tion will be on the team and help-
ing it bring home some hardware
this year.
"Everyone on the team is hun-
gry to do that," Caesar said.


8A - Thursday, January 31, 2013Te c a i m gdy

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam


McGary, Horford
answer the call

Redshirt sophomore forward Jon Horford recorded a season high in both points (10) and rebounds (seven) in Michigan's win over Northwestern on Wednesday.
For u wi is a rout

By STEVEN BRAID
DailySports Editor
Playing in its first game ranked
No. 1Sin the country in 21 years,
the Michigan men's basketball
team certainlylooked the part.
Despite playing without their
starting center, redshirt junior
Jordan Morgan, the Wolverines
(7-1 Big Ten, 20-1 overall) used
a high-
powered N'WESTERN 46
attack to MICHIGAN 68
jump out to
a 15-pointhalftime lead and never
looked back, defeating North-
western 68-46.
"That was huge for us," said
freshman forward Glenn Rob-
inson III of the first-half run. "It
got a lot of people's confidence up,
and coming out on a run like that.
is always great forthe team."
After trailing 7-5 in the early
minutes of the contest, Michigan
used hot shooting and a speedy
offensive attack to take control
against the Wildcats (3-6, 12-10).
Sparked by 14 consecutive points
from freshmen, the Wolverines
electrified Crisler Center with
an 18-4 run, which included two
3-pointers from freshman guard
Nik Stauskas and two dunks from
Robinson.
By the end of its run, Michigan
had connected on 10 of its first
11 shots and sank all three of its
shots from behind the arc.
"Northwestern gave us differ-
ent looks ... so it was importantto
get into the middle and kick it out
to the open man," saidsophomore
guard Trey Burke.
The Wolverines, who played as

close to mistake-free basketball
as possible in the first half, held
a 36-21 advantage at halftime.
Led by Burke's 10 points and six
assists on 4-of-6 shooting, Michi-
gan entered intermission with 10
assists and no turnovers, while
committing just one foul.
The freshman trio of Robinson,
Stauskas and McGary combined
to shoot 9-of-10 from the field in
the opening stanza, totaling 23
points. Stauskas had three of the
team's five makes from deep.
"(In the first half), the assist
numbers were really some-
thing," said Michigan coach John
Beilein. "Trey set the tone early.
He found Nik, he found (junior
guard) Tim (Hardaway Jr.), he
found the big men - he did a tre-
mendous job. That's really how
we have to play."
The Wolverines came out of
the locker room a little flat, and
Northwestern took advantage,
cutting Michigan's lead to nine
points in the opening minutes
of the second half. Even after
Beilein called a timeout five min-
utes into the stanza, the Wolver-
ines continued to display a lack of
intensity.
But with a 10-point lead with
seven minutes gone by in the
second period, the Wolver-
ines revved up their energy.
Sparked by four straight points
from Burke, and hounding team
defense, Michigan went on an
18-7 run to stretch its lead to 21
points with six minutes remain-
ing in the game.
"I think that we just needed
to step up defensively, and that's
what we did," Robinson said.

By COLLEEN THOJ
Daily Sports Editor
With a boot on h
foot, the defensive roc
Michigan men's basketb
walked around the cour
warm-ups, watching hi
mates do their pregame
before taking on Northw
Redshirt junior forwi
dan Morgan wasn't able
Wednesday night agai
Wildcats due to a righ
injury sustained against
but that wasn't an issue
Wolverines. With freshi
ward Mitch McGary as
contributor off the bei
redshirt sophomore fore
Horford back from an inj
1 Michigan had no prob
ing a weak Northwester
court, defeating the M
68-46.
Horford
was called to
start in Mor- 4tY
gan's place 1
but McGary the
and Horford
basically split d
minutes, as
Michigan
coach John
Beilein usually does for
men. The duo combine
points and 18 rebounds
ford even got three bli
Northwestern's Alex Ola
played clean defense,c
ting a total of just four ft
Horford noted that M
assistant coach Bacari.
der stressed playing er
defense to keep from ge
foul trouble, as the dept
have been an issue aga
Wildcats with just two m
wards in the rotation.
"It was a defensiver
(before the game), you
make up for (Morgan's a
you have to be the anchc
defense," Horford said
have to do the stuff Jord
so well, and I feel likev
pretty good job.
"(Defense) is just str
lot because Jordan do
a great job. He's exce
playing tough defense,
fouling. Mitch and mys
a tendency to be more
sive in some areas that
us to get fouls, (and) Jor
a great job reminding us
calm and not to get too ai
McGary played as he t
does, providing energy
bench and grabbing r

MAS - he tied a career-best with 11
r boards on Wednesday - and
got his typical 'minutes. Both
is right McGary and Horford were
k of the effective defensively, holding
all team Olah and Jared Swopshire to
t during just 18 points and 11 rebounds.
s team- Beilein was impressed with
routine Horford's progression since
vestern. returning from injury on Jan.
ard Jor- 13 and noted how well the red-
to start shirt sophomore rebounded
nst the Wednesday night, saying he got
it ankle rebounds "only Jon Horford
Illinois, could get."
for the Sophomoreguard TreyBurke,
man for- who was integral in finding
a solid either of the two forwards post-
nch and ing up in the paint for an easy
eard Jon layup, reflected Beilein's senti-
ury, No. ments, saying how he thought
lem fac- Horford deserved the starting
n front- job on Wednesday.
Wildcats, "Horford did a real phenom-
enal job, we call it 'the next man
up,' Burke
said. "He
)u have to do just came out
playing at a
stuff Jordan high level. He
got us a lot of
)es so well." extra posses-
sions on the
offensive and
defensive end, *
the big got to the free-throw line, hit his
d for 16 free throws. If he can bring that
- Hor- every game, it can be another
ocks on strength forus."
h - and Before Morgan's injury,
commit- though, there had been a lot of
uls. speculation as to whether or not
tichigan McGary would start in place of
Alexan- Morgan sometime down the
ror-free stretch. Recently, Beilein has
etting in shot down any idea of McGary
:h could starting, as he's been consistent
inst the off the bench, but the coach
rain for- asked the freshman on Tuesday
what he felt about starting in
message place of Morgan.
have to "I said to Mitch McGary,
bsence), 'Mitch, what do you.feel about
or of the tomorrow? I don't know what to
d. "You do yet, you (and Jon) both prac-
Ian does ticed well,' " Beilein said. "He
we did a said, 'Coach, I've been coming
off the bench for two years, I'm
essed a cool with coming off the bench.'
es such That really helped us make the
Alent at decision. Jon would've done the
without same thing. ... Talk about sacri-
elf have fice."
aggres- NOTE: When asked about
causes Morgan's status for the top-five
dan did showdown against Indiana,
s to stay Beilein expressed uncertain-
nxious." ty. Beilein said Morgan has
ypically responded well to rehab but did
off the not go through live practice on
ebounds Tuesday.

Sophomore guard Trey Burke had just one turnover against the Wildcats.

Northwestern never got clos-
er than 19 points the rest of the
game. Though Michigan's shoot-
ing wavered late in the contest,
the Wolverines .kept up their
defensive intensity, applying
pressure up until the final min-
utes of the game.
The Wildcats shot just 37 per-
cent from the field, connecting on
four of their 19 3-point attempts.
They were led on the offensive
end by center Alex Olah. The
freshman totaled 10 points and
three rebounds and was the only
player on Northwestern to reach
double-digit points.
Burke ended the contest with
game highs of 18 points and eight
assists, and turned the ball over

only once - half of Michigan's
season-low two giveaways.
Replacing the injured Morgan
in the starting lineup, redshirt
sophomore forward Jon Hor-
ford finished with a season-high
10 points, seven rebounds and
three blocks. He gave a big boost
to the Wolverines, scoring all of
his points after halftime. McGary
came off the bench to contribute
a season-high 11 boards and six
points.
"(Horford) really performed
well," Beilein said. "He's doing a
better job of playing big and was
huge tonight. He got a couple
rebounds tonight that only red-
shirt freshman forward Jon Hor-
ford can get."

ICE HOCKEY
Boo Nieves: scary fast


By LIZ VUKELICH "He's a really dynamic skater,"
Daily Sports Editor Berenson said. "He can just take
off and leave everyone behind.
Just because it's not easy to He's got that burst of speed with
find bright spots in this year's him, and he's got the skills to go
Michigan hockey team doesn't - with it."
mean they're not there. They That couldn't have been more
exist, they are just reflected in evident than during the Wol-
ways other than the team's over- verines' contest with Western
all record. Michigan last Friday night. Just
To find one, just look to for- minutes into the first frame,
ward Boo Nieves, the freshman Nieves skated across center ice,
currently leading the Wolverines weaving in and out of the Bron-
in assists with 12, who finds a cos' defenders. A quick dish
way to be at the right place at the
right time.
Though Nieves - a New York «
Rangers draft pick - was a "He can just
highly touted recruit coming in,
Michigan coach Red Berenson takeoffand
was still uncertain about how
his transition to the college game leave everyone
would be, considering Nieves behind."
was coming in straight from
prep school, instead of playing
with a junior league in the inter-
im - he skated with the Indiana
Ice of the United States Hockey to sophomore forward Phil Di
League for about a month. Giuseppe was all it took to set up
"I think (the transition) is a goal.
going pretty well," Nieves said. It was a seemingly simple
"I think it's definitely the speed pass, but for a team that's been
of everything. Everyone's a little relying on scrappy, garbage goals
bit faster, everyone's a little bit throughout the season, it was
stronger. I wasn't really used to one of Michigan's more beautiful
that at first." plays.
If adjusting to speed was one Nieves registered more ice
of his concerns coming into time than usual this past week-
Michigan, Nieves has done a end, which Berenson said was
good job hiding it - his agility a reward for Nieves' hard work
has quickly set him apart from and playmaking ability.
some of the other Wolverines. In a season in which seasoned

upperclassmen have severely
underperformed, Nieves has
been one of the team's steadier
players. And that's pretty reas-
suring, considering week-to-
week consistency is one of the
hardest things for rookies.
Typically, the freshman class
starts hitting its peak at the
beginning of the second semes-
ter, so the coaches are still
expecting more from Nieves in
the remaining eight games of the
regular season.
It appears that the only hitch
in Nieves' freshman campaign
is the Wolverines' overall per-
formance. 4s Berenson points
out, even when a player has a
fantastic weekend, a team loss
can easily overshadow the acco-
lades - Nieves, along with fellow
standout freshmen Jacob Trouba
and Andrew Copp, hasn't had
the chance to see what a win-
ning Michigan program looks
like since starting their college
careers.
For now, though, it seems like
Nieves is putting his individual
accomplishments on the back
burner, at least until Michigan
finds its footing again.
"It's mostly a team effort,"
Nieves said. "No one guy is going
to carry the team. We've got to
Scome together collectively. It
has been frustrating as a whole,
(and) it's not any few guys that
aren't working hard. We've just
got to apply and put it all togeth-
er."

C Fc NATIONAL COLLEGE
Ii FINANCE CENTER
www.ColleeFinanCCCenter.org
The cost of attending college continues to skyrocket, and far too many
students are graduatingwith debt that can cripple them financially for
decades. As it becomes more difficult and confusing for consumers to
negotiate the multitude of for-profit websites and other programs
offering conflicting information about financial aid, the National
College Finance Center is a free, first-stop, unbiased resource to help
educate students, prospective students, graduates and families all
across the country about their options for financing a college education
and repaying student loans.
Pow ered by Pepe rCi e
We Help People Pay For College _


the bsid e

The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com | Thursday, January 31, 2013
INTO REDDIT
BYJUIN IDN DIY4RT RIE

J its 2 a.m. on a Tuesday, to allow less tech-savvy individuals
five weeks into your the same kind of social bookmarking
first semester in college. experience as del.icio.us and Digg offer,
Your paper is due for Reddit puts any given submitted link's
that Academic Writing fate in the userbase's hands.
and Literature class on some poet no Users submit all of the content
one dead or alive ever cared about in posted to Reddit, with the exception
six-and-a-half hours. You're on your of blog posts and announcements
computer, but it's late enough that your provided by Reddit's staff. The
Twitter feed is updating at a snail's pace community, consisting of Redditors,
and your Facebook chat bar is void of can then promote ("upvote") or demote
little green dots. Are you going to peel ("downvote") user-submitted content
your eyes away from your browser based on individual preferences,
and start filling that blindingly white, determining what gets the highest
painfully empty digital page in Word? No. visibility.
You're going on Reddit because Emily It's one of the only places on the
Dickinson can shove it. Internet where you can find professional
You're bombarded by new gaming coverage, metaphysical
information. Pages on pages of blue discussion, intelligent (and not-so-
links and illegible thumbnails tempt intelligent) discourse on world politics
your cursor. You're finding out what and business and, of course, hundreds of
others have just recently discovered, and thousands of pictures of cats. One of the
smile smugly when someone's "Today I Internet's most infamous time-wasters
Learned" has been in your repertoire for and a beaming monument to what
years. You browse through thousands of Internet communities can accomplish,
replies to a thread asking for fan theories. Reddit is (under the mountains of
Your tired lips hint at a smile when you memes) an awesome example of what
find out about the new Daft Punk album, can happen when millions of like-
and you laugh - but not loud enough minded people come together.
to wake up your sleeping, responsible With 30-million submitted links and
roommate - at a pun-prone raccoon. posts in 2012 alone, Reddit owes part
of its success to a network of separate
A community built on versatility boards - subreddits - dedicated to
specific topics. This system allows users
Founded in June 2005 by University to pick and choose what they want to
of Virginia graduates Steve Huffman and see and when. Individuals can view their
Alexis Ohanian, Reddit has exploded own "front page," an amalgamation of
in recentyears in terms of popularity subreddits they are subscribed to, or see
and content diversity. Initially dubbed individual subreddits individually.
a "news aggregator," whose intent was See REDDIT, Page 3B

v

*,

0


2B - Thursday, January 31, 2013

The Michigan Daily°- michigandaily.com

Indispensible
music of
Bollywood

t aont e all ny inxm t a
studying literature, or art or the
humanities serves any practical
purpose whatsoever," said Enoch
Brater, University English and
Theatre professor and Kenneth T.
Rowe Collegiate Professor of Dra-
matic Literature. "What it-does do
is open your mind in a way that
will stay with you for the rest of
your life."
There are many different ways
to define art - music, drama,
literature, painting, sculpture,
dance ... the list is conceivably
endless. However, few people
have had a career as prolific as
Brater, who has made an art form
out of art appreciation itself. As a
renowned scholar of playwrights
Samuel Beckett and Arthur Mill-
er, he has spent the past 37 years
explaining the unique artistry of
Beckett, Miller and the epony-
mous Shakespeare to University
students and academia at large.
He has also had seven books pub-

lished about these playwrights, as
well as countless essays and chap-
ters printed in other anthologies.
"Drama is a collaborative art.
Writing as a collaborator, as a,
director, as an actor, as a scene
designer, you become part of a
group when you write a play," he
explained. "I find that dynamic
very alive, very human, very open,
with lots and lots of potential."
Brater majored in English at
New York University and even-
tually moved on to Harvard Uni-
versity. There, he was a jack of all
trades, earning a Ph.D in English
and also participating in the Har-
vard Dramatic Club, directing
and acting with famed perform-
ers, including John Lithgow and
Tommy Lee Jones. He also found
time to learn French, Italian
and Spanish, though he said this
almost as an afterthought to his
other accomplishments.
"I did lots of acting and direct-
ing, butI was always surrounded
by a group of people who were
much more talented then I was,"
Brater admitted with a laugh.
"Of course, they went on to have
huge careers in the theater and
film, and I became a professor of
drama."
* Though he has had the oppor-
tunity to teach at both Harvard
and University of Pennsylvania,
his enthusiasm for Michigan is
refreshing.
"Michigan is great. I cannot
imagine having a career for so
long at another university. Mich-
igan has a lot of self-confidence

. . ... ... .

For months, I've been
singing the praises of
Bollywood musicals, so
it's high time I focused on one
indispensable aspect: music. It's
as integral
to the Indian -
film industry
as cameras or
actors - even
if they aren't
full-blown
musical
numbers, PROMA
the music in KHOSLA
Bollywood
movies is as
distinct and
lasting as the films themselves.
The relationship between
music and movies in India stems
from a long and ancient tradition
of intertwined art forms. Stu-
dents of Indian classical dance
cannot complete their training
without basic knowledge of act-
ing (abhinaya) and instrumental
music. Time and key signatures
change between dance styles and
individual pieces, creating a rep-
ertoire that is far more diverse to
a trained viewer.
Similarly, Indian actors could
never get by on basic theater
knowledge and good looks (theo-
retically); they must be able to
dance and bring true life to the
choreography they are given -
often with an equally talented
ensemble backingthem up.
The Bollywood film at its fin-
est is a showcase of the bestblend
of Indian art forms. Accolades go
(as in the West) to the director,
producer, cast and crew - but
also to choreographers, compos-
ers, art directors and lyricists.
Film soundtracks are the
equivalent of mainstream music
in the United States. Knowing
songs from the new movie "Stu-
dent of the Year" is the Indian
equivalent of having heard the
new Justin Timberlake single.
I'm less informed if I miss a
soundtrack; I've missed a pop-
culture moment and need to
catch up right away to stay cool."
I grew up with Bollywood
music and, for close to a decade,
was almost determinedly
unaware of any other genres. I
wouldn't get into the car with my
parents without the latest movie
soundtrack, and we still have an
enviable collection of Bollywood
cassettes collecting dust in a
prominent display in our base-
ment.
Up until the past decade,
Bollywood music was almost
universally of the highest stan-
dard. Even the worst films had
excellent music, and it's not
uncommon for songs to outlast
the movies which debuted them.
For instance, even my generation
knows 1993's provocative "Choli
Ke Peechhe Kya Hai" ("What
is behind my blouse"), but I'm
willingto bet a sizable amount of
rupees that none of us have seen
its parent film "Khalnayak" -
let alone heard of it. "Chhaiyya

Chhaiyya" is probablythe most
salient Bollywood song of my
lifetime (so far) but I've never
seen more than five minutes of
"Dil Se" - and it's usuallythe five
minutes surrounding the song.
For outstanding films, the
soundtrack takes on a life of its
own in prolongingthe work's
longevity. The only reason I
have a special place in my heart
for "Hum Aapke Hai Kaun" is
because of the countless hours
spent in my living room danc-
ing to "Didi Tera Devar" with
my best friend when we were
four. "Kuch Kuch Hota Hai" is
still one of my favorite films and
whenever one of its songs comes
up on iTunes shuffle I just cry
and laugh (craugh) and have to
let the whole thing play out. I
don't think I can watch the movie
without singing along, and I cer-
tainly can't sing along without
making every facial expression
demanded.
Yet as with so many other
aspects of Bollywood movies,
music has taken a hit over the
past 10 years with the rapid
confusion of modernization
and Westernization. The semi-
classical basis of composers like
A.R. Rahman have been replaced
by techno-pop beats and music
designed for the "discos" (Bolly-
woodseverely overestimates the
prevalence of disco in the West).
Beautiful lyrics penned by poets
like Javed Akhtar and Gulzar are
replaced by directors' requests
for random English lyrics, rap
interludes and phrases like "Rock
the dance floor" and "Party on
my mind."
Leave the disco
balls at home.
The reason I mentioned
"Student of the Year" earlier
is because, in a year severely
lacking good Hindi songs, this
entire soundtrack was enter-
taining and original without
pandering to the audience Bol-
lywood thinks it wants. There
are sporadic English lyrics, but
nothing that takes itself too seri-
ously. Each song is distinct and
doesn't blur into the sound of
others, but they lend themselves
perfectly to a mash-up, which I
unfailingly listen to every day.
New or old, Bollywood music
still comforts me just as the
films do. The songs evoke mem-
ories of my favorite movies and
where I was when I saw them,
or remind me how much I love
dancing and acting along with
these stories. When ISplay a Bol-
lywood song, I get to be part of
the magic, and for five minutes,
real life can wait.
Khosla is craughing. To
offer her a tissue , e-mail
pkhosla@umich.edu.

I
4

MARLENE LACASSE/Daily
Brater considers the arts as a tool for connecting with others.

about itself," he said. "There is
no pretension here that you still
have in the Ivy League. And that
can get in the way of learning."
Brater continued that he
appreciates how his profound
love of learning (as a self-pro-
fessed, life-long nerd) is reflect-
ed with such enthusiasm and
engagement in University stu-
dents.
"One of the things that I
learned when I first came to
Michigan that impressed me
about Michigan students is that
if they don't know something,
they will raise their hand and
ask you."
His extended dedication to
the University has also afforded
him many enviable opportuni-
ties, in particular the chance to
foster a personal relationship
with Arthur Miller, celebrated

playwright and alum.
"Arthur Miller was an
extremely unpretentious person,"
Brater said. "He would talk to the
President or the street cleaner in
the same way. And I admire that
lack of pretension, I think it's a
remarkable thing."
Brater illustrates an incred-
ible part of attending the Univer-
sity. As students from very diverse
backgrounds and academic cul-
tures, we have the valuable oppor-
tunity of learning from professors
who have personal relationships,
with the very subjects they are
teaching about. Brater believes
this opportunity goes both ways.
"The idea of sharing one's
interest and enthusiasm with very
bright and enthusiastic young stu-
dents is terrific. There is nothing
like it."
-NATALIE GADBOIS

0'

Fox
sd-alone characters. Having
dy jump out of the ceiling
sot the way. Yes, the creepy
gar Allen 'Poe masks finally
ke an appearance, but, like
rest of the episode, elicit
re laughs than shrieks.
-AKSHAYSETH


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.cam

Thursday, January 31, 2013 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, January 31, 2013 - 3B

Reddit isn't just the front-page
content of an image board of a link
aggregator-it's got so many
40 * different parts and has become a
platform and tool for a community.
- Reddit General Manager Erik Martin

HEALH AND FITNESS COLUMN
Fat is not
always the
enemy

RED
From
"No
there's
of lik
give y
ideas
ing st
erator
Arbor
is in ec
contei
Th
intere
almos
(Advi
popul
lion s
image
boast
ers),
cussiol
events
"polit
over
The fo
will a
avid R
more t
crust
and p
Stra
millio
users
reddit
case h
nearly
card g
video
story-
scienc
"AskS
cussio
users
from
to p
"learn
infora
one as
teams
states
hobbi
from
base.
"Re
page c
a link
differe
platfo
ty as m
Erik N
Reddi
The M
Th
and 4
in 201
sive c
tives s
Pizza

DIT which offer food, advice and aid
iT to members going through rough
Page 1 B times.
Other Reddit-based initia-
matter what you like to do, tives anchored offline include
s a community out there full location-specific, real-life
e-minded people that will meetups and a Guinness World
ou their experiences or new Record-setting Secret Santa gift
or feedback on your exist- exchange, which included more
uff," said Kevin Davis, mod- than 58,000 participants in 126
of /r/AnnArbor - the Ann countries in 2012.
subreddit. Its mass appeal Reddit has been open-source
qual parts due to its diverse since 2008, and many develop-
nt and its users. ments have come from contri-
ese run the gamut of butions from the community.
sts. Several are devoted Third-party sites like metared-
t entirely to image macros dit and stattit aggregate data
ceAnimals being the most about traffic and content.
ar, with upwards of L9-mil- "We've worked really hard
ubscribers) and amusing this past year on (improving)
s ("funny" and "pics" both open-source and developer
over 3-million subscrib- resources," said Martin. "They'll
while others promote dis- enable the community and third-
in and discovery of current party developers and students
s ("worldnews," "science," doing cool research projects to
ics" and "technology" have make some really cool stuff on
2.4-million subscribers). and with Reddit."
srmer group is what people "Offline meetups have played
ssociate Reddit with, while a big part, especially at the local
Zedditors know that there's level," Martin said about the
to be discovered under the influence of the Reddit commu-
of Facebook feed pictures nity and the sense of community
assive-aggressive notes. at the subreddit level. "In the
aying from the multi- big cities, people are meeting up
n subscriber subreddits, offline ... almost once a day."
will find a wealth of sub- The transcendence of inter-
:s such as those that show- action from the virtual to the
high-quality photography, physical adds another layer of
every possible trading solidity to Reddit's community.
same, TV show, book series, There's something for every-
game and discussion/ one on Reddit, and it's for
based boards. "Shittyask- this reason that the site is so
e" is a satirical take on immensely popular. It's not
cience," one of many dis- entirely without its drawbacks
in-centric' boards where - Reddit's 20-some-odd person
interested in everything team sometimes struggles to
history ("AskHistorians") keep up with the size and vari-
irogramming ("Python," ability of the site, and not all sub-
programming") share reddits are the most enjoyable
nation. Most cities have places on earth. But the team is
well as universities, sports aware of what they need to do
(/r/MichiganWolverines), for Reddit in the future and are
, celebrities, languages and taking steps to make it happen.
es. What sets the site apart "Improvements we've made
others, though, is its user- in the infrastructure will pay off
in some interesting ways in the
ddit isn't just the front- next year ... (and) talking with
ontent or an image board or the community as openly as we
aggregator, it's got so many can about how to make money, I
ent parts and has become a think will be interesting," Mar-
rm and tool for a communi- tin said. "This site doesn't run
well as a community itself," itself and we don't have huge
Martin, general manager of costs, but we need to somehow
t, said in an interview with make money and we want to do
tichigan Daily. that the right way, and having
that whole conversation out in
Virtual to physical public with our community is
the only way to do it ... I think
e 260-million comments people will appreciate that."
00-million unique visitors Following Digg's v4 remodel-
2 attest to that. As do mas- ing where it became heavily lit-
community-driven initia- tered with advertising, Reddit
uch as the Random Acts of experienced a surge in its user-
and Assistance subreddits, base. The massive influx perma-

nently shaped Reddit, eventually about them."
leading to the site it is today.

A one-sided conversation
One of the real and tangible
drawbacks for discussion is Red-
dit's somewhat liberally-biased
and demographically-skewed
community.
."There's what they call the
'Hivemind,' which is (when)
once a popular opinion has been
established or upvoted enough,
people don't seem to think
critically and independently
anymore; they' just say 'yeah,
that guy, what he said,' " Davis
explained.
This can lead to some pretty
one-sided conversations - espe-
cially when it comes to touchy
subjects such as politics and
religion. Engineering fresh-
man Damian Rotarov has also
noticed the groupthink mental-
ity on the site.
"Because there are so many
people, it can really open your
eyes to some of the problems in
the world," Rotarov said. "It can
kind of corrupt your viewpoints,
though. I've noticed that I've
started leaning towards what
'they' believe on Reddit, and I
don't know if it's because it's
what I believe or because I spend
so much time there."
A loose moderating system
is in place, with each subred-
dit having a number of modera-
tors overlooking its content.
Irrelevant, inflammatory and
explicitly promotional content
is removed, and many subreddits
have restrictions on what can
and cannot be posted. Each sub-
reddit's individual rules contrib-
ute to the flavor of each user's
experience.
Davis said beyond promoting
the subreddit in real life, he likes
to take a hands-off approach to
the content of the discussions
to focus on Internet trolls and
spam links. The subreddit tends
to focus around orienting new-
comers, recommending locales,
local news and organizing meet-
ups. He also remarked that his
job in IT outside of beinga mod-
erator has been made easier by
using Reddit.
"I've had several threads
where I've either posted some-
thing to a community asking for
advice and gotten a lot of helpful
comment and replies and there
are a lot of great new ideas,"
.Davis said. "In my last position,
I was the entire IT division, so
it was really helpful to see what
other professionals were install-
ing and what their opinion was

The pub of the 21st century
For students in the United
States, where our vote is only one
among hundreds of millions, the
miniature power trip resulting
from pushing a struggling post
upwards or shoving it down-
wards into the depths of the
Internet is a gift in and of itself.
Obviously an efficient and - if
used responsibly - educational
procrastinating tool, Reddit can
be used as an escape from that
awful philosophy lecture taken
for distribution requirements.
LSA Sophomore Julia Ches-
brough has found Reddit useful
as an artist's resource.
"I have used it to see what
type of art people are working
on and ... for inspiration. You
can get different perspectives on
things," Chesbrough said. "You
can post some of your artwork
and geta lot of feedback."
It can also be used to supple-
ment knowledge in a given field.
Hobbyists of all kinds flock to
Reddit with tips and tricks, and
the newest technologies are
always being linked to relevant
boards. Looking for an app to
improve productivity? A wealth
of posts comparing different
sites and software is a search
away. Need some tips on work-
ing out? Reddit's fitness commu-
nity is as active as any other part
of the site.
"It's away to kill time.... There
are so many broad subjects; so
many different things that you
can get lost in different topics,"
Rotarov said.
There are subredoits dedi-
cated to making informed pur-
chasing decisions on household
appliances, video games and
more. New music? Dozens of
active boards link to the fresh-
est tracks from known and
unknown artists. Debating
whether or not to see a movie?
Barring some seriously hive-
mind-based conversation, you're
likely to find useful comments,
and reviews.
In an age where so much hap-
pens behind a screen - texting
instead of calling, e-mail instead
of snail mail - and where there's
so much pressure to find out
what you want to do with your
life, finding and fleshing out
your own hobbies and interests
can sometimes take a backseat to
studying and a social life. Reddit
provides a network of like-mind-
ed people a few clicks away.
In Davis's words, "It's the pub
of the 21st century."

hen people hear
the word "fat," the
thoughts that follow
aren't usually positive. Those
who have struggled with their
weight might
regress to
days of ridi-
cule on the
playground,
or perhaps
just yester-
day, whenA
someone CARLY
called them KEYES
"fat," even if
it was only
them looking in the mirror.
In today's society, the pres-
sure to stay thin, trim, ripped .
and toned is overwhelming.
So, inevitably, fat becomes the
enemy in the battle to beat the
bulge. Thankfully, there are
tons of "low-fat" options, right?
Wrong. If an item is labeled
"low-fat," most of the time that
just means it's packed with
sugar and carbohydrates (which
end up being stored as fat in the
long run).
I can label a one-pound bag
of sugar "zero-percent fat,"
and that's the truth. I always,
always, always read the nutri-
tion labels on low-fat products
- the statistics and the ingre-
dients - and you should, too.
You'll be shocked by what you
discover.
Fat is one of the most misun-
derstood nutritional concepts
because of its universal negative
connotation. But there is such
a thing as healthy fat, and it's
critical to our diet. Consuming
the right kind of fat and in the
right amount will not only curb
our hunger and keep us satiated
longer, but it can prevent the
onset of life-threatening health
conditions.
So, what exactly is healthy
fat? Sounds like an oxymoron, I
know. Let's start by identifying
unhealthy fat. Its overconsump-
tion has largely contributed to
the current obesity crisis in the
United States and the leading
cause of death: cardiovascular
disease.
Saturated fat is found in ani-
mal products, such as cheese,
red meat, poultry, butter and
whole-milk products, and too
much of it increases bad choles-
terol levels and the risk of heart
disease and Type-II Diabetes.
The American Heart Associa-
tion (AHA) recommends limit-
ing saturated fat to no more
than 7 percent of your daily
caloric intake.
Trans fat occurs naturally
in some animal products, but
is mostly created during food
processing through partial
hydrogenation of saturated fats.
It's a common ingredient in
margarine, shortening, snack
foods and commercial baked
goods, and it's equally detri-
mental to our health. The AHA
suggests limiting trans fat to

no more than 1percent of your
total daily calories.
Now, on to the heakhy fats!
Polyunsaturated and mono-
unsaturated fat provide us with
Omega-3, Omega-6 and Omega-
9. I know they sound like a band
of robot brothers straight out
of "Transformers," but they're
actually fatty acids that are
essential to our health.
Omega-3 and Omega-6 are
polyunsaturated fats that play
roles in building healthy cells
and maintaining brain and
nerve function, among other
important bodily functions. We
cannot produce them on our
own, so the only source is food.
Fatty fish like salmon, mack-
erel and tuna are packed with
Omega-3, so I've started mak-
ing salmon burgers instead of
using beef and adding grilled
tuna to my salads. To get my
Omega-6 fix, instead of lather-
ing my frying pan with butter,
I use plant-based oils like olive
or canola.
Omega-9 is a monoun-
saturated fat that the body can
produce, but is also beneficial
to obtain in food. It helps
eliminate plaque buildup in the
arteries reducing the chance of
heart attack or stroke. To get
my fill of Omega-9, I spread avo-
cado on my sandwiches instead
of highly processed products
like mayonnaise and mustard.
A nutritious
diet needs a
healthy dose
of fat.
Even as a college student
constantly on the go, it's easy
to make better choices. I carry
a Ziplock bag full of lightly
salted almonds - a source of
all three fatty acids - instead
of spending a few bucks on a
bag of chips; it's a healthy habit
for my body and my wallet.
Want an even easier way
to ramp up the good fat? Pop
some pills - seriously. I start
my day with two fish oil tab-
lets. For the vegetarians out
there, flaxseed oil is a great
option.
When consumed in the prop-
er amount (the AHA suggests
keeping fat intake between
25 percent and 35 percent of
your daily calories), healthy
fats help us remain satiated,
enhance bodily functions and
prevent the onset of multiple
diseases.
Inother words, fat can be
your friend - and not your foe
- if you let it.
Keyes is eating a lot of
avocado. To join her, e-mail
cekmusic@umich.edu.


5 4B - Thursday, January 31, 2013 "' r

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4B - Thursday, January 31,2013 tl'~ic b~id~ The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

I

0

0


State Theater
Ilt Natalie: "Old School" is a relatively new movie compared to the other
t id n ig h t onesyou have shown. Doyouthinkitwillbe anissuethati's notas much
as a novelty that it's newer, canbewatched online and is notye a cult
favorite?

Preview
Daily Arts Writer
Natalie Gadbois
talks with Facility
and Programming
Manager Brian Hunt
of Ann Arbor's State
Theater about the
upcoming screening of
"Old School."

Brian: I hope it does great for the same reasons that "Anchorman" did
great, because I think that"Old School"is really the movie that made Will
Ferrell a star. It's funny because he's not really the star of "Old School,"
but he has become the star of "Old School." He had been in other things
before but this was the movie that a mainstream audience looked at and
said, "This guy is funny." I think if you go back and look at Tom Hanks or
Jim Carrey, for example, there is a movie that made people watch them,
and that was "Old School" for Will Ferrell.
Natalie: I think it was that moment he's running down the street butt-
naked - it's so memorable and ridiculous and defines Will Ferrell.
Brian: He was on the cover of Runner's World when that movie came out
because of (that scene). The cover is this totally 1970s inspired (picture),
and it's him running down the street sweating. He had all this crossover
appeal. It wasn't just stoners who were into him, you know. Like right
now, sitting here, is this a Will Ferrell movie or a Luke Wilson movie?
Natalie: It's a Will Ferrell movie. Poor Luke Wilson.
Brian:Butit's supposed to be a Luke Wilson movie! He is the star, and no
one remembers. I still think the funniest partis when Will sings "Dust
in the Wind" at Blue's funeral. I actually posted it on the State Theater's
Facebook. It was 8a.m. and I was cracking up in my office because it just
is such a weird movie.
Natalie: Obviously, you have no way ofknowing who willshowup,but do
you think that it will be more of the college students who bond with that
frat humor, or the people in their thirties who related with these men who
can't grow up?
Brian: I think that guys in fraternities look at this asa funny movie. And
I do think that people unfairly write it off as frat-boy humor, but it's not
- it's just Will Ferrell humor that I think is easily relatable to everyone.
Everygeneration has their college movie, and I don't knowif"Old School"
is it for this generation, butI think it's pretty close.

"0


