~I~e1id liglan 0.a imj
O)N 1 Ii11 ) 1\U N D 1 t t Y A L.1S1) '101./1 11'd1)0i\1
Tuesday, November 12, 2013

Ann Arbor, Michigan

michigandaily.com

TRANSPO RATION
Bus service
plagued by
high-profile
incidents
Drivers say uptick course is two weeks. The first
week of training takes place
S due to influx in a sma claroom setting
where potential grivers learn
new drivers about the vehicles, how to drive
safely and how to interact with
By JENNIFER CALFAS riders, Trainees must test at a
Daoly Stf Reporter minimum score requirement to
move onto the next section,
Within the past few months, Next, trainees shadow and
there have been a slew of inci- operate a bus with a licensed
dents involving the University's driver to gain a better under-
Blue Buses, standing of each route,
A driver left a bus running Since the training process is
and unattended for hours off time demanding, it usually takes
campus. A bus became stuck place at thebeginningofthe sum-
after failing to make the small mer. Once drivers are accepted
turnaround near the Michigan into their positions, they have the
Union. Adriver crashed into and summer season to hone driving
destroyed a bus stop and two skillsbefore fall semester
students were injured after fall- Over this past year, the
ing out of a bus when the vehi- number of student drivers has
cle's rear door malfunctioned. decreased, forcing some per-
The Blue Bus driving staff manent drivers to work over-
is comprised of a 50:50 ratio time. PTS executive director
of student drivers to union- Stephen Dolen said student
ized drivers, according to Jason drivers' shifts are based on
Bidwell, Transportation Man- their academic schedules,
ager at Parking and transporta- which can make it challenging
tion services. Some of the union to cover a student driver's posi-
drivers are permanent PTS tion when last-minute academ-
staff members, while student it demands arise.
drivers work on a temporary "If we had a deeper bench, so
basis during their time at the to speak, to go to, it'd be more
University. efficient and sufficient to get
Cultivating a staff is no easy business covered," Dolen said.
task.Ittakes asignificant amount "We need a deeper bench."
of knowledge to drive a Blue Bus However, Dolen believes the
as employees are responsible for driver shortage is not to blame
the livelihood of students, fac- for the recent incidents.
ulty and staffintransit. Art & Design sophomore
The University's training See BUS, Page 3


A NEW


NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daily
Members of the Navy ROTC raise the flag in the Diag In honor of Veteran's Day on Monday morning.
FACU A LkT Y G OV E R N A N
SACU tals cosoliatio

LSA heads express
concern with
cost-cutting process
By STEPHANIE SHENOUDA
Daily Staff Reporter
The latest meeting of the Sen-
ate Advisory Committee for Uni-
versity Affairs was spent learning
about the concerns of LSA faculty
and staff members regarding the
recent efforts to cut costs.
The reduction of vendor cuts
and consolidation of support

services like finance and human
resources is a part of the Admin-
istrative Services Transformation
Project, an administrative initia-
tive intended to improve financial
efficiency and meet a $120-mil-
lion savings goal by2017.
Following the lift of a gag order
among department chairs regard-
ing the initiative, History Depart-
ment Chair Kathleen Canning
summarized the concerns of LSA
faculty but emphasized that she
wasn't the group's formal repre-
sentative. She discussed a letter
to University Provost Martha
Pollack and other administrators

authored by 16department heads.
Canning explained that most
of the concerns as department
chairs are procedural, including
the fact that faculty and staff will
have to reapply for their positions.
Canning felt the process was
rapid and poorly communicated,
and that the situation "lacked
transparency." She added that the
project has progressed without
consulting faculty chairs.
"We need to know who was
driving the process, who owned
and who's accountable for the fall
out it will cause," Canning said.
"We were subject to a gag order,

which is quite unprecedented,
meaning we weren't allowed
to talk to anyone - even in our
department - about this pro-
cess."
SACUA member Charlie
Koopmann said the silencing of
employees has been a continuing
trend throughout the last half of
President Mary Sue Coleman's
tenure, citing various instances
where employees issued a gag
order.
"The disability to speak is a
trademark of the second half of
Coleman's presidency," he said.
See SACUA, Page 3

BUSINESS
Alumni startup aims to
simplify restaurant rankings

Users rank top-five
restaurants on
MyFab5 site
By CLAIRE BRYAN
For The Daily
After becoming frustrated
with long Yelp reviews and
misleading Foursquare rank-
ings, recent University alums
Omeid Seirafi-Pour and Calvin

Schemanski decided to create
an easy way to find the best
food in town.
"I was trying to use my
phone just to find a place for
us to eat, and it was the same
pain: I was spending like half
an hour reading reviews before
I could decide if a place was
going to be worth it or not,"
Schemanski said.
Seirafi-Pour, a 2011 gradu-
ate, returned to Ann Arbor
to work with Schemanski to

found MyFab5 in the summer
of 2012. John Gulbronson, a
2011' Michigan Engineering
graduate, joined the team in
January 2013. The company is
currently operating out of the
University's TechArb, a start-
up accelerator.
MyFab5 isn't your typi-
cal rating system. Instead of
ranking restaurants on a scale,
users pick their top-five restau-
rants within particular food
See STARTUP, Page 3

ALLISNFAKKANU/Daily
Winona LaDuke, a Native American environmental activist, is presented with a certification of herVistiting Professorship
by students of the Native American Student Association at Rackham Ampitheater on Monday.
Environmental activist
tal

MISSING STUDENT
Sudent returns home after he

was reported missing

Na
wi
com
sus

tive American mental activist, as she spoke
about the ways in which Native
riter discusses Americans are buildingagreener
economy.
munity's role in As part of Native Heritage
Month, the event was intended
tamable future by its sponsors to raise aware-
ness about Native American
By YIJIA ZHOU communities and their roles in
For The Daily creating a sustainable future.
LaDuke talked about how
ms and chants at Rackham people in today's society have
theater on Monday eve- become addicted to fossil fuel
elcomed Winona LaDuke, energy, and that in order to
nerican Indian environ- change the situation, people

need to go back to local com-
munities and work on sustain-
able energy.
The Native American Student
Association co-sponsored the
event with a number of student
organizations. LSA junior Isa
Gaillard, chair of NASA, said he
hopes the event illustrates Native
Americans' dedication to the
environment.
"We hope it will raise
awareness of Native American
communities and show how
See ACTIVIST, Page 3

Girlfriend,
mother decline to
comment on where
Stevens had been
,ByMATT SLOVIN
ManagingEditor
At about 8:15 a.m. Mon-
day, Engineering junior Luke
Stevens, missing since early
Sunday, returned via taxi to
his Michigan Avenue apart-
ment where he was last
seen, according to police and
friends.

Stevens was at University
Hospital with his girlfriend,
LSA junior Alison O'Brien,
when O'Brien was reached by
phone Monday morning.
"He's fine," O'Brien said.
"He's just really cold."
O'Brien declined to comment
further.
Stevens' mother, Deborah
Stevens, said her son is current-
ly recovering, adding that she
was worried when her son went
missing and he had never disap-
peared like this'before.
- Stevens said she would prefer
not to explain her son's disap-
pearance on Sunday.
"I just want to thank the

by friends
entire community for their
support and for all the people
that searched for him," Stevens
said. "The outcome turned out
good, and we are so thankful
for that."
Noah Balsmeyer, president
of the University's chapter of
the Triangle Fraternity, said
members of the fraternity
were worried about Stevens
and were in the process of
forming a search party when
they heard the announcement
Monday morning that he was
safe.
"The members of triangle
are very relieved to see he was
See MISSING, Page 3

Dru
Amphi
ning w
an Ar


WEATHER HI: 40
TOMORROW LO: 27

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM INDEX NEWS .........................2 SPORTS......................6
The Editors: Transitioning to Facebok comments Vol. CXXIV, No.27 OPINION .................4 S U D O K U........................ 2
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS 02033 The MichiganDaily A R T S........ ....5. CLASSIFIEDS ...........6
michigondoily. com

#4

I


2 - Tuesday, November 12, 2013

The Michigan.Daily - michigandaily.cam

2 - Tuesday, November12, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1252 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
anweiner@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

A novel approach

Philip Christman is a lecturer How do you incorporate your What do you do outside the
in the Department of English and interests into the classes you classroom?
is currently in his first semester of teach?
teaching at the University. I'm working on my novel,
My interests tend to drive the which was my thesis. I'm basi-
How have you enjoyed your kinds of texts I assign. I feel like cally working on that, rework-
time at Michigan so far? it is hard to teach somethingthat ing it and reworking it until I
you don't personally love, so I think it is as good as.it can pos-
I love it! My students are teach a lot of my favorite writ- sibly be. I also edit the Michigan
super well-prepared. I've taught ers. Also, being a writer affects Review of Prisoner Creative
in several very different aca- my teaching a lot because I Writing, which is a Prison Cre-
demic environments; these are think a lot more about the writ- ative Arts Project, so this is my
definitely the best-prepared ing process, and I tend to talk first semester editing that. It's
students that I've ever worked about that a lot more. I tend to just like editing any other lit-
with. Either they're all very good have a lot of tricks, and I have a erary journal, except all of the
at faking enthusiasm or they're lot more in my tool bag in terms submissions are by people who
all, as a group, the most engaged of stuff to get students moving are incarcerated.
and curious students I've ever when they're stuck. That is prob-
worked with, which is wonder- ably the biggest way that my own
ful! works inform my teaching. - EMILIE PLESSET

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
coections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
artse@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@chiganaiy.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandoily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandailycom
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Jan Gross, professor of War and Society at Princeton
University, speaks at the UMMA about Poland in the
20th century Monday.


CRIME NOTES
Pissed off
WHERE: University
Hospital
WHEN: Friday at about
10:10 p.m.
WHAT: A patient at the
hospital hurled a bedpan at
a staff member, University
Police reported. The staff
member sustained no inju-
ries from the incident.
Cash grab
WHERE: Arbor Lakes
Building
WHEN: Friday at about 3:30
p.m.
WHAT: A University
employee reported that his
paycheck was diverted to
an unknown account, Uni-
versity Police reported. The
incident is potentially linked
to a previous police report.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Thanks? Chainsmokers Ukulele
WHERE: Shapiro Under- performance orchestra
graduate Library
WHEN: Friday at about 7:55 WHAT: The two-person WHAT: The Ukul
p.m. DJ musical performance Orchestra of Great
WHAT: A wallet was group Chainsmokers will will be performini
reported as stolen after it be performing a selection of reinterpretations c
was left unattended on the their most popular remixes. songs. Tickets fort
fourth floor of the library Tickets are $15 in advance formance start at$
around 6 p.m. The wal- and $17 at the door. The WHO: University
let, missing cash, was later event is open to anyone. Society
returned to the front desk by WHO: Michigan Union WHEN: Today at
an unknown individual. Ticket Office WHERE: Michiga
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m. ater
Trading paint WHERE: Michigan League
tBallroom1... US

ele
t Britain
g their
of favorite
the per-
$24.
Musical
7:30 p.m.
an The-

THR E[ TIHING S YOU
Members of two Iranian
rock bands living in New
York City were found
dead after being shot in a sus-
pected murder-suicide by a
fellow musician, CNN report-
ed. Police believe the violence
resulted from a miscommuni-
cation between groups.
The Michigan women's
soccer team earned a
No. 3 seed in the NCAA
Tournament. It hosts a game
for the second straight year
and will welcome UW-Mil-
waukee on Saturday.
g FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 6
Initial reports on the
implementation of the
Affordable Care Act
has shown enrollment num-
bers that are smaller than
expected, CBS News report-
ed. Analysts estimate only 50
thousand people had regis-
tered by the end of October.

EDITORIALSTAFF
MatthewSlovin ManagingEditor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamRubenfire ManagingNewsEditor arube@michigandailycom
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman,
SSIS5T1ATNEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf, Jennifer Calfas, Hilary Crawford, Ian
Dillisgham, Will Greenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel Premack, Stephanie
Shenoua, ChrisyrSon
Melanie Kruselis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Dan Wang, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANTEDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:AaricaMarsh,MeganMcDonald
Everett Cook and
Zach Helfand ManagingSportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Rajat
Khar, Daniel Wasserma,LizVklich
ASSISTNSPOTSEosIORGreg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel Feldman, Erin
Lennon, Lev Facher, Max Cohen
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: ElliotAlpern, Brianne Johnson, John Lynch, Anna Sadovskaya
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS: JohnBohn,SeanCzarnecki,Max
Radin, Akshay Seth, Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SElNOPOTO EOSTresas Mathw,hToddsNeeal
ASSSTANTPHOOnEDTORSKhahrinePeklaPauSherman,
McKenzieBerezin,RubyWallau, Patrick Barron
Kristen Cleghornand
Nick Cruz Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR:PaigePearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien copy chiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPYEDITORS :JenniecColeman,KellyMcLauglin
Austen Hafford OntinetEditor ahufford@mihisandailyacom
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classifiedsManager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967> is published Monday through Friday during the fall and
winter terms by students atthe tUniversity of Michigan. One copy is avalable free of charge
to all readers. Additional opies may be pickedup at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fallterm,startinginseptemberviau.s.mailare$110.WintertermJanuary through April)is
$115, yearlong (September through April) istS195.University affiliatesare subject to areduced
subscription rate.On-campussubscriptions for fall termare$35. Subscriptionsmustbe prepaid.
The Michiganotailyis amember of The Associated Pressand The Associated CollegiatePress.

0

WHERE: Lot M-10, East
Medical Center
WHEN: Monday at about
3:55 p.m.
WHAT: University Police
received a report that an
ambulance briefly grazed
a parked ambulance in a
parking lot. No injuries
were reported and only one
vehicle received damage.

Comedy
showdown
WHAT: Students will
perform in semi-final
matchups for the 2014 MI
Favorite Comic competition.
WHO: Center for Campus
Involvment
WHEN: Today from 7:30
p.m to 10 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan
Leauge Underground

viscover
sociology
WHAT: The Career Center
will be hosting an informa-
tional meeting for students
interested in majoring in
sociology. Professors will
be available to answer ques-
tions.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 6 p.m.
to 8 p.m.
WHERE: 4154 LSA Build-
ing


Filipinos struggle to leave
country after deadly storm

Iran and U.S. blame each
other for lack of nuclear deal

Thousands search
for flights to escape
typhoon destruction
TACLOBAN, Philippines (AP).
- Thousands of typhoon survi-
vors swarmed the airport here
on Tuesday seeking a flight out,
but only a few hundred made it,
leaving behind a shattered, rain-
lashed city short of food and
water and littered with countless
bodies.
Four days after Typhoon Hai-
yan struck the eastern Philip-
pines, only a trickle of assistance
has made to affected communi-
ties. Authorities estimated the
storm killed 10,000 or more
across a vast swath of the coun-
try. Millions are without shelter
or food.
Tacloban, a city of about
220,000 people on Leyte island,
bore the full force of the winds
and the tsunami-like storm surg-

es. Most of the city is in ruins, a
tangled mess of destroyed hous-
es, cars and trees. Malls, garages
and shops have all been stripped
of food and water by hungry resi-
dents.
Just after dawn Tuesday,
two Philippine Air Force C-130s
arrived at its destroyed airport
along with several commercial
and private flights. More than
3,000 people who camped out at
the building surged onto the tar-
mac past a broken iron fence to
get on the aircraft. Just a dozen
soldiers and several police held
them back.
Mothers raised their babies
high above their heads in the
rain, in hopes of being priori-
tized. One lady in her thirties lay
on a stretcher, shaking uncon-
trollably. Only a small number
managed to board.
"I was pleading with the sol-
diers. I was kneeling and begging
because I have diabetes," said
Helen Cordial, whose house was

n Uix'- ,

destroyed in the storm. "Do they
want me to die in this airport?
They are stone hearted."
Most residents spent Monday
night under pouring rain wher-
ever they could - in the ruins
of destroyed houses, in the open
along roadsides and shredded
trees. Some slept under tents
brought in by the government or
relief groups.
Local doctors said they were
desperate for medicines. Beside
the ruined airport tower, at
a small makeshift clinic with
shattered windows, army and
air force medics said they had
treated around 1,000 people
since the typhoon for cuts,
bruises, lacerations, deep
wounds.
International aid groups and
militaries are rushing assis-
tance to the region, but little has
arrived yet. Government officials
and police and army officers have
all been caught up in the disaster
themselves, hampering coordi-
nation.
The USS George Washington
aircraft carrier was expected to
arrive off the coast in about two
days, accordingto the Pentagon.
A similar sized US ship, and its
fleet of helicopters capable of
dropping tons of water daily
and evacuating wounded, was
credited with saving scores of
lives after the 2004 Asian tsu-
nami.
Joselito Caimoy, a 42-year-old
truck driver, was one of the lucky
ones at Tacloban airport. He
was able to get his wife, son and
3-year-old daughter on a flight
out.
They embraced in a tear-
ful goodbye, but Caimoy stayed
behind to guard what's left of his
home and property.
"Thereis no water, no food,"he
said. "People are just scavenging
in the streets. People are asking
food from relatives, friends. The
devastation is too much ... the
malls, the grocery stories have
all been looted. They're empty.
People are hungry. And they (the
authorities) cannot control the
people."

Progress made
despite failure to
reach agreement
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates
(AP) - Iran and the United States
on Monday blamed each other for
the failure to reach agreement
on a deal to limit Iran's uranium
enrichment in exchange for an
easing of Western sanctions.
In spite of the accusations,
there was some diplomatic prog-
ress as Iran promised to offer
more information and expanded
access to U.N. nuclear inspectors
- including more openings at a
planned reactor and uranium site.
U.S. Secretary of State John
Kerry said Iranian envoys had
backed away from a wider deal
this weekend seeking to ease
Western concerns that Tehran
could one day develop atomic
weapons.
Iran's foreign minister,
Mohammad Javad Zarif, coun-
tered by criticizing Kerry's
remarks, telling an Iranian TV
talk show that the American's
"conflicting statements" dam-
aged confidence in the process,
adding that "considerable prog-
ress was made" in Geneva.
The flurry of announcements
and comments showed both the
complexities and urgency in try-
ing to move ahead on an accord
between Iran and world powers
after the talks in Geneva failed to
produce a deal.
With negotiators set to resume
next week, Iranian officials pro-
moted a separate pact reached
with the U.N. nuclear chief Yuki-
ya Amano as a "roadmap" for
greater cooperation andtranspar-
ency, which could'move the talks
ahead. But the plans do not men-
tion some of the sites most sought
by U.N. teams to probe suspicions
of nuclear-related work, notably
the Parchin military facility out-
side Tehran.
"It's an important step for-
ward, but by no means the end
of the process," Amano told The
Associated Press in Tehran.

"There is still much work to be
done."
Western leaders, meanwhile,
were keen to display a unified
front after reports that France
had broken ranks in Geneva and
demanded more concessionsfrom
Iran on enrichment levels and an
under-construction heavy water
reactor that produced a greater
amount of plutonium byproduct,
which could be used in eventual
weapons production. Kerry said
it was Iran that put the brakes on
reaching a first-phase agreement,
but gave no details on the Iranian
concerns and suggested it was
only a matter of time before a for-
mula is found.
"There was unity but Iran
couldn't take it," Kerry said dur-
ingastop inAbuDhabi. He added:
"The French signed off on it, we
signed off on it."
Kerry told the BBC on Monday
that negotiators had been "very,
very close ... extremely close" to
reachinga deal with Iran.
"I think we were separated by
four or five different formulations
of a particular concept," he said.
In the BBC interview, Kerry
acknowledged "the French have
been more vocal about one thing
or another." But he said, "the fact
is that we had a unity on Saturday
in a proposal put in front of the
Iranians. But because of some the
changes they felt they had to go
back and change it."
Later Monday, Zarif criticized
Kerry's remarks that blamed Iran
for lack of a deal when asked about,
them on an Iranian TV talk show.
"Conflicting statements harm
the credibility of the one who
keeps changing positions and
damages confidence. The goal
of dialogue is to reduce the lack
of trust. Conflicting talk doesn't
give credit to the person saying
it," Zarif said.
He said "considerable prog-
ress" was made during three days
of talks in Geneva but claimed
that most of the hours were spent
with the U.S., Russia, China, Brit-
ain, France and Germany trying
"to resolve differences among
themselves." He said he's still

hopeful a deal will be reached,
but insisted any agreement must
include the lifting of all Western
sanctions against Iran.
British Foreign'Secretary Wil-
liam Haguesaid the world powers
presented a united front to Iran
at the weekend talks that failed
to reach an accord, and although
"some gaps" remained between
parties at the talks, "most ofthose
gaps are narrow."
In Jerusalem, Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
has acknowledged that an over-
all deal is likely between Iran
and world powers, which would
undercut Israeli threats to launch
military action against Iranian
nuclear sites. Yet he hailed the
delay as a chance to "achieve a
much better deal."
"The target date for this deal is
the date on which agood deal will
be achieved that will deny Iran a
military nuclear capability," he
told Israel's parliament Monday.
For Netanyahu and his backers,
however, hopes have all but evap-
orated that Iran can be forced by
negotiators to completely end its
ability to make nuclear fuel. It's
now unclear what type of deal
would satisfy Israel, which sees a
nuclear-armed Iran as a threat to
its existence.
Iran has denied it seeks nucle-
ar arms and insists its only seeks
reactors for energy and medical
applications. Iranian officials
portrayed the expanded U.N.
access as further sign it seeks to
work with the West.
Under the plans, announced
at a joint news conference, Iran
would allow inspectors a first-
time visit of its key Gachin ura-
nium mine on the Gulf coast and
give broader access to the heavy
water facility being built in the
central city of Arak. Heavy water
reactors use a different type
of coolant to produce a greater
amount of plutonium byprod-
uct than conventional reac-
tors. Inspectors from the U.N.'s
International Atomic Energy
Agency have already visited the
reactor site but seek more exten-
sive examinations.

,1

0

A

f


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 12, 2013 - 3

SACUA
From Page 1
"It's a prevailing philosophy and
probably why they want this done
before getting a new president."
Canning added that she felt
this was a "major mistake" by the
administration because it added
to the loomingdisconcertoverthe
situation.
"We're all trying to do our jobs.
There's a huge, simmering anger
among faculty and graduate stu-
dents; it's going to blow up and go
* public very soon," Canning said.
"We've been trying to govern our
departments and do the best we
can. We'd really like them to com-
mit to no layoffs because it would
make the pain and agony of this
process much less. It'd still be
scary but much less."
Canning said there has also
been a discrepancy between ini-
tially projected savings and what
the administration currently
expects, which added to the ten-
sion among department heads.
Savings from the project were
initially projected at $17 million,
but are now expected to be just $5
million in four years. This caused
the group to question whether the
ACTIVIST
From Page 1
the idea of sustainable envi-
ronment originated from these
communities thousands of
years ago," Gaillard said. "We
want to make the connection
for students."
In 1993, LaDuke co-founded
Honor the Earth, a non-profit
organization to raise awareness
and support for environmental
issues in Native American com-
munities.
"As Americans, we are the
people who live in this time, and
we have this opportunity to stop
people from blowing up another
STARTUP
From Page 1
categories, such as pizza, sand-
wiches and burgers. The website
excludes-rng-personal reviews
in favor of a top-five list.
Schemanski said they decided
to forgo traditional rating sys-
tems because he believes they
become ineffective in convey-
ing a restaurant's popularity to
readers.
"All of those ratings, what
they end up doing is make every-
thing pretty much look the
same," Schemanski said. "After
a few hundred people will rate
a place, it all just kind of goes
towards the average."
The MyFab5 team started its
efforts in Ann Arbor but quickly
expanded to all of Michigan. In
August, the website expanded to
the entire United States.
While the website is available
in every city, Schemanski said
smaller, cities might not have
rankings simply due to their
smaller populations.
"As of today, our users have
created more than 5,400 rank-

AST was the most efficient way
to cut costs or if other methods
such as attritionorreorganization
could have achieved their goals
with less "human pain."
"If they knew it would really
save money, we would find it eas-
ier to accept, but the cost-benefit
analysis doesn't make sense," she
said.
Canning said department
chairs have asked the adminis-
tration to slow down the AST, in
hopes that leaders will wait until
a new president is in place. They
hope that SACUA will explore the
situation and formulate its own
opinion to be conveyed to the
administration.
Nonetheless, Canning said the
LSA chairs felt like their com-
plaints have been heard by the
University's leaders in the Flem-
mingbuilding.
"They heard us and realized it
was very painful," Canning said.
"They said they would consider,
our requests, and I think it would
go a long way to making this pro-
cess better."
She added that, overall, the
ATS initiative seems "out of
sync" with the University's stan-
dard approach to change, and it's
not indicative of what's expected

of a school frequently ranked in
the top universities to work for
nationwide.
. Canning and her peers contin-
ued to question the validity of the
campaign, citing similar efforts
at other institutions - including
Yale University and University of
California, Berkeley - that didn't
yield desired results.
At the end of their session,
SACUA chair Karen Staller said
she feels it's important to now
hear the administration's view
on the situation and plans to
address the issues with AST fur-
ther when Provost Martha Pol-
lack attends the meeting in two
weeks.
In a statement Monday eve-
ning, University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the administra-
tion expects there to be little if
any need for reduction in force as
a result of the sharing of support
services, as the 325 affected by
the initiative are now vacant or
filled with temporary employees.
Fitzgerald said the University
will discuss the changes with
employees this week. He added
that the University does not
expect to reduce pay for employ-
ees who make the transition to
the shared services model.

said. "When you get out there
on your own, you're going to do
From Page 1 whatever you want anyway, so
to make your own decisions, it's
Derick Adams applied to be a going to take you out there on
driver after he saw a job posting your own."
on a bus last year. After sending The primary priority for driv-
in an application, PTS asked him ers is safety. When big events
for an interview, where he was come to campus - such as foot-
offered the job on the spot. ball games and performances,
While Adams had no previous among others - PTS sends
experience driving 4 bus, he had its drivers notifications and
a customer service background reminders about safety proce-
from previous part-time jobs - dures. When an accident occurs
a characteristic PTS desires in and after the review process is
driver candidates. Upon being .complete, PTS sends out similar
offered the position, Derick, like notifications detailing the inci-
all potential student drivers, dent and how to prevent simi-
underwent the two-weektraining lar ones from occurring in the
program. Bidwell, the PTS trans- future.
portation manager, said his office While the University commu-
usually offers positions to any nity relies on the timeliness of
potential drivers who are willing Blue Bus arrivals, Dolen said PTS
to try out the training process. prefers that drivers run behind
Since new drivers have to schedule to be safe, rather than
adjust to the busier atmosphere, speeding to make it to each stop
LSA senior James Kehoe, who on time.
has been a Blue Bus driver since Equipped with a GPS, call pro-
his freshman year, said most acci- cesses and radios, each bus can be
dents often occur during the fall tracked to keep a record of driv-
semester, as evidenced this year. ers' performance. Additionally,
"We're noticing more this year Dolen said the campus commu-
just because ofhow stupid they've nity provides feedback to assist
been, to be frank," Kehoe said. PTS in improving its operations.
"Accidents happen all the "It's a probably unique situ-
time, especially the first semester ation where we have the ability
when the new students are really to get information from so many
getting into the swing of things." different (people) - all kinds of
While the training process people that are willing to help us
teaches student drivers the get better," Dolen said.
basics, both Kohe and Adams
said drivers gain the majority of Accidents or negligence?
their knowledge and skills while.
on the job. Even with the shad- Though accidents can hap-
owing process of training with pen, the case of the unattended,
a supervisor, the ability to make running bus earlier this month
quick decisions comes with prac- appears to be a demonstration of
tice. negligence on the part of a student
"Most of it is on the job, but driver rather than an accident.
that there's really no way to The driver left his bus unat-
simulate anything like under tended and running at the inter-
the arm of somebody," Adams section of Arch and White streets

for as much as twohoursbetween
the hours of midnight and 2:30
a.m. on Nov. 2. Though the bus
was off-campus for an extended
period of time, supervisors did
not make University Police aware
of the missing bus. Rather, a staff
member of The Michigan Daily
notified University Police of the
abandoned bus.
The driver was arrested on
charges of unlawfully driv-
ing away an automobile, and a
supervisor drove the bus back to
base.
Bus drivers have certain spots
- located on Central Campus,
South Campus and North Cam-
pus - to park while taking their
designated breaks. The location
where the bus was left unat-
tended was not a designated
stopping point. At the time, Uni-
versity spokesman Rick Fitzger-
ald emphasized that Blue Bus
drivers are never allowed to take
their buses home for breaks when
they're on the job.
Dolen reportedly refused to
directly address the incident,
and instead categorically main-
tained that safety is a top priority
for PTS. He did not explain why
supervisors failed to alert police
to the missing vehicle.
In light of recent and potential
incidents,PTSis constantlyreeval-
uating and enhancing its train-
ing protocol. PTS has met with
officials at the Indiana University,
Bloomington, to discuss how they
train their student drivers.
Dolensaid PTSis alsoexploring
different technologies to enhance
the training program. Potentially,
the program could feature a bus
simulator to better prepare stu-
dents for the road ahead.
"There's always learning to be
done," Dolen said. "You can't pre-
dict everything that's going on,
but you can predict a lot."


mountain, from combusting the
planet into oblivion," she said.
"We have this opportunity to
keep our river for fish, not for
chemicals."
LaDuke said people today
are becoming addicts of
extreme energy, what she
described as the extreme
demand and reliance on fossil
fuel as a result of the profit-
driven economy.
"You rationalize your behav-
ior when you are an addict,"
LaDuke said. "Oil-polluted
water sources in North Dakota?
Who cares? Who lives up there
anyway?",
Rebuking Americans who
say that sustainable energy

cannot meet the nation's cur-
rent demand, LaDuke said
alternative power sources
could supply the United States
if so much electricity wasn't
wasted.
LaDuke said the concept of
"relocalization," or focusing on
local communities, is the answer
to a more sustainable future. She
pointed to the Native Americans
on the White Earth Reservation
in Minnesota, who harvest solar
and wind energy at a scale that
is efficient for the small commu-
nity.
"There is always a chance for
redemption," LaDuke said. "We
still have chance to make signifi-
cant changes."



MISSING
From Page 1
safe," Balsmeyer said. "He is a
big part of our fraternity, and
we were ready to go out to comb
community."
Balsmeyer said he does not

have information about what
happened to Stevens that has not
already been stated by the media.
He did note that a police officer
called the fraternity this morn-
ingto let them know Stevens was
alright.
Ann Arbor Police Lt. Renee
Bush wasn't immediately aware

Monday morning of where Ste-
vens had been during the time he
was missing, but acknowledged
that officers were actively look-
ing for him.
-Daily News Editor Taylor
Wizner contributed to this report.

ings in Ann Arbor alone,"
Schemanski said. "Since each
ranking can contain multiple
restaurants, our users have
made over 18,000 restaurant
recommendations in Ann
Arbor."_- .
Pete Sickman-Garner, mar-
keting manager for Zingerman's,
said it makes sense to start a
food-centered website in Ann
Arbor because of the variety of
restaurants in the city.
"Given the way Ann Arbor's
food scene has exploded in
recent years, this would be a
good town to try out something
like this," Sickman-Garner
wrote in an e-mail interview.
"Foodies are definitely people
who like sharing their opin-
ions."
New advancements at MyFabS
include a recent won $15,000
grant to help grow the company.
The money will go toward hiring
a professional design team that'
will work to improve the web-
site's logo, graphics and website
functionality.
The company is also trying
to include Instagram on its site
and use it to more effectively to

gauge users' favorite places. It
hopes to include this function
on the website by mid-Decem-
ber.
Although MyFab5 was cre-
ated to help customers decide
where to eat, Sehemanski said-
their website also helps restau-
rants.
"There are a lot of people out
there that are taking advan-
tage of the fact that they can
hurt a business's reputation,"
Schemanski said. "Sometimes
customers will try to extort
them for a free meal, saying
they will leave a bad review.
Sometimes it is just disgruntled
employees that will go on and do
that, or a competitor from other
restaurants."
Schemanski has big hopes for
the future of MyFab5 expanding
into categories beyond the food
industry.
"Going out to a restaurant is
part of an entertainment experi-
ence ... so we can apply it to other
forms of entertainment, like
movies, TV shows and books,"
Schemanski said.

Clemency sought for ten
women convicted of murder

The Power

Group argues
victims of domestic
violence should be
released from prison
DETROIT (AP) - Ten Michi-
gan women convicted of murder
deserve to be freed from prison
because they were subjected to
domestic violence and didn't get
fair trials, according to a group
working on their cases.
The Michigan Women's Jus-
tice and Clemency Project is fil-
ing petitions for clemency with
Gov. Rick Snyder for the women,
who were convicted of first- or
second-degree murder and have
been behind bars for years.
. "These women are not a threat
to anybody," project director
Carol Jacobsen, a University pro-
fessor in women's studies and art
& design, told the Detroit Free
Press. "The whole social under-
standing of battery and abuse
has changed since the 1980s
and 1990s, when many of these
womenwere convicted."

Snyder's office told The Asso-
ciated Press that such applica-
tions go to the parole board at
Department of Corrections for
review and then get a review by
the governor's office. The office
said the state looks at every appli-
cation equally.
All of the women have sought
clemency before and have been
denied.
One of the cases is that of
Nancy Seaman, a Detroit-area
teacher who hacked her hus-
band to death in 2004. She killed
Robert Seaman by striking him
with a hatchet 16 times and stab-
bing him at least 21 times in their
garage in Farmington Hills. She
is serving a life sentence.
A jury in 2005 convicted Sea-
man of first-degree murder, but
the Oakland County trial judge
reduced it to second-degree mur-
der. A state appeals court later
reinstated the jury's verdict. She
said she was a victim of emotion-
al and physical abuse and was
threatened again that day.
At her trial, the defense pre-
sented experts who talked about
battered spouse syndrome and

had argued for such a defense.
Nancy Seaman's former
defense attorney, Lawrence
Kaluzny, said he's hopeful that
Snyder will consider her case.
"I never thought she should do
life," Kaluzny said. "I believe she
was abused."
Four of the 10 cases set for
review, including Seamen's case,
occurredinOakland County.Pros-
ecutor Jessica Cooper said her
office is monitoring the petitions.
"We're aware of them, and we
will monitor them for the victims,
just as we monitor paroles," she
said. "We are hopeful cases like
these are decided thoughtfully,
with reason, and not by passion."
Snyder spokesman David Mur-
ray said such clemency requests
get careful consideration.
"Every prisoner has the right
to apply for a commutation, and
there is a process spelled out in
statute that must be followed,"
David Murray said in an email
to AP. "The process involves the
Michigan Parole Board review-
ing every application and making
a determination if the case has
merit.

of Play

Duncan J. Billing, LL
Executive Vice President and
Chief Development Officer
Hasbro, Inc.
Reservations required: http:/chear.org/meister-lecture
Sponsored by
The Child Health Evaluation and Research (CHEAR) Unit, a collaboration of the Schools of Bt
Dentistry, Information, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health, Public Policy and So

4
.#

I


4 - Tuesday, November 12, 2013

The Michigan Daily -- michigandaily.com 0 1

4 Tuesday, November12, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *


L71 4Aa tc44btoan 4latly

Why race still matters

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM T HE DAILY
Listening to the homeless
Long- and short-term solutions needed for persistent problem
n election day, a group of protestors who call themselves "Camp
Misfit" rallied against current local homelessness policies, citing
an incident this past summer in which Ann Arbor police ordered
about 20 of Washtenaw County's 3,000-4,000 homeless people to pack up
their belongings from behind a Kroger and find a new location. That incident
wasn't isolated: In June 2012, "Camp Take Notice" - a known community
of homeless people - was also shut down after Ann Arbor Police cited the
camp for trespassing violations. Under current protocol, local authorities
gave them 48 hours to completely evacuate the area. The evicted group are
calling for an expanision of the current policy, asking for a five-day notice in
lieu of the two-day notice, as well as eviction documentation from property
owners and immediate contact with social service agencies. The city, along
with the rest of Washtenaw County, should renew efforts to provide better
assistance to homeless people in the future.

Consider the African, circa
1550 A.D. or so. He's cap-
tured by a rival tribe, sold
to European
traders, chained
and put on a ship
bound for the
Americas. If he
stays alive, he'll
likely be soldy
off to -a planta-
tion in the Deep
South to work JAMES
the land. The BRENNAN
rest of his days
are spent till-
ing fields, picking crops and doing
whatever else his masters and han-
dlers require of him. He may find a
wife, marry and have children. His,
children, however, are not his own
- neither is his wife. They belong
to his master, and are treated as a
commodity. His wife will possibly
be raped, and there's nothing he can
do to stop it.
Since before the dawn of the
republic, this system was the norm
for the vast majority of Blacks living
in America. I don't call them "Black
Americans" for a reason - they
were not Americans. They were
Africans brought and forced to live
in America, but with none of the
rights and privileges of their white
counterparts. As Malcolm X once
said, "We didn't land on Plymouth
Rock, the rock was landed on us."
At the end of the Civil War, legal
slavery was brought to an end, more
than 300 years after the first slave
was brought to the United States.
While slavery may have ended
with Reconstruction, the nightmare
was justbeginning. With the remov-
al of Union troops from the South, a
new racial caste system was created
in the form of segregation. For the
better part of a century, the United
States remained a nation of gov-
ernment-endorsed inequality. Even
after the Slaughter-House cases,
even after Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation and even after violent race-
riots in New York, Detroit, Watts,

Calif. and dozens
segregation remain
Civil Rights Act an
Act ended many oft
Jim Crow, but racia
far from over.
Interracial marri
ruled unconstitutio
and racial profiling
ity and race-based h
well past the civil r
the passage of the C
the federal governs
ward to implemen
tunity requirement
and schools, while,
mative action in job
Today, Black Ame
to underachieve it
major statistical c
unemployment is
double that of white
is around quadruple
Moreover, Blacks o
7 percent of the na
es, and Black-owi
account for only hal
of all U.S. earnings.
So why are Bl
excluding a handfu
ers, so far behind
whole? There are
two main rea-
sons. The first
is -lingering rac-
ism and racially
biased systems
that claim to be
colorblind. Hous-
ing and schools
remain largely
segregated, while

of other cities, causes of Black inequality. Think
ed intact. The of history like a race, where Black
d Voting Rights Americans were not even allowed
the remnants of to start running until after 1964.
J inequality was Even once they left the starting line,
they faced hurdles and challenges
age laws weren't. that their white counterparts did
nal until 1967, not: discrimination, racial profil-
, police brutal- ing, poor schooling, de facto seg-
tiring continued regation, and a lack of connections
-ights era. With and money. Ending discrimination
ivil Rights Act, allowed Black Americans to start
nent moved for- running with policies like affirma-
t equal oppor- tive action meant to give them the
s for employers boost they need to catch up with
endorsing affir- whites.
s and education. The greatest crime in human his-
ricans continue tory was .committed against Black
n almost every Americans, and lasted more than
ategory: Black 300 years. For nearly a century after
typically about the end of slavery, Blacks were still
s,.while poverty relegatedtothebottomrungofsoci-
the white rate. ety. That adage about it being much
wn only around easier to destroy something than
tion's business- build it? Let's just say that expect-
ned businesses ing 50 years of progress to over-
f of one percent come 400 plus years of slavery and
discrimination is far too optimistic.
ack Americans, To say that racism has no serious
1 of overachiev- presence in American life is laugh-
the pack as a able. To claim that the best way to
end racism is
to stop talk-
To claim the best ing about race
is just as ludi-
way to end racism is crous - race is
exactly what
to stop talking about has . always
driven inequal- *
race is ludicrous. ity. Slavery was
based on skin
color, and so

As it stands, the 48-hour period before
homeless men and women are'forced to relo-
cate isn't enough. According to protester Sheri
Wander, "It's dangerous if you don't have time
to take your stuff with you... If you only have a
few hours or one day's notice, that leaves you
vulnerable to the elements and crime." The
local police argue that this is simply standing
protocol; however, that protocol isn't in tune
with the difficulties associated with relocat-
ing. Ellen Schulmeister, executive director of
the Shelter Association of Washtenaw County,
told MLive that the shelter is full. Even when
more beds are introduced under the, winter
program, Schulmeister said those beds will be
taken quickly. The requested five-day notice
will give them more time to evaluate their
options with the limited available options.
Camp Misfit is also asking for a social
services agency to be told when an eviction
occurs, as well as a written request from the
owners of the property that the homeless
people were occupying. Increasing commu-
nication between police and these agencies
can help ensure that social services can offer
the appropriate services as soon as possible
and connect the homeless with resources to

help them find jobs and a permanent home.
It also allows these agencies to compile data
of current homeless populations with the
hopes of generating long-term action to aid
the homeless. While these options may seem
like quick fixes, the proposed changes not
only give the affected population what they
want, but they also offer long-term impacts to
a persisting problem.
While the changes do address very specific
needs for the county's homeless residents,
more work needs to be done to ensure that
there are permanent solutions instead of tem-
porary camps. While there are shelters in the
county, they are more than 10 miles away from
Ann Arbor - inaccessible for those without
adequate transportation. If the city want to
ensure that homeless people throughout the
county have a place to live, then the scope of
housing options needs tobe expanded.
While the Shelter Association provides
employment assistance, it's clear that more
action is required to reduce homelessness
across Ann Arbor and Washtenaw County.
Access to opportunities for jobs, job interviews
and application coaching are necessary to pre-
pare the homeless for alife after homelessness.

subconscious racial bias plays a
powerful role in the everyday judg-
ments individuals make about each
other, from job interviews to the
court room.
The second cause of Black under-
achievement is a failure to compre-
hend the immensity of the problem
at hand and directly address it.
While busing and affirmative action
programs have been a noble attempt
at righting the wrongs of the past,
they have failed to attack the root

was Jim Crow. In addressing the
outcomes of these institutions, race
must be the driving force. To tell a
group of people who were literally
shackled for hundreds of years that
"the laws says now you're equal,
work harder and stop complain-
ing about the past" does not make a
person racially colorblind - it just
makes them blind.
- James Brennan can be reached
at jmbthree@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan,
Eric Ferguson, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein, Melanie Kruvelis,
Maura Levine, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble,
Adrienne Roberts, Paul Sherman, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe

Centuries of oppression

It sjust hair ... right?

Saturday night, I s
Years a Slave." Like
movie left me spee
chronicles the journey of
Solomon Northup, a free .
man living in New York
who is kidnapped and sold
in the South as a slave.
Throughout the movie, we
watch Northup go from
master to master as he's
subjected to the horrors of
an institution that consid-
ers him nothing more than
a piece of property.
The movie brings to ligi
oppressionand dailytraumastl
- broken-up families, brutal I
petual illiteracy. Needless to s
challenges the emotionally feeb
it forces us, as Americans, to c
ties of a bitter period in our his
nowadays is often brushed over
A Telegraph article describ
ing that while it forces the
confront bitter truths of its his
most telling that it took .
over 150 years and one Brit-
ish director to do so.
We like to think we live
in a post-racial America.
The slave trade, systematic
oppression, racism - these
are all things of our coun-
try's past. We fought a Civil
War to abolish slavery, we
created a constitutional
amendment to guarantee
equal protection,we had the C
ment to combat discrimination
In this "post-racial Americ
like: "Slavery happened so i
been abolished. Why keep
past?" or "My generation was
slavery was happening. We we
system, so why should we apo
We continue to argue that tc
try, every individual regardles
right to vote, racial slurs are fr
we have laws that prohibit se
crimination on the basis of r
elected our first African Am
By this point, of course we're
should just take "race"out of th
And that's how we deceivec
It's always difficult to con
tices, and even more so when1
in our own communities ant

aw the movie "12 necessary to understand that while laws may
many others, the change, people's mindsets often persist.
chless. The filrm While slavery is abolished and there are legal
protections for minorities in place, the con-
sequences of institutionalized oppression are
far from over.
Disadvantages continue to persist for certain
groups of people. Social indicators show that
specific minority populations, such as African
Americans, Native Americans and Hispanics, are
disproportionately affected by disparities in edu-
HARSHA cational achievement, income levels and health.
NAHATA In some areas of the South, income inequality
continues to mirror the social hierarchy of slav-
ery, with most of the wealth remaining in the
ht the struggles, handsofthelandowners.Andpsychologicaldivi-
hatslavesendured sionsabetweenraces continue to persist.
lashings and per- We aren't done dealing with the ramifications
ay, it's a film that of our historical past. For when a group of people
le, and in doing so is subjected to a system of oppression for as long
onfront the reali- as slavery persisted, the process of reconciliation
tory, a period that extends far beyond the law.
r. Reconciliation has to happen at the commu-
tes the film, stat- nity level, the local level and the personal level.
United States to Dehumanization and oppression of a population
story, it's perhaps doesn't just inflict physical torture, it leaves long
term scarring psychologi-
cal impacts. It disenfran-
chises people, meaning'
W e aren't done that even after they may
dealing with the be "free," they struggle
to find their voice within
ramifications of our a society. Reconciliation
means providing a pro-
historical past. cess to understand the
truths of people's experi-
ence, while showing them
respect and humility. It's
ivil Rights Move- . been 150 years, and yet we still have to have
n. some of those difficult conversations.
a" we say things I've heard a lot of my friends complain to
ong ago, and it's me about history classes. They. argue that
focusing on the there's no point in dwelling on events that have
n't around when already happened and people that have already
ren't a part of the passed away. But, as this movie reminds me,
logize for it?" studying history isn't just about memorizing
oday, in our coun- the facts of the past. It is about knowing what
s of race has the has happened before so we can better under-
rowned upon and stand where we are now.
gregation or dis- Slavery is just one example, and the one
race. We've even I focus on because of the movie. But many
erican president. present-day social or political problems are
all equal. And we rooted in past policies or trends. If we want
e equation.Right? to solve them, we have to understand the his-
ourselves. torical baggage that may come with them.
front huge injus-
they've occurred - Harsha Nahata can be reached
d nation. But it's at hnahata@umich.edu.

y mom always says, "It's
just hair," but Culture-
with-a-capital-C seems

to suggest oth-
erwise. In the
Bible's Book of
Judges, Sam-
son loses his
strength when
his hair is cut.
Chris Rock dedi-
cated a whole
documentary to
hair. And I nod-
ded in agree-
ment when my

ZOE
STAHL

friend observed that the most popu-
lar kids at our all-girls high school
had "pretty hair." I'm sure that at
this very moment a sociology major
is typing out a thesis on the intersec-
tion of hair, identity and sexuality.
On Halloween, I decided to dye
my own hair. Sitting nervously
in the middle of my bathroom, I
watched as my friend Caitlin coated
the tips of my dark brown hair in
thick red goo that the box assured
would dry to a deep reddish-purple.
I can't dissect and analyze all the
reasons behind this relatively out-
of-character decision, but I have a
vague idea. I dyed my hair because I
was bored of my style, which hasn't
changed noticeably since seventh
grade. I dyed my hair because as a
college senior - feeling more than
a little confined by 17 years of aca-
demic work and the job search - I
was trying to recapture something
that was youthful and carefree. I
did it because at age 8, I loved it
when my counselor Dylan dyed the
bottom of her black hair magenta
and because I still loved it, at age
21, when both my younger sister
and eldest cousin did. I wanted in
on that lineage. And I'd be lying if
I said I didn't include Lake Bell's

character from "In A World" in my order, quoting psychologist Renee
decision-making process. Cohen: "When someone has disso-
Though at first I felt a bit like a ciative identity disorder each iden-
walking Kerrytown cliche, I admit- tity is split off from the other."
tedly enjoyed life post hair-dye. I And when Miley cut her hair
heard the word "cool" a lot more short, the Twittersphere blew up.
than usual. But even better than @judgementalbitch wrote "Is Miley
the obligatory compliments was Cyrus pulling a Britney Spears
when I was meeting new people - to get attention with her awful
each time, it felt like a mini-social haircut?" and @rockingmytiara
experiment. With this look, these tweeted "Miley practically pulled a
just-met acquaintances could and Britney. #ThisIsNotOkay. Goodbye
did make assumptions of how sup- Princess Hair"
posedly "quirky" and "eccentric" Even Jennifer Lawrence, Pame-
I was. But their first impressions la Anderson and Emma Watson
were followed quickly by their couldn't escape the crazy, petty and
surprise upon realizing just how "aretheylesbians?"talk.AndasMary
square I really am. Elizabeth Williams wrote in Salon,
Soon the novelty (and the semi- "Longhair represents femininity and
permanent vegan Manic Panic vulnerability and sex. It's princesses
"Vampire Red" hair dye) began to and mermaids and porn stars. Short
wear off, and in its place grew the hair, on the other hand, says, 'If you
realization that I was part of a larg- think I'm gorgeous, great, but this
er narrative about women and hair, isn't about you, pal."' Even more,
women and identity, and women women doing something for them-
and sexuality. My younger sister, the selves rather than others was consid-
same one who had ered a violation
dyed her hair just of accepted
six months before, Women doing norms.
told me it meant I To some
was going through something for degree, I get
a "life-crisis." "I themselves is a it. We all rely
am sorry, but it's on visual cues
true," she insisted. violation -of accepted and heuristics
My friend Danny to craft seem-
agreed - "It's not norms. ingly logical
like you are going narratives.
through a break- These stories
up. I like it, but what is this - some help us make sense of our experi-
quarter-life crisis?" ences and the people we encounter.
All these reactions felt eerily But women flouting beauty stan-
similar. I had inadvertently placed dards doesn't mean their looks,
myself in a larger narrative - one sanity or sexuality should be ques-
with the Britneys and Mileys of the tioned. Because you know what? As
world. When Britney shaved her my mom says, at the end of the day,
head in 2007, everyone - myself it's just hair.
included - called her crazy. People
Magazine even ran an article sug- - Zoe StahI can be reached
gesting she had a personality dis- at zoestahl@umich.edu.

0
0
0

INTERESTED IN THE ISSUES? POLITICS? SEX, DRUGS AND
ROCK'N'ROLL?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings. Every Monday and
Wednesday at 6 p.m., the Daily's opinion staff meets to discuss University, local
and national affairs and write editorials.
E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.

I

!

'k



s
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November.12, 2013 - 5


How I learned to stop
worrying and love rap

INTERSCOPE
How do you write "ridiculous" in binary?
Gaa'g ARTPOP
burns then fizzles

To be blunt about it, I
never thought I would
be a fan of rap, hip hop
or anything in between. I have a
very specific memory of a middle-
school Elliot
Alpern par-
ticipating in
a rap vs.rock
argument,
conveniently
in the midst of
a "rock 'n' roll
history" class. ELLIOT
"Rap ALPERN
doesn't take
any musical
skill!" shouted a friend, and, at the
time, I was sure I agreed. As the
son of a rock aficionado - and,
likewise, ageneral rap-music
shunner - I was completely
immersed in my world of guitar
licks and drum solos. To me, and
to the other rock champions on
my side, hip hop was simply talk-
ing over a beat. Yes, I was aware
of the lyrical complexities, but you
can find that kind of intricacy in
any genre. And I still believe that
today - to sayotherwise, I think,
is to say you simply haven'theard
enough.
But everything changed when,
arriving attcollege, I downloaded
Kanye's The College Dropout on a
whim. I had begun to accept a few
rap hits, like "Jesus Walks"(look,
I know, I'm not quite a rap hipster)
- and so, it made sense to me to
investigate if there was anything
else worthwhile. A few days later,
and I was listeningto the album
from end to end.
It didn't stop with Kanye, and I
soon realized that I was growing
into something I never expected
from myself. I was mixing Dr. Dre
into my bouts of Foo Fighters, and
Kanye lyrics were swirling around
my head as much as any Black
Keys verse. For better or worse, I'd
become the personI was arguing
against all those years ago.
But, still, Iwasn't sure why I

actualli
"Get E
withou
what's
The be
it perce
specific
some w
failed t
It to
of con
hip-ho
a recor
everyt
I'd hea
from f
despite
recogn
"The n
album
and se
rap fat
myself
piece c
Co
Evei
I reme
lesson,
me wh
truly A
"Coun
dumb
on to d
countr
own. B
is justr
only no
good ki
that.
At it
more a
story,a
brutal
(often)
leading
Tot
ingly h
coulde

y liked rap. I could go over American story. Sure, there
in High" a dozen times are rock-oriented tracks about
t being able to point out the tragedy of life in America,
suddenly appealing to me. about making ends meat or cold
at? Sure, it's cool, but was winters without a job. But can
rption-breaking? Did the any of them wax poetic on the
c style of lyricseget to me in daily warfare waged in Chicago
ray that rock had suddenly streets?
o do? And, look, I'm not saying
'ok me a few more years that it's the potential to tell
fused-but-grateful that specific storyline that
'p appreciation before makes rap such a great genre.
rd dropped that made But, rather, it's rap's potential
hing oh so much clearer. to maintain such a deep, com-
ird whispers about it plex storyline, all told within
riends and writers, the framework of a catchy,
e the fact that I didn't danceable song, that suddenly
ize the artist's name. made it so appealing.
iew Kendrick Lamar That, too, helped to sway my
leaked!" they cooed, opinion. I'd never been into the
eing my own lack of "dancier" songs, usually relying
miliarity, I took it upon on catchy riffs for all my moving
to explore this new melodies, but as my time in college
tf material. progressed, it became impossible
to ignore that influence of "party"
songs. Not that I was looking for
llg ro o t one of those "Pull up, DRANK"
LIege DrIopyo L tracks everywhere I went, but
all it took. simply that I suddenly was able to
appreciate when the beats were
designed to appeal to a dance floor
full of fun-seeking music-lovers.
rything fell into place. I still shy away from a decent
mber once, in a drums amount of rap. Sometimes, it
when my teacher asked seems to me that a song is made
at I thought was the solely for the basis of "making
merican genre of music. a rap song," instead of making
try?" I offered. It was a music. You can probably rec-
guess, sure, and he went ognize those too - tracks that
escribe how no other emphasize all of the typical fare
y could claim jazz as their (booze, drugs, money, women)
3ut I'd argue, now, that rap over a simple beat with a slight
as American as jazz - you twist. But you can also tell when
eed one listen-through of a hip-hop track actuallytriesto
id, m.A.A.d city to realize excel as a composition, even if the
instruments themselves are made
:s heart, Kendrick's sopho- up of synthesizers and electric
lbum tells the American drumsets. And, even though I still
a diatribe against the listen to my fare share of rock hits,
life that millions of poor you can officially count me as a
minorities are forced into convert to rap music.

Pop star takes on
too many sounds on
latest effort
By GREGORY HICKS
f Daily Arts Writer
Now, art .and pop culture can
meet.But, is this third studio album
a mixed basket tailored to all lis-
tening needs, or
a jumbled set of B
stylistic inco-
herency? ART- ARTPOP
POP ties the
Top-40 form of LadyGaga
The Fame to the Interscope
abstractions
of Born This
Way, depicting Gaga in her most,
prevalent musical insanity while
shuffling to her most reductive
radio-friendly styles shortly after.
Production team announce-
ments garnered the most antici-
pation for this record, despite a
final farewell to Gaga's established
right-hand man, RedOne. DJ
White Shadow seemingly struck
a chord with the pop performer's
tastes on Born This Way, seeing as
he has reappeared alongside the
long-awaited (and much under-
rated) producer Zedd.
Organized chaos is the game

Zedd plays, and his productions that seems as if it fell onto Gaga's
for ARTPOP detonate in a bizarre album from a 2 Chainz record. DJ
electronic bang, particularly on White Shadow fell back to circa
the record's lead track, "Aura." 2008-Gaga for ARTPOP's second
This Middle East-characterized single, "Do What U Want," which
piece releases its tension-built cho- precedes the album's title track,
rus with an assortment of dirty "Artpop"- a dissonant piece with
synths, pops, kicks and ghastly an airy minimalism relative to
vocalizing. other tracks. The futuristic vibe of
Zedd's handiwork is messy on "Artpop," the retro-Gaga styling of
occasion, but is by far the most "Do What U Want" and the obnox-
immaculate sound on the record ious hip-hop outburst of "Jewels n'
- speaking for ARTPOP's abstract Drugs" is too much genre variance
tracks. The extraterrestrial intro to inhale, even for a character like.
of "G.U.Y." seamlessly partners Lady Gaga.
with the talk-sing build of the ARTPOP aims to please a few
chorus and the (once again) eerie too many people - including
vocalizing that wanders behind Gaga herself - but still retains
the track. most of its artistic integrity. The
Other imaginative components record has its blatantly obvi-
of ARTPOP, however, dramatize ous written-for-charts tracks
tracks to more of an artistic implo- like "Do What U Want" and
sion than explosion. Fitting, given "Applause" - as did much of The
that "Swine" is the record's slop- Fame - but also has a captivat-
piest track, but Gaga could afford ing unpredictability (particu-
to familiarize herself with the larly with "Aura" and its sibling
term "moderation." The vocals songs) that doesn't appear to be
are staggered and shouted to near written for any demographic. A
incomprehension, and the backing strong third record, but given
melody is indistinguishable due to ARTPOP's strengths and vision,
its obnoxiously low-octave synth. Zedd would have been bet-
The album's divergences come ter suited as the album's lead
swiftly, inviting in some unpleas- producer over DJ White Shad-
ant stylistic abruptness. "Sexxx ow. White Shadow's influence
Dreams" - a characteristically becomes a tad monotonous, and
pop-heavy track - is pitted against lacks instrumentation as iconic
"Jewels n' Drugs" - a hip-hop song as that of Zedd.

g.
ne, it has become increas-
ard to argue that rock
ever tell such a veritably

Alpern is nolonger yelling at
rap lovers. To congratulate him,
e-mail ealpern@umich.edu.

'Nebraska' cast talks characters

Lost' rides on Redford

By BRIAN BURLAGE
Daily Arts Writer
The old man and the sea against
him. Man in his most primitive
form. An experienced actor in a
director's soph-
omore experi- -
mental film.
Despite such All is Lost
refreshing ver-
satility, "All Is At Rave
Lost" draws the and State
solitary portrait i
Wi ofm

Luscious locks.

of a ma:
maritit
age. TI
explor
of the
ultima
master
tide rec
sails A
film er
gle wit

I,

unsga e
tn and his He was simply there on his boat,
me voy- the Virginia Jean, weathering the
hough it may be varied and elements, manning the helm -
atory, the different aspects becoming as tough and rugged as
film's radical storytelling the ocean swells that pummel him.
tely come together with in his second directorial effort,
ful grace. And when the J.C. Chandor ("Margin Call") opts
cedes, the wind dies and the to tell his story through careful
lacken, the essence of the film techniques and environmental
merges: Man and his strug- factors rather than through dia-
h the deepblue. logue and personal drama. Instead
of guiding Redford's character, he
uses free-moving camera work to
S v rfollow him through his task. We
Mr~an versus travel with him into the water,
the sea. under the deck, into a life raft and
to the top of the mast. We wake up
with him at the beginning of the
movie when a steel shipping con-
hard to imagine anyone but tainer slams into the side of the
Redford ("The Company boat. We plunge into the water with
eep") filling such a role. As him when an onslaught of tower-
ily cast member, he bears ing waves hurls him from the deck.
e responsibility of breaking Chandor permits us to explore
tural monotony of the plot's every corner of the yacht, revealing
alistic approach. With little problems as they come, allowing us
ue and no human interac- to think critically along with Red-
edford's character is left to ford's character about how to sur-
ith oblivion alone in silence. vive and stayafloat.
kstory was provided for his The film's greatest challenge
ter, no surrounding circum- perhaps is finding ways to manage
no motive, not even a name. the only other major cast member:
d

the ocean. From the first minute
to the last, the ocean forces itself
upon the ship - leaking through
cracks, sloshing foam on the deck,
surging upward, downward, side-
ways in attempt to upheave the
ship and swallow it whole. And
while the unpredictable nature
of the sea is indeed imminent
and unavoidable, its constant
aggressiveness throughout the
film (accentuated only by the lack
of other major players) eventu-
ally feels contrived. Despite his
impressive, if not superhuman,
effort to beat the odds, Redford's
character can't sway the momen-
tum even a little.
But this one-sided struggle
makes you root for the character.
Odysseus had his cunning; Aeneas
had his piety; Achilles his martial
ability. Redford's character has
his resourcefulness - his inex-
tinguishable ache and instinct for
survival. And though everything
that could go wrong did go wrong,
though his resourcefulness could
only keep him going until the next
immense challenge set him back,
Redford's character showed the
man could still be a hero.

By MAYANK MATHUR
Daily Arts Writer
It's immediately clear that
"Nebraska,"Alexander Payne'slat-
est film, holds a special place inthe
hearts of its main cast.
As part of the "New York Film
Critics Series," Bruce Dern, June
Squibb and Will Forte sat down
with Rolling Stone critic Peter
Travers to discuss the film and
their roles in it. The event took
place in New York, and wasbroad-
cast live and screened for audi-
ences in the Michigan Theater.
Similar events will be available in
the future at the Michigan The-
ater.
The actors spoke on a number of
topics in the 40-minute interview,
ranging from the casting process,
to the acting process, to their
future plans. Though they fielded
a variety of questions from Travers
and an online Twitter audience,
the personal importance of the
film was a persistent theme in each
of their answers.
"Of the three roles I've played
in my career that are personal to
me, this one is the most personal,"
Dern said.
Dern plays Woody Grant, a
delusional and stubborn old man
who believes that he is entitled to
a million dollars and forces his son,
played by Will Forte, to travel with
him from Montana to Nebraska
to help claim his prize. Though
Dern acknowledged that he bears
little resemblance to the charac-
ter on the surface, he said that he
found commonality in his charac-
ter's detachment and subsequent
estrangement from family.
Grant's detachment stands out
especially since his family mem-
bers are so concerned about his
mental and physical health. June
Squibb plays Dern's hardy wife,
who nurses a deep love for him
despite her frustrations at his
increasing inability to cope with
reality. Even she was emphatic in
noting how close her character hit
home.
"When I read the script, I knew

who thi
me in h
Betw
dramat
ter kno
than dr
Forte'sc
himself
relative
film, he
sonalla
how he
ing toI
type an
film.
"This
me, bec
nuanced
Forte
playing
he rece
Payne's'
actorsv
that Pay
"Alex
the role,
to prove
Al
dis
dr
This
resonan
their ch
one wor
a family
they we
before
how th
know e
"Eve
getting
house fr
was just
The:
closer tc
film is s
ca, andi
imports
film hat
that au
whom#

s woman is. There's a lot of well, formed an integral part of the
er," Squibb said. supporting cast. She said that the
'een these two established film had increased her respect for
it actors sat Will Forte, bet- the state of Nebraska and the Mid-
wn for his comedic chops westingeneral.
amatic acting. However, in Dern said that the film was
case, the contrast between Payne's tribute to the growth and
'and his character, and his history oftheheartland ofAmerica.
inexperience in such a "I admire the, monumental
lps transform it into a per- courage of those people staying
ndmark. Fortetalked about and working on the land that their
ultimately found it liberat- ancestors came to in a covered
play a different character wagon. They don't leave because
d how much he valued this they're honored to carry on tradi-
tion,"Dernsaid.
was a different role for When asked about his best
ause this required a more moments on set, Forte referred to
d performance," Fortesaid. the time that he spent with Dern
attributed his success in between takes, in whichthey spoke
the character to the help about Alfred Hitchcock and John
ived from Dern as well as Wayne, among many other things.
skill as a director. All three "The experience of shooting in
were conscious of the trust the car forthe trip to Nebraska was
'ne placed in them. amazing. Itis somethingthat Iwill
ander (Payne) knows you're treasure forever," Forte said.
Dern said. "You don't have "Bruce provided with me patient
anything." words of encouragement and made
me feel at ease,"he said.
Dern reciprocated Forte's rever-
ence in his constant praise ofForte.
l-star actors "Will is an actor with a tremen-
cuss fmily- dons amount of courage," he said.
According to Dern, being coura-
iven dram a. geous was important for Forte if he
was to subdue his affinity for com-
edy for "the benefit ofthe movie."
The comfortable chemistry
movie went beyond the between the actors was evident
ce that the actors felt with when Squibb was asked who was
aracters - it brought every- the "biggest pain in the ass" on set
-king on the film together as between the other two actors. She
. The cast talked about how immediately pointed to Dern in
nt on road trips in the week jest, while remarkingthat Forte is a
shooting commenced and very affectionate person.
ey used that time to get to The interview closed with Trav-
ach other. ers asking the actors to choose the
ry single day, I felt I was scene inthe filmthatpersonally res-
up and going to somebody's onated the most with them. Unsur-
om the crew," Dern said. "It prisingly, the cast picked various
fun." intimate moments that stressed the
film also brought the actors importance of family ties. Dern said
o the Midwest. Much of the that ultimately, family provides you
et in the heartland of Ameri- with the belief and confidence you
ts cast membersstressed the need to live your dreams.
ince that the location of the "God dammit, you can pull
d to them. Squibb informed them off if you work hard enough
dience that local farmers, at it!" he exclaimed, as the audi-
the cast got to know very ence applauded.

It'sl
Robert
You Ke
the on
the sol
the nat
minim
dialog
tion, R
deal w
No bac
charac
stance,



6 - Tuesday, November 12, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

6 - Tuesday, November12, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

M' draws No. 3 seed

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Senior forward Luke Moffatt said he took some time to see friends and family during the Wolverines' bye week.
Another line shake-up

By GREG GARNO sometimes it's a breath of fresh
Daily Sports Writer air to all the sudden be on a dif-
ferent line."
Michigan hockey coach Red The all-freshman line that
Berenson has not shied away included Allen, JT Compher and
from saying that his team's lines Tyler Motte was broken up in the
for any given game are subject process, as Motte will play along-
to change. In fact, all but one side sophomore forward Andrew
game thus far has featured a line Copp and junior forward Phil Di
change of one form or another. Giuseppe.
The trend will be no different Compher, meanwhile, will
this weekend as Berenson alters center a line that includes two
the lines once more after the of Michigan's biggest scoring
offense's stagnant production of threats in junior Alex Guptill and
late. This time, senior Derek DeBlois.
though, each NOTEBOOK "We don't just throw names
line will get a, into a hat," Berenson said. "We
makeover. think carefully about what (soph-
Michigan (6-1-1) is tied for omore forward) Boo (Nieves)
28th of the 59 teams in Division needs and what (senior forward
I for scoring with 2.75 goals per Luke) Moffatt needs and so on,
game. Only once this season have right through our whole lineup."
the second-ranked Wolverines BYE-WEEK BONDING: Even
scored more than three goals. when they don't need to play
'At Monday's practice, Beren- hockey, the Wolverines still find
son used five different lines, themselves watchingit.
including a new fourth line that On Friday, the team congre-
features junior forward Zach gated at a house of some of its
Hyman - a regular winger - at sophomores to spend part of the
center alongside sophomore for- night watching Minnesota face
ward Justin Selman and fresh- Notre Dame.
man forward Evan Allen. "We live, breathe, eat, sleep
"We're looking for good and drink hockey," said senior
combinations," Berenson said. defenseman Mac Bennett. "Any-
"That's why we've had the bye thing that has to do with hockey,
week, so this was a good chance we do that."
to spend more time practicing After practicing and playing
with these lines. for nearly two months, multiple
"Right now, I think there's a players said the first break of
lot of good things going on, and the season revolved around lay-

ing low rather than going out
together or spending time break-
ing down the play of the Golden
Gophers - a team Michigan will
see in February.
Bennett has often said the
team's chemistry has improved
from last season, thanks in part
to an increase in team bonding
activities. The oft-mentioned
paintball playing garners the
most attention, but spontaneous
and simple off-ice activities help
the team on it.
"If you're better friends off the
ice, you're going to trust the guys
a lot more on the ice," Compher
said. "You're going to go to battle
for your friends more than you
are for another kid."
Some players, like Moffatt,
took some time to see other
friends and family. Over the
weekend, Moffatt went to Ohio
to go target shooting with his
uncle.
But above all else, the break
was much needed for the Wol-
verines to catch up on school
work - or procrastinate on it.
"It's nice to just be a normal
college student," Moffatt said. "I
mean, it's nice to just be able to
get a nap in during the day."
NOTE: Berenson said that he
has decided which goalie would
be starting this weekend against
Nebraska-Omaha but wasn't
willing to release that informa-
tion until later in the week.

By JAKE LOURIM
Daily Sports Writer
In the middle of the Michigan
women's soccer team's locker
room Monday, where the walls
were decked with Michigan gear
and a big-screen TV on another
wall showed the 64 NCAA Tour-
nament teams, sat freshman for-
ward Madisson Lewis.
"I'm kind of confused, I'm not
going to lie," Lewis said. "It's hard
to take in all of it. It's pretty over-
whelming."
The freshman will be right
at home Sat-
urday night ' 2
when No. 3 ,
seed Michigan ~
(9-1-1 Big Ten, "af,;,,
15-3-1 overall) -
hosts its sec-1 -l
ond straight ,cMoaa
NCAA Tour- v -'
nament opener - 1
at U-M Soccer
Stadium. N - ~am _
The Wol- -e" 'i
verines drew
UW-Milwau-
kee (6-1-1 Horizon, 10-8-1 over-
all) - which they beat 3-0 in the
season opener - in the first round
Saturday. Against the Panthers on
Aug. 23, the Wolverines scored
three times in 12 minutes in the
second half. Ryan saidbecause the
game was so long ago, it isn't a fac-
tor in Saturday's matchup.
Michigan would play the win-
ner of Illinois State and Louisville
in the second round. Penn State
and Iowa also landed in Michi-
gan's region, making a conference
rematch possible.

D13 NCAA Women's
Soccer Tournament
Michigan's
Region

"(A Big Ten matchup) would
be just a really hard game," Lewis
said. "I feel like all Big Ten teams
are kind of rivals. It will be fun."
The Wolverines likely lost a
chance to host second- and third-
round games with a loss in the Big
Ten Tournament quarterfinals
last week. Still, senior midfielder
Tori McCombs said the team
would move on.
"Now it's definitely one and
done," McCombs said. "Every
underclassman thinks about next
year. For us (seniors), there is no
next year."

The room
went silent
when Michi-
gan was
announced as
a three seed,
but Lewis and
McCombs
later down-
played the dis-
appointment.
Ryan, about
to begin his
third NCAA

No. 2 seed Marquette plays
Western Michigan in the first
round, and if the Golden Eagles
win, the second- and third-round
games would be in Milwaukee.
Ryan said the field, where Michi-
gan lost in 2009, suits the Wolver-
ines well because it moves the ball
alongquickly.
Eight Big Ten teams made the
bracket, including Ohio State,
which was the first team ever to
reach the tournament despite
missing the Big Ten Tournament.
Nebraska, winners of both the Big
Ten regular-season and tourna-
ment titles, earned a No. 2 seed.
Virginia is the top seed in
Michigan's region. All four No. S
seeds are from the Atlantic Coast
Conference.
In last year's NCAA Tourna-
ment, the Wolverines scored in
the 90th minute and again in over-
time to eliminate Central Michi-
gan. After routing Portland in the
second round, Michigan squan-
dered a 2-0 lead in penalty kicksto
lose to top-seeded Penn State.
The seniors will be making
their third NCAA Tournament
overall.
"I hope our experience pays
off," Ryan said. "We've played in a
lot of different systems."
Ryan has emphasized jumping
out to a fast start all season and did
so again Monday.
"When we're attacking with
determination and putting teams
under a lot of pressure, it's a good
recipe for success," Ryan said.
"When we're not intense about
goingto goal,it'sarecipe for disas-
ter. We've got to pick the right
recipe."

Tournament at
Michigan, said this selection show
was different because he was con-
fident his team would at least be
hosting its first game.
The Wolverines practiced
before the show and watched it
together in the locker room.
"Training (sessions) this week
have taken on a new intensity,"
Ryan said. "We know what we're
preparing for. It's great to see
them out there fighting for every
ball, scrapping. If we had our off
days (during the season), that was
the problem."

0

Five Things: Jona Tournament

1. Re
ence
Mic
coach
before
was a i

Call
-Em
WA NTED TO BUY: 2 Ohio State vs. 1MW
Mich. tB tis. Call Dave 614-761-7653. @ Big'

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, November 12,2013
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2Old grump 34 Ride the Harley 46 Slangy sibling
1 In short supply 3 Haywire 35 Copycat 47 Bulb in a garden
6 Basics for Dick 4 "Picked" 37 Heartrending .48 Addition to the
and Jane complaint 38 Scavenging pest conversation
10 XT computers 5 Olympians in red, 39 Cartoon explorer 51 Attending to a
14 Mandel of whiteand blue 41 Uncle Remus's task
"America's Got 6 Andreofttennis _ Fox 52 Like some coffee
Talent' 7 Netanyahu of 42 Monarch's or tea
15 Actress Israel, familiarly spouse 53 See 30-Down
Lollobrigida 8"Squawk on the 43 Tears (away) 54 Roller coaster
16 "Lamaja Street"airer from cry
desnuda"artist 9"Huh?" 44 Superabundance 55 Hand-held
17 Primary artery 10 Outfielder's cry 45 Maiden name scanner
18 irst ame in 11 Bin chemi intro 59 Vandalize
adoice 13"ppcce"
10 Baseball's 13 Dortosscoopful ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
Hershiser 22"What can Brown O A T S P E R K S E C H 0
20 Amt dotforyou?' L W A EN
21Playskool's shipping PLOW ARENS A LtE
Rocktivity 23 Manhattan's _ - E L I A S I D E A Z 0 N E
products,e.g. Fontanne D A L L A S CD W B O Y S
24 Mugs, e.g. Theatre S H E L V E 0 M E 5 A
25 OldBrit coin 24 Mr. Peanut prop
26 Clinic helper 26 Vietnam 0 0 L H E I N E K E N
31 Big concert neighbor B R O W S M E N S A N E T
setting 27 Golden Fleece R E P S M A C Y S R I S E
32 Gambler's IOU vessel U S E S A S H A M E T E S
33 Lawyes'org. 28 Suspenders
36 Peer pruriently at alternative C O N V E R SE S A G
37 Kermit'scolor 29 What a hound E D S E L C L A I M S
39Coffee-brewing follows F L A G O F V I E T N A M
choite 30WithS53-Down, S H I V IGOLDO TtELtE
40 Boozer Beadlam tans'
41 High-iber food rhythmic motion P U R E a e A I N A R I A
42Longtime 33Yankeeinfielder, F E E T B E N DS S T A R
"Masterpiece tofans xwordeditor@aol.com 11/12/13
Theater"host
Alistair 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 e 9 10 11 12 ,13
43 Decree that spells
46 Nighttime shindig
49 TV warrior in7is6is
50 Ones toughest 20 21 22 23
critics, often, and, aa4an
literally, three
diterentwords 2 27 as 2s an
hidden in 21-, 26-
and 43-Across 31 32 33 34 35
53 Intemet letters
56 Uses a straw as 3 ae 39
57 Fairy tale start
560D-Day bach 71a
60 Promote big-tiMe
61 Slangy 43 44 s
tumarounds
62 Poe's"ebony a7 as as
bird"
63Tinyhillbuilders 5 1 52 5354
64 Criteria: Abbr. 5
65 Trapped on a
branch 6
DOWN p
1 Cager-tumed-
r O'Neal, By Ed sessa
tamiliayl1y113i2Cone3nssAgenyLLt

! 715/721 CHURCH - CENTRAL
CAMPUS!! Available Fall 2014, 1&2
bedroom apartments. Just one block
from South University, near the b-
scbool. Large bedriiams/liviing roams.
Free beat/water parking! 1 bedroom
starting at $805, 2 bedroom starting at
$1445. www.churchstreetrentals.coni
734-320-1244. cimgtllc@yahoocom
**4 BEDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
home. Near B-School Off-street park-
ing & laundry. Call: (734)223-7777
811 S. DIVISION 4 bedrooms, I bath,
parking, laundry, $1900/month. Avail
Fall 2014. dklemptner@ comcast.net
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luvary Apailments,
Right onS. U./Central Cannus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATE'S
wvsvl he2ndlloorSU.com
UNIVERSITY TOWERS
*NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS*
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom w/ FREE
HEAT as low as $1629.00. Great Loca-
tion, Great Service and Great RATESt!
www.universitvtowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All Disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@ iserv.net

Iz1Tg t
lian far
dish'
mana
3050
10am-
LOCA
seeking
send re
MI 481
NORT
MIR
far coan
Please
about u
To app
WW
Pa

By MAX COHEN Junior Cyesha Goree is the only
Daily Sports Writer returning forward who saw play-
ingtime last season, and she made
bounding will be the differ- only brief appearances in nine
between wins and losses. games. Barnes Arico knew that
in order for her small team to be
higan women's basketball successful, she would need to get
Kim Barnes Arico admitted rebounding production from her
the season that rebounding largely unknown forwards and
major concern for her team. her undersized guards.
In Friday's 11-point loss to
Bowling Green, Michigan was
outrebounded, 35-30. Conversely,
the Wolverines dominated the
glass in their win against Arizona
:#734-418-4115 on Saturday, outrebounding the
il: dailydisplay@gmail.com Wildcats, 44-32.
In Saturday's game, junior
guards Nicole Elmblad and Shan-
non Smith needed to pick up the
E P WANTED rebounding slack for Michigan,
gathering 13 and seven boards,
respectively. In the future, the
guards on the team will have to
continue that success.
MEDIATE OPENINGS IN A2
alora. Family restaurant special-
ix Neapalitan Pi & fresh I 2. Shannon Smith won't need
e. Hiring: line cooks, prep cooks, much time to adjust back to Divi-
washers, hostesses, bartenders, son I basketball.
gers, servers, bussers. Apply at
Washtenaw, A2, 48104 between
.2pm. Opening Day Nov 8, 2013 Smith arrived for her first year
L ANN ARBOR Restaurant at Michigan this year after spend-
MANAGERIAL help. Please ing last season with Trinity Val-
sume to P.O. Box 468 Chelsea, ley (Texas) Community College.
18 Smith hadn't played at the Divi-
HERN MICHIGAN'S PRE- sion I level in two seasons since
ca-ed summer camp is looking she decided to transfer out of
aselors fxr the 2014 seasox. NrhCrln atrhrrdhr
visit our website to learn more North Carolina after her redshirt
is, www.campwaidenmi.com freshman season.
ly just click on "Want a job?" Coming into the season, Smith
W.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com was a proven winner at junior col-
id survey takers need in A2. lege, where she was the MVP in
FREE to join. Click on Surveys. Trinity Valley's postseason run.
Her winning attitude immediately
had an effect on Michigan this off-
season.
THE TEAM, "Shannon has brought this
sense of competition to our team,"
T ET A . Elmblad said at the team's media
day. "Every day in practice, she
comes in with the fact that she
?E.A PARTOFIT wants to win everything."
Despite her winning pedigree,
it was possible that Smith would
need time to adjust back to the
higher competition when she
joined the Wolverines. But Smith
erased that notion by leading the
team in scoring in both games
last weekend, scoring 17 points
Friday and 21 on Saturday. Smith
felt comfortable in her role as the
team's primary scorer right away,
hoisting up 35 shots on the week-
end, 12 more than anyone else on
_ . "A."" the team.
3. In crunch time, the older players
FOTBA LL BOOK on the team can step up.
TORE. C I .
When Goree hit a buzzer-

beater to send Saturday's game
against Arizona into overtime, she
proved herself as a reliable player
when the clock dwindled. Bedause
nobody on the team this season
would've been the first choice last
year, it was unclear who would be
counted on in clutch situations. So
far, it appears as though Goree can
be that player.
Elmblad and Smith, two of the
other older players on the team,
also made key plays late in the
game that helped seal the Wol-
verine victory Saturday. Smith hit
a key 3-pointer late in overtime
to extend Michigan's lead, while
Elmblad blocked the Wildcats'
final attempt to tie the game in
the extra period. The junior trio
of Goree, Smith and Elmblad will
have to continue to step up late if
the Wolverines plan to win close
games.
4. The freshmen will be thrown
right into the mix.
The two healthy freshmen on
the team, guards Siera Thomp-
son and Paige Rakers, both saw
major minutes in this weekend's
action. Guard Danielle Williams
is out with an injury. Thompson
started both games and played
major minutes for Michigan, end-
ing the weekend as the Wolver-
ines' second-leading scorer with
24 points. She also leads the team
with 10 assists and turned the ball
over just five times on the week-
end, a trend that must continue for
Michigan to be successful.
Though Rakers came off the
bench in both games, she played
a large role in Saturday's victory,
scoring eight points in 18 minutes,
including the-3-pointer that gave
the Wolverines the lead for good
in overtime.
The older players on the team
may have made -the notable plays
as the clock expired in regulation
and overtime, but they wouldn't
have been in the position to do so
without the play of Thompson and
Rakers.
5. Bold Prediction: Smith will have
the best scoring season in pro-
gram history.
Smith is averaging 19 points in
her first two Division I basketball
games in almost two years. Cou-
pled with the fact that the Wol-
verines have fewer proven scoring
options this season, Smith could
break Diane Detz's single-season
Michigan record of 21.6 points per
game set in 1982.

0~
9

V,

0

I

i


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, November 12, 2013- 7A

* The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, November12, 2013 - 7A

Another early tune-up
for Michigan frontcourt

By DANIEL FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
As Michigan men's basket-
ball coach John Beilein stood at
the podium in the Crisler Center
media room on Monday, he made
an astute observation about the
amount of reporters in atten-
dance.
"Sparse S Caro-
crowd," he said,
regarding the lina State at
group of maybe MiChigan
10.
Though Matchup:
Beilein and the SC. State 1-1;
men's basketball Michigan 1-0
team will surely When: Tues-
face teams and day 7 P.M.
media contin- Where: Crisler
gents larger Center
than that mov- TV/Radio:
ing forward, BTN.com
the team the
seventh-ranked
Wolverines (1-0) will be going
against Tuesday night might be
playing in front of its largest audi-
ence for the year.
Say hello to South Carolina
State.
The Bulldogs (1-1), hailing from

the Mid-Eastern Athletic Confer-
ence, will make their first-ever
visit to Ann Arbor to play in front
of a crowd of most likely at least
10,000 fans - compared to the 387
spectators in attendance Sunday
for their game against Division II
St. Andrews. In that game, they
needed overtime to win, 59-55.
But for anyteam, especially one
that was victorious only six times
last season, a win is a win. And for
Beilein, an opponent is an oppo-
nent, regardless of rank or size.
- "South Carolina State has
almost everybody back from a
team that did struggle a lot last
year," Beilein said. "The same
coach two years in a row. They're
going to come after us, trying to
create turnovers (with) tremen-
dous width and length. They have
a really excellent 6-11 center, and
we're going to have to play really
well, and we look forward to the
game."
The 6-foot-11center in question
is Matthew Hezekiah, a second-
team all-MEAC selection last
season who's been the Bulldogs'
leading scorer thus far, putting up
19 against Marshall and 17 versus
St. Andrews. Hezekiah has been

efficient, shooting 16-for-23 from
the field.
With a center as South Carolina
State's biggest offensive threat,
Michigan will need strong defen-
sive play from its big men, fifth-
year senior Jordan Morgan and
redshirt junior Jon Horford.
Horford- who earned the start
at the "5" in the regular-season
opener against UMass Lowell
and recorded a career-high 12
rebounds in the 69-42 win - will
aim to replicate his production
against a team that had 20 offen-
sive rebounds against Marshall.
After getting outrebounded
in their exhibition game against
Wayne State, 36-31, a key for the
Wolverines has become boxing
out and crashing the boards.
"I thought if you looked at us
in that one, that we were in a
stance," Beilein said. "We were
talking to each other. We made
some good block outs. There were
some things that we really had to
- the Wayne State game wasn't a
great block-out day - and it's one
of those things we had to empha-
size more.
"So we have to make sure we
block out again. They shoot the

PATRICK BARRON/I
Redshirt junior forward Jon Horford collected a career-high 12 rebounds against UMass Lowell on Friday.

ball from the outside, and they
have a good player inside. They're
going to try to get the ball off the
glass."
While Horford played 22 min-
utes last game to Morgan's 12,
Beilein sees both players at the
level he expects for this point in
the season.
"There are spots where they've
really done some great things,"
Beilein said. "Jordan's always
been a good defender. Jon has
been able to defend without foul-

ing at a better clip than he's ever
been. Now finishing around the
basket, they're right there. They
just need - Jon's two plays to start
that second half - a few of those to
open a couple doors for him."
While those two will see plen-
ty of time on the court Tuesday
night, sophomore forward Mitch
McGary will remain on the bench
as he continues to rehab his lower
back. Though he won't play, his
intensity in practice has increased
in recent days.

"For the first time now, he's
done some workouts,"Beilein said.
"He's had some more repetition
in practice over the last 10 days.
He's had repetitions, he looks very
good and we're going to continue
increasing his repetitions."
With no contact in practice
allowed though, McGary's actual
return date remains unclear. And
until then, McGary will be limited
to working with just a coach in
practice while Morgan and Hor-
ford battle Hezekiah downilow.


After fans boo, team takes notice

Play calling not a
problem, says Hoke

By ZACH HELFAND
Daily Sports Editor
As soon as the Michigan foot-
ball team walked into the locker
room for halftime of Saturday's
game against Nebraska, fifth-
year senior left tackle Taylor
Lewan decided it was time to
talk.
The Wolverines were get-
ting pummeled in the trenches
again. The Cornhuskers led,
10-3, and after Michigan took a
knee to end the half, the Michi-
gan Stadium crowd booed as the
team headed to the tunnel.
For players like sophomore
linebacker James Ross III, it
was a moment of clarity. For the
others, Lewan would soon pro-
vide the lesson.
Hearing the fans' displeasure
while exiting the field, Ross
said, "We realized that it's all
about us in this locker room, and
that's the only ones who's gonna
have each other's backs through
the worst times and through the
best times."
When the team reached the
locker room, "Lewan definitely
stuck that point' home," Ross
said.
Right after halftime, the
Wolverines executed their best
drive in the past two games. For
one drive, Michigan's offense
marched methodically, using
mostly passes to go 75 yards in
10 plays for a touchdown. Then,
Michigan failed to score for the
rest of the 17-13 loss.
The defeat was noteworthy
for several reasons. It knocked
Michigan out of Big Ten title
contention. It marked Michigan
coach Brady Hoke's first back-
to-back regular-season losses,
and his first home loss. And, also
for the first time under Hoke,
the Michigan fans openlyvoiced
their displeasure during a game.
On Monday, Hoke acknowl-
edged that the faithful have
grown ornery, "and they should
be," he said. But any boos direct-
ed at the players, he said, disap-
point him.

ERIN KIRKLAND/Daily
The Michigan Stadium crowd booed the Michigan football team on multiple occasions during Saturday's loss to Nebraska.

"If they're b
then yeah," Ho
can boo us co
want."
Asked if he t
were upset wit
Hoke said,
"that's what
I'd be disap-
pointed in."
Few fun-
damental
changes are
in store. Hoke
said again
on Monday
that he had
to do a better
job coaching.
Still, he expres
offensive coord
es's game plan
claims by two N
ers who insisted
dict Michigan's
offensive line, h
from the only i
team.

ooing the kids, And so, at least until this
ke said. "They weekend's game at Northwest-
aches all they ern, the grumbling will likely
continue. The seniors have
hought the fans experienced struggles like this
h the coaching, before. But for the younger play-
ers, the atmo-
sphere can
have an effect.
"We realized "What:hap-
nens above
that it's all about the neck is
, , more impor-
us in this locker, ant than any
thing," Hoke,
room. said. "Period."
Fifth-year
senior right
tackle Michael

gested it could galvanize the
team.
As for Hoke, he can look back
to his third season as the Ball
State coach as an example. That
2005 team lost six of its first
seven, including to No. 11 Iowa,
Auburn and No. 21 Boston Col-
lege by a combined 154 points.
But a strong finish helped Ball
State salvage a 4-4 finish in
conference play, including wins
against both Mid-American
Conference division winners.
The key there, Hoke said, was
staying consistent. That team,
he explained, didn't stray from
who it was.
Now, he hopes to do the same
at Michigan. The pressure here
is different, of course. Even at
home, Hoke can't escape it.
"Look, I've got a harder time
at home than I do there," Hoke
said. "Believe me. I mean, my
daughter and wife, man. (The
media is) easy compared to
them."

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Editor
It's not exactly breaking news
that time is running out for the
Michigan football team to solve
its laundry list of problems.
Some things, like inexperi-
ence, will inevitably take another
season or two to solve. But in the
meantime, Michigan coach Brady
Hoke is trying NOTEBOOK
to figure out
what, if any-
'thing, can be fixed immediately.
After Saturday's game, Nebras-
ka defensive end Randy Gregory
- who had three of the Huskers'
seven sacks - told Omaha.com
that he could easily tell what play
the Wolverines were going to run
based on their formation.
Hoke seemed to take some
offense to that statement, reiter-
ating the fact that he approved of
the play calling.
"He's wrong," Hoke said. "We
know what other guys are doing,
too. Everybody has that. There's
certain things people are goingto
do certain ways. Now, when you
win a football game, I think some-
times it's easy to say that."
Sophomore linebacker James
Ross III agreed with Hoke, saying
that was the case for the Michi-
gan defense at times too - being
able to predict plays is more a sign
of a well-prepared defense than a
stagnant offense.
"Our defensive coaches do a
great job looking at film all the
time, day in and day out, giving us
tendencies and personnel you're
able to recognize," Hoke said. "If
it's a key tendency, you'll know
what it is before it happens most
of the time."
Hoke didn't seem to want to
change much in regard to the
offensive approach, except per-
haps Michigan's performance
on first downs. It took until over
12 minutes into the game for
the Wolverines to complete a

first-down throw, a 13-yard pass
to sophomore tight end Devin
Funchess.
The majority of Michigan's
plays on first downs were runs,
and seeing as the Huskers stuffed
those early on, it put the Wolver-
ines in too many 3rd-and-long
situations. They went 3-for-i5 on
third downs.
"We get a first down in a criti-
cal part of the game, and we miss
a snap," Hoke said. "Those things
happen. Then you're working in
negatives. Do you look at every-
thing? Yeah. You always look at
personnel. You always go back to
evaluate."
THREE FOR THREE: With a Big
Ten championship officially out
of the picture, the Wolverines
have had to refocus their efforts
on what they hope to achieve in
their final stretch of the season.
With three more games
remaining, Hoke says Michigan
has three things to play for.
"Well, number one, you're a
competitor," Hoke said. "You
want to go out and fight. We
always play for our seniors, and
we're always going to work hard
for those guys. The other thing
is, you have a chance to win 10
football games. That opportunity
is always out there. That's always
been a benchmark."
HEALTH UPDATE: By Saturday
night, redshirt junior quarterback
Devin Gardner had been sacked
14times in seven days. So it wasn't
surprising to see him walking
gingerly at the end of the game.
But Hoke isn't worried about
the beating Gardner took, say-
ing he's healthy and that there
shouldn't he any residual effects
this week.
Redshirt sophomore corner-
back Blake Countess exited the
game shortly after the first quar-
ter and never returned after he
suffered an undisclosed injury,
but Hoke said he should also be
fine.

sed. support for
nator Al Borg-
He dismissed
ebraska defend-
I they could pre-
plays. And the
he said, was far
issue facing the

Schofield says he tells the under-
classmen to ignore the outside
voices.
"I mean, they're gonna'boo,"
he said. "We just gotta stick
together as a team and just fight
together."
Ross said the halftime jeers
provided motivation. He sug-

FOOTBAL R[CRTIcNG
Recruiting Roundup: Michigan commits in the state playoffs

By JUSTIN STERN
Daily Sports Writer
The 2014 Michigan football
recruiting class is currently
rankdd seventh in the nation by
ESPN and 13th by Scout. With
the highly-anticipated decision
of defensive end Da'Shawn Hand
this Thursday, Michigan looks
to add to one of the best recruit-
ing classes the school has seen.
Here's a look at how the 2014
commits who had high-school
games this week performed:
Jabrill Peppers, defensive
back/running lack: Paramus

Catholic (N.J.) at Bergen Catho-
lic (N.J.); Ranking: ESPN (2)
Scout (4).
Peppers scored four touch-
downs - two receiving, another
on a run and one on an intercep-
tion return - to lead Paramus
Catholic to a 44-6 victory.
Ian Bunting, tight end: Hin-
sdale Central (Ill.); Rankings:
ESPN (118) Scout (268).
Bunting's team was elimi-
nated from the state playoffs last
week with a 42-14 loss. Bunting
finished the year with 10 recep-
tions for 165 yards.

Michael Ferns, linebacker/run-
ning back: St. Clairsville (Ohio) at
Liberty Union (Ohio); Ranking:
ESPN (123) Scout (175).
St. Clairsville was eliminated
in the first round of the Divi-
sion V state playoffs with a 31-0
loss. Ferns finished the season
with 31 rushes for 441 yards and
six touchdowns. He also tallied
144 tackles, four sacks and two
forced fumbles.
Wilton Speight, quarterback:
Collegiate School (Va.) vs. Flint
Hill (Va.); Ranking: ESPN (128).
Scout (NR).
Collegiate School defeated

Flint Hill 27-14 in the VISAA
Division I state semifinals. Spei-
ght went 15-for-24 with 245
yards and three touchdowns.
Chase Winovich, linebacker/
running back: Thomas Jefferson
(Pa.) at Highlands (Pa.); Rank-
ing: (NR).
Winovich led Thomas Jeffer-
son to a 23-14 victory with 200
yards rushing and three touch-
downs. He also tallied five tack-
les. Thomas Jefferson currently
has the longest winning streak
in its conference and has secured
the conference championship.

Maurice Ways, wide receiver:
Detroit Country Day (Mich.) vs.
Notre Dame Prep (Mich.); Rank-
ing: (NR).
Ways had nine receptions for
185 yards and three touchdowns
as Detroit Country Day defeated
Notre Dame Prep 49-27 in the
district final of the MHSAA
Division IV state playoffs.
Noah Furbush, linebacker:
Kenton (Ohio) vs. Galion (Ohio);
Ranking: (NR).
Furbush finished the regular
season with 93 total tackles and
two sacks and helped Kenton to a
58-14 win over Galion in the first

round of the OHSAA Division IV
playoffs.
Brady Pallante, defensive tack-
le: Barron Collier (Fla.) vs. Lely
(Fla.); Ranking: (NR).
Barron Collier finished its sea-
son with a 14-12 loss. Pallante
will be on agrayshirt scholarship
to Michigan, meaning he will
not participate in team activi-
ties until joining the team on full
scholarship in 2015.

I


8 Tuesday, November 12, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandailytorn

8 - Tuesday, November 12, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom *

BUY
IEFORE
)CT. 13 0
I
I; 'I"

I

&


