ONE 11UN18 1)1-TW ENIY-F01 YEA \1S1 11111 EDTOI LI FR EED

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Thursday, December 5, 2013

michigandailycom
PHRIANTHROPY
Fundraiser
to benefit
children in
hospitals

The Harmonettes performed among many other student a cappella groups at the Kill-A-Watt Unplugged Concert in East Hall Wednesday evening.
Competition kills waste

0 Dorm challenge
encourages
sustainability
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
Daily StaffReporter
The University has put a pos-
itive twist on its sustainability
initiative with the third annu-
al Kill-A-Watt competition,

Students will
canvass city on
Galens Tag Days
By ANASTASSIOS
ADAMOPOLOUS
Daily StaffReporter
With the first snowflakes fall-
ing, it is once again time for the
Galens Tag Days fundraisers to
take over the streets of Ann Arbor.
The annual event, sponsored by
the Galens Medical Society, strives
to help children at the University
Hospital and local organizations.
The event traces its roots to
1927, making 2013 the 87th year
of canvassing for the organiza-
tion. The Galens Medical Society
was founded as an honor society
by medical students in 1914 but
has since grown into 120-member
strong charitable and service orga-

where students in the residence
halls challenge each other to
decrease energy consumption
in their residence halls.
In a ceremony Wednesday
at East Hall, Helen Newberry
Residence Hall took the grand
prize for using the least energy,
while Martha Cook Residence
Hall and East Quad Residence
Hall came in second and third
place, respectively.
During the one-month com-

petition, students living in
various residence halls collabo-
rate with each other and form
friendly rivalries with other
halls.
To win the competition, a
residence hall must decrease
its energy use by least ten per-
cent from the same month the
year before. To be officially
announced as a Kill-A-Watt
Energy Saving Winner, halls
have to reduce their energy use

by the same amount, in com-
parison to a more long-term
standard - the average energy
consumption during the past
four years. Students from the
winning halls are then offered
opportunities to attain scholar-
ships.
Kill-A-Watt rates its partici-
pants in terms of quantifiable
energy reduction and incor-
porates an effort-awarding
See PROGRAM, Page SA

nization. This year's program will
begin Thursday.
The fundraiser aims to fund
various Washtenaw County chil-
dren's organizations and pro-
grams, including those within the
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital.
Medical student Devon Rupley,
the co-chair of the event, said the
fundraiser is a great way for the
medical community and students
to come together and help children
outside the hospital. She added
that the effort is one of the hospi-
tal's biggest philanthropic pushes
each year.
The 2012 event raised slightly
more than $60,000. Rupley said
the amount raised typically ranges
between $60,000 and $65,000.
All money raised will go to benefi-
cent organizations and the costs of
organizing and running the fund-
raiser are covered by other funding
sources.
See SOCIETY, Page SA


TIMBER!
Pledges take
tree down like
Pitbull, Ke$ha

- ENGI-NERD

UMPD responds
to FIJI house
after alleged theft
of 13-foot pine
By ADAM RUBENFIRE
ManagingNews Editor
There were 16,408 trees at
the University in fiscal year
2012, according to the most
recent data. But University offi-
cials will need to subtract one
tree from this year's total after
an incident Wednesday morn-
ing involving a fraternity's
pledging activities.
Twelve students were inter-
viewed by University Police
early Wednesday after they
allegedly stole a tree from a
parking lot near the Indus-
trial and Operations Engineer-
ing Building and took it to the
house of the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity, commonly known as
FIJI. Responding officers were
able to determine that the tree
cutting was a part of a frater-
nity pledging activity, but later
Wednesday morning Univer-
sity Police would not confirm
what fraternity the students
were affiliated with.
In response to a report

that several individuals were
removing a tree at about 1:20
a.m., UMPD officers canvassed
North Campus, later heading
to the Oxford area on Central
Campus, where police and a
Housing Security officer were
seen with the tree and several
students at about 2 a.m. The
tree was in the bed of a blue
Ford F-150 pickup truck on the
front lawn of the Phi Gamma
Delta fraternity house at 707
Oxford Road.
Officers interviewed the stu-
dents at the house, then escort-
ed the pickup - with the tree
in the truck's bed - to a garage
near the Campus Safety Ser-
vices building on Kipke Drive,
where the tree was left for
storage. One officer was seen
holding a hacksaw, though it's
unclear whether it was confis-
cated from the suspects.
After the tree was stored,
University Police were seen at
the tree's original location with
four of the suspects, where
officers continued to talk with
them. A tree stump surrounded
by sawdust and debris could be
seen at the northeast corner of
the lot.
The tree is currently being
classified by UMPD asa 13-foot
Pine Tree, but a more accurate
See PLEDGES, Page SA

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Engineering junior Brian McCann works on a car for the student group MRacing Formula SAE in the Wilson
Center Wednesday. Last summer, the team placed ninth at a competition at the Hockenheimring Cicuit in Baden-
Wurttemberg, Germany.
BUSINESS
Tech companies could spur
rebirth on B Liberty Street

ACADEMICS
Law clinic
helps prove
jailed man's
innocence
DNA testing shows
convicted man was
not guilty
By RACHEL PREMACK
Daily StaffReporter
In a sleepy village in northern
Michigan, ajury found a22-year-
old named Jamie Lee Peterson
guilty of the rape and murder of
a 68-year-old widow.
However, semen found inside
victim Geraldine Montgomery
did not match Peterson's DNA.
Police decided that there must
have been a second, unknown
accomplice.
DNA testing led to an arrest
Monday of Flint-area resident
Jason Ryan, in part to the Inno-
cence Clinic the University Law
School and Northwestern Uni-
versity School of Law.
Law student A.J. Dixon led the
Michigan Innocence Clinic stu-
dent team on the Peterson case.
He said the DNA testing proves
that Peterson was not involved.
"I can't see how anyone look-
ing at this case could come to any
conclusion other than that Jamie
Lee Peterson is anything but
innocent and that the sole per-
See CLINIC, Page 5A

Influx of startups
could increase lowv
rate of foot traffic
By K.C. WASSMAN
Daily News Editor
The lights from the Michigan
Theater have shone for more
than 80 years, but its constant

presence has been the exception
rather than the rule for busi-
nesses on East Liberty Street.
In recent years the street has
seen a shuffle of businesses,
most notably the closure of the
flagship Borders bookstore in
201L But the transformation
of the Borders space was one
of many over the course of the
street's history.
Before Borders, Jacobson's

department -REE
store occu -
pied the -
space on the
corner of East Liberty and May-
nard Street, until it moved to
Briarwood Mall in the 80s.
When Susan Pollay, execu-
tive director of the Downtown
Development Authority, first
moved to Ann Arbor in 1983
See STREET, Page SA



WEATHER HI: 29 GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO:19 news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
The Filter: The Spotlight: 'It's Always Sunny'
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No.40
02013 The Michigan Daily
michigondoily.com

N EW S ........................2A SU D O KU ..................... 2A
OPINION....................4A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
SPO RT S.....................7A B-S ID E............ 1.......1B


2A - Thursday, December 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Thursday, December 5, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

The next Jason Sudekis

In 2009, Mike O'Brien moved to
New York City when he was hired
as a writer for "Saturday Night
Live," Lorne Michaels's prolific
weekly sketch comedy show. He
became a featured player this past
year and is the first writer after
Jason Sudekis to move to an acting
role. After considering a major in
a pre-med-related degree and then
engineering, O'Brien graduated
from the University in 1999 with
a degree in film-video, a program
that is now knowh as Screen Arts £t
Cultures.
What activities were you
involved in at Michigan?
I was on the men's rowing team

for four years. I also was founder
and editor of a monthly com-
edy newspaper called The Anti-
Daily. It was started in rebellion
because I tried unsuccessfully for
two years to get a job writing a
humor column for The Michigan
Daily. So, you can imagine the
soul-searching needed before I
agreed to this interview.
What is it like working at
Saturday Night Live?
I love it. It's perfect for dra-
matic people with short atten-
tion spans. There are extreme
highs and lows. And then it's
gone. You move on from that
host, that sketch, that embarrass-

ing moment because you have to
focus on the next one.
What's the most important les-
son you learned University?
By having to search around for
my major, I learned that you have
to love what you do. And you have
to receive some feedback that
you're doing well at it. If you're
just doing the career that you feel
is correct or garners the most suc-
cess, you won't attack it with the
same passion and will actually
be less successful than if you do
something you truly love. It just
takes forever to find sometimes
- CLAIRE BRYAN

LILY ANGELL/Daily
James Douglas, a fellow in the Department of Chem-
istry explores new uses of visible light and photo-
chemistry.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

T HR EE T HINGS YOU
5Hf~ II l Dk NOW T ODAY

(Tie Michigan DAMl
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER KIRBYVOIGTMAN
tditor in Chief Busness Manager
734-418-4115 ext. t252 734-418-4115 ext. t241
anweiner@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com
Newsroom News Tips
734-418-4115 opt.3 news@michigandaily.com
Corrections Letterstothe Editor
corrections@michigandaily.com tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Arts Section Editorial Page
arts@michigandaily.com opinion@michigandaily.com
Sports Section Photography Section
sports@ ichigandaily.com photo@michiandaity.com
Display Sales tlassified Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com classified@michigandaily.com
Online Sales Finance
onlineads@michigandaily.com finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Matthew Slovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamRubenfireManagingNewsEditor arube@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Alicia Adamczyk, Katie Burke, Peter Shahin, K.C. Wassman,
Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf, Jennifer Calas, Hillary Crawford, Ian
Dngham, millyGreenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel Premack, Stephanie
Melanie Kruvelis and opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
Adrienne Roberts Editorial Page Editors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Dan Wang, Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald
Everett Cookand
Zach Helfand ManagingsportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summitt, Neal Rothschild, Rajat
Khare, aneWsosesrman iz 5,,,51,,OeVukelich 514,,, 0:
ASITATSPRS D TOR:GrgGarno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel Feldman, Erin
Lennon, Lev Facher, Max Cohen
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Elliot Alpern, Brianne Johnson, John Lynch, Anna Sadovskaya
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: John Bohn, Sean Czarnecki, Max
Radin, Akshay Seth, Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIORPHOE DIORS:TrsaT ,Mathe, ,Todd Needle
ASISTANT PHOOEIRS:athernePekaaPaulSherman,
McK"enieBein,RmbyWallau, PatrickBarron
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick Cruz ManagingDesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
HaleyGoldberg MagazinetEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR: Paige Pearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien CopytChiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
EN COPYEDITORS:JennieColeman,MKelly McLaugin
Austen Huffund OnietEditor ahufford@m~ichieandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-PrescottClassified Manager
Lexi Derasm0 Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbertand SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
The MihigtnDasly(ISS Nnt7-67t iUnplished Mondaythrough Frida during the fall and
winte tersobysdentsoatthe UnivesitysofMihigan. One copy isavaialefe ofncharge
to all readers. Additional copies may be picked up at the Daily's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fall term, starting in September, via Us..mail arel$110.Winter term (January through April)is
$115, yearlong (September through April) is $19.University affiiates are subject to a reded
subscriptionrate. On-campussubscriptionsforfall termare$5.Subscriptionsmustbeprepaid.
The Michigan Daly is amember of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

0

Cashin' out This car emits Healthy
WHERE: The Duderstadt coolness Holidays
C ..mn -

uompex
WHEN: Tuesday around
9:45 p.m.
WHAT: An unattended
purse was taken from near
the cafeteria, University
Police reported. The subject
later realized that her credit
cards had been used at
retail stores.

WHERE: East Medical
Center Lot
WHEN: Tuesday at about
7:05 p.m.
WHAT: Antifreeze leaked
from a vehicle was found
at a stopsign near the East
Medical Center Lot M-10,
University Police reported.

WHAT: The eco open
house will offer healthy
snacks, a light lunch and a
lecture on toxins found in
everyday items.
WHO: Planet Blue
WHEN: Today from 12 p.m.
to 1:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu-
ate Library

The Comedy
Netflix announced that
of Errors it will renew its original
Emmy-nominated series,
WHAT: Come see Shake- House of Cards, for a second
speare's comedy directed by season, USA Today reported
John Neville-Andrews. Tick- Wednesday. The season will
ets are available in the Michi- be available to fans on Valen-
gan League ticket office. tine's Day. Frank Underwood
WHO: School of Music, strikes again.
Theatre & Dance

WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center for
the Performing Arts

Free for all It's like you're Jazz ensemble Variety show


WHERE: Mason Hall
WHEN: Wednesday 12:35
p.m.
WHAT: A vending machine
broke in the main lobby,
allowing free access to
the food inside, Univer-
sity Police reported. The
machine broke between
11:30 p.m. and 12:30 a.m.;
the number of items stolen
isim-nu

my mirror
WHERE: 1600 block Plym-
outh
WHEN: Tuesday at about
3:40 p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle's mir-
ror accidentally grazed a
Blue Bus while passing it,
University Police reported.
Min..dm a ,- -.....od

concert
WHAT: The Jazz Lab
Ensemble will be perform-
ing music by Lee Konitz,
Gordon Goodwin and
Quincy Jones, among other
artists. Tickets are not
required.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 8 p.m.
WHERE: Rackham Audi-
torium

WHAT: This showwel-
comes singers, actors, come-
dians and dancers.
WHO: Center for Campus
Involvement
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan League
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any error
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.
com.

After Detroit formally
entered bankruptcy
Tuesday, Emergency
Manager Kevin Orr must
cut pensions to over 20,000
Detroit retirees who previ-
ously believed they would
receive their full pension.
>> FOR MORE, SEE OPINION, PAGE 4
A video of Harrison
Odjegba Okene'sarescue
from a submerged ship
in May went viral on Tuesday,
the Associated Press reported
Wednesday. The Nigerian
cook survived underwater for
three days before a diver dis-
covered him.

01


Sandy Hook 911 calls released,
show anguish, tension in school

Detroit bankruptcy decision
allows city to cut pensions

Multiple calls made
during shooting
now public
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - As
gunfire boomed over and over in
the background, a janitor begged
a 911 dispatcher to send help, say-
ing, "There's still shooting going
on! Please!" A woman breathless-
ly reported seeing a gunman run
down a hall. And a teacher said
she was holed up in her classroom
with her children but hadn't yet
locked the door.
Recordings of 911 calls from
last year's Sandy Hook Elementa-
ry School shooting were released
Wednesday, and they not only
paint a picture of anguish and
tension inside the building, they
also show Newtown dispatchers
mobilizing help, reassuring call-
ers and urging them to take cover.
"Keep everybody calm. Keep
everybody down. Get everybody

away from windows, OK?" one
dispatcher told the frightened
teacher who reported hearing
shots in the hall.
The calls were made pub-
lic under a court order after a
lengthy effort by The Associated
Press. Prosecutors had argued
that releasing the recordings
would only cause more anguish
for the victims' families.
The gunman, 20-year-old
Adam Lanza, shot his way
through a plate-glass window at
the front of the school on Dec. 14.
The office staff saw the shooter,
who was wearing a hat and sun-
glasses, as he entered the building
with a rifle and began firing down
a hallway.
One of the first callers to New-
town police was a woman who
said in a trembling, out-of-breath
voice: "I think there's somebody
shooting in here at Sandy Hook
school."
Asked what made her think so,
she said: "Because somebody's got

-S .

a gun. I caught a glimpse of some-
body. They're running down the
hallway. Oh, they're still running.
They're still shooting. Sandy
Hook school, please."
Another woman, who was shot
in the foot, calmly reported that
she was in a classroom with chil-
dren and two other adults, but
that there was no way to safely
lock the door. The dispatcher
told her to apply pressure to the
wound.
"OK, are you OK right now?"
the dispatcher asked.
The woman answered: "For
now, hopefully."
Another call came from a cus-
todian, Rick Thorne, who said
that a window at the front of the
school was shattered and that he
kept hearing shooting.
While on the line with Thorne,
the dispatcher told somebody
else: "Get everyone you can going
down there."
Thorne remained on the phone
for several minutes.
"There's still shooting going
on! Please!" the custodian plead-
ed as six or seven shots could be
heard in the background. "Still,
it's still going on!"
Within 11 minutes of enter-
ing the school, Lanza had fatally
shot 20 children and six educa-
tors with a semi-automatic rifle.
Lanza also killed his mother in
their Newtown home before driv-
ing to the school. He committed
suicide as police closed in.
Newtown police officers
arrived at the school within four
minutes of the first 911 call, but
nearly six more minutes passed
before they entered the building
while they sorted out concerns
over a possible second shooter,
according to a prosecutor's report
issued last week.
It's not clear whether the delay
made a difference because Lanza
killed himself one minute after
the first officer arrived on the
scene, according to the report.
In one of the recordings
released Wednesday, dispatchers
were heard making three calls
to Connecticut state police that
apparently rang unanswered.

Case serves as
largest municipal
bankruptcy in
U.S. history
DETROIT (AP) - A judge
has given Detroit the green
light to cut pensions as a way
out of the largest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history, a
decision that puts the case in
the laps of thousands of retir-
ees who had hoped that the
Michigan Constitution would
protect them from getting
smaller checks in their golden
years.
Judge Steven Rhodes said
the city is eligible to stay in
bankruptcy court and scrub
$18 billion in debt, with about
half of that amount linked to
underfunded pensions and
health care obligations. But
he also warned officials that
they'll need to justify any deep
reductions.
The case now turns to
crunching numbers and try-
ing to strike deals, although
unions are pursuing an appeal.
Some retirees said they felt
socked by the outcome Tuesday.
"We'll be thrown out of our
homes and starving if they
seriously slash our pensions.
Then they'll tell us to go to the
soup lines," said David Sole,
65, who retired from the public
works department in January
after 22 years and whose wife
also is a city retiree.
"We don't know what they
are going to take," Sole said.
"The judge said he would not
tolerate steep cuts. What's
steep?"
The judge, who wondered
aloud why the bankruptcy
had not happened years ago,
said pensions can be altered
just like any contract because
the state constitution does not
offer bulletproof protection for
public employee benefits. But
he signaled a desire for a mea-
sured approach and warned

city officials that he would not
"lightly or casually" sign off on
just any cuts.
"This once proud and pros-
perous city can't pay its debts.
It's insolvent," Rhodes said in
formally granting Detroit the
largest public bankruptcy in
U.S. history. "At the same time,
it also has an opportunity for a
fresh start."
The ruling came more than
four months after Detroit filed
for Chapter 9 protection.
Rhodes agreed with unions
and pension funds that the
city's emergency manager,
Kevyn Orr, had not negoti-
ated in good faith in the weeks
ahead of the July filing, a key
condition under federal law.
But he said the number of
creditors - more than 100,000
- and a wide array of compet-
ing interests probably made
that "impossible."
Detroit "could have and
should have filed for bankrupt-
cy long before it did. Perhaps
years," the judge said.
The decision set the stage
for officials to confront debt
with a plan that might pay
creditors just pennies on the
dollar and is sure to include
touchy negotiations over the
pensions of about 23,000 retir-
ees and 9,000 workers. Orr
says pension funds are short by
$3.5 billion; most who collect
get less than $20,000 a year.
"We're trying to be very
thoughtful, measured and
humane," Orr told report-
ers. "The reality is there is not
enough money to address the
situation no matter what we do."
The city has argued that
bankruptcy protection will
allow it to help beleaguered
residents who for years have
tolerated slow police respons-
es, darkened streetlights and
erratic garbage pickup - a con-
cern mentioned by the judge
during a nine-day trial that
ended Nov. 8.
Before the July filing, nearly
40 cents of every dollar col-
lected by Detroit was used to

pay debt, a figure that could
rise to 65 cents without relief
through bankruptcy, accord-
ing to the city.
City truck mechanic Mark
Clark, 53, said he may look for
another job after absorbing pay
cuts and higher health care
costs. Now a smaller pension
looms.
"Most of us didn't have too
much faith in the court.... The
working class is becoming the
have-nots," Clark said outside
the courthouse. "I'm broke up
and beat up. I'm going to pray
a whole lot."
Marcia Ingram, a retired
clerical worker, said she may
need to find work but added:
"How many folks are going to
hire a 60-year-old woman?"
The judge spoke for more
than an hour in a packed court-
room, reciting Detroit's proud
history as the diverse, hard-
working Motor City devoted
to auto manufacturing. But he
then tallied a list of warts: dou-
ble-digit unemployment, cata-
strophic debt deals, thousands
of vacant homes and wave after
wave of population loss.
Behind closed doors, media-
tors have been meeting with
Orr's team and creditors for
weeks to explore possible set-
tlements. The judge has told
the city to come up with a plan
by March 1 to exit bankruptcy.
Orr has said he would like to
have one ready weeks earlier.
The city is so desperate for
money that it may consider
peddling masterpieces from
the Detroit Institute of Arts
and selling a water department
that serves much of south-
eastern Michigan. In a report
Wednesday, New York auction
house Christie's pegged the
value of city-purchased art at
$452 million to $866 million.
It's just a fraction of what the
museum holds.
The American Federation of
State, County and Municipal
Employees, which represents
half of city workers, vowed to
appeal Rhodes' decision.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 5, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
LANSING, Mich.
Michigan House
votes to maintain
right to ajury trial
The Michigan House has
voted unanimously to ensure
that the right to jury trials con-
tinues in certain lawsuits filed
against the state.
Wednesday's vote comes
after majority Republicans and
Gov. Rick Snyder passed a law
in November to take state law-
suits away from Ingham County
judges and other counties and
move them to four appeals court
judges comprisingthe new Court
of Claims.
Some question whether the
law still allows jury trials.
Republican Rep. Mike Shirkey
of Clark Lake says he sponsored
the bill to provide "perfect clar-
ity" that people who had the
right to a jury trial under the old
law will continue to have it. The
legislation also says the attorney
general doesn't have to transfer
all pending cases to new judges.
RANCHO CUCAMONGA, Calif.
Shooter who killed
TSA officer has first
court apperance
The man charged with kill-
ing a Transportation Secu-
rity Administration officer and
wounding two other agents
and a civilian during a shooting
rampage at Los Angeles Inter-
national Airport made his first
court appearance Wednesday,
still showing signs of the gun-
shot wounds suffered when he
was arrested.
Paul Ciancia hadn't been seen
in public since the Nov. 1 attack
that created chaos at one of the
nation's busiest airports and
affected air travel around the
country.
The 23-year-old spoke in
whispers and showed no emo-
tion during the 10-minute hear-
ing in the West Valley Detention
Center in Rancho Cucamonga,
about 45 miles east of Los Ange-
les. He's being housed at the
facility in federal custody.
MIAMI
U.S. military to
discontinue reports
on hunger strikes
The U.S. military will no lon-
ger disclose to the media and
public whether prisoners at
Guantanamo Bay are on hun-
ger strike, a spokesman said
Wednesday, eliminating what
had long been an unofficial
barometer of conditions at the
secretive military outpost.
Hunger strikes have been
employed by men held at Guan-
tanamo since shortly after the
prison opened in January 2002
and the U.S. has long disclosed
how many are refusing to eat
and whether they meet military
guidelines to be force fed.

Officials have now deter-
mined it is no longer in their
interest to publicly disclose the
information, said Navy Cmdr.
John Fiolstrat, a spokesman for
the military's Joint Task Force-
Guantanamo.
KINGSTON, Jamaica
Jamaican scientist
creates medical
marijuana firm
A prominent Jamaican scien-
tist and entrepreneur is launch-
ing a company that aims to
capitalize on the growing inter-
national market for medical
marijuana.
Henry Lowe is a researcher
who specializes in medicinal
chemistry and the chairman of
an institute that develops thera-
peutic and cosmetic products
from various plants.
Lowe is calling his new ven-
ture "Medicanja." He says it will
focus on medicinal compounds
in marijuana, known locally as
"ganja," and will not violate any
laws or treaties.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Stolen cobalt- 60
found abandoned
in Mexico City

Passengers on a Metro-North train view ongoing repair work near the Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx borough of
New York Wednesday, where a fatal derailment disrupted service on the Hudson Line of the railroad Sunday.
Hypnosis ma ave caused
New York train derailment

Drip
mol
NE
someti
nosis c
it's fan
driven
monotc
Driv
trance
tinatiot
of part:
happen
control
train?
A m
Railroa
went
New Y
gers, e3
loss of
downt
his law
tative,
"nod,"
nosis.
Then
tions al
the pro
tion in
done to
At t

er experienced train was going 82 mph into a
sharp turn where the speed limit
nentary loss of drops to 30 mph. That's when
the engineer says he snapped
awareness out of it and hit the brakes, but
it was too late. The train hurtled
N YORK (AP) - It's off the tracks, leaving a chain of
imes called highway hyp- twisted cars just inches from a
or white-line fever, and river in the Bronx.
niliar to anyone who has While the term highway
long distances along a hypnosis has been around for
onous route. decades, there's no technical
'ers are lulled into a semi- definition of it and scant specific
state and reach their des- medical study of it, although
n with little or no memory multiple studies have found that
s of the trip. But what if it long driving times on straight
aed to an engineer at the roads can cause people to lose
is of a speeding passenger focus.
Some experts equate high-
an driving a Metro-North way hypnosis with a sort of
ad commuter train that autopilot state - performing
off the rails Sunday in a task, usually competently,
ork, killing four passen- without awareness of it. Sleep
xperienced a momentary experts say the daze could
awareness as he zoomed really be a doze, especially if a
the tracks, according to driver has undiagnosed sleep
'yer and union represen- problems.
who called the episode a Whatever it is, nearly every
a "daze" or highway hyp- bus or train driver has expe-
rienced the feeling of being
r accounts raised ques- momentarily unaware while
bout just how widespread driving long hours, said Larry
blem isin the transporta- Hanley, president of the Amal-
dustry and what can be gamated Transit Union.
combat it. Hanley, who spent eight
he time of the crash, the years driving a bus in New York,

recalled spending a week on the
midnight-to-8 a.m. shift and
sometimes stopping to pick up
passengers who weren't there.
"You find yourself stopping,
and you open the doors, and all
you see is a mailbox," he said,
adding that fatigue and work
schedule changes play a role.
The National Transporta-
tion Safety Board, which has yet
to determine the cause of the
crash, concluded talking with
the engineer Tuesday. Investi-
gators continued interviewing
the train's other crew members.
Investigators have said the engi-
neer, William Rockefeller, had
enough time off for a full night's
rest before the crash, but they
were looking at his activities in
the previous days.
Highway hypnosis doesn't
show up often in medical litera-
ture, but numerous researchers
have looked at the effect that
monotonous drivingcan have on
alertness and reaction time.
In one early paper on the phe-
nomenon, published in 1962,
retired Rutgers University psy-
chologist Griffith Wynne Wil-
liams wrote that the modern
superhighway's smooth, unin-
terrupted stretches of concrete
could put people in a daze.

Dangerous material
discovered in a
rural town, posing
little threat
MEXICO CITY (AP) - A
missing shipment of radioactive
cobalt-60 was found Wednes-
day near where the stolen truck
transporting the material was
abandoned in central Mexico,
the country's nuclear safety
director said.
The highly radioactive mate-
rial had been removed from its
container, officials said, and one
predicted that anyone involved
in opening the box could be in
grave danger of dying within
days.
The cobalt-60 was left in a
rural area about a kilometer (a
half a mile) from Hueypoxtla,
an agricultural town of about
4,000 people, but it posed no
threat or a need for an evacu-
ation, said Juan Eibenschutz,
director general of the National
Commission of Nuclear Safety
and Safeguards.
"Fortunately there are no
people where the source of
radioactivity is," Eibenschutz
said.
Commission physicist Mar-
donio Jimenez said it was the
first time cobalt-60 had been
stolen and extracted from its
container. The only threat was
to whoever opened the box
and later discarded the pellets
of high-intensity radioactive
material that was being trans-

ported to a waste site. It had
been used in medical equipment
for radiation therapy.
"The person or people who
this took out are in very great
risk of dying," Jimenez said,
adding that the normal survival
rate would be between one and
three days.
He said there was no word so
far of anyone reporting to area
hospitals with radiation expo-
sure. He said those who exposed
themselves to the pellets could
not contaminate others.
Federal police and military
units on the scene put up a
cordon of 500 meters (yards)
around the site.
The cargo truck hauling
the cobalt-60 was stolen from
a gas station early Tuesday in
the neighboring state of Hidal-
go, about 40 kilometers (24
miles) from where the material
was recovered, Jimenez said.
Authorities had put out an alert
in six central states and the cap-
ital looking for it.
The truck was taking the
cobalt to a nuclear waste facility
in the state of Mexico, which is
adjacent to Mexico City
The material was used in
obsolete radiation therapy
equipmentthat isbeingreplaced
throughout Mexico's public
health system. It was coming
from the general hospital in the
northern border city of Tijuana,
Eibenshutz said.
Before the container was
found, he said the thieves most
likely wanted the white 2007
Volkswagen cargo vehicle with
a moveable platform and crane.

Kerry to present security plans
to Israeli, Palestine in next visit

U.S. involvement to
increase in peace
efforts in Mideast
JERUSALEM (AP) - Sec-
retary of State John Kerry will
present the outlines of a West
Bank security plan in meetings
with Israeli and Palestinian
leaders this week, stepping up
American involvement in hopes
of reviving faltering Mideast
peace efforts, U.S. officials said
Wednesday.
The proposal will mark the
first time that Kerry, who was
to arrive in Israel late Wednes-
day, has directly intervened
in the talks since they began
in late July. By all accounts,
the negotiations have made no
progress, despite an April tar-
get date for reaching a deal.
Kerry has lots riding on the
outcome of the negotiations.
The sides agreed to resume
talks, their first substantive dia-
logue in five years, under heavy
American pressure, and he
has repeatedly shuttled to the
region and held lengthy phone
conversations with Israeli and
Palestinian leaders in hopes of
pushing them forward.
Negotiators have said dis-
cussions touched on all key
issues in the long-festering con-
flict, primarily Israeli security
concerns and possible border
arrangements between Israel
and a future Palestine. But they
say the talks have amounted to
little more than restating posi-
tions.
The Palestinians seek all of
the West Bank, east Jerusalem
and Gaza Strip, areas captured
by Israel in 1967, for an inde-
pendent state. They say that
Israel's pre-1967 boundaries
should be the basis for a future
border, allowing for slight mod-
ifications through negotiated
land swaps.
Israeli Prime Minister Benja-
min Netanyahu rejects a return
to the 1967 lines, and has sig-
naled he wants to retain large

parts of the West Bank, where
hundreds of thousands of Jew-
ish settlers live. Netanyahu
also opposes any shared control
over east Jerusalem, the Pales-
tinians hoped-for capital. Israel
withdrew from Gaza in 2005.
The U.S. diplomatic offi-
cials said Kerry and his secu-
rity adviser, retired Gen. John
Allen, have been working on
security issues in hopes of
breaking the deadlock. They
believe the absence of any con-
crete plans so far is a main rea-
son for the lack of progress.
The American officials spoke
on condition of anonymity
because Kerry has not yet pre-
sented his proposals.
The Haaretz daily said that
Allen would present his ideas
at a meeting with Netanyahu
on Thursday. After that meet-
ing, Kerry is scheduled to head
to the West Bank for talks with
Palestinian President Mah-
moud Abbas. It said the Ameri-
can thinking is that if Israeli
security concerns can be met,
other issues, such as borders,
will then fall into place.
One U.S. official said Allen
"has been working closely on
the ground with his Israeli
counterparts." The official
said the Americans realize
that security is "paramount" as
Israel contemplates taking "cal-
culated risks for peace."
A U.S. official traveling with
Kerry in Moldova on Wednes-
day said the ideas were not a
"plan" that could be accepted
or rejected. Instead, it was
described as part of an ongoing
effort to help ease Israeli secu-
rity concerns. The official said
many of the ideas have already
been raised with the Israelis in
prior meetings.
The officials refused to pro-
vide details on Allen's work,
including whether it might
include stationing international
forces along the West Bank bor-
der with Jordan. Netanyahu
has insisted that Israel main-
tain a security presence in the
West Bank as part of any final

deal.
Yuval Diskin, a former direc-
tor of Israel's Shin Bet internal
security service, gave a boost
to Kerry's efforts, saying in a
speech Wednesday that it is
imperative that Israel reach a
peace deal establishing a Pales-
tinian state as soon as possible.
In a jab at Netanyahu, he
said the continued occupation
of millions of Palestinians pre-
sented a much bigger threat to
Israeli security than the Irani-
an nuclear program. Netanyahu
has made Iran his top priority.
"Now is the time to make
decisions," Diskin told a gath-
ering of peace activists in Tel
Aviv.
He said the Jewish settler
population is rapidly reaching
the point of no return, where
it will become impossible to
remove them. That could lead
to the establishment of a bina-
tional state in which Arabs ulti-
mately outnumber Jews. In the
meantime, he said Palestinian
frustrations are rising, as evi-
denced by a string of unrelated
attacks on Israelis in recent
months.
"The concentration of fumes
is so high that a little spark
could lead to a big explosion,"
he said.
Mohammed Ishtayeh, a for-
mer Palestinian peace negotia-
tor, said he resigned last month
because the gaps with Israel
were getting wider.
"We went to these talks to
avoid the blame game, we know
the result, there will be no
result," he said. "Israel wants to
annex the West Bank ... It wants
to give us some local autonomy
over the people and annex the
land."
Israeli and Palestinian offi-
cials declined comment on
Kerry's security plan, say-
ing they had not yet seen any
details.
But Ishtayeh said he had
little faith in the American
bridging proposals, saying the
U.S. is unfairly biased toward
Israel.

After star death, studio
stops film's production
'Fast & Furious 7' Universal had been trying to
fast-track "Fast & Furious 7" for
haults after star a July 11 release, a date that's
P 'Walker's likely tobe postponed. Universal
Paul ansdeath hasn't yet announced any release
date change.
NEW YORK (AP) - Universal "Right now, all of us at Uni-
Pictures has shut down produc- versal are dedicated to provid-
tion on "Fast & Furious 7" indefi- ing support to Paul's immediate
nitely following the death of its family and our extended 'Fast &
star, Paul Walker. Furious' family of cast, crew and
The studio announced filmmakers," the studio said in a
Wednesday that the film will statement.
shut down "for a period of time Walker was killed by injuries
so we can assess all options avail- from both the impact and sub-
able to move forward with the sequent fire when the high-pow-
franchise." ered Porsche driven by his friend
The seventh installment of crashed, according to autopsy
the street car racing series had results released Wednesday.
begun shooting in September. The actor died from the "com-
While much of "Fast & Furious bined effects of traumatic and
7" has been filmed, it's far from thermal injuries," according to
complete. the autopsy released by the Los
When Walker died in a fiery Angeles County coroner's office.
car crash Saturday north of Los At the wheel was Roger Rodas,
Angeles, the film was on break Walker's friend, financial adviser
for the Thanksgiving holiday. and co-owner of a professional
Shooting had been planned to racing team. The two died when
resume Monday in Atlanta, but Rodas' 2005 Porsche Carrera GT
production was put on hold fol- smashed into a light pole and
lowing Walker's death. tree, then exploded in flames.


4A -Thursday, December 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A -Thursday, December 5, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I e ml c4tbga n4,3 ai[g

MEGGIE RAMM

E-MAIL MEGGIE AT ROSERAMM@UMICII.EDU

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Protecting Detroit's retirees
Bankruptcy decision threatens the future of the pension program
ederal bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes ruled Tuesday that
Detroit could formally enter bankruptcy, and the widely held
belief that pensions were protected under Michigan's Constitution
was shattered. Under Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, state resi-
dents believed that public-sector pensions were protected by the state's
constitution; however, as Rhodes said, "pension benefits are a contrac-
tual right and are not entitled to any heightened protection in a municipal
bankruptcy." This ruling puts not only the well being of retired Detroit
employees at risk, but also the protected pensions across the country.

"This is one of the strongest protected
pension obligations in the country here in
Michigan ... If this ruling is upheld, this is
the canary in a coal mine for protected pen-
sion benefits across the country. They're
gone," said Bruce Babiarz, a spokesman for
the Detroit Police and Fire Retirement Sys-
tem. So, while Detroit's bankruptcy gained
notoriety with reports that the city would
consider selling the Detroit Institute of Art's
collection, the implications of this ruling have
much more far-reaching impact. Now, Emer-
gency Manager Kevyn Orr will be able to
eliminate the city's pension obligations to its
retirees. Rhodes did say that the city should
be "fair and equitable" as it decides if and by
how much pensions should be reduced. How-
ever, any substantial cuts could be devastat-
ing to pensioners. Amru Meah, a pensioner
who worked for the city fof 32 years, said the
pension is "going to affect me greatly. A big
pension cut may force me to file for bankrupt-
cy. I can't afford to take a pay cut." Although
it's unlikely the city will be able to resolve its
debts without affecting its legacy obligations,
Orr should make every effort to structure the

cuts to be as minimal as possible.
The cuts will affect Detroit's 23,500 retir-
ees, even though they previously believed
they would be receiving their full pension as
it is in the Michigan Constitution. However,
there are various other options as to where
these pension cuts may come from. There are
options that won't hurt Detroit's oldest and
poorest retirees and instead, will instead take
cuts from the future pensions of Detroit's
active workers or will impose smaller cuts on
the city's retired police and firelighters.
By ruling in favor of the U.S. constitution's
supremacy clause over the state constitution's
protection of pension, other struggling Amer-
ican cities and states may follow suit and not
guarantee the protection of pensions for retir-
ees. Cities that struggle with the rising cost
of pensions and funding of public school and
public safety departments - such as Chicago,
Los Angeles and Philadelphia - may now
take this option into consideration. In cities
and states that are dealing with unfunded
pension liabilities, public-sector retirees may
lose the obligations made by their state in the
wake of a Chapter 9 bankruptcy.

HERE'S Youg TICKEET PAD AND
YOUR HAT WELCOME TO THE
ANN ARB~OR PARINGwc POLICE!
Why I don't value being comfortable
W hen I was growing any way, you act - not just speak - to waiting for your turn to speak -
up, the most repeated stop it. When you are called out for when the discussion is about expe-
phrase I heard from a problem, you listen, you learn and riences you could never possibly
my parents was an exasperated you fix your mistakes. when you trip claim as your own. It's about learn-
"Why can't you on the sidewalk and are unable to get ing to move through your own prej-
just be OK with up due to the fact that your overload- udices in a way that does not make
what you have?" ed backpack combined with the force the conversation about you, or place
It was usually of gravity has turned you into some the burden of your education on
following some kind of freakish turtle on its shell, others, or confuse appropriation
highly question- you know that your friends laughing with empathy. It's about recogniz-
able plan I made hysterically is the universally accept- ing that becoming a better friend,
to stir up trouble ed response. a better ally, a better anything of
for myself and Not valuing being comfortable importance is a process that liter-
others around means not trying to change or dilute ally n one else can tell you how to
me. ZARINA who you are and where you come best navigate, however difficult and
Exampie: from, in all of its flawed glory, and no inconvenient that truth may be.
When I was eight matter how far off the "ideal" it is. It Not valuing being comfortable
years old, I was grounded for life means that due to my Eastern Euro- isn't synonymous with not being
for going AWOL from my elemen- pean roots, my face isgeneticallypre- happy with what you already have; it
tary school in Egypt. After months disposed to frighten most youngsters means only that you are not content
of careful scheming and reckless into eating their beets and my body to be complacent with what already
uprooting of decorative plants, I built will undoubtedly assume the natural exists. Being grateful for something
a step ladder out of flowerpots behind curves of a potato eventually. Accept- and demanding its improvement
the supply building at my school, ing this means recognizingthat I will are not mutually exclusive activi-
hauled myself over the eight-foot never age with the grace, beauty or ties, whether that something is your
wallthat surrounded the campus and figure of Beyonce, but it also means community, yourself or your favor-
climbed down a tree into the frenzied being thankful for the fact that at ite TV show. Nothing I've loved has
traffic of downtown Cairo. In my least my family will not suffer from ever gotten a free pass; if anything,
backpack, I had a crayon-drawn map a beet deficiency. Accepting who you the only things worth being critical
of my wildly inaccurate perception of are also implies of are the things
a direct route back to my apartment that as a human that truly matter.
building, a book of matches I smug- you will probably Not being The thing
gled out of a restaurant and a piece of never master the about being
foil-wrapped cheese. I was flying the power of flight or Comfortable means comfortable is
damn coop. I was a rebel with a cause the art of echo- that it is a really
- we had been studying the same location - two not being content to easy thing to
pharaoh in Egyptian culture class for very uncomfort- ' do. I can't truly
three weeks, and I was really bored. able revelations be complacent with say that I don't
Today, 14 years older and prob- in an entirely dif- what exists. value being
ably two-and-a-half years wiser - ferent sense that comfortable at
and truly sorry for the previously I once had. all. There is a
stated incident - I would tell my Not valu- certain safety
mother that although I hadn't quite ing being comfortable means being in knowing the spaces and places
figured out how to appropriately able and willing to address issues and people with whom you fit in
express it, I was never "just OK" that are inherently uncomfortable effortlessly and these places and
with what I had because I didn't if approached with the level of seri- people are legitimate and impor-
want to value being comfortable. ousness that valuable conversations tant. But never making the choice
I still don't. demand. Not valuing being com- to be uncomfortable is accepting
Not valuing being comfortable fortable means forcing yourself to complacency. It's accepting a fate
means becoming overly and person- constantly reassess and learn from that is unending and resolute. We
ally familiar with the reality that topics that are undeniable parts of do the same things, have the same
everybody - but seemingly most the human experience and, yet, are conversations, make the same mis-
often, you - will make mistakes all still considered "dirty words" in takes and can only expect a differ-
the time; and in turn, it means learn- polite society - sexuality, race, gen- ent outcome by way of some kind
ing how to appropriately recognize der, emotions, growing up, death, of divine intervention or statistical
those mistakes. love and hate. elimination. Without being uncom-
when you hurt someone you love, It means learning to recognize fortable, nothing changes.
you overcome your pride and apolo- your privilege as it applies and
gize for your actions. When some- knowing when your voice is valu- - Julia Zarina can be reached
thing is racist, sexist or prejudiced in able and when to listen - without atijumilton@mich.edu.
New president must improve racial relations

0

0

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan,
Rima Fadlallah, Eric Ferguson, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein,
Kellie Halushka, Melanie Kruvelis, Aarica Marsh, Megan
McDonald, Victoria Noble, Adrienne Roberts, Matthew
Seligman, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
KELLIE HALUSHKA ( WP
The'Not a Racist'badge
The #BBUM campaign on Nov. 19 received about race issues as a white girl hailing from
national attention and sparked conversations suburban Michigan because I cannot call
on race at the University. I know I've been talk- myself a victim of the discrimination I hope to
ing about it more than usual, and some conver- prevent. I understand privilege and think that
sations I've had with other friends - people I this is a good place to help bring other would-
otherwise consider tobe enlightened and toler- be enlightened people up to speed.
ant individuals - have left me both angry and For one thing, it's insensitive for a person
aware of how far race relations at this school to say that he or she doesn't see race because
still have to come. this ignores that he or she is allowed to not do
I've found my hometown and high school to so. For many, race is something seen, heard
be more racially diverse than my experience in and thought about almost every moment of
Ann Arbor thus far. Since kindergarten, I've every day, and discrimination based upon it
been intimately familiar with the customs, is always a possibility. When a person says
foods and clothing of other cultures - the older that they "do not see race," they aren't saying
couples withwhom my parents hangout always that they are tolerant; rather, they are say-
commented on how diverse my homecoming ing that because they personally choose not
group pictures were. to discriminate against others, their identity
College has been a strange experience for doesn't matter and shouldn't affect them. It's
me because the University appears tobe more vitally important to not ignore the experi-
active in its discussion and encouragement of ence of others, and part of this is acknowledg-
cultural and racial diversity than demonstra- ing and being sensitive to the fact that race is
tive of it in terms of actual demographics. For always a factor in some people's lives.
the first time in my life, I've been in predomi- Another phenomenon I've observed is the
nantly white academic and social environ- dismissal of race-specific experiences in the
ments, which has shown me how out of touch name of a warped notion of "equality." An
some people are with other races, due not to African American student Tweeted, "#BBUM
prejudice but rather to a simple lack of expo- is my mom calling me worried about my safe-
sure and education. ty because I wrote an opinion piece about my
The infamous Theta Xi party notwith- identity." One of my friends asked me why
standing, I believe that the vast majority of this was relevant to a race discussion when
students on this campus are not overtly rac- they also get concerned calls from parents
ist. One of the biggest issues I've observed telling them not to walk alone at night. My
among my peers is the assumption that the response is that issues like this Tweet are rel-
status quo is good enough. Because they have evantbecause of the history of racial profiling
been raised to accept others who are different behind them like the Trayvon Martin case.
from themselves, they don't "see race;" they An ironclad equality-is-equality mindset
don't understand why initiatives like #BBUM does not work when everyone in the United
are important when they address problems States is not and historically has not been
that "also happen to white people." Basically, equal. It's great that people on campus are
they don't understand that these feelings are racially sensitive, but being so is part of a
wrong because they come from a position of dynamic and life-long learning curve. Put-
privilege. They don't intend to be hurtful or ting on the "Not A Racist" badge and then
deserve tobe dismissed as racists, but they do ignoring the conversation is not a solution.

To the University of Michigan
Regents and Presidential Advisory
Search Committee:
The Association of Black Profes-
sionals, Administrators, Faculty
and Staff feels that the candidate
selected as the new president of the
University must have a documented
history of a strong commitment to
racial diversity. We request that
the selection committee obtain and
address documented data that sup-
port the selected candidate's suc-
cessful work in promoting racial
diversity in a university setting. In
addition, the selected candidate
should have a verifiable history of
havingsupported and instituted pol-
icies that promote the recruitment
and retention of African American
faculty, staff and students.
One of the most important attri-
butes of a successful and vibrant
university is the cultural diversity of
its students, faculty and staff. Given
the current climate of the Univer-
sity, with growing African American
student dissatisfaction and protest,
and the filing of Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission com-
plaints from African American staff
in the University of Michigan Health
System, we believe it is essential
that the new president is aware of
and willing to act upon issues, such
as poor recruitment and retention
of African Americans in many units
around campus.
In many instances, the lack of
recruitment of African Ameri-
cans is directly related to current
departmental policies and process-

es that allow failed and ineffective
practices to continue to exist. Fur-
thermore, in many units, African
Americans are undervalued and
not appropriately promoted. We
are also concerned about the lack
of presence of African Americans
in the skilled trade positions within
the University and in the workforce
of suppliers and contractors.
Additionally, we request that the
new president embrace and support
health system executive leader-
ship in a continued effort to make
the UMHS a more inviting, accept-
ing, engaging and equitable place
for African American staff, faculty
and patients.
The new president must also be
supportive of developing programs
that foster collaboration and part-
nerships between the University
and its neighboring institutions
and communities: Detroit, Metro
Detroit, Ypsilanti, Eastern Michi-
gan University and Wayne State
University. The new president
should also build relationships with
the city of Ann Arbor to help create
a climate in the city of Ann Arbor
that is welcoming to all students,
faculty and staff. The experiences
of faculty and students are not only
affected by the campus climate, but
also by the climate of the adjoining
city, and the new president should
join other area leaders in improving
the climate.
We request that the final candi-
dates meet with our organization,
ABPAFS, during their on-campus
interview sessions for a question-

and-answer session. Once a candi-
date is selected for the position we
request that the new president reg-
ularly meet with our organization
to continue the dialogue and work
of addressing issues that affect
African Americans on campus.
Concrete institutional goals and
systemic practices must be estab-
lished to significantly improve the
recruitment, retention and satisfac-
tion of African American faculty,
students and staff. Additionally, we
request that interval assessments be
conducted to evaluate the Universi-
ty's progress in meeting these goals.
The Association of Black
Professionals, Administrators,
Faculty and Staff
Leon Howard Ill is the president of
ABPAFS and a hall director.
Sonja Brandon is the vice president
of ABPAFS and an administrative
specialist for senior healthcare.
Darquillius Johnson is the treasurer of
ABPAFS and a hall director.
Terrance Wilbert is the assistant
treasurer of ABPAFS and
a hail director.
Shelley Clifton is the secretary
of ABPAFS and is the Associate
Managing Director of Oversight and
Performance.
Charles Ransom is a member
of ABPAFS and a Multicultural
Studies librarian.
Jeffery Harrold is a member of
ABPAFS and is the coordinator
for Academic Standards and
Special Populations.

0

need tobe educated.
It makes me vaguely uncomfortable to write

Kellie Halushka is an LSA freshman.

CHECK US OUT ONLINE
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the
debate. Check out @michigandaily and Facebook.com/MichiganDaily
to get updates on Daily opinion content throughout the day.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 5, 2013 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, December 5, 2013 - SA

SOCIETY
From Page 1A
This year's event will begin
earlier than past fundraisers. The
event will run Thursday from 7
a.m. until 1 p.m. in the hospital.
The fundraiser will recommence
Friday at 6 a.m. and last until 11
p.m. On Saturday, it will run from

7 a.m. to 6p.m.
Staff and faculty will assist
medical students during their
volunteering shift. Volunteers
will give donors symbolic tags in
exchange for their contribution.
Rupley noted that this year
some former patients - including
young children - will help with
the fundraiser at the hospital by
giving tags to donors.

Although the fundraiser lasts
for a few days, deciding where the
money is allocated is a rigorous
process. The society has a com-
mittee that examines requests for
funds by various organizations
and a vote then decides which
charities will receive support.
Donations to the fundraising
effort can also be made online
here.


PROGRAM
From Page 1A
aspect through the distribution
of "enthusiasm points." Points are
earned by submitting videos pro-
posing energy-saving plans and
by creating individual sustain-
ability events.
This year's winners were
announced at an event called Kill-
A-Watt Unplugged, where cam-
pus music groups and solo artists
led a "free, zero-waste and low-
energy" concert.
LSA junior Natalie Stevenson
and Public Policy junior Kayla
Ulrich worked together to put
on the competition as part of
the Kill-A-Watt team. This year,
the group added more residence
halls to the mix and increased
their publicity to get the word out
across campus.
"We find sustainability to
be one of the more big issues
right now, and we really want to
involve everyone and make it not
PLEDGES
From Page 1A
description, along with the value
of the tree, will be determined
over the course of an investi-
gation. Once the investigation
concludes, Washtenaw County
prosecutors will decide what
charges, if any, will be made in
the case. In larceny cases, charg-

just relevant to environmental-
ists, but to everyone at Michigan,"
Ulrich said.
Stevenson added that one
of their main goals is to instill
behavioral changes within stu-
dents to encourage them to lead
sustainable lives, even after the
competition.
At the event, attendees enjoyed
free food, watched performances
by campus a capella groups and
participated in sustainable activi-
ties.
Kill-A-Watt is one of many
programs supported by the sus-
tainability initiative announced
by President Coleman in 2009,
and statistics show that sustain-
ability on campus has improved
since then. The Office of Campus
Sustainability released its annual
report Wednesday on the prog-
ress made by the University in
furthering a greener campus.
According to the OCS press
release, the University has suc-
cessfully encouraged 80 Univer-
sity offices to participate in the
Sustainable Workplace Certifica-

tion program and has lessened
energy consumption in 137 Uni-
versity buildings by 8.4 percent,
since last year, among other
achievements. Although progress
has been made, new energy tech-
nologies offer greater potential
for the future.
One of the activities, hosted by
LSA junior David Levine, invited
attendees to make small ecosys-
tems out of recycled light bulbs
with sand, moss and other mate-
rials. As a Planet Blue student
leader last year, Levine said he
chose to get involved with Kill-
A-Watt to continue his support of
on-campus sustainability prac-
tices.
"Just turning off the lights,
that simple action, goes a long
way," Levine said. "Saving ener-
gy is one the easiest hard things
to do, so we're trying to show
that saving energy is actually
easy and can improve how you
live your life."
-Daily Staff Reporter Jennifer
Calfas contributed to this report.

STREET
From Page 1A
she could buy everything she
needed to live downtown, not-
ing the multiple clothing, food
and service stores that existed
in the area, including Jacobson's.
She added that youstill can finda
wide variety of shops downtown,
but East Liberty in particular has
given way to coffee shops and
restaurants.
While Jacobson's gave shop-
pers a reason to go downtown,
Pollay said Borders provided an
anchor for local businesses.
"It became its own kind of
experience and, like Jacobson's
before it, Borders had an enor-
mous advertising budget and
an enormous ability to pull in
those name authors," Pollay said.
"These huge names came to do
book readings and from that
again businesses nearby thrived
because they sat off of the Bor-
ders space."
Borders declared bankruptcy
and left the street temporar-
ily vacant, but it wasn't alone:
East Liberty has seen a lot of
storefront turnover in the past
few years. Some spaces, such as
the former @Burger and Grand
Traverse Pie Company space,
saw two businesses come and go
within nearly four years - each
restaurant stayed in business for
less than a year.
Pollay cited the Borders clo-
sure, the struggling economy and
an increase in outlet and online
shopping as the causes of the
turnover on the street, adding
that Ann Arbor isn't as insulated
from the struggling economy as
people think.
"I think things were pretty
fragile here for a while, and I

don't know that we all under-
stand just how fragile it is to have
an independent business," Pollay
said.
Though there are still a few
empty storefronts, Pollay said
she sees the street growing and
evolving to support a different
clientele than in the past: tech
workers. Two tech companies,
Menlo Innovations and Barra-
cuda Networks, relocated to the
East Liberty corridor in the past
two years, which Pollay said will
bring a more stable customer
base than that of students, who
aren't in the city year-round and
don't necessarily venture down
the street.
"The neighborhood is going
to change because the new
economy fortunately includes a
lot of folks who are doing very
well in tech businesses and those
employees are now spending
their money locally in that neigh-
borhood," Pollay said.
Anna Flynn of Menlo Innova-
tions said though they have only
been in their East Liberty loca-
tion for about a year and a half,
employees enjoy being close to
all the shops and restaurants
that State Street, Main Street and
East Liberty have to offer. Flynn
added that they are excited for
the new businesses moving into
the former Borders building.
"We love being downtown and
close to everything and seeing
Liberty grow and change," Flynn
said. "I think that East Liberty is
in the middle of town, but it's not
on Main Street or on State Street
so you can get the best of both
worlds."
Tom Hackett, who has owned
the Afternoon Delight restau-
rant on East Liberty for 35 years,
said the street has seen a steady
decline in foot traffic and overall

business since the 1990s. Hack-
ett said he believes people don't
come to Ann Arbor to shop any-
more.
Hackett added that because
the area has become home to an
increasing amount of restaurants
in comparison to other proper-
ties, he has shifted the restau-
rant's focus toward catering to
offset the decrease in business.
Russ Collins, executive direc-
tor and CEO of the Michigan
Theater and an Ann Arbor
native, said though the Michigan
Theater has been a long-standing
presence on Liberty, it has seen a
longterm decline in patrons.
The theater was almost shut
down in 1979 after the com-
pany running it left following a
50-year lease, but Collins said
the community rallied to save
the theater.
Collins has seen a lot of
change on East Liberty - includ-
ing the departures of Jacobson's
and Borders - and he believes
the Michigan Theater is the true
anchor business on the street,
given how long it has been in
existencethe consistentcustom-
ers it draws in and the vitality it
brings to the street.
Having grown up in Ann
Arbor, Collins said it's hard to
define exactly how downtown
Ann Arbor and East Liberty
have changed because the area
never stops evolving. He added
that while stores and restaurants
frequently move in and out of
downtown, that's the nature of
business.
"There has been constant
change in Ann Arbor in general,
but in the downtown specifical-
ly," Collins said. "There's an old
saying that the only constant in
the universe is change, and that
is absolutely true."


es and consequences can differ
based on the monetary value of
stolen property.
Severalofthesuspectsdeclined
to comment, as did brothers at
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
house. It's unclear what the stu-
dents were planning to do with
the tree.
University Police acknowl-
edged that there is a yearly trend
in December tree-cuttings, but

unlike this case, many tree larce-
nies are not resolved. In Decem-
ber 2011, UMPD investigated
the larceny of a Serbian spruce
tree from Nichols Arboretum.
That tree was valued at $400 by
UMPD, and $1,200 by Arboretum
officials.
-Daily Staff Reporter Sam
Gringlas contributed reporting.


CLINIC
From Page 1A
petrator of this crime was Jason
Anthony Ryan," Dixon said.
Peterson's former attorney -Al
Millstein - approached Michi-
gan Innocence Clinic co-director
David Moran last spring, Dixon
said. Millstein and a Kalkaska
County attorney made repeated
attempts for the county pros-
ecutor to investigate using newer
DNA technologies. Though the

former prosecutor rebuffed these
requests, the current prosecu-
tor allowed that recent innova-
tions might correctly identify the
unknown source of the semen.
DNA results identified Ryan
this summer as the source of
semen found in the rape kit and
on Montgomery's shirt. The latter
DNA could not be tested in 1996.
Dixon said their motion for a
new trial would be filed by Dec.
25. If the motion passes, the jury
would hear new evidence and
decide if Peterson is still guilty.

He currently is sentenced to life
in prison without parole.
Still, Dixon explained that one
cannot predict if or when Peter-
son will be exonerated, despite
the lack of hard evidence that he
is not guilty.
"I would certainly say that the
true perpetrator being arrested is
enormous and enormously impor-
tant," Dixon said. "We're not
going to be satisfied until Jamie
Lee Peterson has been released."

In a side by side comparison, East Liberty Street circa the 1920s is seen on the left, while the same street Wednesday is
seen on the right. The businesses along East Liberty Street have changed while its buildings have remained unchanged.
Wildlife workers unable to save 48
stranded whales in shallow water

Kerry aspires to strengthen U.S.
relations with former USSR

As Ukraine rocked
by unrest, former
senator leads
diplomatic mission
CHISINAU, Moldova (AP) -
Between diplomatic headaches
in Afghanistan and the Mideast,
John Kerry spent happy hour
Wednesday praising a wine-pro-
ducing but poor Eastern Euro-
pean nation for resisting Russia's
grasp.
Kerry, the U.S. secretary of
state, said he wanted to visit
Moldova to do more than sim-
ply sample its vast supply of
red, white and sparkling wines
- although several varieties of
each were in abundance as he
toured a 15th century wine cellar
that is billed as the world's larg-
est. He did not mention Russia
by name, but U.S. and Western
officials have accused Moscow
of trying to force its influence
in several former Soviet states,
including Moldova and Ukraine.
Ukraine is undergoing a surge
of upheaval over President Vik-
tor Yanukovych shelved an
anticipated agreement to forge
stronger ties with the European
Union. As many as 300,000 peo-
ple have joined demonstrations
this week in Kiev, the largest
outpouring of public anger since
the 2004 Orange Revolution.
Kerry's brief visit Wednesday
carried a strong symbolic mes-
sage, coming a few days after
* Moldova signed an EU trade
agreement - a decisive step
away from its Russian federa-
tion heritage. Moldova held its
first democratic elections in
1994, three years after the Soviet
Union dissolved.

"It is about building the bridg-
es of opportunity and defining
the future through your own
hopes and your own aspirations,"
Kerry told about 200 govern-
ment officials, business owners
and journalists gathered at the
Cricova winery for his nearly
four-hour tour of Chisinau, the
Moldovan capital. "And to the
people of the Ukraine, we say
the same thing: You deserve the
opportunity to choose tour own
future."
Earlier, at the NATO meeting
in Brussels, a clearly irritated
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov questioned a statement
by Western diplomats support-
ing Ukraine's aspirations for a
European future. He said the
unrest in Kiev should be dealt
with internally.
"I hope Ukranian politicians
will be able to bring this situ-
ation back on a constitutional
track," Lavrov said. "And we
encourage everybody not to
interfere."
Moldovan officials say Rus-
sia's attempts to retain influence
in Chisinau have been clear.
Moscow banned Moldo-
van wine and brandy imports
in September in a direct hit to
Moldova's economy. Russia said
the embargo was the result of
the drinks' substandard quality,
but it was viewed by many as a
warning shot to dissuade Mol-
dova from signing the EU agree-
ment. An estimated $61 million
in Moldovan wine was sold in
Russia last year.
U.S. officials said Moldova, an
agricultural country of about 3
million people, is Europe's poor-
est nation with an annual gross
domestic product of $7.25 bil-
lion.
Russia "tried to thwart us

signing the association with the
EU and influence the results of
the elections in our country -
and will do so when elections
take place in a year," Moldovan
President Nicolae Timofti told
Kerry in an appeal for stronger
U.S. assistance in regional secu-
rity.
He added: "Moldova has com-
mitted itself to actively contrib-
ute to promoting democracy and
security internally, and interna-
tionally with our western part-
ners."
Kerry sought to step into the
economic breach with plans to
increase trade opportunities
for Moldovan wine, fashion and
other goods. It provided a com-
fortable cocktail hour travel
break for Kerry, who is dealing
with a tentative U.S. military
future of Afghanistan and foun-
dering peace talks between Isra-
el and Palestinians.
Kerry originally planned to
visit Kiev and participate in a
meeting of foreign ministers
from the Organization of Secu-
rity and Cooperation in Europe,
during this weeklong trip that
took him from Brussels to Jeru-
salem.
However, following Kiev's
rejection of the EU agreement
and subsequent protests, the
State Department said schedul-
ing reasons would prevent Kerry
from attending. The department
has refused to elaborate on the
scheduling problem, and U.S.
officials have privately allowed
that the cancellation was a sign
of displeasure with the Ukrai-
nian government.
Vice President Joe Biden vis-
ited Chisinau two years ago, but
Kerry's trip marked the first trip
to Moldova by a U.S. secretary of
state since 1992.

EVERGLADES NATIONAL
PARK, Fla. (AP) - Wildlife work-
ers in boats struggled unsuccess-
fully Wednesday to coax nearly
four dozen pilot whales out of dan-
gerous shallow waters in Florida's
Everglades National Park, hoping
to spare them the fate of 10 others
that already had died.
The workers suspended their
efforts after dark, but planned to
return Thursday morning to try
again, said Kim Amendola, spokes-
woman for the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration,
which is taking part in the effort.
Six of the whales were found
dead, and four of the whales had

to be euthanized Wednesday,
said Blair Mase, coordinator for
NOAA's marine mammal strand-
ingnetwork.Atleast three could be
seen on the beach, out of the water.
The whales are stranded in a
remote area near Highland Beach,
the western boundary of Ever-
glades National Park and about
20 miles east of where they nor-
mally live. It takes more than an
hour to reach the spot from the
nearest boat ramp and there is no
cellphone service, complicating
rescue efforts.
"We want to set the expectation
low, because the challenges are
very, very difficult," Mase said.

Park spokeswoman LindaFriar
said rescuers were trying to sur-
round the whales, which were in
roughly 3 feet of salt water about
75 feet from shore, and herd them
back to sea.
"They are not cooperating,"
Friar said.
Workers also tried to nudge the
whalesout to seaearlier in the day
with no success.
The short-finned pilot whales
typically live in very deep water.
Even if rescuers were able to begin
nudging the 41 remaining whales
out to sea, Mase said they would
encounter sandbars and patches of
shallow water along the way.

q. :xz;. n.

The Online
Revolution:
Learning
without Limits

[Dec 7p
Thatre
Walgreen Drama
Center

FEATU RI NG
Curser'o co-founder & co-CEO
Daphne Koller
We are at the cusp of a major transformation in higher education.
In the past year, we have seen the advent of massive open online
courses (MOOCs). In this interactive talk, Prof. Koller will discuss
this far-reaching experiment in education, including examples &
preliminary analytics. She will also discuss why this model can
support an improved learning experience for on-campus students,
& provide access to education to students around the world.
Register today engin.umich.edu/form/mellorlecture20l3
JAMES R. MELLOR LECTURE SERIES ]KS MICHIGAN ENGINEERING
mnUfUVEfffCWWMN1


6A - Thursday, December 5, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Ukraine boxing star leading
opponent in president race

Myanmar university opens
for first time in two decades

Vitali Kitschko
promoting pro-
Western platform
KIEV, Ukraine (AP) - Tow-
ering over his fellow protest
leaders, Vitali Klitschko, the
reigning world heavyweight
boxing champion, has emerged
as Ukraine's most popular oppo-
sition figure and has ambitions
to become its next president.
Thanks to his sports-hero
status and reputation as a pro-
Western politician untainted
by Ukraine's frequent corrup-
tion scandals, the 6-foot 7-inch
Klitschko has surpassed jailed
former Prime Minister Yulia
Tymoshenko in opinion polls.
As massive anti-govern-
ment protests continue to grip
Ukraine, the 42-year-old box-
er-turned-politician is urging
his countrymen to continue
their fight to turn this ex-Soviet
republic into a genuine Western
democracy.
"This is not a revolution. It is
a peaceful protest that demands
justice," Klitschko told The
Associated Press in an interview
Wednesday. "The people are not
defending political interests.
They are defending the idea of
living in a civilized country."
Dubbed Dr. Ironfist for his
prowess in the boxing ring,
Klitschko has scored 45 victo-
ries in 47 fights, 41 of them with
knockouts. He has successfully
defended his title 11 times, most
recently in September 2012, and
plans to have one more bout
before he retires. He still spends
several hours a day training.
Now Klitschko must prove
that he has as much stamina in
the political arena.
Despite earning a doctorate
in sports science, Klitschko has
had to fighta stereotype of being
intellectually unfit to run this
economically troubled nation of
46 million.
Having been raised - like
many Ukrainians - in a Rus-
sian-speaking family, Klitschko
only recently learned Ukrainian
and sometimes struggles to find
the right word. Still, he appeals

to many Ukrainians with his air
of sincerity and his image as a
handsome tough guy ready to
defend his compatriots.
"He is a national hero and
comes across as being decent,"
said Andreas Umland, assistant
professor of European studies at
the Kyiv Mohyla Academy.
Klitschko was one of only a
few opposition politicians who
tried to stop several hundred
radical protesters from storming
President Viktor Yanukovych's
office during a demonstration
Sunday that drew hundreds of
thousands to the streets of the
capital, Kiev.
As the boxer called for peace,
the jubilant crowd chanted his
name. Beside him stood his wife,
Natalia, an attractive brunette
and former model who recently
launched a singing career. The
couple has three children.
The angry protests were
sparked by the president's
abrupt decision last month to
ditch a political and economic
treaty with the 28-nation Euro-
pean Union in favor of closer
economic ties with Russia,
which had threatened Ukraine
with trade consequences if the
country signed the EU deal.
On Wednesday, his party
joined two other opposition par-
ties in blockading the Ukrainian
parliament as part of a nation-
wide strike.
The demonstrations in Kiev
were galvanized when Yanu-
kovych's government sent in riot
police with truncheons to break
up a small, peaceful rally in the
middle of the night, injuring
dozens.
"They took away people's
hope to implement reforms,
to change the situation in the
country," Klitschko told the AP,
speaking inside the parliament
building. "They stole our hope."
Klitschko made his-irst foray
into politics during the coun-
try's 2004 Orange Revolution,
the mass protests that led to
the annulment of Yanukovych's
fraud-tainted presidential win
and ushered in a pro-Western
government. Fresh from a vic-
tory in the ring in the United
States, Klitschko flew to Kiev

and appeared in the heart of
those protests wearing an
orange scarf, the symbol of the
revolution.
Next to him stood his
brother, Wiadimir Klitschko,
now 37, another heavyweight
world boxing champion who
is engaged to the American
actress Hayden Panettiere, star
of the TV series "Nashville."
After two failed attempts
to be elected mayor of Kiev,
Klitschko entered national
politics last year when his pro-
Western Udar party - Punch
in English - finished a strong
third in the parliamentary elec-
tion, running on a reform and
anti-corruption platform. He
was able to capitalize on popu-
lar anger with Yanukovych,
who quickly undid many of
the democratic victories of the
Orange Revolution, and with
voters' disillusionment with the
Orange leaders, now in opposi-
tion, including Tymoshenko.
A year before the 2012 elec-
tion, Tymoshenko was jailed
for abuse of office, charges
the West considers politi-
cally motivated. Klitschko has
joined other opposition leaders
in campaigning for the release
of Tymoshenko, long Yanu-
kovych's biggest political rival.
Klitschko was born in 1971
in Kyrgyzstan, then part of the
Soviet Union, to a school teach-
er mother and a father whose
job as an army pilot took the
family to remote military bases
across the Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe.
He embraced Western values
while training in Germany and
the United States for matches,
he says, and wants to bring that
mindset home to Ukraine.
"Those people who are in
politics (now) do not make it
their goal to change the coun-
try," Klitschko said. "They are
simply plundering the country."
Unlike many Ukrainian poli-
ticians - including Tymosh-
enko - who are accused of
making their fortunes in shady
business deals in the tumultu-
ous post-Soviet era, Klitschko's
millions come from a transpar-
ent source - the boxing ring.

Students return to
campus following
term of suppression
by government
YANGON, Myanmar (AP)
- The campus is overrun by
a tangled web of weeds and
vines. Many of the books
in the open-air library are
ancient, their pages yellow.
Students will have to share a
handful of donated computers
and put up with slow-speed
Internet, at least at first. And
professors are struggling to
catch up with developments in
their fields.
This is Yangon University,
once among Asia's most presti-
gious institutions of learning.
It reopens to undergraduates
Thursday for the first time in
nearly two decades, finally
emerging from a crackdown
by military rulers who consid-
ered education a threat to their
supremacy.
"It's a start," Thaw Kaung,
one of the country's most
respected scholars, said with a
smile.
The junta that ruled Myan-
mar for half a century gutted
education, which received 1.3
percent of the budget, com-
pared to 25 percent for defense.
Education spending has
shot up since President Thein
Sein was inaugurated to lead a
nominally civilian government,
jumping from $340 million in
2011 to $1 billion this year. But
experts say more needs to be
done.
"We need educated people
to run the country," said Thaw
Kaung, an octogenarian in
thick, black-rimmed glasses
who long served as the uni-
versity's chief librarian. "We
can't just rely on foreign aid
and experts. Without a uni-
versity producing capable
persons, it will be difficult to
sustain development in the
long run."
Foreign investors are eager
to do business in this desper-
ately poor nation of 60 million

that only recently opened up
to the rest of the world. They
are no longer hindered by
U.S. and European sanctions,
but now must figure out how
to deal with an enthusiastic
but utterly unprepared work
force.
Even finding English-speak-
ers for five-star hotels can be
a challenge, investors say, let
alone business and information
technology professionals, law-
yers or accountants.
The onslaught on education
in Myanmar began when Gen.
Ne Win seized power in 1962.
Troops blew up Yangon Univer-
sity's Student Union because of
protests and tightened control
over classes. Soldiers stormed
the campus again in 1974 to
quell protests.
The biggest blow came in
1988, following the failed stu-
dent uprisings that put a global
spotlight on pro-democracy
leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The
junta shut down urban cam-
puses, seen as hotbeds of politi-
cal dissent, and restricted what
could be taught.
Yangon University produced
many of Myanmar's leaders
and its most famous dissidents
and intellectuals, including Suu
Kyi's father, independence lead-
er Aung San. The school closed
repeatedly for long stretches
under the junta, and up until
this week, only a handful of
graduate students could be seen
roaming the 200-acre campus.
"It's a dream come true,"
said 16-year-old May Thin Kha-
ing, clutching the straps of her
backpack as she looked for her
name on the board near regis-
tration.
"My parents both went here
in the 1980s and often spoke
nostalgically about those days,"
said the teenager, who will
study chemistry. "I hope I can
feel the same sense of pride that
my parents once enjoyed."
The school once had 60,000
students, but it's a long way
from that now.
Initially, only 300 students
- 15 from each of the 20 disci-
plines - were supposed to head
to class on Thursday. Follow-

ing criticism from academics
and lawmakers, the number
was boosted at the final hour
to 1,000 - or 50 for each disci-
pline.
That left professors scram-
bling to prepare extra lab
equipment and clean up vacant
classrooms. Workers were fran-
tically putting in light bulbs
ahead of the reopening and
sweeping away thick, dusty
cobwebs.
Dr. Phone Win, a physician
who heads Mingalar Myanmar,
a group promoting education,
said enrollment should be even
higher: "Why only 50 for each
discipline? Who came up with
that number?"
He said that despite eco-
nomic and political reforms in
the last three years, the gov-
ernment maintains a top-down
approach across almost every
sector, including education.
"It's very hierarchial," Win
said. The ministry is reluctant
to give too much control to the
university rector, and the rec-
tor limits professors' autonomy,
he said.
"What these students need
now is academic freedom," he
said.
Students also may be skep-
tical that such freedom has
arrived. Political science has
returned to the curriculum, but
so far only six students have
signed up.
With urban campuses closed,
70 percent of the country's
students have in recent years
relied on distance learning,
with graduation depending
largely on their memorization
skills. Others made long, daily
commutes to newly built sterile
institutions on the outskirts of
bustling cities.
Nay Oak, a professor of Eng-
lish at Yangon in the 1960s and
'70s, said that as the military
closed down universities, its
answer to education was to
allow students to take crash
courses. Many walked away
with degrees after just six
months of study.
"In many cases, they didn't
have to learn a thing," Nay Oak
said.

Illinois pension fund
Call: #7344184115 continues struggle
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com cniusto srg

s s

RELEASE DATE-Thursday, December 5,2013
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 How soldiers 35 Prefix with 48 Roundish
1 Rewards for may lie morph 49 1,000
waiting 3 Gratify the baser 37 Pixar title robot kilograms
5 Sauce finisher, side of . 38 Hardwood 50 Kerry's
often 4 Have the lead option department
10 Bit of Halloween 5 Shellfish 39 Mystery 52 Projection room
makeup morsels 42 Most distant stack
14 Gray subj. 6 Lines from the 43 Black Russian 54 Badgers
15 Expansive center component 55 It may be round
t6 Partirg words 733-Down's 44 Fulfills a takeout 56 Stuff in a
t7 Family homeland ore? bcpk
nickname 8 Open-mouthed order? batkpack
18 Parting word 9 Western 46 Alpine parrot 57 Jose's home
19 Erelong landform ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 " " 10 Cliched
23 Presidential 11 Happy hour A M O B E E P S K I P S
nickname morsel MORE O M A R H A G U E
24 Inflationaryfig.? 12 Makesamends A L A N S T R I K C z 0 N E
25 Drive off 13 Rubthe wrong Z A N T A C N N E O R T S
26 Language of way C O K E R O
Pakistan 21 Manjula's
28 Peak onthe husbandons T EH C R E P C CA
t,00-yen note 'The Simpsons" 0 0 z E H A5 0 F L A TE
31 Language 22 Like autumn G R E A S E R S U I T S M E
suffix mornings L E S S O R T T D Y E D
32_-Julie, 27Likemorning E S T P O S S E A S P
Quebec grass W H I TEZ IN U P C
33 Nail-biting way 28Made-up AS T I SIA L B A N Z A I
to win 29 Loosen, as
3"" laces T HECZOM B I ES C z R A
4 Jerks 30 Enroll M O T E L L 0 E A L T 0
4Mors code 33U2frontman S P E N D E T O N R E B S
le4ter after dit- 34 Belly laughs xwordeditor@aol.com 12/05/13
dit-dit 1 2 3 4 s e n 9 10 11 12 13
42 Outlaw Clanton
45 Get rid ot 14 1n1n
46 Gorilla trained to
use sign
language 20 21 22
47 Holiday air
49 Mao _-tung 23 24 2
51 Ten-cent pres.
53' " 26 27 28 29 30 31
58 Designer 32 33 34 on
Schiaparelli
59 The Joe in 3 se 37
Detroit, for one
60 Superb 40
61 Tallow source 00 40 44 4s46
62 Hage
63 Earthworm 7 4 4 s50 51 5 2
haitat
64 utaninaway no54 n 6 57
65 Bout of retail
"therapy" s8 59 60
66 Fine subject? e1 02 no
DOWN s4 on sn
1 "Lost" actress
Raymonde rySteeuiOs y12/05/13
lrlt20Tribunontnt Ageny,LLC12B 3

CRIBSPOT.COM
ZARAGON PLACE 619 E University
4 Bedroom Apartments; 2 Bath
Price: $1,125 per month
Featsres: Wshr/dryer in unit, fully fur-
nished, wifi, 43" flat screen tv included
Contact: 734-786-3890
Link: cribspot.com/listing/2860
ZARAGON WEST 401 Thompson
2 Bedroom Apartments; 2 Bath
Price: $1,350 per month
Features: Washer & dryer in unit, fully
furoished, WiFi included
Contact: 734-786-3890
Link: cribspot.com/listing/2857
SERVICES
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. All Disciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
HELPWANTED
WWW.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com
Paid survey takers need in A2.
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Rive"rfr"t/Feat/Water/Parki"g.
!www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
THE 2N) FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments cone with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATES
www.The2ndFloorSU.com
UNIVERSITY TOWERS
*NOW TAKING RESERVATIONS*
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom w/ FREE
HEAT as low as $1629.00. Great Loca-
tion, Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.uiiversitytowers-in.com

Plan to save the country bring even greater
unpredictability to a plan sup-
fund could be porters described as crucial
to getting Illinois on better
scrapped financial footing. A bankrupt-
cy judge in Michigan ruled
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) - Tuesday that Detroit can cut
With the fight over solving its pensions despite constitu-
Illinois' worst-in-the-nation tional protections like Illinois'
pension shortfall now headed - a blow to labor unions and
to the courts, the financially their members.
troubled state faces a grim Illinois, Michigan and Ari-
possibility: The plan could zona are among the seven
be tossed, and Illinois could states that have clauses in
wind up in an even deeper fis- their state constitutions that
cal hole than the one it's in protect pension benefits,
now. according to the Center for
Legislative leaders, antici- Retirement Research at Bos-
pating a legal challenge from.} ton College. The others are
public-employee unions once Alaska, Hawaii, Louisiana and
the landmark bill approved New York.
Tuesday is signed, went Illinois and New York's pro-
extra lengths to bolster the tections are considered to the
law's odds in the court- strongest, however, because
room - including an unusual the language expressly states
three-page preamble to the that it applies to current and
legislation in which they lay future benefits.
out their case for cutting "I think they've got a seri-
worker and retiree benefits. ous problem," said Profes-
But legal experts say those sor Ann Lousin, the Edward
efforts could mean little in a T. and Noble W. Lee Chair in
state that provides some of the Constitutional Law at John
country's stronger constitu- Marshall Law School in Chica-
tional protections of pension go, speaking of the legislative
benefits. leaders who were the political
They point to Arizona as a architects of the Illinois mea-
possible warning sign. In 2012, sure.
a judge there said a law raising Illinois' unfunded pen-
the employee contribution to sion liability is $100 billion,
pension benefits was illegal, largely because lawmakers for
and ordered the state to repay decades didn't make the state's
the money to workers - with annual contributions to the
interest. funds.
Amanda Kass, budget direc- The enormous shortfall led
tor and pension specialist for major credit rating agencies to
the Center for Tax and Bud- downgrade Illinois to the low-
get Accountability in Chicago, est credit rating in the country.
predicted Illinois could see a Pension payments also grew to
similar outcome. consume about one-fifth of the
"The state could owe back state's general funds budget -
a huge sum of money, possibly siphoning money from educa-
with interest," she said. tion, social services and other
Recent rulings across the areas.

!! 721 CHURCH - CENTRAL
CAMPUS !! Available Fall 2014,
, bedroom apartments. Quiet, perfect
fotr grad stdents, just one black fro
Sasth University, near the h school.
Free heat/water/parking!
www.churchstreetrentals.com
734-320-1244. cimgtllc@yahoo.com
*AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
COn Campus. 945 Waadawn.
Ctontact Mike at 734-276-3876.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, December 5, 2013 - 7A

Lots of potential, but
'M' couldn't fulfill it

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Michigan coach John Beilein said, "Maybe we should have run our late-game offense the whole time."
Ianemic night, some
oi i
of1eslVe o 1 i'es

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
If it wasn't so painful, it'might
have just been called odd.
The No. 22 Michigan men's
basketball team's offensive per-
formance in Tuesday night's
79-69 loss to Duke was by far the
worst of the season, never mind
that the Wolverines have also lost
games scoring 70 and 61 points.
With 119 seconds remaining,
Michigan trailed 68-50. To that
point, it had shot 18-for-46 and
only 1-for-9 on 3-pointers.
Down 18 with two minutes to
play, Michigan (5-3) got a layup
from sophomore forward Mitch
McGary, and then the hacking
commenced. The Wolverines
fouled the Blue Devils to send
them to the line, prolonging a
contest that was well out of hand.
Michigan fouled nine times in
the final two minutes to manu-
facture nine more possessions,
in which the Wolverines drained
two 3-pointers and scored 19
points to bring the score totals
to a respectable level. Those 19
points accounted for 28 percent
of Michigan's scoring.
McGary led the garbage-time
parade, padding his stats with
eight points and three rebounds
to complete a seemingly impres-

sive 15-point, 14-rebound game.
Ultimately, the Wolverines
boosted their field-goal percent-
age from 39 percent to 45 percent
and their 3-point rate from 11 per-
cent to 23 percent in that span.
Though the outcome was never
threatened, Michigan cut the def-
icit to 10 by game's end.
"We didn't get some threes
until the end," said Michigan
coach John Beilein. "Maybe we
should have run our late-game
offense the whole time, and we
could have scored some points."
Beilein's teams have tradition-
ally been prolific at perimeter
shooting, so Duke's game plan to
limit opportunities in transition
- and from sophomore guard Nik
Stauskas in particular - put the
Wolverines in an untenable situ-
ation.
"You gotta go two at a time,
and you gotta get stops at the
other end," Beilein said about
adjusting to the 3-pointer being
taken away. "And then you gotta
make runs coming out of that, but
we weren't able to do that. But
(overcoming) 12 points anywhere
is hard to get."
The only player able to carry
the scoring burden was sopho-
more guard Caris LeVert. After
he scored just four points in the
first half, LeVert went off for 20

in the second half, almost strictly
on dribble penetration and almost
strictly to the left side.
"They were having a hard time
scoring, and LeVert just kind of
put them on his back and was
terrific," said Duke coach Mike
Krzyzewski."We kept telling (the
Duke players), he goes left more
than right, but he went left real
hard, and he's very good."
Try as they might, the other
Wolverines were unable to gener-
ate anything. Drive attempts were
forced off balance, and the shots
were off target. Until the final !19
seconds, aside from LeVert, the
rest of the Wolverines scored just
13 points in the second half. The
first 20 minutes were even worse,
with the Blue Devils heading into
halftime with a 32-22 lead. For
Michigan's starters, the points
on the first-half score sheet read:
four, three, five, three, four.
"We dialed (LeVert) up like
crazy in the second half," Beilein
said. "We played through him
the whole second half. That was
something that we saw from the
game, and we just went with him.
Knowing that they were going
to deny Nik as much as they can,
we went in a different direction
and it worked. Unfortunately
we already buried ourselves in a
hole."

Indiana forward Dylan Mares
collected the ball outside the
18-yard box and weaved by
two defenders before slotting it
into the back of the net. As the
Hoosiers celebrated, the Michi-
gan men's soccer team sullenly
walked off
the field. M
Mares's MINH
goal had DOAN
sent the On Men's Soccer
team pack-
ing from
the Big Ten Tournament, virtu-
ally ending its season. A cam-
paign filled with such promise
was over, and many team goals
were left unchecked.
"A Big Ten Championship
and an NCAA Tournament bid
were our two major goals," said
redshirt junior midfielder Tyler
Arnone last week.
The 2012 season was Wol-
verines' coach Chaka Daley's
inaugural year and included
appearances in the Big Ten
Championship and the second
round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment. Michigan hoped to build
off those accomplishments
heading into this year.
But instead of improving on
last season's achievement, the
Wolverines (3-3 Big Ten, 8-7-3
overall) regressed.
"One of the major disappoint-
ments was this team had so
much potential," Arnone said. "I
don't think we reached our high
point at any time."
Finishing scoring chances
became Michigan's biggest
Achilles' heel.
Early in the season, the Wol-
verines took on South Florida in
a non-conference battle. Michi-
gan outshot the Bulls, 15-7, and
dominated most of the second
half and overtime periods, but
the Wolverines could not pre-
vail, tying the match, 1-1.
The same issue was prevalent
in many other games, such as
one against then-No. 7 North-
western, when the Wolverines
outshot the Wildcats, 15-5, but
couldn't come away with a goal
in a 2-0 loss.
The highlight of the season
was a three-game winning
streak at home in which the

Wolverines were lifted by timely
goals.
Against then-No. 12 Creigh-
ton, Wisconsin and defending
NCAA champion Indiana, late
second-half goals by freshman
defender Lars Eckenrode, red-
shirt junior Tyler Arnone and
junior midfielder TJ Van Slooten
gave Michigan a chance to cel-
ebrate and pushed it into second
place in the Big Ten, placing it
in a good position for an NCAA
Tournament at-large bid.
"Beating two teams that were
in the Final Four (Creighton and
Indiana) last year on national
TV was certainly encouraging
for our group," Daley said.
To secure the at-large bid, the
Wolverines needed to go into
East Lansing and beat No. 18
Michigan State.
The game started off well
for Michigan, but its recurring
theme of deficiencies in front of
goal hurt the Wolverines once
again. The Michigan offense
rattled off 10 shots to the Spar-
tans' zero but could not come up
with a goal. In the second half,
sophomore defender Jack Brown
was sent off with a red card, and
Michigan State scored two goals
on its way to taking back the Big
Bear Trophy in a 2-0 win.
"We took it to Michigan State
before the red card," Arnone
said. "We showed we could com-
pete against the best teams in
the country."
That loss, coupled with a
first-round exit in the Big Ten
Tournament, only reinforced
the disappointing reality that
the Wolverines would not make
the NCAA Tournament.
"We were essentially one and
a half games from making the
NCAA Tournament." Arnone
said.
While the season did not turn
out the way Michigan would
have liked, there were many
bright spots on the team.
The freshmen played excep-
tionally well and stepped up
in bigsituations when needed.
Eckenrode and fellow fresh-
man defenders Rylee Woods
and Andre Morris played big
minutes when their numbers
were called upon. Woods and

Michigan coach Chaka Daley's sec-
ond season was a slight regression.
Eckenrode received All-Big Ten
freshman team honors, and the
three will be the foundation of
the Wolverine defense for sea-
sons to come.
Arnone was another highlight
for the team. His work as a box-
to-box midfielder and hustle led
to his recognition as the Big Ten
Midfielder of the Year. Heled the
team with five assists and put
away two goals on the season.
"My goal was to be an influ-
ence in every game," Arnone
said. "I wanted to perform well
throughout the year and have a
level of consistency."
Michigan will say goodbye to
six seniors: midfielders Dylan
Mencia and Fabio Pereira,
defenders Tyler Leppek and
Ezekiel Harris and forwards
Malcolm Miller and TJ Roehn.
All six have left their mark on
the program and they serve as
the last players on the team from
the Wolverines' run to the Col-
lege Cup in 2010.
But with the freshmen, a slew
of key position players and both
captains - Arnone and red-
shirt junior goalkeeper Adam
Grinwis - are coming back for
another season, so Michigan's
goals remain the same.
Heading into next season, the
young team will have experi-
ence behind it and will look to
replicate the success the depart-
ing seniors brought.
"We're certainly excited
about where we're going as a
program," Daley said. "The
future is looking very bright."


WOMLN'S BASKETBALL
Surprising Michigan brings
red-hot shooting to Virginia

U.S. Under-18 foe is young,
hungry and capable of upset

By MAX COHEN The coach hopes the team's
Daily Sports Writer shooting prowess displayed last
weekend was no accident.
The Michigan women's bas- "We made shots, which is
ketball team hit its 3-pointers something, in the games that we
left and right in the second half lost earlier this year, we weren't
of its near-upset against No. 15 able to do," Barnes Arico said.
LSU last weekend. The Wolver- "They're spending a lot of extra
ines went 8-for-13 from beyond time in the gym getting up
the arc in the shots."
half, helping Mihigan Against the Lady Raiders, the
them keep the Wolverines shot a blistering 59.3
competition at Virginia percent from the field. The next
close. Matchup: day facing LSU, Michigan bare-
This marks- Michigan 5-3. ly missed out on eclipsing the
man-like Virginia 3-4 50-percent mark for the second
shooting has When: Thurs- game in a row, making 47.1 per-
continuously day 7 P.M. cent of its attempts.
aided Michigan Effectiveness in shooting has
in its surpris- ure: John been the difference between
ing start. Arena wins and losses for the young
The Wolver- team. In the team's other two
ines (5-3) enter TV/Radio: losses, it made less than 36 per-
this yer's B' Virginialyorts.ls hn 6pr
this year's Big orn p($) cent of its attempts.
Ten/ACC Chal- The recent lights-out shoot-
lenge game ing has continued a trend for
at Virginia looking to build the Wolverines. Despite its low
momentum after their two most percentage in those two early
impressive performances of the losses, Michigan enters its game
season. At the Barclays Invita- against the Cavaliers ranked No.
tional last weekend, Michigan 27 in the country in field-goal
beat Texas Tech in convincing percentage at 46.5 percent - a
fashion and nearly pulled off the significant accomplishment for
upset over the Lady Tigers. a team that didn't know who its
Historically, Michigan has primary scorer would be enter-
fared well in the Big Ten/ACC ing the season.
Challenge compared to its fel- Junior guard Shannon Smith
low Big Ten programs. Since the emerged early as a key offensive
Challenge's inception in 2007, presence for the team and leads
the Wolverines are 4-2, while the Wolverines in scoring. But
their conference has not yet won Smith's status is still up in the
the overall title. air for Thursday's game. She
"Any time we have an oppor- injured her back late in Friday's
tunity to play against another victory and missed Saturday's
conference, it's our job to repre- contest against LSU as a result.
sent," said Michigan coach Kim Smith has participated in
Barnes Arico. some activities in practice

this week but will be a game-
time decision. If Smith isn't
in the lineup, senior forward
Val Driscoll will likely take
her place, as she did Saturday
against LSU.
Driscoll played her best game
of the season against the Lady
Tigers, going toe to toe with
talented LSU bigs and coming
away with 11 rebounds and six
blocked shots.
Virginia (3-4) hasn't experi-
enced as much recent success.
The Cavaliers come into the
game fresh off of a weekend trip
to the Bahamas, where they lost
both of their games in the Junk-
anoo Jam Tournament.
One of the losses was a blow-
out at the hands of No. 3 Tennes-
see.
In the second game of the
tournament, center Sarah
Imovbioh and guard Kelsey
Wolfe combined to score all but
eight of the team's 46 points in a
narrow loss to Kansas State.
Generally, the team has a
more balanced scoring attack,
led by Imovbioh, guard Ataira
Franklin and guard Faith Ran-
dolph, who all average between
11 and 13 points per game.
Last season, the ACC won the
Big Ten/ACC Challenge, 7-5. But,
it's new year, and the new-look
Michigan team hopes to help
the conference notch its first
win.
"We feel so fortunate to be at
Michigan, but also to be a part of
the Big Ten conference, which I
believe is the best conference in
the country and is just going to
get better and better in years to
come," Barnes Arico said.

By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
Exactly 11 months ago, a sul-
len Michigan hockey team skat-
ed off the rink at Yost Ice Arena
after suffering a 5-3 defeat. At
the other end of the rink, cur-
rent Wolver-

ine freshmen
Tyler Motte,
JT Compher
and Evan Allen
were more
than satisfied.
The trio
played for the
U.S. Under-18
National Team
Development
Program last
season before
enrolling at
Michigan, and
combined for
five points -

U.S. NTDP
at Michigan
(ex.)
Matchup:
NTDP 0-0;
Michigan
10-2-1
When: Thurs-
day 7 P.M.
Where: Yost
Ice Arena
TV: Fox Sports
Detroit

everyone," Compher said. "Since
we're in Ann Arbor for two years
(with the NTDP), a bunch of guys
come see Michigan games, and
for me it was a little more impor-
tant."
Since the NTDP plays locally
at the Ann Arbor Ice Cube, the
high anticipation surrounding
the game is somewhat expected.
Motte went as far as saying the
annual matchup is progress-
ing into a rivalry, and Michigan
coach Red Berenson has grown
to appreciate it, too.
"We've got to play that pro-
gram," Berenson said. "It might
not help us, necessarily, but it's
the right thing to do. That's why
we play them."
But the game is an exhibition,
and Berenson will use it as a
chance to experiment with lines
and give some upperclassmen a
night off. Specifically, junior for-
ward Derek DeBlois and senior
defenseman Mac Bennett will be
out of the lineup for the first time
this season. According to Beren-
son, Bennett has some "bumps
and bruises" after last weekend's
series sweep over Ohio State.
Filling in for Bennett, junior
defenseman Brennan Serville
will return to the ice for the first
time since sustaining a head
injury against Niagara on Nov.
22. Berenson also confirmed that
junior Andrew Sinelli would be
a mainstay on the blue line after
the coach saw some positives in
his game the past two weeks.
Sinelli is typically a forward.
"I like his quickness," Beren-
son said. "He's agood skater, and
he goes back to get the puck and
he'll win that race. He'lltake a hit
to make a play, and he's a defen-

Motte with two goals, Compher
with two assists and Allen with
one assist - in the NTDP's vic-
tory over the Wolverines.
"With the national team, it's
one of the biggest games of the
year," Motte said. "You look for-
ward to it all year."
On Thursday, the scene will be
very different. Motte, Compher
and Allen will line up in maize
and blue when No. 3 Michigan
hosts their former team in an
exhibition.
Looking back, Compher most
vividly remembers a jam-packed
crowd hovering over him last
January. He got the starting nod
that day since Yost would soon
be his home arena, making the
night that much more special.
"It's a really exciting game for

Vis
PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Freshman forward Tyler Motte beat
Michigan last year with the NTDP.
sive forward, so he's got good
defensive instincts in our zone."
Thursday's game will also be
the first opportunity for many
Michigan fans to see Dylan Lar-
kin, a Wolverine commit for the
2014-15 season. He has tallied 22
points (14 goals and eight assists)
in 23 games this year with the
NTDP. Berenson cited his skat-
ing, spirit and strength on the
puck as some of his most promis-
ing traits.
Even in an exhibition with
multiple lineup changes, Michi-
gan will still look to spoil Lar-
kin's night. Motte called last
year's loss an upset for the Wol-
verines and said a similar result
this season would be "devastat-
ing."
"Guys on this side are hungry
for it," Motte said. "For us, this
year, I think it's about more of
keeping our momentum, not tak-
ing it lightly and moving forward
into the rest of our season."


8 - Thursday, December 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

BBowties and baritones
By Erin Kirkland

S
0

I'11 be the first to tell you that
I can't sing. So I set out to
explore the campus' a cappella
culture. It's no secret that in recent
years, as seen in movies such as
"Pitch Perfect," the depiction of
college a cappella culture stresses
the transition from stiff, straight-
laced chorale groups to loosened-
up groups singing mashups.
But what about the oldest
student organization on campus
- The Men's Glee Club? Founded
in 1859, the organization is known
as the roughly 100 men between
the ages of 18 and 22 who don
penguin-esque tuxedos and sport
boutonnieres. Since it incorporates
musical accompaniment they don't
quite fall underneath the a cappella
umbrella, but it still straddles
the line between tradition and
modernity.

"We want to honor the
traditions the 154 year old student
organization holds dear . . .
However it's important to think
critically about those traditions
and ensure that the club's culture
evolves with the times," said LSA
senior Chris Osborn.
In doing so, the group's set
list includes both classical and
contemporary selections, and a few
performances from the 8 person
comedic musical group known as
The Friars. Each year Glee Club
participates in their outreach
program known as Brothers in
Song, providing mentorship and
musical opportunity for a local
high school. And as far as loosening
up goes, you can hear them singing
at Cottage Inn after Thursday
practices.
While documenting the group as

they prepared for their fall concert,
I realized that the organization
stands asa musical reminder of the
University's historical tradition
and legacy. In fact, each spring the
club comes to a football practice
to teach the next team how to
properly sing "The Victors." For
me, what once stood as an image
of shiny shoes and neatly pressed
shirts, has been replaced by the
final act of the fall concert. In
the last 5 minutes the group sings
Michigan-specific, age-old songs
- "In College Days, The Victors,"
and "The University" -which echo
throughout Hill's rich-colored
ceiling.
The end result of my sociological,
photographic exploration? I
still can't sing. But I know of
an organization on campus that
certainly can.


By Anna Sadovskaya, Senior Arts Editor

h

It was once the mark of a sailor: the washed-
out anchor on rough skin served as a permanent
reminder of grimy life at sea. It used to be the sign
of a gang-member: embedded designs announced
his loyalties before him. It travelled through
prison systems and biker bars, igniting a sense of
unease in the hearts of those outside. And now, it
resides on the inner bicep of a 21-year-old as an
expression of individuality.
"What people miss is that human beings have
been tattooing their bodies from day one, and
it comes from a very aboriginal rite of passage,
where we mark moments in time, a period in our
life, with a tattoo," said Jeff Zuck, tattoo artist and
owner of Name Brand Tattoo. "It's really not that
bizarre if we break it down to the roots of it. This
is our body, we've adorned it forever."
Though an ancient practice, tattoo artistry has
long been shrouded in mystery and taboo, only
recently seeing a refined emergence on college
students, young professionals and even business-
men and women who are enticed by the glowing
"Tattoo Parlor" signs. According to Zuck, who
was himself motivated by the gradual shift in tat-
too culture, this is the tattoo movement.
"I started tattooing at my house, and it's not
something I recommend to anyone," Zuck said.
"I didn't have tutelage, but that is how I started.
I've been tattooing 20 years, and 20 years ago, it
was just starting to be at that point where you
would see tattoos on interesting people: skate
boarders, people I look up to, musicians ... And
they were not so much the stereotypical biker,
druggie, criminal, and it started to be on people
that, in my young age, I thought to be very inspi-
rational."
Leap to ink
Brad Nugent, a tattoo artist at Lucky Monkey
Tattoo Parlour, like Zuck, started out tattooing
on his own, at home, with needles and an exacto
knife. His left arm is a tribute to his adolescent
experimentation as a "scratcher," or an unex-

perienced tattoo artist who ends up with a rough
tattoo as opposed to the graceful semblance of a
smoother design.
"I had a friend who was in a gang, and he had a
lot of gangtattoos: pitchforks and crowns and stuff.
And he said he had done it himself, and I said 'how'd
you do that?' And what you do is you take one nee-
dle, three needles, five needles and you wrap them
in thread and then you leave the amount of needle
exposed that you want penetrating the skin and
then you'd dip it in ink," Nugent walked through
the process, miming the needles fitting into the car-
tridge of an opened exacto knife.
Nugent spent years struggling as a rebellious teen
before he realized his true calling as a tattoo art-
ist. Going through school for refrigeration and air
conditioning in New York, Nugent took an art elec-
tive class where his creative talent came through
in a still-life assignment - where he drew his tat-
too equipment. Nugent's teacher took notice and
encouraged him to pursue his artistic interests.
"He said, 'What are you doing? Refrigeration, air
conditioning? Really? Don't you make art? Try to do
something with your art."'
Nugent quickly realized he was prepared to take
the leap into ink artistry. After years of forming
contacts, working at the art every day and losing
a side job, Nugent got into his groove and paid his
dues, finally settling into his career as a tattoo artist
at Lucky Monkey in Ann Arbor. He chose the small
University city because, aside from being a college
town, Ann Arbor is also home to tattoo-changing
artists and styles.
Types of tattoos such as tribal, Americana, black
and grey, traditional Japanese styles and gore,
among others, are offered in the city's many parlors,
with tattoo artists spending years honing their craft.
"I started studying (Japanese-style tattooing)
maybe 10, 12 years ago in the traditional sense ...
really emulatingethat style," Zuck said. "I've recently
taken a break from that and people continue to ask
who else there is to go to. I have one person who's
been working under me for five years who actually
understands that, grasps that and comes close to

that (style of tattooing). Outside of that, people are
going to have to travel a few states away, even to the
coast, to find someone that qualified."
Tony Caporusso, a traditional American tattoo
artist at Lucky Monkey Tattoo Parlour, described
his succession into tattoo territory as a fixation;
after his first tattoo at 18, he was hooked. Capo-
russo quit his job in advertising to pursue his call-
ing - hunched over shoulders, arms and elsewhere,
spreading ink into their skin, creating art.
"I've always been'an artist and an illustrator,
and as soon as I turned 18, I got my first tattoo. I
got more interested in the culture and the history
of tattooing and the art that went along with it,"
Caporusso said. "I started replicating traditional
flash and over the years of collecting tattoos, I just
got obsessed. It overtook my profession to the point
where I couldn't think about anything else and I
had to pursue that career change."
This dedication to their craft, along with help
from popular media (such as TLC's "LA Ink" and
photo sharing on Instagram) is providing the world
with a clear look into tattooing, with unprecedented
access to artists, their styles and their shops.
The tattoo renaissance
But this resurgence has been a long time coming
for some. To become a true artist, it takes years of
practice and continuous work, building up a port-
folio so a tattoo studio will take them on. Tattooists
just starting outhave the typicalhardships associat-
ed with starting a new career, along with the added
bonus ofneeding others to practice on.
"I had an opportunity at one point to apprentice
under Hot Stuff Deluxe in Texas, where I lived out
there for 12 years," Nugent recalled. "I didn't really
jump on the opportunity, because I didn't realize
what was in front of me and how hard it is to get an
apprenticeship, what kinds of sacrifices you have to
make in your life: doing grunt work for a year, not
even tattooing, just making artwork, stencils, filling
out paperwork."
See INK'D, Page 38


the b-sid

2B - Thursday, December 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

I


FOOD COLUMN.
Finding the hidden
holiday treats of
Ann Arbor

NETFLIX PIX
Daily Arts Writers dig through recent
Netflix releases to find the shows worth
revisiting or discovering.

-

Jics the most wonder-
ful time of the year,
people: parties for host-
ing, marshmallows for toasting,
caroling out
in the snow
... and in the
world of food,
there's a lot
more going
on than just
chestnuts
roasting on NATE
an open fire.
Say what you WOOD
want about
commercial
businesses capitalizing on the
holiday season; if it means J get
those holiday treats I've been
waiting 10 months for, then I
don't care.
As a kid, I remember feel-
ing like the holidays had really
only begun when my mom came
home with a carton of eggnog. It
was super rich, probably imita-
tion stuff that IShad to dilute with
skim milk to make drinkable, but
every November, I'd look for-
ward to slurping the concoction
from those gaudy, winter-themed
glasses (envision pixelated pine
trees beneath a sky of uniformly
arranged snowflakes) that were
dug out from the back of our
cabinet at only this time of year.
It wasn't the eggnog that I cared
about, but instead what it symbol-
ized.
Truthfully, I haven't changed
much in that regard: I still get
really into this whole holiday
cheer thing. And here to help are
a number of local eateries and
national chain restaurants, which
oh-so-generously shove "limited-
time" products in my face deco-
rated with bright-red ribbons and
jolly, happy snowmen. But hey,
like I said before, I don't care.
So - in no particular order - I
present my top-six picks for Ann
Arbor holiday treats.
Achatz Handmade Pie
Company Turkey Pot Pie
Forget Banquet!, Achatz's
handmade pies are the way to go.

An independent business with
a number of locations scattered
throughout Ann Arbor and metro
Detroit, Achatz Handmade Pie
Company is currently offering
its seasonal turkey pot pie filled
with everything you love about
Thanksgiving. A combination of
shredded turkey breast, verdant
green beans and sweet notes
from golden sweet potatoes and
plump cranberries is wrapped in
rich, salty gravy and topped with
an herbed crouton crust. And yes,
they'll ship it to you. Does it get
any better thanthis?
McDonald's Eggnog Shake
I know, I know, how classless
for a food critic to suggest order-
ing anything at McDonald's. But
let me reiterate a recurringctheme:
I don't care. The eggnog shakes
here are actually the best. The
eggs, the nog and the shake prob-
ably aren't real, but I know for a
fact that the chemically preserved
cherry on top is ... well, mostly,
anyway. Just try it; don't think
about it.
Don't knock
McDonald's
delicious
Eggnog Shake.
Zingerman's Candy
Manufactory Peanut Brittle
Nothing says Christmas like
peanut-brittle. Whether you're
planning on enjoying the treat
yourself or just stuffing it in par-
ty-favor to-go bags, Zingerman's
Candy Manufactory (who knew
that was even a word?) has per-
fected the art of peanut-brittle
pulling. Watch the video on their
website to see why - instead of
making a huge, molten mess your-
self - you should probably just
leave candy-making to the profes-
sionals.

Starbucks Pumpkin
Spice Latte
Not to be a hipster about this,
but I liked Starbucks' Pumpkin
Spice Lattes (we'll call them PSLs)
before they were cool. And you
want to know a secret? I know
how to make them even better.
Listen. Normally, a grande-sized
drink at Starbucks has four pumps
of flavored syrup. Take advantage
of this knowledge (and act obnox-
iously pretentious in the process)
by askingyour barista for a"Gran-
d6 Pumpkin Spice Latte, three
pumps pumpkin spice, one pump
white mocha" instead of your
standard PSL. Modeled after a
cappuccino Ihad in Traverse City
a few years back, this customized
Starbucks drink will - I promise
- be your new winter favorite.
Iorio's Gelateria Bourbon
Caramel Gingersnap Gelato
Though this really shouldn't
require any persuasion on my
part, allow me to sing the praises
of this boozy holiday muddle of
awesome: Taste the dense, silky
gelato swirled with sweet and
sticky caramel. Freshly baked gin-
gersnap cookies add a welcomed
hearty texture, and the dash of
strikingly dark, barrel-aged spirits
the perfect taste-bud punch. Am I
making myself clear?
Roos Roast Holiday Blend
To wash everything down,
grab a locally roasted bag of beans
and brew a cup of joe. The Holi-
day Blend at Roos Roast is mildly
spiced to trigger those warm clove,
cinnamon and nutmeg notes, just
the pick-me-up your Monday
mornings are probably looking for.
I went through a full pound during
Fall 2012 final exams. Don't judge
me.
And with that, I say, 'let it snow,
let it snow, let it snow.' Deck the
halls; we need a little Christmas.
Joy to the world! Still not feeling
the holiday cheer? Go check your
heart; it's probably three sizes too
small.

"Dexter" - "American Horror Story"

Okay, so maybe right before finals isn't the
best time to get into this highly addictive drama
about friendly neighborhood serial killer Dex-
ter Morgan (Michael C. Hall, "Six Feet Under")
... butI mean, c'mon, it's "Dexter." Regardless of
the last few seasons, the first four are fantastic
and John Lithgow's Trinity stands with Hanni-
bal Lecter as one of the greatest on-screen seri-
al-killers of all time. But what brings the series
alive is Hall's constant ability to change. He's
never simple enough to just be a one-note mur-
derer. Instances of change are visible in every
episode, but the impact is invisible because the
results are always drenched in blood.

Midway through the bewitching third sea-
son of "American Horror Story," Netflix has
released the series's second installation, "Asy-
lum," for streaming. The real showcase of the
season is Sarah Paulson's mesmerizing portray-
al of Lana Winters - watch as she braves the
horrors of 1960s mental health care and stead-
fastly rivals Jessica Lange (in both the fictional
world and in performance). Unlike the more
focused first season, "Asylum" skillfully juggles
manyterrors, from the devil to mad scientists to
aliens. Look out for Ian McShane's serial-killer
Santa in episode eight, a surefire way to get in
the holiday spirit!

0

DO YOU ENJOY THE CULTURAL
BOUNTY OF ANN ARBOR?
DO YOU WANT TO WRITE ABOUT IT?
APPLY TO BE A DAILY
COMMUNITY CULTURE WRITER.
Email arts@michigandaily.com to request an application.

WARNER BROS PARA
"Doctor Who" "It's Always Sunny..."

No, I'm not telling you to watch 50 years
worth of television, but the classic BBC series
just celebrated one hell of a milestone. I mean,
how many shows have a 50th anniversary? To
call the series addictive would be an under-
statement, so be warned: It is definitely not a
good idea to plunge into the Doctor's world dur-
ing finals week. And with the 12th Doctor (Matt
Smith) set to regenerate into Peter Capaldi's
Number 13 come Christmas, new fans have the
perfect jumping-on point.

Season 8 just landed on Netflix and, like
those before it, it's filled with the same offen-
sive, crude, deceitful, selfish and shallow antics
fans have come to love and expect from "The
Gang." A personal favorite from the new season:
"The Maureen Ponderosa Wedding Massacre."
The horror-themed episode showcases how
insane (and huge) the McPoyle family is and
includes a cameo from director Guillermo Del
Toro ("Pacific Rim," "Pan's Labyrinth"). Just
don't drink the milk.

S.

f


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
INK'D interne
From Page 11B rity's t:
est boa
hurried
"Tatooing, right now, is allow- get the
ing for a handful of individuals Caporu
who are skilled enough at the Arbor c
craft, and imaginative enough, to aged ne
work towards influencing their "Larg
own aesthetic and style inside of walk-in
tattooing," Zuck explained. "(The heavily
artists) are selling paintings and modern
expressing themselves. So it's stuff: lit
legitimate artists coming out of on t-shi
the movement, and in Ann Arbor of thos
is where it's really amazing." first tat
As Zuck put it, this is the tattoo tattoo,
renaissance. and end
But not every artist welcomes
the revived interest. As an art E
form, tattooing is the culmination
of hours spent refining a design, The
working towards a portfolio to the new
showcase the artist's preferred ers to
style. Just like painters or musi- research
cians dedicate their lives to the artistry
paintbrush or a sheet of music, differen
so do true tattoo. artists dedicate "The
themselvestothe artofembellish- you tur
ing skin. Now, that long-expended they we
time is often being reduced to get hoo
drawing a feather exploding into and the
birds on a naked shoulder. I try to
"We're not pirates ... well we part of
kind of are," Nugent admitted. Desp
"But, we're not scummy, bikery, siasm,
dirty ... but at the same time, you want w
almost want certain types of peo- how che
ple to have that kind of perception Here, C
to retain that kind of mystery and alongsi
mystique." agree: T
The access, though, seems to "I rea
follow in the ever-growing trends can do
oftattoo artistry. a proble
"When I first started, it was the it lastin
Tasmanian devils:the classic, Tas- should,
maniantattoo, the Yosemite Sam," change
Zuck mused. "Then, dolphins too - th
jumping over the sun were the wise," C
'90s era, the lower back tattoo ... Nuge
today, things are flowing in multi- import:
ple directions: One in the creative no mat
direction towards symbolic tat- the desi
toos, and the other as very literal, "I'm
straightforward tattoos, such as pickup
lettering and script." the tatt
The straightforward direction said. "I
of tattooing comes from the col- to be do
lege and young professional gen- work at
eration who, after scouring the and can,

tht b-sidt

Thursday, December 5, 2013 -3


t saw their favorite celeb-
attoos, filled their Pinter-
rds with "ink ideas" and
to their nearest parlor to
ir favorite quote tattooed.
sso described the Ann
lientele as mostly college-
wbies, eager to get marked.
gely it's a lot of college
s and first-timers. They're
influenced by the web and
ndesign, so it's alot ofrecent
ttle arrows, stuff you'd see
rs," Caporusso said."Most
e people are getting their
too, and, largely their only
so that's where that begins
ds for college students."
Evolution ofthe art
hope, though, is to allow
generation of tattoo seek-
explore the vastly under-
Ihed possibilities of tattoo
, teaching the newcomers
t styles and techniques.
other side of the coin is,
*n them on to something
eren't expecting, and they
ked on to that kind of style,
y come back, which is what
do: Education is a large
it." Caporusso added.
ite persistence and enthu-
some customers simply
hat they want - no matter
eesy the ink will come out.
aporusso, Zuck and Nuget,
de most other artists,
'he customer comes first.
ad the situation, and say'I
that for you,' and if there's
em with the design or with
:g and looking the way it
then I will recommend a
to it to make it a better tat-
iat's as far as I'll go design-
aporusso said.
nt, likewise, realized the
ance of being able to tattoo
ter how cliche or menial
gn is:
happy to tattoo. Anytime I
the machine, and am doing
oo, I'm grateful," Nugent
understand it's a luxury
ing something like that, to
mong people who are good
teach me something."

The act oftattooingis an artthat
is unlike any other: At a most basic
level, tattooing is an artist loaning
his skills to create a lasting depic-
tion for another. And though he is
an artist in his own right, with his
own, dynamic style, the premise
of tattooing is allowing another
individual to express themselves
through an artist's work.
"That's what a tattoo is: it's an
oraclethat you can look at and you
can carry it with you. And what-
ever fits for you and your culture,
I think it's right either way," Zuck
added.
The increase in tattoo interest
created a spike for master tattoo
artists; though there's more work
now than ever, there are more art-
ists, vying for customers, awards
and apprenticeships.
"What has influenced the art
as a whole is the influx of art kids,
whohaveaBachelor'sofFineArts.
And then they pick up a machine,
learn the technique and when
they do, show's over," Nugent said.
"They create beautiful pieces that
change the face of tattooing as a
whole, and it contributes to this
evolution of the art itself. I'm not
angry with that. A lot of people in
the industry don't like to see that,
but you have to step your game
up."
For artists like Zuck, stepping
his game up means taking on the
smaller projects, taking time to
speak with his walk-in customers,
paying attention to tattoo-new-
comers.
"The grass is greener on the
other side. I keep a full schedule,
I get to do whatever I want to do,
when I want to do it, and so when
it comes down to it, I can do that
so much that I lose distance from
my walk-in customers," Zuck fin-
ished. "So to sit down with some-
one and have a brief moment and
find out what's going on in college
land, I like that, that's fun.
Zuck added: "If you're hav-
ing a hard time with something,
you have to switch it up. If you're
eating the same sandwich over
and over and over, you have to try
something different."

Kanye West's
incongruous
racial persona

Jessica Ann Mitchell,
Your article, "Kanye's
Frantz Fanon Complex,"
is the most persuasive argument
against Kanye West's incongruous
social mes-
sages that I've
read thus far.
In his recent
overindulgent
onslaught '
of media
appearances,
Kanye has JOHN
repeatedly LYNCH
shown that
his intentions
of breaking
up the racial barriers of the fash-
ion world and his denouncing of
corporations are superficial and
hypocritically self-centered in
focus.
Since The College Dropout,
Kanye's once poignant social and
political message has undoubt-
edly become increasingly mis-
guided and egoistic in nature.
As the substance of his message
becomes increasingly diluted by
fame or ego, it's certainly our job
as journalists to call him out on
his mistakes.
My point in writing this let-
ter, then, is to assess the poten-
tial cultural significance behind
Kanye's recent, seemingly irra-
tional ambitions.
So what makes Kanye West,
as you said, an artist with a "tre-
mendous impact on the music
industry and pop culture?" In his
nearly decade-long career, Kanye
has transformed the world of rap

music
introsp
sounds
toire.
Kanye
consist
curve,
his mu
shaped
music i
release
At
Kanye
ing po
talk s
has re
regress
to crea
seems i
ing pro
el fashi
rap mu
matter)
repeate
shapec
calls hi
Michel
his gen

by introducing emotional of the future for the better, it's
'ection and progressive Kanye West. The reason we care
into the genre's reper- about Kanye's stance on racial
With each album release, issues is because his voice is one
has proven that he's that immediately grabs public
ently years ahead of the attention and holds a certain
and as a result, each of cultural significance. If he could
sical projects undeniably transform the world of rap music,
the course of popular who's to say that he couldn't re-
in the years following its appropriate the Confederate Flag
by claiming it as his own and
this moment, though, changing a long-standing sym-
is at a crucial turn- bol of hate into a new mark of
int in his life. In recent fashion, as he has attempted to
how interviews, Kanye do with his controversial Yeezus
peatedly stated that he tour t-shirts?
ed to a childlike state As cultural critics, then, we
te Yeezus, and today, he have an obligation to hold Kanye
more interested in creat- to the same cultural standard
vocative art and high-lev- that he believes he can hold.
on than socially conscious Behind every headline-grabbing
sic (or any music, for that faux pas that Kanye makes are
. At the same time, Kanye more subtle glimpses of power-
edly expresses a desire to ful truth and self-assessment.
culture for the better and After being overly "turnt" for
mself a "futurist" and the the majority of his recent radio
angelo or Andy Warhol of interview with The Breakfast
eration. Club, Kanye admitted that he's
fallible, far from self-actualized
and in need of the guidance of
I others to achieve the lofty goals
rovoCative he's put forth. With the press's
art Should continued pressure on the issue
of race, then, Kanye will hope-
be socially fully refine his perception of
race and culture and return
conscious. from this "childlike state" to the
same path of racial reform that
he originally pursued - creating
provocative, original art that's
rsonally believe that his as socially conscious as it is pro-
ins are not unrealistic. If gressive.
ist has the ability to influ- Best,
he aesthetic and culture An Optimistic Fan

P
c9

I pe
ambitit
any art
ence t


the b-sIde

~1

4B - Thursday, December 5, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MATTHFI BOANICL GARENS IVTATTOOl TALESF.
MY tm nder the nel

15 minutes to a
permanent Name
Brand Tattoo
By BRIANNE JOHNSON
SeniorArtsEditor
Ever since Nurse Joan strapped
my flailing limbs to the ducky-pat-
terned table for a vaccine shot in
1999,Ihavebeenafraidofneedles.
So, of course, I decided to get a
tattoo.
It's the Wednesday before
Thanksgiving, and I'm feeling
particularly thankful that I own
enough crewneck sweaters and
striped arm-warmers from my
middle-school years as a Hot Topic
regular to hide any imminent ink-
age during family dinner. But as
I crunch along the salt-sprinkled
pavement of 25-degree Ann Arbor
with Anna at my side, I wish I'd
worn more than a grey knit t-shirt.
"Are you crazy?" she asks, laugh-
ing.
"It's easy access - if I'm going to
get the tattoo high up on my arm, he
has to be able to get to it!"
"He" introduces himself as Jeff
Zuck, owner of Name Brand Tattoo,
a studio with wide windows that
peer across East Washington Street.
Dark tufts of beard tangle along his
collar, winding to a stop past the
second stripe of his plaid button-
up. He's cuffed his trousers at the
ankles, folded over aubergine lace-
up boots. Tall and scruffy like Abe
Lincoln, and with his warm steadi-
ness, Jeff is a man whom, I decide, I
can trust with a needle.
"Tell me what you're thinkin'
about getting,"he encourages.
I raise my arm like Rosie the Riv-
eter and trail afinger alongmy bicep.
"Ijust want aline of text here."
When I tell him, after count-
ing fingers, that the phrase - a line
from E.E. Cummings's "if every-
thing happens that can't be done"
- contains 10 words, Jeff winces.
But I assure him that I have long
arms (me, providing reassurance to

a tattoo artist?). We talk font, and I
stumble over a description of what I
want: calligraphy-esque script, but
not perfect cursive. Closer to hand-
writing,thelettersevenslanted abit.
Imperfection.
But Jeff is a professional; he's
learned to pick through custom-
ers' rambles, to read their minds
through gestures and frustrated
explanations and recreate their
vision through his own.
"OK, cool. How about I draft
something up and see how you like
it?Untilthen, feel free to explore the
shop, and I'll come find you when
I'm done,"he said
I plant myself next to Anna on a
wooden, art deco-style bench fac-
ing a spread of framed tattoo prints:
Five rows and seven columns on this
wall alone, inked from floor to ceil-
ing with pastel mermaids known
for jigs on sailors' arms, jewel-
toned marigolds blooming from the
corners and feminine portraits of
women whose hauntingly gorgeous
faces,like sugar skulls, remind me of
Mexico's Dayofthe Dead.An inspir-
ing, if not comfortingdisplay.
I point to a set beneath the front
lobby window.
"Anna, look at that one. The
creepy Mickey face."
Disney's famous mouse seems to
sneer at me with a wicked glee, eyes
crazed and faded, and I'm struck
by the thought of my dad: The man
who - despite our many road trips
to Florida's Disney World, where
the atmosphere is sweeter than the
batter of mouse-shaped waffles -
would gladly put his foot to my ass
upon discovering my new and per-
manent accessory.
Thankfully, Jeff returns.
He lays a waxy patch of paper
before me; my tattoo is scrawled on
the bottom in perfect alignment, so
elegantly curved and curled that it
belongs at the tail of the Declaration
of Independence. Call it hyperbolic,
but these women and men are tattoo
artists for a reason.
"I don't know if this will make
sense," I start. "But it's almost too
perfect, too formal. Like, it's the

Jeff Zuck, owner of Name Brand Tattoo, applies the finishing touches.

ideal,standard'cursive,'but I almost
want something messier."
As a close friend of many employ-
ees who brave the field of cus-
tomer service, I worry that I'm too
demanding. Will Jeff think I'm
being difficult? That I doubt his tal-
ent?
"A little less designed," he says,
hands spread over the paper. Typog-
raphy is a science, he explains,
wherein the artist exacts angles,
stems and serifs with precision. But,
he adds, reading between my sloppy
lines, he understands that I'm look-
ing for something more natural.
How about my own handwriting?
"Oh,God,no,"Iblurt,blushing, as
Anna laughs.
Jeff assures me that he has some
ideas -the suspense! - and retreats
to his Artist Lair, I imagine, only to
emerge with a sample of styles, all
seemingly drafted with the ease
of free-hand yet measured grace. I
pick the third: Its delicate loops are
sweetly petite and the line's first
word reduced to an unassuming,
lower-case 'A.'
"Are you ready?"he asks.
"I sure hope so."
We follow Jeff through the back
of the studio, into a room where
frame after frame of prints, all in a
defiantly surreal style, are pieced
together on the green walls like
an old, French artists' salon. After
applying the outline to my bicep
(flexing, always flexing), Jeff directs
me to lie on the black, leather-cush-
ioned table.
Then, the buzzing. Or maybe it's

closer to a whir, I think, as I stare
into the fluorescentlight on the ceil-
ing and tell Annato talk about some-
thing.Idon'tcarewhatabout.Music
blares from a speaker behind a cur-
tain, but I only hear buzzing.
The most frequent question
I've received about tattoos - after
"What did it feel like?" and "But
what does it mean?" - is the immi-
nent, "Did it hurt?" One friend,
wide-eyed and admiringeven ques-
tioned my personal pain threshold.
"Put it on a scale,"she demanded.
On a scale of My First Ear Pierc-
ing to "Saw IV," the tattoo, depend-
ing on its placement on the body,
might merit a solid six. The pain is
as sharp as the needle, but as it drags
across the muscle and flab of my
arm, it's no more unbearable than a
15-minute pinch. ThoughI do admit
that one refugee tear may have
escaped my left eye as Jeff finished
the final words, I chalk it up (ink it
up?) to an unhealthy habit of staring
into bright lights. No, really!
Wiping the excess blood and
ink from my arm as Anna hovers
over my body in amazement, Jeff
announces that - thank Gaaaaaa-
awd - he's finished. "Why don't you
go take a look in the mirror and see
how you like it?"
I skip across the room,raising my
new, decorative wound to the mir-
ror, and, of course, flex.
"I really like it! My dad's going to
kill me!"
"But," Anna adds, "At least
you're not afraid of needles any-
more?"

.4
for nev Sakroots arr'i.als and
113 .///l)/ 4

4}
a


