46F 4
lilt toan4,3at IV
(h,104 C4
j{ is .'4 4d 3.1

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, October 16,2013
AFFRIMATIVE ACTION
-E

michigandaily.com


LEFT: Protestors gather outside of the Lincoln Memorial in preparation to march to the U.S. Supreme Court with the organization By Any Means Necessary in support of affirmative action Tuesday. RIGHT: Western Michigan University
sophomore Tabrian Joe, a BAMN organizer, gathers outside of the Lincoln Memorial before marching to across the National Mall to the U.S. Supreme Court Building.
Students take State's Prop 2 hits ourt

to Washington
t e h

BAMN leads
march on National
Mall toward court
By TAYLOR WIZNER
AND K.C. WASSMAN
Daily News Editors
WASHINGTON, D.C. -
When a bell sounds in the U.S.

Supreme Court it signifies the a
moment of ceremonial impor-
tance: The justices each put on
their robes, shake hands with
one another and take their hon-
orary seats.
As the bell rang at 1 p.m.
Tuesday, it also stood for the
culmination of hours, months
and years of people waiting on
the sidelines to hear the court's
See WASHINGTON, Page 5A

U.S. justices hear
oral arguments on
ballot initiative
By TAYLOR WIZNER
AND K.C. WASSMAN
Daily News Editors
WASHINGTON, D.C. -
Affirmative action in Michi-
gan has once again taken
center stage in the U.S.
Supreme Court.
The high court heard
oral arguments Tuesday -for
Schuette v. Coalition to Defend
Affirnmative Action, which
questions the legality of a
2006 amendment - commonly

known as Proposal 2 - to the
Michigan State Constitution
that bans race-based prefer-
ences in college admission
process. The court must weigh
whether or not a state ban
on race- or sex-based admis-
sions is in violation of the 14th
amendment's equal protec-
tion cause. The case brings
up questions of unfair burden
put upon minority communi-
ties, who would have to take
to courts to change admission
policy instead of that institu-
tion's governing body.
The case came to the U.S.
Supreme Court after the
state appealed the Sixth Cir-
cuit Court's decision, which
struck down equal protection

concerns, based on precedent
set in Washington v. Seattle
School District No. 1. In that
1981 case, the Court found
a statewide initiative for a
neighborhood-school policy
put an unconstitutional bur-
den on racial minorities by
reordering the decision-mak-
ing process.
In order for the court to
overturn the Sixth Circuit
Court's ruling, five of the eight
participating justices - Justice
Elena Kagan having recused
herself from this case - would
have to rule against the lower
court's decision.
If the justices are split in
a 4-4 vote, the ruling is auto-
matically deferred to the lower

court's verdict.
John Bursch, the state's
solicitor general, represented
Michigan Attorney General
Bill Schuette, who appealed
the Sixth Circuit Court's deci-
sion to the court. In his allot-
ted thirty minutes of time,
Bursch argued that it is up
to, each state to determine
whether or not they would like
race-based admissions.
During his opening state-
ments, Bursch noted it's
unclear whether or not diver-
sity has declined at the Uni-
versity in the wake of Proposal
2. He said the 2010 change in
the mandate for reporting
race, which allowed students
See ADMISSIONS, Page 3A


FACILITIES
Coleman
outines
need for
lab space
Pres. says upcoming
renovations will
provide better
biology areas
By JENNIFER CALFAS
Daily StaffReporter
Though its home in North Hall
will likely be razed, the University's
ROTC program will live on.
At the monthly meeting of the
University's Board of Regents on
Friday, the regents will consider a
project to renovate space in several
buildings to accommodate the relo-
cation the University's Army, Navy
and Air Force Reserve Officers'
Training Corps offices from North
Hall.
Once the .project is approved,
another request will be made to
demolish North Hall to make way
See COLEMAN, Page SA

ADMINISTRATION
Endowment report,
construction projects
on agenda for regents

AUSTENHUFFoRD/Daly
Michele Norris host of the NPR show "All Things Considered" and founder of the Race Card Project delivers the
University's 2012 MLK Day Convocation address. Norris will be University's 2013 Winter Commencement speaker.
Form--er NPR host to speak
at Winter Commencem-ent

Thursday meeting
to take place on
Flint campus
By SAM GRINGLAS
Daily StaffReporter
At its monthly meeting on
Friday, the University's Board
of Regents will consider a
number of construction and
renovation proposals - nmostly
moving along pre-approved
plans. Meeting at the Flint
campus, the governing body
will also officially receive its
2013 endowment report, which
measures the performance of
the University's massive nearly
$7.5-billion portfolio.
REGENTS TO APPROVE
SCHEMATIC DESIGNS
FOR THE EARL V. MOORE
BUILDING RENOVATION
Though the regents approved
$23,270,000 for the Earl V.
Moore Building's renovation
lastNovember, the board will
vote Friday to approve the
project's schematic design and
slight budget increase.

The Moore Building, the
North Campus facility that
houses a portion of the School
of Music, Theatre & Dance, will
receive upgrades and expan-
sions to classroom spaces as
well as infrastructure updates.
The revised budget - which
now totals more than $24 mil-
lion- will allow for 4,600 addi-
tional square feet of mechanical
space that was not included in
the initial estimate.
The renovations to the facil-
ity will include changes to both
the first and second floor's
north wing. These changes will
increase the number and size
of practice rooms and will relo-
cate offices originally moved for
practice room expansion.
The larger part of the proj-
edt, a 34,000-square-foot build-
ing addition named the Brehm
Pavilion, will include three
classrooms, a large lecture hall,
piano labs, a jazz and percus-
sion suite, a rehearsal hall,lobby
and space reserved for, future
expansion.
The schematic designs also
call for updates to the build-
ing's fire detection and alarm
systems.
See ENDOWMENT, Page SA

Norris helped
bring Race Card
Project to campus
By PETER SHAHIN
Daily News Editor
Michele Norris, a renowned
journalist, will be the 2013
Winter Commencement
speaker and receive an honor-

ary Doctor of Humane Letters
at the commencement ceremo-
ny, the University announced
early Monday. Five other dis-
tinguished individuals hailing
from a variety of fields will also
receive honorary degrees from
the University.
Norris is best known for
being a former host of All
Things Considered, National'
Public Radio's flagship radio
show. She was the organiza-

tion's first Black female anchor.
During her time as anchor,
Norris regularly interviewed
leading statesmen, academics
and scientists, cultural icons
and professionals from around
the world. She currently heads
the Race Card Project, a nation-
wide initiative that gathers
perspectives on race and aims
to foster dialogue on the sub-
ject. The University teamed up
See NPR, Page 3A


ets risky
search abroad
s with unrest?

Michigan's not-so-hap
ending in Happy Valley.


WEATHER HI:57 GOT A NEWS TIP?
TOMORROW Lo: 40 Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandailycom'and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Planning Commission discusses zoning
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/

INDEX NEWS ,....... ..2A SUDOKU....................33 A
Vol, CXXIV,No. t 1 OPINION. ..........4A STATEMENT.................1C
20t3The Michigan Daily ARTS ....... 6A SPORTSWEDNESDAY....1B
michigondoily.com AR S..............

I


2A - Wednesday, October 16, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, October16, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

era lidian 0aij
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
ANDREW WEINER KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 eat. 1252 734-418-4115 ext.1241
anweiner@michigandailycom kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

S ONMNS BAN N

-"M r- DANCE, DANCE

Berkeley students oppose FDA blood ban

The University of California,
Berkeley's student government,
the ASUC Senate, unanimously
passed a bill last week that oppos-
es the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration's lifetime ban on blood
donations from gay men, The
Daily Californian reported.
Caitlin Quinn, a student-gov-
ernment representative, said she
opposed the regulation while
addressing the assembly in their
weekly meeting.
"After talking to some com-
munity members, I figured as the
queer-endorsed Senator I should
take a stand against this institu-
tionalized form of homophobia,"
Quinn said in an e-mail to The
Daily Californian.

The opposition at Berkeley is Alert, a University-wide e-mail
notable because several other system.
major universities in the United "Report of gunshots at Nassau
States are currently evaluating Hall. Stay away from the area.
their own options to the recently Updates to follow," the e-mail
passed bill, including sending a read, according to the Daily
letter to President Barack Obama, Princetonian.
as the Berkeley student govern- At 10:30 p.m., the University
ment agreed to do. alerted students that the situa-
tion was "all clear" via the Uni-
Princeton campus all clear versity's Twitter account. Despite
after reports of gunshots the official alert, it was later
stated that reports of the incident
At 8:25 p.m. last Tuesday, were unfounded. No follow-up
reports of gunfire at Princeton action was taken, according to the
University's Nassau Hall circu- Princetonian.
lated. The Princeton University
Department ofPublic Safety noti-
fied students of the reports 20
minutes later through Princeton - BRANDON SHAW

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Sectin
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
newso@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Sectin
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

A

Graduate Stydent Sherry Yin and Spanish Lecturer
Jose Fernandez-Garcia dance in Mason Hall for
MTango on Tuesday.

CRIME NOTES
Eating your To the window,

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

cake, too
WHERE: 1500 East Medi-
cal Center
WHEN: Monday at about
1:20 p.m.
WHAT: Security received a,
report that a cake was taken
from a fourth-floor nutri-
tion room, University Police
reported..

to the wall
WHERE: Inglis House
WHEN: Monday at about
9:40 p.m.
WHAT: A garage window
was found broken. The lock
was intact and no property
was missing, University
Police reported. No entry
was apparently gained.

Unexpected The keys to my

Brown Bag
organ series
WHAT: Local musicians
perform 30 minutes of
organ solo music.
WHO: Scott Hyslop, Direc-
tor of Music at St. Lorenz
Church in Frankenmuth
WHEN: Today from 12:15
p.m. to 12:45 p.m.
WHERE: School of Public
Health Building I
Support series
WHAT: This afternoon
procrastination workshop
aims to work with students
who continuously grapple
with meeting deadlines.
The event is part of a
performance-enhancement
series held every
Wednesday.
WHO: Couseling and
Psychological Services
WHEN: Today at 4:15 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union,
Room 3100

Sibande On
Campus panel
WHAT: Three professors
and curators discuss the
campus-wide events cen-
tered on South African art-
ist Mary Sibande.
WHO: Institute for the
Humanities
WHEN: Today at 12:30 p.m.
WHERE: 202S. Thayer,
Room 1022
Medical school
workshop
WHAT: Students are
invited to prepare for medi-
cal school interviews by
addressing their own con-
cerns and practicing with a
partner.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 8 p.m.
to 9 p.m.
WHERE: Student Activities
Building, The Career Center

T H REE T HINGS YOU
SH OULD KNOW TODAY
Populations of moose
are experiencing a sharp
decrease, The New York
Times reported Tuesday.
Twenty years ago, Minne-
sota had 4,000 moose; now,
the population is fewer than
100. Scientists remain unsure
about the exact cause.
Even in areas of unrest,
students and research-
ers pursue their stud-
ies. The Statement looks into
how the University balances
research and risk abroad.
* SEE STATEMENT, SECTION C
A sports supplement
that is rocking the
bodybuilding world is
derived from the same chem-
ical as methamphetamine,
The Boston Globe reported.
The FDA cannot review
these new findings due to the
shutdown.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Matthew Slovin Managing Editor mjslovin@michigandaily.com
AdamnRuberfireMnagingoesEndttoe aratn@miehigaedaity.eom
SENORNEWS EDT ORS:ciadam ,KatieBurkePe eSnhi, K. Casan,
Taylor Wizner
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Ariana Assaf,,Jennifer Calfas, Hilary Crawford, Ian
Dillingham, Will Greenberg, Sam Gringlas, Matt Jackonen, Rachel uremack, Stephanie
Shenoua,christySong
MelanieKruvelisand opinioneditors@michiganedaiy.com
Adrienne Roberts tditorial'Pgetditors
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS DanWang Derek Wolfe
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald
Everett Cook and
ZachlHelfand ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Alejandro Zuniga, Jeremy Summittea, e Rothschild, Rajat
Khare, Daniel Wasserman, Liz Vukelich
ASSISANTSO SEs DORS: Greg Garno, Alexa Dettlebach, Daniel Feldman, Erin
Kayla Upadhyaya ManagingArts Editor kaylau@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: ElliotAlpern,BrianneJohnson,JohnLynch,AnnaSadovskaya
ASSISTANTARTSEDITORS: JohnBohn,SeanCzarnecki,Max
Radin, Akshay Seth, Katie Steen, Steven Tweedie
Adam Glanzman and
Terra Molengraff ManagingPhotoEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Teresa Mathew, Todd Needle
SSsI O TOnN ETnoOTR athrneekla,PaulSherman,
McoeieBerzn, Ruby Wallau, tik Barron
Kristen Cleghorn and
Nick CuzManagingesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
Haley Goldberg MagazinetEditore temeonto@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITOR:PaigePearcy
Josephine Adams and
Tom McBrien CopyChiefs copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:JennieColeman,KellyMcLauglin
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Soloman University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi DerasMo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbertand SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Te Micsga Diy OSSnt07t-96n y publi ondaythrough Fridayduring the fa a
winer terms bsstudets attheOUnivesity to ichigan.Oneecopy iseavailable free ofcharge
to all readers. Additionalcopies may be picked up at the Daley's office for $2.Subscriptions for
fall term,startinginseptemberviaU:s.maaiare$110.Winterterm(anuarythroughApri)is
$1n5searlong(Septemberthrough April)is$195.Uniersity affiites aesubject toaedused
subsciption ate.n e-apus subscriponstrf tersre $35.Subrions mustnbe prepaid.
The Michigan Daly is amember o The Associated Press and The Associatedcollegiate Press.

a

visitor
WHERE: Fleming Admin-
istration Building
WHEN: Monday at about
12:45 p.m.
WHAT: After being issued
a trespass warning earlier, a
subject was in the building
around 12:30 p.m., Universi-
ty Police reported. He later
left the area.

heart
WHERE: 1500 East Medi-
cal Center
WHEN: Monday at about
3:55 p.m.
WHAT: A set of keys were
reportedly stolen from a
women's locker room on
Sept. 27 between 8 a.m. and
4 p.m., University Police
reported.


College Democrats campaign
in Virginia over Fall Break

Entrepreneurship clinic
helps students innovate

Volunteers canvass
for McAuliffe,
educate community
By KRISTEN FEDOR
For the Daily
Friday, members of the Uni-
versity's chapter of College
Democrats traveled to Virginia
during Fall Break to work on
gubernatorial candidate Terry
McAuliffe's campaign.
Campaign trips over the
short break are a tradition for
the group. For 2012, members
of the College Democrats trav-
eled to volunteer for President
Barack Obama's reelection
campaign in Akron, Ohio.
LSA senior Sonja Karnovsky,
treasurer for the College Dem-
ocrats, said it's important for
members, to see how political
organizing works outside of
greater Ann Arbor.

"Our campaign work is about
finding candidates we can get
behind and help them out in
any way we can - to make sure
that Democrats win across
Washtenaw County, the state of
Michigan and the entire U.S.,"
Karnovsky said.
After a failed bid for the
Democratic nomination in
Virginia's 2009 gubernato-
rial election, McAuliffe is now
the Democratic nominee for
the 2013 race against Republi-
can candidate Ken Cuccinelli.
According to averages by Real
Clear Politics, McAuliffe is
polling seven points ahead of
Cuccinelli.
In the past, McAuliffe served
as the national finance chair-
man of both former President
Bill Clinton's 1996 campaign
and as chairman of former Sec-
retary of State Hillary Clinton's
2008 campaign for the Demo-
cratic presidential nomination.
McAuliffe was also the chair-

man of the Democratic Nation-
al Convention in 2000 and
served as its chairman from
2001 to 2005.
Volunteers from the Uni-
versity were based in Henrico
County, Virginia, just outside
of Richmond. They spent the
weekend canvassing, knocking
on doors of Democratic voters,
making sure they knew when
Election Day was and voting-
site locations.
LSA junior Mary Bridget
Lee, communications direc-
tor of the College Democrats,
spoke of the buzzing atmo-
sphere.
"People knew about the cam-
paign, and they were excited to
vote," she said.
LSA junior Meg Scribner,
chair of the College Democrats,
also elaborated upon the notion
that cross-country travel is
vital to the mission of the orga-
nization.
Scribner attributed the
excitement around the Virginia
ubernatorial contest to the
idespread national attention-
hat it has garnered in an off-
ear election.
As a swing state, the results
from Virginia can often shift
momentum in one party's favor,
looking toward future presi-
dential elections as well.
"If a Democrat wins the gov-
ernor seat, then it is going to be
much more on the Democrats'
side in 2016," Scribner said.

Law School offers
legal guidance to
student innovators
By ALLANA AKHTAR
DailyStaffReporter
The University is a hotbed for
innovation.
A co-founder of Google, the
inventor of the iPod and the
former CEO of Skype are all
University alums. Plus, the Uni-
versity's Office of Tech Trans-
fer said last week that a record
number of inventions - 421 -
were born at the University in
the past fiscal year.
And, in 'an effort to reach
out to promising undergradu-
ates, the University launched
its Master of Entrepreneurship
Joint Degree, sponsored by the
College of Engineering, the
Ross School of Business and the
Office of Technology Transfer.
But University students, who
continue to share business ideas
and develop projects, may be
unaware that there are numer-
ous resources on campus to help
them navigate the often-con-
fusing legalities that come with
starting a company.
The Law School's Entrepre-
neurship Clinic, part of the Zell
Entrepreneurship and Law Pro-
gram - also known as ZEAL -
was created in January 2012 to

offer legal guidance to Univer-
sity student entrepreneurs. So
far, the clinic has already repre-
sented over 30 clients.
Common legal concerns of
startups include forming a par-
ticular type of company, intel-
lectual property issues and
finance documentation.
The clinic was the brainchild
of University alum Samuel Zell
- ZEAL's namesake and a major
University donor - and Evan
Caminker, dean emeritus of the
Law School.
"Michigan is a very entrepre-
neurial campus," ZEAL Direc-
tor Erik Gordon said. "We have
students from every college,
undergrads, graduates, who are
constantly coming up with new
businesses - and they need
help."
For example, Gordon
explained that students who
start working together on busi-
nesses are usually unaware of
the legal liabilities of their part-
nership. He said it's important
that students seek legal help so
they understand what they're
getting into.
The clinic also provides
opportunities for Law stu-
dents to develop relationships
with other students who could
become their post-graduation
clients.
Law Prof. Dana Thompson,
director of the clinic, said the
clinic allows students to go

beyond the walls of the Law
school and become immersed
in the "entrepreneurial ecosys-
tem" on campus.
"It's a great opportunity for
student venturers who are at
the Engineering School or Busi-
ness School or other schools
to really see the importance
of addressing legal issues as
they're setting up their com-
pany," she said.
Along with the Law School
Clinic, the Schools of Engi-
neering and Business also have
entrepreneurial clinics set up in
their respective colleges to pro-
vide support services to current
student entrepreneurs.
The clinic it also holds work-
shops at MPowered programs
and the TechArb for general
legal information and is cur-
rently developing educational
materials.
Thompson encourages stu-
dent entrepreneurs to attend
office hours, which are "open
to anybody on campus who's
an entrepreneur in figuring out
a particular answer to a legal
question they may have and we
also provide general informa-
tion about that legal topic."
Office hours are held Fridays
from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. at the Cen-
ter for Entrepreneurship locat-
ed in the Duderstadt Center and
2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Zell Lurie
Institute in the Ross School of
Business.

A

H,-, 0

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TUMBLR, IF YOU'RE INTO THAT.
Visit us at michigandaily.tumblr.com.
THERE WON'T BE (TOO MANY) PICTURES OF PUPPIES,
BUT IT'LL STILL BE WORTH IT.

0

I

4

L


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, October 16, 2013 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October16, 2013 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
Power goes
during Game three
of ALCS in Detroit
A , power outage interrupted
Game 3 of the American League
championship series for 17 min-
utes.
The lights high atop Com-
erica Park went out and the vid-
eoboards were dark between
the top and bottom of the sec-
ond inning, delaying the game
between the Boston Red Sox and
Detroit Tigers.
"It appears there was a cable
failure in the vicinity of the ball-
park that compromised the feed
to the stadium," DTE Energy Co.
spokeswoman Vanessa Waters
said. "That caused the equipment
to trip. Crews are investigating
the cause of the cable failure and
which equipment was effected by
the failure."
LYONS, Mich.
Tesla Model S fire
worries investors
The removal a 156-year-old
dam in Ionia County has been
delayed as officials develop a plan
for protecting an endangered
freshwater mussel discovered in
the Grand River downstream of
the aging structure.
Biologists from Central Michi-
gan University this month are
finishing a survey of snuffbox,
mussels, which have been found
on the gravel river bottom about
100 feet from the dam.
The mussel was added to the
federal endangered list in 2012
because of a 62 percent popula-
tion decline from habitat loss, dam
construction, pollution and the
effects of invasive species, accord-
ing to the U.S. Fish} and Wildlife
Service.
CLARKSVILLE, Tenn.
Tire-maker
Hankook to build
$800M plant in
4 Tennessee
South Korean tire-maker Han-
kook announced Monday that it
will build its first North Ameri-
can plant in Tennessee, creating
1,800 jobs.
Hankook, the world's seventh-
largest tire maker, said it will
build the $800 million facility in
Clarksville. Construction on the
1.5 million-square-foot facility is
scheduled to begin by next year,
and it will begin making high-end
performance tires by early 2016.
Seung Hwa Sub, Hankook's
vice chairman and CEO, called the
construction of the U.S. plant "the
next natural phase for our contin-
ued growth." He told reporters
that the decision to build the plant
in Tennessee was the result of a
year of discussions with state offi-
cials, and he cited the central loca-

tion and existing auto industry as
major factors.
VIENNA
Iran's foreign
minister in pain
at nuclear talks
Beyond having to deal with six
world powers making demands on
his country's nuclear program, Ira-
nian Foreign Minister Mohammad
Javad Zarif has another pressing
problem: back pains so intense he's
had to use a wheelchair.
Zarif heads the Iranian delega-
tion at key talks this week with the
United States, Russia, China, Brit-
ain, France and Germany.
He apparently wasn't keen on
sharing his ailment with the pub-
lic. Instead of leaving his posh
Geneva hotel by the main exit
hours after returning from the
talks and complaining of back
pains, he was wheeled out of the
service entrance and into a wait-
ingvan Tuesday.
European Union spokesman
Michael Mann said the pains did
not stop Zarif from having a "cor-
dial" dinner Monday evening with
Catherine Ashton, the top EU dip-
lomat convening the talks.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Former San Diego mayor Bob Filner, left, stands with counsel in court before he pleads guilty on state charges of felony
false imprisonment Tuesday.
Ex- San Diego mayor pleads
guilty0to sexual assault charges

Filner to be attorney general's office will rec-
ommend Filner be sentenced to
sentenced to house three months of home confine-
ment and three years of proba-
arrest and probation tion. The maximum possible
sentence for a false imprison-
ment count is three years in pris-
SAN DIEGO (AP) - Former on and one year for each count of
San Diego Mayor Bob Filner, battery.
driven from office by sexual Filner restrained a woman
harassment allegations, pleaded against her will at a fundraiser
guilty Tuesday to a felony for on March 6, applying additional
putting a woman in a headlock force after she resisted, accord-
and to less serious charges for ing to the plea agreement. Filner
kissing another woman against put her in a headlock, his attor-
her will and grabbing the but- ney, Jerry Coughlan, told report-
tocks of a third. ers.
The pleas came less than two He also kissed a woman with-
months after the. 10-term con- out permission at a "Meet the
gressman defiantly said he was Mayor" event on April 6 and
the victim of a lynch mob and groped another victim at a May
insisted he would be vindicated 25 rally to clean up Fiesta Island
of the sexual harassment claims in Mission Bay. None of the vic-
by at least 17 women if due pro- tims were identified.
cess was allowed to run its Filner, 71, did not comment
course. after the hearing but his attorney
His accusers included a retired said the former mayor "profusely
navy admiral, a university dean apologizes" for his behavior.
and great grandmother. "I think he wants to redeem
Filner said little on Tues- his original legacy, which was
day beyond "guilty" when a a wonderful one, and put this
judge read the charges against behind him," Coughlan said.
him - one count of felony false "He's been jogging, he's been
imprisonment and two counts of getting therapy, talking to
misdemeanor battery. friends, trying to come to terms
Under a plea deal, the state with how to deal with these

kinds of problems. It's a full-
time job."
Filner resigned Aug. 30, suc
cumbingto intense pressure after
the parade of women accused
him of sexual harassment. He
had held the office for less than
nine months of a four-year term
and was San Diego's first Demo-
cratic mayor in 20 years.
The San Diego County Sher-
iff's Department opened a hot-
line for complaints about Filner
in July and said it would deliver
findings to the attorney general's
office for possible prosecution.
The state attorney general's office
later confirmed that it launched a
criminal investigation
"This conduct was not only
criminal, it was also an extreme
abuse of power," California
Attorney General Kamala Harris
said. "This prosecution is about
consequence and accountability.
No one is above the law."
Sheriff Bill Gore said the hot-
line received more than 200 calls
and investigators interviewed
nearly 90 people.
Filner's attorney said pros-
ecutors were eager to strike a
deal before a grand jury began
hearing testimony about Filner's
behavior. The grand jury probe
will no longer go forward.

Coleman added that the
COLEMAN North Campus Research Com-
From Page 1A plex was not a suitable location
for teaching facilities or biolo-
gy laboratories - even as a flex
for new construction, accord- location during the construc-
ing to a communication to the tion process.
regents by Tim Slottow, the According to sources close
University's executive vice to the project planning, the
president and chief financial project to construct a newbiol-
officer. ogy laboratory space in North
Slottow wrote that ROTC Hall's current location will
personnel will be spread across provide a new facility for the
the Chemistry Building, Wil- University's programs in Ecol-
lard Henry Dow Laboratory ogy and Evolutionary Biology
and the Ruthven Museums and Molecular, Cellular and
Building. The approximately Developmental Biology. These
15,000 square feet of office two programs are currently
space renovated for the pro- located in the Kraus Natural
gram's use will include admin- Science Building and the Ruth-
istrative functions, physical ven Museums Building - both
fitness rooms and student com- close to North Hall.
mons in the Chemistry Build- Biology Prof. Robert Denver,
ing and Dow Laboratory. associate chair of research and
Approximately 6,000 square facilities for the Department of
feet of the Ruthven Museums Molecular, Cellular and Devel-
Building will provide class- opmental Biology, confirmed
rooms and storage for the mili- the North Hall renovation proj-
tary training program. ect earlier this month.
Funded by investment pro- If the buildingwill hold this
ceeds, the renovation project purpose, Denver said the plan
will cost $4 million, and will be will likely include open-con-
designed by architectural firm cept lab spaces that could serve
SmithGroupJJR - a contractor the biology and other science
used frequently by the Univer- departments.
sity. The project is slated for "The current building is a
completion in spring 2014 and very old building," Denver said.
will provide 19 on-site con- "We've been in it for 98 years
struction jobs. and haven't really received any
Reports of North Hall's significant renovations in that
imminent demolition to make time.'Things are falling apart.
way for a new science build- It's very difficult to do modern,
ing surfaced last month, when life-science research in this
faculty and students said the building."
project is still in the planning Originally constructed in
process. University spokesper- 1899 through 1900 asa140-bed
son Rick Fitzgerald declined to homeopathy hospital, North
comment at the time because Hall has served a variety of
no project has been formally functions during its time as a
presented or approved by the campus building.
regents. After the Homeopathic
University President Mary Medical College was discon-
Sue Coleman said Monday that tinued by the University in
the Chemistry Building, North 1922, the building served as an
Hall, the Kraus Natural Sci- extension of the main Univer-
ence Building and the Ruthven sity Hospital. Shortly before
Museums Building are in need the United States entered
of renovation to better accom- World War II, the building was
modate the modern needs of given over to the Navy ROTC
the biology and museum pro- for office space and training
grams. Moving the ROTC is purposes. It has been an ROTC
apparently the first step in facility ever since.
preparing for more major con- Since its construction, North
struction and renovation proj- Hall has been dwarfed by the
ects.. nearby Dentistry Building,
She added that providing Chemistry Building and, more
better biology laboratory space recently, the Life Sciences
is now a top facilities priority Building.
for the University. The Kraus In 2003, University officials
Natural Science building - were considering renovation
although beautiful on the out- plans for the dilapidated struc-
side - cannot house biology ture, as its foundations had
research laboratories. , been damaged by nearby con-
"We've sort of taken it and struction projects. As recently
pushed it to its limits," Cole- as 2011, the regents approved
man said. a $1.3-million renovation for
Since North Hall is ina pref- the building, focused on infra-
erable location, it will be apart structure systems and acces-
of the larger construction plan, sibility.
Coleman said. Although it's University spokesman Rick
not yet clear what North Hall's FitzgeralI said last month
location will hold in the future, that the North Hall demolition
Coleman said the University plans have been developing for
is working to renovate these some time. Although he could
buildings so they will be able not include details about the
to house the advanced systems timeline of the construction or
necessary for modern research. the purpose of the renovated
Some concrete plans for space, Fitzgerald said the proj-
renovations and construction ect "will try to solve multiple
will be finalized this academic problems on campus."
year, though the projects will
be sequenced over time. - Daily News Editor Peter
"We don't want to make a Shahin and Daily Staff Reporters

mistake because these dollars Sam Gringlas and Ariana Assaf
are too precious to do some- contributed to this report.
thing that isn't well thought
out," Coleman said.
Eleanor Catton
wins Booker Prize


NPR
From Page lA
with Norris to bring the project to
campus in February.
Norris also continues to con-
tribute to NPR as a special corre-
spondent and occasional host.
Before joiningNPR, she worked
as a correspondent for ABC News,
earning professional acclaim for
her contributions to the network's
coverage of the Sept. 11 attacks.
She is also the author of The Grace
of Silence: A Memoir, a 2009 book
that takes a retrospective look at
her own family's story in the con-
text of America's history of race
relations. Norris received her
undergraduate degree from the
University of Wisconsin, Madi-
son and studied journalism at the
University of Minnesota.
In an interview Friday, Uni-
versity Provost Martha Pollack
said Norris's time on campus
during LSA's "Understanding
Race" theme semester and the
Race Card Project demonstrated
a commitment to cultivating a
dialogue on diversity. Norris also
delivered the Martin Luther King
Jr. Day convocation in 2012.
"She's a journalist of major
social issues - and the Univer-
sity is very concerned with social
issues," Pollack said. "We have
enormous regard for her integrity
and commitment to understand-
ing and celebrating diversity in
this country. Those are things we
value as well."
During one of her discussions
on race earlier this year, Norris
said the University's contribution
to the Race Card Project has given
her exceptional learning opportu-
nities and insights.
"Michigan definitely has a
place in history for all the things
it's pioneered, so there's a very
natural partnership between the
University. and the Race Card
Project," Norris said in Febru-
ary. "Since we began this year,
responses have been pouring in,
and they run the gamut."
The other five individuals
receiving honorary degrees from
the University are:
Willard L. "Sandy" Boyd: The
Rawlings-Miller professor of law
and former president of the Uni-
versity of Iowa will receive an

honorary Doctor of Laws. Boyd
received two degrees from the
University of Michigan: his LLM
in 1952 and his SJD in 1962. After
serving as the University of Iowa's
president from 1964 to 1969, he
served as the president of the
Chicago-based Field Museum of
Natural History from 1981to1996.
He is a member of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences
and helped establish the Larned
A. Waterman Iowa Nonprofit
Resource Center, which is dedi-
cated to providing information
and aid to Iowa-based nonprofits.
William Higuchi: A pharma-
ceutical scientist and former
member of the University's fac-
ulty, Higuchi will be granted
an honorary Doctor of Science.
Higuchi received his doctorate
in pharmaceutical chemistry and
biopharmaceutics from the Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley in
1956 and was at the University
of Michigan from 1962 to 1982,
having served as the Albert B.
Prescott distinguished professor
of pharmacy and as a professor of
dentistry. He is currently a pro-
fessor emeritus at the University
of Utah.
As a Japanese-American, Higu-
chi was interned in a relocation
center in Wyoming during World
War II and has remained active
in the preservation of the former
site. He also received the Order of
the Rising Sun - the highest gen-
erally conferred honor awarded
by the Japanese government - in
2011 for his work in both pharma-
ceuticals and "improv(ing) the
social status of Japanese-Ameri-
cans."
David Satcher: A forme' U.S.
surgeon general who served
under both the Clinton and Bush
administrations, Satcher will
receive an honorary Doctor of
Science. Satcher served simulta-
neously as surgeon general and
assistant secretary of health for
the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services from 1998to
2001 and then solely maintained
the surgeon general role until
2002. He is the only four-start
admiral to serve in those posi-
tions.
Since leaving public service,
Satcher has worked in various
roles at the historically black
Morehouse College School of
Medicine in Georgia and is cur-

rently the director of the Satcher
Health Leadership Institute
within the school. Satcher has
criticized disparities in health
care provided to racial groups in
the United States and supports a
single-payer healthcare system.
Satcher will serve as the win-
ter commencement speaker at the
Flint campus and will receive his
honorary degree there.
Lou Anna Simon: The current
president of Michigan State Uni-
versity will receive an honorary
Doctor of Laws. Simon served as
the institution's provost from 1993
to 2004, when she was appointed
to her current position.
Simon received national atten-
tion in 2006 by joining University
President Mary Sue Coleman in
opposition of the passage of Pro-
posal 2, which banned the use of
affirmative action in the admis-
sions process. She has also made
economic development a focal
point of her presidency, looking
for innovative ways to improve
Michigan's competitiveness. In
2012, Simon was selected as the
chair of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association's Executive
Committee, the organization's
governing board made up of the
highest university presidents
and chancellors from around the
country.
- Helen Herzog Zell: A 1964 Uni-
versity graduate and executive
director of the Zell Family Foun-
dation, Zell will receive an honor-
ary Doctor of Laws. In March, the
foundation made thelargest dona-
tion in the history of LSA, giving
$50 million for a Master of Fine
Arts in Creative Writing program,
which was named in her honor.
The foundation has also made
high-profile donations to the.
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive
Cancer Center at Northwestern
University and gave $10 million to
theMuseum ofContemporaryArt
in Chicago.
Her husband, Sam Zell, a real
estate mogul and former owner of
the Tribune Company in Chicago,
has also received an honorary
Doctor of Laws from the Univer-
sity.
The Winter Commencement
ceremony will be on Dec. 15.
-Daily Staff Reporter Sam
Gringlas contributed reporting.

28-year-old New
Zealander penned
'luminous' winner
LONDON (AP) - Youth
and heft triumphed at Brit-
ain's Booker Prize on Tues-
day, as 28-year-old New
Zealander Eleanor Catton
won the fiction award for
"The Luminaries," an ambi-
tious 832-page murder mys-
tery set during a 19th-century
gold rush.
- The choice should give
heart to young authors of
oversized tales. Catton is the
youngest writer and only the
second New Zealander to win
the prestigious award - and
her epic novel is easily the
longest Booker champion.
Catton said after accept-
ing the award that she didn't
think about the length of the
book while she was writing it,

"partly because I was inside it
for the whole time."
"It wasn't until I received
the proof of the book that
I thought, 'Jeepers, this is
actually quite heavy,"' she
said. "I've had to buy a new
handbag, because my old
handbag wasn't big enough to
hold my book."
She thanked her British
publisher, Granta, for pro-
tecting her from feeling the
commercial pressures around
a tome that could be seen as
"a publisher's nightmare." .
Travel writer Robert Mac-
farlane, who chaired the
judging panel, called "The
Luminaries" "dazzling,"
"luminous" and "vast without
being sprawling."'
"It is beautifully intricate
without being fussy," Macfar-
lane said. "It is experimental
... but does not by any means
neglect the traditional vir-
tues of storytelling."


4A - Wednesday, October 16, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, October16, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

C4C Michinan4:3allp
l

Rock, Paper, Scissors

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MELANIE KRUVELIS
and ADRIENNE ROBERTS MATT SLOVIN
EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR

ANDREW WEINER
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Unsigned editorials reflect the official position oftthe Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
crF T O [ [1 E&AIL
Closing channels, adding burdens
The U.S. Supreme Court should favor invlusive governance
This week, the U.S. Supreme Court is hearing arguments on Michi-
gan's Proposal 2, a ballot initiative passed in 2006 that outlawed
race and sex as a decision factor in public university admissions
and public-sector hiring. Since then, minority representation has plum-
meted at the University, and the law has been overturned in federal court.
Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, a staunch opponent of affirma-
tive action, is now appealing to the U.S. Supreme Court.

This case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend
Affirmative Action, differs from the 2003
case Grutter v. Bollinger, in which the Court
upheld the University's use of race as a factor
in admissions decision. In part as a result of
that ruling, Proposal 2 was put on the ballot
for Michigan voters a few years later..Instead,
the argument in Schuette is over the ballot ini-
tiative itself and whether voters can eliminate
policies that are ruled constitutional.
Supporters of -affirmative-action argue that
Proposal 2 violates equal protection as it places
undue burden on minorities. Typically, protests
against policies like those regarding affirmative
action, legacy preference or other "special con-
siderations" for admission are brought before a
university's governing body, like the University's
Board of Regents. The ballot initiative is unfair
because those wishing to challenge it cannot go
to theBoard of Regents - the democratic institu-
tion set up particularly for this purpose. Instead,
they instead must amend the state constitution -
a difficult task by design. It would require a two-
thirds majority in both chambers of the state
legislature, another ballot initiative or a special
constitutional convention for an amendment to
pass. This places minorities at an unfair advan-
tage to change the policy, denying them their
equal treatment underthe law. Other groups like
veterans, parents or legacy students don't have to

go through this difficult process.
Furthermore, ballot initiatives were not
originally part of the democratic repertoire.
The Progressive party added the mechanism
in the twentieth century as a way to get ordi-
nary citizens more involved in directly chang-
ing and influencing government and to make
government more responsive. Recently, how-
ever, the mega-wealthy and special interest
groups have ,used referendums to influence
policy to their liking. Additionally, people who
voted for Proposal 2 - also called the "Michi-
gan Civil Rights Initiative" - may have been
misled by the title that appeared on the bal-
lot. The wording of the ballot initiative took
advantage of inadequately informed voters
who support civil rights - a dogma not fur-
thered by abolishing affirmative action.
Proposal 2 closes avenues to democratic
change to minorities. According to Judge R.
Guy Cole Jr. - the author of the opinion from
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit
- "the majority may not manipulate the chan-
nels of change so as to place unique burdens on
issues of importance to them." For that reason,
the U.S. Supreme Court should strike down
this amendment. If any real solution is to be
found, minorities and marginalized communi-
ties must be free to represent their own inter-
ests in a waythat is equal and fair.

W ASHINGTON, D.C. -
"What's strongest? The
rock, the paper or the
scissors?"
A group of
about 40 kids,
eachnoolderthan
12, stood across
the street from
the U.S. Supreme
Court listening to
their tour guide JAMES
-a stocky, gray- BRENNAN
haired man with BRE__A__
a short beard.
"None of
them, right? Well, that's just like
Washington."
In theory, this analogy is quite
apt. Each branch of government is
assigned no more power than any
of the others, able to overrule deci-
sions through checks and balances.
But as we all know, government is
hardly this balanced or simple. The
courts often overpower all other
branches, while some presidents
expand executive power beyond
constitutional limitations.
Like our system of governance,
affirmative action is far more complex
than we'd like it to be. Both sides of
the debate over Michigan's 2006 bal-
lot proposalthat banned most formsof
race and gender-conscious admissions
argued in front ofthe strongest branch
of government Tuesday. It was made
clear that neither the Court nor affir-
mative action are as easy to under-
stand as rock, paper, scissors.
"This is about the political
process"
After speaking with Mike Stein-
berg, legal director of the American
Civil Liberties Union of Michigan,
it was made abundantly clear that
the usual debate about the merits of
race-conscious admissions wouldn't
be on the table. What was at stake,
according to Steinberg, was the right
of minorities to be treated equally
in the political process. Proposal 2
did not sinply outlaw an unpopular
policy by referendum, but it created
a separate and unequal process for
minorities to lobby for their interests.
The state has made it so any minority
group that wants to request the Uni-
versity Board of Regents to consider
race has to gather thousands of sig-
natures, run an entire statewide cam-
paign and overturn a ballot proposal.
Citing precedent in a similar case that

involved busing, Seattle v. Washington,
Steinberg believes that Proposal 2 cre-
ates two separate and unequal playing
fieldsbased on race.
Caroline Wong, national organizer
of By Any Means Necessary, gave me
similar arguments, asserting that Pro-
posal 2 is reminiscent of Jim Crow
Laws.Whenchallengedonthelegality
ofoverturningaballot proposal demo-
cratically decided on by an entire state,
Wong cited an amicus brief by dozens
ofhistory professors drawing parallels'
to state laws designed to disenfran-
chise minorities. According to Wong,
stopping minorities from petitioning
universities is just another attempt to
subvert people of color without actu-
ally codifying racism - a violation of
the 14thamendment.
General mis-
understandings -
While Wong Affirmat
has demonstrat-
ed understanding is a comp
of the complex With
legal reasoningin
the fight against lot of mov
Proposal 2, her
arguments were -
a 'rarity among
BAMN protesters outside the court.
University students told me they
came to fight for race-conscious
admissions, greater diversity and
equality for people of color. When
asked why the Supreme Court
should exercise its ultimate power
and throw out a popular ballot ini-
tiative, they struggled, clinging to
simplistic reasons and failing to
move beyond a single frame of mind.
One University student cited
the fact that a majority white state
passed the law, only doing so to
maintain white privilege. Another
University student rattled off facts
about dropping minority enroll-
ment, but could only explain the
need to overturn Proposal'2 as a
matter of racial justice and whites
outvoting minorities. A Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley student
admitted she couldn't articulate
why Proposal 2 was unconstitution-
al, but simply reinstating affirmative
action was reason enough for her to
come protest. A national organizer,
speaking into a megaphone, accused
the majority of Supreme Court jus-
tices of being racist.
This dissonance isn't just on the
side of BAMN. Attorney General Bill

enlightened
after Tuesday.
iVe action Maybe I didn't
e learn a whole lot
ilex policy because affir-
cons and a mative action is
an issue I vigor-
ving parts. ously follow and
defend. Maybe
I'm unim-
pressed because
I ran for student government with a
BAMN-sponsored party as a fresh-
man and worked for the ACLU.
Or maybe I'm just frustrated that
people still don't understand
affirmative action.
Since the first time I stood up
against my entire high school gov-
ernment class to argue in favor of
affirmative action, I have rarely
seen coherence in interpreting a
race-conscious admissions policy.
Proponents seem to only defend it
because they feel they're supposed
to, while opponents are blind to the
realities of racism.
Affirmative action is a complex
policy with pros, cons and a lot of
moving parts. It can't be opposed
simply because it "sounds" discrimi-
natory, and it can't be defended and
implemented because "diversity is
good" and "we want justice." Affirma-
tive action is a complicated, constantly
evolving issue - if you decide to take
a stance, understand that. While it
would be nice if affirmative action
were as simple and neat as a game of
rock, paper, scissors, it simply is not.
-James Brennan can be reached
at jmbthree@umich.edu

Schuette wrote an op-ed in the Detroit
Free Press on Sunday purely attack-
ing the merits of affirmative action,
never once mentioning Proposal 2
- let alone the issues at hand in the
case itself. Some opponents of affir-
mative action are also fully ignorant
to the state of race-based admissions
as a whole. Multiple Black students
explained that some white students
concluded they were only admitted
to Michigan because of affirmative
action, a sentiment I'e heard in per-
son plenty of times. Apparently, some
opponents of affirmative action don't
even realize that the University has
been barred from using race in admis-
sions for the better part of a decade.
Confusionistheonlyconstant
I don't feel a great deal more

I

AARICA MARSH I
A temporary solution

WASHINGTON, D.C. - University President
Mary Sue Coleman once said, "Diversity is an old,
old wooden ship that was used during the Civil
War era." Oh, never mind - Iguess that was Ron
Burgundy in Anchorman.
Unlike Burgundy, Coleman and University
administrators seemingly understand the con-
cept and implications of diversity. As soon as stu-
dents begin their admissions applications,they're
bombarded with the importance of diversity at
the University. However, school demographics
paint a very different picture.
The enrollment of minority students has sig-
nificantly dropped since the implementation of
Proposal 2 - which banned race and gender-
based affirmative action in the state of Michi-
gan - in November 2006. Seven years ago, the
University was considered a frontrunner in
embracing diversity. The class of 2017 - current
freshmen - is 7.3 percent African American, 5.6
percent Hispanic and 1.1 percent Native Ameri-
can. Unfortunately, undergraduate enrollment
for people ofcolor has droppedby approximately
one-thirdinsixyears. 2012 statisticsindicatethat
African Americans constituted 4.6 percent of the
undergraduate population, Hispanics 4.3 percent
and Native Americans 0.17 percent.
Since Proposal 2 was enacted, the Coalition
to Defend Affirmative Action, Integration
and Immigrant Rights By Any Means Neces-
sary, the American Civil Liberties Union, the
National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People and many University profes-
sors and students have worked to overturn the
amendment in Michigan. BAMN immediately
filed a lawsuit against the ban, citing violation
of the 4th amendment.
In December 2006, a different case, Cantrgll
et. al v. Granholm, was brought forward by the
ACLU and NAACP Legal Defense and Education
fund on behalf of University students and faculty.
The Cantrellsiderelied heavily onthenotionthat
Proposal 2 created an unequal political process
where people could lobby the University's Board
of Regents to admit more students from their
interest group - athletes, legacies, students from
the Upper Peninsula, etc. - except for interest
groups concerned with race.
The two cases were consolidated early on due
to their similar positions about the constitution-
alityofMichigan's banonaffirmative action.Pro-
posal 2 was upheld in the district courts in 2008
and then overturned by the Sixth Circuit Court
of Appeals in 2011. The case was then appealed
to the U.S. Supreme Court and accepted the jus-
tices in March 2013. Oral arguments were heard
onOctober15.
As the attorneys and justices settled in for
their hearing, four police officers lined the steps
anticipating protesters who had not yet arrived.
Three officers were stationed closer to the
Supreme Court doors while five others roamed
the perimeter. Loud whistles, chanting and a

megaphone announced the arrival of BAMN
members and other affirmative action support-
ers. They appeared in front of the court steps as
10 more police officers drove up on motorcycles.
Chants echoed throughout the area.
"They sayJim Crow, we say hell no!"
"Integration now, segregation never!"
"Black, Latino, Arab, Asian and.White, by any
means necessary we will fight!"
Several University students stood among the
crowd where the majority of protesters were
from minority populations. The demographics
were drastically different than Michigan class-
rooms where oftentimes a minority student may
be the only person of their community present.
In these situations, the burden of representation
becomesvery severe.
"It's discouraging. It's frustrating. It makes
you doubt yourself. You have to fight and try to
work so much harder," noted Education senior
Ariam Abraham. Abraham said she many times
took the lead ongroup projects becauseshe didn't
want to be associated with society-created ste-
reotypesofBlackpeople.
LSA sophomores Lewis Graham and Chris
Ransburg, both Black, affirmed Abraham's
experiences. In a chemistry class of over 200,
Graham could count on one hand the Black
students in his class, creating pressure for
him to work harder and be better. Ransburg.
felt similarly: "I want to stand out. If I mess
up, it's not just me that's messing up."
It's indisputable that the University's
minority population has been dwindling
since 2006. As a result, minority students are
forced to represent their entire population
creating unfair burdens and obstacles. Diver-
sity doesn't just benefit minorities. It benefits
everybody through new understandings of
people who are different from you. So is affir-
mative action the answerto creating diversity
among college campuses?
It is regularly noted that the basis of the
problem lies not in college admissions but in
the continuing oppression of minority stu-
dents through education, geographic and
socio-economic means. "It's the mentality of
people that needs to change," added Adelia
Davis, anLSA freshman at the protest.
Unfortunately, these problems can't be
solved overnight. Affirmative action may not
be the ideal solution to create a more diverse
campus. There are obvious flaws. It often per-
petuates the idea that minority students are
only accepted due to their race. It ignores the
struggles of lower-income students. It doesn't
help retain minority students after they are
accepted. Affirmative action cannot solve any
of these problems. It is a temporary solution
for much larger issues. But while these issues
are being worked on, it will have to do.
Aarica Marsh is an LSA junior.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan, Eli Cahan, Eric Ferguson, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein,
Melanie Kruvelis, Maura Levine, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Adrienne Roberts,
Paul Sherman, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
GARRETT FELBER AND AUSTIN MCCOY I
Student protest and aff. action

The recent We Are Michigan pro-
test and U.S. Supreme Court hearing
on affirmative action calls to mind the
longhistory ofstudentprotest on cam-
pus around racial diversity. Building
a more inclusive campus requires an
understanding of past anti-racist stu-
dent movements.
After Martin Luther King Jr.'s
assassination in 1968, 100 Black stu-
dents locked themselves in an admin-
istrative building to address low Black
enrollment. Their demands included
the appointment of Black administra-
tors and the establishment of a U-M
Martin, Luther King Jr. Scholarship.
The lock-in resulted in the establish-
ment of the scholarship and the insti-
tution of the Center of Afroamerican
and African Studies (CAAS, now the
departmentofAfroamericanand Afri-
can Studies) in 1970.
This takeover initiated student
movements that mobilized coalitions,
articulated explicit demands and uti-
lized direct-action protest strategies
to create a more inclusive campus for
students of color. In 1970, the student-
led Black Action Movement organized
a massive protest to draw attention to
racial disparities on campus. Students
fought for a Black Student Center,
tuition waivers, additional funding fdr
the MLKscholarship, andmostimpor-
tantly, a University commitment to a
10-percent goal of Black enrollment
within three years. The administra-
tion initially agreed to only the enroll-
ment goal. BAM responded by taking
hundreds of books off the shelves in
the library, interrupting classes, pick-
eting parking garages and blocking
State Street. These disruptive tactics
caused LSA attendance to drop by
75 percent. The strikers gained more
power by enlisting white students
and organized labor. The University
agreed to devote more resources to
achieving the 10-percent goal by the
1973academicyearandincreasefinan-
cial support to CAAS.
The multiracial United Coalition
Against Racism renewed the fight for
minority rights in 1987. Two hundred
students blocked, Fleming Hall and

issued 12 explicit demands. These
focused on the unfulfilled promise
of minority enrollment, anti-racist
education and low numbers of Black
faculty. UCAR also demanded the
University close in recognition of
MLK Day; the University refused
to cancel classes to commemorate
the day until six years after it was
declared a national holiday. Most
significantly, students reasserted the
minority enrollment issue broached
in 1968. Black students remained a
mere 5 percent of the student body.
The University drafted the "Michi-
gan Mandate" - a comprehensive
plan to increase diversity on campus.
Last week's demonstration mirrors
the Mandate's core ideas: commitment
to diversity, representationofminority
groups and a pluralistic community.
The Mandate aimed for students of
color to represent atleast athird ofthe
student body by the endof the 1990s.
The University glowingly reported a
39 percent increase of students of color.
It even assured this growth would
lead to 14 percent Black enrollment by
1996, matching the state population at
the time. The University's confidence
in 1991 contrasts sharply with our
current climate. For example, Black
and Latina/o enrollment is under 5
percent. A partial explanation to the
rollback of minority enrollment is the
affirmative action debate of the last
decade. In the early 2000s, Michigan
nearly reached BAM's original goal
of 10 percent Black enrollment. How-
ever, Proposal 2 banned consideration
of race, sex and religion in University
admissions. Since the passage of Pro-
posal 2, the Black student population
has dropped from 6.5 percent in 2006
to 4.6 percent in 2012.
Still, widespread confusion about
the meaning and efficacy of affirma-
tive action remains. One obscuring
argument is that the dismantling of
affirmative action led to a more posi-
tive climate for students of color. Carl
Cohen, a University of Michigan pro-
fessor who spearheaded the Proposal
2 initiative, told the Daily in 2011:
"When you see Blacks on our campus

now, they didn't get here with prefer-
ence. You can't look down your nose
at minorities at Michigan now... And
I think that's a great thing for the
minorities. They don't have to excuse
themselves." The hostile response to
the recent viewpoint by LSA senior
Dan Green reveals the fallacy of this
argument. Commenters challenged
himto reveal his GPA,ACTscore and
tuition costs, after he wrote about
the discomfort he feels as a Black
Detroiter in Ann Arbor. Affirmative
action does not cause a hostile cam-
pus climate. It is the already-exist-
ing negative perceptions about the
inferiority of students of color. For
some, affirmative action becomes a
convenient scapegoat.
As the examples of BAM and
UCAR demonstrate, grassroots stu-
dent activism has driven efforts
to create a more diverse and sup-
portive campus. These actions have
been led by students of color, but
have always comprised white allies,
faculty/staff and others from the
campus community. They relied on
a combination of direct-action pro-
tests, explicit demands and disrup-
tion of normal campus operations.
These tactics succeeded in building
leverage for students who otherwise
had little decision-making power in
University policies. However, strug-
gling for a more inclusive university
should not fall squarely on the shoul-
ders of those underrepresented: The
University must take more than a
"wait and see" stance and facilitate
broader dialogue about these issues.
Student activists should build on the
rich history and lessons of student
protest on campus. And all students *
must educate themselves about how
privilege functions in university
life. Only through the combination
of strong student protest, education
and an active administration can we
begin to realize the aspirations of
this legacy of activism.
Garrett Felber and Austin McCoy
are PhD students in the History and
American Culture Departments.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
was th
ADMISSIONS Seattle
From Page 1A Afte
initial
baum,
enrolling in a state University to NAAC
check multiple boxes to denote Libert
their race, contrasted with the favor
previous system in which the did no
students were only allowed to examp
select one box. This change, Bur- nation
sch argued, makes it more diffi- impro'
cult to determine diversity. Ros
Bursch argued that it's the School
University's job to find ways to change
achieve diversity through race- of app
neutral means. Bursch noted harder
that Texas employs a top 10 per- use rae
cent program, in which state- other
funded schools admit the top ficult
students from every school. He partici
said this program, which the activit
University does not employ, has cations
helped increase minority perfor- Man
mance at socioeconomically dis- ing Ch
advantaged high schools. and Ju
He said the Court added scru- questio
tiny to the minority admissions the ch
by allowing race-based prefer- cess i
ences, but limiting the extent to prefer
which they can be employed.' and ho
"It cannot be unconstitutional "Th
for the people to choose not to has not
use (race preferences) anymore, minati
to accept this Court's invita- cess it
tion in Grutter, to move past the can ai
discussion about race and into not cr
a race-neutral future," Bursch unequ
said. actual
Grutter refers to Grutter v. throug
Bollinger, a landmark case -in baum
2003 in which the legality of the Rose
affirmative action admissions ing tha
policies of the University's Law cation
School were upheld. an 'or
Justice Sonia Sotomayor was into a
the first justice to speak, cen- proces
tering her questions around the Rober
possibility that the amendment wheth
intends to segregate schools. ' factor
Bursch said this was not an "Yo
effort to segregate, and it's point
a university's prerogative to Equal
achieve diversity with race-neu- take r
tral practices. He said institu- erts sa
tions can do that by eliminating the St
preference for legacy students lightn
or focusing more on applicants' Rose
socioeconomic diversity. noting
"The question is whether the off th
people of Michigan have the Protec
choice through the democratic the cot
process to accept this Court's Fisher
invitation in Grutter to try race- that P
neutral means," Bursch said. the pot
Bursch argued that as the sity ad
court is in a "post-Seattle Afte
world," in which court deci- his tim
sions involving race should have chair
the goal of improving diversity sary -
in the future and not trying to affirm
change past behaviors. court 1
"There's a difference between Court'
favoring diversity as an abstract the
concept on campus, whichGrut- back t
ter clearly allows, and remedy- protec
ing past discrimination, which whiten

Wednesday, October 16, 2013 - 5A

ce point of the bussing in
e," Bursch said.
r Bursch concluded his
argument, Mark Rosen-
an attorney for the
P and American Civil
ies Union who argued in
of the plaintiffs, said he
t believe Seattle was an
le of absolving discrimi-
practices but an effort to
ve diversity.
enbaum, who is a Law
I lecturer, argued that the
e in the political process
lying to a university is
for students who cannot
ce to their benefit just like
students may have a dif-
time because they didn't
ipate in extracurricular
ies or hold other qualifi-
s. ,
ny of the justices, includ-
ief Justice John Roberts
'ustice Anthony Kennedy
oned Rosenbaum about
ange in the political pro-
a deciding what qualities
ences should be given to,
)w it affects students.
e political process itself
't become outcome deter-
ive; that the political pro-
self be a place where we
ir these discussions, but
eate it in a separate and
al way to make the - to
ly make the decision itself
gh the process," Rosen-
said.
enbaum continued, argu-
at putting a racial classifi-
in the constitution makes
dinary political process'
n 'extraordinary political
s,' to which Chief Justice
ts countered, questioning
er or not race should be a
first place.
u could say that the whole
of something like the
Protection Clause is to
ace off the table," Rob-
id. "Is it unreasonable for
ate to say, 'Look, race is a
ing rod.'"
enbaum concluded by
that race is not entirely
e table under the Equal
tion Clause as shown by
urt's ruling last term on
v. Texas and reiterating
roposal 2 racially divides
litical process of univer-
missions.
er Rosenbaum exhausted
ne, Shanta Driver, national
of By Any Means Neces-
- a coalition that supports
ative action -, asked the
to uphold the Sixth Circuit
s decision and to return
Fourteenth Amendment
o its "original purpose to
t minority rights against a
majority."

Justice Antonin Scalia imme-
diately questioned Driver's inter-
pretation of the amendment and
asked her to provide an example
of a case of the current court that
confirms her view that the four-
teenth amendment only protects
minorities, which Driver could
not.
Justice Stephen Breyer also
entered the discussion, giving
Driver hypothetical situations
about employment based on pref-
erences and asking her where the
line is drawn in regards to pref-
erential treatment for jobs and
admissions.
In response, Driver said she
believes the Seattle ruling pro-
vides the line and that the court
should uphold the precedent-set
in that case.
Justice Samuel Alito ques-
tioned Driver about when exact-
ly the problem with Proposal 2
becomes an issue in the admis-
sions-decision process. After
back-and-forth between the two,
Sotomayor stepped in to provide
her opinion, which Driver said
summed up the point she was
attempting to make.
"I thought the line was a very
simple one, which is if the nor-
mal academic decision-making
is in the dean, the faculty, at
whatever level, as long as the
normal right to control is being
exercised then that person could
change the decision," Sotomayor
said. "It's when the process has
changed specifically and only for
race, as a constitutional amend-
ment here was intended to do,
that the political doctrine is vio-
lated."
Driver's final moments in
front of the Court centered on
whether or not affirmative-
action programs are beneficial to
a minority group specifically, or
to the University as a whole, as
ruled in Grutter.
This discussion stemmed from
the earlier points made by Bur-
sch about minorities benefiting
from Prop 2. Driver combated
this in her final moments by say-
ing 90 percent of Black voters in
Michigan voted against the pro-
posal and that whether or not
affirmative action is beneficial is
for a different case; specifically
the already resolved Grutter.
The oral arguments concluded
with a four-minute rebuttal from
Bursch, which emphasized that-
Seattle is not a direct parallel to
this case.
Lawyers involved in the case
posit that the deciding vote will
likely come from Kennedy, who
questioned specific arguments
from both sides but said he had
trouble distinguishing between
the ruling on the Seattle case and
the debate over Proposal 2.

WASHINGTON
From Page 1A
take on Shuette v. Coalition
to Defend Affirmative Action,
which questions the legality of a
2006 amendment to Michigan's
constitution - commonly known
as Proposal 2 - that bans race-
or sex-based admissions policies
at the states' public colleges and
universities.
After the arguments conclud-
ed, University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said in a statement
that the University values diver-
sity but is firm in its admission
practices.
"The University of Michigan
places a high value on achieving
a richly diverse student body,"
Fitzgerald said. "It is a corner-
stone of our academic character
and excellence.
Proposal 2 has made-admit-
ting a diverse student body more
challenging. And, as we indicat-
ed in our brief, we do not believe
that one can assess the impact
of Proposal 2 by looking at the
experiences of other institutions
in other states operating under
other laws."
Lawyers arguing on behalf
of the coalition, including Mark
Rosenbaum, attorney for the
NAACP and the American Civil
Liberties Union and Shanta
Driver, chair of the Coalition to
Defend Affirmative Action, said
they thought the oral arguments
went well, citing some of Justice
Anthony Kennedy's statements
as particularly encouraging.
"We wanted to see if there
was any responsiveness from
any of the other five justices to
our argument, and I think we
achieved that goal." Driver said
in an interview after the oral
arguments. "I think where we
saw the openness was on Judge
Kennedy, but none of the justices
seemed that comfortable with
(Michigan Attorney General Bill
Schuette's) argument."
Michael Steinberglegal direc-
tor of the ACLU of Michigan, also
said he thought the arguments
went well for the Coalition.
"Given the questions that were
asked, we're very optimistic that

the court is going to do the right
thing," Steinberg said. "They
seem to understand that a sepa-
rate, unequal system for students
of color to lobby for programs
that will help them is unfair and
unconstitutional."
Schuette, the petitioner in the
case, said in a merit brief pre-
sented to court that past prece-
dent and the Constitution should
uphold their argument.
"The people of Michigan con-
cluded that not having affirma-
tive action in higher education
was the best policy for the state,"
Schuette wrote. "Nothing in the
Constitution bars the people
of Michigan from making that
choice."
In an op-ed to the Washington
Times Schuette elaborated on
his position saying that the real
problem with underrepresented
minorities in colleges lies within
our public schools.
"This legal challenge against
Michigan's constitution misses
the point. The problem that
needs to be solved is this: too
many minority students are
trapped in failing public schools.
The system is failing them,"
Schuette wrote. "Graduation
rates are far toolow; illiteracy far
too high. This is where drastic
change and reform are needed."
Before, during and after the
oral arguments, protesters from
the By Any Means Necessary, a
national organization that advo-
cates for affirmative action, held
a rally that started at the Lincoln
Memorial. The group marched
from there to the Court's steps,
rallyingsupporters of race-based
admission policies. As people
exited the Court after oral argu-
ments, members of the rally
shouted "Detroit, what do we
want? Affirmative Action. When
do we want it? Now."
Among the faces in the audi-
ence listeningto the chants were
Education senior Ariam Abra-
ham and University alum Laura
Washington. Both said they
drove from Michigan on Monday
to hear the case and support the
affirmative-action ideals iterated
by BAMN.
Abrahamsaid that, as a minor-
ity student at the University, she
has seen changes Oin the envi-

ronment on campus during her
undergraduate years. She came
to the court to show support
and act as a face for the people
who will be directly affected by
whether or not affirmative action
is reinstated in the state.
"For me, I just understand the
role that affirmative action plays
at the University and the role not
having it plays at the University,"
Abraham said.
Abraham and Washington
listened to the plaintiffs' argu-
ments and said it seemed like the
lawyers spelled out their argu-
ments well.
"I definitely think that the jus-
tices had their biases. It's hard to
tell when you're swaying them,
and when they're combatting
you constructively-or when they
are doing it with malintent,"
Abraham said. "It was difficult
for me to distinguish between
the two so I'm not sure what to
expect."
Washington, a 2012 gradu-
ate, said she was interested in
comments several of the jus-
tices made that might show how
they're swaying on the case.
"There was a lot of back-
and-forth for Sotomayor, who
was standing up for affirmative
action, it was very noticeable
that she was in support of it,"
Washington said. "Kennedy was
asked a lot of questions, which
was interesting. Based on my
research of the case, I wasn't
sure if he was going to be a swing
vote or not. But it seemed like
that could be a likelihood."
A group of students from
Michigan high schools also trav-
eled to Washington, D.C. to dem-
onstrate and march with BAMN.
Markeith Jones, a student at
Lutheran Northwest High
School in Macomb, Mich., said
he organized the trip because he
felt strongly about affirmative
action.
"I took it offensively that they
would try to block minorities
from going to these different
Michigan colleges. I took it per-
sonally," Jones said.
Jones, who is considering
applying to the University, said
he is unsure if he would want to
go to a school that would have a
less diverse student body.


Amnesty: Hundreds killed in
Nigerian military detention

Freed detainees
testify to cruel
treatment, lack of
medical care
LAGOS, Nigeria (AP) - Hun-
* dreds of people are dying in mili-
tary detention from shootings,
suffocation or starvation as Nige-
ria's security forces crack down
on an Islamic uprising in the
northeast, Amnesty International
said Tuesday.
More than 950 people died in
military custody in the first six
months of this year, according
to "credible information" from a
senior Nigerian army officer, the
rights group said.
The Associated Press reported
in August that hundreds of peo-
ple detained by security forces
in northern Nigeria have disap-
peared. The new Amnesty Inter-
national report may help explain
what happened to all those peo-
ple- a horrifying result for their
loved ones who are still searching
for the missing.
Military and government offi-
cials did not immediately respond
to phone calls and emails request-
ing their comments.
If the number of deaths in
military custody cited by the
Amnesty International is accu-
rate, that means Nigeria's mili-
tary has killed more civilians
than the extremists did during
the first half of 2013.
Amnesty International
called for an urgent investiga-
tion.
Detainees "were reportedly

shot in the leg during interroga-
tions, provided no medical care
and left to bleed to death," the
London-based human rights
group said in the report, which
includes testimony from freed
detainees.
The AP reported three months
after President Goodluck Jona-
than declared a state of emer-
gency in the northeastern states
of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe on
May 14 that hundreds of people
were being rounded up in night
raids. The state of emergency
gives a Joint Task Force of sol-
diers, police, intelligence and cus-
toms and immigration officials
the right to detain people and
move them from place to place, as
well as the right to search without
warrants.
Distraught relatives, human
rights organizations and jour-
nalists have asked the army, the
police, intelligence services and
government officials where the
arrested people are, but have
received no answers, the AP
reported.
Amnesty International says
dozens of bodies are being deliv-
ered by soldiers to the mortu-
aries of the main hospitals in
Maiduguri and Damaturu, capi-
tals of Borno and Yobe states.
Human rights activist Shehu
Sani of the northern-based
Civil Rights Congress of Nige-
ria told AP in August that he
believes thousands had been
detained.
Amnesty International said
those killed were detained as
suspected members or associ-
ates of Boko Haram, an armed
Islamic extremist group that has

claimed responsibility for attacks
that have killed hundreds of Mus-
lim and Christian civilians this
year in their mission to overturn
democracy and force Nigeria -
Africa's most populous nation
which is almost equally divided
between the predominantly Mus-
lim north and mainly Christian
south - to become an Islamic
state.
Boko Haram itself routinely
commits human rights abuses,
gunning down schoolchildren,
health workers, government
officials, Christian pastors and
moderate Muslim clerics. In
2009, security forces bombed and
destroyed the Boko Haram head-
quarters in Maiduguri. The sect's
leader, Mohammed Yusuf, was
killed in police custody.
Amnesty International said
most of the deaths it documented
at the hands of security forces
took place at the Presidential
Lodge guardroom and a deten-
tion center in Damaturu, and at
Giwa Military Barracks in Mai-
duguri.
"The details of what happens
behind locked doors in these
shadowy detention facilities must
be exposed, and those responsible
for any human rights violations
brought to book," said Amnesty
International's deputy AfricaI
director, LucyFreeman.
Amnesty International quoted
a second senior army officer as
saying: "Hundreds have been
killed in detention either by
shooting them or by suffocation.
People are crammed into one cell.
There are times when people are
brought out on a daily basis and
killed."

ENDOWMENT
From Page 1A
The project will provide 38
construction jobs and is slated for
completion by fall 2015.
REGENTS TO CONSIDER
CONSTRUCTION OF
TRANSPORTATION
RESEARCH SITE
Pendingthe regents' approval,
the University will move for-
ward on plans to construct a
mobility transformation facility
- a testing ground for automated
and connected vehicles.
The College of Engineering
and the University of Michi-
gan Transportation Research
Institute have proposed the
project in conjunction with the
Michigan Department of Trans-
portation. As part of the col-
laboration, MDOT has provided
grant money to fund part of the
$6.5-mijlion project, the rest
made up by University sources.
The University's Trans-
portation Research" Institute
announced the establishment of
the Michigan Mobility Transfor-
mation Center during a three-
day symposium last May.
The center seeks to implement
new technologies into vehicles
in order to make advancements
in vehicle efficiency and safety.
At a site located off of Huron
Parkway between Plymouth and
Hubbard roads, the University
will construct simulated urban

streets, roads and ramps to
mimic real driving conditions.
To complete the facility, site
modifications will include road
construction, storm water man-
agement and electrical infra-
structure.
In a communication to the
regents, Timothy Slottow, Uni-
versity executive vice president
and chief financial officer, said
design plans are scheduled to
begin immediately with the firm
Mannik & Smith Group.
UNIVERSITY TO AWARD
PROJECT BIDS FOR
MUNGER GRADUATE
RESIDENCE, PENDING
FRIDAY APPROVAL
While demolition has begun
at the site of the planned Munger
Graduate Residence, the regents
will green-light University
administrators to seek construc-
tion bids and award contracts.
The projected is expected
to cost $185 million, funded by .
University Housing resources
and a $100-million gift from
Charles Munger. The Univer-
sity announced Munger's dona-
tion last April and approved the
building's schematic designs last
month. According to the sche-
matic designs, Munger Graduate
Residence will provide housing
for 630 students in seven-bed-
room apartments.
The project is expected to be
completedby the summer of2015.
ATHLETIC CAMPUS TO
OFFICIALLY BE RENAMED

THE STEPHEN M. ROSS
ATHLETIC CAMPUS
Following another record-
breaking private-donation, this
time a $200-million donation
from real-estate mogul Stephen
Ross, the regents will vote to
rename the University's athletic
campus the "Stephen M. Ross
Athletic Campus."
Last month, Ross directed his
$200-million gift to be divided
equally between his namesake
School of Business and the Ath-
letic Department. His donations
to the University have totaled
$313 million - including a $100
million gift that prompted the
University to rename the Busi-
ness School in his honor.
In a communication to the
regents, Slottow and Athletic
Director Dave Brandon said the
name change is "in recognition
of his exceptional gene-sity in
providing the finest facilities to
University of Michigan student-
athletes."
The Stephen M. Ross Athletic
Campus will include Univer-
sity property adjacent to athletic
facilities south of Hoover Street,
between State a'nd Main streets.
Also on the Athletic Campus,
the regents will vote on brand-
ing the Softball Center in honor
of University alum Donald R.
Shepherd, whose donations to
the University have totaled $25
million.
Shepherd has previously sup-
ported the Women's Gymnastics
Training Center, the Michigan
Marching Band and scholarships

Buyy one sandwich get one FREE!
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer.
Valid at Barry Bage/s Ann Arbor locat/on ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping center
2E1 Jackson Ave. Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
L ~Expires: Goober 22, 2013

1

A

r


6A - WednesdayOctober16, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com'+


No trajeci
Arow' S(

Not enough
story or emotional
development to soar
By ALEX INTNER
For the Daily
The goal of some series is
to keep viewers interested by
relying on an ongoing story
arc. For oth-
ers, the goal is -
to tell a single
story each Arrow
week. "Arrow"
tries- to mix Seasontwo
the two, giv- premiere
ing our hero a Wednesdays
villain to beat at8p.m.
each week
while build- CW
ing a ,story
arc over the
course of the season. Its second
season premiere struggles to
mix these elements, and in the
end, the episode-long storyline
prevails while any attempt at
establishing a longer arc falls
by the wayside.
Season one of "Arrow" ended
on a huge cliffhanger, with
the poor area of the city, the
Glades, exploding and Oliver
Queen (Stephen Amell) escap-
ing his role as The Hood. The
season two premiere deals with
the story of the week follow-
ing the explosion. Those who
lost loved ones take revenge on
those who "simply let it hap-
pen," while Amell focuses on
doing a lot of character work
with Queen. The episode shows
the impact of his best friend
Tommy's death and his inabil-
ity to stop the eruption of the
Glades. Queen hates that his
best friend died thinking of
him as a murderer, leading him
to question his identity as The
Hood. His struggle is one of
the more interesting elements
of the premiere, even if there's
no doubt that Oliver doesn't
return to his vigilante life.

Is he aiming at Tom
Some actors
ity to take grey
elevate it to ai
inserting persot
characters and
tion beyond wh
the page. Ame
actor, but het
the material. H
inject some pers
character, whicl
ment from whet
pilot, but his pe
lacks enough en
Aesthetically
figured out h
CW-sized bud,
creating acti
that are not
definitely hav
The creators re
effects rather t
amount of CGI.

Loryfor
Cason two
R
r--
fcm
Hanks?
have the abil- a very gritty, realistic look for
at material and a superhero show, more in the
nother level by style of "Batman Begins"than
nality into their "The Avengers."
bringing emo- The premiere fails to fore-
tat's written on shadow what's going to hap-
1 is a capable pen in the upcoming season.
doesn't elevate The episode ends with Oliver
e has started to reclaiming his identity as The
onality into his Hood, but that only gives clo-
h is an improve- sure to the premiere. As for
re he was in the right now, there isn't a clear arc
rformnance still guiding the story from here.
notion. One of the things "Arrow"
, "Arrow" did very well last season was
tow to use a creating a great story are that
get very well, progresses week-to-week. The
on sequences premiere does not appear to
expensive but do that. It can always happen
e an impact. later, but in order to keep the
ly on practical interest of viewers, a premiere
han using large needs to set up the upcoming
What results is season.
Call:#734-4115
Email: dailydsplay@gmail.com
ord Puzzle
wis
48 Hogwarts
castings HONDA 2000 ACCORD EX 5 speed
49 Thoughtful manual, nentires, 1 owner, all recrds,
52 Cuzco native excellent throughout. 91,000 mi,
53 Muffin grain $6,425, (734) 662-9723
54 Flock females
55 Latin I verb
5e Single
57 Garleld' canine
58 "Cheers" actor
Roger

59 Maple yield
VUSPUZZLE AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
VIOU PUZLE: Large 3 hdnn. house.
D M O T H , On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
E S Y O R E Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
E E R H E A
R T I A L E D 6 BR HOUSE 417 N. Thayer
E AT ATE avail. My 214-3hbath, 3prkg.
ET A I L T spaces, wshrdryer. No smoking, no
T A P L S pets. 734-996-1991
R A J A CENTRAL CAMPUS
E N O E V I L ' 6and 7 bedroom houses
I T H I M A great furniture/decor
N Y L 0 N ethernet and wireless
H 8 AB NG free laundry and parking
U P L I E I for rent NOW for May 2014
N E L U N A www.horvathproperties.com or call
T S S E W (734) 972-7368
10/16/13 WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
10.11 12 13 COM 734-332-6000.
n 28 29s 3 THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
organization, format. AltDisciplines.
734/996-0566 or writeun@iserv net
40
k4 4 HELP WANTED
49
LOCAL ANN ARBOR Restaurant
1i seeking MANAGERIAL help. Please
send resume to P.O. Box 468 Chelsea,
aMI 48118
WWW.STUDENTPAYOUTS.com
Paid survey takers need in A2
10/16/13 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys.

4

Fun Fact: Wilson makes a cameo in this film.
'Captain Phillips' an act
of historical censorship

q

RELEAS eATE- Weunesay,uOtoer16 , 2'13
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossw
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Le
ACROSS 3 Recipe 31 Like "padre,"
1 Towerusite insttuction e.g.: Ahht.
That ant piece 4 Supplement 32 BP subsidiary
of cake is mine!" nutritionally 36 Drag to court
10 Hemingway 5 Race ender 38 Like some
nickname 6Outcome of millionaires '
14 Once_ tine ... succesul 3Epnsv
1S Shield border, in negnlations 39 Expensive
heraldry 7 Camaro _-Z 42 Peanvanthe
16 Skunk's defense 8 A bit down New York
17 Roulete choices 9 Don instructor Ne Yn
18 Roulete,fot on 10 Game divided border
19 Baltic native into chukkers 47 Silo filler
20 Some boxing 11 Arabian ANSWER TO PRE
wins Peninsula
23 Nntbare seaport F D A W 0 R
24 Large expanse 12 Tools for 0 R C S A R 
25 Cause a stir Wolfgang Puck B A T T E
31 Bath accessoy 13 Gallery showing c o U 8 T M A
33 TV talk pioneer 21 Senegal's U BA N
34 March composer capital A UAB O A N
35 Destructive 22 Swimmers
Greekgod Crockerand D A T E B R E A
37 Like May Thorpe T I EC
through August, 25 Rudder's locale D R A T S E
literally 26 Coin-tossing R E M A R K P
40 Bar order attraction A R M A I R S
41 Use Cometon 27Goney lump tt 0 0 u T W I T
43 Reectionro pm 28 Upholsterer' s S I C
the top choice O T I S S H I
45 RMN was his 29 Previously
vice president nwned NEAR EN
46 Sitcom securty 30 Cut the skintfrom xwordeditor@aol.com
device thut often 1 i s a s e n a 9
defeated its own
purpnsea 1a is
50 Bread, at times
51 Salad cheese
52 Where to find 21ah sats f 0-
25- and 48- 23 24
Acrons
59 Winter coat 2s 2
60 Michigan city or i3sa 3s
college
61 Janeiro a a se 37 3sv3
62 Part ofa plot
83 Pleaned 4at 4ai 4as 4a
64 Navel 46 7 4
phenomenon
89 Tolnlfor50 1
Wolgang Puck
66 Italian noble 5 s2 s5 s5 5
family
67 Fancy moldings 60 J 4
DOWN
1 Burger King a6 ae
supply
2 Foreach one ByPam AmikKiagiieyr
(c21TibuinesavContventc, LLC

ByJOHN BOHN
Daily Community Culture Editor
Those who saw the theatri-
cal trailer to "Captain Phillips"
this summer should remember
the opening: From beyond the
radar screen, a blip material-
izes. Captain Phillips walks
to the deck to see a small skiff
headed toward his ship. He's
under fire! Now the pirates
have taken over the bridge!
When they are allowed to
speak, the pirates tell the crew
over the telecom "in one min-
ute, I will kill your friend."
So scary! So violent! What I
gathered from this trailer was
that "Captain Phillips" would
be the most dehumanizing
and neglectful treatment of
an overwhelmingly complex
political and economic horror
story that Hollywood could
conceive.
Interestingly, the consensus
among critics is that "Captain
Phillips" provides a nuanced
treatment of the pirates, which
may have come as a surprise
for those who, like me, had
no hopes. Indeed, against all
expectation "Captain Phillips"
does provide some background
to the pirates. But before we
jump into this, let me just state
my case clearly: This is a high-
ly distorted representation of
facts. As with every work of
art ever claiming to be "based
on true events," it is a carefully
selected and constructed "re-
presentation" of these events,
which in this case, actually
happened along the Horn of
Africa in April 2009 and not in
the Mediterranean Sea where it
was re-created in early 2012.
So how then is this film care-
fully selected and constructed,
and more immediately, why
should you not go see this film?
True, there is a 10-minute
scene at the beginning of the
film set in a Somali fishing
village that attempts to pro-
vide some explanation as to
the social and economic world
from which the pirates emerge,
one of impoverishment and
desperation. Later on, there is
even a more specific reference

to th
of th
water
the hi
who I
ing v
merci
BuI
tione
lips, I
ship,
than
the pi
thus f
is cle
using
explo
in re-
mone,
r
All
pirate
money
a lotc
ing af
When
them
the s
say t
Soma
be en
(the
to inc
dollar
ing. N
Never
of the
the pi
dema
clean
which
dump
waste
Th
ship e
givin
rap.
Aft
attem
workE
have
Maer

e corporate exploitation appeals to their union. After
ie sovereign-less Somali hearing this, Phillips writes to
's that initially prompted hiswifebackhomethathehasa
ijacking by Somali fishers, "new crew to get in shape." For
had no chance in compet- what is the proper solution in
with opportunistic com- this unjust scenario? You still
al fisheries. need to do your job - a theme
t this latter fact gets men- that could have been written
d just before Captain Phil- by infamous Nazi bureaucrat
held hostage in a getaway Adolph Eichmann.
calls the pirates "more To add insult to injury, the
fishermen." Based on how film portrays these work-
rates have been portrayed ers as scared, helpless and
ar in the film, the subtext lazy compared to the fear-
ar. The pirates are clearly less Eichmann-cum-Phillips.
the excuse of corporate Turning Phillips into the hero,
itation to justify what is, a choice that a recent CNN
ality, a greedy pursuit of interview with the crew ques-
y. tions, seems to say that what
is valued in our political cli-
mate is a worker who rises to
Capitalist the occasion because, in truth,
there is no one who will protect
CataStrophe you against orarlaceinjustice
after 40 years of union-busting
ewritten as that began with Reagan vs. air
traffic controllers in 1981 and
moral fable. has recently manifested itself
in "Right to work" legislation
passing in Michigan and 23
other states. Stop complaining.
throughout the film, the Do your job. Fittingly, there
ts constantly talk about is no mention of the lawsuit
y. "We're going to make against Maersk.
of money," they say, chas- This is not even to mention the
fter the Maersk Alabama. questionable narrative of Phil-
Captain Phillips offers lips's "self-sacrifice" in handing
$30,000 to not take himself over to the pirates, but
hip, the movie seems to all of that can be found online.
hat for an impoverished Tragically, first-time Somali
Tian, that should totally emigre actor, Barkhad Abdi,
hough! Heck, the pirates who plays the leader of the
director finds necessary pirates, Abduwali Abdukhadir
lude) just got six million Muse, has to navigate this dis-
rs from a previous hijack- torted world with everything
What more do you want? against him. The best he can do
r mind the fact that many is humanize against the grain,
se million-dollar ransoms and he does so incredibly well.
rates demand are actually Tom Hanks, who plays Captain
nds upon corporations to Phillips, was probably the best
up the Somali coastline, choice for the part, and one of
hthey have used as a cheap the few things that director
ing ground for hazardous Paul Greengrass gets right.
. Hanks has been praised for
is act of historical censor- his roles as the (white, male)
ven swings the other way, "everyman." He provides this
g the union workers a bad horrifying rewrite of history
with just what it needs: round-
er the pirates' first failed ed facial features, a pudgy
pt to rob the ship, the frame, twinkling eyes, a com-
ers complain that they pletely non-threatening veneer
been treated wrongly by to a film that asks us to will-
sk and would like to make ingly walk to our own graves.

BECOME A PART OF THE DAILY
ARTS DREAM TEAM.
JOIN OUR MUSIC, TV/NEW MEDIA, FILM,
COMMUNITY CULTURE OR FINE ARTS BEATS.
OR BECOME A BLOGGER!
E-mail arts@michigandaily.com to request an application.

0i

4

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandady.com

Wednesday, October 16, 2013 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, October 16, 2013 - 7A

His peacoat is so oversized.
No hopeful future
for Tomorrow'

CW recycles story
for unexceptional
'People'
By JOE REINHARD
For the Daily
CW's "The Tomorrow Peo-
ple" offers a look at the future of
humankind, the next evolution-
ary step when
people develop.
unbelievable
superhuman The
abilities. What Tomorrow
it doesn't offer,
unfortunately, People
is anything par- Pilot
ticularly origi-
nal. Despite its Wednesdays
tagline - "Dif- at9 p.m.
ferent is Dan-
gerous" - the CW
series starts off
pretty mundane and safe.
The pilot introduces Stephen
Jameson (Robbie Amell, "1600
Penn") as a teenager going
through changes seemingly
unique to him: He's developing
superpowers. He soon discov-
ers that these powers aren't as
unique as one would initially
think. Turns out he's one of the
Tomorrow People, a .group of
people who mark the next evolu-
tionary step for the human race.
Like the others in this group,
Stephen has a genetic mutation

that gives him powers which
include (and are limited to)
telepathy, telekinesis and tele-
portation.
Now, pilots have a lot going
against them. They have little
time to go over some very impor-
tant information and hook the
viewer, and to this show's credit,
the exposition-laced dialogue
isn't too hard to swallow, and the
action scenes fulfill some sense
of fun. But the show chooses to
enter into well explored terri-
tory, the ever-popular-people-
with-superpowers genre, and so
far it hasn't presented anything
worth noting. Instead of rely-
ing on its own inventive ideas (of
which there are few), it mainly
draws from the inventive ideas
of the past, only to do little with
them. In particular, it borrows
heavily from "The Matrix,"
with what's shaping up to be
the classic Chosen One plotline,
and pretty much rips off "The
X-Men"; only the X-Men are a
little more diverse and excit-
ing when it comes to their super
powers (and-their personalities).
Therein lies the problem with
the characters: They don't leave
the viewer with much of an
impression. Amell as Stephen isn't'
particularly compelling or char-
ismatic, while the rest of the cast,
which includes Mark Pellegrino
("Supernatural") as the cryptic
villain Jedikiah Price, does little
to breathe life into the story. The

unoriginal premise needed strong
characters to make the viewer
especially care, but for now, the
show's just rather bland.
That isn't to say there's no
fun to be had. Fans of the recent
flood of superhero movies will
probably find something to like
here. The decent special effects
lead to enjoyable fight and chase
scenes, while the futuristic
score sets the tone well. From
a plotting standpoint, the show
spends its hour wisely, setting
up a handful of mysteries and
ending on an intriguing note.
If anything, the series has faint
potential.
For now, though, it's hard
to look past the unimagina-
tive opening act. The premise
and characters aren't especially
unique, and what's worse, one
could run by a checklist of pop-
ular sci-fi franchises over the
past 50 years and immediately
spot the multiple similarities.
Granted, this show is a remake
of a British TV program from
the 1970's, so some parallels can
be forgiven. A remake does have
the responsibility of making
itself relevant again, however,
and this show just hasn't done
that - at least not yet.
Until that happens, stick with
the first season of "Heroes"
to get your fix of superpower
action and fun. "The Tomorrow
People" 's future doesn't look
very promising.

"Can I borrow your oversized peacoat?"
"Bolt' recaptures energy
of classic-rock era

'Vanilla Ice Goes Amish,' but
Amish hope he goes home

By ADAM THEISEN
For the Daily
While most middle-aged
artists are expected to just
tour behind their old hits and
put minimal
effort into new
albums, Pearl
Jam continues Lightnjng
to work hard BoL
to make every
new release Pearl Jam
significant.
The band is Monkeywrench
far removed
from its early
1990's-megastar glory days,
but it still keeps up a devoted
fanbase through its top-notch
live shows and generally solid
studio albums. After follow-
ing up early success with an
experimental (and some would
say self-sabotaging) mid-career
interlude, Pearl Jam has put out
a seriesof back-to-basics, rock
'n' roll records, of which Light-
ning Bolt is the latest.
Firstly, Lightning Bolt does
not feel like an album that was
recorded in 2013. The band's
love for vinyl and classic rock
shines through in the guitar-
heavy, riff-driven tracks, and
while the anachronistic style
can be off-putting for listeners
wanting something more for-
ward-thinking, those searching
for old-time rock 'n' roll will
find nothing better. Pearl Jam
is still a master at crafting rock
songs and executing them per-
fectly.
Despite its members now
being in their late forties, the
band sounds like it has found

the fo
first h
tar so
and ev
focuse
Your I
punk r
ately s
Vedder
the old
"Sir
and si
platinu
Pearl
becaus
tion an
band s
this po
ciansh
are im
part of
rience
cians k
sinkin,
ba
si
Afte
of the
too lor
from
of Lig
eter, m
acoust
larger
tracks
Vedde
Songs.

untain of youth on the voice fills the music with joy.
alf of Lightning Bolt. Gui- Though the second half fea-
los command attention tures a less immediate style and
very song sounds tightly therefore makes somewhat less
d. Lead single "Mind of an impression, loose, relaxed
Manners" swaggers with tracks like "Swallowed Whole"
ock energy and immedi- and the folky "Sleeping by
hows that singer Eddie Myself," as well as syrupy sweet
r sounds just as he did in closer "Future Days," highlight
i days. it. Arguably the best song on the
ens," the mid-tempo sec- album, "Future Days" feels des-
ngle, falls short of the tined to be a first-dance song
am standard set by classic for newlyweds, as Vedder looks
Jam ballads like "Black" forward to what will come with
e of its generic produc- his lover, blissfully uncaring
id lack of subtlety, but the about any impending troubles.
aves it simply because at "I got my own way to relate?"
tint in its career, its musi- Vedder proclaims on the first
ip and songwriting chops track of Lightning Bolt, declar-
peccable. Even when one ing to the listener that Pearl
f a song falters, the expe- Jam has nothing to prove to
and talent of the musi- anybody besides themselves.
eeps the whole ship from The band is at a point in its
g. career where it can just do what
it enjoys, and the results of this
mindset are fantastic. Pearl Jam
TrJremains firmly outside of any
clear time period or trend, and
throws it eventwo decades removed from
its most well-known songs, the
.ck w ith old- band has an uncanny ability to
recapture the energy of its early
reaptr teenryofis.al
ehool style. days without sounding old or
Lightning Bolt doesn't revolu-
tionize the genre, but its variety
r two songs in the middle of different tones will engage
album that drag on for those simply looking for an
ng and immediately drop entertaining rock record. Long-
memory, the second half time fans of the band will love
htning Bolt contains qui- this album, and even listeners
tore reflective songs. The who haven't paid attention to
ic guitar plays a much Pearl Jam since the 1990's will
role on this half, and the find themselves pleasantly sur-
seem to be influenced by prised by the strength of the
r's solo project, Ukulele . songs and by how well the band
His strong, invigorated has matured.

By EMILY BODDEN
Daily Arts Writer
Boasting a name that sounds
like it's straight from The Onion,
"Vanilla Ice Goes Amish" is
equal parts
bizarre and
sweet: DIY's
questionable Vanilla Ice
new program- Goes Amish
ming choice
does not miss Pilot
the mark fully,
instead land- Saturdays
ing in an amus- atlO p.m.
ing place all its D1Y
own.
The prem-
ise of the show finds Vanilla Ice
joining an Amish community
where he learns their traditional
approach to construction and
design. Apparently that's what
people do after their 15 minutes
of fame are up. All kidding aside,
Vanilla Ice seems to have been
working, or at least dabbling, in
the construction field for quite
some time, because when he
helps demo and remodel a kitch-
en, he knows the lingo.
First off, Vanilla Ice isn't
his real name. Shockingly, the
man we (at least those of us
with a working knowledge of
the 1980's) know as Vanilla Ice
bears the Christian name Rob-
ert Matthew Van Winkle, and
so the nice Amish community
that takes him in calls him Rob.
Which seems very normal for

a 45-y
white b
hand a
tional A
Anot
produc
cumven
the An
posedt
the hou
demon:
taught
her 60
has mo
of a ca
While
ing and
- press
speakc
his int
Eviden
not equ
A
C
wit
Whil
as resp
commu
tool, re
ing "V
unclear
been b
a more 1
concep
of "sw.

ear-old, one-hit-wonder somehow seems fitting coming
oy who decides to try his from a middle-aged man who
t construction in tradi- dons two giant earrings while in
umish fashion. Amish Country.
her big hurdle that the Other faux pas in the series
tion team manages to cir- premiere that stand out include
nt is the perception that his continual wearing of jeans
nish community is sup- (with a zipper) and a hoodie
to shun cameras. Clara, (also with a zipper) and driv-
se owner in the premiere, ing an Escalade to his home-
strates that, despite being stay. The clothing choice comes
to avoid technology for off as mildly offensive after he
- or 70-some years, she completely disregards the nice
re natural talent in front man he is living with who kindly
amera than Vanilla Ice. explained that the Amish do
she comes off charm- not allow zippers on their garb.
I sweet, Vanilla Ice yells The choice of an Escalade filled
umably in an attempt to with a camera crew and an old
coherently during all of superstar produces laughs. Did
erviews and voice-overs. the production team not think
tly media exposure does of how inappropriate it was, or
ate to competency. were they instead trying to cre-
ate blatant dichotomies between
where Vanilla Ice comes from to
where "Rob" will end up?
r h toverall, the show holds some
ollaborate sense of potential. Not as dra-
matic or trashy as the type of
h the Amish. programming seen with celeb-
rities of similar popularity on
VH, but not quite as enticing
as hit HGTV shows like "Prop-
le Vanilla Ice comes off erty Brothers," "Vanilla Ice
ectful and sincere to the Goes Amish" stands on its own
nity, he's still a huge ridiculous feet. If "Vanilla Ice
ferring to himself as hav- Goes Amish" were an ice cream
anilla Ice Charm." It's cone, it would be a scoop of plain
whether it would have vanilla with a sad scattering of
etter or worse if he used rainbow jimmies that may con-
updated approach to that vince viewers to give it another
t and attempted the use go before passing complete
ag." His outdated slang judgment.


PEEP THE DAILY ARTS BLOG,
THE FILTER.
WWW.MICH IGAN DAILY.COM/BLOGS/THE+FILTER

r.

1


8A - Wednesday, October 16, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


I

"Why is Jafar here?"
Unoriginal, uninspiring
'Wonderland'

FX
Head Witch in Charge.
'Coven'bewitches.

By KELLY ETZ ment i
Daily Arts Writer feels let
a cop-o

In Murphy's world,
anything can
happen
By ALEC STERN
Daily Arts Writer
If the colder weather and
falling leaves weren't enough
to remind you that it's Octo-
ber, our tele-
vision screens A-
are once again
filled to the' American
brim with zom- Horror
bies, witches,
ghouls and StOry COVen
ghosts. Among Pilot
the signature
Halloween Wednesdays
programming, atl0 p.m.
Ryan Mur-
phy's wonder- FX
fully weird
anthology series, "American
Horror Story," made its return-
last week. The new iteration,
subtitled "Coven," delves into
the history of witchcraft and
the fictitious witching scene in
New Orleans. Many of "Hor-
ror Story" 's signature actors
are back and joined by excit-
ing newcomers in this wild and
alluring new chapter.
"AHS: Coven" starts out
distinctly and surprisingly
straightforward. Series staples
Jessica Lange ("King Kong")
and Sarah Paulson ("Mud")
play mother and daughter who
both attended Miss Robich-
aux's Academy for Exceptional
Young Ladies. These "excep-
tional young ladies" are, in
fact, witches. Paulson's Corde-
lia Foxx now runs the school,
which has enrollment of four
students including "AHS" alum
Taissa Farmiga ("The Bling
Ring") and Emma Roberts
("We're The Millers"). Kathy
Bates ("Harry's Law") also stars
as Delphine LaLaurie, a real-
life, 19th-century serial killer in

whom Lange's character Fiona
takes a special interest.
It's worth noting that, on
paper, nothing about "Ameri-
can Horror Story" should work.
Dylan McDermott wrestling a
ghost in a leather suit should feel
silly. Lange performing a campy
rendition of "The Name Game"
in the middle of an asylum-set
horror series should make you
cringe. But this is "American
Horror Story," which means
any conventional wisdom does
not apply. Murphy has created a
world so bizarrely and perplex-
ingly enticing that the words
"should" or "shouldn't" don't
exist. Kathy Bates as a histori-
cal character hell-bent on hav-
ing her own real-life Minotaur?
SURE. Just sit back, enjoy and
try not to question why it's so
amazingly compelling. It just is.
In terms of ambition, "Coven"
already feels more "Murder
House" than "Asylum." Where-
as the latter came out guns
blazing from the very start
(Nuns! Mad Scientists! Aliens!),
"Murder House" was arguably
a more subdued saga, focused
on its singular haunted house
storyline. So far, "Coven" seems
to follow "Murder House" 's
delicate footsteps, introducing
one, witches-as-the-oppressed
dramatic narrative. With that
being said, the after-show sea-
son preview suggests that like
"Asylum," "Coven" will get
crowded (Zombies! Franken-
stein!).
Naturally, most of the pre-
miere episode, "Bitchcraft," is
about fleshing out the tone of
the miniseries, which isn't quite
nailed down yet. Though all
three iterations have a distinct
"AHS" feel, "Murder House"
and "Asylum" were able to
establish enough tonal and the-
matic differences to set them
apart from one another. Co-
creator Murphy has described
"Coven" as a lighter series than
its predecessors - he set out to

make it an easier watch than
the exceedingly dark "Asylum."
While the premiere establishes
this feeling a bit, it didn't quite
strike the right balance between
the desired playfulness and the
horror, at times feeling neither,
here nor there.
Regardless, the actors in
"AHS" have consistently out-
shined the series' plot or tone,
and "Coven" is no exception.
Lange continues to deliver a
master-class performance as
a witch determined to defy
the aging pr'ocess. Evan Peters
("Kick Ass") and Farmiga have a
beautiful chemistry together as
strong here as it was in the first
season. It's also no surprise that
Kathy Bates and Angela Bas-
sett ("Olympus Has Fallen") are
perfect in their spellbinding (if
you will) roles as rival sorcer-
esses.
"Bitchcraft" is also one of
the scarier entries in the "AHS"
series. Beginning with a truly
frightening 1830's torture
sequence, followed directly
by the revamped, hair-raising
opening credits, the premiere
doesn't let viewers forget that
this is, as promised, a horror
story.
All in all, "Coven" is a pleas-
ing start for a series that usu-
ally finds its stride somewhere
in the middle. Most of "AHS"
's standout episodes, includ-
ing "Rubber Man" and "Unholy
Night," begin to emerge around
the eighth episode of each
13-episode run. Fans of the
series will no doubt be glued
to their screens, as leads Lange
and Paulson are as mesmerizing
as ever. "Bitchcraft" is a wel-
comed reassurance that three
seasons in, "AHS" hasn't lost
any of its strange mojo. And
judging by some of the sexy
deaths (literally, deaths-by-sex)
in the premiere, it's clear this is
still the disturbing, outrageous,
crazy-good "American Horror
Story" we know and love.

The allure of a fantasy world
lies in the possibilities. Interest is
created in the unknown, in seeing
the unusual or
the unexpect- C+
ed. Originally,
"Once Upon a Once Upon
Time" played a rime in
on this inter-
est, creating Wonderland
*a charmingly Pilot
CGI-ed world
unlike any- Thursdays
thing else in the at 8p.m.
TV landscape.
Unfortunately, ABC
its spinoff "Once
Upon a Time in Wonderland" fails
to live up to expectations. The
problem isn't that "Wonderland"
can't stand on its own, onlythat its
unoriginality is so obvious.
Plunging the technicolored
splendor of Lewis Carroll's well
known children's story into dark-
er, grittier territory is nothing
new. Tim Burton literally did that
three years ago. And remember
the miniseries "Tin Man," Syfy's
edgy reimagining of "The Wizard
of Oz"? The point is, "Wonder-
land" mayhavetet better suc-
cess in keeping true-to-the-source
material, with a fantastical world
dizzyingly drenched in primary
colors and literally overflowing
with ideas.
As it stands, Alice's (Sophie
Lowe, "Beautiful Kate") confine-

the im
oddly r
ously u
to reali
backdr
At leas
Lithgom
style, h
withsta
Dc
r
The
freed g
Gadiot
Alicer
trips in
bly, the
a highl
(just h
to be
start l:
Entert
Rigby,
and t
(Navee
an evi
and mt
Undern
is a nic
the que
The

n a Victorian-era asylum holding anything back. Lowe
ss like a twist and more like - who plays Alice as an ass-
'ut. Lobotomies aside, even kicking adventuress, brandish-
agining of Wonderland is ing "Drink Me" bottles like mini
estrained.;As a series obvi- hand grenades - is the driving
;nconcerned with likeness force of the premiere. Hopefully,
ty, the computer-generated on her way to finding her lost
ops are less than inspiring. love, she'll stumble upon some
t the White Rabbit (John better-written dialogue. It's the
w, "This is 40") has a bit of Knave of Hearts (Michael Socha,
ot pink Lennon glasses not- "Shank"), however, who brings
nding. the pilot alive. Bantering with
Alice every step of the way - in
a truly fantastic British accent -
the Knave is the comic relief, per-
)IL venture petual eye candy and potential
down this love triangle all rolled into one.
The secondary cast tarnishes *
'abbit hole. some of the sheen of the two
leads. Bottled hottie Cyrus bare-
ly makes an appearance, while
Rigby overacti her heart out as
plot centers around a the Red Queen. At one point, she
;enie called Cyrus (Peter even tears up. It's like watching
"Night Wolf") whom a really intense scene in a high
meets on her subsequent school play. Andrews as Jafar is
nto Wonderland. Inevita- fine, and the fledgling chemistry
two fall in love and, after between the two villains makes
y inconceivable proposal them better together than apart.
ow old is Alice supposed Creators Edward Kitsis and
anyway?), are about to Adam Horowitz - who both
iving happily ever after. 'worked on "Once Upon a Time"
the Red Queen (Emma - along with Zack Estrin ("Zero
"Demons Never Die") Hour") should have had an eas-
otally randomly, Jafar ier time with "Wonderland."
n Andrews, "Lost") with Instead, the premiere takes on
i plot to capture Cyrus all the questionable elements of
ake Alice think he's dead. its predecessor without any of
neath all the exposition the ingenuity. As a teen-angst
e, basic adventure plot - fest, it sort of works. As a suc-
est to find a lost love. cessful series in its own right?
actors, at least, aren't Barely.

ALlBUM R EV IEaW

A

By HANNAH WEINER
DailyArts Writer
There's a Slate article circulat-
ing thatwrites off the "roots revival
movement" of our generation, dis-
missing bands
like Mumford A
& Sons and the
Lumineers as Let's Be Still
purely valuable
for their "attrac- The Head and
tion of collec- the Heart
tivity, even of Sub Pop
surrogate fam-
ily."
If you agree with this argument,
you should steer clear of The Head
and the Heart's new album,Let'sBe
Still.
Because of the band's inclusive-
ness, because of its mimicking a
surrogate family and because the
artists emanate this kind of ten-
derness, The Head and the Heart
have a fan base that takes pride in
this musical comfort. The band's
first album gave people the warmth
of music that can be played to fit
all scenarios; songs like "Rivers &
Roads" "Down in the Valley" and
"Cats & Dogs" offer security in the
swelling vocals, the rustic guitar
and the catchy harmonies. The
music is like a hug, a thick fuzzy
blanket or a hot mug of tea for the
head and the heart.
In Let's Be Still, the comfort
has maximized. Songs like "My
Friends" and "Another Story" reac-
quaint us with the familiar folksy
sounds of Charity Thielen, Jona-
than Russell and Josiah Johnson,.
uniting voices in lines like, "When
I'm down / you pick me up / my
friends." For most of the album,
they slip into their cozy groove of
piano, drums, guitar and vocals
that crescendo and finally fade out
with a profound, universal mes-
sage.

SUa POP

"We're a big family. Sike. We're not."

Whether they're singing, "Gone who've been waiting to hear her
are the days when the wind would break away from the harmonies.
brush my face" or "You are in It's not necessarily an entirely'new
grandmother's wisdom," Russell's sound, but it's nuanced - Thielen
sensory details touch on universal freshens the tracklist with her pris-
symbols of home, love and safety. tine vocals.
There's a reason we keep returning Similarly, "Shake" unexpect-
to indie-folk bands like The Head edly presents the audience with
and the Heart; for many, it provides electric guitar and synths (gasp!).
the wholehearted sense of family Yet this introduction doesn't shock
that's impossible to dislike. listeners because it matches the
energy that wavers throughout the
album. Instead, it makes us tap our
Feels like toes, bounce and tap - a phenom-
enon that fans of The Head and the
hot chocolate. Heart may not understand from
their typically relaxed and intro-
spective songs.
Don't worry, those songs still
But Let's Be Still doesn't stop exist on Let's Be Still. "Another
here, confining the band to a par- Story,"asongmeanttoreflectonthe
ticular sound. Instead, The Head Newtown tragedy, distills Russell's
and the Heart expand its sound rustic voice on an inspirational and
with more energy. Just listening to emotional track. He sings, "The sun
the opening track, "Homecoming still rises even through the rain,"
Heroes," introduces us to a side of and despite its cliched messages,
the band we haven't met before -it the music offers us reassurance. It's
bounces on upbeat drums, dances comfort music,no doubt.
happily on piano keys and sings There's no shame in listening
with a happiness and confidence to music for its emotional value;
that was hidden on the last album. everyone needs a security blanket
Charity Thielen's angelic (and or mug of hot chocolate every once
at times spunky) voice leads us in a while. Everyone needs their
through "Springtime" and "Sum- head and the heart soothed, and
mertime," giving Russell's vocals a every once in a while, everyone
break and exciting indie-folk fans needsto just be still.

4'
U
U

1

t

I


4; ,
r .,,, , I '- - i
, t ,, .
, ,, , .
':
F
ia >

UP

IN

THE

AIR

RRAMOLENGRAFF/Dly Penn State 43, Michigan 40
Ryan (left) played in his first game since an ACLtear. Michigan coach Brady Hoke (right) blamed a late penalty on himself.

A team searching 5 Things We Learned: Penn State

for an identity

STATE
COLLEGE -
he
ball
danced
through the
night air and
up into a blur
of white and ZACH
a glare of HELFAND
lights. Fresh-
man corner-
back Channing Stribling waited

for it to come down near the
one-yard line and so did Penn
State's Allen Robinson.
It emerged from the glow, a
loud and charging object close
enough for Michigan to grab and
put away, just like Penn State
had been.
Stribling jumped first but too
quickly. As he came down, the
ball slipping above his fingers,
Robinson jumped and snatched
it away. The crowd turned rap-
See HELFAND, Page 3B

By EVERETT COOK
DailySports Editor
1. Michigan badly needs some
help on the offensive line.
The problems on the offensive
line were supposed to be fixed
when redshirt sophomore guard
Chris Bryant replaced redshirt
sophomore center Jack Miller in
the starting lineup against Min-
nesota two weeks ago. Bryant
is bigger, and the move allowed
Graham Glasgow to move from
guard to center, which was
seemingly a better fit for the red-
shirt sophomore.

The switch in the offen-
sive line also allowed for some
stacked formations, where fifth-
year senior tackles Taylor Lewan
and Michael Schofield - Michi-
gan's best offensive linemen -
would line up on the same side of
the ball. .
This was supposed to be the
big, nasty Wolverine offensive
line.
Instead, Michigan was blown
off the ball against Penn State.
The stacked offensive line was
sniffed out and rendered use-
less almost immediately. Bryant
was replaced at one point, while

Lewan left the game at halftime
and never returned due to an
apparent head injury, though
Michigan coach Brady Hoke said
Monday that the injury had more
to do with his hip than anything
else.
Make no mistake, Michigan
lost this game because of its
inability to move the Nittany
Lions off the line of scrimmage.
The run game never got going,
which completely halted the
passing game.
Hoke said that Lewan will
play against Indiana next week,
but if the undisclosed symp-
toms of the apparent head injury

don't fix themselves shortly, the
already struggling offensive line
is going to be in a world of hurt.
2. Michigan's offense isn't
anything without a running game.
This, too, ties into the strug-
gles of the offensive line, because
if the holes were bigger, the
running game would be much
improved.
But without halfback produc-
tion, Michigan's offense is going
to be difficult to watch the rest of
the year.
Penn State came into the game
See LEARNED, Page 3B

Behind depth of offense, the Wolverines hold off late barrage by RIT

By GREG GARNO The Tigers ultimately scored in
Daily Sports Writer. overtime to upset Michigan and
kick off one of the roughest sea-
ROCHESTER, NY - The sons in recent memory.
Michigan hockey team had been Fast forward one year, and
here before - just last season, in Michigan was staring at the same
fact. scenario after it surrendered a
With a 3-1 lead a year ago, the four-goal lead to RIT in the sec-
Wolverines allowed the Roches- ond period on Saturday.
ter Institute of Technology back But rather than succumb to the
into the game to force overtime. surge this time, the 11th-ranked

Wolverines responded thanks to
freshman forward Even Allen,
whose goal late in the period
proved to be the game winner.
Michigan closed the third period
with two more goals to win 7-4
and remain unbeaten two games
into the season.
"I like the start of the game
and I liked the end of the game,
but I didn't like the middle part,

obviously," said Michigan coach
Red Berenson. "You could see
this coming."
Junior forward Phil Di
Giuseppe had two goals while
,junior forward Alex Guptill had a
pair of assists to lead the Wolver-
ines in front of a crowd of more
than 10,000.
The score, though, didn't indi-
cate the lopsided shot total, as

Michigan was out-shot 46-27.
"We weren't playing as hard,
and as smart and as defensive as
we should have," Berenson said.
"Pretty much everything hap-
pened in our zone."
Allen's goal, which swung the
momentum back in Michigan's
favor, looked like more of an acci-
dent than a shot attempt. Tiger
goaltender Jordan Ruby, in the

midst of repositioning himself,
misplayed the shot from outside
the left circle and never saw the
puck slide behind him.
Michigan kicked off the scor-
ing less than three minutes into
the first period, when Guptill
slid through the right circle and
glided the puck to an untouched
Di Giuseppe, who was waiting in
See DEPTH, Page 3B


200 MILES NORTH
As the Michigan football team was los-
ing it in Penn State, the hockey team was
figuring it out against RIT. SportsMonday
column: Page 2B

UPSET TUESDAY
Freshman Lars Eckenrode picked a
good time for his first collegiate goal in
Michigan's first win over a ranked oppo-
nent this year. Page 2B

C #

4


2B - October 16, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - October16, 2013 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

4PO >T '

Meanwhile, in R ochser.

Atcthe same moment, 200
miles apart, the Michi-
gan football and hockey
teams were finding out what
kind of team they would be. At
Penn State,
the foot-
ball team's
52-yard field
goal had just'
fallen short to '
send its game,
once seem-
ingly in hand, ZACH
into overtime. HELFAND
At the
same time,
the Michigan
hockey team had justblown its
own four-goal lead in Rochester,
N.Y. With the football game des-
tined for late drama, few Michi-
gan fans were paying attention to
this early-season hockey game.
But as the football team strug-
gled with its identity - should
they run late behind a besieged
line? Pass and risk a turnover?
Would they gamble or play it
safe? - the hockey team was
findingsomething about its own.
The Wolverines had just
made a statement in their season
opener against Boston College
earlier in the week. Now, up 4-0
over Rochester Institute of Tech-
nology after just 20 minutes, "we
kind of thought we were on top
of the world," said senior forward
Derek DeBlois.
The puck dropped for the sec-
ond period at 8:03 p.m. At that
exact moment in Happy Valley,
the football team began its drive
with 4:18 remaining in the game.
For both teams, the nightmare
was about to begin.
For the hockey team, it came
by way of penalties and turnovers
and defensive-zone breakdowns.
Michigan was "demolished," said
senior defenseman Mac Bennett.
With a minute to go in the second
period, the lead had disappeared.

they never knew whatthey were
goingto get from the goaltender.
Last year, DeBlois and Copp said,
RIT would've been a loss.
"We're still answering ques-
tions from last year," Berenson
said.
But the feeling is already dif-
ferent this year. Bennett thought
the team needed to be closer, so
he made sure teammates were
playing paintball together, going
to the movies together, having
barbecues and dinner. Tuesday
night, a few guys on the team
went to the Red Wings game
together.
The win over Rochester meant
very, very little. The team knows
that. But Bennett felt something
as the team left the arena Satur-
day night.
He tried to describe that on
Tuesday. As Bennett spoke, lie sat
in the big armchair at Yost. He
rested an ankle on his knee. In
this pose, with his arms resting
against the chair, the senior and
captain looked almost grandfa-
therly. He struggled to articulate
what he knew about his team
after two games.
"I don't think we have an
identity quite yet," he said, after
a moment.
Before he spoke about what he
felt after the game, he thought
for several more seconds. When
he began, he spoke-slowly and
thoughtfully. In his pose and dic-
tion, he resembled - eerily, but
yes, it was there - his coach.
"If we want to get something
done, all ittakes for us to say is
'Alright, we need to go do it,' and
actually go out to do the work to
do it," Bennett said. "And it really
showed in that third period,
and it was something that I was
really, really proud of."
-Helfand can be reached
at zhelfand@umich.edu or
on Twitter @zhelfand

It was 4-4.
Michigan scored a late goal in
the second period and walked
into the locker room. Outside, a
crowd of 10,556 - close to twice
the size of Yost Ice Arena - had
turned frenzied. Nine freshmen
had made the trip. Together, in
the locker room, they waited.
The Wolverines had been here
before. A year ago, in the season
opener, Michigan went up 3-0
against RIT in the first period.
Then RIT tied the game in the
third. The Wolverines were
stunned. They'would lose just 14
seconds into overtime.
From there, the season spi-
raled downward. Michigan won
the next night against RIT, but
would soon fall below .500 and
never recover. After blowing
the chance to sweep on opening
night, the Wolverines wouldn't
sweep a series until February.
A lack of resiliency dogged the

team.
Now, in Rochester, Michigan
coach Red Berenson entered the
room.
"He was angry -for good rea-
son," Bennett said after practice
Tuesday. "And he kind of gave it
to us."
"A year ago," Bennett contin-
ued, "if they tie a game and it's
4-4, I'm not sure we're winning
that game."
In fact, that sentiment was a
theme for the day. Before Ben-
nett, senior forward Derek DeB-
lois and then sophomore forward
Andrew Copp each, unprompted,
said different versions of the
same thing: "We would've had
guys doubting whether we were
going to win that game," Copp
said.'
In the locker room Saturday,
after Berenson finished his dia-
tribe, the teamsat.there. Two
hundred miles south, Michigan

and Penn State had just entered
overtime. In Rochester, play-
ers said, the locker- room had a.
strange vibe. Nobody panicked.
Nobody doubted, Bennett,
DeBlois and Copp all said inde-
pendently and unprompted on .
Tuesday.
When the third period started,
senior defenseman Kevin Clare
blocked a shot. So did junior for-
ward Zach Hyman.
"All these guys were stepping
up out of nowhere and will do
anything for each guy in that
locker room," DeBlois said.
At 9:18 p.m., freshman for-
ward Tyler Motte scored his first
career goal,just as Penn State
scored a touchdown in quadruple
overtime to end the game. The
hockey team now led 6-4, and
would soon add a seventh goal.
Afterward, Copp said, his
teammates told him matter-of-
factly they never actually thought

they'd lose.
On Tuesday, Berenson sat in
the big armchair in the room
Michigan uses for interviews
at Yost Ice Arena. He rested his
arms on the cushions and spoke
deliberately and softly about a
team building its own personal-
ity over the 40-plus games ina
season. ,
"You're building the profile,"
Berenson said. "It's not like
you're waiting to see it come out
and it's a final product. It's never
a final product, but at least you'll
see glimpses."
The stigma of last year's fail-
ure to reach the NCAA Tourna-
ment still hangs over this team.
Bennett mentions "last year" so
often, he now apologizes for it.
Last year, Bennett said, the
team was never close-knit until
the end, when they made a des-
perate run for a tournament
berth. Last year, Berenson said,


Racine standing out early,

Eckenrode guides 'M'
to upset over Creighton

By JEREMY SUMMITT
DailySportsEditor
Something the Michigan hock-
ey team lacked last season was a
true, No. 1 goaltender. Thanks to
an 8-1-1 record in his last 10 games
last year, sophomore Steve Racine
earned the start-
ingjob and hasn't NOTEBOOK
diverted much
from the late-season rally.
In the Wolverines' 7-4 win at
Rochester Institute of Technol-
ogy on Saturday, Racine posted a
career-high 42 saves on 46 shots.
Michigan coach Red Berenson said
he was the best player on the ice
that night.
Even though Racine had been
named the starter in the weeks
leading up to the season opener,
Berenson didn't know how long
that would last. He went as far as
saying Racine could be the top
option for a week or for the entire
season, but changes would arise if
needed.
Senior defenseman Mac Bennett
said the team has full confidence
in Racine, but Berenson wasn't so
quick to place his goaltender on a
pedestal.
"Obviously he's got off to a good
start, so, good for him," Berenson
said. "I think that's just a confi-
dence builder. I don't think you're
ever set unless he wins 10 games in
a row, and you can say he can't get
any better than this."
Racine came into last season
recovering fromhip surgery, which
meant he wasn't fully conditioned
by the season opener. Because of
the setback, Racine could hardly
garner any momentum in the times
he received the starting nod.
Racine says he worked harder
than ever this summer to get back
in shape and continue to get bet-
ter. The early results are promis-
ing, and his process to get there
hasn't slowed down. Racine has
already stayed after practice mul-
tiple times to work with goalten-
der coach Josh Blackburn on small
changes he can make between the
pipes.
"At the end of the year, he got
some confidence and he got some
momentum," Berenson said. "He
got established a little bit and had
a better summer, and he's coming
back as a number one now. It's his

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Sophomore forward Andrew Copp won the inaugural Big Ten First Star Award.

job to lose."
FRESHMAN CLASS COMING
TOGETHER: Michigan's success
will continue to depend on how
well the 10-man freshman class
progresses throughout the year.
Multiple upperclassmen have men-
tioned that this freshman class is
one of the most mature they have
seen in their time at Michigan.
Whether through maturity or raw
talent, four of those freshmen have
made their mark by registering at
least one point in the first two reg-
ular-season games.
"The freshmen have been step-
ping into big roles early, and they've
all been playing great hockey," said
senior forward Derek DeBlois.
Freshmen forwards Alex Kile
and#JT Compher have each seen
time on the first line with DeBlois
and sophomore Andrew Copp,
gaining valuable experience from
the two alternate captains.
"I like playing with them
because they. show great leader-
ship, and they're two of our better
offensive players, I'd say," Kile said.
"It was an honor just to be recog-
nized and put on their line."
In the defensive zone, freshmen
Mike Downing and Nolan de Jong
have played significant roles on the

penalty kill, allowing the opposi-
tion just an 18-percent conversion
rate. Senior captain Mac Bennett
has openly expressed how smart a
player de Jong is, and that he really
loves being paired with him on the
blue line.
GUPTILL'S BACK : After missing
the first two games due to a sus-
pension for off-ice issues, junior
forward Alex Guptill made his
return to the lineup against RIT.
With two assists - one coming in
his first shift - his offensive pres-
ence was felt immediately.
"He's a leader up front in terms
of the points we need," Bennett
said. "In his first shift, he popped
in an assist so that has to be huge
for his confidence."
Guptill was paired on the fourth
line with freshman Evan Allen and
juniorTravis Lynch inwhatBeren-
son called a test to see if Guptill
was conditioned enough to play at
game speed. He was forced to miss
over a week of preseason practice,
too, because of the suspension.
But thanks to a number of spe-
cial-teams situations; Guptill also
received time on the first line with
DeBlois and Copp, where he'll like-
ly play this weekend when Michi-,
gan visits New Hampshire.

By MIKE PISCIOTTA
Daily Sports Writer
After a disappointing loss to
PennState onFridaythe Mich-
igan men's soccer team (1-2-2
Big Ten, 5-4-3 overall) came
up big Tuesday night. Late in
the sec-
ond half, CREIGHTON 0
with the MICHIGAN 1
game
destined for extra time, fresh-
man defender Lars Eckenrode
guided home a corner kick to
give the Wolverines a 1-0 vic-
tory against No. 12 Creighton.
This was Michigan's first
win against a ranked team this
year after losses to No. 2 Notre
Dame and No.7 Northwestern.
"We played well," said
Michigan head coach Chaka
Daley, referring to those loss-
es. "But gave away goals at the
wrong times."
From the start of the game,
Michigan's attack looked
dangerous. In the third min-
ute, junior midfielder Mar-
cos Ugarte played a ball into
the path of sophomore for-
ward James Murphy that
was deflected by a Creighton
defender. The ball landed at
the feet of redshirt sophomore
Colin McAtee, whose shot
went high and wide.'
As the half progressed, the
Blue Jays' (6-4-2 overall) pres-
sure intensified, as they kept
the majority of possession.
Despite keeping the ball for
long periods of time, Michigan
was able to catch Creighton on
multiple counterattacks that
were thwarted by Creighton
goalkeeper Alex Bolowich.
In the 34th minute, sopho-
more forward James Murphy's
shot was blocked by a Blue Jay
defender and the ball landed
at senior midfielder Fabio
Pereira's foot. What looked
like a certain goal was saved
by Bolowich, who had eight
saves on the day.
"We didn't gift any chances
to Creighton," Daley said "We
kept it solid in the back."

f 1

Redshirt junior goaltender Adam Grinwis made three saves Tuesday.

The Wolverines' back line
played a stellar game. The
unit allowed a potent Blue Jay
attack just three shots on goal
and kept scoring opportunities
to a minimum throughout the
game.
"We stayed with (our) men
and focused on clearances,"
Eckenrode said. "We didn't
allow them any space."
The Blue Jays' best chance
of the game came in the 28th
minute after a brief rain show-
er. Creighton junior forward
Zabarle Kollie stole the ball
from Eckenrode in the mid-
field and quickly passed the
ball to sophomore midfielder
Timo Pitter. Pitter, on a break-
away with only the goalkeeper
to beat, slipped on the wet
field, allowing the Wolverine's
defense to recover and clear
the ball.
After the intermission,
Michigan brought on fresh-
man forward Yamann Sahlool

and switched to a more attack-
ing style of play. Immedi-
ately after entering the game,
Sahlool made an impact. After
latching onto a pass from
Pereira in the 78th minute,
Sahlool made his way into the
box and forced a one-on-one
save from Bolowich with the
'game still scoreless.
"(Sahlool) is always a dan-
ger," Daley said. "He's always
a threat."
The breakthrough for the
Wolverines came in the 77th
minute.
Pereira whipped in acorner
that landed at the feet of Eck-
enrode who shot the ball past
the oncoming Creighton goal-
keeper, giving him his first
career goal and the Wolver-
ines a 1-0 lead.
This marked the first time
Michigan has beaten a ranked
team at home since last Octo-
ber, when the Wolverines beat
Akron 1-0 in overtime.

of

4

lb


I The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

October 16, 2013 -- 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom October 16, 2013 - 3B

GAME
STATISTICS

Team Stats
FistDown
Rush/Yards
Passing Yards
Offensive Plays
Total Offense
Kik returns/yds
Punt returns/yds
Comp/Att/Int
Punts/Avg
F bes/Lost
Penalties/Yards
Time of Possession

Michigan
54/149
240
83
389
6/154
0/0
15-29-2
6/40.8
2-1
7-62
36:13

Penn
2:

PASSING
Playe
Totas
RUSHING
Player
Gardner
Greent
Totals
RECEIVING
Gallon
Funchess
1 Ceson
Butt
Hayes
STotals

M I C H I G A N
C-A Yds T
15-28 240
15-29 240

LEARNED
From Page 1B
with the No. 19 rush defense
in the country. Good, but that
stage doesn't excuse how awful the
44/8 Wolverines' rushing attack was
305 Saturday.
89 Fifth-year senior running
90 back Fitzgerald Toussaint fin-
3/26 ished with 27 yards on 27 carries.
3-45-2 Without a 12-yard first-quarter
4/4.0 . run, Toussaint would have aver-
2-2
5-56 aged 0.6 yards per carry. Time
23:47 and again, he would receive the.
ball on first down and be swal-
lowed up immediately. Plain and
simple, it was boring, predict-
able and ineffective.
2 Hoke has said that he's cau-
2 tious to use Gardner on the
ground more, even if he's the
most- efficient runner on the
TD roster, because of a concern for
O injury.
V Still, redshirt junior quarter-
0 back Devin Gardner's rushing
numbers are significantly better
TD than anyone else's. He rushed
1 for 121 yards Saturday, averaging
2 five yards per carry, and leads
0 the team in rushing yards while
o averaging more than two yards a
 carry more than Toussaint.
3 With defenses like Iowa,
Michigan State and Ohio State
Ls coming up, offensive coordina-
0 tor Al Borges needs to figure out
a better way to run the offense,
if the running game doesn't
U improve. Right now, it all goes
o through the idea of a punishing
U running game, which is a nice
concept unless you don't actually
TD have the personnel or coaching
U to properly execute a punishing
running game.

TERRA MOLENGRAFF/Dnily
Redshirt junior quarterback Devin Gardner leads the nation in interceptions.

Att
24
27
3
54
No.
7
4
1
1
1
1
15

,d5
121
27
1
149
Yds
95
112
13
9
6
5
240

Avg
5.0
28
Avg
13.6
28.0
6.0
5.0
16.0

Lgs
19
12
Lg
25
59
6
5
59

PUNTING
Player No. Yds
Piloe No V 245n
KICKOFF RETURNS
Plaer No Ys Ag
Norfleet 3 88 29.3
Totals 6 154 25.7
PUNT RETURNS
Player No. Yds Avg
Toa' 0 0 0-0

Avg
40.8

L9
34
34

Gardner's propensity to give the
ball away, Borges stopped giving
him the opportunities to do so.
Time after time, it was Toussaint
with the ball going nowhere and
Gardner standing in the back-
field like a decoy.
The offense stopped moving,
and the game eventually went to
Penn State.
If Borges and Hoke.would
rather keep pushing a run game
that was clearly going nowhere
than give the ball to their best
offensive player, there's a prob-
lem there. At some point, Michi-
gan is going to have to figure out
whether Gardner is better suited
runningthe ball 20 times agame
than throwing the ball into the
hands of defenses, which he has
done more times than anyone
else in the country.
With the offensive line strug-
gling and the running game put
on hold, this is Gardner's offense
to make do with. Understand-
ably, Hoke and Borges aren't
ready for that, and it shows.
4. In Gardner's defense, who is
he throwing to?
Michigan's second-best wide
receiver is a converted tight end
that dropped two passes in the
end zone against Penn State.
The tight end, sophomore Devin

Funchess, ended up having a
productive day with four catch-
es for 112 yards and two touch-
downs, but the point stands. .
The best Wolverine wide
receiver is fifth-year senior Jer-
emy Gallon, who has 31 catches
on the year. Funchess has 19.
Their 50 combined catches is 10
more than the rest of the team
combined, which has totaled 40
catches.
Those two can't do it them-
selves, and neither can Gard-
ner. Michigan's wideouts were
thought to be a problem before
the season, but nothing this bad.
Losing redshirt freshman wide
receiver Amara Darboh before
the year was obviously a big
blow, but it's time for someone
not named Funchess or Gallon
to start making an impact.
Bold Prediction: Hoke's home
winning streak will end this sea-
son.
In his third year as coach,
Hoke still hasn't lost a home
game in 18 tries, but that streak
is going to end soon. With the
way the offense has been play-
ing and three tough Big Ten
games on the docket (Indiana,
Nebraska and Ohio State), Hoke
won't end 2013 undefeated in
Ann Arbor.

'M'passes early test
By MAX BULTMAN claimed the four fastest times in
For the Daily the 1,000-yard freestyle, as Jae-
ger crushed his own pool record
The last time the Michigan by eight seconds with a blistering
and Auburn men's swimming time of 9:02.
teams were in a pool together, Jaeger also won the 500-yard
it was March, and the Wolver- freestyle with senior teammate
ines were celebrating an NCAA Sean Ryan comingin second.
championship. This time, the "I think how close the relay
two teams faced off early in the meet was yesterday motivated
season, with back-to-back meets people to come outreally strong."
over the weekend in South Bend, said senior John Wojciechowski.
Ind., when Notre Dame played Wojciechowski was a major
host to the two national powers part of the strong showing, win-
Friday at the Dennis Stark Relays, ning both the 100-yard butter-
which also included Cleveland fly and 100-yard backstroke to
State and Valparaiso. Saturday, go along with relay wins in the
the Wolverines, Fighting Irish 400-yard freestyle and 200-yard
and Tigers all stuck around to medley relays.
compete in a highly anticipated Despite swimmingmostly but-
double-dual meet. terfly last season, Wojciechowski
"(Saturday's) meet was one of has stepped up this season to fill
those meets that everyone in the a huge team need at backstroke
country is looking at," said Mich- since Miguel Ortiz graduated.
igan coach Mike Bottom. "We needed a backstroker, at
The Wolverines squeaked the beginning of the year, and
out an 190-186 victory over Wojo said,'Hey, I can do that!' "
second-place Auburn on Friday, Bottom said.
then turned around with two The Wolverines dominated
emphatic wins the next day, beat- the 200-yard individual medley,
ing Auburn, 195-103, and Notre senior Kyle Whitaker and sopho-
Dame, 201-99. more Dylan Bosch finished first
"We reallysurprised ourselves and second, respectively, before
with how well everyone was going on to win the 400-yard
swimming," said senior Connor freestyle relay.
Jaeger. "It's jist really exciting." The relay dropped nearly two
One of the most dramatic seconds off their time from Fri-
moments came Friday, when day to Saturday, which Bottom
junior Bruno Ortiz touched out credited to his team's constant
Auburn's Alex Press by 0.06 sec- drive to improve.
onds in the 400-yard freestyle "They didn't look at it like we
relay - the race that ultimately won," Bottom said. "They looked
decided the invitational. . at it like how to get better."
The defending-champion Jaeger and the Wolverines
Wolverines actually trailed will look to continue to progress
Auburn, 100-88, at the midway on Oct. 25 when they travel to
point Friday, in part because of a Bloomington to compete against
disqualification in the 400-yard Indiana and perennial power-
individual medley relay. house Texas in another early-
There were no such mistakes season challenge.
Saturday, as the Wolverines "The whole reason you have
cruised to two big wins while fin- these kind of meets is so that our
ishing first in the first six events team gets better," Bottom said,
alongthe way. "The idea that we have someone
Michigan opened the day with like Auburn and Notre Dame to
a pool record of 1:27.85 in the race gives us a chance to be in a
200-yard medley relay and did competitive situation and make
not look back. The Wolverines changes."

Lg
0

TACKLES
Player
Morgan
Boliden
Tanyloo
jUWommde
SGordon, T
Washington
Beyer
IHouma
SlI*O*g
Stribling
Countess
Hery
Gallon
Gardner
Gordon, C.
Avery
Toas

Solo
6
6
5
-4
2
4
3
2
3
2-
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
46

Asst
1
1
2

8
6
5
5
4
4
4
3
3
3
2
2
2
7
S
1
1
1
1
1
t
1
70

3. Gardner and his turnovers
scare Hoke and Borges.
Hoke can say all he wants
about trusting Gardner, but the
reality is, Hoke can't trust him.
Not when Gardner throws the
types of interceptions he did in
the first half against Penn State,
which single-handedly kept the
Nittany Lions in the game.
Michigan could've sealed the
game in the second half with a
few sustained drives, but with

0
0
1
24


P E N N S T
PASSING
Player C-A Yds
RUSHING
Zwinak 8 25
TEAM 2 -2
Robinson 1 -6
Hackenberg 6 -166

TA TE

TD int
3 2
3 2

DEPTH
From Page 1B
front of the crease to drive the
puck home for an early power-
play goal.
After he missed the exhibi-
tion loss to Waterloo (Ont)' and
season-opening win over Boston
College, Guptill brought a force-
ful presence around the net that
frustrated a porous RIT defense.
Guptill added another assist
nearly two minutes later when
the Tigers left another forward
alone near the crease. This time,
it was senior forward Derek
DeBlois who knocked in the one-
timer.

"I thought (Guptill) got off to
a great start," Berenson said. "He
was effective tonight, and that's
just his first game."
Junior forward Zach Hyman
fed both Di Giuseppe and sopho-
more forward Boo Nieves for the
third and fourth goals, respec-
tively, as Michigan closed the
period on top.
But RIT took advantage of
seven penalties by the Wolverines
in the second period, scoring four
goals in less than tenminutes.
An early whistle gave RIT
the chance to strike back when
forward Mike Colavecchia tore
through the defense single hand-
edly and poked the puck past
sophomore goaltender Steve

Racine. they scored four goals, he made
Racine faced an onslaught of some point-blank saves on guys
shots from the Tigers, laying out that were wide open, that should
time after time to turn the puck never have been wide open."
The defense, though, looked
disorganized in its own zone
"It' alduring the second period and in
other spurts during the game,
you're going the leaving RIT forwards with too
yOU e g~ng emuch time to set up.
other way" Tiger forward Ben Lynch
took advantage when he found
himself in the right place four
minutes later. A deflection off
the other way. Despite struggling the pads of Racine went into the
to corral the rebound at times, he slot where Lynch fired the puck
still finished with 42 saves. into the upper right corner to
"I thought (Racine) kept us in reenergize the crowd.
the game in the second period," "Obviously, you have to get
Berenson said. "Even though off your toes and start working

again," Di Giuseppe said. "I think
it just made us realize that the
game wasn't over. I thought they
did a great job of comingback, but
I thought we did abetter job mak-
ing sure we won that game."
Freshman forward Tyler
Motte scored his first goal of the
season with just under five min-
utes remaining to put the game
out of reach before sophomore
forward Andrew Copp added
another to make the margin of
victory seem much worse than it
actually was.
"We maybe thought it was
going to be a little easier, but it's
never easier," Berenson said. "It's
all out, or you're going the other
way.

32
"1.0
-6.0
-27

RECEIVING
Felder ~
.James
Anderson
Totals

12
0
0
13
Lg9
29
20
36
7
36

0
0
0

No.
6
6
3
2
1
23

Yds
97
67
26
24
7
305

Avg
16.2
11.2
12.0
7.0
13.3

TD
2
1
0
0
0
3


HELFAND
From Page 'lB

4

turous. One quarterback sneak
PUNTING later and the score was tied,
Plaere No Yde Avon CO
nutrworth 4 113 448 66 thrusting the game into a frenzy
Totals 4 179 44.8 66 and the Michigan football team
into a four-overtime battle to
Ple r No, Yds Avg Lg claim not only the victory, but
ones 1 25 25.0 25 also some semblance of an iden-
Uo" 1 14 lAO 1 4 tity in this timid, discordant half
Totals 2 39 19.5 25 ofaseason.
After 55 minutes and 27 sec-
TACKLES onds full of failed opportunities,
PlerI Solo Annt Tot o p ru iis
Hly 4 6 10 Michigan would have four more
Carson 2 8 10 chances. Each time, Michigan's
Jes 5 4 9 decisions or execution exposed
Olenyan 4 4 0
Wrtn 1 7 n a team unsure of its personality.
Amos 5 2 7 Each time, the Wolverines failed
Willis 4 2 6 to convert
Baubitz 1 3 4 After the 43-40 loss to Penn
narnes ' 2 1 3 State on Saturday in four over-
Wlons 2 1 3 times, Michigan has reached
Oben-Agyapong 1 2 the halfway point of the regular
Posuie 1 1 2 season. Each game peels off a
eser 1 1 2 new layer from this enigmatic
Thompon 1 1 2
ohno 1 1 2 team, yet after each game, the
Smith 1 0 1 Wolverines know precious little
Chiappialle 1 0 1 more about themselves. Is Gard-
Geea V 1 1 ner more likely to throw for 300
Total 42 48 90 yards or for three turnovers?
Will the offensive line move any-
one off the ball? Can the defense
be elite? Definitive answers con-
LIKE US ON tinue to elude.
FACEBOOK Saturday, when the ball came
down into Robinson's hands with
a minute left in regulation, the
center fell apart and the game
descended into a loud madness.
Decisions presented themselves
with remarkable speed. Here,
www.facebook.com/ teams rely on their strengths.
m ich iga n d aily What would Michigan rely on?
After six games, Michigan is,

a team without an identity. The
offense isn't sure what it is. The
line was blown off the ball for
much of the game. Even with
Gardner extending drives with
the scramble, the Wolverines
still finished with 2.8 yards per
attempt on the ground against
Penn State. Fifth-year senior
running back Fitzgerald Tous-
saint finished Saturday with 27
yards on 27 attempts, the low-
est yardage for a back with that
many carries in program history,
according to Andy Reid of Rivals.
com.
At times, the passing game has
been a force. Gardner completed
15 passes against Penn State for
240 yards and three touchdowns.
But constant turnovers make
throwing the ball a dicey propo-
sition. Gardner had three more of
those Saturday.
With about 90 seconds
remaining, Michigan had the
ball within field-goal range on
the Penn State 27-yard line after
nine straight runs chewed tp
the clock. Score a field goal here,
or geta first down, and it would
render moot any late heroics
from Robinson or Penn State
quarterback Christian Hack-
enberg. It was third-and-9 and
Michigan faced a choice: go for
the kill with a pass, or call a'run
and risk a 44-yard field goal.
The Wolverines hesitated and
sent in the wrong play. Instead of
calling a timeout, Michigan took
a delay of game penalty. Instead
of passing, Michigan called.
another run and lost another
three yards. The 44-yard field
goal became 52. Instead of risk-

ing that, Michigan called a pooch
punt, which netted 15 yards.
The problem was, the defense,
in its own way, is still looking to
define itself. It's close, but not
yet a defensive juggernaut, like
Michigan State, because the
defense is incapable of generating
big negative plays. The defense
has bailed out the team more
than once, but it is too young to
be consistently dominant.
Penn State drove 80 yards
in 29 seconds and made it look
easy. Yet Michigan still had a
chance to win before overtime.
Gardner threw 25 yards to Gal-
lon. Though Gallon stepped out
of bounds with eight seconds left,
Gardner spiked the ball, wast-
ing a second. Gardner completed
another pass for five yards. Now
seven seconds remained.
But even the coaching staff
suffered from an identity crisis
against Penn State. Through
more than two years, Michigan
coach Brady Hoke has estab-
lished a style of aggression. If
he erred, he'd doit going for a
fourth down instead of punting,
going for the win instead of the
tie. But when Michigan had the
chance to ice the game for good,
it turned to a running game that
was doomed as soon as the play
call came in.
"We had all.kinds of oppor-
tunities at every position," Hoke
said. "As coaches we had oppor-
tunities. And we all, we're in this
together, and we all have to make
sure that we're taking advantage
and executing when those oppor-
tunities come."
Each time those opportunities

came, Michigan looked timid. On
a team still searching for its core
competency, apprehension ruled
as the game hung in the balance.
Against Notre Dame two years
ago, with eight seconds remain-
ing, Hoke had opted for one more
chance to win the game. He
called a long fade to the end zone.
Roy Roundtree caught the pass
with two ticks left.
Now, with seven seconds
remaining, Hoke called for a
52-yard field goal. Fifth-year
senior kicker Brendan Gibbons's
try was true, but short.
In overtime, the Wolverines
had to choose again: would they
risk the pass or play for the field
goal with the ineffective rushing
game? Offensive coordinator Al
Borges called nine runs com-
pared to five passes in the four
overtime periods. Bad luck, too,
plagued the team: Michigan had
a 40-yard field goal blocked, and
Gibbons - usually automatic -
missed a 33-yard field goal to the
left.
Yet the Wolverines never
threatened the end zone. In the
third overtime, Frank Clark
jumped on a Penn State fumble.
Michigan just needed points, any
points, to win and stay unbeaten.
Yet on third-and- 1 before the
missed 33-yard attempt, the
offense couldn't pick upa yard
with a Toussaint rush up the
middle.
Penn State won the game with
an authoritative decision. Faced
with fourth-and-l, needing a
field goal to tie, Penn State coach
Bill O'Brien didn't waver.
"I felt like it was time for

somebody to win the game,"
O'Brien said. "We could sit here
and trade field goals all day. I
think eventually it was time for
somebody to win the game, and
I had the opportunityto do it. I
felt like it was time to go for the
win."
The Nittany Lions converted,
and four plays later, they found
the end zone. The players
swarmed victorious running
back Bill Belton in the corner of
the field. Nearby, Gibbons walked
past the celebration alone, hel-
met in hand. He inhaled and let
out an animated breath.
For awhile, Gardner didn't
move. He looked up, hand on his
chin, no expression on his face.
"It hurts," Gardner said after
the game.
"Lose in overtime, if you let it
take a toll, it will," Hoke said.
And now Michigan stares at a
crossroad.
The conference is weak
enough that every team left on
the schedule is beatable, even
Ohio State. Yet there are no easy
games from here on out, begin-
ning was a pesky Indiana team
next week.
For a5-1 team, Michigan
teeters close to the edge. It had
hoped to come into this atmo-
sphere and forge an identity from
a messy but victorious string
of early games. Instead, what
emerged from the white sea of
Beaver Stadium is a team as con-
fused as ever.
-Helfand can be reached
at zhelfand@umich edu or
on Twitter @zhelfand

/


4B -October 16, 2013

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Redemption at State College Back to basics

By JUSTIN MEYER
Daily Sports Writer
On a rainy Sunday in State
College, the No. 19 Michigan
women's soccer team erased a
heartbreaking 2012 tournament
loss, a 12-game winless streak
at Penn State and 11 years of his-
tory when '
senior for- MICHIGAN 1
ward Nkem PENN STATE 0
Ezurike
crossed the ball to senior mid-
fielder Tori McCombs.
McCombs fended off a defend-
er in front of the net to corral
the ball and sent a shot past the
keeper. The goal earned the Wol-
verines (4-1-1BigTen,10-2-1over-
all) a 1-0'win against No. 11 Penn
State and their first-ever victory
in Happy Valley.
The game also marked the
women's soccer program's first
win over Penn State (4-2-0, 10-3-
0) in 11 years, though Michigan
settled for several draws recently,
including a loss in penalties at last
year's Big Ten Tournament.
"I think we all knew we
were going to put one of them
in," McCombs said. "The way
we were beating their outside
defenders, and the way Nkem
and (freshman) Madi Lewis and
(sophomore) Corrine Harris were
going to the goal, we just knew."
Michigan coach Greg Ryan
said the way to beat Penn State
has always been to counterat-
tack because of its offensive skill
and aggressiveness. The Nit-
tany Lions have won the Big.Ten
charmpionship for 15 consecutive
years with this brand of reckless
offense, often sending eight play-
ers forward.
"Penn State was already frus-
trated with us, because last year
they tied us twice," Ryan said.
"They had made statements in
the press like, 'We need to come
out and make a statement against
Michigan.' They wanted to put
five or six goals up on us. It opens
up opportunities for you to score,
but you've got to withstand the
pressure of so many people com-

By LIZ VUKELICH
Daily Sports Editor
It's pretty evident that the
Michigan football team has
relied more on the ground game
since redshirt junior quarter-
back Devin Gardner has shown
his turnover N
problem with
his arm.
So, that means it's time to give
the majority of carries to... Gard-
ner?
Against Penn State last week-
end, Gardner took on the role as
lead rusher.
Fifth-year senior running
back Fitzgerald Toussaint ran
for a measly 27 yards on 27 car-
ries, as opposed to Gardner's 121
yards.
"I don't like it, but you do what
you have to do to win the game,"
said offensive coordinator Al
Borges. "End of discussion. If
nobody's getting any yards, then
you've got a problem."
Michigan coach Brady Hoke
denied that Gardner running the
ball had anything to do with the
fear of interceptions - rather, he
wanted to force Penn State to use
up all of its timeouts.
Hoke made sure to reiterate
gthe point Gardner is not kept on
a shortleash because of his arm.
. But after Gardner had 24 car-
ries against the Nittany Lions,
there are discussions about how
realistically sustainable that is,
especially given the concerns
that running could put him in
a position where he could get
injured.
"I don't think it's wise to have
Devin take more hits," Hoke
said. "Who's going to play quar-
terback ithe takes all those hits?"
When freshman Shane Mor-
ris's name was offered as a pos-
sible replacement for Gardner
should he become injured, Hoke
immediately brushed it off and
became defensive.
"You have to be conscious
enough about the team," he said.
"And (Gardner's) had 10 starts,
right? 10 starts. He has improved

every week."
STRIBLING SPECULATIONS:
In a game like the one against
Penn State, it's easy to wonder
if the Wolverines might still be
undefeated entering the midway
point of their season had things
been done differently.
But had freshman defen-
sive back Channing Stribling
jumped about half an inch high-
er, it's extremely likely the game
wouldn't have been thrust into
four overtimes.
Stribling was a fingertip away
from breaking up a 36-yard pass
from Penn State quarterback
Christian Hackenberg to wide
receiver Allen Robinson dur-
ing the Nittany Lions' drive to
tie the game with 27 seconds
remaining.
Stribling is a name that has
repeatedly come up when dis-
cussing Michigan's secondary.
In spite of the miscue Sat-
urday, defensive coordinator
Greg Mattison said he's usually
impressed with Stribling in prac-
tice Stribling is usually the one
breaking up passes and making
big plays during practice. Hoke
agreed.
"He's come on," Hoke said. "If
there's anybody I would want
back there, I'll be real honest,
in the secondary to make the
interception, it would be Strib.
We wanted to get him in the
game because of exactly what we
asked him to do."
RYAN REPORT OVER: Satur-
day officially ended any guesses
about when redshirt junior Jake
Ryan would make his season
debut after tearing his anterior
cruciate ligament last spring. '
Ryan dressed, took to the
field and made his presence felt
almost immediately after he
stuffed a Penn State 4th-and-1
near the beginning of the first
quarter.
"I don't think there were any
ill effects," Hoke said. "I think he
ended up playing 31 or 32 plays. It
was great to have him out there.
I think he brings something to
our team."

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Senior midfielder Tori McCombs had Michitun's winning goal against Pent State, is first ever win in Happy Valley.

ing at you." were getting layups in the first
Sunday, though, Penn State's half."
offense wasn't enough as the Wol- McCombs said the goal, her
verines' back line, and freshman first of the season, was the cul-
goaltender Taylor Bucklin, held mination of the effort this Michi-
the Nittany gan team has
Lions scoreless, put in against
withstanding21 Penn State
shots and seven "It was a whole since she was
corners. a freshman.
Michigan's team effort After they
counterattack, took the lead,
on the other behind the ball." however, the
hand, began Wolverines
producing needed a her-
chances early; culean effort
the Wolverines nearly connected to keep the Nittany Lions off the
on a ball from Madisson Lewis to scoreboard.
Ezurike in the 26th minute. The "Taylor has just been so steady
game continued to open up in the and so mature for a freshman
second half, with Ezurike missing goalkeeper," Ryan said. "The
just wide from point-blank range defense played great in front of
in the 51st minute. her. They were limiting Penn
"My No. t message was hang State to shots under a lot of pres-
tight early on," Ryan said. "We sure."

Added McCombs: "I think at
one point even Nkem was play-
ing defense for us. It was a whole
team effort behind the ball."
Bucklin, who made seven saves
in Sunday's contest, now owns
five career shutouts in her first
season for Michigan and was
named Big Ten Defensive Player
of the Week and Freshman Player
of the Week after the game.
The preparation for Bucklin
starts hours before game time
when she says she visualizes her-
self making the big saves to get
herself in the right state of mind
for warm-ups. The Wolverines'
coaching staff is thrilled with the
technique because their fresh-
man goalkeeper has become one
of the best in the Big Ten with a
.53 goals- against average.
Ryan said that every game in
the Big Ten will be a challenge,
but that his team can beat anyone.

THE MICHIGAN DAILY TOP-10 POLL
Each week, Daily sports staffers fill out ballots, with first place votes receiving 10 points, second-place votes receiving nine, and so on.
1. ALABAMA (15): On 2. OREGON (2): Its 3. CLEMSON : Boyd, did 4. OHIO STATE: During 5. TEXAS A&M: Johnny
a basketball court, cheerleaders wore . Tajh have a subpar day. the bye, the Buckeyes j Manziel seemed to hurt
Kentucky might have custom contact lenses on avoided being associated A I his knee on Saturday.
actuallyhad a chance to Saturday. This is gettinga with the BigTen for a day. People talked about it.
win, bit ridiculous.
6. LOUISVILLE: STILL 7. FLORIDA STATE: The 8. LSU: Les Miles is 9. MIAMI (FL): Abooster 10. SOUTH CAROLINA:
undefeated. Still, no one Seminoles remain jealous legitimately a crazy may or may not have Clowney's return to 'D'
cares. of all the attention the J person. paid us to include the forced Arkansas to pull
Redskins continue to get. LHurricanes in this. out early in this one-sided

4'

No. 2 Oregon'(-atusWasisgton
No.i3Clemson (-24.5s. iBostontuCoge
No.5Stanford (-9)aUtah
No. 7Georgia(-8) vs. No. 25Missouri
No. 8Loisille(09) vs. Rutges
No. 9 Titus A&M (-6.5) at Mississippi
No. 10 LSU (-t) vs. No. 17 Florida
No. 11UCLA (-25) vs. Cal
No. 12 Oklhma (-4) at Texs
No.14 SouthCaooinoa (-6) at Akansas
No. 15iBaylor-0t) at Knsas tate
No.b16Washington State0) s Oregon State
No. 18 Michigan (-3) at Penn State
No.l19 Nothwestern (+10)at Wisconsin
Not. 20 Texas Tech 05) vs. Ioa Stae
No. 23Notheirn inis (-2.5) s. Akron
No. 24 VigtnitTech (-9)vs. Pitt
MihigaSitate(00) vs. Indiana
Purdue (+14) vs. Nebraska
This Week
Overal

BostonCollege
Stanford
Georgia
Louisville
Texas A&M
LSU
Cal
Oklahoma
South Carolna
Baylor
Oregon State
Michigan
Northwestern
Texas Tech
Northern Illinois
VirginiaTech
Michigan State
Nebraska
9-11
90-70

tr essee
Stinf ord
Georia
Louisville
Texas A&M
LSU
UCLA
Oklahoma
Arkansas
Baylor
Oregon State
Nsorthwestern
Texas Tech
Northern inois
Pittsburgh
Indiana
Nebraska
7-s
81-79

washington
BostontCollege
Stasfrd
Missuri
Louisville
Missisippi
LSU
UCLA
Texas
South Carolina
Baylor
Washington State
Michitan
Northwestern
Texas Tech
Northern Illinois
Pittsburgh
indiana
Nebraska
9-11
101-59

Oregon
Clemson
Stanford
Georgia
Louisville
Texas A&M
LSU
UCLA
Oklahoma
South Carolina
Baylor
Oregon State
Northwestern
TexassTech
NorthernnIllinois
Pittsburgh
Michigan State
Nebraska
-1
87-73

Misourt
Rutgers
Tixas A&M
LSU
UCLA
Oklahoma
SouthtCaroinsa
Baylor
Oregon State
Michigan
Nothwestern
Iowa State
Northern Illinois
Virginia Tech
Indiana
Nebraska
11-9

0

1 1 I I

1

1

it

0


v

.1- 1 ,--I - - -- -- -* - i4- -

$C

0
0
w
z
a)
m



:: ..

4.

-W

Wednesday, October 7C

Dear Unnamed Woman with Child

online comments
Personal Statement: Papa
By Alicia Adamczyk
"How powerful God bless you."

ssae1/9s13 science of it all: dancing with molly bYpaigepearcy

- USER: 82Grad

C'

"So a black homecoming is ok. But not a whitec
about no. White discrimination exists. You wantt
white people from social programs. then don't be
when we do the same."

Personal Statement: 3 a.m., welcome week.
By Jon Horford
"This is an incredible statement. A commentsr
requires a lot of thought and reflection, but to bes
those feelings into such a lucid and descriptive na
truly something special. Thanks for sharing, Jon.
to make a point to talk to you more in class."
- USER: Elliot Huckleberr

Unless you've been living under
one. How a rock for the past month, you've
to cut out heard Miley Cyrus' hit song "We
offended Can't Stop," and - by the transi-
tive property - if you've heard
USER: Teme said song, then you've also heard
the infamous line: "... dancing with
molly."
ts, I think we mly"
occasionally Cyrus isn't singing about danc-
rday. Al thev ng with the American Girl doll or
ratgitemiewho actress Molly Ringwald of "Sixteen
,specially here Candles" and Brat Pack fame. No,
,you-should she is, of course, singing about the
illegal amphetamine drug known
R: Erica Nagy on the streets as Molly, or in its
purer forms, as MDMA or Ecstasy.
Over the past two months, Molly
was cited for causing multiple
deaths, bringing the party drug
into the mainstream news. Olivia
y such as this Rotondo, a 20-year-old University
able to tailor of New Hampshire student, died
irrative is at the Electric Zoo music festival
I'll have to try in New York after uttering, "I just
took six hits of Molly," accordingto
The Daily Mail, causingthe festival
y Wills Begle to cancel its final day. The major
chemical used to make MDMA
comes from sassafras trees, the
same plant that gives us the harm-
less American classic - root beer.
However, Molly cannot be given
the same "harmless" moniker.
ragng Editor. Molly is a happy drug, a drug
iA~tthew Siovin that causes the user feelings of
euphoria. It does this through
y Editor:caltering brain chemistry and

increasingthe amount of serotonin
present to interact with serotonin
receptors.
Neurotransmitters are released
from neurons and cause cascad-
ing effects throughout the body,
resulting in symptoms like muscle
contraction or hormone releases.
When a neurotransmitter, like
serotonin, is released from a neu-
ron, it exists in the space between
the releasing neuron and the
receiving neuron as it searches
for the receptors that will allow
it to cause a specific effect. After
interacting with the receptors, it is
removed to avoid an overwhelming
and exaggerated response. Trans-
porters work to collect the neu-
rotransmitter and move it back into
the releasing neuron, eliminating it
from the space where it could cause
a cascade.
MDMA, Molly, Ecstasy - what-
ever you want to call it - binds to
the transporters so serotonin inter-
acts with receptors for a relatively
long time, causing an unnatural
response. Because serotonin influ-
ences some emotional pathways -
such as those controlling empathy
and happiness - users experience
a heightened sense of euphoria,
among other effects. But Molly
N0-T tHis
K

"OT -TM s
I'AOIL(A
can change the brain chemistry
to a point that can make it impos-
sible to return to a normal level of
happiness through sensitization of
the receptors - when the recep-
tors no longer cause their expected
response due to repeated and long-
term exposure to serotonin - mak-
ing the drug highly addictive.
This can cause more issues,
since unnatural amounts of a brain
chemical isn'tgoing to be harmless.
Serotonion syndrome can result
from having too much serotonin
activity, and taking too much
Molly, as reported in the news late-
ly, can be fatal. Because the neu-
rotransmitter is involved in many
different physiological pathways,
when it causes problems in those
pathways the body can lose control.
Unfortunately the symptoms -
such as kidney failure, high blood
pressure and seizures - can have
a quick onset, making it difficult if
the situation is life threatening to
have adequate medical treatment.
The practice of cutting drugs
with other drugs also makes Molly
risky. MDMA is frequently cut
with another stimulant, methylone,
and sold also as Molly. Mixing
drugs compounds the likelihood
of detrimental effects. Though
Miley makes Molly sound harm-
less, perhaps Miley will be dancing
with a hospital stay instead of those
apathetic looking teddy bears next
time she parties with Molly.

I
G7
z
Z1
m
m:
m1
a
D
I

Dear Unnamed Woman with child,
(I am still painting you!)
When I was younger I found it difficult
to understand that my artwork could not
be seamlessly translated from my mind
onto the piece of paper or canvas that was
before me. I had trouble accepting that
something always got lost in translation.
Poetry and writing were no less risky;
even if I did manage to put my thoughts on
to the page in the right way, the meaning
of my work would inevitably vary from
reader to reader. I cannot forget the
frustration I felt one day in eighth grade
when, after readinga poem out loud to my
English class, a classmate raised his hand
and said, "Yeah ... what was that about?"
Nowadays, I find myself with an even
greater challenge: explaining a piece of art
that I myself have not fully given meaning
to.
It is a simple acrylic painting no bigger
than two and a half feet in length and
two feet in width. It sits high up on our
mantel in the dining room, half-finished
as it has been for two years now. It began
on a long weekend when I was 15.I had
been sorting through a vast collection
of National Geographic magazines in

our bookshelves when I came across an
article called "A Life Revealed." There
she was. A woman named Sharbat Gula
who had been photographed in 1985 in a
Pakistan refugee camp. The cover photo
that captured her haunting green eyes is
iconic. But the issue I picked up was more
recent: it was from 2002, the photographer
had gone back and photographed her 17
years later. The photos I saw of her were
startling, she looked as though she had
seen things well beyond her years. She
was still as sinister and striking as she had
been in her first photo but she had lost her
innocence. Ihad to paint her.
The painting that now sits in my dining
room has elicited many responses from
guests. Many don't understand it. Others
are startled by its religiosity. When they
look to me for an explanation, I can only
throw up my hands and tell them to make
what they will of it. It is the face of Sharbat
Gula, only she has a golden crown and she
is holding a child dressed in white. They
have halos surrounding them.
When I describe it now it sounds
undoubtedly religious, though I had
never intended for it to be such a strong
statement. I had only meant to paint her
face. The addition of the religious element

was an afterthought. It was simply meant translation of our art is not altogether a
to be a sort of what i? I saw her eyes on bad thing. Perhaps we should encourage
that cover, and I felt as though I was seeing ourselves to risk losing some of our
something divine, something that ought to artistic meaning in the act of translation.
be honored. She was so entrancing, yet so Because when we subject our art to
startling. That was all. It was not meant to different interpretations, we walk away
be any more or any less. with a richer understanding of our own
meaning. We are forced to ask ourselves
But after having to explain my intentions what we really mean. In doing so, we gain
to dozens of bewildered guests, I realized perspective in a way that could never be
that I was entirely aware of what I was achieved on our own.
making. I had made the painting with the
intention of questioning. This was a divine Translating meaning into art is a
woman, she had children when they went difficult and frustrating task. We must
back to visit her'- she was angelic but be willing to part with some parts of
not benevolent. She was what I imagined our vision. We must know that not all
Mary to be like - tough, wary, worn and of it-will be properly translated. But,
hypnotizing. Christian or not, she was we must also know that not all of our
divine. meaning can be entirely envisioned in
the beginning. Art is a living, breathing,
We can never be sure that each viewer evolving thing that we must be willing to
will arrive at the same conclusion as we open up to the world. We must be willing
do when we create artwork. It is an act to wait for it to come back to us, knowing
of courage and faith, it is like sending that once it does, the translation of
someone on a path to a destination without it will be all the more beautiful and
a map and hoping they notice the same comprehensive.
things along the way, hoping they feel the
same way upon arriving at that destination Sincerely,
- without any certainty that they will
make it there at all. Phoebe Young
But perhaps this risk of losing meaning in Phoebe Young is an LSA freshman.


4

4

a


6C. Wednesday, Otober 16, 2013 // The Statement

Invisible Women
by Alicia Adamczyk

statement on the street: How do you recharge during midterms?
Son the record

bile visiting a women's prison in
1989 to produce a video for the
inmates and their children, Art
& Design Prof. Carol Jacobsen was struck by
what she saw - or rather, what she didn't see.
The women in the prison - many serving
life sentences - weren't violent, career crimi-
nals or drug-addicts as popular culture would
have Jacobsen believe. Rather, they were
often victims themselves, mistreated by the
society that had sent them away.
Following that visit in 1989, Jacobsen cre-
ated the Michigan Women's Justice & Clem-
ency Project, an organization that works to
free womenin prison convicted ofmurder but
who acted in self-defense against an abuser.
In 2000, according to statistics from the
United States Justice Department, 25 percent
of women said they were raped and/or physi-
cally assaulted by a current or former spouse,
cohabiting partner or date at some point in
their lifetime. That's one in four - which
equates to roughly 3,222 female undergradu-
ates out of the 12,889 enrolled at the Univer-
sity duringFall 2012.
Broken bones and bruised skin are, unfor-
tunately, not the end of the story. Women
.tj disproportionately affected by domestic
abuse, accounting for 85 percent of the vic-
tims of intimate partner violence. The aver-
age prison sentence for men who kill their
intimate partners is two to six years; for the
women who kill their partners, the average
sentence is 15 years. Approximately 90 per-
cent of women in prisons in the United States
have been victims of domestic or intimate
partner violence.
For the Michigan Women's Justice &
Clemency Project, and Jacobsen, these are
statistics in need of change.
"I discovered who the so-called 'murder-
ers' are in our U.S. women's prisons," Jacob-
sen said of her first visit to the prison. "Most
(women) acted for their own survival, and I
was shocked and hooked for good."
Jacobsen began working with Lynn
D'Orio, an Ann Arbor-based criminal and
family attorney, in 1994 and the two began
visiting women in prison and writing clem-
ency petitions to free some of them.
So far, they, and a slew of rotating volun-
teers and interns, have helped secure the
freedom of nine women who would other-
vise have served life sentences. In the first
week of October this year, they sent 10 peti-
tions to Gov. Rick Snyder to help women in
similar situations.
- Writing a petition to the government can
take months. Jacobsen and her team meet

with women whose cases have a chance to be
petitioned, or those that offer clear evidence
of domestic abuse and that the abuse played
a factor in the crime. They then collect medi-
cal and court records, previous petitions and
even letters from family members, attesting
to the character of the women.
Victoria Adams, a graduate student in the
School of Public Health, interned for the proj-
ect over the summer to gain experience in
legal advocacy for victims of sexual assault.
She helped Jacobsen research and interview
the 10 women whose petitions were sent to
Lansing.
Beyond the resiliency of the women she
met, Adams said the most surprising aspects
of working with the project were the incon-

and Awareness Center, said while there's no
definitive answer to the question, a lack of
resources and support is almost certainly at
the heart of the issue.
"For women who have killed their part-.
ners, because they're in imminent threat of
their lives, that is so many times the resort
that they came to because there were no other
options, because the 'system failed them,"
Rider-Milkovich said.
Fortunately, the system has improved.
Over the last 40years, Michigan state law has
attempted to address domestic abuse in sup-
portive and responsive ways. This includes
the creation of shelters as well as the pass-
ing of various laws - including legalizingthe
use of deadly force to protect oneself from an

"It's sexism. Plain and
simple. Women aren't
supposed to be violent, but
there are violent women."
- Attorney Lynn D'Orio
Michigan Women's Justice and Clemancy Project

in the state Sentencing Guidelines that would
allow previous domestic abuse to be taken
into consideration to help mitigate the pun-
ishment.
"They look for all the bad marks and
don't look for anything that might explain
it," D'Orio said of the current guidelines.
"Self-defense law needs to be changed or
additional instructions should be given to
juries."
Rider-Milkovich recommends a pre-
ferred-arrest policy in place of the current
mandatory arrest policy. Under the current
policy, the abuser or the victim of abuse
can be arrested, and often police will arrest
both parties if it is not absolutely clear who
is at fault.
A preferred-arrest policy would fix this
problem, according to professionals like
Rider-Milkovich, because police would have
more discretion on who to arrest, if anyone.
As Rider-Milkovich explained, the abuser
in the vast majority of domestic abuse situa-
tions is the male partner.
She also recommends the implementa-
tion of more women's shelters and courses
in prison.
While she agrees that the state law has
made significant strides in recent years,
Rider-Milkovich said there are still many
women in prison for crimes committed
before the legal system caught up.
"We can feel really good about the prog-
ress we've made as a society and it's easy to
forget those women who were left behind in
the system ... because they're in prison and.
they're away from our minds and away from
our sight," Rider-Milkovich said. "Itends up
impacting women who are invisible to us as
a society."
For now, the futures of the 10 women
Jacobsen submitted petitions for are all but
certain.
"We are grateful that Governor (Jenni-
fer) Granholm granted as many clemencies
as she did, and angry that they were so few,
so politically safe and so racially unfair,"
Jacobsen said. "We hope that Governor Sny-
der will support clemency for more women
who did not receive fair trials based on the
facts of their cases."
Granholm could not be reached for com-
ment.
D'Orio is hopeful that the Snyder admin-
istration will offer more support for the
project than previous administrations,
though she admits she has no idea how.the
scene will play out.
"We're showing the governor a person-
alized story and saying 'This person's life
should be spared,' " she said. "That's a lot of
work."

"I go on YouTube and I'll
watch videos ... Jenna
Marbles, and whatever is
popular at the moment. Or
I'll go on Instagram."
Jackie Wold,
LSA freshman

"I'm in an a capella group,
and singing those songs
really help me. 'I Love It,'
that is pretty perfect for
midterms for me."
Shan He,
Engineering junior

"I play the piano, so I
like to go in the Union
or anywhere I can find a
piano just to calm
me down."
Jehan Jawad,
LSA junior

"Lose in overtime, if you let it take a toll, it will."
- BRADY HOKE, Michigan football coach, about Saturday's
43-40 overtime loss to Penn State.
"Even if I were equipped with Mother Teresa's bravery
and Virginia Woolf's eloquence, I'd still be hesitant
to assert my feminist ideals in response to a friend's
demeaning language."
- JAKE OFFENHARTZ, Daily opinion columnist, on being a male
and a self-identifyingfeminist.
"Michigan has this huge appeal of diversity - or that's
the way that they market themselves. But when you get
here it's completely different."
- CHLOE BROWN, LSA senior and co-founder of We Are
Michigan, a student organization focused
minority enrollment.

pm~

The two-year-old son
of Minnesota Vikings
running back Adrian
Peterson died this
weekend from severe
injuries, according to
ESPN. Peterson and
the toddler's mother
were separated, and
the mother's boyfriend
allegedly abused the
toddler, causingthe
injuries.

The government pushes their debt ceilling
drama closer to a Thursday deadline when
the Treasury hits a borrowing limit. What's
at stake? Only economic catastrophe and the.
first-ever default.
pM.o

T

I


sistencies and unfairness she encountered in
the legal system. The discrepancies in convic-
tion rates served as a wake-up call.
"I think a lot of times (the judges) see
themselves in the men who are involved in
the crime, or just the men in general," she
said. "I think knowing (the victim) might be
what leads them to much higher conviction
in women, and much more leniency in men."
D'Orio, who acts as the legal director for
the project, explained the discrepancy more
bluntly.
"It's sexism. Plain and simple," D'Orio said.
"Women aren't supposed to be violent, but
there are violent women."
But what would drive a woman to kill her
partner? Holly Rider-Milkovich, the director
of the University's Sexual Assault Prevention

attempted sexual assault and banning mari-
tal rape - and better education for police offi-
cers, judges and legislators on how to handle
a domestic-abuse situation.
Rider-Milkovich said the number of
women imprisoned for killing their abusers
has decreased dramatically during the same
period, with women escaping an abusive rela-
tionship in non-violent ways.
But according to the project, there is much
more to be done. Jacobsen and D'Orio believe,
the state should provide more resources to
domestic abuse victims, as well as women in
prison. They also recommend Michigan insti-
tute a Habeas law like one on the books in
California which would allow abused women
to apply for special clemency.
D'Orio specifically advocates for a change

J

Though she didn't
receive the Nobel Peace
Prize, 16-year-old
Malala Yosisafzai's
story definitely inspires.
Malala, who is from
Pakistan, was shot in
the head by the Taliban
last October when she
defied orders that girls
could not attend school.
She lived, and continues
speakingout in support
of global education.
"'"'"""O

I

An 18-foot-long oarfish was found by a marine
science instructor off the coast of Southern
California this weekend. According to CBS
News, oarfish live at depths of more than
3,000 feet, making them difficult to study. The
fish was already dead when discovered.

F

m


A
A

m
ci
tT>
cn
L
lU
C)
c
i
iI
f
i
l 4
{
1 i1
1/
.1)
1 S'+
}
(i?
}

I

II


