I E Itt4t C n ,' atIV

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Friday, April 4, 2014

michigandaily.com

AND WE DANCED

Coleman says
'U' backs worker
safety accords

Outrage Dance performs at the upstART festival Thursday at the Power Center.
CAMPUS IFE
SpringFest to inclue
several -musical acts

University will
call on licensees to
sign agreement on
working conditions
By MAX RADWIN
DailyStaff Reporter
A day after a handful of pro-
testers convened in the Flem-
ing Administration Building to
protest the University's con-
tracts with apparel suppliers,
University President Mary Sue
Coleman announced a new set
of guidelines designed to ensure
worker safety in Bangladesh - a
major textile producing coun-
try.
Coleman stated Tuesday that
all University licensees - com-
panies that produce products
using the University's branding
- must adhere to the Accord on
Fire and Building Safety or pres-
ent their own guidelines that
are of an equivalent rigor. The
accord is an agreement between
the nation's trade unions and
factory managers designed to
improve safety at manufactur-
ing facilities.
Over the past several years,

the University's chapter of Unit-
ed Students Against Sweatshops
has been working to increase
the awareness of working condi-
tions in B angladesh's factories.
The student organization has
hosted "die-in" protests on the
Diag, talks by Bangladeshi and
Indonesian sweatshop workers
and led a "naked" protest Mon-
day to raise awareness of the
conditions of worker unions and
garment factories both locally
and overseas.
In the fall, Coleman referred
the issue to the President's
Advisory Committee on Labor
Standards and Human Rights,
which advises the University
about its policies regarding the
companies that manufacture
all items with the University's
emblems. The committee that
recommended that "the Uni-
versity of Michigan reiterate
to ALL its licensees the impor-
tance of honoring its code of
conduct including the guaran-
tee of health and safety of work-
ers."
"When (companies) produce
their apparel, they don't really
look out for their workers' rights
there at all," said Public Poli-
cy junior Maya Menlo, USAS
Worker Rights Consortium

Board representative and mem-
ber of the President's Advisory
Committee on Labor Standards
and Human Rights, "It's some-
thing that we try to mobilize
students around because we
don't want, for instance, a U of
M T-shirt being produced in a
factory that's about to collapse.
We don't want blood on our
hands. And more than that, we
care about the equality of work-
ers in general."
The poor and unsafe working
conditions in many of Bangla-
desh's factories came to interna-
tional attention last April when
an eight-story facility collapsed
and killed more than 1,000
workers.
In a release Thursday, Cole-
man lauded organizers for
thoughtful consideration of the
issue.
"We expect that all licens-
ees provide workers a safe and
healthy working environment
regardless of what country
they are working in to produce
goods," Coleman said. "I am
impressed by USAS's commit-
ment to the wellbeing of the
workers in Bangladesh."
The release also noted that
the University joins nine other
See APPAREL, Page 3

MUSIC Matters
announces official
plans for annual event
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
The Windy City keeps blow-
ing musical acts into Ann Arbor.
First, Chance the Rapper per-
formed in Hill Auditorium
March 22. Now, another up-and-

coming Chicagoan rapper will
make an appearance for MUSIC
Matters' end-of-year celebration,
SpringFest: Vic Mensa.
Mensa will open for 2 Chainz,
who MUSIC Matters announced
last week would headline their
capstone concert.
Engineering senior Shankara
Bharadwaj, MUSIC Matters'
talent and concert chair, said
signing Mensa as a SpringFest
performer was a reflection of the
artist's increasing popularity -

following a "huge" set at Austin's
10-day South by Southwest festi-
val, among others.
"With 2Chainz, we identified
that we wanted someone who
was at the peak of his career right
now," Bharadwaj said. "When we
were sitting down and talking
about opening acts, we wanted
to bring in an act that was on the
rise in the hip-hop world. And
Vic really fits that bill."
LSA senior Gianna Marx, the
See SPRINGFEST, Page 3


GOVERNMENT
Schauer picks
Oakland official
as running mate

County Clerk Lisa
Brown advocates for
women's, LBGTQ
rights in the state
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily StaffReporter
With November's gubernato-
rial election a few months away,
Republican Gov. Rick Snyder's
Democratic opponent Mark
Schauer has officially selected
a running mate.
Schauer, a former congress-
man from Battle Creek Mich.,
chose Oakland County Clerk
Lisa Brown to join his ticket as
the Democratic candidate for
lieutenant governor. Though
she had been the speculated
choice for several weeks, Schau-
er held three separate press
conferences in Southfield, Flint
and Grand Rapids Thursday to
officially announce his pick.
"Lisa shares my values and
priorities for making education
our top economic priority, and
working to make Michigan's
economy fairer for the middle
class," Schauer wrote in a press
release. "Make no mistake, Lisa
Brown will make a terrific Lt.
Governor."
Brown was elected as the
Oakland County Clerk/Regis-
ter of Deeds this past Novem-
ber. Prior to that, she served as
a state representative for Mich-
igan's 39th district from 2009
to 2012.
Brown was born in Detroit

and attended Andover High
School in Bloomfield Hills,
Mich. She earned a bachelor's
degree from Michigan State
University and a J.D. from the
Detroit College of Law.
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor), who served with Brown
during her time in the House,
said her affability is an impor-
tant asset for the campaign.
"I've seen her smart savvy
wit, her dynamic personality- I
like her a lot, personally," Irwin
said.
Brown is perhaps best known
for her June 2012 remarks on
the state House floor when
she was silenced by the state
Republican House leadership
for using the word "vagina." In
a speech denouncing legisla-
tion that would place additional
restrictions on abortion pro-
viders, she said, "Mr. Speaker,
I'm flattered that you're all so
interested in my vagina, but 'no'
means'no.'
Brown garnered national
media attention from the inci-
dent and received praise from a
host of pro-choice and women's
rights advocates.
She was also one of four
county clerks who granted
marriage licenses to same-sex
couples after a federal judge
overturned Michigan's con-
stitutional same-sex marriage
ban, despite the threat of a stay
on the ruling from Michigan
Attorney General Bill Schuette.
State Rep. Adam Zemke (D-
Ann Arbor) said, throughout
her career, Brown has fought
See BROWN, Page 3

JAMES COLLER/Daily
NASA researcher Al Globus discusses possible future of orbital space settlements Thursday at Chesebrough Audi-
torium. The discussion was part of a speaker series by the Students for the Exploration and Development of Space
club.
NASA researcher explores
idea of space colonization

New minor
will look at
law, justice
relationship
Sociology-based
program provides
new options
for students
By BRIE WINNEGA
Daily Staff Reporter
Combining interests in law and
social justice just got easier.
Beginning in Fall 2014, the
University's Department of Soci-
ology will offer students the
opportunity to pursue a minor in
Law, Justice and Social Change.
The new minor will give stu-
dents a way to explore the rela-
tionship between law and society,
as well as the ways in which
society is affected by the inter-
actions between institutions and
social groups. Requirements for
the minor include a prerequisite
introductory course and the com-
pletion of 15 credits from a combi-
nation of other available courses.
However, those barred from
pursuing the Law, Justice and
Social Change minor include soci-
ology majors with a subplan in
Law, Justice and Social Change,
Crime and Justice minors and
Community Action and Social
Change minors.
Sociology Prof. Sandra Lev-
itsky, who teaches two of the
minor's main courses, said she
was surprised when multiple
students expressed an interest
in both her Law and Society and
Social Movements courses.
"When I first started teaching
these courses I expected to see
See MINOR, Page 3

Discussion looks
at feasability of the
futuristic endeavor
By AMABEL KAROUB
Daily StaffReporter
Space: the final frontier?
Well, that's what Al Globus, a
NSA researcher, thinks, any-
way.
Globus is a strong advocate
of space colonization. At a lec-
ture Thursday night hosted by
Students for the Exploration
and Development of Space,
he told students why living
in space is the next step for
humanity.
At the beginning of the lec-
ture, Globus pulled up space
residence designs from the
1970s. The plans looked like
they were taken directly from
the science-fiction film "Ely-
sium" - fully equipped with

mansions and a peaceful river.
Globus said, technology wise,
such proposals are not ridicu-
lous, but amatter of cost.
"This is the place to live,"
Globus said, referring to the
renderings. "There's a baseball
field and a golf course!"
Globus gave three main
reasons why space settlement
would be worth the high cost:
survival, growth and wealth.
In terms of survival, Globus
said it is only a matter of time
until an asteroid or some other
fatal event wipes out humans
on Earth.
"Someday, something really
bad is going to happen to the
Earth and we're all going to
die," Globus said. "Before then,
we'd like to have space settle-
ments so that not all of human-
ity is exterminated."
Discussing the possibility
for growth, Globus referenced
how the land on Earth is virtu-
ally all owned by someone, but

the area available for orbital
settlements is practically lim-
itless.
"Somewhere between 100
and 1,000 times the surface
area of the Earth - that's how
much living area you'd get,"
Globus said. "The solar system
could easily support trillions of
people this way."
As for power and wealth,
Globus said there were great
possibilities to generate energy
and materials. In space, solar
energy is equal to 625 million
times the amount available
on Earth. Thousands of small
asteroids in our solar system,
contain materials worth tens
of millions of dollars each, Glo-
bus said.
Having articulated the rea-
sons space colonization should
be a priority, Globus proposed
funding opportunities that
would also advance technol-
ogy, tourism, solar power and
See SPACE, Page 3


WEATHER HiH 48
TOMORROW LO: 23

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mal
news@michigandaily.com and iet us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Social Disorder: Organizing for student change
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS. ..................2 ARTS...............5
Vol CXXIV,No.95 SUDOKU .,................... 2 CLASSIFIEDS -.............. 6
C)2014 ThetMichiganaly OPINION............... 4 SPORTS ................ 6
michigondoilycom

£


2 - Friday, April 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

THURSDAY:
Alumni Profiles

420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandaily.com

LEFT President Barack Obama
speaks at the Intramural Sports
building Wednesday about
raising the federal minimum
wage to $10.10. (ALLISON
FARRAN D/Daily)
UPPER RIGHT LSA sophomore
Meagan Shokar celebrates as
Make Michigan wins the CSG
elections Tuesday. (ALLISON
FARRAN D/Daily)
BOTTOM RIGHT Public Policy
junior Maya Menlo (left),
Washtenaw Community College
freshman Micah Smith (center),
and LSA freshman Jean-Philippe
Dubois (right) march for
manufacturing reform Monday.
(ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily)

I:

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@miehigandaily.cor
Sports Section
sports@nmichigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@nichigandaiy.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@nichigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.om

R .,. mi igardfcat

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Pan-Hellenic Dance for Jeopardy contestant
Student profile Shoes meaning step show earth powwow Ton Cavanaugh said
BYIANDILLINGHAM BYALLEN DONNE w host Alex Trebek's suit
WHAT: Multiple chapters WHAT: Native American was made by 8-year-olds.
LSA senior Mira The shoes people wear, from the National Pan- students will perform at Cavanaugh is working on
Friedlander accompanied Donne writes, say something Hellenic Council present the 42nd annual Dance for a documentary exploring
President Barack Obama to about them. In this blog, step performances that Mother Earth Powwow. sweatshop labor globally. He
lunch at Zingerman's Deli Donne conducts a thorough emulate famous video WHO: Native American said he's trying to "put a face
Wednesday, over which analysis of different types games. Tickets are $15. Student Association on who makes our clothes."


EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburke@michigandaily.com
Jennifer Calfas ManagingNews Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWS EDITORS: Ian Dillingham, Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
and StephanieShenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Aron, Hillary Crawford, Ami
Davis, Shoham Geva, Anabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien,Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michael Sugarman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial PagetEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and NivedlitaKarki
Greg Garno and
AleandroZifiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENO SORTSEDInTORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel1Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and dlynct@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth ManagingArtstEditors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,ErikaHarwoodand
SISrNTnARTSEDITORS: JamieBircoll,JacksonHoward,GillianJakabandMaddie
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
ASrTNT PHOTO EDTORS: AlisonarandnTracyKoaTerra Molengraff and Nicholas
Wilsseon onoseieoee oym o
Carolyn Gearig and
abiela asquezMagnaingDesignEdios deoign@michigandaily.com
SENIORDESIGNsEDITnOR:Ayckns nd Aicia ovlcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Amy Mackens
MarkOssolinski and Meaghan
Thompson Managing CopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and DavidsNayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum ProductionManagers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OliviaJones Layout Manager
The Miae n Daly (ISSN0745.967>s e pubi shed Monday throu Fiday dur ng the and w ete tems by
suents ate leUiveiy o 0Miha. necopy is a alefeef chareo allreader.Additionalcoiesma
be mede u uaytheiy' sfef$ scriptii s e temstasngin sembes al ae $1
Wi te en(anaythoughApril) i00115, yaonge (Se tlee hogh April) is$195. Uiersity afftiiate
asubjec o ee sbsciption rte. Oen-ussbsiptiosIfaltsermae 5. Sbsiptionesmus
b~e ei.TheMichignioel iseaemrfheAociatdr~esadTe Asoiatolegn Pres.

she talked with the POTUS
about wages. Eating with the
President yielded one issue,
she said: he picked a "new"
pickle over an "old" one.
Women's wages
BY ERIN KWIDERIS
Kwideris argues that
minimum wage is largely a
women's issue, as 49-percent
of minimum wage workers
are female. This, she writes,
is a "contributing factor to
the feminization of poverty."
Kwideris adds that women
can and should be sources of
primary income.

of shoes, including running
shoes, casual sneakers,
Oxfords and "basketballi
inspired" kicks.
Campus rally
BY WILL GREENBERG
For the 36th year running,
the Ann Arbor chapter of
Take Back the Night staged
a rally Wednesday before
marching through the city
streets to promote sexual
assault awareness. Mayor
John Hieftje was one of thet
speakers at the rally. I
Read morefrom these
blogs at michigandaily.com

WHO: Michigan Union
Ticket Office
WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
WHERE: Power Center
Drama:
Marisol
WHAT: A drama by Jose
Rivera tagged as angry,
fearsome, fantastic and
poetically frenzied.
Recommended for mature
audiences only. Tickets are
$10 with a student ID.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Tonight at 8p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen
Drama Center, Arthur
Miller Theatre

WHEN: Saturday from 12
p.m. to 7 p.m.
WHERE: Skyline High
School; 2552 N. Maple Rd.
Pedagogue
to perform
WHAT: World famous
pianist Leon Fleisher will
perform and teach.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: Today at 3 p.m.
WHERE: Moore Building,
Britton Recital Mall
CORRECTIONS
. Please reportanyerror
in the Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

The Michigan football
team will hold its
final spring practice
of 2014 on Saturday at
Michigan Stadium. The Daily
previews what to watch for
after a month of practice.
" FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 6
Turns out the
U.S. Agency for
International
Development created a
secret Cuban twitter account
to steal private data for
political purposes. The goal
was to "sow disruption," the
Associated Press reported.


LSA reduces restrictions
for credit transfer policy

'U' teams with consultants
to explore housing options

Students now able
to transfer credits
from community
colleges more easily
By YARDAIN AMRON
Daily StaffReporter
Wednesday afternoon, LSA
students received an e-mail from
the Newman Academic Advising
Center announcing a new transfer
credit policy beginning in spring
that will allow students - regard-
less of class standing - to transfer
credits earned at a community
college.
The new policy eliminates a
restriction that limited transfer-
ring community college credit
to students with fewer than 60
credits at the University. Now,
students with over 60 credits, or
junior and senior standing, can
also transfer community college
-HS

credit. munity college."
"Behind the old policy was The policy will affect students
the idea that community colleges .like LSA junior Stephanie Pena,
teach first year and second year who is in her first semester at the
courses and therefore juniors University as a transfer student
and seniors at a four year institu- from Lansing Community Col-
tion shouldn't get credit for first lege. Pena transferred in about 57
year and second year courses," credits from her time at LCC and
said Tim Dodd, director of the until now, was preparing to fin-
Newnan Academic Advising ish up the rest of her credits at the
Center. "Our counterargument University.
was that juniors and seniors take "I was a little bummed out
introductory -100 and 200 level when I wastold earlier this semes-
- coursework all the time here ter I wouldn't be able to complete
at the University and we don't any more credits at community
prevent them from getting credit college because I knew I would
from takingthose courses." be going back home this sum-
Dodd said it was also a matter mer," Pena said. "Now this new
of economic fairness. policy allows me to go back home
"There are a lot of students who and take some extra college cred-
do need to take courses off cam- its, and it will let me do that at a
pus but can't necessarily afford to cheaper cost as well."
take them at a four-year institu- Pena said she paid $87 per
tion," Dodd said. "We thought it credit at LCC. For Spring 2014 at
would be only fair for those who the University, in-state students
may have economic hardship to pay $690 for the first credit and
take courses that are typically $510 for every additional credit.
much cheaper percredit at a com- Out-of-state students pay $1,825
for the first credit and $1,645 for
every additional credit.
Dodd said the policy change
will mostly affect students try-
ing to catch up on credits, fulfill
requirements, or those who were
suspended from the University
3 8 and need to complete credits out-
side of the University as a condi-
7 4 5 tion for return.
"I don't think this is going to be
a tectonic shift in what students
8 3 do with their summers," Dodd
said.

Ch
ho
to

To
versit
focus
studei
Scion
es con
ahead
Th
Chica
tions
privat
provia
their 0
annou
the U
year.
eral f
from
versit
Logan
In
dents,
tion,1
inforn
ket re
Arbor
the ye
and ut
ing op
"As

icago-based firm third party coming in and taking
a look at the residential facilities,
lds focus groups the residential experience that
we offer for both undergraduate
gather student and graduate students has been
very helpful," Logan said.
suggestions The three focus groups on
Monday of this week had three
By ANASTASSIOS different residential themes.
ADAMOPOULOS One included students who live
Daily StaffReporter on campus, another students
living off campus and the third
explore the future of Uni- was with student staff who live
y Housing, three different and work in residence halls. On
groups of undergraduate Tuesday, another meeting was
nts met Monday with the held with seven undergraduate
Group, a real estate servic- students living in North Campus
mpany, to discuss what lies residences.
1. Students shared what they
e Scion Group, based in like about living on and off cam-
go, consults with institu- pus and what the advantages
of higher education and and challenges are in each case,
e-sector companies that including what would they like to
de housing for students on change. They also asked students
development projects. Scion about the difficulties of finding
nced its partnership with housing.
niversity on Feb. 3 of this Logan said as the Residential
The company has held sev- Life Initiative comes to an end
ocus groups with students with the renovation of West Quad
February to March, Uni- Residence Hall, which will begin
y Housing spokesman Peter in May, the University thought it
n said. was an importanttime to talk with
the meetings with stu- students and gauge their opinions
faculty and administra- on what could be done next.
the Scion Group gathered "We are trying to anticipate
nation and performed mar- what more should we be doing in
search on housing in Ann terms of student housing experi-
to help form a vision for ence at U of M after 2015 when
ars ahead for both graduate West Quad reopens" Logan said.
ndergraduate student hous- University President Mary Sue
tions. Coleman launched he Residential
essentially an objective Life in 2004 for the improvement

and development of University
Housing facilities including 18
residence halls, the nine resi-
dential dining halls and the five
North Campus apartment com-
plexes.
These developments included
upgrading and renovating exist-
ing residences like East Quad Resi-
dence Hall in 2013, South Quad in
2014 and WestQuadin2015,aswell
as the construction of North Quad
Residence Hall in 2010. Logan said
the Universityhas committed $650
million to the RLI.
"University Housing over
the past several years has been
involved in a remarkable cam-
paign to improve our facilities
(and) improve the residential
experience" Logan said.
Logan said the attendance in
the focus groups varies with as
little as one person showing, to a
dozen or more students attended
others. Regardless, Logan said he
has seen constructive feedback.
"It's just been helpful getting
the undergraduate perspective
of what is a good, what is a sup-
portive living experience for
them," Logan said.
Logan said there may be
more sessions in June, depend-
ing on the student population
on campus, and that Scion will
complete their research in July.
Scion will conclude their study
by sending an online survey to
.undergraduate students about
their student housing experi-
ence, Logan added.

ALL YOU NEED IS LOVE
And news.
WE PROVIDE BOTH!
READ ALL ABOUT IT AT MICHIGANDAILY.COM

I

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 4, 2014 - 3


APPAREL
From Page 1
universities in attaching such an
accord to apparel licensing agree-
ments, including Brown Univer-
sity, Columbia University and
Cornell University.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said companies have
until May i6 to sign the accord
or they will no longer be allowed
to produce University-licensed
products. Adidas, one of the
University's main licensees, has
already signed the agreement, but
Collegiate Licensing - an Ameri-
can collegiate trademark licens-
ing and marketing company that
manufactures University apparel
- hasyet to sign.
Fitzgerald said acceptance of
the accord was motivated by the
need to improve worker safety.
"This is specifically about
worker safety standards,"
Fitzgerald said. "This isn't about
what companies any one compa-
ny may be investing with. This is
specifically aimed at making sure
there are safe working conditions
for fire safety for any of the manu-
facturing facilities where U of
M-licensed products are made."

MICHIGAN
From Page 1A
chair of MUSIC Matters' com-
munications committee, said
Mensa's Chicago roots also
played a big role in his selection
as an opening act.
"We're really excited and
we're really lucky to have signed
him this early," Marx said.
"There's a lot of great music
coming out of Chicago right now
and he's easily one of the better
ones."
The concert will also include
two local openers: rap duo Pin-
nacle Entertainment and hip-
hop group Video7.
Pinnacle Entertainment fea-
tures Keyon Purite and Ann
Arbor resident Xzanthus Al-
lateef.
Video7 is comprised of sev-
eral University students and
alums, including Music, Theatre
& Dance senior Brendan Asante.
According to MUSIC Matters,
"Video7 is a multi-media collec-
tive of producers, singers, visual
artists, screen writers, directors
and more ... (who aim) to provide
unique performance experienc-
es for their viewers and listeners

that are 'the furthest from main
stream."'
Marx said signing local acts
to perform at the concert is one
of the best parts of MUSIC Mat-
ters.
"There is so much talent on
this campus," she said. "The
fact that we are able to provide a
stage for students and local acts
to open up for a huge name like
2Chainz is one of the greatest
things that we are able to do."
Aside from their finalized
concert lineup, MUSIC Matters
has also hired numerous artists
and speakers to perform during
the day's SpringFest activities.
Folk-rock band Grizfolk,
which recently finished a tour
opening for Bastille, will head-
line the live performances. In
addition, Ann Arbor native Dan
Henig - known by many for his
YouTube-famous acoustic cover
of Lil Jon's "Get Low," which has
amassed over five million views
- and LSA sophomore Sylvia
Yacoub, who was a top 10 finalist
on the third season of NBC's The
Voice, will make appearances.
"It also attracts a different
audience than we're trying to
attract with 2 Chainz," he said.
"We're trying to accommodate
for a lot of different audiences

here on campus, because not
everyone's into hip-hop."
Live performances will not
be restricted to music - MUSIC
Matters has also scheduled
numerous speakers who will
deliver remarks akin to TED
Talks throughout the day.
One of these highlighted
presenters will be Mike Muse,
who was a member of President
Barack Obama's 2012 National
Finance Committee and the co-
founder of Muse Recordings.
MUSIC Matters has also con-
firmed that it will host 150 high
school juniors from the metro
Detroit area to tour the Uni-
versity, attend admissions and
financial aid workshops, eat in
the dorms and participate in
SpringFest.
The student organization
has worked in tandem with the
National Pan-Hellenic Council,
the Center for Educational Out-
reach, the Office of Financial
Aid and the Office of Under-
graduate Admissions to achieve
this goal.
LSA junior Maysie Makri-
anes, one of the SpringFest
team's high school outreach co-
directors, said bringing these
students to the University will
promote college accessibility.

She added that this type of
outreach feeds into the Big
Thinkers Scholarship that
MUSIC Matters unveiled in
November.
"Our main goal is to expose
students to the college experi-
ence when they're young," she
said.
During SpringFest, speeches
and musical acts will occur in
conjunction with one another
along North University Avenue,
with stages on opposite ends of
the partitioned stretch of road.
Business junior Nick
Moeller, chair of MUSIC Mat-
ters' SpringFest committee,
said clubs contributing to the
event will still be grouped by
common themes: innovation,
art, social justice, identity and
sustainability.
These will be spread from
the steps of Hatcher Graduate
Library up to North University
Avenue, where food trucks and
the live performance stages will
run perpendicularly along the
street.
"As far as I know, I think this
is one of the largest events under
student production, under a stu-
dent organization, that I think
the University has had," Moeller
said.

BROWN
From Page 1
hard for women's rights, access
to quality health care and mak-
ing education affordable, and
has demonstrated the deep
desire to provide equal opportu-
nity for all. Though the decision
to hand out marriage licenses
to same-sex couples received
some negative media attention,
he said he does not think it will
hinder her campaign prospects.
"I'm certain that that deci-
sion that she made reinforced
the ideology that equal rights
for every Michigander is impor-
tant to her and solidified it fur-
ther," Zemke said.
Though he thinks Schauer
made the decision to select
Brown before the court's ruling
on the ban, Irwin said her reac-
tion further proved her qualifi-
cations as a running mate.
"Schauer already is obvious-
ly the candidate who supports
marriage equality. Snyder is the
candidate who decidedly does
not," he said. "Schauer needs no
more credibility on that issue,
Snyder has given him all the
credibility he needs."


MINOR
From Page 1
very different types of students
in each class," Levitsky wrote in
an e-mail. "But in fact the opposite
happened: the same students kept
showingup to both classes."
To answer for students' growing
interests in both types of classes,
department faculty and adminis-
trators agreed to offer a new minor
that would explore concepts of legal
and social significance.
"Anyone with an interest in law,
policy, criminal justice, social and
economic justice, social move-

ments, human rights, inequality,
and social change will find an intel-
lectual home in this minor," Lev-
itsky wrote.
She added that she hopes the
minor will promote a community of
students and professors interested
in these fields as well as a form of
certification for students that will
allow them to demonstrate their
dedication to legal andsocialissues.
Nicole Rutherford, undergradu-
ate program coordinator for the
sociology department, said the new
minor will teach students a vari-
ety of skills that can be applied to a
future career.
"I think, just as any student in
any liberal arts degree program,

they're going to walk away with
kind of a more global perspective on
issues of social change," Rutherford
said. "They're going to walk away
with writing skills like you do in
any liberal arts class as well as some
strong analytical and critical think-
ing skills."
Although sociology majors are
welcome to pursue the Law, Jus-
tice and Social Change minor,
Rutherford said the same classes
that are offered through the minor
are already available to them. She
noted the minor could potentially
compliment all types of majors,
especially those related to the
social sciences.
"I think all majors, there's some-

thing in this for them if they're
interested in complimenting it with
a focus in law and social change,"
Rutherford said.
Levitsky also said she hopes
the minor will bring attention to
the prowess of the University's
Department of Sociology.
"This is one of the top-ranked
sociology departments in the
country," Levitsky wrote. "We
have some of the best teachers in
the College. Once students fig-
ure that out, once they get a taste
of these classes, they're not just
going to want to minor in Law
Justice and Social Change, they're
going to want to major in sociol-
ogy."

SPACE
From Page 1
planetary defense.
"The basic idea is to do
things that make sense in and
of themselves and to use those
to develop the technology and
the capabilities that we need for
space settlement," he said.
Globus focused much of his
lecture on sub-orbital tour-
ism. Citing a survey, he said
many Americans would pay
around $100,000 to go to space.
There are currently a number of
American companies working

to pioneer space tourism. Vir-
gin Galactic, founded in 2004,
already has 600 customers and
$80 million in deposits. Although
a commercial spaceflight has yet
to take off, a seat on the spaceship
is currently $250,000.
Engineering senior Derek
Napierala, SEDS president, said
he hopes he lives to see space
settlement.
"I think space is where every-
one shouldwantto go," Napierala
said. "It gives us a lot of opportu-
nity to develop new technologies.
It's such a cool place and there's
so much out there that we can
discover that if we can we should
try."


Kerry calls on Israeli and
Palestinian officials to "lead"

Aftershocks rattle Chile as
military enforces the law

Delegation attempts
to prevent peace
negotiations from
collapsing
RABAT, Morocco (AP)
- Frustrated by a virtually
moribund Israeli-Palestinian
peace process, U.S. Secretary
of State John Kerry exhorted
leaders on both sides Thursday
to "lead" and to do so now to
preyent the negotiations from
collapsing.
In Algeria for strategic
security talks after traveling to
the Mideast twice in the past
10 days to rescue the peace
process, Kerry called it a "critical
moment" for the peace process
and vowed to continue his efforts
"no matter what." But he added
there are limits to what the
Obama administration can do
to push the parties together and
said it would be a "tragedy" if the
talks failed.
In unusually blunt terms,
Kerry made his impatience

clear although he allowed that
he could not force Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu or
Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas to continue the talks, let
alone actually resolve the long-
running conflict.
"You can facilitate, you can
push, you can nudge, but the
parties themselves have to make
fundamental decisions and
compromises," he said. "The
leaders have to lead and they
have to be able to see a moment
when it's there."
He recalled the old adage that
you can lead a horse to water but
can't make it drink.
"Now is the time to drink,"
Kerry said. "The leaders need to
know that."
Later during a visit to a Nike
store for a youth soccer event,
Kerry half-joked that he was
tempted to use the company's
slogan "Just Do It" in his recent
discussions with Abbas and
Netanyahu. "But," he added
wryly, "I don't know if that would
have worked so well."
Kerry spoke with both leaders
Thursday afternoon. He said U.S.

mediators huddled 'vith Israeli,-
and Palestinian negotiators in
Jerusalem overnight.
That late-night meeting,
which lasted until 4 a.m.,
had yielded some progress in
resolving "some of the questions
that have arisen as a result of
the events of the last few days,"
Kerry said. "But there is a still a
gap and that gap will have to be
closed and closed very soon."
Kerry has spent much of the
last two weeks frantically trying
to keep the peace talks from
breaking down.
He saw Netanyahu in Israel
on Monday and Abbas last week
in Jordan, but cancelled a third
trip to the region on Wednesday
after the Palestinians said they
would seek greater United
Nations recognition over Israeli
objections. Abbas announced
the move after Israel refused to
release a group of Palestinian
prisoners it had earlier agreed to
free.
Both actions run counter to
the agreement the two sides
reached last year to negotiate a
settlement by the end of April.

Infrastructure
remains intact
despite continued
quakes
IQUIQUE,Chile(AP)-Coastal
residents of Chile's far north spent
a second sleepless night outside
their homes as major aftershocks
continued Thursday following a
magnitude-8.2 earthquake that
damaged several thousand homes
and caused six deaths.
No new major damage or
casualties were reported, and
a heavy police and military
presence kept order.
The infrastructure in the
area is nearly entirely intact, but
with aftershocks continuing, life
has been anything but normal.
Power remains out in many areas,
and hospitals were handling
only emergencies. Schools were
closed, and large supermarkets
and gas stations coordinated their
reopenings Thursday with police
and military to avoid problems
with long lines of customers.

After a magnitude-7.6
aftershock struck just before
midnight Wednesday, Chile's
Emergency Office and navy
issued a tsunami alert, and for
two hours ordered everyone
living in low-lying areas along
the country's entire 2,500-
mile (4,000-kilometer) Pacific
coastline to evacuate.
Among those moved inland
was President Michelle Bachelet,
who was in the city of Arica
assessing damage in the north
from Tuesday night's powerful
quake.
"I was evacuated like all
citizens. One can see that the
people are prepared," she tweeted
early Thursday.
Chile's evacuation order was
lifted at around 2 a.m. Thursday.
Some 900,000 people also were
affected the night before when
the entire coast was evacuated
for several hours after Tuesday's
bigger quake, although the
tsunami proved small.
A 6.1-magnitude aftershock
47 miles (76 kms) southwest of
Iquique shook the area again late
Thursday.

The repeated aftershocks have
shaken buildings and sent people
running into the streets in the
port of Iquique, the largest city
closest to the epicenter. About 45
minutes before the 7.6 quake, a
magnitude-6.5 aftershock also
rattled Iquique. The shaking
loosened more landslides near
Alto Hospicio, a poor area at the
entrance to Iquique where about
2,500 homes had been damaged
in Tuesday's larger quake.
The Ministry of Education
suspended classes again
in schools in the north for
Thursday, while the region's top
prosecutor, Manuel Guerra, said
his office is taking action against
speculators who sharply raised
prices for bread, water, milk and
diapers. "They will be detained
and charged," Guerra tweeted,
calling on the community to
denounce "intolerable" abuses.
The largest aftershock
was felt across the border in
southern Peru, where people in
the cities of Tacna and Arequipa
fled buildings in fear. Police
Lt. Freddy Cuela in Tacna said
no damage or injuries were

Evidence suggests Fort Hood shooter
may have been mentally unstable
Argument may Milley said. for depression, anxiety and other Lopez apparently walked
Lopez never saw combat problems, military officials said. into a building Wednesday and
have preceeded during a deployment to Iraq and "We have very strong evidence began firing a .45-caliber semi-
had shown no apparent risk of that he had a medical history that automatic pistol. He then got into
deadly attack violence before the shooting, indicates unstable psychiatric or a vehicle and continued firing
officials said. psychological condition," Milley beforedrivingto anotherbuilding.
in Fort Hood The 34-year-old truck driver said. "We believe that to be a He was eventually confronted by
from Puerto Rico seemed to fundamental underlyingcause." military police in a parking lot,
FORT HOOD,Texas(AP) -The have a clean record that showed Scott & White Memorial Milley said.
soldier who killed three people at no ties to extremist groups. But Hospital in nearby Temple, Texas, As he came within 20 feet of a
Fort Hood may have argued with the Army secretary promised was still caring for several of the police officer, the gunman put his
another service member prior that investigators would keep all 16 people who were wounded. All hands up but then reached under
to the attack, and investigators avenues open in their inquiry of of them were in either serious or his jacket and pulled out his gun.
believe his unstable mental health the soldier whose rampage ended good condition, and some could The officer drew her own weapon,
contributed to the rampage, only after he fired a final bullet be discharged before the end of and the suspect put his gun to
authorities said Thursday. into his own head. Thursday. his head and pulled the trigger,
The base's senior officer, Lt. "We're not making any Hospital officials had no Milley said.
Gen. Mark Milley, said there is a assumptions by that. We're going information about patients being Lopez grew up in Guayanilla, a
"strong possibility" that Spc. Ivan to keep an open mind and an open treated elsewhere, including at a town of fewer than 10,000 people
Lopez had a "verbal altercation" investigation. We will go where base hospital. But because Scott on the southwestern coast of
with another soldier or soldiers the facts lead us," Army Secretary & White is the area's only trauma Puerto Rico, with a mother who
immediately before Wednesday's John McHugh said, explaining center, the patients with the most was a nurse at a public clinic and
shooting, which unfolded on the that "possible extremist serious injuries were probably a father who did maintenance for
same Army post that was the involvement is still being looked taken there. an electric utility company.
scene of an infamous 2009 mass at very, very carefully." Investigators searched the Glidden Lopez Torres, who said
shooting. Investigators were also looking soldier's home Thursday and he was a friend speaking for the
However, there's no indication into Lopez's psychological questioned his wife, Fort Hood family, said Lopez's mother died
that he targeted specific soldiers, background. He had sought help spokesman Chris Haug said. of a heart attack in November.

INSTITUTt FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH
RESEARCH CENTER FOR GROUP DYNAMICS
UNIvERSITYOF MICHIGAN
Winter 2014 Seminar Series:
New Science on Race, Discrimination
and the Social Lives of Black Americans
What Does
Racism
Look Like?
Naa Oyo Kwate
Associate Professor
Rutgers University
April 7, 2014 Institute for Social Research
3:30-5:00 p.m. 426 Thompson Street
Room 6050
Free and open to the public
Follow us: @umisr, @rcgdjisr
Join the conversation: #RCGDseminar
More information: http://bit.ly/RCGD-seminar


I


4 - Friday, April 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Friday, April 4, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

W1e1idhigan &Ut*(
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Building Detroit's foundation
The new bankruptcy plan addresses important basic needs for the city
D etroit's new bankruptcy plan, filed in federal court this past
Monday, outlines a strategy to invest $1.5 billion in the city over the
next decade. The two major components of the plan allocate $520
million toward blight removal and another $464 million to public safety.
The bankruptcy plan promotes positive goals for Detroit. Crime reduction
and blight removal are excellent priorities that are necessary for building a
strong foundation in the city. Moving forward, Detroit should implement
other long-term goals that address the source of these problems.

VIRGINIA EASTHOPE

E-MAIL VIRGINIA EASTHOPE AT VCHOPE(&UMICH.EDU.

F~ouv~A~ B ur
Creae aregiona lndan

T he dauntingtaskofmapping
and demolishing nearly
80,000 vacant and blighted
homes in the

city of Detroit
is currently
underway. But
blight removal
has been a major
priority for the
last two mayoral
administrations
under Kwame
Kilpatrick and
Dave Bing,
and neither

ALEXANDER
HERMANN

On Monday, Detroit filed its adjusted
bankruptcy plan electronically. The plan
proposes a $1.5 billion investment over 10 years,
mainly focusing On city crime and blight. Other
planned investments include improvements
to city services, expanding the existing bus
transportation system, parks and recreation
area upgrades and improvements to the
Coleman A. Young city airport.
For five years in a row, Detroit has topped
Forbes' list of Most Dangerous Cities. Its
reputation deters potential businesses
and consumers from coming to the city,
shrinking the city's tax base and job market.
Improvements to public safety may change
this pattern and bring much-needed revenue
to local businesses. Better safety would allow
for more traffic from tourism and increase
incentives for businesses to locate themselves
in Detroit, both serving to increase economic
activity. A more prosperous economy and a
friendlier job market may further help reduce
crime in the city.
The plan for blight removal could also
improve the city's public perception. There
are an estimated 78,000 vacant structures in
the city. These are threats to public safety and
decrease the value of neighboring homes. 60
percent of fires in Detroit occur in abandoned
buildings and these buildings can become
havens for street crime. Eliminating them
would mean Detroit police officers no longer
have to patrol abandoned areas and could

increase their presence in other populated areas
of the city. Removal of abandoned structures
also opens up space for valuable community
initiatives like urban farming. However, the
citymust work closely with existingresidents to
prevent unnecessary relocation and also ensure
that structures being razed are unsalvageable
for future or alternative uses.
Though the investments provide the
necessary funds to help steer Detroit, more
progress on addressing the source of Detroit's
issues needs to occur. Detroit needs more
residents to contribute to the city's tax base,
as well as contribute toit§ vibrancy. Gov. Rick
Snyder proposed a plan to issue increased
numbers of EB-2 visas to immigrants
living in Detroit, which could boost the
population of the city while providing needed
high-skilled workers.
While the plan sets aside a substantial
amount of funding for public transit,
continued funding is also important to this
economic revitalization. Safe, reliable public
transportation can help current residents get
to work while simultaneously attracting new
residents who don't own a car. Similarly, public
parks and community spaces must continue to
improve to increase the quality of life for both
current and future residents. Further, while
the use of funding to secure the city is viable
and useful, it is necessary to address long-term
origins of crime like endemic poverty and
elevated high school dropout rates.

made a significant dent in the
growing problem.
Still, the Detroit Blight Removal
Task Force - commissioned in
late 2013 to catalog every parcel of
land in the city and create a plan to
deconstruct those structures des-
ignated as economically unviable
within six years - represents the
city's best attempt yet to raze dilap-
idated structures that constantly
threaten residents' personal secu-
rity and livelihood.
Unfortunately, the already
difficult task of massive blight
removal - with a price tag poten-
tially exceeding $1 billion - is just
the beginning.
But to this point, city officials
haven't had the answers to the
toughest questions concerning
city redevelopment: What hap-
pens when the mapping is fin-
ished? When the blighted parcels
are cleared? And, most important-
ly, what happens with the vacant
homes and structures deemed "eco-
nomically viable"?
Though it's hardly a panacea to
any city's redevelopment efforts,
land banks represent one impor-
tant, and underutilized, tool to
answer those questions in Detroit.
The idea behind land banks is
simple, and they are already per-
vasive in Michigan. Land banks are
quasi-public entities, often over-
seen by elected county officials that
utilize the best practices in urban

planning and community develop-
ment to help stabilize communities
and clear blight. Typically, state
legislation enables land banks to
possess foreclosed homes before
they become available to specula-
tors and the broader public through
county auctions.
Land banksbenefit neighborhoods
suffering from rampant disinvest-
ment, foreclosures and high vacancy
rates by being mission-driven with
no profit motive. In these environ-
ments, oftentimes the market for
housing has all but deteriorated, and
foreclosed homes can sit on the coun-
ty auction list for years. Not demol-
ished due to lack of funding, these
residences quickly become targets
for scrapping, arson, squatting and
other illegal activities detrimental to
the surrounding neighborhood.
For better or worse, the city
already has its own land bank -
the Detroit Land Bank Author-
ity. But since its inception the DLBA
has never lived up to its poten-
tial, even if that's no fault of the
organization itself.
As John Gallagher's most recent
book, "Revolution Detroit: Strate-
gies for Urban Reinvention", notes,
the DLBA has been hampered politi-
cally since its founding in 2010. For
example, Detroit City Council pro-
vided no funding for the organiza-
tion and required it to purchase all
homes from the city at fair market
value. Even more importantly, the
DLBA lacks the essential ties to the
county to take foreclosed properties
before they reach the county auction
block. From the beginning, the DLBA
has been overly dependent on outside
funding to support the organization.
Even recent 'signs of improve-
ment fall, far short of remedying
the DLBA's dearth of power. New
mayor Mike Duggan and City Coun-
cil approved a measure in February
enabling the land bank to file public
nuisance lawsuits against blighted-
property owners in an effort to hold
these owners accountable for ruined
structures. Thoughthese efforts may

prove significant in the long run,
they don't go far enough in making
the DLBA a major player in the city's
redevelopment scene.
In fact, if confined exclusively to
Detroit's city limits, the DLBA will
never live up to its potential.
The most successful land banks in
the country have access to a diverse
housing stock. With avaried housing
inventory, land banks can capital-
ize on a basic formula. Land banks
spruce up and sell homes in high-
er-quality neighborhoods, at rates
higher than they would've fetched
at auction, before reinvesting those
"profits" in declining neighborhoods,
often through strategic home reha-
bilitation or demolition.
The Genesee County Land Bank,
one of the model land banks nation-
ally, pioneered this concept as Flint's
leading community development
organization since 2004.
However, Detroit's housing stock
by itself remains too uniformly
depleted to capitalize on this model.
But if housing diversity is the issue,
then there's a simple practical solu-
tion - however difficult politically in
the Metropolitan Detroit context -
greater regional cooperation.
The creation of a regional, tri-
county or Southeast Michigan land
bank including Wayne, Oakland and
Macomb counties at a minimum,
would clearly contain a diverse
enough housing stock to aid stabi-
lizing and redevelopment efforts in
Metro Detroit's strugglingneighbor-
hoods that exist in every county - if
invested with the proper authority.
Just like the demolition of 80,000
properties in Detroit won't stem the
tide of disinvestment in the city, the
creation of a regional land bank cer-
tainly isn't a panacea to curing allthe
region's redevelopment ills. Regard-
less, employing both would mark a
major step forward in the stabiliza-
tion and revitalization of Detroit and
the broader area.
- Alexander Hermann can be
reached at aherm@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Edvinas Berzanskis, David Harris, Rachel John, Nivedita
Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria
Noble, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
RACHEL JOHN
Embracing technology
There is no greater pleasure in the morn- from this monster of wires and touchscreens.
ing than waking up to the light of a glow- Yet, my 18-year-old thumbs are hopelessly
ing screen and the rapid click of texts, ping clinging to my phone as I am writing this.
of Facebook messages and buzz of e-mails. The realist in me knows that neither of these
These sounds, a rumbling electronic cadence, ways of life is feasible or balanced. At the
are the heartbeat of our generation. same time, I don't believe that our generation
The thrill of the present rushes through is completely mindless when we use technol-
my veins. These sounds, these notifications, ogy. But maybe, we're not using our brains
are my only connection to the present. I am properly to their full potential.
an old soul. There's a special place in my heart I'm not going to be your parent and force
(and in my scrapbook) for handwritten let- you to stop texting at the dinner table. But,
ters and tangible photographs. I prefer face- I'm not going to be your friend who lets you
to-face conversations rather than a bunch of scroll through your newsfeed while I'm try-
one-worded - sometimes one-lettered - text ing to have a conversation with you. Use tech-
message reflexes. I often daydream about my nology for good. When we wholeheartedly
future rather than mindlessly scroll through dedicate our time to a mindful post, we won't
a Twitter feed. Nevertheless, technology have to resort to mindless scrolling. Use it to
keeps me in the present. No matter how hard communicate - to others, to the world. Don't
I try, I am a teenager and I am bound to just tweet to complain - tweet what's impor-
this technology. tant to you. Show others your world (in 140
Media shapes our culture, and technology characters or less, of course). Facebook mes-
changes our society. Though those beliefs sage one of your hundreds of "friends" and
may seem to be restricted to the scholarly elite work to develop an actual friendship. Instead
of communication studies, they are notice- of just reblogging an idea, come up with
able in our everyday lives. Recent findings by your own.
neuroscientist and psychiatrist Dr. Manfred The possibilities are endless. Whenever I
Spitzer have marked the computer as "poi- think of endless possibility, I can't help but
son for kids" since computer use in children think of my favorite childhood film, Willy
was associated with "aggressive behaviors Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." One
and attention issues." Attention issues due of my favorite Wonka one-liners (which
to media use have been so pervasive among I later found was a quote by poet Arthur
young people that it is now referred to using O'Shaughnessy) was "We are the music mak-
the term "digital dementia." When we multi- ers, and we are the dreamers of dreams."
task between screens (e.g. my daily routine of Though Wonka lived in a world of unlimited
lecture slides, Facebook, lecture slides, Twit- candy, we live in a world of unlimited ideas
ter, lecture slides, texts), we may also develop and we have the means to spread them more
memory problems that decrease our attention than any other generation could even fathom.
and "impair learning." The scientific basis Make music. Dream those dreams. Make
for "digital dementia," according to pediat- them known. Help eliminate the "narcissis-
ric medical director Dr. Bradley Berg, is that tic" and "impatient" stigma of the Millen-
our "neural pathways are not stimulated." In nials. Redefine our generation. Redefine the
other words, we're just not using our brains. heartbeat of our generation.
The old soul in me wants to tell you to go
to an ashram and completely free yourself Rachel John is an LSA freshman.
FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily to get updates on Daily content throughout the day.

In response to 'Focus on the issues'

To the Editorial Board of the
Michigan Daily:
Your editorial published on April
2, 2014 (From the Daily: Focus on
the issues) is filled with inaccu-
racies, misguided judgments and
ideas that threaten the foundations
of student governance.
We'll begin the inaccuracies.
Your article reads, "Individual
candidates who receive 10 or more
demerits and entire parties that
receive 28 or more demerits are
automatically disqualified from the
election." False. Individual candi-
dates who receive 5 or more demer-
its and entire parties that receive 10
or more demerits are automatically
disqualified from the election. I
would be curious where you came
up with 28 demerits - one hopes
it was a typo on your part and not
actually the carelessness to not
check the election code.
The very next sentence reads,
"Alleged violations are reviewed
by the Central Student Judicia-
ry, which assigns any applicable
demerits." Again, wrong. Violations
and demerits are determined by
the University Elections Commis-
sion. Decisions made by the UEC
can be appealed to the Central
Student Judiciary.
Finally, your article asserts the
executive candidates for FORUM
last year "received a majority of
votes" but were disqualified. Well,
no. They received a plurality of
votes. Does your editorial board
own a dictionary?
These inaccuracies do not funda-
mentally undermine the rest of your
assertions, but they do demonstrate
a fundamental misunderstanding of
the system you critique. An embar-
rassment for a student paper that
prides itself on accuracy, and it sheds
doubt on whether you understand
the electoral process for your cri-
tiques and suggestions to hold any
merit. I contend they do not.
Let's move on to the misguided
judgments. You article asserts that

because "four new complaints were
filed" over the weekend, "CSG is
obviously not capable of monitoring
itself." That is actually exactly what
CSG is doing here. Parties failed to
adhere to the election code written
by the CSG Assembly. Other parties
monitor the behavior of those parties
and they hold each other account-
able. In this case, three parties failed
to submit receipts for their expenses
- a clear violation of the election
code. And an important one, I might
add, otherwise parties could lie about
their expenses and spend outside the
campaign finance limits. These are
hardly insignificant charges. Even
then, finding the parties guilty of fail-
ing to file receipts has no impact on
the results of the election - at most,
each party could have received four
demerits, far short of the 10-demerit
disqualification threshold. Clearly,
these were not submitted to dis-
qualify a party, but rather to enforce
the code and set a precedent for
future elections.
Furthermore, the Make Michigan
team withdrew another complaint
regarding improper use of e-mail
privileges. President-elect Bobby
Dishell said he withdrew the com-
plaint because it would have had
marginal impact on the election. The
parties are not only monitoring each
other, but monitoringthemselves.
Your article also calls the dis-
qualification of last year's FORUM
candidates a "debacle." Again, I
would call this a very misguided
judgment. You essentially endorse
allowing candidates to act in fla-
grant violation of the election
code without any consequence.
These are not "petty scandals."
They are violations of the elec-
tion code that could significantly
impact the results of the election.
In order to maintain the integrity
of the elections, there needs to
be consequences for violating the
rules repeatedly.
Finally, your article lands on a
suggestion that would threaten

the foundation of student gover-
nance on this campus. You suggest
that a judiciary made up of faculty
representatives monitor each elec-
tion. Presumably, parties would
still monitor the behavior of one
another and file complaints. Those
complaints would just be heard by
a board of faculty representatives,
rather than a board of students.
What exactly would this fix? The
"petty scandals" would still have
taken place, the charges would still
be filed, and the cases would still
be heard. But instead of a board of
students hearing the cases regard-
ing student elections, there would
be a board of faculty members. This
could allow for extensive faculty
influence over the CSG electoral
process, essentially destroying the
self-governance of students.
The faculty, the administration
and the students are three separate
pieces of the shared governance of
the University. The student voice has
already shrunk enough over the last
decade; do we really need to dimin-
ish it further by allowing the faculty
to control the student leadership?
Most of all, though, your article
ignores just how well the system
worked in this election. Make
Michigan candidates Bobby Dishell
and Meagan Shokar won the elec-
tion by more than 1100 votes and
will take office in two weeks. No
candidates were disqualified from
the election. The parties who vio-
lated the code accepted responsibil-
ity for their mistakes and accepted
the (inconsequential) demerits that
came along with it.
I look forward to the continued
work of CSG over the next year,
and I hope you offer more informed
critiques of their work than this
article demonstrated.
Best,
Michael Proppe
Michael Proppe is a Business
senior and Central Student
Government president.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 4, 2014 - 5

Quirky jazz legend
commemorated

WCBN celebrates
Sun Ra to brighten
your weekend
By REBECCA GODWIN
DailyArts Writer
In a world where new is val-
ued above old, it's easy for past
musicians to fade, but their
music can still
be relevant in Sun Ra
today's cul-
ture. WCBN, 100th
the student- Birthday
run commu-
nity freeform Concert
radio station Friday, April
housed in 4,7 pm
the basement
of the Stu- UMMA
dent Activi- Free
ties Building,
believes in
celebrating the past which
is why they set up an upcom-
ing concert to commemorate
the 100th birthday of late jazz
musician Sun Ra.
Sun Ra, born Herman Blount
in 1914, was celebrated for
being an incredible musician,
poet, bandleader and philoso-
pher. He also just happened
to believe he came from the
planet Saturn and wasn't a part
of the human race. Still, even

with such bizarre quirks, crit-
ics agree that Ra's music was
revolutionary. He performed
almost every style of jazz, from
bebop to ragtime, at some point
in his career and was a pioneer
of electronic keyboards and
free improvisation.
"He was pretty revolution-
ary in his approach in a lot of
ways," WCBN Events Coordi-
nator Shelley Salant said. "He
just really brought together a
lot of different things."
The group wanted a space
to hold the concert that could
both highlight Ra's music
as well as provide a suitable
atmosphere for the event. They
eventually decided on the Uni-
versity of Michigan Museum
of Art because of its excellent
acoustics and beautiful layout.
"The museum is such a beau-
tiful space," Salant said. "We
did another WCBN concert
here a couple of years ago and I
think people get excited about
coming to events here because
it feels special."
Lauren Harroun, the Edu-
cation Program Coordinator
at the museum, is in charge of
public programs and student
engagement and is thrilled
to be assisting with an event
that the museum doesn't get to
have very often.
"Because WCBN is a pretty

important part of the cam-
pus community here and also
because it is a student orga-
nization, we really want to
support their efforts," Har-
roun said. "It also allows us
the opportunity to host events
here at the museum that we
wouldn't otherwise program
ourselves."
The Detroit-based jazz
group Planet D Nonet will
perform the concert, led by
group founders RJ Spangler,
who plays drums, and James
O'Donnell on trumpet. The
group, which is made up of
various veteran musicians, is
known for playing a wide vari-
ety of jazz music from the clas-
sits of Duke Ellington to the
more modern melodies from
Sun Ra.
People who attend the event
can also expect a few extras
in addition to the band. One
of WCBN's DJs, Tony Audas,
will be playing a variety of
Sun Ra's music before the band
takes the stage and according
to Salant, there could be some
potential poetry readings
before as well. But whatever
happens, she is assured people
will have a good time.
"There's been a lot of prep-
aration going into it, so I'm
excited to have it all happen,"
Salant said.

This looks like a sequel to Skyfall'
'Saudade' brings classic
Bossa Nova sound

Saud
meanin
thing t

By NICKBOYD orches
Daily Arts Writer tion is
the mu
ade is a Portuguese word are co
g "a longing for some- the du
hat is lost, a contented a giver

melancholy, or
the presence
of absence."
Rob Garza and Saudade
Eric Hilton,
the master- Thievery
minds behind
the D.C.-based Corp
musical entou- ESL Music
rage, Thievery
Corpo-ation,
thought Saudade a fitting title
for their latest project. The
album pays homage to the
duo's original creative inspi-
ration - the Brazilian genre
Bossa Nova. The only issue is
that despite the album's som-
ber tone, Thievery Corporation
is incapable of making any-
thing but sexy music. Listening
through Saudade, I can't help
but think this sounds less like a
soundtrack to existential lone-
liness than it does to a James
Bond movie set in Rio. Rather
than crying tears of longing, I'm
finding myself waiting for 007
to get laid. Regardless of this
unintended effect, the latest
Thievery Corporation project
marks a successful departure
from their typical clubby, bass-
driven style and proves that
sexy has no language barrier.
Zing.
In the mid '90s, Garza and
Hamilton joined musical forces
out of their shared love for Bossa
Nova - the result was Thiev-
ery Corporation. For the past
18 years, the duo has recruited
a number of bands, rappers,
vocalists, etc. to join in the pro-
duction of their albums. In a
sense, Garza and Hilton are the
conductors of an ever-changing

lution
Corpo
have
divers
tle of i
Nova.
contra
J
Cultur
work.)
time t
their r
smoot
Bossa
spin.
Voc
Sauda
of Bos
voices
Gal Ci
the in
vocali
joined
album
mostl
- Lou
Melga
- and
sionist
Lower
sionist
this is
previo
ton st

tra. Thievery Corpora- work in constructing the tracks,
an amorphous entity, and finding and rearranging old
asicians behind the scenes Bossa Nova melodies to cre-
instantly changing to fit ate the common thread of the
o's musical objectives for album.
n album. Due to the evo- Given the soft female vocals,
ary nature of Thievery Latin beats and vintage sam-
ration, Garza and Hilton pling, Garza and Hilton succeed
produced an incredibly in creating an authentically
e body of work - very lit- ethereal, transcendent vibe.
t representing true Bossa I was listening to it in the
(To get a sense of this shower, and was convinced I
st, compare their album, was standingunder an Amazo-
nian waterfall. Vocals rasping
softly over layered percussion,
and precise guitar-work mesh
a not shitting perfectly to create a Brazilian
 ambience.Thievery Corpora-
u about the tion still manages to put their
subtle signature stamp on the
ames Bond album, despite its adherence to
the tenants of Bossa Nova. The
thing." layered background beats give a
new taste to the classic Brazil-
ian genre. "Depth of my Soul,"
the lead single, exemplifies this
novel approach to Bossa Nova,
e ofFear with their latest and is a success in creating
Thus, the pair thought it something that is simultane-
o make something true to ously classic and innovative.
oots and Saudade delivers I'm not shitting you about the
h, finely tuned authentic James Bond thing. Go stream
Nova with a "corporate" Saudade on NPR - dear god, has
anyone ever said something more
ally and instrumentally, hipster - and play "No More
de honors the foundations Disguise." You'll whip your head
sa Nova. Classic Brazilian around to quickly gauge what
- Antonio Carlos Jobim, angle the Brazilian Bond girl is
osta, Luis Bofa - provide approaching from, and thenyou'll
spiration for the modern remember you're just listening
sts and musicians who to NPR. Alone. If you're new to
the Corporation for this Thievery Corporation, Saudade
. Collaborators include a is likely a radical departure from
y female cast of vocalists whatever you listen to, but give
uLou Ghelichkhani, Elin Bossa Nova a chance, and I think
rejo, and Karian Zeviani you'll find Thievery Corporation's
a team of master percus- latest work a refreshing novelty.
ts like drummer Michael If you're avetted fan, this stylistic
y and Brazilian percus- tangent will pleasantly surprise
t Roberto Santos. Though you. Besides, I think if you walk
less sample-based than through the waterfall in your
us works, Garza and Hil- shower, you'll probably find your
ill did their fair share of Bond girl on theother side.

FOCUS
'CAN YOU USE IT IN A SENTENCE??'
Bateman m akesB Gad

By MAYANK MATHUR
DailyArts Writer
When babies are hungry,
sleepy or generally unhappy,
they throw a tantrum. They cry
with increas-
ing volume
and shrillness
until their Bad Words
problem - or
crankiness - is At Quaifty
solved. Wheth-1
er you're an 6and Rave
innocent Focs
bystander or
the one expect-
ed to provide a solution, the
experience promises tobe more
than mildly annoying. Make no
mistake - this baby has got a
real problem here, and it needs
to be solved. Give it food, make
it sleep; just do whatever you
have to do to MAKE IT STOP.
But what do you when a 40
year-old man throws a tantrum
by entering a local spelling bee
to compete against children 30
years his junior? How do you
make him stop?
You really can't do anything
but sit back, relax and enjoy
Jason Bateman's ("Discon-
nect") directorial debut, "Bad
Words." Bateman plays Guy
Trilby, nemesis of the nation's
spelling wizards, their parents
and every single spelling bee
organizer out there. A dropout
since the eighth grade, Trilby
has found a loophole in the

bylaws of the local and national
spelling competitions. Exercis-
ing his right to participate, he
reaches the nationals with the
intention of blowing away the
competition for no discernible
reason. Viewers are kept guess-
ing until the last few minutes
as to why he would decide on
such a course of action, and in
the process, they're treated to a
great deal of fun.
Trilby is not a nice guy. He
swears with reckless abandon,
he drops his poo off with the
hotel concierge and he bullies,
his competitors on stage - at
one point convincing a girl that
she's had her first period, right
before it's her turn to spell. He's
also a racist who shows abso-
lutely no regard for the plight
of the many children and their
parents whom he steps over in
order to achieve his goal. But
it's fun to see him do what he
does.
There's never a dull moment
throughout the running time
of 88 minutes and it's because
the taut screenplay is perfectly
laced with jokes and situation-
al comedy that keeps interest
alive. Trilby's actions force
you to question why he would
do such a thing, but the pac-
ing and humor of the film is
such that the question never
imposes itself as a strong bur-
den. There is an element of
suspense, but it's never over-
whelming enough to detract

from the comedy.
The comedy itself is per-
fectly balanced - not subtle
and intellectual, yet not fall-
ing into the realm of slap-
stick. Trilby's escapades with
his fellow competitor Chait-
anya Chopra (Rohan Chand,
"Lone Survivor") adequately
showcase this film's brand of
comedy. The humor goes well
with Bateman's style of direc-
tion, making the film a smooth
and enjoyable ride. As well as
proving he's a talented direc-
tor, Bateman is superb as the
disgruntled Trilby, putting in
a performance that hits the
right comedic and sentimental
notes.
"Bad Words" may seem like
a loud and brash comedy, but at
the end of the day, it's about a
man with the heart of a child
who just wants a little more
from his life. It's a unique tale
of revenge told against the
unusual backdrop of a national
spelling bee, but has enough
comedic material to make it
enjoyable. The revelation at the
end might seem underwhelm-
ing to viewers, but to the lit-
tle child inside Trilby, it's a
matter of great significance.
Beneath the hilarious insults
and one-liners lies an emo-
tional core, and while it doesn't
form a major part of the film,
it's strong enough to make the
characters seem well rounded
and relatable.

GOODBYE CENTRAL CAMPUS,
HELLO CENTRAL PARK.
Contact a fellow U of M alum to help
you find your NYC home.

Michael K ,fman BA Q8
aewe F~son
miichael.kfmff anu elliiman.

ASK-


t
4

4



6 - Friday, April 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Fifth-year senior right-hander Ben Ballantine has a 3.00 earned-run average heading into this we
Baseball looks for fo

A 4
is me
baseba
imagir
For
Wolve
the
homes
going
better
early-s
road
After
9-14-1
road
the
Michi

By ZACH SHAW road trip, Michigan coach Erik
Daily Sports Writer Bakich made sure his team was
prepared for Big Ten play.
-1 record in five games "For the rest of the year we're
ire like the Michigan not going to see anything we
all team haven't seen already," Bakich
ned. Minnesota said. "We've had a ton of top-25
the competition already, and all that
rines, at Michigan competition has gotten us really
current Matchup: battle-tested
tand is Minnesota and confident
much 15-9; Michigan and ready to «
than its 13-15-1 compete with Botto
eason When: Friday anyone the
trip. 4 P.M., second half of w e've
going Saturday 2 the season."
on the P.M., Sunday In ofwort
to start 1 P.M. Minnesota,
season, Where: Ray the battles
gan has Fisher Stadium aren't likely

performance
Michigan, tie
the year. Mic
do so withou
starters. Fr
Ramsey Rom
at least six w
hand, and se
Martin is que
m line,
got a lot
kto do."
relaxation on
deadly in the
"Bottom l
lot of work to
"Even if we
still have thin
improvement
about stickin
getting bette
going to keel
and work o
pitches and
at-bats togeth
With both

mud
LUNA ANNA ARCHEY/Daily
ekend's series against Minnesota at Ray Fisher Stadium.
urth straight
against Central fourth in the conference
d for their worst of standings, the Wolverines are
higan may have to well aware of the significance
t two of its infield of each game. With both
eshman infielder teams strongest in pitching,
ano is sidelined for the games will likely be close
eeks with a broken and low-scoring, which is fine
enior catcher Cole by Bakich. After leading the
stionable for Friday nation with 20 of 29 games this
after leaving season decided by two runs or
Wednesday's fewer, the Wolverines thrive
game early in the tight games, evidenced
with a sore by the final two contests of the
arm. Iowa series, in which freshman
While infielder Trey Miller and junior
keeping errors outfielder Jackson Glines each
down is a came up with clutch hits late in
key concern, the games.
Bakich is well But the easiest way to beat
aware that a team is to be aggressive
a any front can be early on. With senior ace Ben .
Big Ten season. Ballantine on the mound Friday,
ine, we've got a Bakich stresses the importance
o do," Bakich said. of winning the first game.
were 29-0, we'd "Friday night games
ngs to work on and are always competitive
s to make. It's just environments," Bakich said.
g to the process of "So we're going to look to set
r, and we're just the tone early on. Hitting is
p grinding on that contagious, both positive and
o making quality negative, so it's important to
stringing quality get going early and keep having
er." these guys taste the thrill of
h teams tied for victory."
Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

ByJUSTIN MEYER
Daily Sports Writer
The No. 5 Michigan softball
team has played 32 games in
five states, lost just six times,
beat current No. 1 UCLA, lost to
former No. 1 Florida and taken
the inside track for yet another
Big Ten Championship. But the
Wolverines haven't yet played
Ohio State.
"I don't get caught up in that,"
said Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins Wednesday. "That's
all emotional

Softball hosts rivalry
clashvs. Ohio State

stuff for the
fans. We have
a job to do: play
softball, play
well."
So maybe
this weekend's
series against
the Buckeyes
isn't such a big
deal. After all,
Ohio State (5-1
Big Ten, 17-15
overall) hasn't
made it much

Ohio State
at Michigan
Matchup: Ohio
State 17-15;
Michigan 26-6
When: Friday
6 P.M.,
Saturday 2
P.M., Sunday
1 P.M.
Where:
Alumni Field

and even had freshman righty
Megan Betsa turn in a complete
game Wednesday.
Betsa was dealing with
confidence issues, but showed
the movement on her pitches
that Hutchins has raved about
earlier this season when she
tossed a no-hitter and struck out
eight against Detroit Mercy.
The Buckeyes should give
Michigan more trouble at the
plate than it has had recently,
though, as sophomore pitcher
Olivia O'Reilly has held
opposing hitters to a.236 batting
average. Two recent stompings
of Indiana, by scores of 12-2 and
10-2, are also a good indication
that this series won't be a
cakewalk for the Wolverines.
Ohio State figures to struggle
against Michigan's pitching
core. First baseman Evelyn
Carrillo leads the Buckeyes with
a strong .380 batting average,
but that would be good enough
for just sixth on the Wolverines'
roster. The Michigan pitching
staff has been excellent against
top competition all year, and
Ohio State doesn't have the
depth to counter.
Junior lefty Haylie Wagner
has emerged as the best of the
bunch for the Wolverines, but
fellow junior Sara Driesenga and
Betsa have both made significant
strides after

returned to
Ann Arbor, having taken two of
three from a tough Iowa squad
in that 4-1 stretch.
As Minnesota comes to
town, the Wolverines (3-3 Big
Ten, 13-15-1 overall) will look
to continue their hot streak at
home against one of the Big
Ten's weaker offenses.
Michigan didn't get off to the
start it wanted, but by playing
twogames againstrankedteams
during its 24-game opening

to come from the batter's box.
With a .239 batting average,
the Golden Gophers (3-3, 15-9)
boast the conference's ninth-
ranked offense, something
that the Wolverine starters -
who posted a 1.08 earned-run
average and 13 strikeouts while
giving up just nine hits last
weekend against Iowa - hope
to capitalize on.
In the field, the Wolverines
hope to bounce back from
Wednesday's three-error

of a rivalry, with
against Michigan
Hutchins has said
the Wolverines ar
game of softball,t
nent, whether tha
Detroit or the Buc
But sopho-
more shortstop
Sierra Romero
is excited.
"Oh my gosh,
(last year) was
so fun," Romero
said. "When
you first come
here, you hear
so much about
Ohio State, Michi,
Michigan, and pl
day, there's just a
ent kind of tensio
are so loud."
Amid the Io
stretch of the seas
gan (6-0, 26-6), th
series against Ohi
highlight before
against No. 14 Min
The WolverinesI
a close game sin
Big Ten play, and I
their last seven ga
the eight-run me
goes into effect afti
The team has bee:
cylinders at the pla
40 runs in a thre
against Penn State

a 1-18 record
since 2004.
1 and will say
e playing the
not the oppo-
it opponent is
keyes.

being pushed
"There's just a in(The.
pitchers)
whole different are working
. ,, really hard,"
kind of tension., Romero said.
"As soon
as practice
starts, they're
gan State and gone with (assistant coach Jen
aying on that Brundage) and they're doing
whole differ- their thing in the cages. They're
n. The stands very fierce. When they're
pitching against us in practice,
ingest home I'm not going to lie, I'm scared.
;on for Michi- I feel like I'm in a game situation
e three-game because they're coming right at
o State is the me."
a homestand When Michigan takes the
nesota. field Friday, it will approach it
haven't played like any other game - as it has
ace beginning all season - but it won't be.
have cut six of Alumni Field will be packed, the
ames short by first truly dangerous opponent
rcy rule that of the Big Ten season will be
er five innings. in the opposing dugout and the
n firing on all Wolverines might have just a
ite, pouring on little more bounce in their step.
e-game series After all, it is Ohio State, and
last weekend, it is a rivalry game.
V i,

RELEASE DATE- Friday, April 4, 2014 .j,,E
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 351995 Will 46 Gallic girlfriends
1 Biblical kingdom 1 Not where it's Smith/Martin 48 Running back DO YOU HAVE ADD or ADHD?
near the Dead expectedto be Lawrencelfilm Haynes, firstAFL Try this helpful book, ONE PAGE AT
Sea 2 Windsor resident 37 Running pair player of the year A TIME: Getting through college
5 Blue 3 Scholarly milieu 38 Malicious types 51 With 50-Across, with ADHD. A first-hand, insightful
8 Chew (out) 4 With 20-Across, 40 Try, as a case do some self- experience. Available on Amazon.
12 Old empire working again. 41 Record examination,
builder aptly 42 Seer's challenge aptly
13 Construction 5 Fine cotton 43 Corrected, in a 53 With 52-Across,
materials threads watrvlamu,
16 Donald's address, 6 Awards named way trivial amount,
incmii for alocation 44 Dunn goddess aptly
17 Likes doted 7 Kids' card game 45 Prefix with carbon 56 Equinox mo.
note, in mas. 8 With 22-Across, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE;
18 Bob prec er what red hair pF! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
19 Tinytfraction ot a often does, aptly F L A I K I A F R A M E iefot~ayae/akn.
.9Tn rcino 9 Banner ' E L U E ! Riverifront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
min.L SLI LA UREN ! www.HRPAA.cem!
20 Seed4-Down 10Amtrak U N C U L E AS I N G _ _ __ __ __ __
22 See 8-Down 1 rewidastar 0 D O I H E A R E S T A ** AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
24Dner 14 Choruses R Ef0 A G I L I T Y T G 4 Bedroom house. Near B-School.
grads 15 Queasy near the 0 L 0 N T A R A B A E $2000/month. Call: (734)223-7777
26 Soweto's home: quay A D V A N C I N G
Abbr. 21 Roman god S T U D A 0 K I 4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
27 Great time, in 23 Earned T H E R U N N E R 1037 Packard - $2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
slang 29 Squeeze plays P H A S E I T A E L O p E 3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
28 Rain cloud involve them E N E V A I A I 0OM 2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
30 Fair ones 30 With 35-Across, M A Rur B E H A RL l
32Jlius Caesar's ingaptly A T T L E A LE A S T 4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
ist name 31 Pele's first C O AX E A I L E E pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
33 Said name E N L I S T S A L A DS utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
34 Tandoori bread 33 Jackson follower owordeditar@aoLnom 04/t4/t4 Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
35 See 30-Downx___________________04/04_14
36Grillingsound 1 2 3 4 a 7 8 s 10 11 ARBOR PROPERTIES
39 Macdlland
Macbeth nd 12 13 a14 1s 16 Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
41 Charity e.a Central Campus, Old West Side,
43 Chippat g 17 18 19 Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
4 Snda best 20 21 22 23 734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
46 Soccer star
Freddy ?4 25 26 27 EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
47 _ Simbel, siteoft2 2 3 3 $700-$1395, showings avail. M-F
Ramses I i0am-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
temples 32 33 Cappo/lDeincocappomanagement.com.
48 Michaels et al. Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
49 Galoot na 05 3 003708 __________________
5Se 51-Down39 s40 so 42HALF OFF SALE
52 See 53-Down HALF OFF SECURITY DEPOSIT
54 "Was _ loud?" a s a44a4 HALF OFF PROCESSING FEE
55 Having no room HALF OFF 1ST MONTHS RENT
for hedging 46n 47o a'0 as5*Limited Apartments Left*
57'20s tennisgreat no 51 52 53 University Towers & The 2nd Floor
Lacoste www.universitytowers-mi.com
58 Designer s4 55 50 536 S. Forest Ave.
Saarinen 734-761-2680
59 Cynical response s 59 so
60 Leftover bits NOW AVAIL. FOR FALL 2014!
61 40th St. ni istaN W VI FRF6t304
62 4Wh stFully furnished 2 bdrm apt - heat, wa-
6 Over herei B2t aia ter and parking included. A/C and laun-
{c}01eTartbuneCnntitAnntL 0/0/1 dry avail. Contact 734-904-6735.

CAREGIVERS: HELP SENIOR
with non-medical tasks in their homes
Flexible part-time work throughou
Washtenaw County, transportation re-
quired. Call 734-971-9023 for details
www.homeinstead.comt/227
WORK ON MACKINAC Island Thi
Summer - Make lifelong friends. Th
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudg
Shops are looking for help in all areas
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff
Sales Clerks, Kitchven, Baristas. Hous
tng, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com

JAMES COLLER/Daily
Sophomore Sierra Romero is especially excited for this weekend's matchup
against Ohio State, which Michigan has defeated 18 of the last 19 meetings.
READY FOR THE
SPRING GAME?
Or are you still waiting for spring?
EITHER WAY, WE'RE THERE. FOLLOW
ON TWITTER: @THEBLOCKM


0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Friday, April 4, 2014 - 7

'M' plays Battle at the
Big House vs. Fairfield

Men's lacrosse The success of th
looks to snap drove Michigan
tradition of its ov
three-game skid "Ohio State
successful with
By MINH DOAN Paul said. "They
Daily Sports Writer (national on-cam

ALLISON FARRAND/D,
Fifth-year senior Natalie Beilstemn will lead the Michigan women's gymnastics team into the NCAA Regionals Saturday.
/~ .
Women's gymnastics
heads to regionals

'M' must place in
top two of six to
advance to NCAA
Championships
By CINDY YU
Daily Sports Writer
The NCAA Regionals may be
the most underrated meet of the
season.
Considering NCAA
no trophy is
even awarded, Athens
NCAA Regional
Regionals
may seem Matchup: No.
especially 7 Michigan,
anticlimactic No. 6 Georgia,
No. 18 Central
for the No. Michigan, No.
7 Michigan 22 Ohio State,
women's North Carolina
gymnastics State, Rutgers
team, which When:
just came off Saturday
a huge wits to 4 P.M.
take home the Where:
Big Ten title. Athens, Ga.
Ho\ever, TV/Radio:
the opposite MGoBlue.com
could not be
more true.
"It's the most important meet
of the year," said senior Shelby
Gies.
Following the Big Ten
Championships, the meet serves
as a gateway to the NCAA
Championships, which means
that a poor performance could
spell an early end to the season.
To advance to its 20th NCAA
Championships, Michigan must
place in the top two Saturday
at the Stegeman Coliseum in
Athens, Ga. The team is slated to
face No. 6 Georgia, No. 18 Central
Michigan, No. 22 Ohio State,
North Carolina State and Rutgers.
Regardless of how well
Michigan has performed lately,
which is to say well, the team
can't overlook how crucial this
meet is. It's dangerous in that

the only scores that matter to
qualify for nationals are the
ones recorded at the respective
regional sites.
"It's new life," said Michigan
coach Bev Plocki. "If you go to
regionals and blow it, then there
is no nationals. Your season ends

in any other way than to be
that much more determined."
It's nearly impossible to
replace Sheppard, so the goal
is shifted toward collectively
as a team polishing the details,
picking up extra tenths from
hit handstands and stuck

While the fanfare of the
football spring
game might Fairfield at
dominate the
headlines Michigan
Saturday, the Matchup:
Michigan Fairfield 8-2;
men's lacrosse Michigan 4-7
team will When:
also play at Saturday
Michigan . 5 P.M.
Stadium in its Where:
annual Battle Michigan
at the Big Stadium
House. TV/Radio:
The MGoBlue.com
Wolverines
(1-1 Eastern
College Athletic League, 4-7
overall) will continue a tradition
that started with their first
year when they play conference
opponent No. 15 Fairfield (1-0,
8-2) after the spring game
concludes.
"When we first added varsity
lacrosse,the gamewas something
Dave Brandon and I talked
about, a chance to showcase a
new sport at Michigan," said
Michigan coach John Paul. "It
was an opportunity to have fans
who weren't really familiar with
lacrosse to get some exposure."
A lacrosse team following its
football team's spring game isn't
a new concept, though.
Ohio State has been playing
in its version of the annual game
- the "Showdown at the Shoe"
- for the past four years, since

season)
attendance
record a few
years ago."
The last
two years, the
game had an
added bonus
for fans as
Michigan
played its
rivals, the Bucke
the schedule for
be played agains
Next week,
travel down toO
in the Showdowt
For lacrosse,
trying to gain
Michigan, the tit
bringing awaren
Paul hopes it g
watching the
game a chance t
for.possibly the f
"(The game is
for Michigan f
know lacrosse or
into town for a b
to stick arounda
bit about our teat
But with the
of the upcom
Wolverines are
they do for any o
After falling
last week again
route to its thir
Michigan simpli
early on in the ga
"This week 1
making sure we

sat game is what simplified the strategy so the
to institute the guys don't have to make as many
wn. decisions early in the game and
's been very just play lacrosse."
their game," While Michigan is on a losing
actually set the streak, the Spags carry asix-game
tpus and regular winning streak, including wins
over No. 12
Massachusetts
a , and No. 14
"They're very ale.
consistent and solid "Fairfield
doesn't do a
at both ends." whole lot that's
*flashy," Paul
said. "They're
not going to
wow you like
yes. This season, some of the other top programs.
ced the game to They're very consistent and solid
t Fairfield. at both ends of the field. They
Michigan will don't make a lot of execution
hio State to play mistakes, and they shoot very,
n at the Shoe. very well."
a sport still But in the midst of the Stags'
popularity at consistency, Paul thinks the
ming is all about Wolverines have the advantage
ess to the game. with sophomore faceoff man Brad
;ives the crowd Lott.
spring football "I think we could have a little
o watch lacrosse bit of an advantage facing off,"
irst time ever. Paul said. "If we can get more
an opportunity posessions than them and match
ans who don't their offensive efficiency, we're
'who don't come goingtobeinaverygoodposition."
.ig football event With the spring game and the
and learn a little pomp that comes along with it,
m," Paul said. there could be a lot of distraction
added fanfare on Saturday with arguably the
ing game, the best team in the conference
preparing like comingto town.
ther game. But Michigan isn't worried
behind early about the football team. It has a
st Air Force en lacrosse game to play.
rd straight loss, "We're just preparing for the
fied its strategy next game, and the setting is
me. what it is," Paul said. "This is an
has been about important ECAC game, and we
're 100 percent have to make sure that we have

abruptly."
The
Wolverines are
on a nmission
to make a
statement
at regionals.
They have
their eyes set
on more than
just qualifying
for the next

landings.
Stepping
in for her on
"It's the most vault will be
senior Reema
important meet Zakharia,
who has been
of the year." in and out of
the lineup
throughout
the season.
Sophomore

competition. Rather, they want
to separate themselves from the
competition and prove that they
are serious contenders for the
coveted national title.
"We want to win that region
because that's going to be
the perception of what our
team's ability to win a national
championship is based on,"
Plocki said. "We want tochreate
buzz. We want people to be
talking about. our incredible
meet and we want to prove that
our Big Ten performance wasn't
a fluke."
A key component to this
picture is the role of the
alternates after sophomore
Austin Sheppard suffered a
season-ending broken ankle in
practice last week.
Sheppard, ranked No. 2 in the
nation on vault with an average
score of 9.945, will need her
teammates to fill her spot in the
lineup on vault, uneven bars and
balance beam.
"I think everyone feels
terrible for Austin," Plocki
said. "She had an opportunity
to do some big things in this
postseason, but I don't think
anybody on our team in any
way, shape or form is letting
her injury affect us

Lindsay Williams will be her
replacement in the other two
events.
"Bev puts emphasis on 7-8-9
in the lineup," Gies said. "They
are the most important people
on the team because they are
constantly pushing people in
the lineup. This is the perfect
opportunity to see how much
our team can dig to see how
much we have in us."
To better prepare for the
meet, the team also simulated
a mock meet with bye rotations
in practice this week to adjust to
the altered timing at regionals.
"It just gave them an
opportunity to at least think
about what it's going to feel
like to have to go and sit there
for 10 to 15 minutes and not let
your head get out of the context
of the meet," Plocki said. "It
was nice to finish with a strong
beam rotation, which we did
deliberately since we'll be
ending on beam at regionals."
Despite facing adversity a
number of times throughout
the season from scoring
discrepancies to injuries,
the Wolverines are ready to
continue what they have been
doing all season long: respond
with confidence and impress.


Make more than a difference.
Make your mark.

This summer, earn 10 credits
while you gain valuable work
experience as an intern.
Complete coursework that is relevant
to your future career-and apply that
knowledge directly in practice.

Join Success Academy Charter School's talent team to learn
about our vision of a world class education for all students.
With 32 schools serving 9,450 New York City scholars, we
seek individuals ready to become leaders, mentors, and role
models to young people in grades K-12.
Learn more and apply at: SuccessCareers.org

Traiisforming education - for good.

014Sccs cae y.EE

I


8 - Friday, April 4, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

What to Watch For: Spring Game

Mi
must
about
maybe
Sin
practi
began
Febru
before
Sprini
Break
has ta
optim
look
each
and
positi
group
long
as a te
Net
chanc
has Io
seasor
this s
The
like s
footba
final p
summ
"It
more
"We n
our ro
and t
situati
stuff,,
The
storyl
in the
Sature
1. V

By GREG GARNO inexperienced and young backs
Daily Sports Editor takes over behind an equally
inexperienced offensive line.
chigan coach Brady Hoke But enter Michigan offensive
like almost everything coordinator Doug Nussmeier
his team, except for and his new running back-by-
e his team as a whole. committee system he plans to
ce begin implementing this season.
ce Michigan Nussmeier will bring a system
in from Alabama that has utilized
ary Spring Game multiple running backs.
When: Nuosmeier and Michigan will
g Saturday 2 P.M. lean heavily on a pair of power
, Hoke Where: backs = sophomores Derrick
ken an Michigan Green and De'Veon Smith =
istic Stadium and make use of redshirt junior
on TV/Radl: Justice Hayes on third downs
player STN for a change of pace,
each "De'Veon has had a very
on good spring, Derrick has had
, before saying "we're a a better spring than he did
way from being any good" in the fall," Hoke said last
am Thursday. Thursday. "Justice Hayes has
arly every player has a done some really good things,
e to start, and the team and I'm really proud of him,
ng since moved past last both carrying the ball and in the
n's disappointing 7-5 finish protection game. It'd be nice to
pring, get Drake (Johnson) back and
ough it may not feel put him in the mix."
pring yet, the Michigan Green and Smith are both
ll team is set to host its physical backs, weighing more
practice of the year before than 220 pounds, but Green's
er. physicality is beginning to show
won't be a game, it'll be through after he was considered
like a practice," Hoke said, the No. 1 running back coming
eed reps. You go through out of high school by Rivals.com.
ster, we need as many reps "He looks better, his balance
eachable moments with is probably better, vision is
ional football - red zone better, just more quickness
third-down stuff." through coming out of the
Daily previews which holes," Hoke said.

ines to keep an eye on
e annual spring practice
day.
Nhich running back will

2. Is the offensive line
stronger without Lewan and
Schofield?

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daly
Sophomore running back Derrick Green is in the mix for the top spot in the backfield in offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier's running back-by-committee system.
us to mesh and come together 3. The defense is changing Norfleet and has the speed that record of 1,993 set by Steve
the way we didn't last year," said positions redshirt sophomores Amara Breaston,
redshirt sophomore guard Kyle Darboh and Jehu Chesson don't "This year, it's time for one to
Kalis. "I think we're going to be Speaking of change, Saturday quite have on the outside, come home," Norfleet said. "That
pretty good this year, will be the first chance to get a Canteen could be in the mix is the big goal this year, to bring a
"Having (Lewan and look at a linebacking corps that on special teams this season, couple back.
Schofield) was crucial for rotated returning starters. but watch closely to see just how "It's kind of frustrating, but at
helping us grow and stuff, but Fifth-year senior Jake Ryan big of an effect his speed has in the same time, it's something you
it's a totally different experience has moved from the outside to practice, just have to deal with. It's hard to
now." the inside, while senior Desmond return a kick - alot of things have
But everyone figures to Morgan has moved from the 5. Can Norfleet finally to happen. So, I'm just looking to
be in the mix, according to outside to the inside. break one off? put the team in good position and
Hoke, including early enrollee Ryan joins junior James Ross get as many yards as possible."
Mason Cole. The freshman III in the middle, where he Dennis Norfleet has had one After two years of adjustment
out of Florida has impressed figures to be more involved and stat looming over his head for the from high school, look to see if
teammates and coaches this active in the plays, as opposed to past two seasons: zero kickoffs "Wood," as Nussmeier recently
spring, so much so that he could being left alone and left to choice. returned for a touchdown. nicknamed him, can put all the
be in the mix. "Now, I'm in the middle of But he can certainly take pieces together.

impress the most? The obvious answer seems
like a no. Lewan is projected in
The better question might not the top 20 in this May's NFL
be who impresses the most, but 'Draft and Schofield should also
can anyone impress at all? be picked somewhere on the
A nightmare season for the final day.
Wolverines' ground game was But a young group figures
only compounded by the loss to be stronger, thanks to more
of its No. 1 back in Fitzgerald chances to bond and work
Toussaint and senior tackles together.
Taylor Lewan and Michael "I think the five of us all

But whatever happens
Saturday may have little effect
on the end result, after Hoke
changed his line for at least half

everything," Ryan said. "As
Coach Hoke said, I'm more
prolific (there), I guess."
Ryan won't get a chance
Saturday to fully show off how
far he's come in the transition,
but after he managed to record
30 tackles last season in limited
time, his increased reps should
only bring improvement.
4. Keeping up with Canteen
There's been a lot of buzz
about freshman wide receiver
Freddy Canteen being the
fastest man on the team.
Canteen clocked a 4.43 in the
40-yard dash entering spring
practice, and has presented one
of the more explosive options off
the line of scrimmage Michigan
has seen in quite some time.
But very few people have
talked about Canteen's ability to
run routes, except Hoke.
"(Canteen is a) good route
runner, a guy who is entrenched
in trying to be the best he can,"
Hoke said. "He learns well,
he listens well and truly has a
passion for the game."
Canteen figures to see time
in the slot this season, replacing
Drew Dileo and providing a
taller option than junior Dennis
Norfleet. At 6-foot-1, Canteen
has an extra six inches over

solace in approaching the record
for number of returns and return Daily Sports Editors Max
yards. With 229 more yards, the Cohen and Alexa Dettelbach
junior will break the program contributed reporting

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Junior Dennis Norfleet has yet to return a kick for a touchdown in his career.


SAVE BIG before Spring Commencement
Guaranteed LOWEST PRICES ON CAMPUS
Purchase your CAP & GOWN,
ANNOUNCEMENTS, DIPLOMA FRAME and
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CLASS RING!
mihiganyearbook.com/grad
Official Sponsor of Grad Extravaganza
Graduation brings many changes. Your checking
account doesn't have to be one of them. Talk to
a TCF representative today!

The Breast Cancer Summit
Saturday, April 12, 2014, loam - 3pm
NEW LOCATION: U-M North Campus Research Complex
2800 Plymouth Rd. Building #18, Ann Arbor, Mi 48109
FREE PARKING
Breast cancer survivors, caregivers, and
members of the general public concerned
about breast cancer and risk reduction are
welcome to attend. The summit is free and
will feature medical experts from the
university of Michigan Comprehensive
Cancer Center.
For more information, and to
view the complete program, visit
mcancer.org/breastsummit
or call 734-998-7071.
Hosted by the University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center Breast
Oncology and Community Outreach
Pro grams with support from the
Mid-Michigan Affiliate of Susan G. Komen,
UM School of Public Heath, and QVC
presents FFANY Shoes on Sale.
see F
soen .I

ARE YOU
ANEW
YORK
YANKEES
FAN?
Yes?
THEN GET OUT
OF THIS STATE.
No?
THEN FOLLOW
US ON TWITTER:
@THEBLOCKM

I

I


