46FN4)F

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, February 3,2014

michigandailycom

TECHNOLOGY
MHacks
champions
push ahead

Former Gen. David Petraeus discusses using physical activity as a way to adjust to civilian life during a speech at the sixth annual Student Veterans of America
dinner at the Union Friday.
Former C rctotalks
vet eran support, fitness

Winners to launch
"WorkFlow" in
Apple Store later
this month
By WILLIAM LANE
Daily Staff Reporter
The winners of MHacks are
coming to an app store near you.
The overall winners of
Mhacks - a 36-hour program-
ming competition hosted in
Detroit this month -are prepar-
ing to launch "WorkFlow," an
app allowing task automation on
the iPad. While iPad users are
traditionally confined to working
on only one app at a time, Work-
Flow aims to make working on
multiple apps feasible.
The developers have created
about 40 actions in the applica-
tion, including opening a URL,
editing a photo, sharing a mes-
sage or sending a text message.
Users have the ability to select
actions from a list in the interface
and dragthem into the workflow.
Once the play button is pressed,
the app will automatically com-
plete the various actions in order

of how they were selected.
Veeral Patel, a high school
junior from Bergenfield, New
Jersey, was a member of the
four-man development team
that worked on the app. Since
the competition, he has been
expanding it through the devel-
opment of a wireless printing
option.
The team intends for the app
to eventually unify other apps
and provide more cross-system
integration.
"We started out at the Hack-
athon building all of these
actions ourselves, but the next
step before we launch is to cre-
ate a way for other apps to make
their own specifications," Patel
said.
Nick Frey, a high school stu-
dent from Iowa who also worked
on the development team, said
the group-was inspired by the
ability of computers to manage
multiple programs and wanted
to bringthat functionality to tab-
lets. Ari Weinstein, a freshman
at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology who worked on
the team, said the largest chal-
lenge was creating a data model
to make each action work.
See MHACKS, Page 3A

Petraeus inspires
Student Veterans
of America chapter
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
Former CIA Director David
Petraeus touted physical fitness
as an outlet for both physical
and mental health Friday at the

fifth annual dinner held by the
University's Student Veterans
of America chapter in the Union
ballroom.
During his speech, Petraeus
commended the University for
the work it has done to accom-
modate veterans by providing
in-state tuition and preferred
registration to all former sol-
diers. He added that that Michi-
gan maintained a "rich tradition
of military service" since the

Civil War, when Michiganders
were some of the first to volun-
teer for the Union army in Vir-
ginia.
Petraeus said soldiers return-
ing from war feel that they have
left their brothers and sisters
behind, and that many veterans
have both physical and mental
wounds from their time in ser-
vice. Both of these issues, he
said, mean veterans have a hard
time assimilating back into their

home communities.
Petraeus said group fitness
can be therapeutic for veterans,
as it parallels the pack motiva-
tion used in combat. He added
that, as a paratrooper, he felt
that for individuals to be physi-
cally and mentally tough was
essential to the pack's success.
"Exercise not only trains the
body to be physically resilient, it
also helps our hearts, lungs and
See CIA, Page 3A


GOVERNMENT
Snyder leads opponent
in campaign fundraising

STROLL OFF

Governor has $3
million .more than
Schauer in warchest
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily StaffReporter
Campaign finance reports
released Friday reveal Republi-
cans have a fundraising edge for
the upcoming Michigan guber-

natorial election with higher
campaign funds.
According to the report,
Republican Gov. Rick Snyder
currently has four times the
amount of campaign money at
his disposal than his Democratic
challenger, former congressional
representative Mark Schauer.
Snyder started 2014 with
around $4 million in donations,
according to the report. Some
of these funds went towards an

advertisement during Sunday
night's Super Bowl game, which
can cost millions of dollars for a
single 30-second slot.
Schauer has garnered $1.6 mil-
lion in contributions since enter-
ing the race in June and currently
has $1 million in his war chest.
His biggest donors were the Ser-
vice Employees International
Union Michigan Council and
the Michigan Laborer's Politi-
See SNYDER, Page 3A

ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Students and alumni cash in
on global bitcoin 'gold-rush'

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
Members of Phi Beta Sigma perform at the Annual Blue and White Stroll Off hosted by Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity
and Zeta Phi Beta Sorority at the Great Lakes Room in Palmer Commons Saturday.
CAMPUS LIFE
Science Learning Center art
contest merges many disciplines

Cryptocurrency
craze draws new
business growth
By ADAM GLANZMAN
Daily StaffReporter
The bitcoin craze is often
equated to the Gold Rush of 1849,
when hundreds of thousands of
fortune-seekers flocked to Cali-

fornia to test their luck and strike
gold. Those who actually found
riches were the ones selling the
gold mining equipment, food and
resources the miners needed.
At the University, however,
bitcoins are the target of the
modern gold rush. Bitcoins are
a digital currency, or cryptocur-
rency, that can be traded from
person to person. It was invented
in 2009 and has since grown in
prominence among techies. It's

now beginning to enter main-
stream commercial and financial
spheres.
However, bitcoins are avail-
able exclusively online and are
not backed by a central bank like
the U.S. Dollar. These qualities
have raised speculations about
how stable the currency is and
many lawmakers are displeased
by bitcoins' history of being used
for illegal activities.
See BITCOINS, Page 3A

Competition brings
in artists to explore
multidisciplinarity
By ALEX DITOMMASO
For the Daily
Left brain, meet right brain.
The Science Learning Cen-
ter hosted the its first ever Sci-

ence As Art Exhibition Friday,
giving undergraduate students
the chance to through express
their creativity through science-
based art.
The contest received 27 sub-
missions from students with
backgrounds ranging from neu-
roscience to biomedical engi-
neering to art to economics,
Claire Sandier, director of the
Science Learning Center, said.

"Science is in and behind
everything, and what we were
hoping to do with this contest
was encourage students to stop
and think about that and consid-
er the science in their own life,"
Sandler said.
Five judges oversaw the con-
test. Deirdre Spencer, senior
associate librarian at the Fine Art
Library, said her academic back-
See SCIENCE, Page 3A



WEATHER HI:23 GOT A NEWS TIP?
T R5 Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
TOMORROW L 15 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Sorority sisters send house mom to Superbowl
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX
Vol. CXXIV, No. 59
0204OThe Michigan Daily
michigandailyrcom

NEWS.........................2A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
SUD O KU .....................2A A RTS...........................7A
OPINION...................4A SPORTSMONDAY..........1B

v

0


2A - Monday, February 3, 2014

r FLK( T

Dylan performs amid convtroversy

Forty years ago this week
(February3, 1974)
Bob Dylan performed in
Crisler Arena two days after an
investigation by The Michigan
Daily revealed an Ann Arbor
scalping ring was connected to
the concert.
Dylan's tour promoter made a
public appeal at the event for fans
to help break up the scalping ring.
He announced that he would be
conducting an investigation of
the scalping accusations.
The Daily had previously
reported that in a survey of ticket
holders in Crisler Arena Section
B, not one person had reported
buying the tickets through legiti-
mate means.
CRIME NOTES
All shook up DE
WHERE: East Ann Arbor m
Medical Center
WHEN: Thursday at WH
around 12:10 p.m. Me
WHAT: Two individuals WH
were involved in argument aro:
that escaleted to one person WH
shaking the other, Univer- pho
sity Police reported. The roo
two were seperated without Jan
further incident. Uni
Pole, meet M
mirror m
WHERE: Lot SC-10 WH
WHEN: Thursday around WH
5:20 p.m. aror
WHAT: A University vehi- WH
cle accidentally hita pole seve
in a parking lot, University men
police reported. The vehi- repc
cle's side mirror suffered den
several scrapes as a result of rehc
the incident. repo

Twenty-five years ago this
week (February 7,1989)
Philosophy Prof. Peter Railton
proposed that LSA graduation
requirements should include a
class on race, ethnicity and rac-
ism at a monthly LSA faculty
meeting. The class, tentatively
called University Course 299,
would go into effect for all under-
graduates entering the University
after the fall of 1990.
The course was created by a
drafting committee of 20 fac-
ulty members from various disci-
plines. The meeting also created
an oversight committee for the
course, with membership includ-
ing seven faculty members and
two students.

Ten years ago this week
(February 3, 2004)
The newly formed student
coalition Our Voices Count had
their first meeting in response
to changes in University sexual
assault prevention services.
Those changes included mov-
ing the Sexual Assault Preven-
tion and Awareness Center's
two designated counselors to
full time roles at Counseling
and Psychological services and
transferring the center's crisis
line to SAFE House, a county
provider for sexual assault ser-
vices.M
- SHOHAM GEVA

Folk-pop songwriter Ingrid Michaelson performs
at the Ann Arbor Folk Festival at Hill Auditorium
Saturday.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
(Tfic Iftan Bailg
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4015 ost. 0250 734-418-4010 est. 0240
pjsaahin@michigasdailycom kvoigtman@micuigasdailycom
Newsroom News Tips
734-418-4115 opt.3 news@michigandaily.com
Corrections letters to the Editor
corrections@michigandaily.com tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Arts Section Editorial Page
arts@michigandaily.com opinioncmichigandaily.com
Sports Sectio Phototraphy Section
sports@michigandaily.com photo@michigandaily.com
Display Sales Classified Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com classified@michigandaily.com
OnlineSales Finance
onlineads@michigandaily.com finance@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lernifertalfas ManagigNesEditor jcalfas@rmichigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS: Ian Dillinghm,SamGringas,WilGeenbergRachePremnck
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Anabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michae Sugerman
Megan Mctonald and
taniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Zitiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENIO SORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
ishn Lynch and jplynch,@michigandaily.com
AkshaytSethManagingArtsEditors akse@ mihigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
^sSISTNT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakob and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathewand
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
oSoEOR OOEDORSe: tikoBarron adRubyeorlou
A STAN T PHOTOEDITORS:llisonFarrandTrcyKo, erraMolengraffand Nicholas
Willams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela Vasquez Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mockers and Alicia Kovalcheck
tanlina loan MagainERdinor statement@michigandaily.com
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: RubyWallau
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford OnlineEditor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary WangNational Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
stdns tte nvrit fM shgn.Oepu syis avalabe free o chareto all eaders Addtionacopes ma
b c e a y' so cor6 e$2.Subscrt ionsfora rterm ,staing n Septemb iUS areo
biner r Ja n ythe gh a rl se $ 15em r onThe Asep sotedr hrogh eAl)is0s19c5.eor liates s
are subjct t orde sbscriptionratO n-campr s subscriptionsfor lltrmarO 35. Sbcrtio us
be,,prJaid. Th e cignDiy s, mmro f The Asocia.ted ress adrTe o ciate o llekgiate ress

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

on't stop the
usic
IERE: East Ann Arbor
dical Center
HEN: Thursday at
und 9:50 a.m.
FAT: A pair of head-
nes were taken from a
rm sometime between
. 29th and Jan. 30th,
versity Police reported.
ore pipes,
ore problems
[ERE: Northwood 1
[EN: Thursday at
und 7:15 p.m.
FAT: A burst pipe caused
ere flooding in the apart-
nt, University police
sorted. Apartment resi-
ts will be temporarily
oused elsewhere while
airs occur.

Campaign
finance lecture
WHAT: Yale Prof. Heather
Gerken will dicsuss the Citi-
zens United Supreme Court
ruling.
WHO: Ford School of
Public Policy
WHEN: Today from 4:30-
5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Annenberg
Auditorium, Weill Hall
Religion and
law symposium
WHAT: The interactions
between religious values
and the secular court sys-
tem, especially as it pertains
to shifting ideas of gender
and sexuality, will be dis-
cused.
WHO: Institute for Resarch
on Women and Gender
WHEN: Today from 9:00
a.m to 5:30 p.m.
WHERE: Assembly Hall,
Rackham Graduate School

Dance festival
A sudden volcanic erup-
showing tion on Saturday in Indo-
nesia has caused the
WHAT: The 42nd Dance on death of at least 15 people,
Camera Festival, the oldest the New York Times report-
dance film festival in the ed. Over 30,000 people have
world, will be screened live been evacuated from the area
from New York. since the start of volcanic
WHO: School of Music, asiieythertnov me
Theater, and Dance actovity there n November.
WHEN: Today at 6 p.m.
WHERE: Helmut Stern The Michigan men's
Auditorium, Musuem of Art basketball team
suffered its first loss of
Big Ten play at Indiana on
CLARIFICATION: Sunday, 63-52, moving into a
Athletic Department spokes- tie with Michigan State for
man DaveAblauf clarified
his comments in a Jan. 31 first place in the conference.
article "Gibbonsfax sent >> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY
Dec.19 camefrom 'U'foot-
ball," saying he could not
confirm a Dec.19 meeting Philip Seymour Hoff-
between Gibbons andAth- man, a famous actor
letic Department officials. and 2005 Academ
His clarification was sent y
by e-mail on Jan. 31. Award winner, was found
dead in his apartment Sun-
0 Please report any day morning, the Wall Street
error in the Daily to Journal reported. The exact
corrections@michi- cause of death has not yet
gandaily.com. been determined.

Presidential hopefuls begin
campaigning in Afghanistan

a a a m p n

- - ----A .1- - rnn --11-

As NAiT forces rigging marred the 2009 polls. venues.
The eventual winner will face The specter of violence hangs
withdraw, elections the tough task of continuing to over the election season, with
fight the bloody Taliban insur- the Talibanvowingtodisruptthe
will test Afghan gency, overseeing the end of the polls and two political workers
inmternationalcoalition's combat killed in western Afghanistan on
political stability mission and possibly deciding if the eve of the campaign launch.
any residual foreign forces will The government provides each
remain next year. candidate three armored vehi-
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) - Karzai - who has more or less cles and three pickup trucks,
Campaigning officially opened led Afghanistan in the 12 years plus 35 armed policemen as pro-
Sunday in Afghanistan's presi- after the intervention to oust tection.
dential election, with 11 candi- the Taliban's extremist Islamic There is no clear front-runner,
dates vying to succeed President regime for sheltering al-Qaida's though opposition leader Abdul-
Hamid Karzai in polls seen as a leadership after the Sept. 11 ter- lah arguably has an early advan-
crucial test of whether the coun- rorist attacks on the U.S. - is tage in name recognition and
try can ensure a stable political constitutionally barred from campaign experience, having
transition. running for a third term. gained 31 percent of the vote as
The April 5 presidential vote On a cold and rainy Sunday runner-up to Karzai in the 2009
will be held in a climate of uncer- morning in Kabul, campaign elections. He is popular among
tainty as NATO combat forces workers hastened to hang post- Afghanistan's Tajik ethnic
ready their withdrawal at the ers on lampposts and plaster minority, but it is unclear if he
end of 2014. If successful, the their candidates' faces on bill- can attract votes of enough Pash-
election will usher in the first boards. Several political heavy- tuns, the largest ethnic group, to
handover from one elected presi- weights including opposition win office.
dent to another in Afghan his- leader Abdullah Abdullah and Abdullah voiced support
tory. former finance minister Ashraf Sunday for Afghanistan enter-
Security is a major concern Ghani held rallies in local wed- ing into a security agreement
in the election, as is potential ding halls, while security forces with the U.S. that would allow
fraud after allegations of vote- with machine guns guarded the a few thousand foreign forces
to remain to train and equip
Afghanistan's army and police,
HUESUsaying the country still needs
outside support.
"God willing, with the sign-
ing of this agreement, today or
tomorrow, the concerns of our
people would be over," Abdullah
3 8 told supporters.
Karzai has refused to sign the
agreement, and none of the other
8 3 7 candidates has addressed the
issue.
41 1The lineup of other candidates
illustrates that patronage and
alliances among the elite still
8 1 2 form the bedrock of Afghani-
stan's politics, where tribal
elders and warlords can marshal
, 5 votes.
The contenders include Ghani,
a Pashtun former finance minis-
ter who oversaw the transition
of security from foreign forces
6 2 to the Afghan army and police,
and who ran and lost in the 2009
elections. He promised that if
2 3 7 elected, he would strengthen sta-
bility across the country, where
5 1 8 6 insurgent attacks and bombings
are a daily reality.
"This campaign is for the
people, and starting from here, I
believe that there will not be any
fraud this time," Ghani said.

Punxsutawney Phil is held by Ron Ploucha after emerging from his burrow Sunday on Gobblers Knob in Punosatawney,
Pa., to see his shadow and forecast six more weeks of winter weather.
Pennsylvania groundhog
foresees etne inter

Thousands watch
as groundhog
gives gloomy
2014 prediction
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa. (AP)
- Emerging from his lair on
Super Bowl Sunday, groundhog
Punxsutawney Phil couldn't
predict the winner of the big
game but his handlers said he
was sure of his weather forecast:
There will be six more weeks of
winter.
Pennsylvania's famed
groundhog was roused from
slumber at 7:28 a.m. Sunday and,
according to the Punxsutawney
Groundhog Club, directed
handler Bill Deeley to a scroll
that contained the prediction
- along with a Super Bowl
reference.
As usual, thousands of fans
turned out on Groundhog Day
to see the furry rodent, the
most famous of a small group of
groundhogs said to forecast the
weather.
Legend has it that if the
groundhog sees his shadow on

Feb. 2, winter will last another
month-and-a-half. If he doesn't
see it, spring will come early.
In reality, Phil's prediction
is decided ahead of time by a
group called the Inner Circle,
whose members don top hats and
tuxedos for the annual ceremony
on Gobbler's Knob, the tiny
hill in the town for which he's
named about 65 miles northeast
of Pittsburgh.
The prediction fell on Super
Bowl Sunday for the first time.
The closest the game previously
came to coinciding with
Groundhog Day was in 2009,
when the just-down-the-road
Pittsburgh Steelers defeated
the Arizona Cardinals 27-23 the
night before Phil's forecast.
Thisyear's NFL championship
pitting the Seattle Seahawks
and Denver Broncos at MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford,
N.J., will be the Super Bowl's
48th installment, while Phil has
been predicting the weather
since 1886.
In a nod to the game, Phil's
forecast came in the form of a
Super Bowl-themed poem:
"A Super Bowl winner I will
not predict, / But my weather
forecast, you cannot contradict, /

That's not a football lying beside
me / It's my shadow you see / So,
six more weeks of winter it shall
be!"
This year's Groundhog Day
celebration marks a winter that
has brought extreme cold to
vast stretches of the country,
including areas of the South
wholly unaccustomed to severe
winter weather. A snow and ice
storm paralyzed Atlanta and
other Southern cities last week.
Phil has now seen his shadow
101 times while failing to see it
17 times, according to the Inner
Circle. There are no records for
the remaining years.
The National Climatic Data
Center has put Phil's forecasts
to the test and found them sorely
lacking, declaringthe groundhog
has "no predictive skill."
"It really isn't a 'bright' idea
to take a measure such as a
groundhog's shadow and use it as
a predictive meteorological tool
for the entire United States," the
data center says on its website,
helpfully if somewhat obviously.
Other prognosticating
groundhogs include Staten
Island Chuck in New York and
General Beauregard Lee in
Atlanta.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

MHACKS
From Page 1A
While developing the app was
not an easy task, the whole team
was grateful for the support of
the other developers at MHacks.
Weinstein said once people
understand how the app could
benefit them, they expressed
greater interest in its develop-
ment.
CIA
From Page 1A
muscles learn to cope more effec-
tively withthe tension and emotion
of particularly stressful times,"
Petraeus said.
For this reason, he always
tried to set aside a time to go run-
ning during limited downtime in
combat. He would often run with
captains and majors to get their
perspective on issues at hand.
Later on, as the director of the CIA,
he established the "Run with the
Director" program as means to
meet his staff.
"If you want to get the truth,
run with someone for five, six or
seven miles, during which candor
increases with each passing mile,"
he said.
Petraeus added that Team
RWB's group dynamic is a recipe
for success because it allows for
individuals to set goals and the
group to monitor each individual's
progress.
"To live as fully as we might,
we must constantly challenge our-
selves to make the most of our God-
given talents," he said. "We have
to set ambitious, albeit achievable
SNYDER
From Page 1A
cal League. In a press release, he
reported 6,300 of his contributions
were of $100 or less - over three
times the number of small-money
contributors to Snyder.
In his press release, Schauer
said he did not believe his smaller
campaign funds would hinder his
chance of winning, suggesting
Snyder's larger campaign account
indicates that he is favored by the
wealthy and is not in touch with
the middle class.
"We fully expect Governor
Snyder will have strong support
from billionaires like Dick DeVos,"
Schauer said. "But no matter how
much money the Governor spends,
he can't whitewash his cuts to edu-
cation and the job-killing Snyder
Retirement Tax. Make no mistake,
we will have the resourcesawe need
to win this November."
The report is the first that
includes the effects of a new cam-

The team received the top
prize at MHacks - $5000 in
prize money split between the
four members. The app also won
"The Best iOS Award," spon-
sored by Apple, for which each
developer received an iPad Mini.
The developers are currently
working on making the system
more logical, so that different
actions can happen depending
on the causal result of the previ-
ous action.
goals, and importantly, we need to
share them with friends, family,
colleagues and bosses and then do
our best to achieve them."
He said this mentality is appli-
cable everywhere - for exercise,
academics, relationships, faith and
even the workplace. At the end of
Petraeus' speech, Erwin awarded
him with a special, Team RWB bit-
coin.
Prior to Petraeus' speech, LSA
junior Tim Nellett, SVA treasurer,
said the organization is an outlet
for student veterans to bond and
push each other to be great. He
added that SVA has helped him
transition from soldier to student.
"Don't do it alone," Nellett said.
"In this way, the SVA has been
instrumental in connecting veter-
ans together to find that sense of
camaraderie we were all missing."
Team Red, White & Blue, a non-
profit organization that employs
veterans to facilitate fitness,
received the funds raised for the
event. University alum Mike Erwin,
a US Army Major, created the foun-
dation and was one of the opening
speakers for Petraeus on Friday.
"Physical activity hasbeen engi-
neered out of life over the past 20
to 25 years," Erwin said. "We need
paign finance law that Snyder
signed in December. The law dou-
bles the caps on individual dona-
tions and donations from political
action committees, increasingindi-
vidual donations to $6,800 and
political action committee dona-
tions to $68,000.
The new law also requires can-
didates to file two new campaign
finance reports before the election
and that automated telephone calls
and other political ads identify
their sponsor. In a news release,
Snyder said the bill will "bring an
unprecedented level of transpar-
ency and openness to the state's
political system."
"Our democracy thrives and our
governmentis at itsbest whenthere
is openness and accountability, all
while our freedoms of speech and
association are protected," he said.
The bill's detractors believe it
serves as a way for large donors to
give candidates more money - and
increase their influence. Public Poli-
cy Prof. John Chamberlin, one of its
critics, called the bill "very partisan"
and Snyder's justification of it, to

Monday, February 3, 2014 - 3A
However, WorkFlow is also
not the only project that they are
working on. Weinstein and Con-
rad Kramer, a high school stu-
dent from South Jersey, are the
developers behind "DeskCon-
nect," an app that moves web
pages, documents and pictures,
among devices in one tap.
Users can expect to see Work-
Flow available in the Apple App
Store in late February.
a segment of our population that
wants to take that challenge and
help fix it. That's where we're look-
ing long term. Veterans are lead-
ers. Veterans have more training
in physical fitness than any other
segment of the population. In due
time you're going to see us contin-
ue to develop that leadership in our
chapters."
Engineering senior Josh Simis-
ter, SVA chapter president and for-
mer Marine, opened the event by
announcing the group's next presi-
dent, LSA junior Will Kerkstra.
Although the night's main agenda
was to celebrate the importance of
physical fitness and its importance
tostudentveterans, there were also
some somber moments.
As part of his introductory
speech, Simister pointed to an
empty table in the front of the ball-
room. The table represented troops
who are prisoners of war or miss-
ing in action.
Simister held back tears as he
explained how each component on
the table represented something: a
lemon to symbolize these soldiers'
"bitter fate," roses to symbolize
their bloodshed and a candle that
stood for the "light of hope that
lives in our hearts."
increase transparency, "nonsense."
"If you believe, as I do, that
money shouldn't drive politics but
citizen participation should, the
old campaign contribution limits
were just fine and they were more
constraining on a couple hundred
people - most people don't make
contributions at all," Chamberlin
said. "The citizens of Michigan
are not well served by covering up
who gives the money and allowing
big contributions to influence out-
comes of elections."
With regard to the upcoming
mayoral election in Ann Arbor,
Chamberlin said he believes it is
too early for funds to make a differ-
ence in each candidate's campaign.
Though money does matter in poli-
tics, he said, how much of it a can-
didate has at a given time does not.
"I'm not sure that being able
to run Super Bowl ads is all that
important, it's flashy and it let's
people know you're running,"
Chamberlin said. "But I think
in the long run it matters if one
candidate has significantly more
money than another candidate."

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Engineering junior Daniel Bloch participates in the first official Michigan Bitcoiners meeting at the on Jan.15.
Bitco ins at the'U

BITCOINS
From Page 1A
Nevertheless, a small com-
munity of bitcoin users at the
University have created their
own business to cash in on bit-
coin's rise in popularity.
Engineering junior Robert
Greenfield is in the process of
creating an online cryptocur-
rency firm with a few friends
where people can trade curren-
cies for profit.
"The really crazy thing about
cryptocurrency is that you can
recreate anything and every-
thing that is already used for
regular money and have a great
startup from it," Greenfield said.
University alum Kinnard
Hockenhull became interested
in bitcoin in 2011 during his
junior year. He later left school
to pursue his bitcoin business,
but like many, Hockenhull was
skeptical when he was first
introduced to bitcoin.
"I didn't really understand
it at first," Hockenhull said. "I
kind of thought it was either
going to be a fad or some sort of
abstract scam."
Hockenhull's business, Bit-
Box, started out as a platform
for users to trade currencies, but
is now expanding its operations
to enable faster transactions of
bitcoin similar to the Facebook-
meets-Paypal app Venmo.
BitBox has over 8,000 users
and has coordinated over
$300,000 in transactions,
according to Hockenhull.
Engineering and LSA junior
Daniel Bloch is working with
Hockenhull to expand BitBox.
He is also starting his own bit-
coin-based non-profit organiza-
tion called Coingive that aims
SCIENCE
From Page 1A
ground gave her a unique perspec-
tive as a judge.
"One of the great things about
studying art history and the visual
arts and also as an art librarian is
how it can really change the way
you see the world and the way you
find beauty and complication in the
visual world around you," Spencer
said.
The pieces were judged on their
artistic value, quality of artist's
statement and blend of science with

to benefit local charities. Bit- payment.
coin donation websites already "I want Ann Arbor to become
exist, but Bloch hopes to grow an area where we're one of the
this platform through Coingive first cities to have 1 percent of our
while making bitcoin payment businesses accepting bitcoin,"
more accessible to local chari- Goci said.
ties. However, many remain skep-
"Charities would very rarely tical about bitcoin's future. Since
not accept money, but it's not bitcoin's soaring popularity and
easy for them to accept bitcoin," media coverage, many more cryp-
Bloch said. "They don't have the tocurrencies have been created.
time to learn how to do it, and Economics Prof. Miles Kimball
they're not going to pay some- believes that electronic curren-
body to do it." cies will be vital in the future,
Bloch believes that in order but investing in bitcoin now is
for bitcoin to become a univer- unwise.
sally trusted and used curren- "Bitcoin has no long-run future
cy, more commercial retailers because government-sponsored
must start accepting it as a form electronic money will displace it,"
of payment. Websites such as Kimball wrote in an e-mail.
Overstock.com, OKCupid, and Goci also said bitcoin may
Wordpress are currently accept- eventually be replaced by a differ-
ing bitcoin. ent cryptocurrency.
In the Metro Detroit area, "I think bitcoin is just a step-
there are a few merchants who ping stone to a different crypto-
have recently begun accepting currency that will finally become
bitcoin. However, there are cur- the one that's accepted in the
rently no Ann Arbor businesses marketplace," Goci said. "The
that accept bitcoin, Bloch said. next one will be the one that's
The Bronx Deli in Farmington accepted by the masses."
Hills has been accepting bitcoin
since November 2011.
University alum Scott Goci,
developer at Alfa Jango, a web-
based consulting company in
Ann Arbor, agreed with Bloch b
that the spread of
bitcoin depends
on more brick-
and-mortars
retailers accept-
ing it as a form of
AMMACKENS

art.
"It's great if they can use science
to think in terms of artistic vision,
and I think it can help them enjoy
and understand in another way
what they do," Spencer said. "Itm
hopingsome of the contestants will
continue to create and exhibit."
LSA senior Trisha Paul won
the grand prize for her collage,
titled "I Will Wear My Heart
Upon My Sleeve." She said she
created the work, which detailed
four different samples of tissues,
all resembling hearts, before she
was aware of the contest.
"What I love is the whole idea of
expressing your emotions openly

and freely, and I think my col-
lage demonstrates that the heart
shape-the shape we commonly
associate with the heart - can exist
elsewhere in the body," Paul said.
"Love and passion are things that
exist throughout the body, not just
in the heart."
Paul added that her experiences
in both humanities and science
have complemented each other at
the University.
"Studying English has helped
me to better understand science,
and studying science has helped
me to have abetter vocabulary and
to better communicate what I'm
doing in English," Paul said.


4A - Monday, February 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A -Monay, ebrary , 214 Te Mchign Dily mihigadaiyco

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Opening the door to Detroit
Snyder's plan to issue 50,000 visas will help Detroit grow
Detroit's population peaked at 1.86 million residents in 1950 and
has been decline ever since. Today, Detroit's population is
about the same as it was in 1910, before the auto boom began.
Consequently, the city lacks the necessary tax base to cover its vital
services and the highly trained workers needed to fill positions in high-
technology industries. Gov. Rick Snyder has announced a plan to bolster
the population by issuing 50,000 visas over a span of five years to highly
educated immigrants in an ambitious effort to boost the city's population
and economic growth. While the plan would likely aid economic
recovery by stabilizing the housing market, providing human resources
to companies and broadening the tax base, the effort could effectively
marginalize the current population. Aiding Detroit's recovering economy
is a must for the state, but Snyder must be sure not to alienate long-term

CARLINA DUAN|I
Our sacrifice, our shame

When I was eleven, I was called a
Chink by three boys at a water park.
I was wearing my favorite blue Nike
suit, had just gotten my first period
a month before, and adored my fish
tank of silver guppies, which swam
mercilessly back and forth through
a sleeve of cool water each night.
I didn't understand race, and I
didn't understand love.
What I understood was that on
Multi-Culti Day in the sixth grade,
my mother had made six containers
of dumplings for my class. The mois-
ture had condensed on the Tupper-
ware lids in shameful, wet circles;
Casey had wrinkled his nose and
asked, "What's that smell?"
What I understood was that I
smelled differently. I wasn't allowed
to shave my legs, I didn't know how
to translate "deodorant" into Man-
darin, and my favorite meal involved
pouring cheddar cheese Goldfish
crackers on top ofabowl of rice.
Still, I waved the American
flag. Still, I loved comic books and
strawberry popsicles. At home, my
mother spoke to me in Mandarin
and I responded back in English. As
an American-born girl of eleven, we
had a system. In public, I became
the mom - checking out our
library books, enunciating English
words for her at Kroger's, translat-
ing Mapquest directions so she'd
swerve left onto Newport Road. I
was the one who taught my mom
how to make macaroni and cheese.
I told her what to write to my teach-
ers when I was sick and couldn't
come to class. We fell into familiar
rhythm. Eventually, she stopped
using her Chinese-to-English dic-
tionary and started resorting to me:
"You're the expert," she'd say, "I
don't know anything."
At some point along the way, I
lost my Chinese.
Chinese, my first language, grad-
ually became my lost language.
Born in Seattle to parents who had
emigrated from China, I attend-
ed preschool in Ann Arbor with
almost no knowledge of English. I
was placed in a toddler's ESL class,
where we bound picture books in
sparkly pink wrapping paper, and
I learned the language through
flashcards: A IS FOR APPLE, M IS
FOR MILK.
-At home, then, the rules were
softened. As a kid, I'd persuade
my mother into buying us "nor-
mal" food: vanilla wafers drenched
in icing, chicken nuggets, wide
hunks of pepper jack cheese. I rep-
rimanded her for braiding my hair
with Hello Kitty elastics. All the
white girls at my school used simple
hair bands of neon blues, pinks. My
mother went to Meijer and bought
me a. jumbo pack of black hair

scrunchies the next day. I called
my mother a bitch when we fought,
mostly out of cruel spite. I knew
she wouldn't understand the curse
word. After all, I was the wise, cul-
tured American. She was just the
Chinese mom who listened out of
love, out of a desire to see her kid
not get bullied in a school system
that was predominantly white. In
retrospect, the games I played as a
kid must have been humiliating for
my mother: a brilliant woman who'd
studied agriculture in college, mas-
tered Japanese, loved butterflies
and the smell of lavender perfume.
With my mom, I cultivated a sense
of authority that I couldn't fully
grasp in the classroom. Placed next
to my all-American friends with
mothers who understood that mus-
tard was not a salad dressing, but a
condiment; that hot dogs were not
literally heated animals with tails;
that tampons were more popular
than pads ... I'd never be the expert.
In school, I was shy. Ate white
breads, tossed dumplings inthe trash
can, raised my hand only when I was
sure I could pronounce unknown
words exactly right. Played it safe,
partly because I was afraid to lose
the wicked sense of authority I'd cul-
tivated at home.
Growing up as a minority, I
found independence in these mot-
tled, urgent ways. At a water park,
at age eleven, being called a Chink
was just another new occasion for
me to disassemble and learn the
English language. To claim it in all
its pricking points of ugliness. To
be bullied and loved, relentlessly,
by the alphabet. Chink, Chigga.
Banana. Twinkie. F.O.B. What my
Chinese mother could never teach
me, I had to learn and seize on my
own. What's more, I felt fiercely
protective and embarrassed by her.
In the U.S., she was vulnerable,
sometimes timid, girlish. Couldn't
hold the language. My job as her
American-born daughter was not
only to teach, but to also defend.
In middle school, "Yo Mama"
jokes infuriated me. My mother was
so Chinese she couldn't eat a ham-
burger without pinching her nose.
She was so Chinese she wore bam-
boo slippers, pickled sea cucum-
bers, fried rice. But she was also
a badass. Mowed our lawn every
week, fixed the broken roof herself.
Knit scarves, baked bread. Climbed
ladders. Sacrificed her Chinese citi-
zenship for an American passport
- not out of duty to the country, but
out of duty to my sister and me. "I
want to live in the same country as
you when I'm older," she said. At my
high school graduation, she recited
the Pledge of Allegiance with her
left hand over her chest, beaming.

I've often been told I'm a part of
the "nice" race, the "model minor-
ity." At times, it's assumed that
what I do well, I do because I'm
Asian - not because I was raised
by one of the strongest, most intel-
ligent women I know. It's frustrat-
ing when I find myself settling into
these expectations. Annoyingwhen
I find myself hyper-aware when
breaking out of them. Iam a daugh-
ter of immigrant parents, and I am
infinitely dimensional, in-love, in-
pain, exhausted, roaming. Growing
up. Chinese is my blood, and in a
way, it defines many ofmy decisions
and my movements through this
world. But it does not lay the entire
groundwork for what I choose to
chase, demolish - what I choose to
give, or give up.
At Pizza House last year, I was
told half-jokingly, "You're like our
token Asian friend!" Pepperoni
circles swam in rainbow grease,
and I sizzled. I'm not - and will
never be - anybody's token any-
thing. I'm my mother's daughter,
and I'm my own brain, my own
bossy heart. In high school, I was
encouraged to pursue a career as an
English professor because "You've
got that whole Asian thing going
for you. You stand out!" As a Chi-
nese-American woman, I have been
exoticized, categorized and stereo-
typed by friends, peers, strangers,
teachers, co-workers, crushes. My
Chinese mother has been called
"cute" when she stutters in English.
We've both been sliced up.
Being angry about racial inequali-
tyis easy. Navigating, processing, and
articulating race - that's hard. It's a
project I don't know how to under-
take without stammering, fearful to
offend ... even as a woman of color,
talking about my race feels bulky and
terrifying. As a Chinese-American,
I feel frequently caught in liminal
space, floating in-between myth and
a self-inflicted series of rules.
I am frequently asked, "Where
are you really from?" and I'm
always quick to respond, almost
heatedly, "Here." I was born on
American soil. I love this country,
with its chocolate creams and dirty
politicians and bodies of saltwa-
ter. But I am also indebted to my
mother, and to her country, which
both is and isn't my own. As my
mother's daughter, I am built with
her history of red stamps, her girl-
hood during the Cultural Revolu-
tion, her brick walls. Our sacrifice,
our shame. I am American, plus
Chinese. That identity is plural,
stretched. Beautiful weight. And
that love. It's plural, too.
Carlina Duan is an LSA senior
and the Statement editor.

residents in the process.
The proposed visas would be issued to
approved workers in increasing numbers over
a five-year period, beginning with 5,000 the
first year and ending with 15,000 in the final
year. Snyder's plan would use five-year EB-2
visas which are intended for immigrants with
a master's degree or superior, and "excep-
tional ability" in the arts or in a professional
field. Snyder's plan mandates that they live
and work in the city of Detroit. However, the
five-year validity of the EB-2 visa highlights
the temporary nature of this solution, and the
question remains about what may happen to
the immigrants after their visas have expired.
Snyder should not bring in foreign talent with-
out adequately preparing for their arrival in
the city. Adequate housing must be built, a
support system must be implemented and the
city mustprepare for this sizable influx of new,
culturally diverse residents. Additionally, a
program should be created within the frame-
work of current immigration law to help inter-
ested and qualified workers obtain citizenship
after their visas expire. Doing so will help per-
manently establish communities in the city,
providing a long-term objective for this tem-
porary fix and preventing these new employ-
ees from being treated like transient workers.
Furthermore, the plan will necessarily cre-

ate communities of highly paid professionals
within a city that is already dealing with class
disparities, crippling poverty and unemploy-
ment. The city needs these kinds of workers,
but programs should also be created to train
and equip the existing population with skills
that employers are seeking. Detroit's unem-
ployment rate sits at nearly 18 percent, and
the city's population is being excluded from
the increasing number of high-technology
fields. If the city's unemployment is not first
addressed, this plan will simply exacerbate
the income inequality that already exists.
There must be advanced job training available
to these residents in order to make it possible
for them to join the tech-age workforce that
Snyder's plan is attemptingto bring to Detroit.
The economyis changing, and Detroit must
change to keep up with today's fast-paced
information economy. Snyder's plan to bring
immigrants into the city will aid in growing
the population and tax base of Detroit, but
any plan to bolster the economy must take
into account the current residents. Increased
vocational training and job assistance must
be provided for unemployed or underem-
ployed Detroiters, preparing them for fulfill-
ing careers in the new-age economy Snyder is
attempting to grow within the city.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Rima Fadlallah, Nivedita Karki, Jordyn Kay, Kellie Halushka,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm,
Matthew SeligmanPaul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
ALEXANDER YALDO I
Supportforthe 'Victors' campaign

LINH VUI
Treating mental illness like a wound

When I reflect back on my time as an under-
graduate student at the University, my experi-
ence has been characterized by the work I have
completed with several student organizations
on campus, particularly the time spent with
Medical Educational Service Opportunities.
MESO is a nonprofit student organization
on the University's campus that helps under-
graduate students participate in health-
related and educational service events. We
provide workshops, health-related volun-
teering and foreign service clinics to aid stu-
dents in understanding their niches as future
medical professionals. In the past five years,
we have grown to support a large number of
students on campus and continue to share
our goal of providing health-related service
and educational opportunities. Hundreds of
our members have worked with underserved
communities in the greater Ann Arbor area,
as well as populations in Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, Nicaragua and Panama.
As one of the presidents of this organiza-
tion for the past two years, I would be lying if
I said there were not times that I questioned if
the countless hours spent working to further
MESO's mission were worthwhile. Student
organization work can sometimes feel like a
burden on top of an already hectic academic
load at this University. From planning and bud-
geting events to overseeing the activities of an
executive board, the mission of our work can
sometimes get lost. But then I ask myself: why
am I doing this? Why do I give up countless
hours per week for such ataxingresponsibility?
Why am Itin the office sending e-mails when I
could be at Charley's enjoying a fishbowl with
my friends? The answer is simple: I believe
deeply in the cause that my student organiza-
tion represents. During the times of frustra-
tion, I recall my own trip to Costa Rica and how

much I grew as person from being able to serve
others. Those memories push me to continue to
run MESO because I want all of the members
of this organization - both present and future
- to experience the joy that comes from the
philanthropy that I experienced two years ago.
I am not the only student on this campus
that gives up hours of sleep, studying and
social events to ensure my organization's suc-
cess. There are thousands of us on this cam-
pus who choose to donate time to the student
organizations about which we are passionate
because we remember the indescribable feel-
ing of making a contribution to our cause.
Student groups provide a different perspec-
tive on the criteria of donors to the Univer-
sity. Although most current students are
unable to provide monetary donations to bet-
ter the institution, many of us give our time to
serve the University. Students are able to take
the knowledge and skills that we gain to fur-
ther the University's impact worldwide. The
University's outreach is bettered by the time
that our volunteers donate in the greater Ann
Arbor area and abroad. In short, we represent
the University through service work abroad
and outside the University's network. As a
leader of an undergraduate service organiza-
tion, I wholeheartedly believe that current
students have the ability to catalyze change
both on campus and around the world.
This instance is a drop in the bucket of
impressive philanthropic contributions that
Wolverines are making everyday. Student
involvement is at the heart of this Universi-
ty's success. A University that champions and
values its students provides a lasting impact
on the global community. We are all called to
be Victors for Michigan.
Alexander Yaldo is an LSA senior.

He took his own life.
After all of the existential ques-
tions he asked in class, and after
all of the hypersensitive dialogue
we shared, he left me nothing but
a note. "Linh, you've challenged
me like nobody else ever has. I've
learned so much from you." These
were his last words to me. It's funny
because I wrote something similar
to him. "You've inspired me to take
on new perspectives. Let's keep
in touch, okay?" I thought he dis-
liked me for the longest time. I pray
he read my note so that he knew I
admired him too.
He had taken his life with
no vestige of his last moments,
thoughts or feelings. From all of my
encounters with him, he seemed
like he wanted so much out of life.
He had always appeared to be a
happy-go-lucky kid with a thirst
for knowledge. Little did many of
us close to him know that he was
experiencing severe depression.
Not too long after, on Jan. 17, 2014,
Madison Holleran, University of
Pennsylvania freshman athlete, also
took her life. She exhibited signs
of depression and was prescribed
antidepressant medication prior to
the tragic incident. She had been
dealing with the disorder since
high school, but many of her friends
were unaware of her condition and
shocked that she even possessed
one. Her mother, recounting Madi-
son's tumultuous journey, expressed
that she once felt an odd notion that
her daughter didn't fit the mold of a
psychiatric patient. She then noted
that regardless of what she believed,
the truth was that her daughter was
in danger and that she did indeed
need help.
I couldn't wrap my head around
the fact that seemingly jubilant

people like him and Madison had
the capacity to conceal such dark
and deeply embedded emotions.
There had to be a reasonable
explanation for their ability to live
"alternate" lives. I just couldn't put
my finger on it until now.
In 2011, the National Institute of
Mental Health reported American
College Health Association statis-
tics that asserted that 30 percent of
college students felt "so depressed
that it was difficult to function" in
the previous year. Another study
conducted by the Anxiety Disorders
Association of America stated 80
percent of college students said they
sometimes or frequently experi-
enced daily stress. With these shock-
ing statistics in mind, why does it
seem as though mental illness is not
as prevalent as studies have shown?
The reason is because mental illness
is stigmatized. On a larger scope,
millions of people in this nation are
suffering from an "invisible" disor-
der. Lack of recognition for mental
illness is even apparent in the mili-
tary, in which we award a Purple
Heart to those injured in battle but
none to those affected by post-trau-
matic stress disorder.
In Madison's case, her fam-
ily kept her instability under wraps
because depression was too much of
a taboo topic to broach. "It's not the
kind of thing that you want shared
in the halls of your high school, in
fact, the fear was that it would be
whispered behind her back if every-
one knew," Madison's mother said.
The concerns of the Holleran family
are not uncommon to those affected
by similar disorders. Mental illness
is rising and simultaneously being
buried. Schools, like the Univer-
sity of Michigan, need to prioritize
mental health resources to ensure

that students are given an outlet
to a seemingly inescapable situa-
tion. The University's Counseling
and Psychological Services should
work to improve appointment wait
times, provide more free individual
consultation and most importantly,
advertise mental illness as a com-
monality. Like we would assist
students with physical injuries, we
must similarly support students
dealing with mental illness.
Life for us college folks is deceiv-
ingly simple in the eyes of our
elders. Some even claim that they
would rather trade in their hum-
drum routine work for our youthful
carefree fun. From the outside look-
ing in, it seems as though we have
it fairly easy. A flexible class sched-
ule followed by weekend drink-
ing escapades is the quintessential
depiction of a college lifestyle. On
the contrary, what people may not
realize is that there are numerous
external and internal pressures
present on a university campus. On
the summit of higher education,
many students who are afforded a
position here feel obligated to prove
that they deserve this privilege.
Juggling academics, work, sports,
extracurricular activities and social
events is a modern-day expectation.
In a sea of students, it's still too easy
to drown in a whirlpool of respon-
sibilities - overwhelmingly alone.
The stress we face on a daily basis
can unnoticeably transform into
depression, and suicidal thoughts
are no stranger to this disorder. In
honor of my friend and other stu-
dents facing the latent adversity of
mental illness, I plead that the Uni-
versity takes immediate action in
enhancing our counseling services.
Linh Vu is an LSA sophomore.

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words.
Send the writer's full name and University affiliation to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 3, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycomMonday, February 3, 2014 - SA

NEWS BRIEFS
BIG RAPIDS, Mich.
Man arrested for
shooting college
student
Michigan authorities
announced Sunday they have
charged a 20-year-old man with
shooting a Ferris State Univer-
sity student at his off-campus
apartment, while police contin-
ued searching for a man they
say killed one Michigan State
University student and wounded
another near that school.
DeCory D. Downing is
charged with attempted mur-
der and having a firearm in a
felony, said Ferris State Univer-
sity Public Safety Director Bruce
Borkbvich.
Downing is from Macomb
County in suburban Detroit,
isn't a student at Ferris State
and has an "extensive criminal
record," Borkovich told MLive.
com. Downing was being held
in the Mecosta County Jail and
expected to be arraigned Mon-
day in district court.
SEATTLE
Seahawks
fans celebrate
Superbowl win
With shouts, cheers and fire-
works, Seattle residents cel-
ebrated a dominant victory in
the Super Bowl - the city's first
major sports championship in
more than 30 years.
Scores of people took to the
streets throughout the city
and Seattle police planned an
increased presence through-
out the city Sunday night. They
sent a tweet on the department's
widely followed Twitter account
saying, "Officers will be out and
about citywide making sure
everyone is celebrating safely."
The Seahawks beat the Den-
ver Broncos 43-a. The last time
a major Seattle sports franchise
won a championship was in 1979
when the Supersonics took the
NBA title. The WNBA's Seattle
Storm have won two champion-
ships, in 2004 and 2010.
TRENTON, N.J.
Republicans support
Christie after
bridge scandal
High-profile Republicans
were adamant Sunday that
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie
should not resign from his post
as chairman of the Republican
Governors Association follow-
ing a former ally's claim that
there is evidence Christie knew
about an apparently politically
motivated traffic jam earlier
than he has said.
The support from former New
York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani,
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and
Wisconsin U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan
put Republicans on the offensive
and the Democratic chairman

of a state legislative committee
investigatingthe Septemberlane
closures near the George Wash-
ington Bridge on the defensive
the day Christie's state hosts the
Super Bowl.
KIEV, Ukraine
Leader returns
from sick leave in
midst of protests
Ukraine's president will
return Monday from a short sick
leave that had sparked a guess-
ing game he was taking himself
out of action in preparation to
step down or for a crackdown
on widespread anti-government
protests.
Viktor Yanukovych's office
made the announcement about
the president's return the same
day as protesters seeking his
resignation held one of their
largest gatherings in recent
weeks. About 20,000 people
assembled at the main protest
site in Kiev's central square on
Sunday.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

Immigration reforms
raise citizenship cost

Police are seen outside the home of Philip Seymour Hoffman, Sunday, Feb. 2, 2014, in New York. Hoffman, who won an Oscar for
best actor in 2006 for his portrayal of writer Truman Capote in "Capote", was found dead Sunday in his apartment. He was 46.
Phi 1ip Seymour offman
found dead fro-m overdose

Oscar winner was
discovered Sunday
in his apartment
NEW YORK (AP) - Philip
Seymour Hoffman, who won
the Oscar for his portrayal
of writer Truman Capote
and created a gallery of
slackers, charlatans and other
characters so vivid that he was
regarded as one of the world's
finest actors, was found dead
in his apartment Sunday with
what officials said was aneedle
in his arm. He was 46.
The actor apparently died
of a drug overdose, said two
law enforcement officials, who
spoke to The Associated Presson
condition of anonymity because
they were not authorized to
discuss the case. Envelopes
containing what was believed to
be heroin were found with him,
they said.
Hoffman - with his doughy,

everyman physique, his often-
disheveled look and his limp,
receding blond hair - was a
character actor of such range
and lack of vanitythat he could
seemingly handle roles of any
size, onthe stage and in movies
that played in art houses or
multiplexes.
He could play comic or dra-
matic, loathsome or sympa-
thetic, trembling or diabolical,
dissipated or tightly controlled,
slovenly or fastidious.
The stage-trained actor's
rumpled naturalism brought
him four Academy Award
nominations - for "Capote,"
"The Master," "Doubt" and
"Charlie Wilson's War" - and
three Tony nominations for his
work on Broadway, including
his portrayal of the beaten and
weary Willy Loman in "Death
of a Salesman."
Hoffman spoke candidly
over the years about his strug-
gles with drug addiction. After
23 years sober, he admitted in

interviews last year to falling
off the wagon and developing a
heroin problemthat led to a stint
in rehab.
"No words for this. He
was too great and we're too
shattered," said Mike Nichols,
who directed Hoffman in
"Charlie Wilson's War" and
"Death of a Salesman."
The law enforcement officials
said Hoffman's body was
discovered in a bathroom in his
Greenwich Village apartment
by his assistant and a friend who
made the 911 call.
For much of the day, a police
crime-scene van was parked out
front, and technicians carrying
brown paper bags went in and
out. Police kept a growing crowd
of onlookers back. A single red
daisy had been placed in front of
the lobby door.
On Sunday night, a black
body bag was carried out on a
stretcher, loaded into the back
of a medical examiner's van and
driven away.

Citizenship
application price may
rise with passage of
new laws
EDINBURG, Texas (AP) -
Hilda Vasquez squirreled away
the money for her U.S. citi-
zenship application by selling
batches of homemade tamales
at South Texas offices. Carmen
Zalazar picked up extra baby-
sitting jobs at night after caring
for kids all day in Houston.
The women scrimped and
saved for months to pay for
the $680 application, but for
other applicants in the future,
it might not be enough.
As President Barack
Obama renews his quest for
immigration reform, some
proposals would impose fines
of $2,000 on top of application
fees, making the financial
hurdles much taller for people
who are here illegally.
"You have more rights when
you are a citizen, like to vote,"
said Zalazar, a legal resident.
As soon as she started a
citizenship class, "I started to
save because I knew otherwise
it won't be possible."
The struggle is familiar to
millions of immigrants. A 2012
survey by the Pew Hispanic
Center showed that only 46
percentcof Hispanic immigrants
eligible to become citizens had
done so. The top two reasons
were lack of English skills and
lack of money to pay for the
application.
Manuel Enrique Angel
made learning English his
first priority upon arriving in
Houston from his native El
Salvador two years ago. He
now speaks English clearly and
deliberately and plans to apply
for citizenship as soon as he
becomes eligible later this year.
Trained as a lawyer in El Sal-
vador, the 28-year-old works
as a cook in a Houston burger
joint. His wife, an American
citizen, is a hair stylist. He
estimates it will take him up
to eight months to save the
money for the citizenship
application.
"It's really hard when you
have to pay rent around $600,
when you have car notes for
$300 and $500," Angel said.
Republican supporters of the
proposed fines say penalties
are necessary to defend against
any appearance that creating
a pathway to citizenship
amounts to amnesty.
Mark Krikorian, execu-
tive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Wash-
ington-based think tank that
supports tighter immigration
controls, said if immigrants
who are in the country illegally
are allowed to seek citizen-
ship, they should have to pay
the costs, which will increase if
millions of applications need to
be processed.
However, he said, the costs
should not be so high that peo-
ple can't afford them.

out of the market," Krikorian
said.
Angel plans to take advan-
tage of a program at a Houston
credit union that offers small
low-interest loans specifically
to help clients become citizens.
The Promise Credit Union
partners with Neighborhood
Centers Inc., a nonprofit net-
work of community centers in
the Houston area that cater to
immigrants.
Credit union President
Randy Martinez said the
program began as a pilot in
2012 and only officially started
last fall.
"We don't want that to
become an obstacle for them
not to become citizens, just
because they don't have the
entire fee to pay," he said.
The credit union's $455
loans include $380 toward the
citizenship process plus a $75
processing fee for the loan
application. They carry a fixed
5 percent interest rate for a
12-mbnth term, so the monthly
payments work out to about
$38.
Applicants must contribute
$300 of their own money. They
are all pre-screened by the
Neighborhood Centers legal
team to make sure they qualify
for citizenship and have all the
necessary documentation.
The credit union has already
discussed expanding the loans
if Congress approves a reform
package that offers people in
the country illegally a costlier
path to citizenship, Martinez
said.
An immigration reform bill
passed by the Senate in June
did not set the costs of the pro-
posed 13-year path to citizen-
ship. Lawmakers left that up to
U.S. Citizenship and Immigra-
tion Services, with the idea that
fees would make the system
self-sustaining.
While the fees remain
unspecified, the Senate bill lays
out penalties totaling $2,000 to
be paid at various steps along
the way. The legislation would
create a new status called "reg-
istered provisional immigrant"
and require anyone with that
status to pay taxes.
During the 13-year wait,
immigrants would be "work-
ing on the books, and you will
hopefully be able to make a bet-
ter income and be progressing
in your life," said Ellen Bat-
tistelli, a policy analyst with
the National Immigration Law
Center, who has argued against
making the process too costly.
"There are so many require-
ments and financial burdens,
this is a very rigorous path to
go," especially for low-wage
workers, Battistelli said.
In previous crackdowns, a
court order had already barred
Al-Jazeera local affiliate from
broadcasting in Egypt since
September, accusing it of
endangering national security.
The channel, Al-Jazeera
Mubasher Misr, has continued
to broadcast using its studios in
Doha, Qatar, collaborating with
freelancers and using amateur

Israel returns remains of 30
Palestinian suicide bombers

Families recieve
remains over a
decade after death
BETHLEHEM, West Bank
(AP) - When 18-year-old
Ayat al-Akhras blew herself
up outside a busy Jerusalem
supermarket in 2002, killing
two Israelis, her grieving par-
ents were unable to bury her
and say their final goodbyes
because Israel refused to send
her remains home.
More than a decade later,
after appeals from human
rights groups, Israel is hand-
ing over some 30 bodies of Pal-
estinian assailants, including
that of al-Akhras, enabling her
family to arrange a funeral.
Israel has returned the
remains of Palestinian

attackers from time to time
during the decades of conflict,
sometimes as part of prisoner
swaps, but the current round
involvesthe mostrecentsuicide
bombers and gunmen and has
revived painful memories for
families and friends of some of
the victims.
In the West Bank town
of Bethlehem, the teenage
bomber's parents, Mohammed
and Khadra al-Akhras, expect
an easing of their grief.
"The pain will end," said
Mohammed al-Akhras, 67, who
chain-smoked while he talked
and rested his hands - gnarled
from years of manual labor -
on top of the cane he uses to
walk with. "At any time during
the day, during the night, we
can go and visit her," he added.
In Israel, the return of the
remains of attackers from the

second Palestinian uprising a
decade ago has provoked some
anger.
"Those who killed civilians
should be treated like people
who committed war crimes,"
said Meir Indor, head of
Almagor, a group that speaks
for victims of attacks by
militants. "Eichmann's body
was not given back," he added,
referring to Adolf Eichmann,
the Nazi who was executed
by Israel in 1962 for his role
as one of the architects of the
Holocaust.
The Israeli rights group
HaMoked appealed to Israel's
Supreme Court in 2011, seek-
ing release of the remains of
31 assailants. The group said
that the court didn't rule, but
that Israel's Defense Ministry
decided late last year to hand
over about 30 bodies.

California drought may result
in unemployment increase

Lack of water
strains agriculture
industry, jobs
MENDOTA, Calif. (AP) -
Amid California's driest year
on record, the nation's leading
agricultural region is locked in
drought and bracing for unem-
ployment to soar, sending farm
workers to food lines in a place
famous for its abundance.
One-third of the Central Val-
ley's jobs are related to farm-
ing. Strains on water supplies
are expected to force farmers
to leave fields unplanted, cre-
ating a ripple effect on food
processing plant workers,
truck drivers and those who
sell fertilizer, irrigation equip-
ment and tractors.
No place may be harder hit
than Mendota, a small farm
town where unemployment
rose above 40 percent at the

height of the economic reces-
sion in 2009, also a dry year.
Mayor RobertSilvasaidhe fears
this year could be even worse.
"We're supposed to be
the cantaloupe capital of the
world," Silva said. "But we're
the food line capital of the
world."
Residents of Mendota late
last year began seeing tough
times on the horizon when little
rain fell in the valley and snow
didn't blanket the High Sierra.
This marks the third consecu-
tive dry year for California, and
Gov. Jerry Brown has declared
a drought emergency.
This past week, the snow
pack's water content was mea-
sured at 12 percent of normal.
State officials announced that
they would not be sending
water to California's agricul-
tural customers. U.S. officials
are expected in late February
to announce they will allot
only a fraction of the federally

controlled water that farmers
want, if any.
If that scenario plays out,
Silva estimates the lines they
saw outside a Mendota food
bank five years ago could run
three times as long this year.
His town's unemployment
today is at 34 percent - the
highest in Fresno County -
and interim City Manager Don
Pauley figures it will top 50
percent.
Officials at Mendota's City
Hall aren't the only uneasy
ones. Steve Malanca, general
manager at Thomason Trac-
tor in Firebaugh, said farmers
have already told him that dig-
ging deeper wells and buying
irrigation water are higher pri-
orities in 2014 than investing
in new The researchers gave
Vitamin E, in a range of supple-
ment doses, or an antioxidant
drug named N-acetylcysteine
to mice engineered to have lung
cancer.

y


6A - Monday, Feburary 3, 2014
Light humor,
emotional
ads dominate
Super Bowl
Shocking, salacious
commercials in past
years were panned
by public
NEW YORK (AP) - Advertis-
ers played it safe in Super Bowl
ads this year.
There were no crude jokes.
Sexual innuendo was kept to a
minimum. And uncomfortable
story lines were all but missing.
And in their place, much more
sedate ads.
From the light humor of
RadioShack poking fun at its
image with 80s icons like Teen
Wolf and The California Raisins
to a Coca-Cola ad showcasing
diversity by singing "America
the Beautiful" in different lan-
guages, it was a softer night of
advertising.
With a 30-second spot cost-
ing around $4 million and
more than 108 million view-
ers expected to tune in to the
championship game, it's was
crucial for advertisers to make
their investment count. The
shocking ads in years past have
not always been well received
(Think: GoDaddy.com's ad that
features a long, up-close kiss
came in at the bottom of the
most popular ads last year.)
So this year, advertisers out
of their way to be more family
friendly themes: socially con-
scious statements, patriotic
messages and light humor.
"Advertisers are getting
attention but they're not trying
to go over the top," said David
Berkowitz, chief marketing offi-
cer for digital ad agency MRY.
"A lot of brands were going with
the safety from the start."
The safer ads had a mixed
reaction among viewers. Keith
Harris, who was watching the
Super Bowl with friends and
family in Raleigh, N.C., said he
appreciated the safer ads. "The
ads are less funny, but it's easier
to watch the Super Bowl with
your family," he said.

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

F
r
E
r
r
r
t
t

Thailand elections
without violence,
but crisis not over

A Lebanese woman, Ghadeer Mortada,18, who was wounded along with threen
one-year-old boy, Mohammed, in a hospital, after a deadly car bomb exploded S
Syrian air raids kill v

Assad has expanded
his aerial campaign
in recent months
BEIRUT (AP) - Syrian gov-
ernment helicopters and war-
planes unleashed a wave of
airstrikes on more than a dozen
opposition-held neighborhoods
in the northern city of Aleppo
on Sunday, firing missiles and
dropping crude barrel bombs
in a ferocious attack that killed
at least 36 people, including 17
children, activists said.
Aleppo has been a key bat-
tleground in Syria's civil war
since rebels swept into the city
in mid-2012 and wrested most
of the eastern and southern
neighborhoods from the gov-
ernment. Since then, the fight-
ing has settled into a bloody
grind, with neither side capable
of mounting an offensive that
would expel its opponents from
the city.
But over the past two
months, President Bashar
Assad's air force has ramped
in t .ria) r i r nn r-.L

On Sunday alone, Syr-
ian military aircraft targeted
15 opposition-controlled neigh-
borhoods, said an activist who
goes by the name of Abu al-
Hassan Marea.
The Britain-based Syr-
ian Observatory for Human
Rights monitoring group said
the Tariq al-Bab district on the
eastern edge of the city was the
hardest-hit, with at least eight
barrel bombs raining down on
it Sunday. Marea said one of the
air raids in the neighborhood
struck a vegetable market and
another landed near a mosque.
The Aleppo Media Center
activist group said the strike
near the Abdullah bin Masoud
Mosque killed more than 10
people.
The Observatory put the
day's death toll in the air raids
at 36, including 17 children.
Marea said that more than 50
people were killed in the air-
strikes, although he did not
have an exact count.
An amateur video posted
online showed a helicopter
circling in the blue sky, and
tha n hnrl nlii tin frn


Los Angeles Times D
Edited by Rich Norris
ACROSS 68Chest muscles,
1 Like many briefly
abbreviated terms 69 Earlytemptation
in footnotes locale
6 "Hurlyburly' 70 Mails
playwright David
10Beer DOWN
14 ballerina 1 12-in. discs
15"Foaming 2 Bush spokesman
cleanser"oftold Fleischer
ads 3 Sardine holder
16 Champagne Tony 0 ColorfuldApple
of '60sgolf 5 Finger painting?
17 Biblical peak 6 Hilton rival
18 Confused state 7 In _: stuck
19 Plodding haulers 8 Cairo market
20 Emulate the 9 Pushed (oneself)
successful bounty 10 Explode
hunter 11 lorted tme
23 Halloween derioeclfrom the
creature prescription
26 Three NASCAR symbol
Unsets 12 "Baml chef
27 Part of D.A.: 3Flmish
Abbr. 21 Second halfof a
28 6...Pil: Irish ball game?
2 tne ordestiny" 22 Cutwh acid
29 "Tothe bestofmy 231984Olympics
33 Chem lab'event medalitConner
34 A.L lineup 24 Out of port
fixtures 25Nonstick
35 Baby powder cookware brand
ingredient 30 Seaport of Ghana
36 Siesta 31 Bowledover
38 Missal stes 32 Tree with
M sGrind quivering leaves
45Startofagreen 1 2 3 a s
adage
48 "Shalom
aleichem"
51 Adolphe who 17
developed a
horn us
52 "Do the Right
Thing"director 23 24 2s on
Spike
53 Intraoffice IT 29 s
system
54 Attach, as a 33
codicil
55 Devioustraps, 3
and a hint to
surprisestfound jn as at
20-.,29- and 'B- as s
Across at 4a
59 Mechanical 51 52
method
60Open and breezy 55 56
61 Intial-based
politcal nickname 59
65 Touched ground
66Govt.-owned s
home financing
gp. na
67 Made calls at
home Bes"a
(c)2014TribuneContent

up trs aeria campaign on rene e nnagre imeigro
held areas of Aleppo, pounding the aircraft until it slams into
them with barrel bombs - con- buildings on the horizon, send-
tainers packed with explosives, ing a pillar of smoke and dust
fuel and scraps of metal - that into the air. The video appeared
cause massive damage on genuine and corresponded to
impact. other Associated Press report-
i
30, 2014
0, 2014SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
)aily Crossword Puzzle
and Joyce Nichols Lewis
37 Mitt Romney's 48 Prisoner's reward
2012 running 49 Strikingly
mate unusual WORK ON MACKINAC Island 'his
39 "The Celts" 50 Trailing Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
singer 51 Purse part Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
40 Stackedfuel 56 New York team Shops are looking for help in all areas:
41 Pokergame 57 "Him ": Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
43 Bruins' campus: romantic triangle Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. I lous-
Abbr. ultimatum ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
44 Like most new 58 Bout of beey 847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
ders baters
46 Hotsprings 62 ER ovtals
resorts 63 "However ..."
47 Strengthened 64 Product promos
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE.
O WL C T S C A N E S S E
P E A R A M A DA A P E D
I D t3 R A C E L ET U L N A i71C RH-CNRL
E S SAY W I S S I A M 1 721 CHURECH -CENTRAL
E 0 DY W S E NT CAMPUS ! Across from last Quad!
A L P P A TD HY S E M Fall 2014 - I bedroom and efficiency
apartment available. Free heat/water/-
LA I L 0 6EW E M R 8E parking! 734-320-1244
E D N A M S D O S C R A M wv.csrchstreetrentals.com
R Y A .N A H A L T E C O
O K C 0 R R A L E P O D E S !NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
I O N A I T E M ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
A L L W E L S H E N 0 L A ! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
F L AP V A H JO S P I T A L
SR E DO E L A PS E I R E
O R A L L A G E A R S A X $1400 FOR A FULL 2 bedroom at For-
eO(eiApis. Price isscludes FI:F
xworeditr~ao~com 01/30/14 et Glen At.Irc nldriu
aaare~itr~aa~oamI11tAt, I parkisng spoil and furniture.
S 9 10 11 12 13 $140 forthe wholeapartment!!!
Call us ito tour your new home today.
151734-761-2680.
18 19
21 22Fr$40 0OFF
First 10 renalas
27 28 oil
Selected Units
31 32At
34 University Towers
SRent a FULL 2 bedroom
3 37 30 30 40 a1 w/ FR EE HEAT as
ltw as $1635.00. Great location,
a4 45 4s 47 Great Service and Great RATES!!
wwi.osinersitytowers-tni.cosn
50 734-761-2680
**4 1EDROOM HOUSE** Beautiful
57 t soine. Near 1B-Schnol. 01'street park-
so 1 34 iigp& luuiuy. Lall: 17341223-7777
L6 67 EFF. I & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$655-$1395, showings avail. M-F
Illam-3:30pnm w/ 24 hr notice.
C'appo/i/4oapppisaagement.com.
AgencyrLLC C1/30/14 Contaci 734-996-1991 M-l 9am-dpm

Protesters want
voting process
suspended, reforms
in electoral law
BANGKOK (AP) - Thailand
held nationwide elections with-
out bloodshed Sunday despite
widespread fears of violence. But
the country's bitter political cri-
sis is far from over, and one ofthe
next flash points is likely to be an
HUSSEIN MALLA/AP effort to nullify the vote.
members of her family, holds her Although balloting was large-
aturday evening. ly peaceful, protesters forced
thousands of polling booths to
s 3 6 close in Bangkok and the south,
it least disenfranchising millions of
registered voters. Not all Par-
ing of the events depicted. liament seats will be filled as a
This is not the first time that result, meaning the nation could
Assad's air force has waged an stay mired in political limbo for
intense campaign over Aleppo. months with the winning party
In December, military heli- unable to form a new govern-
copters pounded rebel-held ment.
districts of the city with bar- The struggle to hold the vote
rel bombs, leveling buildings, was part of a 3-month-old con-
burying people under the flict that has split the country
rubble and killing more than between supporters of Prime
500 people over a two-week Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
stretch. and protesters who allege her
The misery in Aleppo was government is too corrupt to
then compounded in early rule.
January by an outburst of reb- The crisis, in which demon-
el-on-rebel fighting, which has strators have occupied major
weakened the opposition's grip intersections across Bangkok
on parts of the city. and forced government minis-
Over the past two weeks, tries to shut down and work else-
Assad's forces have slowly where, overshadowed the poll's
chipped away at the rebels'hold run-up to such an extent that
on neighborhoods in southeast- campaigning and stump speech-
ern Aleppo. While the advances es laying out party platforms
have been small, they still mark were virtually non-existent.
the most significant govern- Rather than "a contest among
mert gains in the divided city candidates, it was about whether
since opposition fighters seized the election itself could happen,"
the areas in mid-2012. said Sunai Phasuk of Human
As intense as the airstrikes Rights Watch. "That in itself says
have been, the rebels' position a lot about the fate of democracy
in the city and across northern in Thailand - it's hanging by a
Syria has been undermined to thread."
a greater degree by the bloody Television stations, which
bout of infighting that pits the normally broadcast electoral
al-Qaida-linked Islamic State results, were reduced to project-
of Iraq and the Levant against ing graphics not of party vic-
an array of ultraconservative tories and losses, but of which
brigades and more moderate constituencies were open or
factions. closed.
Official results cannot be
announced until a series of by-
elections are held and all dis-
tricts have voted. The first will
take place Feb. 23.
In Bangkok, protesters sur-
Ca1: #734-418-4115 rounded government offices
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com housing ballot papers, prevent-
ing them from being delivered.
They also pressured electoral
officials not to report for duty,
4 BDRM HSE, Iuiter yrNorthCam and in some cases physically pre-
pus, 10111 CedarIBesnul Dr.$2400/1m
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/drye venting people from voting.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991 Infuriated voters cut the
chains off polling stations
A RBOR P ROPE RT iES ta a enlceftl
Award-Wining Rentals in Kerryitown that had been locked, futilely
Central Campus, Old West Side, demanding that they be allowed
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014. to cast ballots. In one downtown
734-994-31 57. ss .arhurprps.can district, they hurled bottles at
*AVAILABLE FALL 214* each other and one demonstrator
Large 3 hdrm. house. fired a gunshot after several peo-
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn. ple tried to push past a blockade.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876. After authorities called off vot-
4 BDRM HSE SoitCetral Capoing there, angry crowds stormed
1037 Packard -$2500/m +i utls. 2 bath nto the district office.
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fal "We want an election. We are
2014. Contact734-996-1991. 'Thais," said Narong Meephol,
THE 2ND FLOOR a 63-year-old Bangkok resident
NEW L uxury Apartments, who was waving his voter iden-
Right on S. U. / Central Campus. tification card. "We are here to
Apartments came with te 131.1 exercise our rights."
Service, Amsenities and All a
REtASONABLE RIVtS Ampai Pittajit, 65, a retired
www.TIohe2ndFloorSU.com civil servant who helped block

ballot boxes in Bangkok, said she
did it "because I want reforms
before an election."
"I understand those who are
saying this is violating their
rights," he said. "But what about
our right to be heard?"
The Election Commission said
poll closures affected about 18
M c i a percent of the country's 48 mil-
lion registered voters, although
many of them may not have cast
P * ballots anyway following a boy-
cott by the opposition Democrat
party, which is calling for politi-
cal and economic reform first.
The protesters want to suspend
democracy and are demanding
the government be replaced by
an unelected council that would
rewrite political and electoral
laws to combat deep-seated prob-
lems of corruption and money
politics. Yingluck has refused to
step down, arguing she is open to
reform and such a council would
be unconstitutional.
Yingluck called Sunday's
vote after dissolving Parlia-

ment in December in a failed
bid to defuse the crisis. Protests
intensified, and Yingluck - now
a caretaker premier with lim-
ited power - has found herself
increasingly cornered. Courts
have begun fast-tracking cases
that could see her party removed
from power, while the army has
warned it could intervene if the
crisis is not resolved peacefully.
Fears of violence Sunday rose
after a dramatic gunbattle erupt-
ed in broad daylight Saturday at
a major Bangkok intersection
between government support-
ers and protesters who were try-
ing to block delivery of ballots.
Seven people were wounded.
Late Sunday, gunmen opened
fire on several vehicles that mis-
takenly drove onto an empty
overpass in the city center con-
trolled by demonstrators who
have blocked the road off with a
large sand-bagged bunker. The
shooting, which shattered one
vehicle's windshield and left bul-
let holes in another, wounded a
man and a woman, according to
the city's emergency services.
The protesters are a minority
that cannot win through elec-
tions, but they comprise a for-
midable alliance of opposition
leaders, royalists, and powerful
businessmen who have set their
sights on ousting the govern-
ment. They have waged that fight
successfully before - by ousting
Yingluck's brother, former pre-
mier Thaksin Shinawatra, in a
2006 army coup, and by forcing
two Thaksin-allied prime minis-
ters who followed to step down
through controversial legal rul-
ings.
Most now believe another so-
called "judicial coup" will bring
the government down.
Analysts say the courts and
the country's independent over-
sight agencies all tilt against
the Shinawatra family, and Yin-
gluck's opponents are already
studying legal justifications to
invalidate Sunday's vote.
Protest leader Suthep Thaug-
suban publically assured follow-
ers the ballot will be nullified,
and Verapat Pariyawong, an
independent Harvard-educat-
ed lawyer, said there was "no
doubt" the Constitutional Court
will end up hearing a case to
annul it.
But he said it would be
"absurd" to expect judges to "to
stay strictly within the limits of
the law ... (because) history has
shown that this court is willing
to play politics from the bench."
If the ballot is nullified,
Verapat said there will be "more
blood on the streets," a reference
to the expectation that govern-
ment supporters in the north are
unlikely to sit idle.
Before Thaksin was deposed
in 2006, the Constitutional
Court nullified a similar vote
won by his party about one
month after it had taken place.
The ruling was based partly on
the argument that the position-
ing of ballot booths had compro-
mised voter privacy.
Chuvit Kamolvisit, an inde-
pendent candidate who served as
a lawmaker until Parliament was
dissolved two months ago, called
the crisis gripping Thailand "a
game of power" and accused
Suthep and his supporters of
falsely characterizing their
struggle as an anti-corruption

fight.
Graft "has been a part of Thai
society for a longtime," said Chu-
vit, who made a fortune operat-
ing massage parlors that doubled
as brothels before turning to
politics. "It's a real problem, but
now it's being used an excuse for
politicians to take power."
Suthep was a lawmaker for
more than three decades, he
said, "and what did he do to end
corruption in all that time?"
The burly, outspoken Chuvit
was one of many in the capital
who were unable to cast bal-
lots Sunday. He was physically
assaulted by a group of protesters
in confrontation that devolved
into a knock-down brawl.
"I have to protect my rights,"
Chuvit said. "Thai society has to
learn that to get rights, freedom,
liberty, you need to fight. But the
fight should take place within
the democratic system, not on
the street."


7A - Monday, February 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

7A - Monday, February 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Science, culture
collide in 'Cowboy'

The relationship in 'Her'
didn't seem foreign to me

Cowboys and
Astronomy? Color
me interested!
ByKATHLEEN DAVIS
DailyArts Writer
Somewhere deep in the Wild
West, a cowboy unleashes
his wisdom
about the The Cowboy
night skies
- which he's Astronomer
learned over Feb.8 and
many years Feb.9
of living in
the open air Saturdaysand
- to a group Sunday at 2p.m.
of eager lis- Museunof Natural
teners. History Planetarium
He trans- $5 per person
ports his
audience to a
world of Native American star
tales and sprawling galaxies,
combining the two seamlessly.

From now until March 30,
UM's Planetarium will be
showing "The Cowboy Astron-
omer," a full-dome experience
that combines Western folklore
with astronomy education.
Planetarium Manager Matt
Linke said he is eager to bring
the show to audiences around
Ann Arbor.
"It's a very different and
all-encompassing look at the
concept of astronomy and the
nighttime sky with the scien-
tific, the mythological and the
cultural," Linke said.
Originally created in the
early 1990s, the show has
been beautifully reformat-
ted to mesh with more recent
Planetarium technology. The
37-minute film features narra-
tion by Baxter Black, an Ameri-
can cowboy and poet, as well as
a radio and television personal-
ity.
UM's Planetarium is located
inside the Museum of Natural

History and prides itself on
being the source of astronomy
information for the commu-
nity.
Most Planetarium shows
include a "star talk" by Linke
or another expert, which edu-
cates the audience about what
planets and constellations are
present in the current night
sky, and how to identify them.
Although the Planetarium is
located on campus, it's open to
the community and caters to a
large audience outside the uni-
versity.
"I wanted to do (The Cow-
boy Astronomer) because it's a
neat blend of topics for my dif-
ferent audiences," Linke said.
"At the same time the funding
was available to do it."
Linke added that the show
will be back after the closing
date.
"It'll come back in the future,
and groups that'll want to see it
can request it," Linke said.


When I was home for
Christmas this year, some-
thing was missing. Well,
someone rather. While the
rest of my family gathered
for the
holidays, --
my dad was
over 7,000
miles away
in Dubai,
where he
currently
lives. It
didn't feel
like he was KAYA
completely UPADHYAYA
absent,
though.
As I ate a bowl of cereal and
my mom hurried around the
kitchen, my dad's face glowed
from the screen of a Mac
desktop perched at the end
of the counter. He wore his
crooked reading glasses and
a t-shirt from his latest race.
This was all part of my mom's
new daily routine, which I
adopted for the few weeks I
was home for break: Skyping
with my father every morn-
ing when we woke up (when
he was getting ready for bed)
and every evening when we
were about to go to bed (when
he was waking up).
When my mom first told
me she has done this pretty
much every day since he left
for Dubai this past summer, I
couldn't believe her. My dad
is famously a man of very few
words. I have some friends
who still haven't heard him
speak. What on earth could
they possibly talk about over
the Internet every day, twice
a day?
They talk about the big
things, my mom's decision
to close her business and
work for a new company, my
grandparents' health, the
looming financial prepara-
tions for my sister's immi-
nent first year of college. But
they talk about little things,
too. Seemingly meaningless
things.
Or, sometimes they don't
talk at all, as was the case
that morning when I ate my
cereal. The conversation
had lulled, and my dad sat
silently in his hotel room in
downtown Dubai. But we
didn't end the Skype call. We
went about our mornings. I
crunched on my cereal. My
dad started rifling through
papers. And honestly, it felt
like he was right there with
us, like we were all existing
in our home together as we
would on any regular morn-
ing.
It's not the first time my
dad has lived far away for
long periods of time. He's
a Colonel in the U.S. Army
Reserves, and military orders
have taken him to Iraq,
Afghanistan, Thailand, Ger-
many, Bosnia ... all over the
world. But this time feels
different. This time, I've
talked to my dad more than
I could for any of his other
deployments, because Google

Han
Virg
and
chat
sam(
and
apps
dad
boob
W
saw
few
wall
atta
ther
falli
ing
not-
Fc
caut
cal
isn't
scree
nori
glor
nolo
in th
Ft
call
New
too-
I ne
out
acci
into
inst
so m
I wa
dele
very
med
ties,
on t
(RIF
this
tab
whe
gran
and
whe
Pere
Sopf
and

gout allows my mom in lights on for a week after the
inia, sister in Norway first time I saw "Scream." She
me in Michigan to video knows I can't spell "Hayden
with each other all at the Panettiere" without Googling
e time. And I have Skype it. She knows E.T. is one of
iMessage and Facetime my worst fears. Here's the
s on my phone. And my catch: I've never met LaToya
finally figured out Face- in person. We "met" on tum-
k chat. blr in 2010, and became fast
'hen my friends and I Internet friends. The group
Spike Jonze's "Her" a of girls I went to Comic Con
weeks ago, many of them with this year? We all met on
ked out deploring our the Internet four years ago.
chment to technology. For My writing partner, Aly? The
m, the thought of a man inspiring, funny woman who
ng in love with an operat- I hope to one day take Holly-
system was a nightmarish, wood by storm with? We met
too-distant future. on Tumbr, too.
or me, "Her" wasn't a That's why the relation-
ionary tale of technologi- ship in "Her" didn't seem
doomsday. Jonze's script that foreign to me. For one,
cynical about the ways Jonze has constructed a very
ens take over our lives, believable, familiar depic-
does it romanticize or tion of love and relation-
ify the wonders of tech- ships. For most of the film,
gy. It belongs somewhere Theodore and Samantha's
ie middle, like me. courtship resembles that of
ull disclosure: I'm basi- a modern-day long-distance
y a poster child for every relationship. Long distance
'York Times article about friendships aren't all that
plugged-in millenials. different. Yes, my Internet
ver go anywhere with- friendships are different from
my iPhone (and when I my "real life" friendships,
dentally don't, I reach but not on an emotional level.
empty space for it out of I care about them and they
inct, out of habit). I have care about me. I ask them for
any apps that every time advice and complain to them
nt a new one, I have to about upcoming exams. I
te an old one. I have a can't physically cry on their
long history with social shoulders, but I can cry with
ia and Internet communi- them over Skype.
starting with my tenure I get what my friend is say-
he WB message boards ing about presence. When a
'). Even now, as I write bunch of friends are together
column, I have a Chrome at dinner and everyone's on
open to Facebook, their phones, it looks like
re I'm chatting with my no one is connecting, like
idma about soap operas, everyone is lost in the glow-
another tab for Twitter, ing world of iOS 7. Technol-
re I'm checking Chelsea ogy isn't necessarily driving
'tti's tweets. I just texted us apart. A several-year-long
hia and Emily and Akshay study led by Rutgers profes-
Kendall. sor Keith Hampton showed
that our smartphones are
actually making us more con-
nected. Plugged-in people
Yeah, I'm could recognize three times
as many of their neighbors
plugged jflW as unwired people could.
When older, buttoned-down
columnists write heated
denunciations of my gen-
he post-"Her" conversa- eration's addiction to their
with my friends turned iPhones, they over-romanti-
one about presence. cize the past. "Back in your
friend lamented the toll day," people weren't on their
rtphones take on pres- phones all the time, because
. She echoed the words the technology simply didn't
ur professor: "Why can't exist.
ple just enjoy being pres- I can sit at a bar with my
with the people they're friends and also "be with"
ently with? Why do they my dad in Dubai through
ays have to be texting the Facebook mobile, my sister
ple who aren't there?" in Norway through Snap-
or me, it's a really big deal chat and Aly in Los Angeles
I can text the people who through iMessage. Screens
't there. With my family don't make us more anti-
ad across three differ- social or disconnected; they
continents right now, just change the ways we connect.
wing that I can reach all So yeah, I love my iPhone
iem pretty much whenev- with the kind of attachment
want and almost always many think should only be
ree isn't just comforting; reserved for other humans.
powerful. But my iPhone keeps me close
nd then there's my friend to those other humans. Even
oya. LaToya is my close when they're over 7,000 miles
nd, the only person I away.

cc.

Let's bone.
Implausible Labor
Day' a labor to watch

By CARLY KEYES
DailyArts Writer
When Frank Chambers (Josh
Brolin, "Gangster Squad")
escapes from prison and forces
a chronically
depressed
single moth-
er, AdeleL
Wheeler Labor Day
(Kate Win- Quality16
slet, "Movie and Rave
43"), and her
grew-up- Paramount
way-too-fast
son, Henry
(Gattlin Griffith, "Under the
Bed") to give him a ride, it
becomes an unexpected "Labor
Day" weekend, where bending
the rules fosters a mending of
emotions.
Based on a novel of the same
name by Joyce Maynard, direc-
tor Jason Reitman ("Young
Adult") also adapts the story
for the screen in this effort,
but despite his able direction
and the talented performance,
the story itself is just too unbe-
lievable and unconventional
to have any shot at all of being
taken seriously in a dramatic
interpretation.
Adele and Henry first meet
Frank when they come into
town for their monthly trip to
the grocery store. Adele doesn't
get out much, and later we
learn why. When Frank ran-
domly appears and asks them
for a ride, Adele objects, but as
soon as he places his hands sug-
gestively around Henry's neck,
she caves and does as he wish-
es. No gun. No serious threat.

No sib
Even
depres
yell "I
public
threat
ofc
in the
wants
neveri
ly wis
Give a
stay a:
fall w
the trs
the fir
it turn
day w
runnir
logisti
stay in
maybe
the bo
pretty
S
mO
But
becaus
hours
around
ing A
the je
has tr
scary
cemen
interes

gn of imminent danger. dad-like persona for Henry.
someone with severe When we learn that Adele's
ssion has the ability to depression derives from an
Help!" in the middle of a impossibly tragic history of
place when her child is trying to get pregnant with her
ened. former husband - a series of
course, when Frank gets miscarriages and then a still-
car, he no longer just born daughter - it's easy to
a ride (Clearly, Adele understand why she might cling
read Henry that infinite- to the first man in years who's
e children's book "If You shown her kindness. And with-
Mouse a Cookie"), but to out his dad in his life, playing
t their house until night- surrogate man of the house for
hen he can make a run for years, it's even easier to grasp
ain tracks and try to hop why Henry would welcome
st one out of there. Then, the attention of a middle-aged
s out that due to the holi- guy who fails for his mom and
eekend the trains aren't authentically wants to teach
ng. It's simply a lame him how to hit a baseball, but
cal excuse for him to this brings me to possibly the
the picture longer, and largest flaw of the narrative.
that's how it happens in A majority of the moments
'ok, but if so, then that's meant to warm us up to Frank's
lame, too. character and root for him
occur ... outside. But, isn't
Frank a hotly pursued fugi-
tive on the run in a small town?
Script, not Wouldn't it be suspicious if this
seriously wanted man were to
strong cast be constantly outside fixing
things around the house and
o blame for playing baseball with a noto-
. , .riously depressed woman and
lVie' failures. her young boy? It was impos-
sible for me to enjoy these
moments; My brain was too
busy staring at the gaping plot
it becomes a moot point, holes in Reitman's script.
se in the course of 36 In a well-written film, the
of fixing a few things audience naturally sympa-
d the house and teach- thizes with characters who
dele and Henry about struggle to get what they want,
sys of cooking, Frank but in "Labor Day," these strug-
ansformed from a gruff, gles are just too pathetic and
escaped convict and now extreme, and it makes for an
ted himself as a new love unfamiliar scenario too riddled
t for Adele and a new with holes to relate to.

TI
tion
into
One
smai
ence
of oi
peoi
ent N
curr
alwa
peol
Ft
that
aren
spre
ent
kno'
of th
er I
for f
it's I
A:
LaT(
frier
will
abou
LaT(

ingly admit knows more
it television than me.
oya knows I slept with my

Upadhyaya is Skyping
with her dad. To join in,

I Buy one sandwich, get one FREE! I
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: February 7, 2014
L-- --- --- --- ---- -- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ------


8A - Monday, February 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Monday, February 3, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

FIlM COLUMN
A broken heart's eulogy
for Blockbuster

FOCUS
"Can you brush your teeth first?"
w ar too awk
By JAMIE BIRCOLL Jason (Zach Efron, "Parkland") ny. I'm all for crass humor, but
Film Editor and Daniel (Miles Teller, "The there's really no reason for any
Spectacular Now"), book cover movie to spend a solid few min-
That awkward moment when designers. In response to their utes discussing whether or not a
the movie's title doesn't actu- companion's predicament, the woman is, as they affectionately
ally have anything do to with three friends decide to swear say, a hooker. Get'cha head in the
the movie. off relationships and stay single game, guys.
That awk- D to avoid - you guessed it - that But it's not the actors' fault by
ward moment - awkward moment when one any means. Blame rests solely on
when tal- That must evaluate a relationship. first-time writer/director Tom
ented actors 'a Immediately though - later that Gormican and his incredibly
deliver what Awkward day, in fact - Jason meets the lackluster script. Admittedly,
can only be Moment girl who changes everything, there are a couple mild laughs
described as and Daniel discovers he's falling here and there, mostly deliv-
supremely Qualityl6 for an old friend. ered by Teller, but certainly not
unfunny, and Rave It is through this premise that enough to sustain, let alone war-
uninspired Focus the film digs deep to raise such rant, an entire movie.
jokes. That important, philosophical ques- And through it all we are
awkward tions as: is it better to lie to your expected to forgive the tackiness
moment when the film embraces friends or your girlfriend? And is and misogyny when our protago-
the very formula it tries so hard stealing okay and without reper- nists realize what it really means
to mock. That awkward moment cussions as long as it's commit- to be in a relationship, which
when I agreed to review this ted as a romantic gesture? includes the obligatory "I was a
movie. jerk, but now Itlove you" speech.
I thought "That Awkward And what of the titular
Moment" might have real prom- awkward moment, you ask?
ise, that it might be a romantic 'Aw kw ard' lives It's more like a one-time gim-
comedy for guys that subverts mick that is introduced only to
the clichs of the genre while up to its name. be ignored a third of the way
being, you know, funny. But through the movie. But the most
alas, it wasn't meant to be, as awkward moment will be when
"Moment" fails to break free you have to explain to your sig-
from a predictable plot and The three leads are way too nificant other why you thought
throwaway jokes. talented for this film - even "Moment" would be a good date
Michael B. Jordan ("Fruitvale Efron. The actors carry a cer- movie. And I'm talking Tom
Station") plays Mickey, a doc- tain charm that really makes Brady failing to score a high-five
tor whose wife announces she one hope that the film might rise or watching "Black Swan" with
wants a divorce. Searching for above its unoriginality and, one your grandparents levels of awk-
solace, he turns to his friends could argue, slights of misogy- ward.
Give your V lent a gift that everyone will see!
'I
Buy a Cupid Gram from
Deadline: 3:00pm, Monday, February 10th
Cost: Only $5
Publication Date: Friday, February 14th
Recipient's Email Address:
Text: LiEIII[]IL L IIIIiE L ]iL
Please stop by The Michigan Daily office at
420 Maynard (behind the LSA building) with
this form and $5. CASH ONLY PLEASE.

if you wish to pay by credit card,
simply scan the QR code and you
will be taken to The Michigan Daily's
online store to place your order.

I remember pulling as hard
as I could, little 11-year-old
fingers digging into little
plastic grooves on either side
of the videotape case. That
yellow-blue
ticket stub
mocked me,
egging me
on. It was
calling me
fat, weak
- unde-
termined, AKSHAY
even - in SETH
its own,
inanimate
way, but no
matter how hard I heaved,
I couldn't weasel the damn
tape out of its pliable shell.
That was the first time I
said "fuck you, Blockbuster"
out loud.
Pause. Before dismissing
middle-school Akshay as yet
another surprisingly foul-
mouthed Indian child, let's
get one thing straight: Jim
Carrey and "The Mask" were
hiding behind the plastic
confines of that godforsaken
Blockbuster ticket stub. Any-
one would've been upset. To
make matters worse, it was
Saturday, and I knew scruti-
nizing my father's unwieldy
attempts at hurling a bowl-
ing ball in the vague direc-
tion of 10 unsuspecting pins
could never top the sensation
that accompanies watching a
putty-faced psychopath going
chick-chicky-boom on top of
a police car (it's very nice ...
so full of spice!).
I digress.
Like Blockbuster, the
stubborn videotape case is
gone - adrift behind an ever-
expanding cloud of techno-
logical advancement, and a
eulogy for listless evenings
spent trying to sneak glimps-
es at the nonexistent adult
video section is long past due.
Growing up, my family
didn't have much. Most week-
ends were spent at home, and
though it never really mat-
tered what we were doing
- whether it was playing vid-
eogames or crowding around
our bulky TV for NBC's latest
miniseries version of what-
ever Stephen King story they
deemed worthwhile - I lived
for trips to the local Block-
buster.
I loved films. No other
form of art made me sit,
mouth agape, and think the
way movies did. The first
time I remember crying with

a smile
watchi
of the'
ing the
in Roy
Earth,
behind
on abn
All t
with u
eotape
lenges.
check.
week b
being t
happer
determ
one of
the wh
VCR. T
tic ant
throug
cinema
one lee
for tho
of Satu
more a
I'd be
tick an
imagin
in my t
Yo
Befo
into th
childv
ing thi
HAND
whena
went.:
lem. H
impres
heart"
freedo
In a
my cin
well ui
buster
profes
betwe'
The
One
noon a
aids, b
McRib
red co
passed
boyant
of mov
screan
it be?I
my par
Blockb
Ronal
IfI
my wa
version

on my face was after have sprung up out of thin
ng "Close Encounters air that very moment. Or
Third Kind," and see- more realistically, teleporta-
melancholy triumph tion technology would finally
Neary's eyes as he left be tweaked to let me zap
and his mundane life over to the closest Block-
I to stake his existence buster. But alas, we live in
ormality. an imperfect world. Casually
hose shelves, lined walking through shelves of
niformly-dressed vid- titles was soon replaced with
s and DVDs, were chal- standing stone-still in front
. I was only allowed to of a glowing red interface,
out one, maybe two, a quietly mouthing arguments
'ut even if it ended up about which movie was most
he last thing that ever worthwhile.
ned in my life, I was I thought about Blockbust-
ined each and every er less and less, until finally,
those tapes would see it faded from my conscience
irring insides of my altogether, and the only
There was a roman- person to blame was Block-
icipation in strolling buster. The stupid company
;h this labyrinth of refused to compete with the
a, eyes darting from new kids on the block, expos-
dge to the next, looking ing the chinks in armor that
se perfect two hours would eventually lead to its
rday night. There was inevitable demise. I missed
nticipation in knowing the cool young professor,
back in a week, able to but the coolness had long
other entry off of the disappeared. Age had taken
ted bucket list of titles its toll and embarrassingly,
head. he wasn't even attempting
to hide the marijuana usage
anymore.
For the second time in my
u brought it life, I said, "fuck you, Block-
buster" out loud, only this
fn yourself. time, there was an added
interjection of, "get your shit
together."
Blockbuster never got its
re long, I transformed shit together. Soon, Netf-
e obnoxious cretin- lix would forever change
who enjoyed scream- the game, and even though
ngs like "YOU CAN'T the old man attempted to
LE THE TRUTH" throw his hat in the ring
asked how a math test with Blockbuster Now, it
Ezekiel 25:17? No prob- was too little, too late. After
orrible Henry Callahan bankruptcy-plagued years of
sions? Check. "Brave- irrelevance, the video store
level declarations of wheezed its last breath and
m? #YOLO. keeled over, DVDs and vid-
blur of magnetic tape, eotapes bleeding out of its
ematic schooling was bloated corpse.
nderway, and Block- It was a slow, ugly, can-
was the cool young cerous death, but I'll never
sor smoking joints forget you, Blockbuster. You
en lectures/screenings. were my first teacher - the
n it all changed. first medium for my appre-
fateful Sunday after- ciation of film. Without you,
t the local McDon- I probably never would have
etween mouthfuls of felt the need to learn how to
, I spotted the strange ride a bike. Without you, I
ntraption. It could've wouldn't be writing this col-
I for a weirdly flam- umn. Without you, I wouldn't
t ATM, but the wall be the person I am today.
'ie titles next to it So for the third and final
ted otherwise. Could time in my life, I'll say it out
Did I not have to beg loud: "fuck you, Blockbuster."
rents to take melto the The added interjection? "You
buster anymore? Was lived a good life."

d McDonald Jesus??t?
could've had it exactly
y, another, blue-yellow
n of Redbox would

Seth is cursing out
Blockbuster. To join in,
e-mail ake@umich.edu.

MOVIE REVIEW
Timeless 'Polar Bear'
By KAREN YUAN and another moment quietly cut- into Forbes' past, the film some-
Daily Arts Writer ting kiwis into flower shapes for how feels restrained. Wherever
a flu-ridden daughter. So whythe a heavy blow could be dealt,
"Infinitely Polar Bear" is a hell did Maggie marry him, asks instead Forbes introduces a
deeply personal movie - not Amelia? quick and saccharine caress to
really in the way when some- Well, it was the '60s. Everyone smooth the scene over. Cam's
one whispers was having a mental breakdown. manic depression feels watered-
a secret in "Infinitely Polar Bear" is fas- down and never as dangerous
our ears, but tidiously period-conscious. The as the film initially insinuates
more in the Infinitely film is set in 1978, and at every through Maggie's concern over
way we stum- Polar Bear moment it remindsus with flared leaving the children in his care.
ble upon their Sundance pants, race and gender issues and A welcome effect of this is that
stash of VHS Ruffalo in Day-Glo booty shorts. "Infinitely Polar Bear" doesn't
home videos, Screeening Despite all the details, the mes- only follow Cam's illness. It's not
each marked Comedy Central sages still resonate in 2014. Per- a mental health PS0A. Or rather, it
with a cryptic haps it's the gender issues, still is, but at the same time focuses
yet relatable relevant in the 21st century, or on a slice-of-life dynamic with-
white label - the dialogue, which revolves in a whole family, not just Cam
when dad took us fishing, when around events in the Stuart being 'infinitely polar bear' - the
mom left for NYC, Faith's mer- microcosm of four and never nickname Forbes' own father
maid dress, the night we cried gave to his illness.
together. The slice-of-life tone may
The film is director Maya be at the expense of Ruffalo's
Forbes' feature debut and based M ovie exists incredible acting, however. Ruf-
on her childhood with a bipolar falo pulls out all the stops and
father. beyond the '70s. gives a truly nuanced perfor-
Maggie Stuart (Zoe Saldana, mance as a loving yet tormented
"Star Trek: Into Darkness"), father. The scenes in which we
determined to lift her family can visibly see him build up in
out of poverty, leaves for gradu- quite acknowledges other news a volcanic rage are some of his
ate school in New York City and beyond their little world. The best as an actor. But his inten-
appoints her husband Cam- result is, again, an intimate and sity is let down by the film's
eron (Mark Ruffalo, "The Kids oddly timeless feeling. stubborn domesticity. Mount
Are Alright") to look after their Throughout the movie, Forbes Ruffalo never erupts. The movie
two children, Amelia (Imogene throws in Super 8 home-movie isn't about his character's tor-
Wolodarsky) and Faith (Ashley footage, grainy and beautifully ment - it's about a happy ending
Aufderheide), in their Boston handmade, with close-ups of for the Stuarts, which may leave
apartment. But there's one little Faith's laughing face or birds in some in the audience confused,
thing: Cam is manic-depressive, summer trees. It toes the line but since the Stuarts never seemed
at one moment rabid in a red never enters Instagram territory. to completely despair in the first
Speedo streaking across the yard Although we're peering deep place.

Each Cupid Gram purchased gives
you the chance to win dinner for two
at Maiz Mexican Cantina!
4855 Washtenaw Av . Ann Arbo

mamzmexaCan.COm


For Internal Use I
Gram# Ad# Student Group Ad taken by
t + r


S

I,
L

I4

tq

p
m

..
G - -

,

 I

down offensively
as Hoosiers make
clutch plays late
By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
BLOOMINGTON - While
shooting free throws in the
-irst half, the Assembly Hall
student section rained a chorus
of "Deport Stauskas" chants on
sophomore guard Nik Stauskas.
It turned out that keeping
Indiana point guard Yogi

the game.
With just six points on 1-of-
6 shooting from Stauskas,
Michigan's offense was held to
a season low in points, dropping
its first Big Ten contest of the
season, 63-52. The loss snapped
a 10-game Wolverine winning
streak.
On the other end, Ferrell
was doing everything Stauskas
couldn't, pouring in a game-high
27 points on a remarkable 7-of-8
mark from beyond the arc.
Indiana spent much of the
second half with multiple-

possession leads, as Michigan
(8-1 Big Ten 16-5 overall)
struggled throughout the game
to run in its offense without
Stauskas, who was incessantly'
denied the ball. The sophomore
didn't connect on a single
3-pointer for only the second
time this season - the first time
since Duke employed a similar
defensive strategy against him in
a season-low four-point outing
in December.
"Ithinkitwasalittlefrustrating
for some guys," said fifth-year
senior forward Jordan Morgan,
seemingly alluding to Stauskas.
When asked how Stauskas
See BASKETBALL, Page 3B

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
} Daily Sports Editor
BLOOMINGTON - The
Indiana men's basketball team's
win over No. 10 Michigan on
Saturday was not earned when
the clock hit zeroes or when
fifth-year senior forward Jordan
Morgan missed the front end of
a one-and-one down six points
with two minutes left.
It had been earned at some
indecipherable point in the
late first half or early second
half when it was clear that
sophomore guard Nik Stauskas
had been rendered irrelevant by
the Hoosier defense.

It was clear that the game's
primary ball handlers would
decide the result of the game.
And Indiana's best playertwas
highlighted and Michigan's best
player was hidden. Yogi Ferrell
was giventhe stage to show what
he could do, while Stauskas was
relegated to the corner without
the ball in his hands.
"We had no answers for
Yogi," said Michigan coach John,
Beilein. "He wasn't passing it.
They only had six assists today.
It wasn't an assists game. It was
get the ball in Yogi's hands."
The second-year guard lit
up Assembly Hall on Saturday,
scoring 27 points on just 10
field-goal attempts. Ferrell
missed just two shots and went
7-for-8 on 3-pointers. He didn't
even attempt a two-point shot

in the first half,and he was still
single-handedly submerging
the Wolverines.
"Four or five of them - 15
points right there - you can't
do anything on that," Beilein
said. "When he goes to a slow-
to-quick move and just shoots
it in from probably NBA range.
Pretty good shot."
Late in the second half,
Michigan went to a 1-3-1 zone
defense to try to limit Ferrell's
opportunities, but it wasn't
nearly enough.
As far as Beilein was
concerned, Ferrell's stellar
afternoon couldn't have been
stopped, but Michigan's work
on the other end of the court
needed to be better if the
Wolverineswere going to extend
See STAUSKAS, Page 3B


THROUGH THE YEARS
Fifth-year senior Jordan Morgan
has seen Michigan rise into a national
powerhouse. Page 2B

WISCONSIN WHIPPED
The Michigan hockey team took five
of six points in its series against the
Badgers. Page 4B


2B - February 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Morgan leads charge in Michigan turnaround

The Michigan basketball
team was going to its first Sweet
Sixteen since 1994, and Jordan
Morgan couldn't even bring
himself to smile.
The
Detroit
native kept
his eyes on
the floor
to avoid
looking at
the countless
family and EVERETT
friends COOK
from his
hometown
that had
come to see Michigan's starting
center play in the first two
rounds of the 2013 NCAA
Tournament at the Palace of
Auburn Hills. After starting 27
of the team's 31 games before
the tournament, Morgan was
replaced by a freshman - Mitch
McGary - in the lineup.
McGary went on to score a
combined 34 points in those
two games, the start to a
tournament run so dominant
it would land him on the
preseason All-American team
as a sophomore before this
season. Morgan would play a
grand total of one minute.
The freshman was
celebrating. The redshirt junior
felt completely broken.
It took Morgan until the
following day off to feel happy
again, but even then, he
played just 25 total minutes
over the course of Michigan's
postseason run.
After the season ended
with a loss to Louisville in
the national championship
game, Morgan got back to Ann
Arbor and knew he needed
to change something. Letting
his happiness be defined by
playing time wasn't healthy or
productive.
So began the summer of
Jordan, the transformation
from someone who defined his
own success by minutes and
points to someone who could
care less about individual
statistics. And so began the
spark to help turn Michigan's
season around after it struggled
in non-conference play and
dropped out of the Top 25
earlier this year.
If Morgan doesn't have that
humiliation in the Palace, he
doesn't have the open mind he
needed to grow last spring and
summer. For the 10th-ranked
Wolverines, whose recent
10-game winning streak was
snapped on Sunday in a 63-52
loss to Indiana, that growth
has made all the difference for
one of the youngest rosters in
college basketball.

handle starting the season on the
bench, playing four minutes in a
road loss to Iowa State or three
minutes in that loss to Arizona.
But this Morgan did. When
McGary got injured, the fifth-
year senior stepped in like
nothing had changed. Since
the injury, Morgan is shooting
almost 80 percent from the
floor to go along with his 23
minutes and eight points per
contest, even though his game
has never been about stats.
It's always been about taking
charges, hustling for loose balls
and playing smart defense.
"That's kind of my game,
because unfortunately, I'm
not as talented as some of the
guys on our team so I've got
to rely on that stuff," Morgan
said. "But when you've got the
talented guys, the guys who
people look toward as go-to
guys, when they start to buy
into that stuff, it changes the
whole direction of the team."
For a player whose biggest
contributions don't always
show up on the stat sheet,
getting Michigan to remember
what brought this program
from the basement to national
prominence might be his biggest
victory yet. The Wolverines
needed to learn how to become
selfless, but they couldn't have
done it without Morgan learning
the same lesson, too.
"I've grown in that area
since then, but that's what I
needed to grow, to go through
that," Morgan said. "I was
completely broken. ... I had to
stop worrying about my own
personal glorification. I don't
need to have the articles, the
playing time, the points, to be
satisfied with myself, but I had
to go through that tournament
to really have an open mind and
heart this off-season to learn
that lesson."
Cook can be reached at
evcook@umich.edu and on
Twitter Severettcook

Fifth-year senior forward Jordan Morgan, Michigan's most veteran player, has seen the program progress from middle-of-the-pack into a national powerhouse.

have experienced nothin
but a sold-out Crisler Cez
and a trip to the national
championship game intl
year and a half in Ann A
When this year's team
watched film of Morgan'
redshirt year in 2010, no
could believe that the lo
bowl of Crisler wasn't re
close to full.
Morgan,
the only
remaining 4
player from
the last tale
Wolverine
team to of
not make
the NCAA
Tournament,
had to remind
them what it

ig recruits and told them they
nter needed to get back to what
Michigan did best.
heir "We took some tough losses,
rbor. at Duke and all that, and I
think during those games, we
's really struggled to see that
body winning games in those type
wer of road environments against
motely teams like that is so much more
than just the
talent," he
said. "It's
' not as the little
things that
nted as some one team is
willing to do
the guys on that the other
team isn't.
our team." That was so
engrained in
our program
before

Like Morgan, the Wolverines
needed to lose in order to learn
how to win.
"I think (losing) helped us a
lot," Morgan said. "I don't know
if that's the only answer, butI
think that's what worked, losing
those tough games in those
tough environments. Losing to
teams that we weren't supposed
to lose to. That stuff helped.
Us dropping out of the Top-25,
once you start losing like that,
people start calling everyone
overrated. 'Oh, Glenn Robinson
is overrated,' 'oh, Nik Stauskas,
he isn't that good.' You need a
little bit of that, especially with
a young team."
Morgan's spring started
with an exercise he did in
a management class called
"Reflected Best Self." He asked
neonle from all different areas of

his life when he had performed
his best. Every single answer was
from a time when he put himself
before others.
With that in mind, he took
a trip to Africa as part of a
program called Athletes in
Action. There, he had a renewal
in his faith, coming to the
understanding that God needed
to be in every aspect of his life,
including basketball.
After those experiences, it
didn't matter that McGary
decided to come back for his
sophomore season, and it didn't
matter when the preseason
All-American had back surgery
in December. Morgan's focus
didn't change at all, because
he realized his true happiness
only came from focusing
on helping other people, in
basketball or not.
The same Morgan who
couldn't smile in the Palace last
year wouldn't have been able to

was like to play on a nationally
irrelevant team.
Really, he's been reminding
the young players of this all
season. One of Michigan's
toughest defeats of the season
was a 10-point loss on the road
against Duke. In the locker
room after that game, Morgan
stood up and told his teammates
they had to stop relying on their
talent alone. Scouting reports
needed to be taken seriously.
Knowing the other team's
tendencies might change five or
six plays, but how much would
that help in a 10-point loss?
When Morgan was a younger
player, the Wolverines had
to know that scouting report
inside and out. They had to
hustle for loose balls and
rebounds. The talent wasn't
there - they had no other
choice if they wanted to win.
In that locker room in
Durham, N.C., Morgan stood
up in a room full of potential
NBA lottery picks and touted

because that's how we had
to win. More times than not,
we weren't the most talented
team, so we had to win by
executing better, boxing out
harder, crashing harder, diving
on the floor.
"But then once you get a
bunch of really talented guys -
which we now have - I think it
did take a couple little bruises
here and there to realize that
it's more than just our talent
that's going to win games."
Since then, the Wolverines
have lost just twice, to then-
No.1 Arizona in the middle of
December and on Sunday, and
have vaulted into first place in
the Big Ten.
So while a perfect conference
record might have been nice,
losing in Assembly Hall on
Sunday might not be the worst
thing in the world. Michigan
had to revisit itself after those
losses to Arizona and Duke,
which turned the season
around.

y of Michigan's
phomores who

The majorit
veterans are so

THE BOARD FOR STUDENT PUBLICATIONS
SEEKS NEW MEMBERS
The University of Michigan Board for Student Publications is
recruiting new members for three year terms beginning in April.
The Board is responsible for three publications:
The Michigan Daily, the Michiganensian yearbook, and the Gargoyle.
Because the Board is committed to realizing diversity's benefits for itself and
for the publications it oversees, the Board is particularly interested in recruiting
members of the University community (faculty, staff and students), or the
general public who are members of underrepresented groups and who
have experience and expertise in journalism, law, finance, or fundraising.
All interested persons are encouraged to apply.
For more information and application forms,please contact
Mark Bealafeld, Student Publications General Manager at
734-418-4115, extension 1246, or nbealafe@urmich.edu.
a l~ihe for applications itFebruary 12th.

Fifth-year senior forward Jordan Morgan has performed well as a starter since Mitch McGary underwent back surgery.
Comeback epitomizes rivalry

By MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
Forgeteverythingyou'veheard
about rivalries being limited to
revenue sports, especially when
its Michigan vs. Ohio State.
As if the Wolverines'
151-147 road victory wasn't
exciting enough on its own, the
meet featured some unusual
gamesmanship in a desperate
attempt to emerge victorious.
In a sport where every
hundredth of a second is pivotal,
high-tech swimsuits can make
the difference between winning
and losing. So, before the meet,
Michigan coach Mike Bottom
and Ohio State coach Bill Wadley
made a simple gentlemen's
agreement: no swimmers
competing for points would wear
tech suits.
Athletes swimming an
exhibition heat to make a Big Ten
qualifying time were free to wear
one of the speedy, knee-length
suits, but anyone going for points
had to wear a speedo.
For the first part of the meet,
that agreement was upheld. Then
came the 200-yard backstroke.
The Buckeyes' Michael
Gallagher led most of the race
wearing a high-tech jammer

before being overtaken at the
end by a teammate and Michigan
senior Ryutaro Kamiya.
But in the very next race,
the 200-yard breaststroke, the
Buckeyes' tech suits led them to a
huge victory over junior Richard
Funk, who had previously been
unbeaten in the event this season.
Following the second
consecutive race with Ohio State
swimmers wearingtech suits, the
Michigan men's swim and dive
Twitter account posted a quote
from Bottom:
"I'm not going to lose when
someone suits up against us,"
read the tweet.
Some Michigan swimmers
entered the locker room and
emerged intech suits of their own
for the 100-yard butterfly, taking
the top two spots in the event and
sending a message to the other
side of the pool deck.
"All of a sudden the tech suits
started appearing on the Ohio
State side," Bottom said. "So my
goal was to put the suits on for
one race and show them that if
we decided to do that for the rest
of the meet, that's what it would
look like."
Bottom's plan worked.
Sophomore Dylan Bosch won the
100-yard butterfly in 46.63 and

was closely followed by senior
John Wojciechowski in 46.89.
By the next race, both teams
were back in speedos.
But while the tech-suit fiasco
brought plenty of drama to the
rivalry meet, the two teams didn't
need any added excitement.
The Buckeyes (3-1 Big Ten,
9-1 overall) won both the 200-
yard medley relay and 400-
yard freestyle relays by half a
second, the first time this season
Michigan (5-0, 8-0) didn't win a
relay event.
SeniorConnor Jaeger answered
back, though, out-touching Ohio
State's Alex Miller to takethe500-
yard freestyle in 4:24.92.
"Michigan had to win that
race," Jaeger said. "It wasn't a
matter of how much it was by or
how close the race was."
Bottom praised the leadership
of his senior captain,but also cited
an important piece of wisdom
from associate coach Josh White
during a 20-minute break in the
action. Ohio State had come out
strong, including a sweep of the
100-yard backstroke, and the
Wolverines were in unfamiliar
territory - comeback mode.
But nothing was going to
stop Michigan from doing that
Saturday, not even tech suits.

,q h S



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

February 3, 2014 - 3B

Defensive lapses lead to loss
as Wolverines falter again

By MAX COHEN
Daily Sports Editor
Kim Barnes Arico shed her
jacket just 26 seconds into the
Michigan women's basketball
team's loss against Minnesota.
For much of the second half,
the Wolverines' defense put up
about as much resistance as the
jacket did. The Golden Gophers
attacked, attacked and then
attacked some more to turn a
Wolverine halftime lead into an
85-69 loss.
Minnesota shot 17-for-22
from the field in the second
half, ensuring Michigan would
lose consecutive games for
the first time this season.
The Golden Gophers used a
multitude of different looks in
their outburst, and each look
was met without much of an
attempt to stop it.
The loss was a part of a
difficult stretch of four games
in 10 days for the Wolverines,

Junior Stacey Ervin celebrated in style after a solid showing in the parellel bars as Michigan easily defeated Ohio State.
Proars to triumph

By ALEX TAYLOR
Daily Sports Writer
On a day when it raised its 2013
NCAA National Championship
banner, the Michigan men's
gymnastics team showed why it's
once again the favorite to repeat.
Playing host to No. 4 Ohio
State, the Wolverines won
handily, 444.75-440.80. Though
using a more forgiving scoring
system than is used at the
national championship, 444.75
is higher than the score that won
Michigan the title last year.
Saturday, like throughout most
of the regular season, the contest
used the 6-up 5-count scoring
system, which often results in
higher scores.
The championship-winning
score of 443.20 and last year's
team were honored before the
meet as the banner was unveiled
by the captains, graduate
student Syque Caesar and senior
Matt Freeman.
"It's very special," Caesar
said. "We fought very hard for
that championship last year and
we've put a lot of work in this
year to hopefully repeat at home
in front of the home crown.
Raising that banner to a home
crowd makes it a little more
BASKETBALL
From Page 1B
handled the way he was being
defended, Morgan paused before
saying, "He kind of stepped
up a little bit towards the end
and wanted to get a little more
involved, but it's tough when
guys - they were bent on not
letting him get shots and making
everyone else score."
Michigan coach John Beilein
called the Hoosiers' defensive
game plan "outstanding," noting
that it was one he has never seen
since arriving to Ann Arbor.
Indiana pitted a smaller defender
on the Wolverines' big man,
allowing its four other defenders
to switch on every ball screen,
stifling the pick-and-roll sets that
Michigan - particularly Stauskas
- loves to operate out of.
The plan worked against
all facets of Stauskas's game,
limiting him not just in the
scoring column, but holding him
to only one assist - nearly three
below his average.
"They took their quickest
player and don't let Nik get the
STAUSKAS
From Page 1B
their 10-game winning
streak.
"Defense wasn't the issue
today," Beilein said. "Our offense
has got to get better and that falls
with me."
Ferrell's offense wouldn't have
been nearly enough for the high-
powered Michigan attack that
had been scoring 77 points per
game. He also guarded Stauskas
all day, denying him from catch-
ing passes and limiting him to six
points on 1-for-6 shooting.
But Ferrell's defense was a
product of the bigger defensive
scheme that Indiana cooked up,
one Beilein said he had never

seen since he's been at Michigan.
The way Indiana switched on
screens baffled Michigan, and
Beilein credited that strategy in
removing the Wolverines from

special and motivation for us to
put another one up there."
With that extra motivation,
No. 2 Michigan started off the
match on one of its best events,
floor exercise, and gained the
early lead on the Buckeyes (2-3-
1 Big Ten, 3-3-1 overall). Led by
senior Sam Mikulak with a score
of 15.85 and Caesar with a 15.30,
the Wolverines gave themselves
a nice cushion over Ohio State for
the rest of the meet.
"Floor is tricky," Caesar said.
"We have really high-level
gymnasts on there so hitting the
event is good, but hittingthe event
as well as we did is really great."
Parallel bars, usually a
staple in Michigan's arsenal,
proved to be a different story
as it struggled on that event.
While Caesar and junior Stacey
Ervin registered a 15.60 and
15.40 respectively, their fellow
gymnasts didn't fare as well due
to misses and low start values.
"We got off to a great start
at p-bars, but then the middle
and the end of our lineup we
had some trouble, and that's
traditionally our best event,"
said Michigan coach Kurt
Golder. "Hopefully, we will get it
straightened out soon."
Caesar earned the Newt Loken
ball," Beilein said. "He's seen that
before, but we haven't seen when
they put our primary screen
with a switch guy.... That's what
changed a lot of things. Drawing
that up in the huddle and in
practice is two different things."
Indiana coach Tom Crean said
that after his assistants crafted
the scheme, his team began
working on ita week ago.
"All I'll really say about the
game plan is we couldn't guard
them conventionally," Crean
said. "We had tough matchups,
so we had to overcome that a
little bit."
Freshman point guard
Derrick Walton Jr. led the
Wolverines with 13 points, but
just five came after halftime.
Sophomore guard Caris LeVert
chipped in with 12 but was held
to an inefficient 5-of-13 shooting
mark. No other Michigan player
scored in double digits.
Despite playing one of its worst
halves of the season, Michigan
went into the break trailing just
25-22. The Wolverines offense
sputtered to a 7-of-20 field-goal
mark in the period, missing on
each of its four 3-pointers. To
their element.
The Indiana game plan was
one the Hoosiers had been work-
ing on since last week, and one
that Crean said was designed to
limit Michigan's explosive scor-
ers, though he wouldn't elabo-
rate on the specifics.
"I just think you've got to be
conscious of where Stauskas is
at all times," Crean said. "You've
got to make his catches hard, but
you've got to make his ability to
get free looks even harder."
Michigan then devolved into
freshman point guard Derrick
Walton and sophomore guard
Caris LeVert running the offense
from the top of the key, but with-
out much success. Walton scored
a team-high 13 points, though
eight of those came in the first

half and six came from free
throws when he was fouled twice
shooting 3-pointers. LeVert's 10
points after the break accounted
for a third of the team's second-

Award, given to the gymnast
with the best performance of the
day, for his parallel bars routine.
But, as the season progresses he
will look to improve not only his
performance but the assigned
difficulty as well.
"I've been doing the same
structure of the routine for a long
time but have upgraded it each
year, and I've upgraded it about
three tenths since last year,"
Caesar said.
Though the Wolverines (5-0,
9-0) held the lead going into
the last event, the high bar, the
meet was far from over given
last week's performance on the
event. After an unusually low
score of 64.35 in last week's
match, Michigan . posted a
respectable 72.75.
"High bar is probably the
highlight this week, because
last week at Stanford, we had
a meltdown," Caesar said. "So
coming back going 6-6 on high
bar is huge for us and shows
that we are a good team on that.
That's a good sign, and we can
do a lot better."
At full strength for the first
time all season, Michigan gave
a glimpse of its true potential -
andhowthatmay meanunveiling
yet another banner next year.
compound the poor first-half
shooting, Michigan turned the ball
over eight times before the break
for the second time in as many
games - an anomaly for a team
that entered the game averaging
fewer than 10turnovers per game.
By time Stauskas connected
on a field goal, more than 18
minutes had evaporated from
the clock. Thanks to two trips
to the foul line on 3-point
attempts, Walton picked up the
offensive slack, as the freshman
scored a team-high eight points
in the first half,
Ferrell opened the scoring
with a 3-pointer, and his touch
never cooled. The sophomore
led Indiana with 12 first-
half points thanks to four
3-pointers.
A layup and ensuing and-1
free throw from sophomore
forward Glenn Robinson III
narrowed Michigan's deficit
to four with fewer than two
minutes to play, but that was as
close as it got. Indiana converted
its free throws and a tip-in with
time winding down gave the
Hoosiers a somewhat misleading
11-point victory.
half output.
"We were trying to get some
mismatches through switches,"
Beilein said. "I thought we
could do a better job there.
Obviously we tried to get Nik
the ball or just let Yogi guard
him (in the corner), and we'll
play four-on-four."
The Wolverines' 52 points
were nine fewer than the
team's previous season-low, and
though they shot a mediocre
40 percent from the field, the
slow pace and lack of transition
opportunities contributed to
the low number.
"We just got to be able to get
spacing," Beilein said. "I gotta
look atlit on film, figure out what
they're gonna do. I don't have all
the answers. Obviously if I had

the answer, we wouldn't have
scored 52 points."
And after Ferrell dominated
offensively, that wasn't nearly
enough.

Michigan coach Kim Barnes Arico had few answers after the Wolverines' loss.

and the grind of
manifested itse
defensive effort
half. Michigan c
defensive stops it
to give it a
38-34 lead
going into the
half, but stops
were few and
far between
early in the
second half.
"A lot of it
might have
to do with
fatigue,"
Barnes Arico sa
only physical fatig
fatigue. We've ju
better at playing f
and not for 20 or 2
Minnesota star
half gunning1
the arc. The Go
consistently foun
from deep in t
minutes of the he
guard Mikayla B
3-pointer with 12
her team a 59-5
marked the sixth
Golden Gophers

f the schedule second half on seven attempts.
lf in their "We weren't checked
in the second in enough," said Michigan
reated enough freshman guard Siera Thompson.
n the first half "We weren't too focused on the
game plan."
After
"We've justgotMinnesota
g exposed the
to get better at Wolverines'
defense on the
playing for 40 perimeter, it
went to work
minutes." on finishing
Michigan off
inside. The
Wolverines
id. "And not had few answers for Golden
gue but mental Gopher center Amanda Zahui,
st got to get who got every look she wanted
or 40 minutes, to inside. Zahui scored six
5, or 30 or 35." straight baskets to push the
ted the second lead to 12 with 10:45 left in the
from beyond game. Zahui finished wi th 24
lden Gophers points and 16 rebounds, but
id open looks her 13 second-half points wore
he first eight down Michigan.
aif. Minnesota The Wolverines were never
Bailey made a able to get the stops they would
:38 left to give need to get back into the game..
3 lead, which Minnesota continued bruising
3-pointer the Michigan's porous defense,
made in the despite the Wolverines' efforts

to cut into the lead. Michigan cut
the lead to seven after Zahui's
run, but its defense couldn't
string together enough stops for
it to matter.
"The wear and tear is kind of
wearing on our team at this point
of the year," Barnes Arico said.
"We've got to find a way to get
ourselves back."
The Wolverines allowed
more than 80 points for the
second straight game. After
allowing 11 3-pointers against
Nebraska on Wednesday night,
the Michigan defense did
the same against the Golden
Gophers. Though the game
was closer than its final score
indicated, the Wolverines' lack
of game experience prior to
this season is beginning to rear
its head on the defensive end.
"They've gone on trips, but
they've never had to play, then
come back and then play again,"
Barnes Arico said.
Michigan better hope its
defense adjusts to the grueling
Big Ten schedule, so that its
recent blips don't mar what has
otherwise been a season full of
positive developments.

Michigan coach Bev Plocki thought sophomore Austin Sheppard deserved a perfect score, but judges gave her a 9.975.
Almost perfect, 'M'tops MSU

By CHLOE AUBUCHON
Daily Sports Writer
Near-perfect scores, falls,
career bests and floor mishaps
summed up the No. 4 Michigan
women's gymnastics team's
196.800-193.900 win over
Michigan State at Crisler Center
on Fridaynight.
One of the night's biggest
successes was senior Joanna
Sampson. She tied her career-
high all-around score with a
39.650, previously set at last
year's meet against the Spartans.
Sampson also earned career-
high scores on balance beam
(9.925) and uneven bars (9.975),
receiving a 10 from one judge for
her bars performance.
"Bars was always one of my
stronger events before college,"
Sampson said. "But I feel like
I've stayed the same since
I've been here, so (to get a 10)
was just really cool. I wasn't
expecting it at all."
Sophomore Austin Sheppard
started the meet off strong on
vault for the Wolverines. The

height, rotation and landing on
her Yurchenko full - a round-off
onto the springboard into a back
handspring and full twist - also
earned her a career-high 9.975
and a 10 from one judge.
"I have no way to know how
anyone could have found a
deduction on Austin's vault," said
Michigan coachBevPlocki. "That
was a 10 overall if I've ever seen a
10 overall. It was gorgeous."
Sampson tied with a Spartan
gymnast for second on the
vault, with Michigan taking the
next four spots.
The Wolverines, led by
Sampson, dominated on bars
with a season-high 49.475. All
six gymnasts scored at least a
9.800 to take the top six spots.
Sampson, Sheppard, senior
Shelby Gies and fifth-year senior
Natalie Beilstein all stuck their
landings cleanly.
While strong routines on vault
and bars - along with several
falls and mishaps made by the
Spartans - salvaged the win for
Michigan, Friday's meet exposed
areas of weakness. The overall

score was below the team's
average of 196.883 in the first
three meets.
After solid leadoff routines by
freshmen Nicole Artz and Talia
Chiarelli, the Wolverines faced
their first major difficulty on
beam this season.
Struggles followed Michigan
into the floor exercise, where
missteps and stumbles plagued
the first half of the rotation.
Sheppard's power got the best
of her as she went out of bounds
on one of her tumbling passes,
and junior Sachi Sugiyama was
forced to touch the floor after
stumbling on her landing.
"We had a fantastic meet
going, and it's disappointing
when you have something like
that going and then you take your
foot off the gas," Plocki said.
The meet was Michigan's first-
ever Autism Awareness Meet.
A win against its in-state rival,
all while promoting awareness
about a serious and relatively
low-profile disorder, capped a
rewardingweekend for Michigan
despite its weaknesses.


4B - February 3, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wolverines give themselves reason to smile with wins

Seconds before puck drop
Saturday, Mac Bennett
skated up behind fellow
defenseman Michael Downing
and latched onto his shoulders.
The senior captain twirled the
freshman around in a bear hug.
This game was going to be
fun.
The night before, the No. 12
Michigan
hockey team - ----
ended a
51-day hiatus
from Yost
Ice Arena by
beating No.
9 Wisconsin,
3-1. In doing ERIN
so, the L
Wolverines LENNON
avenged
what was
an embarrassing weekend
in Madison just three weeks
prior - a series that featured
just three Michigan goals in
two games and culminated in
a frustration-induced brawl,
which sent six Wolverines to
the penalty box.
So with an energized crowd
behind it again Saturday,
Michigan needed a little extra
muscle and a little more time
to fend off the Badgers, taking
five of six points and moving.
into sole possession of second
place in the Big Ten. If nothing
else, in a game characterized
by shattered sticks and many
more dropped in combat, the
Wolverines had a little bit of
fun.
With six minutes remaining
in the first period, junior
forward Alex Guptill and
Wisconsin senior Sean Little
came out of a scramble in front
of the Wisconsin net swinging.
As the two brought each
other to the ice, they took two
referees down with them.
As Little skated towards the
penalty box, an impassioned
and quick-on-its-feet crowd
chanted the Badger's name with
an expletive behind it.
Wolverin
By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
Daily Sports Editor

PAUL SHERMAN/Daily
Senior forward Luke Moffatt scored the only goal of the shooutout on Saturday as the Michigan hockey team took five of six possible points against Wisconsin.

Michigan is back in early-
season form. With new line
pairings, it took two from
Michigan State away from
Yost. And back home, where
the Wolverines have lost only
one game all season, Michigan
remained dominant against
a formidable conference
opponent.
This time last season, the
Wolverines had little to smile
about. Michigan hobbled into
February at seven games under
.500 in desperate need of a
sweep over Michigan State.
But like they had against the
Spartans last weekend, the
Wolverines were able to sing
"The Victors" once more. And
the crowd locked arms for a
rendition of the University's
alma mater, "The Yellow and
Blue," as the team skated off.
Outside, as the crowd filed
out, a young boy wearing a maize
sweater looked up at his dad.
"Do we have another game
soon?" he asked. "That was so
fun."
Erin Lennon can be reached
at eelennon@umich.edu and
on Twitter @ee_lennon
BY THE NUMBERS
Michigan vs. Wisconsin
11,600
Total weekend attendanceat Yost Ice
Arena, good for two sellouts and a
raucous atmosphere.
41
Shots on goal for the Wolverines on
Saturday. The Badgers had 27.
Points in Big Ten play,good for second
in the conference behind Minnesota.
783
Careernwins for coach Red Berenson,
tied for fourth in NCAA history.

Red Berenson's 784th win will
have to wait.
But the Michigan hockey
coach won't mind staying tied for
fourth in all-time NCAA Division
I victories after the Wolverines
took five of six possible points
in their series against No. 9
Wisconsin
with a
come-from-WISCONSIN 1
behind MICHIGAN 3
2-2 tie and
shootout SCONSIN
victory WISCONSIN
Saturday MICHIGAN
night at
Yost Ice Arena.
The result moves Michigan
into sole possession of second
place in the Big Ten.
After a goalless overtime
frame, senior forward Luke
Moffatt scored the decisive
tally in the second round of the
penalty shootout, while freshman
goaltender Zach Nagelvoort
stopped all three Badgers shots to
give the 12th-ranked Wolverines
the extra conference point.
"This was a sweep for us
mentally," Nagelvoort said. "As
soon as Moffatt scored, I knew
we were going to win."
Michigan (5-2-1-1Big Ten, 13-6-
3 overall) never led in regulation,
but Moffatt pulled the Wolverines
even from a 2-1 deficit in the third
period to force the extra frame.
Carryingthe puckintotheslot,the
forward feigned a backhand shot
before turningto his forehand and
firing through traffic. Wisconsin
(5-4-1-0, 14-8-2) goaltender Joel
Rumpel didn't appear to see the
puck as it found twine.
In an affair that featured ugly
hits and scrums after the whistle,
the game's first goal was a thing
of beauty. Facing away from the
net, Wisconsin forward Michael
Mersch tapped the puck between
the legs of senior defenseman
Kevin Clare, spun the other way
to collect his own pass and then
slid a shot past Nagelvoort.
Nagelvoort, who finished with
26 saves, said he struggled to
maintain his momentum from
Friday's two-goal win.
"Honestly, I felt a little off in
the beginning," the goaltender
4


"Thanks to all the fans
for coming out," said senior
forward Luke Moffatt,
his teammates nodding in
agreement. "They're a sixth
man out there."
Freshman forward Tyler
Motte got away with some
chippiness of his own when
he pinned a Wisconsin player
against the glass with his stick
for more than a few seconds.
"Obviously, after the series
in Wisconsin, I thought we
knew it was going to be a little
chippy," Motte said. "Hopefully
it's not always to the extent that
it was tonight, but when you
win games in the end you take
what you can get."
After surrendering the
first goal to Wisconsin, the
Wolverines held offensive
possession for more than two
minutes, nearly scoring five
[es' sweep
said.
Freshman forward Tyler
Motte tied the game for the
Wolverines midway through the
second period. Taking advantage
of a small rebound off the pads of
Rumpel, Motte commanded the
crease and poked in the puck.
Later in the frame, junior
defenseman Andrew Sinelli
looked to have given Michigan
the lead after streaking into the
offensive zone and popping a
shot that deflected off a Badger
defenseman and into the goal.
But after a long review, referees
reversed the call for what they
deemed to be contact with the
netminder prior to the puck
crossing the line.
"The puck went in the net
before Sinelli made any contact,"
Berenson said of the decision to
overturn the play. "I'd like to hear
the explanation for that."
Exactly one minute later,
senior forward Derek DeBlois
took down Wisconsin's Mark
Zengerle on a breakaway. The
Badger forward scored easily
on the ensuing penalty shot,
skating in slowly on Nagelvoort
and firing a wrister between the
goaltender's legs to give his team
a momentum-building 2-1 lead.
But Moffatt's slapshot goal in the
third period shifted control of
the game back to Michigan, and
Nagelvoort stopped Zengerle in
the shootout to seal the win.
After a relatively clean game
Friday night, both teams resumed
the chippiness displayed during
their first series this season in
Madison on Jan. 10-11. Moments
after a Michigan power play
expired in the first period, junior
forward Alex Guptill exchanged
blows and then tumbled to the
ice with Wisconsin's Sean Little.
The Wolverines were given the
man advantage, but they couldn't
convert and finished 0-for-6 on
the night.
"We've been working on the
power play a lot, trying to get
it back to where it was at the
beginning of the year," Motte
said. "I think we took a good step
even though we didn't bury any
tonight."
In a battle of two of the
conference's best goaltenders,
Nagelvoort and Rumpel seemed
to outdo each other on every

minutes of was lights
overtime than out for a
a moment second time,
early in the so"Itwasprobably garnering
second period. IJ 26 saves in
Sitting more fun regulation and
at a post- five minutes
game press playing than it of overtime.
conference, Then, the
the game's was to watch." freshman
three stars stopped
were all three-straight
smiles. penalty shots,
Was playing as much fun as earning the Wolverines a
watching? shootout victory.
"Absolutely," Motte said. He sure wasn't wearing
Added freshman goaltender ruby slippers, but he sent the
Zach Nagelvoort: "I'd say it was message three times: there's no
probably more fun playing than place like home.
it was to watch. It's incredible Going head-to-head against

times before the whistle blew
for a penalty. It was a moment
that captured everyone's
attention, and the noise
sounded more like the waning

' Badgers
shift. Midway through the
second period, Rumpel stoned
DeBlois on a point-blank slapshot
in the slot. Nagelvoort drew an
interference penalty in the third
period after turning away one of
several close-range shots.
But it was following the final
frame that Nagelvoort made his
biggest saves, and the sellout
crowd at Yost chanted his name
as Michigan finished the near-
sweep.

Nagelvoort places himself
among conference's elite

playing in front of our student
section. This is the best place to
play in college hockey."
Nagelvoort, who started his
sixth-straight contest Saturday,

the Big Ten's most proven
goaltender in Wisconsin junior
Joel Rumpel, Nagelvoort made
his case for top netminder in
the league, if not the country.
His stability in net might very
well lead Michigan to a national
championship in the next four
years.
Bold predictions aside, for
now, this is fun.
"The environment during
the shootout made it feel like a
complete win," said Michigan
coach Red Berenson. "It's an
important win, but it's not a
three-point win. It felt good to
get five of the six points against
a good team that swept us in
their building."
And what's not to enjoy?
After all, following five
weeks away from Ann Arbor
that featured four-straight
lackluster losses, it seems

Whathappened Friday:
After a slow start that saw
Michigan spend the majority of
the first 10 minutes in its own
zone, freshman forward Tyler
Motte and Guptill netted goals
just 80 seconds apart as the
Wolverines cruised to a 3-1 win.
At 13:10 of the first period,
sophomore forward Boo Nieves
slipped a pass across the slot to
Motte, who knocked it home
seconds after getting tripped
in front of the crease. Then,
freshman forward JT Compher
sprung Guptill on a breakaway,
where the junior hit twine for
his seventh goal of the season
to give his team a two-goal
advantage heading into the first
intermission.
By Jeremy Summitt,
Daily Sports Editor

Wh
sound
the
shoot
Wisci
goalte
slappe
It
third
Nagel
flung
hesita
It
penal
away
towar
emph
chant
An
made
the p
listen
name
team
witht
secon
off th
who I
Th
from
the gl
MM

By GREG GARNO the mass of teammates.
Daily Sports Editor Nagelvoort, who not only
 - -- stopped 26 shots in regulation
sen the victory horn and overtime Saturday, also
led in Yost Ice Arena and accounted - in a way - for both
excitement of Saturday's teams' score.
out win over No. 9 "Going against guys like
onsin culminated, freshman (Nagelvoort) in practice makes
ender Zach Nagelvoort it look easy out there," said
ed the puck away. senior forward Luke Moffatt,
was after he stopped the who scored the lone shootout
of three penalty shots that goal with a backhand-to-
voort wound his stick and forehand move on Wisconsin
it aside without any sort of goaltender Joel Rumpel.
tion or care for the object. If Moffatt looked well-
was after he stopped the practiced, it's because he literally
ty shots and fired the puck was. All the forwards take turns
that Nagelvoort skated at the end of a practice during the
rd his bench and gave an week to try their hand at beating
atic fist pump to the crowd the goaltenders.
ing "Na-gel-voort." So Nagelvoort, in the shootout,
d it was Nagelvoort who was a little like the pitcher who
the three saves, whacked throws a shutout and knocks
'uck, pumped his fist and in the only run in a 1-0 win.
ed as the crowd chanted his Accounting for both teams' score.
and the Michigan hockey The netminder made 52 saves
swarmed him. What started over the weekend and allowed
three players tripled within just three goals. In the six
ds until everyone had sped straight games he has started,
e bench and toward the man the No. 5 goaltender in the nation
had just saved the day. has posted a 2.16 goals-against
ey circled him and pushed average, even including a rough
the blue line all the way to stretch against the Badgers in the
ass, where he was pinnedby earlier series.
"Zach was as good as it gets,
really," said Michigan coach Red
Berenson. "I thought Zach was
outstanding all weekend."
Nagelvoort is different
than other goaltenders. While
Wisconsin netminder Joel
Rumpel warmed up before the
shootout, Nagelvoort rested his
arm on the bench looking out
at net.
Where the chanting and
hollering from opposing fans on
the road in Madison and East
Lansing fazes some, he thrives.
When Rumpel and others are
slow to come out of the crease
and clear the puck, Nagelvoort
rushes behind the boards to aid
his teammates.
Those little things bolster
his teammates' confidence with
everydaythatpasses.Michigan is
more likely to take a chance when
it knows that it has a backstop
PAULSHERMAN/Daily like Nagelvoort at the end. But
ct in the shootout Saturday. just how much confidence?

"One hundred percent?"
offered senior forward Luke
Moffatt. "One thousand
percent?"
Nagelvoort's emergence in
the crease was unexpected,
to say the least. He earned a
starting spot after sophomore
goaltender Steve Racine
went down with an injury in
mid-October. But since then,
Nagelvoort has positioned
himself nicely to earn a starting
spot for the rest of the season.
"Ever since the first day he
stepped in New Hampshire when
Steve went down with an injury,
from that point we rallied behind
him," said freshman forward
Tyler Motte. "We knew we had to
help him out early, but all in all he
does a great job for us."
But his coach is hesitant to
declare that it's Nagelvoort's
position to lose. Not even after six
straight starts and four straight
wins will Berenson declare a
definitive starter.
"I don't think we need to
talk about starters right now,
or who's the starting goalie,"
Berenson said., "Right now,
Zach is playing really well, and
we'll see how it goes down the
line. He's a freshman and I
know Racine can come in and
do a good job."
Even when Berenson says
Nagelvoort isn't the starter, he's
still playing better than anyone
on the team.
Midway through the
overtime period Saturday,
Nagelvoort lay stuffed in his
net with the puck beside him.
After making 23 impressive
saves prior, Nagelvoort thought
he was staring at the game-
winning goal.
But next to him in the crease
was a Wisconsin forward, who
nullified the goal because of
his presence. The Wolverines
worked to clear the Badgers
from from the net while
Nagelvoort picked up the puck
and lifted himself up.
Then, in one motion, he
tossed away the puck, and with
it, any doubt about Michigan's
starting goaltender.

Freshman goaltender Zach Nagelvoort was perfe


