

2 1Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
BASEBALL
Adcock ascends rotation Baseballclaims four

Weekly SummerEdition MichiganDaily.com

By BRAD WHIPPLE
DailySports Writer
No one expected this so soon -
not even Brett Adcock.
The freshman left-hander had
been a starting pitcher all his life,
boasting a O.58 earned-run average
in high school. But in the midst of
transitioning to Division I college
baseball, he was sent to the bottom
ofthe pyramid. He needed to prove
he was worthy of a starting role.
Nine months after arriving on
campus, Adcock threw the first
pitch of a Sunday battle against
rival Ohio State, the team he
unabashedly hated growing up.
x He struck out the first two batters
and drew contact on the third, end-
ing the first inning after just seven
pitches in Michigan's fastest open-
ing frame of the season.
He kept it up for another seven
innings, striking out a career-best
seven in his longest outing of the
season.
This surely wasn't the Adcock of
old - the one that relieved for the
Wolverines'starting pitchers in the
beginning of the season, only to
receive punch after punch.
It was the new Adcock, who
leads Michigan and ranks third in
the conference with seven wins.
This was the Adcock who has
lowered his ERA from 4.15 to 2.51
since the start of the Big Ten play.
Now, he's finally earned the week-
end starting role, one he's familiar
with from his high school days and
won't relinquish any time soon.
"Embracing the relief role that I
gotcearly in the year was something
different, obviously, because I've
started all my life," Adcock said.
"Finally getting a chance to have a
weekend start and doing well was
something I wanted to work my
way to eventually, but getting itso
soon was kind of a blessing."
Added Michigan coach Erik
Bakich: "His body strength wasn't
anywhere near what it is now when
he first got here. He made a com-
mitment to his body, to his strength
and to his pitching ... really, you're
just seeing aguy that has benefitted
from a lot of hard work in nine or
10 months.
"The way he's progressed and
continues to improve, he's going to
be a guy that we're going to count
on in the weekend rotation from
here on out."
Adcock has been lights-out in
his last13.3 innings pitched, allow-
ing just four hits while striking out

All-Big Ten honors

Ann Arbor. MI

ONE-HUNDRED-TWENTY FOUR YEARS OF EDITORIAL FREEDOM

Thursday, May 22, 2014

_ _a _ .., _, __

Ow"
ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Brett Adcock has improved to become a critical piece in Michigan's rotation.

18. But the journey to this point
hasn't been a seamless one.
With college baseball posing a
completely new challenge, Adcock
needed to minimize the old pitch-
ing mistakes that may have previ-
ously ended with a swing and a
miss. At this level, batters are wait-
ing for those mistakes, leaving little
room for error.
He also needed to learn how to
get the hitters off balance, some-
thing he considers key to successful
pitching. His ability to do so looked
natural against Ohio State on May
11, but that's largely because of his
transformation into a four-pitch
pitcher.
Increasing the velocity of
Adcock's original three pitches -
a fastball that can now touch 92
miles per hour, a decent curveball
and an accurate change-up - sim-
ply wouldn't have been enough to
make much of an impact in the con-
ference.
In addition, he added the cutter
to his resume with the help of assis-
tant coach Sean Kenny. It's not per-
fect, but it's enough to send some
batters back to the dugout.
In addition to working on speed,
Bakich said Adcock has become
extremely comfortable throwing
any pitch in any count, something
many pitchers don't develop until
late in their career. It also benefits
senior catcher Cole Martin, who
recently praised Adcock's pitching
- Martin said because Adcock has
so much control over his routine,
it relieves him of some of the pres-
sure in calling the shots.
But where Adcock initially strug-
gled the most was his pitch location.
He had previously worked in the top
of the strike zone, a style that car-
ried into the first few weeks of the
season, when even Bakich admitted
his numbers weren'tgood.
Recognizing it as his - Achil-
les' heel, Adcock quickly adjusted

to meet Bakich's expectations of
throwing toward the bottom of the
zone, catching opposing batters
off-guard.
"Because of that, you've seen him
have a ton of success as the season
has continued on," Bakich said. "For
me, that's been the biggest change:
watching him transform into a
pitcher that knows how to pitch, set
up a hitter, attack a hitter, get ahead
of a hitter and do it consistently."
The Tuesday after his near-
complete game against Ohio State,
Adcock claimed the Big Ten Co-
Freshman of the Week honor for
the first time. But awards can only
say so much about talent, and they
don't reveal much about Adcock's
grip onthe mental side of the game.
Freshmen are typically timid
coming into college athletics, but
the nerves seem to be absent from
Adcock. He draws inspiration from
the fact that he has been given the
opportunity to continue playing
the game he loves, especially at
Michigan, and is prepared to han-
dle any high-pressure situation.
"I kind of stand back and take a
deep breath," Adcock said. "All the
training you've done over the years
is going to pay off, and you've got
to stick with your approach, stick
with your game and throw how
you throw. If you give up a hit, you
give up a hit, so what? You just go
up against the next batter."
Wednesday, the Wolverines (13-
11 Big Ten, 28-27-1 overall) will
kick off the Big Ten Tournament
against Minnesota. Adcock won't
start the first round but will defi-
nitely start later in the tournament,
should Michigan defeat the Golden
Gophers.
According to Bakich, Adcock
is going to be critical in winning a
championship.
And if his performance of late
is any indication, a stellar showing
will no longer be unexpected.

By BRAD WHIPPLE
Daily Sports Writer
Michigan baseball coach Erik
Bakich has preached all season
about taking the positive aspects
away from every game since
they are neither good or bad, but
instead good and bad.
And on the eve of the Big Ten
Tournament, it should be no dif-
ferent - the Wolverines are likely
looking for every silver lining they
can find with their postseason
hopes hanging by a thread.
Tuesday afternoon, though,
Michigan (13-11 Big Ten, 28-27-1
overall) found several.
The Big Ten named junior cen-
ter fielder Jackson Glines to the
All-Big Ten second team while
sophomore shortstop Travis
Maezes made the conference's
third team. In addition, fresh-
man left-hander Brett Adcock and
freshman designated hitter Car-
men Benedetti earned All-Fresh-
man honors.
After earning the Central Val-
ley Conference's MVP in 2013
while playing at Fresno City Col-
lege, Glines transferred to Michi-
gan, where he's started all 56
games this year.
Previously a Big Ten Player of
the Week in early March, Glines
tops the Wolverine roster with
a .338 batting average, good for
sixth in the conference, in addi-
tion to having the most doubles
(19) and hits (68). He is also ranked
in the Big Ten's top 10 in 10 other
categories, including second-best
in on-base percentage at .453.
Glines' most memorable
moment this year was hiswalk-off
single against Iowa on March30.

Though Maezes has made 15
errors, the most on the Wolver-
ine squad, his contributions at
the plate have proved extremely
valuable - his highlight-reel
moment came in Michigan's first
conference win against Indiana
on March 21, when he hita bases-
clearing double to take a two-run
lead over the Hoosiers and hand
them one of their three confer-
ence losses this season.
With a third-best .293 batting
average on the team, Maezes has
had 17 multi-hit games this sea-
son, including a pair of home runs
in a doubleheader'against College
of Charleston back in March.
As for the rookies, Adcock and
Benedetti have quickly moved up
the rankings to show they deserve
a spot on a Division ISteam.
Adcock, who started the sea-
son struggling in relief, has grown
into a new niche as a weekend
starter after several quality per-
formances, such as his shutout
pitching against Purdue and
Northwestern, when he posted six
strikeouts apiece.
Since the start of Big Teitplay,
Adcock has lowered his ERA by
more than a run and a half. The
standout freshman at the plate
has been Benedetti with a .281
batting average and 26 RBI, only
one shy of tying for first on the
team. Benedetti's biggest contri-
bution of the season was during
an extra-inning game against
Purdue, when he doubled to break
a 6-6 tie.
The recognition of these Wol-
verines is just another reminder
of the potential Michigan has in
makinga run in the Big Ten Tour-
nament.

inside
N EWS
City budget
Council approves $344
million budget for Ann
Arbor after lengthy debate
>>SEE PAGE 2
NE WS
Art meets science
Fundraiser challenges
artists to create pieces
inspired by research
f SEE PAGE 3
OPINION
Minimum wage
From the Daily: Pass the
proposed increase, but
beware of other concerns
>>SEEPAGE 4
ARTS
Godzilla
Adaptation of this classic
delivers on many fronts,
provides wild ride
>> SEE PAGE 6
SPORTS
Baseball triumph
Four Wolverines claimed
All-Big Ten honors on
Tuesday
>> SEE PAGE 12
IN D E X
Vol CXIV iNo. 107 12014 TheMi chigan D aiy
N EW S ...................................2
OPIN ION ..............................4
ARTS ... ............. .................6
CLASSIFIEDS........................8
CROSSWORD.......................8
SPORTS...............................10

VIRGINIA LOZANO/Daily
LEFT: Kris DeWolf, mother of Paul DeWolf, leads a song at the tree dedication ceremony at the Medical Center on Sunday. RIGHT: Participants at the start of the Paul
DeWolf Memorial Hero Run at Nichols Arboretum on Sunday.
emnorial run celebrates e lfe of
murdered medical school student

Charity race draws
400 participants,
raises money for
veterans groups
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily News Editor
With a clear blue sky hanging
overhead, hundreds of athletic
gear-clad joggers stood around the
finish line, catching their breath
while excitedly chatting amongst
themselves. In such an upbeat
atmosphere, it was hard to believe

these participants just finished
running about three miles to honor
Paul DeWolf, the 25-year-old Uni-
versity medical student who was
killed in his bedroom last summer.
This weekend, many ofDeWolf's
family, friends and classmates
gathered in Ann Arbor to celebrate
his life through a tree dedication
in front of the University Medical
School courtyard and a 5K run in
the Nichols Arboretum.
In July of 2013, DeWolf, a sec-
ond lieutenant in the U.S. Air
Force, was found dead in a bed-
room in the Phi Rho Sigma frater-
nity house from a gunshot wound
to his neck. An investigation con-

cluded the murder was the result
of a botched burglary by three
men. DeWolf would have gradu-
ated this month.
About 400 people took part in
the Paul DeWolf Memorial Hero
Run Sunday afternoon, an event
originally planned for 100 partici-
pants.
Three hundred registered par-
ticipants wore bibs and radio chips
to record their time, and a finish
line was stationed in the M30 lot
of the Arb with a professional race
timing company at the end.
Cody Schultz, a medical school
student and key organizer for the
Paul DeWolf Memorial Hero Run,

lived in the same fraternity house
as Paul, though he was out of the
country at the time of his murder.
He thought Paul would appreciate
the competitive atmosphere of a
race because of his ambitious per-
sonality.
Schultz said they named the
race a "hero run" as a testament to
Paul's selfless, supportive nature.
Schultz hoped participants would
not dwell on the tragedy but cele-
brate his life and enjoyeach other's
company.
"The people who murdered Paul
made some decisions that were
selfish and cruel," he said. "The
See RUN, Page 8

oll
NY
d.
a
mU
3~
i

RESEARCH
Study provides safety resources for swimmers

'U' project to
increase awareness
of dangerous Great
Lakes currents
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Editor in Chief
LSA sophomore Rachael Hub-
bell knows the dangers that rip
currents pose for swimmers in the

Great Lakes.
"I grew up across from the water
and was always at the beach, so it
was always amore present danger,"
she said.
However, not all beachgoers,
especially the thousands of tour-
ists that flock from inland areas to
Michigan beaches each year, are as
well informed.
"From what I understand, most
people who don't grow up around
lakes don't really talk about that
sort of thing," Hubbell said.

With the summer season
approaching, researchers at the
University and the National Weath-
er Service have teamed up to pro-
mote safety on Michigan beaches
by increasing awareness of danger-
ous currents, which have claimed
138 lives and prompted almost 300
rescue efforts since 2002.
Compiling 12 years worth
of data, the researchers, under
the purview of Michigan Sea
Grant - a joint effort between
the University's School of Natu-

ral Resources and Environment
and Michigan State University's
Extension Greening Institute -
have established the Great Lakes
Current Incident Database, which
went live this April. The program
allows the public to access records
of fatalities and rescues at beaches
around the state, while also provid-
ing weather information, such as
wind speed, current type and wave
height.
The recent move coincides with
See CURRENTS, Page 3


21

Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Cable merger will
have minimal effect

City council approves
'15 fiscal year budget

Thursday, May 22, 2014I(
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Taylor Hasselbach's victory lap

AT&T, DirectTV
alliance won't likely
alter service in the
city of Ann Arbor
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Editor in Chief
This weekend, AT&T
announced plans to acquire
the satellite television provider
DirectTV for nearly $50 billion.
This follows just a few months
after Comcast, the Internet and
television provider for most of
Ann Arbor, announced a $45 bil-
lion merger with Time Warner
Cable.
Amanda Lotz, associate pro-
fessor of Communication Stud-
ies, said residents of Ann Arbor
should not expect any changes in
service due to the recent moves.
While many areas of the city,
such as the residential areas on
the West Side, are covered sole-
ly by Comcast, there are select
areas, such as those immedi-
ately north or south of Central
Campus, which receive coverage

through Comcast and AT&T. Lotz
said these areas, where consum-
ers have the option of choosing
between two providers, are a rare
occurrence in the cable industry.
"The cable industry basi-
cally operates as a monopoly in
any given area," Lotz said. "In
any given place, you don't have a
choice."
Television providers argue that
mergers are necessary to increase
bargaining power with media
companies - such as Disney, CBS,
Fox and others - that provide
programming for their consum-
ers. They claim that, by increasing
their markets, they can decrease
costs when bidding for programs.
Lotz contended that this argu-
ment lacks substantiation. While
the companies may gain greater
bargaining power, she said those
savings have not been passed on
to customers.
"It could easily be argued that
this monopolistic structure isn't
so great for consumers," she said.
Constant mergers and monopo-
listic practices also pr ovide such
companies with very little moti-
vation to improve service, Lotz
See CABLE PAGE 8

Debate centers
on sustainability
and police funding
amendments
By MATT JACKONEN
Daily StaffReporter
This year proved once again that
the process to debate and sign a
budget for the city of Ann Arbor is
not an easy one.
City council had seventeen sepa-
rate amendments to the $334 mil-
lion fiscal year 2015 city budget on
its plate Monday night.
Of the numerous amendments,
two focused on police funding.
Councilmember Chuck Warpe-
hoski (D-Ward 5) sponsored the
first of the two, which asked to
reallocate $95,000 of the com-
munity engagement police budget
toward programs to prevent and
treat drug usage and addiction.
The amendment would have
reduced the proposed increase
in police staffing to provide addi-
tional funding to drug treatment
programs.
However, the amendment was
rejected with only Warpehoski and
Margie Teall (D-Ward 4) voting in
its favor.
Warpehoski said many ex-drug
addicts told him that because many
ex-drug addicts told him getting
treatment was the most important
step in moving forward.
"I saw the increase in police
(in the budget) at a time when our
crime rates are at historic lows,"
Warpehoski said. "I did not see
that as the best allocation of public
resources to promote public health,
safety and welfare."
Councilmember Stephen Kun-
selman (D-Ward 3) said simply
increasing funding for treatment
would not necessarily spark
change, and reducing the suggest-
ed increase in policemen would
hinder the goal of creating a more
proactive police force.
"It seems kind of naive to think
that if we just gave more money to
treatment, people are just going to
walk in the door and ask voluntari-
ly for help with their heroin abuse,"
Kunselman said.
Councilmember Sally Hart
Petersen (D-Ward 2) agreed that

additional policemen are a more
pressing need for the city at this
point.
"I want there to be more funds
available for mental health issues
and addiction issues," Petersen
said. "I just don't want them to
come from additional policemen."
Councilmembers Jane Lumm
(I-Ward 2), Jack Eaton (D-Ward 4)
and Sumi Kailasapathy (D-Ward
1) sponsored an amendment to add
two more officers to the already
three additional officers proposed
in the fiscal year 2015 budget.
The amendment was voted
down, and only Councilmembers
Mike Anglin (D-Ward 5), Lumm,
Kailasapathy and Eaton voted in
favor of it.
Lumm said that the police force
has seen a dramatic decrease in the
last few decades, and thus argued
the city should attempt to increase
the amount of policemen in order
to create more "proactive" crime
prevention.
However, Mayor John Hieftje
said he doesn't see a need for the
increase in police. He also said in
response to an earlier argument by
Lumm in the 1980s and 1990s there
was a police build-up due to a crime
problem that is no longer present.
He noted that the University
also now has a significant 55-offi-
cer force that effectively promotes
public safety on campus.
Eaton said city council should
need the advice of John Seto, the
city's chief of police, by adding
these additional officers. He spe-
cifically mentioned that it does not
take the city back to staffing levels
in the 1980s and 1990s, but offers a
small increase.
"We have to trust the profes-
sional that we hired," Eaton said.
City council discuss ways to
decrease emissions
Councilmember Christopher
Taylor (D-Ward 3) along with
Mayor John Hieftje, Teall and
Warpehoski sponsored an amend-
ment to take $50,000 from the
proposed Ellsworth Road study as
well as an added $75,000 from fund
reserves in an attempt to decrease
the city's emissions.
The amendment will invest the
money in areas such as renewable
energy, energy efficiency and con-
servation.
Lumm, Kunselman, Eaton,
See BUDGET, Page 3

420 Maynard Sr.
Ace Arhor, MI48i09-i1327
www.michigandaily.com
IAN DILLINGHAM SIMONNE KAPADIA
734-418-41,1" ext251 734-1"8-4115ex. 1241
itfd""@michigandai'yecom smkapa( mcigndiy o
CONTACT INFORMATION
Newsroom Of h
734-763-2459 opt.3
News Tips news michigandailycom
tirrecton crecti on.,,,.ri,, igandaily.r,,,
LetieritothetEditor "'" dal',richigand.com
orvistnaoailcom ers
Photo Department pooamchigandalycorm
Arts Section ars mchigandailycom
Editorial Page opnion andai,5,,
SprtsedSetin .ort(,.,ci.Osadaly.,,,,
Magazine ,sateesntmichiganda.com
Advertising Phone:734-418-4115
Departmient dailvdsplayagmaitcom
EDITORIAL STAFF
Siephaniehenasda ManagingEditor
Shoham Geva ManagingNewsEditor
"EIO EWS EDITOR : Allana Akhtar
AaricaMarsh EditorialPageEditor
opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR:
Michael Schramm
Jake Lourim Managing Sports Editor
sportseditorsam ichigandailyscom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITOR:
Daniel Feldman
GiancarloBuonomo ManagingArtsrEditor
gbuonomo@michigandaitycom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS:
Adam Theise"n
AllisonFarrand
and RubyWallau Managing'Photo Editor
photo@michigandaily.com
EmilySchumer ManagingDesign Editor
design@,,ichigandiy.,a,,
Meaghan Thompson ManagingCopy Editor
,,pydesk@mi " igandaiy.com
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-967) is
published every Thursday during the
spring and summer terms by students
at the University of Michigan. One copy
is available free of charge to all readers.
Additional copies may be picked up at the
Daily's offce for $2. Subscriptions for fall
term, starting in Septemher, oia U.S. nail
are $110. Winter term (January through
April) is $115, yearlong (September
through April)is $195. University affiliates
are sohject to a redoced sohscriptionorate.
On-campuos sascriptiors for fall tern
are $35. Subscriptions must be prepaid.
The Michigan Daily is a member of The
Associated Press and The Associated
Collegiate Press.

By JAKE LOURIM
Managing Sports Editor
Taylor Hasselbach stepped into
the batter's box in her 74th game
started for her 189th career at-bat,
though those who saw her when
she was growing up would have
expected 200 starts and 700 at-
bats from her.
Coming into Ann Arbor as a
freshman, even Hasselbach did
- why wouldn't she, after a high-
school senior season in which she
hit .593 and slugged 1.017, with 10
home runs, 49 RBI and 21 steals?
Still, when Hasselbach got to
Ann Arbor, she found herself on
the bench more often than not. The
adjustment to college softball, both
mentally and physically, was hard-
er than she ever imagined.
Sunday, she stepped in and
stared down Arizona State right-
hander Dallas Escobedo. When she
talks about her career, the word
"journey" comes up a lot. In a 4-4
elimination game in the regional
tournament, this could be the end
of it.
She never thought she'd get
here this way, but she stood there
that night in the hot Arizona sun,
getting the chance she always
wanted.
That at-bat was Sunday, in
a winner-take-all elimination
game against Arizona State in the
NCAA Tournament. Escobedo had
allowed only one run in her first 14
innings against Michigan this sea-
son, but the Wolverines got to her
for four runs in the first game Sun-
day to stay alive.
When Hasselbach came up,
Escobedo appeared still reeling
from the previous pitch, when she
gave up a game-tying solo home
run to sophomore outfielder Sierra
Lawrence. She left a fastball belt-
high on the outside part of the
plate.
The Taylor Hasselbach who
rarely played in her first three
years might have let that pitch go,
trying to settle into the biggest at-
bat of her life.
But Hasselbach has since
learned never to turn back, never
to have any regrets. She picked her
bat off her shoulder and turned on
the outside pitch, sending a no-
doubter to dead-center field.
Escobedo looked up at it imme-
diately, as did the rest of the field-
ers. Center fielder Alix Johnson
took three steps to her left before

watching it fly. This one wr
and there was no bringing i
Of course, her teammate
it too, and they came jump
of the dugout to greet her. I
ter Hasselbach's role, hitti
or .350, one home run or nit
were always there for her.
She never wanted it to b
this, this career-defining n
for better or worse. But
stepped on first and headed
ond, everyone knew it was.
As Hasselbach rounde
an astonished grin sprea
her face. If she looked surp
might have been because s
Hasselbach said last week
you told her before the sea
would be starting on Seni
she wouldn't believe it.
This wasn't Senior Day. T
the NCAA Tournament.
Never in her
wildest dreams _
could Hassel-
bach have imag- -
ined a finish like h
this, and she was ho
OK with that.
She came into
the season with
low expectations
- she wouldn't
get down on herself if she
play enough or if she didr
form well.
She started just 14 game
first three years, rarelyc
more than a pinch-hit appe
And that took a toll on her.
"Before that, I never fac
ure," she said. "For the firs
I had something I was str
with. Softball-wise, it affect
formingbecause I didn't kn
to handle failure."
Learning to handle failu
a major overhaul. It took
improvements like her pitc
tion, sure, but that was pa
bigger test, one that made
look easy. She had to learn
Michigan softball.
If Hasselbach showed on
this season, it was that s
never down for long.
In an April weekend
against Ohio State, Hasselb
the start in the series open
went 0-for-3 with three stri
But the next day, Michigan
Carol Hutchins put the bat
hands again in a doublehead
Hasselbach didn't disappoi
going5-for-7with three hor
and eight RBI.

as gone, For the final game last Sun-
t back. day night, Hutchins put Has-
s knew selbach back in, and the senior
ring out came through again. Now she was
No mat- approaching her coach as she head-
.ng .150 ed for third, and the astonished
ne, they look had turned into a smile of pure
joy.
e about On Senior Day, May 4, Has-
noment, selbach's father, Todd, hugged
as she Hutchins and thanked her. The
for sec- Michigan softball program had
done far more for Taylor than a few
d first, home runs could ever do.
d over "She has humbled herself, and I
rised, it saw a balance when she found that
he was: - a balance in life," he said. "She
that if was at peace. Her last two years,
son she she has just been at peace."
or Day, That peace started late last
summer, when Taylor Hasselbach
his was asked Hutchins to meet with her.
Before her last go-round, she want-
ed to put the past
in the past and
get ready for
didn't know the season. She
said the meeting
w to handle helped both her
and Hutchins,
failure." and she thrived
off that relation-
ship.
So it was only
didn't fitting that she passed Hutchins
n't per- again when she stepped on third
and headed for home.
s in her It would be unfair to say that
earning Hasselbach's struggles this year
arance. haven't bothered her at all. They
have.
ed fail- But her teammates were always
st time, there for her.
uggling "There's been times when you
ed per- kind of get down on yourself, but
ow how that's when you have your team-
mates," she said. "They remind you
re took why you're here, or your coaches
k small remind you why you're doing this.
h selec- This year, I've proven to myself
ert of a that it's all been worth it."
softball All the players circle around the
to play plate every time a player homers,
but this mob was especially enthu-
e thing siastic. They came out with their
he was rally-caps and backward helmets,
waiting for Hasselbach near the
series end of the journey she always knew
ach got would come.
ner and They would have been there
keouts. for her no matter the outcome, but
n coach this ending made it more special.
in her It never happened the way she
ler, and thought it would, but Taylor Has-
int her, selbach ended up with the outcome
oe runs she was always hoping for. That's
what she'll remember.

RUBYWALLAU/Daily
Taylor Hasselbach struggled for three years but became a regular starter this year. am

2 4 8 6
6 4 3
2 8 7 1 5
1
7 9 5 4
6
8 314 5 7
9 1 6
2 7 3 5

9 Apartment Complexes
16 Units-48 Units
. Cheboygan, Ml(32 Units) * Cass City, Ml(22 Units)
. Pewamo, MI (16 Units) " Dundee, Ml(24 Units)
* Clare, Ml(24 Units) . Clinton, MI (28 Units)
" Beaverton, Ml(24 Units) . North Branch, MI (32 Units)
. Sturgis, MI (48 units)




10

Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michiganclaily.com

Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
PALMA

3

Softball travels to FSU

The Big Ten
proved us wrong

' '

ii i- )ope nssuper the Michigan softball team will
Regional Thursday have to come down from its high
and face a Florida State team that
vs. Seminoles went 3-0in its own regional.
The Wolverines (18-5 Big Ten,
By KELLY HALL 46-13 overall) will hit the road to
Daily Sports Writer Tallahassee, Fla., to face the Semi-
noles in a best-of-three series that
Fewer than 96 hours will have opens on Thursday evening. The
passed since the biggest moment of matchup marks Michigan's third
the Michigan softball team's season straight Super Regional and Flori-
when the Wolverines open Super da State's second.
Regional play at Florida " State. Though the Wolverines have
After back-to-back home runs in plenty of weapons, including soph-
the top of the seventh put Michigan omore shortstop Sierra Romero,
ahead of No. 9 seed Arizona State, who leads the nation in batting
senior center fielder Lyndsay Doyle average, and junior left-hander
robbed a potential game-winning Haylie Wagner, who boasts a 1.62
homer that would've concluded earned run average and a 24-4
- Michigan's season. record, the Seminoles (24-3 ACC,
It was the catch that was seen 53-6 overall) have two of their own
all over the country - it topped NCAA Player of the Year candi-
SportsCenter's Top 10 that night. dates.
After Doyle's heroics, the Wol- Right-hander Lacey Waldrop
verines erupted, while Michigan dominates Florida State's pitching
coach Carol Hutchins mouthed corps with an ERA of 0.90 and a
"Oh my god" with her eyes wide 36-4 record.
open. Waldrop led the team past Ford-
Rnt at - :n innrisl c -nra- nm ad a-,n i Vn e i l ,, Pal


lahassee Regional. Friday, Waldrop
retired the first eight Fordham bat-
ters she saw and allowed just one
to reach base in five innings. After
shutting out the Bulls for 11 innings
in the first half of a doubleheader
Saturday, Waldrop allowed just
seven hits over seven innings in the
following game in order to advance
to the Super Regionals.
The other Seminole Player of the
Year finalist is shortstop Maddie
O'Brien. The redshirt junior sports
a batting average of .441 to go along
with 23 home runs and a nation-
best 74 RBI.
In order to combat O'Brien,
senior outfielders Doyle and Nicole
Sappingfield will have to play each
game like it's their last - and it
might be.
Last weekend, though, they
collectively scored nine runs and
broke out of any sort of slump they
could have been in before.
Also breaking out of a small
slump over the weekend was soph-
omore left fielder Sierra Lawrence.
In the second half of the double-
header on Sunday, Lawrence hit
two home runs - her first career
multiple-homer game.
After Wagner stood in the circle
for 13.2 innings this past Sunday,
it's likely that she'll receive the
nod Thursday against a team that
none of her teammates have played
before.
If every Wolverine shows up
on Thursday like they did on Sun-
day - except for Romero and Sap-
pingfield, who were both ill on
Sunday but still managed to put
up runs - then Michigan will be
in shape to play the No. 3 team in
the nation.

f two is company, and three
is a
crowd, MAX
then a crowd BULTMAN
of Big Ten
teams will On Softball
start NCAA
Super Regionals this weekend.
And if you had said that two
months ago, we all would have
said you were crazy.
Sure, Michigan was a pre-
season favorite to make the Wom-
en's College World Series, but
three Big Ten teams in the Super
Regionals? No way.
Yet, here we are, with Min-
nesota, Nebraska and the Wolver-
ines all gearing up for the softball
equivalent of the Sweet 16.
All year long we heard about
how Michigan's biggest weakness
was its schedule. How it wouldn't
be ready to face the powerhouse
Pac-12 and SEC teams come tour-
nament time, and that every loss
to a conference opponent was one
more whack to the nail that was
inevitably waiting in the Wolver-
ines' coffin.
And all season, we accepted
that, even agreed with it, because
outside of Ann Arbor, the Big Ten
looked mediocre.
Now, though, we have to eat
our words, because the Big Ten
proved us wrong last weekend -
at least partially.
No one will argue that the
Big Ten is the Pac-12 or the SEC.
Each of those conferences has
four teams - all seeded - in the
Super Regionals.
To be fair, those losses to weak
conference foes like Illinois and
Purdue did hurt Michigan. The
Wolverines, once ranked as high
as No. 3 in the nation, entered the
tournament unseeded, setting up
a regional at No. 9 seed Arizona
State.
Facing hard-throwing Sun
Devil right-hander Dallas Esc-
obedo - a significant step up
from the Big Ten's best in the cir-
cle - conventional wisdom told
us the Wolverines had a better
than even chance of being elimi-
nated in the regional final.
Michigan had already dropped
a game to the Arizona State earli-
er in the double-elimination tour-
nament and, with the Wolverines
needing to win two straight

against Escobedo to advance, that
conventional wisdom appeared
to be right. But then, even despite
flu-like symptoms from its two
best hitters, Michigan stole the
first game, setting up a winner-
take-all game.
With sophomore shortstop
Sierra Romero going O-for-4, and
the score sitting 4-3 in favor of
the Sun Devils with one out in
the seventh inning, it looked like
our mid-season guesswork would
prove accurate after all. Then,
sophomore outfielder Sierra
Lawrence and senior designated
player Taylor Hasselbach pound-
ed back-to-back solo shots. Then,
senior outfielder Lyndsay.Doyle
robbed a walk-off home run.
Then, suddenly, the Wolverines
had won.
No one saw it coming, but
maybe someone should have.
For the last four series of the
regular season, the Wolverines
dropped every opener. And each'
time except one, they came back
to sweep the rest of the series.
This is a Michigan team that
found itself trailing in every
series it played since mid-April.
That was the case because the Big
Ten, even if not up to par with the
SEC or Pac-12, had enough com-
petition to at least challenge the
Wolverines.
So when Michigan needed
to come back to oust Pac-12 foe
Arizona State, it did so without
breaking any more of a sweat
than the Arizona heat warranted,
because it was used to doing just
that.
Now the Big Ten has three
teams in the Super Regionals, just
one less than the power confer-
ences, and it boasts the only two
unseeded teams, Michigan and
Nebraska. To get there, those
three teams had to go a combined
6-3 against teams from the Pac-12
and SEC. Sure, Auburn, Missouri
and Arizona State weren't neces-
sarily the class of their respec-
tive conferences, but they are all
ranked in the top 20 nationally.
In the next round, Minnesota
and Nebraska will face Oregon
and Alabama, the No.1 and No.
2 overall seeds from the Pac-12
and SEC, respectively. We can all
agree the road probably ends here
for both of them.

Preview: Exhibit to
mix arts and sciences
Event aims to cancer's spread throughout the
body is similar to that of natu-
finance research ral cell regeneration - the only
exception being that the cancer's
lab for early-career genetic code doesn't have a signal
to stop. Kahana said figuring out
physicians where that stop signal comes from
could open new avenues to restor-
By PAULA FRIEDRICH ing damaged tissue in humans.
Daily StaffReporter Kahana splits his time between
his patients as an ophthalmic
A fundraiser for the A. Alfred surgeon and his lab zebrafish as
Taubman Medical Research Insti- a researcher. Zebrafish regularly
tute hopes to tease out the con- regenerate complex tissues and
nection between the left and right offer a genetic blueprint that is
brain. surprisingly similar to that of a
Organizers for the "An Evening human.
of Art and Science" event asked It was that similarity that stuck
eleven artists to create an art out to DeSousa as she toured the
piece inspired by one of the Taub- lab -' walls of bubbling tanks
man scholar's research. A ticketed filled with the tiny fish, some with
gala event at the Museum of Con- transparent skin that reveal even
temporary Art Detroit will display tinier beating hearts.
the work Thursday evening. The DeSousa said her art usually
art will then be put on auction to starts with an unformed feel-
support the Taubman Emerging ing that eventually coalesces into
Scholars program. a concept she mulis over before
The program funds the cre- she begins sketching. She said
ation of a laboratory to aid early- after visiting Kahana's lab she
career physicians who want to was struck by the depth of the
take on research endeavors. Assis- research. For her, "art is a point of
tant Medical Prof. Alon Kahana, entry into the human possibility,"
who is currently one of the cen- and scientific research is a similar
ter's emerging scholars, said help investigation into the unknown.
like this is essential for medical "Pure research and fine art are
researchers as funding for public- very similar in that way because
sector grants continue to shrink. there is no immediate expecta-
Artists and physicians were tion, or function yet," DeSousa
paired earlier in the year to dis- said. "It's like this real space, this
cuss the intersection of their work. real exploration."
Kahana was paired with Detroit- She said her final piece cen-
based artist Simone DeSousa. He ters where everything connects-
said their collaboration started zebrafish and humans, art and
after DeSousa visited his labora- science-before more of the layers
tory at the top of the Kellogg Eye of life are peeled back.
Center. "This whole program, it's kind
Kahana's research interest lies of bringing two things that are
in the ambiguous space between usually seen as opposites and
cell regeneration and cancerous showing their common ground,"
growth. The mechanism behind she said.

LSA senior Audrey Sharpe tutors English through the Palma Program at the Ann Arbor District Library Tuesday.

CURRENTS
From Page 1
Rip Current Awareness Week,
which begins June 1.
Elizabeth LaPorte, an investi-
gator who has been working with
the team of researchers for the last
eight years, said the project was
initiated after it was determined
just how dangerous the Great
Lakes were for swimmers. Among
all states, Michigan accounted for
half of swimmer fatalities and the
data suggested that such occur-
rences were becoming more com-
mon each year.
"Previously, folks didn'trealize
that there were dangerous cur-
rents in the Great Lakes," LaPorte
said.
Unlike ocean beaches, a large
number of Michigan beaches do
not have professional lifeguards
on duty, even during peak summer
months. LaPorte said she did not
understand this decision because
it puts less experienced swimmers
in serious danger.
"It's interesting that we have
lifeguards at the pools, but we
don't along the Great Lakes," she
said. "The fact is that swimmers in
the Great Lakes are at a huge dis-
advantage than swimmers would
be in Florida or other areas, but
that doesn't mean people aren't
dying from rip currents in other

areas."
She said the increase in fatali-
ties and rescues is largely unex-
plained at this point, but said
there are several current theories.
"The low water levels might be
a factor ... but there are also more
people swimming for a longer
period of time during the swim
season," she said.
Though the project highlights
the effects of rip currents, which
tend to pull swimmers away the
shore into deeper water, LaPorte
said the study covered several dif-
ferent types of currents, several of
which are relatively unknown to
the public. One such type of cur-
rent, known as a structural cur-
rent, can form as water flows near
a pier or breakwater, and presents.
a serious - usually unidentified -
hazard to swimmers.
Young men are one of the high-
est at-risk groups for drowning,
according to LaPorte. She said
drowning in this demographic
usually occurs when individuals
swim in dangerous areas affected
by structural currents.
"We are finding more and more
young men are jumping off of
these piers and breakwaters, and
we want to warn them that it's
probably the most unsafe place to
be," LaPorte said.
In addition to providing data
to the public, Michigan Sea Grant
will work to promote swimmer

safety through the installation of
"beach safety kits" at various loca-
tions around the state. These kits
will include a life-ring and throw-
bag, both of which could poten-
tially be used in a rescue attempt.
LaPorte said families traveling
to beaches this summer can stay
safe by following simple safety
guidelines, such as checking the
weather report ahead of time
and obeying all posted warnings
and advisories. Many beaches in
the state use a colored-flag warn-
ing system to indicate the level
of danger on a given day. Yellow
flags indicate a rip current may be
present, while red flags indicate
there are active rip currents in the
area and swimmers should avoid
entering the water.
While colder water tempera-
tures may keep some beachgoers
on the shore this Memorial Day
weekend, the approaching sum-
mer weather will likely bring
warmer water temperatures,
which could linger as late as Octo-
ber.
LaPorte said it's important
all beachgoers exercise caution
whenever they venture into the
water, given that swimmers in
trouble may not be able to attract
attention or call for help.
"It's really important to pay
attention to what's going on
around you,"-she said. "Drowning
is a really silent event."

Carol Hutchins' team continues its postseason run this weekend at Florida State.

$1 Offf Any Smoothie
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
-- Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS I
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping CenterI
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: May 29,2014J

BUDGET
From Page 2
Anglin and Kailasapathy all voted
against the amendment, but it was
ultimately passed.
While three of the candidates in
the upcoming mayoral election -
Petersen, Briere and Taylor - spon-

sored at least one amendment to
the city administrator's proposed
budget, Kunselman did not.
He warned against the "unin-
tended consequences of overex-
tending" within the city budget
and said they are why he chose not
to "tinker" with the proposed bud-
get.

Follow the Daily on Twitter @MichiganDaily


41

Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Edited and managed by students at
the University of.Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@umich.edu

Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

IAN DILLINGHAM AARICA MARSH STEPHANIE SHENOUDA
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITOR MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Waging for m--ore
The state must counter negative effects when increasing wages
ast week, the Michigan Senate passed a bipartisan bill 24-14
to raise Michigan's minimum wage from the current $7.40
to $9.20 per hour. The bill also proposes to increase tipped
employees' wages from $2.65 to $3.50 per hour-and tie future mini-
mum wage increases to the level of inflation. The bill has now moved
to the state House but not without opposition. Some dissenters claim
the increase should be more gradual while others assert the bill
doesn't do enough to help the working class. Raising the minimum
wage will undoubtedly increase individuals' quality of life. Republi-
can Gov. Rick Snyder and the House should support the legislation.
However, the state must also take action to counter any negative
effects associated with minimum wage increases.,

Onvulnerability
walkdown Ann Street each night Bulishit. As a poet and journalist, my
while the trees arc wild with job requires me to navigate this plan-
magnolia. From the porch, a man et with fear, integrity, joy, question,
smokes with tender ache. To dirty my hands with emotion.
wrists and some- I am frustrated that I am frequently
body else yells for told to "tone down" my feelings, or
more meat on the am dismissed as too angry, too gleeful.
grill. As spring- There is no such thing. So much of my
time in this city work as a writer asks me to be vulner-
begins to unbuckle able, to ask questions, to sift through
all the dirt into all these parcels of emotion. Peers or
loose greens and CARLINA co-workers often advise me to be "less
yellows, I smell A LN
baec. I lt m DUAN happy," or to write "less poems about
barbecue. I lift my Dpeanut butter and more poems about
hands. I praise the your mom." I say: Don't tell me which
rocks that huddle feeling is mine or not mine to touch.
nakedly by my feet. Vulnerability, for me, becomes a
It seems dangerously mundane to way to remain honest and bare and
constantly speak about the weather, giving. There's a culturally funky idea
but in Ann Arbor, there comes a type that to be vulnerable is to "be soft," or
of small wonder each time the sun slips that vulnerability is weak. I disagree.
over the curbs. It's awe I can't erase, and Vulnerability lifts the hard weights.
awe that's an example of the emotional No matter what field we are in, we
vulnerability I've been criticized for. have to allow ourselves to be skinned.
Recently, I was told by an acquain- We have to be embarrassed and we
tance that I "feel too much." Gnawing have to be brave. Perhaps the instanc-
on a stick of gum, he asked, "Isn't it es that I've grown the most on this
overwhelming? To always be talking campus have been moments where
about emotion? It's like, never-ending." others have taught me how to be vul-
Widening his mouth, nerable by asking
he popped a shim- difficult questions,
mery, white bubble. sharing their wide-
As we ebb into It's easy to forget ribbed truths.
classless, intern- I hope my teach-
ship-filled, work- that rush of awe at ers are vulnerable. I
tight spring, it's easy the w we love. hope my doctors are
to forget that rush e ywvulnerable. There
of awe at the way is no other way to
we love, the way we learn or heal. I want
learn. As a female writer, it's especially my dentists to be unapologetically
easy to feel pressure to "unlearn" that vulnerable with their mouths. I want
sense of emotional intimacy with the the grocer to sell me glazed donuts
world, and to exchange it for a more vulnerably. If we don't allow ourselves
scientific, calculative lens. So often, to unravel - to give vulnerably and
we're told that emotional detail and openly to one another - so much of
intimacy are frail, "soft" things. Too our navigation with the world would
much emotion can reduce our work. be meaningless.
We become rendered as sentimental British essayist Zadie Smith writes,
mush. As a female writer, I've often ."I want to find an accommodation
doubted the wild sense of vulnerabil- between telling stories about life and
ity behind my work. Am I revealing living it well." I add that in order to
too much? Am I being overemotional? claim bright stories and bright life, one
Yet, despite the risk I think vulner- must begin to unbutton all the harsh
ability strips me into, it's well worth reserve we have about "too much"
inhabiting both in literary work and in emotion. One must be vulnerable.
life. What arises from the willingness If we want to be intellectually gen-
to remain vulnerable are the more erous with one another - to love, to
muscled truths. make time, to trust, to grow - we've
As a woman of color in the class- got to deconstruct the tough masks.
room, the newsroom, the workplace, We've got to give way to vulnerability.
I have been told that it's "unprofes-
sional" for me to have such deep emo- - Carlina Duan can be reached
tional investment in my work. I claim: at lindaduan@umich.edu.
WANT MORE, EASILY ACCESSIBLE DAILY ARTICLES?
Visit our website www.michigandaily.com and read our opinion
section blogs every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
It's guaranteed to be a good time.

Tennessee electro- duo who together form Cherub,
jamming out to "Jazzercise '95."
funk duo's new album Cherub only formed in 2010, but
since then, they have produced
is a near miss some of the funkiest shit around.
On May 19, they released their
By NICK BOYD latest album, Year of the Caprese.
DailyArts Writer Cherub is best categorized
under the heading of the infant
I remember the first time I genre "electro-funk." For the last
saw Cherub ... Oh, I remember. I few years, Cherub, and many oth-
was a scared freshman lost in the ers that the genre has to offer,
jungle of Necto. have been some of the best-kept
A small man in secrets around. Aside from their
drug rags took hit "Doses and Mimosas," off
over the middle Year of the its first album Mom and Dad,
of the dance Cherub have strayed away from
floor and per- CapreSe mainstream success. This is
formed a light Cherub more a failure on the part of soci-
show - he was ety, than on the part of Cherub.
like a mystical Columbia Records Mom and Dad is one of the best
hobbit with fire- albums of the last two years, yet
flies for fingers. it never really got the recognition
I thought he was going to eat his it deserved.
hands. He was definitely thinking Since their previous E.P., 100
about it at least. It smelled like a Bottles, was released in 2013,
Seth Rogen movie set. Sensory Cherub has done lots of incred-
overload was setting in - and just ible feature work. Their recent
when I couldn't handle any more, collaborations with producers
the funkiest bass drop in the his- Gramatik, Exmag, Big Gigantic,
tory of the universe almost killed and even west coast rapper, 100s,
me. I wheeled around, expecting have all been top-notch. Cherub
to see the headliner, Gramatik, on has the Midas touch of funk. Hav-
stage. Instead, I saw Jordan Kelly ing produced such an excellent
and Jason Huber, the Tennessee body of work over the last year, I
'Ghost Stories'
Coldplay delivers natural unavoidability of its loss.
Chris Martin struggles to accept
quiet, experimental this on Coldplay's gorgeous, medi-
tative sixth album, Ghost Stories.
new album Notice that it's Chris Martin
accepting this, not Coldplay. While
By ADAM THEISEN the group's lead singer has always
SeniorArtsEditor enjoyed the lion's share of atten-
tion, this record in particular puts
No matter how in love two peo- Martin in the spotlight and rel-
ple are, eventually, they must part, egates the other three band mem-
and somebody's heart will break. bers to the shadows. Fresh off his
When our love split with Gwyneth Paltrow - a
stories end, we're breakup that will undoubtedly be
simply left with on the minds of all fans while they
the ghosts of our Ghost listen to Ghost Stories - he spends
significant oth- the entire album wandering the
ers manifested Storlies sonic landscape, ruminating on
in memories Coldplay his broken heart with his soft,
of times past. lovely and entirely un-masculine
That being said, Atlantic Records voice. The metaphors he uses can
love is the most be a little goofy ("you're a sky full
uniquely special of stars"), and he's filled with the
thing that we as humans have, and kind of heart-on-sleeve earnestness
if we're going to experience it in all that's very easy to make fun of, but
its beauty, we have to embrace the he's still delightful, floating precari-

figured Year of the Caprese would
surely be too good to be ignored.
Sadly, Cherub's latest album lacks
the same signature funky touch
of their other work, and falls flat
amid high expectations.
This is not to say the album
is a failure - there is still much
to be enjoyed - but the 12 tracks
contain some uncharacteristic
drops in energy in the form of two
especially boring songs. "<3" and
"Strip to This" mark the midpoint
of the album. Naturally, Cherub
would try to change it up at this
point to maintain the interest of
their listeners; however; in their
attempts to do so, they produced
the two worst songs on Caprese.
"<3" has a cool beat, but the lyrics
sound like they should be coming
out of Kelly Clarkson's mouth.
"Strip to This" will not be pro-
voking many lap dances because
the lyrics are dull and the pro-
duction is in need of some Viagra.
Aside from those two poorly
timed duds, the rest of the album
comes closer to the high bar
Cherub has set for themselves.
The album opens strongly - a soft
opener, "Simple," blends seam-
lessly into one of the most animat-
ed tracks on the album - "Disco
Shit" - which would definitely
ously on the ethereal music, never
forcing anything, just letting his
feelings exist.
Most of the music on Ghost Sto-
ries doesn't drive itself in any arti-
ficial direction, and the best songs
eschew the typical rock song for-
mula entirely. The one-two open-
ing duo of "Always in My Head"
and "Magic" perfectly exemplify
this. The music evokes a distinctly
outdoors feel. Like a starry night,
it's glittery, quiet, pretty and airy,
with the rhythm section in particu-
lar doing an expert job of capturing
the intended mood. At this moment,
Coldplay is at a great spot in its
career where it's confident and pol-
ished but still hasn't lost its creative
spark.
The only disappointing moments
are the songs that work too much
within traditional structures, that
call attentionto themselves asbeing
songs at the expense of the album's
mood. "Another's Arms," for exam-
ple, is simply an average rock song,
and it's a good thing that Ghost Sto-
ries is only 40 minutes long, as too
many of these tracks would bog

Cherub fails to reach previous height

Cherub releases latest album Year of the Caprese

get the hobbits at Necto moving.
The fluid transition is a testa-
ment to Cherub's skills in produc-
tion. The fourth track, "Freaky
Me, Freaky You," gets so tragical-
ly weird that you sort of just have
to stop and listen - "Your parent
met your Mommy back when you
were in her tummy. Since you
never met your father, I guess you
can call me Daddy," is utilized
as a pick-up line. Bold strategy,
Cherub, very bold. But hey, they
said it would be freaky.
Before the album dips brief-
ly, Cherub recycles "Doses and
Mimosas," as if to say, "Hey guys,
sorry for the next two songs.
They are pretty bad." And you
know what? It may be cheating to
down the experimentation. 40 min-
utes is the perfect amount of time to
keep the listener's interest.
For a band known for having
such a great live act, it's tough to
imagine how these songs will work
in a concert setting. "Midnight,"
among a few others, is the type
of song that makes you extremely
conscious of yourself and of how
much your breath has been taken
away. In its best moments on.Ghost
Stories, Coldplay doesn't feel like a
band, but rather avery special, frag-
ile, contemplative mood. The one
exception, though, is "A Sky Full of
Stars." It's the Coldplay-est of Cold-
play songs, and from the very first
piano chords, you know for certain
thatthe soaringchorus is due in less
than two minutes. It's the kind of
pop radio hit that the band is prac-
tically obligated to deliver on every
record, but the fun and familiar
sound, while out of place, will still
be welcomed by fans, and the Avi-
cii-assisted EDM backbeat opens it
up to exciting remix potential.
All Coldplay albums are ambi-
tious, but Ghost Stories is ambi-

reuse your best song to dull the
suck of two new bad ones - but
babies will be born because of it -
so in the end, everyone wins.
The album ends with some good
tracks, -"Lifesaver", "Tonight",
and "Chocolate Strawberries" -
but "Lifesaver" and "Tonight"
were pre-released singles, so
their novelty is already worn by
the time you get to them, serving
to reinforce the album's flatness.
All in all, Cherub does some okay
stuff on Year of the Caprese - but
that's not what their fans are used
to. Cherub needs to bounce back
on its next album with something
that marks an improvement on its
previous work to re-establish its
promising trajectory.
tious in the complete opposite way
that Coldplay albums usually are.
Instead of setting its sights for outer
space and trying to fly there, the
band has looked inward and cre-
ated one of the most ideal breakup
records in recent memory. Sure, it's
still the same old sensitive Coldplay
whose unique traits are easy for
some peopleto laugh at, and afewof
the more traditionally-structured
songs are a disappointingwaste, but
Coldplay is an extremely successful
band that is still working hard and
not getting stuck in creative ruts.
Coldplay is the exact opposite of
edgy, and very little about the album
forcefully grabs your attention, but
that's what makes it special. Ghost
Stories is an album for sitting in
your backyard in a sweatshirt after
sunset, whether you're entirely
engrossed in your own thoughts,
or entirely captivated by another
person. The bass is your heartbeat,
the guitar is the windchimesbehind
you being blown by a light breeze.
The strings are butterflies flying
high above you. This is love, and this
is loss. This is life, and this is music.

If passed by the rest of the
Michigan legislature, the bill
would tie minimum wage to
inflation. Since the minimum
wage isn't currently adjusted
to inflation, workers earning
the same salary can afford
less each year. This causes
fluctuations in the real value
of wages. Adjusting for
inflation, the 1968 minimum
wage was $10.69 and $6.94
in 2008, so this increase is
not unprecedented as many
politicians have suggested,
and is in fact in line with
historical precedents.
Opponents of minimum
wage increases often cite the
model of supply and demand,
which predicts that increasing
the price of labor causes
unemployment. This model,
however, simplifies several
realities of the American
economy. Many people,

including distinguished
economists, believe our
complex market fails to meet
the conditions required to
allow the supply and demand
model to accurately predict
the effects of a minimum wage
increase on the labor market.
The model requires many
factors to be held constant,
however, our economy is highly
complicated and ever-evolving,
failing to meet the conditions
required of- a perfectly
modeled economy. Scholars
and government officials
should increase economic
research, continuously
monitor the economic impact
of the wage increase after its
implementation and adjust
long-term policies as necessary.
To ensure access to higher
paying jobs, Michigan needs
to provide more educational
opportunities for workers.

Increases in education
levels significantly affect
qualifications and earning
ability. Statistics from the U.S.
Department of Labor show
31 percent of minimum wage
workers only obtained a high
school diploma. Likewise,
individuals with only some
college constitute 28 percent
of the minimum wage work
force. However, one doesn't
necessarily need to obtain a
college degree if they wish to
boost their earnings. In fact,
the percentage of minimum
wage workers drastically
decreases to 5.1 percent for
those with an associate's
degree and to 2.2 percent
for workers who complete
some form of trade school
or occupational programs.
Such programs may do more
to alleviate poverty for both
current and future workers.




Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
"PRIME" PARKING FOR SALE DEPENDABLE, HARDWORKING,
2014-15 HONEST student to help clean Ann
Great Locations: Arborhome. Transportationcanbe pro-
721 S. Forest $1500 vided. Bi-weekly. Pay negotiatiable.
1320 S. University $1500 Call Marilyn 586-504-5517
326 E. Madison-i Pass $960
515 E. Lawrence $720
511 Hoover $720 THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
508 S. Division $600 organization, format. All Disciplines.
Parking for less than the rest! 734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net
Call 734-761-8000
SUMMER PARKING BEHIND
420 Mavnard St. $100/Mo

Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 2 "Ars amatoria" 41 Like natty 55 Slinky, e.g.
1 Kazantzaktitle pot moning links 56 Lawn game
hero 3 It might be sticky 44 Pulitzer-winning projectile
6 Singer James or dirty Ferber novel 57 River under the
10 Apple nariety 4 Religion founded 47'... harken - Ponte Vncchio
14 "Water is ifn" in Persia din Tennyson 59 Mountain legend
brand 5 Actress Gasteyer 48 Portrayer of 60Grimm start
15 Bishp's re. 6 Current vent Wawa and Litella 61 Unspecified
16 Jot Propulsion 7 Carrent inluence 52 Film composer degrees
Lab org. 8 Current observer Bemrntein 63 Agcy. concerned
17 "The Goodbye 9 Things to do 53 Phishing lure with the federal
Girl' Oscar 10 Pest-ridden 54 Menlo Park fiscal outlook
winnera 111IrsGreGolutionary middle name 64 Island strings
20 Clamsical - Gonne
theaters MacBde r ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Privatev 12 NCAA member?.
22 Hasnoobligation Abbr. K AB U L A C M E S W A T
to2 r3Playgoup A G O R A P HAT W A G E
23 Org. witk an 18 Saw again FANNYBRICE ELAN
interlocking rings 19Words said in F A N N Y B R I C E E L A N
logo passing? K ID AR IE S E TT O
25 Journalist Tarbell 24.T.book after AN W H BO L F L I T Z 6ER
et al. Amos J A W L U C I
26 CDprecursors 25 Damage T H E U K C E O S E L H I
20 Short-muzzled 26 Some jabs
dog breed 27Lab dishinventor L E A D E R O F T H E PA C K
35 Shoeboxletters 28 Capital city on C H U G E N T S A I S L E
36 Devoured the Han River E G A D P R E
37 renc word30 Ogle C O L D B L O O D E D B E T
38 West Coast null. 31 Like some US RS SE R IVE
monumentnsince eclipses
2012 32AuthorCalvino A V E F A C E PO W D E R
40 Disney doe 33Fritter maker AGE D A G A R PEER S
41 Times for action 34 Pisa party T E E D BO RE S E N S E
42 Honorable 30 About-lace
43 Rear xwordeditor@aoLcom 05/22/14
45 Disappoint, with 1 0 0 4 5 6 7 o 9 10 1 12 1s
"down"
46 Futursti car 14 15 16
unveiled atthe
1933NewYork 17 18 1s
Auto Show
49 ..godwitch,_ 20 21 22
bad witch?" 23 24 2
SO Par otQE.F.
51 Tourney pam w 27 n 29 31 32 3 34
53 Hallowed
56 _ alai 30 5ns37
58 City on the
Rh6nn 38 39 40 41
62 Court wrap-up ...
and whaf's 43200 43
hidden in 17-, 29-
and846-Across? H 07 0
65 Puma 11val o l 1 2
66 Pull down
67 Two-masted craft 565 65 06
68 Stores in a large s sss as e 1
building? l62 f s3l i'l 'r '''"
69 1l opener
70 Iroquoisfoes 0 0667
DOWN 08 05 70
1 Shutout score
feature By Maranay-capne02 4
(c)214 Tibne Cotent Agny, LLC 0/21

! NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
! www.HRPAA.com !
!!LG. RMS., Hill St. off State. Prkg.
For Male. $525/mo. 845-399-9904
*LIMITED APARTMENTS LEFT*
Don't miss out,
get $800 in FREE RENT.
Hurry in! This special
can end anytime...
University Towers
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
734-761-2680
*on select units*
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals inKerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
CENTRAL CAMPUS, FURNISHED
rooms for students, shared kitch., ldry.,
bath., internet, summer from $400, fall
from $575. Call 734-276-0886.
FURN. 1 BDRM. apt. for a male U M
grad student contact (734) 665-8292
STUDIO'S ONLY $1,195.00!
*ONLYa Few Left*
www.universitytowers-mi.com
536 S. Forest Ave.
734-761-2680

RUN
From Page 1
theme of the race was to act in the
opposite of that, to live your life in
a more selfless way, honoring the
heroes rather than the villains."
All proceeds and donations went
to the Veteran's Association Opera-
tion Enduring Freedom and Opera-
tion Iraqi Freedom Returning
Service Members Fund to honor
DeWolf's work with the Ann Arbor
VA Health System during his time
in the city.
Earlier in the day, DeWolf's fam-
ily held a ceremony to plant a Red
Oak tree in the courtyard of the
medical school. Speakers included
DeWolfe's aunt and uncle, his par-
ents, Kris and Thom, and sister
Rebekah.
Kavita Vinekar, a classmate and
friend of DeWolf's who recently
graduated from the University's
medical school, said she was
pleased by the way the entire
community came together to
remember Paul's legacy with an
optimistic spirit. One of the orga-
nizers of the 5K, she hopes to see
memorial events for DeWolf con-
tinue and grow in the future so that
his legacy lives on.
"This gave us an opportunity not
only to come together as a commu-
nity that's been grieving recently,
but also a community that seeks to
celebrate someone who was truly a
special person," Vinekar said.
CABLE
From -Page 2
said. Compared to some European
providers, she said U.S. broadband
is in many respects technologically
inferior.
Experts have noted that the
AT&T-DirectTV merger was moti-
vated, to a large extent, by a shift
toward mobile television services.
In the same way that television
delivery moved from the airways
to cable in the 1950s and 60s, the
future of television may see a move
from cable delivery to wireless ser-
vices - accessed through mobile
phones and tablets.
"Delivery technologies change,"
Lotz said. "The advantage of wire-
less is its mobility - we are still a
long way from the kind of com-
pression technology to allow the
amount of data to be transmitted
wirelessly relative to a wired line."
Given that some of the technol-
ogy needed has yet to be developed,
the transition will likely be a very
lengthy process.
"Is that probably where we're
ultimately heading - yes," Lotz
said. "But that's decades away."

A new poke

he had clear, beautiful skin,
perfect for shoving a needle
into; or so it had seemed, when
I first scanned my
partner's arm for
a suitable vein.
Medical stu-
dents practicing Ap
the placement of f
intravenous lines
on one another
abide by the basic MIKE
real estate prin- YEE
ciple of location,
location, location.
With the tourniquet tied and the
antiseptic applied, I wondered dimly
whether the target vessel had been
scrubbed away entirely in the course
of my preparatory cleaning. In its
place I could discern only the faintest
hint that a vein had ever even existed,
a mere discoloration of the skin, a rip-
ple on the surface where once thun-
dered a proud tributary of her heart's
coursing river.
I had placed a few intravenous
lines, but only for anesthetized
patients in the operating room.
Never before had I attempted the
same feat under the close scrutiny
of the recipient herself. The added
pressure left my senses addled;
whereas my initial assessment was
that of an easy "poke", now the vessel
seemed to shrink before the advanc-
ing needle, dwindling in size even as
my trembling hand drew close. I had
the impossible task of spearing an
earthworm with a whaling harpoon.
If my ineptitude distressed my
partner, her calm and composed
visage did not betray the slightest
duress; a casual observer might
have mistaken my fumbling with
her limb for a manicure rather
than a possible tattooing. Unfor-
tunately, I could not lay claim to
the same stable stoicism. My vis-
cera ran wild, as if on a caffeine-
fueled bender, twisting themselves
into shapes unimagined by even
the most creative balloon artists.
I never perspire, even under exer-
tion, but now Dagobah monsoon
season erupted on my brow.
Was I hallucinating, or was her
vein actually moving? I shook my
head - no, there it was again. It not
only moved, it danced, juked like
Denard, swayed like Rick's on St.
Patty's Day. We had been warned
of "rolling" veins, but this one
rolled like a Del Amitri-Limp Biz-
kit-Creedence Clearwater Revival
mash-up. For a moment I worried
that the vessel would rise out of
her arm and battle for control of

the needle.
Pinning the tail on the evasive
donkey was taxingto say the least. I
had to solve the Schrfdinger equa-
tion, calculate probability distribu-
tion space, channel my inner Zen. I
became one with the beveled edge
and guided it not where Heisen-
berg's vein was but where it would
be. It was all in the wrist, and even-
tually, so was the needle.
A flash in the line signified that
I had struck red gold, that indeed,
There Will Be Blood. Quickly, I
advanced the catheter into the ves-
sel lumen, threading it over the
introductory needle. So proud was I
of this momentary accomplishment
that I failed to close off the open
end of the catheter fast enough,
sending a torrent of crimson slosh-
ing across the table.
Though my partner looked
unconcerned, I hastened to grab
the syringe of intravenous fluid
that would occlude the open hub
and stem the bleeding, but blood
on my glove caused it to elude my
grasp and careen out of reach. With
the desperation of Mitch McGary
diving headlong for an errant
fast break pass, I skittered after
the syringe, caught it on the first
bounce and capped the line. As the
fluid flowed into circulation, so too
did the tension bleed away from me.
Our long search for IV access had
ended in vein.
The ordeal replayed at the other
tables around us, as pairs of medical
students did their bloodiest renditions
of Dexter scenes. The number who
fainted or passed out left the room
less reminiscent of an IV workshop
than a mass casualty event. I realized
then that the goal of the session was
not to make us masters of line place-
ment, butto appreciate the nurses and
technicians who routinely establish
access even in very difficult patients.
For injection drug abusers who had
blown all of the usual veins, Ihad seen
nurses and techs who could find viable
vessels in all sorts of bizarre locations.
The practice I received made me mar-
vel at their artistry that much more.
I was roused from my reverie by
motion in my peripheral vision. In
one fell swoop, my partner had deftly
taken up her own needle and pinioned
my arm fast. The slightest sugges-
tion of a vengeful glimmer in her eye
seemed to say, "Myturn."
I gulped hard with a mouth gone
suddenly dry...
Mike Yee can be reached
at mayee@umich.edu.

was standing in the check-
out line at Kroger two Mon-
day nights ago, when an icy
metaphorical
hand sud-
denly slapped
me in the face
and forced
me to look
at the prod-
ucts I was
preparing ZAK
to purchase: WITUS
Chobani
yogurt,
Smartfood
popcorn, Starbucks coffee,
Annie's Mac & Cheese... The
metaphorical hand was impo-
litely asking me to reflect on my
mindless consumerist habits:
Why had I chosen these prod-
ucts and not others? At the time,
my feeling of self-loathing was
obvious, but its source, some
latent thread running through
the contents of my cart, was
unclear. But, now, having sat at
my desk staring pensively at my
box of Annie's Mac & Cheese for
a weirdly long duration of time,
I have an explanation - cultural
capitalism.
Cultural capitalism consists in
businesses appealing to custom-
ers' ethics for profit, particularly
their environmental ethics. I
argue that Annie's Mac & Cheese
and other similar products syn-
thesize the formerly antitheti-
cal desires to consume and to do
something good for society into
one single consumerist/anti-
consumerist gesture. Thereby,
capitalism manufactures pseu-
do-self-justification, while con-
sumers continue to consume
compliantly.
The Annie's Mac & Cheese
box attempts at befriending
the consumer represent its cul-
tural capitalistic quality. On the
back of the box there's a "letter"
addressed to you, "Dear Friend,"
and it's signed in an fake purple-
ink scrawl by "Annie." On the side
of the box, in a cartoon about how
they produce their mac & cheese,

Annie's
edly int
betwee
who m
Annie's
Partner
Trust...
ducesc
real At
compar
Approv
be a sr
busines
some v
about t
facturi
pany's1
But
out
not a s
busines
images
intimat
pany; t
image t
project
the con
Annie's
ers. Fu
that the
legitim
various
ucts he
also kn
a desir
ethics
nies he
(e.g., n
fair tri
And, th
lar con
the cus
constr
and tru
Whe
& Che
ing int
is evid
Annie'.

illustrates the suppos- worthiness (trustworthiness) as
timate community of trust a friend and business partner.
o itself and the farmers The box proudly declares: "100%
ake the raw material for Recycled Paperboard," "Cheese
Mac & Cheese (e.g., "We from Cows not Treated with the
r With People & Places We Growth Hormone, rBST," "Made
"). The box even intro- with Goodness!" etc. Note how
consumers to Bernie, the the "Made with Goodness!" com-
nnie's pet rabbit and the ment and the "Rabbit of Approv-
ny's official "Rabbit of al" logo signify terms of morality
al." Annie's pretends to and ethics. In light of the box's
mall, mom-and-pop style other ecologically-focused sig-
s by giving the consumer nifiers, the rabbit appears to be
would-be intimate details a metonym for nature and the
heir company, the manu- environment. What Annie's is
ng process and the com- saying, metonymically, is that
pet rabbit. nature approves of their product
the truth is Annie's is and you should too. "Made with
Goodness" isn't just a statement
about good ingredients; it's also
think we supposed to be a statement about
moral goodness. By claiming that
ht not be so buying a box of Annie's means
doing something morally good,
content. good for the environment and
good for society, the box induces
the consumer to achieve the sub-
lime object of his or her consum-
mall, mom-and-pop style erist/anti-consumerist ideology.
ss; it is a corporation. The I don't mean to dissuade inter-
on that box are not truly est in serving the environment,
o details about the com- but companies that participate in
hey are derivations of the cultural capitalism are co-opting
that the company wants to consumers' desire to be eco-
. And, most importantly, friendly and ethical agents for
tsumers are not friends of their own profit. Though often
s; they are paying custom- we feel like we're being ethical
rthermore, Annie's knows consumers by participating, I'm
e customer has few (if any) inclined to believe that the factu-
ately close ties with the al implications of our consump-
s companies whose prod- tion remain largely mysterious
or she consumes. Annie's to most - they at least do to me.
ows that the customer has The danger in cultural capitalist
e to share common core practices like Annie's is that they
with the people/compa- superficially satisfy our desire
or she does business with to do something good for soci-
to child labor, recycling, ety and therefore we don't feel
eatment of animals, etc.). the urge to do something more
herefore, Annie's and simi- profoundly but less conveniently
npanies profitably exploit good. Hence we remain content
stomer's desires through a with the status quo of passively
uction of false friendship serving corporations' interests
ust. instead of the interests of society
an we buy Annie's Mac as a whole. I think we ought not
ese, we' are also buy- to be so content.

Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
Anie's Mace Cheoe

5

o a cultural ethics. This
lent in the way that the
s box tries to justify its

- Zak Witus can be reached
at zakwitus@umich.edu.

LIKE BEING CRITICIZED ABOUT YOUR OPINIONS BY STRANGERS?
WRITE FOR THE DAILY AND SECURE YOUR DREAMS!
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints about
various subjects. Letters to the editor should be fewer than 300 words while
viewpoints should be 550-850 words. Send the writer's full name
and University affiliation to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.


Thursday, May 22, 2014
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
FILM REVIEW
Run, it's 'Godzilla'

Thursday, May 22, 2014 1AV>"
The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com S

BOOK REVIEW
'We Were Liars'

FILM REVIEW
'Million Dollar Arm'

Acceptably thrilling
update of a monster
movie classic
By SEAN CZARNECKI
DailyArts Writer
Godzilla has been killed at least
twice. The exact number depends
on the fans you ask and their inter-
pretations of the
franchise, but one B+
can never mistake
the feeling oftrag- Godia'
edy that comes
with his fall. No At Rave and
one within ten Quality16
miles is outside Wamer Bros
the thunder of his
approach or his
roar, which alone
puts the fear of God into you. That a
beast of such power can be killed by
humans is cause for mourning, not
triumph.
In 1998 it seemed Roland Emm-
erich's grievous reimagining
might've killed Godzilla for good.
Lifelong fans cried foul, enthu-
siasm dropped and its sequels
were scrapped. The challenge this
"Godzilla" faces then, sixteen years
since Emmerich's tailspin, and
sixty years since the 1954 Japanese
original, is resurrecting a God and
returning him to his former glory.
Perhaps I am being grandiose.
As my friend had said on the car
ride to the theater, "It just needed to
not suck for me to be happy." Most
moviegoers consider the Godzilla
franchise low-brow junk, best when
enjoyed ironically.
Director Gareth Edwards ("Mon-
sters") and his team of artists and
screenwriters must therefore re-bill
the Godzilla franchise. They have
to tailor him to the demands of an
American audience, and make him
vital to a cinema industry that in this
modern CGI age, has leveled more
than a few metropolises. Godzilla
has always been a ferocious mon-
ster, compelling because of his com-
plex sense of morality, sympathetic
because of his rage. Edwards taps
into this part of the mythology bet-
ter than any other Godzilla movie I
have seen. I expect to see a sequel in
the next few years, and (I hope) even
a crossover.
Like most disaster movies, the
scope of "Godzilla" is sprawling.
The plot attempts to anchor this

Godzilla awakens from his ocean slumber
ordeal through its main character,
USN Lieutenant Ford Brody (Aaron
Taylor-Johnson, "Kick-Ass"), son of
a nuclear physicist named Joe Brody
(Bryan Cranston, TV's "Breaking
Bad") who is searching for answers.
Only Dr. Ishiro Serizawa (Ken
Watanabe, "Unforgiven") knows the
truth: Mankind's arrogant forays
into nuclear science has brought two
prehistoric monsters out of hiber-
nation to feed on the radiation, and
Godzilla is their predator.
The actors and actresses play
their parts well, with Cranston and
Watanabe as the predictable stand-
outs. But too often is "Godzilla,"with
its two hour runtime, sidetracked
by its obnoxious supporting cast.
You know the types: some military
adviser talks through a spiel filled
with jargon meant to impress us,
some stone-faced officer delivers a
speech he probably wrote on a nap-
kin, some mother looks out for a kid
too cute for his owngood, and so on.
Really, we just want to see Godzilla
punch a hole through San Francis-
co's City Hall.
A monster movie operates in
much the same WWE does. Two
headliner heroes stand opposite
of each other, size each other up -
smash. Destruction and blunt-force
trauma provides its own payoff, and
we do get to see the Big Guy slug it
out, but not for as long as most fans
would've hoped.
The hoary tropes of past entries
are gone; "smashing" plays second-
fiddle. Edwards's "Godzilla" chan-
nels instead an apocalyptic energy,
an adrenal feeling of suspense and
even dread. Gyfrgy Ligeti's "Requi-
em," which you might remember
from Stanley Kubrick's "2001: A
Space Odyssey," plays throughout
several sequences. There is won-

Wvarner Bros
der and despair in that clamorous
wailing, and the imagery, resonant
with Biblical undertones, electri-
fies the audience. "Godzilla" is filled
with moments like these, often with
"Jaws" and "Jurassic Park"-inspired
touches, and often masterfully so.
It seems there is always one char-
acter in every Godzilla film that
attempts to understand the monster.
Serizawahas chased Godzilla all his
life, and he is the character we ulti-
mately admire most. in one scene
of breathtaking suspense, Godzilla
is swimming in the ocean when
he turns toward an aircraft car-
rier with such force and mass that
he produces a wake almost power-
ful enough to tip the warship, all
100,000 tons of it.
"I have to see this," Serizawa
says. And he races up to the deck
of the aircraft carrier, just in time
to witness the mountainous ridge
of Godzilla's dorsal spine break the
water and pass underneath.
It reminds me of my all-time
favorite Godzilla scene, the end of
"Godzilla 2000." Another scien-
tist of sorts stands at the edge of
a skyscraper to meet the monster.
His friends beg him to run, but he
stays. He wants to look him in the
eye, and he wants to die doing it. As
this scientist does, and as Serizawa
and Ford after him, I tried to read
Godzilla's face when I was a kid and
saw only wrath. For one moment, all
that power is focused on us alone,
and itis humbling.
This 2014 reboot has thought
through what makes Godzilla so
terrible and sympathetic. He is a
sentinel, a terror, filled with rage -
the King of the Monsters fully real-
ized. Fans will watch him roar, and
they willthink, satisfied, "That's the
Godzilla Iknow."

Delacorte Press

Author e. lockhart
By ALEX BERNARD
Daily Arts Writer
Dear readers, you are all too
familiar with the novel and its
tricks, traps, and tropes that reel
in audiences

like fish chas-
ing bait on fan-
tasy-adventure
hooks. And,
through these
techniques,
fiction, as you
bookworms are
surely aware,
is designed to
make sense.

A-
We Were
Liars
e. adcart
Delacorte Press

People like to know that jus-
tice will be done or that injustice
will prove some sort of grandiose
point about humanity or exis-
tence or capital-S Something.
And yet, in e. lockhart's ("The
Disreputable History of Frankie
Landau-Banks," "The Boyfriend
List") new novel, "We Were
Liars," the pieces to the puzzle
are tossed out the metaphori-
cal window and replaced with
square pegs that just don't seem
to fit into the round holes, at least
as far as the reader is concerned.
In fact, in the first few lines, the
reader is told:
"No one is a criminal. No one
is an addict. No one is a failure."
Welcome to the Land of Liars,
where the stories are made up
and the truths don't matter.
Please leave your reliable narra-
tors at the door.
In "We Were Liars," Lockhart
tells the story of the Sinclairs,
a family with about as many
problems as dollars and enough
secrets to last through 240

deceitful pages. The narrator is
Cadence Sinclair, the seventeen
year-old heir to her grandfa-
ther's fortune, who spends her
summers on the family island
- Beechwood - just off the East
Coast. SPOILER ALERT: She is
a liar.
Once on Beechwood, Cady
passes her time with cousins
Johnny and Mirren and with
handsome love interest and out-
sider Gat. Together, the four dub
themselves the "Liars," and serve
as the novel's protagonists, fuel-
ing the story by reeking havoc
on the other Sinclairs while also
providing an emotional hook that
reels the reader into their tale.
Welcome to the
land of liars.
At first, "We Were Liars"
reads like a typical summer
young adult novel, full of quirky
relatives, nosy grandfathers, and
kisses in the attic that are both
"electric and soft".
The mood turns, however,
when Cady vaguely describes
an "accident" during "summer
fifteen" (when she was 15 years
old), but is unable to recall the
events leading up to and follow-
ing her injury. The result? She
skips the next summer at Beech-
wood, not returning until she's
seventeen, newly obsessed with
unveiling the truth.
Now do not be deceived, dear
reader, this is no story of begin-
See LIARS, Page 7

New Disneybiopic
more about money
than baseball
By GIANCARLO BUONOMO
ManagingArts Editor
Americans are suckers for
movies about dogs, boxers and
baseball. Especially baseball,
because it's "our thing," as Amer-
ican as apple pie
and pre-emptive C
strikes. Clas-
sics like "Field Million
of Dreams" and DollarAl
"The Sandlot"
effortlessly com- At Rave and
bine jargon and Quality6 J.B. "coaching" his prospects
romance into a . episode is a montage of cliched
film that is both Walt Disney "white guy goes to India for the
about baseball Pictures first time" tropes. J.B. gets food
and, at the same poisoning. He gets stuck in traf-
time, not base- fic. The t-shirts manufacturer
ball. They remind us why we love must be bribed. A family drives by
the game so much, but also why on a motorbike clutching a goat.
we love so many other things. Despite all of this, J.B finally finds
The newest addition to the two young men: Dinesh Patel
baseball movie genre is "Million (Madhur Mittal, "Slumdog Mil-
Dollar Arm," directed by Craig lionaire") and Rinku Singh (Suraj
Gillespie ("Lars and the Real Sharma, "Life of Pi"). Neither boy
Girl") and written by Thomas plays cricket, nor particularly
McCarthy ("The Visitor"). But likes it, but they can throw a base-
"Million Dollar Arm," a well shot, ball over 80 miles per hour.
well acted, biopic about the first Now, this indifferent treat-
two Indian men to be signed by a ment of India would be, if not
Major League organization, is no forgiven, at least tempered if the
classic. Despite it's subject matter, rest of the movie were a deep
it's not really a baseball movie. character analysis of Dinesh and
You won't be reminded why you Rinku, and their undoubtedly
love baseball, and you won't be confusing journey to America to
reminded of why you love any- learn a sport they've never played
thing else, besides maybe money. before. But the focus is all on
Sports agent J.B. Bernstein J.B. Forced to allow the boys and
(Jon Hamm, "The Town") and his their interpreter/baseball enthu-
partner Ash (Aasif Mandvi, "The siast Amit (Pitobash Tripathy,
Internship,") have struck it out "Shor in the City") to live in his
on their own, and they're strik- home after they unwittingly set
ing out. Having lost the chance off the hotel elevator's fire alarm,
to represent star linebacker Popo J.B. becomes both coach and sur-
Vanuatu, they make the ballsy rogate mother hen to a trio of
decision to "tap" the unexploit- clumsy chicks. This is where the
ed potential of Indians in Major film really becomes a Disney-
League Baseball. J.B travels to fied version of "Jerry Maguire."
India to set up a nationwide con- Popo comes calling again, but
test called "Million Dollar Arm," J.B. loses him when he is forced
where young men will demon- to leave their meeting to fetch
strate their throwing arms, and Dinesh, Rinkhu and Amit, who
the winners will get shipped back got drunk for the first time. Popo
to Los Angeles for training and an is Cush, the boys Rod Tidwell.
eventual tryout with major league There's even a Dorothy Boyd, this
teams. time in the form of J.B.'s neighbor
The first part of the movie Brenda (Lake Bell, "No Strings
depicts J.B.'s search across India Attached"), who teaches him to
to find his prospects. This whole stop being such a heartless wank-

LIARS
From Page 6
ning, middle and end. Truth be
told (for once), the end is in the
middle, the middle is the end and
the beginning was never really a
beginning to begin with - read
the book. (Then reread this para-
graph, nod your head and say,
"Yeah that's true.")
And it is in this backwards,
forwards, and altogether scram-
bled action that Lockhart suc-
ceeds in pulling a shroud over
the behind-the-scenes mechan-
ics. Fueled by smart dialogue,
heart-pounding suspense and a
narrator whose voice and pas-
sion fuel the novel's engine like
coal in a train (do trains still use
coal anymore?), "We Were Liars"
lulls its readers into a false sense
of trust, only to flip the script in
the last few pages.
Before this final twist though,
the novel operates somewhat
flatly. While amusing, the char-
acters are trope-like and static,
save for Cadence, whose wit,
reactions and interpretations
carry an otherwise rhyth-.
mic and predictable series of
events. Throughout the entire
novel, Lockhart makes up for
this insufficiency through solid
detail, sharp observation and a
narrator whose thoughts will
bounce around your head for
days.
Without Cady though, the
novel itself is merely an excep-
tional piece of work without that
extraordinary dash of unforget-
table action. Not only the teenag-
ers, but also the adults come off
as two-dimensional and some-
what undynamic. The result is
a beaten-down experience that
makes one wish a paramedic
would come around with a defi-

brillator and shock the charac-
ters into life.
And lo! The paramedics arrive
by the droves! One for every
character and each plotline!
Yes, a good novel is certainly'
not a good novel without a good
ending. Lockhart knows it too
and delivers big time.
Just as the reader expects the
narration to drift into an exposi-
tory tone, the last few chapters
deliver a shock that jolts the
spine, gooses the bumps, and
"I'm notcrying; Ijusthavesome-
thing in both of my eyes!"
A stunning, "what just hap-
pened?" twist gives precious
life to an expertly crafted piece
of work that relies heavily
upon its unpredictability and
dishonesty. Through a truly
unforgettable - and quite jar-
ring - reveal, Lockhart keeps
the reader questioning until
the bitter end.
Yet do not be deceived again,
dear reader. You may expect
Lockhart's conclusion to leave
you with answers to your ques-
tions, but that's not quite the
case. Instead, the turn of events
will weigh on your thoughts,
making your brain feel like a
heavy burlap sack filled with
nickels and quarters.
"We Were Liars," more than
anything, is a defibrillator itself,
shocking the reader to life and
awareness, forcing us to recon-
sider why bad things happen to
anyone at all. Lockhart challeng-
es the nature of grief and shows
us that, in the face of pointless
tragedy, people are still people.
In this hard truth lies the crux
of Lockhart's best work to date:
an honest, thrilling story about a
kid who discovers that life isn't
fair and everyone is a liar.
Welcome to the land of liars.
Check your trust at the door.

er. But whereas "Jerry Maguire"
is all about how "show me the
money" is the wrong attitude,
"Million Dollar Arm" shameless-
ly embraces it. Instead of leading
you to root for Dinesh and Rinkhu
to become great baseball players,
the film leads you to root for J.B.
to succeed in creating the illusion
that Dinesh and Rinkhu can play
baseball. We're never given an
idea of why Dinesh and Rinkhu
are playing baseball, other than
the antiquated assumption that
anything is better than living
in India. Mittal and Sharma's
talents are wasted on the char-
acters, because all they seem to
do is sheepishly say "Sorry Mr.
J.B. Sir," whenever they throw a
wild pitch or otherwise endanger
J.B.'s agenda.
The film definitely falters on
the human side of things, in part
because it flat out fails in its por-
trayal of baseball. It gives the
impression that all Rinkhu and
Dinesh need to do is throw a ball
about 90 miles per hour over the
plate a few times, and that will
tempt MLB teams to sign them.
Being able to throw a ball fast and
over the plate is as much of an
indication of one becoming pitch-
er as the ability to play "Hot Cross
Buns" is of becoming a musician.
So what are we left with, after the
film cuts to some archival footage
of the real Dinesh and Rinkhu
getting signed by the Pittsburgh
Pirates, and J.B and Brenda mar-
rying? A reminder of the market-
ing power of exploitation, and
that a heartwarming story is only
heartwarming if it has a hand-
some price tag.

HAVE YOU EVER
DRESSED UP AS
CHARLES BUKOWSKI
FOR HALLOWEEN?
If so, e-mail gbuonomo@michigandaily.com for
information on applying.


