~1j £kcian &iIaj
ILI -+;1 ilfX } 1 .i i I( A)lL- I j 11,1_ LD I) T W N Y 11 I1 \P i( 1 "P HAI I )OM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 24, 2014

michigandaily.com


CAMPUS LIFE
Twitter
CEO talks
future of
business

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
Survival Flight helicopter pilot Kim Pacsai inspects one of the team's three Eurocopter EC-155 used to transport patients.
nCallA mpse of the
itTlv 0 _Z14%110%
'USSurvival Flight progl ram1
In Livingston, team Among fields and scattered Eurocopter EC-155 helicopters Down the hall from the main
houses, the. airport primarily operating as part of the Sur- hanger, Kim Pacsai, a Survival
plays vital role for attracts small, privately-owned vival Flight program, providing Flight helicopter pilot, monitors
aircraft. Late on a Friday after- medical transport of critically weather patterns across most
UMHS's critically- noon, ultra-light sport planes ill patients around Michigan and of the state. At 5:30 on a Friday
, illalternate landings with single- neighboring states - many of the afternoon, he is 10.5 hours into
ill patients engine Cessnas under the com- patients ending their journey at his 12-hour shift - the second
mand of pilots-in-training. the University Hospital where day of his 7-day rotation.
By IAN DILLINGHAM The airport also plays a criti- they are able to receive specialty Looking at his computer, Pac-
Daily NewsEditor cal role for the University of care not generally available in saipointsto aseriesofgreenindi-
Michigan Health System. At a other health care facilities. cators overlaid on a map of the
HOWELL, Mich. - Forty remote corner of the facility lies At the Survival Flight head- state. Each one represents an air-
minutes from the bustling streets the Livingston County Emer- quarters, there is a self-described port or hospital helipad - green
of Ann Arbor - two miles north gency Medical Services building, "firehouse mentality." The only means the weather is favorable
of I-96 - the Livingston County where a maize and blue helicop- difference is that this "firehouse" to fly. Except for a couple isolated
Airport is encased with stillness, ter can be seen on the tarmac. is responsible for more than spots in the northwest corner of
soothed with the faint hum of Livingston is home to one of 200,000 square miles of popu- the lower peninsula, the weather
propellers. the University's three leased lated areas. See FLIGHT, Page 3A

After speaking at
13 commencement,
Costolo offers
advice to students
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
DailyStaffReporter
He's back.
Twitter CEO Dick Costolo,
a University alum and speaker
at the 2013 Spring Commence-
ment, spoke Friday at the Ross
School of Business in an event
sponsored by Business frater-
nity Phi Chi Theta.
In Blau Auditorium, Busi-
ness senior Max Yoas, the vice
president of Phi Chi Theta, and
Costolo sat across from each
other in armchairs on stage,
creating an interview-esque
setting. Yoas asked questions
for the first half hour, followed
by a question and answer ses-
sion with the audience.
Costolo discussed the grow-

ing potential of e-commerce
and ad units, his management
style and his previous career
in improvisation comedy and
run-ins with actor Steve Carell.
Although scattered, each topic
drew from ideas related to risk-
takingand pursuingpassions.
After graduating from the
University inl1985 with adegree
in Computer Science end Com-
munications, Costolo said he
moved to Chicago to pursue
a career in improvisational
comedy. Looking back at his
days spent in the classroom, he
recalled being the "last person
in my computer science classes
to become CEO one day."
Costolo, originally from
Royal Oak, Mich., said he used
to worry that people would
judge him for not entering a
traditional career following
graduation.
"If you live your life trying
to do what is expected of you
you'll be frozen on the stage of
your own life," Costolo said. "If
See TWITTER, Page 2A


CAREERS
 Internships in
Detroit attract
many students

CLOWNiN' AROL

Quicken Loans
draws 17 percent
of interns from the
University
By THERESE BREUCH
For theDaily
As students begin filling out
applications for summer intern-
ships, or attending one of the
University's career fairs, one
Detroit-based company presents a
range of options for them.
Over the past three summers,
Quicken Loans, the nation's sec-
ond largest mortgage lender, head-
quartered in Detroit, has taken
approximately 17 percent of their
interns from the University, mak-
ing it one of the highest repre-
sented colleges in last summer's
internship program.
Quicken College Recruiter Ali-
sha Roberts interned for the com-
pany in the summer of 2011. When
she started, the program was com-
prised of 200 students; it has now
grown to over 1,000 interns each
summer, with 173 of them coming

from the University
Interns have been placed in
wide variety of settingsowithin the
company, including accounting,
information technologyand mort-
gage operations.
Quicken Loans and its chair-
man and founder, Dan Gilbert,
have gained attention as har-
binger of Detroit's revitalization
efforts. In August 2010, the com-
pany moved its headquarters and
12,000 employees from a Detroit
suburb to downtown, accounting
for a major portion of the 85,000
people working in the central
business district.
Costing about $1.3 billion, Gil-
bert has updated more than 60
properties in the city.
"Thegoalhereistomakedown-
town Detroit nothing less than
an attraction and destination for
both residents and visitors alike,"
wrote DanGilbertin aMarch2013
e-mail, Detroit Free Press report-
ed.
"I think the coolest thing is
being apart of the comeback
story," Roberts said.
When Roberts first moved to
Detroit, she said there weren't
See QUICKEN, Page 2A

ROBERT DUNNE/Daily
Interarts junior Daniel Ghastin performs at the "Queens and Clowns" show, a free performance of a self-
described circus, at the Duderstadt Video Studio on Saturday.
CAMPUS LIFE
alaeeconomic
outlook topic of confernce

NATIONAL AWARD
Engineering
grad student
wins Rhodes
scholarship
Among 877 U.S.
nominations, David
Moore one of 32
selected for honor
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
Engineering graduate stu-
dent David Moore was named a
2015 Rhodes Scholar, the Rhodes
Scholar program announced Sat-
urday.
He was nominated in Septem-
ber by University Provost Mar-
tha Pollack. Out of 877 American
nominees by universities and col-
leges nationwide, 32 were chosen
to be scholars, according to the
program's website.
Moore's efforts in improv-
ing the lives of people with dis-
abilities and advancing medical
research were spotlighted by the
program, which funds studies for
scholars at Oxford University in
England across a variety of disci-
plines.
As a part of his coursework,
See RHODES SCHOLAR, Page 3A

3

Potential job Friday.
Sponsored by the Univer-
growth, GDP sity's Research Seminar in
Quantitative Economics, the
urge debated event featured 13 presenta-
tions focusing on the U.S.
By LEA GIOTTO economy on the first day and
Daily StaffReporter Michigan's economy on the
second.
e University hosted its Daniil Manaenkov, RSQE
Annual Economic Out- assistant research scientist,
Conference in Rackham and Rackham student Mat-
hitheater Thursday and thew G. Hall, RSQE forecast-

ing team member, gave the
conference's first speech,
which covered the country's
economic outlook for 2015 and
2016.
"We expect that 2015 will
be the year when U.S. econom-
ic growth will finally acceler-
ate meaningfully," Manaenkov
said.
He said he expects the
overall economic growth,
See CONFERENCE, Page 3A

Th
62nd
look
Ampi



WEATHER Hl:35 GOTA NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
TOMORROW LO: 19 news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
In defense of Spotify
MICHIGAN DAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS ........................ 2A ARTS.............A.....5A
Vol CXXIV, No. 33 SUDOKU............... 2A CLASSIFIEDS............,...6A
2014The MichiganDaily OPINION.....................4A SPORTSMONDAY......... 1B
michigondoily,com

4

A,


2A - Monday, November 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Monday, November 24, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

iEhe MichVga ailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor inChief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandailycom dougsolo@michigandailycom

ARSON IN ANN ARBOR
Local habitat home burned

TAKE THE FIELD-i

6
I

70 years ago this week
(November28, 1944)
The University officially
enrolled 365 foreign exchange
students for the fall semester of
1944. Forty-two countries were
represented within this count.
Forty-four of the students had
possession of United States citi-
zenship.
Some of the top countries rep-
resented included China with 55
students, Turkey with 54 stu-
dents and Brazil with 27 students.
40years ago this week
(November 26, 1974)
The Ann Arbor City Council
collectively agreed to rezone the
Packard Platt Plaza - a space
planned to be used for a shopping

center - for new apartment'
ing complexes.
In1973,Ann Arbor Repub
promised that there would
shopping center built at Pa
Platt. This was later chani
allow development for the cc
To justify their change o
sion regarding the issue,
councilmembers said cond
had changed.
"The demand for housing
city remains high (while) th
in the city for building...the(
ping center) site is now less
fiable," Mayor James Steph
said.
20 years agothis wee
(November 28,1994;
A nearly finished home

build- by Habitat for Humanity was lit
on fire just before midnight last
licans Monday. Volunteers were unde-
be no terred by the arson attempt and
ackard planned to have the home rebuilt
ged to by Christmas.
enter. Local Habitat for Humanity
f deci- volunteers were inspired by the
GOP home's future occupants, Ypsi-
litions lanti resident Kathi Hunter and
her three children, to complete
in the the project. The construction
e need for the single-story house with a
(shop- porch began inJune.
justi- "Kerosene or gasoline had been
enson sprayed onthe sides of the house,"
said Margaret Leary, president
of the Habitat for Humanity of
k Huron Valley chapter. JAMS COLLE/Daily
Drum Major Jeffrey Okala, an LSA senior,leadshe
band onto the field before the football game against
built CARLYNOAH Maryland Saturday.
CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES TH EE THINGS YOU
Career advice Film screening S . . TOD
TheUniversity ofVirginia
WHAT: University alum WHAT: As part of an suspended all of its frater-
Jon Michael Darga will ongoing series, Polish nities Saturday following
speak on how to obtain a job movie "Black Cross" will a Rolling Stone investigation
in the publishing industry be shown. The film is a into a series of sexual assaults
and his own experiences in romance set during the in the Greek system on cam-
the field as a literary agent. leadup to the Battle of pus, the LA Times reported.
WHO: The Career Center Grunwald. The suspension will last until
WHEN: Today from 7 p.m. WHO: Copernicus Program
m.0..:Jan. 9.

Newsroom
734-418-41ts opt.3
Corrections
corrections@ihigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
daitydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
ontineads@michigandaily.com
EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor
ennifertCalfas Managing News Editor

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaity@mchigandaity.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaity.com
PhotographySection
photo@michigandaiy.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaiy.com
Finance
finance@michigandaly.com
kgburke@michigandaiy.com
jcalfas@michigandaily.aom

L
0 THE E i4, ;=

CSG elections
BY TANAZ AHMED
Daily reporter Tanaz
Ahmed reports on the mid-
term election results for
Central Student Govern-
ment. Students from LSA,
the Ross School of Business,
the Law School, the School
of Information, the School of
Public Health and Rackham
were all elected.
GreekLife
BY CATHERINE BERGIN
Bergin explores the
stereotype that people in
Greek life only have time
for Greek life, talking to
a sorority member in the
School of Art and Design
and a fraternity member in
the School of Music, The-
atre and Dance about how
they find balance.

T HE PODIUM
The team
BY NEELOSWAMY
Swamy discusses the
recent domestic abuse
charges against Frank Clark,
a now-former University
football player, and argues
that focus on the incident
should- revolve around the

TO p.m.
WHERE: East Ouad,

in Polish Studies
WHEN!Tdrn nt 7 n

SENIORNEWSEDITORS:IanDillingham,SamGringlas,WillGreenberg,RachelPremack
ASSST neN E SnITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie PlesseteoMichael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel WanE tditorialPageEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:AaricaMarshandVictoriaNoble
ASSISTANT EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:MattheSeligmanandDavidHarrs
Greg Garno and
AlejandroZdfiiga Managing SportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENRPOReTSnEDITOSm Max Cohen,AlexaDettelbach, LevFacher, RajatKhare, Jake
Lourim andJerey Sumitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynh and jplynch@m~ichigandaiy.ome
AkshaySeth ManagingArts Editors akse@micigandailtyom
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSITANT ARTS EDITORS Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman ManagingPotoFEditos yphoto@michigandaily.com
SENtOR PHOTO EDTOOS:Allits xaandad ubyWatau
ASSISTANTPHOTO EDITORS: Luna Anna Archey, Virginia Lozano,,
JamesCuller, McKenzieBerezin,andNicholasWilliams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasquezManagingDesign Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand AliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: RubyWalas
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMackens
Mark Osxolinxki and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingcopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and AlishaQiu
AustenHufford onlineEditor dhufford@michigandaily.com
VIDEO EDITORS: Paula Friedrich and James Reslier-Wells
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: Brianne Johnson
BUSINESSSTAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classifiedManager
Simonne Kapadia Local Accounts Manager
Lotus AnNational Accounts Manager
OliviaJonesProduction Managers
Nolan Loh specialProjects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
The0MichigantDily ISSN 074-67)is publishedMoa thrxoh Fiaydring thfalland wintertemsby
studnatOthe University ficha. Onecp s aailble freof harge o allader. Aditionalcoie a
se piked up at tSe Daily's oice for $2.Subscriptions for faltermstarang in SeptemberviaU.S.mailare O1.
Winter term (January through Apri) is $115. yearong (September through Apri is $19. University afiliates
are subject to a reduced subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fal term are $3. Subscriptions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The A s s and The Associated Collegiate Press.

VTaaaa. ~O a, W1L : loua aL /p.m.
seriousness of the charges, Greene Lounge WHERE: Michigan The Michigan foot-
not the impactcit will have on Theater ball team is set to play
the football team. its biggest game of the
MusicalM ug decorating year, and after this embarass-
Al RCT7 ing season, there's not much
Dear Rihanna WHAT: Ceramic mugs will to look forward to.
be available for students to FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY
BY GIBSONJOHNS WHAT: Conductor Court decorate. Paint pens will
ney Snyder and Graduate also be provided for stu-
Johns writes an open Student Conductor Eric dents to use.
letter to the pop sensation. LaPrade will lead a concert WHO: Center for Campus
He recounts her climb to focused on how imagery is Involvement Sunday, Tunisians went
fame, asks when she will displayed in music, evoking IvH en t
next release new music, and scenes such as the New York WHERE: Michigan Union, their president for the
discusses the possibility of subway, Paris and Mexico Ground Floor first time, choosing between
her following in Beyonce's among others. Admission is CORRECTIONS 30 candidates, NBC News
footsteps and releasing an WO: School of Music, Please report any reported. This is the first
album with no prior promo- Theatre and Dance error in the Daily to time the country has directly
tion. WHEN: Today atl8p.m. corrections@michi- elected its leader. Results
WHERE: Hill Auditorium gandaily.com. were expected on Tuesday.

6
0


TWITTER
From Page 1A
you do what you're excited about
doing and care about doing things
will be fine - you won't be scared
when things go wrong."
Later during the Q&A, a stu-
dent asked whether Costolo felt
as though he's "made it." Costolo
responded that, as an entrepre-
neur, it is never certain whether
one is changing his or her world
- or how they will change it.
"I assure you their (entre-
preneurs') emotional state fluc-
tuates between euphoria and
terror on a regular basis," Cos-
tolo said. "The reality is making
your mark is the result and left
in the wake of doing what you're
passionate about doing."
For example, Costolo never
imagined that his online cre-
ation would make a mark in the

political ad. When he was first
told that the Pope had entered
the Twitter community, he
believed it was a joke.
Costolo highlighted that one
shouldn't set out to change the
world, but should rather do what
they are most passionate about.
Business sophomore Nikhil
Dungarani, who also saw Costo-
lo speak at the 2013 Commence-
ment speech, said this message
of following one's passion stuck
out most to him.
"If there's one thing I took
away from today it's that you
should follow your dreams and
do what you really want to do
with your life," Dungarani said.
Aside from life lessons, Costo-
lo also discussed Twitter's busi-
ness model. When an audience
member inquired whether Twit-
ter's signature 140-character
tweet limit would ever change,
Costolo declined to give a yes-or-

no answer.
As business grows, he said,
people involved become fearful
of changing the popular product
and hurting its success. But Cos-
tolo said he wants to avoid stasis.
"We're much more free-think-
ing about not having a religion
about the constraints," Costolo
said. "People start to put barriers
in their own way to being cre-
ative and having new ideas."
Costolo also addressed the
growth in using social media to
sell products. As opposed to dis-
playing ads in a sidebar, Twitter
displays ads as tweets, similar
to how Facebook displays ads as
posts on the newsfeed.
If ads travel alongside the
tweets, people are more likely to
follow links.
The conversation also
touched on Twitter's stock
shares, which had jumped in
value that morning.

"We have to start to realize
that going forward, the external
narrative is going to be based on
what's happening on the stock
price," Costolo said. "You just
have to build this mindset of
mental toughness and we decid-
ed we're going to do this despite
the noise."
Yoas said PCT decided to
bring Costolo to the University
both because he is analum and
because of "connections within
the fraternity that know him
pretty well."
"I really hope that people
understood the impact and the
power that social media has,
both in everyday life and in
businesses," Yoas said. "I think
it's a really useful tool for busi-
nesses."
Yoas and other PCT adminis-
trators of the event declined to
comment on the specific subject
matter of the talk with Costolo,

because the fraternity decided
to label the public event as "off
the record."
Business Adjunct Lectur-
er Kai Petainen, a writer for
Forbes, challenged that decision
in a Nov. 22 and Nov. 23 article.
Although Costolo did not
determine the "off the record"
status of the event, he took no
action to challenge PCT's deci-
sion, according to Petainen.
Though PCT advertised the
event as open to the public, the
business fraternity asked jour-
nalists not take notes or snap
photographs. A member of
PCT asked the journalist from
The Michigan Daily to see her
notes. Members of PCT tweeted
updates and photos of the event.
Most problematic, Petainen
wrote, was that PCT wanted
to withhold potentially vital
information about Twitter from
shareholders.

"The greatest error in this
event was in how the CEO's
comments were to be kept
secret," Petainen wrote in
Forbes. "Twitter was a public
stock, this was a public event,
this was held at a public uni-
versity and this was in front of
a packed auditorium with hun-
dreds of students."
Editor's Note: While the event
organizers asked that this event be
held "off the record," because the
discussion was held in a University
of Michigan building, advertised
as open to the general public, and
members of the fraternity tweeted
live updates and photographs from
the event, theDaily has decided that
it is in the public interest to publish
this story in line with our normal
reporting procedures. PCT was not
given the opportunity to review this
story or change its content before
publication.

0
6


QUICKEN
From Page 1A
many people living in her area.
"You didn't really have to wait

in line long for a sandwich," she
said.
This past summer, however,
when she went to Campus Martius,
the park in the center of downtown
Detroit, every table was filled.

fl- H,

"I think a big part of it is our
internship program, and the fact
that we bring 1,000 college stu-
dents into the city, the urban core,
every summer," she said.
Quicken Loans' objective is to
bring young people into the city
and send them back to their cam-
puses with a better understanding
of Detroit.
Business junior Sarah Wax-
man interned with Quicken Loans'
Accounting Department last sum-
mer and lived in Wayne State Uni-
versity's dorms, where Quicken
Loans housed their interns.

"My favorite part was probably
living at Wayne State and justbeing
able to explore Detroit and do a lot
of fun things onthe weekends," she
said.
In their free time, the interns
went to dinner, saw movies, visited
the Eastern Market, and even took
a trip to Belle Isle, an island in the
Detroit River.
Although Waxman cannot pic-
ture herself living in Detroit, she
thinks there is potential for the
city.
"Right now there is like a hip-
ster, underground sort of move-

ment going on, a lot of different
cool, weird places and restaurants
to go to," she said.
This past summer, Quicken
Loans had over 17,000 applicants,
nearly doubling the 8,000 appli-
cants in 2012.
"The interest is there in our
company and our family of compa-
nies and that's the really exciting
part," Roberts said.
"My hope for any college student
would be that they would want to
be apart of something that's bigger
than themselves," Roberts added.
"I think that's something that we

are uniquely offering college stu-
dents"
Genevieve Harclerode, the
director of Experiential Learning
and Employer Development at the
University'sCareer Center,saidthe
high number of Michigan students
Quicken Loans hires for intern-
ships makes it an organization the
career center is excited to work
with.
"It's also exciting for us to
work with a company that really
is deeply invested in the growth
and revitalization of Detroit," she
said.


RHODES SCHOLAR
From Page 1A
Moore and a team built a mecha-
nism which made it easier for
individuals in wheelchairs to
carry backpacks. In an interview
with The Michigan Daily follow-
ing his designation as a Rhodes
Scholar, Moore said he enjoyed
being able to work on team-based
projects throughout his time as
an undergraduate, especially
those like the backpack carrier.
"Being able to produce some-
thing that was one step closer to a
device that could actually be used
was cool, and it was practical,"
Moore said. "We knew it was even-

tually going to help someone with
their daily needs."
Moore also developed a new
way to do needle biopsies as part
of a project with the University's
Mechanical Engineering and Wu
Manufacturing Research Center.
"For me, I had no prior experi-
ence in the medical field, so it was
really cool to follow around doc-
tors and find out about devices
they need," he said. "The needle
biopsy was really the first project
I was given a lot of freedom on,
proving a concept that a Ph.D.
student had developed, and now
I check in every once and a while
and it's still moving along...it's
exciting to see that I was able to
contribute to a product that can

hopefully make life a lot more
comfortable and easy for the
"patient and the doctor."
Moore, who is also a captain
of the University's varsity swim
team, said finding time to balance
both his sport and academics has
been difficult but possible because
of support from the Athletic
Department and the swim team.
"I can't thank both those
groups enough for providing
me the support and opportuni-
ties that I needed to really fur-
ther my education," Moore said.
"Because that's what we're really
here for - a great education - so
we can go out into the world and
make a difference."
With the Rhodes scholarship,

Moore said he plans to pursue a
one-year MBA program at Oxford
after he finishes up the engineer-
ing and computer science masters
program he is pursuing at the
University. After that, he said he
will explore options in technol-
ogy and sustainability.
"I'm really hoping to learn
about different business mod-
els and how the tech industry
with sustainable products can be
marketed, and maybe even start
my own company," he said. "But
who knows what will happen
in another two years - I could
never have seen myself being a
Rhodes Scholar two years ago
- so things can definitely can
change."

a
0
6


I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 24, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November 24, 2014- 3A

I

",V OF ". , R' A-00907

RUBY WALLAU/Daily
TOP ROW: Survival Flight helicopter pilot Kim Pacsai inspect one of the team's three helicopters. BOTTOM LEFT: Pacsai logs flight miles at the Livingston Emergency Medical Services headquarters. The Survival Flight team is responsible for servic-
ing over 200,000 square miles of populated areas. BOTTOM RIGHT: Pacsai wears a helmet and radio set equipped with night vision goggles during flights.

FLIGHT
From Page 1A
is good around the state today.
"I'm here for 12 hours, and
sometimes we fly, sometimes we
don't," Pacsai said.
Pacsai, a lifelong Michigan
resident and graduate of Michi-
gan Technological University, has
bee icopters for over 30
years - eight years in the Marine
Corps and 18 in the Coast Guard
before spending the last five with
Survival Flight.
His job has taken him around
the world. During his career, he's
been stationed in Michigan, Cali-
fornia, South Carolina, Virginia,
Florida, Alaska and Japan, per-
forming transport flights, search
and rescue and - in his current
position - medical transport.
Despite a relatively low num-
ber of transfers - Survival Flight
typically runs about three calls
per day - the program is involved
in some of the most critical cases
coming into the University.
Most of the cases accepted
by the program are transfers to
one of the University's intensive
care units, where patients with
potentially life-threatening inju-
ries can receive around-the-clock
care from a team of specialists,
depending on the case. While
these units are found at health

systems around the state, certain
types of specialty care can best
be handled by experts at the Uni-
versity, requiringsuch patients be
transported to University facili-
ties, sometimes from hundreds or
even thousands of miles away.
To receive a Survival Flight
transfer, a patient's doctor must
first contact a physician at the
University and have them agree
to take the case. From there, they
can make a request for the patient
to be transferred via traditional
ground ambulance or by one of
the handful of air transport pro-
grams currently operating in
Michigan.
Pacsai inspect one of the three
Eurocopter EC-155 helicopters
used to transport patients outside
of the University Hospital. (Ruby
Wallau/Daily)
The key to a successful trans-
fer, Pacsai said, is limiting the
time out of the hospital.
For critically-ill patients, even
a couple of hours outside of the
hospital can be detrimental to the
recovery process. While ground
ambulances can in most cases
transport patients effectively,
they are limited by certain fac-
tors, such as road conditions and
distance between hospitals.
The Survival Flight helicop-
ters, on the other hand, can travel
300 miles at about 165 miles per
hour, transporting patients from
Grand Rapids to the University

in about 45 minutes, compared to
a ground ambulance, which can
easily take 2 hours under perfect
conditions in no traffic.
In general, Pacsai said ground
ambulances also tend to be
uncomfortable for the patient.
"The helicopter can be rough,
but in general our effort is to
make it smooth and it can be a
much smoother ride than some
ambulances given the road condi-
tions," Pacsai said.
In addition to the speed of
transports, Survival Flight pro-
vides a higher level of care than
standard ambulance services.
The two flight medics that travel
onboard the helicopter - respon-
sible for providing care to a patient
during transport - are registered
nurses and paramedics. Based on
this training, they are able to pro-
vide a similar level of care to what
a patient might receive in any hos-
pital intensive care unit.
While ICU-to-ICU transfers
make up about 80 to 85 percent of
calls, the program also performs
emergency scene calls as needed
throughout the region. Pacsai said
he has been called to land in some
pretty unique locations, such as
the M14-I75 interchange. In these
situations, first-responders are
responsible for assessing whether
the helicopter is needed based on
a combination of safety consid-
erations, speed of transport and
accessibility of the landing zone.

"My biggest reward for being
(at Survival Flight) is the fact that
we fly people who really need a
ride," Pacsai said.
Pacsai said his most important
role in the program is to ensure
the safety ofhimself and the crew.
This emphasis on safety draws on
first-hand knowledge of its inher-
ent dangers. In June 2007, six
members of the Survival Flight
program died when their fixed-.
wing aircraft crashed into Lake
Michigan.
"Our hearts are broken by this
devastating and irreplaceable
loss for the University of Michi-
gan community," said University
President Emerita Mary Sue Cole-
man at a press conference the day
after the event.
In an interview with The
Michigan Daily in March 2014,
Coleman, reflecting on her time in
office, said the weeks and months
following that crash were some
of the most difficult of her entire
tenure, as she personally attended
funerals for the deceased mem-
bers of the University community.
John Bullen, a flight nurse who
has been with the program for
more than 20 years, knew most of
the people on the flight. The crash
struck him and other members
of the program hard, but in the
years since they have rededicated
themselves to improving safety.
Still, he said they take pause every

June to remember the events and
look for ways to improve.
"If you think the work you do
is important, one needs to carry
on," Bullen said. "That was what
we did ... It's not ever going to be
risk free, but we do everything we
can do to minimize that risk."
Pacsai said the medical trans-
port industry as a whole has made
a similar commitment. His men-
tality has changed since his time
in the service, an inevitable'esult
of the change inresponsibilities.
He recalled a flight he took
over Green Bay during his time
in the Coast Guard in an effort to
rescue someone who had fallen
in the frigid water. The crew was
"dodging rain squalls and thun-
derstorms" to get to the individu-
al, flying close to the water in low
visibility.
Pacsai described the situation
as "pretty dicey."
"The bottom line: if you put
yourself in a situation where you
feel uncomfortable, you've made
decisions before that got you
there," he said. "You make the
decision when you're comfort-
able, so you don't have to do the
.crazy stuff when you're uncom-
fortable."
Unlike the Coast Guard and
Marines, Pacsai said he feels no
pressure to fly when conditions
are poor at Survival Flight. He
takes comfort in knowing that,
within the health system they

serve, there's always a backup
plan.
In Livingston, skies are blue and
the winds are calm as Pacsai and
the flight team approach the end of
their 12-hour shift. Several mem-
bers of the flight crew sit in the
command center watching televi-
sion, and one member from the fol-
lowing shift starts to unpack their
gear for the night shift.
A call comes in over a yellow
handheld radio sitting next to one
of the desktop computers - patient
transfer, sepsis. The team plots a
flight route toward Monroe. Once
they pick up their patient, it will
be a quick 20-minute flight to Ann
Arbor.
The patient is stable in the ICU,
so Bullen and the other flight nurse
take a couple minutes to call the
hospital and get a more detailed
patient history. If possible, they
aim to show up at the hospital
with all the necessary equipment
already onboard.
Five minutes later, the rotor
blades are spinning. Pacsai sits at
the controls running his pre-flight
checklist. He checks left and right
down the runway - gaining his
awareness of traffic in the area
- then slowly builds power, lift-
ing the wheels off the ground and
turning his aircraft toward the
southeast corner of the field.
"We give people a chance, that's
what they get."


CONFERENCE
From Page 1A
measured by real gross domestic
product output, to rise - from
the current 2.2 percent to 3.1
percent in 2015 and 3.3 percent
in 2016.
Manaenkov and Hall also fore-
see 2.7 million jobs being generat-
ed in 2015 and another 2.6 million
in 2016, for a total of 5.3 million
across the country over the next
two years.
Michigan Research Prof.
George A. Fulton, director of
RSQE, discussed the job mar-
ket forecast for Michigan in his
presentation on Friday. He said
the state will have created about
463,000 jobs between the sum-
mer of 2009 and 2016, with the
largest growth being in the pro-
fessional and business sector
where 33,000 jobs are expected
to be added.
The economists predict that
the unemployment rate for both
the U.S. and Michigan should
continue to fall over the next two
years.
Manaenkov and Hall predicted
the national rate to lie at 5.4 per-
cent at the end of 2015 and then
drop to 5 percent by the end of
2016. Michigan's unemployment
rate is currently at 7.2 percent, but
Fulton expects it to be at 6.7 after

2015 and a low 6.3 percent going
into 2017.
"In all, the Michigan economy
has certainly come a long way in
the past five years, and that prog-
ress should be celebrated," Fulton
said.
Nigel Gault, Co-Chief Econo-
mist at The Parthenon Group, a
consulting firm, disagreed with
Manaenkov's prediction for U.S.
GDP growth.
"We need to be realistic about
long term growth in the com-
ing years," he said. "We should
expect 2 percent (growth) rather
than 3 percent."
Along with GDP and job
growth, the housing market is
projected to continue to recover
slowly after home sales plummet-
ed following the 2009 recession.
"Job gains is the key deter-
minant," said David W. Berson,
Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Company's senior vice president
and chief economist while pre-
senting on home sales. "The good
news is that job growth has been
pickingup, and the monthlygains
(in home sales) in 2014 are by far
the strongest in this expansion."
When asked which elements
of his presentation of the confer-
ence as a whole he believed to be
most relevant to college students,
Manaenkov reiterated his predic-
tions for the job market.
"There's research that suggests

that the state of the labor market
when one gets their first job out
of college has a permanent effect
on lifetime income," he wrote in
an e-mail. "Because of that, cur-
rent students who will graduate
into a better market will probably
be better off than those that did
graduate recently."
Trends in vehicle sales, vehicle
safety and gas prices were also a
topic of discussion on both days of
the conference.
Nationwide, light vehicle
sales are expected to increase.
Manaenkov and Hall predicted
16.6 million units sold in 2015 and
17 million in 2016, with truck sales
dominatingthe market as demand
for SUVs and CUVs, crossover
utility vehicles, increases.
Richard Wallace, director of
Transportation Systems Analy-
sis at the Center for Automotive
Research, discussed the vehicular
innovations we should expect to
see in the upcoming years, partic-
ularly in vehicle connectivity and
communication.
CAR is researching a topic
called connected vehicles, which
would allow close together cars
on the road to communicate with
each other and roadside infra-
structure. Wallace hopes this
communication would increase
vehicle and roadway safety and
mobility and reduce greenhouse
gas emissions.

"You don't need to know about imity," Wallace said. remain stable at approximately
vehicles that are miles away from Manaenkov and Hall project $79 to $80 per barrel through
you, but you do 'need to know gas prices to maintain their cur- 2016.
about ones that are in your prox- rent levels, as oil prices should


q I

A


Page 4A - Monday, November 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Page 4A - Monday, November 24, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

I hIr icIipan Dail
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@tnichigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
FROM THE DAILY
Drinking in the open
A more accepting approach is needed to combat alcohol abuse.
In an effort to curb drinking on campus, this year the
University shortened Welcome Week. The University's
Division of Public Safety and Security's improving
statistics show promise but also raise concerns about the way the
institution handles drinking. This year's condensed Welcome
Week saw a decrease in alcohol-related ambulance requests
to University Housing and alcohol-related visits to University
Emergency Departments, suggesting an improvement over last
year. However, there was a sizable uptick of emergencycalls from
student housing off-campus. This inverse relationship suggests
that while the University has curbed on-campus drinking,
off-campus drinking has only worsened or faced increased
enforcement. Thus in order to have a safer drinking culture on
and off campus, the University must look to other options for
controlling drinking rather than on-campus enforcement.
The efforts to tone down Welcome Week Thirty-two institutions have participated in
broughtabout anincreaseofminorinpossession the program thus far, including several with
tickets,whichusuallycarrywiththemhundreds higher enrollment than the University. A
of dollars in fines and a probation period. The similar practice is having students that are
University's response to the drinking culture heavy drinkers talk privately with a medical
on campus has mostly been granting additional professional about their drinking habits.
funds to bolster enforcement and attempting These educational approaches shift the
to educate new students. The shift of drinking conversation from normative right and wrong
incidents from University facilities to less- to realizing the actual effects of the drinking
controlled off-campus housing indicates that and could remove the glamour of partying.
the University's efforts might not actually be Stanford combines an "open-door" policy
benefitting students, but driving them into even that keeps drinking safe and manageable
more unsafe drinking environments. for resident advisors and other staff, a party
The risk of relying on punishment to curtail registration system that allows campus
the University's drinking culture is that this security to look out for student safety and a
might push the culture "underground;" it's three-hour online alcohol education course to
unlikely that college students will simply ensure that students do not hide drinking by
stop drinking just because the University doing it in unsafe environments. Rather than
strengthens its enforcement. It's more likely allowing their fraternities to host gameday
that they will drink in environments that tailgates at off-campus houses, Indiana
cannot be as easily monitored, as was seen University has them reserve designated
this Welcome Week, thus putting them at lots in a field near their stadium. Limits on
greater risk. This approach also puts the the size of the lots allow authorities to keep
futures of many capable students in jeopardy parties from getting out of hand and provide
by pushing them into the criminal justice easy assistance in case of an emergency.
system. Grant money could be better spent Encouraging openness reduces the chances
finding ways to keep students safe without that students end up in situations where
additional adverse effects. they can't get the help they need, which is
Other schools have succeeded in taking ultimately every university's goal.
responsibility for the drinking culture at their The University's legacy for academic and
school rather than throwing money at it. One athletic excellence has garnered international
of the most successful models is the National recognition. University President Mark
College Health Improvement Program, Schlissel's aim to protect our reputation
which has been gaining traction across the and our peers comes at a crucial time in
country. This program was developed at determining the institution's legacy, but
Dartmouth and focuses not on preaching the students must be given the right incentives
dangers of alcohol but rather use one-on-one for this to happen. An approach of openness
motivational interventions that attempt to and comprehensive education offers the
improve students' lives by identifying and University the opportunity to shape the
reducing the negative effects of alcohol's. futures of Wolverines for years to come.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Edvinas Berzanskis, Devin Eggert, David Harris,

Rachel John, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein, Aarica Marsh,
Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Paul,
Allison Raeck, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Mary Kate Winn,
Jenny Wang, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
ENJOY A GOOD ARGUMENT? LIKE CURRENT
EVENTS? POLITICS? MICHIGAN?
Check out The Michigan Daily's editorial board meetings.
Every Sunday and Wednesday at 6 p.m., the Daily's
opinion staff meets to discuss both University
and national affairs and write editorials.
E-mail opinioneditors@michigandaily.com to join in the debate.
At UVA, rapes are kept quiet, both by
students - who brush off sexual assaults as
regrettable but inevitable casualties of their
cherished party culture... "
- Sabrina Rudin Erdely wrote in her article in Rolling Stone,
"A Rape on Campus: A Brutal Assault for Struggle and Justice at UVA" about a
sexual assault situation at the University of Virginia

Sexual assault andfame

He was a rising star when
it happened the first
time. When it happened
again, his fame
and power had
only grown. The
more he did it, it
seemed, the more
he was propelled
into the strato-
sphere. Maybe ?
it was an addic-
tion. Maybe he
thought it made JAMES
him successful. BRENNAN
Maybe he was a
rich, successful
man who thought
the world owed him everything.
We've known about this for a long
time. It's been the butt of jokes and
discussed in depth on news shows.
But it disappeared. We forgot, and
we did so willfully. "The court case
was settled!" we shouted, as if that
gives us justification to consider him
innocent. His lawyers and his money
took the accusations of rape out of
court, but it was us who took them
out of our minds and conversations.
I" the court of public opinion, we
threw in the towel.
But why? We care about women.
We care about rape and sexual
assault. We care about justice
that is both equal and blind. His
power shouldn't matter. Our
adoration of-what he has given us
shouldn't matter.
But these things did matter. The
journalists wanted to keep their jobs
and avoidbeingshutout, sotheytook
aback seat to power. His fans couldn't
imagine him being so perverse, so
they labeled accusers opportunists.

And we all played along.
He's a powerful man, but more
importantly, he's our powerful
man. An indictment of him means
an indictment of ourselves. It was
us who held him in reverence, who
propelled him to his fame and
influence. He sold us an idea that
we all bought into, and he did it over
and over again. All the while, he was
ruiningthe livesofyoungwomen. He
was putting his wife through hell. He
was agod to us, and a demon to them.
Maybe we let it all go because he
left the limelight. He focused on
his family. Wrote books and gave
speeches. Did philanthropy and
mentored entire communities.
But he couldn't stay away from the
fame. He couldn't leave the bright
lights and the cameras, and we were
happytowelcome him back.
Our icon.
Ourhero.
He's old school, but his words and
his work cut across all ages, all races,
all demographics. He unites people.
There were grumblings about his
dark, degenerate past. But we adore
him so much. He's given us so much.
How can we take these accusations
seriously?
We can't, and we didn't. We could
forgive his shortcomings, even
admitted marital infidelity.
"No one is perfect!"
"We all make mistakes!"
"He came clean in the end, after
all!"
His wife forgave him, and we
welcomed him with open arms. He
made some bad decisions, he hurt
people around him. But who among
us hasn't? After all that we've shared
with him, well - he's pretty much

family. We can forgive and we can
forget.
But rape - that is something we
cannot forgive.
Hisvictims - they are people who
cannot forget.
Sexual violence penetrates deep
into a person's psyche, and seeing
their assaulter may forever trigger
pain. Their assaulter is on TV con-
stantly. People applaud for him. They
hold him up as a man to be admired..
He's beloved.
How can they live like that? How
can he live like that?
Howhavewe letthemgo on?
Well, maybe we're about to
finally do something. Times have
changed, and this cannot be kept
quiet any longer. Women are tak-
ing back their agency, but survivors
have tried before. This isn't just
about them. This isn't about a take-
down of someone famous. This is
about all of us, and the guilt we all
carry by way of silence. We refused
to speak up. We refused to hold
this man accountable. We refused
to hold ourselves accountable for
falling under his spell.
We can't abdicate our responsibil-
ity again, and neither can he. Maybe
he will quit this facade of perfection
that enchants his followers. Maybe
he will succumb to the strict stan-
dard society has refused to enforce.
Maybe as he has watched Bill
Cosby collapse and refuse to answer
allegations, he will do the opposite
and hold himself responsible.
Or maybe we'll have to slaughter
sacred cattle ourselves.
- James Brennan can be reached
at jmbthree@umich.edu.

SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND AWARENESS CENTER IEI
An open letter from SAPAC

I

Trigger warning: this open
letter addresses issues of sexual
violence. Should you feel triggered
by the content of this letter, or the
circumstances surrounding its
publication, please do not hesitate to
reach out to an advocate at theSexual
Assault Prevention and Awareness
Center, or to utilize SAPAC's 24-hour
crisis line at1(734) 963-3333.
This letter is addressed to
survivors of sexual violence on this
campus - to those of you who chose
to share the most vulnerable parts of
yourselves at last week's Speak Out,
and to those of you whose process
may not have brought you there yet,
but who did the incredible work
of bearing witness to each other's
stories.
Before we address our reasons
for writing this letter, let us first
take a moment to acknowledge your
incredible strength. You perform
an extraordinarily powerful act of
rebellion every second you survive
on this earth and on this campus. We
say this not to patronize you, or to
minimize your struggle or your hurt,
but because we genuinely believe
that survivors are among some of the
strongest, most resilient people -
while the wind is constantly against
you, you continue to stand tall.
As student staff and volunteers at
SAPAC, we are in continuous awe of
your fortitude.
Nov. 11 marked SAPAC's 28th
annual survivor Speak Out, an
event that was meant to serve as a
safe, confidential space for sharing,
healingandgrowth.Onacampusthat
so often drowns out the voices and
wishesofsurvivorsofsexualviolence
-yourvoices -withacademicjargon
and incomprehensible discourse that
can distract the community from the
core problems of sexual violence,
Speak Out aims to create a space that
is meant solely for you. Speak Out is
clearly defined as a space where the
confidentiality of your stories and
identities are respected, and where
your narrative and experiential
knowledge are trusted absolutely.
Speak Out should be a space where
you are listened to, believed,
validated, supported, and above all,
respected. Unfortunately, some of
the attendees of this year's Speak
Out chose to violate your safety and
confidentiality in the moment and in
days following.
During the Speak Out, organizers
affiliated with the group BAMN: By
Any Means Necessary, a self-defined
civilrights group on campus,violated
your safetyby co-optingthe space for
theirown andusingwhatwas intend-
ed to be a survivor forum to instead
advertise for an upcoming demon-
stration and otherwise promote their
own organization. In the last few
days,it has also come to our attention
that members of BAMN have been
speaking in classes and, while simi-
larly promoting anupcomingdemon-
stration, have been retelling stories

shared at Speak Out without the con-
sent or knowledge of survivors. Not
only is this an inappropriate violation
of the terms of confidentiality agreed
upon at the Speak Out, but it is also
a gross transgression against those
of you who shared your stories with
the belief that your experience would
be held confidential. Stealing these
stories from you, robbing you of the
ownership of your own experience,
is reprehensible and once again takes
power to make decisions about your
experience out of your hands. As
SAPAC volunteers, we stand firmly
against these deplorable actions, and
are absolutely devastated that a space
we worked so hardto make asafe one
was abused in this way. Please know
that we have taken action to stop the
spread of stories, and are continuing
to work to ensure your safety and
confidentiality. As members of an
organization advocating for justice
on structural, institutional, indi-
vidual and interpersonal levels, we
unequivocally support all movement
toward civil progress, toward a safer
and less hostile campus community
for students of marginalized race,
gender, class, sexuality, ability status
-or other identity. What we cannot
and will not allow is for an organi-
zation to exploit your stories, your
experiences or your shared vulner-
ability in the process. By treating you
and your stories as no more than a
means to a political end, BAMN has
demonstrated, flat out, that it does
not respect you or your experiences.
At SAPAC, we believe that as a
survivoryouhavetherighttotellyour
story when, where, and to whom you
wantasameasureofregainingpower
and control inwhatcan often feel like
an uncontrollable situation. We want
you to be able to share your stories
in any and every space in which you
feel comfortable, and we strive in
our work as SAPAC volunteers to
create and maintain as many such
spaces as possible. To that end, we
invoke the absolutely imperative
adherence to confidentiality not to
further silence you, but to preserve
your right to share your story on
your own terms. We do not, by any
means, claim that creating these
spaces is enough, or that our work
ends there. There is so much more
work to be done around the issues of
sexual violence in regards to policy,
education, prevention and survivor
support. However, this was not the
goal or focus of the Speak Out, and
survivors who attended the event
were not necessarily attending with
the knowledge or intention that your
stories would be used in a context
of political action. As a survivor,
you should not be expected to bear
the burden of doing that work. You
deserve spaces in which you can
simply exist, as your whole self, with
the full truth of your experience.
We recognize and affirm that all
survivors may not be at a place in
their recovery where it is physically

and/or emotionally safe, comfortable
or possible for you to do change-
making work. This is what we at
SAPAC envision to be our role in this
movement -to advocate for and with
survivors, so that the heavy burden of
change does not always rest solely on
your shoulders, when you are already
carrying so much weight.
Overall,we want to apologize to
you from the sincerest place irs our
hearts for this abhorrent violation
of your trust and privacy. However,
despite the sadness and frustration
we feel over what has transpired,
we want to once again thank each
and every one of you who attended
the Speak Out and shared your
stories with us, as well as those of
you who could not or did not share,
but contributed your energy and
your presence to the space. We hope
that you still view Speak Out as a
place where you can come to share
your story and to find support from
a community that can often feeling
alienating. While we cannot undo
the hurt that has been caused by
BAMN's actions, we are - both as
individuals and as an organization
- committed to creating and
sustaining spaces that allow you
to process, heal and grow in your
own time and on your own terms.
We want to continue to affirm
and support you, your existence,
your process and your individual
experience as you traverse this
issue - and we want you to know
that you do not have to do it alone.
We will be here, if and when you
need us, every step of the way.
In Solidarity,
SAPAC Student staff and
Volunteers
The University Sexual Assault Pre-
vention and Awareness Center offers
a variety of support and resources for
survivors of sexual violence on cam-
pus, including personal and academic
advocacy, connection to resources,
help in navigating institutional policy
and more. The SAPAC office is located
at 2450 North Quad, and office hours
are 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday - Friday.
SAPAChostsapeer-ledsupportgroup,
which meets every Wednesday night 7
p.m.-8:30 p.m. in the SAPAC office.
Our24-hour crisis line (734-963-3333)
is available at all timesfor those in need
of immediate assistance. For more
information visit sapac.umich.edu, or
do not hesitate to contact our office at
(734) 764-7771. If you should feel the
need to report an incident, please con-
tact our Title IX Coordinator,Anthony
Walesby; he can be reached at wales-
by@umich.edu. You can also contact
his office, the Office for Institution-
al Equity, at (734) 763-0235, or at
hr.umich.edu/oie/office.html. You can
also contact the University's Police
Department by calling (734) 763-1131
or texting 377911. In an emergency,
call91.
This viewpoint was written by
Student Staff and Volunteers of SAPAC.

0



5A - Monday, November 24, 2014'

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

5A - Monday, November 24, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

"Do people like me yet?"
Stale'Affairs'falls flat

Just ate a bag of shrooms. Get it?
Wi U'lls 'Super' a
smashing success
New installment of ning at a very consistent 60 Reward" challenge, many
frames per second. The intri- which are among the most di
"Super Smash Bros." cate designs of each character ficult and engaging challenge
are more consistent with each the game has to offer. An
delivers on hype other than ever, and their sim- like "Brawl," "Smash Wii U
pler color schemes work swim- sports an entirely different s
ByJACOBRICH mingly with the increased of "Events" to be completed
DailyArts Writer resolution. The animation of two-player co-op.
each movement of each char- "Smash Wii U" suppor
To call "Super Smash Bros." acter is nearing Pixar levels a staggering number of co]
a great video game series of excellent, sensible onscreen trol options. Essentially ever
would be an understatement. motion. Nintendo controller release
In the last Like the 3DS game, "Smash this millennium works wit
several A- Wii U" 's fighting mechan- this game, in any conceivab
years, the ics certainly won't replace combination. The GameCu
popular Super Smash "Melee" (the most popular controller is the best, mo
fighting Bros. for game in the series) in the familiar way to play this gam
game has hearts of competitive players. That is, if you can track dow
certainly WiI U However, it is overwhelmingly the currently sold-out Gam
attained Sora Ltd. and evident that both casual and Cube Adaptor, which, in a bri
cultural Bandal Namco hardcore players will be able liant move, Nintendo release
phenom- Gm m to find hundreds of hours of simultaneously with "Smat
enon status, Nintendo fun here. The combat is much Wii U" specifically to cater t
with the faster and significantly more its hardcore audience.
Ann Arbor area becoming one nuanced than its polarizing It would be criminal 1
of the many epicenters of its predecessor "Brawl," thanks review this game withou
massive competitive scene. in part to its wider variety of mentioning its absolute
Its newest, biggest release, characters, tweaked ledge- enormous soundtrack: ti
"Super Smash Bros. for Wii grabbing mechanics and game sports perhaps the lar
U," is an enormous, painstak- increased speed in many of the est soundtrack in video gam
ingly crafted multiplayer video fighters. history. I have over 350 uniqu
game, one that deserves a hal- "Brawl" does have one songs unlocked, and judgi
lowed spot in any collegiate advantage over this new entry, from various articles online,
gamer's library. It has yet to however: its superior single- would seem that I still have
reach perfection in its single- player modes. Those holding lot more to find. It must has
player offerings, but there out hope that another single- been a licensing nightmare t
exists no better option for player campaign to match the pull so many different son
local multiplayer fun this con- scope of "Brawl" 's "Subspace from so many different seri
sole generation. Emissary" mode will be dis- under so many different put
"Smash Wii U" is a unique appointed, as "Smash Wii U" lishers. The My Music featun
entry in the series because its lacks any kind of adventure also returns from "Brawl
hardcore audience is already mode. In its stead is an overly- presenting an easy way to na
more than familiar with its simplistic board game mode igate the soundtrack and tog
characters and gameplay, called "Smash Tour," in which gle on and off your preferre
thanks to the popularity of its up to four players compete to songs.
portable sister "Super Smash collect fighters and increase It remains to be seen whet
Bros. for 3DS," which was their stats on a minimalized er the game's online featur
released in October. The game version of a "Mario Party" are viable or not. I experience
is inherently similar to its 3DS game board. Like the 3DS's some significant lag in onlin
equivalent, but a few distinct "Smash Run" mode, it feels matches in the days follos
features along with its incredi- quite half-hearted and likely ing launch, but it's impossib
ble presentation make it worth won't entertain for more than to judge from these few se
purchasing in tandem. a few playthroughs. It simply sions whether the mode wi
The game's most distinctive doesn't have the style nor sub- be viable in the long run. Con
new feature is its expansion stance of "Subspace Emissary." sider monitoring online smas
from four player to eight-play- That mode felt like the best fan forums for the next few wee
er support, effectively elevat- service a Nintendo fan could if your purchase hinges on th
ing the series from "the best ask for, this feels like the only viability of online play.
dorm room game ever" to "the lazy part of an otherwise intri- But Smash has never real
best dorm hall game ever." cately and intentionally craft- been about online play, nor sin
Based on trailers and promo- ed game. gle-player for that matter. Th
tional materials alone, the Luckily, "Smash Wii U" inclusion of expanded onlin
idea of eight-player Smash may sees the return of series staple features feels unimportant; it
appear to be confusing and "Event Match" mode, which a concession to modern gamin
daunting. In practice, it works was unfortunately absent conventions that didn't nece
shockingly well. The five, six, from the 3DS game. Simi- sarily need to happen. Smash
seven and eight player matches lar to previous games in the about having an excellent tim
I played with my friends were series, "Event Match" is a set with the friends that are phys
certainly more frantic than of challenges and scenarios cally in the room with you.
their smaller counterparts, but often inspired by the events Does "Super Smash Bros. ft
just as fun as each of the four- and characteristics of each of Wii U" deliver in that regard
player binge-sessions I've had the classic games represented Without a doubt.
with the Smash bros. series for in "Smash Wii U" 's roster. "Super Smash Bros. for W
the last 15 years. This time, though, each of the U" was reviewed using a
The game also looks abso- many expertly designed events advance retail copy provided b
lutely fabulous in HD, run- comes with an additional "For Nintendo.

of
ff-
es
d,
7"
et
in
ts
n-
ry
th
le
be
st
ie.
In
e-
l-
d
sh
to
to
ut
ly
he
g-
ne
ue
ng
it
a
ve
to
gs
es
b--
re
I"
V-
-
!d
h-
es
:d
e
w-
e
s-
ill
n-
th
ks
fe
(y
n-
e
e
,'s
g
s-
is
fe
i-
or
iii
zn
by

By CATHERINE SULPIZIO
DailyArts Writer
"State ofAffairs,"NBC'sglossy
new entry into the "Homeland"/
espionage market, is a show
we've seen
before. For all
the critic talk
of unoriginal- State of
ity, it seems
tantamount Affairs
to national Series
treason for a Premiere
show to lin- Mondays at 10 pm.
ger in forged NBC
territory.
Yes, Katherine Heigl's ("Grey's
Anatomy") troubled Charles-
ton Tucker is a saner facsimile
of Carrie Mathison, with self-
medicating habits that miracu-
lously don't put a dent in the
whip-smart, unflappable and
hyper-competent demeanor
we associate with all cogs in
the government machine (oh, if
only). And sure, Tucker has the
supple leather jacket collection
of a Florentine slaughterhouse,
or maybe just Kalinda Sharma,
but despite its recycled tropes
which TV fans will quickly spot,
Alex Hawley's "State of Affairs"
is a half-decent show.
Heigl stars as a CIA analyst
responsible for assembling the
President's Daily Briefing, a top
10 list (the listicle trend has obvi-
ously even infiltrated the White
House) of the day's most serious

crises. As revealed in a cringe-
inducing flashback, Tucker's
fianc6 Aaron Payton (Mark Tall-
man, "Grand Theft Auto V") was
killed in a terrorist attack three
years ago in Afghanistan. Of
course, it's more muddled than
that, with an anonymous texter
threatening to reveal what really
happened. Unlike the standard
procedural format, the larger
conspiracy backstory immedi-
ately intermingles with the day-
to-day operations, with Tucker
juggling the conflicting agency
interests of saving a kidnapped
doctor (Gavin-Keith Umeh,
"One for the Money") in Kenya
and a tracking team's poten-
tial ability to kill Omar Abdul
Fatah, the terrorist who killed
her fianc. However, Tucker's
decision-making impartiality
is held suspect by the Chicago
doctor's uncanny resemblance
to her dead fiance, and her sub-
sequent choice to leave the Fatah
development out the Presidential
Daily Briefing leaves Tucker vul-
nerable to an office politics coup.
"State of Affairs" is tasked
with introducing fast-paced
action into the quieter corri-
dors of power, where combat
is more of the Machiavellian
than machine-gun variety. The
pilot episode paces itself well,
lithely moving between its
White House, CIA and Kenya
locales just enough to keep the
show from feeling claustropho-

bic. After all, it is smart enough
to recognize that its audience
power isn't drawn from a dense
cerebral atmosphere like "Dam-
ages," but from flashier bells and
whistles. "State of Affairs" needs
the formalistic support of sinis-
ter texts projected on the screen
in neon font, suspenseful music
and flashbacks that wouldn't
look out of place in a single-
shooter video game, because its
star, while capable, is not capti-
vating.
It doesn't help that the sup-
porting cast is sidelined for the
marquee name. For example, a
very compelling Alfre Woodard
("Desperate Housewives") plays
President Constance Petyon
with alternating maternal com-
passion and calculating deci-
siveness, but there simply isn't
enough of the talented actress.
The briefing team Tucker heads
is also well cast enough to have
a natural chemistry that the
show doesn't tap into, especially
Maureen James (Sheila Vand,
"Argo"), Tucker's slightly mis-
anthropic best friend who Vand
levies with a dynamic acerbity
that Heigl's performance lacks.
Regardless, if viewers need an
hour of familiar entertainment,
"State of Affairs" is equipped
to fill the void. But if art is to
.do anything more than compe-
tently splice together a handful
of tropes and topical references,
"State of Affairs" fails.

Call:#734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmaiL.com


i

RELEASE DATE- Monday, November 24, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 37 Part of Lawrence 50 Karen who wrote
1 Cup of joe 1 Doorframe part Welk's cadence as Isak Dinesen "PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
5 Slow-moving 2 On the sheltered 38 With 43-Across, 51 Indian princes 721 S. Forest "Forest Place"
critter side umbrelladrink 52 Lineson alist Discounted Limited Passes Remaining
10 British sports 3 Bouquet holder 40 Soccer score 53 Dam on the Nile Now thruApril or August 2015
cans, for short 4 More often than 44 Renessth 0dWorkout centers 734-761-000
14 'Woe is mel" non 40 Inspine winh a 58 Old necond primesh corn
15 Neigh sayer 5 How Bond likes pregame pep player
16 Clarinetncousin martinis talk, say 59 Remove creases
17 Plat-topped 6 Making mention 47 Comesdown as tnom
landform of its pellens 60Snoried loch ,
18 Where to get 7 Warship fleets 48And others, briefly 62 Cape Town's
cash 8 Beliefs: Suff. 49 Male escort country: Abbr.
20 Foamy brew 9 Rural area ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 Korean cursu 1 "Heere's._!: ERT PEVOS U E
2Putinachipfora Carsonsinnro S E T T I N G S F R E S C A !NORTH CAMPUS 1-2Bdrm.!
hand 11 Grab _: eat O V E R T O O K R 0 G E R S ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
23 Turn topsy-turvy 12One beyond S E R I A L L Y A D 0 R E S tIwww.HRPAA.com !
25 Meanerthana 1hope A R L A F L E U R A PU 2015-2 6LEASING
junknyard dog 13 Shabby RAPS BIGDIPPER 20501LAIN
26 Wheretosee 19Giveahoot 5 A P S B I G I I P P E R ApartmentsGoingFast!
splins and srikes 2420-Across M D C I T A N G G E E S E Prime Student Housing
30 Sci-fi subject serving E E N G AGE B U R 734-761-8000 www.primesh.com
31 Replacement 25 Shoppe adjective I N S E R T S G O E S A P E
grass, perhaps 26 Get-out-of-jail F A A M A R Z 1 P A N Efficiencies: 726 S. State (1 Left) $735
32 Dollop cash ORION B I N G AP C 344S. Division $825/$845
35 Underthe 27 Carthenware pot G U A R D D U T Y O N E S 508 Division (1 Lef ) $800
weather 25 Outnotecontrol EBhIOZZMA A60S. Forest $070
36 Highlander's hat 29 IM chuckle N BL J A Z A MV A N TSM
39 Part of a journey 32__ISquad: Best 1 Bedrooms: 511 Hoover -
41 Idconnroller Buytech support D E L E T E A D R I A T I C , .$1025/$1045
42 donrmanr 33 Fairytale baddie A S E V E R H E A R T E N S 508 Division $925/$945
43 See 3-on 34 Gravy vessel xwordeditor@aol.com 11/24/14
45 La Scala 1 2 3 4 5 6 - 9 10 11 12 13 CHECK OUT THE NEW University
production Towers Apartments starting at $770.
47 Whereto keep 141 1 Visit as: np://www.u-towers.com
tneedles sd i HOUSE AVAILABLE AUG 2015 8
51 Theater district 00 21 22 Bdrms-144 Hill-$6000Tenantspay all
54 Like San utilities. Showings H-F 10-3 w/ 24 Hr
Francico'u 2 24 2s otice required. Call 248-420-8901
terrain
55 On the ocean 2 2 2 2 WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES.-
56 Leslie Caron title 3o 31 32 33 34 COM
role 734-332-6000
57 Cleftsite 3 s 37 as 39 40 41 734-332-6_0
61 Where to find 42 43 44 45 48WWW.CHURCHSTREETRENTALS.-
valuables COM 734-320-1244.721 ChtrchCen-
63 Bring on board 47 4s 4 so tral Campus/Across from East Quad 1
64 Latin 101 word bdrm apts avail for 2015-2016
65 Photographer's 51 52 5 s4
requesn
66 Sci-fi subjects 5 se or 5758E59CE
67 IRS IDs n 62 63
68 _ Martin: British
sports car o4 6s 56
69 Things
associated with 67 s e
THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE,
01-Across " oycn Ste14t organization, format. All Disciplines.
02014 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 11/24/14 734/996-0566 or writeon@iserv.net

LATEST ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

I

A


6
I
I

>f Everything'
s dedication

COURTESY OF RICK ROSS
Cocaine is a hell of a drug.
R 0
Ri coss releas

Rc
C
B
Lool
know
to bur
Billion
in on
my fri
cars
subs it
trunk
my firs
throug
This
bangs.
everytl
has a s
and thi
The co
anythi
there's
of coc
and al
are a li
it's got
Just
list, I
somec
the al
Jay Z,
and Y
Kelly's
absenc
of a su
bars r
be a p
like w
Rick I
anywa
"Ho
up the
up int
piano
thump
horn. I
talking
getting
wears,
get to
Like t
concep
notesc
a serio
thing i
chorus
rappin

)ss raps about which is relatively void of
creativity. Infrequent creative
ocaine, not lines hold up the song, "We
live in the jungle / Fish tanks
much else in the house."
In fact, I don't think Ross
yKENSELANDER had a single song without
DailyArts Writer a reference to selling coke.
The album is wholly in Ross's
king back on it, I don't comfort zone - sticking to
why I didn't think the same formula he's been
mp Rick Ross's Hood using since day one. Hood
aire Billionaire is the typical high
e of B- intensity music that brought
end's him his success in hit singles
with Hood like "Hustlin'." While this
n the Billionaire album might sell just fine,
on Rick Ross I'd like to see Ross push the
t run Maybach envelope more. I'd love to feel
h. Music Group a deeper connection with his
shit music occasionally, instead all
In fact, pretty much hardcore gangsta all the time.
hing he puts his name on The album also has some
imilar, selling formula, confusing moments for me,
is record is no different. too. In "Neighborhood Drug
ntent on the album isn't Dealer," the line "Michael
ng revolutionary - Jordan, white, bitch, 23," was
the expected overdose the first time I paused and
aine-related wordplay rewound a song and thought,
handful of the features "what?" Maybe it's my own
ttle disappointing - but naivete to the coke game,
bass. but this line doesn't do much
checking out the track for me. Is it about how much
was impressed with weight he's selling? He's a
of the guest artist's on talented drug dealer? Girls?
bum - Snoop Dogg, In keeping with the trend
Big K.R.I.T, Lil Boosie for rappers to compare
b Gotti. Hell, even R. themselves to celebrities or
on it. Meek Mill's athletes, my second "what?"
e might come as a bit moment took place when Rick
irprise, but he's behind Ross calls himself the Black
ight now, which could Ronald Reagan in "Trap Luv."
robable explanation - What?Rossprobablyshould've
e really need another done a quick Wikipedia of the
Ross/Meek Mill collab actor-turned-president prior
y. to making the claim. Reagan
od Billionare" opens was infamous for his massive
album with a hyped- war on drugs, which led to a
ro, with a fast-paced substantial increase in drug-
riff that's added to by related incarcerations. Oh, the
ing bass and French irony.
t's a reasonable opener, Aside from this slip up,
gabout fucking bitches, "Trap Luv" has a great flow,
money, the brands he with Gotti and Ross meshing
you know - nothing to well on the track and a
o excited about. "Coke change of pace with a less
he 80's" is just a lazy bass heavy beat. It's definitely
t. Hallowing piano one of the better songs, along
open the track to give it with "Heavyweight" and
us tone, but the whole "Brimstone." It's hard to deny
s a little overdone. The that Ricky Rozay has a nice
is primarily Rick Ross flow.
g "Coke Like the 80's," My biggest issue with Hood

Billionaire isn't as much a
fault of Ricky Rizzle's, but
the disappointment I had in
the features of the album's
two biggest guests stars -
Jay Z and Snoop Dogg. Jay Z
doesn't even have a verse in
"Movin' Bass," he just sings
a chorus which is far from
anything special. I was really
looking forward to some fresh
material from Hov.
"Quintessential" isn't
nearly as disheartening
as "Movin' Bass," but the
mechanics of the track bother
me. With a slow, synthy,
stoner instrumental Ross's
verse floats by in anticipation
of Snoop. Snoop's voice needs
to be turned up a notch with
the beat turned down. The
pertinent snare and synth
crowd the song, leavinga small
space for Snoop's soft spoken
verse. Snoop kills it, butI can't
hear him very well. Maybe I'm
being unnecessarily picky, or
maybe they didn't think to
turn the mic levels up after
Ross's booming voice on the
opening verse (assuming the
verses were recorded during
the same session and all which
yes, is unlikely), or maybe
they just didn't adjust his
amplitude in the mixdown of
the instrumental and Snoops
verse.
While Ross's content has
changed greatly, it appears
he's changed things up a little
bit by selling more drugs.
"Elvis Presley Blvd." featuring
Project Pat continues a
relatively new development
in Ross's claimed dealing
empire, talking about not only
crack and coke, but heroin too
when referencing "quinine" -
and yes, I had to look up what
that means.
And with that, I'd give Hood
Billionare an A+ in the "tracks
I'd blare at a party to wake up
the neighbors and blowout
the speakers" category, but a
B- when taking into account
the content, creativity, guest
artists and mechanics. The
album would be a bit of a yawn
if the bass didn't keep me
awake.

By NATALIE GADBOIS ABriefHistory of Time in 1991, and He's been a great inspiration to
SeniorArtsEditor he spent nearly eight years trying me.Ifeellike Icertainly get caught
to convince Hawking's ex-wife up in the day to day banalities and
It's an understatement to (and subject of the film) Jane to worries and anxieties of life, and
say that renowned theoretical option the rights to her ownstory. you can forget that we only get one
physicist Stephen Hawking has "(Jane) was cautious," shot of this."
had a few challenges to overcome. McCarten said, "I think she This investment in the script
Diagnosed at age 21 with ALS, aviewed me with the correct level and the roles is paying off with
debilitating motor neuron disease f circumspection that you should critics and audiences alike.
that limits nearly all physicalhave with anybody showing up Redmayne is already receiving
function, his muscles quickly at your door saying they want to Oscar buzz. (Though this may
weakened and atrophied, and his make a movie about your life ... in part be because he portrays
speech grew nearly unintelligible. And when I sat in her living room a disabled historical figure in
When he was just beginning and I pitched this movie to her in a period piece, catnip for the
graduate school - on track for a 2004 - Ihad just read her memoir Academy.) Despite this praise,
brilliant career in the sciences - - just one of those moments in my Redmayne sidesteps any questions
he was told he had two years to creative life where I thought 'This about his Oscar potential,
live. project just won't come to me, I'll saying that his real motivation
The film "The Theory of have to go and get it."' was winning the praise of the
Everything," which came out in And get it he did. Nearly 10 Hawkings and their children, all
limitedreleaseonNov.7,portraysa years after that initial proposal, of whom were involved in the
young Hawking(Eddie Redmayne, and many drafts later, McCarten creation of the film.
"LesMiserables") ashe firstlearns describes the James Marsh- "When both Felicity and I
of his diagnosis and then struggles directed film as a coalescence were cast in the film, there was
through the repercussions with of three thematic threads: kind of an amazing millisecond
the support of his girlfriend and Hawking's ALS, his scientific of euphoria that you should be
(later on) wife Jane, played by accomplishments, and most lucky enough to get to play this
Felicity Jones ("The Amazing significantly, his clarifying part. But it was also followed by a
Spiderman.") Though given his relationship with Jane. deep-set responsibility," he said.
diagnosis over 50 years ago, "I also didn't want to overdo the "Because ultimately we knew that
Hawking is still alive today and physics because I wanted to serve Jane and Stephen and the children
continues to revolutionize the the ALS story, his incrediblebattle weregoingto seethefilm, andthat
fields of cosmology and theoretical with that disease, his and Jane's it's their life so they would be the
physics. refusal to let the disease silence ultimate reviewers .. Whet finally
Though Redmayne readily him." JanesawitandStephensaw itand
admits that his life has had a Similarly, Redmayne says that were generous about the movie,
fraction of the challenges that while the physical demands of the that was a pretty wonderful
Hawking has faced, he advocated role most immediately arrest the reward, and our shoulders could
and fought for his role within this audience - in the filmhe embodies sink and relax a bit."
film with atenacity reminiscent of Hawking's rapid deterioration McCarten echoes these
Hawking's own. In a conference from healthy youth to near sentiments, saying that ultimately
call with The Michigan Daily, he immobility with deft precision this story was for the Hawkings
said with a wry laugh, "I chased - what he found most complex and that their perceptions
the film pretty hard. Because I had about the role was expressing the mattered most.
been at university at Cambridge, psychological grace with which "When we finished making the
and I had seen Stephen and heard Hawking and Jane handled their film Stephen Hawking came to
his voice and caught glimpses of immense burdens. see it, and when the film finished
him, I thought it would be the "(Stephen) was given two years he had tears coming down his
most amazing privilege to be able to live when he was 21 years old, cheeks,"he said. "Iwassittingvery
to playhim." and he describes every moment close to him and I watched the
Similarly, screenwriter and of each day beyond that as a gift to nurse wipe tears from his cheeks."
producer Anthony McCarten him," Redmayne said. "He pulled It's a powerful emotion to illicit
("Show of Hands") was propelled himself out of a melancholia and in someone who probably is the
to develop this project; his has managed to live every second film's worst critic, and a testament
inspiration first sparked when he of every minute of his life as fully to the work done to accurately
read Hawking's best-selling book and as passionately as possible. depictthis legend's life.

Beyonce's j ustilike us

'0

WE'LL BE THE
FIRST TO TWEET
WHEN RIHANNA'S
NEW ALBUM
DROPS
@MICHIGANDAILY

ByCHRISTIANKENNEDY
DailyArts Writer
Beyonce is set to release
the 'Platinum Edition' of
her self-titled album, which
dropped last December. The
repackage, a four-disc set,
includes ten live performance
videos from The Mrs. Carter
Show World Tour, four remixes
and two unreleased tracks,
"Ring Off" and "7/11". Early
last week, snippets of both
tracks leaked online, leading
to underwhelming responses
from music fans, particularly
towards "7/11," a beat and auto
tune-heavy dance track. At first
glance, I too, was disappointed
by the snippet; but on Friday
night, Bey released a full-
length video for the track, and
with no fear of hyperbole, it is
revolutionary.
The track itself is nothing
new in pop music production-
wise. Though for Beyoncd it's
out of left field. Her discography
includes nothing even remotely
choppy, even her previous club
bangers (i.e "Freakum Dress").
"7/11" is choppy and in large
part does not make much sense,
but who cares?
Normally, I am completely
against re-releasing previous

album
they a
and pr
materi
originE
Azalea
been
originE
odds a
with h
repack
perfec
new m
with tl
Po
re
all
Mor
is the
crew o
in a he
most
release
is her.
crew
and d
That's
night,
Her
I have

s because too often what Queen B looks like after
re cheap grabs for profit a couple STRAW-BER-ITAs, or
ress and don't offer any whatever the near-billionaire
al that deviates from the equivalent is. She answers
al (*cough cough* Iggy prayers. Beyoncd is showing
). "7/11" would not have she is just like her fans. We
cohesive with Beyonce's booty pop and throw up gang
al self-titled LP, and signs listening to her music,
ire it will not fit in well and so does she. The entire
er next album. An album performance looks like it could
, in this case, is the go down at my parents' house
t opportunity to release while they're out of town for
aterial that did not mesh the weekend (messy bedroom
he original record. included). Beyoncd videos
encompass a fantasyland of
perfection, and for this video
goddessto she must've said, "Fuck it, hand
to me that go pro."
Is this a sign of a shift in the
le se deluxe ire Beyond brand? Don't
bum in Dec. count on it. In a semester at
BeyU, this is that one weekend
when shit got real, but as any
dependable student (or ruler of
e radical than its sound, the world, in her case) knows, it
video. Bey parties with a is time to get back to work. The
of friends and tour family soon-to-come "Ring Off" is a
tel suite rendering it her mid-tempo break up song, if the
real video she has ever 30-second clip is any indicator.
ed. She isn't acting; this "7/11" will be called a musical
She wears fuzzy socks, a mess by many. That is OK
neck, leopard underwear because the BeyHive is in on
rinks from a solo-cup. the joke. If a beat was assigned
basically a dream Friday to the racing hearts of Beyonce
right? lovers as they jump around
drunk eyes are on point. their messy bedrooms in their
always wanted to know underwear, it would be "7/11."

A

I



Sp- ot s~onday

Devin Gardner's final
Big House moments

Loss proves (again) that
enough is enough

By MAX COHEN his eyes, Gardner stood in front of
Daily Sports Editor Michigan's bench a few feet away
from the sidelines. He spoke with
Devin Gardner stood alone on no one.
Michigan's sideline for much of When the clock reached its
Maryland's final drive Saturday. resting place at 0:00, it was
It was his last game at Michigan as if a sense of finality had set
Stadium, the place where he's in. Gardner stared toward the
experienced success and failure, other sideline where players
the place where he's been celebrated, motionless.
knocked down time and time Then, redshirt junior offensive
again and stood back up every lineman Jack Miller walked over
single time. and leaned into Gardner's ear. The
Yet when the Terrapins teammates stood there for a few
possessed the ball for the final seconds, Miller whispering some
4:16 of the game, all Gardner final words of encouragement to
could do was watch. his quarterback.
With the final moments of his "I said I was proud of him,"
last home game passing by before Miller said. "I said he's done a lot

for a lot of guys on this team and
for this program, and I thought
he played really well today. Sure,
he had a couple things he wishes
he could have back, but I told him
I was proud of him."
Miller walked away from
Gardner, but redshirt freshman
offensive lineman David Dawson
and freshman wide receiver Moe
Ways came to console him. They
patted Gardner on the back.
Maryland players sought out
Gardner, too. They interrupted
his final walk to the tunnel
opposite Michigan's sideline
with brief hugs.
For one final time, Gardner
See GARDNER, Page 2B

ou sat a
the Cri
room S
said you
wouldn't
evaluate
the football
team until
the season
ended.
You, Jim
Hackett,
the interim
Athletic
Director,
explained
the program is
to be, but expr
coach Brady H

at the podium in continue to show improvement.
sler Center media Mr. Hackett, here is your
aturday and evaluation: With everything
on the line Saturday against
Maryland, the Wolverines
delivered a dud at home, 23-16.
And though a week remains
before the season ends, you
should already have prepared
the message you'll send.
Michigan is 5-6 and fourth in
the Big Ten East. It has found
ALEJANDRO rock bottom repeatedlythis
ZUNIGA year: with a shutout loss to
Notre Dame, a blowout home
loss to Minnesota, a road loss to
n't where it needs Rutgers, an embarrassing loss to
essed hope head Michigan State, and now this.
oke's squad would There will be no bowl game.

Rather, the Wolverines will win
two fewer games than they did
in 2013, which was one fewer
game than they did in2012,
which was three fewer games
than they did in 2011.
Enough.
Michigan has all the right
pieces. It has Devin Gardner,
once the No.1 quarterback
recruit in the nation, leading
the team as a fifth-year senior.
It has Devin Funchess, a 6-foot-
5 athletic beast who was once
tabbed a first-round NFL draft
pick. It has Jake Ryan, a fifth-
year senior middle linebacker
who has been named a finalist
See ENOUGH, Page 28


THE SADDEST PART
The Michigan football team is gearing
up for the biggest game of the year, but it
doesn't mean anything this season.
SportsMonday Column, Page 2B

PENN ST-EIGHT
The Michigan hockey team made a
statement with an 8-1 dismantling of Penn
State at Yost Ice Arena.
Breakthrough, Page 4B

I F


2B - November 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

SPORTSMONDAY COLUMN
The saddest part ofMichigan's season

Apologies for ruining
everyone's day, but the
Michigan football team is
playing this weekend at Ohio
State.
This week, you'll hear about
how the
rivalry is
still going to
be exciting
and that the
Wolverines
won't
quit. You
might read GREG
about how GARNO
Michigan,
after losing
on Saturday to fall to 5-6, can .
still pull off the upset.
And if you're reading
anything else about "The
Game" this weekend, you
should understand this is the
bigger point that matters:
This year's game doesn't mean
anything.
Isn't it sad this weekend
doesn't have the meaning it's
supposed to have?
The rivalry is entertaining,
long-standing and full of great
moments between traditionally
successful teams. It's about
Woody vs. Bo, David Boston vs.
Charles Woodson and No. 1 vs.
No. 2.
It's about both teams having
a chance to elevate their
seasons regardless of their
records.
But a win can't salvage the
Wolverines' season, one filled
with one embarrassment on
top of another. It can't salvage
Brady Hoke's job - even if the
current athletic director says
he'll evaluate the position at
the end of the season. It can't
even salvage the meaning in
the rivalry itself, which isn't
much of one given that the
Buckeyes have won 10 of the
last 12.
Just last year, down to the
very last second, Michigan
nearly pulled off the upset.

an Ohio State team loaded
with future NFL talent and
featuring a Heisman trophy
candidate, it only extends its
season for the Quicken Loans
Bowl.
Regardless of what happens,
this season will still be as
dreadful as it has been all 11
times Michigan has walked off
the field.
Ohio State has handled
much of its schedule with ease,
and it could win by the largest
margin all season against the
Wolverines. And isn't it sad
that wouldn't feel any worse
than any other blowout?
Many of you stayed out
in the rain, the cold and the
wind to watch Michigan fall
apart against Maryland. Do
you really want to spend your
weekend suffering through
the same experience? Do
you really want to spend
your holiday break suffering
through an unimportant bowl
game at the likelihood of
further embarrassment?
There's no doubt you'll still
watch and hope Michigan
wins, but losing Saturday
allows the Wolverines to
begin the rebuilding process.
Losing ends the season and
expedites the coaching search.
It saves recruits from leaving
and donors from closing
checkbooks.
Losing The Game would
allow Michigan, and you, to
move on.
And isn't that sad?
Garno can be reached
at ggarno@umich.edu and
on Twitter @GGarno.

4

FIL PHOTO/Daily
The Michigan football team has struggled so much this year that even a win over Ohio State wouldn't salvage the season. And even a close game is very unlikely.

There are plenty of insta
in this rivalry where the
underdog has played the
of spoiler. But
isn't it sad
that's what's
left to hope
for? "
The last JUS
time the oti
Wolverines
did win this
rivalry game,
it was against
a squad with
a freshman
quarterback and an inter
head coach. It was also t
years ago.
"It's a football game,a
it's played just like every
football game," said juni

inces linebacker Joe Bolden. "At the
end of the day, you're going to
role see who is better."
You already
know who the
better team
[t's played is, though.
You won't
t like every be further
~er oot all disappointed
her football when you'red
gam ." proven right.
game. That's
not even the
saddest part
of the state of
rim this rivalry.
hree The Game was built up
by referring to Ohio State as
and "Ohio," or omitting the M
'other in Michigan, but even that's
or wearing off. The Buckeyes'

biggest game this:
against Michigan:
weeks ago.
It's not much of
when it's skewed s
of one team. Ohio
20-point favorite t
and that
might be out
of generosity
for Michigan.
Both teams
are relevant,
but one more
for the wrong
reasons.
"They are
playing for a
lot, and we're
not - that's no sec
redshirt junior cen
Miller.

season came Even if they win, the
State three Wolverines will continue a
season with a head coach that
a rivalry needs to be fired, and it doesn't
o far in favor change the fact that they'll
State is a only prolong the coaching
his weekend, search that much longer.
Interim
Athletic
Director Jim
Hackett, out
playing for a copassion,
play~g IOTa wo't evaluate
lot, and the status of
Hoke until the
w e're not," season is over,
he said. And
isn't it sad
that's what
ret," said you're waiting for?
ater Jack If it does pull off the
improbable and does defeat

.
f k.
,.

GARDNER
From Page lB
passed the block 'M' at the
center of the field that he will
no longer play on, strolling
along in a group but seemingly
acknowledging nobody else.
It was a cold ending for
Gardner, one his teammates felt
none of the seniors deserved.
"You feel bad when guys can
stay four or five years at any
program of this caliber, but
Michigan in particular," Miller
said. "You're a tough guy, you
deserve alot.You feel bad when it
goes out that way."
Gardner's final play at

Michigan Stadium was on
Michigan's own 49-yard line.
It was fourth down with three
yards to go. The Wolverines
were down by seven points, and
Gardner had one final chance
to make his final moments the
stadium ones to remember.
But it was not to be. Gardner
dropped back to pass and threw
a ball that hit junior wide
receiver Devin Funchess in
the hands. Some fans wanted
a pass interference call. The
defender may have made contact
with Funchess, but that was
irrelevant. The ball dropped to
the ground; a yellow flag did not.
After the game, Michigan
coach Brady Hoke said it was the
first time his quarterback was

fully healthy in about five weeks.
Gardner scrambled for 82 yards
- his highest total of the season
- on 14 attempts. He completed
13 of his 24 pass attempts for 106
yards.
Gardner battled drops by
his wide receivers, inaccurate
throws and bad luck. Sometimes,
it was a combination of all three.
Gardner's 14th interception of the
season - his only one Saturday -
was thrown a bit wide of redshirt
sophomore wide receiver Bo
Dever. It bounced off his hands
and into those of Maryland
cornerback William Likely.
Then too, all Gardner could do
was watch.
In the locker room after
the game, Hoke expressed his

disappointment for his seniors
and how proud he was of his
team. Like Hoke says every
week, they've each dealt with
adversity.
Gardner's dealt with more
than most. He's been benched
and promoted again, been
injured and played through it,
heard criticism from fans and
faced it.
But when he walked through
the Michigan Stadium tunnel
one last time, it was all over.
And he still couldn't do
anything about it.

WOM EN'S CR OSS CO UN TRY
'M'fi~r*nishes 18th
at NAAChamp.
By CHRIS CROWDER Brook Handler was one of these
Daily Sports Writer runners, vying for a spot in the
top 40 but falling short, finishing
The Michigan women's cross 89th.
country team opened the season Last year, the Wolverines
ranked No. 1 and held that spot finished fourth at the National
until Oct. 18 at the NCAA Pre- Championship. Three months
Nationals. An 18th-place finish ago, the team saw themselves
in 'the NCAA Championship performing better than fourth.
wasn't expected after its But they could not, of course,
preseason and midseason foresee injuries.
projections. But championships This year's National
aren't won on day one. Championship teetered toward
What happened between disappointment.
then and now "We wanted
was out of the to send the
team's control. "I wish I had seniors off
Michigan on a higher
went into a couple more note, and I'm
the National disappointed
Championship healthy athletes." that we
without its weren't able
top-two to do that,"


ENOUGH
From Page 1B
for the Butkus Award. It has a
fearsome defensive line.
Yet that loaded offense
couldn't score more than one
touchdown against Maryland,
and the toughened defense
couldn't stop the Terrapins when
it mattered most.
Enough.
The Wolverines made most
of the right plays Saturday. In
the second half, they returned a
punt for a touchdown, and they
later stuffed Maryland in the red
zone. But both times, the success
was ruined by mistakes - a block
in the back and a roughing-the-

kicker penalty, respectively.
That resulted in Michigan,
down by seven with only one
timeout remaining, needing a
touchdown to force overtime.
Instead, Funchess failed to catch
a pair of would-be first downs,
and the Wolverines turned the
ball over. They never got it back.
Enough.
The Wolverines pay Brady
Hoke and Co. plenty to lead the
program. Hoke is earning $2.3
million this year. Offensive coor-
dinator Doug Nussmeier has a
three-year, $2.57 million deal.
Yet on first-and-goal in the
second quarter, with Funch-
ess one-on-one to the outside,
Michigan ran it up the gut twice
- once with Gardner, who was

swarmed by four defenders -
and then gave upa sack on third-
and-long.
And then the Wolverines
burned two timeouts in the third
quarter, limiting their chances
at a comeback as they fought for
one in the fourth.
Enough.
Saturday marked a third
defeat in five tries against Power
5 opponents at home. It marked
another example of rival pro-
grams headed in different direc-
tions: Ohio State 42, Indiana 27;
Michigan State 45, Rutgers 3;
Maryland 23, Michigan 16.
It marked Ezekiel Elliott, a
Buckeyes running back, saying
they're "about to grind really
hard this week so we can come

out and kick their ass," while
Drake Johnson, a Michigan run-
ning back, said, "I wouldn't say
it's the biggestgame of the year.
Maybe it is."
Enough.
Saturday marked the decom-
mitment of Mike Weber, once
a Michigan lock. It marked the
seventh top-150 prospect from
the 2015 class to rescind his ver-
bal to the Wolverines.
Enough is enough.
There's one game left, and
then, Mr. Hackett, it's your job
to evaluate the football program.
You know what to do.
Ztitiga can be reached
at azs@umich.edu and on
Twitter @ByAZuniga.
PETITION TO
HAVE CLASSES
CANCELED ON
WEDNESDAY.
AND TUESDAY.
AND TODAY.
@theblockm

Buy 1 sandwich, get 1 free!
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
I Cannot be combined with any other offer.
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELSI
Barry Bagets
Westgate Shopping Center'
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: December 10th, 2014

runners,
sophomore Erin Finn and junior
Shannon Osika, who were
instrumental in the Wolverines'
early-season success. Saturday's
race was another instance of the
Wolverines competing amidst
adversity.
"(Our season) is not what we
thought we were capable of at
the beginning of the season,"
said Michigan coach Mike
McGuire. "We had situations
with injuries and a couple of
other things that we didn't
foresee that put some challenges
into the equation."
Senior captain Megan
Weschler added that the injuries
and obstacles took away from
some of the team's fire.
"I think that the seven that
were out there showed a lot of
resiliency," McGuire said. "We
could've folded our cards and
finished 25th or 26th."
Without the whole team,
Michigan could only help
but feel indifferent about its
18th-place finish. Overall,
McGuire was proud of his team,
noting that some were a bit too
aggressive, but refusing to fault
their effort or finishes. Senior

McGuire said.
Weschler said that it was hard
to explain her feelings about her
last race as a Wolverine. But she
ends her career without any
regrets.
"Overcoming obstacles is
more important (than race
results), and that shows the
heart and strength on our team
as a whole," Weschler said.
McGuire's disappointment
was based upon the
circumstances under which his
team was competing. Without
the recent postseason obstacles,
the Wolverines could have
finished the season much better
than they did.
"I wish I had a couple more
healthy athletes," McGuire said
with a laugh.
While the Wolverines will
lose senior leadership and
talent, the top-two runners,
Osika and Finn, will be back
next year. And with McGuire
at the helm, it's tough to be
doubtful about the team's
future success.
But as Michigan learned
Saturday, a set of high
expectations won't get it, or
prepare it, for November.

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

November 24, 2014 - 3B

Postseason hopes blocked

By EVAN ROSEN
For the Daily
The Michigan volleyball team
got clobbered in Cornhusker
country Saturday night, falling
to No. 11 Nebraska in three sets,
25-23, 25-20, 25-21. Though
any loss in the Big Ten is
significant, this one was more
so, as it definitively eliminated
Michigan from the NCAA
Tournament.
The Wolverines (7-11 Big Ten,
12-16 overall) initially surprised
the Cornhuskers, coming out
strong in the first set and taking
a commanding 20-15 lead. But
Michigan couldn't hold on, as
Nebraska clawed its way back
and tied the set at 23 before
reeling off consecutive points
for the set.
"I think we came out really
aggressive," said Michigan
coach Mark Rosen. "I was really
pleased in how we came out and
how we were keeping steady
and going after them."
The Cornhuskers (14-4, 20-7)
controlled the entire second
set after jumping out to a 9-5
advantage and took the third
set after building a 9-4 lead,
not allowing the Wolverines to
cut the lead to fewer than four
points.
"(Nebraska) did a good job
of raising their level, especially
defensively," Rosen said.
"Their serving got much more
aggressive. But, I thought we did
get a little tentative at the end of
the first set, and that changes
the momentum big time when
they were able to push through
us a little bit."
Sophomore middle blocker
Abby Cole led the Wolverines
with 12 kills, followed closely by
freshman defensive specialist
Caroline Knop's 11. Freshman
outside hitter Adeja Lambert,
while working hard to adjust
in the first two sets, caught fire
in the third set, hitting .800.
Though the individual numbers

Rebounds guide
Michigan to win,
By MINH DOAN on boxing out. Since day one,
Daily Sports Writer coach has been emphasizing
rebounding is key, especially
With 11 minutes left in the since we're undersized, so I try to
second half of the Michigan contribute as much rebounding
women's basketball team's game to the team."
against Western Michigan, The success is unexpected,
senior guard Shannon Smith took because before the season began,
a shot from the right wing. one of the biggest concerns
The ball didn't go in, but senior Michigan coach Kim Barnes
forward Cyesha Goree was right Arico had was rebounding.
under the basket, fighting off The Wolverines are one of the
a Western Michigan player for smallest teams in the Big Ten,
position inside. Goree jumped to featuring just five players taller
grab the ball, then kicked it out to than six feet.
KatelynnFlaherty.The freshman Michigan was also going
guard took two dribbles before through position changes down.
unleashing a shot from outside low with Goree moving to the
the arc. Again, the ball hit the '5' position after the loss of Val
rim, bouncingout. Driscoll and senior guard Nicole
But Goree didn't give up on the Elmblad movingto the '4.
play. She fought for positioning But the transition seems
inside and grabbed another board to have gone smoothly for
before dishing it to sophomore both players, and the two,
guard Siera Thompson, who put along with freshman forward
up another shot. Jillian Dunston, have become
Once again, it missed. But this a rebounding force inside.
time, Goree couldn't fend off the The Wolverines have handily
Bronco defender, and the ball outrebounded their opponent in
went to Western Michigan. three of their first four games.
The Wolverines didn't score But it's not just the bigs inside
on that possession, but despite either. Senior guard Shannon
early-season questions about Smith pulled down nine boards
rebounding, they've proved they Sunday, and Barnes Arico may
can grab boards despite their have found another rebounder in
small size. freshman guard Maria Backman,
And they proved it again who had five rebounds in her first
Sunday, when they collected 48 significant action of the season.
boardsto the Broncos' 21en route "I thought (Backman) did
to a 74-47victory. everything well," Barnes Arico
Goree led the Wolverines with said. "Shehastremendouslength,
14 rebounds and added 14 points she's a (6-foot-1) wing, so she has
for her fourth straight double- something our littles don't have.
double. Not only was the forward She rebounded like heck for us."
a force on the defensive glass, but At the end of the day,
she also pulled in six offensive rebounding comes down not only
rebounds. to good positioning and boxing
"(Rebounding) is one of the out, but also to the intangibles -
things that we kind of strive whether or notplayers are able to
for," Goree said. "I always pride sacrifice their bodies.
myself on rebounding, and it kind And after four games, it
ofwentwell tonight. appears the answer to that
"We were really focused question is a resounding yes.

RITA MOrIS/daiy
The Michigan volleyball team started hot, bat a loss to Nebraska mathematically ended its linterng postseason hopes.

were impressive for Michigan,
the team hitting percentage for
the whole match was only .174.
And to win the match, it was a
team-oriented effort they were

The Wolverines were unable
to stay balanced offensively, due
in part to Nebraska capitalizing
off of their one-dimensional
tendencies, and it resulted in

counting on.
"(Abby Cole
and Caroline
Knop) both
did a great
job," Rosen
said. "But a lot
of the errors
we had were
with them,
and it wasn't
because they
were making
the errors, but
because (Nebrasl
very good at af
One of our goa
balanced offensi
was the hard par
you get off that (I
when you have tr

a great game for the Huskers'
block. They
totaled 15
blocks for
"We did get a the match,
l l e tcompared to
little tentative ... Michigan's
and that changes two, both
A A A C UNOS coming from
the momentum." freshman
middle
blocker Claire
Kieffer-
Wright.
ka's) block was Nebraska's Cecilia Hall set the
ffecting them. Big Ten mark for most blocks in
Is was to be a single game this season, with
vely, and that 13.
t for us. When Teams must have a record
balance), that's of at least .500 to qualify for
ouble." the NCAA Tournament, and

with only Indiana and Illinois
left to play, it's impossible for
the young Wolverine squad
to earn an invite. Even with
this disappointing situation,
Rosen is confident his team will
continue to play like they have
something to gain.
"I don't think I'll need to
(motivate them)," Rosen said.
"This is a very competitive
group, and Indiana and Illinois
are two big matches. My gut is
that they're going to want to
play just for the sake of playing,
and they're going to play to win.
They are very excited to have
those two (final) matches and in
a sense, that's our post-season."
Two more wins could have
a big effect on this youthful
Wolverine squad and set them
up for a promising next season.
With NCAA Tournament hopes
no longer in sight, Michigan is
now playing for its own pride.

WANT KILLER ABS?
OUR FLAT-AB-ULOUS FORMULA WORKS FAST.

1


4B - November 24, 2014

SportsMonday

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com



I

Five things we learned: Maryland

FOOTBALL
Most positives
overshadowed

By MAX COHEN
Daily Sports Editor
After three weeks without a
loss, you had to see this coming
given the way this season has
progressed for the Michigan
football team. The Wolverines
fell to Maryland, 23-16, Saturday
afternoon at the Big House.
Here are five thingswe learned
in the Wolverines' loss.
1. The fans got it right.
Throughout the season, there
hasbeenagreatdealofdiscussion
about whether Michigan's fans
are behind the team.At times,the
divide between the program and
its fans has seemed significant,
with both sides pointing fingers.
But when the team's 12 seniors
were honored on the field priorto
Saturday's game for Senior Day,
each received a loud ovation for
his service to the program.
Because fans have been
discontent throughout much
of the season, the reaction the
seniors would get on Senior Day
was unclear before the game. But
the fans who arrived early gave
the players the recognition they
deserved with loud applause.
2. A higher power doesn't want
Michigan fans to have fun.
In a season full of strife,
moments of fun - even brief
ones - have been hard to come
by. That's why all of Michigan
Stadium roared in the third
quarter when junior wide
receiver Dennis Norfleet picked
up a bouncing punt and gashed
through Maryland's coverage
into the end zone.
It seemed like a questionable
decision at first. Cover men on
the Terrapins had converged
upon the ball when it had hit
the ground. If Norfleet hadn't
fielded the punt cleanly, it likely
would've been a turnover.
But when Norfleet picked up
the ball and found a seam in the
coverage, the crowd rose while
he raced toward what would

Senior quarterback Devin Gardner would have benefitted from a better performance by wide receiver Devin Funchess.

have been the first touchdown
of his career.
When Norfleet's touchdown
was erased from the scoreboard
because of a penalty, so was the
fun in Saturday's game.
3. This offense needs more
from Funchess.
Junior wide receiver Devin
Funchess has been a tantalizing
player all season. He's teeming
with ability, the kind he displayed
in his three-touchdown
performanceintheseasonopener
against Appalachian State.
But in recent weeks, he has
disappeared. Against Maryland,
Funchess caught five passes for
30 yards, statistics that hardly
resemble those of a team's best
wide receiver.
Funchess has clearly been
missing something the past
few weeks. He has struggled to
catch passes, something that had
previously not been a huge issue.

On 4th-and-3 with 4:21
remaining Saturday, Gardner
tried to find Funchess for a
drive-extending first down, but
Funchess couldn't come up with a
ball that hit his hands. Though it
might've been a missed defensive
pass interference call, a catch in a
critical situation could've ended
Funchess' slump. The play ended
up being theteam's final offensive
play of the game.
Instead, Michigan's offense
will go into Columbus with a sour
taste in its mouth:
4. Ojemudia is a capable
replacement for Frank Clark.
After senior defensive end
Frank Clark was kicked off the
team last week for an alleged
incident involving domestic
violence, Hoke pointed to junior
defensive end Mario Ojemudia as
his likely replacement.
Though Ojemudia wasn't as
dominant as Clark had been in

recent weeks, his impact on the
game was felt. Ojemudia recorded
five tackles, including 0.5 tackles
for a loss. He was also able to bat
down one of quarterback C.J.
Brown's pass attempts in the
backfield on a hurry.
The extra snaps in the final
two games of the season because
of Clark's absence will likely
benefit Ojemudia next year when
he likely would've taken Clark's
place anyway.
5.Boldprediction: Michigan
will stay close with Ohio State
next weekend...
For the first 10 minutes of
the game.
Ultimately, the Wolverines
won't have the offensive
firepower to keep up with the
Buckeyes for a full 60 minutes, or
maybe even a quarter. But enjoy
the early portion of the game,
when you'll believe an upset is
possible.

ByALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Editor
With the season on the line,
the Michigan football team came
up short in a 23-16 home loss
to Maryland. The loss all but
ended the Wolverines' hope for
a bowl bid with a game at No. 7
Ohio State, the last chance for
Michigan to reach six wins.
The Daily picks out the
good, the bad and the ugly from
Saturday's Senior Day loss.
The good:
After a loss like Saturday's, it's
hard to look at the good,but there
were some standouts. Michigan's
running game, which Michigan
coach Brady Hoke pointed to
as the team's bright spot, had
its most successful game of the
season against a Power 5 team.
The Wolverines ran for 292
yards with redshirt sophomore
runningback Drake Johnson's 94
.ards leadingthe way.
Fifth-year senior quarterback
Devin Gardner wasn't far behind
Johnson's production, rushing
for 82 yards and a touchdown
in addition to his lackluster
performance in the passing
game - he threw for 146 yards on
13-of-24 passing. Hoke also said
Gardner was healthy for the first
time in five weeks, and he looked
it. Gardner flashed the burst
on the ground he has shown
Michigan fans from time to time,
and it helped keep the Terrapins'
defense on its toes.
Redshirt junior fullback Joe
Kerridge also got in on the fun
when he ran for 52 yards on a
fake punt during Michigan's first
possession of the game. Despite
the strong ground game, it
wasn't enough offense to give the
Wolverines the win they needed.

Thehad:
After starting strong -
Kerridge's run and three
field goals - in the first half,
Michigan's special-teams unit
made two huge mistakes that
arguably cost it the game.
The first came early in the
third quarterwhenjuniorDennis
Norfleet took a punt to the house,
but the play was calledback on an
illegalblock inthe back almost 20
yards away from the action.
The second special-teams
mistake came just as the
Terrapins' kicker put the
ball through the uprights,
when Michigan was flagged
for roughing the kicker and
Maryland was given a fresh set of
downs. The Terrapins ultimately
punched the ball into the end
zone to break the tie and put
them up for good.
The ugly:
The Michigan football team.
Should it really be anything else?
The Wolverines have had a long,
long, long season. And every time
you thought it couldn't get any
worse for Michigan, it managed
to surprise you.
So when the Wolverines had
the opportunity to end their
disappointing home season
with a win that would propel
them into bowl season, they
came up short. To add to the
mess, Michigan's 100,000-plus
attendancestreakisbarelyintact.
When the stadium announced
the attendance against Maryland
to be 101,717, the crowd booed
because the numbers looked like
a stretch and were stillthe lowest
of the season.
In the end, Michigan's season
is a week from ending and,
honestly, it couldn't end faster.


MEWS BASKETBALL
Detroit game preps
Michigan for Ducks

The breakthrough game

a

By MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's
basketball team will find out
Monday if it can learn from its
mistakes.
The Wolverines (3-0) head
to New York to face Oregon in
the 2014 Progressive Legends
Classic hoping to find some
consistency in their shooting.
But if Michigan's showing
against Detroit - which plays
an upbeat style similar to
Oregon - is any indication, the
Ducks could be a tough test for
a Wolverines team still trying to
orient its freshmen.
Like Michigan,theDucks(3-0)
lost a pair of key contributors
from last year's squad in Mike
Moser and Jason Calliste, who
averaged 13.2 and 12.7 points
per game, respectively. Moser
also was the team's leading
rebounder, grabbing more than
seven boards per contest.
But senior guard Joseph
Young, who was the team's key
scorer a season ago, returns
this year to lead the Oregon
offense. The second-team All-
Pac-12 selection from 2013-14
is averaging 26 points per game
through the Ducks' first three
games.
And if Michigan stuck around
the BMO Harris Bradley Center
in Milwaukee after its NCAA
Tournament victory over Texas
last season, it saw Young go off
for 29 points against Wisconsin.
The Wolverines will try to
counter Youngwith strongguard
play of their own. Junior Caris
Levert is coming off a 21-point
showing Thursday against the
Titans, in which he scored 17
points in the second half alone.
Sophomore Derrick Walton Jr.
has taken a larger share of the
offensive load as well, averaging
17.7 points and six boards per
game.
But freshman forward
Kameron Chatman, a highly
touted recruit, hasn't found the
same type of success. Chatman

is shooting 3-for-I6 from the
floor in his first three college
games, somewhat concerning
considering the competition will
only strengthen from here on
out.
Michigan coach John Beilein,
though, said he's sticking with
Chatman despite the freshman's
early struggles.
"(We will) continue to give
him more opportunities to grow
at that position," Beilein said
in a teleconference Saturday.
"Usually it's more defense than
offense for freshmen. But he's
really played well in practices.
He has a great attitude. Just, in
games, the shot hasn't fallen."
The shots especially weren't
falling in the first half of
Thursday's game against
Detroit, when the Wolverines
went 3-of-12 from 3-point range
in the opening frame. And in
an offense largely dependent
on shooting beyond the are, 25
percent won't cut it.
Sophomore forward Zak
Irvin said the Titans' defense
presented a problem for the
Wolverines, forcing them to
shoot early in the shot clock.
"We got sped up a little bit
with the way they were playing
defensively," he said.
Oregon plays a similar tempo
to Detroit, which could mean
more of the same offensive
options for Michigan. College
basketball statistician Ken
Pomeroy has the Ducks'
competition-adjusted tempo
rating listed at 70.3, nearly
identical to the Titans' 69.9.
Michigan, meanwhile, plays at a
64.8 tempo.
Pomeroy's ratings are based
on how many possessions ateam
would have in a game against
an average Division I team,
and the disparity between the
Wolverines and the Ducks aligns
with Irvin's assessment of the
Detroit game.
Against Oregon, which is
even more athletic than Detroit,
the Wolverines won't be able to
afford similar lapses.

At longlast, the Michigan
hockeyteam had its
breakthrough.
At long last, the team with
enough talentto garner a top-10
national
ranking
looked the
part.
Consider
this a
warning.
In the
first 10
games, the ZACH
Wolverines SHAW
had been
unable to
put the pieces together. Whether
it was nightmarish defensive
miscues, a stymied offense or
sloppy goaltending, something
seemed to prevent Michigan
from clicking for an entire game,
resulting in the team's worst
start in 28 years.
But that all changed in
Saturday night's 8-1 win over
Penn State. The team with great
expectations finally met them on
the ice, dominating in all areas in
its breakthrough win.
At long last, Boo Nieves looks
like the star he was supposed to
be all along.
Findingnew life on the
second line, the junior forward
maneuvered his way around
a defender before firinga
backhand shot over Penn State
goaltender Eamon McAdam's
left shoulder, breaking the
scoreless tie early in the second
period.
The tally was the second in
three games for Nieves, already
matching last season's total for
the former second-round NHL
draft pick.
At long last, scoring came easy.
Through the first four
periods of the weekend series,
McAdams had stopped 51 of 53
shots, bringing back haunting
memories of teammate Matthew
Skoff's dominant performance
that denied Michigan a
postseason berth last season.
But following Nieves' goal,
things were different. The
Wolverines scored two more
times in the period, thentacked

a

4

JAMES COLLER/Daily
The Michigan hockey team finally lived up to its potential Saturday in an 8-1 thrashing of Penn State at Yost Ice Arena.

on five more in the third on just
12 shots. With swift passing,
strong shifts and timely shots,
the Wolverines - once dead last
in the Big Ten in scoring - are
now No. 4 nationally with,3.64
goals per game.
At long last, JT Compher is on
the board.
With a
spoon-fed
pass from The tea
junior Max
Shuart, great exp
Compher
didn't finally n
think twice
about the
opportunity.
All season, the competitive
sophomore forward had grown
frustrated at his inability to
score. Officials, reviews, posts,
position changes, hot goalies
- everything seemed to come
between Compher and the back
of the net.
But with eight-and-a-half
minutes remaining in the game,
Compher would not be denied.
Michigan's second-leading
scorer last season rifled a one-
timer past McAdams on a shot so

pure, Compher celebrated before
the puck officially made it in.
The reawakened forward
wasn't done. Less than four
minutes later, Compher struck
again, sounding the horn and
sending a message to the rest of
college hockey that he is willing
and able to
make up for
lost time.
Im with At long
last, Zach
ectatons Nagelvoort
doesn't just
net them hold the
starting
goaltender job;
he owns it.
For many teams, position
battles are a good problem that
promote depth and competition,
but when neither Nagelvoortnor
junior Steve Racine appeared
up to the task, the goalie battle
became a distraction capable of
swallowing Michigan alive.
Despite less-than-stellar
performances, Michigan
coach Red Berenson stuck
with Nagelvoort, mercifully
bringing consistency to the
team. The sophomore reinforced

his coach's faith and finally
looked like a worthy starter
Saturday, stopping 40 shots and
scrambling all around to keep
Michigan alive when the game
was close, and agonizing the
Nittany Lions when it wasn't.
For the first time all season,
there was no doubt in Yost Ice
Arena that Nagelvoort was right
where he belonged.
At long last, the Wolverines
look like themselves.
Dominant on offense, defense
and in goal - this was the game
Michigan fans had been waiting
for all season. A game the
Wolverines needed if they want
to return to the postseason.
Immediately following the goal
that started it all, Nieves dragged
his hand across the Yost ice
longer than usual before pumping
his fist to the screaming crowd -
feeling the moment, soaking up
the success and having fun.
At long last, his team is now
ready to do the same.
You've been warned.
Shaw can be reached at
zachshaw@umich.edu and
on Twitter at @_zachshaw.

/.


