iE-H lRd Far F0 iIj

Ann Arbor, Michiganv

Thursday, February 27, 2014

michigandailycom

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENT
Pierpont
cafe to close
for major
renovation

BUZZER-BEATEN BOILERS

North Campus venue
will reopen in the fall
with new offerings
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily News Editor
Upon their return from Spring
Break, students on North Cam-
pus will have to change their
daily routine with the closure of
the Pierpont Commons Cafd for
renovations. The former Com-
mons Cafe will be overhauled
and reopened as the Fireside
Cafe in the fall.
Administrators and organiz-
ers of the caf6 renovation met
in the current Commons Caf6
Wednesday morning for a "ren-
ovation kickoff," showcasing
some of the new offerings that
will be present in the revamped
location. Students and staff
sampled food from the new caf6
menu and examined computer
renderings of the proposed inte-
rior design.
Commons Cafe is located on

the second floor of Pierpont and
is similar to a food court or din-
ing hall. Pierpont's lower lev-
els include restaurants such as
Panda Express and Quiznos.
University Unions Director
John Taylor said the renovations
are scheduled for completion
before the start of the Fall 2014
semester. In the meantime, some
vendors will move to the build-
ing's ground floor and some food
services will remain operational.
While Taylor said while the clo-
sure could present constraints
during March and April, the
plan allows a significant portion
of the construction to occur over
the summer, when the number
of students using the Commons
is much lower.
The Commons Caf6 currently
hosts a variety of community
vendors, such as Ahmo's Gyro
and Deli and Jamaican Jerk Pit,
which rotate during the week
to provide more options for stu-
dents than fixed venues. Taylor
said this program will continue
after the renovations.
See PIERPONT, Page 3A

) INSIDE
PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Sophomore forward Glenn Robinson III hit a buzzer-beating leaner to give the Michigan men's basketball teama 77-76 win over Purdue Wednesday.
T HU R NAU SER IE S
Spanishos inspire work

Prof.'s childhood
under dictatorship
influences research
By ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily StaffReporter
Spanish Prof Alejandro Her-
rero-Olaizola's accent isn'timme-
diately evident. The 49-year-old
associate chair of the Spanish
department, and one of the most
recent recipients of an Arthur

Thurnau professorship, has lived
in the United States for more than
half of his life, making him more
of a bona fide American than a
foreigner.
But his accent becomes dis-
cernible after a few minutes of
conversation. The same can be
said of his Spanish roots. Herre-
ro-Olaizola's heritage has been a
defining influence on his course-
work and research throughout
his academic career.
Herrero-Olaizola was born in
Bilbao, Spain, a city in the North-

ern Basque country. He had five
siblings and was the youngest of
the sons. In Spain, he attended a
Catholic school for his primary
education. Though he does not
quite know where he made this
realization, Herrero-Olaizola
always knew he wanted to be a
teacher.
"One time, maybe when I was
in the second or third grade, the
teachers asked you to write what
you wanted to be when grew up
and I believe I wrote I wanted to
be a teacher and I believe I wrote

a content remark - I said 'I want-
ed to be a teacher because I feel
that my teachers could be better,'
or something like that," Herrero-
Olaizolasaid.
Decadeslater, Herrero-Olaizo-
la received the Arthur F. Thurnau
professorship for his excellence
in undergraduate teaching at the
University. The Thurnau pro-
fessorship is one of the highest
honors available for faculty and
recipients are also given $20,000
for classroom innovation.
See ROOTS, Page 3A


BUSINESS
Newbarber-
spa location
to open on
E. Liberty
Taylor & Colt will
offer many high
end services geared
toward students
By IAN DILLINGHAM
and AMIA DAVIS
Daily News Editor and
Daily StaffReporter
Male Ann Arbor residents can
expect a barbershop that does
more than the wash-cut-style
procedure opening its doors in
the near future.
Taylor& Colt, an upscale men's
barber-spa, is expected to open
its first U.S. franchise location on
East Liberty Street sometime this
summer. The Canada-based com-
pany currently operates five other
locations in the Toronto area.
Inspired by old English bar-
bershops, the company aims to
incorporate the environment
of a spa salon with a traditional
barbershop into one business.
The company offers "shave-cut-
wash-style" methods for men,
hot towel services, laser hair
See BARBER, Page 3A

RESEARCH
Detroit study to
examine effects
ofbad air quality

Antonia Abbey, a professor of psychology at Wayne State University, speaks about alcohol's role in sexual assault
at the School of Public Health Wednesday.
Lecture explores links in
sexual violence, alcohol

School of Public
Health profs. call
for policy changes to
limit particulates
ByARIANAASSAFF
Daily StaffReporter
As Detroit seeks to revitalize
itself in the wake of bankruptcy,
human health concerns such
as air pollution are receiving
increased attention.
The School of Public Health
has partnered with five other
organizations to continue
researching Detroit's air qual-
ity and hopes to eventually
recommend environmental
policy changes. An announce-
ment from the University last
Tuesday said the collaborative
group received a $2.8 million,
five-year grant from the Nation-
al institute of Environmental
Health Sciences to support the
research.
Health Behavior and Health
Education Prof. Amy Jo Schulz
and Environmental Health Sci-
ences Prof. Stuart Batterman

are co-principal investigators
in the Community Action to
Promote Healthy Environ-
ments project. They are work-
ing to understand why health
problems like cardiovascular
diseases and children's respira-
tory issues are so prevalent in
Detroit.
About 15 years ago, Univer-
sity researchers began exam-
ining how and why poor air
quality in Detroit can be linked
to an increase in the likelihood
of developing health problems,
and how to find solutions.
Batterman said the city's
uniquely high level of indus-
trialization has played a role
in reducing air quality. Large
amounts of traffic that travel
through Detroit on a daily basis
also contribute to the problem.
As a result, cardiovascular
mortality rates and asthma
rates are about 50 percent high-
er in Detroit than in the rest of
the state, Schulz said. infant
mortality rates are also signifi-
cantly higher.
"All three of those health
effects have been associated
with poor air quality," she said.
See DETROIT, Page 3A

Professor reports
half of sexual
assaults involve
intoxication
By AMABEL KAROUB
Daily StaffReporter
On Wednesday afternoon,
Antonia Abbey, professor of
psychology at Wayne State
University, gave a lecture on

the relationship between sexu-
al aggression and alcohol at the
University.
While Abbey's study focused
on a broader age group, she said
there have been many studies
involving college students, as
college is a time when sexual
aggression is very common.
Abbey attributed this preva-
lence to the social environment
that encourages heavy drink-
ing and casual sex.
"You can imagine when
you're in an environment

where your peers are talking
about how many sexual con-
quests they've had," Abbey
said. "There is going to be a lot
more pressure to have sex."
During her talk, Abbey cited
a number of studies that found
roughly 1 in 5 men have com-
mitted an act of sexual aggres-
sion towards women. Studies
show that about half of these
instances involved alcohol
consumption, either by the
man or the woman. Abbey said
See VIOLENCE, Page 3A



WEATHER HI 14
TOMORROW . LO: 9

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Policy Matters: More than concern
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEW S.........................2A SPORTS.....................6A
Vol.CXXIV,No.77 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
02014lTheMichigan Daily OPINION.....................4A B-SI D E1..................1 B
michigunduily.com

'I


2A - Thursday, February 27, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

At f idiigoan Dailm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 ext. 1251 734-410-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahnin@michigandaily.com kvoigtmas@michigandaiycom

SUP DERD CSOUP D

ALU M BRE AKS BU0 0NLD ARI E S
Enriching the college4
Grant Schroll graduated with resources and opportunities that
a BSE in Industrial and Opera- universities have to offer in order
tions Engineering from the Col- to discover and pursue what
lege of Engineering in 2013. He is moves them. Through a series of
the president and co-founder of retreats, weekly events, mentor-
BeyondBounds, aprogram created ship and self-directed projects,
to help students get the most out of students explore how their pas-
their undergraduate education. sions and strengths intersect to
give rise to a meaningful academ-
Could you describe ic, career, and life path.

experience

Beyond Bounds?
Beyond Bounds is a social ven-
ture founded in January 2013 by
a group of University students
and alumni. Our mission is to
help students get the most out of
their college experience. We do
this through a yearlong program
that helps undergraduates devel-
op a framework to navigate the

How did your time at the
University lead you to
founding Beyond Bounds?
I realized that education is the
only systemic entity we have as
a culture that has the potential
to unleash so much value to the
world, but there's plenty of room
for improvement. As I tried to

LSA seniors Ann Paneral and Madison Kraus spoon
soup at the Detroit Soup fundraiser Wednesday.

HE I

Ukraine policy
BY BOGDAN BELEI
In light of Ukraine's
recent political turmoil,
Belei addresses issues that
have challenged Ukraine's
allies and opponents,
preventing both sides from
negotiating a productive
solution to' the problem at
hand. He believes Ukraine's
geopolitical structure will
not foster an easyresolution.
Midterms
BY ARIANA ASAAF
The Daily's online
team catalogued students'
tweets about this midterm
season. Blurbs ranged from
hilarious, wince-inducing
and sometimes vaguely
inspiring. "Procrastin-
eating" was taken to a new
level - pizza, fries and even
healthy smoothies reigned.

T HE P DIU M
Guys are better
BY JESSE KLEIN
Klein acknowledges
the risk of making "every
feminist in the world angry"
asshe writes fromher studies
abroad in Australia. She said
she finds it easier to socialize
with men while adjusting to
a new place, adding that she
"gravitates towards guys"
after the girl-girl drama of
middle school.
Literary lense
BY DAILY VIDEO STAFF
Videographers teamed
with Daily staff reporters
and University students to
perform selected pieces from
the Statement's Literary
Issue. Four submissions can
be viewed online.
Read morefrom these
blogs atmichigandaily.com

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES
Jewish Spanish film
philanthropy screening
WHAT: Beth Wenger WHAT: The Argentinian
explores the topic of mas- box-office success Chinese
culinizing Jewish philan- Take-Away will be screened
thropy and discusses the with English subtitles.
role of Jewish men in phil- WHO: Department of
anthropic activity. Romance Languages and
WHO: Judaic Studies Literature
WHEN: Today from 12:15 WHEN: Today at 7 p.m.
p.m. -2 p.m. WHERE: Room 2435,
WHERE: 2025S. Thayer North Quad

figure out what I had to contrib-
ute to the world of education, I
was introduced to the concept of
social innovation. Here is a group
of people who are creating orga-
nizational solutions to structural
social issues. That's real scale.
That's real impact. I was sold. I
wanted to figure out how I could
have a role in building an organi-
zation that could transform edu-
cation to unleash more value into
the world.
Whatwouldyoutell students
lookingto give back or
volunteer in the community?
Take a chance.
-JOEL GOLDSTEIN
T H REE T HINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW TODAY
CNN reported The
General Authority of
Islamic Affairs and
Endowments issued a rul-
ing against a Mars mission.
GAIAE believe the journey
is a suicide mission and "the
chances of dying are higher
than living."
Emily Pittinos looks
at South U's Safe Sex
Store and its mission,
Daily Arts Writers try
'House of Cards' on for size
and the Managing Arts Edi-
tor wrote a letter to Nabokov.
>> CHECK OUT THE B-SIDE
A husband and wife
discovered $10 million
worth of rare gold coins
buried under their Cal-
ifornia home, CNN reported.
The amount of the discovery
is the largest of its kind in
U.S. history.


Newsroom
734-418-415 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@oiseliandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
ennfentaffas Managing Nes Editor jcatfas@mkihigndoily.een
sEIORrNEWS EDITORS: IanDlinm, Sam Gringlas, GenbegxeRahelPreak
and Stephanie Shenouda
ASSSTNTsNEWSEDITORS:Atta,, 0055, Os,5,in Amon,Hillary Crawford, Oxia
Davis, ShohamGea,Emab abneThomascaeEilinenPsseax Caddiniand
MichaeiSugerman
Megan McDonald and
Datiel Watt tditoriat PagetEditors opinieneditropoiiegondoity.eom
SENIOR EDITORIALPAGEITORS: AarcaMarh n d Vidtors ihaNdbyle
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
AlejandroZdhiga Managingsports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENtOR SPOT SseDTORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth ManagingArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadoisErikaHarwoodand
Alec Stern
A T 0ANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman ManagingPhototEditors photo@michigandaily.com
ASSSANTPHOTO EDTORS lio~n arnaand TracyKaTerra Molengraff and Nicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
Sabiela Vasqez Mnagningoesignxtditors deigoichigondoity.o
SENIOR DESIGNEDITORS my MekeansandAiciaKovache k
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTMAGAINEEDDITORS:Ma Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
SnunTEnENTPOTO EDnoTO ubWellex
STATEMENTLEADDESIGNER:AmyMackens
MarkOssolinskiand Meaghan
ThNpsnn MCnEingspytkditors d dcopydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIsOROPEDTORS:oMaiaSehikh and DaidssNaer
Austen Huffnd Oxine Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESSSTAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott Classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbertand SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi FinanceeManager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISSN 0745-%7) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter terms by
students at the University o Michigan.One copy is avaiable free of charge to al readers. Additionalcopies may
be pickedup at the Dalys office for $2.Subscriptions for falterm, startingin SeptemberviaUS malare 5110
Winter term (Januaryh rough Aprilist$11, yearingseSeptember tnrough Apri) is$ 195s ,Unversity affiliates
aie subject to a reduced subscription rate. On-campus subscriptions for fall term are $35. Subscriptions must
be prepaid, The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Lettersto thetEditor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@miehigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Leadership
discussion
WHAT: Retired public
service Ambassador John
Negroponte will discuss
what makes a good leader
and how leaders make good
decisions by using examples
from his own experiences.
WHO: International Policy
Center and Ford School of
Public Policy
WHEN: Today from 4:30
p.m. -6 p.m.
WHERE: Weill Hall

CORRECTIONS
A previous version ofthe arti-
cle "Thurnau professor series:
Sweeney promotes social
justice through literature"did
not clarify that Associate Prof.
Megan Sweeney conducted
research on female prison-
ers in North Carolina, Ohio
and Pennsylvania. Sweeney
also received her Ph.D. at
Duke University in 2002.
. Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.


Arizona governor vetoes
Republican anti-gay bill
Legislation was . The bill backed by Republicans the legislation.
inthe Legislature was designed to Brewer was under intense
designed to allow give added protection from law- pressure to veto the bill, includ-
suits to people who assert their log from three Republicans who
business owners to religious beliefs in refusingservice had voted for the bill last week.
to gays. But opponents called it an They said in a letter to Brewer
open attack on gays that invited that while the intent of their vote
refuse service to gays discrimination. "was to create a shield for all citi-
The bill thrust Arizona into the zens' religious liberties, the bill
PHOENIX (AP) - Gov. Jan national spotlight last week after has been mischaracterized by its
Brewer on Wednesday vetoed both chambers of the state leg- opponents as a sword for religious
a Republican bill that set off a islature approved it. As the days intolerance."
national debate over gay rights, passed, more and more groups, SB 1062 allows people to claim
religion and discrimination and politicians and average citizens their religious beliefs as a defense
subjected Arizona to blistering weighed in against Senate Bill against claims of discrimination.
criticism from major corporations 1062. Many took to social media to Backers cite a New Mexico Su-
and political leaders from both criticize the bill, calling it an attack preme Court decision that allowed
parties. on gay and lesbian rights. a gay couple to sue a photographer
Her decision defused a national Prominent Phoenix business who refused to document their
furor over gay rights and religious groups said it would be another wedding, even though the law that
freedom. black eye for the state that saw a allowed that suit doesn't exist in
"My agenda is to sign into law national backlash over its 2010 im- Arizona.
legislation that advances Arizona," migration-crackdown law, SB1070, Republican Sen. Steve Yar-
Brewer said at a news conference. and warned that businesses look- brough called his proposal a First
"I call them like I seem them de- ing to expand into the state may Amendment issue during a Senate
spite the tears or the boos from the not do so if bill became law. debate.
crowd!' Companies such as Apple Inc. "This bill is not about allowing
The governor said she gave the and American Airlines and poli- discrimination;' Yarbrough said.
legislation careful deliberation in ticians including GOP Sen. John "This bill is about preventing dis-
talking to her lawyers, citizens and McCain and former Republican crimination against people who
lawmakers on both sides of the de- presidential nominee were among are clearly living out their faith."
bate. those who ur dBrewer to veto Democrats said it was a veiled
attempt to legally discriminate
against gay people and could allow
people to break nearlyany law and
cite religious freedom as a defense.
"The heart of this bill would
allow for discrimination versus
gays and lesbians;' said Sen. Steve
Gallardo, D-Phoenix. "You can't
4 8 argue the fact that bill will invite
discrimination. That's the point of
1 7 5 3 this bill. It is!"
The bill is similar to a proposal
last year brought by Yarbrough but
7 2 4 1 8 vetoed by Brewer, a Republican.
That legislation also would have
1 5 8allowed people or religious groups
to sue if they believed they might
be subject to a government regu-
8 4 lation that infringed on their reli-
- - gious rights. Yarbrough stripped
that provision from the bill in the
hopes Brewer will embrace the
new version.
1 7 3 8 6 Civil-liberties and secular
groups countered that Yarbrough
and the Center for Arizona Policy,
6 8 5 7 2 4 a powerful social conservative
group that backs anti-abortion and
conservative. Christian legislation
in the state and is opposed to gay
marriage, had sought to minimize
concerns that last year's bill had
far-reaching and hidden implica-
tions.

Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan is applauded by City Council members before delivering his first State of the City address.
First State of the City since
bankruptcy promises change

Using $20 million in
escrow, Detroit will
demolish over70,000
vacant homes
DETROIT (AP) - De-
troit Mayor Mike Duggan said
Wednesday that "strategic de-
molition" of some fire-damaged
vacant homes will begin within
30 days.
The announcement came at
the start of Duggan's first State
of the City address and the first
such speech since Detroit was al-
lowed to enter bankruptcy. Dug-
gan said his administration and
the City Council are both work-
ing to improve the city.
"The change has started and
the change in Detroit is real," he
said.
Duggan said the demolition
will be paid for using $20 million
in an unused escrow fund ear-
marked for burned houses.
"If you drive through most of
the neighborhoods today, you
wouldn't know there was a na-

tional recovery," Duggan said in
his Wednesday evening address.
"People in this community see
parts of the country doing well
and even parts of the city doing
well and others are left behind.'
Duggan, a former medical cen-
ter chief, was elected in Novem-
ber. His power is restricted while
Detroit remains under state over-
sight, but blight removal and de-
molition of what could be 70,000
or more vacant houses and other
buildings are under his control.
Detroit is going through the
largest municipal bankruptcy in
U.S. history, and Duggan's ad-
dress came less than a week af-
ter state-appointed emergency
manager Kevyn Orr filed his plan
to pay creditors while providing
money for city services and im-
provements in the coming years.
Under a deal with Orr, Duggan
has charge over financial matters
relating to day-to-day functions
of city government. But most of
the power once exclusive to the
mayor's office now resides with
Orr, who has complete control
over all city finances, how much
is spent and what the money is
spent on.

Orr's blueprint for Detroit's
restructuring and debt removal
calls for the city to spend $1.5
billion over 10 years to remove
blighted properties, upgrade
public-safety equipment and
technology and make other im-
provements.
Unlike his predecessors, Dug-
gan will take on the monumental
task of demolition with millions
of dollars in focused support from
the federal government and mil-
lions more set aside from bills the
city won't be paying to creditors
during its historic bankruptcy.
About $500 million of the $1.5
billion in Orr's plan would be
used to knock down up to 450
decaying, abandoned properties
each week. The U.S. government
also announced in September
that it would direct more than
$100 million in grants to help De-
troit tear down vacant buildings
and spur job growth.
Orr has said Detroit should
exit bankruptcy this year. His
18-month contract ends in the fall
and control could return to elect-
ed officials, although a transition
board could be put in place when
the emergency manager leaves.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 27, 2014 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DETROIT
General Motors
under investigation
after vehicle recalls
The U.S. government's auto
safety watchdog is investigating
whether General Motors acted
quickly enough to recall 1.6 mil-
lion older-model small cars in a
case linked to 13 deaths.
The National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration said
Wednesday night that it opened
the probe "to determine whether
GM properly followed the legal
processes and requirements for
reporting recalls."
The agency has the authority
to fine GM as much as $35 mil-
lion under legislation that went
into effect late last year. The pre-
vious maximum fine automak-
ers faced per incident was $17.35
million. Automakers must report
evidence of safety defects within
five days of discovering them.
CHICAGO
Chicagoan wears
Breaking Bad shirt
after meth lab bust
A suburban Chicago man
accused of operating a mth-
amphetamine lab appears in his
booking photo wearing a T-shirt
from the television show "Break-
ing Bad."
Daniel Kowalski's mug shot
shows him wearing a T-shirt for
the fictional Los Polos Herma-
nos chicken restaurant depicted
in the AMC show about a mth-
amphetamine manufacturer.
The Cook County Sheriff's
Office saysdeputies actingon atip
checked Kowalski's home Mon-
day. They found beakers, burn-
ers, chemicals and instructions
for making meth in the house in
unincorporated La Grange High-
lands. Psychedelic mushrooms
were also recovered.
WASHINGTON
With new findings,
NASA boosts the
total planet count
Our galaxy is looking far more
crowded and hospitable. NASAon
Wednesday confirmed a bonanza
of 715 newly discovered planets
outside our solar system.
Scientists using the planet-
hunting Kepler telescope pushed
the number of planets discov-
ered in the galaxy to about 1,700.
Twenty years ago, astronomers
had not found any planets cir-
cling stars other than the ones
revolving around our sun.
"We almost doubled just today
the number of planets known
to humanity," NASA planetary
scientist Jack Lissauer said in a
Wednesday teleconference, call-
ing it "the big mother lode."
Astronomers used a new con-
firmation technique to come up
with the largest single announce-
ment of a batch of exoplanets -
what planets outside our solar

system are called.
KIEV, Ukraine
Putin responds to
Ukrainian election,
assembles soldiers
Russia ordered 150,000 troops
to test their combat readiness
Wednesday in a show of force
that prompted a blunt warning
from the United States that any
military intervention in Ukraine
would be a "grave mistake."
Vladimir Putin's announce-
ment of huge new war games
came as Ukraine's protest lead-
ers named a millionaire former
banker to head a new government
after the pro-Russian president
went into hiding.
The new government, which is
expected to be formally approved
by parliament Thursday, will face
the hugely complicated task of
restoring stability in a country
that is not only deeply divided
politically but on the verge of
financial collapse. Its fugitive
president, Viktor Yanukovych,
fled the capital last week.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

PIERPONT Students have played
an active role in the cam-
pus improvement initiatives
through Building a Better
Rackham student Isaiah Michigan, a student campaign
Bailey, who is vice chair of the that prompted the regents'
Pierpont Commons Board of decision to approve renova-
Representatives and an execu- tions. LSA senior Jacob Light,
tive board member for Building co-chair of BBM, wrote a view-
a Better Michigan, said the reno- point for The Michigan Daily
vations seek to provide a variety urging students to take respon-
of new food options while also sibility and advocate for their
making the new caf6 a comfort- own needs on campus.
able study space for students. "We want to give students
"Teaching-learning environ- a venue to work with the Uni-
ments are not just about the versity to guarantee that our
physical spaces," Bailey said. tuition dollars are spent to sat-
"(They) revolve around com- isfy our needs," Light wrote.
munities of scholars." Engineering sophomore
The Pierpont renovation Maurico Guzman said he
represents one stage of a series spends the majority of his time
of campus-wide improvement on North Campus, but rarely
projects, which also includes visits the Commons Caf6. After
major upgrades and repairs to viewing plans for the Fireside
the Michigan Union, Central Caf6, he said he felt it would pro-
Campus Recreation Building, vide abetter optionfor students.
Intramural Sports Building "I think having a different
and other campus locations. variety of food will be a nice
The University's Board of new option compared to the
Regents approved a $65-per- usual U-Go's," Guzman said.
term student fee in April 2013 Guzman added that it was
to fund the projects. Of the important that the new space
$173 million budgeted for these serve its dual purpose as both
enhancements, $5.3 million a dining and study location for
will go toward the renovation students.
of approximately 10,500 square "If you can incorporate both,
feet of Pierpont Commons. it's really ideal for students."
John's business partner,
BARBER Thomas White, is a resident of
From Page 1A Birmingham, Mich. and a Uni-
versity alum.
removal, teeth whitening, Sandy Notten, one of the
manicures, pedicures and nail owners of Campus Barber and
fixes. Beauty Salon on East William
The company also offers to Street, said the company will
its customers complimentary give male students an alterna-
newspapers, iPads, flat screen tive option for spa treatment
TVs, Wi-Fi and a coffee and other than the Douglas J Aveda
juice bar. Institute on Maynard Street.
In addition to more unique "I think it's a great idea,"
offerings, the barber-spa will Notten said, "They might do
offer many of the traditional just fine."
hair-styling options students LSA senior Cody Carey said
would desire. White said a he is apathetic toward the
standard "wash, cut and dry" opening of the shop. He also
treatment would likely cost said he is not pleased with the
about $35. price for the standard "wash,
"The premise is that it's cut and dry" treatment.
going to have a very upscale "That's pretty expensive. I
look to it," John White, co- wouldn't pay more than $15 for
manager ofthe Ann Arbor loca- a haircut," Carey said.
tion and resident of Windsor, However, Art & Design
Canada, said. "It's an upscale freshman JJ del Rosario said
look without the upscale pric- the price for the standard hair-
ing." cut is reasonable. He said he
White said he feels the shop would definitely visit the shop
will appeal to Ann Arbor's in the future.
dynamic population. He said "I think it's a good thing,
the mixture of students, staff since Ann Arbor doesn't really
and community members cre- have anything like this," del
ates a unique environment that Rosario said.
suits their business plans. White said Taylor & Colt is
"We love Ann Arbor and we looking to spread to other loca-
know it well," John White said. tions around the United States
"We think it's a perfect mar- in the near future, so the Ann
ket for what we're doing ... it's Arbor location is an important
a niche in the market that has stepping-stone for the com-
never been filled." pany.
engaged in delinquent adoles-
VIOLENCE cent activity or enjoyed imper-
From Page 1A sonal sex were more likely to
commit sexual assault. The
women who faced sexual likelihood of these men to
aggression knew the perpetra- be sexually aggressive grew
tors, and were in a dating or greater when these factors
sexual relationship. were combined with alcohol.
While it is clear from past Abbey said these correlations
studies that alcohol is implicat- could be beneficial in reducing
ed in many instances of aggres- the prevalence of male sexual
sion, Abbey said it is difficult to aggression.
prove whether or not alcohol "We may or may not think
is a driving force behind the we can change someone's views

action. about women now, but we can
"You do find a lot of links reduce their drinking," Abbey
between heavy drinking or said. "We can't go back and
drinking problems and sexual change someone's childhood
aggression," Abbey said. "But experiences, but maybe we can
most of those studies have that change their attitudes about
missing link in the logic." women ... if they ultimately
Unlike past studies, Abbey's lead to sexual aggression, if we
study focused on the perpetra- change some of those pieces we
tors rather than the victims may be reducing rates of sexual
of sexual aggression. With aggression."
a survey of only males ages
18-34, she found 43 percent of The University offers many
responders had engaged in sex- resources for counseling and
ual aggression. In 47 percent reportingfor survivors ofSexual
of these cases, the perpetrator Assault. A listing of available
had consumed alcohol prior to services can be found here. In
the aggression. addition, the University's Sexual
The study found men who Assault Prevention and Aware-
were hostilely masculine, had ness Center staffs a 24/7 crisis
misperceptions of women, line at (734) 936-3333.
FOLLOW THE DAILY
ON TWITTER
@michigandaily
AND LIKE US ON FACEBOOK

ROOTS
From Page 1A
The professor's dedication to
his studies allowed him entry to
the Exchange Student Program
Fellowship at the University
of Sheffield in England in 1987.
There, he met exchange students
from all over the world, including
the United States. In England,
he began to consider coming to
the United States and pursuing a
career in higher education.
Although he left for the United
States at 22, Herrero-Olaizola's
childhood memories from Spain
followed him throughout his
career. Herrero-Olaizola was
a child during the regime of
Francisco Franco, a dictator who
ruled from 1939 until his death in
1975. His rule was characterized
by military rigidity and an
authoritarian concentration
of power. Franco built
concentration camps to imprison
and do away with enemies
and suppressed dissenting
views through censorship and
coercion.
Herrero-Olaizola said he
always felt a "presence of
authority" growing up under
Franco's regime in the Basque
region close to France. He
remembers seeing upheaval on
the streets and constantly hearing
about bombings, terrorist attacks,
kidnapping and other violence
through the media.
"In a way you sort of feel a bit, I
don't want to say numbed, but you
get used to it because that's what
you've always seen," he said.
The lingering memories of
Herrero-Olaizola's childhood
under the Franco regime are
evident in the topics he chooses
to research. In 2007, he published
the book "The Censorship
Files: Latin American Writers
and Franco's Spain." The book
investigates censorship during
Franco's authoritative rule and
its effect on the Latin American
Boom, a movement in the
1960s and 1970s that involved
the proliferation of Spanish-
language literature.
One book he is currently
writing, called "The Colombian
Condition: Global Violence as
Cultural Commodity," explores
Colombian cultural production
and the implications literature
manifests about drug cartels
DETROIT
From Page 1A
The studies included moni-
toring air quality on a daily
basis for three years to mea-
sure particulate matter lev-
els - harmful elements in air
that result from pollution. The
data showed that average blood
pressure increased when air
pollution increased.
Other studies examined
asthma outcomes and infant
mortality outcomes in relation
to air pollution levels. Batter-
man said observational meth-
ods are used to identify which
people face more exposure and

and violence's influence on
Colombian culture.
Herrero-Olaizola's fascination
of the violence in Colombia is
tied to the memories he has of
his childhood in a time of civil
unrest.
"When people tell me, 'Oh,
you're going to Colombia, it's so
dangerous,' I'm like, well I had
the experience of living in that
kind of environment," Herrero-
Olaizola said. "So, when I go to
Colombia, I can see a difference
between what is the day-to-day
experience and what you see
in the media. They're just two
completely different images."
Away from the challenges of
growing up in a Fascist regime,
Herrero-Olaizola found solace
through reading. As a child,
he read the popular Spanish
comic-book series, "Mortadelo
y Filem6n", a story following
two detectives and their
humorous adventures. For him,
reading these comics "took him
elsewhere."
When he was 16, he read what
he considers the most influential
book of his life, "One Hundred
Years of Solitude." The story
depicts multiple generations of
a Latin-American family in a
fictional Colombian town. The
narrative, underlying humor and
magical realism genre - where
magic elements are mundane
and natural, and otherwise
normal events are portrayed as
supernatural - struck Herrero-
Olaizola as unique.
"To me, that was very strange,
it was a bit strange to read that
and accept that reality that the
book proposes, which is a kind of
magical reality, you just go along
with that like the characters in
the book," Herrero-Olaizolasaid.
His love of storytelling is
reflected in the types of courses
he chooses to teach, as he tends
to focus on cultural production
in Spanish-speaking countries
and what the books, films and
letters reveal about the nation's
culture. His previous course
subjects include Latin American
Boom literature, violence
depicted in Latin American art,
and Spanish film and its themes
of displacement or drug culture.
Herrero-Olaizola said he tries
to emphasize the effectiveness
that narrative can convey the
sense of culture.
"I always tell my students
how that relates to negative
health effects.
The researcher's study
is attempting to synthesize
information about the adverse
effects of air pollution to create
a plan to lower pollution levels.
Batterman said some specific
policy changes might include
putting controls on factories
in an effort to decrease emis-
sions and considering land use
changes to create buffers to
shield neighborhoods from air
pollution. Trees and shrubs can
also act as vegetative buffers by
absorbing pollutants. However,
sound evidence regarding their
effectiveness is minimal.
Part of the current effort will
involve looking into what kinds

that literary training really
helps you and provides you
with a lot of skills in terms of
writing and critical thinking and
understanding how texts work
and all that," Herrero-Olaizola
said. "That is somethingthat I do
emphasize in my classes as well."
In teaching, Herrero-Olaizola
does not believe in using an
unchanging pedagogy, but the
need to adjust to the dynamic
aura each classroom possesses.
He listens to student responses
to course work and assignments,
which vary from class to class,
and adjusts his teaching to suit
each setting.
"I try to position myself in
the body of the student when
thinking about the class,"
Herrero-Olaizola said. "How it
is that a student can be able to
understand this film, or how it
is that a student is going to be
able to read 150 pages of 'One
Hundred Years of Solitude?'"
LSA senior Amy Yu took
two Spanish film classes with
Herrero-Olaizola.
"He has so much positive
energy and passion for the
material, that he was able to
get everybody excited about
it as well," Yu said. "The class
structure was extremely
collaborative and interactive
and everybody, no matter how
well you spoke Spanish, felt
comfortable sharing ideas and
talking."
Herrero-Olaizola's enthusi-
asm for teaching transcends the
classroom. Spanish Prof. Juli
Highfill worked with Herrero-
Olaizola extensively on curricu-
lum reform for the Department
of Romance Languages and Lit-
erature. She lauded the profes-
sor's creativity and receptive
teaching style, adding that she
would hear students "clamor"
to get into his classes.
"It's the whole package:
being a creative teacher, being
so engaging and enthusiastic,
at the same time extremely
efficient and dedicated and
knowledgeable in all areas,"
Highfill said.
Herrero-Olaizola plans to
remain in academia for the
rest of his life and to continue
researching new themes
in Latin American cultural
production and create new
courses, including a study
abroad course in Colombia.
of buffers are most effective,
and in what kinds of conditions
are most conduvtive to imple-
menting those strategies.
On a household level, air fil-
ters can help improve indoor
air quality by reducing the
concentration of particulate
matter. They have been used in
homes as part of intervention
studies, which involve chang-
ing an aspect of a person's
environment to test for health
improvements.
"We have to get policy people
up to speed in terms of think-
ing that these are good options
to consider to reduce air pollu-
tion," Batterman said.

(We're really fun we promise.)


4A - Thursday, February 27, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Thursday, February 27, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4b f1idhigan at
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Pushing past Prop 2
The 'U' must do more to raise minority enrollment despite legal barriers
ast Thursday, University President Mary Sue Coleman addressed
the Board of Regents and discussed the campus climate, diversity
and inclusion. Coleman implied that the University's struggle began
in earnest with the passage of Proposal 2 in 2006, which effectivelybanned
the consideration of race in college admissions. Though it seems apparent
that Proposal 2 has carried much of the blame for decreasing minority
enrollment, the University shouldn't use it as a crutch to deflect criticism,
but should refocus on what options do remain to increase diversity.

DIANA BECERRA AND KEVIN YOUNG I
Negroponte's war crimes

There are few people who embody
the terror of U.S. foreign policy
like John Negroponte. He advised
the puppet government in South
Vietnam during the Vietnam War,
oversaw vicious counter-insurgency
campaigns in Central America in
the 1980s, advanced the 1994 North
American Free Trade Agreement
and was a central player in the illegal
invasion and occupation of Iraq. And
yet the Ford School of Public Policy
has invited Negroponte to discuss
how "leaders handle dissent" and to
assess the "successes and failures"
of foreign policy. Will his talk today
mention his own role in the murder
and torture of millions of dissenters
in countries like Vietnam, Honduras,
El Salvador, Nicaragua and Iraq?
Negroponte's crimes are well
documented in the online National
Security Archive. During the early
1980s Negroponte worked as U.S.
ambassador to Honduras, where he
helped ensure the flow of aidto brutal
regimes in Honduras, ElSalvador and
Guatemala and assisted the Contra
terror forces that targeted civilians
in Nicaragua (where a progressive
government had overthrown the
U.S.-backed dictator in 1979). By
the end of the 1980s, over 200,000
people were killed as a result of U.S.
intervention in Central America.
They systematically massacred,
"disappeared," tortured and raped
students, labor organizers, peasant
and indigenous leaders, priests
and nuns, journalists and others
suspected of "dissent." Negroponte's
strategy for dealing with criticisms
of his own record has been simple:
just deny the facts completely.
Confronted with revelations about
Honduran death squads in 1982,
for instance, he replied that the
reports were "simply untrue" and
that Hondurans enjoyed "liberal
democratic institutions including
full freedom of expression."
Negroponte's oversight of the
regime in neighboring El Salvador
provides an indication of how he
handled dissent.In1980, after decades
of state repression of peaceful protest,
five Salvadoran peasant guerrilla

groups formed the Farabundo Marti
National Liberation Front (in Spanish:
Frente Farabundo Marti para la
Liberaci6n Nacional) to fight the
U.S.-backed dictatorship. The United
States provided the Salvadoran
military with $1 million a day over
the course of the 1980s to eliminate
the potential civilian support base
of the FMLN. In one 1981 example,
General Domingo Monterrosa,
trained at the School of the Americas
in Fort Benning, Georgia, ordered
the massacre of over 1,000 civilians
in and around the village of El
Mozote. In the early 1990s, forensic
exhumations of El Mozote revealed
that a single mass grave included the
remains of 143 children under age
12. Concepci6n Sinchez, three days
old, was the youngest victim, though
death squads also cut out the fetuses
of pregnant women. The El Mozote
massacre was unique only for its size;
countless other civilian massacres
stained the Salvadoran landscape
with blood in the 1980s. Virtually
all were committed by U.S.-backed
state and paramilitary forces, as aUN
Truth Commission report confirmed.
This savagery helped pave the way
for the later imposition of neoliberal
economic policies, which Negroponte
himselfadvancedinplaceslikeMexico
and Iraq. Neoliberalism involves the
privatization of public resources,
the reduction in state spending on
things like education, and, generally
speaking, the removal of all barriers
to corporate profits. It includes "free-
trade"agreementslike NAFTA andthe
looming Trans-Pacific Partnership,
which seek to enhance the power and
profits of U.S. corporations and banks
overseas. Since this agenda is usually
unpopular, military force is often
necessary for eliminating dissent and
"ensuring uninhibited access to key
markets, energy supplies and strategic
resources,"in the words of Clinton-era
Secretary of Defense William Cohen.
Negroponte learned valuable lessons
about exterminating dissenters from
his time in Central America. As U.S.
ambassador to Iraq, he helped develop
what some officials and journalists at
the time called the "Salvador Option":

the training of Iraqi death squads to
eliminate resistance to the occupation
and the neoliberal model.
The system against which many
of Negroponte's victims struggled
is an extreme version of the system
currently being imposed across the
United States, including in places
like Michigan. Under this system
education budgets are slashed, tuition
rises steadily, student debt skyrockets
and working people are made to suffer
in numerous other ways while money
is funneled into military budgets
and the pockets of the wealthy. The
bulk of the population is effectively
disenfranchised from the political
system, which is . dominated by
corporate giants and the super rich.
How might University
students have been treated under
Negroponte? If they denounced
tuition hikes or demanded increased
black enrollment, as they did in the
1980s (and currently), they likely
would have faced torture or death.
Religious students and leaders who
advocated for social justice would
likewise have been targeted (one
slogan of the U.S.-allied death squads
in El Salvador was "Be a Patriot: Kill
a Priest"). Women who engaged in
protest would have faced rape by
military and paramilitary forces,
who employed sexual violence
as a key "counter-insurgency"
strategy. Denouncing the University
administration's cover-up of alleged
rape on campus would itself have
been a crime punishable by death.
By hosting a war criminal like John
Negroponte, the University and the
Public Policy School express utter
contempt for hisvictims. Officials like
Negroponte should be in prison, not
invited to academic forums.
Today at 6 p.m. at the Public Policy
School, students, faculty and staff will
be holding a vigil to mourn the victims
killed under Negroponte.
Diana C. Sierra Becerra is a PhD
student in History and Women's
Studies and Kevin Young is an affiliate
with the Center for Latin American
and Caribbean Studies and has a
PhD in Latin American History.

Many schools - such as the University
of California, the University of Texas, the
University of Florida and the University of
Michigan - attempt to bypass court decisions
prohibiting affirmative action by recruiting
students in underrepresented areas,
increasing enrollment and adopting a holistic
review approach that takes into consideration
the challenges students have faced, instead of
just their academic performance. However,
since the implementation of Proposal 2, Black
enrollment dropped from around 7 percent
of the undergraduate population in 2006
to 4.65 percent in Fall 2013. Additionally,
other minorities such as Hispanic and Native
American students have seen decreases in
their undergraduate percentages during the
same time period. With minority enrollment
hindered by Proposal 2, the University has
an even greater responsibility in finding new
ways to increase enrollment.
The University must counteract the effects
of Proposal 2 by increasing its outreach
program. The creation of the associate
vice president position in enrollment
management is a step in the right direction
as this can help garner more applications
from underrepresented minoritiestand
better connect the admissions department
with financial aid. However, the University
needs to take further action and increase

the number of recruiters it physically
sends out to economically disadvantaged
regions which usually boast high minority
populations. This process must start early
as many students enter high school with the
imbedded belief that a college education is out
of reach. Encouraging students to overcome
these preconceived ideas and apply to the
University will create increase the number
of applications from underrepresented
minorities and will ideally lead to an increase
in minority enrollment.
The fundamental problem of lower
socioeconomic statuses also needs to be
addressed in order for the University to be more
appealing towards minority groups. Many
students don't apply to the University due to
the cost of attendance. The numerous financial
opportunities offered by the University need
to be more transparent and easily accessible
for prospective students. However, the current
financial system needs to be fixed first. It
discriminates against lower income families due
to specific financial aid packs given to certain
economic brackets. The University must take
action to further increase minority enrollment
by considering inhibiting circumstances that
affect minority populations in particular. Biy
taking these steps, the racial climate at the
University will seemingly improve and the
pride for diversity may continue.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay, Kellie Halushka,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm,
Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Daniel Warig, Derek Wolfe

FOLLOW THE DAILY ON TWITTER
Keep up with columnists, read Daily editorials, view cartoons and join in the debate.
Check out @michigandaily to get updates on Daily content throughout the day.
Payingfor happiness
until October of 2011, I lived a simple. My goal since I was 17 was to become
privileged life. My father was an a civil rights lawyer, brushing away notions
attorney in private practice making had as a kid that I wanted to be extremely rich
six figures, while my mom one day. Now, it's hard not to notice my mouth
worked only because her water as I read about associates at the top
job provided us with good firms who pull in upwards of $200,000 their
health coverage. I grew up first year. Having that kind of money would
in a wealthy Detroit suburb, certainly be nice. While the younger me would
went to excellent public see a six figure paycheck as a path to bespoke
schools and was a member suits and driving a Mercedes, I nowhave much
of not one, but two private less exciting ideas about using my money.
clubs;one with agolfcourse, JAMES Former banker Sam Polk wrote an article
the other with a private BRENNAN last month about his time in finance, coming
bowling alley. I never had from a family that lived paycheck to paycheck.
to work and I drove a new Upon receiving his first bonus of $40,000, he
car that my parents paid for. remarked that he was thrilled, writing, "For
Life was good. the first time in my life, I didn't have to check
In October of 2011, things changed. my balance before I withdrew money." Forget
My father, battling Hodgkin's Lymphoma, the expensive shoes, the nice apartment and
suddenly passed away at the age of 58. As the lavish meals - that's what I crave.
wealthy aswe were,we hadn'tplannedforthis. With that kind of money, I could eat out
Very quickly, my family's finances collapsed and fill my gas tank without justifying it to
and we were smacked across the face with myself. I could afford to visit friends and
reality. Money had never been a real point of family or go on vacation without saving up
worry, but all of the sudden we had lost our for months on end. Maybe I would even buya
house to foreclosure and the cash available to nice watch for myself just to remember what
pay for school, housing and even food started I had before my dad died. But in all honesty,
to dry up. the thing I fantasize about most of all is the
Money has turned into a constant worry day when I'm "financially secure." When my
for me. I've been fortunate enough to receive loans are paid off, I have a place to live, and
large grants and scholarships to pay for my savings account is big enough to pay for
school, as well as work-study opportunities any trouble my family may run into. I want
to help subsidize further costs. This is great, to be able to eat Chipotle without feeling
and I'm incredibly thankful for it, but I still guilty, and I want to be able to afford health
live in constant fear. I'm insurance and a house for
afraid that my family's my mom.
status for need-based As challenging and
aid will be revoked, and The lessons I've stressful as life has been
I'm nervous that every the past few years, it has
time state support to the learned have been made me realize I will
University is cut, it's my worth more than never be unappreciative of
tuition money going out what I have. The lessons
the window. any paycheck. I've learned have been
When in the past I never worth more than any
had to worry about having paycheck, and I still live a
a job, I now feel a need to great life with much to be
maintain multiple sources thankful for. I may very
of income to save up, especially in case my well return the 1 percent one day, accepting a
mom or my sister needs an emergency loan. short stint asa corporate lawyer before trying
I'm disgustingly frugal when buying food and to save the world. It kills me a little inside
filling my gas tank, and every time I eat out, because I feel like I'm chasing money, but as
go to a bar, or buy something I don't absolutely my sister always reminds me, I'm not; I'm
need to survive, I'm overcome by guilt. chasing a sense of security.
As I begin planning a career of practicing
law, it's become increasingly apparent that the - James Brennan can be reached
mantra "it's not about money" isn't quite so at jmbthree@umich.edu.

HANNAH CRISLER I
I
Flashing back to the moment of my
mom sitting in her chair gathering her
thoughts:
I was afraid she wouldbe ashamed
of me. That it was my fault for what
happened. I shouldn't have thrown
water on him. I shouldn't wear
low cut shirts or dresses that bring
attention to the size of my breasts,
and if I do, I should be prepared for
the reaction of men, the eyes focused
everywhere but my face, laser beam
vision undressing me. I thought
my mom was going to affirm that I
reacted poorly, but she didn't. I stood
up for myself, against his vile sexual
slurs, and my mother was proud of
that. Until today, I felt humiliated
and self-conscious for doing so.
Today, I have regained my voice.
Today, I told my mom that I
was domestically attacked a year
ago. I poured water on him for
being verbally sexually abusive. He
responded by pinning me against
a wall with his forearm against
my throat. My mom looked at me,
glassy eyes, and asked the question
that I have replayed in my mind
like Beyonc6's Drunk in Love radio
craze, why didn't you call the police?
She then asked, why didn't you knee
him, orfight back?
I spent 10 years of my life earning
an array of rainbow-colored belts
through karate lessons. At age 15, I
earned my second-degree black belt.
I sparred and grappled with adult
men, and not totootmy ownhorn,but
I couldkick some ass. Iwas feisty, and
still am. Yet, when his hand clenched
my wrist and threw me against the
cold plaster, while his other forearm
landed at the base of my neck above
my collarbones, I froze. He was not
some stranger on the street, those
squishy lips that screamed at me I
had previouslykissed.
My mom sat in silent thought, as
if she was remembering something
from her youth that I wasn't aware
of, but that made her understand my
experience. The silence was broken.
I'm proud ofyou.
I'm not proud of me. Why didn't
you call the police? I asked myself as
you sat on the outside patio of the
Black Pearl last summer. The heat
lamp's flame flickering against your
face. You sat at a table of two girls,
and two guys. Ihid in the back of the

I'm proud of yoi
server area trying to catch my breath.
Do you even remember what you did?
Who are you going to attack next, the
tall blonde or the short brunette? As
the only busser that night I cleaned
your dirty residue off the table. In the
process of bending over to wipe away
the contamination you attempted to
grab my ass.
I'm proud ofyou.
February, 2014: Phone vibrates,
loses train of thought and
concentration, "New text message"
Text: Ah I woke up so horny this
morning wtf
Me: Sounds like you'll get a little
arm workout
Text: Send me apit
Me: Nope I'm good
Text: Oh come on, that's what
snapchat is for
Text: You're no fun
Me: Nah sorry
Text: What do you think snapchat,
was created for? The founder is 24,
and I guarantee that's its intended
purpose
Me: Idgaf about the founder of
snapchat. You haven't even taken
me on a date, and you're already
requesting pics
Deletes conversation, returns to
writing
In our world of instant
gratification, we are losing touch
with reality. We meet someone at a
bar; get their phone number, and the
next day become Facebook "friends."
We are forgetting how to interact
with one another, how to articulate
thought and to speak up for what we
believe, even if society tells you that
it's wrong.
During my time studying at the
University of Michigan, three of my
friends have confided in me, telling
their stories of rape. out of those
three, only one was reported. Out
of those three, only one told their
family. Out of those three, they all
knew the attacker.
I am one female in a body of
28,283 undergraduate students. The
University has a 49-percent female-
to-male ratio, so there are about
13,859 undergrad females. If one
in five women in the United States
report sexual assault, on our campus
alone, about 2,772 females would
experience sexual assault. Why was I
silent? Why are we so silent?,

I wasn't raped; a drunken jackass
manhandled me, but these acts
of aggression toward one another
need to stop. We need to respect
each other. We need to work on
ourselves, to self reflect, and face
our internal silence.
"Be the change you wish to see in
the world" - Mahatma Gandhi
My grandmother gave me a
bracelet with that quote engraved on
the front. On the inside, where the
silver hugs my wrist, an area of the
bracelet that only I am familiar with,
hides "find the strength within." I
have the quote branded on the inside
of my eyelids, and I wear the bracelet
everyday. I know I cannot change
anyone but myself. If I want to see
change, I have to be change. If I want
someone to hear me, I have to speak
up. I know I am not alone, and you
are not alone either.
We are not alone. As individuals
separated by sex, age, race, religion,
gender and many regions around the
world, if we strip away our exterior
and leave the blood, bones and
organs, we are not so different. We
are humans, trying to understand
this game of life. We make mistakes.
We achieve great accomplishments.
We undergo and overcome hardship.
But why is it that we are pushing so
hard against one another?
Welivein a fascinatingtime where
our society has created glamorous,
superficial guidelines on how to
live. Social media overwhelms us by
showing unattainable false realities.
Instead of tryingto become someone
we are not, we should be comfortable
with who we are, and try to be our
supreme self. Find the inner voice
and let it speak out. Let it scream.
Early January 2014, shortly after
expulsion ofBrendan Gibbons'media
breaks.
Four friends are sitting in a kitch-
en: three females and one male. They
are talking about relationship advice,
or in their case lack there of The sub-
ject turns to two recent social media
articles addressing rape. Out of curi-
osity the male asks the females if any-
one they were emotionally involved
with had ever physically harmed
them. All three answer, yes.
We can be the change.
Hannah Crisler is an LSA junior.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 27, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Thursday, Fahruary 27, 2014 -

Top Five Student Destinations
By Ahmed, Weekend Contributor I Photos by Adam Glanzman, Daily Staff Photographer

A much needed
(spring) break

There's only one day
left before it's officially
spring break (Congrats!
You made it.)! After weeks
of frantically writing pa-
pers at the Fishbowl and
studying for exams at the
UGLi, everyone is more
than ready to leave cam-
pus for a few days. The
Daily asked around to find
out where students were
headed this week.
Florida
With a record-break-
ing 26 million visitors last
spring, Florida is one of
the most popular vacation
places in America accord-
ing to Visit Florida, the
business section of the
Florida Commission on
Tourism. Contrary to pop-
ular depictions in movies
and on MTV, however,
the state is more than just
a sunny locale filled with
clubs and bars.
"Florida has things
like the Harry Potter
World, Disney World and
warm beaches" said LSA
sophomore Fabiana Diaz.

"There's just so much to
do there."
It's also one of the
cheaper locations on this
list according to Public
Policy senior Erin Free-
man.
"We decided to go be-
cause we got good deals
on Orbitz," Freeman said.
Cancun
Cancun, with its pris-
tine white sand and low
(legal) drinking age, is the
ultimate spring break des-
tination for many college
kids. Like Florida, Cancun
is also more affordable for
students, which was a big
pull for LSA sophomore
Catherine Uglietta.
"Cancun is a good
spring break destination
because of its reputa-
tion for being a fun party
destination and because
of how many college stu-
dents actually go there for
their spring breaks," Ug-
lietta said.
Puerto Vallarta
If endless tequila and

a gorgeous view of the
ocean is not enough for
you, but you'd still like to
visit Mexico, Puerto Val-
larta is the place to be. The
scenic destination offers
visitors more activities to
do and a greater exposure
to Mexican culture. The
town has elaborate sand
sculptures adorning its
shores as well as art gal-
leries and restaurants.
"We wanted to explore
a new town and a new
culture," LSA senior Sarah
Gilberg said. "We're going
to spend a day propelling
down a waterfall and after
that we'll go snorkeling."
The Bahamas
Another popular tropi-
cal destination for spring
breakers is the Baha-
mas. Comprised of more
than 700 islands, islets
and cays, the Bahamas
are filled with gorgeous
beaches, grottoes and la-
goons to visit.
"I'm hoping to explore
alittle, eat some good food
and relax on the beach

with my friends," LSA se-
nior Chelsea Hoedl said.
"We're looking in to para-
sailing or maybe renting
jet skis."
New York City
Even though the pull
of sunshine and the need
to escape from Michigan's
hellish weather is strong,
some students are more
attracted to the glitz and
glamour of the Big Ap-
ple. New York City is the
perfect location for those
looking for something
different from the usual
student-infested, boozy
beaches.
"I want to experience a
big city and all the things
everyone always says
about New York City,"
LSA sophomore Alice
Hou said. "I plan on vis-
iting Times Square, go
shopping and experience
the NYC nightlife:"

Finally: It's the time of the year
when we say our farewells to the
cold weather, even if only for a
short-lived amount of time.
Many
will take
luxury trips
to Flori-
da, where
they'll be
waited on
at the best
fe-star
hotel money
can buy as
BRAD they lie in
WHIPPLE bed watch-
Daily Weekend ing televi-
Columnist sion. Other
students will
gather with friends to take that
long dreamt-of trip to Las vegas or
Mexico, not wanting to get out of
bed in the morning for otherrea-
sons - hope you youngsters like
orange juice.
As for me, springbreak has been
very low key the past two years.
The last time I truly kicked hack
and made the most of my weeklong
mentalbreak was2012, when Iwent
to visit my sister, who had just grad-
uated from Arizona State University
and was still living in Scottsdale.
For me, this trip represented
everything good about springbreak
and whyitissuch anecessaryhiatus
My sister picked me up and
brought mebackto her place. Forget
my family, because there was one
thing on my mind: March Madness.
As my sister's hoyfriend pan-
icked at halftime - Kansas was
tiedwithNorthCarolinaat47--we
thought the best course of action
was to chow down at Buffalo Wild
Wings. Well, it might have failed
the Tarheels in their 80-67 loss
that brought John's head crashing
down on the table, but that's totally
fine. we visited oregano's after-
wards to eat some gaucatoni, pizza

bread covered in a guacamole and
avocado dip.
Whether or not you're easing
the failure of your March bracket,
eating is central to the ideal spring
break experience. After working
hard throughout half of the semes-
ter, we deserve to kick back and eat
without guilt. Eat everything in
your path, even if your mom says,
"Your eyes are bigger than your
stomach."
Later that night, we visited
Tempe Marketplace, full of a vari-
ety of shops. There was a sports
clothing store, restaurants and a
candy shop called "IT'SUGAR,"
full of everything your inner child
desires. By the end of the week,my
checking account had hit an abys-
mal "0." There will be temptation
to buy a souvenir wherever you
go, hut try to limit how much you
actually get Next thing you know,
you're stressed trying to pack it all
in a tiny suitcase.
My sister wisely bought the
game Dirty Minds, "the world's
cleanest dirty game." You're sup-
posed to guess a clean and appro-
priate wordbased off of dirty clues.
It gets interesting, but also a little
weird if you're playing with your
sister and her boyfriend.
The rest of the trip went exactly
as expected. I spent a lot of quality
time with my sister, who I rarely
get to see throughout the year, and
finally got her into the "The Walk-
ing Dead" (she now thanks me after
initial resistance). This is the last
greatest thing ahout spring hreak,
and any hreak for that matter. You
get to spend valued time away
from school with your family and
friends.
This springhbreak, getcyour work
done early and enjoy the rest of it
The week will go by fast and you'll
be back in the home-stretch for
another two monthsbefore you can
take a break one more time.

to try over

So you're not lucky enough to
travel to Mexico or even take a
weekend trip to Chicago over
the break. No fear! The Daily
is here with plenty of options
for those of you who choose to
relax on your parents' couch or
in the sanctuary of your Hill
Street abode for the next week.
On your Staycation:
1. Watch the first season of
"Orange is the New Black"
With the Season 2 premiere
just around the corner, use your
spring break to catch up on this
popular Netflix drama. As an
added bonus, there are exactly
enough episodes in the first sea-
son to watch one episode a day
for the whole break.
2. Spend one day sorting
through old clothes
It's almost spring, and you
may have accumulated a lot of
things you don't need over the
past few months. Sort thorough
your old clothes and donate
what you don't need - fun,
relaxing and charitable! Every-
one could use a little spring
cleaning.
3. Attend a cultural event in
your city
Chances are you've been very
busy this semester and haven't
had time to see many cultural
events. Find an interesting
event in your city and attend
with friends or family. Hang-
time is a great resource to find
events in your area.
4. Brush up on your foreign
language skills
Forgetting all the Spanish
you learned in high school?
Finding it increasingly difficult
to hold a conversation in a lan-
guage you used to be fluent in?
Buy the Rosetta Stone program
and brush up your reading,
writing and vocab in almost no
time. Or if you're strapped for

cash, download some music in
the foreign language of your
choice and sing along.
5. Read a classic book
If SparkNotes is the only
thing you ever read in high
school and you feel like you
missed out on classic Ameri-
can literature, revisit those
old reading lists and spend the
week with an English teacher-
approved novel. The best part
is many classics - ranging from
Jane Austen to Jules Verne -
are available to download for
free on Kindle.
- Maya Kalman

Institute of Art or the numer-
ous restaurants and bakeries in
Mexican Town. If you decide to
make the venture on Saturday,
don't miss Eastern Market, the
historic six-block long farmer's
market in the heart of the city.
The market, which has been
around since 1891, hosts over
250 different local vendors.
4. Enroll in a workout class
at the CCRB
The CCRB is hosting vari-
ous workout sessions all week,
which students can join for $5
each. Classes include vinyasa,
Pilates, Zumba and more.

5. Volunteer at the Arb on
In Ann Arbor: March 8th

Your competitive advantage is at Rutgers.
With over 130 alumni connections as partners
and principals in the Big Four firms - and many
more at regional and local CPA firms - Rutgers
Business School accounting programs are leaders
in educating highly sought-after accounting
graduates.
All Rutgers accounting programs meet the 150-hour
requirement for the Uniform CPA Exam.
Rutgers MBA in Professional Accounting
> 14-month program
> No previous business or accounting
courses required
> No previous work experience required
> Successful placement with attractive salaries

1. Partake in a poetry work-
shop and slam competition
The Neutral Zone and
InsideOut are hosting the event,
Michigan Louder Than a Bomb
Competition, where you can
learn and practice poetry in a
group setting on March 1st. The
event will begin in the morning
at the UGLi with various poetry
workshops and end in the eve-
ning with a poetry slam at the
Neutral Zone.
2. Go cross-country skiing in
the Arb
Cross country skiing is a
great way get out of the house
and enjoy the beautiful winter
weather. But don't fret if you're
not traveling to a ski resort over
break - there's plenty of win-
ter sporting opportunities right
here in Ann Arbor. You can rent
cross-country skis and boots at
Sun and Snow, located on W.
Stadium Blvd.
3. Take a day trip to Detroit
There are so many interest-
ing places to visit in Detroit
and Spring Break can be a
great time to learn more about
the city. A few places you may
want to visit include the Detroit

Nichols Arboretum hosts
an Eco-Restoration workday
twice a month during which
volunteers can learn about the
natural areas in Ann Arbor
while helping restore the natu-
ral landscape. This is a great
opportunity to give back to your
community during your break.
The event lasts from 9 a.m. to
12 p.m.
- Adam Glanzman
DON'T GET
BORED
OVER BREAK*
Check out
more content
ONLINE!
We'll keep you
updated on pretty
much everything.
*The Daily fits comfortably in most
carry-ans.

R1!,.TGERS
Rutgers Business School
Newark and New Brunswick


6A - Thursday, February 27, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Softball winning despite
low offensive production

By JUSTIN MEYER
Daily Sports Writer
It'sthe simplest math in sports:
if your opponent doesn't score,
you can't lose the game.
After this weekend, perhaps no
team understands that equation
better than the Michigan softball
team. Its lockdown fielding effort
bailed out a slightly anemic
offense in three straight games.
The Wolverines shut out No. 5

time. The Florida Atlantic
Invitational, though, was the first
time all three put together elite
performances.
"The pitching has really
picked up their game," said senior
outfielder Nicole Sappingfield. "If
they're radiating that confidence,
then we're going to feel it, too."
The rest of the field backed up
the pitching display, finishingthe
weekend's five games without a
single error.

Michigan coach Kim Barnes Arico could use her position coaching the national team to bring talent to Ann Arbor.
Barnes Arico nominated
as national team assistan

Kentucky for a
holding off
Kent State
1-0 in extra
innings and
grabbing
another 1-0
win over
Florida
Atlantic.
The three cons
marked a new lev
for the pitching;
(12-2) has a surp
the circle, with fr
Betsa and juniors
and Sara Drieset

3-0 win before "(Michigan coach Carol
Hutchins)
always talks
"I'm so confident starting on the
in our team." mound," said
junior catcher
Lauren Sweet.
"If they go out
there and just attack, they set
ecutive shutouts the tone for the game and get
el of dominance everyone going."
staff. Michigan Sweet, who Hutchins pointed
lus of talent in to at the beginning of the year
reshman Megan as a key to the team's success,
Haylie Wagner has enjoyed a stellar defensive
nga all splitting season. Starting 12 games at

By LEV FACHER guard Siera Thompson and junior
Daily Sports Writer forward Cyesha Goree - are all
averaging double-digit scoring
Michigan women's basketball figures in their first season
coach Kim Barnes Arico isn't playing regular minutes at the
known for keeping light hours. collegiate level.
And she won'tbe getting much of "It has always been a dream
a summer vacation, either - she of mine to be involved with
now has another gig on top of her USA Basketball and represent
regular workload. our country," Barnes Arico told
Wednesday, Barnes Arico MGoBlue.com. "It is one of the
was named an assistant coach highest honors you can achieve
for the USA Basketball Under- in any sport. ... I am thrilled to
18 National Team, which will be teaming up with two of the
compete at the 2014 FIBA brightest minds in the business."
Americas U-18 Championship Barnes Arico and Walz, whom
later this year. she called "one of the bright and
The tournament features up-and-coming coaches in the
teams from across the Americas country," developed a friendship
and the Caribbean Islands and during their five-year overlap as
serves as a qualifying round for Big East coaches when Barnes
the 2015 FIBA U-19 Women's Arico was at St. John's.
World Championship. While her relationship with
Barnes Arico joins a staff led Staley isn't as personal, Barnes
by South Carolina coach Dawn Arico referred to her as "one of
Staley and featuring Lousville's the greatest players ever to play
Jeff Walz. The new position is the game" and "also one of the
Barnes Arico's first foray into best coaches of our generation."
international competition, Trials for the U-18 team begin
but the appointment is hardly May 23 in Colorado Springs,
surprising. Colo., and will draw from a pool
Barnes Arico has shown of players born in 1996 or later.
herself to be one of the country's The job is more than just
top coaches when it comes to r6sum6 fodder for Barnes
developing young talent. Her Arico, who recognizes that the
three leading scorers - junior opportunity to work closely with
guard Shannon Smith, freshman some of the nation's top high

school talent is one presented to
very few coaches.
"Coaching USA Basketball
is giving me the opportunity
to work with some future
Olympians, future All-
Americans and some of the
best high school players in
the country," Barnes Arico
said. "Any time you get to be
surrounded by people who are
the best in their sport, it is an
amazing opportunity. I can't
wait to coach these kids who are
passionate, hungry and willing
to learn."
Players from the 2012 team
ended up at Baylor, Penn State,
Tennessee and Connecticut - all
current top-10 teams - among
other programs.
While many of the 2014
squad's players might already
be committed to play at schools
other than Michigan, Barnes
Arico is fully aware of the long-
term recruiting implications the
position could have.
"I am really looking forward
to being around the best this
summer and developing new
relationships," Barnes Arico
said. "It is a great opportunity to
build relationships and connect
with those young kids, whether
it be for future opportunities at
Michigan or not."

catcher, Sweet is still error free
and is becoming a vocal leader.
In her third season as the
team'sbackstop, Sweet attributed
a lot of that defensive success
to the variety of pitching looks
opposing batters have had to face.
Wagner, who missed the start of
last season, has returned to prime
form early this year.
After Driesenga started the
team's first marquee matchup
against current No. 1 Florida
Feb. 8, Wagner got the nod
against Kentucky and was
up to the challenge. She gave
up just two hits to a prolific
batting team that entered the
tournament undefeated.
The decision to start Wagner
was made partly because of
the lefty's favorable matchups
against the Wildcats, but her
7-0 start and 0.76 earned-
runs average also justified the
decision. Though it's still early
in the season, that ERA is the
best in the Big Ten. Betsa, with
a 0.87 ERA, holds the second
spot, and every other pitcher in
the conference trails by a wide
margin.
"I'm so confident in our team,"
Sweet said. "If someone doesn't
get the job done when they're up
there, someone else will do it. We
pick each other up, and I really
think that showed this weekend
when we held people (scoreless)."
Hutchins was also glad to
see confidence radiate from
Betsa. The freshman recorded
11 strikeouts in her win against
Florida Atlantic.
"She threw with a lot more
confidence," Hutchins said.
"That's all that kid needs."
The gritty performance at
the Florida Atlantic Invitational
showed Michigan can win
even if one facet of its game
falters, and that should give its
upcoming opponents plenty to
worry about. When sophomore
shortstop Sierra Romero and
her other three Californian
teammates visit their home state
next week for a full schedule of
games, the bats probably won't
figure tobe so quiet.

Senior outfielder Nicole Sappingfield was part of a stellar defensive effort.

-ll:Bennett's Saturday
assif "l7--Email: dailydisplay@gmail.comi u cn b
in uncertain limbo


RELEASE DATE- T
Los Angel
Edit
ACROSS
1 Sunshine State
resort
5 Country in which
Quechua is an
official lang.
8 Transforms, as
for a different
medium
14 "Downton Abbey'
title
15 Tablet maker
16 Osaka-born
violinist
17 *Place for a soak

in Bangkok?
19 Alligaor cousin
20 Abase
22 Holyterritory
23 *Mumbaibaby
food?
27 Musical ability, in
slang
30 As well
31 Mimic
32 Edward Jones
Dome NFL
plaper
33 Rank below
abbot
35 Oilers'org.
36 *Low point in
Oran?
40 Shareable PC file
4t Mob-_..
42 2011 NBA
retiree
43 Poter, for one
44 Effusie musical
genre
41 Knoxville sch.
47 'Stance in a
Monterrey
studio?
51 Poker haul
82 Oreen Lantern or
Green Arrow
57 __ license
60 Emergency fund
.or what the
second part of
each answer to a
starred clue ends
with?
61 Mysterious
62 Teacher, at
times
63 Dig for 58-Down
64 We're outta
65 Stop: Abbr.
66 What the nose
knows

hursday, February 27, 2014
es Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
ed by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
DOWN 33 Evergreens with 48 Little bits
1 Behrs oft"2 Broke edible nuts 49 Inflation causes
Girls" 34 Lurid paper 50 Bridget Riley
2 Vans Triple 37 Escaping 6 la genre
Crown of Surfing James Bond, 53 _ erectus
locale perhaps 54 Oklahoma city
3 Stuff 38 Ovoid tomato 55 Attorneygeneral
4 Et . 39 Microscope slide after Barr
5 Mastermind additive 56 and terminer:
6 Pie slices, often 40 Non-stick brand criminal court
7 "Swing Shift' 45 Applied to 57 Sidekick
Oscar nominee 46 Time between 58 See 63-Across
8 Filmbufs inaugurations 59 Business VIP
channel
9 Scattering of an ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
ethnic
population S N E RI D E A P U M A
10Continental L 0 0 N I IE U N U N I X
farewell H E CE E CG P I L L
11 Toydog breed D
12 Melodicsyllable 0 L L RIICIHLI 7 T L E
13Preacher'stopic B G E R 1 0 9 E
18 Brietupturn B I 0 C Ea II 5 1 NT5
21 Getting down I S 0 L I N c 0 E T 9 E I
24ltmaycome B L u R N E H 9 U 0 E T I
before one
25 "1.Feel BadAbout aM A G JMAA VN
MplNeck"witer M O I O R D IlNO
Nora iSLA ED NA
26 Long swimmer WOLFHOUNDS S AIT E
27Carry protectively M I U N 0 M T H 0 0 D
28 Anticipate I T S A N U S1
uncertainil AKyTO A I u
29Bit of shocked B R E 0 E v E N I N E 9
text xwordeditor@aol.com 02/27/14
1 2 13 14 5 6e 7 8 9e 10 11 12 13
14 i6tce 2271
17 1 19
20 ]21 22
23 1 41 124 1
32 3 34 35
36 37 38 3
41 42
4344 45 46
51 253 54 55 56
57 sa 5960
362 63es
By Gareth Bain 02/27/14
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, LLC

H ELP WANTED
BLUE NILE IS hiring for servers,
bussers, and hosts. Apply in person at
221 E. Washington, Thursday to Friday
from 3 to 6pm.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Baristas. Hous-
ing, bonus, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
$1485 FOR A FULL 2 bedroom at For-
est Glen Apts. Price includes FREE
HEAT, 1 parking spot and furniture.
$1485 for the whole apartment!!!
Cull us to tour your new home today.
734-761-2180.
$400 OFF
First 10 rentals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/FREE HEAT as
law as $1680.00. Greatllcation,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
ou AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
4 Bedroom House. Near B-School.
2000 dollars/mo. Call: (734)223-7777
*AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
O3n Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wher/dryr. Avail. Fall
2014. Contuct 734-991-1991.

4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact 734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$700-$1395, showings avail. M-F
IOam-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
PMSI IS LEASING for 2014-2015.
Eff. 1, 2, and 3 bdrm apts avail. in Cen-
tral Campus and downtown area. Con-
tact 734-665-5552. pmsiproperties.com
THE 2NDFLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and AllI at
REASONABLE RAtES
www.The2ndFloorSI.com

By ALEJANDRO ZUN
Daily Sports Editor
For two hours, Mac Be
career as a Wolverine was(
It had happened on an in
play. The puck went beh
net and Bennett, the M
hockey team's senior c
retrieved it and turned up
it got caught between his
and the defenseman had to
down to regain control.
he looked back up, a Pen
forward was about to level
Then, Bennett r
Tuesday, he was "
smoked."
That's why he found h
hours later,
sitting in a
hospital as
doctors were
explaining
that he was con
done for the
year. But the
pain he had felt lying on1
so intense that he couldn
his legs still, the hush of t
Ice Arena crowd and thev
look on his coaches' fac
told him enough already.
already a foregone con
and the doctor just cot
the inevitable. Bennett
miss the Wolverines' I
regular-season games and
only watch as the team
fought without him for an
Tournament bid.
"I was sitting in the rot
'Oh my God,' "Bennett sai
But his career isn't ov
hours after the senior
misread X-ray indicated1
wouldn't return in time
end of the season, a CA
showed otherwise. Those
suggested the captain will
to suit up again this year.
Monday, Michigan

IGA Red Berenson announced that
Bennett is week-to-week with an
upper-body injury.
annett's "It was definitely a relief,
over. especially after hearing the first
tnocent time that my season was going to
ind the be over," the senior said.
ichigan For those hours, though,
aptain, Bennett had to come to terms with
ice. But the possibility of having played
skates, his last game as a Wolverine. He
glance followed the end of his team's
When game against Penn State on
n State Twitter, "salivating at the mouth"
him. for the stream of updates. After it
ecalled ended, he congratulated them but
fucking then had to share the bad news.
"You just ruined my life for
simself, two hours," Bennett said of the
incorrect
prognosis. "It
was very scary.
t was a hard Thinking that's
, the last time
Cept to grasp. I put on the
block 'M,' the
last time I step
the ice, on the ice at Yost. It was a hard
't keep concept to grasp at the time.
he Yost "I couldn't wrap my brain
worried around it in those two hours.
es had Luckily, I didn't have to."
It was Given Michigan's struggles
clusion, defensively this season, Bennett's
nfirmed return to the ice will be eagerly
would awaited. The Wolverines will
ast six have to handle Ohio State's
I would potent forwards without him this
he led weekend, but Bennett promises
NCAA thathe'll travel to Columbus, even
if he has to drive himself.
om like, It has been a long, frustrating
d. week. At Tuesday's practice,
er. Two Bennettquietly stood by the north
said a bleachers wearing a blue athletic
that he jacket and blue sweatpants. After
for the watching stoically for several
.T scan minutes, he turned around and
results walked back into the locker room.
be able For two hours, the captain's
season was over. But in a couple of
coach weeks, he could be back.



The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 27, 2014 - 7A

Marissa Pollick: Michigan's Title IX hero

ByALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Editor
Standing in the middle of
a dimly lit room, surrounded
by generations of Michigan
athletes, Marissa Pollick can't
help but smile.
Tables of modest food, per
NCAA rules, surround her
as the 'M' Club celebrates its
newest members. Historical
showcases and plaques honoring
every former letter winner
and championship team line
the walls. Decades of athletic
greatness fill the room, with
memories of Bennie Oosterbaan,
Barry Larkin, Charles Woodson
and Cazzie Russell among the
thousands ofothers who wore the
block 'M' with pride.
Bright-eyed freshman student-
athletes fill the room taking in
their newest community. It's a
diverse group, Caucasians and
African Americans, Asians and
Hispanics. But most importantly
to Pollick, men and women.
During the reception, Pollick
begins toengage astudent-athlete
before a different conversation
catches her attention. She
watches as an older colleague of
hers, a man who played football
when her late father went to
Michigan in the late 1940s,
approaches a female athlete to
congratulate her.
"We're so glad you're here," he
says. "We're really pleased you
gals are here."
The comment takes the athlete
by surprise, but not Pollick. She'd
spent her entire career working
toward this point as a tennis
player, as 'M' Club president and
as a professor.
"They were . like, 'Why
wouldn't we be here?' " Pollick
says. "It was just a completely
different mentality. And of
course, now they're on a full
scholarship, they were recruited,
but the perception from the older
generation is so different."
Moments like this transport
Pollick back to her freshman
year, a time so vastly different
from today that she sometimes
struggles to grasp it. And while
she'd never say so, Pollick played
an invaluable role in bringing
Michigan and its legions of
female athletes to this moment in
the'M' Room.
But what's even more
impressive is what Pollick did
for the University after the
experience she had on campus.
Because in the not-so-distant
past, the situation was bleak, and
Pollick foundherselfat the center
ofitall.
Forty years have passed,
but Pollick can still smell the
building.
It was large and made of brick,
with big half-moon windows that
had weathered panes. A track
was just outside, and everything
looked new and pristine when
Pollick first saw it.
In 1974, the University had just
built a brand-new indoor track
and tennis facility that had six
lanes, a pole vault and long jump,
and high jump pits in the middle.
There were five tennis courts and
locker rooms for all the teams. In
typical Michigan fashion, it was
a revolutionary addition to the
athletic campus.

So when Pollick arrived on

and then supporting them, which
was critical. It has to be the same
quality of treatment, which was
our biggest problem," Pollick
said. "We had no resources and no
respect. Under Jack Weidenbach,
things improved."
With Michigan movingtoward
compliance, Pollick graduated
and attended Michigan Law
School, where only 20 percent
of her class was female. After
graduating, she continued her
work fighting for Title IX.
In 1993, despite the University
introducing women's sports
19 years earlier, the 'M' club
permitted women to join its
ranks.
In that same year, Pollick and
two other women became the
first female board members. Their
first order of business: changing
the bylaws to include women.
Six years after joining the club,
Pollick was elected president, the
first female to hold the position.
Today, Pollick is a professor in
the School of Kinesiology, where
she lectures on sports law and
gender inequities in sport while
constantly maintaining an eye on
Title IX legislation.
"There's always work to be
done," Pollick said. "There's no
law in intercollegiate athletics
that's been more controversial or
misunderstood than Title IX."

COURTESY MICHIGAN ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT
Marissa Pollick remembers havingto compete with the rest of the women's tennis team for a limited number of scholarshios. She's one of the few who earned one.

campus as a fr
with hopes o1
she couldn't we
facility.
That yearN
which the U
varsity women
the passage ofI
earlier, the vat
community wa
the inevitable tr
include women
And - albei
Athletic Direct
created six
starting in the f
The fresh sm
facilities could
a new start w
given at the Uni
But the sme
opportunity is
remembers.
No, she
bathrooms.
"So they buil
rooms, but tI
any women's
Pollick said. "V
bathrooms oft]
can literally stil
In the bathr
locker room f
teams, each pla3
folding chair a
No cubbies or b
or training spac
metal folding c
As a woman
athletic oppt
scarce. But Pol
of a lawyer an
an early age, we
'no' for an answ
Hailing f
Detroit, she
tennis at the ag
to her credenti
tournament wi
When she got
School (Mich.),
have a women's
out for the men'
Along with
Pollick made th
on her perform
the passage of
was a law tha
team participal
yet understood
Title IX.

eshman that fall Meanwhile at Ann
f playing tennis, Huron High School, th
ait to use the new situation played out: Tw
were barred from partir
was the first in in men's tennis. In respon
niversity offered sued the school under t
's athletics. With Amendment. They won.
Title IX two years The verdict allowed PF
unted Wolverines play that year.
s forced to accept "The impact was
'uth: it was time to unbelievable," Pollick
. "People didn't like it, an
t begrudgingly - a lot of publicity, but ti
tor Don Canham year our school had
women's teams team as did hundreds ac
all of'74. state. ... What's ridiculou
rell of the athletic reasons these schoolsg
have symbolized not have programs includ
omen were being there wasn't
versity. sufficient
,I of promise and interest in
n't what Pollick varsity tennis
which is just
remembers the silly. bac
"The interest
t those new locker is a function of
hey didn't build opportunity. st
locker rooms," That's always
Ve used the back been the case."
he building, and I That win
1 smell it." for Pollick was
oom, the pseudo- just the first step. A feo
for the women's later, she found herself
yer received a blue Arbor with the hope o
nd one uniform. part of the elite club of M
rooks, no showers varsity athletes.
- just that blue She saw them as the
hair. group with the right to wo
block 'M' emblazoned o
jackets and having accesc
top facilities and coaches
in the early 1970s, were the athletes her own
ortunities were and father had cheered o
lick, the daughter they were at Michiga
d outspoken from dreamed of becoming a 
asn't going to take of the group, and to ev
'r. graduate and become par
rom suburban 'M' Club.
started playing So imagine Pollick's s
e of 10 and added when she first saw her
als by racking up room.
ns and rankings. "When I got to Michigs
to Berkley High IX was in place, but it
the school didn't enforced," she remember
team, so she tried Athletic Director, Don C
s. was one of the leading op:
another girl, of Title IX in the nation
.e cut based solely made no secret of it.
ance. But despite "A lot of major
f Title IX, there directors thought the en
t barred mixed- of this law would lead
tion. And no one ruination of college athlet
the true power of Canham's reluctance 1
up athletics to wome
evident. The women's tent
was allowed just three p
a week, typically at night
dinnertime. At any poi
men's team needed the tr
tennis building, the wom'
bumped.
During Pollick's fr
year, her coach was a
from the local communi
nominaltennisexperienc
the men's team flew to n
the women's players too
or, in many cases, had t
themselves. In hotels, th
four to a room, two to abe
Female athletes receiv
diem amounting to less ti
of what the men received.
"We didn't even play
conference schedule,"
said. "The other scho
exceeded our resours
was very embarrassing
Michigan State was
along in terms of oppor
for women.
"Itwasblatant discrim:
But as the daughter
,THLETIC DEPARTMENT lawyers, Pollick wasn't g
in high school. accept the situation as su

Arbor So, as a freshman, she shared her
e same story with The Michigan Daily.
io girls "The headline at the Daily
cipating read, 'Facility lacks women's
se, they locker rooms," Pollick said.
he 14th "Even at that point, there was
recognition that this wasn't
ollick to right. Even if people weren't
aware of Title IX, they were still
really saying, 'You're not going to have
said. locker rooms?'
d it got "So it became a major story.
he next I got called into see the Athletic
a girl's Director - not the big guy,
ross the because he wouldn't bother, but a
s is the woman who was lower down the
gave to totem pole."
led that She told Pollick she wasn't
permitted to
talk to the
press. And
Ve used the while that may
have been her
first scolding
can literally at Michigan,
it certainly

,
L
.

ill smell it." sn'


t the last.

Pollick next
dealt with Title IX backlash at
the end of her freshman year,
when all student athletes were
to receive their letterman jacket,
emblazoned with the block
'M'. The Athletic Department
didn't know how to handle the
situation, because it was the first
year women had varsity sports,
and it didn't want to give them
the same jacket as the men.
"Mr. Canham was vehemently
opposed to giving women a block
'M,"' Pollick said. "So he enlisted
Bo Schembechler and John
Orr, the football and basketball
coaches, respectively, to join a
national letter campaign through
our 'M' Club."
Canham and both coaches
sent out a packet of letters to all
the 'M' Club alumni, including
President Gerald Ford, hoping to
recruit them to their cause.
In letters held in the Bentley
Historical Library, Schembechler
ended his letter by saying, "I
believe that if this comes to pass,
we will very shortly petition to
change the award for football,
rather than give identical awards
for football and women's sports."
Orr expressed similar
concerns, writing that the award
would "minimize incentive" for
his players because "the level of
performance that the man has
to exhibit are far above those of
the woman."
But after significant ridicule
and backlash, the Athletic
Department decided that women
would receive a block 'M' jacket.
So Pollick was surprised when
the women received a different-
looking jacket. Instead of the
traditional leather sleeves, this
one had wool, and the 'M' wasn't
the same.
"The 'M' was smaller and it
was sort of misshapen," Pollick
said. "It wasn't the block 'M' that
we know today, so I went into
the same director I dealt with
(after the Daily fallout) and I said,
'What is this? This is an imitation,
it's not a block'M'.'
"And she said to me, 'You girls
should be glad with what you
have. ... It's smaller because girls
are smaller' I'll never forget that
as long as I live."
Several women at the
University refused to wear the

jacket while o
transfer to oth
equal opportun
Though some
to receive thi
were upset wit
campus.
Two years
Pollick's juni
University of
women's athlet
thetennisteam
were offered. B
players on the t
"So we had t
(for scholarshi
"It's almost
retrospect."
Pollick was:
to win one, m
the first classo
scholarships a
under Title IX.
During Pol
campus, the en
improved. Th
went up, an
became more p
"But overa
at Michigan
of compliance
shocking," Poll
And it wasn'
athletes who
but the coac
coaches rece
contracts, con
men's 12. All
received signi
and were assig
such as organiz
entire departm
equipment.
"Or take (I
coach) Carol
example," Polli
signed by Mr. C
(also) do graph
sort of hilariou
For Michi
change came it
early '90s wh
hired Athletic
Weidenbach.I
taking the
Weidenbach sw
Athletic Direc
positions. He
Schembechler,
position from 1
"They starte

or season, the As Pollick stands in that room
ffered its first among 'M' Club members, both
ic scholarship. For old and new, she can't help but
, fourscholarships reflect.
But there were 10 She recently reunited with
eam. her old tennis teammates - a
to play each other great opportunity for the alumni
ps)," Pollick said. to come back and mingle with
unbelievable in former and current players.
Celebrating how far women's
one of the players athletics has come is critical, but
aking her part of nothing surpasses the need to
of women to earn educate current athletes of why
t the University they have opportunities to play.
"I make a point to always
talk to the women's teams to
000 share the history," Pollick said.
"This didn't just happen and it's
[lick's years on. a function of many people, not
vironment slowly just me, and the law. As alawyer,
t budget slowly I'm proud of that because you'd
d the coaching think these changes would've
restigious. happened, but without the
11, the program law, the Canhams of the world
was so far out would've prevailed."
it was really Pollick knows it will soon be
ick said. their turn to continue the work
t just the student- she's spent the last 40 years
faced inequities, defending.
hes too. Female "I love my experience as it
eived 10-month was, butI recognize inequities,"
mpared to the Pollick said. "I continue to stay
women coaches involved in spite of it, and I
ficantly less pay think I can do more of a service
ned other duties, than being bitter.
zing travel for the "Now Michigan women's
rent or overseeing athletics is a premier program and
is a great example of compliance."
Michigan softball The athletic budget, which
Hutchins, for once stood at $84,000 for
ck said. "She was women, has exponentially
anham and had to grown. In 2012, the Michigan
ic design, which is Athletic Department spent
s. roughly $19 million on women's
gan, the real athletic expenses, according
n the late '80s and to the U.S. Department of
en the University Education.
c Director Jack But a growth in money doesn't
Before officially always mean compliance, and if
post in 1990, Pollick has learned anything,
rorked below the it's that her work with Title IX
tor in associate is never done. The days of the
worked under blue folding chairs are over, but
who held the when she walks by the old tennis
9f8 to 1990. center, she still remembers that
d by adding sports smell.

thers decided to
her schools with
nities for women.
were just happy
1e jacket, many
h the inequity on
later, during

COURTESY MICHIGAN A
Marissa Pollick tried out for and made the men's tennis teamn

COURTESY MICHIGAN ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT
Marissa Pollick reminds student-athletes that the fight for equality isn't over.


8A - Thursday, February 27, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Ex-Hail to the Victors: 'M' 77, Purdue 76

By NEAL ROTHSCHILD
Daily Sports Editor
WEST LAFAYETTE -
Michigan had another shot to
winit, and this time, a misswould
mean a loss. But Glenn Robinson
III wasn't about let that happen.
The sophomore forward
caught an
over-the- PURDUE 76
head pass MICHIGAN 77
from Caris
LeVert, which sailed over the
Purdue defense fromthe opposite
side of the court. Robinson found
himself in the corner, then
chiseled his way toward the rim
and put up a leaner off the glass
as time expired.
The ball hung on the rim,
and with red lights illuminating
the backboard behind it, it fell
in to give the No. 16 Michigan's
basketball team the 77-76
overtime win.
"We run that play a lot,"
Robinson said.
About every two weeks,
according to Michigan coach
John Beilein. He guesses they've
practiced it about 10 times this
year, and it has also been run in
games in prior seasons. The play
is meant as a misdirection - get
the defenders moving toward the
ball at one end of the court, and
throw it over the top.
"I think that's a great play,
especially when you have
multiple athletes on our team
who can go get that pass with
a couple seconds left," said
Robinson, who scored a team-
high 17 points along with eight
rebounds.
The win took longer than
many would have expected, but
the Wolverines slipped out of
Mackey Arena with their most
exhilaratingvictory of the season
Wednesday night.
After coming back from down
19 in the first half, Michigan
forced a tie late in regulation and
took its first lead in overtime. In
the extra period, the Wolverines
generated their offense through

center Jordan Morgan.
But Purdue hung tough and
took the lead on two made free
throws by guard Ronnie Johnson
to put the Wolverines in a do-or-
die position, down 76-75 with the
ball. Beilein opted against calling
a timeout and the play failed, with
sophomore guard Nik Stauskas
missing an off-balance layup.
Luckily for the Wolverines,
there were still 15 seconds left.
They fouled Purdue forward
Kendall Stephens, and at that
point, the Boilermakers had shot
17-for-17 from the foul line. But
Stephens missed the front end of
a one-and-one, giving Michigan
another chance to win it.
Sophomore guard Caris LeVert
dribbled down the court, but
Beilein didn't like his positioning.
He called the team's last timeout
with 2.9 seconds left, giving the
Wolverines one final shot.
"I seen him through my
peripherals that he overran it."

Robinson said about the ensuing
play. "I just took one dribble and
was at the basket."
Five minutes earlier, the
Wolverines had another chance
at a walk-off victory. Tied 65-65
with 31 seconds remaining,
Johnson was called for a charge
to give Michigan (12-3 Big Ten,
20-7 overall) the final possession.
Beilein called timeout, but
Stauskas was forced into a long
3-point miss to send the game
into extra time.
As Michigan pulled together
its composure at the foul line,
it gave itself a better and better
chance to win the game as the
buzzer neared. Wednesday
night, it also brought the
Wolverines one big step closer
to a Big Ten title.
"We've been through a lot of
situations throughout the year,"
Robinson said. "One thing that
we learned is never give up on
a game."

A Robinson plays
hero at Mackey
Arena once again
By SIMON KAUFMAN
Daily Sports Writer
WEST LAFAYETTE - Glenn
Robinson III was supposed to
be the hero. It only made sense.
He was supposed to catch the
inbounded lob pass, take a
dribble to the hoop and score as
time expired.
That's what the Robinsons
do at Mackey Arena. Robinson's
dad, Glenn Robinson Jr., played
two seasons at Purdue and
averaged 27.5 points per game
before leaving to play in the NBA.
Robinson's younger brother,
Gelen, recently committed to play
football for the Boilermakers. The
Robinsons are a Purdue family
- one of them iust hannened to

escape to Michigan.
So it only made sense that
with the game tied in overtime
Wednesday night, Michigan
coach John Beilein implemented
a play with the sophomore
forward as the main target. And
it only made sense that Robinson
executed it perfectly, sending the
Michigan men's basketball team
home with a 77-76 win.
"Oh man, it was an awesome
game," Robinson Jr. said. "This
is my school, so I root for both
teams. I root for Purdue to play
well, but you know, you gotta lose
this one."
In the second frame, Robinson
helped Michigan chip away at the
Boilermakers' lead. The 6-foot-
6 forward shot 4-for-6 from the
field in the half and led the team
with 17 points on the night.
With 13:47 left in the game,
sophomore guard Spike
Albrecht tossed a pass up for
Robinson. who finished it with

an alley-oop dunk, cutting the
deficit to just nine and shifting
the momentum away from
Purdue. And just more than
two minutes later, Robinson
knocked down a jumper to pull
Michigan to within two.
Then, with less than two
minutes remaining, he went to
the free throw line and knocked
down two clutch shots to tie the
game for the first time since the
opening tipoff.
In the extra frame, the two
teams traded buckets. After
Purdue missed the front end
of a one-and-one chance with
fewer than 20 seconds left, the
Wolverines brought the ball
down the floor. Sophomore
guard Caris LeVert had the ball
at the top of the arc but looked
around in a panic and saw no
options, forcing Beilein to call a
timeout.
Then Beilein pulled out a play
that the team had practiced for
these types of situations - late
in the game with fewer than five
seconds left.
"I don't think we've run it yet
this year, but it's a last-second
play," Beilein said. "One of the
options is just get (the ball) to
Glenn, and Glenn just makes a
play. There's other options in it,
but Caris saw the switch, saw the
mismatch and just threw it up."
Robinson thought the ball
overthrown, so he elevated as
high as he could to get it. When
he came down with it, he saw
that his defender had tried to
pick off the pass, leaving him a
clear lane to attack the rim. He
took one dribble and put up the
shot.
The ball hung on the rim, the
scoreboard lit up red, and then
the ball fell in, making Michigan
winners, and a Robinson a hero
at Mackey Arena - again.
"My teammates know how
much this game meant for me,"
Robinson said. "Especially with
my dad playing here, me being
from Indiana. I thought (my
teammates) did a great job of
never giving up on this game."

series of dump-otts to fifth-year "

the
are to w-- P ,
pre
N n + y
5s x b t
xd sr' e r+M..;k rxr i { 'Fx$ { , .f. f

TAKE YOUR CAREER TO THE NEXT LEVEL
WITH AN MBA FROM OAKLAND UNIVERSITY

Whether you're seeking a promotion, new job
or career change, Oakland University has a
graduate business program for you:
U Master of Business Administration
* Master of Accounting
U Master of Science in Information
Technology Management
U Post-master's certificate programs

Oakland University's Executive MBA is a
graduate business program designed exclusively
for experienced professionals from a variety of
specialized backgrounds to further their business
knowledge in an accelerated format. Learn more
at emba.oakland.edu or attend an information
session on April 5.
Business and accounting programs accredited
by AACSB-International.

I,

GET YOUR BUSINESS ADVANTAGE
Reserve your spot at the
Oakland University GRADUATE OPEN HOUSE on March 13
or apply online at oakland.edu/grad.

Learn more at oakland.edu/business/grad
or call (248) 370-3287.

OAKLAND
UNIVERSITY


Thrdy FbraA 721
BvEml PtAlo
-I oi Colt
i N Oplij


2B - Thursday, February 27, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2B - Thursday, February 27, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Dishes it for
Best Picture
Oscar Nominees

baked.buzzed.bored.
in this series, three daily arts writers in
varying states of mind visit the same
place and write about their experiences.
this week's destination:
Napoleon Dynamite

adies and gentle-
men, I am not Ellen
DeGeneres (though
I was once accused of dress-
ing like her - a compliment, I
think?), and
I have the
backing of
no academy.
I have never
been to Hol-
lywood,
the Dolby
Theater or, NATE
actually, WOOD
anywhere
west of the
Mississippi.
I've never even met a celebrity
(save for a casual sighting of
Jerry Springer exiting his limo
on a seventh grade field trip to
Chicago).
And so it is with that unfor-
tunate dose of reality that I
present the Oscar musings of a
food-obsessed mind: "The Per-
fect Food Pairings for the 86th
Academy Awards Best Picture
Nominees." Cue the opening
credits.
American Hustle:
Spaghetti & Meatballs, Salad
and Red Wine
What better way to cel-
ebrate a leisure suit-clad cast
of mobsters and FBI agents
than with an Italian-Amer-
ican classic - spaghetti and
meatballs? We're talking thick
bucatini noodles, red sauce
loaded with garlic and big,
moist balls of beef and sau-
sage. To round out this carb-
and fat-heavy meal, throw
together a side salad with a
simple Italian vinaigrette and
serve a bottle of a Sicilian red.
J-Law would be proud.
Captain Phillips: Ham Et
Been Soup, Biscuits and Any-
thing with Rum
In the pre-refrigeration era,
sea' voyages' delicacies were
limited to dried beans and
cur'ed meats. And rum. Bis-
cuits? What a treat. Feel free
to bring this menu to 2009 by
using butter that hasn't even
spoiled yet!

Dallas Buyers Club:
Barbecued Baby Back Ribs,
Coleslaw, Baked Beans,
Cornbread and Sweet Tea
Any true Texan would die
for a meal like this. In the
state where everything's big
and barbecue is king, go for
the full rack. Also take note
that baked beans require
bacon and cornbread should
be made in a cast-iron skillet
for a truly authentic crust.
And as far as the Southern
iced tea, even a Yankee like
me can admit ain't nothin'
sweeter.
Gravity: Macaroni Et
Cheese, Granola Bars and
Juice
Luckily for us earthlings,
macaroni and cheese at the
g-force of one doesn't need
to be rehydrated before con-
sumption ... though it is
admittedly less fun to slurp
apple juice from a straw than
out of floating blobs in the air.
Break open the boxes of Kraft,
Quaker and Juicy Juice and
pretend you're an astronaut
yourself to fully enjoy Gravity.
(I'm just now realizing astro-
nauts eat like four-year-olds).
Her: Nothing
For this flick, don't eat
actual food. Instead, use
your iPhone to search for
your favorite foods on Google
Images. Then, fall in love with
the pictures. Finally, trick
yourself into believing that
you're actually experiencing
the complex flavors that eat-
ing these foods imparts on
your taste buds. Virtual food
is just as good as the real
thing, right? Serve with a tall
glass of technological delu-
sion.
Nebraska: Meatloaf
Mashed Potatoes, Green
Beans, White Dinner, Rolls and
a Glass of Whole Milk
I've never driven from Mon-
tana to Nebraska, but I can
only imagine what one might

see while doing so: grass, grass
and more grass. Boredom
aside, this slice of Americana
known as the Great Plains has
one culinary trick down pat
- a meal of good ol' meat and
potatoes. As these kind folks
have already discovered, you
can't go wrong with meatloaf
and ketchup, a mash, a green,
a grain and full-fat dairy.
Philomena: Irish Stew,
Soda Bread and a Pint of
Guinness
A plot in Ireland demands a
few Irish staples: namely, dis-
gusting soup, dried out bread
and bitter beer. And that's
why I support Philomena's
journey: With a culinary tra-
dition like that, I would ditch
the homeland, too.
The Wolf of Wall Street:
Caviar ft Crackers, Kobe Beef
Carpaccio with Truffle Oil and
Don Pirignon Champagne
Only the best for Leon-
ardo DiCaprio's alter ego,
Jordan Belfort - filthy rich,
high life-living stockbroker
extraordinaire: Beluga caviar
straight from the Caspian Sea
on dainty little wafers and
thinly sliced beef from a cow
who was massaged and given
beer daily, washed down with
the best bubbly you and I will
ever be able to afford. But hey,
at least you and I won't end up
in prison. (Whoops - spoiler
alert.)
Will Leo ever
win Best Actor?
All we know is
caviar s great.
I'm hungry ... must be time
for the after party. Cue the
closing credits. .
Wood is chowing down on
caviar. To join him, e-mail
natewood@umich.edu.

s

c
0O


I smoked two bowls of Pineapple Express and played free associa-
tion. Here it is, edited for length and clarity, but not decorum.
"uncle rico, porno, mustache, suitcase, cockyx, bloody steak, see
my video, hand on knee, dressing on arm, pedro, romantic, soulmate,
happy ending, softcore porno, the sounds of chickens in cages makes
my teeth hurt, circle of laugh, run the gauntlet, tooth is itchy, shad-
ing on upper lip - that's what they call it these days, damn my teethy
are itchy, hidden devil, suit its incredible, carrying cupcake? phallic
symbol, where's my bathrobe, skinny jonah hill runs down road to
get skinnier, who invited the goth girl, Jon Hamm's dick, napoleon
chews tobacco, teeth are itchy, angelica from Rugrats seduces napo-
leon, napoleon secretary = typewriter, time travel machine looks like
a sybian, this whole thing is an elaborate parody of porn parody, the
sybian needs crystal, walter white, markers same as beer, looks like
he's chugging donkey semen, my teethy are itchynipple inspection is
funny in of itself, its gettin' hot in here, lets cut all our hair, higher,
higher, i need to get higher....get the joke? A Connecticut Yankee in
King Arthurs' Court, one direction wigs, hands touch in popcorn,
recess schools out theme music, Jonathan Safran Foe gets bullied,
my foot is itchy, mexican standoff, monty python, I wish i had an army
man on my VCR, your hair looks good today, i'm lafawnduh, take off
those sweaty clothes, you've had practice, I don't believe in soulmates,
Monica Lewinsky's blue dress, napoleon has breasts, she likes fish, fat
kid in audience, chimneney changas, mrs. poppins?, he actually has
pretty good moves, moon boots."
- DAILYARTS WRITER
Here's the thing: I've never really "got" Napoleon Dynamite. I get
that you're not really supposed to "get" it, but I've never "got" what
I'm supposed to "get". But I haven't seen this movie since I was in like
5th grade and I've gone through a serious improvement in einemato-
graphic awareness AND I've got a solo cup and a half of cheap wine
and a couple of bong hits in me (I'm the lightest lightweight there has
ever been), so here we go.
We're probably half an hour in and DC has not stopped giggling like
a small child since the movie started. But, this is totally understand-
able. The whole tots plotline absolutely killed me. Tina the pet llama.
Who even thought of this. Every line of this movie is so brilliantly
awkward and every person is just a caricature of a different kind of
weirdo. The color scheme in this movie looks like a mid 1990s fast
food restaurant, which makes me REALLY want fast food to fuel my
drunchies. Kettle corn will do. (Side note: did you know that Google
Drive recognizes "drunchies" as a real word? What a beautiful world
we live in.)
Napoleon's "Vote for Pedro" election dance is the best film climax
I've ever seen. Ok this movie is brilliant. "The people who directed
this movie must have been on acid," DC says, and while that could be
true they could have also been drunk off ten-dollar wine..
-DAILYARTS WRITER
Indifferent? Unenthused? Two unexciting words to parallel my
unexcited state at the prospect of revisiting modern films' favorite
awkward friend, Napoleon. The screen lit up and failed to hook my
attention. Give it a minute though, and suddenly my seat on the couch
seemed a more comfortable place for the next hour and a half. Maybe it
was the music in the opening credits, sounding a lot like a prelude to the
"Juno" soundtrack, which struck a memory of pleasure.
In all, it took me about four minutes to remember why "Napoleon
Dynamite" became a legend. The camera lingers for too long in every
shot, especially during mundane scenes, which become inexplicably
funny. Point in case, Napoleon in a chicken coup, or Napoleon clean-
ing his glasses. It's this kind of simple awkwardness that mostly rules
comedy now, paving the way for actors like Michael Cera to take stage.
A personal favorite scene of mine is Napoleon testing different glass-
es of milk for deficiencies: "This tastes like the cow got into an onion
patch." Who thinks of that stuff? The same goes for Napoleon's interac-
tions with Tina, the pet llama.
I hate to say that Napoleon Dynamite has a kind of sophisticated
irony (that statement has some annoying overtones), but there, I've said
it. That's probably why my mom liked it as much as my brother and I did
when we watched for the first time, and probably why I laughed more
watching it now.
Other things to laugh at upon revisiting this gem: Pedro's eyes don't
move, Uncle Rico selling a plastic bowl, the "medieval warrior" plastic
doll head, Napoleon's delicious sea bass.
If nothing else, the dance scene is epic. We should all learn it as a
party trick. And on the subject of parties, this one still works sober.
- GRACE HAMILTON

SSTOP THE
PRESSES!
@MICHIGANDAILY

SINGLE REVIEW

MUSIC VIDEO REVIEW

In 2009, a still unproven
Tfyga, ajust-about-to-blow
Nicki Minaj and agolden age
Lil Wayne
toamed up for p
the bombastic
"Roger That," Senge
a highlight
from Young Tyga, Nicki
Money's &
compilation inaJ& VI
album We Are Wayne
YoungMoney.
Five years Young Money
later, the trio
has reunited
on "Senile," the latest single
from Young Money's upcoming
Young Money:Rise ofan Empire.
This time, however, the cir-
cumstances are much different.
Nicki is a bona fide superstar,
Tyga has his own career and
Wayne has gone from "Best
Rapper Alive" to meme-inspir-
ing absurdity.
Despite these changes, the
chemistry between the three

rappers isstill there. Over a
stripped down beat with throb-
bing bass and cryptic chimes,
Tyga namedrops Ben & Jerry's,
Nicki stays on her hot streak
and ravages the track claiming
"I got this shit locked tighter
than a bear hug" and Wayne
sounds surprisingly energized
on the closing verse.
Nonetheless, Nicki complete-
ly outshines her male counter-
parts, as she's been doing for a
while now, and Tyga is unable
to escape his habit of face-palm

In his latest music video,
"Addicted to You," Avicii
proves that his progressive
electronic
beats have
their due
place outside AddiCted
the club. Stay- to LoVe
ing true to
its title, the Avicii
fourth single Universal
YOUNG MONEY off of his
debut album,
worthy choruses. Instead of True, confesses a woman's
creating the sound as in years involvement in an uncontrol-
past, Wayne and Co. are now lably addictive relationship.
just adapting, and this beat The video, however, tells a
could easily have been given to deeper story.
anyone from Sage the Gemini In short-film fashion,
to E-40. Young Money is in a the video moves through a
much different place in 2014 series of coherent frames that
than it was in 2009, and while detail the violent lifestyle
"Senile" is a fun banger that of a homogenous couple.
gives hope to the new compila- "Addicted to You" follows the
tion's dreadful looking tracklist, adventures of an outwardly
the crew feels suddenlyout- model waitress spellbound
dated. by a risky-yet-impassioned
-JACKSONHOWARD relationship with a glamorous

female criminal. It justifies
violence and a life of crimi-
nality in the face of love, and
pitches danger as a comple-
ment to passion and romance.
But the video also challenges
the conventional image of a
dominant male responsible
for a couple's lawlessness.
Avicii's musical style has
its advantages. While still
classifying as a dance track,
"Addicted to You" relies little
on its bass and more on its
drops. The music renders per-

UNIVERSAL
fect climactic plot elements,
and the riotous aesthetics of
the video perfectly blend with
uncredited vocalist Audra
Mae's folk slurs.
The video ends tragically,
with the couple meeting their
demise at the hands of a
police squad. The lyrics jus-
tify every plot element, and
once again, Avicii's music
video cements a tragic, yet
convincing story onto his
mesmerizing beats.
-AMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Thursday, February 27, 2014 - 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom [lie hSi(IC Thursday, February 27,2014-

My First
Time
Daily Arts writers
pop their proverbial
cherries for some
of pop culture's
biggest hits.
This week's show:
HOUSE OF
CARDS

Vladimir Nabokov:
I'm not actually

like to think of
myself as the
princess of the
pop culture
party. Though I'm
unfortunately not
a TV-bot capable of watching
every show worth a glance, I
like to think I'm in the know
about the status of most every-
thing airing on TV today. And
I'm choosy in the best way - I
decide if a show is worth my
time with perfectly calibrated
algorithm based on my inter-
ests (and which friends are
begging me to watch it).
But we all have blind spot,
and mine just happens to be
the Netflix original series
"House of Cards." For what-
ever reason, I have picked up
exactly zero spoilers from
Twitter and Facebook and
Tumbr, and have only a pass-
ing idea of what the show is
about. I know Kevin Spacey is
in Congress, and he's a pretty
corrupt dude. He addresses the
camera and gives his speeches
directly into the lens. And his
wife is a certified badass.
But that's it. I've avoided
many a conversation since
the new batch of episodes
appeared on Netflix this Val-
entine's Day. Nobody can
know about my embarrassing
misstep in overlooking "House
of Cards," and of course I'm
too stubborn to go back and
actually watch the show from
Chapter One. So here I am,
jumping into the show half-
way through to try and pick up
some good conversation top-
ics and stay relevant to all the
cool kids. *looks into the cam-
era* Welcome to Chapter One
of my story.
We begin with Academy
Award-winning actor Kevin
Spacey and his TV wife (I
assume, anyway) running in
stylish black tracksuits. Heli-
copters blare overhead. I am
guessing the helicopters aren't
actually chasing Kevin and his
wife, because their jog seems
to be pretty leisurely.
Then, the longest open-
ing credit sequence I have
ever seen. And yes, I have
seen "Game of Thrones." The
"House of Cards" credits seem
to include every minor crew
member, each with his own
title card. I watch the minute
hand of my watch tick past
one minute, one hour, one
year. I watch my hair turn
grey. Washington, D.C. flashes
across the screen in time lapse.
Night scenes. So dramatic.
Finally the credits are over
and we open on our peppy run-
ners. Kevin Spacey's character
is apparently named Francis
Underwood, and his birthday
is coming up. But he's grumpy
and doesn't want any presents.
I can't tell if he's serious or
just saying that to test if his
wifey will get him a great gift
anyway.
Frank and Golden Globe
Award-winning actress Robin
Wright (I finally recognize
her as the wife) enter their
dark and impeccably appoint-
ed home. Frank stretches,
treating the viewers to a qual-

ity butt shot. I am suddenly
100 percent more interested
in this show. Robin Wright's
character is apparently named
Claire Underwood. She sassily
remarks that she will not allow
her husband to smoke, now
that he's going to be the Vice
President soon. So I guess he's
not just a member of Congress?
At work, Frank talks to his
deputy, Jackie Sharp. He sug-
gests to her that she try for
the job of majority whip (his
former post). She's skepti-
cal, since the praise seems to
be coming from nowhere. I
get the impression that Frank
doesn't speak this kindly to
most of his coworkers. But he
impresses her by giving her
the files on her competitors,
which he conveniently stores
on his computer. Believe it.
This guy has files on EVERY-
ONE.
But in his meeting with fel-
low political bigwigs, Frank
doesn't even mention Jackie's
name as a possible candidate
for Whip. I'm not sure I trust
this guy. He seems to be mak-
ing promises he can't keep
not the makings of a very good
politician in my book.
At this point, I take a break
to go grab a handful of cereal
from a box under my bed. The
one handful quickly turns into
what would probably fill a
bowl, should I actually bother
to use one. I glance over at the
screen. Somebody is throwing
a deck of cards into a trashcan.
A reference to the show's title?
Now, an angry Mrs. Apple-
baum confronts a poor preg-
nant mistress at her home. I'm
not sure who these people are
or how they are relevant, but
I'll just assume that one of the
Underwoods is manipulating
them or that Mr. Applebaum is
a politician.
By halfway through the epi-
sode, I'm finding it increasing-
ly difficult to keep up with the
plot. Apparently Rachel Posner
(the waitress) is the last loose
end in some scheme that Frank
had concocted in Season One,
and everybody wants to take
her out. Journalist Zoe (Kate
Mara, "Deadfall") receives
some strange texts and replies
to them with nifty on-screen
popups. She has a boyfriend (?)
named Lucas, but she doesn't
seem too interested in spend-
ing any time with him or clue-
ing him in on her own schemes.
Nobody is helping me out with
names, either. I still don't
know what to call Frank's chief
of staff.
Rachel Posner is pretty
scared when Chief of Staff
comes into her home. She holds
a knife to him as he claims that
she's in danger. But I'm not
convinced he's here to protect
her.
Also, nobody has addressed
the camera yet or given any
sassy speeches. I'm disappoint-
ed in you, show.
Okay, so now I know why
Zoe is relevant. She's texting
Frank, apparently talking
about some guy named Russo.
He was found dead in the pas-
senger seat. Which begs a few

NETFLIX
questions - who is Russo?
How did he die? Who was driv-
ing the car that killed him? I
think Zoe knows the answers
to these questions (and prob-
ably the answers to a few too
many questions). Frank wants
her to delete her phone his-
tory and erase all evidence
of context and a relationship
between them.
Frank and Claire do some
political work in bed (no, actu-
al political work). She talks
about trying for a baby, but
it's all diagnostics and results.
Something tells me she isn't
really interested in having a
baby, either (#PowerCouple
#NoTimeForRomance).
Frank Underwood is liter-
ally eating ribs in the morning.
And having a totally chill con-
versation with a guy about slow
bleeding meat and killingwith-
out mercy. What a guy!
Frank and Zoe are at the
train station now, and that
whooshing sound definitely
doesn't sound good. Those
tense drums aren't helping,
either. Add Frank's Heisenberg
hat and mysterious shades, and
Was Russo in the passenger
seat? Frank says he might have
been halfway there. He was an
alcoholic I guess, and either
killed himself or was mur-
dered by someone else. Again,
Zoe brings up all the secrets
she is definitely not supposed
to know. Girl is really setting
herself up for an Angry Frank
Speech now.
Wow. Okay. Bye, Zoe. Frank
pushed her in front of a freak-
ing train, because I guess that's
a logical thing to do when
someone totally agrees to
delete her phone history. I can't
believe that nobody saw and
no cameras or security guards
or Secret Service people were
around to stop it. Apparently
the future Vice President can
just go wherever he wants and
do anything without supervi-
sion. Whoever let him go alone
definitely hasn't seen "Home-
land."
Frank is totally casual about
Zoe's murder on the news.
Nobody suspects anything,
except maybe Lucas. He paces
around the room angstily.
Oh. Frank got a cake for his
birthday. And driver-guy got
him some sweet cufflinks for
his gift, even though he specif-
ically asked for no celebration.
Oh, Chief of Staff, taking care
of his man and threatening
poor waitress/call girl Rachel
Posner. All in the name of love.
Finally, Frank is address-
ing the camera. Justifying his
murder of Zoe, claiming that
in D.C., it's either hunt or be
hunted. Close up on Frank's
cufflinks, aptly featuring a
sassy "F U" design. It's funny
because it's his initials!
And thus, the end of my
first experience with "House
of Cards." It was pretty enter-
taining, and I'm probably going
catch up over Spring Break.
I'll just have to pretend like I
didn't just spoil everything for
myself.
-CHLOE GILKE

ladimir Nabol
Look her
sitting on thE
reading a collection o
stories written by the
literary
"greats" -
acclaimed
MFA creative
writing
graduates
from the
University
of Iowa and JOHN
Columbia LYNCI
that no
one has
ever heard of outsi
self-serving microcosi
produced them - and I'
to venture to say thatt
I'm currently taking ha
as much inventive, exhi
literary worth as the w
these authors. Now, bef
dismiss me as a trash
charlatan, read the woi
follow and judge me b
alone. You can always co
naive, dilated asshole for
prose style.
I once believed that
impossible to create
work of art without sot
of enhanced enlightenm
past that now. Presently
ize that the drugI actua
is whatever natural pres
of Vigorous Life allowet
write so ecstatically. I:
stop laying on my Tempu
bed like a depressed woi
no purpose and get up a
at how infinite the sky
sleep with beautiful woi
cry like a baby (preferab
rate from sex) and write

an ass o e
kov, truly insane person I am. Of co
e. I'm See, I've sat in the dreaded I might
e toilet, writers' workshop. I've felt my ambitioi
f short eyes wander from the "dev- chance!
modern astating" piece my classmate possible
wrote about some problematic slip on
relationship - his style imitat- ice and
ing the same short stories I'm etable, I
currently debating wiping my this wo
ass with - and drift toward the gance as
window as I contemplated how Now,
I need to take my author head- all theI
shots before I lose too much high scl
hair. slowlyc
H Listen, Teach: I'm never gonna PowerP
kill my darlings. I'm a writer, not of a dou
a murderer. ically. "
de the Oh sagacious Vlad, how your things,"
m that writing has plunged deep into ly no on
m going the chasms of my temporal lobe, to read
the shit unlocked that perfect pattern of for may
s about neurons and allowed me to cre- lyst int
larating ate without inhibition or worry madnes
orks of of repercussion. You are the ever goi
ore you reason I sit here spewing this someda
-talking spontaneous shit. You are the absorbe
rds that reason I've become possessed Lister
y them by this demon called Confidence any lite
unt on a into thinking that I can actually without
a fancy become one of the greats. it beat
Now look over there: it's my five-foo
it'd be poor Greek mother reading that I
a great this article, mouth agape. She's God's b
ne form shaking her head and mumbling and ca
ent; I'm about how she's failed as a so that
, I real- parent. She's joined a faceless love an
ly need Greek Chorus in a back and synonyr
cription forth zeibekiko dance and heart st
d you to started shouting at me about I hop
need to hubris and humility. going t:
ir-Pedic Listen, Mommy: Hubris is words s
rm with detestable - of course it is - Best,
:nd look but it's most definitely not when A Fel
- is and my pen is to the pad. If I'm not
men and Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Vonne-
ly sepa- gut, Kerouac and Nabokov all in
like the one, then I am absolutely nothing.

urse, there is a chance
not live up to my lofty
ns! Of course there's a
But since it's equally
that tomorrow I might
some good ol' Michigan
instantly become a veg-
I think I'd rather live in
:rld of solipsized arro-
rd see where it takes me.
my word, here comes
people that hated me in
hool to sit me down and
coach me through some
oint slides on how much
chebag I've been histor-
In the grand scheme of
they yell at me, "near-
ne in the world is going
this column - except
'be a brave psychoana-
ent on deciphering your
s - just like no one is
ng to read the novel you
y plan to write, you self-
d piece of shit!"
n, Fuckboys: I say screw
rary world that exists
me in the center of
ming like the balding,
t-eight gift from God
am, worshiping all of
eautiful gifts on Earth
pturing them in prose
people can laugh and
d make reading & bliss
mous, before and after my
ops beating.
e you know that I'm not
o die with all of these
till in me.
low Lunatic
Lynch needs to calm the
fuck down. To help, e-mail
jplyn@umich.edu.


TRAILER REVIEW

Anybody who misses hear-
ing Walter White's voice spew
with its characteristic force
will no doubt
find good
company B+
in the new
"Godzilla" Godkih
trailer.
It appears Warer Bros.
Bryan Cran-
ston ("BreakingBad") has
returned to subvertgovern-
ment authority once again,
but this time as a good samar-
itan looking to expose a con-
spiracy. With the grandeur of
modern special effects on full
display, we see immediately
that something has wreaked
havoc on human civilization.
The government says it's a
natural disaster. Bryan Cran-
ston says it's not. Guess what
it really is?
The core piece of wisdom
in the new "Godzilla" movie
seems to be the words issued
El
For many comedies, sea-
son one serves as a way to
test different versions of the
show and
find out what
works best.
"Brooklyn Brooklyn
Nine-Nine" Nine-Nine
never really
had to do this Tuesdays at
because, from 9:30p.m.
the pilot, the FOX
writers had a
good ideaof
who the characterswere and
how to write for them - with
the exception of one. This
week's episode made progress
with solving that flaw, as well as
givingthe restofthe ensemble
much to do.
Since itsinception, "Brook-
lyn"'sbiggest issue has been
with Andy Samberg's character,
Jake Parelta, being immature
to afault. It was hard to laugh
athischaracterwhen hewas
constantly acting in such a

deplorable manner each week.
This week's episode proved the
writers are working on chang-
ing that, with a story about Jake
collaboratingwith Gina (Chelsea
Peretti, "Kroll Show") to save
him from being evicted from his
apartment. And with his plan to
have Gina buy the apartment,
Peralta actually made a choice
that would not justlhelphimself.
This is ahuge signofprogress
for the character, as the writers

FOX
work to tone down his immature
tendencies.
Elsewhere, "Brooklyn"'s
ensemble continued to click.
Watchingeach ofthelittle sub-
plots, including the precinct's
self-evaluations, were highly
amusing. "Brooklyn Nine-Nine"
still has a major problem to
solve, but this episode shows
that progress can - and will
- be made.
-ALEX INTNER


4B - Thursday, February 27, 2014

Rh5

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


SAFE SEX
From Page 1B
My first time entering the Safe
Sex Store (S3) was on my 18th
birthday. A group of other fresh-
men and I wanted to celebrate my
new legality by doing something
new and adult, so we stumbled
through the glass door and into
a wonderland of sexual delight.
Rows of brightly colored vibra-
tors in all sizes and shapes salut-
ed us from their plastic stands.
Giggling nervously, we ran our
hands through a bucket of Mag-
num condoms, their gold wrap-
pers glinting in the sunlight that
poured in from the giant glass
windows facing South Univer-
sity. We sheepishly eyed edible
underwear. Varying versions of
the Kama Sutra lined the book-
shelves; they were mysterious
to me, packed with secrets that
felt forbidden in other places but
seemed to proudly sing, "I'm sexy
and I know it," in this particular
space.
We didn't stay long that day -
beef stroganoff was waiting for
us in the dining hall - but I con-
tinued to think of S3 as a place of
adventure. I hardly returned, but
Iliked the idea of the store's pres-
ence. It was exciting to be inside;
it seemed like a place of silly fun.
Whenever I walked by, I cracked
a little smile.
But S3 is actually much more
than an emporium of dildos and
flavored condoms.
BethAnnKarmeisool, avibrant
woman in her early 40s with a
new set of braces and easy pas-
sion in her voice, started the store
in 1995. It was the tail end of the
AIDS crisis, which began in the
late 70s and killed hundreds of
thousands of people before any-
one fully understood how the dis-
ease was even spreading. Though
hope was slowly approaching
people were learning how to pro-
long the disease's transition from
HIV to full-blown, lethal AIDS
with incredibly expensive and
often harmful drugs - fear was
everywhere.
"People were afraid to hug
each other. People were afraid to
kiss each other,"Karmeisool said,
her voice's bright tone flattening
into one of sadness. "20 years ago,
when I'd be in a group of people
and I'd say'What is your number
one fear regarding your sexual
health?' They would say, 'HIV,

contracting HIV.' People were
afraid to die."
Most of the hysteria came
from a misunderstanding about
the disease. People were getting
bad information - many thought
AIDS could be contracted fromh
poppers, toilet seats and skin-to-
skin contact - which led to panic
amongst even those who were
low risk.
At the time, Karmeisool was
23 years old with a job in corpo-
rate America. She was making
plenty of money; she owned her
own house and had two nice cars.
But she was stunned that people
were still contracting and dying
from a disease that they could
easily avoid if armed with the
right facts. She wanted to help
save those innocent lives, so she
got involved. Karmeisool's jour-
ney with sexual heath started at
The Rainbow Connection, Michi-
gan'sversion of the Make-A-Wish
Foundation, where she worked
with AIDS-infected adolescents.
Eventually, with a little help from
her proud and philanthropic par-
ents, Karmeisool opened S3.
Though the sale of adult toys
and products are Karmeisool's
means of staying in business,
she is adamant that a commit-
ment to promoting sexual health
comes first. In fact, under espe-
cially difficult circumstances she
has gone as far as giving away
condoms and products to people
who could not afford them. She
even went back for her Masters
in Public Health after opening
S3 to reinforce her commitment
to the store's mission, which was
always to provide "consistent and
correct information about sexual
health, but do it in a way that was
open, normalizing sex, reduc-
ing stigma and making the store
available to all people regardless
of age, race, sexual orientation,
economic standing, religious val-
ues." It's crucial to Karmeisool
that customers at S3 can ask any
employee personal questions
without feeling judgment, and
get information that will improve
their lives.
To ensure that this approach to
customer service stays consistent,
S3's hiring process is extremely
rigorous and selective. Accord-
ing to Karmeisool, each applicant
must have previous experience
with sexual health and education
before they are even considered
for a position. Also, because the
store's employees are a close-

knit team, each applicant must
be interviewed and approved by
everyone who works there. If any
worker has a bad feeling about an
applicant like if they hesitated
on the issues of transgendered
people, or other non-normative
lifestyles - they're out; the team
has to be certain and unanimous.
Once someone proves that
they have the right soul and atti-
tude for the job, they have to go
through a lengthy training pro-
cess. This includes attending
classes on sexually transmitted
diseases, which are administered
by the state of Michigan and paid
for with the store's budget. They
also undergo intensive training
on every product in the store.
Billy, a member of Sexperteam
who started working at S3 in
August, said he had to memorize
the details of all the merchandise,
from the lubricants' chemicals to
the sizing and types of condoms.
"There are five types of con-
doms, by the way," Billy said with
a smile, showing off the knowl-
edge he worked hard to procure.
Karmeisool explained that the
process is so intensive because
Safe Sex Store has more respon-
sibility to its guests than other
merchandise-moving businesses.
If a salesperson at the mall con-
vinces someone to buy a hideous
shirt, for example, the worst-case
scenario would be returning the
atrocity or cutting your loses. But
at S3, "if somebody makes a bad
decision in buying something, or
they use it incorrectly and some-
thing happens, that could harm
their life," said Karmeisool. "It
could alter their path and com-
pletely change who they are."
This is why, at this rare type of
business where safety and good
information come before sales,
having a well-informed staff is
extremely important. This may
be especially true for a place that
offers a large range of services
like S3 does.
In 2010, Safe Sex Store added
on-site HIV testing to its list of
services. Each Thursday from
2-8pm,atestcounselorfromHIV/
AIDS Resource Center (HARC)
conducts this free, confidential
and even anonymous testing in
the store's private back room. All
it takes is a finger prick, 15 min-
utes of your time, and courage to
get through the door.
As to be expected, S3 does
their best to take the edge off of
the otherwise nerve-wracking

Those Lollicocks look oddly phallic...
and clinical test. You can wait
for your results by browsing the
store's collection of vibrators,
chatting with one of their charis-
matic employees, chowing down
on an Insomnia Cookie, or getting
emotional support from Jake, the
therapy dog - a golden retriever/
Labrador mix who can be found
lounging in the sun by the front
entrance.
Mike Wallace, S3's test coun-
selor from HARC, said the most
important asset to this test site is
its many other functions. Some- -
one could be coming in on a
Thursday for a variety of reasons,
from picking up a Valentine's Day
gift to replenishing their supply
of Trojan condoms. Those who
walk into S3 for an HIV test are
hardly noticed by the outside
world because the store doesn't
have the same stigma that may
come with entering a clinic.
When I joked about the HIV-
testingbeinga"covertoperation,"
Wallace replied, "Yes, it's covert.
But it's no back door operation."
And he's right. The store is a fun
cover for those beingtested, but it
is also elegantly professional and
supplies support for issues I never
would have imagined.
While we talked in S3's small,
clean storage room, Karmeisool
showed me a hand vibrator that
fits onto the wrist and tips of the
fingers. Usually, this product is
used to increase sexual arousal,
but apparently there's more to it
than that.
"We have actually sold that to
a customer whose daughter has
cerebral palsy," she told me, tap-
ping on the box with a picture of
a woman's beautiful hand draped
in white wires. "It's an awesome
way to get vibration to the mus-
cles to try to get them to com-
municate with the nerves and do
massage therapy."
S3 also has women coming
in for a variety of gynecologi-
cal issues. Brittany Batell, the
store manager who was recently
accepted into a dual masters
program with the University's
School of Social Work and School
of Public Health, told me more
about the health side of the busi-
ness. "We'll get referrals from a
lot of gynecologists, OBGYNs and
sex therapists in the community,"
she said, her eyes shining with
intelligence and pride. "Women
come in here because they have
sexual pain so we can hook them
up with a better lubricant and a
vaginal dilator set."
Both Batell and Karmeisool

explained that it can be hard
for women to tell their doctors
about their chronic sexual pain.
For one, doctors often only have
about 15 minutes on average to
spend with each patient, so if
someone is shy about discussing
their sex life, it can be difficult to
cut to the chase. Secondly, it isn't
easy to physically point to a prob-
lem's exact source. This is why S3
sells informational books such as
Why Sex Hurts, which has the
most comprehensive drawing of
female genitalia I've ever seen,
along with tips and exercises for
over-coming pain.
The Safe Sex Store even has a
female social worker on staff to
help field questions about sexual
issues that may not be physical in
nature. Thiswoman isAlexandria
Champagne, who recently got her
Masters in Social Work from the
University where she specialized
in sexual and domestic violence
counseling. As can be expected
from the versatile employees at
S3, Champagne's knowledge is
also multi-faceted. Her expertise
extends beyond abuse and into
the world of playful bondage.
She is even releasing a book this
March called "Knotty Time! A
BDSM Safety Guide, " which will
help newbies explore kink in a
fun and secure way.
However, despite the good that
disseminating all of this sexual
health information does, its taboo
and sensitive undertones can
come with a set of social risks for
those who work at S3.
Batell and Billy mentioned that
every once in a while disrespect-
ful people come in asking inap-
propriately personal questions
about what the employees use
on their own time - inebriated
sports enthusiasts wandering
into the store on game day are the
most likely culprits.
Billysaid that askingaggressive
questions about his own experi-
ence with toys and condoms goes
beyond unprofessional. It is actu-
ally a form of sexual harassment,
and in the past he has reminded
hecklers that he could report
their behavior to the authorities
if they pushed their luck too far.
Batell added that some people just
don't immediately see that work-
ing in the Safe Sex Store does not
make the employee's sex lives up
for discussion.
"I can give you the specs on
anything in here," she said, "but
(those questions are) personal."
Karmeisool sometimes runs
into similar trouble when she's in

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS/Daijy
social settings, like dinner parties
where people are programmed
to shake a stranger's hand and
instantly ask, "So, what do you
do?" It's not that Karmeisool is
embarrassed about her profes-
sion; on the contrary, S3 seems to
be her dream turned into a reality.
It's just difficult for the average
person to see past the sex swings
and latex at the front of her busi-
ness and into the sexual activism
and support she performs on a
daily basis.
"You're always, always, always
having to defend yourself, which
is crap," she said with a nervous
laugh. "You know? It really is crap
because sex is a part of who we
are. We're all sexual beings."
However, Karmeisool said that
she doesn't let these skeptics get in
the way of her mission to help oth-
ers with their intimate issues. At
the same cocktail party, once hand-
shakes are in the past and a few
glasses of wine have been poured,
near-strangers will often ask her
questions about their sex lives.
They wonder how to combat their
dryness and chronically half-mast
members; how to get their hus-
bands to touch them in the spots
that make them purr. And Kar-
meisool answers them - willingly,
patientlyand withoutjudgment.
And this commitment is really
what it comes down to - S3 is
brave about sex so that we can
benefit from their knowledge
and be comfortable solving seri-
ous sexual problems that would
feel unmentionable in any other
space. These passionate sex edu-
cators don't let micro-aggressions
or cocktail party judgment stop
them from disseminating the
clear and crucial information that
could save people pain, and even
save some lives.
They will help anyone, no
matter their gender identity,
race, sexual orientation,
religion or how much money
they can spend, because they
want us all to be happy, healthy
sexual beings. Whether their
guests are teenagers sheepishly
investigating condoms for the
first time, college students
shopping for cake pans in the
shapes of penises, 70 year old
couples exploring lubricants,
someone concerned about his or
her HIV status or pedestrians
just coming in to giggle about
furry handcuffs, Safe Sex
Store is meant to be a venue for
open communication, reliable
information and unwavering
support.

Safejy is the golden rule.

JUST TO BE SAFE...
follow us on twitter for more arts coverage
@michigandaily
Philosophy, Politics & Economics
Applications are now being accepted for the Undergraduate Program
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)
Deadline is March 14, 2014. Visit
wwwIsa.umich.edu/ppe
for more information


