Iq1)E I liclgan &aim

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, January 8, 2014

michigandaily.com

UNIVERSITY HOUSING
Pipe bursts
soak halls,
displace
residents
Students in East ing all water and setting up fans
and dehumidifiers in the affected
Quad, Oxford rooms, Logan said. He added that
students' personal items that
return to flooded were soaked by water from the
broken pipe have been sent for
residences cleaning.
The University will be provid-
By ALLANA AKHTAR ing alternate rooms during the
Daily StaffReporter cleaning process. Logan said stu-
dents should contact University
A handful of students return- Housing if they need assistance
ing to campus this week found finding temporary lodging or to
their rooms flooded and dorm report items damaged by the leak.
buildings in need of repair. Logan said he believes most
East Quadrangle Residence rooms will be dried out by Friday
Hall, which reopened in 2013 and students will be allowed to
after a year of renovation, and return by Monday at the latest.
Oxford Residence Hall reported "We will continue to keep in
pipe damage on Monday morn- touch with them when we know
ing and Tuesday morning, when their rooms are habitable,"
respectively. Though record low he said.
temperatures from the recent LSA freshman Ava Tavrazich
snowstorm caused the break- was displaced from her room
age in Oxford, the cause of East Tuesday due to the leak in East
Quad's leak remains unknown. Quad after she received a call tell-
University Housing spokes- ing her she could not move back
man Peter Logan said there were into her room until Friday. Uni-
17 rooms affected by water infil- versity Housing arranged a tem-
tration in East Quad, impacting porary room for her in West Quad
31 students. University mainte- Residence Hall, where she said
nance workers are continuing to they would drive her after gath-
dry and clean rooms by extract- See PIPES, Page 3A

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
Students and Ann Arbor residents fill Au Bon Pain as it opens for business in the old University Club at the Michigan Union Tuesday.
Union debuts Au Bon Pain

Cafe chain fills
former home of
University Club
By RACHEL PREMACK
Daily NewsoEditor
Early morningstudiers rejoice
there's a new bakery in town.
After months of renovations,
the Au Bon Pain cafe and bakery
opened Tuesday on the first floor
of the Michigan Union. Dur-
ing its opening, the cafe served
ready and custom-made sand-
wiches, salads and bakery items
to a small crowd of students and

Ann Arbor residents.
Michigan Union director
Susan Pile said she was pleased
with the opening day turnout,
considering Tuesday's sub-zero
temperatures and not all stu-
dentshad moved back to campus.
A student-centered opening day
with free samples and perfor-
mances will welcome more stu-
dents on Jan.16.
Au Bon Pain replaces the
University Club, which opened
in 1937 and closed this sum-
mer. Renovations, which began
in late August and ended at the
end of the Fall 2013 semester,
were conducted to maintain the
Union's heritage while updating

.the space for modern students,
Pile said.
Pile added that the Univer-
sity took care to ensure the new
restaurant preserved the space's
character, including the Univer-
sity Club's original entry arch
and flooring.
"We were really intentional in
working with the arch of Au Bon
Pain that we didn't want to take
just their cookie cutter operation
and put it here at Michigan," Pile
said.
To keep the space University
focused, student photography of
the campus is also featured in
the restaurant.
Seating is in a room adjacent

to the serving area and includes
between booths, group seating
and couches. This seating struc-
ture allows Au Bon Pain to be
used as a study and gathering
space for students.
"They heard us in honor-
ing what is the Michigan Union
and what is the tradition here,
but updating it to make it more
usable for student needs today,"
Pile said.
Laura Seagram, marketing
and communications special-
ist for the Union, said the space
can accommodate a stage and be
used for poetry slams, a capella
shows and other student events.
See AU BON PAIN, Page 3A


CITY GOVERNMENT
Council*
agenda
finished
from '13
Site plans, old
resolutions quickly
approved in year's
first meeting
By WILL GREENBERG
DailyNewsEditor
The first Ann Arbor City
Council meeting of the year was
shorter than usual as council
members moved quicklythrough
old and new business.
The Monday meeting, held on
one of the coldest nights of win-
ter thus far, featured a handful
of the city's homeless and their
advocates who came to voice
their concerns about having ade-
quate shelter during the danger-
ously cold weather.
Several speakers during the
public commentary addressed
See COUNCIL, Page 3A

HOSPITAL
Twelve hospitalized
in intensive care for
HiNi virus at UMHS

NICHOLAS WILLIAMS AND ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
LEFT Ann Arbor resident Matt Wilkin shovels his car out of a snow bank during the ice and snow storm Sunday.
RIGHT Snow covers campus following a storm making it difficult for students to return for classes.
Classes compmencedespite
below-zero temperatures

After notorious
2009 run, swine
flu hits hard again
By IAN DILLINGHAM
Daily News Editor
Twelve patients at the Uni-
versity Hospital are receiving
treatment in the intensive care
unit after contracting the HINT
influenza virus - the same
strain seen in the 2009 "swine
flu" pandemic.
Dr. Sandro Cinti, professor
of infectious diseases, said sev-
eral of the patients have been
placed on an advanced form of
life support known as ECMO -
extracorporeal membrane oxy-
genation. While the procedure
is intended to give patients more
time to recover from their dis-
ease, Cinti said it is both "very
serious" and a "last resort" for
the most seriously afflicted
patients.
All twelve patients are cur-
rently breathing with the help
of mechanical ventilators and
receiving aggressive treatment
to prevent infection while doc-

tors treat the underlying influ-
The patients range in age
from 22 to 58 and most were
considered healthy prior to con-
tracting the disease. This range
is consistent with 2009 infec-
tion patterns, which showed
younger demographics infected
at a higher rate than the elderly,
who were most likely exposed
to a similar form of the disease
many years ago.
H1N1 was most widely publi-
cized during 2009 - prior to the
creation of a vaccine - when it
killed over 470 individuals in
the U.S. Despite fadingfrom the
public spotlight, the disease has
been present in every flu season
since the pandemic, Cinti said.
"Last year it was just at a very
low level, but this year it's the
main flu going around," Cinti
said.
Since the current flu vaccine
is designed to protect individu-
als against the HINt flu strain,
doctors at UMHS speculate the
12 individuals currently in the
ICU did not receive the vaccine,
or were infected before it was
able to take effect.
See H1N1, Page 3A

Provost requests
accomodations for
stranded students
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
As temperatures fell below
zero degrees across much of
Michigan, University admin-
istrators and staff are work-
ing to counteract the effects of

extreme weather conditions as
students return to school for the
start of the winter semester.
University spokesman Rick
Fitzgerald said the campus will
not close for the extreme weath-
er and classes will not be can-
celed on Wednesday.
"Wednesday is the day that
is forecast to turn around a bit,"
Fitzgerald said. "Because of
the campus' largely residential
nature, it is really unusual for
the Ann Arbor campus to close

because of weather."
However, Fitzgerald advised
students who may be unable to
return to campus on Wednes-
day due to the weather to keep
in touch by email with their
instructors:
"What we've learned in the
past is that professors are very
much understanding of those
situations that are out of the
control of students," he said.
In an e-mail, University Pro-
See TEMPERATURES, Page 3A


INSIDE

the next zuckerberg?
A look at how 'U' students are building

Le~o~ade I
~I

. ...._ _. , s.. ,. . r a ...

WEATHER1. H1 :27
TOMORROW LO 18

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Man exposes himself in Mason Hall
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS .........................2A SPORTS .......................6A
VolCXXIV, No.43 SUDOKU ...................2A CLASSIFIEDS............... 6A
(02014STheMichiganDaily OPINION....................4A STATEMENT................18
michigandaily.com

I I


2A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

(Pie MOdP= DnaIlm
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Besiness Manager
734-41a-4115 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandailycom

FREEZE FRAME

Yale assistant professor overdoses

Medical examiners revealed
Monday that 34-year-old Samuel
See, an assistant professor of Eng-
lish and American Studies at Yale
University, died of a heart attack
induced by an accidental over-
dose of acute methamphetamine
and amphetamine, Yale Daily
News reported.
See was found dead in jail last
November after a domestic dis-
pute with his husband, Sunder
Ganglani. The two men reported-
ly had protective orders against
one another, and both were
sent to jail when police discov-
ered Ganglani at See's home on
November 23rd. The New Haven
Police Department stated that
See resisted arrest, fell and was
cut above his left eye.

See received treatment for the
injury at Yale-New Haven Hospi-
tal and was detained immediately
after. He was found unresponsive
in his cell at 6 a.m. the next day.
Students and faculty members
interviewed were unaware of
See's drug use, though two sourc-
es knew of his ill health. Katie
Trumpener, an English professor,
said See once told her he was HIV
positive. Lindsey Uniat, a student
and advisee of See's, said See had
referenced having health issues
before, though he described them
as non-life-threatening.
Man discovered living in
Duke University's Bryan Center
Duke University police arrest-

ed a man Monday after a faculty
member found him living in the
Bryan Center, a central student
affairs building on campus, The
Chronicle reported.
The man was found sleeping
in the Religious Life office locat-
ed in the building's basement.
Chief of Police John Dailey
said the college-aged male was
arrested for breaking and enter-
ing and theft. He reportedly stole
several items, including an iPad
and a laptop. Duke faculty also
suspects the man is linked to the
theft of numerous previously sto-
len items.
-KAITLYNBYRNE

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaly.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classifed@michigandaily.com
Finance
fnance@michigandaily.com

NICHOLASWILLIAMS/Daily
Icicles collect on a house after a storm covered Ann
Arbor in ice and snow Sunday.

CRIME NOTES

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Plowin' down No card, no car Bullet catch MWireless

WHERE: 1137 Block of Ann
Street
WHEN: Tuesday at around
6:50 a.m.
WHAT: A snow plow struck
a Blue Bus on the roadway,
University Police reported.
The crash resulted in dam-
age to the side mirror and
had no major injuries to
passengers.

WHERE: Washtenaw Road
WHEN: Sunday at about
9:40 p.m.
WHAT: A driver was
arrested during a traffic
stop for having a suspended
driver's license, University
Police reported. The subject
was processed and released,
with warrant authorization
pending.

WHAT: Writer and per-
former Rob Drummond will
perform a theatrical magic
show where he explores the
infamous stunt the Bullet
Catch
WHO: Rob Drummond,
Arches Prouction
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Walgreen Drama
Center, Arthur Miller The-
atre


Lock up the Crash and dash C
drugs WHERE: East Medical C
Center parking lot demonstration


sorkshop
WHAT: Sessions will help
University students get
connected better to the
campus-wide WiFi network.
WHO: Michigan Adminis-
trative Information Services
WHEN: Today from 6:00
p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
WHERE: Shapiro Harold &
Vivian Library
Final strums
WHAT: This will be the
Final round in the SMTD
Concerto Competition.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre & Dance
WHEN: 4:00 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
" Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

As he was playing hide-
and-seek, a mangot stuck
in a washing machine
last monday, the Huffington
Post reported. Paramedics
had to lube the man, naked at
the scene, with olive oil to get
him out. This was the second
time this week he got stuck.
As a rising number of
student startups shift
the entrepreneurial
scene in Ann Arbor, onlook-
ers are nicknaming our area
the new 'Silicon' Mitten.
>> FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
Anana, Chicago's Lin-
coln Park Zoo polar
bear, was kept inside
last Monday as tempratures
were too cold, reported the
AP. Though the record-low
Chicago temps are compara-
ble to what polar bears expe-
rience in the wild

EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenniertalfas Manaig Nes Editor jealfas@michigandaily.com
SENIOR NEWSEDIOS Iang iing hamEoSam Gringlas, Wl renberg, Rce remack
and StephanieShenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
Michael Sugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
AlejandroZihiga ManagingsportsEditors sportseditors@michigndailycom
ENI TS EDITORS: Max Cohen, AlexaDettelbach, RajatKhare, JeremySummitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John lynchand jlynech@ochigadaiy.com
Akshay Seth Managing Arts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIORARTSEDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,Erika Harwoodand
ASSTNT ARTS EDITORS: JamieBircoll, Jackson Howard,Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
ASSSoTANTOTOEDTORS lisonFarsrandTryKoTerraMolengraff and Nicholas
Williamis
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela Vasquez ManagingDesignEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand Alicia Kovalcheck
tarlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Nicholas Cruz
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson Maaging Cpy Editorso copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandHollisWyatt
Austen Hufford online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projectscoordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daly ,ssN 0745t967) is published Monday through Friday duing the fall and winter terms by
sde"tsattheUniv"e s"tohi" O pry'" " saalabef'e'f' argeo'allr s.'t' o naopiesmay
be picked up at the Dailys office for $2. Subscriptions for fall termstarting inS eptem sva U. s.malare$110.
Winter term(January th ough Apri:) is $5i yearong (septem s through April is $19s.University afiiates
a'es'bj"ttoarduesu "ptio'te O0-camps"u"sri't'onsforfalltermnare $35Ssbscriptions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

WHERE: Von Voigtlander
Women's Hospital
WHEN: Monday at about
2:30 p.m.
WHAT: Initial reports
were filled for a possible
larceny of medications
between Dec.17 and 25.
There is a possible suspect,
Iniversitv Polie renartel

WHEN: Saturday at about
12:00 p.m.
WHAT: A vehicle was
struck while parked in
the structure between 2
and 11:30 p.m., University
Police reported. There was
damage to the fender and
bumper. No suspects were
reorted.

WHAT: A workshop on
how to clean and prepare
native seeds for propagation
will take place today.
Participants will make their
seed packets ready to plant.
WHO: Matthaei Botanical
Gardens & Nichols Arbo-
retum
WHEN: Today from 6:45
p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
WHERE: Matthaei Botani-
cal Gardens

Israeli militants captured -


and held by Palestinians
Settlers captive for away by soldiers. a Palestinian boy in the he:
Human rights groups have clash ensued, farmers calle
two hours before reported an increase in attacks reinforcements and about
by militant settlers on Pales- youths arrived from the vil
tinians and their property in Odeh said.
the West Bank in recent years. The settlers ran away an
KARYOUT, West Bank (AP) However, Tuesday's incident villagers gave chase, said C
- Palestinians on Tuesday appeared to mark the first time and another witness, vi
chased and grabbed more than settlers were captured and held resident Abdel Hakim Wad
a dozen Israeli settlers who wit- by Palestinians. They said several of
nesses said had attacked Pales- The Israeli military said it settlers sought cover in
tinian farmers near a West Bank had received word of a stone- building under construc
village. throwingclash between settlers located on the edge of the
The settlers were held for and Palestinian farmers and lage of Karyout, about four1
about two hours at a house that it later evacuated 11 settlers meters (2.5 miles) from Qus
under construction before being with light and moderate injuries Villagers grabbed them .
handed over to the Israeli mill- from the building. ever and turned the buil
tary. During the standoff, the The incident began at about into a holding area where
settlers huddled near a wall 10:30 a.m. near the West Bank also put other settlers
of the house, several bleeding village of Qusra, southeast of chased down in the area, C
from the head, and one was the city of Nablus, said Ziad said.
lying on the ground. Odeh, the Muslim prayer leader Some of the settlers were
By the time Israeli soldiers in Qusra and a member of the up, and most had signs of 1
arrived, the crowd surrounding village council. ing injuries, according to a:
the settlers had grown to about He said about 25 to 30 settlers, photographer at the scene.
200 people, an AP photographer many of them masked, attacked Odeh said the beal
said. People kicked and spit at Qusra farmers in an olive grove stopped after the settlers'
the settlers as they were led with sticks and stones, injuring seized.

ad. A
d for
100
lage,
d the
Odeh
illage
ith
the
ithe
tion,
vil-
kilo-
sra.
how-
ding
they
they
Odeh
etied
beat-
n AP
tings
were

Ann Arbor is covered in ice and snow following a storm that hit campus Sunday afternoon, making it difficult for many
students to return for Wednesday classes.
Record-breaking frigid

S -

"When they were caught,
they were beaten, but after
we brought them to the build-
ing, we did not let anyone beat
them," said Odeh, adding that
the captives were given water
and bandages for their wounds.
Odeh said the settlers
involved in the attack on the
Qusra farmers were in their late
teens and 20s.
The military said the chain of
events apparently began after
Israeli authorities removed an
illegally built structure in Esh
Kodesh, a rogue settlement in
the area.
In recent years, militant set-
tlers have often responded to
any attempts by the Israeli mili-
tary to remove parts of dozens
of rogue settlements, or out-
posts, by attacking Palestinians
and their property.
The tactic, begun in 2008, is
known as "price tag."
Villages in the area have
repeatedly come under attack
by militant settlers, said Odeh,
adding that assailants also set
fire to four area mosques in the
last three years.

weather
Extreme winter
conditions bring
dire consequences
ATLANTA (AP) - Fountains
froze over, a 200-foot Ferris
wheel in Atlanta shut down, and
Southerners had to dig out win-
ter coats, hats and gloves they
almost never have to use.
The brutal polar air that has
made the Midwest shiver over
the past few days spread to the
East and the Deep South on
Tuesday, shattering records
that in some cases had stood for
more than a century.
The mercury plunged into
the single digits and teens
from Boston and New York to
Atlanta, Birmingham, Nashville.
and Little Rock - places where
many people don't know the
first thing about extreme cold.
"I didn't think the South got
this cold," said Marty Williams,
a homeless man, originally from
Chicago, who took shelter at a
church in Atlanta, where it hit
a record low of 6 degrees. "That
was the main reason for me
to come down from up North,
from the cold, to get away from

spans the nation
all that stuff." fingers freeze off after t
The morning weather map minutes, your cheeks feel
for the eastern half of the U.S. you're going to get wind
looked like an algebra work- and you work as quick a:
sheet: lots of small, negative can."
numbers. In fact, the Midwest Farther south, Birming
and the East were colder than Ala., dipped to a low of 7,
much of Antarctica. degrees colder than the
In a phenomenon that fore- mark, set in 1970. Hunts
casters said is actually not allthat Ala., dropped to 5, Nash
unusual, all 50 states saw freez- Tenn., got down to 2, andI
ing temperatures at some point Rock, Ark., fell to 9. Char
Tuesday. That included Hawaii, N.C., reached 6 degrees, b
where it was 18 degrees atop ing the 12-degree record
Mauna Kea, a dormant volcano. had stood since 1884.
The big chill started in the The deep freeze dragg
Midwest over the weekend, in the Midwest as well, wit
caused by a kink in the "polar thermometer reaching mit
vortex," the strong winds that overnight in the Chicago
circulate around the North and 14 below in suburba
Pole. By Tuesday, the icy air Louis. More than 500 An
covered about half the country, passengers were stranded
and records were shattered like night on three Chicago-b
icicles up and down the Eastern trains that were stoppe
Seaboard. blowing and drifting sno
It was 1 degree in Read- Illinois. Food ran low, bu
ing, Pa., and 2 in Trenton, N.J. heat stayed on.
New York City plummeted to 4 The worst should be
degrees; the old record for the in the next day or two,
date was6, set in 1896. the polar vortex is expect
"It's brutal out here," said straighten itself out. Wa
Spunkiy Jon, who took a break weather - that is, near or
from her sanitation job in New freezing - is in the foreca
York to smoke a cigarette in the much of the stricken partt
cab of a garbage truck. "Your country.

three
as if
burn,
s you
ham,
four
e old
ville,
ville,
Little
rlotte,
-reak-
that
ed on
th the
nus12
area
an St.
mtrak
over-
sound
ed by
ow in
ut the
over
when
ted to
armer
above
ast for
of the

I

I

0


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 8, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 8, 2014 - 3A

NEWS BRIEFS
DEARBORN, Mich.
Ford CEO will stay
at Dearborn-based
auto manufacturer
Alan Mulally is staying at Ford.
The CEO, who was rumored to be
in the running to become Micro-
soft's next leader, told The Associ-
ated Press Tuesday that he won't
leave the Dearborn, Mich., auto-
maker before the end of 2014."1
would like to end the Microsoft
speculation because I have no
other plans to do anything other
than serve Ford," Mulally said in
an interview.
When asked if this should end
investor concern about his depar-
ture, Mulally said, "You don't
have to worry about me leaving."
Mulally wouldn't say if he had
talked to Microsoft about becom-
ing CEO. But he said the specula-
tion was a distraction for Ford.
CHICAGO
Study finds
tobacco control
has saved 8M lives
Anti-smoking measures have
saved roughly 8 million U.S. lives
since a landmark 1964 report
linking smoking and disease, a
study estimates, yet the nation's
top disease detective says dozens
of other countries do a better/job
on several efforts to cut tobacco
use.
The study and comments were
published online Tuesday in the
Journal of the American Medi-
cal Association. This week's
issue commemorates the 50th
anniversary of the surgeon gen-
eral report credited with rais-
ing alarms about the dangers of
smoking.
In one study, researchers used
national health surveys and death
rates to calculate how many
deaths might have occurred since
1964 if Americans' smoking hab-
its and related deaths had contin-
ued at a pace in place before the
report.
WASHINGTON
Deadline for new
federal budget
extension looms
Funding for implementing the
new health care law and other
stickingpoints remain, but nego-
tiators reported significant prog-
ress Tuesday on a $1.1 trillion
spending bill to fund the govern-
ment through September.
"We are looking at narrow-
ing the differences, looking at
how we can compromise without
capitulation on both sides," said
Senate Appropriations Commit-
tee Chairwoman Barhara Mikul-
ski, D-Md.
After a meeting of the four
principal negotiators - the top
Democrats and Republicans on
the House and Senate Appropria-

tions committees - Mikulski was
cautiously optimistic of reaching
agreement on the massive bill
later this week in hopes of a vote
next week.
LONDON
Four killed in U.S.
helicopter crash
A U.S. Air Force Pave Hawk
helicopter crashed in the coastal
marshes of eastern England dur-
ing a training mission on Tues-
day night, killing all four crew
members aboard, officials said.
The helicopter crashed at
about 6 p.m. local time near
Salthouse on the Norfolk coast,
a statement from the U.S. Air
Force said. The aircraft was
based at the nearby Royal Air
Force station in Lakenheath,
Suffolk County, which hosts
USAF units and personnel.
Emergency workers from the
fire brigade, coast guard and
police are at the scene. Police in
Norfolk County said they believe
there is ammunition onboard
the helicopter, and the scene
was cordoned off so that experts
could ensure the area is safe.
Apart from the crew, nobody was
put in any danger, police said.
-Compiled from
Daily wire reports

PIPES
From Page 1A
ering her belongings.
Although she is staying on
Central Campus Tuesday night,
Tavrazich must stay on North
Campus Wednesday while her
room is cleaned. She said the sit-
uation was a "bit of aspain," and
hopes her belongings are intact.
"I realize they couldn't really
control the problem because of
the weather, but it's just really
inconvenient," she said. "My
mom has to come and drop off
my things and I have to find
another place to stay."
AU BON PAIN
From Page 1A
This Friday, Au Bon Pain will
host a UMix Late Night event.
Pile said Au Bon Pain fits the
needs of students with its variety
of dietary options. A nutrition
facts kiosk in the restaurant lists
the full nutritional and allergy
information of each menu item.
The fast casual restaurant has
over 200 restaurants across the
United States and internation-
ally. The restaurant focuses on
healthy fare at budget-friendly
prices, general manager Tony
COUNCIL
From Page 1A
the council asking for
increased shelter both at night
and during the day. Many speak-
ers specifically requested the
opening of the currently vacant
building at 721 Main St.
However, the building in
question is not up to code and
could be dangerous for people
staying there. It poses a liability
for the city and is not likely to be
utilized, even as shelter, accord-
ing to councilman Jack Eaton (D
- Ward 4).
"There has been an ongoing
public dialogue over why we
would allow empty buildings
like that," Eaton said."You have
people out in this kind of weath-
er, and you have empty build-
ings, and it's not hard to draw
that connection, and it's just that
there's all those details."
Mary Jo Callan, director of
Community Development for
Washtenaw County, reported to
the council that all shelters have
been open day and night this
week. Callan said Ann Arbor's
Delonis Center, which has a
capacity of 200, has not turned
down anyone to staythere so far.
She added that all shelters have
also loosened their rules on sub-
stance use for those requesting

Logan said the East Quad
damage is more severe than in
Oxford. Radiator pipes in two
houses of Oxford leaked, affect-
ing six rooms and few dozen
students. Oxford rearranged
students within the dormitory
so that students could "stay
within their community." Logan
predicted that recovery will only
take a few days as maintenance
and repairs is already underway.
Logan said that although
these accidents are unfortunate,
there is very little the University
is able to do other than try and
evaluate whether other pipes are
exposed to prevent similar inci-
dents in the future.
Campeau said.
"Our concept is conve-
nience and ease for our guests,"
Campeau said. "The idea is that
if you're in a hurry, you can take
a look at our signature sand-
wiches and salads in the refrig-
erated section or you can make
them to order."
Next door, constructors are
working on the Starbucks that
was originally slated to open
in November. There is no new
opening date for the coffee shop.
Au Bon Pain will be open
daily in the Union from 7 a.m. to
10 p.m. and accepts Blue Bucks.
The cafe has a 10-year lease on
the space.
shelter.
Aside from the discussion
over the shelters, the city coun-
cil unanimously passed all old
and new business with minimal
discussion on any item.
The Traverwood Apartments
site plan was approved, as well
as usage of .27 acres of the wet-
lands for the development. The
complex will be comprised of 16
buildings and will be located at
2225 Traverwood Drive.
The council also approved a
plan to bring new restaurants
Briarwood Mall. This site plan
will bring a P.F. Chang's China
Bistro and Bravo Cucina Italiana
to the shopping center. Addi-
tionally, council approved the
Montgomery building site plan,
which would add four floors to
the existing building, along with
a few smaller items.
After minor wording and pen-
alty amendments from council
members Christopher Taylor
(D - Ward 3) and Sally Petersen
(D - Ward 2), the city policy for
removal of on-street metered
parking spaces was approved.
The ordinance requires develop-
ers who remove parking spaces
for new construction to pay a
penalty. According to the leg-
islation text, developers have
removed over 200 parking spac-
es over the past few years, caus-
ing a significant loss in meter
revenue.

TEMPERATURES others faced canceled flights at
airports across the country.
From Page 1A LSA freshman Spencer Hagler
was one of these students, wait-
vost Martha Pollack asked fac- ing for six hours at New York's
ulty to be flexible with first-day LaGuardia Airport before learn-
attendance and wait-list policies ing his flight was canceled. He
for students experiencing weath- was supposed to leave Monday
er-related delays such as flight evening, and will now fly to
cancellations and poor road con- Detroit Wednesday morning if
ditions. weather permits.
"Please take into consider- Though his first class isn't
ation these unusual circum- until the early afternoon on
stances that are beyond our Wednesday, Hagler said return-
students' control," Pollack wrote. ing to Ann Arbor on time will
Dean of Students Laura Blake also depend on road conditions
Jones sent an e-mail to students and cab service.
Tuesdayevening assuringtravel- "It should be okay," he said.
ers that professors will accom- "But who knows what else will
modate students who cannot go wrong?"
return to campus in time for The National Weather Service
their first class sessions. has issued a wind chill warning
"Some of you are concerned that will remain in affect until
about missing the first day of 7 a.m. Wednesday. With the
class because of weather-related wind chill factored in, tempera-
delays in travel," she wrote. "Stu- tures are expected to drop to
dents will not be dropped from 35 degrees below zero Monday
a class they are unable to attend night and into Tuesday morning.
and will be given any necessary The National Weather Service
class material when they return said this weather event is likely
to campus." the coldest air to hit southeast
Business sophomore Elena Michigan in twenty years.
Contis was stuck on the Los Atmospheric Science Prof.
Angeles International Airport Perry Samson, who teaches a
tarmac for two hours before her course on extreme weather, said
flight to Detroit took off due to the extreme cold is part of a nat-
inclement Michigan weather and ural fluctuation.
a water main break at Detroit Samson said the polar jet
Metropolitan Wayne County stream, which is "a ribbon of
Airport Tuesday afternoon. high-speed air that circum-
Although she made it to Ann navigates the Arctic region" has
Arbor before classes began, Con- developed a wave reaching into
tis said she would worry about North America, causing cold air
missing course material if her to be driven farther south.
flight was cancelled or delayed. "Suchundulations can happen
She said that classes should be anywhere over there northern
postponed until the end of the hemisphere in our winter but,
week. fortunately, don'tusually become
"Regardless of whether or this pronounced," Samson said.
not we get punished for miss- The last time the University
ing classes, we're still going to canceled class due to weather
miss information," Contis said. was in 1978 when 19 inches of
"I don't care about not getting snow covered Ann Arbor.
in trouble; I care about missing University Housing sent out a
potentially important material." travel alert to students, advising
Contis was one of many stu- them to postpone travel back to
dents to face delays before Ann Arbor until Tuesday, when
returning to Michigan, although the "severe winter weather" is
started slightly later than in the
H1N1 past, will likely extend into Feb-
From Page 1A ruary and potentially further,
Cinti said.
The University accepts com-
"This is a preventable disease, plex referrals from across the
so peopleshould get vaccinat- region, which may have contrib-
ed," Cinti said. "This is another uted to the high number of criti-
example of what happens when cal cases.
the population doesn't take "That's one of the reasons we
recommendations from public may be seeing more sick patients
health and get vaccinated." is that we are a referral cen-
Although UMHS usually sees ter from all over the state and
several critical flu cases each from other states," Cinti said.
year, Cinti said 12 patients is an "This particular procedure, this
unusual occurrence. In addition, machine is really unique to just a
the flu season is not expected to few centers in the state."
hit its peak for another couple ECMO was used in a similar
of weeks, meaning more cases context in 2009 to treat critical
could be admitted. patients. Although it wasn't orig-
This year's flu season, which inally designed for this purpose,

expected to ease. Still, Hous-
ing opened campus dormitories
and facilities Monday, dispatch-
ing staff to shovel snow off the
walkways, work the dining halls
and let new students move in and
complete their paperwork.
Peter Logan, University Hous-
ing spokesman, said the e-mail
was sent so returning students
would "consider the possibility
of postponing their travels" in
order to avoid the "treacherous
conditions."
Logan referenced a pipe break
in the East Quadrangle dormito-
ry that resulted in minor flooding
early Sunday. Maintenance staff
was unsure whether or not the
issue was a result of the weather.
In a statement, Rich Robben,
executive director of Plant Oper-
ations, said maintenance crews
are addressing building issues
as they become aware of them.
He also said crews will complete
building sweeps to scope out
problems such as frozen pipes or
heating issues.
The University of Michigan
Health System has committed to
remaining open despite weather
conditions. Officials said in an
e-mail that the hospital plans to
provide transport for essential
staff and cots and food for staff
that serve extra hours during the
storm and following cold weath-
er conditions.
UM-Flint will remain closed
Wednesday, while UM-Dearborn
will resume classes as scheduled.
Though the University's
semester does not begin until
Wednesday, other area institu-
tions with Monday start dates
were forced to cancel classes
Monday and Tuesday in light of
snow and chilling temperatures.
Michigan State University,
Eastern Michigan University
and Grand Valley State Univer-
sity cancelled classes Monday
due to extreme weather condi-
tions. Both EMU and GVSU have
canceled Tuesday classes and
MSU canceled classes Tuesday
through S p.m.
it has been used to successfully
treat a small number of extreme
cases.
"By the time you're on ECMO,
you're pretty sick and your
chances of survival or rather
low," Cinti said.
Cinti advises individuals to
take protective measures, such
as staying home if sick, to pre-
vent spreading the flu to other
individuals. UMHS has imple-
mented several reminders and
restrictions for visitors to the
health system to protect healthy
patients at the hospital.
Information from the Univer-
sity Health Service about flu vac-
cination availability can be found
here.

United Arab Emirates expected
to release American man soon

Stocks tick up after
brief New Year slump

Averages rise but
future remains
uncertain for
investments
NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks ral-
lied Tuesday, ending a slump that
had ushered in the New Year.
The Standard and Poor's 500
index climbed the most in three
weeks, led by gains for health care
stocks. UnitedHealth Group, the
nation's largest health insurer, and
Johnson & Johnson both climbed
on recommendations for brokerage
firms.
After three straight declines,
the S&P 500 would have matched
its worst opening of a year since
1978 had it closed lower for a fourth
day. The stock market's slow start
to 2014 contrasts with last year's
exceptional performance,whenthe
S&P 500 climbed to record levels
aftersurgingalmost30percent.
"To me the trend still looks up,
even though we've been chop-
ping around," said Bill Stone,
chief investment strategist at PNC
Wealth Management Group. The
economy "seems to be in the mode
that you would expect corporate
earnings to continuetogrow"
The S&P 500 rose11.11points, or
0.6 percent, to 1,837.88, the biggest
gain since Dec. 18. Nine of the 10
sectors that make up the index rose.
The Dow Jones industrial aver-
age climbed 105.84 points, or 0.6
percent, to 16,530.94 The Nasdaq

composite gained 39.50 points, or 1
percent,to 4,153.18.
UnitedHealth group gained
$2.27, or 3.1 percent, to $76.51 after
analysts attDeutsche Bank said they
expected the nation's largest health
insurance company to charge cus-
tomers more in premiums thisyear.
Johnson & Johnson climbed
$1.96, or 2.1 percent, to $94.29 after
analysts at RBC Capital raised their
outlook on the stock to "outper-
form," in part due to optimism on
sales of the diabetes drug Invokana.
Investors were also encouraged
by the easy passage in a Senate
vote late Monday of Janet Yellen's
nomination to take the helm at the
Federal Reserve. The vote puts
an economist in the post who has
backed the Fed's recent efforts to
stimulate the economy with low
interest rates and huge bond pur-
chases.
The confirmation is a reminder
that the Fed's policiesof stimulating
the economy will likely continue,
said Kristina Hooper, U.S. Invest-
ment Strategist at Allianz Global
Investors.
"It's just a nice little halo effect,"
said Hooper.
Investors will get more insight
into the Fed's thinking when min-
utes from the Federal Open Mar-
ket Committee are released on
Wednesday. The Fed announced
after its last meeting that it would
begin winding down its monthly
$85 billion bond-buying program.
That stimulus was a major support
for last year's rally in stocks.

Minnesota man held
for nine months
for "defaming"
online video
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) - An
American who's been held in the
United Arab Emirates for nine
months in connection with a
satirical online video about youth
culture in Dubai was expected to
be released soon, the U.S. State
Department said Tuesday.
Shezanne Cassim, 29, of
Woodbury, Minn., was arrested
in April, six months after he and
others uploaded their spoof docu-
mentary to the Internet.
The United Arab Emirates-
owned daily, The National, has
said Cassim and his co-defen-
dants were accused of defam-
ing the country's image abroad.
Cassim's supporters said he was
charged with endangering state
security under a 2012 cyber-
crimes law that tightened penal-
ties for challenging authorities.
Cassim has been in the maxi-
mum security prison at Abu
Dhabi since June. In December,
he was convicted and sentenced
to one year in prison, a fine and
deportation.
Pooja Jhunjhunwala, a State
Department spokeswoman, said
Tuesday that Cassim has been
moved to a deportation facility
for processing.
"We understand processing
will take a few days at which
point he will be returning to the

United States," she said, adding:
"We continue to work closely
with the UAE authorities to
ensure his quick release."
Cassim's family said Cassim
is out of his cell block and in a
deportation processing section
of the prison. They expect him to
return home this week.
"I can't tell you how relieved
our family is by this turn of
events," Cassim's brother, Sher-
von Cassim, said in a statement.
"We are very excited, and we are
grateful to everyone who worked
to free Shez."
State Department spokes-
woman Jen Psaki said Cassim
has been credited with pre-trial
detention time and given time off
for good behavior.
Rori Donaghy, director of the
London-based Emirates Cen-
ter for Human Rights, said a
defendant's release after serv-
ing three-fourths of a sentence is
customary.
Donaghy said Cassim and his
friends never should have been
imprisoned, and the cybercrimes
law needs to be changed, as
authorities have continued to use
it to restrict free speech.
Cassim, a U.S. citizen, was born
in Sri Lanka and moved to Dubai
for work after graduating from
the University of Minnesota in
2006. He became the public face
of the defendants after his family
launched an effort to publicize his
months-longincarceration.
Seven others were convicted
with him in December. Two
Indian defendants received simi-

lar sentences, while two Emi-
rati brothers received lighter
sentences. Donaghy said the Emi-
ratis have been released. Three
others - a Canadian, Briton and
an American - were convicted
and sentenced in absentia. They
have never been detained.
Donaghy said another Emirati
who spoke out in support of the
amateur filmmakers was arrest-
ed and remains imprisoned.
Gulf Arab authorities have
been cracking down on social
media use over the past twoyears,
with dozens of people arrested
across the region for Twitter
posts deemed offensive to lead-
ers or for social media campaigns
urging more political openness.
Cassim's video, titled "Ulti-
mate Combat System: The Deadly
Satwa Gs," is set in the Satwa dis-
trict of Dubai. It is a documentary-
style video that pokes fun at Dubai
youth who styled themselves
"gangstas" but are not particu-
larly thuggish, and shows fictional
"combat" training that includes
throwing a sandal and using a
mobile phone to call for help.
It opens with text saying the
video is fictional and is not meant
to offend.
U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar
(D-Minn.), who worked on Cas-
sim's release and pushed to have
his sentence include time served,
said: "Jailing this young man
for months for posting a harm-
less video made absolutely no
sense, especiallyin a country that
prides itself on being a tolerant
and just nation."

I

I

I


4A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

I C Mdcigan 4:at*g
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD and
PETER SHAHIN DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Buying democracy
Snyder introduces bill that reduces transparency in campaign donations
n Dec. 27, 2013, Governor Rick Snyder signed a law that doubles the
amount of campaign contributions individuals can donate. The law
also solidifies non-disclosure laws that hide the names of individual
and corporate donors from the public, inhibiting proper democratic oversight
of the election process. Duringhis gubernatorial campaign, Snyder blasted the
lax regulations on issue ads. He ran on the promise that he would force donors
to reveal their identities as well as reduce the amount of spending in political
campaigns. Transparency is crucial to the fair and democratic process of gov-
ernment. Snyder and the Michigan legislature should introduce more legisla-
tion increasing transparency, rather than promote non-disclosure.

Bursting the Ann Arbor bubble

ike clockwork, twice a year
it happens: exams end sud-
denly, winter break and
summer vaca-
tion begin just
as abruptly and
all of my Uni-
versity friends
from outside
Metro Detroit
leave ASAP to
their respective
homes. Those ALEXANDER
who do hang HERMANN
around for any
period of time
either imbibe themselves emphati-
cally (somewhere between South U
and Main Street, of course) or spend
an unthinkable amount of time on
the couch catching up on the latest
Netflix offering, both as a means of
numbing the mind following their
undoubtedly roughest semester yet.
And who can blame them, really?
Exams are stressful. The weather
sucks. And at home family and
friends typically claim everyone's
holiday time months in advance.
But for me, this time serves as
the perfect reminder that there's
so much worth seeing in Metro
Detroit, including things without
equivalent in Ann Arbor, and even
in the United States. Unfortunately,
many University students rarely
take advantage of this during their
time here.
Though you may have missed
one perfect opportunity at the end
of last semester, an equally good
opportunity presents itself right
now at the beginning of another.
So, before another "worst-semes-
ter-ever" really heats up, grab your
nearest car-owning friend and
burst the Ann Arbor bubble for the
first time.
Allow me to make a few recom-
mendations:
Middle Eastern Cuisine
Of any community in Metro
Detroit, Ann Arbor might have the
best overall food options. From
cheap college food and late-night
options, to a wide-range of eth-
nic (or ethnically inspired, in most

cases) choices, to
ing, Ann Arbor off
everyone. But tha
does all food equal
Take Middle E
example. Without
options on- and of
Arbor are of the
they-are" variety.
city of Dearborn,
concentrated Arab
munity in the Uni
forty minutes eas
The crucial stop
ery on Warren Av
Middle Eastern pa
fee and even its o
cream. From ther
just Yelp your way
better than anythi
Arbor. That stratel
last time in Dearb
Al-Ameer res-
taurant left-
overs, just a
couple blocks
from Shatila, for
days after eat-
ing there for the
first time over
break.
Detroit
Considering
I could - and
have - devoted
entire columns tc
city of Detroit, I'
gritty details and
just a few recomm
itously, there are e-
for students not to
with the Detroit C
offering weekend<
Detroit.
For the uniniti
Institute of Arts r
class museum wit
Bruegel the Eld
Gogh and more.
do in Detroit: Slor
best barbecue yo
ern challengers we
Bell's, though it's
Last Word for jazz
Michigan Brewe
I love Ann Arb
much as the next g

some finer din- ery, Grizzly Peak and Blue Tractor
ers something for included. But only Wolverine State
t doesn't mean it Brewing Company holds a candle to
lly well. the larger stock of incredible Mich-
Eastern food for igan breweries across the state.
pointing fingers, Now, I won't ask you all to drive out
f-campus in Ann to Kalamazoo, Bellaire or Grand
"good-for-what- Rapids to try Bell's, Founder's and
Fortunately, the Short's, respectively, especially
with the highest considering their most prominent
American com- beers are readily available locally,
ted Sates, is just bottled and on tap. But you should
t of Ann Arbor. definitely check out a few of the
is Shatila Bak- closer, lesser-known options.
enue that serves I'm admittedly a little biased con-
stries, cakes, cof- sidering I grew up less than a mile
wn brand of ice from Dragonmead Microbrewery in
e, you can simply Warren, but it offers everything that
to Lebanese food Wolverine State does, but way better.
ng served in Ann You think Wolverine State is located
gy paid off for my in an obscure, out of the way location
orn, as I enjoyed off campus on West Stadium? Drag-
onmead raises
you an unmarked
Before another "worst- building in an
industrial com-
semester-ever," burst plex adjacent to
an expressway
the Ann Arbor service drive.
bubble for the first You think Wol-
verine State's
time. double-digit in-
house taps are
nice? This week's
menu at Dragon-
o discussing the mead offers 45 of its own brews on
ll spare you the draft, each as delicious as the last
leave with you If you're not up to going to War-
endations. Fortu- ren, there is also Bastone Brewery.
ven fewer reasons A solid brewery by itself, Bastone
visit the city now is located in downtown Royal Oak,
Center Connector within walking distance of a num-
shuttle service to ber of other bars and restaurants in
Royal Oak and, after only a five min-
ated, the Detroit ute drive, Ferndale, probably the two
emains a world- "trendiest" places outside Detroit
h paintings from and Ann Arbor in Metro Detroit.
er, Monet, van Classes are only just beginning,
Other things to and despite your best-intentioned
ws Bar BQ is the efforts to "get ahead," we both
u'll find (South- know what's inevitable. So why not
elcome) and Cliff make "syllabus week" an extension
pricey, kills the of winter break, and check out some
:. of what Metro Detroit has to offer?

The new bill protects financial donors to
issue ads by allowing them to do so without
revealing their identities. Although issue ads
don't specifically endorse a specific political
candidate or proposal, the issue ads are overtly
political. Theyusually attack a specific official's
policy and can contain a line that tells viewers
to proactively take a stance on the issue by vot-
ing, calling political officials, etc. The ads have
been highly successful in the past and some
have even been labeled attack ads.
The new law requires these ads to reveal the
political group funding the ad, but it doesn't
require identification of financial donors. This
allows political groups to fund biased ads that
may be damaging or factually-questionable
without public repercussions. Groups that place
robocalls and issue ads will be required to pro-
vide an "authorized by" disclaimer, but those
statements won't give any information about
donors or support groups.
Thenewlaw willnowdouble campaigndona-
tionlimits, from $3,400 to $6,800 for candidates
for statewide office, from $1,000 to $2,000 for
candidates for state Senate, and to $1,000 from
$500 for candidates for the state House. The
limitswill increase slowlyovertime. Inthe 2010
gubernatorial race 99.992 percent of Michigan
residents did not reach the limit for campaign
donations. This will only allow more affluent
Michigan residents to have a more powerful say
in Michigan's gubernatorial race.
This legislation also solidifies the non-
disclosure laws that ensure the anonymity of
donors to political issue ads. Unable to discern
which individuals or what political groups may

be paying thousands to push an agenda, voters
participate in government without knowing
which issues are promoted by special interests
with a history of controversies with transpar-
ency, including the New Energy to Reinvent
and Diversify Fund, Snyder should be aiming
to improve Lansing's transparency rather than
further restricting public access to information.
This new law is a complete turnaround from
Snyder's platform position in2010,whenhe pub-
lished an administrative report, which argued
that the anonymity of political donors harmed
Michigan voters. The publication argued that
the combination of large political contributions
and anonymous donorscreated a "perfect storm
where citizens become disenfranchised with
politics ... unable to follow who istryingto influ-
ence policy and for what reasons."
The expanded funding cap furthers the
movement towards monetizing governmental
policy by increasing access to the wealthiest
of individuals. It promotes support for special
interest groups and encourages a system where
the most affluent citizens are able to heav-
ily influence government policy and elections.
Since the 2010 Citizens United Supreme Court
case, corporations and wealthy individuals
have been able to donate ludicrous amounts of
money in support or opposition of a candidate
under their first amendment right. This creates
a system in which candidates are focused on
appealing to who may make the largest dbna-
tions instead offocusingonthe people. Snyder's
new law only further propels this trend toward
buying officials, alienating the people from the
democratic process.

ries
or's breweries as
uy - Arbor Brew-

- Alexander Hermann can be
reached at aherm@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Kaan Avdan, Sharik Bashir, Barry Belmont, James Brennan, Rima Fadlallah, Eric
Ferguson, Nivedita Karki, Jordyn Kay, Jesse Klein, Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh,
Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman,
Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
Writing our conclusion


JONATHAN HERSHAFF I
A wolf in sheep's clothing
Boom! Crash! 6 a.m.You wake up in your dorm the post-1967 occupation. Many individuals have
room to loud explosions up and down the hall- grown up during that time period facing check-
way. Youhave no idea what's going on, and natu- points, poverty and near-constant war without
rally begin to panic. As you rush to the front door, ever having been alive duringthe pre-1967 wars.
you notice a large flyer has been slipped under- It is grossly unfair and one-sided, however, to
neath. It reads: highlight Israeli acts of war that have affected
#MOCKROCKETFIRE. The explosions Palestinians while completely ignoring Pales-
you've heard are not real and are not dangerous. tinian acts of war that have affected Israelis.
They have been set up to raise awareness about Both Palestinian supporters and, I hope, objec-
what life is like under the threat of thousands of tive observers would be absolutely correct to
rockets being fired into Israel on a regular basis. condemn the hypothetical demonstration men-
Later, you receive an e-mail from a member tioned at the beginning of this piece; likewise, I
of the group responsible for the fake explosions, call on the University community to similarly
listing a host of statistics and describing a one- condemn the demonstration carried out by the
sided, hero-versus-villain battle in the Middle Students Allied for Freedom and Equality.
East: 12,000 rockets and mortar shells fired into Hate needs to be called out whenever it is
heavily populated urban centers in recent years, present. Is the Students Allied for Freedom and
suicide bombers blowing up public buses and Equality a hate group, despite their euphemistic
shoppingmalls,kidnappings, bombers from Gaza name, or did they simply gotoo far in this demon-
using children as human shields toavoid counter- stration? Let's look at their actions. This group is
attacks and more. willing to distort a conflictcompletely in order to
Understandably, groups with ties to the Pal- create the perception that the only Jewish state
estinian people and, more generally, fair-minded in the entire world is the sole villain in a conflict
people would consider this demonstration to that is, at a minimum, over 65 years old and has
be disingenuous and unfair at best, and hateful been subject to countless wars, nearly perpetual
propaganda at worst. The demonstration and violence,under constantthreatofattack and sub-
subsequent communications depict one side as ject to its neighbors continuing cry for its anni-
evil warmongers while the other side is simply hilation. Do Palestinian refugees face hardships?
the victim. Absolutely. But, one might ask, how was this
A group called Students Allied for Freedom conflict chosen among others? If SAFE cares so
and Equality - a euphemistic name that would much about refugees worldwide, where are the
make George Orwell proud - sent outmock evic- demonstrations for the 2 million refugees from
tion notices to hundreds of University students Syria or the more than 300,000 people displaced
living in dorms and emailed just about every in Darfur between January and May 2013 alone?
mailing list they could find to cite statistics on I absolutely do not claim that Israel has been
the demolition of housing in the West Bank by an innocent bystander in this conflict and do not
Israeli forces. They provide the count of demoli- make claims that one side is "more innocent" or
tions since 1967 as well as inflammatory econom- "more guilty" than another in aggregate. Given
ic "reasons" for them, compare Israel to the era the endless cycle of violence and retaliation, it's
of apartheid in South Africa, and depict Israelis easy for both sides to claim that their actions are
as war criminals. All this, while conveniently only responses to injustices imposed upon them
neglecting to mention the hundreds of suicide bythe other side. What I do claim is thatorgani-
bombers and thousands of rockets fired into zations seeking to depict this decades-long con-
Israel by Palestinians over the same time period, flict as one-sided, with one hero and one villain,
as well as the recurring attacks on Israel's UN- are disingenuous at best, and at worst, purveyors
defined borders in 1948, 1957 and again in 1967 of hate-filled propaganda. We are privileged to
leading up to the current occupation. They call live in a country where everyone - including the
the forced evictions "war crimes" while ignor- members of SAFE - has a right to free, speech.
ing that Palestinian targeting of civilian popula- However, we also have a rightto call these groups
tion centers for rocket fire and use of children as out for what they truly are: a hateful wolf hiding
human shields by those firing the rockets have behind a sheep's name.

Around this time last year, will be packing u
I thought I'd be ready. I ing in to places oft
thought I'd be ready to paintmaybebrigh
close the books, may be cleaner, wi
bid farewell to we left behind.
the corners of Many of us exi
this place we between the fre
made our own money and the h
and move on. I time. Our part-tim
thought I'd be jobs may not have
ready for a new in Ann Arbor, and
city and the next look forward to th
phase. Now, I ARA port ourselves an
can feel myself MOROSI pursue our interes
holding tight- four years, we have
ly on to every at the office 40+1
piece of college did have the freed
that I can. For many of us seniors, time if we chose to
May won't mark goodbye forever. night treks to the
We'll keep in touch with friends and fee shops, where
we'll come back to Ann Arbor. But procrastination
the inescapable truth is that in four with friends
months, the meaning of this place seemed like a
will change. Though some will stay, better idea than
many will not, forcing the last four studying for
years we spent together into a time that exam. Some
capsule that can be revisited but not nights we'd
relived. While I still find excitement ditch the books
in looking forward, the impending altogether and
end of college is making it increas- choose trivia at
ingly difficult to imagine reaching Charley's, kara-
the end of this chapter. oke at Lep or a
over the last four years, many of shark bowl at
us have lived in beat-up, off-campus Rick's. Pretty soot
houses with a group of our closest ing real full-time j
friends. Through that experience, the days when d
along with the laughs, we learned nights was accepta
a lot about how people operate. We The past four
learned to take pride in calling a fairly predictable
house a home, no matter how much tracks were set, on
paint was chipping from the walls or We chose the pe
what you imagined tobe soaked into ourselves with. V
the carpet. Before long, many of us this place like the1

ip
oul
ite
:pei
e&
Ere(
ne,
g(
I i
he
nd
sts.
,en'
ho
doi
o, v
so
n v
job
Irii
abl
"yl
e.
cur

boxes and mov- Despite the pressure to succeed in
.r own. While the our competitive environment, our
ra andthe carpets world here becamefamiliarand
11 miss the homes comfortable. We parted ways for the
summers, knowing we always had
'rienced the pull the fall. Most of us have never been
dom of having here before - at a crossroad where
edom of having we can't look a year - let alone four
,minimum wage - ahead and know exactly where
otten us very far we'll be. We can look at it as scary
imagine all of us and really exciting. I've come to real-
day we can sup- ize it's OK to view it as both.
have money to I assume that all of us can look
. But for the past back over the past few years and see
't had to show up the things we wish we would have
ours a week. We done - the decisions we wish we
:m to work over- had made, as well as the oneswe did
which meant late make, but wish we hadn't. To some
ibraries and cof- degree, speculation of the paths we
ometimes a little chose is inevitable. More reveal-
ing though, is
to look back and
remember the
I can feel myself things we did
do - the choices
holding tightly onto we made that led
us to some of the
every piece of college most important
people in our
that I can. lives, or taught
us some of the
most important
lessons. And the
we'll all be work- best part is, it isn't over. Graduating
bs. Lest we forget seniors - we have one semester left
nking on week- to do our best to make up for any
le. lost time along the way. All good
rears have been things must come to an end, but we
Our academic aren't there quite yet. Let's give this
weekends filled. chapter a good ending.

eople to surround
We came to know
back of our hands.

- Sara Morosi can be reached
at smorosi@umich.edu.

... the South Pole this morning is 6 below.
That means places like Chicago, Detroit ...
are colder than the South Pole.
- Meteorologist Tom Kines at AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania
in an interview with Bloomberg on Tuesday Jan. 7.

alsobeenlabeled war crimes.
Reasonable observers of the conflict do not
deny Palestinian suffering and hardship during

Jonathan Hershaff is a PhD candidate
in the Department of Economics.

r

I

A: I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, January 8, 2014 - 5

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, January 8, 2014 - 5

DISNEY
We're pretty good at this.
'Banks' divulges rocky
origin of Mary Poppins

Tickle, tickle.
S cors ses 'Wolf
howls with life

Better than Hanna's recruit is Jordan
Belfort (Leonardo DiCaprio,
quaaludes, larger "The Great Gatsby"), a corrupt
stockbroker who knows neither
than life bounds nor moderation. Each
scene brings on new heights of
By SEAN CZARNECKI vice. Belfort parties all night,
DailyArts Writer and come morning, he must
snort cocaine to wake and start
It's lunchtime on Wall his day. Prostitutes are paid
Street and Mark Hanna (Mat- by the dozen, and men line up
thew McConaughey, "Mud") is one after the other. Party like a
thumping his pornstar, indeed.
chest with In a single luncheon, Wall
his fist. He Street subsumes Belfort into its
hums and lets The Wolf of lifestyle. Hanna mentors him
out a crow- into dumping his middle class
like caw. His Wall Street morals. He gives Belfort impu-
eyes widen Rave 20 and nity to do as he wishes. And
drunkenly Quality16 Belfort, being the gangster of
and gleam this picture, has an insatiable
white against Paramount appetite. You will find no star-
his leather ry-eyed Gatsby here.
skin pulled In one telling scene, Belfort
over his skull like a mask. The wants to teach his buddies the
drinks will arrive now. They subtle art of selling stock. He
will be brought one after the calls some unknowing trades-
other, without end, until he man, works him, makes promis-
passes out in vomit. After all, es and mimes having sex of the
it's lunchtime. Brazzers variety. The message is
His guest, a recruit, sits at the clear: They screw you the same
table. He listens to Hanna, who way they sell you stock. And
snorts some cocaine. And soon Belfort lets us in on a secret: I
he, too, begins to chant and know how to spend your money
beat his chest as though newly better than you do. You see, we
joined in some yammering cult. just wouldn't understand.
Martin Scorsese's "The Wolf Inside the deluded world
of Wall Street" never loses "Wolf" portrays, what these
rhythm, and Hanna's chest- brokers do bears no conse-
thumping is its pulse. This early quence on themselves. Their
scene in the famed director's victims are faceless - an entire
indictment of Wall Street sets world away - except for their
the stage for all the debauch- families, whom they punish
ery and iniquity yet to come. It cruelly. You will again hear
sets the film pounding forward. Hanna's crazed chant at the
Here, corruption is not perni- film's end when the credits
cious. The seduction of money roll and the screen blackens. It
happens like a smoking drug - booms in a deep, sinister reg-
quickly - as when your breath ister - steady and unchanging.
comes out silver and you sud- Only sociopaths' and Olympi-
denly go limp and you know ans' heartbeats are that steady.
you're in it. "Wolf" is a sordid obsession drives all great
fever dream packed full of black Scorsese characters and struc-
comedy. tures his films. These charac-
Scorsese and his longtime ters never relent. They would
editor, Thelma Schoonmaker rather destroy themselves. Bel-
("Raging Bull"), display tight fort's obsession, and favorite
control over the rhythm of this drug, is money. To live in medi-
film. Each scene pulls into the ocrity is shameful. If you've got
next. Years can pass quicker the means and the will, oppor-
than a Friday night. The main tunity is endless. The rest is for
character of the film itself the bums, because the prover-
evolves from a feeling of ela- bial Party must go on.
tion to desperation, a feeling of An actor's director, Scors-
speed and losing control. The ese elongates certain scenes,
ending is all but inevitable. thereby changing the rhythm of

the film, with no other purpose
than to let his actors flex their
improv muscles. Jonah Hill
("This is the End") succeeds
as the maniacal, phosphores-
cent-toothed Donnie Azoff.
But DiCaprio also brings some
of his flashiest thespianism to
date in outrageous monologues
and brilliant physical comedy.
One drug experiment leaves
him without motor function,
and the results are hysterical.
Much credit must be given to
Terrence Winter's ("Boardwalk
Empire") punched-up script.
Here, profanity flows in volu-,
ble testosterone. Listen to the
wolfish characters bat Winter's
lines back and forth. It bolsters
your confidence in Scorsese's
ear for bickering wiseguys and
unexpected violence.
Ultimately, though, we
walk a couple miles too long
in Belfort's shoes. Scorsese
and Schoonmaker's latest col-
laboration lacks nothing for
rhythm, but its incredible
length becomes its downfall
three quarters through. You'll
find yourself thinking: Marty.
C'mon. Quit breakin' my balls.
Make no mistake, Belfort
does have a talent: He knows
how to motivate people. The
movie ends with Belfort per-
forming a motivation seminar.
He steps down from the stage
and turns to an audience mem-
ber and hands him a pen. Sell
me this pen, he says. It hear-
kens back to an earlier scene in
which he compares the act of
selling pennystock to selling a
pen. The irony, of course, is the
pen is worth more.
The last shot of this film looks
out over the seminar crowd,
the spectators, the victims of
Belfort's crimes who admire
and envy him, and thus, enable
him. Scorsese's camera moves
throughout this entire tale as an
observer, but it's not infallible to
Belfort's charm. It understands
his drive for exceptionalism. It
envies him as we envy him. And
that should repulse you. Scors-
ese arms us with knowledge. In
a time where income inequal-
ity has reached record dispari-
ties, "The Wolf of Wall Street,"
while not Scorsese's best film,
is certainly one of his most rel-
evant.

By CARLY KEYES Inside the Mind of Charles Swan
DailyArtsEditor III") and Roger (B.J. Novak, "The
Internship").
It's hard to believe that "Mary Mr. Banks's mustache, the copi-
Poppins," the Disney classic based ous imaginary words contrived to
on a series of popular children's rhyme song lyrics, the universally
books, almost beloved Dick Van Dyke's involve-
never hap- ment, the use of animation what-
pened. The A soever... Travers angrily objects
vocally-gifted with a solid and strong veto after
nanny who Saifng Mr. veto. Even Travers's endearing,
bursts into Banlks eager and optimistic chauffeur
sporadic song, (Paul Giamatti, "12 Years a Slave")
travels regally Michigan cannot soften her antagonistic
by umbrella, Theater, Rave 20 demeanor or loosen her rigid grip
dives into side- and Quality 16 on her life's work as he suffers the
walk chalk Disney bulk of her endless frustration.
portraits and But Travers's obstinacy and ret-
totes a bag icence to give Disney the outright
with enough items to effectively green light grows increasingly
fengshui abedroom -though alive justified as the plot delves into
and well in print and the imagi- her past, unveiling an incredibly
nation - almost never graced the intimate and profoundly personal
silver screen via an Oscar-win- connection with her precious Pop-
ning portrayal by the iconic Julie pins. For Travers, she is more than
Andrews. just a lovable fictional character:
"Saving Mr. Banks" divulges "MaryPoppins is family."
the rocky, yet ultimately success- Despite the fact that Disney's
ful, adaptation process behind one "Mary Poppins" is widely consid-
of the most celebrated pieces of ered a children's movie with its
cinema - and musicals - of all- fair share of whimsy, "Saving Mr.
time, thankfu' y tiwarting what Banks" is not for kids. As Trav-
would'vebeenatragif,gapinghole ers and Team Disney butt heads
in millions of childhood memories in the present, director John Lee
for yearstocome. Hancock ("The Blind Side") con-
"Audiences will rejoice," Walt structs the narrative with sequen-
Disney (the incomprehensibly ver- tial flashbacks to simultaneously
satile Tom Hanks, "Captain Phil- illuminate the devastating circum-
lips") assures author P.L. Travers stances of Travers's youth, which
(Emma Thompson, "Beautiful spawned the original story in the
Creatures") as he pleads with first place, and there is nothing
her to sell him the rights to her amusingor magical aboutit.
beloved book. But Travers instant- At the center of Travers's chal-
ly nixes nearly every creative idea lenging upbringing is her father
posed by Disney's team of writ- (Colin Farrell, "Dead Man Down")
ers, which includes Don DaGradi whose love for her and his family
(Bradley Whitford, "CBGB") and - and his occupation as a banker -
the Sherman brothers, Richard is mired by an apparent and crip-
(Jason Schwartzman, "A Glimpse plingstruggle with alcoholism.

Unlike "Mary Poppins," this
isn't a film for small children (the
PG-13 rating is dead-on). "Banks"
is largely a raw, fact-based depic-
tion ofthe traumaTravers suffered
in her family of origin - which just
happens to serve as inspiration for
her eventual fictional phenom-
enon - and it is not a spoonful of
sugar but a strong dose of reality.
"Banks" reveals nothing sac-
charine or delightful about the
roots of the Disney-driven, heart-
warming musical sensation, and
it is this shockingly stark contrast
that gives this story its unassum-
ing psychological depth and the
audience its ability to extract an
ungodly amount of pathos in Trav-
ers's character.
Tom Hanks
shines as Walt
himself.
Among first-rate performances
from a duo of true greats and an
equally invested supporting cast,
it is this dynamic method of story-
telling and the jumping between
Travers's past and present - the
cruelty of the cause and the com-
plicated nature of the effect - that
makes "Banks" practically poi-
gnant in every way.
An indelible emotional journey
with an unforgettable one-two
punch, "Banks"demonstrateshow
thick the line between fact and
fiction can be, and it teaches that
within a world of darkness, some-
times it takesjust one unique voice
to let in the light that we need to
save us.

A glowing, innovative 'Saga

ByMAXRADWIN On the barest level, "Saga" is
DailyArts Writer the familiar "Romeo and Juliet"
construction: Against all odds,
Anyone can pick up a copy of unlikely lovers (Alana and Marko)
any issue of Batman, Superman, from fighting families attempt to
Spiderman or The Hulk and know, run away together in search of
more or less, - happiness. But instead of families,
what is going A it's species from different planets.
on. You know - And it's not just fighting - it's all-
that Batman ool & 2 out, intergalactic warfare in what
is avenging V 1 becomes a strange mix of fantasy
the death of Brian K. and sci-fi.
his parents Vaughan and But the product of that mixture
and that Spi- Fiona Staples is weirdly grounded in realism.
derman, the Vaughan takes huge chances in
death of his Image Comics this new world he has created, one
Uncle. You Available at Vault which seems to have no bound-
know Super- of Midnight aries (people with TV heads,
man doesn't giants with big dicks and rocket
do kryptonite ship trees) but he always keeps it
and that you won't like Bruce grounded in the characters and
Banner when he's angry. In these their realistic struggles with car-
cases, everyone already knows ing for a new child, or the death of
the situation, and as a result, that aparent.Thereaderisthrowninto
familiarity does a lot of work to tell the reality of this world immedi-
the intricacies of the story. ately - witnessing birth, sex and a
Maybe that's why DC and Mar- prince taking a shit all in the first
vel are the big kids on the block - volume - but those things hap-
they simply have the added bonus pen, and they need to be acknowl-
of longevity that new titles starting edged. Vaughan doesn't shy away.
from scratch lack when trying to The story surprises in these
sell copies and, more importantly, unexpectedly crude ways (despite
tell an effective story. the maturity of craft, Vaughan
Perhaps that's what makes has his characters swearing like
Image's "Saga" - the most recent 15-year-olds) but never really
project of Eisner Award-winning leaves a bad taste in your mouth for
writer Brian K. Vaughan and illus- long. Every panel feels important
trator Fiona Staples - so impres- and, more or less, purposeful. It's
sive. The plot captivates for its exciting to watch this unacquaint-
uniqueness and freshness. It side- ed, strange universe expand, and it
steps old comic book tropes for the does so believably.
most part, and when it doesn't, it Vaughan, who wrote on "Lost"
does a good job of putting those for two seasons and is now the
tropes in a new light. showrunner of "Under the Dome,"

handles the complexities of his
own plot masterfully. Twisting
and turning in its own temporal-
ity, "Saga" jumps back and forth
through time gracefully and with-
out confusing the reader. Later
chapters inform the earlier ones,
which makes for avaluable second
and third read-through.
The art isn't, admittedly, that
magnificent. It's simple and plain,
albeit intentionally. These charac-
ters are discovering a world along
with us, so there's a lack ofconnec-
tivity between principle locations
and even panels. We enter the
story mid-war, so most of what we
see is barren lands, closed, hidden
A new take on
Romeo and
Juliet for comic
book fans.
corridors and open, black space.
The art doesn't distract, it does its
job exactly and ultimately satisfies.
This is not a story only for comic
book fans. These first two vol-
umes are forany reader looking for
strong, brilliant writing. Issue No.
17 was released this Christmas,
but bound volumes became avail-
able this summer. They certainly
help to legitimize the genre of the
graphic novel beyond the caped
crusader looking to avenge the
death of a family member.

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN LONG
FORM JOURNALISM ABOUT
LOCAL ARTS?
READ THE B-SIDE, A WEEKLY DAILY ARTS INSERT,
EVERY THURSDAY.
I I

I


6A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

CE HOCKEY
What we learned: First half

Freshman guard Siera Thompson has led all scorers in the Wolverines' past two contests, scoring a combined 38 points.
M !
Michig adominatesglass
despite size disadvantage

By ALEXA DETTELBACH
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan women's bas-
ketball team got off on the right
foot Sunday when it traveled to
Columbus and dismantled the
Buckeyes, 64-49, to open confer-
ence play.
And despite NOTEBOOK
the Wolverines'
low shooting percentage - 36.2
percent for the game - Michi-
gan (1-0 Big Ten, 10-4 overall)
found its offense from the free-
throw line. The Wolverines made
a season-high 26 free throws and
shot 92.9 percent from the charity
stripe, including a perfect 20-for-
20 in the second half. It was the
third straight win for Michigan,
which will have its first home
game of 2014 on Thursday.
"Anytime you can come to Ohio
and come away with a victory is
terrific," said Michigan coach Kim
BarnesArico. "Thatwas oneofthe
first things upon taking this job
- everybody told me about this
rivalry. It's important."
Junior forward Nicole Elmblad
recorded her fifth double-double
of the season,.with 10 points and -
12 rebounds. Freshman point
guard Siera Thompson led all
scorers with 18 points.
DOMINATING DOWN
LOW: Coming into the season,

Barnes Arico cited size as a con-
cern, but her team ranks fifth in
the Big Ten in rebounds per game
and third in offensive boards. But
their rebounding defense and
rebounding margin, which is best
in the conference, have compen-
sated for their size disadvantage.
"Our ability to box out has
been great, and we really are the
most undersized team," Barnes
Arico said. "But because of that,
it's something we try to work on
each and every single day, and we
try to make it atoughness thing."
Rebounding is leading to
success, as evidenced by the
Wolverines' 10-2 record when
out rebounding their opponent.
A reason for the surprising ability
on the boards starts with junior
forward Cyesha Goree, who
has exceeded all expectations
as a starter. Goree is second on
the team with 8.6 boards per
game, but averages 10 fewer
minutes than the team's leading
rebounder, Elmblad. She now
has five games with double-digit
rebounds and has joined Elmblad
as an irreplaceable player for
Michigan.
It should come as no surprise,
then, that Barnes Arico often
cites Goree and Elmblad as
the hardest-working players in
practice. Both players had 12
rebounds and helped Michigan

dominate Ohio State on the glass,
leading the team to outrebound
the Buckeyes by 15.
"They've really stepped up,
and its great to have a night like
that," Barnes Arico said. "But we
are continuing to work on their
ability to crash the boards."
RED-HOT THOMPSON:
When Thompson came to
Michigan, she knew she had big
shoes to fill at point guard after
Jenny Ryan graduated. But the
California native has stepped up
to the challenge and taken the
starting position by the horns.
In the last two games,
Thompson has scored 20 and
18 points, leading all scorers
in both contests. This season,
she's second on the team with 14
points per game and has scored in
double digits 10 times. Thompson
also adds 3.9 rebounds and 3.6
assists per game, illustrating her
impact on most possessions.
Her emergence is one of the
reasons the Wolverines have
shaken off the "transition year"
and "rebuilding" labels and
instead look poised to make a
run in the Big Ten and reach a
third straightNCAA Tournament
berth in March.
"One step at a time," Barnes
Arico said. "One step at a time,
but this team really works hard
and it's showing."

By ERIN LENNON
Daily Sports Writer
1. So much for clutch.
The No. 8 Michigan hockey
team thrives on late-game
drama, or at least it used to.
During the first half of the
season, the Wolverines (2-0 Big
Ten, 10-4-2 overall) entered
seven overtime frames and left
unscathed five times, skating
off with four wins. Seven of
Michigan's first 10 wins were
decidedby just one goal.
But a seven-round shootout
victory against then-No. 4 Ferris
State - the game officially ended
in a tie - was flanked by two
overtime losses, one in an exhi-
bition against the U.S. National
Team Development Program
and one against Michigan Tech
in the Great Lakes Invitational.
And though an exhibition doesn't
count against the Wolverines'
record, the loss to the U.S. NTDP
came after two near-collapses to
Ohio State.
Then, at the GLI, without
leading scorer and sophomore
forward Andrew Copp, Michi-
gan was burned for the first time,
laying down to the Huskies in
overtime, 3-2. In the consolation
game, the Wolverines were shut
out for the first time this season.
A trademark of all good
Michigan teams, according to
coach Red Berenson, is a strong
start to the game. This team
has some of that same muscle,
outscoring opponents 17-6 in
the first period, but it also has an
ungainly trademark of its own -
allowing early leads to slip away.
In order to remain a top-10
team, the Wolverineswillhaveto
ditch the drama and bear down
in the third period.
2. Ready or not, here comes
the Big Ten.
With three ranked teams and
some of the nation's most highly
touted programs, the Big Ten
promises to be as entertaining on
the ice as it is on the hardwood.
In the first-ever Big Ten
matchup between Michigan and
Ohio State, an overtime thriller
set the stage for what should be
an exciting inaugural conference
season. The Wolverines escaped
with a 3-2 overtime victory at
Yost Ice Arena and surrendered
a three-goal lead to the Buckeyes
in Columbus just nights later.
In the GLI, it took fewer than
two minutes into the first period

of the consolation game for
Michigan State forward Thomas
Ebbing to net a goal. Michigan
then went on to drop its final
non-conference matchup to a
conference foe, 3-0.
Marquee wins over Boston
College, Boston University and
New Hampshire, as well as a tie
with No. 3 Ferris State, place the
Wolverines solidly in national
championship contention. Still,
Michigan has yet to encounter
No. 1 Minnesota, ateam that has
seen more time atop the standing
than any other in the nation.
And the Wolverines have
looked far from dominant in
their first three contests against
unranked Big Ten opponents.
With the bulk of the
conference season upcoming
and a crucial series against No.
14 Wisconsin this weekend, it
remains to be seen if this young
team is ready for Big Ten hockey.
3. Youth is not an excuse.
The shutout loss to the Spar-
tans marked the first time this
season that Michigan freshmen
failed to record a point ina game
- and that's a good sign.
Among the many questions
that followed the Wolverines
from a disappointing 2012-13
season into this one was the
immediate impact of an 11-man
freshman class.
Forwards Tyler Motte, JT
Compher and Evan Allen have
provided answers. The trio reg-
istered a combined 13 goals in the
first half, adding to Michigan's
impressive 3.13 goals per game.
When Racine, Michigan's
outright starter in goal, went
down with a hamstring injury
in New Hampshire, freshman
Zach Nagelvoort was thrust into
the net. His performance dur-
ing Racine's absence answered
questions about the Wolverines'
depth between the pipes - a
luxury the team wasn't afforded
last season
Still, the GLI wasthe first
time Michigan showed signs of
inexperience. On rough ice in
front of alarge crowd at Comerica
Park, not even the presence of
Motte or the return of Compher
from a foot injury could prevent
the Wolverines from dropping
two straight games for the first
time this season.
4. Defensive questions
resurface.
Before the season began,

senior defenseman Mac Bennett
said the defense, the team's
biggestpreseason question mark,
would surprise the naysayers.
While Berenson and his staff
tinkered with line pairings to
ignite the offense, the defense
held teams off and allowed
Nagelvoort to find his place in
net. Meanwhile, the penalty
kill quickly became Michigan's
strongest unit.
Then, freshman defenseman
Kevin Lohan tore his anterior
cruciate ligament against
Michigan Tech. Junior Mike
Chaisson and other Wolverines
have done well in his place, but
the defense isn't the same.
At first, it lacked offensive
production. The unit was held
without a goal until the last
weekend of November, and it
wasn't creating enough scoring
chances from the blue line.
But then, it faltered at its main
job - defensive coverage.
Michigan has allowed 40
shots in a game four times this
season and has been beaten for
costly goals on more than one
occasion. Against the Huskies,
freshman defenseman Nolan
De Jong and junior defenseman
Brennan Serville were beaten
minutes before Bennett allowed
a costly turnover - two mistakes
that led to Michigan Tech scores.
The defense was once a
pleasant surprise, but it needs
to improve to avoid becoming a
liability.
5. Stick to the sign.
A sign that reads "win the
next game" sits in the home
locker room at Yost Ice Arena, a
sign that reminds a young team
to play each matchup with the
same intensity. Perhaps the Wol-
verines forgot to bring it to their
locker room at Comerica Park.
Still, the last-place finish is
arguablythe only dark spot ofthe
first half. And that's something
to hang a hat on.
lhtiphjgan entered, htnvi-
tational boasting 10 wins, more
than it could claim at the same
time last season. The Wolver-
ines maintained a top-10 ranking
after beginning the season at No.
13 by bouncing back from losses
and escaping close games.
After the GLI disappointment,
Michigan will have a sour taste
in its mouth entering the New
Year. But one bad tournament
can't erase the foundation that
the Wolverines built in the first
half of the season.

Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, January 8, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 35 Eclectic musician 48 Quick and light
1 _-oading: 1 Profit factors Brian 50 Half a Northwest
endurance 2 Rockies skiing 36 Lush city
strategy destination 39 First presidentto 51 Sock synthetic
5 Chance 3 Avignon's river throw a 52 Take aload off
9 Shocking 4Work at a saloon ceremonial 54 Credulous
weapo Ion 5They may cry opening daypth h 55ords after cut or
t4HWorker protection foul 42 Crphfom Cathy ofl dose
org. 6 Pastaending comics 56 Pool stroke
15 Singerfrom 7 Big name intfood 43 Skin wounds 59 Mafia bigwigs
CounyDosnega distibutosn 4 Passe,as 6t Maden name
16 Skphune g 8 Aloha Stae big rubehecks ie n ntro
17*Mardin, for one shot 46 Like aromatherapy 63 Have to thank
19 Prepaeto make 9' re' s the fox" products (for)
_ ansIletonic 1tINitroenusdpe
payment,say 11 *Chocolate ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
20 Hles otfifhs overdose
2tBreakingwave consequence U S E D S W AY OH A R A
feature 12Undermine NO L 0 TYP O A U G U R
23 Drinkfor a hot 13 Actress Zellweger p i K E S P E A K 0 R B U S T
dsp t8sLoseon parpose CLASP T RE S BEE S
24 Nasyexpression C2AGiTe aEnew
25 *Source ot commercial name. T 1 5 5 T a p U
endlesslfnds Bt A W AIT S SKI B U MIS
27"You're 25 Mademoiselle's G I M M E A B R E A K N A T
dreaming" matriarch IRA ICE A ME
29 Hate 26Dresstothe I 9 A E I C E A C M E
30 *Common Milky nines, with "up" N E T B A N A N A S P L I T
Way star 28 Shunned ones G R I P I N G R U P E E S
34bGallerpaddies 30 "MaggiewMap' 0 P _T P R I M E
37 Yoko otTokpo singer Stewart S A
38 Rodeo rope 31 Cincinnati-to-NYC S L A P 0 J A I A A H E I
40-cone dire dion TO U G H N U T T OCRACK
41lMoant 32 *What adriver's I S D0UE GCl Z A E T ON
McKinley's license maypsere R E I NIS Sa0 Y S D E N Y
national park aso
44*Billiards 33 Swell!" xwordeditor@aol.com 01108/14
maneuver 1 2 3 4 506a 5 10 11 10 13
47 here the floor is
alwaps wet Tr7 is in
49 Banking
regulatorp agcp. 1in 1 is1
50 *Patofaunform
53 Latish wake-up 20 21 22 23
time
57Cume 04 01 0
58 "Woe _"
59 "Gracias" reply 27 28 29
60 Spanish
American 53 31 32 s 34 0 5
grassland
62 Famlp relations,t 370 59 40
and what the frst
wordsof the 41 42 43 44 4s 45
answers to 47 48 49
have 51 52 s3 4a 55 5
64 Freqsent
Mastroianni 57 58
co-star
65 Edgerstarget 60 51 650 63
66 Spacewalksfor
short 6456 56
67 Rangewith
chinchillas 51 00 89
68 Former partners
69 Take out By Daniel Nierenberg
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency,LLC 81/08/14

WOMEN'S SWIMMING
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.! W olverines in
! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking,
www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
ARBOR PROPERTIES By CAROLYN KODIS meet records at the Orange Bowl together as a team," Chokran
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown. Daily Sports Writer Classic. The 200-medley relay said. "We saw each other from
Central Campus, Old West Side, team of Chokran, sophomores All the moment we woke up until the
Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014. If Michigan swimming coach DeLoof and Zoe Mattingly and moment we went to bed. We all
"'A o 1 ^ c7 ..," ..-., -t,.... ,. ,.

i
z
1

Mike Bottom views this season
as a series of building blocks, then
the Orange Bowl Classic was a
capstone for the 24th-ranked
Wolverines, as the women won all
12 events.
"It's an understandingthat it's
not aboutwhere you are today but
about moving yourself forward
and gettingbetter for tomorrow,"
Bottom said. "And since we're
a sport where everything is
measured in hundredths of
seconds, it's good to see when
something is working."
For senior Angie Chokaran,
watching the Wolverines sweep
the meet was something that she
had been dreaming of since she
first arrived at Michigan.
"We placed first in every
event," Chokran said. "And that's
amazing to me because I've seen
the men do that in meets in my
past three years here, and I would
look up to them for that. So to see
our team do that, it was phenom-
enal. It was a great way to start
off the second half of the season."
Even though the meet, which
took place in Key Largo, Fla., was
a nice escape from the cold for
the Wolverines, it wasn't time
for basking in the sun. Chokran
said the team spent its days doing
"high-intensity training" in order
to prepare it for the competition
and the second half of its season.
All of the high-intensity train-
ing paid off - Michigan broke five

freshman Julia Fiks-Salem broke
the first record of the meet.
DeLoof went on to break a
meet record in the 50-meter
backstroke with a time of 28.69,
and sophomore Marni Oldershaw
broke the meet record in the 100-
meter breaststroke soon after.
And Mattingly, not to be bested
byherteammates, broke the meet
record in the 50-meter butterfly.
The team of DeLoof, Mattingly,
Fiks-Salem and freshman
Madeline Frost closed out the
meet by setting a record in the
200-meter freestyle relay.
The win at the Orange Bowl
Classic was Michigan's first
meet since the Winter National
Championships, which took place
at the beginning of December.
According to Chokran, the
Wolverines approached the two
meets very differently, yet came
out with similar results.
"The Winter National
(Championships) ... was a great
meet for us because we were all
well-rested," Chokran said. "But
coming into this meet, when
we're all deadbeat tired ... it was
hard to have high expectations,
but we're Michigan women and
this is what we do: we get our
hand on the wall first."
The mid-season training trip
was also an opportunity for the
Wolverines to build up team
camaraderie.
"This trip has helped us come

got to bond as a team by spending
so much quality time together."
Outside of the pool, the
Wolverines spent their time
exploring Key Largo, which
included spending New Year's
Eve on a boat watching fireworks.
"It was kind of symbolic for us
because it was a buildingyear last
year, and this year we're really
getting the ball rolling," Chokran
said.
Now the Wolverines are
working toward accomplishing
their goals at both the Big Ten
championship and the national
championship.
"The Big Ten is a very deep
conference, and we're very
fortunate to be in it," Bottom
said. "But I think what we'll see
is a team that will come out and
race with confidence. We're not
the best swimmers in the water,
and we won't be at the (Big Ten
Championship), but that doesn't
mean that our girls won't stand
up and race."
And in order to finish strong,
Bottom is planning on installing
the final building block for the
Wolverines: speed.
"We're down to about 20 days
of practice for the Big Ten (Cham-
pionship) and in that time we're
going to continue to get faster,"
Bottom said. "We've worked real-
ly hard, and we're now ready to
move onto the speed component
of our training and get faster."

i

I

.
3"


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Si

Wednesday, January 8, 2014 - 7A

"The sky's the limit:" How freshman Adam Coon
posted Michigan's best start in program history

By ZACH SHAW
Daily Sports Writer
Freshman wrestler Adam
Coon tightened his grip. His
muscles tensed, Coon shifted his
weight to improve his leverage,
but to no avail. Seconds later,
Coon released his grip, admitting
defeat.
The young wrestler doesn't
interact with defeat often, but
after helping demonstrate the
suctioning power and weight of
the Earth's atmosphere by try-
ing to pull a glass plate off a suc-
tioning tube in his physics class,
Coon accepted the rare loss. The
attentive front-row studentknew
the experiment was impossible
to beat from the start.
"(My professor) uses me for
examples whenever he needs a
big tough guy to prove a point,"
Coon said. "He also just wants to
embarrass me; for the most part
it works."
The physics professor is one of
the select few to beat Coon lately.
Since the 6-foot-5, 255-pound
heavyweight wrestler won his
collegiate debut in double-over-
time over Northern Illinois's
Jared Torrence on Nov. 16, no
one else has beaten him.
With a 20-0 record, Coon is
not only the best wrestler on
No. 14 Michigan's team right
now, but also one of the best in
the country, recently ranked as
the No. 2 heavyweight wrestler
in recent polls. He's also off
to the best start to a career in
the program's 88-year history,
besting the 18-0 start by eventual
three-time All-American and
two-time NCAA champion
Kellen Russell in 2007-08.
The streak began in November,
but anyone around Coon knows
the success was years in the
making. The son of a former
Division III wrestler, who now
coaches high school wrestling
in addition to serving as director
of the Michigan branch of USA
Wrestling, Coon was pushed into
wrestling not long after he could
walk, competing as early as four
years old.
"We first noticed him when he
was in grade school at some point
in time," said Michigan coach
Joe McFarland. "He's always

knows a target has developed on
his back.
"My mindset's changed in that
now instead of being the under-
dog, I'm level with my opponent,"
Coon said. "No matter who they
are, I know they're going to bring
their best, so I have to increase
my intensity."
Based on recent practices,
McFarland doesn't think Coon
will have a problem doing that.
With the early success, Coon
and his coaches have increased
the energy at practices in
preparation for Big Ten play.
Taking it all in stride, Coon has
quickly transformed from a
wide-eyed freshman into one of
the team's leaders.
"I still have to remind myself
that he's a freshman," McFarland
said. "His approach to every-
thing has been a great thing for
the program, I think the energy
he brings to ourline-up has been
nothing short of great. Now
there are all these other young
guys looking at him and saying,
'He's a true freshman who can go
out there and beat all these top
ranked guys, why can't I?"'
As the season wears on,
Michigan's optimism grows
with each of Coon's matches.
As the daunting Big Ten season
approaches, the Wolverines
have cautious confidence that

Freshman Adam Coon has posted the best start to a season in Michigan wrestling's 88-year history, a 20-0 record.

excelled on the wrestling mat,
but when kids are that young you
just don't know what the future
holds for them in the sport. But
he's always excelled on the mat;
he's very driven."
Growing up in Fowlerville -
a mid-Michigan town of under
3,000 - Coon soon became the
pride of his community. In addi-
tion to winning four straight
state titles and compiling a 212-3.
record, Coon was a four-year let-
ter winner in football and track,
earning all-state honors at line-
backer and placing runner-up
in discus and shot-put. With a
high school career worthy of the
Detroit Athletic Club's Michigan
High School Athlete of the Year
in 2013, Coon had athletic oppor-
tunities all over the country.
But after deciding to wrestle,
Coon felt most comfortable just
45 minutes from home.
"Above anything else was the
academics," Coon said. "I want
to go into aerospace engineering,
and not many schools have that
program,andiftheydo,itisn'tthe
top-notch program Michigan's
is. Outside of the classroom, this
coaching staff is definitely oe of
the best in the country and that
was a huge factor for choosing
the right school."
Upon arriving to Ann Arbor,
Coon didn't take long to make
waves. With four-year starter
Ben Apland graduating the

previous spring, Michigan's
depth was thin at the
heavyweight class. But after just
a couple of practices, McFarland
and his staff knew they had a
worthy replacement.
"We wanted to see how he
was doing in practice and in
the classroom first," McFarland
said. "He was making incredible
strides right away. He comes in
and he's just completely focused
on them. No goofing around, no
talking about other things, he
comes into the practice room and
he starts getting himself ready."
When Coon was officially
named the starter, McFarland
knew immediately that he had
made the right decision.
"When we sat him down and
told him we were planning on
wrestling him, I wanted to see
what kind of reaction we would
get from him. I could tell by the
look on his face right away that
he was excited to be wrestling,
and it'sbeen all good stuff since."
The "good stuff" includes
heavyweight championships
at the Cliff Keen Invitational
in Las Vegas and the Midlands
Championshipsin E astoni '-n
the latter, Coontook dowenthe
nation's then-No. 3 heavyweight
Bobby Telford of Iowa to claim
the first Wolverine title at the
tournament since 2002. Often
wrestling opponents 20 pounds
heavier than him, McFarland
feels Coon's greatest strength is
his mind.
"The key to his success has

been his mindset," McFarland
said. "He doesn't look at a guy's
reputation, he doesn't look at a
guy's record or ranking, he just
goes out and wrestles the body in
front of him.
"He's ready to go to war
every time he steps on a mat. He
doesn't ease himself into these
matches. You can see when the
ref blows the whistle he's right
across the mat into that guy's
face. He doesn't take a backseat
to anybody."
With 20 wins under his belt
and now the No. 2 heavyweight
wrestler in the country, Coon

Coon can be the program's first
Big Ten heavyweight champion
since Airron Richardson in 1998.
With eight ofthe country's top
12 heavyweight wrestlers hail-
ing from the conference, Cook
knows it won't be easy. But with
four years of conference and
national tournaments ahead of
him, the long-term goal is clear.
"I want a ring before I
graduate," Coon said. "The
whole team does. From here on
out we all have to be leaders and
keep pushing towards that goal
that everyone wants.
"We have a great freshman
class, and I know each and every
one of them is putting in the
extra time to make sure that we
are going to be the elite ones
down the road. I've put my trust
into this team and the coaching
staff, and if it doesn't come this
year it will come in the future."
Beyond Michigan, Coon's
goals remain lofty. In addition to
an NCAA championship, Coon
will make an effort to represent
his country in the 7016 Olympics
his junior year. After graduating,
the former all-state linebacker
hopes to earn a spot on an NFL
team.
"He's a great role model and
a great representative of the
University of Michigan, and our
athletic program and wrestling
department," McFarland said.
"I'm excited that he sets the bar
high for himself, and if he just
keeps pushing himself and stays
focused, the sky's the limit for
him."
Well, not quite. In addition to
athletic aspirations, Coon hopes
to use his aerospace engineering
degree to achieve one final goal
of his: to go into space. While
NASA vehicles only allow a
maximum height of 6-foot-3
in their crafts, Coon hopes to
someday change that. Given
what he's accomplished so far,
what's to stop him?
Coon once again tightened his
grip. As his muscles tensed, Coon
shifted his weight to improve his
leverage. This time it worked,
and Coon was able to duck under
Iowa's Telford, coming around
top to score two points and clinch
the Midlands Championships.
Coon may not be able to lift the
atmosphere, but that won't stop
him from making his mark on his
opponents and Michigan history.

Coon not only aspires to win an NCAA title, but also to compete in the NFL.

What Michigan can learn from Auburn's resurgence

A sbad as the Michigan
football team was this
eason, Auburn was
worse last year.
Much worse, actually, at least
record-wise. Michigan's 7-6
record in 2013 was a chilly day
to the Tigers's 3-9 polar vortex
of a 2012 season.
But the
college
football
world
changes
fast.
Auburn
played
for the
ZACH national
HELFAND champi-
onship
Monday,
a 34-31 loss in the final seconds
against Florida State.
Plays like this make it easy to
characterize the Tigers' season
as a string of miracles. And luck
played an important role. More
than luck, though, Auburn's
turnaround resulted from a
string of discrete changes.
Those changes are how
Auburn went from winless in
the Southeastern Conference to
a play away from a champion-
ship the following season. And
they provide a blueprint for a
team like Michigan, hoping to
go from 7-6 to something better.
So what can Michigan learn?
It begins with evaluation.
Why was Auburn so bad? Its
defensive-oriented head coach
had a defense in disarray with

an offense struggling to adapt
to the pro style. Its coaching
failed to develop and deploy the
roster's still-formidable talent.
And it lacked production at a
major position - in this case, at
quarterback.
Sounds reasonably familiar.
Michigan's own defensive-
oriented head coach, Brady
Hoke, has an offense struggling
to adapt to the pro style after
several seasons of spread-heavy
football. At most positions,
Michigan has recruited well
for years, but the system hasn't
suited the recruits. The Wolver-
ines appear set at quarterback
but face a similar absence of
production at the offensive line.
The Tigers addressed each
problem directly. The coach
was a problem, so he was fired.
His replacement, Gus Malzahn,
installed a system that was
better adapted to his players'
strengths, and an influx of
new recruits on the defensive
line bolstered the defense. To
address the quarterback prob-
lem, Malzahn recruited junior
college transfer Nick Marshall.
The fixes for Michigan won't
be the same, nor will the result.
The Wolverines rarely get
junior college transfers, and
Hoke won't, and shouldn't, be
fired after his third year.
But the lesson from Auburn
is this: a quick turnaround is
possible by addressing each
issue directly and definitively.
That process resurrected an
Auburn team just a helpless as

Michigan. How will Michigan
address its own problems?
There's the question of
coaching, especially on the
offensive side of the ball. After
the regular season, Hoke said
he does not plan on changing
his staff at all. Still, Athletic
Director Dave Brandon's
exclamation-point-riddled
statement of support for Hoke
included praise for defensive
coordinator Greg Mattison, but
offensive coordinator Al Borges
was conspicuously left out.
Whether with Borges or
with a replacement, Michigan's
offense needs a pretty major
change. Its pro-style offense
doesn't really even mirror the
pros anymore, mainly because
the game has changed and
offenses have adapted.
Auburn made a major
shift with Malzahn's hurry-
up, speed-rushing offense.
Michigan's offense needs a
change of a similar magnitude.
That should also alleviate
the second major issue - the
mismatch between Michigan's
talent and production. Plus, it
appears Michigan's top recruit,
Jabrill Peppers, doesn't need
much development to make an
immediate impact, no matter
the system. That should help
the embattled secondary and
add an explosive element to the
offense.
The third, more difficult
issue is the offensive line. The
young interior should make
a big improvement from a

miserable 2013. But losing two
NFL-caliber tackles might
result in a wash.
Auburn made a personnel
move to address its quarterback
issue. Michigan doesn't have
the luxury of a quick replace-
ment, so it must find a different
change. The difficulty of finding
such a quick fix on the offensive
line means Michigan probably
shouldn't expecta season quite
like Auburn's.
At the very least, though,
there shouldn't be a repeat of
the Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl,
when the players shuffling
around the locker room offered
explanations for a failed season.
"I think just a lot of guys lost

the will to play as a family,"
said junior defensive end Frank
Clark.
"It was just our mindset from
the jump," said sophomore
linebacker James Ross III. "We
weren't totally into it, I would
say."
In football, things like chem-
istry and motivation matter.
offseason preparation mat-
ters. Before the championship
game Monday, Auburn's players
talked about a culture change,
a regained confidence. This off-
season, inevitably, Michigan's
players will mention similar
buzzwords, like "improved
work ethic" and "drive" and
"cohesion." And if those things

are true, that's a good thing for
Michigan.
But we tend to place too
much emphasis on those intan-
gible qualities and write off a
quick resurgence as miraculous,
beyond explanation. Really,
Michigan's problems are much
more fundamental and much
easier to see.
The real miracle for Auburn
was that it addressed its own
problems so honestly and force-
fully. If the Wolverines don't do
the same, then it might be time
to pray.
- Helfand can be reached
at zhelfand@umich.edu or
on Twitter @zhelfand

STUCK INSIDE BECAUSE OF THE COLD? You can follow us on Twitter @theblockm without stepping outside!

A"


8A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8A - Wednesday, January 8, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

"44
bt-
BOOKSTORE
Niiebo

neebo.com/umich

EXT "TEXTBOK" TO 22022 T
GET $15" OFF
A PUCHAS -F$150 OR MORE!

n 4 ,f. .: ,

I

I I R

I


By 2t


THE VISUAL STATEMENT: JOURNEYS
Over break, Daily photographers documented their travels across the globe, adventuring from Argentina to Seattle to New York and beyond.

{ _ 1
.

A,
Sh
na


TERESA MATHEW/Daily
Trekkers passing through the high walls of the glacier. Teresa Mathew navigated the twists and turns of the south-facing side of
the Perito Moreno Glacier in Argentina.

PAUL SHERMA/Daily A
view of the Space Needle through the Chihuly Garden and Glass Museum. Paul
erman found new treasures in Portland, Oregon and rediscovered old ones in his
tive hometown in Seattle, Washington.
For the complete photo stories
VISIT MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Iii I
MiM
etee ed th~~ap dStictso)Rttahr
at everedlin
UTCrse wi be vising Univacersity ot khlar
Januar22, 24! 4
UTC f 1b .5 U su W 33h3W
47, -
" r r "e :. .s- _. ''  r "c v' " " t's'a p

ADAM GLANZMAN/Daily
Gustav and his father from Sweden fish off of a pier in Key Largo Florida. Adam Glanzman traversed the country from Ann Arbor
to Tempe to Key Largo to New York City.




- . 7 I

the writer's notebook: I'm a writer, you're not by max radwin

I'm a writer. You're not. At least,
that's what I'd like to think, or used
to think.
I've always held the belief that
artists are born that way. They're
born writers, painters, sculptors,
composers, whatever.
Sure, you can practice an art.
But if you weren't born with some
kind of condition - a persuasion
that allows you to see the world ina
way that others can't - then you're
just another dabbling ina world not
meant for your art.
Of course, you can write and not
be a writer. A news reporter writes
but isn't necessarily one. E.L. James
certainly writes, but isn't one. The
only way to define a writer ... is as
a writer. But is that definition suf-
ficient? Are there specific char-
acteristics to be attributed to the
profession? Or is it just a vague,
inherited birthright?
I didn't come up with this con-
cept. My insight is inherited from
other artists: Edward Hirsch ("The
Demon and the Angel," which
explores this topic in great length),
Lorca, Mill, Milton or any other
writer who gives credit to the muse
or duende. Even the shitty ones like
Stephanie Meyer credit supernatu-
ral sources like dreams - which
presumably come to those individu-
als who have the tools to turn the
metaphysical into works of art.
i 0 '

rj
1

Greg Harden: Man on the sideline
by Michelle MacMahon
THE
~iRO3

1

of

1

MICHIGAN
ILLUSTRATION BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND

After Frank O'Hara died, scraps
of paper were found stuffed into
his desk drawers. They were poems
that he had written "spontaneous-
ly" as he walked around New York
City, and which were published
with little to no secondary editing.
He was a poet - a true poet - so
why would they have to be edited?
I got this way of thinking into my
head early. It made me believe that
I was artistically superior to pretty
much everyone. And while Iact like
a prick because of it, I also think
that you kind of need that mindset
if you want to be good, and so I'm
almost thankful for it. I take big
risks creatively because I hold on to
that sense of artistic authority.
And I have that artistic authority
because I'm a born artist - a born
writer, which I could, until late,
only define tautologically.
And it's that circular logic that

gave me problems, often without
even knowing it. When a short story
of mine was recently workshopped,
there were major experimental
sections that people responded to
negatively. My initial response was,
"It's not my fault if you don't get
the premise. This is exactly how
it's supposed to be written." I even
went so far as to think, "Perhaps
this will be appreciated when I'm
gone. It's too ahead of its time." In
reality, I had failed to accept some-
thing that needs to happen in first
drafts. My conceitedness had led
to some artistic bravado, but had
stunted the advancement of my
project.
I started a lifetime habit of vora-
cious reading when I was young not
only because it was immersive, but
also because I knew I was honing a
skill that was rare and valuable.
See WRITER, Page 3B

As I reflect on my student-ath-
lete journey beginning six years
ago as a freshman walk-on at the
University of Michigan, I can't
resist shedding light on a topic
that remains unmentioned in
today's culture and sports media.
Playing a sport at Michigan was
a dream come true for a local west
Michigan girl like me, who pretty
much came out of nowhere as a
nobody. Though there are many
perks to being an athlete, there
are equally difficult mental tri-
als and tribulations that every
student-athlete must face. While
it's easy to point out the perks,
many people forget to consider
the 40-plus hours a week put in
behind the scenes when 100,000
fans aren't showing up to cheer.
Sure, the glitz and glamor of game
day is pretty incredible, but there
are also the day-to-day difficulties
of mentally managing the con-
stant pressure of being a student-
athlete.
Whether a highly touted
recruit or a walk-on, the intense
level of daily pressure, expecta-
tion and discipline remains the
same in the classroom and in one's
sport, especially at Michigan. So
it is quite easy to imagine how
quickly the mental stability of a
student-athlete can spiral down-
ward when succumbed to the vast
pressures front coache , prole-

you could go from hero to zero on really struggled throughout my From day one he never guar-
campus in a matter of seconds if athletic career at Michigan. Aca- anteed me playing time, or that
you missed that buzzer-beating demics and making friends came practice would be easier; the only
shot or that last field goal of the easy, but the anxiety of going to thing he ever guaranteed was that
game? practice every day ate me alive I was going to believe in myself
There are resources for stu- on the inside. I was not confident, and know exactly who I was by
dent-athletes with off-the-field certainly didn't believe in myself the time I left Michigan. "By the
problems that so many fans forget and a complete mental disaster. I last day you walk out of my office
to factor in when making their was struggling at rock bottom and your senior year, you will be able
criticisms, and that I dealt with needed help. The turning point in to point out your strengths, but
so frequently when I was at the my story was Greg Harden. more importantly your weakness-
University. There are difference- I remember my first meeting es, better than anyone else. Your
makers off the court as well as in his office freshman year. I was sport is what you do, it should
on. The difference-maker for this so caught up in my self-pity, part never define who you are. I want
University is a special member of me expected him to coddle you to surround your life with the
of the Athletic Department who me and tell me everything was word, 'believe' from here on out."
gives all of his mentees a men- going to be OK. To my surprise, I He began molding my mind to
tal edge over their competitors: received quite the opposite - the believe and think like a mature
Greg Harden, director of Athletic definition of tough love. His first adult. He always had an endear-
Counseling and associate athletic reaction was, "The inner child in ing way of telling me everything I
director at Michigan. Harden is a you needs to grow up." Ouch. That did not want to hear about myself,
man who puts in all of the work one hurt. But he was right. but it was exactly what I needed
and receives none of the credit, I'm surprised he didn't turn to hear.
which is why he deserves the title and run the other direction when I quickly realized this man was
of unsung hero. he heard I was coming back for not just a sports psychologist. He
Harden is the man behind the round two the next week. "Never opened up my world, refraining
scenes selflessly molding the men- feel sorry for yourself," he said. my mindset through his tough
tal strength of some of Michigan's "Your current situation is difficult, love and honest truths. He contin-
finest talent - the man on the side- but you have two choices: play the uously challenged me to turn my
lines endlessly supporting every victim or adjust your mindset. self-defeating attitudes, thoughts
student-athlete without expecting Control the controllables - you and behaviors into self-confidence
any glory or awards. He is the man are the only one that has control through assertiveness. Every week
who supports you when you throw over your mind. Nobody else can for four years this man empow-
that game-winning touchdown touch that or take that away from ered me with an unwavering posi-
pass, and the same man who never you. Stop letting others determine tive attitude and mindset that I
turns his back on you when you the way you feel about yourself. carry with me to this day.
"blow the game.' Your volleyball experience is a Every athletic program
0espite the grea; memories I merely stepping stone in the pro- deserves "life coa I can't
-r r .-' u., ",: LT ,l' e llfe" W Hlbtill ''ohnn' .''552 Wt 2t

out one. When I think about my
Michigan experience, two short
years ago, and continue to embark -
on my unconventional life path ate
age 23, I am frequently reminded
of his everlasting impact. During
my last meeting senior year, I told
him my dream was to be on tele-
vision for sports broadcasting. He
looked me in the eye and smirked:
"I already know you will, so go and
get it. You are special, kid." And at
that moment, for the first time in
my life, I truly believed in myself.
Upon graduation, I achieved this
dream at the Big Ten Network
serving.as a volleyball analyst in
the fall. None of this would have
happened without my mentor
behind the scenes - the man who
believed in me before I did.
I am a tiny speck in the pool of
Michigan student-athletes who
have been so lucky to have this
man as a mentor, and I credit all
of my current life success to him.
So on football Saturdays when the
television camera zooms in on the
star players, I'm looking past the
winged helmets for the man of
the sideline, the man in the back-
ground grinning in the success of
his mentees, the man who would
never take any of the credit - the
unsung hero of Michigan Athlet-
ics.
Michelle MacMahon gradua ed in
20 ~

COVER BY RUBY WALLAU


V3 Wednsday Janary , 214 / TheStatmen

Wednesday, January 8, 2014// The Statement

ENTREPRENEURIAL
From Page 6B
Parikh's time at the helm of CSG brought
entrepreneurship to a more campus-wide
consciousness, but that was not without the
help of other student groups on campus like
MPowered.
MPowered's mission is to expose students
to entrepreneurship, which it does through
large-scale events like its 1,000 Pitches com-
petition, where students from the University
and Pennsylvania State University compete
to give the best pitch for their business ideas.
O'Neil, the MPowered president, said events
like these are meant to excite University stu-
dents about entrepreneurship.
Over the past few years, O'Neil said he's
seen an increase in participation in events
like 1,000 Pitches. The last 1,000 Pitches
event occurred this fall, and garnered over
6,000 entrepreneurial pitches total - with
"x",000 of those pitches coming from the Uni-
versity alone.
"Students at Michigan are already amaz-
ing, you don't need to hold their hands. All
they need is that excitement," O'Neil said.
Branching out: an interdisciplinary
approach
By now we all know the dream: start a
company and become the next Mark Zucker-
berg. While this idea may conjure up images
of coffee-fueled business students typing
s.way furiously into the night, startup and
entrepreneurial culture is not only growing
in Ross' Winter Garden. Some of the best
startups come from teams with mixed edu-
cational backgrounds. Before he dropped
out, Zuckerberg was studying psychology.
Though entrepreneurial programs were
initially restricted to business and engineer-
ing students, the recent push to include all
majors has allowed the University to fos-
ter a more inclusive environment. This has
been done through co-University sponsored
events like Mingle 'n' Match nights, which
aim to help student entrepreneurs from any
school find members for their startup teams
as well as help them network. Large-scale
events like MHacks II, hosted in Michi-
gan Stadium last fall, also strive to enhance
networking and communication platforms
between student entrepreneurs.
O'Neil said the past 1,000 Pitches event
included a proportionate amount of students
from each college at the University. This rep-
resentation shows that entrepreneurship is
no longer being seen as "just a business," or
"just an engineering" endeavor, but rather
something open to the entire campus.
Parikh said he believes the growth of
entrepreneurship amongst all schools at the
University has made it a concept that unites
the student body, much like Michigan Foot-
ball.
"Kind of like our football stadium, the
f-.Big House, (entrepreneurship) encompasses
students from all kinds of disciplines and all
kinds of ages," Parikh said. "Together we

come together, like in the Big House, to cre-
ate a solidified impact."
Thornhill said the diversity of students
involved in entrepreneurship is beneficial for
student startup teams.
"Having a team of just business students,
or just engineers, or just life science students
... creates a gap in your skill set," Thornhill
said. "If I were going to invest in a company
I'd far rather look for that diversity of skill
profile than a group of students that came
from one concentration."
Though the University has started to
increase the collaboration between schools,
O'Neil believes some students still face dif-
ficulty trying to find team members from
other colleges.
"You often find business students or engi-
neers who have these great ideas, but they
don't know how to find or talk to the develop-
ers who also have these great ideas," O'Neil
said. "They often can't find common ground
- which is a huge problem."

being really receptive to e
and more importantly, I s
teering to help each othe
don't see other places."
Apart from an open env
a large amount of venture
invested in a new or gro
available in Michigan. Suc
has been increasing over
According to Carrie Jones
tor of the Michigan Ventur
tion, the number of ventur
Michigan has grown from
seven in 2001, to 20 in late
The amount of ventu
able has increased expo:
of those firms redirecting
lars to Michigan. Accordir
is now $1.5 billion in asse
ment of firms that are ac
early stage companies toi
there is an increased amou
able, Jones said many ar
potential in Michigan whi

ach other's ideas, exactly the same. I think it's going to take a
ee people volun- long way for Michigan to get there, but we're
x in a way that I on the right path."
While student entrepreneurs usually
ironment, there is dream of getting their first job in Silicon Val-
capital - money ley, there are many student-lead initiatives
wing business - at the University that focus on improving
.h venture capital Detroit - some of which are entrepreneurial.
the past 13 years. One example is the Detroit Entrepreneur-
,executive direc- ial Network, an organization which aims
e Capital Associa- to give high school students in Detroit a
re capital firms in "toolbox of business knowledge and Detroit
between five and energy" in order to help them bring their
2013. business ideas to fruition in the Motor City.
re capital avail- MPowered is launching a similar initiative
nentially because called Startup High School, which will allow
g investment dol- Detroit students to explore, share and exe-
ng to Jones, there cute their entrepreneurial ideas.
ts under manage- Another student initiative currently
tively looking for investing in Detroit is MHacks, an event put
invest in. Though on by MPowered and Michigan Hackers.
nt of capital avail- MHacks III will be held in Detroit over Mar-
en't aware of the tin Luther King Jr. Day weekend and is being
ch can result in it sponsored in part by Quicken Loans.
O'Neil said that while there were other
factors, like the amount of venture capital
available in Detroit, influenced the decision
rock to move MHacks, they also needed newer,
larger spaces with more office equipment to
have a fully functioning hackathon.
TV "It made a lot of sense to go to Detroit
where the buildings are really new and inno-
vative in the way that they're designed;"
S. so O'Neil said. "They're quirky and they show
off what it means to be a hacker, what it
ing that means to be an entrepreneur and think dif-
ferently."
Engineering junior Jack Wink, president
ciated of MHackers, said they decided to move
MHacks off-campus, not only because it
offered the promise of nicer spaces but also
ess. because they want to disprove popular mis-
conceptions about Detroit.
"When these students come to Detroit if
rie Institute they have a good experience they're going
to come back and say, 'Wow, Detroit is an
awesome place all these companies that are
booming in the area are willing to help out.'
They're going to remember that and if they
panies looking for ever do end up pursuing their hackathon app
quarters. they might consider Detroit and move back,
ink necessarily of which would be a big win for Detroit," Wink
as being an entre- said.

WRITER

From Page 3B

But I wasn't actually writ-
ing during that period of my life.
Despite not actively partaking in
the practice, I associated myself
with the profession. And retro-
spectively, I recognize that that
way of thinking was detrimental
to my development as a creative
writer.
I was a thinker and a philoso-
pher - maybe - but not a writer.
And who wants to be those use-
less things? I needed to put those
thoughts and philosophies into
action, into application. Into my
art.
That application is the sole
defining factor: What is a writer?
It's simple. A writer is someone
who writes.
Now, I write almost everyday,
though reading and philosophiz-
ing are still important. My profes-
sion finally is my practice. Maybe
you're a writer too. And if you
want tojoin the club, all you have
to do is pick up a pencil.


theA'QVS
ILLUSTRATIONS BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND

on the record
"We had our goals set, we wanted to be a 10-win team,
and we didn't achieve that. We had our goals set, we
wanted to be able to finish the season, and we didn't
achieve that"
- FRANK CLARK, Junior defensive end, after losing 31-14 to
Kansas State in the Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl.
"Racism is toxic, but race doesn't have to be. Race is
some way to describe who we are ... there are all kinds
of diversity."
- MICHELLE NORRIS, NPR Radio Host and Winter
Commencement Speaker
"Be thankful for the experience, remember the
experience. Life is about moments. You remember
moments - you don't remember everything."
- MIKE BABCOCK, Detroit Red Wings hockey coach, after losing
3-2 to the Toronto MapleLeafs in the Winter Classic.

The entrepreneurs are now the
stars of the world. They're on
programs and magazine cover
you've got this whole sexiness thi
20 years ago wasn't really assoc
with starting your own busin
Stewart Thornhill, Executive Director of the Zell Lui
for Entrepreneurial Studies

p

This trend just won't
seem to go away. On Jan.
4, Justin Bieber posted
a picture - an usie - on
Instagram of him and
Selena Gomez, captioned
"Love the way you look
at me." Only time and
paparazzi will tell if
Jelena will once again go
strong.

For the next few days, think twice before put
ting down your winter parka. Cold winds
have been hitting the Midwest, bringing
some of the coldest temperatures in the last
20 years.
="=.p

The 'Silicon Mitten'
California's Bay Area has become synony-
mous with startup and tech culture, earning
it the name Silicon Valley, but could Michi-
gan become the next greatstartup and entre-
preneurial community?
Despite the bankruptcy and bad press,
Detroit has seen several large companies
move to its downtown area - most notably
Quicken Loans, an online mortgage lender.
In a 2013 interview with Reuters, Quicken
Loans CEO Dan Gilbert said his interest in
Detroit was partially to help stop the state's
brain drain and give young people a reason to
stay in Michigan.
Frank said he thinks that although entre-
preneurship is growing across the country,
it's growing more in Michigan because of its
central location and its entrepreneurial spir-
it increases opportunities for startups.
"I've never seen such an open environ-
ment as I do here," Frank said. "I see people

being ignored by new com
a place to locate their head
"A lot of people don't th
Michigan right off the bat

T



preneurial state," Jones said. "But if you go
back to Henry Ford and the auto companies,
they were started by entrepreneurs who
built those companies ... and built Michigan
to be the automotive hub of the world. There
is still very much that spirit in Michigan and
it's good to see that resurgence."
Lemmer, who grew up in Michigan and
has since moved to San Francisco, said while
Michigan and Detroit were built on entre-
preneurship going back to the fur trade and
automotive industries, she doesn't think the
area will ever be fully comparable to Silicon
Valley.
"I don't think Detroit or Michigan is even
vgoingto be on par with the Bay Area," Lem-
mer said. "I think it'll be different; I think
they'll both have a different entrepreneurial
culture and that's great. They shouldn't be

Hail to the innovators
While student entrepreneurs at the Uni-
versity usually focus on building their own
companies, throughout the years they have
been busy building something else from the
ground-up: an entrepreneurial community.
This was achieved through Zurbuchen's
ingredients for entrepreneurial success:
hard work and an active mindset for growth.
"Entrepreneurship is a way of thinking,
taking innovations and turning them into
real-life change," Zurbuchen said.
"Entrepreneurship is of course starting
companies, but there are many activities that
are totally entrepreneurial that don't involve
a start-up ... It's about taking a big idea and
turning (it) into action."

I

1

AP PHOTO/Jae C. Hong
Consumer Electronics Showcase opened up
in Las Vegas on Monday, showcasing over
3,000 innovations, including a toothbrush that
analyses brushing techniques, smartphone-
controlled jumping robots and flying drones.

Sasheer Zamata
will join SNL this
Jan. as its only
female African
American cast
member. Prepare
for her to take a
shot at some of your
favorite influential
blackwomen, and
hopefully pave a
way for diversity in
the comedy world.
""""

m m




4B Wednesday January 8, 2014 // The Statement

Wednesday, J ry 8, 2014/SB

The Silicon aitten
Michigan's changing entrepreneurial landscape

Its gone viral. It's all across campus. It's not
an app, but in recent years, it's a movement
buzzing with energy all across phone
screens, Facebook profiles, posting walls.
And it's rapidly evolving.
by K.C. Wassman, Daily Staff Reporter

Zurbuchen's new role as senior entrepreneurial adviser may
not seem as consequential as the opening of two entrepreneurial
powerhouses. However, his appointment marks an important
shift in the way entrepreneurship at the University works: from
the individual to the collaborative group. One of Zurbuchen's
jobs is to design an academic program in entrepreneurship
which will be available to all majors, which is a stark contrast
from where the different entrepreneurial programs started.
Originally, Zell Lurie and the Center for Entrepreneurship
stayed in their respective corners: Zell Lurie in the Ross School
of Business on Central Campus, and the Center for Entrepre-
neurship in the Duderstadt Center on North Campus - primar-
ily supporting only their home communities.
As the buzz around entrepreneurship grew, so did students'
desire to utilize both Zell Lurie and the Center for Entrepre-
neurship, regardless of whether or not they were majoring in
business or engineering.
Mary Lemmer was one of those students. Lemmer started
Iorio's Gelateria with her brother Nick while she was in high
school, and decided to come to the University to further her
entrepreneurial ventures through Zell Lurie. However, when
she learned about the Center for Entrepreneurship's speaker
series, she decided to try and attend those classes as well as
Zell Lurie's. Though it was difficult, Lemmer worked with both
departments and was eventually allowed to take the courses
with both Zell Lurie and the Center for Entrepreneurship.
The Center for Entrepreneurship offers about 40 courses
available to students from other colleges, a 9-credit Program in
Entrepreneurship certificate program, and collaborations with
Zell Lurie on many different programs includingthe Masters in
Entrepreneurship program, a joint degree from the College of
Engineering and the Ross School of Business which was started
in the fall of 2011.
"If I would describe (the Center for Entrepreneurship) in
comparison to a company's life cycle, it was the early-stages of
really focused entrepreneurial resources for students on cam-
pus, and now they've grown a lot, which is great to see," Lem-
mer said.
A growing resource hub
Apart from expanding programs to other schools, the
University has increased the available resources to student
entrepreneurs. The University's TechArb is a student startup
accelerator program run between the Center for Entrepreneur-
ship and Zell Lurie, and gives student startup teams the office
space to work on their businesses. Nestled in the lower level
of an office building on East Liberty Street, the TechArb also
offers other resources besides physical office space, such as
mentors and introductions with venture capitalists.
Like many students, University alum Jason Bornhorst didn't
come to the University thinking he'd delve into entrepreneur-
ship. He thought he'd get his degree in computer science, gradu-
ate and get into the startup scene later. Instead, Bornhorst got
involved with the Center for Entrepreneurship and later found-
ed MadeVentures - a student group which together to talk about
University-based startups in Bornhorst's apartment over beer.
Bornhorst founded the group initially because he felt there
wasn't a central place for student entrepreneurs to gather and
share ideas, but eventually with help from faculty and a local
real estate company, Bornhorst and the students of MadeVen-
tures became the first class in the TechArb.
Since graduating in 2009, Bornhorst has founded his own
software company, Filament Labs. He's returned to the Uni-
versity since graduating and recently spoke at the Center for
Entrepreneurship's Entrepreneurship Hour Speaker Series.
Bornhorst said he was impressed with both the students he met
after speaking, as well as the progress the University has made
in helpingastudent entrepreneurs.
"I think it's incredible. I think students have access to a ton of
new resources today," he said. "For example, I would never feel
the need to start MadeVentures today based on what I perceive

to be available from the University just since graduating."
While the TechArb has been around campus a long time -
for a startup - the Center for Entrepreneurship is currently
working on a new resource for student entrepreneurs called
MEngage._ _ _
MEngage is a new program that focuses on growing entre-
preneurial programs outside of the University to make the pro-
grams on campus stronger. The two programs will be based out
of Grand Rapids and the Bay Area of California, and both will
work to connect students with successful entrepreneurs who
operate in the same sector. ____
Tom Frank, executive director of the Center for Entrepre-
neurship, characterized the program as "match.com" for entre-
preneurs.
"For me the goal is to match the best talent to the best
advice," Frank said. "I don't mean to oversimplify it, but getting
good advice from someone who knows (and) understands the
business sector you're operating in can make all the difference
in the world in terms of how fast you move forward with your
idea."
Frank added that while both locations have the same mis-
sion, they will do different work based on their locations. The
Grand Rapids hub will revolve around creating more opportu-
nities for students to explore design manufacturing innovation
in the state. Frank said this will include anything from finding"'
more internships to helping students build relationships with
Michigan incubators and accelerators. Furthermore, the Grand
Rapids hub will attempt to create an easier path for students
who want to stay in-state to build their company.
In contrast, the Bay Area hub will focus on long-distance
mentoring between experts in the area, and students in Ann
Arbor. Frank said participants will be using Skype video
screens to help facilitate the relationships and leveraging the
University's expansive alumni network to find mentors.
Both locations of MEngage are set to launch in the first few
months of 2014.
Changes by the leaders and the best
From new events to new CSG committees, entrepreneurship
has infiltrated the minds of the student body.
Many of the most recent student-lead changes can be attrib-
uted to University alum Manish Parikh, former CSG President,
who ran on a platform of promoting entrepreneurship on cam-
pus and followed through on his campaign promise.
During his tenure, CSG dedicated 10 of its 59 executive proj-
ects to the entrepreneurial community, which included the cre-
ation of an entrepreneurship commission.
The commission, which has been renewed for the semester,
is comprised of leaders from student organizations that focus
on entrepreneurship, and aims to shape the University with
the top student-driven entrepreneurial culture in the country.
Since its inception, the commission has worked hard to promote
entrepreneurship on campus, including hosting a "Month of
Entrepreneurship" in March 2013.
The month was a six-week period comprised of over 30
events featuring entrepreneurial topics. It included events like
the inaugural MHacks, which has become one of the largest
student hackathons in the country, and will be hosting its third
hackathon this month. The Month of Entrepreneurship was
well received not only on campus, but also by the Obama admin-
istration. The White House dedicated a blog post to the Uni-
versity's Month of Entrepreneurship, where they interviewed
Parikh about the event as well as growing entrepreneurship oe
campus.
When talking to Parikh on a long-distance phone call from
India, it's hard not to hear the smile in his voice when he talks
about entrepreneurship at the University. While discussing the
entrepreneurship commission, he sounds like a proud parent.
And when it shifts to the White House his tone switches to one
of honor.
See ENTREPRENEURIAL, Page 6B

across the University, from MPowered events to
E ntrepreneurship. These days, it's a buzzword heard
student startups. Entrepreneurial efforts abound us
on campus, but its role at the University is hard to
define. If it can be defined by one trait, it's the ongoing process
of change.
"Change" is a fitting definition for the entrepreneurial cli-
mate on campus - with an increased focus on the topic over the
last year and a half alone. In 2013, there have been two hack-
athons, a "Month of Entrepreneurship" and a newly created
entrepreneurial adviser position. With another hackathon rap-
idly approaching and the Central Student Government's Com-
mission for Entrepreneurship renewed for another semester, it
seems last year's change is only the beginning.
The rising'rock stars of the world'
You may be hearing more about entrepreneurship on cam-
pus, but it's hardly a new concept. It's a spirit politicians say
America was built on, and the increase in entrepreneurship on
campus mirrors a national trend. According to a 2012 Global
Entrepreneurship Monitor reporton the United States, total
entrepreneurial activity is at its highest level since 1999.
Though it's hard to determine exactly when this increasing
trend toward entrepreneurship started, Stewart Thornhill,
executive director of the Zell Lurie Institute for Entrepreneur-
ial Studies, believes it comes from a changing business model in
the United States.
"The current generation of students - whether they're

undergraduate or graduate students - grew up in the period of
time when there was a real loss of faith in the long-term, big-
company employment model that their parents and their par-
ents' parents had gone through," Thornhill said. "There were
all these huge employers which had previously been seen as
very stable forms of employment ... now all (of a) sudden (they)
are not so stable anymore. Your job could literally disappear
overnight."
Apart from the changing business model, Thornhill also
cited increased media coverage, a new social culture and the
desire for people to control their own destiny as reasons for
the growth in entrepreneurship in the United States, and con-
sequently, on campus. Thornhill said "Shark Tank" - an ABC
television show where entrepreneurs pitch their ideas to receive
funding from investors - is a prime example of how entrepre-
neurship is infiltrating popular culture.
"The entrepreneurs are now the rock stars of the world,"
Thornhill said. "They're on TV programs and magazine covers.
So you've got this whole sexiness thing that 20 years ago wasn't
really associated with starting your own business."
Indeed, there are many well known entrepreneurial "rock
stars" nowadays, Mark Zuckerberg being one of the most
famous. Zuckerberg started Facebook in his early 20s while a
student at Harvard University, and has since turned his dorm-
room project into a multi-billion dollar empire - increasing
his personal net worth to $19 billion in the process, according
to Forbes. Engineering junior Chris O'Neil serves as the cur-
rent president of MPowered, an active student entrepreneur-
ial group on campus that seeks to unite and enhance student

startup culture. O'Neil said during his time at the University,
there has been an increase in student entrepreneurial involve-
ment and believes it can partially be attributed to a "Mark Zuck-
erberg effect."
"It's definitely more known than it used to be," O'Neil said.
"Everybody knows that a couple of kids that went to Stanford
started Snapchat, and just got offered $3 billion. ... Whether
you're interested in entrepreneurship or not, you're going to
know about that story. It builds this awareness of entrepreneur-
ship and you can get people thinking."
A student movement
Thomas Zurbuchen, now the senior adviser for entrepre-
neurial education, has spearheaded entrepreneurship on cam-
pus during his time at the University. In 2008, he started the
Center for Entrepreneurship, a resource hub for campus start-
ups and students interested in created new businesses. While
originally exclusive to engineering students, the Center has
since expanded its program availability to most students at the
University.
Zurbuchen said the increase in entrepreneurial opportuni-
ties from the University initially came as a result of increased
student demand, adding that he founded the Center for Entre-
preneurship for the students - not for institutional prestige.
"In many ways I think Michigan entrepreneurship, as
opposed to other schools, is entrepreneurship that has started
bottom-up," Zurbuchen said. "It turns out that students have
taken tremendous ownership of entrepreneurship."

Zurbuchen cited the number of entrepreneurial-minded
clubs on campus as an example of student initiative. MPowered
was one of the first entrepreneurial student groups on campus
when it was founded in 2006, but is now one of 16 listed on the
Center for Entrepreneurship's website and one of almost 50 on
campus, according to Zurbuchen.
While entrepreneurship was primarily pushed by students in
the beginning, Zurbuchen said the current entrepreneurial cli-
mate is beingsupported by both the students and the University
administration.
"What's really interesting about this movement on campus is
that it comes from both directions," Zurbuchen said. "I think it
is a coincidence of sorts that the students see this as absolutely
critically important and something that they can act on, but we
at the University-level see it as absolutely essential and a huge
opportunity for the University to have an impact ... in our state,
and in our future of the U.S., and the world."
Changing an institution
The switch to entrepreneurship overdrive may have been
slow at the University through the lens of the fast-paced startup
world, but for an institution that's turning 200 in three years,
the shift is fairly quick.
Over the course of the last 15 years, the University has seen
large amounts of entrepreneurial growth. Zell Lurie was
founded in 1999, the Center for Entrepreneurship in 2008 and
Zurbuchen's role expanded to help foster entrepreneurship on
campus in 2013.


