I e iC1 ii1

i. LI y IL l(\r j)lBONL 1f 1 N) l')

i S Ate
.. r

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, November 10, 2014

BANKRUPTCY CASE
New fiscal
plan for
Detroit
approved
by court
Judge Rhodes deems
adjustment plan
feasible as city exits
bankruptcy proceedings
ByNEALA BERKOWSKI
Daily Staff Reporter
DETROIT - In the Theodore
Levin U.S. Courthouse Friday after-
9 noon, Judge Steven Rhodes deter-
mined Detroit's proposed plan of
adjustment is feasible, marking a
new chapter for the city as it exits
bankruptcy. The decision comes
more than a year after the city of
Detroit became the largest munici-
pality to declare Chapter 9 bank-
ruptcyin U.S. history.
The decision states that the city
filed for bankruptcy in good faith,
that the plan of adjustment is fea-
sible, passes "fair and equitable" and
that it is in the best interest of credi-
tors.
In his decision, Rkodes wrote to
the city of Detroit at large, thank-
See DETROIT, Page 3A

michigandailycom
GOVERNMENT
Dems.'
Senate
legacy
rides on
Peters
Lone new Democratic
senator to follow Carl
Levin's 35-year run
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily Staff Reporter
Over the two-year lead up to
Tuesday's midterm elections, six
Democratic U.S. senators announced
their retirement, including one from
Michigan, Sen. Carl Levin (D), a
35-year veteran of the upper cham-
ber.
Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Gary Peters
(D-Detroit) won the election to suc-
ceed him, beating out Republican
challenger Terri Lynn Land, for-
mer Michigan Secretary of State, to
become the next U.S. senator from
Michigan. The win was a unique one
for Democrats in a night that saw
the GOP wrest control of the Sen-
See ELECTIONS, Page 3A

Members of the Indian American Student Association perform in "Kalyara: The Spark of Festivity," the organization's annual cultural dance show
Friday at Hill Auditiorium.
Cultural show celebrates
'Sp arkofestivity
Annual IASA "Kalyara: The Spark of Festiv- tory video for Kalyara played makeup and pinning jewelry.
ity" and featured 10 different on two screens at each side of It took three different people
event highlights dance groups, each represent- the Hill stage. The audience to get one girl ready head-to-
ing a different Indian festival. chanted "Raas" as the first toe with her outfit, makeup,
pageantry of The balcony section of the dance group, Raas, took the hair and jewelry.
show was packed with Uni- stage by formingthe block'M' The three choreographers
Indian festivals versity students, students with maize and blue lighting for Classical, LSA sophomore
from other schools and IASA behind them. Sahithi Akasapu, Ross 'senior
By TANYA MADHANI alumni, as everyone stood Three hours before the Ishika Rajan and LSA junior
Daily StaffReporter for the American and Indian show, the Classical dance Kinari Shah, had been at the
national anthems performed group was huddled in Room League since noon. This year
The 31st Annual Indian by 58 Greene and Maize Mir- A on the third floor of the marked the return of the Clas-
American Student Associa- chi, respectively. League. Most of the girls in the sical dance group after miss-
tion cultural show filled Hill When the lights dimmed, group had begun an extensive ing the show last year.
Auditorium Friday evening. the balconies chanted the process of spraying their hair Rajan said she and the other
This year the show was titled show's name as the introduc- down, applying meticulous See IASA, Page 3A

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG, 'I Will' campaign
launch workshops to
discuss sexual assault

As a part of the University's Vetrans Day celebrations, University veterans participate in the fifth annual Army-Navy wheelchair basketball game at Chrisler Arena
Sunday.
Annu sketball game honors veterans

Participating in
national dialogue,
new program lays
foundation for action
By WILL GREENBERG
Daily NewsEditor
As conversations on sexual
assault continues to grow on
campus, the Central Student
Government has partnered with
the I Will campaign to facilitate
peer-to-peer efforts to address
the issue.
Sunday morning, a group of
more than 20 students attended
a workshop to discuss education,
awareness and resources, as each
relates to sexual assault preven-
tion. The meeting was the first of
several meetings meant to build
a foundation for future action.
CSG President Bobby Dishell,
a Public Policy senior, and LSA
senior Hannah Crisler, direc-
tor of I Will, hosted the event
and invited Engineering Prof.
Thomas Zurbuchen; Jen Weg-
ner, assistant director of Stu-
dent Affairs for the School of
Engineering and Holly Rider-
Milkovich, director of the Sexual

Assault Prevention and Aware-
ness Center, to help facilitate
group discussion.
While students had var-
ied affiliations with different
groups and schools on campus,
the workshop was designed to
include students already pas-
sionate about the issue them-
selves. Students from across
campus, student government
representatives among them,
shared thoughts on where the
University has fallen short in
handling sexual assault and
offered ideas of how to improve.
However, this first work-
shop was not focused on finding
immediate solutions. Organizers
acknowledged the importance
of first removing the stigma sur-
rounding the discussion of sexu-
al assault and aimed to consider
new ideas to tackle the issue.
"We are in a marathon, not a
sprint," Rider-Milkovich told the
room.
Still, by the end of the session,
the attendees landed on a hand-
ful of ideas that could be imple-
mented in the near future. Most
notably, the idea of expanding
the required prevention training
to all student groups - includ-
ing clear language about sexual
See CSG, Page 2A

Army, Navy ROTC
programs face off in
wheelchair rivalry
By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
Instead of tennis shoes, rub-
ber wheels raced back and forth
around Crisler Center Sunday
night as part of the fifth annual

Army vs. Navy Wheelchair Bas-
ketball game in honor of Vet-
erans Day. The game was the
final event of the University's
Investing in Ability Week and
the second event of the Univer-
sity's weeklong celebration of
the nation's armed forces.
About 52 University veter-
ans of the United States Navy
and Army, as well as University
ROTC cadets and professional
wheelchair basketball players,

battled against each other in
the popular rivalry game. Team
USA Paralympians Scot Severn,
an army veteran and member of
the Paralympic track and field
team, and Paul Schulte, co-cap-
tain of the United States Para-
lympian basketball team, also
participated in the event.
"Veterans Day comes and it
goes and you think, 'OK have
I done anything meaningful
with this,"' Shulte said. "This is

a chance to help celebrate along
with them."
While Navy beat Army for
the second year in a row with a
score of 44-37, the game brought
the two branches of the armed
forces together to honor those
who have served.
"It's an opportunity to say
thank you to the many people
that served," said Gerald Hoff,
the event's organizer and an
See WHEELCHAIR, Page 3A



WEATHER HI:52
TOMORROW - LO:28

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail
news@michigandaily.com and letus know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
Daniel Karr: Fostering bipartisan friendships
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS.........................2A ARTS.............. ..........SA
Vol. CXXIV, No. 25 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS............... 5A
c020 TheMichiganDaily OPINION....................4A SPORTSMONDAY..........1B
michigandaily.com

i


2A - Monday, November 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
(The Michigan vailij
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN DOUGLAS SOLOMON
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-418-4115 rxt. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjohahin@michigandailycom dongsole@michigandaily.com

Greek system hosts informal rush

70years ago this week
(Nov.12,1944)
Due to a drop in membership
caused by conditions during the
Second World War, the Pan-Hel-
lenic Board announced that sev-
eral houses including Alpha Delta
Pi, Alpha Omicron Pi, Alpha Xi
Delta and Zeta Tau Alpha were
approved to hold an informal
rush process.
Excluding first-semester fresh-
men, transfer students and eligible
women were allowed to attend the
three-day event held in the Under-
graduate Office of the Michigan
League.
The Pan-Hellenic Rushing
Regulations were strictly upheld
duringthe informal rush process.

40years ago this week
(Nov.15, 1974)
University enrollment of
Black students declined from
7.3 percent to 7 percent over
the course of an academic year.
These numbers fell short of the
10-percent mark set in place by
regents in 1970 following the
Black Action Movement (BAM)
strike.
Opportunity Program Direc-
tor George Goodman said the
University could be "reasonably
expected" to meet this quota by
the 1975-76 academic year. The
regents promised to the meet
this 10 percent mark by the fall
of 1973.

20 years agothis week
(Nov.14,1994)
The Wolverines came out
victorious in their game against
the Minnesota Gophers, earning
the Little Brown Jug for the
eighth consecutive season with a
score of 38-22.
The team was down 15-7 at the
end of the first half, but came back
in the second half behind three
touchdown passes by quarter-
back Todd Collins. Collins set the
Michigan single-game passing
record with 352 yards in the air.
With his second score of the
game, Wheatley set a new Michi-
gan career scoring record of 318
points.
-BECKYWEILAND

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
crrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com i t
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters tothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigndaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

'I

m tUGENEtSTAYT/Dlaily
Runners depart on a 5K route at a fundraiser race
sponsered by Habitatfor Humanity Sunday in the Arb.

i .

CIRON THOEiE WEBSmOiTndSiycm.

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

S0 J~5l.J
U IU~ V IOI)AY

From the vault
BY VANESSA WONG
Daily Arts reporter
Vanessa Wong explores
Krzyszt Kieslowski's "Three
Colors" movie trilogy,
looking atthe way storylines
and themes from each come
together throughout the
series of films.
O Ir
"Girls" review
BY CATHERINE SULPIZIO
Daily Arts discusses
observations from the
trailer for season four of
Lena Dunham's critically
acclaimed comedy series
"Girls" on HBO. The trailer
explores ongoing conflicts
between the six main
characters.

Women's diving
BY CAROLYNKODIS
The team won against
Penn State this weekend.
Senior diver Carey Chen
finished first place twice in
a row on the three-meter
springboard and one-meter
board. Junior diver Sarah.
Kamstra placed second on
one-meter board.
The 1975
BY ARIANA ASSAF
Daily Arts covers the
performance of the 1975 at
the Filmore in Detroit earlier
this week. As Assaf writes,
"the four band members
... were jamming through
their nightly routine and
loving it," in this nostalgic
performacne.

Online lecture Film screening TAecsl
Two Americans held for
WHAT: University social WHAT: Oscar-winning two years in captivity in
media director Nikki filmmaker Malcolm North Korea arrived back
Sunstrum will discuss Clarke will screen two on American soil Saturday,
the coming of age process of his award-winning CBS reported. Their release
through the lens of online documentaries, Prisoner of was brokered through a visit
engagement and answer Paradise and The Lady. A by James Clapper, Jr., U.S.
audience questions. discussion will follow. d.r.o.e
WHO: Center for Campus WHO: Residential College director of national mnell-
Involvement WHEN: Today from 5 to gence, to the country..
WHEN: Today at 5:30 p.m. 10p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union, WHERE: East Quadrangle, The Michigan men's
Au Bon Pain Keene Theater soccer team's season

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburkemichigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas ManagingNews Editor jcalfas@michigandaily.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORS:IanDillingham,SamGringlas, WillGreenberg,RachelPremack
AnSSTAn N5eWSEDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Neala Berkowski, Claire Bryan, Shoham
Geva, Amabel Karoub, Emma Kerr, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Michael Sugerman
and Jack Turman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel ang Eitorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIALPAGEEDITORS:Aarica Marshand VictoriaNoble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Matthew Seligman and David Harris
Greg Garno and
AlejandroZfiiga ManagingSportsEditors sportseditors@michigandailycom
SENIOR SPORTS EDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Lev Facher,Rajat Khare, Jake
Lburim and Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Max Bultman, Minh Doan, Daniel Feldman, Simon
Kaufman, Erin Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jpynche@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth Managing ArtstEditors ake@msichigandaity.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: GiancarloBuonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSISTANT ARTSEDITORS: JamieBircoll,JacksonHoward,GillianJakoband Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing Photo Editors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: AllisoniFarrand and Ruby Wallau
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:LunaAnnaArchey,VirginiaLozano,
James Colter, McKenzie Berezin, and Nicholas Williams
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela Vasquez Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand AliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER:Amy Mackens
Mark Ossolinskiand Meaghan
Thompson Managing CopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIORCOPYEDITORS:MariamSheikhandAlishaQiu
Austen Hufford online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
VIDEO EDITORS: Paula Friedrich and James Reslier-Wells
SOCIAL MEDIA EDITOR: Brianne Johnson
BUSINESS STAFF
Madeline Lacey University Accounts Manager
Ailie Steir classified Manager
Simonne Kapadia Local Accounts Manager
Lotus An National Accounts Manager
Olivia JonesProduction Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Jason Anterasian Finance Manager
Th icigan Daiy (SSN075- 967)ispublse onday through Fiddurngte aldn. nertrm05!3 s by
bepickedupattha, lysoiceor$2.Subscriptionsfor faltem s nginSeptemse, us m aeti
Winter tem(Januarythough April) iis$ , yearlonS(SeptembethrogApril)is$ 1 iersityafflates
are sbjit to a reduced sscripion rate. O n-campus subscriptions for fal term are 5s.Subscrions must
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

African studies Free concert

symposium
WHAT: African Studies
scholars and digital
humanities researchers
will discuss the role of
new technology in the
study of African history.
Registration is required.
WHO: African Studies
Center
WHEN: Today from 9 a.m.
to 4 p.m.
WHERE: Erlicher Room,
North Quad

WHAT: The Campus
Symphony Orchestra and
the Campus Philharmonia
Orchestra will offera free
performance for the public.
WHO: School of Music,
Theater and Dance
WHEN: Today at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: Hill Auditorium
CORRECTIONS
1 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

ended Sunday with a
1-0 loss in the Big Ten quar-
terfinals. The Wolverines fell
at Ohio State and will miss
the NCAA Tournament.
>> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY
Citizens of Catalonia,
an autonomous com-
munity under Spanish
nationality, went to the polls
to vote on independence
Sunday, BBC News reported.
Spain has declared the vote,
which is non-binding, uncon-
stitutional.


unable to adequately process way. She said the best way is to
CSG incident reports between 2012 create awelcoming, safe environ-
From Page 1A and 2013. This year, students ment to everyone on campus and
have continued the discussion invite all voices rather than sys-
through the "Carry the Weight" tematically find students of dif-
assault prevention into the stu- campaign and CSG's participa- ferent identities and recruit them
dent honor code and requiring tion in the national "It's On Us" simply because they fit a certain
Greek Life-affiliated parties to campaign. demographic.
display signs specifying the defi- Crisler said I Will, which is "You don't want to have peo-
nitions of consent -was on the now in its fourth semester at the ple in the room voicing opinion
list of demands anonymously University, has started working because they are transgender, or
posted on the Diag in October. with the Athletic Department to because they are gay, or because
CSG Vice President Emily provide basic sexual assault pre- they are Asian, or Latina, or Afri-
Lustig, an LSA senior, said it's vention training classes. She-said can American," she said. "You
possible the ideas presented Sun- they have not done work with the want those voices, but you don't
day could be presented as leg- Interfraternity Council yet, but want them there just because
islation at CSG meetings in the she agreed with the idea of creat- they identify as that."
coming weeks. Moving forward, ing informative signs at parties. Rider-Milkovich said she was
Crisler and Dishell said they hope Crisler was aware of the demands pleased with the event and sup-
students will return to these on the Diag but said I Will is not ports the emphasis on trying
work sessions, with an open invi- specifically working toward to educate students as part of
tation for more students to get achieving those specific aims. a multi-level approach to tack-
involved. While Sunday's event only ling the issue. The process was
issues with sexual assault on yielded a couple dozen students, described to students as first
campus came to the forefront last Dishell, Rider-Milkovitch and starting with short-term out-
winter following the report of the other organizers acknowl- comes -providing expertise to
former kicker Brendan Gibbons' edged that different people from students and motivating people
permanent separation from the different communities have vary- to get involved. The goals then
University for violating the Stu- ing needs and hope to include as progress into ultimate outcomes,
dent Sexual Misconduct Policy. many voices as possible moving including modified behavior,
A CSG taskforce investigated the forward. changed policies and changed
University's handling of the inci- Crisler said having a diverse practices, and then finally long-
dent and found that the adminis- set of contributors is something term goals of better overall envi-
tration mishandled the Gibbons she has prioritized but stressed ronment.
case and that the University was that it must be done in the right Inan interview after the event,
Rider-Milkovich discussed the
. EW E E feasibility of some of the ideas
EII I from the meeting. She echoed
University President Mark
Schlissel's remarks on mandating
fraternities put up signs, saying it
would be an overstep of the Uni-
9 6 7 2 versity administration's power,
with the Greek system being gov-
8 5 7 3 4 erned primarily by IFC and the
houses being private property.
Rider-Milkovich did empha-
size the influence of alcohol on
sexual assault incidents.
5 2 She also provided her defini-
tion of "rape culture," a term
7 6 5 used by a couple of students on
Sunday and one often used when
T6 4discussing assaults at parties.
She explained that it's a national
trend - not just something that
5 S 6 the University experiences. She
added that media and social
9 7 8 norms heavily influence this cul-
ture and too often the tendency is
to blame the survivor of an inci-
dent.
"(People) inappropriately
i place the emphasis for preven-
tion or inappropriately place the
responsibility on the person who

Tim Ireland/AP
Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron, front right, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, front center, and leader of the
Labour Party Ed Miliband, front left, hold wreaths during the service of remembrance at the Cenotaph in Whitehall,
London, Sunday.
Queen leads U.K
iWWI ce remony6

This year marks
100th anniversary
of the beginning of
the 'Great War'
LONDON (AP) - Queen Eliz-
abeth II honored fallen soldiers
from Britain and the Common-
wealth Sunday in a dignified
ceremony at the heart of cen-
tral London.
The 88-year-old monarch
placed a poppy-laden wreath at

the foot of the Cenotaph, built
after World War I to remember
those who lost their lives.
Large crowds, including a
leather-lunged enthusiast who
managed to shout "Hooray"
loudly enough to be picked
up by national television,
thronged the surrounding
streets on a cold, clear day in
the capital.
The "annual ceremony
remains a national focal point,
much as it was when Elizabeth
was a young princess. There
is the mournful symphonic

music, the march of around
10,000 veterans, and the sense
that Britain and much of the
Commonwealth has come to
a halt to recognize those who
have lost their lives in battle.
Prime Minister David Cam-
eron called this year's event
particularly poignant because
2014 marks the 100th anniver-
sary of the start of World War
I. He also cited the 70th anni-
versary of the D-Day landings
and the conclusion of Britain's
military operations in Afghan-
istan.


experienced the harm," she said.
However, she said she liked
the idea of getting students
more involved in education and
empowering their peers - one
idea along those lines was a type
of "guerilla campaign" where
students would flyer and give out
stickers across campus. She also
advocated strongly for bystand-
er intervention intiatives and
improving training for students
so they feel comfortable stepping
into a situation if necessary.
Rider-Milkovich said other

areas that need improvement
are SAPAC education on North
Campus and reaching out more
to male survivors, students with
disabilities and veterans, among
others.
Art & Design senior Anica
Presley, a member of the CSG
Assembly, attended the event and
said sexual assault prevention is
a topic she has been interested
in for a while, particularly in
light of recent events on campus.
She said she innds to return to
future meetings, hoping to bring

some of the new ideas back to her
school.
Presley said art installations
can actually be a good outlet
to share experiences for survi-
vors - she gave the example of
whiteboards where people are
welcomed to contribute. She said
it promotes anonymity and typi-
cally creates better discussion.
"I definitely will follow up on
the guerilla intervention," she
said. "Unannounced art work can
be really influential in how peo-
ple interact with the space."
4k


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 10, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Monday, November10, 2014- 3A

DETROIT
From Page 1A
ing its residents for their engage-
ment and activity throughout the
proceedings.
"A large number of you told
me that you were angry that
your City was taken away from
you and put into bankruptcy,"
he wrote. "I heard you. I urge
you now not to forget your anger.
Your enduring and collective
memory of what happened here,
and your memory of your anger
about it, will be exactly what will
prevent this from ever happen-
ing again. It must never happen
again."
In a press conference follow-
ing Judge Rhodes' decision, Gov-
ernor Rick Snyder, Mayor Mike
Duggan, Emergency Manager
Kevyn Orr, City Council Presi-
dent Brenda Jones, lead mediator
Judge Rosen and CourtAdminis-
trator David Weaver thanked the
court and each other for coop-
eration.
"I think what you saw today
was the best of us," Orr said.
"The best of Detroiters, the best
of Michiganders, the best of
Americans."
Rosen said the amount of
cooperation between the three
branches of government will be
the legacy ofthis bankruptcy and
that the goal was not for this case
to precedent setting.
"I think the legacy of this
bankruptcy will be teamwork,"
he said. "All the folks you see
up here at one point or another
@hroughout the bankruptcy
worked together."
Duggan said Detroiters are
already able to feel some of the
positive changes to city services
with the plan of adjustment, add-
ing that "every Detroiter owes
Judge Rhodes a debt of grati-
tude." The city has been imple-
menting some of these changes
over the past five or six months,
and will also add an additional
police officers and 200 firefight-
ers. Last week, Detroit had its
fastest EMS response time in 12
years.
ELECTIONS
From Page 1A
ate, securing at least seven new
seats, including the seat of every
other retiring senator - in some
states, results will be determined
by a second runoff vote - and
a majority in both branches of
Congress.
That sweep means that Peters
will be entering a significantly
different Senate than the one
Levin will leave at the end of
December. Levin is the current
chair of the Armed Services
committee, one of the senate's
most powerful and prestigious,
and the fourth most senior mem-
ber overall.
"Now, because the Republi-
cans control the Senate, it'sgoing
to be an entirely different sce-
nario," said Aaron Kall, director
of the University's Debate Team
nd expert on election politics, of
Peters' prospects in the Senate.
"It's a completely differ-
ent kind of scenario going in as
the minority party, and I think

(Peters) is certainly going to try
to chart his own path, in doing it
from a different perspective."
Levin's legacy - and ensur-
ing it was continued - was a
significant focus throughout the
campaign for Democrats. At a
rally leading up to the election
in October, U.S Rep. Sandy Levin
(D-Royal Oak), Carl Levin's
brother, emphasized the impor-
tance of keeping the seat Demo-
cratic, referencing the fact that
Democrats have struggled to
turn out voters during the mid-
term elections.
"You can sum it up this way,"
Levin told the crowd. "2016 can
wait. And that's especially true
as to who's going to be the sena-
tor. My brother ... he's up North
campaigning for this ticket and
*we owe him gratitude. He never
gives up fighting. This is what all
of us face - who's going to carry
on his work of 36 years?"
When it comes down to their
policies, Sen. Levin and Peters
share both similarities and a few

In the closing arguments of
Detroit's bankruptcy trial Oct.
27, the city's legal representa-
tion asked Rhodes to confirm
Detroit's broadly consensual
plan that would discharge $7 bil-
lion in claims and reinvest $1.7
billion in the city.
The court also decided the
cuts to pensions are reason-
able, despite some employees
who argued their pensions were
protected under the Michigan
Constitution, and city assets like
works in the Detroit Institute of
Art could be sold to pay for pen-
sions. Rhodes said he wouldn't
be surprised if some pensioners
appealed the decision but he pre-
dicts the likelihood of success on
an appeal is about 25 percent. He
added that court must acknowl-
edge that these cuts will lead to
hardship, in some cases severe,
but that sacrifice is necessary in
order for the city to be fixed.
Everyone involved in the plan
will be "making sacrifices to con-
tribute to this process and the
city's future," Rhodes said.
The DIA settlement was also
declared favorable for the city
and creditors. The court agreed
with the DIA's argument - the
art is held under a public trust
and that certain pieces of donat-
ed artwork had specific restric-
tions ontheir transfer.
"The DIA stands at the center
of the city as an invaluable bea-
con of culture," Rhodes said, "To
sell the DIA art would forfeit the
city's future."
Rhodes also approved all
aspects of the grand bargain -
the agreement which removed
ownership of the DIA from the
city of Detroit - and other agree-
ments like the state contribution
agreement, the LTGO settlement
and fees.
Though creditors have argued
that raising taxes or selling DIA
art could lead to creditors being
paid back more, the court decid-
ed that in compliance with Chap-
ter 9, creditors have received all
that is reasonable given the cur-
rent situation.
""It is a vast understatement
to say that the pension settle-
ment is reasonable. It borders on

the miraculous," Rhodes
wrote in the decision. "No one
could have foreseen this result
for the pension creditors when
the City filed this case. The plan's
proposal is only possible because
of the pension settlement and the
Grand Bargain."
Rhodes said raising taxes
would lead to further population
decline, and increases in prop-
erty taxes would generate little
additional revenue. In the latest
Census Bureau report, the city
dropped to having only 700,000
residents. Rhodes also agreed
that the city has made an effort
to monetize other city assets,
such as the Detroit-Windsor
Tunnel.
Bruce Bennett, the attorney
from law firm Jones Day who
is representing the city, spent a
good portion of his time at the
closing arguments discussing
the feasibility of the plan, high-
lighting the two major qualifi-
cations: that the city meets its
financial obligations and be able
to recover and provide adequate
city services.
The next'steps for Detroit will
be to improve its municipal ser-
vices, which have been unable to
protect the health and wellbeing
of Detroiters, Rhodes said.
"Detroit's inability to provide
municipal services runs deep,
and it has for years," he said. "It
is inhumane and intolerable and
it must be fixed. This plan can fix
these problems."
The court also agreed with
Martha Kopacz, a court-appoint-
ed expert, who testified that
Detroit's plan of adjustment is
feasible. Rhodes confirmed three
components of feasibility: the
longterm workability ofthe plan,
the available capital resources to
carry out the plan, and the com-
mitment of Detroit Mayor Mike
Duggan and the Detroit City
Council to implement the plan.
Attorney David Heiman
thanked Rhodes on behalf of
everyone in the courtroom, for
sense of fairness, intelligence,
poking and prodding and sense
of humor. He also said that
Detroit would not be here today
if it were not for him.

Members of IASA. the University's Indian American Student Association take dance in "Kalyara: The Sp
the organization's annual cultural dance show Friday at Hill Auditonium.

IASA
From Page 1A
choreographershad been prepar-
ing their routine since the sum-
mer.
"We started towards the end of
the summer and we finished mid-
September, so we did it in pieces,"
Rajan said. "But the whole thing
we worked on in three weeks to a
month."
Because IASA does nothave an
audition process for their cultural
dance show, members for each
group are chosen through a lot-
tery system.
"It's really hard to teach classi-
cal to people that aren't trained,"
she said. "Most people who do
classical dance have been danc-
ing for a very longtime and a lot of
girls haven't ever danced, so that
was really hard but it was really
fun and they look really good
now."
At the same time, 30 feet away
in the basement of Hill Audito-
rium, cultural show co-chairs Ria
Barad, a Ross senior, and Roshni
Kalbavi, an LSA senior, gave out
last minute directions to Show
Core, the team that helps orga-

nize and produce the IASA cul-
tural show every year.
Barad and Kalbavi were
already dressed in formal saris
three hours before the show. They
huddled with the rest of Show
Core, around a small monitor, to
check the transition graphics that
will be displayed between each
dance and presentation.
Barad and Kalbavi, who had
not known each other before
being co-chairs, have been work-
ing on the theme and execution of
Kalyara since March.
"We planned this show, but our
show would be nothing without
the students," Barad said. "We
have students putting in their
time and effort and it's their
time and effort that makes our
show good, not necessarily our
planning. It is the collaboration
of all these students that actu-
ally makes the show a success and
that's rewarding to watch every
year."
Kalbavi said the booklets for
the show were changed to reflect
the festivity theme, with the
transitions between each dances
explaining what each festival rep-
resents.
"We don't want to be a religious
show but we want to educate our

audience on different festivities
that we celebrate, because it's so
different," Kalbavi said. "I'm a
South Indian, so I celebrate Pon-
gal. But not everyone celebrates
Pongal. There were a few festivals
that I was educated on myself."
Barad said she hoped the audi-
ence in the show was exposed to
the various cultures in India.
"By sitting here, I can still learn
about India," Barad said. "There
are so many different facets of
India that even Indians don't
know. Even making these vid-
eos I've learned so much. Hope-
fully we'll see that people learn
something too while they're here
instead of just findingtheir friend
on the stage."
Classical, which performed
fourth, mixed their soundtrack
with both classical Indian
rhythms and modern music, such
as the instrumental version of
MIA's "Bad Girls."
"We have fusion dances, for
example, that put together songs
that I didn't think could ever be
played the same minute," Barad
said. "Songs that appease your
parents and songs that probably
make them skeptical and it's just
amazing to see the students put
this together."



notable differences.
Levin made foreign policy a
major focus of his tenure, serving
on the Armed Services Commit-
tee and related committees on
intelligence and national securi-
ty. He has also worked on a vari-
ety of economic policy issues: he
is a senior member on the Small
Business and Entrepreneurship
Committee and the co-chair of
the Senate's Auto Caucus. He
also serves as the co-chair of the
Great Lakes Senate Task Force.
Earlier this year, along with
Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich-
igan) and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen
(D-New Hampshire), Levin
and Peters introduced a bill to
provide more capital for small
businesses to grow and expand,
reflecting their shared economic
focuses on small business.
Peters ran on a platform
that also included raising the
minimum wage, supporting the
Affordable Care Act, pay equity
and protectingthe environment.
Like Levin, he has emphasized
the Great Lakes as part of his
environmental protection plat-
form, holding a tour at the start
of his campaign to talk to local
businesses about their relation-
ships with the Lakes.
Throughout the campaign,
Peters did not focus on for-
eign policy, but in a September
e-mail interview, Zade Alsawah,
deputy communications direc-
tor for the Peters campaign, said
Peters viewed sending troops
to war "the toughest decision
a Member of Congress could
make," and referenced his 12
years of experience in the U.S
Navy Reserve.
However, Kall said due to the
nature of the current Senate
many of those policies, shared
with Levin or not, may not be
feasible for Peters, at least for
his first few years.
"Once he gets to the Senate,
with the new map and the new
reality and the Republicans in
charge, I think that many of
his prominent agenda items are
going to have to be scaled back
a little bit, and if legislation is
passed in Congress, it'll have to

be more conciliatory," he said.
Several of those issues, mini-
mum wage in particular, did
not make it through Congress
this legislative session when the
Senate was under Democratic
control.
While Peters won't have the
seniority and corresponding
influence Levin has, he was the
only Senate candidate to cam-
paign with the president, stand-
ing on the stage with him at a
Detroit rally three days before
the election. Kall said that
choice could give him an advan-
tage in terms of influence from
another source.
"As far as the new senators
go, he could have the best rela-
tionship with the president,
because while others were -
because of the president's low
approval ratings and sentiment
in the country - not willing to
embrace the president, he was
out front by himself."

WHEELCHAIR
From Page 1A
insurance representative at the
University of Michigan Health
System. "It's an opportunity to
make the University of Michi-
gan campus more veteran and
disability friendly."
The event, which was free
to the public, included perfor-
mances by the University Dance
and Cheer teams as well as
the 338th Army Band between
each quarter. Additionally, the
University Tri-Service Color
Guard performed the National
Anthem.
Vietnam veteran Mike Lant-
ry, a University alum and former
Michigan football player, was
honored as the game's Grand
Marshal. After his discharge
from the Army, Lantry walked
onto the football team as a 23
year-old freshman and played

under Bo Schembechler in the
early 1970s. Lantry later played
for the Dallas Cowboys.
"I'm really proud that I'm a
veteran," Lantry said. "So lit-
tle has been talked about, it's
always been about football. It's
nice to be acknowledged as a
veteran and I really appreciate
that."
Hoff said the University com-
munity has embraced the event
more than in previous years.
Before the game started, about
40 student athletes met with

Lantry, Severn and Schulte,
including University Basket-
ball Coach John Beilein and the
men's basketball team, who dis-
cussed game strategies with the
players.
"It's a great way to celebrate
Veterans' DAy," Hoff said. "It
brings together our University
of Michigan students, it brings
together our general public and
it's one of the rare opportunities
that they get to meet some of
these veterans and actually get

o pass/fail options
o small classes with 18-20 students
o digital animation, color theory,
prototyping and much more....
v(00

In conjunction with Dead Man Walking,
the School of Music, Theatre & Dance
welcomes author Sister Helen Prejean, CSJ,
for two events:

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER!
@MICHIGANDAILY

Sally Fleming Master Class
"Dead Man Walking, the Journey Continues"
November 13 at 3 PM - Rackham Auditorium
Free and open to the public
Post-Show Discussion following the Thursday evening
performance of Dead Man Walking
MUSIC,THEATRE & DANCE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

At


Page 4A - Monday, November 10, 2014

Opiifl

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

.

Q Jidtigan 2ail
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SIIAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
KEVIN CHUNG| MICHIGAN IN COLOR
That's not me

When Peter Griffin got in a feud with Mr.
Washee Washee, the owner of Super Cowboy
USA Hot Dog Rocket Ship American Cleaners
Number One in an episode of Family Guy,
I couldn't help but sigh. Once again, the
stereotypical accent was there. Once again,
the absurd names were there. Once again, the
hostile foreigner typecast was there.
Once again.
Watching this made me reflect on a
dialogue session last semester about the poor
media representation of minority groups.
From this session, I became frustrated about
how I do not see myself on TV, in movies, in
magazines, or in most media forms.
I first want to say that I acknowledge the
harmful and dangerous media portrayal of
other minority groups, and I do not mean
to deduct any attention or significance from
their perspective. My goal is not to claim who
has it worse, or that other representations
are no longer relevant. This isn't to discount
the skewed media representation of Asian-
American women and other women of color,
or how heteronormative our media.represen-
tation can be. This is my frustration, identi-
fying as a Chinese American man, with the
media industry.
We exist - I exist, but not in the typecasted
manner found on TV or in movies. I am not
a token socially awkward nerd. I am not the
austere owner of a Chinese restaurant, nail
salon, or dry cleaners. I'm not a wise kung-
fu master who will teach you how to channel
your inner xi. I'm not a fetishized exotic
flamboyant Asian. That's not who I am. I am
more than that; we are more than that.
I'm tired of being the quiet side character.
I want to see that I can be the lead character,
and not just a neighbor or side story. I want
to see that I can model the latest fall fashions
alongside my white peers. I wantto see a show
that isn't solely centered around my ethnic
identity. I want to see a show that doesn't

cast a Korean person as a Chinese character,
or pretend to speak Japanese when it's really
Vietnamese. I want to see a show that doesn't
cast the Chinese character as the know-it-all
brainiac who makes others feel incompetent.
And I'm tired of being desexualized and
emasculated by the media. I want to be more
than narrow lines for eyes and a bucktooth
for a smile. I want people to see my sexy
features unskewed; my taste in fashion, the
curves of my lips, the crescent of my eyes, and
my killer smile. I want to see that I'm capable
of developing a relationship without mockery
that my partner could do better. I want to see
that I'm desirable, and not in a fetishized way.
I want to see that my beauty is not limited to
the only other Asian character on the cast.
I do want to acknowledge that there are
some better Asian-American representations
in the media. For example, ABC is airing
a new series called "Fresh Off The Boat"
based on Eddie Huang's experiences of
being an ethnic minority in a predominantly
white setting.
But let's not stop there. I refuse to passively
accept the harmful ways I'm portrayed. I
refuse to idly let these racist media typecasts
represent me; to propagate a false image of the
Chinese-American identity. This destructive
narrative needs to change.
No more typecasting. No more
exotification. No more desexualization. I
have a voice. I am plural. I am a stunning, sexy
Chinese-American man finding my way in a
white patriarchal society who is significant
enoughto have my ownnarrative and cantake
the spotlight.
Let's see that on TV.
Michigan in Color is the Daily's opinion
section designated as a space for and by
students of color at the University of Michigan.
To contribute your voice or find out more about
MiC, e-mail michiganincolor@umich.edu.

The paradox of Adderall
y family is big on medi- stimulants became a means for an a lack of work ethic only aided by the
cation. Ever since I was addiction. few remaining capsules of Adderall
little, if I had the slight- What accompanied my brain buried in my drawers. During my
est headache, my during those quiet nights and early second appointment with my bald-
mom shoved two mornings, though, were heart headed therapist with a flashy smile,
capsules of Advil palpitations, headaches and aggres- he told me to pick up the plant in his
into my hands and sive pangs of agitation. When I'd office, hold it in between my arms
told me to go and arrive at school the following, with and walk around for three minutes.
lie down. In Ms. the medication still pulsing through I did so, skeptically, and once I put
Sweigart's fifth my veins, someone's foot tapping on the plant down he asked, "Do you
grade class, after my chair could have caused me to know what that was for? That was to
I I'd gotten a C+ chew my own hand off - or theirs. show you the weight of your parents'
on a science test I ABBY An addiction brought on by the need expectations." Are you fucking
hadn't studied for, TASKIER for academic success became socially, serious? I was, for once, looking for
I sat down with emotionally and physically debilitat- constructive advice on how to utilize
both Ms. Sweigart ing. And frighteningly, I'd never real- an education I had so miserably
and my mom in the science class- ly considered it an addiction, until taken for granted, and in turn, I'd had
room, posters of the periodic table now, when I recall my legitimate to carry around a pot of lavender.
and Einstein cloaking the walls, inability to produce work without I guess what has helped me get
and spoke about the ways in which my elixir. Furthermore, I preferred over the habit of self-medicating is
I could improve my study habits. to look into my teachers' eyes, aware finding classes that have actually
With tears streaming down my face, they'd read through my landscape of mattered to me. Perspective is the
because, after all, getting a C+ in fifth lies, rather than to simply trust my only remedy for apathy, and my
grade meant a lifetime of failure, we own intelligence. But what if this appreciation for my education has
spoke about the possibility of intro- said more about unfair academic been founded upon a perspective
ducing Adderall into my daily diet. expectations than it did about me? I've gained from classes and
This aim for my academic success During my senior year of high extracurriculars alike. But the
didn't take shape until ninth grade, school, a mixed forum was held inability to make deadlines still
when homework required more for students, teachers and parents hauntsme, and procrastination is the
than the filling out of worksheets. I alike to discuss what we'd gained bane of any college kid's existence.
went to a psychiatrist, a kind woman from watching the 2010 documen- Recently, a friend's mom spoke to
who prescribed me a low dosage of tary, "Waiting for Superman." The me about how the creator of "The
Adderall - "boosters" - she called film provides a commentary on the West Wing," Aaron Sorkin, would
them, for those times in the middle American public school system's snort multiple lines of coke and
of the day when I just couldn't seem failures, and splay hundreds
to focus. For those instances requir- the ways in of pieces of
ing long-term concentration, she which kids have paper at his feet
prescribed me a bottle of high dosage adopted ridicu- W e need to learn to in order conjure
Adderall. "Only to be taken on rare lously high-up his critically
occasions," she had said, smiling, expectations trust our intelligence acclaimed
Well, upon reflection, throwing bot- for themselves, and trust that our dialogue. "Hey!"
ties of stimulants at a lazy 14-year- causing them to I said, "That
old doesn't seem to yield what my be overworked. I motivation will sounds like how
parents had hoped would be out- myself was lucky I write papers!"
standing results. And contrary to our enough to attend follow passion. No laughs were
belief systems at the time, medication a well-resourced exchanged
cannot be substituted for motivation. private school in because
I began to take the pills, but not Washington D.C., and the forum con- dependency isn't funny, it's scary.
during the day, when class material sisted of myself and other privileged I was medicated early on with the
became so daunting that I'd instead students and parents discussing a assumption that my unidentified
revert to teenage fantasies in myhead school system which we knew vir- aversiontoputtingfortheffortwould
rather than attempt engagement. tually nothing about. Still, I sheep- be cured. But what professionals
Instead it was during the nighttime, ishly walked up to the podium and should have encouraged was the
when the only living things awake proposed this: what if some people pursuit to identify my aversion.
were me and the birds cooing outside just aren't motivated by school? The If it became apparent that a rigid
of my window. This practice was responses varied. A couple of teach- academic environment wasn't right
maintainedthroughout my fouryears ers afterwards commended my hon- for me, then that should have been
of high school. I left all of my work esty, a parent took me aside to say, "I OK, because our modern definition
until the last minute, and many times, don't think that's true," and surpris- of education is so boxed in that it
until after the deadline, because my ingly, many of my peers nodded in doesn't allow for us to exhibit our
enabler - Adderall - ensured that agreement. So maybe I wasn't the intelligence accordingly. I still
I'd produce something eventually. only one who couldn'tget pumped up sometimes use stimulantsain a pinch,
On Adderall, I didn't just feel about school, justthe only one secret- as do many of my friends, as do so
efficient, I felt like a motherfucking ly killing myselfwith stimulants. many college students sometimes
genius. My eyes scurried over pages I came to college with the hope for recreational use. But we, as
upon pages of texts in a matter of that university courses would finally students, as people, should learn to
hours - texts assigned for weeks' ensure my genuine interest inschool, trust our intelligence and trust that
worth of consumption. I wrote what but alas, introductory level social our motivation will follow passion.
I believed to be papers with highly sciences didn't seem to change a now And passion, I believe, will very
sophisticated argumentation clouded fiercely maintained commitment rarely be found within the confines
by hundreds of typos and heaps of against formal education. Within of a classroom. Also, I wrote this in
incoherency. But my brain became a the first two months of my freshman two hours, just on coffee.
flawless generator of insight, and its year, I registered with Counseling
consistent ability to counteract my and Psychological Services in the - Abby Taskier can be reached
academic apathy in the presence of attempt to hash out my real problem: at ataskier@umich.edu.
EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Devin Eggert, David Harris, Rachel John, Jordyn Kay, Aarica
Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Paul,
Allison Raeck, Melissa Scholke, Michael Schramm, Matthew
Seligman, Mary Kate Winn, Jenny Wang, Daniel Wang,
Derek Wolfe
MICHAEL PAULIVI WPON
Not a 'Michigan Man,' but the right man

LINDSAY HURWITZ W
A misleading representation

Oct. 8, 2014, was a beautiful, sunny day
in Michigan, one of those rare days where
even the weather seems to be telling you
that nothing can go wrong. After my last
class I walked from the MLB to the UGLi to
finish up some work. However, upon walking
through the Diag I was faced by a mock
checkpoint supposed to be representing the
walls between the Israeli and Gaza borders.
Ipeacefully approached the makeshift desk
and simply asked someone to explain what
was being demonstrated. I soon found myself
surrounded by pro-Palestinian students, each
quickly throwing out arguments one after
another to explain why the wall is unfair and
a disgrace to human rights. They concluded
by claiming that Israel is an "apartheid state,"
which was my cue to step in.
The alls stationed in the Diag created
the illusion that there is a humongous, thick,
impenetrable wall between Israel and Gaza.
But, this barrier is actually mostly fence.
In fact, less than 5 percent of the barrier is
actually concrete wall - the rest being a
fence. The less than S percent that is concrete
was instituted in order to protect civilians
from sniper fire, leaving the rest of the barrier
to be composed of chain link or barbed wire.
Simply claiming that this security fence is
unjust is a blatant disregard of the correlation
between the end of suicide bombings and this
barrier. As I iterated to the pro-Palestinian
students that day, I am not making a blanket
statement that all Gazans are dangers to
the Israeli society. However, observing the
connection between the decrease in suicide
bombings and the creation of the barrier is
critical. Since the barrier was constructed,
suicide bombings in Israel have become
incredibly infrequent.
Still, this demonstration in the Diag
alludes to the idea that only Israel is so harsh
as to implement a barrier on its border. Yet,
many borders have barriers, including the
very country we live in. The border fence
between the United States and Mexico is
not nearly as closely scrutinized by the
international community, as maintaining
a checkpoint where people cross from one
country to another is considered a standard
practice. The Ceuta border fence between
Spain and Morocco exists in order to stop
illegal immigration and smuggling. In fact,
this fence is composed of barbed wire and
watchmen as well. So too, the security fences
between Israel and Gaza have helped limit
terrorism, drug smuggling and other crimes
within Israel. The implementation of the

security barrier has directly impacted the
decrease in suicide bombings, smuggling and
terrorism, which cannot be ignored.
The aspect of my conversation with these
students that sticks out the most in my
mind is the lie that Israel is an apartheid
state. All Israeli citizens are granted equal
rights under Israeli law. Actually, there are
numerous Palestinians residing in Israel
who work there and are properly paid. Israel
causes no harm to these Palestinians, and to
the contrary, helps them sustain proper lives
in Israel. Palestinians are denied many rights
in places like Lebanon, and women are denied
basic human rights in countries like Saudi
Arabia. In fact, 24 percent of Israeli citizens
are considered to be Arab, and many of these
Arabs serve in the country's legislature.
Arabs are cared for by Israeli hospitals and
learn in Arab-Israeli schools because Arabic
is considered an official Israeli language.
Israeli citizens include whites, Blacks,
Arabs, Jews, Muslims, Christians, atheists
and more. Each of these people maintain
the right to vote and is equally permitted in
all public places. To the contrary, since 1997
the Palestinian Authority has declared that
selling any amount of Gazan property to an
Israeli is considered treason - punishable
by death. But, these facts are blatantly
ignored in the pro-Palestinian checkpoint
demonstration, making Israel seem an
unlawful and shameful country.
Additionally, Operations Solomon, Moses
and Joshua airlifted approximately 35,000
Ethiopian Jews who were impoverished in
other lands to start anew in Israel. The state
of Israel maintains a law granting Muslim
power Waqf control over Arab holy sites -
along with the Jewish Temple Mount, the
holiest site for the Jews. Israel is a progressive
and liberal democracy, one that allows free
press, complete religious freedoms, full
rights for women and minorities, recognizes
gay marriage and holds free elections.
While I fully support the right of the
pro-Palestinian students on this campus to
present their side of the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict, I felt that these students blurred the
lines between Palestine awareness and anti-
Israel sentiments. I recognize that this debate
is heated and incredibly complex, yet I find it
an injustice to a country that I love to enable
these falsehoods to be spread effortlessly on
my campus.
Lindsay Hurwitz is an LSA
sophomore and a CAMERA fellow.

Michiganfootballisatacrossroads.
Whether University President Mark
Schlissel likes it or not, his choice for
Athletic Director could very well be
a decision that defines his tenure. I
know that there are more important
things to life than football, but as
one who genuinely bleeds maize
and blue, I'm hard pressed to find an
activity I enjoy more than scaring
the green people in East Lansing.
It's something that we Wolverines
take so much pride in. By leaving
the post of Athletic Director, Dave
Brandon has shifted the spotlight
from himself to Schlissel and now
it's shining brighter than ever. The
former Brown provost, not even
five months on the job, has his work
cut out for him. His pick can both
restore order and help us contend
for national championship, or drop
us deeper into the doldrums of
college football purgatory. He must
tread carefully.
When Dave Brandon hired Brady
Hoke in 2011, much fanfare was
made regarding Hoke's previous
ties to Michigan. Hoke served as
part of Lloyd Carr's staff from
1995 to 2002, carrying various

titles like defensive line coach and
assistant head coach. Students and
alumni were cheering for Hoke.
Former players like Tom Brady and
Charles Woodson endorsed the
pick. Everyone loved the Hoke hire.
Especially the fact that he was a
Michigan Man.
Let's stop right there.
What exactly is a Michigan Man?
Is it someone who has attended the
University in a certain capacity or
is it someone who shares the same
beliefs and values as the University?
Whatever it is, those that asked for
Hoke's hire are currently asking
for his head. And those that asked
for Rich Rodriguez, the previous
head coach, to step downi because
of the lack of ties to the University,
now wish he never left. By the way,
Rich Rod is now 7-2 at Arizona with
notable victories over California and
Oregon. It burns doesn't it?
Mediocre seasons like the current
one and the past several give rise to
a group of fickle fans and it is with
this bandwagonnery (yes I made
this word up) that I back President
Schlissel in his decision to select the
best person for the job of Athletic

Director, regardless of previous
ties to the University. Let's face it.
If Michigan football was 9-0 right
now and in some parallel universe,
Brady Hoke happened to have ties
to OSU (my fingers won't allow me
to type out the full name), we would
all be ecstatic. Also, just because
you don't have ties to the University
doesn't mean you can't acquire them.
President Schlissel at a recent press
conference said,"Despite the fact that
I've been here for only 110 days, I feel
like a 'Michigan Man' already." The
wolverine nature can be learned. The
belief in integrity and working for
each other are some values one can
learn by attending this University
and embracing its culture.
Don't get me wrong. I amin no way
saying that if another football player
was chosen to lead this athletic pro-
gram, nepotismhas occurred and the
end ofthe world is near. I am just ask-@
ing that the person being chosen for
the job be picked based on merit and
experience and that he/she believes
that Michigan football deserves to be
in amuchbetter place thanitistoday.
Michael Paul is an LSA junior*

CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION
Readers are encouraged to submit letters to the editor and viewpoints.
Letters should be fewer than 300 words while viewpoints should be 550-850 words.
Send the writer's full name and University affiliation. to tothedaily@michigandaily.com.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, November 10, 2014 - 5A

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com Monday, November10, 2014- 5A

01

Time is a flat circle, Renesmee.
'Interstellar' falls
under own weight

Welcome to Litchfield.
Coupe shines bright
in USA's 'Benched'

Despite special
effects, Nolan's latest
doesn't deliver
By ANDREW MCCLURE
DailyArts Writer
Brace yourself for
the inevitable philistine
contending
that B+
Christopher
Nolan's Inter-
"Interstellar" stla
trivializes stellar
time-folding State
wormholes Theater,
and ignores Rave and
quantum Quality 16
mechanics.
This movie Warner Bros.
by and
large demonstrates Nolan's
filmmaking prowess as both
an entertainer ("The Dark
Knight" 's nocturnal, nihilistic
Gotham) and deconstructionist
(the limited nature of words
in finding one's identity
in "Memento"). To a fault,
"Interstellar" is a hyper-
ambitious love letter that
envelops time and space to
remind us that only human
connection will ultimately
drive progress.
Nolan likes to manipulate
time in his films, typically to
rediscover some form of lost
love. Unlike his previous work,
"Interstellar" augments his
oeuvre by attempting to build,
then break, hearts without
sacrificing bent minds. He guns
for the heart and mind, both
equal in daring and sugariness.
To not mince words, this
film will leave even the most
stoic jaws glued to their laps
by its astonishing visual
fireworks and umpteenth-
dimension hallucinogenics -
an unashamed nod to Kubrick's
genre-establishing "2001: A
Space Odyssey."
But Nolan (who co-wrote
the screenplay with his brother
Jonathan), in its three-hour
running time, creates a lean
film to which the 80-20 rule
applies: 80 percent of the visual
awe-acrobatics, which borders
at times on irksome incredulity,
and backed by the 20 percent of
lived-in, raw human feeling.
However, this emotion and
the script too often bleed
with melodrama and poetic
recitation: Dylan Thomas's
"Rage, rage, rage against the

dying of the light" might be the
best line - and it was stolen.
The film is set in the near
future when World Series
games are played on tee-
ball-sized fields with empty
bleachers because, well,
who has time and money for
recreation when- people gotta
eat? Matthew McConaughey
plays Coop, a sharp former
NASA pilot who turned farmer
because the world "needs
good farmers" as corn is one
of the only not-yet-depleted
resources left. Thanks to his
super-inquisitive, mini-him
daughter Murph (played young
by newcomer Mackenzie Foy
and all grown-up by Jessica
Chastain, "Zero Dark Thirty"),
the two discover the "best
kept secret" in a U.S. that can't
afford to fund anything but
farming: NASA's underground
headquarters. Much to Murph's
dismay, NASA elects Coop as
chief pilot on a mission to find
a new habitable planet. Father
and daughter split on wretched
terms.
"Mankind was born on
earth. It was never meant
to die here," Coop muses to
former professor named Brand
(played with assured elegance
by Michael Caine, "The Dark
Knight").
The shuttle mission to find
a new home is crewed by
Professor Brand's daughter
Amelia (played with typical
theater-camp overacting by
Anne Hathaway, "The Dark
Knight Rises") and two other
astronauts. Once coasting
from Earth's atmosphere, the
team lets witty robot TARS
(standup comic version of HAL
from "2001") take the driver
seat as they embark on a two-
year spaceflight nap toward a
wormhole that will zip them to
a new galaxy. I'm hard-nosed
to say the wormhole traveling
sequence reaches heights
unseen in special effects
artistry.
The problem with this
"ideal candidate" planet is
that one hour there equates
to seven years back on earth.
Chop, chop, goes Coop, who
wants to rekindle things with
Murph before she checks into
a nursing home. The remaining
film, albeit grows closer to
figuring out mankind's destiny,
rather revolves around family
and promise. Nolan stretches
to marry their microcosmic
familial bond to the larger-

than-life predicament of saving
the human race, but doesn't
ever make us care enough
about the daddy-daughter
detachment in the first place.
It's challenging, however,
to not first mention
McConaughey's ace
performance. The guy has had
a peerless last few years and
in "Interstellar," we find him
at his most altruistic, where
lines are blurred between
save-the-world explorer and
unconditionally loving father.
The Nolan brothers create
some timely heart-wringing
moments - none more
lachrymose when Coop reviews
his videoconference tapes from
his kids. Decades later on Earth
are merely hours for Coop.
They grow up before his eyes in
minutes. It's overwhelming but
profound.
In post-production, Nolan
simply gave resident musical
composer Hans Zimmer a
love letter from father to
daughter, but without access
to film footage. The result is a
hair-raising score that meets
the stunning imagery and,.
ultimately, an indecisive, tell-
all script at a crossroads: an
occasionally emotive love story
that humbles its space-cowboy
ego without ever reconciling
with the unrelenting sappiness.

By MATTHEW BARNAUSKAS
Daily Arts Writer
The new USA comedy
"Benched" doesn't spend a lot of
time waitingto playto its greatest
strength, series
star Eliza
Coupe. Having
previously Benched
starred as Tuesdays
Jane on the at 10:30
all too short- USA
lived "Happy
Endings," Coupe continues to
bring the type-A personality
humor she utilized to "Benched"
protagonist Nina Whitley.
Nina is a high-strung, career-
minded corporate lawyer who's
sacrificed almost all of her
personal life to reach the top of
her field.But when she loses outon
the position as partner at her firm,
Nina goes on a bridge-burning
tirade. "Igave you everything for
nothing!" Nina screams as she
proceeds to smash possibly every
breakable object in her reach. The
breakdown is one of the episode's
greatest moments, and Coupe
sells the absolute frustration that
has boiled over in her character
who proceeds to call out most of
her colleagues before having to
awkwardly wait for the elevator
to go down.
Now reduced to being a public
defender, Nina finds herself in

a case of culture shock. Having
defended the rich, Nina now must,
representthe poor. Her coworkers
areagroupofmisfits, mostnotably
Phil Quinlan (Jay Harrington,
"Better Off Ted"), a jaded, day-
drinking lawyer. The pilot goes a
little paint-by-numbers with Phil
and Nina, playing off the pair's
immediate sexual tension, which
is aided by Coupe's chemistry
with Harrington. As Phil tries to
offer Nina a drink, "Did anybody
ever tell you it's rude to turn
down a drink," she counters, "Did
anyone tell youthatyou talk like a
date rapist."
Inside the courtroom Nina is
a fish out of water, dealing with
the grouchy and apathetic Judge
Don Nelson (Fred Melamed,
"In a World...") who just wants
to get through the day as fast as
possible. Nelson is probably the
most standout of the rest of the
supporting cast, who are mostly
relegated to the background, as
his cantankerous personality
clashes with Nina's overachieving
sensibilities. Also in the court
as assistant district attorney is
Trent (Carter McIntyre, "Drop
Dead Diva"), Nina's ex-fiance.
Trent's barely defined, and the
show"makes it clear that all the
audience really needs to know is
he's a douche.
Written by series creators
Michaela Watkins ("Saturday

Night Live") and Damon Jones
("G.IL.F"), "Benched" takes
a relatively smart look at the
position of a woman in the
profession of law. Despite her
excellent track record, Nina
struggles to gain recognition in
the workplace. At her corporate
firm she's passed over by her male
superior in favor of a younger,
more attractive coworker. Post-
meltdown, Nina's turned into
mostly a subject of gossip and is
most noted for her breakdown
and having slept with Trent. At
one point Nina questions, "Is
there any gossip out there about
my good qualities?" as she's been
reduced by her coworkers to a
parody of herself. The writing
successfully passes off that even
though Nina is out of her element,
she is a smart and competent
enough lawyer to successfully
adjust to her new surroundings
and earn the respect she deserves;
therefore, her win at the end of
the episode feels genuine and not
contrived.
A lot of credit for the successes
of the episode goes to Coupe, who
brings the necessary intelligence
to, the character of Nina, while
giving her the vulnerabilities that
come with her uptight attitude.
Even though the secondary cast
needs some further definition,
"Benched" can comfortably lean
on its leading lady as it settles in.

II aIsIf I ,4r Call: #734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmailcom
RELEASE DATE- Monday, November 10, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 3 Japanese 39 Former NBA 53 Parting words,
1 Digital periodical, cartoon style center__ Ming perhaps afterthe !NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. ! "PRIME" PARKING FOR Sale
briefly 4 Premium 40 U.K. award visit suggested ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. ! 721 S. Forest "Forest Place"
5 Part of CBS: chocolate brand 42 Painting or by the starts of ! www.HRPAA.com ! $125 per month-Paid in full up front
Abbr. 5 Walk laboriously, sculpture 20-, 38-/40- and Limited Passes Remaining
9 Comicstitle asthrough mud 46'No argument 54-Across SAND6BdrmCampus housesfor2015- Now thruApril or August 2015
characterwho 6Quotable Berra from me' 55 Twistable 2016, check oat Joyce Properties at 734-761-8005
married Irving 7The ul fomany 47 Electrical cookie www.jcycea2.com primesh.com
14 Kitchen floor potadhrs capacitance units 5e Fail to mention ________________
cooering, in Kent 8 Borglaries 49 Dizzy with delight 57 M cal birds AVAILABLE NOW! $745 or Best
15 Ness monster 10 Hooded snake 51 Divided country 58 TV schedule 344 S. Division- Efficiency
16Ertiiget King beaters Frihd
re EadO pigment 11 "if's not true!" 52 Barely managing, abbr.- Furnished, Water & Free Ethernet
A7 Sooner Sate ty 12 Pants bottom with "out 59 Actor Holbrook 734-761-8000
curve 13Dedeteoths: ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: Primesholom
cmtecAtrural______S-_________
r0 Tssotighi 21 Knucklehead M A J O R D 0 M O S A B A B HOUSES AVAILABLE MAY 2015
spot 22 Chanted A T O N E S B E S T R I D E 8 Bdrms -720 Arbor - $5560
23 Roman fountain 26Shunnooa 0 wS A N 0 S T R A A L V A Trenantspayallutilities.ShowingsM-F10-
24 Volcano in Sicily campus S M E L T Z I T S L I U 3 w/!24 tr notice required.
25 'What's 2 undto- 098U t0NTAtT Cull 734-996-1991_
happenin'" 7based home S P Y G LAS S C O N 0 
28 In the least entertainment P O O S N O O P B L D G S WWW.CARLSONPROPERTIES
favorablecase 29 Churchill of the A T B A F 734 2 000
31 Brit's"Bye-bye" Unired Kingdom AT___1EUBAFR__SDC__P_734-32-600
32 Cleopatra's 30Charity'sURL C A R IA Y A T L A S O R O
undoing ending E T E R N E S K I P S U T WWW.CHURCHSTREETRENTALS.-
35 Slim and 31 Fight stopper, for W O R S E N S A L I T COM734-320-1244715/721Chumh-
muscular short I A P I T CentralCampus/Across fromEast Quad.
36 Annie with a gun 32 Cockeyed M I C L M 1 & 2 bdrm aptsavail for 2015-2016
38 With 40-Across, 33 Hidden supply EMCAHGITCATTLETAMES
remaining 34 Free-spirited ECtHO TAT T LCTA L 0
focused socializer NETS S T O R Y L I N E S
40 See 38-Across 37 Poise xwordeditor@aol.com 11/10/14
41 Goldpurity 1 2 3 5 s s 9 10 12 1i
42 Brother oftCain is 15 1
43 Item in a P.O.
box 17 18 15 THESIS EDITING. LANGUAGE, * #I ea in
44 This, in Seville organization, format. All Disciplines.
45 Fed up with 2o 01 00 734/996-0566 or writeen@iserv net
48 For what reason 23 24252s27the Michigan Daily!
49 Capricorn's
animal 08 09 50 31 E PW N E
SO Creates
54 Betting it all 32 33 34 35 n 37
58 "Ho corner" base3s 3s 40
6o Cowboys 38 35eck_____________________
quartback Tony 41 a 43 FULL TIME COMMERCIAL gd .
81 9&B singer CLEANERS: CLEANING IN ANN w wmihgnalco
I 44n45aas s n ARBOR M-F 7-330PM MUST PASS
63 Explorerthe a us so s1 50 51 AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND
Red CHECK AND DRUG SCREENING.
64 Reject as false sa n4 in 57 www.aarocompanies.com or call
65 Brass or bronze 586-759-3700
88 CP8 pros 589sot
87 It's along story 62 THE LAWYERS CLUB Dining S rvice
(551 S. State) is HIRING
DOWN 65 66 67 STUDENT STAFF for lunch and dinner.
1 Put into office $9.00 hr and a meal duoing your shift
2 Insignificant By Teresa Colby CONTACT: Holly Downey
(c)2014r Tribune Content Agency, LLC 11/10114 hkdowney@umich.edu or 734.763.5161

ALRIGHT.
WE'RE
FUNNIER THAN
MATT
McCONAUGHEY
@MICHIGANDAILY
0'f


bA - Monday, November 10, 2014 A rts'

The Michigan Daily* michigandaily.com

- Monday, November10, 2014 A rts The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

0

DISNEY
Michelin's product placement is OUT OF CONTROL.
'Big Hero 6' clever
social commentary

Where's Josh Groban?


ixim Karuasnian
guests on 2 Broke

Disney's new hits Hiro hard. He cloisters
himself in his-room, refusing to
animated flick enroll in his classes, continue
fettures diverse a working on his projects or
fecast respond to his friends' attempts
By VANESSA WONG to reach out to him. When
DailyArts Writer Hiro says "ow" in reaction to
dropping something on his
Listen up and listen carefully: toe he inadvertently activates
"Big Hero 6" has adorable Baymax (Scott Adsit, TV's "30
superhero robots, a car chase, Rock"), Tadashi's health-care
great social robot.
representation Oh, Baymax. Inflating out of
and a touching A the box to a plump, waddling
moral figure with circular, unblinking
storyline, Big. eyes, he self-describes his
which no doubt Hero 6 interface as "cuddly" and aims to
equates to improve everyone's mental and
movie success. Rave and emotional health. His genuine
Hiro Quality 16 selflessness shines through
Tamada (Ryan Disney misunderstandings of social
Potter, TV's conventions, like when Hiro's
"Supah Ninjas"), a 14-year- failed attempt to teach him how
old genius, spends his time to fist bump results in his own,
inventing robotic technology. idiosyncratic interpretation
He invents microbots that is adorably hilarious. When
controlled by thought that Hiro and his friends form the
impress Professor Robert Big Hero,6 r pand undertake
Callaghan (James Cromwel; an expemition to bring down a
"Secretariat"), who offers him villain who stole his microbots
a place in the prestigious "nerd for evil purposes, Hiro updates
school" college program that his Baymax's programming to fit
older brother Tadashi (Daniel the job. He teaches Hiro about
Henney, "X-Men Origins: the importance of not letting
Wolverine") also attends, and anger lead to revenge and,
Alistair Krei (Alan Tudyk, TV's eventually, helps Hiro recover
"Suburgatory"), a corporate from Tadashi's death.
tycoon who offers to buy This is perhaps one of the
Hiro'sinvention. Ultimately, he most diverse animated films
chooses to follow in Tadashi's yet. We've seen people of color
footsteps and go to college, featured as Disney leads before,
but amidst the goofy brotherly but "Big Hero 6" handles it in a
celebration that follows, modern fashion similar to "The
disaster strikes: the university Princess and the Frog", where
building ignites in flames and the characters are treated as
Tadashi dies trying to save actual human beings rather
Professor Callaghan. The loss than having their race exploited

for an ethnic storyline. It's
refreshing to see, and marks
a step up in terms of social
representation in media.
Additionally, "6" both defies
stereotypes and embraces
individuality. When Hiro
nervously approaches the stage
for his presentation, Gogo
(Jamie Chung, "Sorority Row")
tells him to "stop whining and
woman up." She also takes
the wheel over from Wasabi
(Damon Wayans Jr., TV's "New
Girl") in a car chase when he
refuses to drive aggressively
enough for her liking. Gogo,
you go! With regards to Wasabi,
he, screaming loudly whenever
something scary happens and
overly abiding to all rules,
breaks down the perception
that a Black male must be
intimidating. Even Honey
Lemon's (Genesis Rodriguez,
"What to Expect When You're
Expecting") stylish and high-
tech purse outfitted with
color bombs embraces her
girly girl persona instead of
mocking it for its supposed
superficiality. Rounding out the
"Big Hero 6" crew is Fred (T.J.
Miller, "Transformers: Age of
Extinction"), an enthusiastic
comic book and superhero
fanatic. The group uplifts the
whole film with their boundless
energy and optimism just as
they do to Hiro.
With a lovable and well-
fleshed out cast of characters
and a compelling, funny plot,
"Big Hero 6" doesn't fail Walt
Disney's name. It may be a
children's movie, but its appeal
stretches wide and far.

By HAILEY MIDDLEBROOK workid
Daily Arts Writer assum

"I know how hard us girls
really work to keep our businesses
going, so I'll take a cupcake,"
said Kim
Kardashian, [
delivering
what was 2 Broke
probably the Girls
best line of
her 60-second Mondays
appearance
in the season at 8:00 p.m.
four premiere CBS
of "2 Broke
Girls." Despite coming from the
definition of an air-headed icon,
the quote gets at something
deeper than Max and Caroline's
hardships in getting their
cupcake business running - it
alludes to the struggle of the
show itself to find its footing in,
the cutthroat world of comedy.,
"2 Broke Girls," created by
Michael Patrick King ("Sex and
the City"), firstpremiered on CBS
in 2011 and was met with mixed
reviews.Theshowis setinaseedy
Williamsburg neighborhood
of Brooklyn, outside the rich
district of NYC, and it follows
two "broke" roommates Max
Black (Kat Dennings, "Nick and
Norah's Infinite Playlist") and
Caroline Channing (Beth Behrs,
"Castle") and their struggle to
save enough money waitressing
to open a cupcake shop.
Despite their shared dream,
the two girls are polar opposites:
Max is the daughter of a single,

addict
boyfri
to the
high-c
gradu
caugh
and lo
find e
a Broo
remin
Madd
Tipton
D
sh
the
pol
Zack
and
wears
hair
holdin
curren
phase
Th
steals1
bante
offens
was r
innol
forme
Your N
Tha
broke

ng-class mother, who is show - and Max and Caroline's
edtohave somesortofdrug window-run cupcake stand -
ion and a slew of deadbeat Kim Kardashian agreed to make
ends, while Caroline, new an appearance. In the episode,
blue-collar life, is a former an agent for the Kardashians
class socialite and Wharton comes to the cupcake window to
ate whose father was ask if the girls would agree to be
t in a shady Ponzi scheme filmed for "Keeping Up with the
st all of his money. The two Kardashians," becausethe family
ach other while working at was passing through and wanted
klyn diner and form a bond footage of being out-and-about in
iscent of a more grown-up Brooklyn.
lie Fitzpatrick and London Caroline, ecstatic about the
n from "The Suite Life of idea of being around "popular"
people, agrees immediately;
Max is more hesitant, but after
several jabs at the family ("I'll
espite their give you five good reasons why
we shouldn't: Kim, Kamber,
ared dream, Klondike, and the little ones
Krispy and Rreme"), she
two girls are agrees that the media-famous
. Kardashians would give them
ar opposites. great publicity. In a turn of
events, the fpmily pulls out of
the filming, claiming that the
shop is too far to walk to in
and Cody." Max is raunchy heels. Outraged, Max bakes
realistic while Caroline a batch of "hate cupcakes,"
her Paris Hilton-esque transcribed with sayings like
like a shield, desperately "bite me," and delivers them to
ig onto the belief that her the Kardashians' hotel; then,
nt pennilessness is just a bending all the rules of fan-star
reality, Kim tweets a picture of
e unlikely pair's chemistry the cupcakes with the chilling
the show - their rapid-fire caption "not cool." She has
r, though often borderline a change of heart, however,
ive, is why "2 Broke Girls" because later - in the climactic
enewed for a fourth season, moment of the show - Kim rolls
ess than the prime time slot up to the girls' stand in her limo.
rly occupied by "How I Met The starstruck girls give her a
Mother." cupcake on the house, though
at's a lot of pressure on two Kim deftly slips them a $100 tip
girls. Fortunately for the before sauntering away.


"

10


HAVE FEELINGS ABOUT
'INTERSTELLAR'?
TO APPLY TO DAILY ARTS,
E-MAIL AKSE@UMICH.EDU

READ THE LATEST ARTS NEWS ON THE
DAILY'S ONLINE ARTS BLOG
You

Campus Mind Works Groups
FREE mental health education
and support groups for U-M
students
Strategies for Managing
Anxiety and Depression
When:
Tuesday, November 11
from 5:30-7:00 p.m.
Where:
Chrysler Center, Room 151
North Campus
Visit www.campusmindworks.org
for more information.
Presented by the U-M Depression Center
in collaboration with the College of
Engineering and the Newnan Academic
D NC Advising Center.

a _
F,
,

4


 iortMonday
*The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I November TO, 2014

ALLISON FARRAND/Daily
The Michigan football team's defense recorded six sacks, and senior defensive end Frank Clark jumped the snap on a two-point conversion to help seal the win.
'M' tops 'Cats in ugly game

Quarterback Devin Gardner had an off afternoon, throwing two interceptions.
When winning
isn't what it
should be

Wolverines stop
Northwestern on
2-point conversion
to clinch win
By MAX COHEN
Daily Sports Editor
The Michigan football team
was able to ride a strong defen-
sive performance to a win over
Northwestern on Saturday,
combining for six turnovers in
a game that was scoreless at the
half.

But the Wolverines were able
to muster enough scoring to pull
out the last-second, 10-9 victory.
The win marked the first time
Michigan has won consecutive
games in more than a year.
The Daily looks at the good,
bad and ugly from the Wolver-
ines' narrow win.
The Good:
Michigan's defense seemed
to will the team to victory. The
unit bottled up the Wildcat
offense for most of the after-
noon, particularly in the first
three quarters.

Fifth-year senior linebacker
Jake Ryan and senior defensive
end Frank Clark were seemingly
all over the field throughout the
game. Ryan had 11 tackles and
an interception, consistently
anchoring the Wolverine line-
backer corps.
Clark helped make the game's
defining play, pursuing North-
western quarterback Trevor
Siemian on his two-point con-
version attempt until he slipped.
Clark spent much of the after-
noon in the Wildcats' backfield,
recording 2.5 tackles for a loss
and 1.5 sacks.
Michigan's defense had been

hoping for an increase in big,
game-altering plays after mak-
ing just a handfull of them in
previous weeks, and it came
through with six sacks and two
interceptions.
The Bad:
The Wolverine offense strug-
gled mightily throughout most
of the game. Because of the work
of the defense, the offense was
gifted tremendous field position
multiple times throughout the
game, but was frequently unable
to convert.
See UGLY, Page 2B

et me paint you a picture.
Ryan Field is so empty
at -
kickoff that
when North-
western
comes out of
the tunnel
you're almost
unaware of
the small ALEXA
crowd - half DETTELBACH
of which
is rooting
for Michigan - that doesn't

make much noise. An incred-
ible rendition of the National
Anthem from Jim Cornelison
opens up, and is one of the few
highlights on the afternoon.
And the crowd spends the next
three hours doing more laugh-
ing and groaning from missed
opportunities than cheering,
as the game ends with two
touchdowns and six combined
turnovers.
But most glaring of all, in
Michigan's ugly, ugly, ugly 10-9
See NOT PRETTY, Page 2B


LET'S BALL
The Michigan football team isn't the
attraction it once was. That role has been
taken over by the basketball team.
SportsMonday Column, Page 2B

BREAKING EVEN
The Michigan football team's win
brought it back to .500 and within a
victory of reaching bowl eligibility.
Page 4B


2B - November 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michiganda'rly.com

2B - November10, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

UGLY
From Page 1B
Michigan started its last
three offensive drives of the
first half in Northwestern
territory, but was unable to
come away with a single point.
The Wolverines struggled to
move the ball throughout the
game and turned the ball over
three times.
Fifth-year senior
quarterback Devin Gardner
threw two interceptions, the
first of which could have been
caught by sophomore tight
end Jake Butt. The second
interception was the product
of a poor decision by Gardner,

who threw the ball into
traffic and was intercepted by
Northwestern safety Ibraheim
Campbell.
The Ugly:
Unfortunately, we weren't
allowed to use all of the space
in today's paper for this section.
There are normal football
mishaps, and then there are
the mishaps that happened in
Saturday's game.
There was the Michigan
turnover that occurred when
junior wide receiver Devin
Funchess was in, motion and
the shotgun snap hit him in
the chest as he ran in front of
Gardner.

There was the Northwestern
punt when a low snap bounced
on the ground and led to a
20-yard punt. And the muffed
Wildcat punt return that the
Wolverines recovered.
Michigan also got in on the
special teams fun when senior
Matt Wile's 41-yard field goal
attempt in the second quarter
was blocked.
Even the game's deciding
play was ugly. Siemian slipped
on the game's final play, ending
Northwestern's threat with an
uncoordinated fall to the ground.

a


NOT PRETTY
From Page 1B
win Saturday, was that
Brady Hoke wasn't doing much
clapping during the game.
And when Hoke isn't clapping,
you know you have a problem.
The players certainly seem to
recognize that much.
"It's really frustrating that
(the offense) doesn't capitalize
on the situations that we're
put in, buta win is a win," said
redshirt junior center Jack
Miller. "It could've been a lot
easier. ... It's both frustrating
and nice.
"Thank God for the defense.
... Thank God for therm, they
played great
and bailed us
out."
Miller's "W e're
right, it was a
win, but it was to go to
so painful to
watch that it Bowl-
almost didn't at
=feel like one.
So where do
you draw
the line and
realize a win isn't what it
should be?
Is it when your mobile
quarterback takes too long to
commit to the run with the
open lane, despite an open
20 yards ahead of him? What
about ifhiwaits and waits and
waits before he decides to take
off, gains just six yards and
the team is forced to punt two
plays later?
or when a future first-
round draft pick at wide
receiver drops several
important balls, commits
multiple penalties and even

fumbles the ball when he runs
in motion and moves in front
- of the center as the ball is
snapped?
What about when a horribly,
and I mean horribly, shanked
punt is one of Michigan's
only chances to get past
midfield, but in response, it.
goes three-and-out and punts?
Is it when defensive tackle
Matthew Godin intercepts
Northwestern four plays later
and the Wolverines get within
field goal range only for the
attempt to be blocked just
before the half?
Or when the Wolverines are
inside Northwestern's 25-yard
line for just the second time
in the first half and Gardner
throws
an ugly
. interception?
not gomg What about
when he
the Rose steps back
to pass and
We failed trips over
hat" himself?
Is that
where the
line is drawn
for a win
not feeling like a win? Is that
when Hoke's claps aren't
warranted? Is that where that
warm fuzzy feeling fans get
when their favorite teams win
disappears?
It's getting to feel that way.
What about when the
disorganization on the
Wolverine sideline is so
glaring they receive three
warnings from the officials for
interference?
Or what about when
Michigan has a fourth-and-
one on Northwestern's 16-yard
line, and, instead of kicking an

easy field goal, the Wolverines
go for it with a terribly
executed run up the middle
from sophomore De'Veon
Smith, a running back who
has struggled all season with
following his blocks? Does
that ruin the joy of a win?
Where do you draw the
line?
Sure Michigan won, but
it sure didn't feel like it.
Everyone saw the turnovers,
ugly plays and missed
opportunities - and it all
overshadowed the final score.
But if you were on the
sidelines after the game, you'd
know the line was nowhere
in sight for the Wolverines.
Michigan won, and nothing
else seemed to matter.
"A win is a win," Miller said.
"It's going to be a nice flight
home. Getting the 'W' at the
end of it is what matters.".
When senior defensive
end Frank Clark stopped
the potential game-winning
two-point conversion with
three seconds remaining, the
Michigan sideline erupted
toward midfield to swarm
Clark in a sea of excitement.
"You really have nothing
to lose," Clark said. "You just
want to make it to (a) bowl.
We're not going to the Rose
Bowl - we failed at that.
We're not going to the Big Ten
Championship - we failed at
that this year. All we can do is
finish the season strong.
"All we can do is finish the
season, and that's it."
Even if the line has been
drawn already.
Dettelbach can be reached
at adettel@umich.edu or
on Twitter: @asdettel.
BY THE NUMBERS
Michigan Football
11
Stadents inthe Northwestern student
sectian at kickoff.
19
Combined number ofpuntsand
turnovers between both teams,
Combinedpoinsscored by bothseams
4r433
Days since Michigan last won a game by
scoring 10 points.

FILE PHOTO/Daily
Though the Michigan football team has its biggest game of the year remaining. excitement has shifted to the hardwood
For now, Michigan is a
baskhetball school

6

MICHIGAN HAS A
LONGER WINNING-
STREAK THAN
MICHIGAN STATE.
TAKE THAT!
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER FOR
MORE GREAT INSIGHTS
@THEBLOCKM

There weren't ver
people atthe Mic
football team's g
Saturday againstNorthv
ern, and by the end, mos
42,429 fans who showed
Ryan Field probably wis
they hadn't.
The afternoon featui
many punts and turnov
points (19).
Both teams
made
comically
bad
mistakes.
Wildcats'
coach Pat
Fitzgerald's ALEJA
decision to ZUNIG.
go for two.
with three
seconds left instead of:
overtime with an extra
probably came as a reli
both fan bases - wino:
least the embarrassmer
finally be over.
Michigan redshirt ju
center Jack
Miller called
the game
"frustrating," As t
even .
though the n
Wolverines t
won. And if a
it aggravated p
Miller,
imagine
how it felt
to everyone
who
watched.
tt's Nov. 10, 2014, an
Ohio State game is thre
away. But the exciteme
the season's biggest gai
lost its luster. Almost e
is already looking forw
the men's basketball se
There's a reason just
people arrived to a stad
that can sit thousandsr
just like there's a reaso
but one of the Wolverin
home football games th

y many have been attended by below-
chigan capacity crowds. And it's not
same all because of the high ticket
west- prices or the bad weather.
t of the Watching them just isn't a
i up at pleasurable experience.
hed You can't even blame the
Wolverines'.500 record as
red as the sole reason for the lack
'ers as of interest. In 2008 and
2009, Rich Rodriguez's first
years at Michigan's helm,
Big House crowds didn't dip
below capacity once. Not once.
The Wolverines went 8-16 in
those years. The team wasn't
winning, but people came to
watch Tate Forcier, Denard
NDRO Robinson and the electric
A offense with the hope they
might witness something truly
special.
forcing Truth is, Michigan football
point simply isn't enjoyable to watch
ef to anymore. As the Wolverines
r lose, at proved Saturday, even a win
nt would can be maddening.
And fans who want an
inior entertaining program are
rightly
ditching
the gridiron
:he W olverines for the
hardwood.
)roved, even On the
football
win can be field,
Michigan
maddening. is fighting
its way to
a mediocre
bowl game,
just like it
did last year. There's plenty
d the of talent, buta hobbled
e weeks quarterback and an NFL-
nt for caliber wide receiver who
me has drops routine catches are a
veryone hard sell.
ard to It's not fun to watch a team
ason. that gave up a punt-return
42,429 touchdown earlier this year
ium because it only had 10 players
more, on the field. It's not fun to
n all watch a team that suffered
es' a historic defeat in the last
is year scheduled game of a storied

rivalry. It's not fun to watch
Devin Gardner, a fifth-year
senior, miss open receivers and
throw brutal interceptions.
For Michigan football
fans, optimism is hoping the
team performs poorly enough
there's a new coach next year.
And that's not very enjoyable.
Meanwhile, on the
basketball court, season tickets
have sold out for the second
year in a row, and students
have again purchased more
than their allotment of seats.
The Wolverines will begin the.
season by raising lastyear's
Big Ten championship banner,
and though they might not
repeat, they're projected for
another NCAA Tournament
appearance.
For Michigan basketball
fans, optimism is knowing
a team that might struggle
in November and December
could be competing at an elite
level by January and February.
This may never be a
basketball school. There's too
much tradition and too much
history embedded into the
football program to disregard
its relevance, even on off years
- or off decades. If or when
Michigan hires a new football
coach, interest may return to
higher levels,
But for now, in November
2014, Michigan fans are
prepared to enjoy basketball.
They're prepared to leave this
miserable, painful football
season behind and focus on a
sport where optimism means
real success, not a bowl game
sponsored by an automobile
mechanic.
They're excited for Saturday
in Ann Arbor, game day, when
the lights of the Big House will
be off and the doors to Crisler
Center will be open.
Zihiga can be reached
at azs@umich.edu and on
Twitter @ByAZuniga.

F R IDA Y
NOV21
The Future @11Ae
@11M
ofGlobalTech Audjg~
Entrepreneurship
FE AT-URING

Co-founder & General Partner, DCM
Dr. Dixon R. Doll

dcm

Dixon Doll has been one of the architects of some of the greatest waves
of technology innovation the world has ever seen. His venture firm Doll
Capital Management, or DCM, has led investments for years in the United
States and China. Notably, Mr. Doll's partners have received acclaim by
Forbes and other premier investment and business publications, most
recently for DCM's leadership in the Chinese technology revolution.
Wherever new and important economic trends and development have
occurred, you can be sure that Mr. Doll's influence has been present. He
will be drawing upon this unparalleled experience and perspective to
share not only how global technology innovation has grown but also where, how and who
will develop it in the future.
Register today http://goo.gl/iVhRmg
JAMES R. MELLOR LECTURE SERIES I(MICHIGAN ENGINEERING

LIKE US ON FACEBOOK!
We'll steal all your data
Buy 1 sandwich, get 1 free!
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer.
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGEL S
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping Center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, Ml 48103
(734) 662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: November 10th, 2014
L.--

a


The Michigan Daily michigandaily.com

November 10, 2014 -- 3B

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom November10, 2014 - 3B

Beilen: Selfie
promo 'great idea'
By LEV FACHER immediately, because we can
Daily SportsEditor do a few other things that you
can't do with a traditional big,
In October, Michigan men's so that's been helpful," Beilein
basketball coach John Beilein said. "And his attitude about
was convinced playing two positions has been
that the NOTEBOOK absolutely terrific."
positional Beilein said that getting
battle between forwards Mark Wilson meaningful minutes
Donnal and Ricky Doyle would is more of a priority than
see a leader emerge by the time establishing him at a particular
the season started. position.
Less than a week before the "He's going to become a
Wolverines' first regular-season natural forward at one of the
game, he has a winner, but by forward spots eventually,"
way of process of elimination Beilein said, adding that Wilson
rather than superior in-practice has been eager to get on the floor
performance. regardless of where he is placed.

'M' falls to Buckeyes. Again.

Beilein cited an "overly
cautious" approach in dealing
with a slight ankle sprain
and "another slight problem"
sustained by Doyle, a true
freshman. As a result, the bulk
of the practice minutes at the
low post position have gone to
Donnal, a redshirt freshman.
"(Freshman forward D.J.
Wilson and senior forward Max
Bielfeldt) have had minutes,
and now Ricky's back at full
go," Beilein said Thursday. "I'm
hoping to get Ricky some really
good time in this upcoming
game (against Wayne State) so
that he gets in there more=
Beilein said he'll continue
distributing minutes relatively
evenly "until someone clearly
gets in front of somebody else,"
though he acknowledged that
Donnal already held the distinct
advantage of a full year with the
team as a redshirt.
NOT A "TRADITIONAL"
BIG: Beilein said D.J. Wilson's
overall athleticism and ability
to play multiple positions opens
up many opportunities for
the Wolverines to vary their
formation.
"It changes us defensively

SQUAD 99 SELFIE:
Traditionally, the Wolverines
host an open practice for the
Maize Rage - the Crisler
Arena student section - in the
preseason. This year, the team
decided to open it up to the full
fanbase, and promoted the event
by promising the latest in social
media trends to Michigan's most
devoted supporters.
Those who stuck around
following the one-hour workout
had the opportunity to take
pictures of the do-it-yourself
variety with players and coaches.
"Ithought the selfie promotion
was one of the best ideas I've ever
been around," Beilein said. "To
sign autographs,you're spending
a lot of time with your head
down, asking people's names.
It's just not as personal."
Beilein referred to the ability
to put his arm around fans and
engage with them on an even
plane as a refreshing experience,
especially when compared to
the sometimes-drab routine of
sitting at tables and distributing
signatures.
"I thought it was a great idea,"
Beilein said, "and we should do it
every year."

Wolverines' offense
can't capitalize on
chances in Big Ten
Tournament
By WES ROMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan men's soccer
team saw its up-and-down
season come to an end after
a frustrating 1-0 loss at Ohio
State in
the first MICHIGAN 0
round OHIO STATE 1
of the
Big Ten tournament Sunday
afternoon.
The issues that plagued the
Wolverines (3-4-2 Big Ten,
6-9-3 overall) Sunday were
symptomatic of their entire
season - conceding early,
cieating chances but not goals.
In the 19th minute, an Ohio
State cross from the left wing
eventually found its way to
forward Danny Jensen, who
headed home from six yards
to give the Buckeyes an early
lead.
Redshirt junior forward
Colin McAtee looked the
most dangerous for Michigan
throughout the first half,
tallying multiple shots,
but even he couldn't bring
Michigan back. The reigning
Big Ten Offensive Player of the
Week found himself in some
dangerous attacking positions,
but Buckeye goalkeeper Alex
Ivanovic - last week's Big Ten
Defensive Player of the Week -
got the better of him on several
occasions.
McAtee's task became all
the more difficult when his
attacking partner, freshman
Ahinga Selemani, left the
match in the 12th minute after
sustaining a lower-body injury
and couldn't return.
The Wolverines did appear,

" 'SAM MISIGIAN/Daily
The Michigan men's soccer team likely ended its season after dropping a narrow contest to Ohio State in Columbus on
Sunday. The Wolverines will now have to hope the selection committee places them in the NCAA Tournament.

if only for a couple of moments,
to have leveled the score in the
36th minute. McAtee received a
headed pass from junior winger
William Mellors-Blair and put
it in the back of the net, but was
ruled just offside by the referee.
The official's decision was
questioned by a few from the
Michigan bench,butto no avail.
McAtee, again, nearly
scored just two minutes later.
A perfectly weighted through
ball from the midfield appeared
to put McAtee in a one-on-
one with Ivanovic, but the
goalkeeper read the situation
and beat the Michigan striker
to the ball to ease the threat.
Unfortunately for the
Wolverines, that would be
their last solid chance. The
second half was a much
more disappointing period

for the Wolverines. Not only
did Michigan fail to create
anything near the quality of
the chances of the first half, but
it also found itself, on several
occasions, fighting just to keep
the deficit at one.
In what turned out to be the
final game of his college career,
fifth-year senior goalkeeper
Adam Grinwis did himself
proud with crucial saves. His
most memorable moment came
in the 61st minute, when he
cut down midfielder Yianni
Sarris's angle, which forced his
volleyed effort over the bar for a
harmless goal kick.
The Wolverines failed to
maintain the possession they
enjoyed in the first half, and
instead resorted to sending
long balls from the back four
up to the strikers. These efforts

can only be characterized as
speculative - at best - and
never amounted to much, F as
Ohio State's (6-3, 9-6-4) back
four dealt with them rather
easily.
Michigan could feel hard
done by the result or look to
take some positives from it, but
it won't matter much at this
point. The reality is that its
second consecutive loss to its
biggest rival has ended a season
full of high expectations in a
premature and disappointing
fashion.
Editors' note: Michigan coach
Chaka Daley did not respond to
the Daily's requestfor comment.


.ke Shimabukuro

Tuesday, December 9, 7:30 pm
Hill Auditorium
In his young career, Hawaiian ukulele wizard Jake
Shimabukuro has already redefined an under-the-radar
instrument, been declared a musical "hero" by Rolling
Stone, earned comparisons to Jimi Hendrix and Miles Davis,
and even played in front of the Queen of England. Known
for his lightning-fast fingers and innovative style,
Shimabukuro collaborated on his latest record with
legendary producer/engineer Alan Parsons.
TWO DIFFERENT PROGRAMS!
San Francisco Symphony
Thursday, November 13, 7:30 pm
Friday, November 14, 8 pm
Hill Auditorium
For the Thursday program, Michael Tilson Thomas and the
San Francisco Symphony perform their signature
specialty: Mahler's Symphony No. 7. The Friday evening
program - featuring violinist Gil Shaham and the UMS
Choral Union - includes works by Liszt, Prokofiev, and
Ravel.
STUDENT TICKETS ON SALE NOW
AS u n 50% Off Tickets, Dig in with UMS, Bert's Tickets & More.
BE PRESENT ums.org/students


tpoStsondY

4B - November 10, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com


FOOTBALL
Offense struggles in win

When needed, Wolverine
front seven stops Wildcats

By MAX COHEN Gardner. His errant pass late in
Daily Sports Editor the second quarter could've been
broken up by the intended wide
EVANSTON - Devin Gardner receiver, sophomore tight end
watched Northwestern's final Jake Butt, something Michigan
drive on the sideline, standing coach Brady Hoke acknowledged
next to backup quarterback after the game.
Shane Morris. He paced the area "We've got to help (Gardner)
between plays, delivering quick and outcompete for the ball,"
messages to the rest of his offense. Hoke said.
At the beginning of the drive, But a mistake was made
the offensive players had been regardless of where the fault was
loose on the sidelines, offering placed, and Wolverine defense
brief smiles, believing their made sure the impact of the
defense could bail them out turnover was felt only briefly. It
one final time. But as the drive took just four plays for Michigan
progressed, the mood had togettheballback. Defensiveend
tensed. There were still some Frank Clark batted a pass into
smiles, but they were rooted in the air, and redshirt sophomore
disbelief. Gardner stood stoically defensive tackle Matt Godin
next to Morris, watching as the sprawled out for an interception.
Michigan football team's margin It wasn't the last time Gardner
for error disintegrated. tempted fate during the game.
When the Wildcats lined up His next interception came
the potential game-winning late in the fourth quarter, and
two-point conversion with three that time, there was nowhere
seconds remaining in the fourth else to place the blame. This time,
quarter, Gardner waved his arms no Michigan wide receiver had
and jumped repeatedly, reduced a chance at the ball. It floated
to a cheerleader alongside his into the arms of Northwestern
offensive counterparts with safety Ibraheim Campbell, who
the game on the line. Redshirt then sprinted 79 yards to the
junior center Jack Miller said he Wolverine 15-yard line.
was talking to God before the Michigan's defense once
deciding moment. again saved Gardner, despite the
When Michigan made the precarious field position. It drove
stop, the offensive players joined the Wildcats back 28 yards in just
in celebration with the defense, three plays, forcing a punt.
meshingintotheunifiedteamthe While the defense
Wolverines have insisted they've continuously stymied the
been all season. Gardner was Wildcats, the Wolverine offense
there too, taking in the victory. appeared to be in a battle
Most of the game's moments against itself. The mistakes were
weren't as sweet for the fifth- constant, and they weren't just
year senior. Michigan was in Gardner's. There were well-
the position of a close game placed balls dropped by wide
because of the offense's receivers, a fumble by redshirt
overall ineptitude. Gardner sophomore Drake Johnson and
repeated the performances another turnover when a snap
Wolverine fans have become hit junior wide receiver Devin
accustomed to seeing, throwing Funchess in the shoulder when
two interceptions - both of a he was in motion.
different nature. This time, the After the game, Clark tried to
defense prevented his mistakes shift the blame from Gardner,
from resulting in another loss. . sayingthe quarterback did enough
The first interception was to win. Hoke implied a similar
blamed only partially on message, giving Gardner an

endorsement typically reserved
for quarterbacks who don't make
the plays to win the game.
"He managed the team very
well," Michigan coach Brady
Hoke said.
Minutes earlier, Gardner
had been one of Michigan's
last players to leave the field.
He walked off slowly, looking
into the stands. The Michigan
contingent gathered near the
tunnel screamed compliments
his way, and he offered back a
smile and an enthusiastic wave.
Thegame'sherosenior defensive
end Frank Clark, remained on
the field, basking in victory.
When Gardner disappeared
into the tunnel, the cheers grew
louder for Clark, who followed
soon after. He stopped to sign
autographs for some overjoyed
children, their smiles one final
reward for saving the game for

By GREG GARNO
ManagingSports Editor
EVANSTON -' It had come
down to this, to the moment
when the clock had been stopped.
Itcamedowntoastoppedclock
with three seconds remaining
and the Michigan football team
leading Northwestern, 10-9. It
sat on the verge of a make-or-
break moment in a game that
had otherwise been dreadful to.
experience.
And the Wolverines' front
seven, who had been there to
burst into the backfield and
prevent a touchdown, had failed
in a rare moment.
The front seven watched as
the Wildcats beat the secondary
and reached the end zone. There
was no attempt at an extra point.

to score and win or be stopped
and lose.
Now, the front seven, which
had been strong for most of the
season as it had been all game,
was faced with the pressure of
stopping a play from the 2.5-
yard line as the clock stood still
at 0:03. Michigan's best chance
of qualifying for a bowl game
dropped down in its three-point
stance and stared its future in the
eyes.
"It's just the nerves (running
through my mind)," said senior
defensive end Frank Clark.
"That's just being the athlete in
the sport - you're going'to feel
some type of nerves. It wasn't just
nerves, but like, awill."
Everything before the clock
had stopped had been about a
will, though. The unit had forced
six sacks, allowed minus-nine
rushing yards and grabbed two
interceptions.
Northwestern's leading
rusher, Justin Jackson, averaged
90.8 yards per game, but finished
with 35 yards on the day.
Siemian, who had otherwise
burned Michigan's secondary,
struggled to get the ball past the
front seven. He had a ball tipped
by Clark that fell to redshirt
sophomore defensive lineman
Mathew Godin. And Siemian
had another pass snagged in the
middle of the field by redshirt
senior Jake Ryan.
"The defense answered the
bell a lot," said Michigan coach
Brady Hoke. "They faced some
challenges, some adversity and
did a nice job with it. But that's
why they came to Michigan.
They count their blessings."
So the Wolverines faced the
most adversity at the moment
when the clock had stopped at
three seconds and only 2.5 yards
separated them from the make-
or-break moment.
Jackson remained lined up well
behind the tightend. The receivers

stood inside the numbers, and
then Northwestern called their
receivers tomotiontwice.
The Wolverines knew the play.
Last year, the Wildcats had run
the same play in the red zone.
Coaches radioed in and
the front seven lined up wide,
waiting for Siemian to inevitably
run out for more room and to find
a player running an out route. .
"We kind of knew what they
were doing," Ryan said. "We're
just playing our defense. And if
something changes, we just out
there and play like we know how
to play. There's nothing crazy
about it."
So when Siemian took the
snap, the front seven moved
to contain -,except for Clark.
The senior rushed right to the
quarterback and manhandled his
way past the offensive line. Then
Siemian, as if he predicted what
was coming, slipped, fell and
dropped to the ground.
The clock remained stopped.
Clark didn't stop running,
though, as he sprinted to
midfield, jumped up and thrust
his hands into the air. And he
kept moving, off to the sideline
where he slammed his helmet
and yelled to the crowd.
"Ball game! Ball game!" he
exclaimed.
Redshirt sophomore defensive
linemen Chris Wormley and
Torn Strobel held each other at
the head. They smiled and they
yelled after making the stop.
Ryan walked around the
sideline, celebrating with every
person in his sight.
Defensive coordinator Greg
Mattison wrapped his arm
around Clark, speaking praises
into his ear. He let Clark go,
where he sat on the bench, buried
his hands in his face and wept.
Then the clock started to tick
and the moment passed. The
front seven had succeeded when
it was needed most.

Brady Hoke has yet to solve his team's offensive woes after Saturday's win.

VOLLEYBALL
Dannemiller leads 'M' to
salvage weekend split

a

BySERENA
For theD
Senior setter Lex
held the ball for a
high in the air befo
to freshman outside
Kieffer-Wright, wh
the kill over the to
scoring the winnin
second set.
The play was on
Dannemiller recor
night against Minn
"I've said it all
Michigan volley
Mark Rosen. "T
- (Dannemiller's)
pulling the strings.
And she certE
all the right
strings during
Staurday's
game versus
Minnesota to
control the
court. The
Wolverines
triumphed
over the
Golden
Golpheis in
a three-set
sweep (25-21, 25-
large part due to D
After a heartbr
set loss to No.
Friday night,
said she felt the
especially good for
"We came back
with the attitude
new day and we ha
Minnesota," Dann
"And that's exactly

SAAKE Her 40 assists on Saturday
oily brought her career total up to
5,039, moving her to third place
iDannemiller on Michigan's all-time assists
split second list. She now tails second-place
re releasing it Linae Mendozza (1994-1997)
e hitter Claire by just 34 plays, a barrier she is
ho completed likely to overcome within the
ap of the net, next match.
g point of the "She's something special,"
Rosen said. "She runs the
e of 40 assists offense better than any setter
ded Saturday we've ever had."
tesota. Dannemiller's
along," said accomplishment is especially
'ball coach impressive given she is still
his is Lexi recovering from a groin injury
team; she's she suffered earlier this
." season. More so, Rosen says
ainly pulled Dannemiller's injury is one
that is best
cured with
time and rest,
"This is Lexi's two things
Dannemiller
team; she's does not
have during
pulling the demanding
season play.
strings." t"It's going
to be there
until we stop
playing,"
18, 25-19), in Rosen said. "But once she gets
annemiller. out there, you barely notice
eaking fifth- because she's so tough and
4 Wisconsin competitive."
Dannemiller The only clue to
victory was Dannemiller's injury was after
the team. the game when she could be
and fought seen with an enormous ice pack
that it's a strapped to her thigh.
ve to go beat But,she showsnosignsofpain
emiller said. on the court, understanding
what we did." that as the sole senior on the


team, Dannemiller has to lead
by example.
"They feel fortunate to play
with her," Rosen said. "But she
doesn't put herself above them.
She just really loves playing
with the younger girls."
As a setter, Dannemiller
is unlikely to score points
off of kills and thus her
accomplishments are often
pushed to the background. But
she is responsible for setting
her young teammates up with
the opportunity to score. Her
skill in getting the opposing
middle blocker off balance has
been crucial in her teammates'
success this season.
With underclassmen like
freshman outside hitter Adeja
Lambert and Kieffer-Wright
making huge splashes on the
team, it's clear Dannemiller's
contributions extend beyond
her game.
Dannemiller has yet to
consider her options for after
graduation, although Rosen said
he felt that she will have several
opportunities to continue to
play. For now, she is focusing
on finishing out a strong season
with the Wolverines. But even
as her final season comes to
a close, Dannemiller is still
putting the team's success as a
whole before her own personal
goals.
"I just want to keep pushing
my teammates to be the best
they can be," Dannemiller
said. "We're just going to keep
getting better every single day,
right down to the end."

a

6

THE FOOTBALL BEAT HAD TO
SUFFER THROUGH SATURDAY'S
GAME. PLEASE SEND HELP TO
420 MAYNARD ST.


Ba

BUSCH'S'
fl4RArJt

0

ga Mic i n wit

11l



