I e Ic4loan 4,71ailm

()N4-Il'NDRE D

T'NV14eN'I' ,"-14'()LTIi l'Ie, l'IS l t14v 1{'1)(:ti1Ii [; 1, 1 i7l,, LOOM

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Tuesday, February 25, 2014

michigandaily.com

POLICY ANALYSIS
'U sexual
misconduct
policy takes
step forward

AAMLANI Nn/eDIy
University President Mary Sue Coleman discusses the Gibbons case, #BBUM campaign and curriculum requirements during a fireside chat in the Union Monday.
Coleman hosts private talk

In monthly fireside
chat, President
addresses array of
questions, concerns
By CLAIRE BRYAN
. Daily Staff Reporter
As her tenure comes to a
close, University President
Mary Sue Coleman is still
looking to reach out to stu-
dents.
Coleman and E. Royster
Harper, vice president for

student life, sat with about 30
students in the Pond Room of
the Michigan Union Monday
for their monthly fireside chat,
which serves as an opportuni-
ty to hear and respond to stu-
dent concerns on campus.
The pair answered ques-
tions about the Brendan
Gibbons case, curriculum
requirements, the Being Black
at the University of Michigan
campaign and the University's
participation with the civil
unrest in Venezuela.
One student started the
chat by asking about the Uni-
versity's recent handling of the

controversy surrounding for-
mer kicker Brendan Gibbons'
permanent seperation and the
timeline of the response.
The Michigan Daily report-
ed in January that Gibbons
was separated from the Uni-
versity in December after
being found responsible for a
violation of the University's
Student Sexual Misconduct
Policy.
Coleman said she could not
discuss individual cases of
student sexual misconduct,
but stressed that the Athletic
Department did not playa role
in the process of reviewing

Gibbon's case.
"I am very comfortable with
the process and what hap-
pened," Coleman said. "We
have pretty well-defined pro-
cedures that we use."
The fireside chat quickly
changed subjects as many stu-
dents asked about the Univer-
sity's curriculum. LSA senior
Zach Klausner was one of mul-
tiple students who voiced their
concern with how strict the
distribution requirements are
at the University.
"The only classes that I have
truly had a negative experi-
See COLEMAN, Page 3

Changes include a
more investigative
approach to assault
and harassment claims
By AUSTEN HUFFORD
Online Editor
The University's sexual assault
and harassment policies are not
something frequently discussed
during weekend parties or in Ann
Arbor cafes. For those directly
impacted by these procedures,
their stories and experiences with
the University's process are infre-
quently told. When controversies
do arise, the public outcry is loud
even before any facts are made
public.
Since April 2011, the University
has quickly created both an inter-
im and a final Student Sexual Mis-
conduct Policy that changed how
the University deals with these
allegations. During this time, the
University has struggled to convey
the significance of these changes
to a student body, which seems
most interested when bad news
hits. The fastpace of these changes
have also made it difficult to pur-

sue ongoing cases during the tran-
sitional period,
More than four years after an
alleged Nov. 2009 sexual assault, a
Nov. 2013 letter was sent to former
kicker Brendan Gibbons inform-
ing him he was found responsible
by the University for violating the
Student Sexual Misconduct Policy.
Gibbons was permanently separat-
ed from the University in Decem-
ber for this violation.
Documents, includingthe letter,
were reviewed by The Michigan
Daily and first reported on in Jan-
uary 2014, resulting in widespread
media coverage and negative
attention towards the Univer-
sity and the Athletic Department.
Many questioned why it took more
than four years to expel Gibbons
and wondered if his position on the
football team played a role.
The University has not. com-
mented on Gibbons' case specifi-
cally but has repeatedly stated the
University Athletic Department
has no influence in the sexual mis-
conduct process and has pointed
towards the changes in the Stu-
dent Sexual Misconduct Policy.
Both University President Mary
Sue Coleman and Michigan coach
Brady Hoke released similar state-
See POLICY, Page 3


CAMPUS LIFE
Maize Rage
discusses new
line policies

After controversy at
Sunday basketball
game, members
brainstorm solution
By BRIE WINNEGA
Daily StaffReporter
During their weekly meeting
Monday, Maize Rage - the stu-
dent-organized cheering sec-
tion for a the University's men's
basketball team - discussed
the confusion that occurred
before Sunday's basketball
game against Michigan State.
Students arrived at the
Crisler Center early Sunday
morning and began to form a
line for entry into the building
in order to obtain the best seat-
ing. Later, students in the origi-
nal line were told by authorities
to relocate to a secondary line.
While some complied, others
remained in the original line
for fear of losing the bleacher
seats that they had been wait-
ing for.
Students from the second
line, most of whom arrived
later, were granted first access
to desired seating locations.
After some delay, authorities
compromised by granting those
remaining students access to a
different section of seats.
During the meeting, Maize
Rage members and other

students discussed possible
solutions that might ensure
similar events could be avoided
in the future. Some of the ideas
offered included the elimina-
tion of a start-time for students
tobegin liningup before agame
and the possibility of priority-
based seating for students who
have attended the most games
in the past.
Some attendees also agreed
that adding fences or barricades
to guide the line-up process
would be helpful. On Sunday,
Rob Rademacher, associate
director of facilities and opera-
tions, said the University's Ath-
letic Department consistently
evaluates their attendance poli-
cies, including the use of bar-
riers and increased security to
improve attendees' experience.
"We haven't made a decision
on anything," LSA senior Sasha
Shaffer, Maize Rage president,
said. "It's an ongoing process
that, obviously it's only been
a little over 24 hours since it
happened, so we haven't come
down to a decision."
Although a representative
from the University's Athletic
Department representative was
expected to attend the meeting,
no staff member was present.
"I mean, they obviously have
a lot going on, so it just couldn't
happen," Shaffer said. "But
they're setting up a meeting."
Engineering freshman
See MAIZE, Page 3

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CSG's Make
Michigan to
campaign on
experience
Candidates confident
in ability to connect
with students and
administrators
By KRISTEN FEDOR
Daily StaffReporter
In the upcoming Central Stu-
dent Government elections,
Make Michigan candidates are
hoping to set themselves apart
from the rest of the pack.
Public Policy junior Bobby
Dishell and LSA sophomore Mea-
gan Shokar, Make Michigan's
candidates for CSG president and
vice president both already hold
leadership roles in student gov-
ernment. Dishell is the current
vice president of CSG, while Sho-
kar serves as the speaker of the
CSG assembly.
"Our experience this year
is unlike any other candidates
experience, both in terms of what
we've been able to accomplish on
campus, as well as our experi-
ence in student government and
working with administrators,"
Dishell said.
Dishell began his career in stu-
dent government when he joined
the Greek Relations Commission
at the end of his freshman year.
As a sophomore, he served as an
LSA representative in the CSG
assembly. Last winter, he was
successful in his 2013 bid for vice
See CSG, Page 6

Rep. John Dingell (D-MI), the longest serving member of the U.S. House of Representatives, announced his retirement
Monday. Above, Dingell celebrates the election to his 30th term in Congress on November 6, 2012.
Dingell to retire after 58
years serving in Congress

Longest serving
member of congress
will not run for
re-election in fall
By STEPHANIE SHENOUDA
and ALLANA AKHTAR
Daily News Editor
and Daily Staff Reporter
U.S. Rep. John Dingell (D-
Mich.) officially announced his
decision to retire from the U.S.
House of Representatives after

not seeking re-election this fall.
The announcement, released
in a statement from his office,
came Monday morning.
At 87 years old, Dingell is
the longest serving Congress-
man with 58 years under his
belt, assuming the seat after
his father, John Dingell, Sr.
passed away in 1955. Some of his
most notable accomplishments
include passing legislation for
the Clean Water and Clean Air
Acts and the Civil Rights Act of
1964. Most recently, he contrib-
uted to the Affordable Care Act,
which was signed into law in

March 2010.
In his prepared remarks for
the annual "State of the Dis-
trict" address to the South-
ern Wayne County Regional
Chamber of Commerce, Dingell
expressed sentimental feelings
about leaving the position he
held for so long.
In his address, he thanked
his staff, colleagues and wife
for remaining loyal to him and
supporting him throughout his
career. He praised his constitu-
ents and the people of Michigan
for letting him serve them.
See DINGELL, Page 6


WEATHER H13
TOMORROW LO' X:2

GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115 ore-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILY.COM
West Quad residents affected by water line break
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

IN DEX N EW S ........................... 2 A RTS ........................... 5
Vol.CXXIV,No.75 SUDOKU........................3 CLASSIFIEDS ................. 6
©244TheMichiganDaily OPINION,.....................4 SPORTS ........................7
michigondoily.com


I

I



2 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

gh irtidiogan Dag!,
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41e-4115 ext. 1281 74-418-4115 eat. 1241
pjshahin@michigandaily.com kvoigrman@michigandaily.eam

Grammy winner talks teaching

I WAXING ON

Michael Daugherty is a profes-
sor of composition in the School
of Music, Theatre and Dance. His
Metropolis Symphony was given
three Grammy Awards in 2011,
including Best Classical Contem-
porary Composition. He has taught
at the University for 22 years.
What's your favorite
class to teach?
My favorite class to teach is
composition seminar , where we
discuss all sorts of music includ-
ing popular music, film music,
avant-garde music and so forth.
My second most favorite class is
music for non-music majors,
which is open to any student at
the University of Michigan. And

in the class, the students write
music and I critique it, and their
works are performed at the end
of the semester.
How does teaching two
different groups compare?
I think it's interesting to
work both with music majors
and non-music majors. We need
to have people who know how
to compose music, and we need
people who know how to listen
to music in interesting ways. I
enjoy teaching both classes.
What's your greatest
musical influence?
My greatest musical influ-

ence is the television music
from the original Star Trek
movie. I just like the television
music from the 1960s. There
were a lot of interesting com-
posers working in that time.
I'm just a big fan of the original
Star Trek movie.
What piece of your own music
are you most proud of?
The work of mine that I'm
most known for is Metropo-
lis Symphony inspired by the
Superman myth. That's the
work that has been recorded
twice and received a Grammy
Award two years ago.
- MAX RADWIN

Newsroom
734-418-415 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classied@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

LSA senior Sennel Threlkeld portrays Dr. Henry
Arthur Callis at an interactive wax museum hosted
by Sigma Gamma Rho sorority at the Union Monday.

NR ON THE WEB 78i

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

We(s)t Quad
BYMAXRADWIN
A 4-inch water main broke
on Thompson St. Sunday
night, leaving some West
Quad residents struggling
through their morning
routine. Rumsey and
Cambridge Houses lacked
cold water for a short period.
The water main was fixed and
the street unblocked by1 p.m.
21 at 20
BY AUSTIN DAVIS
In the midst of his study
abroad in Germany, Davis is
acquainted with bar culture.
He believes that this will
prepare him to have a good
year when he comes back to
the United States, enabling
him to avoid the chaos that
sometimes accompanies a
21st birthday.

Dicey ice
BY EMMA KERR
Off-campus navigation
has recently proved
treacherous, in spite of a city
ordinance that mandates
snow removal of greater than
an inch of powder on city
sidewalks. The responsibility
of clearing sidewalks may
lie on tenants or landlords,
depending on one's lease.
. [i
Heroes is back
BY CHLOE GILKE
"Heroes" aired its finale
in 2010 after a four-year
run. In 2015, NBC will host
a "limited series" event of 13
episodes. The revival, called
"Heroes Reborn," will feature
characters both old and new.
Read morefroin these
blogs at michigandaily.com

Digital history
lecture
WHAT: Dr. Anita Gonzalez
will discuss using digital
technology to explore
historical characters, tell
stories through interactive
visuals and expanding on
the potentials of maps.
WHO: Digital Currents
WHEN: Today at 12:30 p.m.
WHERE: Room 1022, Insti-
tute for the Humanities
Yiddish
movie night
WHAT: A 1923 Austrian
film, "Good Luck," will be
screened as part of an ongo-
ing offering of Judaic pro-
gramming at the University.
The drama contrasts Ameri-
can and Ruropean Jews.
WHO: Judaic Studies
WHEN: Today atf6 p.m.
WHERE: Room 2022,
Institute for the Humanities

Student
showcase
WHAT: "Creating asa
Way of Learning" features
student's media-centered
coursework. A panel discus-
sion will focus on the proj-
ects' learning process and
outcomes.
WHO: University Library
WHEN: Today at 4 p.m.
WHERE: UGLi, Bert's
Study Lounge
CORRECTIONS
A previous version of the
article "Party profile:
FORUM emphasizes student
involvement" incorrectly
said FOR UM vice president
candidate Pavitra Abraham
worked on voter registration
for CSG elections. Addition-
ally, the party FOR UM
was written as forUM.
0 Please report any error
inthe Daily to correc-
tions@michigandaily.com.

Researchers at the
University of Wisconsin
- Madison discovered the
oldest-known chunk of
Earth in Western Australia,
the Los Angeles Times
reported Monday. It is in the
form of zircon, a crystal, that
dates to4.4 billion years ago.
Despite having an
injury-filled playing
career at Michigan,
Fred Wilpon has made up
for his lost time on the field
by helping finance the future
of Wolverines present and
future on the field and off.
> FOR MORE, SEE SPORTS, PAGE 7
The Milk Processor
Education Program is
nixing their iconic "Got
Milk?" slogan, TIME
reported Monday. Following
a decline in milk sales, the
marketing agency will start
a new campaign focusing on
milk's energizing properties.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke Managing Editor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenidfeitalfas MaaigNewstEditor jsatfasa@mihiadaicom
SENIORNWS EDITS:an N EDitinghaSamGringlas,WillGrenbergeRachel nsck
andStephanieShenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Ysrdain Aaron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis,Shoham Geva,AmabelKaroub, Thomas McBrien,EmiliePlesset, Max Radwinand
MichaelSugerman
Megan McDonald and
Daniel Wang Editorial PagetEditors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marshand VictoriaNoble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGEELDITORS: Michael Schranmmand Nivedita Karki
Greg Garnoand
AlejandroZiliga ManagingSportsEditors sportseditors@michigandaiy.coiii
ENI sOT SEnTORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John Lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth Managing Arts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo. Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
TARTSEDITORS: JamicBircollJacksonHoward,GillianJakabandMaddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman Managing PhototEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Patrick Barron and Ruby Wallau
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORS:AllisonFarrand,Tracyo,TerraMolengraffandNicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela VasqueZ Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.com
SENIOR DESIGNEDITORS: AmyMackens and AliciaRovalcheck
Carlina Duan MagazineEditor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and AmruthaSivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER:Amy Mackens
Mark Issolinski and Meaghan
Thompson Managing CopyEditors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar DigitalAcconts Manager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classifiedsManager
Lexi DerasmO LocalAccounts Manager
Hillary WangNational Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special ProjectsCoordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OliviaJones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daiy s SN 0745-967) is pubished Monday through Friday during the fall and winter teo s by
students at the Universityo iin.One copy is ava tae free o charge to alreadersAddt ional copies may
be picked up at the Dailyos f 5r 2.Subscriptions for falermstarting ins eptemberviaUs .mailare 110,
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.


California almond farming
affected by long drought

Pollack joins SACUA to

discuss projects,

Despite the crop's
lucrativeness, dry
conditions force
drastic measures
FIREBAUGH, Calif. (AP)
- With California's agricul-
tural heartland entrenched in
drought, almond farmers are
letting orchards dry up and in
some cases making the tough
call to have their trs..s torn out
of the ground, leaving behind
empty fields.
In California's Central Val-
ley, Barry Baker is one of many
who hired a crew that brought
in large rumbling equipment to
perform the grim task in a cloud
of dust.
A tractor operator drove
heavy steel shanks into the
ground to loosen the roots and
knock the trees over. Another
operator, driving a brush loader

equipped w
ment on th
the trees,
pushed the
an excavat
them up in,
ing grapple
into a grin
chips into
away by
burned as f
Baker, 5'
Company, h
20 percent
they have7
There's si
water to sa
of almonds,
I don't hav
20 percent,
that sooner
farmers wi
conclusion.
the best. Is
to come."
There art
able to shoy
orchards be


-H.m


ith a fork-like imple- economic stakes and risks facing
ie front, scooped up growers are clear. Almonds and
and root balls and other nuts are among the most
m into a pile, where high-value crops in the Central
tor driver grabbed Valley - the biggest producer
clusters with a claw- of such crops in the country. In
The trees were fed 2012, California's almond crop
der that spit wood had an annual value of $5 bil-
piles to be hauled lion. This year farmers say the
the truckload and dry conditions are forcing them
ucl in a power plant, to make difficult decisions.
4, of Baker Farming Gov. Jerry Brown last month
as decided toremove declared a drought emergency
of his trees before after the state's driest year in
passed their prim,. recorded history.
smply not enough The thirst for water has
tisfy all 5,000 acres sparked political battles in
, he said. "Hopefully, Washington, D.C., over use of
e to pull out another the state's rivers and reservoirs.
Baker said, adding This month President Barack
or lateri neighboring Obama visited the Central Val-
11 come to the same ley, announcing millions of dol-
"They're hoping for lars in relief aid that in part will
don't think it's going help the state's ranchers and
farmers better conserve and
e no figures yet avail- manage water.
c an exact number of Baker, who favors farming
ing removed, but the over politics, explained the
math leading to his decision.
Between now and the summer
almond harvest, he would need
to irrigate his orchards with
scarce, expensive water and pay
to have the trces pruned and
sprayed. Bringing in bee hives
to pollinate the blossoms costs
nearly $500 an acre.
That all would amount to a
$2.5 million gamble, without
4 6 knowing if the next couple of
months will bring significant
5 rain to the valley floor and snow
to the mountains. "You'd have
wrapped a lot of money up in
those trees to see what hap-
pens," he said.
Removing old trees is com-
mon practice. Almond trees
9 remain productive for about 25
years, growers said. The state's
almond farmers removed over
10,000 acres of trees in 2012,
according to a report by the
California Department of Food
and Agriculture. Most were
7 past their prime. No figures are
available on how many orchards
farmers are removing today,
said department spokesman
Steve Lyle.

Provost discusses
increased state
budget allocation
and campus diversity
ByANDREWALMANI
Daily StaffReporter
University Provost Martha
Pollack joined the Senate Advi-
sory Committee on University
Affairs for its second meeting
of the month to explain the
administration's progress on
several policy projects and
answer questions by members.
Pollack began he discussion
on a positive note, expiessing
her enthusiasm about Republi-
can Gov. Rick Snyder's push to
increase funding for universi-
ties in the state of Michigan by
6.1 percent.
"We are delighted that the
state is expressing the impor-
tance of higher education, and
this is really good for us," Pol-
lack said.
The proposed increase still
has to receive approval from
the Republican-controlled
Michigan legislature.
During her previous visit
to SACUA Jan. 13, Pollack
referred to the formation of
several faculty committees that
would look to address various
issues within the University.
Pollack said progress has been
made, and the leaders of these
committees have been select-
ed, though she did not elabo-
rate further.
Astronomy Prof. Joel Breg-
man will lead the committee
on Having Faculty in the 21st

Century. Psychology Prof. Rob
Sellers will lead the committee
on Diversity, Equity and Cam-
pus Climate.
The final new commit-
tee, the Financial Models for
Higher Education Committee,
will be formed down the road
to foster collaboration once the
other committees have had a
chance to begin making head-
way.
Pollack also spoke about
the University's response to
recent campaigns pushing for
increased diversity on campus.
In November, the University's
Black Student Union launched
the #BBUM Twitter campaign
to shed light on the experiences
of Black students on campus.
Since then, the group has held
several demonstrations calling
for increased diversity on cam-
pus, culminating in its issuance
of seven demands for the Uni-
versity's administration. Goals
ranged from increasing Black
undergraduate enrollment to
ten percent to increased fund-
ing for the Trotter Multicul-
tural Center.
Along with Elizabeth Barry,
spzcial counsel to the presi-
dcrl And Dean of Students
Laura Blake Jones, Pollack has
met with students to engage
in dialogue about student con-
cerns and demands.
The University has granted
$300,000 for renovations of
the Trotter Multicultural Cen-
ter and has also agreed to look
for property on or near central
campus to relocate the Center
in the future. There is no spe-
cific date for completion, but
in the meantime, the existing
location will be repaired and

budget
modernized.
Furthermore, efforts are
being made to increase acces-
sibility for emergency funds to
make it easier for students in
need. Terry McDonald, direc-
tor of the Bentley Historical
Library, is working to increase
students' access to documents
related to race in the Bentley
library, as the BSU requested.
Pollack said students are
also seeking to modify current
race and ethnicity require-
ments in the curriculum and
to implement them in schools
such as the College of Engi-
neering, where such courses
are not required.
Otorhinolaryngology Prof.
Charlie Koopmann, a SACUA
member, voiced concerns about
such changes in curriculum.
"I don't think students
should be required to take that
course," Koopmann said. "It
should be an elective. I think
it's one thing to express inter-
est; I think it's another to have
demands. I don't think the
school should discuss demands;
I think the school should talk
about concerns."
Before the Provost's arrival,
SACUA discussed the need to
establish two nominating com-
mittees that would be in charge
of identifying potential candi-
dates for open positions.
SACUA Vice Chair Rex Hol-
land was selected to head the
committee in charge of the
Department of Public Safety
Oversight. Business Economics
Prof. Scott Masten, a member
of SACUA, will lead the search
committee for a senate secre-
tary.

LOOKING TO PROCRASTINATE?
Follow @michigandaily on Twitter
AND 'LIKE' US ON FACEBOOK.
(We're really fun and cool and stuff.)

A A

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Tuesday, February 25, 2014 - 3

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 25, 2014 - 3

April 4, 2011

r

POLICY
From Page 1
ments.
The University's sexual misconduct
policy explains how the University
responds internally to sexual harass-
ment and sexual assault allegations
against students, defining how the
institution internally handles alle-
gations. Though this procedure can
often parallel law enforcement and
judicial criminal proceedings, it oper-
ates separately.
An April 2011 mandate from the
Department of Education detailed
how universities must handle sexual
misconduct allegations and cata-
lyzed an 868-day marathon to update
the University's policy. Within five
months of the mandate's announce-
ment, the University implemented
its interim sexual misconduct policy
in August 2011. The University then
embarked on a two-year process -
which brought together the directors
of the Office of Student Conflict Reso-
lution, the Office of Institutional Equi-
ty, the Sexual Assault Awareness and
Prevention Center and a staff member
in the Office of the General Counsel -
to create the final, currently enacted
policy.
This new and currently active
policy took effect on Aug. 19, 2013,
completely overhauling how the Uni-
versity had historically dealt with
these allegations.
Before the new mandate
Before the interim policy was enact-
ed, the University only sanctioned
sexual misconduct perpetrators when
the survivor wanted to actively pur-
sue a case withthe University's Office
of Student Conflict Resolution. This
placed a high burden on survivors.
The old policy treated sexual mis-
conduct similarly to other violations
of the Statement of Student Rights
and Responsibilities. The Statement
details rules and procedures Uni-
versity students must follow and
outlines 20 broad categories of viola-
tions including ones related to sexual
assault, alcohol use and hazing. Not all
violations are legal offenses.
OSCR is charged with enforcing the
Statement, using a variety of formal
and informal resolution methods to
help resolve violations. Ifa student is
found responsible or accepts respon-
sibility for a violation, there are many
possible -sanctions ranging from- a
reflective essay to permanent separa-
tion from the University.
According to the most recent data
available, almost 75 percent of alleged
violations of the Statement were alco-
hol or drug-related. Having "restor-
ative justice circles" or other informal
resolution methods where conflicted
parties can come together can seem
appropriate for a someone caught
drinking alcohol. When someone is
accused of a more severe violation,
such as rape, it is not.
A Daily article published in Octo-
ber 2013 detailed one survivor's
experience under the old policy. The

survivor told the Daily about a "drain-
ing 12-hour process" where both the
survivor and the respondent were
questioned about the incident in the
same room.
OSCR data shows survivors did not
frequently move forward with the Uni-
versity process under the old policy. In
the 2009 to 2010 academic year, there
were only four allegations of sexual
misconduct and three in the 2010 to
2011 academic year. This compares to
62 for the 2011 to 2012 academic year,
the latest data available and the first
year for which the interim policy was
in effect. University officials, includ-
ing those in OSCR and SAPAC, said at
the time this increase is a direct result
of the policies changes.
Noting similar trends at colleges
across the country, the Department of
Education issued its April 2011 man-
date to ensure educational institu-
tions were properly handling sexual
misconduct allegations against stu-
dents.
The mandate required schools to
change their burden of proof for sexual
misconduct cases to a "preponderance
of evidence" standard, which means
more likely than not. This is the same
standard used for sexual misconduct
cases against faculty and staff.
The University previously used the
higher standard of "clear and convinc-
ing evidence" to determine responsi-
bility for cases of sexual misconduct.
OSCR still uses this higher standard
for non-sexual misconduct violations
of the Statement.
The Department of Education also
instructed schools to actively inves-
tigate all allegations of misconduct
against students.
An investigative model
The August 2011 interim sexual
misconduct policy changed the Uni-
versity's procedure from a complaint-
driven to an investigative-driven
model. This change shifted the burden
of pushing a case forward from the
complainant to the University.
The University should now inves-
tigate all cases of sexual misconduct
differently than other alleged viola-
tions of the Statement, according to
the interim policy.
To fulfill the new requirement, the
University created a new investiga-
tive position located within OSCR and
under the supervision of the Office
of Institutional Equity to investigate
allegations. Among other duties, OIE
investigates civil-rights abuses at the
University.
According to OSCR Director Jay
Wilgus, OSCR did not have experi-
ence with investigations violations in
this manner because OSCR generally
works with all parties to come to an
agreement. He added that the work of
the investigator was dissimilar to the
work of other OSCR employees.
Figuring out when proceedings
were not well executed perfectly was
one of the main goals of the interim
policy. By 2012, the investigator role
was moved to be under OIE's domain
so the investigator and the investiga-
tions could benefit from being in an
office that does similar work.

This change was codified in the
August 2013 policy. OIE has hired
two full-time investigators to spear-
head these sexual misconduct cases.
AccordingtoAnthonyWalesby, associ-
ate vice provost for academic and fac-
ulty affairs and senior director of OIE,
these investigators have experience
dealing with similar sexual offenses.
Walesby is also the University's Title
IX coordinator and determines if a
violation of the misconduct policy has
occurred after an investigation.
Accordingto Walesby, investigators
reach out, if possible, to both the com-
plainant - the person who was alleg-
edly harmed - and the respondent,
the one being accused, and both are
told about the allegations. The inves-
tigators then interview them both in
private and gather other evidence such
as police reports or witness testimony.
The complainant and respondent are
never in the same room and either
one can chose to not participate in the
interviews.
A controversy emerged in March
2013 when The Daily reported that
during the course of an investigation
the University apparently learned
of two possible allegations of sexual
assault against one individual but did
not forward this information to law
enforcement until a third allegation
emerged months later.
The interim policy did not mention
law enforcement or police. The August
2013 policy does state that the Uni-
versity is "committed to appropriate
coordination" and may "if requested
and appropriate" share information
with law enforcement and University
police.
Walesby said these investigations
are required by the Department of
Education and that the University also
wants to ensure all allegations are
taken seriously.
Mandatory reporting
University employees are classi-
fied into three separate categories
for reporting sexual assault: those
who must report allegations of sexual
assault, those who cannot report alle-
gations of sexual assault, and those
who are encouraged but not required
to report allegations. The interim poli-
cy made reporting mandatory for some
University employees such as Univer-
sity Housing Residential Advisors and
security officers.
It also clarified that SAPAC, Coun-
seling and Psychological Services
and the Office of Ombuds are three
confidential locations where students
can speak freely without any risk of
unwanted reporting.
The mandated reported raised con-
cern that students could unwillingly
begin the process of an investigation
while telling someone they trust. For
example, ifa student tells an RA about
an incident in confidence, the RA is
required to report this information to
higher authorities.
SAPAC Director Holly Rider-
Milkovich said first-year students are
told "multiple times" about the poli-
cies and the confidential locations to
prevent accidental disclosures by stu-
dents.

Balancing survivor wishes and
community safety
The largest change between the
interim policy and the August 2013
one is how the University handles
cases when the survivor does not want
the University to proceed with an
investigation.
Under the interim policy, an inves-
tigation could not continue after a
survivor asked for it to stop or did not
wish to participate. Under the current
policy, if this occurs, a review panel
determines if the investigation will
continue. The review panel consists
of a combination of law enforcement,
representatives of the University com-
munity and survivor advocates, and
is tasked with balancing the wishes
of the survivor with the safety of the
community as a whole.
Rider-Milkovich, Walesby and Wil-
gus said they believe this review panel
is innovative and indicative of how the
updated policy is unique to the Uni-
versity. According to them, the Uni-
versity could have taken a lesser policy
that would have legally fulfilled the
requirements.
However, the University chose to
embark on the multi-year process to
create a specific to their needs, though
it often resulted in hours of discus-
sion and disagreement leading up to
the creation of the 20-page document.
They also conducted public and pri-
vate forums, consultations with sur-
vivors and interviews with previous
policy makers.
Regardless of the policy's legal
lingo, members of the University com-
munity must abide by it for it to be an
active agent of change.
The University has not released
details about the Gibbons case or other
sexual misconduct violations citing
federal student privacy laws and Uni-
versity policies. It is not clear whether
this will be the standard for all cases
moving forward or if it was a decision
specific to the situation.
Rider-Milkovich wrote an op-ed in
the Detroit News and spoke to the Uni-
versity's Board of Regents regarding
her beliefs of respecting privacy and
the sensitive nature of these cases. She
said keeping students' personal infor-
mation private is paramount.
"I am also proud that this Univer-
sity has withstood tremendous pres-
sure and not revealed private student
concerns and private student informa-
tion," Rider-Milkovich said. "From my
national leadership role I believe that
it was the right choice to make."
While for now it's impossible to
judge the effectiveness of the new
policy, in time experiences will be
shared and data made public, creat-
ing a fuller picture on the University's
progress with regard to sexual assault
and harassment on campus. The first
report regarding sexual misconduct
cases is due for release next fall and
is a requirement of the updated policy
changes.
The University's Sexual Assault Pre-
vention and Awareness Center staffs a
24/7 crisis line at (734) 936-3333.

AUgUSt l';, LU 1.J


COLEMAN
From Page 1
ence with at the University are
the classes that are the 100-level
science classes, the natural sci-
ence requirement," Klausner
said.
Klausner asked if there has
been any dialogue about potential-
ly changing some of the require-
ments of LSA students when the
University receives its new presi-
dent.
Coleman said there has not been
any discussion surrounding the
topic thatshe knows of, but profes-
sors design course selections with
the intent of giving students the
necessary knowledge to succeed
in upper-level requirements.
"The curriculum decisions
are really the purview of the fac-
ulty, and they decide a particular
sequence of courses," Coleman
said. "Those are drawn with the
idea that it is most helpful to the
student to have the sequence."
"I realize that it causes some
constraint," Coleman added.
Coleman encouraged students
to voice their frustration by writ-
ing to the dean of the depart-,
ment or school to have their issue
addressed further.
one student asked how the
administration is addressing the
concerns of the students of the
#BBUM campaign, an initiative
launched by the University's Black
Student Union in November to
shed light on the experiences of
Black students on campus.

"I was really touched by the
campaign and what students
said," Coleman said. "I don't think
anyone can read the flow of com-
ments without being touched."
The administration has been
meeting with student groups
every week to understand what is
being said and asked for, Harper
said.
Affordable housing, new modes
of transportation and raising the
critical mass of the minority stu-
dent population were all issues
Harper said the University is
working on.
"I know the President-elect will
work just as hard as we all have,
and maybe bring some new ideas
to the table," Coleman said.
Harper said it is a collec-
tive effort that is going to create
change on campus. Harper added
that it is important for students to
stand up and voice their concerns
when they see something that
offends them on campus.
In an interview after the fire-
side chat, Harper spoke about a
social identity, bystander preven-
tion workshop that was recently
piloted for all incoming freshmen
called "Change It Up." The pro-
gram will feature issues of race,
ethnicity, gender, sexuality and
religion.
"The idea is to get students to
understand what it means to live
in a diverse community," Harper
said. "And to give students the
skills to say when I see something
that is contrary to our values, I can
change it up by intervening."
Engineering senior Ana Sosa,
who hails from Caracas, Venezu-

ela, said the University needs to
increase its awareness of current
anti-government student protests
in Venezuela. The violence has
resulted in 13 deaths and about 150
injuries, according to a report by
Reuters Monday.
Coleman encouraged Sosa to
write to and meet with James
Holloway, vice provost for global
and engaged education, to create
a more substantial plan of action.
Harper stressed how impor-
tant it is for students to raise their
concerns within college's student
boards, which are designed to lis-
ten to student concerns.
"Some of my best work has been
student work," Harper said.
Religious holidays and the ren-
ovations of student resident halls
were all initiated through student
activism, Harper said.
Students also raised questions
about study abroad programs,
community college transfer stu-
dent's processes and attendance of
student art performances.
"I thought they did a good job
with addressing the questions
that students asked," Engineer-
ing senior Anjali Saripalli said.
"I know that some questions
they weren't at liberty to disclose
everything happening fully, but I
think they did a good job address-
ing student's interest at least."
Coleman said the students
raised questions that touched on a
wide array of topics pertaining to
the University.
"I like to hear what experience
student's are having because that
can influence the way we do things
in the future," Coleman said.

LUNA ANNA ARCH EY/Daily
LSA senior Sasha Shaffer, president of the Maize Rage Council (LEFT) and LSA junior Maegan Mathew (RIGHT) listen to
student concerns about the issues about the MSU basketball game line-up and the attendance ticket priority.

MAIZE
From Page 1
Duane London, a Maize Rage
member, said he thought the
Athletic Department did not
properly plan for the event.
"I think sometimes they just,
sitting in the office, they don't
think about what's going to hap-
pen out there on the site, and
it's just something they need to
improve on in the future," Lon-
don said. "I also don't think that
the Maize Rage handled it par-
ticularly well either by starting
the second line and causing a
second mass stampede."
He said priority seating might
be a possible improvement.

"I guess I don't really have a
perfect solution to offer, but it's
definitely something that we
need to discuss further and get
the athletic department and the
rest of the students involved as
well," he said.
Nursing junior Mary Wood,
a Maize Rage member, also said
priority seating would be benefi-
cial.
"I don't think that we should
have to wait outside and poten-
tially have people get hurt,"
Wood said. "I think that that
would eliminate a lot of safety
concerns and I think that it
would cut down on a lot of the
confusion."
The meeting also covered
other related issues of security,
ticket policies and student seat-

ing.
"We got a lot done, and I
think obviously part of that was
driven by what happened yester-
day," London said. "I was really
impressed with the ideas that
people brought, and it seemed
like an hour just wasn't enough
at this point, which is not usually
the feeling I get after meetings."
Wood said she doesn't know
how she would have handled
such a difficult situation, but
poor communication was part of
the issue.
"It was interesting to hear
other people's perspectives on
it," Wood said. "I think it was a
positive forum for just getting to
tell your side of the story, which I
think alot of people wanted to be
able to do."

WE HAVE A WEBSITE: WWW.MICHIGANDAILY.COM

i

4


4 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@nichigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Pedaling to a better future
The ArborBike program will benefit students and reduce pollution
his May, the University and the city of Ann Arbor will implement
ArborBike, abike-sharingprogramthat allows members to pickup and
use bikes from kiosks around the city for a low fee. This collaboration
between the city and the University's Parking @ Transportation Services will
establishbikekiosksthroughoutcampusinseveral areas, including: MainStreet,
State Street, South University, North Campus and Central Campus. ArborBike
will make transportation more convenient for students and Ann Arbor residents
and help preserve the environment byreducingthe need to drive. The University
shouldimplementtheprogram, andifsuccessful,helpexpand ittotheentirecity.

ArborBike will make transportation
available at more locations and more times,
giving students easier access to areas that
are not served by Blue Buses. Students
will also not be bound by inconvenient bus
schedules. Easy and inexpensive access to
bikes will allow students to easily travel to
and from important locations around Ann
Arbor. In addition, being part of a bike-
sharing program could be more convenient
and affordable than bike ownership for
students. The program may save students
money, as they wouldn't have to buy a bike,
pay for upkeep or worry about theft. In 2012,
more than 90 bikes were reported stolen, but
this program will relieve participants of the
worry of being the next victim. To maximize
benefits for students and make sure the
program is accessible for all, the University
should further ensure that B-Cycle,
the program provider, keeps membership
rates low.
Additionally, there are several
environmental benefits of the program.
According to B-Cycle's interactive website, it
is projected that if only two bike kiosks were
set up at the University, the program would
reduce six tons of carbon emissions and
save 616 gallons of gas. It is also estimated
that it would help reduce traffic by 415 cars,
improving the downtown environment
by alleviating congestion. The University

plans to install 14 kiosks so these effects are
projected to be even greater. If the entire
city of Ann Arbor eventually incorporates
bike stations, the effects can be amplified to
reduce 219 tons of carbon output and traffic
by 15,193 cars. In 2011, Coleman detailed
her environmental sustainability initiative,
of which this is an important component.
According to Coleman, all of the University's
planned environmental programs combined
will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25
percent and decrease vehicle carbon output
30 percent by the year 2025.
However, as the University prepares
to implement a program to increases bike
ridership, it must call upon B-Cycle to
provide helmets to users. Helmets tend to be
expensive, so casual bike riders, especially
students, may not purchase them on their
own to wear when riding ArborBike bikes.
However, helmets are necessary to protect
students. Providing helmets as part of the
bike-sharing program can help incentivize
students to wear them. It is also important
for ArborBike to create a way to ensure the
cleanliness of the helmets.
The implementation of ArborBike will
help students get around our increasingly,
spread-out campus. The University should
implement the program in earnest - and
barring any major difficulties - expand it to
include more areas of the city.

How to tell a true story
guess it was around the end ankles and leaves you forgot were as wholly and resolutely as a body
of high school that I stopped green until the rains came and the rejecting a transplanted heart. In my
sleeping. I don't mean entirely, soldiers sang monsoon songs in the imagination,Iwasdark and beautiful
of course, but for streets. It was our windows without and loved completely, separated at
a month or two I glass in them, khamsin and jinn birth from a perfect, perpetually
existed in a state and night air that was always sweet happy family that believed in what
of deliberate and dusty with bougainvillea and I believed and wanted to be what
insomnia. reconciled kitchen fights. I wanted to be. Falling into these
When the America was where I spent my thoughts was a long way down, and
sounds of lunch breaks in the bathroom, hot I walked that edge precariously. It
telenovelas faded tears of shame running down my was a fault of innocence. I was too
from the walls JULIA face each time I was reminded by young to understand that some tears
around me and the ZARINA ignorance, innocence or plain fact, are not yours to cry. I was too naive
men downstairs _______that maybe I was born to be the odd to understand that love is a family
breathing smoke one out. That no matter where I who cares for you in their own way
withpracticedcool moved or the kind of person I tried - even when you are young and it
had drifted off into their own corners to become, we all carry reminders, is a painful reminder of a culture
of the evening, I would open my heavy at times, impossibly light at and past you are desperate to leave
window to let the moon in. From the others, of where we come from. That behind - because it is honest and
top floor of our apartment building, even though the sand is gone, I can't true and the best way they can. I
my own domain was infinite. I felt shake the desert out of my shoes. did not understand that real stories
solitaryinmyknowledgeofthe hours Growingup,Iwasinclinedtospeak aren't linear and neatly bound in
I would sit at the window, watching in absolutes because life is easier covers to sit on shelves gathering
the eyes of the city blink slowly from to learn and understand when the dust, though that doesn't make them
deep within a jungle of black steel universe is not implacable and events any less interesting or worthwhile.
and concrete. I felt the heartbeats can be neatly categorized like in the From my window on the city,
at the centers of a million different movies and books I loved. People I stopped trying to sleep and just
curtain-drawn pupils lined neatly were good or they were bad; they watched. The streetlightsbecame the
in brick rows along city streets. The were vulnerable stars in my own
silent rush of the wings of millions or they were galaxy. In the
of prayers whispered into dark calculated. R, hours between
rooms - millions of stories never Happy endings Rea stories aren't days, t began
retold in the daylight - scattered the found those who linear and neatly to remember
gray and drafty holding patterns of deserved them things that I did
my own thoughts. and no true love bound in covers to not know I had
I was wondering how to tell a was unrequited. forgotten. I had
life story that was completely true, I was resolutely sit on shelves sand between my
because sometimes the facts are American or gdust fingers, desert
incidental and all that really matters I resolutely gathering nights inmysoul,
is character development - how wasn't, lost words on my
you are different at the end of a depending on lips and past days
series of events than you were at the who asked. I was fiercely loving on mymind. I hadspent everysecond
beginning. Some people spend their or chillingly distant. I was eager up until then wondering how to tell
entire lives learning how to love; to prove that I wasn't just another the story of my life, and it was only in
others are born in love and spend passing face, eager to prove that I that moment thatI finally knew what
their entire lives learning how to fall was every bit the parts of my past I would say. If I had forever, I would
out of it. I didn't know quite where to I had handpicked and placed on write about my parents and my home
place myself. display, delicately tended. I was more and the Big Bang and everything that
Self-reflection is an exercise in eager to prove that I was resolutely defineswhoIam,whether I'vegrown
what it means to risk everything you not the parts of my past that I had to accept it or not. If I had a book and
know in the name of growing up. disassembled and left behind. wanted it to be critically acclaimed
Self-doubt is a risky venture and self- I spent a lot of time trying to make I would write it in tears, and if I
confidence is no less perilous. When my life imitate art, to fit neatly into wanted it to be factually accurate I
approached without balance, either the outline of a novel or the frames of would write a physics textbook, but
can prove to be both perpetuating a Bollywood movie. even then nothing is certain.
and debilitating. Without a measure Back then I had the tendency But if I wanted it to be entirely
of confidence, a person will never to arrange the events around me true, I would plan none of it and tell
attempt to succeed, but without a with a degree of intentional literary it entirely in the present, in single
measure ofinsecurity,theywill never significance. My life had character words. And if I had to choose just
question their potential to improve. web complexities and thematic arcs one, I would say "Urgent," because
My life up until that point could be like I thought only dead Russians whether it is "I love you" or "I accept
divided into two distinct segments: knew how to write. Even as I you" or "I'm sorry," everything you
the desert and everything that came collected the details of my friends' need to tell somebody is.
after.-I grew up barefoot in a city of lives obsessively - what they wore,
dirt roads, banyan trees and crowded how they spoke, what they believed - Julia Zarina can be reached
busses. Cairo to me was muddy - I rejected the details of my own at jumilton@umich.edu.
Merit: TheMichigan difference in action

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble,
Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman,
Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
COLLEGE DEMOCRATSI
The case for raising minimum wage
While the U.S. economyhas largelyemerged of the most vulnerable Americans is further
from the Great Recession, income inequality weakened. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.)
persists as a true economic crisis. Wages are brought attention to the significant impact of
stagnant, the cost of living continues to rise inflation on the Senate floor earlier this year by
and opportunities for economic improvement noting that if the minimum wage of 1960 were
are limited. One concrete way that we can adjusted for inflation, it would be $22 today.
address this worsening inequality is to raise the A higher minimum wage would not only
minimum wage. Last year, thousands of fast benefit low-income workers, but also the
food workers went on strike across the country economy as a whole. While somehave suggested
calling for a living wage. At $7.25 per hour, the that a higher minimum wage would create a
federal minimum wage has not been raised surplus of workers and increase unemployment,
since 2009. This means a full-time minimum studies have generally concluded that wage
wage employee with a family still lives below requirements do little to disrupt the job market.
the poverty line. With workers pushing fair In fact, a study by David Card, an economist at
pay proposals, the time has come to raise the the University of California, Berkeley, indicates
minimumwage. that a higher minimum wage may actually
Last week, President Barack Obama signed increase employment. Additionally, because
an executive order that mandated federal low-wage workers tend to spend a higher
contractors pay their workers at least $10.10 percentage oftheirincome, raisingtheirincome
per hour. While more must be done to increase would give the economy a much-needed boost.
the minimum wage nationally, this is a good Democratic politicians have offered several
step toward raising the federal minimum proposals to increase the minimum wage.
wage, which would boost the earnings of 16.5 Michigan gubernatorial candidate Mark
million workers. Schauer, a former U.S. Representative, wants
Minimum wage impacts nearly all to tackle the issue of income inequality head
Americans. About 80 percent of all college on and, if elected, he will fight to increase the
students work part-time jobs, many at or near minimum wage to $9.25 in Michigan.However,
the minimum wage. Last year, 284,000 college Republican Gov. Rick Snyder is opposed to
graduates worked minimum wage jobs, making raising the minimum wage and does not
it nearly impossible for them to independently believe addressing it and raising the standard
support themselves or pay off their school of living for thousands of Michiganders is a
loans. A full-time minimum wage worker's "burning issue."
salary is just $15,080 per year. To put this in Inhis State ofthe Unionaddress,Obamaonce
perspective, it would take nearly seven years again called on Congress to raise the minimum
to pay in-state tuition for four years at the wage, but he is not waiting for Republicans in
University of Michigan on this salary, without Congress to act. The president has vowed to
taking into account the cost of housing, food do whatever possible to address this crisis,
and other basic living expenses. which is why he is taking executive action to
However, the minimum wage does not just begin to address this issue. In Michigan and
affect young people. According to the Bureau Washington, Democrats are ready to get to
of Labor Statistics, and contrary to what many work and address our low minimum wage.
people believe, about half of all minimum wage Aside from the social and economic benefits,
workers are over the age of 25, and many have there is one irrefutable reason to increase
the added responsibility of supporting families the minimum wage: it's the right thing to do.
and children. This summer, mothers, fathers, Obama declared "that in the wealthiest nation
students and senior citizens went on strike on Earth, no one who works full time should
demanding a wage they and their families can have to live in poverty." With that in mind, one
survive on. thing has become clear: the time to raise the
Not only is the minimum wage too low - it minimum wage has come.
is also continuously decreasing in value. As
inflation increases, the actual value of $7.25 This article was written by members of College
decreases. Every day the purchasing power Democrats at the University of Michigan.

avid Merritt and Kuhu Saha
sit on tallstools surrounding
the sales counter at Merit,
Ann Arbor's
new clothing
store with a
conscience. Both
20-somethings
are University
alums that
graduated in
2008. Now they SOPHIA
own their own USOW
business and their
own nonprofit
organization, like the kind you get
tax refunds for donating to. And
they're pretty damn good looking.
Intimidated? You should be.
But six years ago David and Kuhu
didn't know what the future would
hold."When I was a senior, Igotreally'
into the idea of being a consultant,"
David, a former Michigan basketball
player, tells me. "But I also had a
passion for young people and for the
city of Detroit." Luckily, consulting
didn't pan out and now David feels
like he is right where he wants to be
- creating a product that he is proud
of and giving back to a community he
believes in. David is Merit's founder
and seems to be the ideas-man of
the two young entrepreneurs. He
gesticulates enthusiastically at the
merchandise that lines the walls of
the meticulously organized South
University store as he explains
Merit's aesthetic to me. In his words
it is simple, fresh, modern, vintage
style with a militant edge. Militant
because Merit is fierce about the
cause it champions. Militant because
it looks good.
Kuhu, the duo's implementer and
executive director of the company's
nonprofit arm, FATE, explains to me
what Merit's cause entails. For every
hat, sweatshirt or notebook patrons
purchase, 20 percent of the item's
cost is invested in a savings account.
Two years from now, the money
accrued within that account will
serve asa scholarship fund for the 22
students (now sophomores) that have
completed the FATE program.
InDetroit, fate is aloadedword. The
fate of Detroit's student population
is often seen as predetermined by
location and circumstance. The

Motor City has been swept
a dangerous national trend
every 26 seconds a high
student drops out. In Detroit
of every four students will n
it to graduation. Withouta
education or a high school(
boys and girls who drop1
a higher probability of b
impoverished, unemploy
incarcerated adults thai
peers who stay in schoo
more basic level, those ki
educational opportunitiesI
critical for them to realize t
potential as individuals.
FATE challenges that
trend by retaking the te
making it about bright
not preordained failure
program facilitates theE
growth through monthly1
workshops with Ann Ar
companies such as Google, I
andZingerman's.
Inthe workshops
the students M
are exposed
to different OPPO
business models
and ideas. They be m
also develop
personal by d
leadership I
skills, creative
ability and self-
confidence. They
become - in a clich, yet it
sense - more than just a sta
That's a big deal to Merit's,
"We don'twantpeopletosee
as some sort of Sarah McL
'Save the Children' type of:
says David. Kuhu nods ad
"We want people to connect
students. When you wear
with the Merit badge, yo
just helping some faceless si
You're supporting Amari, or
or Jiyah in achieving their
of becoming a doctor or
director or whatever inspire
continue their education. Th
we wanted to make a websi
customers can go and learna
kids in the FATE program
what they are funding."
Merit's new
meritgoodness.com, launcl
past weekend. At the top of

up into page, to the right of the badge, are
in which three numbers: college tuition dollars
school raised, products sold and minutes
, one out of class provided. It is a reminder of
iot make the merger of commerce and charity,
a college that buyers can be both benefactors
diploma, and consumers.
out face As the beneficiary of a first-
ecoming rate education being a University
ed or of Michigan student, I often find
n their myself falling into the collegiate
1. On a mindset that allows me to shrug my
ids miss shoulders and say "I'm a just a wittle
that are undergrad! I can't help anybody!" It
heir full is incredibly easy to be lulled into the
happy irresponsibility of college life,
negative sure those slices of South University
rm and pizza and Urban Outfitters sales rack
futures, items are the best I can do right now.
s. The I give change to the homeless woman
student's outside of the 7-Eleven on State
Saturday Street and pat myself on the back. I
bor-area wake up in the morning and find a
Domino's receipt from last night's bar hop and
wince ... then
console myself
with a coffee
[erit offers the and a cookie at
Irtunity for me to Espresso Royale.
There's nothing
ilitant for a cause wrong with
s that. I'm 22 and
loing somethig all those things
d do anyways. are normal -
even expected.
But I want
to make a
mportant difference, as I think we all do. Like
tistic. the 22 kids who attend FATE, I have
creators. ambitions that necessitate higher
ourcause education and a community who
Laughlin, will guide me towards reaching my
crusade," full potential. That way, maybe I'll
amantly. grow up and create something as
with our meaningful as David and Kuhu.
clothing For now, however, Merit offers
:u're not the opportunity for me to be, in some
treet kid. small way, militant for a cause just
Shamon by doing something I'd do anyways:
dreams shop for fresh clothes. And then lose
a movie them. And then buy more, because
s them to I need another super-soft tee or a
sat's why warm beanie or a sweatshirt my
te where friends will want to "borrow." The
about the numbers on the website will rise and
and see rise, but they won't be just another
statistic. They'll be part of a cause.
website,
hed this - Sophia Usow can be reached
f its start at sophiaus@umich.edu.

A


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
rv INT ILW

Tuesday, February 25, 2014 - 5

Music's changing face

Not 'Game of Thrones'
'Vikings' talk shop
Stars of History fast-paced and excitingsecond sea- in.

Al Lux 0 Lll 1110 Uki1 _Y

Channel series
discuss new season
By GRACE HAMILTON
Daily Arts Writer
On Feb. 27, whenthe second sea-
son of "Vikings" premieres on His-
tory Channel, viewers can expect to
revisit the conflicts of last season -
longships and all.
In an interview with The Michi-
gan Daily, actors Clive Standen and
Katheryn Winnick talk about what
is to come for their characters and
why "Vikings" is different than
most shows.
The series is based onthe adven-
tures of Ragnar Lodbrok, a promi-
nent figure in Nordic literature, and
follows his raids across Europe,
playing up the family tensions and
clan rivalries along the way. "(Cre-
ator) Michael Hirst is faithful to
this society and period of time,"
Standen said. "The Vikings have
never been really given the right
justice and dedication on screen
before."
Season one ended with many
loose ends left to be tied - among
them an affair, threatening the
strength of Ragnar's marriage to
his warrior wife, Lagertha, a death
in the Lodbrok family and a pow-
erful split between Ragnar and his
brother Rollo. While such open-
ended questions may have made
for a frustrating season finale, they
have provided fruitful ground for

son.
Standen and Winnick's charac-
ters are at the center of these con-
flicts. Still, they are unsure what
lies ahead for their characters. For
Rollo, the question remains, will he
be able to reconcile with his broth-
er, having chosen to fight against
him? Standen recites an old Viking
saying, "bare is the back which
has no brother," perhaps affirming
viewers' projections for a reconcili-
ation.
For Winnick, the second season
is a testof identity for her character.
Lagertha has a powerful role, with
great appeal in her warrior perso-
na, fighting alongside her husband
in battle in addition to caring for
their children. Winnick attributes
most of this to history.
"Women inthe8th century had a
strong voice," Winnick said. "They
were allowed to be not only moth-
ers and young wives and farmers
but also fight in battle, also own
land, also divorce their husbands,
and eventually rule."
It's true that the historical infor-
mation surrounding the Vikings is
limited, and that which is available,
is of questionable accuracy. Still,
being a "historical drama" does
have some important implications.
"(At the end of the day) the big-
gest spoiler is actually picking up
the history books, finding out what
they did,how they met their ends or
what they achieved," Standen said.
So, while the exact plot details of
this next season remain a mystery,,
some of the blanks are already filled


This creates a stark contrast
between "Vikings" and a show like
"Game of Thrones," where writers
and actors can throw a curveball
at any point to hook viewers. Such
a show has the advantage of using
dragons, monsters and magic to
create intrigue. "Vikings," howev-
er, does nothavethe same freedom,
which creates a challenge with
regards to preserving the show's
genre.
"The show is a huge risk for the
History Channel, but one with
great payoffs," Standen said.
"Vikings" has turned into a
sort of catchall series, by targeting
both the network's typical view-
ers, those attracted to a historically
based narrative, while also luring
in a younger demographic hungry
for battle and mysticism. In this
respect, the show has proven to be
a great success.
The season finale was able to
draw approximately 3.6 million
viewers. Some people may object to
the blurred lines "Vikings" draws
between fact and fiction, but unde-
niably, something in the model is
working very well. TV audiences
are typically very divided, whether
by age, gender or economic stand-
ing. But if other shows can manage
the same balancing act, they might
find greater success.
Season two does not promise a
classroom-worthy history lesson
or fire-breathing dragons. It does
however promise a gripping plot
line, dedicated acting and some
good costumes along the way.

Back when I was still in high
school, I remember a friend
bringing up a new style of music
he'd been listening to lately:
dubstep, dub for short. I'd never
heard it
before, and _
the name
brought to
mind strange
connotations
- druggy,
numbed
listeners ELLIOT
dancing a ALPERN
shuffling jig,
some fusion
of stepping in place and what-
ever the hell "dub" was.
Slowly, the genre began to
take root like a stubborn sap-
ling, gathering in strength until
it pervaded the house scene as
a whole. Skrillex, deadmau5,
Modeselektor - at Lollapaloo-
za, dubstep moved from the
dance tent to the headliner's
stage in just a year's time. Pre-
decessors like "wub" had been
around since the early '90s, but
it wasn't until the end of the
2000s that the "wobble bass"
style exploded into the limelight.
Once artists like Britney
Spears were depending on dub-
step (see 2011's "Hold It Against
Me"), it was clear that the style
had reached a critical mass.
Those rubbery basses have been
everywhere lately - even TV
commercials, the graveyard of
musical trends, have started to
feel tired when the bass drops
under some guy showing us
his cell phone. Clearly, some
shiny new influence will rise to
become the newest, "hippest"
element of pop music. But what?
For the time being, I've picked a
few other genres or styles that I
could see propping up the most
recent Disney-star musician
Kwaito/Zef
This is admittedly a weird
pick, but I've listed it first here

because it seems like the most
interesting possibility. Hailing
from Africa, Kwaito - and more
recently Zef - could be the next
big hit to come from an unex-
pected origin (see "Gangnam
Style"). South African group Die
Antwoord has picked up some
traction in the U.S. through
catchy (if extremely creepy)
club hits, and it's not hard to
extrapolate that some of Africa's
booming hip hop will follow.
Usually a bit slower than the
current house, Zef will need
help via incorporation of Ameri-
can artists, but the potential
explodes from there. African rap
is downright infectious, and its
boisterous presence seems like
it would fit in right at home with
the current climate of the hip-
hop world.
This is not about

The New Alternative
If you've read my column
before, you know that I'm a bit
of a fan when it comes to alt. But
luckily, this has relatively little
to do with that. All you have to
do is look at the Billboard Hot
100 at the time of this article's
writing. Four of the Top-10 pre-
miered on XM's AltNation well
before they shot their way up
the charts. OneRepublic, Lorde
(to a lesser extent), Bastille, Pas-
senger - all of those names hung
around the fringes of alt-rock
before they ascended to the big
leagues. And they're only fol-
lowing in the footsteps of similar
acts like Foster the People and
Gotye, proving that we might
be in for a decade of alternative
trends.
Something Something
Something Disney

Rea
for th
Daft P
most r
cally,t
of the
like R
winsI
Gram
whatr
other
took h
with t
"Blur:
the ch
a'70s
of ho
those,

dubstep. Once again, this is going to be
kind of a strange one to describe,
but bear with me here. I think
that, these days, it's only a mat-
ter of time before a few more
West Coast Vibe Disney music stars are born. But,
shocking plot twist - what if
lly, I have no other name the new Disney star is actually a
is, other than the phrase good musician? Maybe not liked,
'unk used to describe their but at least respected as a talent.
ecent influence (specifi- And then, in another shock, new
those Californian pioneers Disney star collaborates with a
'70s). But when a record heavyweight of the music world
andom Access Memories - think maybe Jay Z or Kanye.
Album of the Year at the And it works. Where do we go
mys, how can you ignore from there? How does the music
makes it stand out from the world reconcile such an oxy-
nominees? "Get Lucky" moron of taste? By accepting it,
ome Record of the Year more or less. Slowly, the stigma
'hat catchy groove, and will fade, and eventually some-
red Lines" has dominated body who can actually play the
arts using something like guitar will be selling out arenas
funk flavor. Regardless with Yeezus right behind them.
w you feel about either of Or not. Some perceptions are
albums, "West Coast Vibe" damned hard to break.

seems primed to explode into
every other band worried that
it's getting stale (and really, if
you don't like Daft Punk, just get
out of here).

Alpern is not listening to
dubstep. To remedy, e-mail
ealpern@umich.edu.

Genre-defying 'Phase'

ByYARDAINAMRON
For the Daily
What I know about Beck:
he looks good in a fedora; he
has magical, golden locks like
Rapunzel;
his voice is
dangerously A
soothing -
think whales Morning
singing. Phase
What I don't
know about Beck
Beck: his first Capitol
11 albums.
Haven't
listened to them.
The problem is that he's old
enough to be my Dad - 43 to
be exact (I looked that one up).
Despite his age, Beck is way too
chic to wear his pants too high.
That was in the early '90s, and
if you were in high school then
(the minority reading this),
you probably know Beck. I was
still learning how to poop, so
all I've got going for me is his
latest 'album, Morning Phase.
And' while I understand the
importance of placing his 12th
album in context of his first 11,
I'm not your guy for that job.
My focus is what I know: the 13
songs on this album, and I gotta
say, they're worth more than one
listen. Let's get to the music.
Firstoff,I've givenup tryingto
place the record in agenre; songs
give off vibes of soft rock, alt-
rock, folk, blues, experimental,
maybe a little country. I'm
always drawn to unclassifiable
music because it's usually the
stuff that opens new doors for
future artists to explore - think
Radiohead's complex simplicity,
or in literature, Hemingway's
crisp prose.
In three words, Morning
Phase is soft, slow and somber.
Instrumentation is bare bones:
acoustic guitar and Beck's voice
actingasfoundation, and strings,
light pianos and harmonies
providing the character; drums

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
SUMMER SESSION '14
If you're a standout, you'll fit right in.
Don't just communicate ideas-experience them.
Don't memorize a foreign language-think in one.
Don't study the ruins-excavate them.
Don't analyze dreams-live them.
This is the very essence of the University of Chicago
Summer Session. Where students are engaged at every
level-intellectually, socially, personally, and professionally.
Where you can benefit from the value of taking university
courses in an accelerated, intensive format. Join us this
summer for an extraordinary learning experience at the
academic home to 85 Nobel laureates.
For students in high school, college, and beyond.
June 23-August 29, 2014, 3, 4, 5, and 6-week sessions.
... .................................................................................................------..
Apply today.
summer.uchicago.edu/VSFU EL
summer@uchicago.edu TrE UNIVERSITY
OfCHICAGO
GRAHAM SCHOOL
fCONTINUING
reveRAL AND
Find uson PRO ESsIONAL
Facebook STUDIES

CAPITOL

"I'm a Scientologist, born and raised!"

are min
absent a
tempot
across t1
Thec
is a sou
sets the
album.
straight
Hollywo
leads sm
acoustic
of "Mor
wake u
believe1
would b
But i
Go
dG
Beck sir
and bur
wave,",
a hug. T
alluding
planted

imal and all together of the album, almost like an
on some tunes and the anchor. The tune stands out
takes a leisurely pace for its gloom, and starts with
he album. the same full string lick from
opening track, "Cycle," "Cycle" minus the high octave.
ndscape of strings that The second verse emphasizes
tone for the rest of the this phase of sorts with some of
The orchestra sounds the simplest, yet most pointed
out of a dramatic lyrics of the whole record. "If I
rod soundtrack, and surrender /And I don't fight this
oothly into the soothing wave / No I won't go under / I'll
riff and falsetto vocals only get carried away." Instead
ning." I could definitely of fighting, Beck surrenders and
p to this album and is swept away. To where? The
wholeheartedly the day song ends with Beck droning
e a good one. angelically on the words "wave"
t's not all happiness. and "isolation," like his voice is
the wave carrying him off to
some beautiful darkness.
And don't get fooled by the
od any time, title. MorningPhase is good any
iy or night, time, day or night. The album's
versatility continues to astound
me. I usually can't study with
lyrics, but Beck's vocals are
ngs "I tore it all down relaxing and stay out of your
ied me underneath the face. Yet,.the record is not just
and now all I want is background music; it has a dual
7he lyric might also be capacity for intricacy that's just
'to "Wave," which Beck waiting to be found, especially
right in the middle for a Beck rookie like myself

I

i


6 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

CSG
From Page 1
president alongside Business
senior Michael Proppe, current
CSG president.
Shokar was elected as an
LSA representative for CSG at
the end of her freshman year,
and was elected vice speaker
at the beginning of this year. In
December, she transitioned to
her current role as speaker of the
CSG assembly.
Dishell and Shokar come
from different backgrounds, a
strength of their partnership
that both candidates empha-
sized.
"We have two very different
social identities, and that's some-
thing really amazing that no
other platform has," Dishell said.
"Together, our party is diverse
in itself, and we represent more
of campus," Shokar added.
Both candidates also noted
how their differences have
helped them in their decision-
making over this past year in
CSG.
"We encourage each other to
think differently and challenge
each other," Shokar said.
"We always consult each
other before making decisions,
and that's something that's been
really great," Dishell added.
Dishell pointed to the estab-
lishment of the Night Owl bus
route and model for student
input build during the search for
the University's next president
as just a few of this year's suc-
cesses of CSG.
He added that their expe-
riences as CSG leaders place
Make Michigan at an advantage
moving forward with future
initiatives. They have already

established relationships with
various administrators and
departments, a process Dishell
said usually takes a few months.
"We really want to build on
the relationships we've made,"
he said. "We want to move on
from that to accomplish even
more next year, already having
those relationships in place."
One of those relationships
that Dishell and Shokar want
to build on is CSG cooperation
with the Athletic Department
regarding student-ticketing
policies for both football and
basketball. They said they want
to work on developing an
improved reserved seating sys-
tem for football - a result of
negative student responses to
the new general admission seat-
ing policy. They also discussed a
proposal to have a student ticket
exchange phone application for
basketball tickets.
Shokar ran last year as a can-
didate with FORUM, an oppos-
ing party in this year's election,
but has since shifted to Make
Michigan. She said that her deci-
sion was based on Make Michi-
gan's platform, not politics.
"It's not really so much a
switch. It's more that I joined
Make Michigan because it has
the platform of ideals that I
believe that Michigan really
values," Shokar said. "It's about
what I want to work on, and how
I want to go about making the
changes I want to see on cam-
pus."
The platform Shokar spoke
about includes Make Michigan's
"five pillars": student-focused,
healthy, safe, diverse and inno-
vative.
One of the initiatives that
align with their "healthy" pil-
lar that Dishell and Shokar
addressed was a program that

focuses on the mental health of
students.
"Mental health is something
that's really overlooked here,"
Dishell said. "It's time we come
together as a community through
a peer support network."
Make Michigan proposes
peer groups of 12 to 20 students
that will meet on a weekly basis.
Senior leaders who are Counsel-
ing and Psychological Services
and the Program on Intergroup
Relations trained for counseling
would run the groups. Dishell
said he hopes if instituted, the
program will set a standard for
other colleges across the nation.
"Not everyone has an amaz-
ing day every day, and there are
definitely times we all can think
of when we would have liked to
have a network of our peers that
we could go to where we didn't
feel awkward because there was
a staff member in the room, or
we weren't embarrassed about
what was going on," he said.
Regarding Make Michigan's
"diversity" pillar, Dishell said
he hopes to increase coop-
eration between CSG and the
LEAD (Leadership, Excellence,
Achievement, Diversity) Schol-
ars Program run by the Alumni
Center, a program that grants
merit-based scholarships to
diverse students who exhibit the
qualities listed in its name. He
said he hopes to work with the
program to increase minority
admissions recruitment.
Moving forward in the cam-
paign, Shokar said that keeping
voters informed of their experi-
ence and accomplishments over
the past year in CSG is key.
"Having a conversation is
important, but taking actiononit
and really making the difference
on that item is really what we're
about," Dishell added.

DINGELL
From Page 1
"There is no greater privilege
than a life spent in service, and I
know how fortunate I have been
to spend my life as a Member of
Congress," he said. "I have done
my best for the people who live
here - my neighbors, my friends,
those who supported me and
those who didn't."
Dingell added that his health
was not a factor in his decision
and cited disillusionment with
Congress in general as his main
decision to step down.
"This Congress has been a
great disappointment to every-
one, members, media, citizens
and our country," Dingell said.
"Little has been done in this Con-
gress, with 57 bills passed into
law. This is not Heinz packaged
varieties, it is the laws passed by
the Congress."
On Monday, legislators around
the state and nation, including
President Barack Obama, Vice
President Joe Biden and Sen. Carl
Levin (D-Mich.) responded to
Dingell's decision.
Biden, who has worked closely
with Dingell during the 2009
auto-industry bailout, expressed

his high regard for the most
senior member of Congress. He
lauded Dingell's deep respect and
care for his constituents and fel-
low members in Congress, as well
as his advocacy for legislation
that has helped make the United
States a more "just, fair and free
country."
"John has always been more
than Mr. Chairman to me," Biden
said. "He's been Dean, the longest
serving Member of Congress and
one of the most effective in our
history. There's never been a col-
league I've admired more."
In January, Biden praised
Dingell's work and passion for the
auto-industry in his address at
the Detroit Auto Show.
Levin commended Dingell for
his determination and generosity
toward Michigan residents, add-
ing that he has known no better
person in government during his
tenure in office.
"Everyone who cares about
Michigan has benefitted from his
tireless advocacy for our state,"
Levin said.
State Rep. Jeff Irwin (D-Ann
Arbor) noted how recent disunity
and bickering in Congress added
his input as to why the Congress-
man decided to retire. He said
money corrupts the original prin-
ciples Congress held at the start

of Dingell's career.
"What has happened in Ameri-
can politics is that money, partic-
ularly big money from corporate
interests, have come to so domi-
nate political discourse that there
isn't a lot of room left for elected
officials in Congress to come
together and work out difficult
issues," Irwin said.
LSA senior Meg Scribner, chair
of the College Democrats, spoke
to Dingell's status as a prominent
Michigan political figure.
"Congressman Dingell is going
to have a great legacy, not just for
the number of years he served,
but for the legislation he was
involved in," Scribner said. "His
accomplishments, the Endan-
gered Species Act and Affordable
Care Act among them, will con-
tinue to impact Americans long
after he leaves office."
Scribner said she could under-
stand Dingell's frustration at the
sense of partisan gridlock that
he cited in his announcement
as impeding social and political
change.
Though she could not specu-
late about his retirement plans,
Scribner said she's sure Dingell's
presence will be missed on the
Capitol Hill, and that he'll always
be involved with Michigan poli-
tics.

Wolverines benefit from Spartan
fatigue, turnovers down stretch

FOLLOW THE MICHIGAN DAILY ON TWITTER
FOR EXCITING UPDATES AND BREAKING NEWS
@MICHIGANDAILY
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK!
(WE POST COOL PICTURES SOMETIMES)
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/M ICH IGAN DAILY

lrnover advantage
leads to Wolverine
win over MSU
By DANIEL FELDMAN
Daily Sports Writer
With seven minutes left in
the first half of Sunday's Michi-
gan men's basketball game, Zak
Irvin streaked down the court
with ball in his hands. Instead of
pulling up from behind the arc,
the freshman guard drove to the
basket.
Climbing in the air toward the
hoop, the swingman unleashed
a dunk - a rarity for the 3-point
marksman. As the Wolverines
began to claw back from an
11-point deficit in their eventual
79-70 win, one thing became
apparent in that fast break:
Michigan was ready to run,

whether Michigan State liked it
or not.
Outscoring the Spartans 14-0
off turnovers, it didn't matter
that Michigan State outscored
the Wolverines in the paint
thanks to 54-percent shooting
from the field.
"I think (turnovers were) the
difference in the game," said
Michigan State coach Tom Izzo.
"They got turnovers. They got
touchdowns and layups, and we
didn't."
Committing just three turn-
overs, compared to 13 by Michi-
gan State, Michigan didn't just
outscore the Spartans - the
Wolverines outwore them.
After a 21-4 run spanning
more than seven minutes in the
second half, Michigan reached
its biggest lead of the game. With
Michigan State players bent over
in exhaustion, the 16th-ranked
Wolverines (11-3 Big Ten, 19-7
overall) made up for a slow start.
"I could see a couple of their
players bending over," said soph-
omore guard Glenn Robinson II.
"I told our guys this is what we
train for. Some of our guys have
been here the whole summer.
This is our moment. I thought we
did a great job of responding to
that and I thought we had alot of
energy today."
Though it's easy to look at the
calendar and note that Michigan
had a week off between games
and Michigan State had a late
game Thursday at Purdue, that
wasn't necessarily how the Wol-
verines felt.
"I don't know if that's an
excuse," said fifth-year senior
forward Jordan Morgan. "We
played five games in 13 days -
everybody goes through that.
I think it was our energy more
than anything. We had it all
game long. I think that may have
made it overwhelming.
"I don't know if it was neces-
sarily that we outlasted them. I

just think our energy level kept
everybody encouraged (and)
confident."
Extra rest or not, Robinson
made sure that his teammates,
and more specifically Morgan,
saw what was happening to the
Spartans.
"A couple of us noticed (their
fatigue)," Robinson said. "I told
Jordan (Morgan) to run the floor.
Even if he doesn't get the ball,
we'll have spot-up jump shots."
That was the case in Michi-
gan's second-half run to open
up the game. In the 21-4 run, 14
points came on open jumpers -
with four more coming on shots
at the basket - by sophomore
guards Nik Stauskas and Caris
LeVert.
Forward Adreian Payne
remained in the game the entire
duration, with the exception of
the initial Stauskas 3-pointer,
and Michigan took advantage
of the Spartans' best big man
playing his sixth game back
since missing seven because of
a sprained foot. Though Payne
posted a double-double, it was
clear he wasn't near the force he
has come to be known as over
his four-year career at Michigan
State.
"He looked just dead to me,"
Izzo said of Payne. "I mean, a
couple times we wanted to get
him out, but we didn't want to
use a timeout. ... The poor kid,
I thought that was part of it. I
think he's not used to taking over
the team like a month ago."
Though Izzo was willing to
acquit Payne and guard Keith
Appling's fatigue due to linger-
ing injuries, the same couldn't
be said for the rest of the Spartan
team.
With the Wolverines control-
ling their destiny for the Big
Ten regular-season title, Michi-
gan needs to have a repeat per-
formance of Sunday to keep its
stronghold of first place.

RELEASE DATE- Tuesday, February 25, 2014
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS DOWN 29 Make 45 Cleverlyskillful
1 Lunchbox staple, 1 Stout servers arrangements for 47 "Here, piggies!"
initially 2 Unruly kid 30 Raggedy dolls 48 "It's open!"
4 Handy, say 3 Holden Caulfield 32 Winery cask 49 Imprecise
8 Hatcherof "Lois creator 33 Baltimore daily cooking measure
& Clark" 4 Cable stations, 34 Cry from aflock 50 Pool or polo
12 Pakistani e.g. 36 Loved to pieces 51 Raw rocks
language r Vintagesitcom 37 Scuba spot 52 Web address
14 Pakistan neighbor steptamnily 38 Cave after opening
16 Stripedlish Ambric 6V ent musit 43 Gossipfodder 54 Harp kin
17 Dangerously pioneer Brian 44 Vnyl retard 55 Strng urges
sharp 8 Assisted through teature 17 Pie
19 Ranch nightmare atoughtime, with ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
21 'Wake Up Litle 'user"
Sasiepsinger 9Calteth grad, T A S K F A I IS T 0 T A L
Donor Phil often:Abbr. E C H O A L I T H v E N A
22"Curb Your 10 Hose holder ATA NEA R E L A N
Enthusiasm" lRace nickname UL I NGCLA S G A Y
treater 13 West Paint A P PUA
24 Next-to-last letters
Greek letter 1s "Deathtrap"RR
26 Difficult turnon playgtIra M A P N H A N L
the slopes 18 Disclgse UNO PIA T ON ELF
27Fellows 20Suaveshelfmate S T 0 L I D H A M I N I T
28CapeTown's 23"Sotrue!" K I L 0 T 0 N P Et A R
land: Abbr. 24 Funereal piles H 0 F F A H 0 1 E I
311983Streisand 25Likesomerye U 10 A F T E R I I N N E R
flim breadIuLLM0RE
33"From - to 28 Comedian who fA S f L VE I N A R I A
shining ended his show e A S
34 Has-- with "... and may S TIE E NIDIS N E E D
35 Common pump God bless" xwordeditor@aol.com 02/25/14
chorce 1r2a3s 4 5n6s7a 8s s1r0 irl
39 Early garden
40 La-Z-Boy room 12- 1- 14 15
41 Very unpleasant,1
weather-wsee ire1a re
42 ountry sath oft 921
Turk
43 Costly cracker 2
topper
4435-Acrosse.g. 24 25 as a s 2a s
46 Boxer's stat
47 Gnarlyoneon r31 5 2 334
the waves 3
50 "Beat it,kid!" a 5 57 55
53 "m serious!" as 40
56 "Str Wars"
drrd ,and a hint 42 45
to eterseshared
by17,22-35- 47 4 4
and 47-Across r3
58 Eyelid trouble
59 Taxi fixture 56
60 Clothier Strauss
61 Traffic sound 59 61
62Glimpse 6
63 Lose sleep (over)
64 Mano Brothersk
console (cB24 TCrnCnte A02/25/14
(c2014TrineCntenmt Aency, LLC0/51

BLUE NILE IS hiring for servers,
bussers, and hosts. Apply in person at
221 E. Washington, Thursday to Friday
from 3 to 6pm.
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island House Hotel and Ryha's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitchen, Barist9s. lius-
ing, hoses, & discounted meals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
!NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm.!
t Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking.!
! www.HRPAA.com 996-4992!
$1485 FORA FULL 2 bedroom at For-
est Glen Apts. Price includes FREE
HEAT, I parking spot and furniture.
$1485 for the whole apartment!!!
Call us to tour your new home today.
734-761-2680.
$409 OFF
First 10 rentals
on
Selected Units
At
University Towers
Rent a FULL 2 bedroom
w/ FREE HEAT as
low as $1680.00. Greatlocation,
Great Service and Great RATES!!
www.universitytowers-mi.com
734-761-2680
AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
4 Bedroom House. Near B-School.
2000 dollars/mo. Call: (734)223-7777
*AVAILABLE FALL 2014*
Large 3 bdrm. house.
On Campus. 945 Woodlawn.
Contact Mike at 734-276-3876.
4 BDRM HSE South Central Campus
1037 Packard - $2500/m + utils. 2 bath,
3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
2014. Contact 734-996-1991.

Call: #734-410-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com
4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
pus, 1010 Cedar Bend Dr. $2400/m +
utils. 2 bath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
Avail. Fall 2014 contact734-996-1991.
ARBOR PROPERTIES
Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
Central Campus, Old West Side,
Bums Park. Now Renting for 2014.
734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
EFF. 1 & 2 Bdrm apts. for Fall 2014.
$700-41395, showings avail. M-F
IOam-3:l/Opmw/ 24 hr notice.
Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
PMSI IS LEASING for 2014-2015.
Eff. 1, 2, and 3 bdrm apts avail. is Cen-
tral Campus and downtown urea. Can-
tact 734-665-5552. pmsiproperties.com
THE 2ND FLOOR
NEW Luxury Apartments,
Right on S. U. / Central Campus.
Apartments come with the BEST
Service, Amenities and All at
REASONABLE RATES
www.The2ndFloorSU.com
TICKETS & TRAVEL
JAMICA
LIVE CONCERTS
BEACH PARTIES
800-648-4849
- 4am e

Sophomore forward Glenn Robinson IIfound an extra burst on Sunday when
the Spartans slowed.


The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Tuesday, February 25, 2014 - 7
Wilpon gives back after a career cut short

By MATTHEWKIPNIS
Daily Sports Writer
With a torn rotator cuff
his junior year in 1956 , Fred
Wilpon's time on the Michigan
baseball team was over. Who
would have thought 58 years
later, the complex on the
athletic campus that includes
the baseball stadium is named
in his family's honor?
Wilpon, chairman and CEO
of the New York Mets and
co-founder and chairman of
the board of Sterling Equities,
continues to maintain strong
ties to the University he loves.
"The University of Michigan
changed my life more than
anything, other than my
parents," Wilpon said.
The Wilpon family's strong
relationship with Michigan has
been well documented through
generous donations to both
the athletic department and
University at large. With the
start of the upcoming season
next month and addition of
new turf, Wilpon opened up on
his past and connection with
Michigan.
Baseball was a big part
of Wilpon's life growing up
in Brooklyn, N.Y. Wilpon
was fortunate enough to
play baseball in a Kiwanis
organization sandlot league that
gave out scholarships to one of
its players each year. Wilpon
won the scholarship in 1953 and
it opened the door to a collegiate
future. Colleges would later
offer him baseball scholarships
as well.
Scouts in Brooklyn invited
Wilpon to Ebbets Field to pitch
batting practice to the Brooklyn
Dodgers for a summer and a
few professional contracts were
offered his way. His parents,
though, were very insistent that
he become the first person in his
family to attend college and that
he get a degree before playing
professional baseball.
The president of the league
advised Wilpon to attend a
school that excelled in both
academics and athletics. The
president recommended a few
schools, but Wilpon didn't know
the difference between Duke,
Michigan or any of the other
schools mentioned. To make
his decision, Wilpon decided he
would attend the first school to
admit him.
Michigan's acceptance letter
came in first and, with his
scholarship, Wilpon arrived
in Ann Arbor. But his time on
the baseball team was filled
with frustration. Early in his

career, he tore his rotator cuff,
though at the time, doctors
misdiagnosed him with merely
a sore shoulder.
Injured and unable to play
his sophomore year, Wilpon
felt guilty about occupying a
scholarship, enough that he
contemplated quitting until his
coach, Ray Fisher, convinced
him otherwise.
Duringhis junior year, he still
hadn't made progress, so Fisher
came through again. The coach
advised Wilpon step by step
what to do and wrote a letter
on behalf of Wilpon, which he
gave to the dean responsible
for student aid. As a result,
Wilpon received a grant in aid
equivalent to his scholarship
for the two remaining years at
school.
"He was a wonderful mentor
and an outstanding man,"
Wilpon said. "Whenyou played
for coach Fisher, no matter
how you did on the field, you
left being a better person. That
is the great mark of a superior
coach, teacher and mentor."
The financial aid changed
Wilpon's life; he otherwise
would've had a difficult time
remaining in school. This
afforded him the opportunity
to finish school debt-free, where
he met his wife, Judy Kessler.
With his liberal arts degree,
Wilpon entered the real estate
business, where he went on
to co-found Sterling Equities,
valued in the billions. In
2002, he became the principal
majority owner of the New York
Mets.
In 2007, the Wilpon family
made a significant donation to
the University - none more
notable then to the baseball and
softball programs.
In 1954, the baseball stadium
- now known as Ray Fisher
Stadium, named after his
coach - was hardly expansive.
In fact, facilities throughout
campus came nowhere near
today's levels. During the cold
weather, the baseball team had
to practice inside Yost Ice Arena
with almost every major team.
Wilpon's donation helped
renovate 'The Fish,' as Ray
Fisher Stadium is affectionately
called, and Softball's Alumni
Field, with both stadiums
receiving new seats, press boxes
and indoor batting cages.
Wilpon was, in a sense, able
to reunite with the late Fisher
as the neighboring fields were
given the combined name, the
Wilpon Baseball and Softball
Complex.
"My family is very proud to

JtFFN YdbEke/P
New York Mets owner Fred Willpon donated to the Unoersity in 2007 to help renovate both the softball and base ball stadiums, along with a scholarship endowment.

be a part of the complex and
being associated with Ray
Fisher (Stadium) is a privilege
for us," Wilpon said. "I believe
in the University of Michigan.
I believe in the student athletes
and I wanted them to have first
class facilities.
"I thought it would help
their experience and their
education - education being
broadly defined - not just in
the classroom. You learn a
lot being on a team about the
values of teamwork, friendship
and sacrifice."
Most recently, in 2013,
Wilpon partnered with the
University to add turf to the
Wilpon Complex stadiums,
after it became clear the
natural grass fields had to be
addressed. With the new turf,
the teams can practice outside
on their field much earlier in
the year, instead of having to
wait for the ground to thaw
after the snow clears.
Wilpon's donations also
spurred the creation of the
Sports Injury Prevention
Center - in conjunction with
the school of Kinesiology
- to conduct research into
sports-related injuries. It was
a personal matter for Wilpon,
who knows first-hand the
hardships sports injuries can
cause.
The family sought to creatc
a need-based schola ship
for students who qualify for
admission to the University,
but financially cannot afford

it. Thus, in partnership with
the University, they created
the Irene and Morris B. Kessler
Presidential Scholarship
Program, named in honor of
Judy Wilpon's parents.
The Wilpons visit with the
Kessler students every year
at a scholarship luncheon,
spending time getting to know
the recipients. Many Kessler
Scholars see the Wilpons as
more than just scholarship
donors because they are very
invested in the program, as
Fred was in their shoes when
he was younger.
"With a lot of scholarships,
you just receive a notice that lets
you know you have a grant or
a scholarship. This was a little

more personal," said former
Kessler Scholar Travis Gonyou.
"It was a direct outreach to all of
us, trying to get to know us, and
I felt it was more personal than
other scholarships you could
get."
Lately, Wilpon has been
able to join two of his biggest
investments - the Mets and
the Michigan baseball program
- inviting the University's
baseball team to New York's
spring training facility in Port
St. Lucie, Fla. In five of the past
seven years, the two clubs have
faced off in exhibitions.
Win or lose, Wilpon knows

it's beneficial to the Wolverines.
"If you ask the coaches,
they will tell you it is one of
the highlights of their season
and also helps the (Michigan)
coaches' recruiting efforts,"
Wilpon said.
Not only is it helpful for the
team but, it's also rewarding
for Wilpon. The university that
helped him become one of the
most successful businessmen in
New York is on the field with his
current organization. His past
and present are coming together
on the field.
"I tellyou this from my heart,"
Wilpon said. "The University of
Michigan will always be among
the most important parts of my
life's experiences."


SNEAK PEEK! FREE MOVIE SCREENING
MFlicks invites you and a guest to an advance screening of BAD WORDS
on Wednesday, February 26th @7PM at the MICHIGAN THEATER.

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
The Michigan baseball team sits in the dugout of Ray Fisher Stadium after the generous donation of alur Fred Wilpon.
FOUR DAYS UNTIL SPRING BREAK!
SO KEEP UP WITH US ON TWITTER. WE'LL TWEET
UPDATES FROM OUR TRIPS TO OUR BEDS
@THEBLOCKM

Bring THIS AD to the MICHIGAN THEATER for admittance.

FLICKS/

Seating is on a first come, first serve basis and is not guaranteed!
The Michigan Theater is located at 603 E. Liberty Street.


i

I

I


8 -- Tuesday, February 25, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

8 - Tuesday, February 25, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD
Tobel closes home
meet with a bang

Tourney picture shifts into focus

By CLAIRE KIT?
Daily Sports Writ
For some athletes,
the last puck or dun
last ball may mean a
than just the end of
Many college athlet
participated in their sp
childhood, and as som
end for seniors, the t
away from a life of o
athletics canbe abigad
However, for fifth-ye
women's track and field
Kiley Tobel, adjusting
much the issue - it's m
finishing her

senior season
with a bang.
"This year
for me is the
icing on the
cake," she
said "I'vehad
a great career
so far, but
there is still
unfinished
business for
me. I want to

gr
far
sti

NER rest of the seniors on the team.
er "It's hard at times," she said.
"It makes me sad because this is
shooting something I've put so much time
king the and energy into that it has basi-
lot more cally become a part of who Iam.
a season. I know it's a great opportunity
es have to be here competing for a fifth
ort since year, so I just want to soak it all
e seasons in and be as positive as Ican."
ransition However, for those who bal-
rganized ance academic success and
justment. athletic achievement, the tran-
ar senior sition to a life without sports
J captain, may not be so difficult after all.
isn't so A Brain, Behavior, and Cog-
ore about nitive Science major, Tobel has
applied to two
physical ther-
apy schools
"I've had a recently, and
has already
eat career SO been accepted
to Eastern
,but there is Michigan.
"The next
11 unfinished phase is
going to be
business." different, but
grad school is
something I've
been set on for
m, I want a couple of years now," she said.
dual, and "It's a huge relief, especially
trip back going into the outdoor season,
a great knowing that my future plans
are set."
on't want Among the nine first-place
of myself finishes secured by Michigan
ng goals, on Saturday, Tobel rounded
'day and out the final field event of the
ikes." day by clearing a height of 3.98
nd, the meters in the pole vault. After
in their a successful indoor season, it's
et of the safe to say that Michigan is in a
ilverston good position to compete for a
to the Big Ten championship.
g events, "There's a lot of promise on
for their our team," Tobel said. "We have
obel had a lot of talent, but we have still
her own a long way to go to reach our
brought goals so we have to keep that
in perspective and know that
ligibility, every single day is a building
ak for the block for the next day."

By LEV FACHER
Daily Sparta Writer
The Michigan women's
basketball team has had its ups
and downs this season, having
defeated ranked opponents on
the road and having lost to teams
in the bottom half of the Big
Ten standings by double digits.
But ultimately, the extremes
seem to have evened out, as the
Wolverines will likely enter next
week's Big Ten Tournament
squarely in the middle of the
pack seeding-wise.
With that much established,
this week presents a chance to
examine where Michigan will
enter the tournament.
The Wolverines do have
one remaining Big Ten game
- they travel to State College
on Saturday to face first-place
Penn State - the game likely
won't have a significant bearing
on either team's positioning in
the tournament. Meanwhile,
Nebraska's victory over Penn
State on Monday night means
the Cornhuskers hold the head-
to-head tiebreaker over the
Nittany Lions. That puts them
in the Big Ten driver's seat,
making them a shoe-in to enter
the tournament as the league's
top seed.
Minnesota's
loss to Big Ten Women's
Michigan State Basketball
on Monday Standings
night means1
Michigan 1. Pent State
has officially 2. Nebraska
clinched 3. Michigan
sixth place in 4. Purdue
the Big Ten, 5. lowa
even though 6. Michigan
both could 7. Minnesota
finish 8-8 in 8. Indiana
conference 9. Ohio State
play. With 10. Northwestern
only one game 11. Wisconsin
remaining, the 12. Illinois
Wolverines
can't pass
fifth-place Iowa, whose record
stands at 9-5.
Michigan and Minnesota

ALLISON FARRAND/Dallt
Michigan women's basketball coach Kim Barnes Arico and the Wolverines sit sixth heading Into the Big Ten Tournament.

win a Big Ten
championship as a teat
to win one as an indivi
I'd like to make another
to nationals and have
performancethere.
"Overall, though, I d
to get too far ahead(
when it comes to setti
so I'm taking it day by
learning frommy mista
This past weeke
Wolverines competed
last indoor track me
regular season, the S
Invitational. Prior
start of the running
seniors were honored
individual careers. T
a chance to reflect on
time, which naturally
an air of nostalgia.
In her last season of e
Tobel felt she could spe

split a pair of regular-season
contests, rendering that
tiebreaker moot, and the next
step inthe tiebreakingprocedure
compares each involved team's
record with teams at the top
of the conference standings. It
takes until fourth-place Purdue
to find a discrepancy in win
percentage - the Wolverines
split the season series, while
Minnesota lost its only game
against the Boilermakers.
Michigan's most likely
first-round opponent is
Northwestern, though Ohio
State and Wisconsin remain
slim possibilities.
If the Wolverines face the
Wildcats or Badgers, they'll
have the season's track record in
their favor. Wisconsin is one of
just two schools Michigan has
beaten twice this season, having
played home-and-home series

against five Big Ten opponents
in total. The Wolverines
beat Northwestern, 70-68,
in Evanston on Feb. 6 in the
season's lone meeting between
the two teams.
Should the Wolverines
advance to the second round,
trouble awaits them regardless
of their seed. The No. 6 seed
matches up against the No. 3
seed, and Penn State, Nebraska
and Michigan State remain
the Big Ten frontrunners. The
Wolverines are 0-3 against that
group, and would be 0-4 with
a loss to the Nittany Lions on
Saturday.
Entering the tournament
as a No. 6 seed means that
Michigan's first tournament
game will tip off at roughly
9 p.m. Eastern on Big Ten
Network, 25 minutes after the
conclusion of a scheduled 6:30

p.m. game between the No. 7
and No. 10 seeds.
Inconvenient travel
itineraries have plagued the
Wolverines throughout the
season, but the tables will
be turned in Indianapolis.
Michigan plays just one game
in the 10 days leading up to the
Big Ten Tournament, and the
Wolverines are one of the only
Big Ten teams with the luxury
of playing in the tournament
over spring break.
The breather is a refreshing
change of pace from a schedule
that forced Michigan to playfour
games in 10 days, more than any
other team in the conference, but
the advantage doesn't do much
- things aren't much worse for
either prospective first-round
opponent, as Northwestern
plays just twice in that stretch,
and Wisconsin plays only once.

ICE HOCKEY
Without Bennett, pairings shuffled once again

By ERIN LENNON
Daily Sports Writer
On Friday, the question was
who would fill in on defense.
On Saturday, it was who would
sit out.
But in each of the No. 14
Michigan hockey team's two
games against Penn State, the
defense was questionable. And
after a series split, it has little by
way of answers.
After an egregious loss on
Friday, Michigan coach Red
Berenson chose to address
the defense first, inserting
forward-turned-defenseman
Andrew Sinelli on a line with
junior forward Phil Di Giuseppe
and sophomore Boo Nieves in
place of junior Alex Guptill.
And with the previous night's
disappointment in mind, the
Wolverines got off to a strong

Early in Saturday's game, injury, and will be evaluated
Berenson's pick turned out to be again next week. He added that
a good one, but for reasons he the injury is not as serious as
hadn't anticipated. originally anticipated, and that
Midway through the first it's not expected to be season-
frame, senior defenseman Mac ending.
Bennett lay flat on his back, his "It's hard when you're a
gloves and stick scattered by player and you're injured and
his side. After a few minutes of you're a captain, to feel like
uneasy silence, the captain - you're as much a part of the
the heart of his unit, the penalty team as you were before you got
kill and this team - skated off hurt," Berenson said.
the ice, clutching his left arm to On Friday, Sinelli and
his side. freshman defenseman Michael
He was taken to the hospital Downing both served an
for X-rays after being evaluated NCAA-sanctioned one-game
in the locker room. suspension for their hits in a
"It was good that we had series against No. 2 Minnesota.
Sinelli dressed, and he jumped Meanwhile, freshman Kevin
back on defense," Berenson Lohan made his first appearance
said. "I wish it wouldn't have since suffering a knee injury,
happened at all, but at least we nearly four months ago.
had six 'D' dressed." Without two of its steadiest
Berenson announced Monday defensemen, the unit may not
that Bennett is listed as week- have been at full force, but the
to-week with an upper body Wolverines couldn't get out of

first gear on the defensive end.
Costly, and often
embarrassing, turnovers from
both forwards and defensemen,
seniors and freshmen, allowed
the Nittany Lions to fire 44 shots
at freshman goaltender Zach

package. Kevin Lohan had
played well enough to earn
a second starting nod, and
Downing and Sinelli - who
moved back to fill in for Lohan
in November - were available to
play. It was the first time since

Nagelvoort, Lohan's injury
five of which that the unit
found twine "He brings a was fully in
and secured tact.
Michigan's certain energy to But without
fourth their captain,
straight loss in the rink and guys and Sinelli
overtime - its filling in his
second loss to feed off that." place, the
Penn State. Wolverines
"S was held the
surprised that high-volume-
we did as well (in the first half shooting Nittany Lions to just
of the season) as quick as we 20 shots and two goals. The
did, with such a young team, defense was not impenetrable,
and with the changeover when and questions about next
Racine got hurt, and then Lohan weekend's pairings resurfaced
got hurt," Berenson said. "But I as soon as Bennett hit the ice.
thought our team held up really There is one certainty:
well. We got off to a tough start Michigan will be without its
in the second half. leader for its matchup with Ohio
"We have to straighten it out State, a team that nearly toppled
and get on the right track." the then-hot Wolverines twice
Saturday, then, was supposed in December. The question now
to feature the complete, healthy is less about who to replace

Bennet's talent on the ice with,
and more about how this team
will respond without his effort
on and off of it.
"I think they're as ready as
they've ever been to pick up
some of the slack," Berenson
said.
Though the captain will
attend daily team meetings,
Michigan will rely on forward
alternate captains Derek De
Blois and Andrew Copp during
the game.
"He brings a certain energy to
the rink and guys feed off that,
so it's different not having our
leader," Copp said. "But at the
same time, when one guy goes
down, the next guy steps up.
He's movingthe baton on down,
so we gotta pick it up and make
up for his absence."
And if nothing else, Bennett
will lead via other modes of
communication.
"Congrats on the win," he
wrote in a group text message to
his team Saturday. "I heard you
guys dominated pretty much.
I didn't get to watch, but I was
following on Twitter."

Philosophy, Politics & Economics
Applications are now being accepted for the Undergraduate Program
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)
Deadline is March 14, 2014. Visit
www.lsa.umich.edulppe
for more Information

I



