I-e~ ffiCid0ian 4&itIjj

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Wednesday, March 26, 2014

michigandailycom

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Polls open
for student
government
elections

student prays before the Central Student Government meeting begins in the Rogel Ballroom at the Michigan Union Tuesday.
D ivest resolution r

CSG proposal
voted down after
extended public
comment period
By WILL GREENBERG and
KRISTEN FEDOR
Daily News Editor and
Daily Staff Reporter
After hours of discussion
and debate, the Central Stu-
dent Government reversed the
indefinite postponement of the
controversial divestment reso-
lution and subsequently voted
to not pass it in a 25-9 vote with

five abstentions early Wednes-
day morning.
Hundreds of students lined
the second floor of the Michigan
Union and entered the Rogel
Ballroom on a first-come, first-
served basis Tuesday evening,
and more than 2,000 viewers
watched CSG's live-stream of
the six-hour-long event. Uni-
versity Police regulated the
large crowd that formed both
inside and outside the Union
and organized the crowds to
line up on State Street. Students
allowed into the meeting were
given tickets and encouraged
not to leave the room once they
entered. When the meeting
began, the number of people in

the room exceeded its 375-per-
son capacity. An additional 200
students were seated in the
nearby Pendleton Room as an
overflow space.
On March 18, many mem-
bers of SAFE and its support-
ers attended the CSG Student
Assembly meeting to advocate
for a proposal to encourage
the University to divest from
certain companies allegedly
involved in human rights viola-
tions against Palestinians. After
the CSG assembly chose to post-
pone the vote indefinitely, SAFE
and its partners staged an indef-
inite sit-in in the CSG chambers
and formed "calls for account-
ability," asking CSG to make

amends for what SAFE viewed
as its poor handling of the situ-
ation and to bring the proposal
to a full vote.
The sit-in garnered atten-
tion across campus leading up
to Tuesday night's meeting.
This week, individuals both
supporting and opposing the
divestment resolution attended
in significant numbers. SAFE
representatives and members
of the 36 student organiza-
tions that have pledged support
for the resolution spoke to the
assembly about the proposal.
Students who spoke against the
resolution did not identify with
specific organizations, but were
See DIVEST, Page 3A

With revised election
codes, candidates to
face strict guidelines
for two-day event
By KRISTEN FEDOR
Daily StaffReporter
With recent rule changes to an
already strict election code, Cen-
tral Student Government presiden-
tial candidates will need to remain
cautious during the next two days
after the CSG election polls opened
at midnight Wednesday.
Changes to Article VI of the
CSG compiled code have increased
the severity of consequences for
all levels of infractions. Demerits
are assigned at the authority of the
University Election Commission
to individual candidates or parties
based on violations of the code.
In the past, demerits did not
affect a candidate until five demer-
its were accumulated, at which
point that candidate would be
removed from the election. If a
party received 10 demerits, the
entire party would be disqualified.

Under the new code, each demerit
results in a 3-percent deduction of
total weighted votes in the elec-
tion.
The UEC now also has the
power to issue an official warning
instead of a demerit. The warning
does not carry any penalty like a
demerit does.
One of the minor infractions
that a warning has been used for
was the absence of several candi-
dates at the mandatory candidates'
meeting that took place Feb. 27. A
violation at this level usually calls
for one to two demerits to be issued
to the individual candidate.
Prior to the hearing, Law stu-
dent Bryson Nitta, election direc-
tor, said the precedent of issuing
a warning for this offense was a
likely possibility.
"The way that we're approach-
ing this is with an awareness that
there can be big consequences
down the road that might not be
commensurate with the prob-
lem that arises when a candidate
doesn't come to the meeting," he
said.
The results of the March12 UEC
hearing regarding these infrac-
See ELECTIONS, Page 2A


SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Racing team
launches new
motor vehicle

MRacing celebrates
latest innovations
at Crisler Center
By MICHAEL SUGERMAN
Daily StaffReporter
An army ofstudents wearing
khakis, brown shoes and blue
button-downs embroidered in
maize with "MRacing" on the
front, stood smiling around
their preliminarily finished
product Tuesday evening: a
Formula SAE race car.
The unveiling of the team's
MR-14 car came in the Col-
lege of Engineering-sponsored
program's 28th year and after
nearly 10 months of work
designing and manufacturing
this year's vehicle.
The event, held in the Junge
Family Champions Center at
Crisler Center, celebrated the
completion of this process. In
the presentation, College of
Engineering Dean David Mun-
son spoke about the location's

significance.
"Right here, adjacent to
Michigan Stadium ... it is a
perfect setting to recall the
oft-repeated phrase from our
legendary football coach, Bo
Schembechler: 'The team,
the team, the team,"' he said.
"MRacing is successful year
after year because talented and
generous individuals dedicate
themselves to the team."
Munson spoke of the state-
of-the-art engineering facili-
ties that allowed students to
create a Formula SAE car. He
complimented the "creative
community" of "bright minds"
and innovative problem-
solvers" spanning from all
disciplines of campus that con-
tributed to the project.
Engineering senior Joe
Martin, MRacing team cap-
tain, said the main issue this
year's team faced in building
its car was to improve its aero-
dynamics package.
This package, he said, has
three main physical compo-
See RACING, Page 3A

Detroit Emergency Financial Manager Kevyn Orr speaks about the future of urban governance in Detroit during the
Policy Talks sponsored by the Ford School of Public Policy in the Michigan Union Tuesday.
Detroit EM Orr discusses
bankruptcy, public service,

BUSINESS
Ice cream
shop to open
on W. Liberty
this summer
Blank Slate Creamery
influenced by natural
flavors, ingredients
By CHRISTY SONG
Daily StaffReporter
As Ann Arbor continues to freeze
over, anew ice cream shop is getting
ready to add a little more chill - this
summer, at least.
Blank Slate Creamery, an ice
cream store offering 24 flavors, is
expected to open in June at the cor-
ner ofFirst Street and West Liberty.
Among the offerings, Blank Slate
Creamery will accommodate vegan
customers with four flavors of sor-
bet. Other options include blueberry
and prickly pear, as well as creamier
flavors, such as Tahitian vanilla,
blueberry pancake, white chocolate
raspberry swirl chip, pistachio and
mocha almond fudge.
Blank Slate founder Janice Segler,
a University alum, said she wants
to keep all ingredients natural and
locally sourced. For example, Guern-
sey Farm in Lansing will supply the
See ICE CREAM, Page 3A

Restructuring, during a visit to the University
'Tuesday.
urban governance During the address hosted
by the Ford School of Public
take center stage Policy and titled "The Future
rm rs of Detroit Urban Governance,"
inremarks Orr spoke of his intentions to
propose financial measures that
By AMRUTHA SIVAKUMAR would address blighted neigh-
Daily StaffReporter borhoods and insufficient pub-
lic services.
Exactly one year after Orr, who graduated from the
becoming the role of Detroit's University with a bachelor's
emergency financial manager, degree in political science in
University alum Kevyn Orr dis- 1979 and a law degree in 1983,
cussed the city's restructuring said unlike his prior experi-

ence representing Chrysler
and other large corporations in
bankruptcy filings, developing a
plan to restructure Detroit also
required improving the city's
level of services.
In chronological fashion, Orr
explained how he first became
involved with the city of Detroit.
He said while he initially felt he
should turn down the job after
being offered the position, a
commitment to service moti-
vated him to take the job.
"Are you willing to step out-
See ORR, Page 3A


WEATHER H{I 43
TOMORROW LO: 35


GOT A NEWS TIP?
Call 734-418-4115ore-mail
news@michigandaily.com and let us know.

NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Emergency stay on gaymarraigeftocontinue
MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS .........................2A ARTS.............SA
Vol.CXXIV,No.90 SUDOKU.....................2A CLASSIFIEDS...............6A
20t4 TheMichiganDaily OPINION.. . . 4A STATEMENT ...............1B
michigondoily.com

i I

A


2A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

2A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

(74If fidilgan lBally
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETER SHAHIN KIRBY VOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-41e-415 ext. 1251 734-418-4115 ext. 1241
pjshnahin@michigandaily.com kvoigtman@michigandailycon

Yale develops Shanghai school

Yale University announced
an official collaboration with
Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
a leading research institution,
The Yale Daily News reported
Monday.
Yale President Peter Salovey
and SJTU President Zhang Jie
signed the agreement last week
in Shanghai.
The new research center,
which will be located in
Shanghai, will specialize in
biostatistics.
"An ultimate goal is to identify
and facilitate research collabo-
rations not just with biostatisti-
cians at Yale, but colleagues at
Yale School of Medicine inter-
ested in clinical issues that

are a priority at SJTU, such as
lung cancer and diabetes," Paul
Cleary, the dean of Yale's School
of Public Health, said Monday.
So far, more than six
professors have planned to
relocate to conduct research at
the facility and collaborate with
SJTU faculty and students.
Cleary and Zhi-Jie Zheng,
the SJTU dean of public health,
began discussing plans for the
collaborative research institution
in 2012.
James Franco films scene on
Princeton Campus
Actor James Franco appeared
on Princeton University's campus

as filming commenced for "The
Sound and the Fury," The Daily
Princetonian reported Monday.
Washington Road, a
thoroughfare close to campus,
was shut down for filming.
Franco will act in and direct
the movie - a period drama set
in the early 20th century and
based on William Faulkner's
novel of the same name.
Kurt Enger, the film's
production supervisor, said
the campus location was ideal
because it so closely resembled
the setting of the film -
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
-HILLARY CRAWFORD

Newsroom
734-418-411s opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
Arts Section
arts@michigandaily.com
Sports Section
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydispay@caitrom
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letterstothe Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
tlassitied Sales
classified@mhigandily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Att Arbor resident Atte IRemley hoods out
Palestinian lats while students wait in linebefore
the CSG meeting in the Michigan Union Tuesday.

r H W ..michigandaily.com

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Extended stay
BY HILLARY CRAWFORD
The Sixth Circuit Court
of Appeals ruled in favor
of extending the stay on
U.S. District Judge Bernard
Friedman's Friday decision
to strike down Michigan'sban
on same-sex marriage. The
court listed a parallel Supreme
Court ruling that occurred in
Utah last January.
Game canceled
BY JAKE LOURIM
The Michigan softball
team's game on Tuesday
was canceled. However, the
Wolverines are still slated
to play another conference
series this weekend. Much
like during last weekend
against Indiana, Michigan
will look to its bench for an
offensive punch in the next
game.

Library
Local startups discussion
BYANASTASSIOS
ADAMnOn ITSn

Scandal in
Suburbia

The Zell Lurie Commer-
cialization Fund, which was
founded in 2005, funded a
multitude of startups in the
past year. Companies in the
early stages of launching
their business typically seek
amounts between $100,000
and $600,000.
Driver sentenced
BY SAM GRINGLAS
The Washtenaw County
Trial Court sentenced Nicole
Davis, who hit and killed
a University student while
driving in August, to up
to 15 years in prison. The
incident sparked new debate
regarding the wording in
city ordinances regarding
crosswalks, which some said
confused motorists.

WHAT: Join the University WHAT: Join Lauren Gut-
Library's Engaged Learning terman, an assitant profes-
Task Force for a panel dis- sor of women's studies, for a
cussion featuring the Living lecture on lesbian wives and
Arts Learning Community. postwar America.
WHO: Shapiro Undergrad- WHO: Institute for
uate Library Research on Women and
WHEN: Today at 10 a.m. Gender
WHERE: Hatcher Gradu- WHEN: Today at 12 p.m.
ate Library WHERE: 2239 Lane Hall
Med school Greek Week
interview prep blood drive

The four people who
jumped from the top
of One World Trade
Center in September have
been charged with burglary,
reckless endangerment and
jumping from a structure,
CNN reported. They did have
parachutes, however.
2 This week, The
Statement staff
explores the recent
campustensions and debates
surrounding the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict on
campus.
FOR MORE, SEE THE STATEMENT
The JAMA Internal
Medicine medical jour-
nal released a report that
suggests e-cigarettes are not
likely to influence users to quit
smoking, Reuters reported.
The study involved 88 partici-
pants located at the University
of California, San Francisco.

EDITORIAL STAFF
Katie Burke ManagingEditor kgburke@michigandaily.com
JenniferCalfas ManagingNewsEditor jealfas@michigandaily.com
SNIOR NEWSEDITORS: Ian Dillingham, Sam Gringlas, Will Greenberg, Rachel Premack
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
MichaeSugerman
Megan McDonaldand
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Zdiga Managing Sports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
NO S rOEDITORS: Max Cohen,Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John lynch and jplynch@michigandaily.com
AkshaySeth ManagingArtsEditors akse@michigandaily.com
SENItORrARTSEDITORS:GiancarloBuonomo,NatalieGadbois,ErikaHarwoodand
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathew and
Paul Sherman ManagingPhototEditors photo@michigandaily.com
SENIOR PHOTO EDITORS: Patrick Barron and Ruby Wallau
ASSISANT PHOTO EDITORS: Allison Farrand, Tracy Ko, Terra Molengraff and Nicholas
Carolyn Gearig and
Gabriela Vasquez Managing Design Editors design@michigandaily.con
SENIOR DESIGN EDITORS: Amy Mackensand Alicia Kovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS Mx Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT LEAD DESIGNER: Amy Mackens
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson ManagingCopy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR COPY EDITORS: Mariam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hufford Online Editor ahufford@michigandaily.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital Accounts Manager
Doug Solomon UniversityAccounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmn Local Accounts Manager
Hillary WangNational Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbert and Sophie Greenbaum ProductionoManagers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
OliviaJones Layout Manager
The Michigan Daily (ISN 0745-967) is published Monday through Friday during the fall and winter terms by
students at the University of Michigan One copy is avalabl' free of charge to all'reades. Additiona cop'es may
be picked up at the Daily's office for $2. Subscriptions for fall term, star ting in September, via U.S. mail are $110.
Winter term (anuary through Aprii$5 , iyearlong (September through April)is$ 19sUniversity afiliates
are subect to areduced subsciptionrate. "<nampus subscrptions for fall term are $5.Ssubscriptionsmust
be prepaid. The Michigan Daily is a member of The Associated Press and The Associated Collegiate Press.

WHAT: Join Career
Center experts for another
installment of their series
"Gearing Up to Apply."
This workshop will focus
specifically on medical
school interviews for
applicants.
WHO: The Career Center
WHEN: Today from 3 to 4
p.m.
WHERE: Student Activities
Building

WHAT: Participate in the
annual Red Cross Blood
Drive.
WHO: Office of Greek Life
WHEN: Today from 12 to
6 p.m.
WHERE: Michigan Union
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

I I

Student-driven book series
to inspire entrepreneurship

Children's literature
aims to present
achievable goals
By HILLARY CRAWFORD
Daily StaffReporter
While the University has
launched a host of initiatives
designed to encourage student
innovators, a new children's
book series titled "Visionary
Kids" is aiming to spread the
entrepreneurial bug beyond
campus and to a younger
cohort.
Four months ago, two Uni-
versity students interested in
entrepreneurship and educa-
tion began writing their first
book in a series designed to
present the stories of famous

entrepreneurs in a kid-friendly
format. After its completion,
the two are now looking to pub-
lish more in their series.
Both of the authors pulled
from their studies to conceive
the idea for the book project.
LSA senior Sara Abraham is
planning to pursue a degree
in education and Reda Jaber
is pursuing an M.D., MBA and
MSCR combined degree, with
a focus in entrepreneurship at
the Ross School of Business.
The two teamed up with
illustrator Joaquin Arias to
complete the visual aspects of
the story.
"The Ross B-school heavily
influenced Reda in terms of
entrepreneurship, and with
regards to myself, I am pursuing
education and was really drawn
to the educational aspect of the

book," Abraham said. "With
that combined, I would say the
University of Michigan really
catalyzed this whole project in
regards to support and ideas."
Though small children are
often inventive and curious,
Abraham and Jaber said
children are rarely exposed
to the real-life success stories
that could instill the drive to
pursue creative ideas from a
young age. Jaber mentioned
that after strolling through
the children's book section
in several book stores, he and
Abraham were disappointed in
the way modern-day children's
stories are framed.
"A lot of them are fantasy,
fairytales; none of them were
real-life success stories,"
Jaber said. "Especially with
the growing emphasis on
entrepreneurship around
not just the University of
Michigan, but throughout
the country, we wanted to
get kids more interested
in entrepreneurship from
the get-go when they're
younger."
Jabersaidwiththecurrent
pressure on young people to
pursue degrees in STEM
fields such as medicine and
engineering, parents and
educational materials don't
place enough emphasis on
entrepreneurship.
"Before this program,
I really wasn't exposed
to entrepreneurship very
much," Jaber added. "But
entrepreneurship was this
really fun topic - it brings
out the kid in you."
The first book in the
series tells the story of Apple

co-founder Steve Jobs. The
book tackles the struggles he
faced, such as growing up as an
adopted child and later drop-
ping out of school. Though the
stories address delicate topics,
the authors portrayed each as
a struggle eventually overcome
with perseverance.
"The main theme stretch-
ing through all of them is that
they're working really hard,"
Abraham said.
Funded through an online
Kickstarter campaign running
through March 27, the pair's
$2,500 fundraising goal has
already been surpassed by
more than $300. The authors
included their backers in the
creative process by asking for
suggestions as to who the next
"visionary kid" should be.
For the next book, Jaber
and Abraham said they would
like to focus on local entrepre-
neurs, such as Dan Gilbert, the
founder of Rock Ventures and
Quicken Loans, who has most
recently spearheaded efforts to
redevelop Detroit's downtown.
The authors said they expect
the first book to be published
by June through CreateSpace, a
self-publishing company affili-
ated with Amazon. In its early
stages, the book will be sold
exclusively online, but the team
hopes to spread their work to
local Ann Arbor bookstores
and eventually larger national
chains.
E-books will be sold on Ama-
zon.com for $10 and paperbacks
for $12. Additionally, Vision-
ary Kids' official website will
accept preorders in the coming
weeks.

ELECTIONS
From Page 1A
tions were a mix of warnings and
demerits. According to the depo-
sitions, candidates who were able
to present evidence of "extenuat-
ing circumstances" were issued a
warning, while those whom the
UEC ruled did not sufficiently
justify their absence were issued
one demerit each. In total, 24
candidates were issued demerits
and 10 were issued warnings.
Another example of a minor
infraction is the posting of cam-
paign materials in prohibited
areas. The only places where
campaign materials may be
posted in University buildings
are in designated spaces within
those University buildings and
residence halls. One of the pro-
hibited areas includes the CSG
chambers themselves. No infrac-
tions on prohibited posting have
been issued thus far.
Major infractions earn three
to four demerits and include
offenses such as influencing stu-
dents while voting and violat-
ing rules governing campaign
finances. Egregious infrac-
tions call for a minimum of four
demerits with at least 12 per-
cent of votes deducted These
violations include voting fraud,
bribing voters and preventing
students from voting.
Campaign spending is also
limited, according to the code.
Individual legislative candi-
dates may only contribute up to
$50 toward his or her campaign.
Presidential tickets may only
spend up to $1,000. Addition-
ally, parties are only allowed to
spend up to $1,000 per presiden-
tial ticket and $50 per individual
legislative candidate.
Individual voters are permit-
ted to donate up to $25 per leg-
islative candidate and $100 per
presidential ticket, with no more
than a combined total donation
of $150. Any donations accepted
from sources other than individ-

ual candidates, parties or eligible
voters are prohibited.
The revised code also increas-
es the authority of the UEC with
regard to the official campaign
period. Under the previous code,
there was no restriction to cam-
paigning before the official start
of the campaign period at the
conclusion of the mandatory
candidates' meeting. Now any
possible violations duringunoffi-
cial campaigning can be ruled on
by UEC in a hearing to take place
during the official period.
Nitta said the change was
made as a precaution for a theo-
retical violation and no such
problems regarding unofficial
campaigninghave occurred.
He added that he is working
to increase communication with
executive candidates and party
chairs in order to prevent pos-
sible infractions.
"I think opening wider com-
munication and informal conver-
sation will be a way to stave off,
hopefully, from litigation that
might be controversial," Nitta
said.
Nitta said he has received
multiple e-mails from candidates
regarding specific rules of cam-
paigning outlined in the code.
"It's really positive," he said.
"It shows that people are trying
to stay within the confines of the
rules, and I think that's great."
However, other student gov-
ernment bodies have recently
faced election controversies.
The Central Student Judiciary
recently invalidated the Decem-
ber 2013 elections for the Uni-
versity of Michigan Engineering
Council, ordering that those
elected executive officers be
removed from their positions.
Candidates from two of the
parties running in the March
26-27 CSG elections, Make
Michigan and FORUM, said they
are avoiding such controversies.
Both campaigns emphasize a
shift away from political agen-
das.

Upp..,,

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER AT
@michigandaily

i

I


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 26, 2014 - 3A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 26, 2014 - 3A

ORR was punctuated by statistics that
confirmed the difficulties Detroit
From Page 1A would face in restructuring, his
speech focused on how he helped
side your comfort zone and do assess the challenges facing the
something for service?" Orr city by releasing a transparent
recalled asking himself. He cred- report on its finances. He also
ited the former University Presi- outlined some of the initiatives
dent James Angell's description Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan's
of the University's goal of offer- administration would implement
ing "uncommon education for over the next few months to bal-
the common man" for teaching ance the city's finances.
him the philosophy of service A portion of Orr's speech was
during his time asa student. dedicated to lauding several
Detroit's bankruptcy placed Detroit area foundations, such
pension payouts to thousands of as the Kresge Foundation and
retired city workers in jeopardy. Kellogg Foundation, which had
Because the bankruptcy pro- jointly donated $330 million to
cess has included negotiations protect the Detroit Institute of
between the city's creditors and Arts. Those funds, combined
labor leaders, Orr said the two with contributions from DIA
entities need to reach an agree- donors, will assist the city in ful-
ment regarding the extent to filling most of its commitments
which pension obligations must to pensioners, thus preventing
be repaid. the sell-off of DIA art to pay its
"I don't want to (cut pensions), bills.
but I'm making the hard call, Orr credited the foundations
that's my job," Orr said. as the reason that art from the
"Reaching a consensual reso- DIA has not been sold to private
lution (with creditors) and get- investors. The deal is pending
ting (a retired city worker) to approval by a federal bankruptcy
understand they have to give up judge later this year.
expectations, particularly those "Foundation leaders said
in the twilightoflife, is adifficult this is a particular time in the
call." foundation of America and we
Though Orr's presentation need to stand up because oth-

DIVEST
From Page 1A
encouraged by several members
of Hillel to attend.
CSG President Michael
Proppe, a Business senior,
motioned to allow a reconsid-
eration of the indefinite post-
ponement of the divestment bill
once the assembly reached the
Motions and Other Business por-
tion of the meeting. This motion
passed with five dissenting
votes, followed by a revote on the
motion to indefinitely postpone
the bill again, which failed with
only seven in support. Proppe's
motion to reconsider Resolu-
tion 3-050 then passed with only
three dissenting votes.
Despite an amendment to line
105 of the resolution, adding the
phrase "pending the results of
the ad hoc committee," the pro-
posal did not pass. It was voted
on ins' secret ballot, an atamend-
ment to the rules decided by the
assembly to ensure the safety of
individual representatives.
LSA senior Suha Najjar, one of
the original authors of the reso-
lution, said while it wasn't the
complete outcome that members
of SAFE wanted, she was happy
their voices were not silenced
this time.
"I am upset. I am disappoint-
ed. But more so, I am very proud
of what we've accomplished,"
she said. "Last week there was a
decision to indefinitely postpone
and resolutions likethat don'tget
called back in here, but because
of our persistence and because of
our determination we came back
and we fought and we got to say
what we wanted to say."
She added that the sit-in is
now over and SAFE members
will not no longer occupy the
CSGchambers.
After the vote, supporters of
the resolution left the chambers
in silence to rally at the Cube in
front of the Fleming Adminis-
tration Building. Speakers at the
Cube shared their plans to take
a divestment proposal to the
University's Board of Regents,
thanked the resolution's sup-
porters at large - particularly
the large number of non-Pales-
tinian supporters - and advised
all members to remain cautious
on their way home given the per-
ceived hostility on campus after
last week's vote.
During the Community Con-
cerns portion of the meeting,
selected membersofthe audience
are given a three-minute time
allotment during which they are

allowed to make statements to
the assembly. During the bill's
second reading, authors of the
resolution continued the discus-
sion. Guest speakers opened the
meeting, followed by 90 minutes
of Community Concerns. Usual-
ly, only 30 minutes are allocated
for Community Concerns, but
the CSG assembly voted twice to
extend this time limit.
Max Blumenthal, a Jewish-
American author and journalist,
served as guest speaker on behalf
of SAFE. He was the first speaker
of the meeting and opened by
praising students of SAFE who
have been protesting for the past
week. SAFE members responded
with sign language applause,
since audible cheers were banned
by assembly rules.
Guests on behalf of Hil-
lel discussed alleged flaws in
the divestment resolution. Four
speakers on behalf of Hillel were
present, including Yael Aronoff,
associate professor of interna-
tional relations at Michigan State
University, and four University of
Michigan law students.
Law student Scott Bloomberg
said the resolution indicates
there will eventually be a broad
and consistent consensus on
divestment. He said due to the
diversity of views regarding this
issue, no such consensus will
ever be reached.
History Prof. Victor Lieber-
man, who recently received the
Golden Apple Award for teaching
and currently teaches the course
"The History of the Arab-Israeli
Conflict," delivered a presenta-
tion on the history of the conflict.
LSA senior Bayan Founas, a
SAFE member, said the group
was not consulted by CSG about
which professor would be pre-
senting to the assembly. She
added that several students vis-
ited with Lieberman and asked
him not to speak because they
disagree with his interpretation
of the history of the West Bank
conflict. Founas said SAFE mem-
bers requested that Proppe find
a different speaker a few hours
before the meeting, but were
informed it was too late.
In response to a question from
LSA sophomore Jacob Ruby, an
LSA representative, Lieberman
said he believes the passage of the
divestment resolution would fur-
ther the broader Boycott, Divest-
ment and Sanctions campaign
against Israel.
Speakers heard in random
order during Community Con-
cerns included students both
for and against the resolution at
hand. Several students in support

erwise there will be a yard sale
in the DIA yard," Orr noted. "If
you don't think that can hap-
pen, there are many sovereign,
wealthy, Russian oligarchs, Bra-
zilian millionaires who are call-
ing and inquiring."
Marieke Van Damme, LSA
museum project manager, who
attended the talk, criticized Orr
for neglecting to mention arts as
an asset to Detroit's future.
"It was hard to hear him not
mention arts and culture to revi-
talize the arts at all, and instead
hear him say that he was going
to have a yard sale," Damme said
"He had an incredible opportu-
nity in this presentation to sell
Detroit on its history of art and
culture, I think creating more
sports stadiums is not the way to
empower a city."
Rackham student Kumar Raj,
an event volunteer, said he appre-
ciated the opportunity to hear
firsthand what was happening
in Detroit, especially as a student
who hoped to live inthe city after
graduation.
"I think you learn a lot of the
academic side, and it's nice to
have a practitioner come and
speak to all of us on a topic as
important as Detroit," he said.
of divestment shared personal
stories of life in the Middle East
and Palestine specifically. Stu-
dents against the resolution reit-
erated sentiments that passage
of this resolution would further
divide the student body.
While CSG executive officers
are not permitted to vote on mat-
ters of the assembly, they did
address the room before mem-
bers of the assembly began their
debates.
Proppe advised representa-
tives to consider the strong divi-
sion of student opinion regarding
the resolution when considering
its passage. He added that he does
not think those representatives
who voted to indefinitely post-
pone the resolution did so with
the intent to silence students.
CSG Vice President Bobby
Dishell, a Public Policy junior,
said as a student leader, he less-
ened his involvement with pro-
Israel groups once he became a
representative. He reiterated that
he remains pro-Israel, but does
not want his own political beliefs
to influence his role as vice presi-
dent.
Dishell and LSA sophomore
Meagan Shokar, speaker of the
assembly, said the hostile cam-
pus climate in the wake of the
March 18 meeting threatens the
democratic process and would
not be tolerated. SAFE represen-
tatives told The Michigan Daily
that members have been receiv-
ing racist comments, have been
yelled at on the street by people
driving by and have been classi-
fied as extremists. CSG members
claimed to receive similar threats
and members ofbothgroups have
reported some individuals do not
feel safe enough to attend their
classes.
Administrators have met
repeatedly with SAFE and the
members of the sit-in, as well as
other groups, hearing the vari-
ous accounts of threats received

by CSG representatives as well as
members of the sit-in. In antici-
pation of the meeting, E. Royster
Harper, vice president for student
life, sent a campus-wide e-mail
early Tuesday evening reminding
students of the University's poli-
cy regarding freedom of speech
and artistic expression outlined
in its Standard Practice Guide.
She urged students to remain
respectful and tolerant of diverse
viewpoints.
Harper referred to a previous
Daily article, an official response
from Proppe and a statement
from Palestinian students and
allies to provide students with
context of the issue.

ICE CREAM
From Page 1A
shop's milk and cream.
The ice cream base will consist
entirely of eggs, cane sugar and
milk, free of any added preserva-
tives, stabilizers or emulsifiers. All
of the add-ins, such as peanut but-
ter cups, will also be organic or
natural.
"We're trying to make an all-
natural product, that even though
you're indulging, you can feel good
about eating - something that's a
whole food," Segler said.
The store will feature a glass
wall to allow customers to look in
onthe processofmakingice cream.
The store will also include games,
chalkboards and slates for children
to draw on - providing inspiration
for the creamery's name.
Segler said she is also in the
process of developing partner-
ships with Mighty Good Coffee
RACING
From Page1A
nents: the car's bottom wing,
under-tray and top wing. These
components create a pressure dif-
ferential that ultimately pushes
downward to give the car better
traction.
"It kind of sucks the car down
to the ground," he said. "It's the
same concept that keeps air-
planes in the air, just reversed to
keeping the car on the ground."
Engineering Prof. Jason Martz,
MRacing's faculty adviser, said
the program's value comes from
students' ability to learn by doing.
"FormulaSAE providesuswith
a beneficial, real-world aspect
to our students' education," he
said. "The strong fundamentals
acquired here in the classroom
at the University of Michigan are
applied to real-world problems
through participation on this
team."
Martz addedthatconcepts such
as internal combustion theory and
thermodynamics find practical
application in the building of a
motor vehicle, which makes them
more pertinent to study.

and a local chocolate store to add
to her bank of flavors. Though
Segler wants to keep the focus on
ice cream, sundaes and shakes, she
also mentioned the possibility of
introducing soup to the menu dur-
ing winter months.
Segler's idea to open a new ice
cream store did not materialize
overnight. She first first conceived
the idea when she was in her twen-
ties. To start, she visited an inde-
pendent shop in Massachusetts to
learn how all-natural ice cream is
made and to see whether opening
a store was something she really
wanted to do. After learning the
basics, she returned to Michigan
to perfect her flavors and propor-
tions.
Segler said she hopes to bring
something newto Ann Arbor while
keeping a local feel.
"We think our product is a good
match with what people in the
downtown area are looking for,"
Segler said. "We didn'twantto be a
Joe Fadool, the president of
BorgWarner Morse TEC, spoke
at the event as well. BorgWarner
- an international company that
develops technologies to improve
motor vehicle emissions, fuel
economy and performance - is
MRacing's title sponsor.
"We believe in the work that all
the administrators and professors
are doing right here in Ann Arbor,"
he said. "It is this type of work that
develops the next generation of
scientists, engineers and leaders
that we need for our industry."
Fadool also encouraged the stu-
dents involved with MRacing to
consider the automotive industry
as a viable future career option
- contrary to what some might
argue.
"The automotive industry is
back," he said.
In the comingweeks, MRacing
students will test-drive the For-
mula SAE car. Four of the orga-
nization's members, all of whom
have some form of previous rac-
ing experience, will operate the
vehicle in upcoming competi-
tions.
The vehicle will compete in
three races: one at the Michigan
International Speedway, another

shop in atypical strip mall."
Rather than thinking of the new
store as competition, the owners of
other ice cream shops in Ann Arbor
said the Blank Slate Creamery will
be a good addition to the commu-
nity.
LSA senior Nick Lemmer, owner
of Iorio's Gelateria on East William
Street, said ice cream and gelato
are very different products.
"Gelato is made with different
ingredients, so while it is a little bit
of competition, it's not direct com-
petition," Lemmer said. "We're
excited that another frozen dessert
place will be coming to Ann Arbor
because I think it's important for
the market itself."
Chera Tramontin, owner of
Kilwin's on East Liberty, said she
did not have any concerns with
competition posed by a new ice
cream establishment.
"I think that's great for Ann
Arbor, and I wish them the best of
luck," Tramontin said.
in Lincoln, Nebraska and one at
the Hockenheimring, a race track
in Germany.
Martin said the unveiling is an
important "first milestone" for
the team prior to competing in
the string of racing events.
"It's the first time that every-
body gets to see all the compo-
nents together," he said. "You get
to see all of your work culminate
into something that looks like
a car instead of just a bunch of
parts lying around."
Regardless of the vehicle's
performance in upcoming races,
Munson added, the MRacing
program's value exceeds its com-
petitive results. That said, an
MRacing vehicle has placed in
the top 10 in nine out of its last 10
competitions.
Martin added that their orga-
nization ranks 36th out of 500
teams in the world.
"We look forward to this year's
Formula SAE competition series,"
Munson said. "Yes, we want to
win, but regardless of the out-
come, because of the experiences
and the skills created by this
opportunity, every team member
is a winner, and those of you who
support them are victors."

The Russian Presidential Academy of National
Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) is
excited to announce a new one-of-a-kind summer
program - the Russian International Summer Campus,
which includes a Russian language course, a lecture
series on contemporary Russia, excursions around
Moscow, and an academic internship or interactive
thematic modules.

INTERSTED IN JOINING
THE STAFF OF
THE MICHIGAN DAILY?
STOP BY OUR OFFICES AT 420 MAYNARD
OR SUBMIT A REQUEST TO APPLY ONLINE AT
michigandaily.com/join-us

APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 15!
Details on Facebook:
www.facebook com/SummerinMoscow
The Presidential Academy is Russia's largest
university and we look forward to seeing The University
of Michigan's students on our campus!
http://www.ranepa.ru/eng/



4A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@niichigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Vote FORUM
The Michigan Daily editorial board endorses Manes and Abraham
entral Student Government's main purpose is to represent the
student body, to gauge the needs of University students and work
to implement beneficial changes. While current CSG leadership has
been effective in bringing about change - such as working to implement a
new football seating policy - its efforts have not encompassed the entirety
of campus. The next leaders of CSG should strive to fairly incorporate
traditionally unheard voices in student government in order to better
represent all students at the University. Except for one party, most of the
CSG presidential and vice presidential candidates are running on a platform
that is either too vague or overly narrow to the point of being exclusionary.
The Michigan Daily's editorial board is endorsing FORUM candidates
Carly Manes and Pavitra Abraham for CSG president and vice president
because of their inclusive vision and their plan to empower students.

Weight of thaw
. -

While Make Michigan candidates have solid
experience in student government, their plans
for the future do not fully address current
campus concerns. Presidential candidate Bobby
Dishell, a Public Policy junior, is currently
serving as CSG vice president and vice
presidential candidate Meagan Shokar, an LSA
sophomore, is the CSG speaker of the assembly.
Their proposed initiatives for next year focus
primarily on improving the student experience
through campus technology - namely the
Michigan smartphone app - and mental
health. While mental health is an issue that
should be addressed by student government
- and something FORUM should emphasize
- there are other areas of campus life that
deserve attention as well. Specifically, campus
diversity, as proven by the #BBUM movement,
is an issue the future student government
should be concerned with. Bringing together
the large campus community and ensuring
every voice is heard should also be a major
focus. Make Michigan's past experience in'
student government may prove valuable, but its
lack of a comprehensive vision is problematic.
Independent candidate Aristide
Coumarbatch, an LSA senior, is running
under the premise of setting a good example
for other students, showing the importance of
creating equality and implementing diversity.
Coumarbatch decided to forgo the support of a
party to demonstrate to students that running
for CSG president is achievable by everyone.
Having no affiliation with a previous party or
experience as a representative, Coumarbatch
is completely new to CSG. Though he stresses
a "fight for change" and a need to "increase
diversity," Coumarbatch doesn't offer any
specific direction toward execution of these
goals. With a lack of objective and no previous
experience with the inner workings of the CSG,
we're uncertain as to what Coumarbatch would
be able to successfully accomplish.
From the Defend Affirmative Action Party,
LSA sophomore Mical Holt and LSA freshman
Taylor Jones are running for CSG president and
vice president. The party offers a strong vision
for improving the climate around social justice
on campus and should be commended for its
initiative in tackling one of the University's
most pressingissues. Whichever partyiselected
should strive to increase underrepresented

minority enrollment and serve as advocates for
affirmative action should the opportunity arise.
Especially in light of recent campus events, the
goals of DAAP deserve recognition from CSG.
However, as a single-issue party, DAAP's focus
is too narrow to fully serve the needs of the
entire student body.
Capitalizing on the noticeable lack of
student engagement with CSG, the Party Party
has established itself as a new alternative.
Unfortunately, the Party Party has no tangible
initiatives to support its unique approach.
The party has said that expressing specific
goals contradicts the notion that the student
body should direct CSG action. While this
philosophy is admirable, the Party Party's
lack of concrete goals is concerning and begs
the question of what exactly LSA junior Ryan
Hayes and Business junior Brennan Woods -
the party's presidential and vice presidential
candidates - would do if elected. Their call
for increased attention to student engagement
is certainly warranted, but CSG needs a leader
with a concrete vision to improve the school.
FORUM presidential candidate Carly
Manes is a Public Policy junior who has held
leadership positions in multiple student
organizations on campus and has served
on LSA Student Government as a freshman
and sophomore. Vice presidential candidate
Pavitra Abraham is also in her junior year
in LSA and is experienced in working as a
community organizer on campus. FORUM's
goal of creating a student position on the
University's Board of Regents is indicative of
the party's main focus of improving student
representation. FORUM has prioritized
students' voices by pushing an outreach
agenda to bring campus perspectives together.
In addition to an idealistic vision, Manes and
Abraham have specific proposals aimed at
improving student life. A bus route to local
grocery stores and a SafeRide app to ensure
student safety will benefit all of campus.
While such an ambitious agenda may seem
overwhelming, FORUM's plan to empower
passionate students in specific fields is a smart
and inclusive strategy.
This year, The Michigan Daily's editorial
board endorses FORUM candidates CARLY
MANES and PAVITRA ABRAHAM for CSG
president and vice president.

This winter's beginning was
familiar. Snow fell - first in
coveted flurries, and then as
inescapable heaps.
My aloe plant
turned leathery
on my windowsill.
My housemates
and I muddied our
kitchen floor with
sloppybooctracks./
Canada geese, EMILY
who always seem PITTINOS
to stick around PTTINS
long after they
logically should,
probed the frozenground for morsels
each day before tucking their faces
under their wings at night.
As my senior year plodded
along, the consistently negative
temperatures made my every outdoor
movement robotic and hasty. My
friends and I would help each other
across glinting layers of sidewalk ice,
laughing in disbelief as we slipped
and gripped each other's arms.
We became both quick-footed and
cautious, learning to exploit areas
with the most traction - the blotches
of new-fallen snow, the places where
slush had formed around footprints
and then refrozen.
Our bodies ached from struggling
with gravity - spines twisted after
retracting missteps, hips wrenched
from halting mid-fall - and we
bitched over beers about kinks in our
necks like the arthritic members of a
Red HatSociety.We cobbledtogether
poetry portfolios, and wrote lengthy
theses about security checkpoints
and feminist anarchy, but even our
most vibrant conversations always
turned back to the snow.
Time compounded, as it tends
to do - days diffusing into weeks
and then into months. Months of
lungs lined with stubborn phlegm;

months of fingers fumbling withkeys
in the cold; months of smug couples
strolling around campus with their
hands tucked sweetly in each other's
parkapockets. Meanwhile,loneliness
slowed my blood flow; warmth barely
worked through me, like a weak
current trickling over a frozen river,
turning my skin gray and chilly to
the touch. Any time I left the house, I
keptmyhead down to protect myraw
cheeks from the wind; I didn'tlook at
the sky all winter.
Some moments inspired the
exaggerations I'll feed my children
when they complain about having
to don their coats on Halloween.
I'll mention the most frigid night
of the year, when my housemates
and I stayed up singing and sucking
down pulls of whiskey, afraid the
heat would silently fail and give
us over to hypothermia as we
slept. I'll tell them about how my
parents feared their roof would
collapse under the weight of its ice
blanket, and in the mornings, in
that moment between dream and
waking, I imagined my childhood
home as a mound of white rubble,
the family dog barking and digging
desperately through the snow.
But, despite all doubts, this
morning I looked out my window to
find March waiting for me - as she
always does at this time of year -
with the gift of thaw in her hands.
The sidewalk ice is receding to
reveal lost treasures - car keys,
lipstick tubes, pushpins, dropped
tampons, hubcaps, that lone
and forsaken mitten. The geese
survived. My parents' roof isstill
intact. But as its shingles reemerge,
and the mountains of plowed snow
on the Diag shrink to nothing, all of
that weight remains.
Though I'm no longer skidding
down these streets, bent and

VIRGINIAEASTHOPE/Daly
braced for the cold, my shoulders
don't seem any looser or lighter.
While I should be rejoicing -
cartwheeling across the prickly
grass and inhaling a little sunshine
- I actually feel heavier than I did
in the midst of the Polar Vortex.
The weight of ice has been
replaced by the reality of spring, the
reality that this is my last month of
living my current life. The monot-
ony that was encouraged by this
urban tundra - circuits between
class, work, bar, sleep, class, work,
bar, sleep - seduced me into this
city's collective hibernation, and
tricked me into thinking time had
slowed. But now that my internal
calendar is thawing out with the
rest of our campus, it feels like I've
overslept for months and missed
every class, every deadline, every
party, every interview, every Sun-
day brunch.
of course, this isn't a new
discovery; all students fear the end
of school, and a little panic nourishes
both ambition and the soul.
However, wisdom and reason
don't seem totake the edge off of this
trepidation, or make me any more
sure-footed as I polish off the year.
Like every senior class before us,
we face a future full of winters. Like
every class before us, we will slip
before catching ourselves on a good
friend's shoulder. Eventually, we will
land firmly on the ground, though
whether we make contact with our
feet or asses first depends entirely
on the way we fall. Either way, it will
hurt - our bodies will ache along
with-our hearts. But our lives are
changing as quickly as ice can melt
out of existence, and we have to brace
ourselves for the sudden heat of it all.
- Enily Pittinos can be reached
at pittinos()umich.edu.

LAUREN GROSSMANN I
Stop hating and try a little empathy

Everyone carries their own problems on
their back and tries to find some blame for
things beyond their control. This past week,
we saw tensions rise at the University over an
issue about disinvesting fromthe State of Israel,
and there has been much controversy over the
result. I will be the first to admit Iam biased in
this issue. I amJewishandpro-Israel.However,
I do not think resolutions like this belong in
the hands of our student government. Its job
is to enhance the life of students on campus
and it should not be forced to play a role in a
highly polarizing issue that divides members
of the campus. People have been arguing that
members of Central Student Government have
been "cowards" because they ended the debate
on the issue by tabling the motion to end the bill
indefinitely. However, not all members of CSG
are personally invested in the issue and may
not know enough about either side to make a
justified stance on the issue. Tabling the motion
might not have been the right decision, but it
was the best given the options.
This resolution would've separated people
on campus. Yesterday, I was talking to
someone about the issue and she feared there
might have been a race issue that the campus
is ignoring. She asked me, "How does a white
privileged girl like yourself know about the
shame that the minority students feel on
campus?" My answer: I don't. I personally
cannot know what it was like to grow up as

a racial minority in white America. But, I
am Jewish and I've been a victim of anti-
Semitism. I've witnessed people putting
swastikas at a high school in my hometown,
I've been called Christ-killer, I've been told
I am going to hell for just being Jewish, and
that hurt. My grandparents were Holocaust
survivors; my grandfather survived
Mauthausen Concentration Camp. Anyone
that is a minority faces some kind of stigma
that some members of society won't accept.
I am not asking for sympathy, everyone
has their own problems. We should look past
our own problems and try to find common
ground among our social groups. We are all
students at this University who come from all
backgrounds. We come together to make this
campus a diverse and enriching atmosphere.
We should embrace those differences and find
things that make us the same. People reading
this might call me a racist just because of my
stance on the issue. Iam willing to sit and talk
in an open forum. I am willing to talk and
listen - you might find out we have more in
common than we realize.
People need to stop blaming others for
actions that are beyond their control. It hinders
cooperation and growth. It divides us. Blaming
CSG is not goingto solve the issue,.it's just going
to raise tensions further.
Lauren Grossmann is an LSA junior.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Edvinas Berzanskis, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble, Michael Schramm, Matthew
Seligman, Paul Sherman, Allison Raeck, Linh Vu, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
YAZAN KHERALLAH N
We will not be silent
The following narrative is the and stripped their childhood away a year and doesn't know when she
speech I was planning to give at the from them. I asked myself: What will see him again.
Central Student Government meeting could children ever do to deserve And when I think of violence
on Tuesday had the legislators not growing up under the circumstances committed by the Israeli military, I
decided to shut down discussion. We of a violent military occupation? I think of Mustafa Tamimi, who died
will not be silent. want all of you to ask yourselves the after having half his face blown off by
Iwas blessed withtheopportunity same question. a tear gas canister shot into his face
to spend my last summer in the West Because when I think of the by IDF soldiers. I went to his village,
Bank helping organize a summer occupation's system of racial Nabi Saleh, and participated in one of
camp for children of the Dheisheh segregation and how Palestinians the weekly peaceful demonstrations
refugee camp in Bethlehem. Living must go through checkpoints to they hold in protest of a nearby
under occupation, Palestinian get from place to place, I think of settlement taking their water source.
children are forced to survive in Tasneem. Just 10-years-old, she I met his friends. How traumatizing
extremely severe circumstances. had a rheumatism that required a the sight ofthis severed jaw must have
The motivation for the summer medical operation that could only be been for the children who grew up
camp was to provide a semblance of performed in East Jerusalem - land with him.
normalcy, a safe space in which they that is internationally recognized to The fact of the matter is, unlike
can learn, play and grow - away be part of the Palestinian territories. what Newt Gingrich would have
from their harsh environment, if Because of checkpoints, she wasn't you believe, Palestinians are not an
that's even possible. allowed to cross into East Jerusalem invented people and neither are the
During my time in the West Bank, and get the medical care she needs. realities we are telling you of. The
I witnessed the occupation's brutal If she doesn't, she'll never be able to occupation has real consequences,
policies. I saw the checkpoints, walk properly again. on real people, with real lives. And
the segregated bus systems, the When I think of administrative our University's investments have
settlements, and Israeli soldiers' detention, and the way Palestinians real consequences.
terrorization of Palestinian towns are funneled into prisons en masse So when we talk to you about
and villages. I heard horrible stories without charge, without visitation military blockades, checkpoints and
of innocent family members killed rights, and without due process, I separation walls, I want you to think
and of family members that were think of Israa'. When I asked the of Palestinian children. I want you to
imprisoned, tortured and taken away. class to draw a picture of something think ofIsraa' and how she may never
The entire time, I thought of how that made them happy, she drew see her brother again. And of Tas-
this impacted the kids I worked and her family eating dinner together. neem, who may never walk properly
played with daily. I thought of how She said it was the first dinner her again. And I want you to ask your-
those children were born into a world family will have after her brother selves: What did they do to deserve
that has rejected them and ignored is released from prison. Because the way the world has treated them?
their suffering - a world that has of administrative detention, Israa'
treated them with hate and racism hasn't seen her older brother in over Yazan Kherallah isvan LSA senior.
I am upset. I am disappointed. But more so, I
am very proud of what we've accomplished."
-LSA senior Suha Najjar said in response to CSG's decision to vote down the proposed UM Divest
resolution by SAFE. Najjar was one of the original authors.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wednesday, March 26, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wednesday, March 26, 2011

List the
things you re
gra e

Actors starting to
embrace the little screen

could quote some bril- of Michigan no lon
liant scientists and me suitable to oper
well-cited academic vehicle ... for at le
research When that happen
that proves your dream car.
why culti- Then after a ye
vating an a license, in whic
attitude of bussed and hitc
gratitude to wherever I ne
creates ben- the State granted
efits for your restricted driving
physical, which included t
emotional, CARLY tion of a breathal
and mental KEYES car. Before I coul
health, but key in my ignitio
I think it's blow into a machin
fairly obvious that counting I had no alcohol in
my blessings is a far healthi- and then I had to
er pastime than complaining odically as I drove
about my life circumstances. And I was grate
So, instead of the "Why?" After a year wi
I'll focus on the "How?" and ing, living in subur
reference the wisdom of Joni gan, I was ready t
Mitchell and her song "Big the tail pipe if that
Yellow Taxi" regarding my asked of me. Eve
experience with gratitude: Nov. 2013, after t
"Don't it always seem to go / of sobriety, I was
That you don't know what you full license back, t
got / Till it's gone." lyzer was remove
Unfortunately, I couldn't car, and I am free
learn the definition of grati- any legal consequ
tude by looking it up in the to normal, but so m
dictionary. For me, gratitude ent ... and grateful.
wasn't learned; gratitude was So, on Sunday, w
earned, but not in the usual to go pick up equil
way that your earn something. the basement of N
Not in the usual way that you to shoot my latest
earn money by excelling at a a class, I knew it
chosen trade or a medal for tad strenuous. I h
finishing first place in a com- around a bit to s
petition. In order to earn the spot, I had to lug a
attitude of gratitude I now stuffa relatively lo
sport, I had to lose ... almost and load it in my t
everything. knew that eventua
And while Mitchell's catchy to unload it from
track zeroes in on valuing and lug it back.
the environment, the prac- But what was o
tice of losing something in "I'm so glad I have
order to recognize its impor- this and that I'm
tance is a universally under- drive it."
stood conundrum. Whom I had the privile
I don't understand are you ing around to scope
gifted individuals who can, I had the privilege:
almost inherently, be grateful lot of heavy stuff,
for what you have, and fully long distance and I
acknowledge the gravity of my trunk, and I ha
what it means to be healthy, lege of unloading
loved and happy. trunk and lugging
I salute you, and I am eager Number one oi
to adapt: I've got my list. list: Driving is a pr
At the end of each day, I for that, I am grate
write down twelve things
for which I am utterly grate- #2. My freedom
ful based on my experiences
of the previous twenty-four Incarceration.
hours. It could include some- nately, it was anot
thing as simple as "Had a quence of my pas
great text convo with my sis- fortunately, a nece
ter" or as exciting as "I got or heaping helpin
to work with some incredible rude. Never did I
people today on the set of my that I'd ever know
music video," or as monumen- like to feel metal
tal as "My friend just cele- wrap around onn
brated five years sober." twice. And the sa
And, though I do my best around, jail came a
to make these twelve items deal.
unique to each day, there are Ten days. I sper
three things that always, in in Oakland County
some way shape or form, find Jan. 2011. It doesn'
a way onto my paper: a long time, and it
In no particular order... in the grand schem

ger deemed roommates withirn
rate a motor - people were alw
east a year. in and out, makin,
s, any car is more - including
seventeen year old
ar without tiple felonies for di
h I walked, and an elderly w
hed rides would be there for
eded to go, for shoplifting. I
me a set of pieces of loose-leaf
privileges, a sawed-off little p
he installa- kind soul there gav
yzer in my read through thos
d turn the from time to time, j
, I had to in touch.
:e to ensure And then I'm a
my system, sented with reminc
blow peri- Monday, I at
screening for my
fu . class, and it was
thout driv- of "Orange is the N,
'ban Michi- I'd watched it beft
o blow into even though it'
's what was make-believe, mei
ntually, in in orange jumpsuit
hree years though I was at a,
granted my and ten days doesr
he breatha- to the usual amou
d from my people remain in
and clear of see women behind
ences. Back see my past.
uch differ- Number one on
list: Freedom is a g
when I went that, I am grateful.
pment from
North Quad #3. My sobriety
project for
would be a Considering nu
ad to drive and two above, 1
cope out a like a given, right)
lot of heavy Every day I wake
ng distance first thought that
runk, and I my mind: "Damn, I
illy, I'd have don't have to drink
my trunk that my first action
in my car, speedtc
n my mind? store and replenish
a car to do al stock.
allowed to But there are 1
few and far betw
ege of driv- fully, when it's noc
e out a spot, Times when, being
of lugging a a college student, s
a relatively feel isolating as I
oading it in the campus and ov
d the privi- conversation about
it from my or that conversatiot
it back. party.
n Sunday's I'm fortunate, th
ivilege, and have some incredib
ful. my life who are also

ten days
ays coming
g room for
a pregnant
with mul-
rug dealing
oman who
six months
wrote on
paper with
encil that a
e me, and I
e memories
ust to keep
ilways pre-
ders.
ttended a
TV theory
an episode
New Black."
ore because
's fiction,
rely actors
s, and even
County jail
't compare
ant of time
prison ... I
bars, and I
Monday's
ift, and for
mbers one
this seems
? And it is.
up, it's the
comes to
'm so glad I
today," and
isn't to hop
othe liquor,
my person-
times, now
een thank-
it so clear.
young and
obriety can
walk about
erhear this
that party
n about this
ough, that I
le people in
committed

ByGRACE HAMILTON
DailyArts Writer
There's a certain excitement
thatcomes from seeingafaceyou'd
typically view from the comfort
of your bed, via Netflix, on a big
screen. TV has been the starting
point for many successful film act-
ing careers: Sally Field, Meg Ryan
and George Clooney are a few
names that should ring a bell. In
recent years, however, as TV has
grown to the level of film in popu-
lar culture and households, many
actors are making the transition in
the other direction.
Matthew McConaughey sur-
prisingly became HBO's newest
star in the past few months with Woooh politics!
his performance in the first sea-
son of "True Detective," surpass- viewers and cr
ing much of his previous work the perception
in film. The platform for excel- art, since its vis
lence in the cinematic and media in its entirety
world has broadened. Actors like with many stro
McConaughey are jumpingon this a single picture
moving TV train for a ride that's TV, on theo
proving to be both exhilarating more of a myst
and entertaining. shape a role to
TVhas typicallybeenviewed as nation. In a w
a lesser form of entertainment - a something mo
place where real cheese and crap this, since the
can find a nesting ground. Even as acter is more
the quality of television programs choices of th
has improved, it seems that film arguable that
never fails to steal the spotlight, mimic reality
raising its chin well above the in that the fut
height of your flat screen. As far
as I know, no one throws viewing
parties for the Emmys.
That being said, in the last
decade, TVhas undergone a trans-
formation in that it now strives for
more than entertainment value
and ratings; it is aspace for artistry
and style, in the same waythat film
has been from its onset. The shows
that are products of these recent
years have offered us profound
social commentary, masterful act-
ing and significantly more exciting
weeknights. Series such as "The
Sopranos," "Breaking Bad" and
"Mad Men" demonstrate TV'strue
capacity.
TV is sexier
than film. j
Withthisinmind, it'snowonder
that film stars, such as Halle Berry
and Kevin Bacon, are making the
crossover. Suddenly, opportunities
for stimulating and rewarding
work have snowballed. In the
search for dynamic characters
and meaningful stories, actors are
no longer limited to film scripts.
Being in a TV show expands the
horizons in other ways as well. A
film script offers the rising action,
climax and resolution of a story
in a single read. Of course, this
means faster gratification for both

eators. It also feeds
of film as a piece of
ion is preconceived
and materializes,
ikes, no doubt, into
ether hand, provides
ery and freedom to
the liking of imagi-
ay, there might be
re personal about
fate of the char-
dependent on the
e actor. It's also
a TV show can
more effectively,
ore is often unde-

termined. There is serious appeal
in this for actors who are hungry
for greater personal freedom and
direction.
TV is sexy in a way that mov-
ies can't be; its indefinite resolu-
tions, longevity and the continual
necessity for surprises make it
unique. It's not as if people didn't
catch onto this earlier, but the
results are most evident today. If
the trend continues, and actorslike
McConaughey or Kevin Spacey
continue to recognize and appre-
ciate the merits of TV roles, then
we can expect TV's golden age to
continue. absurd in the process.

----i


Unfortu-
ther conse-
t behavior;
ssary dose,
g, of grati-
ever think
what's it's
handcuffs
my wrist ...
econd time
s a package
nt ten days
jail during
t sound like
really isn't
e of things,

to staying sober ... friends of all
ages, genders and races, who
just get me, and when I explain
how I'm grateful for my car and
for my freedom, they just nod
their heads, because they've
been there, too. My relation-
ships, my human connections
run deeper than they ever did
when I was partying and rely-
ing on alcohol to lubricate my
social life.
Number one on Tuesday's
list: I have an authentic rela-
tionship with myself and oth-
ers, and for that, I am grateful.
When I first started mak-
ing a gratitude list, I didn't
start with twelve items. I
started with three. But, what
you appreciate, appreciates. So,
find three things to be grate-
ful for as you go about each day,
jot them down before you go to
sleep each night, and I prom-
ise, you'll find more without
having to look too hard. And,
I promise, you will be grateful
you did.
Keyes wants you to start listing.
To tell her about your progress,
e-mail cekmusic@umich.edu.

#1. My car
I remember feeling so
uncool because the Chevy
Trailblazer with leather inte-
rior that I got when I was six-
teen was used. "It's actually
'Certified Pre-Owned,' " I'd
tell people ... like maybe that
made it sound fancier.
Fast forward five years, and
after a second DUI, the State

but it is when you're inside.
I got there around 5:30 p.m.
on a Sunday evening, they
took all of my possessions,
my shoelaces, pretty much
everything but the clothes on
my back, and I still remem-
ber how it felt to walk behind
those bars and how the door
sounded as it shut.
Closed. Cold. Closed.
Colder.
I went through a series of

WE LIKE
TWEETS AND
WE DON'T
CARE WHO
KNOWS.
@MICHIGANDAILY

Monday, March 31, 2014 Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Annenberg Auditorium
4:00 PM 1120 Weill Hall
Free and open tothe public. 735 S State Street
Reception to follow. Follow us: @fordschool
Info: fspp-events@umich.edu join the conversation:
fordschool.umith.edu #policytalks
GERALD R. FORD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC POLICY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

.

A I I


6A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

6A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Reveling in the
'McConaissance'

ByKARENYUAN
DailyArts Writer
It's 2005. "Sahara," a movie
starring Matthew McCo-
naughey and Penelope Cruz,
screens for free at Columbia
College Chicago. After the
screening, the producers -
one of whom is McConaughey
- hold a Q&A session with
their audience. The theater is
half-empty.
Matthew McConaughey
enters the stage, and it's imme-
diately clear.
The man is higher than
Everest.
He starts fielding question
after question about the movie
- for each one, McConaughey
replies with a crooked grin
and outrageous answer.
Then: "Matt, who's your
favorite actor?"
McConaughey pauses for In the hood.
a bit, considering, and says, of Wall Street" (2013) featured
"Me, in ten years. Cool ... yeah him in a much smaller role,
" but he was just as praised and
Fast-forward to today, and essential to the movie. As a
we really are about ten years matter of fact, the chest-beat-
later. McConaughey has "Dal- ing anthem hum was all McCo-
las Buyers Club" from 2013 naughey's idea. And as we go a
under his belt, complete with little farther back in time to
an Oscar for his role as Ron 2012, we have his award-win-.
Woodruff. The story, which ning titular role in "Mud." It's
has been circulating around been a slow but steady climb to
the Internet, has been debated the microphone on the stage of
on its veracity, but there's no the 86th Academy Awards this
doubt that Matthew McCo- month.
naughey has made huge What's strange is that
splashes recently as an actor. prior to 2012, most of McCo-
Some are calling it the "McCo- naughey's films were romance,
naissance." Some are calling it comedy or romantic comedy.
"McConaughey-day." Cast more for his set of abs
than acting chops, he would
have been an absurd choice
All right, all in 2005 for the role of an
AIDS patient in a biographi-
right all right. cal drama. McConaughey
*has been able to reinvent his
career and become one of the
most sought-after "serious"
In the past year, beyond actors today. Next up is "Inter-
"Dallas Buyers Club" and the stellar," a Christopher Nolan
Academy's acknowledgment film opening this year about
of his stellar performance, the exploration of space.
McConaughey has played a So how has McConaughey
critically-acclaimed starring achieved his new image from
role in the first season of "True rom-com hunk to dramatic
Detective" on HBO. "The Wolf A-lister? I think the transition

is less surprising than it ini-
tially seems, because McCo-
naughey was never necessarily
a bad actor. He was just con-
stantly typecasted, featured
in the same genre of movies
as the same kind of character
again and again. It's entirely
possible, however, to be simul-
taneously typecast and good at
acting, as evidenced by John
Wayne (macho gunslinger)
and Morgan Freeman (wise
old sage).
"How to Lose a Guy in 10
Days" (2003), for example,
includes perfectly timed
comedic delivery from McCo-
naughey, down to the careful
pauses between words and
subtle expressions. Though
the movie's story is nothing
groundbreaking - it's a run-
of-the-mill fluff piece on rela-
tionships - McConaughey
works as much as he can to
flesh out his character. Even
in his films from the 2000s,
we see a watered-down but
certainly visible glimpse of
McConaughey's true acting
potential. The McConaughey
of today is not a new person,
but rather a more ambitious
version of yesterday's.

WASHINGTOUNSQUAKE
"Does that say Slopez?"
Aging The Hold Steady
loses edge on new LP

By ADAM THEISEN
Daily Arts Writer
Craig Finn,
Why did you have to get
older? For some reason, I always
thought of you
as my age, but
really, you're
more than Teeth
twice that. I
remember way Dreams
back when I The Hold
bought Sepa- Steady
ration Sunday,
your second Washington
album as sing- Square
er of The Hold
Steady, basi-
cally on a whim because I used
to read Rolling Stone back then
and they always gushed about
you. Separation Sunday fuck-
ing blew me away from the first
verse - you yelling the most lit-
erary lyrics I had ever heard and
the keyboards playing and the
two loud guitars and the com-

Call:#734-418-4115
Email: dailydisplay@gmail.com

plete disregard for melody. Still,
more than any other album, I
love putting it on in my car with
the volume on full blast and
screaming along to every word.
I was so happy when I found
more of the same music with
your old band, Lifter Puller, and
I'm just as big of a fan of all the
other Hold Steady records. But
when I heard your last album,
Heaven is Whenever, a record
that had some perfectly crafted
songs but also a softened edge, I
started to brace myself for this.
Teeth Dreams, your latest
effort, is the inevitable aging of
a band that I've always wanted
to stay young. Instead of the
unhinged ranting about "the
scene" and the kids who inhabit
it, you're slipping soft rock into
your setlists now. Truthfully, it's
not all bad, but I still can't help
being disappointed.
You actually sing now, Craig.
You're less primal and, frankly,
less exciting. The Hold Steady is
playing more straight-forward
rock, and you've lost the thrill-
ing danger of not conforming
to old notions about vocals and
melodies. You're classic rock
now, not anything resembling
punk. It's quaint, and it's also
much more normal and play-by-
the-numbers. Lyrics that were
once so specific they made you
feel like you were there with the
song's characters are now just
vague "anthems." Even the first
two singles, "I Hope This Whole
Thing Didn't Frighten You" and
"Spinners," are less memorable
than the weakest stuff on Sepa-
ration Sunday.
I really hate to be the guy
who never wants the bands he
loves to change their sound, but
Teeth Dreams is a frustrating
album. It's just not charismatic
or emotional enough for the bar
you've set. However, that's not
to say this is all terrible. Right
in the middle, with songs like
"On With the Business" and "Big
Cig," you still prove you have
that attitude, that snarl. Sure,
you're getting older, Craig, but I
still love your voice when it's at
its best, spitting out portraits of
life around you like a Beat poet.

It's a little more restrained, but
that's understandable, and I
can't fault that.
It's hard to know if I should
judge the album on normal-
band standards, or compared to
your old stuff. Oddly, the singles
might be the weakest songs, the
ones with the fewest risks. It's
all fine rock music, but you guys
just have so much more to offer.
Even "Oaks," the closing track -
a spot on your albums that has
been home to some true classics
- can't match the power of the
old closers.
Maybe this album is a grow-
er. Maybe I'm rushing to judge
because this isn't what I was
expecting. I don't want anoth-
er album, though, where I can
listen and say "Oh, this song
sounds like Pearl Jam. This one
sounds like Wilco. This one
sounds like Tom Petty," because
when The Hold Steady is at its
best, you can't compare it to any
other band.
What gives me hope, more
than anything, is the second-to-
Growing up
isn't an artstic
death sentence.
last song, "Almost Everything."
It's an optimistic acoustic love
song - something I don't think
you've ever done before. I love
it. You still so enjoyably describe
the smallest details with pin-
point accuracy. I just feel good
listening to it, and I'm extremely
confident that you have so much
great music left in you, Craig.
Growing up isn't an artistic
death sentence, but it does force
you to adapt. Teeth Dreams is the
often-awkward sound of The
Hold Steady trying to navigate
this adaptation. As much as I'll
miss the tales of Suburban Min-
neapolis, I'm very excited for the
next chapter of your career.
Sincerely,
Forever a Member of The Uni-
fied Scene

I I

R
1(
1f
V
2(
z
Z
2;
' 2(
E
3'
X
3<
T
N
4(
4'
4,
4i
4,
4(
4f
5(
59
5E
5(
6(
61
6
6
6E
6f
1
r
L
r
v
i

RELEASE DATE- Wednesday, March 26, 2014 i
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS 5 Express's opp. 39 Sedative, 50 Leave the dock,
1 Cop's route 6 2004 Will Smith casually with "off' !NORTH CAMPUS 1-2 Bdrm. !
5 Tripoli's land sci-fi film 40 Org. whose past 51 Lacking, or what ! Riverfront/Heat/Water/Parking. !
0 Meet activity 7 Ad on a DVD presidents include can precede ! www.HRPAA.com !
4"Let i": Beates case two Mayos either half of 18-,
hit b Orldentimes 44Veggiewiha 36-and56- *AVAILABLE FALL 2014**
5 Acrylitfiber 5 Frst chip, oten Ruhy Queen Across 4Bero Ilus.NaB-co.
16 Sobriquetfor 10 Farming variety 53 Catalina, e.g. $2000/mo . Call:e(734)223-chool
Haydn implements 45 Bit oorthodontias5H Cons (Itom) _______________
7 Loafer, e.g. 11 Bundle of 46 Cathedral city in 56 Cr(ingrm) BDRM HSE Sooth Cetral Campus
18 Mandatefrom the dough northern Spain 57 Driveway blotch 1137 Packard- $2500/rn Cetis.2 ath,
bench 12 Wild way0to go 47 Hold on to 58 Ore. neighbor
5Feenynt 13 Cousnusmber 411 Shut S9 See 38-Down 3 parking. Wsher/dryer. Avail. Fall
0 Frequency unit Psn nme - 2014. Contact 734-996-1991.
renaut n mea I ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
3 Notslacking 21 Zooequine L P S E T M E N S 4 BDRM HSE, Fuller by North Cam-
5Jewelyre iler 24 In preciselythis AU U G R ps, 1010 C edar Bend Dr. $2400/o +
29 Fsut, in toniogy way NA G C0I V0 I eRi L uals. 2 hath, 3 parking. Wsher/dryer.
0 Objection 26 Celeb's ride P 0 K E R R 0 0 M A L I V E Avail. Fall 2014contact 734-996-1991.
1 Makeadramatic 27Malevolence P L A T T E L I K E D
exit? 28 Where eaction G R I P F I R S S E E ARBOR PROPERTIES
13 Cos. with Xings happens R A N I A I L S U SSR Award-Winning Rentals in Kerrytown,
4 "And refuse?" 31 W. Coast airport A T T E S T P 0 0 R T H E Central Campus, Old West Side,
15 Discharge 322 the gbioiLe T H E A T T I N I 0 A 5 Burns Park. Now Renting for 2014.
6Vo coach's talkatnex"' E L R I 11 F A R A DIE 734-994-3157. www.arborprops.com
WCircle calculation 33Like wheels after D R I B T E A S E D E N EFF. & 2 Bdrm aps. for Fall 2014.
11 "Getit?" servicing N O M T S A R S A D D $700-$1395, showings avail. M-F
2 Grads-tn-be: 31Baroupply CASTE AENEAS
Abr. 36 Cereal terial C A S T E A E N E A S Oam-3:30pm w/ 24 hr notice.
13 Leterholder 37Carriage driver's E X I T S C H I P S A H O Y Cappo/Deincocappomanagement.com.
5 Armadaarena tool D O D K I T A G A P E Contact 734-996-1991 M-F 9am-4pm
6 Ugly Tolkien 38 With 59-Down, ENEMY S T Y P E S T S
beast L-shaped tool xwordeditor@aol.com 031/214 GET UP TO
9 "Tomorrow" 1 2 3 4rsa7 a 1011 12 13 1 Month Free
musical on
50 John le Carr 14 15 1s Select Units
uttering Why Pay over $1,500 per Bed per
2"Memoisot a 1in1ii15Year?
": Arthur Save over $8,000 per Year by Leas-
Golden novel 20 21aing at U. Towers. Prices starting at
5 High capital 24 25 2s 27 2a $775.00
6 Shared shares
0 Oolong and 29 so 31 32 Vist us at
pekoe www.universitytowers-mi.com
1 Trusted underling so 34 3 536 S. Forest Ave.
2 Structure with Ann Arbor, MI 48104
high-water marks s 5 s 734-761-2600
3 Yellow-and- 40 41 4
brown toon dog *special can end at any time*
4 Cheery a3 s a as e 47 48
35Boardfortfilers
O Likersomer s n s1 NOW AVAIL. FOR FALL 2014!
memories Fully furnished 2 bdrrm apt - heat, wa-
s2 53 54 55 ter, and parking included. A/C and laun-
DOWN 5s0 dry avail. Contact 734-904-6735.
1 Diocese head THE_2ND _FL __R
2 Hdoabn gas 61 en s3 THE 2ND FLOOR
2 Hyd ofr as1 NEW Luxury Apartments,
mission "4 55 5s Right en S.U./Central Campus
4 Fomce,.N at REASONABLE RATES.
metaphorically By Jacobstuiberg 03/26/14 Contact us at 734-761-2680
(c)2014 Tribune Content Agency, L.LC www.The2ndFloorSU.com

11 IIII IIIIHELP I D
WORK ON MACKINAC Island This
Summer - Make lifelong friends. The
Island louse Hotel and Ryba's Fudge
Shops are looking for help in all areas:
Front Desk, Bell Staff, Wait Staff,
Sales Clerks, Kitche, Baristas. loos-
log, bonus, & discounted uteals. (906)-
847-7196. www.theislandhouse.com
ANNOUNCEMENT
I, NAINA D/O Dr. S.N. Sharma cur-
rently residing at 4802 Washtenaw Av-
enue, Ann Arbor, Ml 48108 declare
that now onwards I will be known as
Naina Sharma for all purposes.
WANTED: 2013 MICHIGANEN-
SIAN Yearbook. Call Mark at 734-418-
4115 ext. 1246 for offers.
MAKE THIS
CWII
CRI' I

WE HAVE OUR FINGERS
ON THE PULSE OF
THE ANN ARBOR
ARTS SCENE.
AND IT FEELS LIKE
GOOD VIBES, MAN.
Apply to the Daily Arts section by emailing
jplyn@umich.edu for an application.
AND FOLLOW @MICHIGANDAILY

I

t


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Wenesday, March 26, 2014 - 7A

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom Wenenday, March 26, 2014 - 7A

Grogan makes an impact
on and off the course

J
y

Jun
have
year,
blame
Thi
of c
Jan I
transi
staff b
Groga
an u
instru
transi
Gro
leader
assign
to a p
Grace
Choi1
her t
freshn

unior mentors team captain her last three years,
all while being in the National
ounger golfers, Honor Society.
She also had dreams of being
new coach a basketball player. She grew up
idolizing LeBron James, played
By NATE CLARK on her high school team and
Daily Sports Writer attended camps all four years of
high school. But junior year, she
aior Lauren Grogan could left the team to focus on golf, a
struggled at any point this tough decision for her.
and no one would have That same year, Grogan
d her. attended golf combines in Las
is year featured the arrival Vegas. There, she was noticed by
urrent Michigan coach colleges, kicking offthe recruiting
Dowling and the ensuing process. While her process
tion. While a new coaching started later than most eventual
rings with it many changes, collegiate golfers, many schools
n took it all in stride. As wanted her and her golf prospects
upperclassman, she was appeared golden.
mental in helping her coach Yet she still had dreams of
tion into the program. playing basketball. She attended
gan then demonstrated her summer basketball camp,
ship skills when Dowling thinking about rejoining her high
ed her to be the "big sister," school team. But one of Grogan's
romising freshman named teammates blew out her knee
Choi. Grogan showed while running down the court,
the ropes and has helped and that got Grogan thinking
hrough the struggles of about her future.
man year at Michigan. Much "I didn't want that to happen to

career-best total score of 221,
which included a career-low 71 in
the second round. In the spring,
she finished 14th out of 72 at the
Big Ten Championships, which
helped lead the Wolverines to a
fourth-place finish and earned
her the program's Women's Golf
Progress Award.
"The Onion Creek tournament
really gave me the confidence to
say, 'Hey, I can do this!' " Grogan
said. "It taught me that sometimes
you just have to be an athlete and
not get too technical."
Grogan's sophomore year
yielded even better results.
Her academic success earned
her Academic-All Big Ten
and U-M Athletic Academic
Achievement honors. On the golf
course, she was one of just two
Michigan golfers to start in all
10 tournaments during the fall
and spring seasons. Despite her
youth, she was the Wolverines'
lowest scorer four times,
which included a fifth-place
overall finish at the Wolverine
Invitational. She dropped her

TRACY tO/Daily
Sophomore Kyle Bosch and the rest of the offensive line have found spring practice both easier and more intense.
Simpi city fosters success

like Grogan, Choi has appeared
near the top of the leaderboard
multiple times in her first season.
"The first semester really
teaches you the need to be
organized and manage your time
effectively," Grogan said. "I'm
reallygrateful that myteammates
helped me get on the right path
and that now I've been able to
help Grace do the same."
But her path to get here didn't
suggest so.
Grogan was born and raised in
Columbus, where she graduated
from Bishop Watterson High
School in 2011. Many of her
golf tournaments and camps
growing up took place on the
Ohio State campus.
Her golfing career also
began later than most. Grogan
has been playing golf since
she was young, but said she
didn't start competitive golf
until her freshman year of high
school. However, she made an
impact right away. Grogan won
numerous awards, including
All-State honors in Ohio, led her
school to top-10 finishes in state
tournaments every year, and was

me and waste
my promising
golf potential
because of an
injury."
So Grogan
chose golf
and it came
time to pick a
school. Despite
her roots in
Columbus,
she was never
going to be a
Buckeye.
"It was too c
Grogan said. "M
both agreed that
far enough away
learn some respo
The choices
Penn State and N
a former high sc
of hers played
Grogan wantedt
close to home.
Choosing Mi
proved to be
her third-ever
tournament, the
Onion Creek,I
10th out of 75 g

single-round
average to
76.87 strokes
" 2real perround from
78.73 strokes
grateful that a year earlier,
which included
my teammates a score of 71
at the Edwin
helped me get on Watts Palmetto
the right path." Intercollegiate.
But unlike
many collegiate
athletes,
Lauren is not
lose to home," all business. She and her father,
y parents and I whom she describes as her
I needed to go best friend, developed a secret
where I could handshake ritualthattheyusedto
nsibility." perform before each tournament.
came down to They can be serious when they
Michigan. While need to be, but they know how to
hool teammate have fun and make jokes.
at Penn State, Grogan even likes to turn
to be somewhat the jokes on herself sometimes.
She will often play on the fact
chigan quickly that many in Columbus see her
right. In just as a traitor for attending "That
collegiate golf School Up North."
Challenge at But just like with the coaching
Grogan placed changes this year, Grogan takes it
olfers with her all in stride.

Offensive line
adjusts to new
offense, increased
competition
By ALEJANDRO ZUNIGA
Daily Sports Editor
Minus-48.
Kyle Bosch's first career start
at Michigan is one he's not likely
to forget. On Nov. 2, 2013, the
guard was part of an offensive
line that was systematically
embarrassed by Michigan State
to the tune of seven sacks and
nearly half a football field of
negative yardage.
Months later, the sophomore
still hasn't forgotten the
surprise of being at the top of
the depth chart for that game,
or the speed with which the
Spartans played. But some of
the Wolverines' shortcomings
weren't just physical, and they
should be fixed this fall, he said.
According to Bosch, one
of the offensive line's biggest
issues last year was schematic.
The transition from former
offensive coordinator Al
Borges to Doug Nussmeier has
been welcomed because of an
increase in simplicity, leading
to players actually knowing
where to go.
As a result, Michigan has
managed more long-yardage
running plays than last year so
far in its spring practices.
"Coach Nussmeier's system is
much easier to apprehend than
Coach Borges' because some of

the names of plays - they're
names of animals, it's common
terminology," Bosch said. "It's
not a numbered system, so it's
easier to pick up.
"We've definitely dumbed it
down. One call is one call. In the
last offensive system, one call
could mean you're going right,
or it could mean you're going left
- you had to distinguish that
call with another call. So three
offensive linemen would be
going right, two would be going
left. That's why we would get
negative 15 yards. Now, we're
all on the same page when we're
runningthe play."
The new schemes have
been especially useful for
acclimating
younger_
players,
particularly tow
early enrollee
Mason Cole, d
who has
impressed
many with
his high down.
motor. Bosch
is mentoring is on
the Tarpon i
Springs, Fla.
native, who is -
"learning way
faster" than he did.
The offensive line lost two
NFL-bound tackles in Taylor
Lewan and Michael Schofield
from last year's unit, but that
hasn't all been detrimental.
In 2013, the group didn't bond
very well - both because of
the playbook difficulties and
incompatibilities off the field.
So far this spring, that hasn't

been an issue, and the line
spends much of its free time
together.
"I think the five of us all
being young is really allowing
us to mesh and come together
the way we didn't last year,"
said redshirt sophomore guard
Kyle Kalis. "I think we're going
to be pretty good this year.
"Having (Lewan and
Schofield) was crucial for
helping us grow and stuff,
but it's a totally different
experience now."
The revamped offense will
be scrutinized heavily this
fall, especially during the
Wolverines' Oct. 25 meeting
with what should be another
ferocious
Michigan
State defense.
But no
e ve matter who's
taking snaps,
nitely receiving
bed it handoffs
or catching
One call passes, Bosch
knows he has
call. 11 one primary
responsibility.
"Don't let
anyone touch
your damn
quarterback," he said. "Your
biggest focus when you get in
a three-point stance is that the
guy in front of you can't touch
your quarterback."

M' looks to buck Broncos

By BRAD WHIPPLE
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan baseball team
has played its last 24 games on
the road, traveling more than
10,000 miles
to locations Western
such as Texas,M
Florida and MiChigan at
most recently, Michigan
Indiana.
But Matchup:
WMU 10-10;
Wednesday, Michigan
the Wolverines 9-14-1
will finally When:
open the gates Wednesday
of Ray Fisher 4 P.M.
Stadium for
their home Fisher Stadium
opener when
they host TV/Radio:
Western MGoBlue.com
Michigan.
"The fact
that we played 24 straight games
on the road is in itself its own
challenge," said Michigan coach
Erik Bakich. "It's going to be
good to start playing some home
games."
Michigan hasn't won a home
opener since 2010, and 17 of its
24 games this season have ended
in a one- or two-run differential.
If the Wolverines can't produce
at the plate, Wednesday may be
no different than home openers
in years past.
Last weekend, the Broncos
(1-2 Mid-American Conference,
10-10 overall) competed in
their first conference games
against Miami, but Tuesday's
nonconference game against
Northwestern was canceled due

to poor field conditions.
Western Michigan's biggest
offensive weapon is third
baseman Kurt Hoekstra, who is
hitting .480. From the mound,
the Broncos have a 3.93 ERA,
good for third in the MAC, and
will start Derek Schneider.
The left-hander earned a win
against the Wolverines last year,
allowing only one run and two
hits through two innings.
Opposite Schneider is senior
right-hander Alex Lakatos, who
has pitched seven innings with a
1.73 ERA, including the last out
of a fifth-inning jam in Sunday's
4-3 win over Indiana.
The Wolverines (1-2 Big
Ten, 9-14-1) may have a tough
time stacking up against
Western Michigan's pitching.
In two losses to the Hoosiers,
Michigan's offense mustered
just four runs and stranded 11
runners on base.
Just three players are batting

second in the Big Ten in at-bats,
it places loth in batting average,
an indication of the team's
offensive inefficiency.
"Our biggest struggle of the
seasonhascome fromanoffensive
standpoint," Bakich said.
Though the team improved
offensively in Sunday's win,
going a combined 11-for-32
compared to Saturday's 5-for-
29, the spotlight was on defense.
The Wolverines made no errors
and executed multiple clutch
defensive plays late in the game,
most notably freshman right
fielder Jackson Lamb's two-out
diving catch with runners in
scoring position that sealed the
victory.
"(Sunday's win) just kind of
reinforced what we need to do
to win a championship," Bakich
said. "Defensively, we just need
to play clean defense and make
all the routine plays and know
that we've got athletes out

above .300, there that can
with junior make those
second plays when
baseman Eric "That we played necessary."
Jacobson If the
leading the 24 straight Wolverines
lineup at .500. hope to send
Jacobson games on the their fans
picked up . . . home happy,
his first two road is in itself its they will
starts of the i certainly
season against Own challenge. have to keep
Indiana, their defense
starting a error-free and
double play for compensate
the Wolverines that prevented for an inconsistent offense that
a run from scoring and going saw some improvement over the
4-for-6 at the plate with one run. weekend.
While Michigan is ranked

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER: @THEBLOCKM

I

-


8A - Wednesday, March 26, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Know your foe: Getting to know Tennessee

By DANIEL WASSERMAN
Daily Sports Editor
Fans of the Michigan men's
basketball team aren't that
unfamiliar with Tennessee,
the Wolverines' Sweet 16
opponent. In a first-round NCAA
Tournament game just three
years ago, Michigan dismantled
the Volunteers, 75-45.
But this Tennessee team is
a completely different squad,
beginning at the top. Michigan's
blowout was a clear enough
sign to the Volunteer athletic
department that coach Bruce
Pearl had lost his team, ushering
in the Cuonzo Martin regime.
Martin himself was on the
hot seat just a few weeks ago, but
three NCAA Tournament wins
in the past week have prompted
some analysts to label Tennessee
the hottest team in America.
The Daily breaks down
the Volunteers so you'll be
prepared for Friday's matchup in
Indianapolis.

feature a lineup that's filled with
talent - especially in forward
Jarnell Stokes, who averages a
double-double, and guard Jordan
McRae, who shot his way to seven
games of 25 or more points - but
the team's effort has come into
question at times.
That dichotomy shows in the
highs of Tennessee's wins -
including a 35-point December
blowout over Virginia, currently
a No. 1 seed in the Sweet 16
- and the lows of some of its
losses, including a season sweep
at the hands of a mediocre Texas
A&M team and an early-season
loss to UTEP.
Playing in the top-heavy SEC,
11of the Volunteers' 12 conference
wins were by double digits, six of
those by 18 or more. Only one of
their 12 losses this season, a 67-41
drubbing at No. 1 Florida, was by
double digits.
After inexplicably losing
six conference games that
landed Martin on the hot seat
in Knoxville, Tennessee reeled
off wins in six of its last seven.
And all those lopsided wins and
close losses were enough to land
Tennessee at No. 6 in the KenPom

ratings - a rating metric designed
to predictthestrengthofateam -
a jaw-dropping figure considering
the Volunteers squeaked into the
Tournament.
HowtheVolunteersgothere:
Despite being a No. 11 seed that
had to win a play-in game just to
make the field of 64, Tennessee
is no Cinderella story, no matter
what SportsCenter wanted you
to believe when they featured
the team alongside fellow Sweet
16 participant and mid-major
Dayton.
The fact of the matter is that
the Volunteers are, again, a
talented team that, since the end
of February has finally begun to
play up to its potential.
Tennessee began its
Tournament path against Iowa
in what's technically the first
round, but is reserved for the last
eight teams in. In that game, the
Volunteers needed overtime to
get past the reeling Hawkeyes.
It took a late-game comeback
for the Tennessee defense to
come alive. When it did, it flexed
its muscles in style, holding the
dangerous Iowa offense to a

single point in overtime. In the stop monstrous Texas forward
game's final 10 minutes, including Cameron Ridley, the key to the
overtime, the Hawkeyes managed Longhorns' inside-out game.
just two field goals. Morgan passed the test with
Two days later in Raleigh, flying colors, and Texas' offense
N.C., Tennessee looked like a struggled as a result.
well-rested team with fresh legs But Friday's foe should be
that had a week and not a single even tougher. At 6-foot-8, 260
day to ready for its opponent. pounds, Stokes has an inch and
The Volunteers easily took down 25 pounds on Ridley, but the
No. 6 seed Massachusetts, 86-67, Tennessee junior uses his girth
after nearly doubling up the more effectively, is more polished
Minutemen in the first half than Ridley and won't tire easily
Tennessee was handed a third- like the Texas sophomore.
round gift after Mercer upset Stokes' Tournament run has
Duke. The 14th-seeded Bears been as strong as any player in
were no match for the Volunteers, the country. After averaging
who got out to a quick start and 15.2 points and 10.7 rebounds in
won easily, 83-63. the regular season - one of only
three BCS-conference players
Talent inside and out: to average a double-double -
Last weekend, fifth-year senior the junior has averaged 17.7
Jordan Morgan had to repeatedly points and 11.7 rebounds in the
answer questions about how he'd Tournament.

While Texas' talent was
limited to its interior players,
allowing Michigan to hone in on
the paint, Tennessee's perimeter
game is as strong as its interior.
McRae, a senior guard, is
capable of putting a team on his
back, going off for 30-plus point
games twice this season. He
scored 20 points against Iowa and
21 against UMass, before an off
shooting night limited him to 14
against Mercer. But, as explosive
as McRae canbe, his high-volume
shooting is sometimes enough to
stifle the offense.
Guard Josh Richardson,
another upperclassman, averaged
just 10.1 points in the regular
season, but has saved his best for
the postseason. He's averaging
19.3 points in the three-game
stretch, rounding out asolid three-

I-- -- - ---, 1 111-1111 1 -1 - I I I I'll I I I --, - --, , , 1111 "1 1- I'll - I I I 1 11 1 1 - -1 1 1- I'll, 111.1 "1 ''I'll, I - - - 11 "1 1 - - - " , , , ", - , , " ",- ... .... .. ... ......

t

I

I

f


8B

a~

CONTINUED FROM 5B
"We're not promoting conflict, we're
promoting discussion," he said. "And
we're promoting justice, through BDS or
whatever campaign it is to bring awareness
of this."
Both Erzouki and Kherallah stressed
that SAFE does hold dialogues and teach-
ins -the group held a dialogue after the
mock eviction, for example - but as an
activist organization, they also find it
important to take on projects such as the
mock evictions.
Not a silenced campus: Moving forward
It's unclear what will happen next: if
this is just a temporary rise in activity
around the issue, or if the increased focus
is here to stay.
This isn't the first time BDS, or the
conflict in general, has made waves on
campus. In 2005 and 2011, CSG voted
down resolutions to divest, though the
subject of the 2011 vote was broader than
just companies tied to Israel and Palestine.
In 2012, campus erupted in response to an
e-mail sent out by a member of a pro-Israel
student group accusing Omar Hashwi, then
a candidate for CSG vice president, whose
platform included advocating for "socially
responsible investments" of being anti-
Israel and homophobic. For at least the past
decade, there has been a succession of well-
attended, high-energy protests on campus.
In the end, none of these high notes were
enough to change the persistent issues of
identity and campus climate still reported
by students today.
However, this academic year isn't over
quite yet.
Two weeks ago, SAFE introduced a
resolution before CSG that would use the
body's influence to call on the University to

divest from the four companies it views as
assisting the Israeli military in committing
alleged human rights violations against
Palestinians.
On the night of the March 18, CSG
representatives voted to postpone the
resolution indefinitely, sparking protests
both that night and the following days
in the form of a SAFE sit-in at the CSG
chambers, which lasted seven days as of
Tuesday.
At Tuesday's meeting, CSG president
Michael Proppe, a Business senior,
motioned to reconsider the tabling of
the divestment resolution. After a series
of votes by CSG members, which were
preceded by a speaker and a 90-minute
community concerns section during which
proponents of both sides expressed their
opinions, the vote on the resolution was
opened early Wednesday morning.
After five hours of debate and discussion,
at 1:30 a.m. Wednesday morning, the
divestment resolution failed to pass.
Following the announcement of the vote,
a speaker for supporters of the resolution
told attendees to walk out silently, and that
the next step was the University's Board of
Regents.
In the end, the visibility that the BDS
campaign has garnered over the past two
semesters - from the mock evictions to the
resolution and protests - might be what's
most important, regardless of its success in
getting the University to divest, Hamdan
said.
"That's the reality check, why do a lot
of students want a divestment?" Hamdan
said. "I think the BDS movement is a way to
understand a little bit what other students
on campus are feeling. And even if it makes
them uncomfortable and raises conflict, it's
better than us living on a silenced campus.

the
THE MICHIGAN DAILY I MARCH 26, 2014




r ann arbor affairs: just words by tanaz ahmed

My fourth grade teacher, Ms.
Savur, probably had no idea that
her praise of my mystery pic-
ture book, painstakingly woven
together with pale blue yarn and
featuring a madcap plot of miss-
ing jewelry and secret bathroom
passageways, would lead to argu-
ments with my parents at age 18
and, eventually, culminate in the
first English major in my family.
Ever since I learned how to
read, I loved doing it. I read every-
thing I could get my hands on. I
was an avid reader of cereal boxes,
airplane safety guides, "The Baby-
sitters Club" books ... You name
it and I probably wanted to read
it - that is, if I hadn't gotten to it
already. I was proud of this fact
about myself. I beamed when, in
third grade, I read the most books
of any student in my class. I held
my head high when, during the
summer before fourth grade, my
d d
family made fun of me for read-
ing (attempting, really) "The
Fellowship of the Rings" and car-
rying around a dictionary. I barely
understood what was going on
and it scared the shit out of me, but
I loved every minute of it.
It wasn't until Ms. Savur told
me what a good writer I was that
I got this notion in my head - I

could be some-
one whose
works other
nerdy kids (like
me) could pick
up and read one
day. Starting
that day, I was a
writer. Thus, it
began with me
penning odes
to food, writing
stories about
talking rabbits
and progressed
into me writ-
ing articles for
newspapers as
well as web-
sites. To my
parent's dis-

ILLUSTRATIONS BY MEGAN MULHOLLAND

Wednesday, , 2014// The $tatement 7
Personal Statement: Coming up caffeinated
by Yardain Amron
-O M
ILLUSTR ATION BY MEGAN MULHOLL AND

may, this was not just a phase
that I eventually grew out of or a
dream that I soon became disillu-
sioned with.
Everything came to a head dur-
ing my senior year of high school.
All anybody - including my par-
ents - wanted to know about me
was what I wanted to major in, and
what my future career plans were.
I was honest. I wanted to spend the
rest of my life writing. I wasn't sure
if it would be through journalism,
creative fiction, technical writing
- but I was going to always write.
This was mostly met with a range
of negative reactions. "What will
you do with a major in English?"
"You won't be able to support your-
self!" "There's a high chance you're
going to be living with your par-
ents for the rest of your life."
I disregarded all the negativity.
Maybe I was - and am - delu-
sional, but only time will tell and
I'm willing to see it through.
My parents and I have come to
an understanding of sorts by now.
They have accepted that I'm stub-
born and pigheaded. Conversely,
I've accepted that in a family of

engineers, doctors and lawyers,
it's hard to have a daughter who
wants to be a writer. However,
many still don't understand why
I do what I do. I could tell people
about becoming an effective com-
municator or developing criti-
cal thinking and problem solving
skills, but the truth is, I write
because it's what makes me happy.
Perhaps this is a cliche, but it's at
the heart of my ambitions. Spend-
ing hours trying to pin down my
floating thoughts, obsessing over
synonyms and comma placements
fills me with a kind of frenzied
excitement that I can't adequate-
ly explain. Writing is painful,
frustrating, time-consuming but
ultimately the most rewarding
activity that I do. Nothing can
come close to the sense of ful-
fillment that comes from look-
ing at one of my finished writing
pieces. Words on a sheet of paper
are not just words for me. With-
in the graceful curl and sharp
edge of each and every word, my
emotions, thoughts, desires and
dreams are embedded.

Mom travels with her French press and
a bag of Oren's Daily Roast. She flies econo-
my, but scoffs when she passes the Admirals
Club: Armani suits unbuttoned within, guz-
zling airport Joe as their shoes are shined.
She stops at the Starbucks in Terminal C.
"What would you like, Ma'am?" Outside,
a New York blizzard wreaks havoc.
"Grande, extra-hot-no-foam latte,
please." Her winter drink. It flows off her
tongue like a prayer. No foam, I've learned,
leaves more room for milk. She swipes her
Gold Card.
"Ma'am, that's your 12th star. This
drink's on us."
She spreads a satisfied smile. Starbucks
has subtly re-implemented the star sys-
tem one might see in a Kindergarten class-
room for kids on good behavior. You need
just 30 stars to remain at gold status. Mom
amassed 250 last year - class valedictorian
by a long shot.
"What would you like, sir?" says the
barista.
"Water, please," I say. It's vacation, and
coffee - for me - is off the menu
I must have been about seven years old
when I first encountered the drink. I was
always an early riser and so was Mom, and
she had her routine - a breakfast of one
mug, French-pressed, no sugar. Nothing
else.
I would sit across the table, more focused
on landingthe perfectratioof syrup to chal-
lah French toast. Coffee was for grown-ups,
I had assumed. And then she asked,"Wanna
try a sip, Dain?"
I had looked into the brown blackness
and wondered how old grown-ups were. I
sipped, and yucked.
"Bitter," I said.
Mom smiled. She knew I wouldn't like it.
But then Mocha Frappuccinos happened.

It's visiting day, and my first summer as a
"two-monther," at camp. I'm twelve maybe.
We're walking around the quaint town of
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, leash in my
hand. I couldn't believe she schlepped him
on that long drive, but he looked happy - a
soft coat of brown black and gold, blended
like a cup of coffee right when you add the
milk before it vanishes. His name was Star-
bucks. Mom chose the name. No, I'm not
kidding.
"I need a coffee," Mom says. I groan and
we walk into Starbucks, Starbucks the dog
unaware of the irony.
"What would you like Ma'am?"
"Grande iced dopio, please." Her summer
drink. "It's identical to an ice latte, but at
half the price," she says. She tells me: "Just
add the milk yourself."
"I'll have a small Mocha Frappuccino,"
my older sister says.
"Whipped cream?"
"Yes, please
The barista looks at me. I usually settle
for a hot chocolate, but I like the sound of
'whipped cream.
"Um ... I'll have the same please, with
whipped creanm'
Mom looks at me, surprised.
"Dain, you know that has caffeine in it?"
"I know it has whipped cream in it."
"Please make it decaf, miss."
I couldn't have cared less. The frappa-
whatever tasted like ice cream and there
was even caramel drizzle on top.
Was this coffee too? Was I a grown-up
now?
No, not yet - just a pubescent high
schooler. When my parents got divorced
(only Dad cried), we moved from the shel-
tered suburbs of New York to the big city.
I grew six inches in two months, and Star-
bucks, our dog, died from prostate cancer.
But Starbucks was also everywhere now -
Manhattan, I discovered, had one on every

other corner. I wondered why Mom hadn't I was there some time ago for breakfast
moved there sooner. Lucky for me, my with friends and observed a friend-of-a-
allowance didn't cover four-dollar Fraps. I friend drink five cups of coffee without
say luckily because I was only beginning to blinking an eye. Like that girl in the Diag
understand the danger of caffeine. some time ago I overheard say flippantly,
It was a month before Yom Kippur - "Whenever I pop an Addie it feels like three
when Jews don't eat or drink for 25 hours shots of espresso." Like Mom who no longer
straight - and Mom was reading the paper depends on coffee, but is dependent to cof-
without her typical morning coffee. When fee. The benign connotation coffee carries
I asked why, she said she was weaning in many-a-mind is evident in our countries
herself from caffeine so she wouldn't get a overindulgent consumption habits.
crippling withdrawal headache during the So I drink it with respect. Writing now
fast. It scared me to think she couldn't last into the early morning, a mug with a green
a day cold turkey, that caffeine had become damp Bigelow bag stands emptied next to
a staple of her existence, an obligation like me. I'm wired and focused when I would
water, an addiction if you must. I didn't otherwise be sleeping. That's amazing! And
want to be dependent on anything, so I I want it to stay amazing so I'm aware that
stayed warily away cup is my second and last dose of caffeine
But then college happened and I grew for the week. Because a drink a day in my
up just a little. Suddenly, coffee was per- mind is overuse. And with overuse, the
vasive and free: It was in the dining halls, stimulant loses its power to tolerance, and
during any number of three daily meals and tolerance to dependence.
access to bottomless coffee dispensers; in It's noteasythough. I mighthave caffeine
my room, with the electric tea kettle Auntie in control but I'm just as guilty of abuse
Nancy bought me as a dorm-warming gift; with many other relationships. Maybe I
and on a campus with cafes up the ass - smoke too much weed, spend too much
there are over 21 on Central Campus alone. time on Facebook, drink too much alco-
I tried to stay away but its utility over- hol, party too much, work too hard, have
powered my discipline. I was studying too much sex; maybe I don't relax enough,
more, sleeping less and filling up with more spend enough time with loved ones, slow
brown sludge to keep the engine chug- down ever, care for my body enough, laugh
ging. It lost its allure of sophistication, its enough, cry ever.
"grown-ups only" label. It granted me the Each is a relationship and it's in my best
bitter power to stay oiled when my gears interest to respect them all and find their
started to slow. respective efficacious thresholds. Some-
I never got addicted, though. I've stayed times there's no blatant harm and I can eas-
wary of her power and I've harnessed it ily rationalize a desire that may not be best.
with awareness. I drink it black no sugar, It takes a healthy dose of reflection and self-
because I don't want to enjoy the taste. I honesty to recognize an overused tool no
drink it sporadically and with purpose, longer benefiting my life and an even larger
because it's medicine. I drink it not as req- dose of discipline to regain control. I don't
uisite and not abusively, but in awe of its have the answers or the fix, but I know how
potion-like magic. easy it is to ignore it all. So I'm working,
I drink it with all those who abuse it in experimenting and feel myself improving.
mind. Like that guy from Afternoon Delight: One day soon I'm sure, I'll grow up.

COVER BY AMY MACKENS


6B Wednesday, March 26, 2014 / The Statement
Discovering identity: Birthright trips as individual experience
by Katie Burke

the thought bubble

Free trips are often advertised as a sweep-
stakes grand prize or a selling point for a
family vacation. For Jewish youth, however,
one free trip in particular provides a way to
explore and experience an ancient and com-
plicated identity.
Taglit-Birthright is a 10-day, expenses-
paid trip to Israel for Jewish 18 to 26 year
olds around the world. Charles Bronfman,
former co-chairman of Seagrams, and
Michael Steinhardt, an American hedge
fund manager, founded the program in
1999, in cooperation with the Israeli gov-
ernment, the Jewish Agency of Israel,
private philanthropists and international
Jewish communities.
Israel was established as a Jewish state
in 1948, fueling territorial disputes that
have at times escalated to armed confron-
tations, and continue today.
The area in which Israel is located has
ties to all three major monotheistic reli-
gions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
The city of Jerusalem is home to major
holy sites for each religion, from the
Western Wall to the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre to the Dome of the Rock, and
attracts millions of tourists each year.
The Taglit-Birthright program has
sparked similar trips, such as Birthright
Armenia, Reconnect Hungary and Birth-
right Greece.
To be eligible for the trip, one mustbe able
to trace Jewish heritage from at least one
parent and have not been in Israel for three
consecutive months since the age of 12.
More than 350,000 people from 64 coun-
tries have participated in Birthright trips
since 1999, with 65,000 of those being from
Israel - Israeli citizens join trips for about
half of the 10-day period. About 80 percent of
participants are from the United States, with
most Americans coming from New York.
The word 'Taglit' means discovery in
Hebrew, and with about 20 different Birth-
right trip providers, participants are able to
discover what it means to be Jewish with
an array of trip options. Noa Bauer, vice
president of international marketing at
Birthright Israel, said trips range from high-
tech-focused to LGBTQ-focused to culinary-
focused.
"(The trip providers) have different
visions," Bauer said. "But at the end of the day
they give a very similar trip."
Common aspects shared among these
trips include visits to Jewish holy sites in the
Old City of Jerusalem as well as interactions
with Jewish Israeli citizens that are the same
age as trip participants. For trips consisting
of 18 to 22 year olds, this means their Israe-
li counterparts are members of the Israeli
Defense Forces, as two years of military ser-
vice for women and three years of military
service for men are compulsory after gradu-

ating from high school.
"(Trip participants) get to be in contact
with people their own age that serve the
country, which usually has a big impact,"
Bauer said. "And they keep in touch, that's
their connection to Israel."

LSA junior Natasha Dabrowski, a Birth-
right representative on campus, is a self-
proclaimed Hebrew school dropout, but said
her experience on Birthright allowed her to
connect with the Jewish faith on a more per-
sonalized level.

Bauer said there have been no major safety
concerns since the program's founding, other
than a few minor incidents of which she
could not provide details.
She added that the program has received
some negative attention internationally
through social media, though such criticism
has not been taken further.
University students have the chance
to travel on Birthright through Hillel, a foun-
dation on campus that provides program-
ming for Jewish students. Hillel provides its
Birthright trips through IsraelExperts, with
a focus on University students forming their
own experience and connection to their Jew-
ish identity.
According to Rosen, the University has
sent between 100 and 200 students on Birth-
right trips for the past threeyears. Trips
are led by one Hillel staff member, one stu-
dent staff member and one tour guide pro-
vided by IsraelExperts.
Assistant Director of Hillel, Davey Rosen,
said students who participate in trips through
Hillel are not steered toward one specific def-
inition of what it is to be Jewish.
"Michigan Hillel is a pluralist organiza-
tion," Rosen said. "We want students to expe-
rience different ways of being Jewish and to
make your own decision of what it means to
be Jewish, because we believe there are many
ways to be Jewish and Birthright also offers
that opportunity."

Courtesy of Austen Hufford
"While I don't consider myself the most
religious person, I do think that the lessons
learned through religion can shape how you
live your life and how you perceive others,"
Dabrowski said. "I take it through an educa-
tional perspective and as a basis for commu-
nity relations."
Students must go through an application
process in order to travel on a Birthright
trip. The first step is a general online appli-
cation through Taglit-Birthright, followed
by another application through the trip pro-
vider, then in-person interviews with Hillel
staff.
Rosen said the multi-step process is to
ensure students fit the Birthright eligibility
requirements and thatstudents are genuinely
interested and open-minded toward connect-
ing with their Jewish identity.
During the trip, students have the chance
to reflect on their personal connection with
their faith through spending time in the des-
ert and hikes up Masada, a plateau in South-
ern Israel that was the site of some of King
Herod's palaces and fortifications.
LSA junior Rachel Rickles said visiting
these sites was especially significant during
her trip.
"To be there where all this history had
taken place, it was a relatively unique experi-
ence for me," Rickles said. "Visiting the city
of old Jerusalem, that was something I had
been learning about in Hebrew school and

throughout my childhood and to then see it
in real life and see things come alive is really
special."
Hillel trips attempt to focus on the diver-
sity of the country of Israel during the 10-day
span. Rosen said topics such as environmen-
talism and what it means to be a part of a
national Jewish majority are discussed
throughout the trips.
"We don't shy away from politics,"
Rosen said.
While trips stay within the borders of
Israel and do not travel to the disputed
regions of the West Bank or Gaza Strip,
students do have the opportunity to inter-
act with people outside of the Jewish Israe-
li community.
Business sophomore Sam Klein said
he gained greater insight into the variety
of political divisions existing within the
country during his trip.
"I was able to hear from an alternate
perspective, one morning we had a talk
with a Palestinian living in Israel and it
was interesting to hear what it was like for
her," Klein said.
Rosen said students also have the oppor-
tunity to travel to the city of Sderot in the
Western region of the country. The city
is within a mile of Gaza and is subject to
daily rocket attacks, which have caused
13 deaths since 2001, according to BBC
reports. However, there have been no secu-
rity issues on Hillel-provided trips in its his-
tory.
He added that Hillel occasionally receives
questions and comments from University
students of Palestinian descent when adver-
tising Birthright trips on campus. While Hil-
lel advocates for open discussion on campus.
Rosen maintained that Birthright trips are
specifically designed for students of Jewish
heritage.
Dabrowski said the experiences on Birth-
right trips can help facilitate a more informed
discussion of the problems surrounding the
area when students return to the United
States.
"These issues are so complicated, you do
need a starting point so you have more of a
general background, whether that's through
a history class at Michigan or something to
understand the nature of the conflict, then
you can more understand the modern inter-
actions of people," she said. "I do think that's
something we can bring back to campus."
Rosen said Birthright trips aim to high-
light these complexities and continue to
spark curiosity and conversation about the
region.
"Israel is complicated, and beautiful, and
sad all at the same time." he said. "It would
be sad if a student thought Israel is perfect. It
wouldn't lead to a lasting, realistic relation-
ship."

' ' on the record
"While I would have preferred the decision to have
been made by Michiganders themselves or their elected
representatives, I'm happy that I and so many others now
have the same right to marry as straight Wolverines in the
state of Michigan."
- RUSSELL HAYES, LSA senior and chairman of the
University's chapter of the College Republicans
"I remind everyone of the lesson we learned from
Athletics: administrators might not have all the
answers."
- MICHAEL PROPPE, Business senior and CSG president
"The fact of the matter is, unlike what Newt Gingrich
would have you believe, Palestinians are not an invented
people and neither are the realities we are telling you of.
The occupation has real consequences, on real people,
with real lives. And our University's investments have
real consequences."
- YAZAN KHERALLAH, LSA senior and Michigan in Color

trending
#BumpVideo ~
#SuperSoulSunday
#weetSixteen
#HappybyPharrel
#SingingNun
#2048 --
#ShrineCircus
#Ebola

"Tell us aboutyour favorite memory together."
ERIC: She drove me all the way up (to a national park) just so I could lay on the
sand and look at stars.
KATHY: Tell them the twist to the story.
ERIC: That was during the U.S. government shutdown, so all the national parks
were closed. We drove up and there was this big blockade, so we were like ... we
totally forgot about this. But we did it anyways. We went off-trail.
- ERIC CHEN, Engineering sophomore, and KATHY HOANG, UCBerkeley
sophomore
rO

Sister Cristina
Scuccia brought
down the house
when she belted out
a rendition of Alicia
Keys' "No One" on
Italy's version of
the "The Voice."
Scuccia showed
audiences how
"blind auditions"
cane xpose
unexpected talent

It's bump photography 2.0, folks.
YouTube celebrity Tom Fletcher created
a snap-motion video by stringing together
photographs of his wife's baby bump every
day over nine months.

T.

I I NMI

1

As Guinea's death
toll continued
to rise, the
government
identified the
source of the
virulent epidemic
to be the highly
contagious Ebola.
The country is now
taking action to
isolate the disease.

NEWS.CNET.COM
Have you discovered this new addicting game
yet? From a 4X4 grid, the game will have you
flip over boxes until you reach a sequence of
2-0-4-B in numbers. Let us know if you get
there - it seems to hook all those who try.

F

4
i
gAI-C

-cm



4B s

Wedneday, 014 . 5B

've always been aware of the Palestinian
struggle and the Palestinian cause before
coming to college," said LSA senior Bayan
Founas. "But at the time, I never understood
how important it was to connect it to my
personal identity."
Founas is a member of Students Allied for
Freedom and Equality - a campus organization
thatpromotes activismregardingissues related
to Palestinian social justice and human rights.
She said her experiences with identity politics
and Arab- and Muslim-American issues at the
University pushed her to get involved in the
Arab-Israeli debate on campus.
For many students, the history and politics of
the conflict between Palestine and Israel might
have been issues that were made familiar to
them by their upbringing. But for others, these
topics may be completely new.
"Before you're aware of all these things,
you don't really engage with them," said LSA
senior Yazan Kherallah, referring to many of
the same issues Founas brought up, such as
identity politics and challenges faced by Arabs
and Arab-Americans.
Kherallah, SAFE's Boycott, Divestment and
Sanctions chair, became motivated to engage
in issues related to the conflict as a freshman
in response to the Arab Spring, a wave of
government-topplingcivil protests that started
in Middle Eastern countries in 2010. As a
Syrian, Kherallah said he wanted to learn more
about the region and even his own identity.
"The Arab Spring, what it really spurred me
to do is just to engage with things and figure
out what can you do on a concrete basis to
improve situations, and stand up for my rights
and other people's rights," Kherallah said.
LSA sophomores Erica Mindel and Becca
Levin, of I-Lead and the Israel Cohort,
respectively, said they became more engaged
in the issues surrounding the conflict early on.
Both took a gap year in Israel before coming to
the University.
"I think that I've always been aware that
there's a conflict in the region," Levin said.
"I definitely see my awareness of it and my
interest in it starting in high school and then
growing in Israel because I was able to explore
it firsthand as much as I could."
Other students did not become involved in
the issues of the region until they came to the
University.
"I think when you're in high school, you
don't necessarily see the link between yourself
and BDS," said LSA senior Farah Erzouki,
SAFE co-chair. "But once you step onto a
campus where the funds of the University are
going to these companies, there's a much more
direct link."
However, for most University students,
what's going on in the Middle East or how it
may factor into their lives as students isn't
something that they're often exposed to.
In the early hours of Dec. 10, SAFE members
and supporters went to six residential dorms
and slipped mock eviction notices under the
doors of 1,500 residents as a part of the group's
boycott and divest initiative.
The notices referred to Israel's practice of
settlement building in Israeli-occupied areas
following the Six Day War in 1967. These areas,
which include the West Bank, East Jerusalem

and the Golan Heights, are generally already
populated by Palestinians. The mock eviction
notice charged that Palestinian residents are
forcibly evicted in order to make room for the
Israeli civilians who inhabit the settlements,
and asked students to imagine themselves
going through the same experience.
Overall, the goal of SAFE's Boycott,
Divestment and Sanctions campaign is to call
on the University to sever its financial ties with
several companies that hold contracts with the
Israeli military that are involved in abuses of
Palestinian human rights and the occupation
of the territories. These companies include
General Electric, Caterpillar, Heidelberg
Cement and United Technologies.
The sparks of the debate
As students woke up to the mock eviction
notices throughout the day, questions and
arguments were sparked across campus.
LSA sophomore Micah Nelson, executive
board member of JStreet Umich, a student
organization that supports a two-state solution
- a right to a homeland for both Israelis and
Palestinians - said that for her, the reactions
to the mock evictions were almost more
upsetting than the evictions themselves.
"It felt like an argument on campus to me,
between Hillel and SAFE, and I didn't feel
really comfortable in either of those spaces,"
Nelson said. Hillel is one of the largest Jewish
organizations on campus, and provides
programming for Jewish students on a variety
of issues relating to politics, faith and culture.
Many students and campus organizations
tweeted in support of SAFE with the associated
hashtag, #UMMockEvictions, but a large
number of students also expressed feelings of
being triggered and targeted by the eviction
notices.
This, in turn, led to further backlash. The
discussion not only involved BDS movements,
but also examined why the mock evictions
made people uncomfortable, questioning what
it meant to hold Jewish, Israeli or Palestinian
identities on campus.
Several months later, these questions are
still ongoing, reinvigorated by the submission
of a divestment resolution to Central Student
Government. The resolution, which would call
on the University to establish a committee to
investigate the conduct of the four companies
and divest from them, was indefinitely tabled
by the CSG Student Assembly on March 18,
leading to asit-in protest by SAFE members
and supporters.
The debate surrounding both actions has
prompted the question:What is the appropriate
way to address these issues of identity and
climate on campus?
In this case, most of the disconnect seems to
come from drastically differing views on what
student activism is and what it should achieve.
Navigatingidentities
Students with identities tied to the conflict,
suchasIsraeli,JewishandPalestinianstudents,
often find the political biases, stereotypes and
ramifications of the conflict hard to avoid even
on days where there aren't protests.

I

LSA sophomore Mohammed Hamdan, students as thi
Palestinian Student Association executive Middle Easter
board member, gave the example of walking representation
into a campus dining hall with a Michigan PSA is something t
t-shirt. settings. He sa
"Wearing that shirt, I could just personally from a variety
feel like it was not just oh, Palestine, there's heard or values
dabke, music, the food - it was more like 'oh, "At some lev
OK, the BDS movement, the Israeli-Palestine as I do that
conflict, that protest that happened on the Diag that's really
last week,"' Hamdan said. important,"
Nelson, of JStreet UMich, said she often Stanzler
runs into politicized misperceptions of what a said. "Then
Jewish identity means on campus. you have to
"I think a lot of times, people just assume try to be as
that if you're Jewish, you have a connection proactive
to Israel which is not true for everyone," as possible
Nelson said. "And I think a lot of times that's in terms
overgeneralized like, 'oh, Zionist.'" of helping
Even in spaces where individuals are to create a
specifically designated as students, such as classroom
University classrooms, identity still comes into climate
play. where that
Erzouki, from SAFE, said that because of can actually
her identity as a Palestinian solidarity activist, happen."
she's not always comfortable in the classroom.
"I'll give University professors credit where A polarized
it's due; I have been in classes where I feel like discussion
it's a safe space to express my views," Erzouki
said. "But there definitely are situations where For some
I feel very intimidated to express myself." students,
LSA junior Eli Batchelor, advisor to the focus
the PSA, said Palestinian students often of student
feel misrepresented in campus academic activism is
discussions on the issue, some of which are led to alleviate
by Jewish professors, even if those professors tension in cami
attempt to remain neutral. I-Lead and
"Even if the Jewish voice is offering a affiliated cam
Palestinian narrative, it's still a Jewish representative
voice," Batchelor said. "There's not the equal umbrella orga
representation within academia. And a lot of Israel-affiliated
Palestinian students feel withdrawn. They expressed con
don't want to take those classes for that very felt was currei
reason. They don't want another Jewish person Mindel charact
telling them their story." Nelson said
Jeff Stanzler, a lecturer in the School was effective
of Education who teaches a class in which caused increase
University students mentor high school "It simply ju

ey go through a simulation of
n affairs, said marginalized
of both Jews and Palestinians
hat worries him in classroom
id he's not confident students
of identities have their voices
understood.
el, as an educator, if you accept
A lot the ti
on this Caml
institutional
sometimes have
view of what
LSA senior Y
pus climate.
J Street Umich, two Israel-
pus groups, as well as a
from the Israel Cohort, an
nization under which most
d groups on campus operate, all
cerns about a campus that they
ntly very polarized, something
terized as discouraging.
that though the mock eviction
in raising awareness, it also
ed polarization on campus.
ist pushed people back to their

corners," she said.
The groups' ideal outcome is a non-polarized,
non-binary campus - a place where the focus is
on dialogue between the two groups.
"We think no solution can be reached in any
situation without bringing together and hearing
the opinions and the needs of everyone involved,
so that's why we think dialogue is the perfect
opportunity
for people
to come
} .together and
ime activism express their
concerns,"
Levin said.
pus is reall LMindel
added that
I-Lead
lized. People understood
why dialogue
might not
a very sanitized be viewed
as the most
direct route
t activism is. to change.
For her
group, the
importance
was its
~ potential
azan yierall h long-term
impact.
"Maybe
nothing has
been tried
beyond dialogue right now because we feel like
there isn't alot of dialogue, and we don't know
what else we can do," Levin said, citing the
need to hear and celebrate all narratives.
"I don't think we're looking to just stop at
dialogue, but the point is that we need to get
back to dialogue."
Overcoming dominant viewpoints
In contrast, both SAFE and PSA
representatives, two Palestinian-focused
groups on campus, viewed actions like the

mock evictions and the BDS campaign as
necessary in challenging and overcoming what
they see as a pro-Israel dominant viewpoint on
campus and beyond.
"We live in a society where there is a very
one-sided discourse on Israel and Palestine, and
the mock eviction challenged that," Kherallah
said.
When it comes to an ideal outcome, both
SAFE and PSA are striving to avoid perceived
one-sidedness of the issue. For SAFE that means
developing mock evictions and BDS campaigns,
dialogues and teach-ins. For PSA that means n
creating opportunities for Palestinian students
to share and celebrate their cultural identity,
instead of a politicized one.
Kherallah said SAFE chose to take a more
controversial action like the mock evictions,
which have occurred on other campuses as
well, to have a more far-reaching impact.
"A lot of the time activism on this campus
is really institutionalized," Kherallah said.
"People sometimes have a very sanitized view
of what activism is. With this, it was really
groundbreaking in the sense that people who
never heard about this issue - the conflict or
the fact that their tuition money is invested in
this - had their eyes opened."
Erzouki said that SAFE felt actions like the
evictions were ultimately about expanding the
discussion and information available on the
issue.
"The University is a place where all of your
views are going to be challenged," Erzoukisaid.
"The mock evictions didn't target anybody.
They may have challenged political views, and
I don't think there's anything wrong with that.
I think we're at this University to receive an
education, and to be challenged on what we've
been taught, and formulate on our opinions on -
those bases."
PSA's Batchelor expressed a similar
sentiment. He said that he viewed BDS and
similar campaigns as an opportunity to expand
the discussion to include more perspective
from the Palestinian perspective, not halt it.
SEE PAGE 8B FOR MORE

defining stud ent
activism:
the israeli-palestinian
conflict at the university
by Shoham geva


