C~,14 4 46F
J-d Illic i an
\\ El.- D} [t i {T.. { j 7[ f} (}' E A R S {( i) y¢' jt t [} it (/
1. Y _ 3 l I d _ f A . N r i i V ' i T 3 4 Y [ \ F I J 1 \l 1 S f 4 1 l A +4 A i/ . l

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Monday, February 24, 2014

michigandaily.com

PROTEST FOR PEACE

CAMPUS LFE
Basketb all
line chaos
stirs waiting
students

Supporters of the SOS Venezuela movement gather on the Diag to protest the civil unrest in Venezuela Saturday.

CHARITY
POlar Plunge raises $130K
0 0
for Special Olympics org.
Denard Robinson Dressed in an array of Sarah Henry, the development This year's Big House plunge
'ocostumes, participants and events coordinator for was the second largest event
Brady Hoke judge dove into an icy pool for the the state's chapter of the in Michigan and raised about
University's second annual organization, said the money $130,000.
costume contest Polar Plunge. The event was raised through the Polar "It's one of those life

University Police
respond to early
morning dispute
By SHOHAM GEVA
Daily StaffReporter
When the University's
basketball team beat Michigan
State Sunday afternoon, the
energy inside the Crisler Center
was unmatched. But for University
students standing outside in
line several hours earlier, the
atmosphere was a little different.
Controversy arose early Sunday
morning over the formation of
two different lines for first-come,
first-served student seating.
One line formed at the student
gate at around 6:45 a.m. and was
composed of students who were
part of a pre-line at Kipke Drive
that formed around 5 a.m. The
second, was formed by a member
of Maize Rage, converged in the
parking lot of Crisler between 7:00
and 7:30 a.m.
At 7:30 a.m., Crisler security
guards told the first line to move
to the back of the Maize Rage line,
whichstudents in the first line
objected to since they had been
waiting outside longer. Maize
Rage is the student organization

dedicated to creating a prominent
fan base for the basketball team.
LSA freshman Josh Deyoung,
who arrived at Kipke at 4 a.m.
and was part of the first line, said
there was a lack of communication,
between the two lines at the
beginning ofthe process.
"We waited probably for 15
minutes right by the gate, where
precedent was set that you line
up and at that point there were
rumblings behind us of, 'Hey, this
isn't the line, there's a secondary
line back there," Deyoung said.
University Police were
called in around 7:30 a.m. It's
unconfirmed who called them,
though representatives for Maize
Rage and the University Athletic
Department both said they were
not the responsible for the call.
Police directed students to
either move to the back of the
line or leave the property, adding
that they would be arrested for
trespassing if they stayed where
they were.
No students ended up being
arrested, University Police said.
Following the police announce-
ment, most students moved to the
Maize Rage line but 119 students
who remained in the first line were
brought into the visiting football
team's locker room by Associate
See BASKETBALL, Page 3A

t
t

By EMILIE PLESSET
Daily StaffReporter
After making it through
January's polar vortex, about
420 members of the Ann Arbor
community decided it was a
good time for a swim.

held at Michigan Stadium
and aimed to support Special
Olympics Michigan.
Special Olympics
Michigan is an international
organization that provides
training and competition
opportunities for athletes
with intellectual disabilities.

Plunge allows special Olympics things you participate in,"
athletes to participate for free Henry said. "Some people run
in the group's events. marathons and other people
Throughout the winter, want to jump into freezing
the Michigan branch of the cold water in the middle of
organization holds J0 Polar winter to raise money."
Plunge events around the state While participants can
and raises about $1 million jump individually, many peo-
from all the plunges combined. See POLAR, Page 3A

FACULTY
Six professors
named to 'U'
Thurnau honor.


Award given to
teachers who have
made a visible
impact on students
By RACHEL PREMACK
DailyNewsEditor
This week and the week
following Spring Break, The
Michigan Daily will feature
profiles on each of the six newly-
selected Thurnau professors.
Check back to learn about the
recently honored professors'
passions for undergraduate
teaching, their subject matter
and innovations in pedagogy.
A typical day in a class
with Prof. Alejandro Herrero-
Olaizola - associate Chair
of Romance Languages and
Literatures - might involve a
discussion on the themes behind
the use of narcotics in Columbian

tellanovellas. On North Campus,
Prof. Jamie Phillips, who teaches
electrical engineering and
computer science, uses a flipped
classroom technique - lecturing
online and coaching through.
problemsolvingexercisesinclass
- to introduce young engineers
to circuits and semiconductor
devices.
Herrero-Olaizola and Phillips
are just two of six who have
recently been honored with an
Arthur F. Thurnau professorship
for their commitment to
undergraduate teaching.
In addition to Herrero-
Olaizola and Phillips, four other
University professors hailing
See PROFESSORS, Page 3A

STUDENT GOVERNMENT
forUM sets
sights on
inclusion in
campaign
Candidates for
CSG's top positions
talk election goals
By KRISTEN FEDOR
DailyStaffReporter
in their second election go-
around under new leadership,
forUM is looking to focus on
empowerment over politics.
Earlier this month, forUM
nominated Public Policy junior
Carly Manes as the party's
candidate for CSG president and
LSA junior Pavitra Abraham
for CSG vice president. Since
their selection, Manes and
Abraham have been laying the
groundwork for the March 26
to 27 elections and said they see
themselves as student activists,
not politicians.
"It's about empowerment,
See FORUM, Page 3A

Comedian Melvin eender hosted Kappa Alpha Psi's annual multicultural talent shom in the Michigao Union Friday.
In 25th xyear, multicultural
showcase draws students

Talent show Psi hosted their 25th annual
"A Night at the Set Talent
donates funds to Showcase" on Friday.
Nearly 400 students and Ann
Mississippi school Arbor locals filled the Michigan
Union Rogel Ballroom asto solo
By SOPHIE BURTON and group acts competed for
For the Daily the $1,000 grand prize. Detroit-
based comedian Melvin Bender
Featuring spectacles ranging hosted the event.
-om yo-yo performances LSA senior Scott McPherson-
light shows, Kappa Alpha Moncrief, Kappa Alpha Psi's

historian, said the purpose of
the showcase was to celebrate
campus diversity.
"The show is all about having
as many diverse acts as we can
and representing as many com-
munities as possible," he said.
The show was judged by
members of the University com-
munity, including Courtney
Monroe, an adviser for the Uni-
See SHOWCASE, Page 3A

the top
le possesion of
after beating

rrrrrr rn rr r rr rrr wrnrnrnmm rrrirs rrr

WEATHER HI: 24 GOT A NEWS TIP? NEW ON MICHIGANDAILYCOM
Call 734-418-4115 or e-mail My First Time: House of Cards
TOMORROW - LO: news@michigandaily.com and let us know. MICHIGANDAILY.COM/BLOGS

INDEX NEWS.........................2A ARTS.. . . .A........5A
Vol. CXXIV,No. 74 SUDOKU..................... 2A CLASSIFIEDS ...............6A
@2014TheMichiganDaily OPINION.....................4A SPORTSMONDAY.........1B
michioondoily.com

I


2A - Monday, February 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com
hle ichipan 1931
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1327
www.michigandaily.com
PETERSHAHIN KIRBYVOIGTMAN
Editor in Chief Business Manager
734-410-4115 est. 1211 734-418-4115 ear. 1241
pjahahin@mirhiganidaiy.com kvaigtman@miclsigasdaily.com

LEANING IN

Meal plan disputes cause drama
60 Years Ago This Week 39 Years Ago This Week 20 Years Ago This Week
(Feb. 24, 1954) (Feb. 28, 1974) (Feb. 28,1994)

Residents of West Quad's
Winchell Hall walked out of a
Quad Council meeting after a
dispute regarding the new house
rotating policy for dining hall
meals. The decision went into
effect two days prior to increase
social opportunities, but the
resulting need to change dining
halls several times a week was a
point of contention for students.
A solution was later proposed
allowing students to change din-
ing halls less frequently, result-
ing in co-ed dinners only once
or twice per semester. After the
motion was defeated, the men of
Winchell House exited in protest.

Percy Danforth, known as
"master of the bones," played his
unique instrument in the Michi-
gan Union.
Danforth created music with
two 3- to 4-inch rib bone-shaped
pieces of wood, holding the wood
pieces between his fingers with
one "bone" against the heel of his
hand and allowing the others to
swing back and forth, resulting in
a unique clacking rhythm.
Danforth ended his perfor-
mance with a brief explanation
of the genre of ragtime music,
where the use of musical bones
became popular.

Three University basketball
players were caughtstealingfrom
the Ann Arbor Dairy Mart. Ray
Jackson, Jimmy Iing and Chris
Fields stole several 12-packs of
Molson Ice beers from the East
University Avenue store.
Allison Chenault, the Dairy
Mart clerk working at the time
of the incident, saw the students
taking the beer but did not make
any effort to stop them. Instead,
she was seen on videotape hug-
ging the three players. Chenault
was subsequently fired from
Dairy Mart and received the
same sentence as the players.
- SARAHBERNARD

Newsroom
734-418-4115 opt.3
Corrections
corrections@michigandaily.com
ArtsSection
arts@mihigandaily.com
Sportslection
sports@michigandaily.com
Display Sales
dailydisplay@gmail.com
Online Sales
onlineads@michigandaily.com

News Tips
news@michigandaily.com
Letters to the Editor
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
Editorial Page
opinion@michigandaily.com
Photography Section
photo@michigandaily.com
Classified Sales
classified@michigandaily.com
Finance
finance@michigandaily.com

Business sophomore Angela Huang speaks at the
Lean In lecture on women empowerment at the Ross
School of Business Friday.

R ON THE WEB:x. mi ht dai j ,cvm

CAMPUS EVENTS & NOTES

Education

50 Cent free
BY LEJLA BAJGORIC

House of Cards
BY CHLOE GILKE

lecture

Discussion or
Black music

Acclaimed rapper 50 Gilke discusses her WHAT: University faculty WHAT: A panel of facul
Cent announced autonomy thoughts about season two member Andrew Maynard and students will discus
from Interscope Records, of "House of Cards" with will discuss the merits of Black music's place in
Aftermath Records and little prior knowledge of informal educational videos contempary musical stu
Shady Entertainment. In the show's plotline. The on YouTube and similar WHO: Department for
his first independent video acclaimed Netflix original WHO: University Library Studies
for his new song "Funeral," series stars Kevin Spacey WHEN: Today at 10:00 WyHLEN: Toda 12:0
W E:Tdy a 00 HN oay at 120
50 Cent narrates the as a vengeful Congressman. a.m. WHERE: Koessler Ron
funeral of a young boy. His The show released its WHERE: Hatcher Gallery Michigan League
new album will be released second season on Feb.14.
Mar. 18. OPINION Digital Jazz
Men's lacrosseMillenial pride advertising performance
BYMINHeDOANlecture WHAT: Guest clinician

On Saturday, Ukranian
President Victor
Yanukovich fled his
ty administrative residence
s in Kiev following last
week's violent escalation of
dy. ongoing street protests, The
New York Times reported
Saturday.

EDITORIAL STAFF
KatieBurke Managing Editor kgburke@michigandaily.com
lenniferCalfas ManagigNeasEtditor jcatfo,@mihiaaity.com
SENIORNEWSEDITORSIanDilingham,SamGringlasilebea elr ack
andStephanieShenouda
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITORS: Allana Akhtar, Yardain Amron, Hillary Crawford, Amia
Davis, Shoham Geva, Amabel Karoub, Thomas McBrien, Emilie Plesset, Max Radwin and
MichaelOSgerman
Megan McDonaldand
Daniel Wang Editorial Page Editors opinioneditors@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Aarica Marsh and Victoria Noble
ASSISTANT EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS: Michael Schramm and Nivedita Karki
Greg Garno and
Alejandro Zdiiga ManagingSports Editors sportseditors@michigandaily.com
SENI ORRT SrEDITORS: Max Cohen, Alexa Dettelbach, Rajat Khare, Jeremy Summitt
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITORS: Lev Facher, Daniel Feldman, Simon Kaufman, Erin
Lennon, Jake Lourim and Jason Rubinstein
John"Lnth'and jptr"h@aihigandaity.o
Akshay Seth ManagingArts Editors akse@michigandaily.com
SENIOR ARTS EDITORS: Giancarlo Buonomo, Natalie Gadbois, Erika Harwood and
ASSISTANT ARTS EDITORS: Jamie Bircoll, Jackson Howard, Gillian Jakab and Maddie
Thomas
Teresa Mathewand
Paul Shennan MangeigePhoto Editors y photo@michigandaily.com
SENIORPOO EIORS:o Paterick aro andnbysaltnu
ASSISTANTPHOTOEDITORSAllisonFarrand,TracyKo, Terra Molengraffand Nicholas
Willams
Carolyn Geail and
GabrielaVasquez ManagingDesignEditors design@michigandaily.com
SENIORDESIGNEDITORS: Amy MackensandAliciaKovalcheck
Carlina Duan Magazine Editor statement@michigandaily.com
DEPUTY MAGAZINE EDITORS: Max Radwin and Amrutha Sivakumar
STATEMENT PHOTO EDITOR: Ruby Wallau
Mark Ossolinski and Meaghan
Thompson Managing Copy Editors copydesk@michigandaily.com
SENIOR EDITORS:earam Sheikh and David Nayer
Austen Hafnnd OnolioneEditor ohufford~michigandaly.com
BUSINESS STAFF
Amal Muzaffar Digital AccountsManager
Doug Solomon University Accounts Manager
Leah Louis-Prescott classified Manager
Lexi Derasmo Local Accounts Manager
Hillary Wang National Accounts Manager
Ellen Wolbertand SophieGreenbaum Production Managers
Nolan Loh Special Projects Coordinator
Nana Kikuchi Finance Manager
Olivia Jones Layout Manager
The Michgan DailSN0745-967) i ulhd oday thrh iFaydring te falsand itrtermsiby
stuent "DteUnvrit fMihgn *Oecpyi valbe freochareto all eaders Addtionacopesma
be piced up at theO yso cefor$2S siptinsfa term stang nSeptember.viaU S.ma iare$110
bntrermd, TJnuMyrohaAnrily ismembr 115y ne(SsptedberesshrodghArl)isc15.Udso iatesPress.
be preadThe Mihign D isa ebersf TheoAsocitd Pessa Tee ssociaotedCollegite Prss.

p.m.
>m,

The Wolverines ended
their two game winning
streak Saturday when they
lost to Johns Hopkins 13-5.
For the second time this
season, the Wolverines failed
to score in the first quarter.
Despite playing better in the
second half, the team was
unable to secure a win.

Wood denounces the
unfair generalizations
surrounding the millenial
generation. Criticizing
an Elite Daily's article on
the new generation, Wood
points out flaws in the Baby
Boomer generation.
Read morefrom these
blogs at michigandaily.com

WHAT: Dr. James
Shanahan, Chief Scientist
at a mobile ad network,
will discuss the science
and metrics behind digital
advertising.
WHO: School of
Information
WHEN: Today at 12:00 p.m.
WHERE: Room 3100, North
Quad

Ingrid Jensen will perform.
WHO: School of Music,
Theatre, and Dance
WHEN: Today at 6:00 pm.
WHERE: Britton Recital
Hall, Moore Building
CORRECTIONS
0 Please report any
error in the Daily to
corrections@michi-
gandaily.com.

The Michigan hockey
team split a series with
Penn State - its fourth
straight loss and its second to
the Nittany Lions. On Satur-
day, captain Mac Bennett left
the game with an injury.
FOR MORE, SEE SPORTSMONDAY,
PAGE 1B
Following almost a year
of negotiations, Netflix
and Comcast have
confirmed a deal which would
allow Netflix subscribers
access to Comcast's high
speed networks, the Los
Angeles Times reported
Sunday.


Detroit police feel bankrupl

Low pay and old
facilities wear down
morale despite
positive changes
DETROIT (AP) - It has come
to this: Even some criminals
sympathize with Detroit's cops.
Baron Coleman thought he'd
heard it all in his 17 years patrol-
ling the streets. But then came
the city's bankruptcy, a 10 per-
cent cut in police salaries, fol-
lowed by support from a most
unlikely corner - the bad guys.
"When they saw us take a pay
cut they were in shock. We were
arresting guys ... and they were
like, 'I can't believe your city
would do you like this.' ... I say,
'Thanks for caring,"' the veteran
officer says with a smile. "It's
just funny because I don't like
communicating with a person
who has just committed a rob-

bery how sad my life is."
Detroit police officers have
long known adversity: They've
worked in crumbling station
houses with busted pipes, driv-
en run-down cars, tangled with
balky radios. They've navigat-
ed darkened streets - Detroit
has thousands of broken street
lights - chasing criminals,
breaking up fights, encountering
drug dealers who may be carry-
ing AK-47s or wearing their own
bulletproof vests.
As Detroit tries to rebound
- a plan to emerge from bank-
ruptcy was filed Friday - few
groups, if any, have been feeling
the pain of the city's financial
collapse more than the police.
Despite some recent positive
changes - a new chief, new
cruisers, new plans - there's
worry, frustration and anger
among the rank and file. Pay-
checks have shrunk. Morale is
low. Co-workers have fled to
more lucrative jobs. And those

who remain face a formidablet
task: trying to protect a sprawl-
ing, often violent city where hid-
den dangers lurk among tens of
thousands of abandoned houses.
Baron Coleman knows it's
hard being a police officer any-
where. In these trying times, itI
may be a lot harder in Detroit.
Nearly ageneration ago, whenI
Coleman traded a factory job for
a badge and crisp blue uniform,I
he had certain expectations: a
good salary, great benefits and a
pension.
The bankruptcy erased allI
that. The city's financial future
is uncertain. So is his own.
Though he still enjoys being
an officer, Coleman he says
he never dreamed that as he(
approached age 50, he'd ber
working seven days a week -I
moonlighting in security jobs -
to pay for two kids in school andt
compensate for a $15,000 dropt
in benefits and wages. I
"Right now, the dream of
what I came on for has been
destroyed," he says. "I'm wor-I
ried. Is my pension going to beL
HUMh

tcy woes
there? If I get injured, is the
city going to cover my family?
... Before I would tell my wife,
'If I die, I know you'll be taken
care of.' Now, I tell her, 'If I die,
you're on your own."'
The plan by Detroit's emer-
gency financial manager to pull
the city out of bankruptcy would
give police and fire retirees at
least 90 percent of their pen-
sions after eliminating cost-of-
living allowances (other city
workers would likely get at least
70 percent). But that plan prob-
ably faces court challenges and
hinges on proposed state fund-
ing, among other factors.
While so many unresolved
issues linger, the department
is under new leadership. James
Craig knew all about the depart-
ment's troubles, but the former
Detroit police officer who spent
much of his 37-year law enforce-
ment career in Los Angeles
eagerly returned home last sum-
mer to take what he called his
"dream job" - chief of police.
He is the fifth man to hold the
position in five years. But he is
undaunted.
5-1

Grenade thrown
at protest against
Thai government

Study ID: HUM00058635 IRB: IRBMED Date Approved:1/6/2014 epiration Date:1/5/2015
EVER HAD A CONCUSSION??
Participants needed for a study on the
long term effects of concussion
Who: Males and females in their 40's & 60's
who had a concussion(s) from sport or
recreation when 18yrs or younger
Activities: walking, hand and foot
coordination & reaction time test
Test Duration: 1 session, 2.5 hrs
Payment: $50
Contact: Doug Martini at (734) 615-9330 or
neurotraumalab.umich@gmail.com
HUM00058635
RESEBO LA O MY

At least 18 have
been killed in recent
protest-related
violence
BANGKOK (AP) - Two
young siblings and a woman
were killed in an apparent gre-
nade attack against anti-gov-
ernment protesters occupying
an upscale shopping area of
Thailand's capital on Sunday,
the latest violence in a months-
long political crisis that is grow-
ing bloodier by the day.
The attack near the Ratchap-
rasong intersection in the heart
of Bangkok, home to major
shopping malls and luxury
hotels, followed another assault
on anti-government protesters
in eastern Thailand on Saturday
night that killed a young girl
and wounded dozens of other
people.
A 6-year-old girl, Patchara-
korn Yos-ubon, died Monday
from brain and liver injuries,
according to Erawan emergen-
cy services center, which keeps
track of protest casualties in
Bangkok. She died one day after
her 4-year-old brother, Korawit,
and a 59-year-old woman were
killed in the attack.
A 9-year-old boy suffering
from brain and lung damage
from the explosion remained
in the intensive care unit of
Ramathibodi Hospital, accord-
ing to a hospital statement
released Monday.
Erawan center said Sunday's
violence left 21 others injured.
The attacks were the latest
in a spate of protest-related vio-
lence roiling Thailand over the
past three months, with at least
18 people killed and hundreds
hurt. The protesters, who are
occupying several key intersec-
tions in Bangkok, want Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawa-

tra to quit to make way for an
appointed interim government
to implement anti-corruption
reforms, but she has refused.
On Saturday night, a 5-year-
old girl was killed and about
three dozen people wounded
in an attack on an anti-govern-
ment rally in the eastern prov-
ince of Trat.
The perpetrators have not
been identified in either attack.
Both sides in the ongoing politi-
cal dispute have blamed the
other for instigating violence.
A protest leader, Sathit Won-
gnongtoey, said Sunday's explo-
sion was caused by a grenade.
Six protesters were hurt Friday
night by a grenade attack in the
same area.
Explosives experts from
the police and army cordoned
off the immediate area of the
blast to search for clues amid
vendors' overturned tables
and bloodied sandals. Protest-
ers, meanwhile, continued to
rally on streets in the area that
they have occupied for several
weeks, while soldiers patrolled
in combat gear.
While the protesters have
failed repeatedly to force Yin-
gluck out through self-declared
deadlines, they have blocked
the prime minister from work-
ing at her normal offices and
have sent roving mobs after her,
making it difficult for her and
Cabinet members to make pub-
lie appearances.
The protesters also have suc-
ceeded in delaying completion
of early elections called by Yin-
gluck, undermining efforts to
restore political stability.
"I strongly condemn the use
of violence in recent days that
has caused many deaths both in
Trat province and, especially, at
Ratchaprasong today, which is
particularly saddening and dis-
turbing since the lives of chil-
dren were lost," Yingluck said
in a statement Sunday night.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 24, 2014 - 3A

PROFESSORS
From Page 1A
from the School of Kinesiology,
School of Art and Design, LSA
and the College of Engineering
were honored.
The winners include Associate
Prof. MelissaGross,who is appoint-
ed in School of Kinesiology and the
School of Art & Design; Associate
Prof. Anne McNeil, who teaches
chemistry in LSA and macromo-
lecular science and engineering in
the College of Engineering;Associ-
ate Prof. Megan Sweeney, who is
appointed in the LSA departments
of English language and literature,
women's studies and Afroameri-
can and African studies; and Prof.
Michael Thouless of mechanical
engineering and materials science
and engineering. Herrero-olaizola
is appointed in the LSA Depart-
ment of Romance Languages and
Literatures and Phillips is of the
College of Engineering's electrical
engineering and computer science
department.
The professorship is named
after Arthur Thurnau, who was
a University student from 1902 to
1904 and who later endowed the
program.
In interviews with The
Michigan Daily, the professors
emphasized their love for
teaching and excitement to be
named a Thurnau professor.
"I feel like I've learned so
much from my students and
colleagues," Sweeney said. "I
have been inspired by them and it
feels like such a wonderful honor
to be recognized as somebody
who cares a lot about teaching,
who loves doing it and love
learning from my students and
my colleagues."
Herrero-Olaizola also named
students as key components of
the classroom community and
discussion.
"The students really make the
class," he said. "We tend to think
of professors making the class,
but I really think the students are
the ones makingthe class happen.
I see myself more asa facilitator."
Tenured faculty who receive
the title also receive a $20,000
grant to support teaching activi-
ties, such as buying books, travel
and graduate student assistance.
They are also designated as Thr-
nau professors through the dura-
tion of their University career.
Asforhis planswiththemoney,
Phillips said he will provide
support for graduate student
researchers in his lab. Herrero-
Olaizola said he anticipates using
the money for a bigger projector
and screencapturing tools for his
students' film studies.
The Thurnau Charitable
Trust, established by University
alum Arthur Thurnau, funds the
professorship. He attended the
Universityfrom 1902 to 1904.
Deans, associate deans, chairs
or academic program directors
nominated professors, followed
by an endorsement by each nomi-
neee's overseeing dean and letters
of support from students and col-
leagues. These nominations were
submitted in Decmber 2013.
University Provost Martha
Pollack then recommended recip-
ients to the University's Board
of Regents, who approved and
announced the recipients at their
February meeting.

SHOWCASE
From Page 1A
-versity's National Pan-Hellenic
and Multicultural Greek Coun-
cils, who has judged the event for
the past three years. She echoed
McPherson's words regarding the
event, adding that it showcases
campus-wide talents.
Profits from the event were ded-
icated to the Piney Woods Country
Life School, a historically Black
boardingschool in Mississippi.
Photonix, a student group who
uses glow sticks, strings and other
devices, won the event after per-
forming an elaborate lightshow.
LSA sophomore Randee Shap-
iro performed with Dance 2XS, a
multicultural hip-hop dance group.
She said events like the talent show
"really bring together a lot of differ-
ent groups and you kind of just see
what other people are working on."
LSA sophomore Charvez Wes-
ley, a member of Kappa Alpha Psi,
said the event is sends an impor-
tant message for the campus com-
munity.
"We just wanted to bring out a
multicultural experience on cam-
pus for people to enjoy that," he
said.

BASKETBALL
From Page 1A
Athletic Director Rob
Rademacher.
Rademacher apologized to
the students for the seating
issues and told them they would
have preferred admittance to
the game in a section adjacent to
the student section.
"This is the best and only way
to manage this," Rademacher
said to students. "I can't
emphasize this enough."
In an interview with
The Michigan Daily after
he addressed the students,
Rademacher said he was made
aware of the issue at 6:45 a.m.
and arrived shortly after.
He added that the Athletic
Department consistently
reflects on common seating
issues, such as the exact time
that students can line up,
barrier usage and security
FORUM
From Page 1A
not politics," Manes said.
"This isn't political. It's about
doing what's best by the student
body," Abraham added.
Manes' involvement in student
government began her freshman
year, serving as an elected repre-
sentative in LSA Student Govern-
ment during her freshman and
sophomore years. She is current-
ly an LSA representative in the
CSG Assembly.
Outside of her involvement in
student government, Manes is the
founder of Students for Choice, a
campus organization dedicated
to advocating for reproductive
rights.
Also serving as an LSA repre-
sentative in the CSG Assembly,
Abraham is in the midst of her
first year working in student gov-
ernment. She was appointed in
October after a seat was vacated
and ran a successful campaign in
the December midterm elections.
Despite being relatively new to
the group, Abraham has exten-
sive campaign experience. She
served as a field organizer for
President 8arack Obama's 2012
re-election bid and took her
sophomore fall semester off to
work for the campaign. When
she returned to classes last win-
ter, Abraham helped organize
forUM's 2013 campaign.
Abraham said she is able to
POLAR
From Page 1A
ple formed teams to fundraise
throughout the year and take
the plunge together.
A team from the University's
Galens Medical Society raised
$37,000 through a bake sale
and soliciting donations from

presence to improve attendees'
experiences.
"After every game, we sit
down and say, 'How'd it go?
What went well and what went
wrong?' And we'll do the same
thing today," Rademacher said.
"We adjust from game to game."
LSA senior Sasha Shaffer,
president of Maize Rage, also
apologized to students, for
Maize Rage's role in creating the
confusion.
"This will never happen
again," Shaffer said.
Following the comments by
Rademacher and Shaffer, the
119 sequestered students were
then led to Section 130 in the
lower bowl, commonly referred
to as "The Wedge." The section,
which is part of traditional
student seating, is separate from
Maize Rage bleacher seating
and is behind the hoop instead
of along the court's baseline.
Rademacher said he felt the
section 130 seating was the best
way to resolve the situation.
bring her practical experience
fromworkingonthe Obama cam-
paign to the world of studentgov-
ernment.
"My tactical skills are my abil-
ity to take everything I learned
during that campaign at a grass-
roots level and bring it to student
government," she said.
Manes and Abraham met on
the Obama campaign, as Manes
was one of the students Abraham
coordinated with. Since then,
they have worked alongside one
another in the CSG Assembly.
During their tenure as repre-
sentatives, Manes and Abraham
organized retreats for CSG rep-
resentatives, which are held each
semester and last three to four
hours each. The events aim help
foster a collaborative atmosphere
within student government.
Transparency is one of forUM's
main platform points, Manes
said. Abraham added that the two
hope to increase communication
between CSG representatives
and their respective schools.
In early February, Manes
said one of her campaign goals
is to add a student representa-
tive to the University's Board of
Regents. The board currently
holds eight representatives who
were all popularly elected by the
voters of the state of Michigan.
"It is a disservice to students
to not have a student voice in the
room when such prominent deci-
sions are being made about where
our money is going, what our
campus life is going to look like,"
friends, Medical student Chris-
tina Sarmiento said.
Sarmiento and Medical stu-
dent Rashmi Patil participated
in a Polar Plunge in Belleville
last year and ran into the Big
House with the team from the
Galens Medical Society.
"This year, it feels like we're
doing it at home," Patil said. "It's
a pretty nice day I think for a
dip. The sun is shining and it's

"You had a group of students
who came to the front of the
line - whether they were first
or not I don't know - but they
were there prior to 7 o'clock,"
Rademacher said. "What I didn't
want to do was take this group of
students and throw them to the
end of the line, then that would
have created more problems. I
looked upon the best solution by
accommodating them in a way
where they still had good seats."
Deyoung said although he
understood the issues the
University Athletic Department
and security faced, he was
disappointed with how the
experience unfolded.
"I just wish that it was
handled differently up front,"
Deyoung said. "I wish they had
the proper security there. I wish
they had proper guidelines set.
I would like to be reimbursed
in some sort of way because I
spent a lot of money and I was
planning on camping out and
getting the full experience and
Manes said.
While voter turnout for CSG
elections is usually low, Abraham
said she hopes to systemize voter
registration efforts to increase
active student voting turnout.
"Right now, there is no cen-
tralized way for students on this
campus to register to vote and
really engage themselves in the
political process," she said.
The candidates said they are
meeting with upwards of five
student organizations per day
to find out what their needs are
and the challenges that they face.
forUM hopes to work with these
organizations as well to spread
the party's message and cam-
paign goals.
"All students feel empowered
through student government and
can use student government as
a platform for empowerment to
elevate the work they are already
doing in their community,"
Manes said.
Manes and Abraham are also
trying to distance the current
forUM leadership from last year's
nominees and marred election.
forUM's previous nominee for
CSG president, now-LSA senior
Chris Osborn, won the popular
vote but was later disqualified
by the University Election Com-
mission for allegedly influencing
students while they were voting.
Manes said forUM's contro-
versial history is irrelevant to
this year's campaign. Instead of
dwelling on the past election,
Manes said student should focus
above freezing."
In addition to the plunge, the
event consisted of a costume
parade with teams and individu-
als wearing costumes ranging
from Superman, hula girls and
Speedo-clad men. Former Mich-
igan football players Denard
Robinson and Jordan Kovacs,
as well as Michigan coach Brady
Hoke served as the judges for
the costume contest.

I don't feel like I'm going to get
that now."
Both Rademacher and Shaffer
told students they would be able
to voice their concerns to Maize
Rage and University Athletic
Department representatives in
the future.
In an e-mail interview with
the Daily Sunday afternoon,
Shaffer said she would address
concerns at the next Maize Rage
meeting, which is scheduled for
Monday at 7 p.m.
Rademacher told the 119
sequestered students that they
would be contacted for par-
ticipation in a forum discussing
Sunday's seating issues.
In an interview with the Daily
Sunday afternoon, Business
senior Michael Proppe, CSG
President, said today's compli-
cations illustrate a systematic
problem with student seating.
"The bottom line is that there
needs to be more student seating
in the lower bowl," Proppe said.
"It is kind of insane that people

could get there at 5 a.m. and not
be able to get a bleacher seat."
LSA freshman Eric Montag,
who was one of the 119 seques-
tered students, expressed a sim-
ilar sentiment.
"I think that a lot of the other
big basketball programs wrap
around the entire lower bowl to
some extent," he said. "The fact
that there's just the bleachers
that hold literally 400 people at
the most is just way too small."
Deyoung said overall, the
experience made him feel like
the University Athletic Depart-
ment values profit over student
experience.
"I know it's a moneymak-
ing business, but it seems like
they're not trying to serve us as
much as they're trying to serve
themselves and that's frustrat-
ing for me," Deyoung said. "I
think they're going to lose a lot
of support in the future as far as
donations and fans, just because
they treat us like patrons rather
than students."

Public Policy junior Carly Manes, forUM's CSG president candidate, hopes to
push CSG beyond politics and refocus on student empowerment.

on her qualifications and goals
for CSG.
"It's really important to look
at the current executives, what
they've accomplished, what they
haven't accomplished and look-
ing at the track records and the
motives of why the people run-
Many participants cannon-
balled, belly-flopped and flipped
into the water. However, as soon
as they resurfaced, participants
ran quickly back into the locker
rooms to change and dry off.
"You forget how cold it is,"
Nursing freshman Ashley Rich-
mond said. "You jump in and
your body goes into shock but it
wears off really fast and it was a
lot of fun."

ning are in the race," she said.
Manes and Abraham bring a
variety of experiences to forUM's
ticket. Abraham said she and
Manes compliment each other
with their different skill sets.
"She's the visionary, and I'm
the executioner," Abraham said.
After drying off and warming
up, participants were provided
a warm lunch in the Jack Roth
Stadium Club.
"A lot of people think it's
really intimidating getting in
the water but it's for a really
good cause and there's a lot of
great people that come out here
to do it," Richmond said. "It's
a lot of fun and it's definitely
worth it."

IT'S PAST MIDNIGHT Po
AND WE'RE TRYING
TO MAKE A PAPER
IN A ROOM FULL OF MACS
AND STORIES FOR LATER .
AND WE HOPE THAT YOU LIKE
OUR-BESTATTEMPTS
TO TELL YOU ABOUT CAMPUS 0
AT ITS WORST AND BEST
THIS IS MICHIGAN, AS WE KNOW
BUT THE STORIES UNTOLD
ARE THE ONES FOR WHICH WE GO
ABOUT SCHLISSEL AND CSG
AND PRESIDENT MARY SUE
A BOUT SPORT S AND T HEIR PL AY ER S
WE WON'T PEN IT IF IT ISN'T TRUE F
SO IT'S ALMOST 1 AM
AND WE'RE MAKING THE NEWS T
BECAUSE, DEAR READER
WE LOVE YOU

#POLICY IALKS


4A - Monday, February 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

4A -.odyeray2, 04TeMcia aiy-mciadiy

C4e idtigan Daih3
Edited and managed by students at
the University of Michigan since 1890.
420 Maynard St.
Ann Arbor, MI 48109
tothedaily@michigandaily.com
MEGAN MCDONALD
PETER SHAHIN and DANIEL WANG KATIE BURKE
EDITOR IN CHIEF EDITORIAL PAGE EDITORS MANAGING EDITOR
Unsigned editorials reflect the official position of the Daily's editorial board.
All other signed articles and illustrations represent solely the views of their authors.
Donating to school priorities
The regents need to push donors to fund University priorities
n Thursday, the University's governing Board of Regents approved a
series of renovations that will change the landscape of the institution.
These initiatives again demonstrate a recent pattern of priorities
that allocate funds to large and successful programs within the University
that only benefit a small percentage of the student body. It additionally must
be called into question whether or not some of these primarily brick-and-
mortar projects will benefit the University in the most effective way. In order
to provide more students with a superior academic experience, the University
must refocus on raising money for underserved areas of the institution.
The changes approved bythe regents includea student body comes from underrepresented
new Biological ScienceBuilding, a new academic minority groups - half of what it was for the
building for the Stephen M. Ross School of class of 2013. Especially in light of the #BBUM
Business, the refurbishment and modernization campaign,even asmall portionof StephenRoss'
of the historic President's Residence and an recent donation to the Business School might be
extensive renovation of the Kresge Business better spent trying to recruit underrepresented
AdministrationLibrary.Additionallytheregents minorities and implementing programs to
also approved the endowmentcand namingof the make Ross more accessible to these students.
head football coach position, which will now be The University needs to consider what can
called The J. Ira and Nicki Harris Family Head be done to change the pattern of donations and
Football Coach. The changes are not inherently improvements being allocated for schools and
problematic; they will no doubt improve the programs that do not need more funding. There
University'sofferingsand benefitstudents inthe is of course, nothing wrong with donating to
long run. But these most recent projects fail to schools and programs that already receive a lot
triage the University's most pressing needs, and of funding. It is natural for graduates to want to
that's where the problem lies. donate to their home schools. However, uniform
The Business School will now build a new policies should be written to help fund essential
academic building, renovate its library and programs that are being neglected and address
implement an exterior cladding project to problemsthaarebeingignored-andtheVictors
Sam Wyly Hall, the Business Administration for Michigan campaign takes a step in the right
Executive Dormitory and the Hill Street direcion.Its three goals do not explicitly include
Parking Structure. The total estimated cost capital improvements, and while some donors
of this project is $135 million, albeit funded may be interested in funding a building, the
completely by donations. Though these are campaign's focus on student support, engaged
positive changes for the school, these changes learning and (somewhat more nebulously) "bold
raise several concerns. For instance, these ideas" emphasizes experiential possibilities over
changes only benefit a small percentage of the physical plant changes.
student body. Furthermore, it must be asked Additionally, Regent Mark Bernstein (D-
if an aesthetic renovation is what a school that Ann Arbor) ran on a campaign that proposed
is painfully lacking in diversity really needs, that a single-digit percentage of all donations
These funds could be better invested into should be automatically set aside for financial
addressing the fact that the school severely aid. He has held his position for more than a
underrepresents females and minorities. The year and should push more strongly for this
Bachelor of Business Administration Class of policy change so it has a greater effect during
2015 has a class size of 505, according to the the Victors for Michigan campaign. This could
Business School's website, but women make up help makedonations, such astheRossdonation,
only 30 percent of the overall class population. benefit more people in ways that are a greater
Most astonishingly, only three percent of the priority for the institution as a whole.
THE STUDENT UNION OF MICHIGAN I
Does the'U'protect people or profits?
This Tuesdaythe StudencUnion of Michigan We suspect Hoke's alibi was an attempt
will be joining together with its allies to protest to evade scandal. Scandal is embarrassing
thehandlingofthe BrendanGibbonsexpulsion. and often reduces profits for the University.
We will gather in the lobby of the Rackham It requires time and attention and damage
Auditorium at 2 p.m. and march through control. It requires people hired to do one
campus. In this article, we will briefly outline thing to divert their attention to something
some of the reasons whywe are protesting. unpleasant and embarrassing. However,
Beforebeginning,wewanttoemphaticallysay it is not Hoke's right to invent an alibi and
webelievesurvivorshavetherighttocontroltheir cover someone else's tracks. There is a
stories, and as allies, we are obligated to respect difference between declining to comment and
their choices. Survivors should be allowed to beingmisleading.
heal without their traumas being routinely and We are also completely baffled as to why the
graphically described and scrutinized by an University administration did not do a better
uninformed public. We do not support demands job communicating how its sexual assault
for the release of details about this case. We wish policy works. As far as we can tell, the extent of
to express our solidarity with the survivor and response to this winter's uproar was University
hope the public chooses to respectcher privacy. President Mary Sue Coleman and Hoke's
That being said, the administration owes us "statements" asserting that athletics in no way
some answers regarding its response to student influence how sexual assault is handled at the

outrage over the revelation ofGibbons expulsion. University. These statements were published
All of us deserve to feel safe on this campus, with a brief description of the University policy.
and the response of top-level administrators to University policy regarding sexual conduct
this situation has left many in our community changed in 2011 to adhere to the mandate issued
convinced there is no institutional justice. This by the U.S. Department of Education's Office for
makes our campus feel unsafe and prone to Civil Rights, outlined in their "Dear Colleague
abuse. This has to be addressed. Letter," and avoid losing access to federal
When The Michigan Daily broke the story financial funding. We are still in the process of
about Gibbons's expulsion, one of the first understanding this change, but we believe that
questions people asked was when Michigan the 2011 mandate, which obligates investigations
coachBradyHokefoundoutabouttheexpulsion. ofallreportedincidentsofsexualmisconductand
Gibbons had not played in the last games of the without placing anundue burden onthe survivor,
season. Hoke told reporters he missed the game is probablyvery significant.We find it concerning
against Ohio State University because of an that these changes had to be prompted by the
injury, and the Buffalo Wild WingsBowl because threat of federal funds being revoked.
of a "family matter." The Daily uncovered a fax These incidents have riddled us with
to the Athletic Department that communicated doubt about the University's commitment to
Gibbons expulsion days before the press protecting our bodies and our stories.We do not
conference about the Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl. understand how they can be so cavalier about
We donotknowhow Hokepossiblycouldhavenot such serious matters. Rape is a huge problem
known about the separation before he called the on college campuses, but we imagine that the
expulsion a "family matter." We find the injury problem would be somewhat relieved if high-
storysuspicious. level administrators took it more seriously.
At the very least, it looks like Hoke created Sadly, while so much of this appears to be
an alibi to cover up the expulsion rather than carelessness or laziness or lack of coordination,
simply decline to comment. It looks to the public it reveals a lot about the administration's
like Gibbons was receiving special treatment values. At this point, how could anyone believe
because of his status asa football player. It looks the administration is committed to a climate
like Hoke does not have to follow policy. These of safety and respect? How is this response
implications are chilling. They suggest we are possibly acceptable? Their top priorities should
on a campus where it is acceptable for certain not be avoiding the inconveniences of scandal,
people to commit acts of violence with impunity but rather creating a safe, respectful, fruitful
and protection. How could anyone feel safe learning and working environment for all
knowing that? The University has made great members of the University community.
strides in addressing cases of sexual assault and
we do not want to move backward. We don't This article was written by members
want lies like this to have a chilling effect. of the Student Union of Michigan.

A step backwards

n August 4, 1961, a mixed-
race baby boy was born
to Stanley Ann Dunham
in Honolulu,
Hawaii. Ms.
Dunham was
white; her
husband, black.
Though it was
legal in Hawaii
at the time,
interracial I
marriage was PATRICK
still illegal in MAILLET
16 states in the
United States.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964
would not be passed for another
three years, meaning that Ms.
Dunham and her husband could
still be rightfully barred from
employment, housing or public
accommodation simply based on
race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, disability and age.
Ms. Dunham's husband was
Barack Obama, Sr., and their child
eventually became the 44th and cur-
rent president of the United States.
We have come a long way in
these last 50 years, and though Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s dream is
still far from realized, widespread
discrimination based solely on skin
color is fading away.
Though the fight for racial equal-
ity is still far from over, we are now
being faced with the next chapter
of the Civil Rights Movement.
Last week, Arizona's state
legislature passed Senate Bill 1062.
This bill grants legal protection
to business owners who refuse to
serve gay customers because of
their religious beliefs.
While LGBTQ advocates expect-
edly denounced the bill, Arizona's
Republican state legislators claim the
bill does not endorse discrimination,
but instead protects religious free-
dom. In defense of the bill, Joseph
E. La Rue, legal counsel at Alliance
Defending Freedom, a Christian
legal organization in Arizona, said,
"In America, people should be free
to live and work according to their
faith, and the government shouldn't

be able to tell us wE
La Rue went on to
shouldn't be someth
leave inside our hous
Though La Rue
supporter for anti
including, but not
1062, his logic in
bill is ironically sir
LGBTQ advocates i
the bill.
Let's make a sim
with the word "faith
let's see La Rue's sta
light: "In America,
be free to live and
to their love, andt
shouldn'tbe ableto t
that. Love shouldn'tI
have to leave inside o
How can Conse
their political mo
individual liberty
freedom while
believing in laws th
expression of
sexual orien-
tation? When
Conservatives
vote on mea-
sures to allow
assault weap-
ons that can fire
100 rounds per
minute or cut
environmental
standards for
corporations,

e can't do that." ly, gay marriage is legal in 17 states,
say that "Faith while 33 states still have a same-sex
sing we have to marriage ban. Though Arizona is
e. the first state to pass a "religious
is a staunch freedom" bill such as this one, simi-
-gay legislation lar legislation has been introduced
limited to, SB in Ohio, Mississippi, Idaho, South
support of this Dakota, Tennessee and Oklahoma.
milar to that of Although the Arizona bill awaits
n opposition to the approval of Republican Gov.
Janet Brewer, the very concept that
ple substitution a bill like this can make it all the way
" for "love." Now to a governor's desk is terrifying.
tement in a new One day, I will unfortunately
people should have to tell my grandchildren of the
work according days when "No Gays Allowed" signs
the government were welcomed in some places. I will
ell uswecan'tdo inevitably have the look of sadness
be somethingwe and borderline embarrassment on
sur house." my face - the same look my grand-
ervatives claim parents had when they would tell me
'vement values of the days of "colored water foun-
and personal tains." They will stare at me with
simultaneously huge, innocenteyes and askhowpeo-
hat inhibit open ple could have been so bigoted,just as
I did when I was
their age.
Fifty years
ago, few people
Right now it seems would have
- ibelieved that
as if America is far America could
from fully embracing elect a Black
president. When
homosexuality. Blacks weren't
even allowed the
right to eat at the
same restaurant

they argue that
government has no business in peo-
ples' lives. Yetwhen it concerns pri-
vate matters, such as who someone
loves within the confines of their
own bedroom, or even with whom
they want to go for a walk while
holding hands, the government
suddenly has all the right to regu-
late and deny rights.
The bill recently passed by the
Republican-dominated Arizona
legislature is state-sponsored
discrimination and eerily similar
to a pre-Civil Rights Act America
where Blacks were refused service
in most private enterprises.
America is unfortunately moving
in two separate directions. Current-

as whites, how
could you blame them?
Right now it seems as if America
is far from fully embracing
homosexuality. I don't know when
America will elect a gay president,
but in order for that to happen,
America mustlearn fromits mistakes
and treat gay rights just as it treated
civil rights. If we were able to elect a
mixed-race man born in an America
where some states didn't recognize
his parents' marriage, then surely we
can fighttogether to grant a newborn
who might be gay the same rights as
his/her straight counterparts.
- Patrick Maillet can be
reached at maillet@umich.edu.

EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBERS
Barry Belmont, Nivedita Karki, Jacob Karafa, Jordyn Kay,
Kellie Halushka, Aarica Marsh, Megan McDonald, Victoria Noble,
Michael Schramm, Matthew Seligman, Paul Sherman,
Allison Raeck, Daniel Wang, Derek Wolfe
KATE STENVIG, AHMED MOHAMED AND TAYLOR JONES
A promise long overdue

The new anti-racist movement
building on this campus has the
power to force the University to
take the long overdue steps needed
to keep promises it made in the 1970
Black Action Movement agreement.
On April 1, 1970, the University
administration and the University's
Board of Regents, under the
pressure of an integrated and
powerful student strike, promised
Black and Latin@ students to take
steps to increase the number of
minority students on campus. BAM,
an umbrella organization comprised
of all the Black student groups, and
the small but growing Latin@ and
Chican@ organizations on campus,
began by recognizing that the
gains won from the Black students'
actions beginning in the mid-1960s,
including the creation of special
minority scholarships, hiring of
Black faculty and new high school
outreach programs for Detroit had
failed to make the University a more
welcoming and less racist campus.
BAM understood that increasing
minority student enrollment was
the prerequisite to changing the
University. The main slogan of
the BAM struggle was "Open
it up or we will shut it down."
In 1970, Black students constituted
a mere 4 percent of the student body.
Latina@ students were treated as
invisible. The University administra-
tion did not even try to keep accurate
statistics on the number of Latin@ or
NativeAmericanstudentsoncampus.
BAM demanded and won the
promise from the University
administration and the regents that
Black student enrollment would
increase to 10 percent of the student
body by the 1973-74 school year. It
won a second demand to increase
Latin@ student enrollment, and
agreed to take special measures
to increase Latin@ enrollment,
including a special recruiter for
Chican@ students as a first step.
The promise to take the actions
necessary to increase Black student

enrollment to 10 percent has been
broken for 40 years. The University
ranked 147th on this year's U.S.
News and World Report diversity
index. The #BBUM campaign
launched this fall documented how
pervasive racism is attheUniversity
now. If the administration and
the regents continue to break the
promises they made to minority
students and communities 40
years ago, the downward cycle of
recruiting and retaining minority
students will continue to get worse.
Ten years after the Supreme
Court victory for affirmative action
in Grutter v. Bollinger and 40 years
after the BAM strike, the proportion
of Black and Latin@ students at the
University is declining. In a state
that is now over 14 percent Black,
Black students comprise less than
5 percent of the student body. The
proportion of Latin@ students
dropped from 5.6 percent in 2006,
to 4.75 percent in 2012, even though
the Latin@ community in Michigan
continues to grow at a rapid rate.
The proportion of Native American
students at the University isless than
half of the proportion of the Native
American population of Michigan.
It is time for a change. It is time
for the movement to force the Uni-
versity administration to keep the
promises they made in 1970. This is
a modest demand given the fact that
the University has had ample time
to keep its promises. The adminis-
tration has always known how to
achieve an increase in underrep-
resented minority student enroll-
ment. If they claim not to know now,
the movement can tell them how.
The creation of scores of com-
mittees, numerous "fireside chats,"
and the pledges made by every
incoming University president to
advance diversity, have done noth-
ing to change the campus climate.
To make the University a campus
that welcomes, nurtures and pro-
vides minority students with the
same opportunities to learn and

develop that it offers to white stu-
dents, the University must carry out
the promises they knew and agreed
were necessary in 1970. Keeping
its pledge to raise Black student
enrollment to 10 percent, revers-
ing the drop in Latin@ enrollment,
creating a Dream Scholarship for
undocumented students and dou-
bling the number of Native Ameri-
can and other under-represented
students are the first steps the Uni-
versity needs to take now to keep
the promises it made to provide the
an equal quality education for every
minority student on this campus.
Meeting the 10 percent demand is
the one measurable and transparent
actionthe University cantaketo prove
to minority youth and communities,
especially to the students of Detroit,
that its commitment to diversity
and integration is more than just
lip service. If the University will
not fulfill the promises they made
40 years ago, there is no reason for
the new student, civil rights and
immigrant rights movement to
believe that the vague and minor
promises it is making behind
closed doors will ever materialize.
Over the next several years the
state of Michigan will provide
the University with new, much
larger public grants. In 1970, the
student movement demanded and
the regents agreed to spend tens
of millions of dollars to increase
minority enrollment. The new
movement has the power to make
the regents use the new infusion of
public fundstheywillstartreceiving
this year to finally fulfill the historic
agreement they entered into in 1970.
Onlybykeepingthe letterandspir-
it of the promises made in 1970, can
the University of Michigan become
the great university it claims to be.
Kate Stennvig is a University
alum, Ahmed Mohamed is an LSA
junior and Taylor Jones is an LSA
freshman. The authors are members
of By Any Means Necessary.


5A - Monday, February 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

5A - Monday, February 24, 2014 The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom

Notorious drug lord
caught by wiretaps

Gorbachev addresses
Ukraine political reform

Police use cell
phone technology to
find "El Chapo"
CULIACAN, Mexico (AP) -
After fruitlessly pursuing one
of the world's top drug lords for
years, authorities finally drew
close to Joaquin "El Chapo"
Guzman using a cellphone found
at a house where drugs were
stored.
The phone belonging to a
Guzman aide was recovered
with clues from a U.S. wiretap
and provided a key break in the
long chase to find Guzman, offi-
cials told The Associated Press
on Sunday.
Another big leap forward
came after police analyzed
information from a different
wiretap that pointed them to
a beachfront condo where the
legendary leader of the Sinaloa
cartel was hiding, according to
a U.S. government official and a
senior federal law enforcement
official.
When he was at last taken into
custody with his beauty-queen
wife, Guzman had a military-
style assault rifle in the room,
but he didn't go for it.
A day after the arrest, it was
not yet clear what would happen
next to Guzman, except that he
would be the focus of a lengthy
and complicated legal process to
decide which country gets to try
him first.
The cellphone was found Feb.
16 at house Guzman had been
using in Culiacan. By early the
next day, the Mexican military
had captured one of Guzman's
top couriers, who promptly pro-
vided details of the stash houses
Guzman and his associates had
been using, the officials said.
At each house, the Mexican
military found the same thing:
steel reinforced doors and an
escape hatch below the bath-
tubs. Each hatch led to a series
of interconnected tunnels in the
city's drainage system.
The officials, whospoke onthe
condition of anonymity because
they were not authorized to pub-
licly discuss how Guzman was

located, said troops who raided
Guzman's main house in Culia-
can chased him through the
drainage pipes before losing him
in the maze under the city.
A day later, on Feb. 18, Guz-
man aide Manuel Lopez Ozorio
was arrested and told investiga-
tors that he had picked up Guz-
man, cartel communications
chief Carlos Manuel Ramirez
and a woman from a drainage
pipe and helped them flee to
Mazatlan.
When he was finally in hand-
cuffs, the man who eluded Mexi-
can authorities for more than a
decade looked pudgy, bowed and
middle-aged in a white button-
down shirt and beltless black
jeans.
Now 56, he had successfully
eluded authorities since escap-
ing from prison in 2001 in a
laundry truck.
He is likely to face a host of
charges in Mexico related to his
role as the head of the cartel,
which is believed to sell cocaine,
marijuana, heroin and metham-
phetamine in some 54 countries.
He also faces extensive allega-
tions in the United States, where
grand juries in at least seven
federal district courts, including
Chicago, San Diego, New York
and Texas, have indicted him.
Federal officials in Chicago
were among the first to say they
wanted to try Guzman, followed
by prosecutors in Brooklyn, N.Y.
In an email Sunday, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Steven Tiscione
in Brooklyn said it would be up
to Washington to make the final
call.
A Justice Department offi-
cial, speaking on condition of
anonymity because it's a matter
of sensitive diplomatic discus-
sions, said no decisions regard-
ing extradition have been made.
During his 13 years on the
run, Guzman was rumored to
live everywhere from Argentina
to Mexico's "Golden Triangle," a
mountainous, marijuana-grow-
ing region straddling the north-
ern states of Sinaloa, Durango
and Chihuahua.
Under his leadership, the
cartel grew deadlier and more
powerful, taking over much of

the lucrative trafficking routes
along the U.S. border. Guzman
watched from western Mexico's
rugged mountains as authorities
captured or killed the leaders
of every rival group challeng-
ing Sinaloa's perch at the top of
global drugtrafficking.
The stocky son of a peasant
farmer even achieved a slot on
the Forbes' billionaires' list and
earned a folkloric status as being
too powerful to catch.
Then, late last year, authori-
ties started closing on his inner
circle.
The son of one of his two top
partners, Ismael "Mayo" Zam-
bada, was arrested at a border
crossing in Nogales, Ariz., in
November as part of a sprawling,
complex investigation involving
as many as 100 wiretaps, accord-
ing to his lawyer.
A month later, one of the
Sinaloa cartel's main lieutenants
was gunned down by Mexican
helicopter gunships in a resort
town a few hours' drive to the
east. Less than two weeks later,
police at Schipol Airport in
Amsterdam arrested one of the
cartel's top assassins, a man who
handled transport and logistics
for Guzman.
The noose got tighter this
month. Federal forces began
sweeping through Culiacan,
capital of the Pacific coast state
of Sinaloa, where they closed
streets, raided houses, seized
automatic weapons, drugs and
money, and arrested a series of
men Mexican officials carefully
described to reporters as top

Former Soviet
premier says heavy-
handed tactics
alienated populace
SHARJAH, United Arab
Emirates (AP) - Former Soviet
leader Mikhail Gorbachev said
Sunday that the political crisis
in Ukraine, which has seen its
president driven fromthe capital
after months of protests, stems
from its government's failure to
act democratically.
He spoke a day after dem-
onstrators took over Kiev and
seized President Viktor Yanu-
kovych's office as parliament
voted to remove him and hold
new elections.
Protesters first took to the
streets of Kiev late last year
after Yanukovych abandoned
an agreement that would have
strengthen his country's ties
with the European Union in
favor of seeking closer coopera-

tion with Moscow.'
"Ultimately this is the result
of the failure of the government
to act democratically" and to.
engage in dialogue and fight cor-
ruption, Gorbachev said during
an address at the International
Government Communication
Forum in the city of Sharjah in
the United Arab Emirates.
He added that the root cause
of the unrest in Ukraine was an
"interruption of perestroika,"
referring to his reform policies,
and "an interruption of the dem-
ocratic process" there.
Gorbachev also criticized the
disparities that have resulted
from globalization, which he
described as a "blind process"
that has led to uneven develop-
ment and created more losers
than winners in the developing
world.
The 82-year-old Gorbachev
was the last leader of the Soviet
Union, and the reforms he put in
place helped lead to the fall of
Communism.
After becoming the Soviet

leader in March 1985,he pursued
the policies of using "glasnost"
or openness, and "perestroika"
or restructuring. While his
intent had been only reform, the
policies brought about demo-
cratic changes that eventually
led to the collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1991.
Gorbachev won the 1990
Nobel Peace Prize for his role in
ending the Cold War, but he has
little influence in today's Russia.
Recently he has become
increasingly critical of Russian
President Vladimir Putin.
In December 2011, Gorbachev
urged then-Prime Minister
Putin to step down as tens of
thousandsofprotesters demand-
ed free elections and an end to
Putin's rule in the largest show
of public outrage since protests
20 years ago that brought down
the Soviet Union.
Moscow has backed Yanu-
kovych. He is widely despised in
western Ukraine, but has strong
support in the Russian-speaking
east.

Israeli prison raid ends
in death of U.S. murderer

Sheinbein fled17years
ago after killing,
dismembering a man

Police special forces rushed
to this prison in central Israel
after Sheinbein stole a weapon
and shot three guards, wound-
ing two of them seriously. He
then barricaded himself inside

officials for Zambada.
On Feb. 13, a man
"19," whom officials
new chief of assassin:
bada, was arrested
other men on the high
coastal resort city of N
Four days later,
described as a memo
Sinaloa cartel's upp
was seized along w
hollowed-out cucum
bananas stuffed witl
Then a 43-year-old kn
nickname "20" and
as Zambada's chief o
was arrested transpor
cocaine-stuffed produ

SHARON PRISON, Israel the compound where a standoff
known as (AP) - Israeli special forces ensued, with counter-terrorism
called the raided a prison in central Israel units dispatched to the scene.
s for Zam- Sunday after an inmate stole a The inmate then opened fire
with two gun, shot several guards and again, wounding three more
way to the barricaded himself inside the guards, before the forces shot
lazatlan. compound, killing the notorious him dead, police spokesman
a man prisoner who was serving time Micky Rosenfeld said.
ber of the for a gruesome murder carried Hospital officials said one
er ranks out in the U.S. of the wounded guards was
ith 4,000 Police identified the inmate fighting for his life. Police and
bers and as Samuel Sheinbein, an Ameri- the Israel prison service have
h cocaine. can who fled to Israel after opened investigations into the
own by the murdering and dismembering incident. Sheinbein's lawyers
described another man in Maryland in told Israeli TV that their cli-
:f security 1997 and whose case sparked a ent was under duress and that
ting more high-profile row between the the Israeli prison service has
ce. two allies. ignored their warnings.
h #1344-4115
Email: dallydisptq@gmaIl.com


Los Angeles Tmes Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edit by Ridi Uffu8 ad107v. Nkb* Lew
DOWN 7Tathmihau.64OiiMd*~
3iRoWo rmanorb
u~r 4Lupoin 4Z~~f ;*?f;
UZI& b 48 Arad do Souta
U EflA" =pN Sh&
Sis &W h ' a
TIMM* EK0 I 0~A
Mv. ap*&i A0vILOJM
DO4=dnE "Two 0 T NNEF NTEL
M in M l n ibamN
4lekadIZM f.
=Tdw 8E l I
n .nnflhMy gEo 9aN
Dfimi a nk im A1
Ia dun, i
dem
61 =Nbabbor

LIVE CONCERTS
BEACH PARTIES
0w
l':120 M$

A.
Let 1734776M
hw a*1inU.- min
-W7 ~dam-mzX&Wd
4E M i uw
r.M raino [c HUL

HAVE YOU
PURCHASED
THE
FOOTBALL
BOOK
YETI

Sheinbein, 34, was tried in
Israel in 1999, two years after
he fled to the country and suc-
cessfully sought refuge from
extradition, enraging Maryland
authorities and briefly threaten-
ing U.S. aid to the Jewish state.
An Israeli court sentenced
Sheinbein to 24 years for his
slaying and dismemberment of
19-year-old Alfredo Enrique
Tello Jr. Sheinbein was 17 at the
time of the killing and could
have faced a life sentence in
Maryland. His extradition to
Maryland was blocked after a
yearlong battle between Israel
and the United States over an
Israeli law that prohibited it.
Following that embarrass-
ment, Israel changed its laws to
allow the extradition of Israeli
citizens on condition that they
are returned to Israel to serve
any sentence imposed.
Sheinbein, of Aspen Hill,
Maryland, confessed to stran-
gling Tello with a rope and hit-
ting him several times with a
sharp object. Sheinbein then
dismembered the body with
an electric saw and burned it,
authorities said. Another teen-
ager charged in the killing,
Aaron Needle, committed sui-
cide while in jail in Maryland.
Sheinbein fled to Israel days
after Tello's remains were
found in a garage. He success-
fully sought refuge under a law
that prevented the extradition
of Israeli citizens to foreign
countries. Sheinbein had only
passing contact with Israel, but
his father, Saul, was born in the
country and Sheinbein qualified
for Israeli citizenship.
Israel refused to extradite
Sheinbein, prompting protests
from senior officials, including
then-Attorney General Janet
Reno. Some congressmen who
had otherwise been friendly to
Israel threatened to cut aid in
response.
Nitzana Darshan-Leitner,
who represented Sheinbein in
1997, bemoaned the "terrible
tragedy" that befell the families
of both the wounded guards and
the shooter and challenged the
system for how it has handled
her client.
"When he was sentenced,
he was 17, without a criminal
background, a kid from a nor-
mal background," she said. "It
is hard to understand how after
all these years in prison it was
not able to help him rehabili-
tate."
Maryland Attorney General
Douglas Gansler, who tried to
extradite Sheinbein back to
the U.S. as a state's attorney in
the 1990s, said Sheinbein was
a troubled young man whose
mental health issues continued
into adulthood.
Gansler said the timing of
Sheinbein's prison outburst was
most striking because he was
close to serving two-thirds of
his sentence and becoming eli-
gible for parole.

________ r iM~u-
Iff 15 UAAA2 ,U
IvxuLB±lw
914fm=an.n M
~E K in'' 8i - . ZMA . Ti
ic rM irm M ti
Ti4~~41Y~ Mt ~,km* Ew wkdU4
4~& N N t m 00-

DO THE
CROSSWORD,
THEN ORDER
ONE.


6A- Monday, February 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Dean 'sHonor List
Khaled Abbas Uwal Bharath Cameron Kevin Colish Nicholas David Germano Christopher Harris Robert Isenberg David Kinrich Eric Larson
Srinath Abburi Pallavi Bhatt Carpenter Allison Collins Donnantuono Dylan Gerow Martin Harris Mohammad Islam Mason Kinter Stefan Larson
Ali Abdulhamid Bo Bi Patrick Carrier Eric Colomb Lindsay Dorf Kendall Getts Brandon Harrison Isabel Iturralde Dillon Kipke Matthew Lascola
Sarah Abdulhamid Vittorio Bichucher Emily Carroll Christopher Como Rishin Doshi Benjamin Getz Andrew Hartman Rahul lyngar Bret Kirchner Matthew
Alexander Corey Biddle Michael Carrothers Michael Jessica Dou Benjamin Gezon Matthew Hartwig Shiva lyr Alp Kiremitci Laskowski
Abraham Eric Bidlingmaier David Carter Compagner Benjamin Tarek Ghaddar David Hash David Jackson Michael Kiriazis Nicole Latham
Eliana Abraham Benjamin Bielajew Lisa Carver Travis Compo Drumright Shiv Ghai Bakari Hassan Neal Jackson Austin Kirk Conrad Lather
Maher Abubakr Rachel Bielajew Joseph Casamento Dylan Conlon Kyle Duhaime Kirtana Ghandikota Ali Hassani Ross Jackson Benjamin Kirsch David Latva
Danielle Adamo Susan Biggart Jason Cassell John Connolly Alyssa Dunbeck Yusu Ghani Matthew Sarah Jackson Philippe Kirchen Spencer Lau
Nickolas Lauren Bilbo Jordan Cassidy Joseph Julie Dunn Andrew Ghareeb Hasseneld Tyler Jackson Sarah Kistler Yong Yi Lau
Adamowicz William Billingham Gino Castellucci Constantakis John Dunnuck Brett Giampa Tess Hatch Anup Jadhav Steven Kiyabu Samuel Laurila
Eric Adams Gideon Billings Abhishek Cauligi Bridget Cook Matthew Emily Gibara Christine Hathaway Suraj Jaipalli Nicholas Kizy Patrick Lawless
Janae Adams David Birkenheer Corryn Cawley Richard Cooke Ill Dunwoodie Zachary Gibas Nicole Haven Daniel Jaklic Zachary Klaver Maxime Lawton
Joshua Adkins Kellen Bixler Eduardo Cerame Kyle Cooley Allison DuRoss Gaurav Gidwani Andrew Hayden Mikela Jaklic Michelle Kleinau Mitchell Lawyer
Shobhit Adlakha Ian Blaauw Fabian Chacon Scott Cooper Jacek Dziedzic Paul Giessner Margaret Hayes Mohammad Jams Abigail Kleinheksel Hunter Layson
Nathan Adlam Catherine Blair Veerapong Alexander Cope Brandon Eagle Kyle Gilbert Ning He Evan James Alexander Klemens Michael Leahy
Daniel Adsit Kelsey Blake Chairuangsang Michael Copley Andrew Earhart Madeline Gilleran Shan He Lindsay Janes Nathan Kliger Jake Lebovits
Bora Agabigum Kristen Bland Amanda Maximilian Cornell Lauren Eastes Tasha Gillum Bradley Hecht Nina Janjic Noah Klimisch Max Ledersnaider
Shivesh Agarwal Ethan Bledsoe Chamberlain Gina Cortese Laura Ebert Elizabeth Girgen Danielle Hedden Erika Jansen Caleb Kline Albert Lee
Saam Aghevil Matthew Bodner Theodore Jessica Cosentino Kevin Eckstein Zachary Gittelman Nikas Heglin Isaac Jarman David Klippel Chee Wee Lee
Gregory Ahlberg Melissa Boelstler Champlin Lauren Coseo Gautam Edhayan Eric Giuffrida Jon Heiselman Jacob Jarrd Adam Kloess Chris Lee
Paul Akande Aigerim Carl Chan Isabel Cosnahan Eric Edmond Nicholas Gloria Eric Helder Trevor Jarrait Erik Knapp Daniel Lee
Amir Alavi Bogyrbayeva Ching Long Chan Henrique Costa Lauren Edson Austin Glover Aaron Helwig Bilal Javaid Steven Knier Geunbe Lee
Benjamin Alberts Hayley Bohn Devin Chan Zachary Costello Ryan Eggebrecht David Glubzinski Maximilian Ai Jawd Ryan Knisley Jennifer Lee
Nicole Aldinger Jocelyn Bohr Yu He Moses Carson Covell Noah Eisen Caroline Gluck Hemmrich Benjamin Jeong Bryce Knorp Jeongin Lee
Ali Al Haddad Riley Bohr Chan Robert Cowing Amin Eldemerdash Edward Godbold Jay Hendricks Tyler Jesiel Matthew Ko John Lee
Mark Alitawi Scott Boller Nitin Chandra Morris Cramer Jack Elder Ashley Godin Jeremy Hendzel Akshay Jetli Timothy Ko Philip Lee
Mohammad Isabel Bonachera Shruthi Chandra Aaron Crasner Reebehl E-Hage Kevin Goldberg Bryce Henney Jing Ji Yoonae Ko Sangmin Lee
Aljammaz Martin Ajaay Tamara Craven Lee Elisevich Bradley Goldstein Jean-Francois Xiaoan Ji Samuel Kodis Stephen Lee
Ameen A-Khafaji Laura Bonebrake Chandrasekaran Alexander Nasim Seth Goldstein Henry Ran Jia Justin Koehler Wonje Lee
Gregory Allen Wei Jin Bong Brian Chang Crawford Emamdjomeh Kirk Goleniak Marc Hensel Cheng Jiang Bridget Koessler Jiru Lei
Taylor Allen Wade Bonkowski Emily Chang Chandler Creech Omar Embabi Alexander Golinski Andrew Hepp Chuyi Jiang Eva Koester Adena Leibbrand
Nathan Allspach Dan Borgnakke Jungsoo Chang William Creighton Corey Emens Megan Gomba Robert Herkenham Connie Jiang Yeong Hyeon Koh Margo Leibold
Brooks Allwardt Caue Borlina Kevin Chang Esther Creswell Emmanouil Christine Gonzalez Neil Herman Eric Jiang Hashmita Koka Matthew Leibold
Brandon Amat Garret Borton Todd Charlton Peter Crist Emmanoulopoulos Paul Good Alexander Hershey Yixing Jiang Alex Kolb Marisa Leney
Vishal Amin John Bottenberg Daiven Chawan Noah Crocker Bradley England Todd Goodall David Hershey Javier Jimenez Shuyu Kong Emily Leppek
Jingwei An Laura Bouwhuis Andrew P. Chen Taylor Cronk Nathanael England Amy Goodell Joe Hidakatsu Serrano Robert Konigsberg Beth Ann Less
Yujie An Mattheus Bovbjerg Andrew X. Chen Benjamin Croop Benjamin Englard David Goodman Daniel Hiemstra Qu Jin Joseph Korany Lauren
Cyrus Anderson Grant Bowling Billy Chen Daniel Cruz Nicholas English Conner Goodrum Mackenna Hill Shiqing Jin Alexander Koroleff Letherwood
Evan Anderson Emma Boyd Daniel Chen Matthew Cui Michael Erickson Cory Gordinier Matthew Hill Zijian Jing Nathan Korth Joseph Letner
Kimberly Angelakis Michael Boyd Di Chen Kathryn Culver Brian Esch Kyle Gordon Henry Hilow Jr. Ann John Jack Kosaian Jason W. Leung
Rico Angell Maxwell Boykin Hao Chen Edmond Michael Esses Daniel Gorham David Hiskens Keith Johnson John Koster Jason Y. Leung
Michael Angileri Jesse Bradfield Henry Chen Cunningham Justin Eszlinger Morgan Gorris Kelsey Hockstad Mitchell Johnson Erik Kostrzewa Bertan Levi
Lauren Annes Rachel Bradley- Jerry Chen Gwynneth Elizabeth Ettleson James Gorton Ryan Hockstad Brandon Jones Neil Kothari Andrew Levin
Charles Antonelli II Haas Jintao Chen Cunningham Bryan Eyers Harsha Gotur Gabriel Hodge Denise Jones Jared Kott Nicholas Lewin
Jay Antonishen Jonathan Brand Junhe Chen Kayla Curtis Natalie Eyke Marika Grabowski David Hodgson Shaun Jones lIkka Kovanen Benjamin Lewis
Foivos Antoulinakis Monya Bransky Lily Chen Kimberly Cusmano Ghassan Fadlallah Michelle Graffenius Brandon Hoffman Tyler Jordan Caroline Kramer Andrew Li
Andrew Ao Erin Branton Luyi Chen Christopher Brian Fagan Katherine Graham Nathan Hoffman Vishal Joshi Julia Kramer Anji Li
Alexandra Andrew Braun Ruiqi Chen Cwiklinski Brian Fagel Micah Grand Allison Hogikyan Amaraj Judge Cody Krasny Dongyun Li
Apostolides Dorian Breort Ryan Chen Jeffrey Czajka Jessica Fibish Ian Graves Jonathan Holbert Kiyoon Jung Thomas Kratoil Jia Li
Abhinav Appukutty Jonathan Breje Siyu Chen Andrew Czyszczon Christopher Fair Roger Graves Ill Andrew Holmes Nicholas Jurgens Devon Kraus Jiabo Li
Kyle Apsey Jennifer Brenton Tie Chen Steven Czyz Hannah Fan Anna Gray James Holper Mitchell Jurries Mykola Jiacheng Li
Gabriel Aptekar Gregory Brewster Valerie Chen Saloni Dagli William Fang Clark Green Jacob Homan Kevin Kacan Kravchenko Jihan Li
William Arnson Marjorie Wei Chen Changqi Dai Andrew Farron Eleesha Green Bowen Hong Michael Kach Cynthia Kreng Jingy Li
Anuroop Arora Bridgewater Wenran Chen Chenyang Dai Ethan Fassezke Kevin Green Jeffrey Hong William Kacsur Aubrey Kress Maxwell Li
Dennis Arutyunov Samuel Brodkey William Chen Mengdan Dai Kyle Faulkner Samuel Sixian Hong Yannaphol Jennifer Krieger Mingyang Li
Alexa Arvidson Tristan Brohm Xingyi Chen Adam Dainas Nicholas Fava Greenwood Patrick Hooper Kewbaidhoon Simona Krifman Ting-Yi Li
Sean Asiala Timothy Brooks Yitian Chen Samuel Ali Alexander Curtis Greer Michael Hopko Megan Kalasho Abhiram Krishnan Xiang Li
Trevor Assaf Joseph Broses Young Chen Dallstream 11 Fayyad Connor Grieb Eric Horst Amit Kalay Anirudh Krishnan Yiming Li
Jake Atkinson Aldan Brown Morgan Chencinski Ayana Dambeva David Feddema Monica Griffin Ellen Horste Philip Kalinowski Thomas Krouglico Yinglong Li
Timothy Audiss Alexandra Brown Darren Cheng Bethany Daniel Matthew Catherine Griffith Reed Hostrander Katherine Kamp Laura Kruger Yiying Li
Laima Augustaitis Brice Brown James Cheng Deborah Daniel Federbush Chayce Griffith Steven Houtschilt Clay Kane Douglas Krusell Yuwei Li
Greg Avery Natalie Brown Joshua Cheng Brian Daniels Daniel Fedor Evan Griffith Jason Hoving Dylan Kane Bryant Ku Ziyun Li
Emma Azelborn Philip Brown Guo Kang Cheong Charles Daniels Dustin Ferguson Nicholas Grika Parker Howard Tyler Kane Jesse Ku Kaywee Lien
Nicholas Babcock Ryan Brown Christopher Mitchell Danowski Spencer Ferris Trevor Grigg David Howes Andrew Kane Nicholas Kucinski Jiru Ling
Diana Bach Sarah Brown Chermside- Shuvajit Ds Thomas Finch Chad Grimaldi Cheng-Hsiang Tae-Hyung Kang Davud Kucukarsan Lisa Ling
Ali Bacharouch Michael Bruk Scabbo Jesse Daugherty Erin Finn Tyler Grinn Hsiao Yiping Kang Olivia Kuenzi Alex Liao
Emma Backman Jason Bruns Daniel Chern Maureen Daum Kyle Finnegan Benjamin Groh Evan Hsu Brittany Kaplan Prince Kuevor Jianshan Liao
Jeremy Bai Luke Bruski Surekha Cherukuri William Davids Ian Fisk Tyler Groll Hao Hsu Michael Kaplan Austin Kuhn Weilin Liao
shdeep Bad Eric Buchsbaum Catherine Cheshire Connor Davidson Flavio Fiszman Noah Gross Brian Hu Samuel Kapor John Kuhn Kirk Liberty
Marina Baker Joshua Evan Cheshire Dana Davidson Ian Fitzner Samuel Gross Catherine Hu Dillon Karg Richard Kuisell John Lietz
Margaux Balagna Buchsbaum Dennis Chew Eli Davis Lauren Fitzpatrick Ethan Grossman Dili Hu Mernd Karlskin Samuel Kujawski Maria Ligeski
Darshana Christian Bueche Anthony Chiang Jordan Davis Erin Flannery Matthew Jack Hu Grant Karr Tanay Kulkarni Reed Lillie
Balasubramaniam Fred Buher Erica Chiang Mark Davison Genevieve Grossman Kevin Hu Bridget Karsten Olivia Kullmann Brian Lim
Steven Ball Anthony Bu Jonathon Chin Elizabeth Daykin Flaspoher Michael Grzych Michael Hu Sharn Kashyap Brian Kuwik Garry Lim
Kyle Balousek Jonathan Khai Yi Chin Lauren D'Cruz Jordan Fleischer Vincent Qiyu Hu Nabeel Kasim Ashwin Kumar Jit Yang Lim
Noah Balsmeyer Bukowsky Ting Wei Chin Austin Deal Nathan Fleming Grzywcz I Shiyong Hu Yousse Katamish Deepak Kumar Lee Sin Lim
Abhinav Bansal Ian Bumbalough Raymond Ching Margaret Decker Justin Flietstr Weili Gu Cheng Hu Aaron Kaufman Raoul Kumar Daniel Lin
Chenze Bao Jason Bundoff Abhishek Matthew DeFore Megan Flint Yuho Gu Eric Huang Jaclyn Kaufman Vikas Kumar Ian Lin

Carlos Barajas Daniel Bunge Chitlangia Luke DeGalan Alexander Flood Huijiao Guan Jinbo Huang Joshua Kaufman Steven Kummeth Shu Lin
Aaron Barber Philip Bunge Valliappa Matthew DeJonge Nicholas Folz Cassandre Gubow Olena Huang Anthony Kause Jr. Justine Kunz Kelsey Lindberg
Stephen Barch Travis Burch Chockalingam Kyle DeKryger Lindsay Ford Mallik Guduguntla Patrick Huang Umakanthan Kavin Jenette Kuo Kathryn Lindstrom
Bryce Barlow Benjamin Burke Alexander Chocron Andrew Delamar Sean Fortnam Michael Guerra Tianyi Huang Brendan Kawar Emily Kupa Matthew Lindstrom
Paul Barnes Mitchell Burke Paul Choi Sean Deleon Colby Foster Anirvan Guha Tzu-Chi Huang Jaclyn Kawwas Diamant Kurteshi Jessica Lipa
Patrick Barron Seth Burke Saloni Chokhani Marcus Deloney Christopher Fowler Ivan Gunawan Yihe Huang Ryan Keeney Nora Kusaka Elizabeth Lippie
Michael Barto Andrew Burns Ryan Chong Jason Delrosario Steven Fox Sinan Gunbay Yuchen Huang Brianna Kelly Herrero Jeremy Lipshaw
Patrick Bassett Emily Burns Andrew Chou Elizabeth DeMonte Joseph Foy Qilu Guo Zhihua Huang Jill Kelly John Kuzdal Ill Albert Liu
Rolf Bates Meghan Burns Beverly Chou Branton Dennis IV Jason Francolini Shaofei Guo Robert Huddleston Ryan Kelly Seok Joo Kwak Alice Liu
Tsatsral Battsengel Joseph Burzynski Daphne Chou Michaella Anthony Franklin Xiaoming Guo Clarke Hughes Tyler Kemerer Yong 11 Kwon Amy Liu
Mark Bauerle Nicholas Bush Yi-Chen Chou DeRubeis Joshua Franz Apoorva Gupta Andrew Huh Joshua Kempfer Kimberly Kyanka Bryan Liu
Alexander Bauman Megan Bushlow Michael Christen Alexander Desai Jacob Fratkin Mayank Gupta Brooke Huisman Conor Kennedy Danielle Kyser Christopher Liu
Clarissa Daniel Bustamante Alison Christiansen Samir Desai Evan Fredline Neil Gupta Bailey Hulswit Ryan Kennedy Brianna Labelle- Jiatu Liu
Baumgarten Tobias Buth Breanne Christie Agney Deshpande Zachary French Somya Gupta Jeremy Hummel William Kenny Hahn Qingya Liu
Stephen Baxter Zachary Button Kyle Chudler Noel Deshpande Steven Frey Stephanie Guthrie Robert Humphrey Kyle Kernosek Alex Laberge Shannon Liu
Amanda Bayagich Warren Buzzard Stephanie Chueh Kaitlin Devane Trenton Frey Mauricio Guzman Derek Man Hon Carl Kershaw Charles Lacy Shihang Liu
Nigel Beaton Alexander Buzzi Min Hyung Chung Aroon Devaprasad Bradley Frost Brian Ha Hung James Kessler Sara Laffin William Liu
Sara Beck Dominic Cadez Yeon Woo Chung Leo Devota Annie Fu Julia Habif Jennifer Hung Saarika Ketkar Kevin Laforest Winnie Liu
Joshua Becker Eva Cahnman Yooree Chung Tyler Devries Di Fu Luum Charles Hunt Lauren Kettle Reece LaFortune Yanqi Liu
Sharmin Begum Haowei Cai Mark Cilia Jessica Devriese Ashwin Fujii Habtemariam Christian Huntress Alexandra Keyser Helen Lai Yizhi Liu
Garrison Bellack Qizhe Cai Levon Cimonian Jonmarcos Diaz Robert Fulton Julie Hahn Devin Hupp Pranav Khambete Ian Lai Yuling Liu
Dexter Benda Christopher Cain Dominic Cincione Meghan Diehl Nicholas Furry Shashwati Haldar Dylan Hurd Shriya Khanna Jocelyn Lai Lucas Liuzzo
Jill Bender Peter Caintic David Cinquegrani Edward Diloreto Zachary Gallagher Michael Haling Samantha Hurley Zaid Khatib Shuyue Lai Christopher Lo
Jason Benedict Daniel Calabrese Samuel Cipriani Guergana Julie Gan Damon Hamilton Jeffrey Hurray Edward Khodaei Vincent Lai Vera Mann Hey Lo
Theo Benigeri Dominic Calabrese Meredith Citkowski Dimitrova Yiqian Gan Evan Hampton Luke Hurst Yoke Ping Khoo Samuel Laidlaw Katherine Lobaza
Micah Bennett Gina Calco Jake Claflin Antonios Shamik Ganguly Mohammad John Hurtado Ky Kiefer Patrick Lalor Allyse Locker
Lisa Bergeron Jordan Cameron Cody Clark Dimopoulos Jianchao Gao Suffian Hamzah Eric Hutchinson Barton Kiley Eric Lam Craig Loebs
Tyler Berghorst Andrew Campbell Donald Clark Samuel Dion Xiang Gao Xuexiu Han David Huynh Gojko Kilibarda Traye Lamere Scott Loeffler
Shira Bergman Joshua Campbell Harrison Clark Raymond Ditullio Michael Yeqin Han Gyu Jin Hwang Eric Killian Alexandros Laren Lofchy
Timothy Berka Paul Campbell Alexander Clegg Dai Phuc Do Gapczynski Brook Handler Kevin Hwang Andrew Kim Lancaster Nolan Loh
Adam Berkovec Pawan Canchi James Cofsky Morgan Doerflein Kathryn Garelli Bisma Haque Naomi Hwang Chan Woo Kim Stephen Lanham Umang Lohia
Jaclyn Berndtson Reed Cao Aaron Cohen Sarah Doering Emily Gargulinski Kohei Harada Kristen Ige Dae-Jun Kim Barbara Lanier Duane London
Aaron Berro Sana Cao Daniel Cohen Christine Dolikian Grey Garrett Rami Harb Vijayaraman Jae Hong Kim Connor Lanman Andrew Long
Daniel Bertoni Yue Cao Rebecca Cohn Sylvia Domanico Justin Gasparovich Timothy Harbaugh Ilankamban Justin Kim Daniel Lao Catherine Long
Cormac Bevins Josiah Caprino Valerie Coldren Amy Domino Karl Gendler Anna Hardig Nathan Immerman Spencer Kim Anya Laroche Christine Looney
Shankara Gregory Caputo Evan Cole Fan Dong Wilburt Geng Kyle Harman William Irwin Sungjin Kim Peter Larsen Alondra Lopez
Bharadwaj Kelly Carew Ryan Coleman Zhiqi Dong Alec Georgoff Andrew Harris Mark Isaacson Avi King Connor Larson Brittany Lopez


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Monday, February 24, 2014 - 7A

The Dean and faculty of the College of Engineering congratulate the
following undergraduates for attaining the Dean's Honor List. These students
completed a minimum of 12 graded credit hours and received a 3.5 GPA or MICHIGAN
better to earn the distinction of Dean's Honor List for Fall Term 2013. ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Brad Lorant Nolan McPartlin Ian Nilsen Emily Pfaff Roghani Alastair Shi Christopher Stuart Murat Turkeli Zachary Weglarz Kristen Ydoate
Daniel Loughran Alexander Parker Nirenstein Yelena Pham Esfahani Linfeng Shi Peter Su Oleksandr Yunhan Wei Jason Ye
Maxwell Lounds MSpaden Ning Niu Wade Phillips Nicole Rojas Yining Shi Scott Su Tyberkevych Lily Weinstein Jiayu Ye
Patrick Lown John McWilliams Jacob Noble Renee Philson Jonathan Roken Yuxin Shi Shan Su Zakir Tyebjee Alexa Weiser Ruqing Ye
Emily Lozon Chandler Medaugh Jeffery Noble 11 Julia Pierce Peter Romanelli Zheyun Shi Michelle Suen Yuma Uesaka Kevin Weishuhn Adam Yee
Cynthia Lu Benjamin Mehne Evan Noon Matthew Pierce Peter Romero Zhongyi Shi Amanda Sugai Michael Ulrich Lindsey Weisler Alexander Yee
Di Lu Mitul Mehta Madeleine North Charles Pinzone Erik Rood Nathan Shields Daniel Suh Ali Ulusan Veronica Weisman Alison Yellen
Jeffrey Lu Jie Mei Zachary Noskey Daniel Pippen Christopher Roon Christopher Shih Paweennut Austin Urlaub Andrew Weiss Han Lin Yeo
Jianghao Lu Michael Medrum Mitchell Noyce Catherine Ariella Rose Pinak Shikhare Sukarome Benjamin Uttal- Christian Weiss Keun Dong Yeo
Jun Lu Olivia Melendez Whitney Nudo Pisarczyk Guillermo Jared Shimoun Ravesh Veroff Alexander Welch Albert Yerman
Lillian Lu Bradley Menchi Noah Nuechterlein Maggie Pistella Rosembat Gyungcheol Shin Sukhnandan Ursus Uziemblo Christopher Welch Justine Yeung
Samuel Lu Antonio Menendez Claire Nulty Colin Jelena Rosenberg Tony Shin Colin Sullivan Rajeev Vadhakar Joseph Wendorf Chenyu Yi
Siyl Lu Anitha Menon Daniel Nunez Pitawanakwat Brandon Jason Shintani Mary Sully Stacey Valentine Crystal Wesnoski Gene Yi
Yifei Lu Chirag Menon Jacquelyn Nunn Andrew Plave Rosenblum Koji Shiono Trevor Sultana David Vallem John West Lan Yi
Yimin Lu Joseph Menzia Uzoma Nwabara Hayley Pline Yossef Rosenstein Ashley Shipley Besir Murat Sumer Mark VanAstine Stuart Wheaton Yalim Yildirim
Yongyi Lu Nathaniel Meredith Ryan Nyberg Gabriel Pogliano Brandt Rosentreter Kevin Shock Lauren Summitt James Vance Alexander Wheeler Yagiz Yildiz
Paul Lucas Ryan Meredith Matthew Daniel Polan Damian Rotarov Gautham Sholingar Anqi Sun Ryan Vanderhoef Robert Whitaker Alex Ying
Jacob Lucero David Mertz O'Callaghan Richard Polan Robert Roth Alexander Sholtz Luqin Sun Mark Vander Roest Christina White Maxwell Yinger
Kathryn Luczek Ryan Mettlach Charles O'Conor Robert Polik Matthew Rouhana Michael Shook Mengyuan Sun Benjamin James White Michael Yonick
Kelsey Luibrand Zachary Meves Cory O'Dell Steven Polowy Lukas Rowland Sarah Shrosbree Ki-Joo Sung Vndersloot Kendra White James Yonts
Matthew Lund Mark Mevorah Timothy Odykirk Eric Pomeroy Katelyn Rowley Roberto Shu Jai Sura Conner Megan White Jae Yong Yoo
Max Lustig Bethany Meyer Kenneth O'Hanlon Rehan Poonawala Sijie Ruan Daniel Shuart Pooja Suresh Vandevelde Ryan Whitfield Yeohyun Yoon
Andrew Lynch Michael Meyerson Allison O'Leary Allison Powell Hunter Ruch Rosalie Shyu Richard Nicolas Van Dik Theodore Bruno Yoshioka
Yimeng Lyu Wei Miao Gabriel O'Leary James Power Mitchell Rudy Humza Siddiqui Sutherland Jr. Nathan Van Whittesey Cooper Young
Chong Ma Jacob Michalski Max Olender Kaitlyn Powers Nicholas Ruff Nathan Siegel Christian Svetnick Nortwick Matthew Widmann Maria Young
Ivan Ma Marcelline Michell Evan Olexa Joseph Poznanski Kathleen Khai Yin Sew Alexander Swantek Ashwin Varghese Jacob Wieger Eric Yu
Jun Ma Alex Migicovsky David Oliver Megan Preger Rulkowski Swaym Sikaria Braden Swantick Daniel Kelsey Wiers Gary Yu
Michael Gabriel Mijares Kirk Olsen Logan Preston Joshua Rumsey Samantha Silveira Melissa Sweeney Vargovick Jr. Nicholas Willer Han Yu
Macfarlane Margain Vincent Olsen Alexander Price Sara Rusignuolo Janice Sim John Swets Siju Varughese Alex Wilets Ji Hoon Yu
Elise Machiele Brandon Mikkelsen Andrew Olson Gregory Priessnitz Kwesi Rutledge John Simmons Jordan Swift Alexander Vaughn Allyson Williams Vicki Yu
Daniel Maclennan Andrew Migrom Bradley Olson Kelsey Prieur Lee Rutledge Andrew Simon Jesse Sykes Jr. Andrew Vazquez David Williams Xiaoyi Yu
Timothy Andrea Miller Isaac Olson Aaron Priluck John Ryan Nicholas Joshua Synowiec Hubbard Velie John Williams Jibin Yuan
Macpherson Etan Miller Matthew Olstein Julia Prisby Christopher Ryba Simopoulos Oles Synyutka Siddhrth Mark Williams Kate Yuhas
Dhruv Madaan Eric Miller Gunseli Onder Ian Pudney Mark Ryda Stephanie Singer Michael Venkatesan Nathan Williams Gabrielle Zacks
Sahil Madeka Griffin Miller Christopher O'Neil William Puerner Prateek Sachdeva Gushan Singh Sypniewski Vikas Venugopal Taylor Williams Adam Zander
Matthew Maertens Jack Miller Timothy O'Neill Chelsea Pugh Adam Sachs Harneet Singh Colin Szechy Tushar Verma Benjamin Wilshire Jonathan Zarger
Mohammad Ilman Lindsey Miller Christopher Oo Jonathan Pugh Aryaman Sagar Kunjan Singh David Szefi Jordan Vermeer Kyle Wilson Robert Zautke
Mahamad Amir Stephanie Miller Jessica Opaleski Eric Pulick Gautham Sajith Mandhiraj Singh Adnan Tahir Nicholas Verschure Patrick Wilson Rishi Zaveri
Eyad Makki Helena Mills Steve Orloff Kolin Purcell Zane Salem Syfith Jeet Singh George Tam Zachary Verschure Jacob Winick Zachary
Sotirios Malamis Michael Mills Theodore Orm Elizabeth Purtill Nabeel Salka Martin Sisolak Carrie Tamarelli Marshall Versteeg Erik Winnega Zechmeister
Shair Malik Joseph Mims Christopher Orr Connie Qi Jeffrey Sallans Gillian Sissman Frank Tan Kyle Vesevick Karl Winsor Daniel Zeddies
Austin Maliszewski Jiahong Min Richard Ortman Yiming Qiang Theodore Sallen Sandeep Siva James Tan Anurag Veturi Marisa Witcpalek Raven Zeer
Benjamin Keith Minbiole Yutaka Oshikiri Chao Qin Vincent Salpietro Daniel Slavin Jun Lin Tan Sameer Vig Renee Wiwel Michael Zelenak
Mallernee Jacob Anastasia Sunming Qin Kelsey Saltzman Evan Slawski Kit Siang Tan Adam Vignaroli Kayla Wizinsky Eugene Zen
Nicola Malloy Mindykowski Ostrowski Chi Qiu Leilani Sampang Jared Slawski Matthew Tan Bernardo Villarreal Kayla Wock Hui Zeng
Manaswee Jonathan Minker Charles Oswalt Ye Quan Avery Samuel Edward Slevin Jesiska Tandy Garza Marcus Wogan Xinyi Zeng
Malugari Elizabeth Miranda Derek Otten Zachary Quanbeck Devon Samuel Cameron Sloan Yijia Tang Jacob Villarreal Kelly Wojcik Anven Zhang
Zachary Mandell Ariana Mirian Alexander Maria Quimpo Katherine Laura Slykhouse Zhuoyi Tang Pohlenz Trevor Wong Bochun Zhang
Alexander Mang James Miron Ottenwess William Quinlan Samuelson Robert Small Kyle Tanghe Anirudh Vinnakota Wilson Wong Boren Zhang
Joshua Mann Aloak Misra Barclay Ian Raber Jamie Sanderson Andrew Smith Hanyun Tao Marissa Viscomi Hyunjae Woo Cheryl Zhang
Scott Mansfield Andrew Model Oudersluys John Rabideau Clark Sanford Evan Smith Siyuan Tao Swetha Nathan Wood Chunhao Zhang
Yanxun Mao Vishal Modi Demi Outman Ali Radha Kunal Sanghani Hunter Smith Tasha Tardieu Viswanatha Daniel Woodworth Clark Zhang
Jerry Mar Luis Molina ten Mert Ozbiek Roshan Xerxes Sanii Nelson Smith Galen Tarrant Rachel Vitali Walker Woodworth Denny Zhang
Karl Marco Lauren Molley Benjamin Oztalay Radhakrishnan Astrid Santiago Shepherd Smith Kyle Taylor Michael Vizzini Benjamin Woolsey Dong Zhang
Brian Marentay Sanda Mong John Padalis Brian Raeker Sinem Sargin Stanley Smith Mary Taylor Davis Vorva Jeffrey Woolstrum Fan Zhang
Emily Marinan Cameron Monroe Michael Padilla Samrudh Anjali Saripalli Travis Smith Samantha Nathan Vorwerck Ryan Wooster Gordon Zhang
Andrew Marino Nicholas Montes Adrian Padin Rajachudamani Ramestr Troy Sneler Taylordean Matthew Vosters Brady Worden Haolu Zhang
Steven Marion Zachary Montpas Benjamin Page Arthur Rajala Sasirajpornchai David Snider Ryan Tedd Nicholas Vrahoretis Kyle Worley Huajun Zhang
Brian Marker Hayoun Moon Anjana Pakala Suraj Rajan William Sawyer IIl Spencer Snow Wei Yau Tee Gabrielle Vuysteke Mitchell Worner Jackie Zhang
Anton Markov Akshay Moorthy Rohit Palayekar Vijay Rajan Ryan Scannell Daniel Snyder Clark Teeple Andrew Jesse Worthington Jialiang Zhang
Elizabeth Marks Eilam Morag Justin Paldowic Ekaterina Thomas Schachner William Sobnosky Jason Teno Wagenmaker Larissa Woryk Kevin Zhang
Tyler Markvluwer Jesus Morales Evan Pan Rakhmatulina Chad Schaffer Archana Alexandre Teo Katherine Wagner Donald Wright Ningyuan Zhang
Matthew Marlowe Cassandra Tina Pan Galang Ramadhan Louis Schaljo Sohmshetty Deng Ke Teo Elizabeth Samuelina Wright Rui Zhang
Spencer Maroukis Morford Victor Pan Rohith Ramprasad Jonah Jonathan Soifer Yen Ming Teo Wadvogel Nicholas Wrobel Ruilin Zhang
David Marsh Daniel Morizio Yuhao Pan Christopher Scheinerman Matthew Solarz Nicholas Terrell Malik Wal Chun Wu Shun Zhang
Lucas Marshall Jeffrey Morris Jr. Mahar Pandhare Ranella Matthew Juan Solis Jr. Vinyak Thapliyal Patrick Walker Grace Wu Shuoyuan Zhang
Michal Marshall Maxwell Morrison Anthony Papa Shea Ransford Schirmann Brian Somes Joshua Thariath Nathan Wallace Hongyu Wu Tyler Zhang
Olivia Marshall Arjun Motta Marcus Erich Rasch Michael Schmatz Abrielle Sommers Mark Theisen Rachel Wallace Jian Wu Wenjia Zhang
Sebastian Martinez Andrew Mouat Papadopoulos Jim Rasche Casey Schmidt Jie Song Mitchel Thelen Luke Walocko Jie Wu Wenxuan Zhang
Todd Maslyk Kendall Moyer Nitish Paradkar Leah Raschid Lance Schmidt Seong Hwan Song Abishek Thiagaraj Amanda Walsh Kedi Wu Xiang Zhang
Matthew Mason Robert Muccioli Harsh Pardasani Chandruganesh Matthew Schmidt David Sooch Jeffrey Thiele Palmer Walters Qiong Wu Xiaomi Zhang
Mario Matanovic Selman Mujovic Prasad Parikh Rasendran Skyler Schmidt Joseph Sorenson Zachary Thieme Lia Wampler Rosa Wu Xingsi Zhang
Andrea Mathew Alexandra Sarah Paris Stephen Ratkowiak Lena Schneewind Paul Sorenson Scott Thierbacker Benjamin Wang Samuel Wu Xiyu Zhang
Praful Mathur Mukavitz Spencer Paris Robert Rau Matthew Ana Sosa Trevor Thill Calvin Wang Xiao Wu Yidan Zhang
Charles Matrosic Ishan Mukherjee Hajoon Park Nissim Ray Schneider James Spain Alexander Thinath Charles Wang Yiwen Wu Ying Zhang
Quinn Matthew Jay Mulani Jin Woo Park Jacob Rees Carrie Adam Spanske Nicholas Thiros Chenghao Wang Yuxiao Wu Yunyan Zhang
Johnathan Matula Andrew Mullen Samuel Parrotte Keith Reid Schoeneberger Sterling Springgate Elayne Thomas Chenyu Wang Ryan Wurst Ze Zhang
William Matus Nolan Muller Michael Partenio Yi Ren Shane Schulte Joseph Spurlin Erik Thomas Christopher Wang Nicholas Wurtz Zelin Zhang
Jacqueline Anna Munaco Elizabeth Pascoe Yiyu Ren Andrew Robert Squiers Kyle Thomas Danyang Wang Aimee Xi Heri Zhao
Matyszczyk Jonathon Muncie Gabriel Pascualy Sravan Rengarajan Schumacher Bharadwaj Ryan Thomas Dingding Wang Rachel Xiang Jiapeng Zhao
William Mauser Alexander Mundor Daniel Pasternak David Rett Timothy Srinivasan Dalton Thompson Fudi Wang Shensi Xiao Meng Zhao

Joseph Mazur Christopher Harshavardhan Andrea Revels Schumacher Shriram Srinivasa- David Thompson Haohuan Wang Ted Xiao Penghua Zhao
Matthew McAllister Murdock Patankar Alicia Revezzo Kevin Schumaker Narasimhan Kyle Thompson Helei Wang Yao Xiao Yichen Zhao
Joseph Steven Murray Brij Patel Christopher Riley Schwader Hari Sriram Rachel Thompson Hongji Wang Peter Xie Yisha Zhao
McAndrews Andrew Murtland Dharmik Patel Reynolds Cody Schwartz Kaustubh Kegan Thorrez Ji Wang Yu Xing Yixin Zhao
Kristopher McAtee Austin Murtland Markan Patel Kyle Reynolds Michael Schwartz Srivastava Andrew Thorwall Jianing Wang Baishen Xu Yunkai Zhao
Cameron McBride Joshua Muss Miki Patel Alexander Rhodes Alexis Schwerin Connor Stack Bo Tian Jingcheng Wang Bangqi Xu Alan Zhen
Mark McBride Sean Muyskens Monica Patel Indie Rice William Scola Matthew Stafford Jonathan Tiao Jingkui Wang Bingjie Xu Jiazhen Zheng
Mark McCarthy Paul Myers Parth Patel Noah Rice Spencer Scolnick Enzo Stante Austin Timmer Mengze Wang Edward Xu Yingshi Zheng
Maura McCarthy Tajjeev Nadarajan Raj Patel Keanu Richardson Nathan Secinaro Matthew Stanulet Atakan Tin Qi Wang Peng Xu Sen Yuan Zhong
Megan McCarthy Ari Nadrich Sharvil Patel Neal Richardson Joseph Sedlak Eric Staszel Nathan Tinetti Qiwen Wang Renjie Xu Haining Zhou
Michelle Benjamin Nagle Yash Patel Benjamin Richer Robert Self Jacob Steffler Varsha Tirukonda Ruixuan Wang Wenzhe Xu Jialing Zhou
McClaughry Hussein Nagree Casey Patnode Lucas Rieckhoff Katherine Sell Michael Steiger Ronaldo Tobar Stanley Wang Yilei Xu Jinchong Zhou
Thomas McClish Nishal Nandigam Rishi Pattabiraman Eric Riedel Kyle Selter Evan Stein Thommel Xianglong Wang Zhuyun Xu Siyuan Zhou
William McCollum Joshua Nanni Ryan Patterson Kelsey Tharun Selvakumar Alec Stenzel Anthony Tohme Xiaofei Wang Jiong Xue Wennan Zhou
Jonathon Patrick Nanry Dixit Paudel Riemenschneider Adam Sentz Christopher Sarah Tommelein Yungang Wang Sunjay Yadav Xinpei Zhou
McCormick Amanda Napoli Anne Pavlik Matthew Riley Christopher Seow Stephan Jasmine Tompkins Yupeng Wang Nikhit Yamani Yuxuan Zhou
Clayton McCoy Daniel Nara Spenser Pawlik Jonathan Rim Carlos Serratos Samantha Xiaobai Tong Yutong Wang Kyle Yan Boyang Zhu
Riley McCune Rehan Nawaz John Payne Phillip Ring Barbaros Serter Stephenson Yifeng Tong Zhan Wang Hantao Yang Haonan Zhu
Allison McDonald Amlan Nayak Andrew Pearl Colin Riordan Harleigh Seyffert Luke Stevens Anthony Torres Zhao Wang Jin Mo Yang Mengdi Zhu
Charles Kyle Nekritz Steven Pecht Ian Rios Sialer Benjamin Sha Tyler Stevenson Dimitar Totkov Zhehui Wang Kevin Yang Ruihao Zhu
McDonald 11 Harvey Nelson Lisa Pederson Matthew Ripari Yu Sha Adam Stewart Trevor Towery Zhinan Wang Owen Yang Shaoqing Zhu
Austin McDowell Matthew Nelson David Pei Juan Riquezes Dhavan Shah David Stewart Alexander Trecha Zhonghao Wang Phillip Yang Yiwei Zhu
Lauren McGlinn Kayleigh Nemets Jeffrey Peil Brenden Ritola Rishi Shah Karl Stimmel Pablo Trefftz Allison E. Ward Shuo Yang Junfeng Zhuang
Michael McGookey Dyanne Neoh Andrew Pekala Dylan Rittman Rohan Shah Cameron Stitt Posada Allison R. Ward Si Hui Yang Gabrielle Zimbler
Ian McGraw Tanay Nerurkar Michael Pelton Joel Roath Samkit Shah Joseph Stockton Daniel Tresnak Evan Ward Tao Yang Noam Zimet
Emma McGregor Martha Neubauer John Pendy Alexander Roberts Shikhar Shah Allisandra Stoiko John Trethewey Jade Warner Xinyue Yang Zachary
Nicholas McHardy Matthew Neumann Jiacheng Peng Michael Roberts Shivani Shah Matthew Stone Jourdon Tribue Lauren Warren Yifeng Yang Zimmerman
Timothy McKay 11 Rachel Neumann Rianna Penn Derek Rocco Parisa Shahbaz Maeanna Stover Anthony Trieu Joanna Warrick Zifan Yang Yusheng Zou
Matthew McKee Timothy Richelle Penn John Rockwell Sharjil Shamim Eric Straley Christopher Alexander Joseph Yanos Zibo Zou
Nicholas Newberger Asher Perlmutter Brandon Rodd, Kun Shao James Trojniak Waselewski Allen Yao Eldy Zuniga
McLaughlin Alexander Ng Hershel Perlmutter Ryan Rodeman Joel Sharin Strandbergh Zane Truax Eric Waselewski Xisheng Yao Connie Zuo
Ryan McMahon Trong Nguyen Brendan Person Saharat Loic Sharma Michael Stratton Russell Trupiano Kevin Waterman Yichen Yao John Zwick
Ethan McMillan Hyeon Kyun Nho Miranda Peterson Rodjanamongkol Kamahl Shehadeh Madison Strauss Shengjie Tu Rachel Watton Wei Hon Yap Dylan Zwiers
Austin McMullen Xiangyu Ni Kyle Pettibone Luke Roggenkamp Nina Shekhar Jesse Streicher David Tuckey Douglas Watts Austin Yarger
Julia McMurtrey Niklas Nijkamp Jonathan Pevarnek Seyed Reza Mihir Sheth Alexandria Strother Yi-Ling Tung Tristan Weber Elena Yarmy


8A - Monday, February 24, 2014Th

The Michigan Daily - michigandailycom


More than just 'Millennial.
'Broad City' stars
talk comedy, life

Peter Gabriel's "In Your Eyes" plays softly in the background.
Raw emotion makes a
real and effective 'Pas

Rising comediennes
discuss Comedy
Central show
By MADDIE THOMAS
Daily TV/New Media Editor
Abbi Jacobson and Ilana
Glazer, the stars of Comedy
Central's latest breakout hit,
"Broad City," are not afraid to
tackle the important questions
plaguing our generation today:
"Who would you rather have go
down on you: Michael Buble or
Janet Jackson?" asks Glazer's
character, Ilana Wexler, in a
recent episode. On the record,
Jacobson and Glazer both
agree that Jackson is the better
choice (though Jacobson's ideal
situation would be to also have
Michael Buble in the room,
singing).
"Broad City," which is only
five episodes into its first
season, has received critical
acclaim (see: The Michigan
Daily's coverage of the show,
including Erika Harwood's
pilot review and Kayla Upad-
hyaya's column) for its unique
voice and chemistry between
its two leads, Abbi and Ilana,
who are real-life best friends
and alums of the improvisa-
tional comedy group, Upright
Citizens Brigade (UCB), in New
York City.
Jacobson and Glazer's char-
acters - fictionalized versions
of themselves - are dirty, raun-
chy, awkward and lazy. Critics
are quick to peg the comedians
as feminist icons for bringing
these less-than-"ideal" women
to the silver screen, but Jacob-
son and Glazer maintain that,
while they're happy to be send-
ing a positive message, comedy
is their priority.
"When we're shooting, we
son't have that agenda of being
like, 'We gotta make sure that

an awesome word to describe
us and the show, but at the
same time, while it's great to be
described that way, we're not
female comedians. We're not
female writers. The show is a
comedy about people," Jacob-
son said.
It's true, the show is about
people - especially the people
of Generation Y.
"Both of these characters
went to college, used it and
abused it, and now they're try-
ing to make it after this four-
year vacation. Our generation
has a little bit of a prolonged
adolescence, so 'college life'
can extend into your early
twenties," Glazer said.
The two young comedians
showcase the trials and tribu-
lations of being a millennial
twentysomething through the
lens of their bizarre humor.
"(Our comedy) is like a
heightened realism. We like to
keep you grounded with the
characters' relationship, but
then we take things to an exag-
gerated, silly, level," Jacobson
said.
The key to pulling off that
surrealist humor (see: Fred
Armisen in an adult diaper in
the pilot episode) is the touch
of reality that Jacobson, Glazer
and their writing staff inject
into each episode.
"We try to base the seeds
of every episode on something
that's either happened to us
or friends of ours or the writ-
ers that write the show with us
or their friends, so somewhere
within the episode or scenes in
general is the inkling of some-
thing that's happened in real
life," Jacobson said. "Like, for
example, on last night's epi-
sode (episode five, titled "Fat-
test Asses") we were at this
crazy rooftop party that Abbi
and Ilana felt really uncom-
fortable at, and that's based on
a party that Ilana and I went to

Unlike their unmotivat-
ed characters, Jacobson and
Glazer are enjoying some seri-
ous and well-deserved success
during their post-college years.
In the last two years they have
gone from co-creating a little-
known web series (also called
"Broad City") on YouTube to
co-running a TV show on Com-
edy Central and working with
comedy icon (and fellow UCB
alum) Amy Poehler, who pro-
duces the show. This March,
Jacobson and Glazer will be
flexing their improv muscles
on a live "Broad City" tour
across the U.S. (featuring a
show in Pontiac, MI on March
12).
Despite all the recent hype,
Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer
never forget how lucky they are
to be doing what they love; the
real-life 'broads' are nothing
but grateful and earnest.
"I think we both know how
rare of an opportunity this is
and Comedy Central really
lets us go in terms of what we
wanna write about. It's pretty
awesome," Jacobson said.
Glazer agreed, adding, "We
are definitely sincere ver-
sus snarky or sarcastic. And
sometimes we're like ... 'are we
lame?' But it is what it is. We
sincerely want people to like
this. We never put out like, a
'fuck you' joke. We want people
to escape and enjoy when they
watch our show."
"Broad City" is crass, charm-
ing, magnetic and funny. In a
world where Brooklyn-based
sitcoms about twentysome-
things are a dime a dozen, Abbi
Jacobson and Ilana Glazer have
cultivated a show that, while
familiar in premise, is still
the most refreshingly original
comedy on TV today. Don't
believe me? Check out the full
pilot episode on the show's web-
site. Then make sure to tune in
every Wednesday at 10:30 p.m.
on CunmodvCentral.

ByANDREWMCCLURE
Daily Arts Writer
Relationship movies often
multi-manage the same ingre-
dients, but the most profound
ones don't
exploit oft- A
recycled
tropes like The Past
cozy lensing M .g
and a weepy Michigan
score. The best Theater
relationship Sony Pictures
movies care-
fully calibrate Classics
into natural-
ism with enough awkwardness
and unease to convince you that
you're screening a documenta-
ry. Up-and-coming filmmaker
Asghar Farhadi, who delivered
the sensational divorce-centric
Iranian film "A Separation" in
2011, finds his rhythm again in
"The Past," this time with more
bite and a timeless performance
by his leading lady.
The movie starts in Paris
when Marie (Berdnice Bejo,
"The Artist") picks up her
estranged husband Ahmad (Ali
Mosaffa, "Leila") from the air-
port - time to finally ink the
divorce papers. Ahmad soon
finds out that Marie lives with
her new married boyfriend
(Tahar Rahim, "Grand Cen-
tral") and his young son. Yet it's
the eldest of Marie's two daugh-
ters, Lucie (Pauline Burlet, "La
Vie en Rose") who best compli-
cates the story.

Lucie doesn't like the boy-
friend, her mother or, really, her
own (lost) identity, complete
with a compellingly insecure
and rebellious carriage. Once
Lucie realizes that her mother
was having an affair with a mar-
ried man, she acts on a sense of
restitution, creating a hellfire
of veiny screaming and water-
fall tears amid the two families.
The movie never tries to rectify
any of the characters' decisions,
because that would imply a
"mistake" was made.
As the title suggests, "The
Past" cleverly fuses the not-
so-bright pasts of the key plot
players, leaving us room to
root for no one in particular,
yet we empathize with every-
body bereft of the victimiza-
tion tropes that many acclaimed
movies in 2013 seemed to proj-
ect. You know the kind: feel
sorry for the depressed weirdo
in "Her," the protagonist in "12
Years a Slave," the oppressed in
"Fruitvale Station" and so on.
The drama is so real that we feel
on a different emotional wave-
length than we're used to when
watching a melodrama that
tells us it's drama. We instead
feel on an even keel with these
characters, as if they were our
just-as-troubled-as-us next door
neighbors.
Bdrdnice Bejo as Marie quar-
terbacks this palpable realism
with vim and affect. After trial-
and-erroring her way through
several relationships, she gradu-

ally loses any grip on her increas-
ingly disobedient daughter and
her complex marital mess. A
climactic scene captures her
violently shaking Lucie, scream-
ing, "Why would you do this to
me?!" She angrily informs us
that she's finished with Ahmad
and wants to tread forward
with her new boyfriend, but too
many things hold her back in the
subtlest of ways: Lucie's resis-
tance; Ahmad's comfort with
the children and the boyfriend's
contagious pessimism. Her vacil-
lating feelings lead the story into
a darker but more honest place.
Timeless
authenticity.
The minimalist camerawork
complements the film that needs
no score. That doesn't mean the
film is unsuitable for a full-on
orchestral soundtrack, but our
helmer elected to let his charac-
ters and their raw crossings cre-
ate music, both authentic and
without superfluous notes.
We like the Bejo-Farhadi
actor/filmmaker tag-team. They
play off each other's sriousness
with humility and authenticity.
Totally snubbed it the Oscars
this year, "The Past" is a brute
cinematic force, one that isn't
afraid to show how ugly a
separation can get.


IT'S GREAT...
TO BE... A MICHIGAN
WOLVERINE!
@MICHIGANDAILY

Philosophy, Politics & Economics
Applications are now being accepted for the Undergraduate Program
Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE)
Deadline is March 14, 2014. Visit
www.Isa.umich.edu/ppe
for more information

4


Sports onday
The Michigan Daily I michigandaily.com I February 24, 2014


IZZ-0 AND 2
You probably haven't heard, but the
Spartans have lots and lots of injuries.
Why John Beilein doesn't really care.
SportsMonday Column, page 2B

SALVAGING A SPLIT
* With Big Ten Tournament positioning
on the line, Michigan could only split
its series against Penn State, the
conference's worst team. Page 3B

M
WA


2B - Monday, February 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Two benches, two coaches: one loud, one quiet

So Tom Izzo is tall
about injuries
has a
lot recently
- when the
lights go
out. This is
in the press
room after
the Michigan
men's
basketball ZACI
team has HEL]
beaten Izzo's
Spartans,
who are crippled by inj
Well, actually, one injuo
inflicted broken-hand s
by their fourth-leading
So Izzo is talking ab
injuries, and the lights
and Michigan has just1
Michigan State, 79-70,
torrid, two-man effort
second half, and JohnI
is beaming. it's a few n
after the game. Beilein
out of the tunnel leadir
the locker room.
The University's Pre
elect, Mark Schlissel,n
him there with a smile
handshake. Then Beile
to his own press confer
past the few fans that r
in the arena, where he,
mention any injury tha
hampering his own tea
as the likely season-en
injury to his
preseason
All-American 4
forward,
Mitch
McGary, for be
instance.
"It's a great
win because
of who we
just beat,"
Beilein says.
But now Izzo is in th
After 10 minutes, he sa
Michigan State got bea
better team, "but I've n
been through anything
this. I mean when you,

king
and he
0:
H
FAND

the number of people that have
missed practices...
"I understand there's gonna
be some points - things aren't
gonna go real smooth," he
continues.
And that's when the place
goes dark.
"That's perfect," he says.
Yes, Coach, it was.

But, yes, about the game.
There was 18:42 remaining,
uries. Michigan down two. Jordan
ry: a self- Morgan tried to take a charge in
uffered the backcourt. His feet were set.
scorer. The referees called ita block.
out Beilein pounded the floor
go out, and - read his lips - yelled "No
beaten f------ way! No way!" And the
with a referees knew they flubbed it
in the and so did Izzo because on that
Beilein same Spartan possession, Gavin
noments Schilling was whistled for not
emerges doing much of anything, really.
ng from Make-up call.
Izzo smiled and clapped and
sident- pointed at Beilein as if to say,
meets "You got it back." He signaled to
and a the referees, and, still laughing,
in walks said, "Even!"
rence, Actually, the two have not
-emain been even, recently. Since 2010,
doesn't Beilein's teams have played
t may be Izzo's better than perhaps
im. Such anyone in the nation. The win
ding improves Beilein record to
6-2 against
Izzo over that
period.
s a great win In that time,
Beilein has
cause of who established
himself as
we beat. perhaps one
of the best
coaches in the
conference. For
years, Izzo has been among the
se room. best in the nation.
ys Each seems to respect
t by a the other, and each seems to
ever be a decent person. But the
like differences are stark.
add up Izzo is demonstrative and

Michigan State men's basketball coach Tom Izzo has built a perennial powerhouse in East Lansing, but his Spartans have struggled to succeed against Michigan.

loud on the sideline. Beilein,
at least as far as basketball
coaches are concerned, is more
subdued.
Izzo speaks his mind. It's
refreshing. Ask him a question;
he'll answer it. Beilein is more
calculated. Ask him a question,
and sometimes he'll answer
it, and sometimes that answer
won't mean anything.
So, when hit by a truly
terrible string of injuries this
year - notably to Adreian
Payne, Keith Appling and
Branden Dawson - Izzo
reacted thusly: He told Sports
Illustrated he didn't want to
make excuses, but there had
just been so many darn injuries.
After Michigan beat Michigan
State in January, he said, "I
played guys that hadn't played in

a month." Two days later, during
an eventual overtime win over
Iowa, he told a sideline reporter,
"I've got some weird guys in
there right now."
Beilein has lost guys too.
But Mitch McGary has become
something of an afterthought.
The cavalry isn't coming.
It's two different approaches
to coaching, or a small part of it,
anyway.
That approach has behooved
Beilein. He has gone on that
6-2 run against Michigan
State using, mostly, very young
teams.
Trey Burke replaced Darius
Morris who replaced Manny
Harris.
For Izzo, the past is cause
for complaint, and the groans
aren't unjustified.

For Beilein, the past doesn't
exist. The show goes on.

But, briefly
to the past.
Izzo had po
and given a lau
"Even!" Nik St
otherwise.
Stauskas did
minutes in the
10 minutes, he
combined for 2
for Michigan.1
them. LeVert w
the pair's only:
Michigan w
They finished1
McGary wa
sideline in a su

These two teams, these
**** two coaches, will meet again.
Quite possibly in the Big Ten
now, let's return Tournament. Maybe even after
that.
inted at Beilein And the Spartans will remain
ugh and declared, one of the best teams in the
auskas said nation.
But now, after this game,
In't miss for15 Izzo says, "It's not going to be
second half For back to normal. Normality is
and Caris LeVert not going to hit our team."
3 straight points But for Michigan, another
Stauskas had 15 of game against Michigan State
vas responsible for has ended in a win. That, for
miss in that span. Beilein and Izzo, has been the
'as down five. new normal.

that span up 10.
tched from the
sit.

Helfand can be reached
at zhelfand@umich.edu or
on Twitter @zhelfand

'M' falls in one-run games
By BEN FIDELMAN scoring position in the sixth, third base.
Daily Sports Writer seventh and eighth innings, but The hit ended Lemoine's
failed to knock one home, and the four-hit, eight-strikeout outing.
Michigan baseball coach Erik final score rested at 2-1 in favor of The Houston reliever retired
Bakich knew his team was going the Cougars. the next Wolverine hitter to
to be in some tight games early "Those were all what we call extinguish the threat.
in the season, and this weekend's two-out RBI, and they're worth Junior right-handed pitcher
series against Houston proved their weight in gold," Bakich said. James Bourque came from the
that thought to be true. "Unfortunately we didn't get bullpen to throw the tail end of
The Wolverines (1-5-1) lost all them this weekend." the game for Michigan, and was
three of the weekend's games by The second game of the very solid, allowing one earned
one run each. weekendwas anotherlow-scoring run off of three hits and two
The series opened Friday affair. No runs crossed the plate walks. That earned run came
night, and it started with plenty in regulation, and the Wolverines in the bottom of the 10th when
of action through the first four headed to extra innings for the the Cougars got runners on the
innings of play. Michigan jumped third time in their first six games corners and brought the winning
to a quick 1-0 lead courtesy of of the season. Saturday evening's run of the game home on a safety-
back-to-back hits, followed by a result fell in line with the other squeeze bunt play.
sacrifice bunt and a sacrifice fly to two extra-inning outings - a Sunday, redshirt junior
bringhome the run. walk-off loss. first basemen Kendall Patrick
Scoring went dormant for a Sophomore left-handed pitcher provided all of Michigan's run
few innings, as both teams got Evan Hill rebounded after a support in the 4-3 loss with a
into a rhythm of lettingone or two shaky firststart last weekend, and second-inning solo home run and
runners to reach base and then came through with seven shutout a two-run single in the fourth.
working their way out of the jam. innings for the Wolverines. Despite the results, starting
Junior left-handed pitcher Trent But Houston right-hander Jake pitching for the Wolverines was
Szkutnik navigated through the Lemoine gave an outing that outstanding all weekend, and
openinginnings ofthegame with tamed the hot Michiganbats. fifth-year senior pitcher Ben
the backing of some outstanding The Texas native dominated Ballantine wasn't going to break
team defense - a stressed Michigan. Not only did he fail to that trend. After giving up a
component of Bakich's gameplan. allow a hit through 5.2 innings, first-inning run to the Cougars,
Houston (7-0) caused trouble but the Wolverine bats had Ballantine settled into a nice
for the Wolverines in the bottom trouble even getting ahead in the groove through the middle part
of the fourth inning. Two singles count until Lemoine began to of the contest, retiring seven
and a sacrifice bunt put a pair of fatigue in the seventh. Houston hitters in a row.
Cougars in scoring position with After freshman right fielder "Our pitching coach lit a fire
only one out. An infield hit plated Johnny Slater was caught under my ass (after the first
the firstrun ofthegame, followed stealing in the middle of the inning)," Ballentine said. "That
by a fielder's choice that allowed next at bat, junior center fielder got me pounding the zone the
Houston to take a 2-1 advantage. Jackson Glines ripped a deep way I should have and put us in a
Michigan put runners in shot to center that landed him on good chance to win."
F- -- ~---- ---- ---- ------ ~ - - - -- -~-~ ~-~-~~ ~ ~ 1I
Buy a smoothie and receive one I
of equal or lesser value free.
Limit One offer per customer with coupon.
Cannot be combined with any other offer
Valid at Barry Bagels Ann Arbor location ONLY
BAGELS
Barry Bagels
Westgate Shopping center
2515 Jackson Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48103
(734)b662-2435 www.barrybagels.com
Expires: March 2, 2014
L------------ -------~ -----~-----~~-------

Potent hitting, lights-out
pitching highlight sweep

By MAX BULTMAN
Daily Sports Writer
The Michigan softball team
had already shown flashes of
greatness, with mercy-rule
victories and strong pitching
performances highlighting
the first two weekends of
the season. But what the
Wolverines hadn't yet done
was put together a weekend of
complete dominance.
That changed this weekend.
The sixth-ranked Wolverines
went 5-0 in three days at the
FAU Kickoff tournament
in Boca Raton, Fla., picking
up wins over Kent State,
Pittsburgh, Florida Atlantic and
No. 5 Kentucky and showing off
their versatility in the process.
Friday, Michigan's bats were
overpowering. Sophomore
shortstop Sierra Romero got the
action started with a one-out
RBI single in
the first inning
against Kent t ,
State, and her W e've g
teammates 4
didn't let off great p
the gas pedal and tha
for the rest of
the day. The pushe
Wolverines
posted seven
runs against
the Golden
Flashes (6-4) and nine more
against Pittsburgh inthe second
half of the double header.
Sophomore left fielder Sierra
Lawrence went 3-for-4 against
Kent State with three RBI, and
Romero went 1-for-l after being
pitched around for most of the
game, drawing two walks and
adding a sacrifice fly.
Later in the day, against the
Panthers (7-7), senior right
fielder Nicole Sappingfield took
her turn as sparkplug.
Up by two with two outs in
the second inning, Sappingfield
stepped to the plate with
runners at second and third and
knocked one over the right-field

fence. The home run ignited a
seven-run inning, all her team
needed to cruise to a 9-0victory.
"We definitely got in a
rhythm," Sappingfield said.
"We kind of realized what we
can do and what potential we
have. We just really relaxed and
played our game."
The hitting clinic put on
by Michigan (12-2) on Friday
overshadowed dominant
pitching performances by
freshman right-handed pitcher
Megan Betsa and junior lefty
Haylie Wagner, but the pitchers
quickly became the team's focal
point Saturday.
That morning, Michigan
sent Wagner back into the
circle in its matchup with No. 5
Kentucky.
The southpaw was nearly
flawless in the outing, giving
up just two hits and striking
out five with no walks in a 3-0
victory.
"(Wagner)
has been
got three one-pitch
itchers, focused,"
Hutchins
t really said. "She's
throwing
"s us." relaxed and
not trying too
hard. She's
pitching with
confidence
and got better from Friday to
Saturday."
But the Wolverines' pitching
prowess didn't stop with
just Wagner. Junior right-
handed pitcher Sara Driesenga
bounced back from a pair of
uncharacteristic outings the
week before - she gave up six
runs to Louisiana Lafayette
and five to Boston College - to
throw the first seven innings
of an extra-innings rematch
against the Golden Flashes
Saturday afternoon.
After trading zeros on the
scoreboard all afternoon,
Michigan finally broke through
in the bottom of the ninth.

With Sierra Romero placed
on second to start the inning
- an extra-innings rule in
college softball - Lawrence
walked before junior catcher
Lauren Sweet grounded out
to advance the runners with
Sappingfield coming up. The
senior delivered once again,
lacing a walk-off single down
the right-field line.
Driesenga held Kent State
to four hits and no walks
before yielding to Wagner, who
ultimately came away with the
win after pitching the game's
final two innings. Between
the two games, Driesenga and
Wagner combined to pitch 16
scoreless innings, giving up just
six hits while striking out 12.
"We feed off of each others'
games," Wagner said. "We just
trust each other and believe we
can get the job done. We've got
three great pitchers, and that
really pushes us forward."
Against Florida Atlantic
(7-7) on Sunday, the narrative
was much the same. Betsa got
the nod in the circle and didn't
disappoint, striking out 11 in a
complete-game shutout - the
Wolverines'- fourth in a row.
Any other result would've likely
meant a loss, as the Michigan
offense mustered just three
hits and scored its lone run on a
bases-loaded walk by Sweet.
"The pitchers really did
their part," Hutchins said.
"They didn't get caught up
in the circumstances they
didn't control, which was our
offensive production.
"They can only keep us in
the game with our defense and
their pitching. And I thought all
three did a nice job with that."
Most games, the Wolverines
won't need their pitchers to post
straight zeroes. Still, the type
of poise Michigan displayed
in the circle this weekend is a
coveted commodity - one that
separates teams that are just
talented from those that are
truly dominant.


The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

k

Monday, February 24, 2014 - 3B

SpovtSN Oil {1 Monday, Fehruary 24, 2014 - 3B

Turnovers plague Wolverines

Defensive miscues
lead to Friday loss
By JEREMY SUMMITT
Daily Sports Editor
Defensive inconsistencies
have plagued the Michigan
hockey team all season, and
those same theatrics played out
inasecondconsecutive weekend
filled with disappointment.
With a 3-1 lead late in the
second period of Friday's
game against Penn State, the
Wolverines looked poised to
snap a three-game losing streak.
But a Nittany Lions goal with
35 seconds left made things
interesting heading into the
second intermission.
Then, Michigan self-
destructed.
It was as if the Wolverines
pointed a 12-gauge shotgun at
their bare feet and pulled the
trigger, collapsing against an
opponent that has won two
conference games all season -
both against Michigan.
"When you have the lead
at home, you should build on
it," said Michigan coach Red
Berenson. "In the third period
the game is on the line, and we
gave it away. They earned it, but
we gave it away."
There had been plenty of
defensive miscues in previous
games, but this was far from
an isolated mistake. Veteran
players made elementary
blunders, and a string of three
costly turnovers resulted in
three Penn State goals.
It was junior forward
Alex Guptill's miscue at the
offensive blue line early in
the third period that resulted
in forward Dylan Richard's
shorthanded breakaway goal to
tie the game. Though Guptill
later scored what should have
been Michigan's go-ahead
goal, his lackluster effort in
the defensive zone all evening
caused Berenson to bench him

for Saturday's game.
"We need him to work hard
every shift, the whole game,"
Berenson said. "You've got
to play both ends of the rink.
You're never going to be a good
hockey player if you can't play
hard at both ends of the rink."
Senior defenseman Mac
Bennett has been the catalyst
of a young defensive corps,
but his gaffes late in the third
period and in overtime Friday
ultimately pushed his team
toward defeat. With 10 ticks
on the clock, Yost Ice Arena
was buzzing in anticipation of
a victory. Then, Bennett swung
a blind pass behind his own net
and into the corner where two
Nittany Lions waited patiently.
And 5.4 seconds later, the
puck Bennett just had safely in
his grasp was sitting in the net.
Yost fell silent, and fans shifted in
their seats waiting for overtime.
With under a minute
remaining in the extra period,
Bennett mishandled the puck
in the offensive zone, springing

Penn State to an odd-man
rush. Forward David Goodwin
roofed a shot past freshman
goaltender Zach Nagelvoort
with 43 seconds left, and
Bennett probably wished he
were anywhere but under the
microscope of thousands of
Michigan fans.
"This doesn't come down to
talent, and this is really hard
work and just sticking with it,"
Berenson said. "The defense
and hopefully the goalie will
make up for your mistakes. And
tonight, it didn't happen."
It'd be easy to make excuses
about defensive lapses, especially
since two starting defensemen -
freshman Michael Downing and
junior Andrew Sinelli - were
both suspended from Friday's
game for illegal hits Feb. 15 at
Minnesota.
But as expected, the
Wolverines refused to make any
excuses. Instead, sophomore
forward Andrew Copp talked
about how the loss stains
the reputation of a place like

Michigan.
"I think everyone knows we
need to pick it up, because this is
flat out unacceptable," Copp said.
Copp realized the magnitude
of another embarrassing defeat,
and the next evening, the
Wolverines had to respond.
They needed a victory, and they
got one, dominating Penn State
as they should have the night
before, 5-2. It wasn't anything
to be too overjoyed about, but
Berenson and his players were
somewhat content, and perhaps
even relieved.
But Friday was the deal-
breaker. With a chance to
bounce back from a lackluster
weekend at Minnesota on Feb.
14-15, Michigan stumbled and
fell flat on its face. One win in
a two-game series against the
lowly Nittany Lions was far
from ideal.
And for a team that's
now hovering around a .500
conference record with a slew
of defensive concerns, Michigan
might just be fortunate to stay

Michigan salvages
series, earns split
By GREG GARNO Sophomore goaltender Steve
Daily Sports Editor Racine, making his first start
in net of the weekend, received
Senior defenseman Mac plenty of insurance in the
Bennett lay on the ice, clutching second period.
his shoulder with all of Yost "(The defense) played
Ice Arena silent and holding its unbelievable tonight," Racine
collective breath. said. "We knew we had to be
The No. 10 Michigan hockey better defensively, and they
team was really stepped up tonight."
already PENN STATE 2 Kile scored on a deflection
reeling MICHIGAN 5 seven minutes into the frame
after its after he was denied on a shot
defense surrendered a two-goal moments earlier. Di Giuseppe
lead in a 5-4 overtime loss the tallied midway through the
night before to the worst team period to capitalize on a penalty
in the Big Ten, Penn State. for his second goal of the
But rather than sulk without weekend after scoring only one
their captain, the Wolverines in the previous 16 games.
held the Nittany Lions to 20 Kile tacked on his second
shots in a 5-2 victory for a later in the third on one of
weekend split. With the win, several Penn State defensive
Michigan sits in sole possession breakdowns. The goals were
of third place in the conference Kile's second and third of the
and remains five points behind year after he was held scoreless
second place Wisconsin. since Nov. 22 against Niagara.
Freshman forward Alex "It definitely gives me a lot
Kile and junior forward Phil Di of confidence," Kile said with a
Giuseppe each scored two goals grin across his face. "I got put
to lead the way, while freshman in this position and I needed to
forward Tyler Motte added a produce."
goal and an assist. The freshman was placed
"I like the way our team on a line with DeBlois and
responded tonight," said freshman forward JT Compher
Michigan coach Red Berenson. in place of junior forward Alex
"I thought we were a different Guptill. Berenson said Guptill
team tonight." was a healthy scratch, citing his
Nearly six minutes into the failure to play well defensively
game, Bennett skated near the Friday night.
boards with his head down, The Nittany Lions got two
and Penn State's David Glen goals back in the final five
dropped his shoulder in a clean minutes of the game. The first
hit that sent him flying. Bennett came on a breakaway attempt
didn't return in the game due to from Curtis Loik and the second
an upper-body injury, according on a shot from Taylor Holstrom
to a Michigan spokesperson. that took an awkward bounce
Berenson said after the off the skate of freshman
game that Bennett had been defenseman Michael Downing.
transported to the hospital But Di Giuseppe added an
for X-rays as a precautionary empty-netter to put the game
measure in case of a fracture, away to inspire confidence after
but his status otherwise Michigan looked threatened
remains unknown. and deflated two periods earlier
"It's tough seeing him go with the loss of Bennett.
down," said senior forward What happened Friday:
Derek DeBlois. "But different Michigan needed to hold a
guys have to step up, and I think lead for just two minutes and
we did a good job (responding)." two seconds, but it couldn't put
Nearly two minutes after the Big Ten's bottom feeder
Bennett's injury, the Wolverines away on Friday night. Penn State
relieved some of the pressure scored
when junior forward Zach the game- PENN STATE 5
Hyman took a loose puck in his tying goal MICHIGAN 4
own zone down to the other end with 4.6
of the ice for an easy feed from seconds remaining in regulation,
behind the net to an open Motte, erasing what looked to have been
who tipped in the goal. the go-ahead goal from junior
Forward turned defenseman forward Alex Guptill less than
turned forward again, Andrew two minutes prior.
Sinelli saw six minutes in his Guptill finished with a
original position before he was goal and an assist to lead
shifted back to defenseman for the Wolverines while senior
the rest of the night in place forward Derek DeBlois and
of Bennett. After allowing the junior forward Zach Hyman
Nittany Lions to fire 44 shots the each added two assists.
night before, Michigan's defense Though the defense as a unit
prevented a potent offense from struggled mightily, freshman
ever getting good looks. defenseman Lohan's return was
"I think we played harder on a positive for Michigan.
the man, harder on the puck," Back in uniform for the first
Berenson said. "We got pucks time since suffering a knee
deep, we played more in their injury on Nov. 2, Lohan held his
zone, and we blocked more shots own in his return. Lohan took
in our zone." part in the Wolverines' first
It helped that Penn State was penalty kill and blocked four
called for three consecutive shots. Paired with senior Kevin
penalties in the second period Clare, his line combined for nine
and four altogether, preventing of Michigan's 27 blocks.
it from finding a rhythm and

having enough men forward to By Erin Lennon, Daily
apply pressure. Sports Writer

VICKI 1LU/Daily
Senior defenseman Mac Bennett didn't return to Saturday's game after suffering an upper-body injury in the first period.

An unacceptable performance

When Michiga
takes the ice
Yost Ice Are:
it's introduced with a vi
that boasts an extensive
of accolades: Nine nation
championships, 24 Froz
Four appearances, 35 N(
Tournament appearanc(
the most
in college
hockey.
But the
players who
started
that NCAA
Tournament
run aren't
these A ALEJA
ones. The ZOJIG
teams that
won those
championships aren't th
And facing Penn State
night, the worst team in
Ten, this Michigan lost.
and simple.
"(The Nittany Lions)'
the hungrier team - you
see it," said Michigan co
Red Berenson.
He was right. The
Wolverines blew a pair c
two-goal leads. They ga'
up the game-tying goal'
fewer than five secondsI
regulation. They allowe
sudden-death winner in
of a stunned and silent C
of Yost student section.
All that to a programI
has existed
for less than
two years. To "
a team that
can't win a emb
conference 0
game, except
when the
opponent dons
a winged helmet.
Michigan, which is fig
for the No. 2 seed in the.
Tournament and an at-l
to the NCAA Tournamet
outworked by a team tha
nothing but pride to play
"When you come to a1
like this, with all the tra
all the history, the legac
playing for Coach Beren
for us to be putting forth
effort is unacceptable," s

n sophomore forward Andrew
at Copp, a look of disgust
na, plastered on his face.
deo Why unacceptable? Because
list the talent is there. The
nal Wolverines climbed all the
en way to No. 2 in the nation for
CAA a reason. They beat Boston
es - all College and Boston University
and passed a road test at New
Hampshire. They lost freshman
defenseman Kevin Lohan and
sophomore goaltender Steve
Racine to injuries, but they
didn't lose games. That's what's
keeping this team's NCAA
Tournament hopes alive, but
it's also what makes the sudden
NDRO incompetence all the more
A maddening.
Michigan, despite all the
tradition and pregame pizzazz,
is one. sits dangerously close to the
e Friday bottom half of the Big Ten
the Big and to missing the NCAA
Plain Tournament for a second
straight year.
were Before last season, the
could Wolverines had made every
ach NCAA Tournament since 1990.
A championship team doesn't
lose to Penn State because it
f couldn't be bothered to play
ve hard, even with so much on
with the line. It doesn't split the
left in season series to the conference
d the cupcake. If Michigan needs
front an attitude change, the time is
hildren now. There are no more games
left to give away.
that "This is flat-out
unacceptable,"
Copp
We kind of got repeated.
Yes,
iarrassed in our Michigan won
wn building."1 Saturday to
salvage a home
split, but the
problems were
still there. The Wolverines took
ghting a penalty 20 seconds into the
Big Ten game. They committed mind-
arge bid numbingly obtuse turnovers
nt, was in their own zone. The Nittany
at had Lions actually outshot Michigan
y for. on the first three Wolverine
place power plays and then cuta
dition, four-goal deficit in half to turn
y, a blowout into a somewhat
son, competitive contest.
a this Afterward, Berenson and
aid Michigan praised the change

in attitude and bemoaned the
previous night.
"We kind of got embarrassed
in our own building last night,
and that is unacceptable being
at Michigan," said senior
forward Derek DeBlois. "We
knew we had to bounce back."
And to give them credit, they
did, holding a trigger-friendly
Penn State offense to just 20
shots. When the final horn
sounded, the Children of Yost
yelled, "The Victors" blared,
and for a moment, everything
was OK. But it's not.
Thanks to their own
failures, the path to the NCAA
Tournament isn't easy, and
the Wolverines may have to
navigate it without senior
captain Mac Bennett, the
heart and soul of the team
and the thread that holds the
patchwork defense together. He
suffered an upper-body injury
in the first period Saturday.
Upon taking the hit that
knocked him out of the game,
Bennett laid on the ice staring

up at the roof of Yost, where the
banners hang.
The 32 pennants
are memories of those
championships and the
moments that created them.
They're the lore and tradition
that Michigan flaunts so boldly
in its pregame video. There is
room for a 33rd.
"It's time to set our place in
Michigan history," Bennett's
voice resonates in that video.
The Wolverines are flawed.
They've lost half of their
games this calendar year.
They could very well finish
the inaugural Big Ten season
closer to the bottom of the
conference than the top,
especially if they play with the
same mindset as Friday.
DeBlois said it. Copp said it.
This is unacceptable.
So where will their place in
history be?
Zdhiga can be reached
at azs@umich.edu and on
Twitter othe-zuniga

PATRICK BARRON/Daily
Senior forward Derek DeBlois called Michigan's performance against Penn State Friday "unacceptable," and he responded with two assists in Saturday's 5-2 win.


4B - Monday, February 24, 2014

The Michigan Daily - michigandaily.com

Four games to go, but the hard work is done

It was a matchup between
the two best teams in the
Big Ten, the ones perched
atop the standings. Michigan
and Michigan State were ahead
of the rest of the pack, and this
was the teams' last scheduled
matchup of the year.
If t didn't
know better,
I might say
that this
game would
determine
the Big Ten
champion.
The NEAL
Wolverines ROTHSCHILD
wouldn't
have any
tough games after this one, and
the Spartans would continue to
get their injured players back
and in rhythm. Luckily for
Michigan, itngot the grand prize
- a season sweep and a Big Ten
title.
But not quite in the eyes of
the team.
"We know we've got four
big games left, so it's definitely
going to be tough," said
sophomore guard Nik Stauskas,
Even against Purdue,
Minnesota, Illinois and
Indiana?
"To be honest, we try to
treat every game that way,
every game like a Big Ten
Championship," said fifth-year
senior forward Jordan Morgan.
But wasn't this game
even more for a Big Ten
Championship?
"We have four games to
play," said Michigan coach John
Beilein. "What it does do right
now is put us in position to be in
position. That's all it does."
Fine.
There arefour games left, but
this was a signature win for a
program that hasn't stopped
stockpiling signature wins

over the last four years. It was
a game against Michigan's
toughest rival in the most
important game of the season.
Yes, there are four games
left, but because of this one,
Michigan only needs to win
three of the last four to win
a share of the title, and if
Michigan State loses again, for
an outright title.
All of the circled games on
Michigan's schedule have come
and gone. The tough part is
over. The remaining games on
the calendar are against teams
in the bottom half of the Big
Ten with the road contests
coming against the conference's
No. 9 and No. 11 squads. On
Sunday, the Wolverines landed
the big fish.
At least one of the

Wolverines' players felt that top player, and it's even harder
way. to maintain that form once
"We didn't talk a lot about you've become a marked man.
the Big Ten Championship at For the last three weeks,
the beginning Stauskas has
of the been hounded
(game)," said by opposing
sophomore "It says that we're teams.
forward Glenn b i Whatever
Robinson back. Michigan's defensive
III before back in so many weapons
conceding that Indiana,
he brought it ways. Nebraska,
up late in the Iowa, Ohio
contest. "But State and
I said,'We're Wisconsin
playing for a had, they stuck
championship. We've got to win on the Mississauga, Ont. native.
this game.'" But on Sunday, a switch
Four games left, but this was turned in Stauskas' head. What
the one where Nik Stauskas the other team did need not
rediscovered how elite he can matter. He took it upon himself
be. It's hard enough to become a to have the best game of his

season, scoring 25 points on
69-percent shooting with five
assists.
"Maybe (it was) a little bit
of the stage and me getting
fed up with it," he said. "I'm a
basketball player. I like taking
pride in being one of the best
players on the floor every time I
step out there.
"When teams shut me
out, it's frustrating, and I
didn't want to let that happen
anymore."
Four games left, but this
one meant dominance over
Michigan State. Having won
six of its last eight against
the Spartans, Michigan has
asserted itself as the top
basketball presence in the state,
at least for the time being.
Six of eight isn't just a few

good years - it's sustained
success. It's Keith Appling and
Adreian Payne having come and
gone without ever winning in
Ann Arbor. With four wins in
the next two weeks, it means
two Michigan Big Ten titles
to Michigan State's one for its
senior class.
Over a four-year period when
Michigan sports have been
pockmarked by mediocrity on
the football field, where the
Spartans have laid Michigan
to waste, the basketball team
swung back. Michigan State
may have stolen the gridiron,
but Michigan has taken the
hardwood.
"It says that we're back,"
Beilein said. "Michigan's back
in so many ways.... If you
compete with Michigan State,
then you're competing with all
the other top schools. We hadn't
been there for a while. It's just
good to be in that position....
Consistency is the things that
Wisconsin and Michigan State
and Ohio State have been able
to do.
"Their kids don't know
what it's like to (not) go to the
NCAA Tournament. That's the
mentality that we want."
Of course, Michigan has
to perform in thefour games
left, but the title was earned
on Sunday. The Wolverines'
performance was the material
that Big Ten championships are
made of.
Over the span of seven
minutes in the second half,
Michigan flipped a 48-43
deficit into a 64-52 lead. It
was a run Michigan State
couldn't withstand and one that
has Michigan sitting pretty
for its first outright Big Ten
championship since 1985-86.
Four games left, but this was
the big one.
Rothschild can be reached
at nealroh@umich.edu or on
Twitter @nrohshild3.
to sweep
against Nebraska and in both of
their games against Wisconsin.
In Michigan's upset of the
then-third-ranked Badgers in
Madison, the three sophomores
combined for 57 points. On
the season, when they're all
in double figures, Michigan is
6-2, with the two losses coming
against then-No. 1 Arizona, and
at home against Wisconsin.
Sunday was a glimpse at what
could be when Stauskas, LeVert
and Robinson all perform at
the top of their games. It's a
team that can play the top-
ranked Wildcats until the final
possession, hand the Badgers
their first loss at home this
season and down a state rival in
the most anticipated home game
of the season.
"We're a team that likes when
other people succeed," LeVert
said. "We really love each other
out there.
"So when we see one guy's got
it going, we just try to get him
the ball as much as possible."
Unselfish and sharing the
load is how the sophomore trio
has set the Wolverines up for
a chance to control their own

destiny and take home the
conference title.

Days since MS
last beat V
37'
Days since Th
last beat t
3,0
goo
fl*ie Symptoms 04
OSCHIococcinum Te
* 1
softs
ewl
rarE rh Y u yC'na eel
Im edlate .onSasting
ovgane enevEY -u

U basketball Sophom(
lichigan:Stauskas, LeVert
and Robinson
7 combine for 63
points vs. MSU
e State News By SIMON KAUFMAN
Daily Sports Writer
he Doily:- - -
The Michigan men's
basketball team has been
waiting for a game like it had on
Sunday for nearly a year.
5 9 It's been anticipating it
since forward Glenn Robinson
III announced his return last
April, since guard Nik Stauskas
emerged as the team's top player
.Y~o u [this season and since guard
Caris LeVert surfaced as the
Wolverines' most-improved
player.
Michigan has been waiting
to see the sophomore trio -
each capable of single-handedly
mc00m taking over a game - do so
fo nicide e together. On Sunday, when the
runl own He di~eethree shared, shot and scored in
Y ostilkactinum for te ensemble fashion, the result was
treahment a 79-70 win over Michigan State.
offlIu-ike Stauskas, LeVert and
sy19 Robinson combined for 63
IN13maw points - the most between them
$="own* all season, scoring 25, 23 and 15
............. points, respectively.
In the first half, LeVert
stepped up. With Stauskas and
399 P Robinson taking just seven
e n~e e shots, LeVert attacked the rim
-w ato keep the Wolverines in the
game by himself. He scored 14
6 "9 points on 5-of-10 shooting from
the field in the first 20 minutes,
ma and his buzzer-beater 3-pointer
...... ----- . . as time expired at the end of
FO the half helped cut Michigan
I Ff State's lead to just two. The
corner three cut what was once
an il-point deficit into a one-
Hll possession game and gave the
*RE Wolverines the momentum
heading into the second half.
- 5 5 "It was kinda a bang-bang
2420 E StAdium B play," LeVert said. "(Michigan
A , 48104 State guard Gary) Harris got
7U49756613 a layup at one end, and they
probably thought the half was
going to be over, and I just
snuck out in transition and Nik
, i5od~81found me. ... Us getting the last
bucket, that was big for us, big
for our crowd."
In the second half, LeVert

Dres lead Michigan
took a back seat, and Stauskas it was a horrible pass because it
and Robinson took control. The was way behind him," Stauskas
two combined for the first 18 said. "And he kinda paused in
points of the second frame. the air and reached back. It was
With 13 minutes left in the a great play by Glenn."
half, Stauskas finished a layup The 6-foot-6 forward had 11
to tie the game at 48. Just points in the half including two

more than a m
pulled up and k
jumper at the to
pull Michigan
ahead by two
points - a lead
it wouldn't
give back. In
his best half
of the season,
Stauskas
shot 7-of-10,
including
three treys,
finishing with
21 points in
the frame.
With 2:33 lef
Stauskas penet
the hoop, drawi
defenders, and,
alley-oop dunk1
Robinson. Rob
behind his heat
threw the dunkc
the Crisler Cent
feet.
"When I thre

inute later, he
nocked down a
p of the key to

free throws down the stretch
to help seal the deal for the
Wolverines.

"I think all
three of us
were feeding
"Us getting the off each other,"
Robinson said.
last basket, it was "For them
o, they're
big for us, big for shooting the
,r ball well, or
our crowd- driving, that
(makes it) easy
for my cuts."
Added
Michigan coach John Beilein:
t in the game, "Everybody was really
trated toward connected the whole game. We
ng two Spartan had no one ball-begging. We had
then tossed an no one not willing to share the
to a wide-open ball because they hadn't had a
inson reached shot in a while."
d for the ball, It was just the fourth time
down and drew in Big Ten play this season that
er crowd to its each member of the threesome
has scored in double digits. They
w it, I thought accomplished the feat on the road


